Congressional Record
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
United States
of America PROCEEDINGS AND DEBATES OF THE 116th
CONGRESS, FIRST SESSION
b This symbol represents the time of day during the House proceedings, e.g., b 1407 is 2:07 p.m.
Matter set in this typeface indicates words inserted or appended, rather than spoken, by a Member of the House on the floor.
.
H7717
Vol. 165 WASHINGTON, TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 17, 2019 No. 149
House of Representatives
The House met at noon and was
called to order by the Speaker pro tem-
pore (Mr. PETERS).
f
DESIGNATION OF SPEAKER PRO
TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore laid be-
fore the House the following commu-
nication from the Speaker:
WASHINGTON, DC,
September 17, 2019.
I hereby appoint the Honorable SCOTT H.
PETERS to act as Speaker pro tempore on
this day.
NANCY PELOSI,
House of Representatives.
f
MORNING-HOUR DEBATE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the order of the House of Janu-
ary 3, 2019, the Chair will now recog-
nize Members from lists submitted by
the majority and minority leaders for
morning-hour debate.
The Chair will alternate recognition
between the parties. All time shall be
equally allocated between the parties,
and in no event shall debate continue
beyond 1:50 p.m. Each Member, other
than the majority and minority leaders
and the minority whip, shall be limited
to 5 minutes.
f
COMMEMORATING CONSTITUTION
DAY
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentlewoman from
North Carolina (Ms. FOXX) for 5 min-
utes.
Ms. FOXX of North Carolina. Mr.
Speaker, when our country was found-
ed, the idea of a democratic republic
was not foreign; it was nonexistent. Be-
sides intermittent cooperation to win
independence, the Colonies had no
sense of unity, and being American had
little meaning. Few citizens could have
realized the amount of sacrifice needed
to write and ratify a document to unite
them all.
Our Constitution truly is a miracle.
Aside from its genius, its history helps
us appreciate the blessing it is. Our
colleague, Congressman CHRIS STEW-
ART, and Judge Ted Stewart wrote a
wonderful book, ‘‘Seven Miracles That
Saved America.’’ In it, they offer three
reasons to believe God had a hand in
the crafting of the Constitution.
For the remainder of my time today
on Constitution Day, I would like to
quote them.
‘‘One, Timing. The window of oppor-
tunity for the writing and ratification
of the Constitution was very small.
Every effort to make the Articles of
Confederation workable between 1776
and 1787 had already failed. But then
suddenly, in May of 1787, a group of 55
patriots came together with both the
wisdom of the ages and enough youth
to energetically fight for the ratifica-
tion of the Constitution.
‘‘Any attempt to create a constitu-
tion later than 1787 would have almost
certainly resulted in failure as well.
Just 2 years after the Convention fin-
ished its work, France became em-
broiled in its own revolution, which
lasted a full decade and degenerated
into a bloody, violent affair.
‘‘Surely, this example of failure
would have frightened the Founding
Fathers, giving them reason to think
very differently about the degree of
power to be retained by ‘the people.’
‘‘Making matters worse was the fact
that the Founders split into two dis-
tinct political camps in the years that
immediately followed the Convention.
Had the Constitutional Convention
been called just a few years later than
1787, many of these men would have
been unwilling to stand together. And
without their input, the Convention
would never have had a chance of suc-
cess.
‘‘Two, Miraculous Compromise. The
second way in which the Constitution
is demonstrably a miracle is the man-
ner in which it came about.
‘‘During the course of the Conven-
tion, every delegate had to give up on
some cherished principle.
‘‘James Madison, who had come to
the Convention more prepared than
anyone and was primarily responsible
for the general outline of the govern-
ment established by the Constitution,
lost on many issues. Most dear to him
was his belief that the House and the
Senate should be based on proportional
representation.
‘‘Franklin wanted an executive coun-
cil voted for life, rather than a single
executive. He did not want the chief ex-
ecutive to have the power of the veto.
He did not want anyone in the execu-
tive position to receive a salary. He
lost on all counts.
‘‘But during the course of the 560 roll
calls, no man lost every time, and ev-
eryone was part of a winning vote on
some occasion. These men of social
stature, political and business suc-
cess—‘demigods’ all—swallowed their
pride, accepted defeat of personal agen-
das, and went forth and convinced a na-
tion to accept the product of the Con-
vention.
‘‘Three, 4,400 Miraculous Words. Per-
haps the greatest miracle of the Con-
stitution is the document itself. In es-
sence, the Constitution has had only 13
substantive amendments in over 200
years.
‘‘History has proven that the Con-
stitution creates a system that defies
despotism and tyranny.
‘‘How was it able to do this? Pri-
marily through the underlying
premise, part of Madison’s gift to the
world, that the Constitution comes
from the people. Madison coined the
phrase ‘We the People.’ These words
are far more than a clever phrase. They
restate the principle, first asserted in
the Declaration of Independence, that
God gives man rights and the only le-
gitimate purpose of government is to
protect those rights.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 23:48 Sep 17, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A17SE7.000 H17SEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7718 September 17, 2019
‘‘In short, the Constitution not only
survived the evolution of this great Na-
tion but permitted the American peo-
ple to exercise the greatest level of in-
dividual liberty in history.
‘‘Further, it has been the ‘shining
light on the hill’ that has provided the
inspiration for peoples all over the
Earth to seek liberty and freedom for
themselves.
‘‘Is that not a miracle?’’
f
STANDING IN SOLIDARITY WITH
THE PEOPLE OF HONG KONG
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Arkansas (Mr. HILL) for 5 minutes.
Mr. HILL of Arkansas. Mr. Speaker, I
rise today in solidarity with the people
of Hong Kong.
Last month, I had the opportunity to
hear directly from leaders in Hong
Kong dedicated to both religious toler-
ance and to democracy, as promised in
the ‘‘one country, two systems’’ agree-
ment.
The people of Hong Kong wave Amer-
ican flags during their protests as a
symbol of the freedoms that they de-
sire.
Now is the time for Congress to sup-
port the people of Hong Kong and pass
Representative CHRIS SMITH’s bill, the
Hong Kong Human Rights and Democ-
racy Act. This measure states without
question that the United States Gov-
ernment supports the people of Hong
Kong and their right to freedom of ex-
pression and democratic governance
guaranteed under their 50-year ar-
rangement agreed to in 1997 by China
and the United Kingdom.
STOP IGNORING RED LINES IN IDLIB, SYRIA
Mr. HILL of Arkansas. Mr. Speaker, I
rise today again to bring attention to
the travesty happening in Idlib prov-
ince, Syria.
Since mid-August, the brutal dic-
tator Assad, his protector Putin, and
Iranian coconspirators have repeatedly
bombed Idlib and the surrounding re-
gion. Their aerial slaughter and shell-
ing have displaced all but 2 percent to
3 percent of the population. They have
bombed hospitals, even killing a
former kindergarten student of the
Wisdom House School, a school sup-
ported by constituents in my home of
Arkansas, supported before the school
was closed due to bombing.
After nearly 10 years of death and de-
struction, some say this conflict is
drawing to a close. When we look back
on this calamitous conflict, we and our
allies in Europe will hang our heads in
shame for ignoring red lines that gave
a green light to Assad’s slaughter of
his own civilians by the hundreds of
thousands.
HONORING BOB SHELL
Mr. HILL of Arkansas. Mr. Speaker, I
rise today to honor the life and legacy
of my friend Bob Shell, who passed
away last month at the age of 88.
In 1950, Bob joined The Baldwin Com-
pany for a job scheduled to last 9
months and ended up staying for al-
most 70 years. Bob started in the field
as a payroll clerk and worked his way
up in the company, eventually becom-
ing president, chairman, and chairman
emeritus. The company’s name was
changed when Bob became president
and CEO to Baldwin & Shell Construc-
tion Company, the name it holds
today.
Bob is one of the five charter mem-
bers of the Arkansas Construction Hall
of Fame. He was named Arkansas Busi-
ness Executive of the Year in 1990 and
was featured by Arkansas Business as
one of 10 business icons for our State in
2016.
During his time with the company,
he had been involved in more than 2,700
projects, including hospitals, offices,
schools, churches, and industrial
plants.
I admired this good and decent man.
He was a role model and a friend to
many across our State of Arkansas,
and I extend my respect, affection, and
prayers to his friends, family, and
loved ones.
HONORING NICHOLAS BURRELL
Mr. HILL of Arkansas. Mr. Speaker,
today, I rise to recognize an amazing
young man from my district, Nicholas
Burrell from Benton, Arkansas.
Nicholas started as a Cub Scout in
third grade and, at age 14, became the
youngest Eagle Scout in Troop 99 in
Benton. He is also a cancer survivor.
Nicholas was diagnosed with cancer
of the brain and spine when he was 11.
He has had multiple tumors and under-
went 26 rounds of chemotherapy but
was always back to participating in
projects with the Boy Scouts just a few
months after his last treatment.
For his Eagle project, he built a free
outdoor pantry called the Blessing Box
at Salem United Methodist Church,
where Troop 99 holds its meetings.
Nicholas is currently a ninth-grader
at Bryant Junior High School, and his
cancer has been in remission since 2017.
Nicholas’ strength and perseverance
are a testament and witness to us all.
I wish him much continued success as
he grows and makes Arkansas proud.
f
RECOGNIZING NATIONAL HISPANIC
HERITAGE MONTH
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Kansas (Mr. MARSHALL) for 5 minutes.
Mr. MARSHALL. Mr. Speaker, on
September 15, we began National His-
panic Heritage Month, one that cele-
brates the histories, cultures, and con-
tributions of Americans of Hispanic de-
scent.
I recently learned the story of a
former Kansas City resident, the late
Hector Berretto, Sr., who served as a
voice for his local Hispanic commu-
nity. Hector founded the Kansas City
Hispanic Chamber of Commerce and,
later, the United States Hispanic
Chamber of Commerce, to counter dis-
advantages of Hispanic business owners
in the Kansas City area and around the
country.
The Hispanic population in the
United States contributes enormously
to our country, both culturally and
economically. Most of the Hispanic in-
dividuals I have had the pleasure of
knowing, many of them patients of
mine, have been remarkably dedicated
to faith and family and preserving
their own culture centered around
faith and family.
Many of my OB patients were His-
panic women, often accompanied by
their loving mothers, grandmothers,
sisters, and aunts concerned for the
health of their family member and the
baby. Every visit was a family event of
great importance to the family.
Now numbering over 55 million indi-
viduals, the Hispanic American popu-
lation is projected to combine for an
estimated buying power of $1.7 trillion
in 2020. Hispanics are more likely than
average Americans to open a business.
Now with over 3.2 million Hispanic-
owned businesses in the United States,
millions more American workers have
jobs, thanks to these industrious entre-
preneurs.
I am grateful for this opportunity to
reflect on the unique contributions of
the Hispanic American community to
our great Nation and to Kansas. I look
forward to continuing working with
communities of all backgrounds in pur-
suit of our shared goal of a free and
equal America, an America where any-
one can live the American Dream if
they are willing to work hard enough.
DEMOCRATS WILL DO ANYTHING TO STOP
PRESIDENT TRUMP
Mr. MARSHALL. Mr. Speaker, rather
than focusing on bipartisan trade
agreements, Congress is being put on
pause for a charade, a charade that
hopes to undo the will of American vot-
ers.
Democrats aren’t sure what they are
doing in the Judiciary Committee
today. You might hear that it is an im-
peachment inquiry, a meeting about
rules for impeachment, or, perhaps, a
group therapy session.
We know Democrats are more inter-
ested in tearing down the President
than in building up America. They will
do anything to stop President Trump
at any cost.
Democrats want to throw the brakes
on a thriving economy. They want to
turn back the clock on record-low un-
employment in Hispanic and African
American communities, tax cuts for
families and small businesses, and
more, all in the name of bitter politics
after a loss. They, the Democrats, em-
body the term ‘‘poor loser.’’
If my colleagues on the other side of
the aisle were to abandon their tired
and baseless attacks on the President,
we could move forward in a bipartisan
way to pass the USMCA trade deal, se-
cure our borders, and reform our very
broken immigration system. We can
work on lowering the costs of prescrip-
tion drugs and healthcare.
Americans desperately need Congress
to deliver these solutions. Unfortu-
nately, House Democrats have chosen
VerDate Sep 11 2014 23:48 Sep 17, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K17SE7.002 H17SEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7719
September 17, 2019
political divisiveness over the Amer-
ican people, party over country, and
hate over hope and possibility.
Republicans stand ready and waiting
for Democrats to finish their infighting
and impeachment circus. We stand
ready to work with them to pass
USMCA and further our economic pros-
perity. But until they are done playing
political games with impeachment, we,
and the American people, will be forced
to wait, and all America is the loser.
f
RECESS
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 12(a) of rule I, the Chair
declares the House in recess until 2
p.m. today.
Accordingly (at 12 o’clock and 15
minutes p.m.), the House stood in re-
cess.
f
b 1400
AFTER RECESS
The recess having expired, the House
was called to order by the Speaker pro
tempore (Mr. PETERS) at 2 p.m.
f
PRAYER
Brother Peter Tabichi, Order of Saint
Francis, Keriko Mixed Day Secondary
School, Pwani Village, Kenya, offered
the following prayer:
In the name of the Father, the Son,
and the Holy Spirit, amen.
Lord, make me an instrument of
Your peace,
Where there is hatred, let me sow
love;
Where there is injury, pardon;
Where there is doubt, faith;
Where there is despair, hope;
Where there is darkness, light;
Where there is sadness, joy.
O Divine Master, grant that I may
not so much seek to be consoled as to
console, to be understood as to under-
stand, to be loved as to love.
For it is in giving that we receive; it
is in pardoning that we are pardoned;
and it is in dying that we are born to
eternal life.
We pray for peace in the world.
We pray that our hands and hearts be
stretched out in compassion and in the
service of others.
You remind us, ‘‘Whoever wants to be
first must take last place and be the
servant of everyone else.’’
Lord, make us an instrument of Your
peace.
In the name of the Father, the Son,
and the Holy Spirit, amen.
f
THE JOURNAL
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair has examined the Journal of the
last day’s proceedings and announces
to the House his approval thereof.
Pursuant to clause 1, rule I, the Jour-
nal stands approved.
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair will lead the House in the Pledge
of Allegiance.
The SPEAKER pro tempore led the
Pledge of Allegiance as follows:
I pledge allegiance to the Flag of the
United States of America, and to the Repub-
lic for which it stands, one nation under God,
indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
f
ONLY CONGRESS CAN AUTHORIZE
WAR AGAINST IRAN
(Mr. MCGOVERN asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute and to revise and extend
his remarks.)
Mr. MCGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, Presi-
dent Trump said that the U.S. is
‘‘locked and loaded’’ and ready to
launch an attack against Iran in retal-
iation for attacks on Saudi oil facili-
ties that Houthi rebels in Yemen have
claimed responsibility for.
Let’s be clear, Mr. Speaker, this Con-
gress has not—and let me emphasize,
has not—authorized any kind of mili-
tary operation against Iran. Neverthe-
less, the President is beating the drums
of war to distract Americans from the
truth.
What happened in Saudi Arabia is a
logical outcome of failing to negotiate
an end to Yemen’s civil war. It is a log-
ical outcome of the President’s blind
support for Saudi Arabia against the
will of Congress.
It is time for cooler heads to prevail.
It is time to end U.S. support for Saudi
Arabia’s war in Yemen. It is time to
end the failed maximum pressure cam-
paign against Iran. It is time to remind
this President that the Constitution
gives Congress the right to declare war,
not him.
f
COMMUNICATION FROM THE
CLERK OF THE HOUSE
The SPEAKER pro tempore laid be-
fore the House the following commu-
nication from the Clerk of the House of
Representatives:
OFFICE OF THE CLERK,
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
Washington, DC, September 16, 2019.
Hon. NANCY PELOSI,
The Speaker, House of Representatives,
Washington, DC.
DEAR MADAM SPEAKER: Pursuant to the
permission granted in Clause 2(h) of Rule II
of the Rules of the U.S. House of Representa-
tives, I have the honor to transmit a sealed
envelope received from the White House on
September 16, 2019, at 5:48 p.m., and said to
contain a message from the President where-
by he notifies the Congress of his intent to
enter into a trade agreement regarding tariff
barriers with Japan.
With best wishes, I am
Sincerely,
CHERYL L. JOHNSON,
Clerk of the House.
INITIATING TRADE NEGOTIATIONS
WITH JAPAN ON A UNITED
STATES-JAPAN TRADE AGREE-
MENT—MESSAGE FROM THE
PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED
STATES (H. DOC. NO. 116–63)
The SPEAKER pro tempore laid be-
fore the House the following message
from the President of the United
States; which was read and referred to
the Committee on Ways and Means and
ordered to be printed:
To the Congress of the United States:
On October 16, 2018, my Administra-
tion notified the Congress that I in-
tended to initiate trade negotiations
with Japan on a United States-Japan
Trade Agreement. As stated in that no-
tification and subsequent consultations
with the Congress, my Administration
proposed pursuing negotiations with
Japan in stages. I am pleased to report
that my Administration has reached an
initial trade agreement regarding tariff
barriers (the ‘‘agreement’’) with Japan
and I intend to enter into the agree-
ment in the coming weeks.
Accordingly, pursuant to section
103(a)(2) of the Bipartisan Congres-
sional Trade Priorities and Account-
ability Act of 2015 (Public Law 114–26,
Title I) (the ‘‘Act’’), I hereby notify the
Congress that I intend to enter into a
trade agreement regarding tariff bar-
riers with Japan under section 103(a) of
the Act.
In addition, I also will be entering
into an Executive Agreement with
Japan regarding digital trade.
My Administration looks forward to
continued collaboration with the Con-
gress on further negotiations with
Japan to achieve a comprehensive
trade agreement that results in more
fair and reciprocal trade between the
United States and Japan.
DONALD J. TRUMP.
THE WHITE HOUSE, September 16, 2019.
f
COMMUNICATION FROM THE
CLERK OF THE HOUSE
The SPEAKER pro tempore laid be-
fore the House the following commu-
nication from the Clerk of the House of
Representatives:
OFFICE OF THE CLERK,
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
Washington, DC, September 17, 2019.
Hon. NANCY PELOSI,
The Speaker, House of Representatives,
Washington, DC.
DEAR MADAM SPEAKER: Pursuant to the
permission granted in Clause 2(h) of Rule II
of the Rules of the U.S. House of Representa-
tives, the Clerk received the following mes-
sage from the Secretary of the Senate on
September 17, 2019, at 11:25 a.m.:
That the Senate agreed to S. Con Res. 25.
With best wishes, I am,
Sincerely,
CHERYL L. JOHNSON.
f
RECESS
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 12(a) of rule I, the Chair
declares the House in recess until ap-
proximately 4 p.m. today.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:18 Sep 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K17SE7.004 H17SEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7720 September 17, 2019
Accordingly (at 2 o’clock and 6 min-
utes p.m.), the House stood in recess.
f
b 1600
AFTER RECESS
The recess having expired, the House
was called to order by the Speaker pro
tempore (Mr. CUELLAR) at 4 p.m.
f
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER
PRO TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, the Chair
will postpone further proceedings
today on motions to suspend the rules
on which a recorded vote or the yeas
and nays are ordered, or votes objected
to under clause 6 of rule XX.
The House will resume proceedings
on postponed questions at a later time.
f
STOP TIP-OVERS OF UNSTABLE,
RISKY DRESSERS ON YOUTH ACT
Ms. SCHAKOWSKY. Mr. Speaker, I
move to suspend the rules and pass the
bill (H.R. 2211) to require the Consumer
Product Safety Commission to promul-
gate a consumer product safety rule for
free-standing clothing storage units to
protect children from tip-over related
death or injury, and for other purposes,
as amended.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 2211
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Stop Tip-overs
of Unstable, Risky Dressers on Youth Act’’ or
the ‘‘STURDY Act’’.
SEC. 2. CONSUMER PRODUCT SAFETY STANDARD
TO PROTECT AGAINST TIP-OVER OF
CLOTHING STORAGE UNITS.
(a) CLOTHING STORAGE UNIT DEFINED.—In
this section, the term ‘‘clothing storage unit’’
means any free-standing furniture item manu-
factured in the United States or imported for use
in the United States that is intended for the
storage of clothing, typical of bedroom fur-
niture.
(b) CONSUMER PRODUCT SAFETY STANDARD
REQUIRED.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in sub-
section (c)(1), not later than 1 year after the
date of the enactment of this Act, the Consumer
Product Safety Commission shall—
(A) in consultation with representatives of
consumer groups, clothing storage unit manu-
facturers, craft or handmade furniture manu-
facturers, and independent child product engi-
neers and experts, examine and assess the effec-
tiveness of any voluntary consumer product
safety standards for clothing storage units; and
(B) in accordance with section 553 of title 5,
United States Code, promulgate a final con-
sumer product safety standard for clothing stor-
age units to protect children from tip-over-re-
lated death or injury that includes—
(i) tests that simulate the weight of children
up to 60 pounds;
(ii) objective, repeatable, and measurable tests
that simulate real world use and account for
any impact on clothing storage unit stability
that may result from placement on carpeted sur-
faces, drawers with items in them, multiple open
drawers, or dynamic force;
(iii) testing of all clothing storage units, in-
cluding those under 30 inches in height; and
(iv) warning requirements based on ASTM
F2057-17, or its successor at the time of enact-
ment, provided that the Consumer Product Safe-
ty Commission shall strengthen the requirements
of ASTM F2057-17, or its successor, if reasonably
necessary to protect children from tip-over-re-
lated death or injury.
(2) TREATMENT OF STANDARD.—A consumer
product safety standard promulgated under
paragraph (1) shall be treated as a consumer
product safety rule promulgated under section 9
of the Consumer Product Safety Act (15 U.S.C.
2058).
(c) SUBSEQUENT RULEMAKING.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—At any time subsequent to
the publication of a consumer product safety
standard under subsection (b)(1), the Commis-
sion may initiate a rulemaking, in accordance
with section 553 of title 5, United States Code to
modify the requirements of the consumer prod-
uct safety standard described in subsection
(b)(1) if reasonably necessary to protect children
from tip-over-related death or injury.
(2) REVISION OF RULE.—If, after the date of
the enactment of this Act, the Centers for Dis-
ease Control and Prevention revises its Clinical
Growth Charts, the consumer product safety
standard described in subsection (b)(1) shall , on
the date that is 180 days after such revision, be
revised to include tests that simulate the weight
of children up to the 95th percentile weight of
children 72 months in age, as depicted in the re-
vised Centers for Disease Control and Preven-
tion Clinical Growth Charts, unless the Commis-
sion determines the modification is not reason-
ably necessary to protect children from tip-over-
related death or injury.
(3) TREATMENT OF RULES.—Any rule promul-
gated under paragraph (1) or revision made pur-
suant to paragraph (2) shall be treated as a con-
sumer product safety rule promulgated under
section 9 of the Consumer Product Safety Act
(15 U.S.C. 2058).
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentlewoman from
Illinois (Ms. SCHAKOWSKY) and the gen-
tleman from Missouri (Mr. LONG) each
will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from Illinois.
GENERAL LEAVE
Ms. SCHAKOWSKY. Mr. Speaker, I
ask unanimous consent that all Mem-
bers may have 5 legislative days in
which to revise and extend their re-
marks and to include extraneous mate-
rials on H.R. 2211.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gentle-
woman from Illinois?
There was no objection.
Ms. SCHAKOWSKY. Mr. Speaker, I
yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today as a very
proud and grateful person who has been
a consumer advocate all of my life.
Today, Congressman LONG, you and I
are going to be dealing with bills that
may not always get the top headlines,
but they save lives.
When I say grateful, I am so grateful
to our ranking member, Congress-
woman RODGERS, and for all the bipar-
tisan support that we have had on
these bills. It means so much to me.
I rise in strong support of H.R. 2211,
the Stop Tip-overs of Unstable Risky
Dressers on Youth Act, which is known
as the STURDY Act.
I introduced this legislation with
Representatives JERRY MCNERNEY,
DARREN SOTO, and BOBBY RUSH. This
legislation advanced out of the Energy
and Commerce Committee on July 17,
2019, by voice vote, meaning unani-
mously, bipartisanly.
According to data collected by the
Consumer Product Safety Commission,
a child is injured from a tip-over every
17 minutes. Every 10 days, a child dies
from one of these tip-overs. Particu-
larly deadly are tip-overs of clothing
storage units, such as dressers.
Since 2000, these clothing units have
killed more than 200 children in the
United States. Victims tend to be
under the age of 6. At this age, children
are mobile and curious. They like to
climb on furniture, play in the drawers,
or stand in the drawers and reach for
items on top of units. Tragedy can
come in just minutes. Just after a child
awakes from a nap or a night’s sleep,
they are likely to engage in this kind
of activity.
Tens of millions of dressers have been
recalled in recent years. Unfortu-
nately, children continue to die from
furniture tip-overs. That is because the
current industry furniture stability
standard is simply too weak. It does
not cover shorter clothing storage
units that have also been known to kill
children, and industry tests don’t cover
common hazard patterns. Moreover,
the standard is only voluntary.
That is why it is critical that we pass
the STURDY Act, which would require
the Consumer Product Safety Commis-
sion to promulgate a strong and man-
datory safety standard that is effective
at preventing furniture tip-overs.
I especially thank the families of vic-
tims, the people who have come with
pictures of their children or their loved
ones to talk about how important this
bill is, how hard it is for them to talk
about the terrible loss of life in their
families. It is those people who have
really told the story of how important
it is for us to act today.
I appreciate the willingness, as I said
before, of our ranking member and all
the Republicans to work with me to
bring this bill to the floor. I call on all
of my colleagues to support this meas-
ure, and I reserve the balance of my
time.
Mr. LONG. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, unfortunately, I have
personal knowledge of this type of situ-
ation. Just within the last 30 days, a
friend of mine lost a 3-year-old grand-
child due to one of these situations.
There can be nothing worse than losing
a child. To have a vibrant 3-year-old
child one minute and a deceased 3-
year-old the next is not acceptable.
This bill directs the Consumer Prod-
uct Safety Commission to issue a con-
sumer product safety standard for
clothing storage units, to prevent them
from tipping over onto children.
In the spirit of bipartisanship, we
support this bill moving forward with
the House passage today.
I thank my friend Ms. SCHAKOWSKY
for her efforts in this endeavor. I urge
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:23 Sep 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K17SE7.009 H17SEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7721
September 17, 2019
my colleagues to support H.R. 2211, and
I reserve the balance of my time.
Ms. SCHAKOWSKY. Mr. Speaker, I
yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from
California (Mr. MCNERNEY).
Mr. MCNERNEY. Mr. Speaker, I
thank the chairwoman for yielding,
and I thank her for her work on this
bill. I thank my friend BILLY LONG for
his support and encouragement on this.
I do rise today in support of H.R.
2211, the STURDY Act. When con-
sumers purchase a piece of furniture,
they trust that the product is safe. But
out of 42 common household dressers
recently subjected to rigorous testing
by Consumer Reports, only 20 met the
robust stability standards. The reason
why is that current voluntary stand-
ards are woefully inadequate.
The voluntary standards apply only
to dressers 30 inches or taller, despite
multiple fatalities and injuries involv-
ing shorter dressers. Industry stand-
ards only require the dresser to remain
upright when a 50-pound weight is hung
from the top drawer, even though 60
pounds is more accurately the weight
of a 6-year-old. The result: over 200 re-
ported deaths from furniture tip-overs
since 2000. That is 200 deaths. Most vic-
tims are under the age of 6.
Mr. Speaker, the most profound re-
sponsibility we have as adults is to pro-
tect our children. In 2016, a 2-year-old
from my home State of California died
when a dresser tipped over onto him.
We know the problem: lax industry
standards that really only protect the
manufacturers and not their cus-
tomers.
We have a solution: the STURDY
Act, which establishes robust stand-
ards to stop this tip-over epidemic. The
STURDY Act will modernize standards
to apply to dressers under 30 inches; ac-
curately simulate the weight of a 6-
year-old; and account for real-world
dynamics, such as the movement of
drawers and different flooring surfaces.
By setting mandatory standards, the
STURDY Act will better enable the
CPSC to enforce requirements and fa-
cilitate recalls. The legislation will ex-
pedite the CPSC’s rulemaking process,
ensuring these lifesaving protections
are in our homes as soon as possible.
That is the robust action we need to
end this tip-over epidemic.
I am proud to be an original cospon-
sor of the STURDY Act, and I urge my
colleagues to support this bill.
Ms. SCHAKOWSKY. Mr. Speaker,
first, let me extend my condolences to
the friend of Mr. LONG’s family.
This is really poignant, that Mr.
LONG is carrying this bill today on the
floor of the House of Representatives.
Hopefully, none of us see such an acci-
dent again.
Mr. Speaker, I include three letters
for the RECORD: a letter from 20 na-
tional organizations and more than 50
State and local organizations that rep-
resent pediatricians and consumers
throughout the United States, includ-
ing the American Academy of Pediat-
rics, Consumer Federation of America,
Consumer Reports, and Kids In Danger,
among many others, urging strong sup-
port of the STURDY Act; a letter from
Parents Against Tip-Overs, parents of
actual children who have died, also
urging strong support by Members of
the STURDY Act; and a letter from
Consumer Reports, also urging strong
support by our colleagues for the
STURDY Act.
SEPTEMBER 11, 2019.
DEAR REPRESENTATIVE: As organizations
dedicated to children’s health and safety, we
write to express our strong support for three
bills as they move to the House floor. These
bills would improve protections against pre-
ventable sleep-related deaths, as well as in-
juries and deaths from preventable furniture
tip-overs. We urge you to support these bills
to protect children from injuries and deaths.
The Safe Sleep for Babies Act of 2019 (H.R.
3172) would ban infant inclined sleep prod-
ucts, such as the recently recalled Fisher-
Price Rock ’n Play Sleeper, which have been
linked to the deaths of at least 50 infants.
While there have been four recent recalls re-
lated to this product type, similar unsafe
products of this type remain on the market.
These products are deadly, and their design
is inherently unsafe and incompatible with
expert safe sleep recommendations, includ-
ing from the American Academy of Pediat-
rics. This legislation would help prevent
more families from experiencing the tragedy
of losing a child by banning the products’
manufacture, import, and sale.
The Safe Cribs Act of 2019 (H.R. 3170) would
ban crib bumper pads. Bumper pads have led
to dozens of infant suffocation deaths and do
not offer protection to babies. These prod-
ucts are also inconsistent with expert safe
sleep recommendations. Maryland, Ohio,
New York State, Chicago, Illinois, and
Watchung, New Jersey have taken action to
protect babies. If H.R. 3170 becomes law, all
babies in the Unites States would be simi-
larly protected. This legislation would help
prevent more families from experiencing the
tragedy of losing a child to crib bumper pads
by banning their manufacture, import, and
sale altogether.
The STURDY Act (H.R. 2211) would direct
the U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commis-
sion (CPSC) to create a mandatory clothing
storage unit standard to help prevent fur-
niture tip-overs. According to the CPSC, one
child dies every ten days from a tip-over.
Stronger product testing and safety require-
ments could prevent these fatalities. This
bill is critically important because it would
establish a strong mandatory standard for
furniture stability. The STURDY Act would
require the CPSC to create a mandatory rule
that would: cover all clothing storage units,
including those 30 inches in height or short-
er; require testing to simulate the weights of
children up to 72 months old; require testing
measures to account for scenarios involving
carpeting, loaded drawers, multiple open
drawers, and the dynamic force of a climbing
child; mandate strong warning requirements;
and require the CPSC to issue the mandatory
standard within one year of enactment. To
protect children from furniture tip-overs, we
need a strong mandatory standard and the
STURDY Act includes those critically need-
ed provisions.
These bills offer a vital opportunity to pro-
tect children from preventable injuries and
deaths. We urge you to support these child
health and safety bills, and to vote ‘‘yes’’ on
them as they move to the House floor.
Sincerely,
National Organizations:
American Academy of Pediatrics; Associa-
tion of Maternal & Child Health Programs;
Center for Justice & Democracy; Child Care
Aware of America; Child Injury Prevention
Alliance; Children’s Advocacy Institute; Con-
sumer Federation of America; Consumer Re-
ports; Cribs for Kids, Inc.; First Focus Cam-
paign for Children; Keeping Babies Safe; Kids
In Danger; MomsRising; National Associa-
tion of Pediatric Nurse Practitioners; Na-
tional Consumers League; Parents for Win-
dow Blind Safety; Public Citizen; Safe Kids
Worldwide; Safe States Alliance; The Soci-
ety for Advancement of Violence and Injury
Research (SAVIR).
State and Local Organizations:
Alaska Chapter of the American Academy
of Pediatrics; Alaska Public Interest Re-
search Group (AkPIRG); American Academy
of Pediatrics—Arizona Chapter; American
Academy of Pediatrics—California Chapter 3;
American Academy of Pediatrics—Hawaii
Chapter; American Academy of Pediatrics—
Georgia Chapter; American Academy of Pe-
diatrics—New York Chapter 1; American
Academy of Pediatrics—New York Chapter 2;
American Academy of Pediatrics—New York
Chapter 3; American Academy of Pediat-
rics—Vermont Chapter; American Academy
of Pediatrics—Colorado Chapter; American
Academy of Pediatrics—Orange County
Chapter; Ann & Robert H. Lurie Children’s
Hospital of Chicago; Arkansas Chapter,
American Academy of Pediatrics.
California Chapter 1, American Academy
of Pediatrics; Chicago Consumer Coalition;
Children’s Health Alliance of Wisconsin;
Consumer Assistance Council, Inc.; Con-
sumer Assistance Council, Inc.; DC Chapter
of the American Academy of Pediatrics;
Delaware Chapter of the American Academy
of Pediatrics; Empire State Consumer
Project; Florida Chapter—American Acad-
emy of Pediatrics; Idaho Chapter of the
American Academy of Pediatrics; Illinois
Action for Children; Illinois Chapter of the
American Academy of Pediatrics; Indiana
Chapter of the American Academy of Pediat-
rics; Iowa Chapter of the American Academy
of Pediatrics; Island Pediatrics of Honolulu.
Kentucky Chapter of the American Acad-
emy of Pediatrics; Louisiana Chapter of the
American Academy of Pediatrics; Maine
Chapter, American Academy of Pediatrics;
Maryland Chapter, American Academy of
Pediatrics; Massachusetts Chapter of the
American Academy of Pediatrics; Michigan
Chapter American Academy of Pediatrics;
Minnesota Chapter of the American Acad-
emy of Pediatrics; Missouri Chapter of the
American Academy of Pediatrics; Nevada
Chapter of the American Academy of Pediat-
rics; New Jersey Chapter, American Acad-
emy of Pediatrics; New Mexico Pediatric So-
ciety; North Carolina Pediatric Society.
Ohio Chapter, American Academy of Pedi-
atrics; OHSU/Doembecher Tom Sargent Safe-
ty Center; Oklahoma Chapter of the Amer-
ican Academy of Pediatrics; Ounce of Pre-
vention Fund; Pennsylvania Chapter of the
American Academy of Pediatrics; South Da-
kota Chapter of the American Academy of
Pediatrics; Sudden Infant Death Services of
Illinois, Inc.; Tennessee Chapter of the
American Academy of Pediatrics; Virginia
Chapter, American Academy of Pediatrics;
Virginia Citizens Consumer Council; Vir-
ginia Citizens Consumer Council; Wisconsin
Chapter of the American Academy of Pediat-
rics; Wyckoff Hospital; Wyoming Chapter of
the American Academy of Pediatrics.
PARENTS AGAINST TIP-OVERS,
September 16, 2019.
DEAR REPRESENTATIVE: As a parent group
directly impacted by the dangers of unstable
furniture, Parents Against Tip-overs is writ-
ing to express our strong support for H.R.
2211, the STURDY Act, as it moves to the
House floor. This bill is desperately needed,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:23 Sep 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K17SE7.011 H17SEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7722 September 17, 2019
as it would reduce injuries and deaths from
preventable furniture tip-overs. Furniture
tip-over is not a partisan issue, but one of
safety, and we urge you to support this bill
to protect your most vulnerable constitu-
ents, the children.
One of our founding members, Crystal
Ellis, had the opportunity to testify in front
of the Consumer Protection Subcommittee
about the STURDY Act, on what would have
been her son, Camden’s 7th birthday. He was
tragically killed in a furniture tip-over inci-
dent that happened just two days before his
second birthday. All of our children deserve
to be here and would have been here, had a
strong mandatory standard, that takes into
account real world use, would have been put
into place sooner. The industry has been
working on a standard for almost two dec-
ades with no significant change in the data.
Furniture manufacturers insist that they
need more data. Their data, as Crystal ex-
plained in her testimony, is our dead and in-
jured children. We do not need more data. If
after 19 years there is not an adequate vol-
untary standard in place, it’s unlikely there
will ever be an effective furniture safety
standard that will reduce injuries and deaths
to children without the STURDY Act becom-
ing law. The industry clearly won’t make
this happen without direction from Congress.
We need your help. If this law existed 14
years ago, all of the PAT children would still
be alive today. The STURDY Act will save
lives and the time to put it in place is now.
The STURDY Act (H.R. 2211) would direct
the U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commis-
sion (CPSC) to create a mandatory clothing
storage unit standard to help prevent fur-
niture tip-overs. According to the CPSC, one
child dies every ten days from a tip-over.
Stronger product testing and safety require-
ments could prevent these fatalities. This
bill is critically important because it would
establish a strong mandatory standard for
furniture stability. The STURDY Act would
require the CPSC to create a mandatory rule
that would: cover all clothing storage units,
including those 30 inches in height or short-
er; require testing to simulate the weights of
children up to 72 months old; require testing
measures to account for scenarios involving
carpeting, loaded drawers, multiple open
drawers, and the dynamic force of a climbing
child; mandate strong warning requirements;
and require the CPSC to issue the mandatory
standard within one year of enactment. To
protect children from furniture tip-overs, we
need a strong mandatory standard and the
STURDY Act includes those critically need-
ed provisions.
This bill offers you, as the voice of parents
and children in the House of Representa-
tives, a vital opportunity to protect children
from preventable injuries and deaths from
furniture tip-overs. We respectfully urge you
to support the STURDY Act and to vote
‘‘yes’’ on it as it moves to the House floor.
Sincerely,
CRYSTAL ELLIS,
Parents Against Tip-overs Founding Member.
CONSUMER REPORTS,
September 17, 2019.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
Washington, DC.
DEAR REPRESENTATIVE: Consumer Reports,
the independent, non-profit member organi-
zation, urges you to vote yes on H.R. 2211,
H.R. 1618, and H.R. 806, three bills that would
help protect consumers from product safety
hazards in their homes. CR testified before
the House Energy and Commerce Committee
in support of these bills in June, and urges
their passage today for the reasons below.
H.R. 2211, THE STURDY ACT
Consumer Reports strongly supports H.R.
2211, the ‘‘Stop Tip-overs of Unstable, Risky
Dressers on Youth Act,’’ or the STURDY
Act, and urges its swift passage. The bill
would require the Consumer Product Safety
Commission (CPSC) to establish a strong
mandatory safety standard to improve the
stability of dressers and similar clothing
storage furniture and help prevent deaths
and injuries resulting from when they tip
over onto children. Long a hidden hazard in
the home, tip-overs send thousands of people
to the emergency room annually. Dressers
and other clothing storage units are particu-
larly lethal, accounting for at least 206 re-
ported deaths since the year 2000, with most
of the victims being children younger than
age 6.
CR has found that the most effective and
most widely touted tip-over prevention
strategy available today—anchoring a dress-
er to the wall using brackets and straps—is
not an easy fix for the majority of con-
sumers. Our nationally representative sur-
vey last year of 1,502 U.S. adults found that
only 27% of Americans had anchored fur-
niture in their homes, and among Americans
with kids under age 6 at home, 40% anchored
their furniture. Fundamentally, because a
child’s life should not rely on consumer skill
at anchoring a dresser to a wall, CR has
called on the furniture industry to consist-
ently produce dressers and other clothing
storage units that are designed to be more
stable and that better resist tipping over
onto children.
Over the past two years, CR has conducted
extensive research, analysis of incident and
injury data, and comparative testing of a
cross-section of dressers in the marketplace.
Based on our investigation, we found that
the industry’s voluntary standard leaves too
many children at risk. Our results dem-
onstrated that it is feasible for dressers at
all price points to pass a more rigorous test.
CR bought 42 dressers for evaluation, and put
them through a series of three progressively
tougher stability tests. While 13 dressers
failed all but the first of the tests, 20 dress-
ers passed all the testing, underscoring that
manufacturers are capable of successfully
designing more stable dressers. The failures
reinforce why a stronger standard is nec-
essary to protect consumers. The 20 dressers
that passed all our tests cost various
amounts, and were representative of all price
points in the market.
In light of the unreasonable risk of death
or injury to children and the findings of our
investigation, CR and others have been advo-
cating for the CPSC to develop and imple-
ment a strong mandatory safety standard
with performance requirements for the sta-
bility of dressers and other clothing storage
units. While both Republican and Demo-
cratic CPSC commissioners have expressed
support for measures to strengthen the cur-
rent safety framework around furniture tip-
overs, the agency has so far failed to act, and
commissioners have recognized that CPSC
rulemaking under its Consumer Product
Safety Act Section 7 and 9 authority is like-
ly to take several years, if not a full decade,
to complete. To account for the weight of
children under age 6 and the feasibility dem-
onstrated by CR’s test results, CR has said
the standard should, at a minimum, include
a loaded stability test of 60 pounds. We also
have said that it is critical for the standard
to be mandatory, not voluntary, for several
reasons, including because:
Under the current system of safety over-
sight, consumers essentially must place
their trust in manufacturers that they will
produce a reasonably stable dresser;
Wall anchors and other tip-over restraint
devices, while important, are no substitute
for adequate stability performance testing;
A mandatory standard is justified under
the Consumer Product Safety Act—with the
CPSC able to find that such a rule is reason-
ably necessary and in the public interest;
CR’s testing shows that manufacturers are
capable of incorporating appropriate design
changes to their products that yield ade-
quate stability, and of offering units for sale
to consumers that are affordable and do not
sacrifice utility; and
Such a standard would allow the CPSC to
enforce requirements, including performance
standards, and more readily gain industry
cooperation for recalls; historically, compa-
nies have not carried out tip-over-related
dresser recalls unless they face over-
whelming CPSC and public pressure, or their
product is linked to a death or failed CPSC
stability test.
Enactment of the STURDY Act would help
ensure the fastest possible implementation
of a strong stability standard, and the re-
duced delay could save children’s lives. In
addition to CR, the bill has the support of
Parents Against Tip-Overs and a broad coali-
tion of 75 pediatrician, safety, and consumer
groups. A bipartisan majority of CPSC com-
missioners also has expressed support for the
STURDY Act and enactment of a legislative
solution that would permit the CPSC to take
faster action to help prevent tip-overs than
the promulgation of a rule under its tradi-
tional rulemaking authority and procedures.
The hazard to children of furniture tip-
overs has been insufficiently addressed by
both the furniture industry and the CPSC for
years. Congress, today, has the chance to fi-
nally force a more protective stability stand-
ard to take effect. We urge members to seize
this opportunity for leadership on behalf of
child safety and pass H.R. 2211, the STURDY
Act, without delay.
H.R. 1618, THE NICHOLAS AND ZACHARY BURT
CARBON MONOXIDE POISONING PREVENTION ACT
Consumer Reports supports H.R. 1618, the
Nicholas and Zachary Burt Carbon Monoxide
Poisoning Prevention Act of 2019. According
to the CDC, during 2010–2015, a total of 2,244
deaths resulted from unintentional carbon
monoxide (CO) poisoning, with 393 of those
deaths occurring in 2015. CR often stresses
the importance of installing and maintain-
ing CO detectors, and offers a buying guide
and ratings to give consumers comparative
information about different products that
CR has tested. To help keep consumers safe,
CR also has published stories about how to
ensure that smoke and carbon monoxide de-
tectors function properly.
H.R. 1618 would establish a grant program
for CO poisoning prevention, administered by
the CPSC. The grants would help push states
to require that up-to-date carbon monoxide
detectors be installed in all dwelling units
and numerous other facilities with the ca-
pacity to hold a large number of people, and
encourage states to develop a strategy to
protect vulnerable populations such as chil-
dren, the elderly, or low-income households.
With hundreds of people dying each year
from carbon monoxide poisoning, it is appro-
priate to establish a modest CPSC-adminis-
tered grant program to promote the installa-
tion of CO detectors, especially for vulner-
able populations. This grant program can be
an important part of a broader, multi-
pronged strategy to significantly reduce in-
juries and deaths associated with carbon
monoxide poisoning, and Congress should
pass the bill.
H.R. 806, THE PORTABLE FUEL CONTAINER
SAFETY ACT
Consumer Reports supports H.R. 806, the
Portable Fuel Container Safety Act of 2019.
According to National Fire Protection Asso-
ciation estimates, fire departments re-
sponded to an average of 160,910 fires per
year in the 2007–2011 period that started with
ignition of a flammable or combustible liq-
uid, resulting in an estimated 454 civilian
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:23 Sep 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A17SE7.007 H17SEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7723
September 17, 2019
deaths, 3,910 civilian injuries, and $1.5 billion
in direct property damage per year. Manu-
facturers and safety experts have identified a
portion of the death and injury toll to ad-
dress through product design: incidents in-
volving flame jetting from portable fuel con-
tainers intended for reuse by consumers.
Despite the fact that people should never
pour fuel such as gasoline, kerosene, or die-
sel over a flame or use such fuel for fire-
starting purposes, people do—creating a fore-
seeable scenario that this Act would help ad-
dress. The Portable Fuel Container Safety
Act would require flame mitigation devices,
or flame arrestors, to prevent flame from en-
tering these containers and igniting the
gases inside. This requirement is consistent
with a new voluntary standard recently fi-
nalized by ASTM International that the
CPSC could decide to treat as a mandatory
standard under the bill if the agency deter-
mines that it meets the bill’s minimum con-
ditions.
The new ASTM standard represents a step
forward for safety, and all portable fuel con-
tainers intended for reuse by consumers
should conform to its provisions. Congress
should pass H.R. 806 to ensure this standard
or a similar standard becomes mandatory.
Consumers should have assurance that any
new portable fuel container they may buy—
which they or someone else may use or mis-
use—will contain an effective flame mitiga-
tion device, and that the CPSC can readily
take action if a manufacturer fails to follow
the law.
CONCLUSION
Consumer Reports thanks all members of
the House of Representatives for their con-
sideration of these important bills to im-
prove safety around the home for millions of
people nationwide. We urge you to vote yes
on H.R. 2211, H.R. 1618, and H.R. 806, and look
forward to working together in the future to
ensure a safe marketplace for all consumers.
Sincerely,
WILLIAM WALLACE,
Manager, Home and Safety Policy.
Ms. SCHAKOWSKY. Mr. Speaker, I
reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. LONG. Mr. Speaker, I encourage
our colleagues to vote for H.R. 2211. I
yield back the balance of my time.
Ms. SCHAKOWSKY. Mr. Speaker, I
urge all of my colleagues to support
H.R. 2211. I yield back the balance of
my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentlewoman from Illinois (Ms.
SCHAKOWSKY) that the House suspend
the rules and pass the bill, H.R. 2211, as
amended.
The question was taken; and (two-
thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the bill, as
amended, was passed.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
NICHOLAS AND ZACHARY BURT
CARBON MONOXIDE POISONING
PREVENTION ACT OF 2019
Ms. SCHAKOWSKY. Mr. Speaker, I
move to suspend the rules and pass the
bill (H.R. 1618) to encourage States to
require the installation of residential
carbon monoxide detectors in homes,
and for other purposes, as amended.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 1618
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Nicholas and
Zachary Burt Carbon Monoxide Poisoning
Prevention Act of 2019’’.
SEC. 2. FINDINGS AND SENSE OF CONGRESS.
(a) FINDINGS.—Congress finds the fol-
lowing:
(1) Carbon monoxide is a colorless, odorless
gas produced by burning any fuel. Exposure
to unhealthy levels of carbon monoxide can
lead to carbon monoxide poisoning, a serious
health condition that could result in death.
(2) Unintentional carbon monoxide poi-
soning from motor vehicles and the abnor-
mal operation of fuel-burning appliances,
such as furnaces, water heaters, portable
generators, and stoves, kills more than 400
people each year and sends more than 15,000
to hospital emergency rooms for treatment.
(3) Research shows that purchasing and in-
stalling carbon monoxide alarms close to the
sleeping areas in residential homes and other
dwelling units can help avoid fatalities.
(b) SENSE OF CONGRESS.—It is the sense of
Congress that Congress should promote the
purchase and installation of carbon mon-
oxide alarms in residential homes and dwell-
ing units nationwide in order to promote the
health and public safety of citizens through-
out the United States.
SEC. 3. DEFINITIONS.
In this Act:
(1) CARBON MONOXIDE ALARM.—The term
‘‘carbon monoxide alarm’’ means a device or
system that—
(A) detects carbon monoxide; and
(B) is intended to alarm at carbon mon-
oxide concentrations below those that could
cause a loss of ability to react to the dangers
of carbon monoxide exposure.
(2) COMMISSION.—The term ‘‘Commission’’
means the Consumer Product Safety Com-
mission.
(3) COMPLIANT CARBON MONOXIDE ALARM.—
The term ‘‘compliant carbon monoxide
alarm’’ means a carbon monoxide alarm that
complies with the most current version of—
(A) the American National Standard for
Single and Multiple Station Carbon Mon-
oxide Alarms (ANSI/UL 2034); or
(B) the American National Standard for
Gas and Vapor Detectors and Sensors (ANSI/
UL 2075).
(4) DWELLING UNIT.—The term ‘‘dwelling
unit’’ means a room or suite of rooms used
for human habitation, and includes a single
family residence as well as each living unit
of a multiple family residence (including
apartment buildings) and each living unit in
a mixed use building.
(5) FIRE CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICIALS.—
The term ‘‘fire code enforcement officials’’
means officials of the fire safety code en-
forcement agency of a State or local govern-
ment.
(6) INTERNATIONAL FIRE CODE.—The term
‘‘IFC’’ means—
(A) the 2015 or 2018 edition of the Inter-
national Fire Code published by the Inter-
national Code Council; or
(B) any amended or similar successor code
pertaining to the proper installation of car-
bon monoxide alarms in dwelling units.
(7) INTERNATIONAL RESIDENTIAL CODE.—The
term ‘‘IRC’’ means—
(A) the 2015 or 2018 edition of the Inter-
national Residential Code published by the
International Code Council; or
(B) any amended or similar successor code
pertaining to the proper installation of car-
bon monoxide alarms in dwelling units.
(8) NFPA 72.—The term ‘‘NFPA 72’’
means—
(A) the National Fire Alarm and Signaling
Code issued in 2019 by the National Fire Pro-
tection Association; or
(B) any amended or similar successor
standard pertaining to the proper installa-
tion of carbon monoxide alarms in dwelling
units.
(9) STATE.—The term ‘‘State’’ has the
meaning given such term in section 3 of the
Consumer Product Safety Act (15 U.S.C. 2052)
and includes the Northern Mariana Islands
and any political subdivision of a State.
SEC. 4. GRANT PROGRAM FOR CARBON MON-
OXIDE POISONING PREVENTION.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Subject to the avail-
ability of appropriations authorized under
subsection (f), the Commission shall estab-
lish a grant program to provide assistance to
eligible States to carry out the carbon mon-
oxide poisoning prevention activities de-
scribed in subsection (e).
(b) ELIGIBILITY.—For purposes of this sec-
tion, an eligible State is any State that—
(1) demonstrates to the satisfaction of the
Commission that the State has adopted a
statute or a rule, regulation, or similar
measure with the force and effect of law, re-
quiring compliant carbon monoxide alarms
to be installed in dwelling units in accord-
ance with NFPA 72, the IFC, or the IRC; and
(2) submits an application to the Commis-
sion at such time, in such form, and con-
taining such additional information as the
Commission may require, which application
may be filed on behalf of the State by the
fire code enforcement officials for such
State.
(c) GRANT AMOUNT.—The Commission shall
determine the amount of the grants awarded
under this section.
(d) SELECTION OF GRANT RECIPIENTS.—In se-
lecting eligible States for the award of
grants under this section, the Commission
shall give favorable consideration to an eli-
gible State that—
(1) requires the installation of compliant
carbon monoxide alarms in new or existing
educational facilities, childcare facilities,
health care facilities, adult dependent care
facilities, government buildings, res-
taurants, theaters, lodging establishments,
or dwelling units—
(A) within which a fuel-burning appliance
is installed, including a furnace, boiler,
water heater, fireplace, or any other appa-
ratus, appliance, or device that burns fuel; or
(B) which has an attached garage; and
(2) has developed a strategy to protect vul-
nerable populations such as children, the el-
derly, or low-income households.
(e) USE OF GRANT FUNDS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—An eligible State receiv-
ing a grant under this section may use such
grant—
(A) to purchase and install compliant car-
bon monoxide alarms in the dwelling units of
low-income families or elderly persons, fa-
cilities that commonly serve children or the
elderly, including childcare facilities, public
schools, and senior centers, or student dwell-
ing units owned by public universities;
(B) to train State or local fire code en-
forcement officials in the proper enforce-
ment of State or local laws concerning com-
pliant carbon monoxide alarms and the in-
stallation of such alarms in accordance with
NFPA 72, the IFC, or the IRC;
(C) for the development and dissemination
of training materials, instructors, and any
other costs related to the training sessions
authorized by this subsection; and
(D) to educate the public about the risk as-
sociated with carbon monoxide as a poison
and the importance of proper carbon mon-
oxide alarm use.
(2) LIMITATIONS.—
(A) ADMINISTRATIVE COSTS.—Not more than
10 percent of any grant amount received
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:23 Sep 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A17SE7.013 H17SEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7724 September 17, 2019
under this section may be used to cover ad-
ministrative costs not directly related to
training described in paragraph (1)(B).
(B) PUBLIC OUTREACH.—Not more than 25
percent of any grant amount received under
this section may be used to cover costs of ac-
tivities described in paragraph (1)(D).
(f) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Subject to paragraph (2),
there is authorized to be appropriated to the
Commission, for each of the fiscal years 2020
through 2024, $2,000,000, which shall remain
available until expended to carry out this
Act.
(2) LIMITATION ON ADMINISTRATIVE EX-
PENSES.—Not more than 10 percent of the
amounts appropriated or otherwise made
available to carry out this section may be
used for administrative expenses.
(3) RETENTION OF AMOUNTS.—Any amounts
appropriated pursuant to this subsection
that remain unexpended and unobligated on
September 30, 2024, shall be retained by the
Commission and credited to the appropria-
tions account that funds the enforcement of
the Consumer Product Safety Act (15 U.S.C.
2051).
(g) REPORT.—Not later than 1 year after
the last day of each fiscal year for which
grants are awarded under this section, the
Commission shall submit to Congress a re-
port that evaluates the implementation of
the grant program required by this section.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentlewoman from
Illinois (Ms. SCHAKOWSKY) and the gen-
tleman from Missouri (Mr. LONG) each
will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from Illinois.
GENERAL LEAVE
Ms. SCHAKOWSKY. Mr. Speaker, I
ask unanimous consent that all Mem-
bers may have 5 legislative days in
which to revise and extend their re-
marks and include extraneous mate-
rials on H.R. 1618.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gentle-
woman from Illinois?
There was no objection.
Ms. SCHAKOWSKY. Mr. Speaker, I
yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
I rise in strong support of H.R. 1618,
the Nicholas and Zachary Burt Carbon
Monoxide Poisoning Prevention Act of
2019. This important bipartisan legisla-
tion was introduced by Representatives
ANNIE KUSTER and BUDDY CARTER.
This bill advanced out of the Energy
and Commerce Committee on July 17,
2019, by voice vote, unanimous.
Carbon monoxide—colorless, odor-
less, tasteless—is a silent killer. More
than 400 people die and approximately
50,000 people visit emergency rooms
every year in the United States from
carbon monoxide poisoning.
The tragedy is that these deaths and
injuries are preventable. All that is
needed is the installation of carbon
monoxide detectors. However, many
people remain unaware of the impor-
tance of carbon monoxide detectors or
don’t know how to install or maintain
them properly.
b 1615
This legislation aims to change that.
It will assist States in educating the
public on the dangers of carbon mon-
oxide poisoning and the proper use of
carbon monoxide detectors.
It will also provide States with
grants so States can purchase and in-
stall carbon monoxide detectors in the
homes of elderly and low-income citi-
zens, as well as in educational facili-
ties.
Mr. Speaker, I call on all my col-
leagues to support this commonsense
measure, and I reserve the balance of
my time.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
COMMITTEE ON HOUSE ADMINISTRATION,
Washington, DC, September 13, 2019.
DEAR CHAIRMAN PALLONE: I am writing to
you regarding H.R. 1618, the ‘‘Nicholas and
Zachary Burt Carbon Monoxide Poisoning
Prevention Act of 2019.’’ This measure, intro-
duced on March 7, 2019, was referred to your
committee as well as the Committee on
House Administration.
The Committee on House Administration
agrees to waive further consideration of H.R.
1618. The Committee does so with the under-
standing that by waiving further consider-
ation of this bill it does not waive any future
jurisdictional claims over similar measures.
I would appreciate the inclusion of this let-
ter and a copy of your response in the Con-
gressional Record during consideration of
H.R. 1618 on the House floor.
Sincerely,
ZOE LOFGREN,
Chairperson.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
COMMITTEE ON ENERGY AND COMMERCE,
Washington, DC, September 16, 2019.
Hon. ZOE LOFGREN,
Chair, Committee on House Administration,
House of Representatives, Washington, DC.
DEAR CHAIRPERSON LOFGREN: Thank you
for consulting with the Committee on En-
ergy and Commerce and agreeing to dis-
charge H.R. 1618 Nicholas and Zachary Burt
Carbon Monoxide Act of 2019 from further
consideration, so that the bill may proceed
expeditiously to the House floor.
As introduced, H.R. 1618, includes language
related to the Government Publishing Office.
I understand such language was included by
bill sponsors in H.R. 1618 and previous
versions of this legislation in an effort to
comply with a House CUTGO rule that was
in effect during prior Congresses.
I agree that your forgoing further action
on this measure does not in any way dimin-
ish or alter the jurisdiction of your com-
mittee or prejudice its jurisdictional prerog-
atives on this measure or similar legislation
in the future.
I will ensure our letters on H.R. 1618 are
entered into the Congressional Record dur-
ing floor consideration of the bill. I appre-
ciate your cooperation regarding this legis-
lation.
Sincerely,
FRANK PALLONE, Jr.,
Chairman.
Mr. LONG. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, unfortunately, once
again, I can relate to what this bill is
trying to address. I was an auctioneer
for over 30 years before I came to this
body, and there was a college professor
who attended hundreds of my auctions
over the years. He was quite a toy col-
lector, and he was also a professor at
Missouri State University in my home-
town of Springfield. Very tragically,
within the last couple of years, he and
his wife both succumbed to carbon
monoxide poisoning.
It is a silent killer. It can happen
anywhere. There is no warning—any
time, any place. Anything we can do to
augment a solution here would be very,
very good.
H.R. 1618 directs the Consumer Prod-
uct Safety Commission to establish a
grant program for States to purchase
and install carbon monoxide alarms in
dwelling units of low-income families;
for the elderly; facilities that com-
monly serve children or the elderly, in-
cluding childcare facilities, public
schools, and senior centers; or dwelling
units owned by public universities; and
to assist in enforcement and education
efforts related to carbon monoxide poi-
soning.
Carbon monoxide poisoning can hap-
pen anywhere in the United States, re-
gardless of location or other external
factors. It is an issue that is much
more frequent than many realize.
According to the CDC, 50,000 people a
year in the United States experience
carbon monoxide poisoning. Of those,
at least 430 people die from accidental
carbon monoxide poisoning.
These grants will go a long way to
carrying out carbon monoxide poi-
soning prevention actions, as they can
be used for everything from installing
alarms in these units of elderly indi-
viduals to training officials in the in-
stallation of such alarms.
I am pleased to support passage of
this bill today. It will improve safety
and provide the tools and resources
needed to combat this issue.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
support H.R. 1618, and I reserve the bal-
ance of my time.
Ms. SCHAKOWSKY. Mr. Speaker, I
yield 3 minutes to the gentlewoman
from New Hampshire (Ms. KUSTER), the
chief sponsor of this legislation.
Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire. Mr.
Speaker, I thank Representative SCHA-
KOWSKY for yielding.
I want to say to Representative LONG
that I am so sorry for his loss, and,
again, it is appropriate to be with him
on the floor today.
Mr. Speaker, more than 20 years ago,
Cheryl and Todd Burt experienced an
unimaginable tragedy when their two
sons, Zachary and Nicholas, died as a
result of carbon monoxide poisoning.
Zachary was 4 years old; Nicholas was
only 16 months old. Cheryl, Todd, and
their eldest son, Ryan, barely made it
out of the home alive on that cold Jan-
uary evening.
Today, the House is considering H.R.
1618, the Zachary and Nicholas Burt
Carbon Monoxide Poisoning Prevention
Act.
This legislation is named in honor of
Zachary and Nicholas, but it is truly
for the over 400 Americans who die
each year and more than 20,000 who are
hospitalized as a result of carbon mon-
oxide poisoning. Among them are two
of my constituents, John and April
Courtney from Lyman, New Hamp-
shire, who lost their lives to carbon
monoxide poisoning just last February
of this year.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:05 Sep 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A17SE7.006 H17SEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7725
September 17, 2019
While it happens most frequently in
cold winter months, carbon monoxide
poisoning actually happens throughout
this country.
As a mother and an aunt, I know
there is nothing more important than
keeping our children and our loved
ones safe, and that is why I am so
proud today that the House is pre-
paring to vote on my bipartisan legis-
lation with my colleague BUDDY CAR-
TER, which provides funding for States
to prevent future carbon monoxide-re-
lated deaths by educating the public
about the dangers of carbon monoxide
poisoning and the importance of prop-
erly installing alarms in their home.
It also supports the installation of
carbon monoxide detectors in housing
for the elderly and low-income individ-
uals and high-traffic public buildings
like schools. This bipartisan legisla-
tion will truly save lives.
Mr. Speaker, I want to thank my dis-
tinguished colleague, BUDDY CARTER,
for working on this bill with me and
helping to build a consensus for its
unanimous passage in the Energy and
Commerce Committee. I also want to
thank Chairman PALLONE and Con-
gresswoman SCHAKOWSKY for making
this piece of legislation a priority and
including it in the package of bills
today.
At a time when Congress so often
seems divided, this legislation is proof
positive that we can work together on
our committee to find common ground
and get things done to help our con-
stituents.
Finally, Mr. Speaker, I would like to
recognize and thank Anna Yu and Alex
Chasick from the Energy and Com-
merce Committee staff and Hart
Thompson and Nick Schemmel from
Congressman CARTER’s office for col-
laborating with my team, Will Pisano
and Travis Krogman, to move this leg-
islation forward.
I am proud that this bill is supported
by a diverse coalition of public safety
and industry groups, and I include in
the RECORD five letters of support.
The first is a letter from 15 national
organizations representing consumers
throughout the United States. The sec-
ond is a letter of support from the Na-
tional Association of State Fire Mar-
shals.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
time of the gentlewoman has expired.
Ms. SCHAKOWSKY. Mr. Speaker, I
yield an additional 15 seconds to the
gentlewoman.
Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire. Mr.
Speaker, I thank the gentlewoman for
yielding. I will be quick.
The third letter of support is from
the National Association of Home
Builders, which will demonstrate the
bipartisan support. The fourth is from
Consumer Reports, and finally one
from the National Electrical Manufac-
turers Association.
SEPTEMBER 16, 2019.
DEAR REPRESENTATIVE: As organizations
dedicated to improving consumer protec-
tions, we write to express our support for
two consumer product safety bills as they
move to the House floor this week. These
bills would enhance protections to prevent
deaths from portable fuel cans and injuries
and deaths from carbon monoxide poisoning.
We urge you to support these bills to protect
children and all consumers from preventable
injuries and deaths.
The Nicholas and Zachary Burt Carbon
Monoxide Poisoning Prevention Act of 2019
(H.R. 1618) would establish a grant program,
administered by the CPSC, that would en-
courage states to require the installation of
residential carbon monoxide detectors, in-
cluding for vulnerable populations. Accord-
ing to the CDC, during 2010–2015, a total of
2,244 deaths resulted from unintentional car-
bon monoxide (CO) poisoning, with 393 of
those deaths occurring in 2015. This bill
seeks to reduce carbon monoxide poisonings.
The Portable Fuel Container Safety Act of
2019 (H.R. 806) would help prevent flame-
jetting incidents through establishing a
binding and enforceable standard that would
require flame mitigation devices, or flame
arrestors, on portable fuel containers to pre-
vent flames from entering these containers
and igniting the gases inside. According to
National Fire Protection Association esti-
mates, fire departments responded to an av-
erage of 160,910 fires per year between 2007
and 2011 that started with ignition of a flam-
mable or combustible liquid, resulting in an
estimated 454 civilian deaths, 3,910 civilian
injuries, and $1.5 billion in direct property
damage per year.
These bills offer a critical opportunity to
protect children and all consumers from pre-
ventable injuries and deaths. We urge you to
support these child health and safety bills,
and to vote ‘‘yes’’ on them as they move to
the House floor this week.
Sincerely,
Alaska Public Interest Research Group
(AkPIRG), Center for Justice & Democracy,
Chicago Consumer Coalition, Child Injury
Prevention Alliance, Consumer Assistance
Council, Inc., Consumer Federation of Amer-
ica, Kids In Danger, National Consumers
League, OHSU/Doernbecher Tom Sargent
Safety Center, Parents for Window Blind
Safety, Public Citizen, Safe Kids Worldwide,
Safe States Alliance, The Society for Ad-
vancement of Violence and Injury Research
(SAVIR), Virginia Citizens Consumer Coun-
cil.
NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
STATE FIRE MARSHALS,
Maitland, FL, September 16, 2019.
Hon. ANN KUSTER,
House of Representatives,
Washington, DC.
DEAR CONGRESSWOMAN KUSTER: The Na-
tional Association of State Fire Marshals
(NASFM) thanks you for your continued
leadership in consumer product safety issues,
and specifically in protecting Americans
from carbon monoxide (CO) poisoning.
NASFM strongly endorses H.R. 1618, the
Nicholas and Zachary Burt Memorial Carbon
Monoxide Poisoning Prevention Act of 2019.
The National Association of State Fire
Marshals membership comprises the most
senior fire officials in the United States.
NASFM’s mission is to protect human life,
property and the environment from fire and
related hazards. As such, we are extremely
supportive of your legislation, which will
amend the Consumer Product Safety Act to
require residential carbon monoxide alarms
to meet the applicable ANSI/UL standards by
treating that standard as a consumer prod-
uct safety rule, to encourage States to re-
quire the installation of such detectors in
homes, and in an overall effort to prevent
carbon monoxide poisoning.
Carbon Monoxide poisoning is a proven
dangerous threat, claiming approximately
450 lives annually, with another 21,000 Amer-
icans sent to emergency rooms due to unin-
tentional poisonings, according to Centers
for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC).
Per the CDC, CO poisoning is the leading
cause of accidental poisoning deaths in
America, and because CO is an odorless,
tasteless and colorless gas, many people are
initially unaware they are even being
poisoned.
‘‘The National Association of State Fire
Marshals enthusiastically supports H.R. 1618,
the Carbon Monoxide Poisoning Prevention
Act of 2019,’’ said NASFM Executive Director
Jim Narva, ‘‘It’s important we all strive to
mitigate the potentially fatal effects of CO
Poisoning. With States focusing on low-in-
come families, the elderly and children, the
enactment of this Bill and its grant program
will save countless lives.’’
Thank you again for your leadership on
the carbon monoxide alarm issue and we
look forward to working to enact into law
this important public safety prevention leg-
islation.
Sincerely,
JIM NARVA,
Executive Director,
National Association of State Fire Marshals.
NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
HOME BUILDERS,
September 16, 2019.
Hon. ANN KUSTER,
House of Representatives,
Washington, DC.
Hon. BUDDY CARTER,
House of Representatives,
Washington, DC.
DEAR REPRESENTATIVES KUSTER AND CAR-
TER: On behalf of the approximately 140,000
members of the National Association of
Home Builders (NAHB), I am writing to ex-
press my support for H.R. 1618, Nicholas and
Zachary Burt Carbon Monoxide Poisoning
Prevention Act of 2019. We appreciate your
willingness to work with us on this impor-
tant issue.
The Nicholas and Zachary Burt Carbon
Monoxide Poisoning Prevention Act of 2019
would create a grant program to encourage
states to install carbon monoxide detectors
in public facilities. NAHB members are in-
volved in land development and building sin-
gle-family and multi-family housing, remod-
eling, and other aspects of residential and
light commercial construction. While our
members are typically not involved in build-
ing schools, hospitals, airports, and other
public buildings, we recognize the impor-
tance of requiring carbon monoxide detec-
tors.
According to the Center of Disease Con-
trol, at least 430 people die in the United
States from accidental carbon monoxide poi-
soning. As a response, majority of the states
have adopted statues, via building codes or
state law, that requires carbon monoxide de-
tectors in all residential buildings. NAHB
supports legislation like this that promotes
the safety of occupants in a cost-effective
way.
NAHB appreciates your leadership on this
life saving legislation and we look forward to
working with you on future legislation.
Sincerely,
JAMES W. TOBIN III.
CONSUMER REPORTS,
September 17, 2019.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
Washington, DC.
DEAR REPRESENTATIVE: Consumer Reports,
the independent, non-profit member organi-
zation, urges you to vote yes on H.R. 2211,
H.R. 1618, and H.R. 806, three bills that would
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:05 Sep 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K17SE7.017 H17SEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7726 September 17, 2019
help protect consumers from product safety
hazards in their homes. CR testified before
the House Energy and Commerce Committee
in support of these bills in June, and urges
their passage today for the reasons below.
H.R. 2211, THE STURDY ACT
Consumer Reports strongly supports H.R.
2211, the ‘‘Stop Tip-overs of Unstable, Risky
Dressers on Youth Act,’’ or the STURDY
Act, and urges its swift passage. The bill
would require the Consumer Product Safety
Commission (CPSC) to establish a strong
mandatory safety standard to improve the
stability of dressers and similar clothing
storage furniture and help prevent deaths
and injuries resulting from when they tip
over onto children. Long a hidden hazard in
the home, tip-overs send thousands of people
to the emergency room annually. Dressers
and other clothing storage units are particu-
larly lethal, accounting for at least 206 re-
ported deaths since the year 2000, with most
of the victims being children younger than
age 6.
CR has found that the most effective and
most widely touted tip-over prevention
strategy available today—anchoring a dress-
er to the wall using brackets and straps—is
not an easy fix for the majority of con-
sumers. Our nationally representative sur-
vey last year of 1,502 U.S. adults found that
only 27 percent of Americans had anchored
furniture in their homes, and among Ameri-
cans with kids under age 6 at home, 40 per-
cent anchored their furniture. Fundamen-
tally, because a child’s life should not rely
on consumer skill at anchoring a dresser to
a wall, CR has called on the furniture indus-
try to consistently produce dressers and
other clothing storage units that are de-
signed to be more stable and that better re-
sist tipping over onto children.
Over the past two years, CR has conducted
extensive research, analysis of incident and
injury data, and comparative testing of a
cross-section of dressers in the marketplace.
Based on our investigation, we found that
the industry’s voluntary standard leaves too
many children at risk. Our results dem-
onstrated that it is feasible for dressers at
all price points to pass a more rigorous test.
CR bought 42 dressers for evaluation, and put
them through a series of three progressively
tougher stability tests. While 13 dressers
failed all but the first of the tests, 20 dress-
ers passed all the testing, underscoring that
manufacturers are capable of successfully
designing more stable dressers. The failures
reinforce why a stronger standard is nec-
essary to protect consumers. The 20 dressers
that passed all our tests cost various
amounts, and were representative of all price
points in the market.
In light of the unreasonable risk of death
or injury to children and the findings of our
investigation, CR and others have been advo-
cating for the CPSC to develop and imple-
ment a strong mandatory safety standard
with performance requirements for the sta-
bility of dressers and other clothing storage
units. While both Republican and Demo-
cratic CPSC commissioners have expressed
support for measures to strengthen the cur-
rent safety framework around furniture tip-
overs, the agency has so far failed to act, and
commissioners have recognized that CPSC
rulemaking under its Consumer Product
Safety Act Section 7 and 9 authority is like-
ly to take several years, if not a full decade,
to complete. To account for the weight of
children under age 6 and the feasibility dem-
onstrated by CR’s test results, CR has said
the standard should, at a minimum, include
a loaded stability test of 60 pounds. We also
have said that it is critical for the standard
to be mandatory, not voluntary, for several
reasons, including because:
Under the current system of safety over-
sight, consumers essentially must place
their trust in manufacturers that they will
produce a reasonably stable dresser;
Wall anchors and other tip-over restraint
devices, while important, are no substitute
for adequate stability performance testing;
A mandatory standard is justified under
the Consumer Product Safety Act—with the
CPSC able to find that such a rule is reason-
ably necessary and in the public interest;
CR’s testing shows that manufacturers are
capable of incorporating appropriate design
changes to their products that yield ade-
quate stability, and of offering units for sale
to consumers that are affordable and do not
sacrifice utility; and
Such a standard would allow the CPSC to
enforce requirements, including performance
standards, and more readily gain industry
cooperation for recalls; historically, compa-
nies have not carried out tip-over-related
dresser recalls unless they face over-
whelming CPSC and public pressure, or their
product is linked to a death or failed CPSC
stability test.
Enactment of the STURDY Act would help
ensure the fastest possible implementation
of a strong stability standard, and the re-
duced delay could save children’s lives. In
addition to CR, the bill has the support of
Parents Against Tip-Overs and a broad coali-
tion of 75 pediatrician, safety, and consumer
groups. A bipartisan majority of CPSC com-
missioners also has expressed support for the
STURDY Act and enactment of a legislative
solution that would permit the CPSC to take
faster action to help prevent tip-overs than
the promulgation of a rule under its tradi-
tional rulemaking authority and procedures.
The hazard to children of furniture tip-
overs has been insufficiently addressed by
both the furniture industry and the CPSC for
years. Congress, today, has the chance to fi-
nally force a more protective stability stand-
ard to take effect. We urge members to seize
this opportunity for leadership on behalf of
child safety and pass H.R. 2211, the STURDY
Act, without delay.
H.R. 1618, THE NICHOLAS AND ZACHARY BURT
CARBON MONOXIDE POISONING PREVENTION ACT
Consumer Reports supports H.R. 1618, the
Nicholas and Zachary Burt Carbon Monoxide
Poisoning Prevention Act of 2019. According
to the CDC, during 2010–2015, a total of 2,244
deaths resulted from unintentional carbon
monoxide (CO) poisoning, with 393 of those
deaths occurring in 2015. CR often stresses
the importance of installing and maintain-
ing CO detectors, and offers a buying guide
and ratings to give consumers comparative
information about different products that
CR has tested. To help keep consumers safe,
CR also has published stories about how to
ensure that smoke and carbon monoxide de-
tectors function properly.
H.R. 1618 would establish a grant program
for CO poisoning prevention, administered by
the CPSC. The grants would help push states
to require that up-to-date carbon monoxide
detectors be installed in all dwelling units
and numerous other facilities with the ca-
pacity to hold a large number of people, and
encourage states to develop a strategy to
protect vulnerable populations such as chil-
dren, the elderly, or low-income households.
With hundreds of people dying each year
from carbon monoxide poisoning, it is appro-
priate to establish a modest CPSC-adminis-
tered grant program to promote the installa-
tion of CO detectors, especially for vulner-
able populations. This grant program can be
an important part of a broader, multi-
pronged strategy to significantly reduce in-
juries and deaths associated with carbon
monoxide poisoning, and Congress should
pass the bill.
H.R. 806, THE PORTABLE FUEL CONTAINER
SAFETY ACT
Consumer Reports supports H.R. 806, the
Portable Fuel Container Safety Act of 2019.
According to National Fire Protection Asso-
ciation estimates, fire departments re-
sponded to an average of 160,910 fires per
year in the 2007–2011 period that started with
ignition of a flammable or combustible liq-
uid, resulting in an estimated 454 civilian
deaths, 3,910 civilian injuries, and $1.5 billion
in direct property damage per year. Manu-
facturers and safety experts have identified a
portion of the death and injury toll to ad-
dress through product design: incidents in-
volving flame jetting from portable fuel con-
tainers intended for reuse by consumers.
Despite the fact that people should never
pour fuel such as gasoline, kerosene, or die-
sel over a flame or use such fuel for fire-
starting purposes, people do—creating a fore-
seeable scenario that this Act would help ad-
dress. The Portable Fuel Container Safety
Act would require flame mitigation devices,
or flame arrestors, to prevent flame from en-
tering these containers and igniting the
gases inside. This requirement is consistent
with a new voluntary standard recently fi-
nalized by ASTM International that the
CPSC could decide to treat as a mandatory
standard under the bill if the agency deter-
mines that it meets the bill’s minimum con-
ditions.
The new ASTM standard represents a step
forward for safety, and all portable fuel con-
tainers intended for reuse by consumers
should conform to its provisions. Congress
should pass H.R. 806 to ensure this standard
or a similar standard becomes mandatory.
Consumers should have assurance that any
new portable fuel container they may buy—
which they or someone else may use or mis-
use—will contain an effective flame mitiga-
tion device, and that the CPSC can readily
take action if a manufacturer fails to follow
the law.
CONCLUSION
Consumer Reports thanks all members of
the House of Representatives for their con-
sideration of these important bills to im-
prove safety around the home for millions of
people nationwide. We urge you to vote yes
on H.R. 2211, H.R. 1618, and H.R. 806, and look
forward to working together in the future to
ensure a safe marketplace for all consumers.
Sincerely,
WILLIAM WALLACE,
Manager, Home and Safety Policy.
NATIONAL ELECTRICAL
MANUFACTURERS ASSOCIATION,
September 9, 2019.
Re NEMA Support for H.R. 1618—Nicholas
and Zachary Burt Memorial Carbon Mon-
oxide Poisoning Prevention Act.
Hon. ANN M. KUSTER,
House of Representatives,
Washington, DC.
DEAR REPRESENTATIVE KUSTER: The Na-
tional Electrical Manufacturers Association
(NEMA) is the principal trade group rep-
resenting U.S.-based manufacturers of elec-
trical products and systems and medical im-
aging technology. On behalf of NEMA’s Fire,
Life Safety, Security & Emergency Commu-
nications product section, I am writing to
express support for H.R. 1618, which pro-
motes the purchase and installation of car-
bon monoxide (CO) alarms in residential
homes and dwelling units nationwide. This
measure is overdue and NEMA commends
you for your leadership on this important
health & safety issue.
Carbon monoxide is a silent killer.
Undetectable by human senses—you cannot
see it, smell it or taste it—CO is the leading
cause of accidental poisoning death in the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:01 Sep 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00010 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A17SE7.014 H17SEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7727
September 17, 2019
United States. Often misdiagnosed or under-
detected, CO poisoning induces symptoms
that mimic those of the flu, with headache,
nausea and dizziness being the most com-
mon. A CO alarm or detector is an inexpen-
sive, effective way to warn that a dangerous
concentration of CO is present, which can
occur whenever a fuel-burning appliance
such as a furnace, water heater, stove, or
generator malfunctions or is used improp-
erly. Other common household sources of CO
include fireplaces and vehicles left running
in attached garages.
According to the Centers for Disease Con-
trol, each year more than 400 Americans die
from unintentional CO poisoning not linked
to fires, more than 20,000 visit the emergency
room, and more than 4,000 are hospitalized.
Regrettably, many of these incidents could
be prevented by properly installed and main-
tained alarm systems.
The need for detection and alarms is espe-
cially acute in homes, where people sleep
and typically spend most of their time. Any
residence that contains a potential source of
CO emissions should be equipped with pro-
tection from this insidious life-safety haz-
ard.
Most states (as well as Puerto Rico and
Guam) have enacted laws requiring CO de-
tection in residential dwellings, and it is
likely that more will adopt similar legisla-
tion or codes in the coming years. These
measures—along with education efforts—
have proven successful in reducing CO-re-
lated injuries and deaths, but laws alone do
not guarantee that protection is in place
wherever it is needed.
The Nicholas and Zachary Burt Memorial
Carbon Monoxide Poisoning Prevention Act
will help states and local governments im-
plement these programs and provide greater
assurance that families are protecting them-
selves and their loved ones from CO. NEMA
particularly supports the bill’s emphasis on
facilities that serve children and the elderly,
since they are especially susceptible to the
effects of CO exposure. All schools should
have proper CO detection systems in place
and NEMA welcomes federal support in this
regard.
NEMA’s Fire, Life Safety, Security &
Emergency Communications product section
includes the world’s leading manufacturers
of systems and devices that guard against
not only CO but other commonplace life
safety hazards such as fire and smoke. These
companies strongly endorse measures that
help to reduce these hazards in more spaces
and environments where people gather. H.R.
1618 is an important step in that regard and
NEMA is pleased to support its enactment.
Very truly yours,
PHILIP SQUAIR,
Vice President—Government Relations.
Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire. So,
again, Mr. Speaker, this bill has strong
bipartisan support, and I encourage all
my colleagues to support it.
Mr. LONG. Mr. Speaker, I am pre-
pared to close.
When we go home, people say: Well,
can’t you all agree on anything up
there in Washington, because all you
all do is fight? Why can’t you work in
a bipartisan fashion?’’
I will admit, sometimes it seems like
we can’t agree to the fact that the Sun
is going to come up in the east tomor-
row, but on this bill, there is bipartisan
support. We agree.
Mr. Speaker, I want to urge my col-
leagues to support H.R. 1618, and I yield
back the balance of my time.
Ms. SCHAKOWSKY. Mr. Speaker, I
yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
Mr. Speaker, I thank Congressman
LONG for his work on this legislation.
It was really a pleasure to work with
him on these bills.
Mr. Speaker, I want to close as well,
but I want to say, once in a while we
will read in the paper of a family that
fell victim to carbon monoxide poi-
soning, but mostly this is one by one
by one, a couple people here, a couple
people there, and it doesn’t make the
headlines as a problem. Yet we heard
the numbers, the astonishing numbers
of people who fall victim—sometimes,
and many times, fatally, not always—
to carbon monoxide poisoning.
Again, this is something that is abso-
lutely preventable, and so I am very
grateful and hopeful that all our col-
leagues will support this legislation.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today in strong support of H.R. 1618, the
‘‘Nicholas and Zachary Burt Carbon Monoxide
Poisoning Prevention Act of 2019.’’
I thank Congresswoman KUSTER of New
Hampshire for introducing this legislation
which will save the lives of many children.
H.R. 1618 directs the Consumer Product
Safety Commission to establish a grant pro-
gram to provide assistance to States for speci-
fied activities related to the prevention of car-
bon monoxide poisoning, including installation
of alarms in certain dwellings and facilities.
More specifically, this grant would assist in
installing alarms in dwelling units of low-in-
come families or the elderly, childcare facili-
ties, public schools, senior centers, and stu-
dent dorms owned by public universities.
In addition to installation efforts, this bill
would also assist in enforcement and edu-
cation efforts related to carbon monoxide de-
tectors.
Carbon monoxide is a colorless, odorless
gas produced by burning fuel.
Exposure to unhealthy levels of carbon
monoxide can lead to carbon monoxide poi-
soning, a serious health condition that could
result in death.
In the month of August, a carbon monoxide
leak at the Raveneaux Apartments in Houston
sent eighteen people to the hospital—seven of
these victims were children.
This time, all of the victims survived.
More than 150 people in the United States
die from carbon monoxide poisoning every
year.
Home deaths account for the majority of ac-
cidental carbon monoxide poisoning, and re-
search shows that purchasing and installing
carbon monoxide alarms close to the sleeping
areas in residential homes and other dwelling
units can help avoid fatalities.
That is why I urge all Members to join me
in voting for H.R. 1618.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentlewoman from Illinois (Ms.
SCHAKOWSKY) that the House suspend
the rules and pass the bill, H.R. 1618, as
amended.
The question was taken; and (two-
thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the bill, as
amended, was passed.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
PORTABLE FUEL CONTAINER
SAFETY ACT OF 2019
Ms. SCHAKOWSKY. Mr. Speaker, I
move to suspend the rules and pass the
bill (H.R. 806) to require compliant
flame mitigation devices to be used on
portable fuel containers for flammable
liquid fuels, and for other purposes, as
amended.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 806
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Portable
Fuel Container Safety Act of 2019’’.
SEC. 2. PERFORMANCE STANDARDS TO PROTECT
AGAINST PORTABLE FUEL CON-
TAINER EXPLOSIONS NEAR OPEN
FLAMES OR OTHER IGNITION
SOURCES.
(a) RULE ON SAFETY PERFORMANCE STAND-
ARDS REQUIRED.—Not later than 30 months
after the date of enactment of this section,
the Consumer Product Safety Commission
(referred to in this Act as the ‘‘Commis-
sion’’) shall promulgate a final rule to re-
quire flame mitigation devices in portable
fuel containers that impede the propagation
of flame into the container, except as pro-
vided in subsection (c).
(b) RULEMAKING; CONSUMER PRODUCT SAFE-
TY STANDARD.—A rule under subsection (a)—
(1) shall be promulgated in accordance
with section 553 of title 5, United States
Code; and
(2) shall be treated as a consumer product
safety rule promulgated under section 9 of
the Consumer Product Safety Act (15 U.S.C.
2058).
(c) EXCEPTION.—
(1) VOLUNTARY STANDARD.—Subsection (a)
shall not apply for a class of portable fuel
containers in the scope of this Act if the
Commission determines at any time that—
(A) there is a voluntary standard for flame
mitigation devices for those containers that
impedes the propagation of flame into the
container;
(B) the voluntary standard described in
subparagraph (A) is or will be in effect not
later than 18 months after the date of enact-
ment of this Act; and
(C) the voluntary standard described in
subparagraph (A) is developed by ASTM
International or such other standard devel-
opment organization that the Commission
determines to have met the intent of this
Act.
(2) DETERMINATION REQUIRED TO BE PUB-
LISHED IN THE FEDERAL REGISTER.—Any de-
termination made by the Commission under
this subsection shall be published in the Fed-
eral Register.
(d) TREATMENT OF VOLUNTARY STANDARD
FOR PURPOSE OF ENFORCEMENT.—If the Com-
mission determines that a voluntary stand-
ard meets the conditions described in sub-
section (c), the requirements of such vol-
untary standard shall be treated as a con-
sumer product safety rule promulgated
under section 9 of the Consumer Product
Safety Act (15 U.S.C. 2058) beginning on the
date which is the later of—
(1) 180 days after publication of the Com-
mission’s determination under subsection
(c); or
(2) the effective date contained in the vol-
untary standard.
(e) REVISION OF VOLUNTARY STANDARD.—
(1) NOTICE TO COMMISSION.—If the require-
ments of a voluntary standard that meet the
conditions of subsection (c) are subsequently
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:01 Sep 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00011 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A17SE7.019 H17SEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7728 September 17, 2019
revised, the organization that revised the
standard shall notify the Commission after
the final approval of the revision.
(2) EFFECTIVE DATE OF REVISION.—Not later
than 180 days after the Commission is noti-
fied of a revised voluntary standard de-
scribed in paragraph (1) (or such later date as
the Commission determines appropriate),
such revised voluntary standard shall be-
come enforceable as a consumer product
safety rule promulgated under section 9 of
the Consumer Product Safety Act (15 U.S.C.
2058), in place of the prior version, unless
within 90 days after receiving the notice the
Commission determines that the revised vol-
untary standard does not meet the require-
ments described in subsection (c).
(f) FUTURE RULEMAKING.—The Commission,
at any time after publication of the con-
sumer product safety rule required by sub-
section (a), a voluntary standard is treated
as a consumer product safety rule under sub-
section (d), or a revision is enforceable as a
consumer product safety rule under sub-
section (e) may initiate a rulemaking in ac-
cordance with section 553 of title 5, United
States Code, to modify the requirements or
to include any additional provision that the
Commission determines is reasonably nec-
essary to protect the public against flame
jetting from a portable fuel container. Any
rule promulgated under this subsection shall
be treated as a consumer product safety rule
promulgated under section 9 of the Consumer
Product Safety Act (15 U.S.C. 2058).
(g) ACTION REQUIRED.—
(1) EDUCATION CAMPAIGN.—Not later than 1
year after the date of enactment of this Act,
the Commission shall undertake a campaign
to educate consumers about the dangers as-
sociated with using or storing portable fuel
containers for flammable liquids near an
open flame or any other source of ignition.
(2) SUMMARY OF ACTIONS.—Not later than 2
years after the date of enactment of this
Act, the Commission shall submit to Con-
gress a summary of actions taken by the
Commission in such campaign.
(h) PORTABLE FUEL CONTAINER DEFINED.—
In this section, the term ‘‘portable fuel con-
tainer’’ means any container or vessel (in-
cluding any spout, cap, and other closure
mechanism or component of such container
or vessel or any retrofit or aftermarket
spout or component intended or reasonably
anticipated to be for use with such con-
tainer)—
(1) intended for flammable liquid fuels with
a flash point less than 140 degrees Fahr-
enheit, including gasoline, kerosene, diesel,
ethanol, methanol, denatured alcohol, or
biofuels;
(2) that is a consumer product with a ca-
pacity of 5 gallons or less; and
(3) that the manufacturer knows or reason-
ably should know is used by consumers for
transporting, storing, and dispensing flam-
mable liquid fuels.
(i) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.—This section
may not be interpreted to conflict with the
Children’s Gasoline Burn Prevention Act
(Public Law 110–278; 122 Stat. 2602).
SEC. 3. CHILDREN’S GASOLINE BURN PREVEN-
TION ACT.
(a) AMENDMENT.—Section 2(c) of the Chil-
dren’s Gasoline Burn Prevention Act (15
U.S.C. 2056 note; Public Law 110–278) is
amended by inserting after ‘‘for use by con-
sumers’’ the following: ‘‘and any receptacle
for gasoline, kerosene, or diesel fuel, includ-
ing any spout, cap, and other closure mecha-
nism and component of such receptacle or
any retrofit or aftermarket spout or compo-
nent intended or reasonably anticipated to
be for use with such receptacle, produced or
distributed for sale to or use by consumers
for transport of, or refueling of internal com-
bustion engines with, gasoline, kerosene, or
diesel fuel’’.
(b) APPLICABILITY.—The amendment made
by subsection (a) shall take effect 6 months
after the date of enactment of this section.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentlewoman from
Illinois (Ms. SCHAKOWSKY) and the gen-
tleman from Missouri (Mr. LONG) each
will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from Illinois.
GENERAL LEAVE
Ms. SCHAKOWSKY. Mr. Speaker, I
ask unanimous consent that all Mem-
bers may have 5 legislative days in
which to revise and extend their re-
marks and include extraneous mate-
rials on H.R. 806.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gentle-
woman from Illinois?
There was no objection.
Ms. SCHAKOWSKY. Mr. Speaker, I
yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support
of H.R. 806, the Portable Fuel Con-
tainer Safety Act of 2019.
This bipartisan legislation was intro-
duced by Representative MIKE THOMP-
SON and DAVID JOYCE, a bipartisan co-
sponsorship. It was advanced out of the
Energy and Commerce Committee on
July 17, 2019, by voice vote.
Portable fuel containers are used for
many everyday purposes by adults and
kids alike. For example, we might see
them used to transport or store fuel for
the lawnmower or the backyard fire
pit, and your son or daughter might
use them in their high school chem-
istry class.
What many users don’t realize is that
these containers are highly explosive.
Each year, they send thousands of peo-
ple to the emergency room, including
with third-degree burns.
The explosions that they make,
known as flame jetting, occur when
flammable vapors escape from the open
nozzle and are ignited.
These explosions, however, are pre-
ventable. A small piece of mesh, known
as a flame arrester, can be added to the
container’s spout to eliminate the con-
ditions that create explosions, and
they cost just pennies. There is no rea-
son they shouldn’t be standard in all
portable fuel containers.
The Portable Fuel Container Safety
Act will make sure that all portable
fuel containers have flame mitigation
devices, and it will save lives.
Mr. Speaker, I am grateful to my col-
leagues who introduced this bill. I also
want to thank Margrett Lewis, who has
witnessed firsthand the horrors of such
an explosion and who has been such a
fierce advocate for many years.
Mr. Speaker, I call on all my col-
leagues to support this bipartisan
measure, and I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. LONG. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, this bill directs the
Consumer Product Safety Commission
to issue a consumer product safety rule
to require flame mitigation devices on
portable fuel containers. Furthermore,
it directs CPSC to conduct an edu-
cation campaign to alert consumers to
the dangers of using or storing portable
fuel containers near ignition sources
and to report to Congress on the cam-
paign.
In addition, it amends the Children’s
Gasoline Burn Prevention Act to ex-
pand existing child-resistance require-
ments for closures for portable gasoline
containers to include portable ker-
osene and diesel fuel containers and
component parts.
Mr. Speaker, I want to thank
Margrett Lewis for her tireless efforts
to help get this bill across the House
floor today. She turned her personal
tragedy into passionate advocacy in an
effort to prevent others from facing a
similar incident.
I thank everybody for their work on
this bill.
Mr. Speaker, I congratulate Mr.
THOMPSON and his bipartisan group of
cosponsors, and I am pleased to support
addressing this important safety issue.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
support H.R. 806, and I reserve the bal-
ance of my time.
b 1630
Ms. SCHAKOWSKY. Mr. Speaker, it
is my honor to yield such time as he
may consume to the gentleman from
California (Mr. THOMPSON), who really
brought this bill to the attention of
our committee and subcommittee and
garnered the support that is needed to
make sure that death, disfigurement,
and tragedy don’t occur because of
these products.
Mr. THOMPSON of California. Mr.
Speaker, I thank the gentlewoman for
yielding the time, and for all of her ef-
fort and help in making sure this bill
passes.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support
of my legislation that addresses a dan-
gerous and deadly public safety issue
by directing the Consumer Product
Safety Commission to establish a
standard for requiring flame mitiga-
tion devices to be used in portable fuel
containers and to help educate our
communities about the dangers of
flame jetting.
This issue is very personal to me. I
met with local fire officials and
Margrett Priest Lewis, a mother and
constituent. Margrett’s daughter,
along with her twin sister and a few
friends, were roasting marshmallows.
Their portable fireplace used a com-
mon biofuel that, unfortunately, did
not have a flame mitigation device. As
Margrett’s daughter went to refuel the
outdoor fireplace, the fuel exploded
from the bottle in a process called
flame jetting, which you heard about
earlier. Portable fuel containers are
found in households across America
and, yet, even when used correctly,
like in the case of Margrett’s family,
present a risk for severe injury and, in
some cases, death.
This story of survival and Margrett’s
advocacy on behalf of burn survivors
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:06 Sep 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00012 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A17SE7.017 H17SEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7729
September 17, 2019
has inspired my legislation, and she
has been the driving force behind this
bill.
Flammable or combustible liquids
cause over 160,000 fires per year, $1.5
billion in property damage, and some
4,000 injuries and over 450 deaths every
year. These accidents can happen in
any community, and the results can be
devastating. These accidents are
caused when fuel vapors flash back and
ignite the container contents, leading
to flame to flame jetting or explosions.
These accidents are easily preventable.
Flame mitigation devices can pre-
vent accidents caused by flammable
vapors igniting within liquid con-
tainers. While workplace safety regula-
tions govern the use of approved flame
mitigation devices in flammable liquid
containers for industrial use, there is
no requirement for consumer con-
tainers used in homes, campsites, or
schools across our country.
This bipartisan solution is supported
by a broad coalition, including the
American Burn Association, the Con-
gressional Fire Services Institute, the
International Association of Fire
Fighters, International Association of
Fire Chiefs, National Volunteer Fire
Council, National Fire Protection As-
sociation, the Consumer Federation of
America, the Phoenix Society for Burn
Survivors, the Portable Fuel Container
Manufacturers Association, and the
National Association of State Fire
Marshals.
Mr. Speaker, I include in the RECORD
the National Association of State Fire
Marshals’ letter of support.
NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
STATE FIRE MARSHALS,
Maitland, FL, September 16, 2019.
Hon. MIKE THOMPSON,
House of Representatives,
Washington, DC.
DEAR CONGRESSMAN THOMPSON: The Na-
tional Association of State Fire Marshals
(NASFM) membership comprises the most
senior state fire officials in the United
States, with a primary mission of protecting
human life, property and the environment
from fire and related public safety issues.
Therefore, NASFM strongly endorses H.R.
806, Portable Fuel Container Safety Act of
2019.
Flammable or combustible liquids cause
over 160,000 fires per year, causing $1.5 billion
in property damage, almost 4,000 injuries and
454 deaths annually. These accidents can
happen in any community, and the results
can be devastating.
Flame Mitigation Devices (FMD), such as
flame arresters, can help prevent accidents
caused by flammable vapors igniting within
the liquid container, causing an explosion or
flash fire. While workplace safety regula-
tions govern the use of approved flame ar-
resters in flammable liquid containers for in-
dustrial use, there is no requirement for con-
sumer containers used in homes, camp sites,
and schools across the country.
H.R. 806, Portable Fuel Container Safety
Act of 2019 would address this gap by direct-
ing the Consumer Product Safety Commis-
sion to establish a standard for requiring
FMDs to be used in these containers and re-
duce the risk of catastrophic accidents.
Thank you again for your leadership,
NASFM looks forward to working with you
to enact into law this important fire safety
prevention legislation.
Sincerely,
JIM NARVA,
Executive Director,
National Association of State Fire Marshals.
Mr. THOMPSON of California. Mr.
Speaker, I urge every Member of this
body to keep our constituents and
their children safe by passing this bi-
partisan, commonsense consumer safe-
ty bill.
I thank the cosponsor, Mr. JOYCE of
Ohio, and, again, Chairwoman SCHA-
KOWSKY, for helping move this bill
through her subcommittee.
Mr. Speaker, I urge everyone to vote
in favor of this bill.
Mr. LONG. Mr. Speaker, in closing, I
urge my colleagues to support H.R. 806,
and I yield back the balance of my
time.
Ms. SCHAKOWSKY. Mr. Speaker,
once again, I thank the sponsors of this
bill and Congressman LONG for his par-
ticipation. It means so much to me. I
thank him for his help and his friend-
ship.
I want to say that the story of
Margrett and her daughter—her daugh-
ter has had countless surgeries as a
consequence. She is one of the people
who survived, but her life has been
transformed forever, and we can pre-
vent this with this legislation.
I want to give a special shout-out to
the committee staff and the sub-
committee staff on the Democratic
side, as well as on the Republican side.
I want to thank sincerely my staff in
my office for all of their help on this
bill. This is another one of those that
will definitely be improving and saving
the lives of so many Americans and
ridding our country of this danger.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today in strong support of H.R. 806, the Port-
able Fuel Container Safety Act of 2019.
I want to thank Congressman MIKE THOMP-
SON for introducing H.R. 806 which will help to
save the lives of countless children.
H.R. 806 directs the Consumer Product
Safety Commission (CPSC) to require fuel
containers to include devices that impede
flames from entering the container.
This requirement applies to flammable, liq-
uid fuel containers of fewer than five gallons
that are intended for transport.
The bill also requires child resistant caps on
kerosene and diesel fuel containers.
CPSC may either promulgate a rule or
adopt an existing standard.
Additionally, CPSC must educate con-
sumers about dangers associated with using
or storing such containers near an open flame
or a source of ignition.
On September 21, 2013, a 10-year-old boy,
Christopher Allsup, died when an old red plas-
tic gas container exploded showering him with
burning gasoline.
Over 90 percent of his body was burnt.
He was flown to the University of Iowa Burn
Center where he lived for only 5 hours.
In 2010, Robert Jacoby had poured gasoline
from a gas can onto a brush pile he planned
to ignite, he then walked the can 20 feet from
the pile when it exploded.
He said he had not yet lit a match or any
other fire but claimed a spark from static elec-
tricity created by the friction between the plas-
tic can and his denim jeans was the source of
ignition.
Jacoby suffered severe burns over 75 per-
cent of his body and spent four months in a
burn unit, incurring $1.5 million in medical
bills.
In August in preparation for Hurricane Do-
rian a resident of Fort Myers, Florida had filled
several gasoline canisters and stored them
next to a natural gas-powered water heater.
A hot shower triggered the water heater
causing it to work harder with the vapors of
the gasoline ultimately starting a fire in the ga-
rage.
Luckily, water coming from the pipe sprayed
everywhere, containing the fire to the garage.
Gasoline from gas cans is responsible for
deaths and injuries both from ignition and the
volatile vapors as well as from direct aspira-
tion into the lung or aspiration following vom-
iting of ingested gasoline.
For children, the most serious types of inju-
ries associated with exposure to gasoline are
burns following ignition of the volatile vapors,
chemical pneumonia, pulmonary damage, and
possible death associated with direct aspira-
tion into the lungs or aspiration during vom-
iting following ingestion.
The filling of portable fuel containers or ‘‘gas
cans’’ in pickup trucks and cars can result in
serious fires as a result from the buildup of
static electricity from the bed liner or carpet.
Under certain limited conditions—including a
very low volume of gasoline left inside—a
flashback explosion can occur inside a plastic
gas can, when gas vapor escaping the can
contacts a source of ignition such as a flame
or spark.
Since 1998 the CPSC has tallied at least
1,200 emergency room visits and 11 deaths
due to gas can explosions.
That is why I urge all Members to join me
in voting for H.R. 806.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentlewoman from Illinois (Ms.
SCHAKOWSKY) that the House suspend
the rules and pass the bill, H.R. 806, as
amended.
The question was taken; and (two-
thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the bill, as
amended, was passed.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AF-
FAIRS EXPIRING AUTHORITIES
ACT OF 2019
Mr. TAKANO. Mr. Speaker, I move to
suspend the rules and pass the bill
(H.R. 4285) to amend title 38, United
States Code, to extend and modify cer-
tain authorities and requirements re-
lating to the Department of Veterans
Affairs, and for other purposes.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 4285
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Department
of Veterans Affairs Expiring Authorities Act
of 2019’’.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:08 Sep 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00013 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K17SE7.021 H17SEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7730 September 17, 2019
SEC. 2. EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY RELATING TO
VENDEE LOANS.
Section 3733(a)(7) of title 38, United States
Code, is amended—
(1) in the matter preceding subparagraph
(A), by striking ‘‘September 30, 2019’’ and in-
serting ‘‘September 30, 2020’’; and
(2) in subparagraph (C), by striking ‘‘Sep-
tember 30, 2019,’’ and inserting ‘‘September
30, 2020,’’.
SEC. 3. EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY FOR OPER-
ATION OF DEPARTMENT OF VET-
ERANS AFFAIRS REGIONAL OFFICE
IN MANILA, THE REPUBLIC OF THE
PHILIPPINES.
Section 315(b) of title 38, United States
Code, is amended by striking ‘‘September 30,
2019’’ and inserting ‘‘September 30, 2020’’.
SEC. 4. EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY FOR FINAN-
CIAL ASSISTANCE FOR SUPPORTIVE
SERVICES FOR VERY LOW-INCOME
VETERAN FAMILIES IN PERMANENT
HOUSING.
Section 2044(e)(1)(G) of title 38, United
States Code, is amended by striking ‘‘fiscal
year 2019’’ and inserting ‘‘each of fiscal years
2019 through 2021’’.
SEC. 5. EXTENSION OF TEMPORARY EXPANSION
OF PAYMENTS AND ALLOWANCES
FOR BENEFICIARY TRAVEL IN CON-
NECTION WITH VETERANS RECEIV-
ING CARE FROM VET CENTERS.
Section 104(a) of the Honoring America’s
Veterans and Caring for Camp Lejeune Fami-
lies Act of 2012 (Public Law 112–154; 126 Stat.
1169), as most recently amended by section
109 of the Department of Veterans Affairs
Expiring Authorities Act of 2018 (Public Law
115–251; 132 Stat. 3169), is amended by strik-
ing ‘‘September 30, 2019’’ and inserting ‘‘Sep-
tember 30, 2020’’.
SEC. 6. TECHNICAL AMENDMENTS.
Title 38, United States Code, is amended as
follows:
(1) In section 714(e)(2)(B), by striking ‘‘to
the refer’’ and inserting ‘‘to refer’’.
(2) In section 1725A(c), by inserting a
comma after ‘‘a contract’’.
(3) In section 3313(g)(3)(B)(ii), by inserting
a comma after ‘‘for books’’.
(4) In section 3321(a)(1), by striking ‘‘Janu-
ary,’’ and inserting ‘‘January’’.
(5) In section 3683—
(A) by striking ‘‘(b) (b)’’ and inserting
‘‘(b)’’;
(B) by striking ‘‘(c) (c)’’ and inserting
‘‘(c)’’; and
(C) by striking ‘‘(d) (d)’’ and inserting
‘‘(d)’’.
(6) In section 3699(b), by striking ‘‘this
paragraph’’ and inserting ‘‘this subsection’’.
(7) In section 7462(b)(4)(A), by inserting
‘‘notice’’ after ‘‘written’’.
(8) In section 7696(c)(1), by striking ‘‘).’’
and inserting a period.
(9) In section 8104(a), by striking paragraph
(3) and inserting the following new para-
graph (3):
‘‘(3) For purposes of this subsection:
‘‘(A) The term ‘major medical facility
project’ means a project for the construc-
tion, alteration, or acquisition of a medical
facility involving a total expenditure of
more than $20,000,000, but such term does not
include an acquisition by exchange, non-
recurring maintenance projects of the De-
partment, or the construction, alteration, or
acquisition of a shared Federal medical facil-
ity for which the Department’s estimated
share of the project costs does not exceed
$20,000,000.
‘‘(B) The term ‘major medical facility
lease’ means a lease for space for use as a
new medical facility at an average annual
rent of more than $1,000,000.’’.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentleman from
California (Mr. TAKANO) and the gen-
tleman from Tennessee (Mr. DAVID P.
ROE) each will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from California.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. TAKANO. Mr. Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that all Members
may have 5 legislative days in which to
revise and extend their remarks and in-
sert extraneous material on H.R. 4285.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from California?
There was no objection.
Mr. TAKANO. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I support H.R. 4285, and
I thank Mr. BRINDISI for sponsoring
this important bill which authorizes
the continued operations of programs
and offices vital to addressing the
needs of the veterans we serve.
Mr. Speaker, this bill authorizes the
continued operation of the Manila,
Philippines, regional benefits office,
the only VA regional benefits office, or
VARO, operating in a foreign country,
and I plan to visit that facility this
year.
In addition to administering dis-
ability and survivor benefits to over
16,000 veterans, their dependents, and
survivors, the Manila RO administers
healthcare benefits, as well.
I urge support for continued oper-
ation of this key VA regional office
serving veterans and their families in
the Philippines.
This bill also extends the VA Vendee
Loan Program, which allows VA to sell
foreclosed properties to the general
public, instead of continuing to own
foreclosed properties it cannot use. Our
committee is working hard to ensure
we can increase economic opportuni-
ties for veterans and their families so
that no bank will have to foreclose on
a veteran’s home and place that vet-
eran and his or her family at risk of
homelessness.
That is why this bill also includes a
bipartisan agreement to extend the
Supportive Services for Veteran Fami-
lies Program for 2 years. This critical
program assists homeless veterans and
their families, and those most at risk
of becoming homeless. In southern
California, veterans experience some of
the highest rates of homelessness in
the country.
In the Inland Empire rents continue
to rise. Geographic barriers make it
challenging for veterans to access serv-
ices that prevent homelessness. And
the recent $9 billion cut to HUD hous-
ing assistance programs is making the
homelessness crisis worse generally.
That is why extending the operation of
this vital program is so important.
In recent weeks, our Economic Op-
portunity Subcommittee, led by Chair-
man MIKE LEVIN and Ranking Member
GUS BILIRAKIS, held two bipartisan
field hearings that are helping this
committee to identify solutions to ad-
dress veteran homelessness.
We have much work to do in under-
standing the definition of homeless-
ness, getting true population counts,
preventing homelessness, and working
to respond to homelessness after disas-
ters.
During the field hearing in San
Diego, we heard prevention was about
one-tenth of the cost of crisis interven-
tion.
The SSVF program, which awards
grants to nonprofit organizations, pro-
vides supportive services to very low-
income veterans and their families to
assist homeless veterans in moving
into permanent housing and veterans
in housing who are at risk of becoming
homeless. These grants help organiza-
tions provide case management, out-
reach, and help veterans obtain VA
healthcare and disability benefits.
These grant recipients also help with
child care assistance, transportation,
housing counseling services, legal serv-
ices, and financial planning for vet-
erans and their families.
I urge each of my colleagues to sup-
port this vital program so that no vet-
eran is forced to live on the street.
Mr. Speaker, September is National
Suicide Prevention and Awareness
Month. Tragically, 20 veterans take
their lives each day. Despite Congress’
and VA’s efforts to address veteran sui-
cide, the rate remains unchanged. This
year, we have also seen multiple vet-
eran suicides on VA campuses. For
these reasons, I have made addressing
veteran suicide the top policy priority
of this committee.
Earlier this month, I called on VA to
conduct a 15-day nationwide stand-
down in response to a VA inspector
general investigation into a veteran
suicide at the West Palm Beach VA
Medical Center. The IG report exposed
weaknesses in procedures, staff train-
ing, and installation of monitoring
equipment in the inpatient mental
health clinic.
Three-quarters of veterans who com-
mit suicide are not receiving treat-
ment at VA hospitals and clinics. As
Congress and VA chart a strategy to
reach these veterans not receiving VA
care, veterans and the public must be
assured that VA’s own mental health
clinics are adequately and appro-
priately staffed. Each unit must have
up-to-date monitoring equipment. All
VA staff must undergo appropriate
training. And each mental health unit
must be routinely inspected.
While I am disappointed the VA sec-
retary has resisted my call for a na-
tionwide stand-down, I appreciate that
VA is taking actions that meet the
spirit of my request. VA must make
every effort to provide the highest
quality treatment for the veterans and
their care, especially veterans in crisis
who come to VA for help.
Mr. Speaker, H.R. 4285 extends a pro-
gram that provides transportation for
veterans living in highly rural areas to
vet centers for counseling and other
mental health and social services.
For veterans in need of mental
healthcare who may be uncomfortable
entering medical facilities, vet centers
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:12 Sep 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00014 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A17SE7.022 H17SEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7731
September 17, 2019
serve as a community and counseling
center. For some veterans, these vet
centers are a lifeline.
Yesterday, Congressman ROSE and I
visited the vet center in Staten Island,
New York. We both learned about the
support, counseling, connection to
other VA services, and the sense of
community the Staten Island vet cen-
ter creates with the veterans who visit
there.
b 1645
We also learned that transportation,
including a $15 toll, can make it dif-
ficult for veterans in New York City to
access vet centers and VA facilities.
Our committee is going to look into a
solution to address this.
Likewise, veterans in highly rural
areas tell us distance and transpor-
tation are also obstacles to partici-
pating in counseling and mental health
treatment at vet centers. Therefore,
Congress has been authorizing a pilot
program since 2012 that pays travel ex-
penses for veterans attending coun-
seling at vet centers in Bangor, Maine;
Kalispell, Montana; Santa Fe, New
Mexico; and Spokane, Washington.
Mr. Speaker, suicide is preventable.
Veterans who are thinking about sui-
cide are not alone. If my colleagues
have veterans in their district who are
thinking about suicide, please urge
them to call the Veterans Crisis Line
at 1–800–273–8255 and press 1. They can
also text 741741.
Mr. Speaker, let me repeat this very
important number again. The Veterans
Crisis Line is 1–800–273–8255, and vet-
erans are asked to press 1. Veterans
can also text 741741.
Finally, Mr. Speaker, I would also
like to thank Mr. BRINDISI, a member
of our Economic Opportunity and
Health Subcommittees, for bringing
this bill to the floor.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. DAVID P. ROE of Tennessee. Mr.
Speaker, I yield myself such time as I
may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support
of H.R. 4285, the Department of Vet-
erans Affairs Expiring Authorities Act
of 2019.
This legislation represents a bipar-
tisan, bicameral agreement that would
extend the expiring authorities impact-
ing the lives of veterans. Swift passage
of this legislation today would ensure
that these programs continue. This bill
would extend four authorities.
First, the bill would extend through
September 30, 2020, the VA’s authority
to provide direct loans to buyers of VA-
owned residences that the VA has
pooled together.
It would also extend to September 30,
2020, the VA’s authority to operate a
regional office in Manila that provides
services to World War II veterans who
reside in the Philippines.
Third, it would extend through 2021
the Supportive Services for Veteran
Families program, the SSVF program,
which provides grants to organizations
that provide supportive services to eli-
gible homeless or at-risk veteran fami-
lies to promote housing stability.
Finally, the bill would extend
through September 2020 the VA’s au-
thority to pay travel allowances to and
from vet centers for veterans who live
in highly rural areas.
To be clear, these are not new au-
thorities. They are in present law, and
costs associated with them have been
assumed in the House-passed appro-
priations bill for fiscal year 2020 and
the 2021 advanced appropriations.
In addition to extending these au-
thorities, the bill would also make
technical changes to legislation that
Congress has previously passed.
I urge my colleagues to support H.R.
4285 so that the Senate can take it up
quickly and send it to the President’s
desk.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. TAKANO. Mr. Speaker, I yield 3
minutes to the gentleman from Cali-
fornia (Mr. LEVIN), the chairman of the
Economic Opportunity Subcommittee.
Mr. LEVIN of California. Mr. Speak-
er, I rise today in support of this legis-
lation, which will, among other things,
help us address the epidemic of veteran
homelessness. It is simply unaccept-
able that many of the men and women
who have served this great country are
now living on our streets.
I am grateful to my friend, Ranking
Member GUS BILIRAKIS from Florida.
We have now had two field hearings in
his district, the 12th Congressional Dis-
trict of Florida, and my district, the
49th Congressional District of Cali-
fornia. We are absolutely committed to
doing everything we can to address this
issue in our communities and in all
communities around the country.
We owe it to those who have served
and their families to ensure that they
have everything they need to get back
on their feet, including case manage-
ment; assistance in obtaining VA bene-
fits; and temporary financial assist-
ance with rent, utilities, or childcare
expenses.
I was proud to introduce bipartisan
legislation to help address homeless-
ness, specifically among women vet-
erans, by reauthorizing funding for the
Supportive Services for Veteran Fami-
lies grant program and requiring that
at least $20 million goes to organiza-
tions that have a focus on helping
women veterans and their families.
What we are seeing in our sub-
committee is that the rate of veterans’
homelessness is roughly steady, but
alarmingly, women veterans’ homeless-
ness is increasing. We have to do some-
thing about it.
The legislation before us today will
provide the reauthorization that we
need before the end of the fiscal year
on September 30.
I have said it before, and I will say it
again: Even one homeless veteran is
one too many. We have a moral obliga-
tion to make robust Federal invest-
ments in programs to help get veterans
off the streets.
By passing this legislation, we can
make those investments, and we can do
more than just pay lip service to our
veterans. We can give them the support
and resources they have earned and de-
serve.
I give credit to my friends, Chairman
TAKANO and Ranking Member ROE.
They are doing a fantastic job helping
our veterans and trying to give back in
any way we can to those who have
served our country, those who have
given so much. It is my great honor to
serve with them on the House Vet-
erans’ Affairs Committee.
Mr. DAVID P. ROE of Tennessee. Mr.
Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the gen-
tleman from Illinois (Mr. BOST), an
original cosponsor of this legislation.
I have had the privilege of serving
with Congressman BOST since he has
been on the committee. He is a Marine
Corps veteran, 1979 to 1982. He served in
the last Congress as chairman of the
DAMA, Disability Assistance and Me-
morial Affairs Subcommittee, and he is
also on the Oversight and Investiga-
tions Subcommittee.
Mr. BOST. Mr. Speaker, I thank the
ranking member for yielding.
As a marine, it is one of my greatest
honors to serve on the Veterans’ Af-
fairs Committee. It is vitally impor-
tant that our government fulfill its
promises to our Nation’s military
members that they will be taken care
of once they return.
The Department of Veterans Affairs
is tasked with ensuring that they re-
ceive the care they need and have
earned. This bill ensures that the VA
can continue to support some of our
Nation’s most vulnerable veterans. It
extends funding for programs that help
very low-income veterans and those
who must travel long distances to vet
centers in order to receive their care.
That is why I am proud to cosponsor
and introduce this legislation with my
friend, Congressman BRINDISI, and I
urge my colleagues to support it as
well.
Mr. TAKANO. Mr. Speaker, I yield 3
minutes to the gentleman from New
York (Mr. BRINDISI), who serves on our
Economic Opportunity and Health Sub-
committees and who also is the author
of H.R. 4285.
Mr. BRINDISI. Mr. Speaker, I thank
the gentleman for yielding.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support
of H.R. 4285, the Department of Vet-
erans Affairs Expiring Authorities Act
of 2019, which I introduced to ensure
that veterans and their families con-
tinue to have access to the programs
and benefits that they rely on.
This critical bill authorizes the con-
tinuation of several important VA pro-
grams that will expire at the end of
this fiscal year if Congress does not
act.
First, this bill provides a 1-year ex-
tension of VA’s authority relating to
vendee loans. Vendee loans are loans
offered by the VA to purchase VA real
estate-owned properties. Offered to vet-
erans and nonveterans alike, this loan
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:12 Sep 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00015 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K17SE7.024 H17SEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7732 September 17, 2019
program allows people to purchase
properties that were previously fore-
closed upon and are now government-
owned, with little to no downpayment.
This bill also provides a 2-year exten-
sion of financial assistance for sup-
portive services for very low-income
veteran families in permanent housing.
Grantees under this program are re-
quired to provide supportive services to
eligible veterans and their families, in-
cluding outreach, case management,
and assistance in obtaining VA bene-
fits.
This program was previously author-
ized for fiscal year 2019, but this exten-
sion would extend authorization to in-
clude fiscal years 2020 and 2021. This ex-
tension of the program helps give the
VA and the grantees better certainty
of the program’s future so they can
continue providing critical wraparound
services that help low-income veterans
get back on their feet.
The bill also provides a 1-year exten-
sion of VA’s payments and allowances
for beneficiary travel in connection
with veterans receiving care from vet
centers. While veterans can claim ben-
eficiary travel from VA medical facili-
ties, we know that care at the vet cen-
ters can be just as important.
This program is important because it
specifically helps populations of rural
veterans. Highly rural veterans have
frequently described transportation as
being a limiting factor in receiving
care, and I am proud that this bill
would extend this critical program.
I thank Chairman TAKANO and Rank-
ing Member ROE for their work on ex-
tending these critical programs and
their true commitment to our Nation’s
veterans. I also thank my colleague
Congressman BOST from Illinois, my
friend on the VA Committee, for lead-
ing this legislation with me.
It is an honor to serve on the VA
Committee, the most bipartisan com-
mittee in Congress, and work with my
colleagues to support our Nation’s vet-
erans.
I encourage my colleagues to support
this critical legislation and support our
Nation’s veterans.
Mr. DAVID P. ROE of Tennessee. Mr.
Speaker, I yield myself such time as I
may consume.
Mr. Speaker, just to reemphasize
what was said about homeless vet-
erans, I have been on the committee
for almost 11 years, my entire time in
Congress. When I first arrived here, we
had over 100,000 homeless veterans on
the streets of this country, which was
unbelievable.
Then-Secretary General Shinseki
made one of his priorities to try to re-
duce homelessness to zero by 2016. He
did not succeed in that, but we have re-
duced the homeless veterans popu-
lation now down to under 40,000, which
is a 60 percent reduction, a huge reduc-
tion.
I could not agree more with my col-
league from California. One veteran
homeless is too many.
I know there are pockets in this
country. I know that, in California,
they have a really serious problem
there, and I think they are working
very hard on trying to solve this. This
legislation will be one piece of the puz-
zle.
Mr. Speaker, I strongly support this
legislation, and I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. TAKANO. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I thank my colleague
and Veterans’ Affairs Committee
Ranking Member PHIL ROE for men-
tioning the tremendous strides the VA
and this Nation have made toward re-
ducing veteran homelessness.
It is true that Secretary Shinseki’s
goal of ending veteran homelessness
did not occur by the designated year,
2016. But even in the State of Cali-
fornia, where we are still experiencing
several pockets of veteran homeless-
ness, in Riverside County, the county I
represent in Congress, this county has
achieved functional zero. This does not
mean that there are zero homeless vet-
erans, but what it does mean is that
when homeless veterans are identified,
their homelessness is brief and non-
recurring. That is the definition of
functional zero.
I want to commend, again, the offi-
cials at the Riverside County VA and
the Loma Linda VA for the incredible
work they have done to achieve func-
tional zero. I hope that they will be
able to share their insights with other
counties in my State and across the
Nation that are looking to do the
same.
What I do know is that functional
zero will not remain functional zero
without concerted and intentional ef-
fort to be vigilant. We need to be vigi-
lant in areas where we have reduced
homelessness to functional zero, and
we also need to ensure that we con-
tinue to address the challenges in Los
Angeles, Orange County, and San Diego
County where homelessness among our
veterans persists.
Mr. Speaker, I am very proud and
pleased to support this package of ex-
tensions of programs—among them,
programs that will address veteran
homelessness.
I urge all of my colleagues to join me
in passing this very important legisla-
tion, H.R. 4285, and I yield back the
balance of my time.
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker, as a sen-
ior member of the House Committees on the
Judiciary, Homeland Security, and Budget, I
rise in strong support of H.R. 4285, the De-
partment of Veterans Affairs Expiring Authori-
ties Act of 2019, which among other things,
reauthorizes the VA Vendee Loan Program.
The VA Vendee Loan program allows vet-
erans, non-veterans, owner-occupants, and in-
vestors the opportunity to purchase VA real
estate owned properties.
Veterans have the opportunity to purchase
these properties with little to no money down,
competitive interest rates, 15 or 30 year loan
term options, and no appraisal requirement or
pre-payment penalties.
H.R. 4285 would provide a one-year exten-
sion to this critical program that gives veterans
a viable alternative to traditional financing.
The Department of Veterans Affairs is mak-
ing a positive impact on the lives of thousands
of veterans and beneficiaries.
For example, in the Philippines, the Manila
Regional office is the only Veterans Affairs of-
fice outside the United States or its territories.
This legislation will create a one-year exten-
sion of VA’s authority to operate a Regional
Office in the Philippines, providing benefits
claims, local payment of benefit checks, and
other social services to thousands of U.S. vet-
erans living oversees in the Philippines.
In addition, H.R. 4285 will provide a two
year extension of authority to fund financial
assistance for supportive services to very low
income veteran families in permanent housing,
and a one-year extension of VA’s authority to
temporarily expand payments and allowances
for beneficiary travel in connection with vet-
erans receiving care from vet centers.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to join
me in supporting H.R. 4285, the Department
of Veterans Affairs Expiring Authorities Act of
2019, to continue providing the Department of
Veterans Affairs the resources to continue pro-
viding services to our nation’s veterans.
b 1700
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentleman from California (Mr.
TAKANO) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, H.R. 4285.
The question was taken.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. In the
opinion of the Chair, two-thirds being
in the affirmative, the ayes have it.
Mr. TAKANO. Mr. Speaker, on that I
demand the yeas and nays.
The yeas and nays were ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, further pro-
ceedings on this motion will be post-
poned.
f
HELEN KELLER NATIONAL CEN-
TER REAUTHORIZATION ACT OF
2019
Ms. JAYAPAL. Mr. Speaker, I move
to suspend the rules and pass the bill
(H.R. 2134) to reauthorize the Helen
Keller National Center for Youths and
Adults Who Are Deaf-Blind, as amend-
ed.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 2134
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Helen Keller
National Center Reauthorization Act of
2019’’.
SEC. 2. HELEN KELLER NATIONAL CENTER REAU-
THORIZED.
The first sentence of section 205(a) of the
Helen Keller National Center Act (29 U.S.C.
1904(a)) is amended by striking ‘‘1999 through
2003’’ and inserting ‘‘2019 through 2023’’.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentlewoman from
Washington (Ms. JAYAPAL) and the gen-
tleman from Wisconsin (Mr.
GROTHMAN) each will control 20 min-
utes.
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from Washington.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:08 Sep 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00016 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K17SE7.026 H17SEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7733
September 17, 2019
GENERAL LEAVE
Ms. JAYAPAL. Mr. Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that all Members
may have 5 legislative days to revise
and extend their remarks and include
extraneous material on H.R. 2134.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gentle-
woman from Washington?
There was no objection.
Ms. JAYAPAL. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I am excited that the
House of Representatives is considering
this bill, the Helen Keller National
Center Reauthorization Act, a bipar-
tisan bill, and I urge my colleagues to
support it. This bill will reauthorize
funding for the center through 2023.
Congress established the Helen Keller
National Center in 1967 to provide na-
tionwide services for people who are
deaf-blind. Headquartered in New York
with regional offices across the coun-
try, the center is the only organization
of its kind that provides training and
resources exclusively to people 16 and
over who have both vision and hearing
loss.
Unfortunately, deaf-blind people face
unique and diverse challenges. Many
youth who are deaf-blind have not been
provided with the type or quality of
education that generally yields suc-
cessful outcomes in employment, inde-
pendent living, and community in-
volvement. In fact, deaf-blind youth
have some of the lowest levels of access
to special education services.
I am so proud of some of the work
that we are doing in my home State of
Washington to advance justice for deaf-
blind people. Washington State Deaf-
Blind Citizens is doing incredible work
to organize community events, to pro-
vide support for everyday tasks like
reading the mail and doing errands,
and to advocate with lawmakers on the
unique needs of the deaf-blind commu-
nity.
We also have the Deaf-Blind Service
Center of Seattle, which focuses on
breaking down communication barriers
by providing interpretation and advo-
cacy services for free to deaf-blind indi-
viduals.
I think we can all agree that every
deaf-blind person deserves equal access
to services that promote their suc-
cesses, independence, and full partici-
pation in their communities. That is
exactly what the Helen Keller National
Center provides to this underserved
population. Thanks to the center, deaf-
blind people in every congressional dis-
trict can connect with support systems
to grow productively and find meaning
in their lives.
Mr. Speaker, I am proud to enthu-
siastically support this bill to extend
congressional authorization for the
Helen Keller National Center. I urge
my colleagues to support it as well,
and I reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. GROTHMAN. Mr. Speaker, I
yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today to support
H.R. 2134, the legislation to reauthorize
the Helen Keller National Center Act.
Originally enacted in 1967, the law es-
tablished the Helen Keller National
Center for Deaf-Blind Youths and
Adults.
Today’s legislation allows the impor-
tant center—the only organization of
its kind—to continue to support indi-
viduals with combined vision and hear-
ing loss, as well as their families and
service providers.
Helen Keller’s story is well-known to
us all. It is an example of determina-
tion and hard work. Not only did she
overcome her difficulties, she also
worked tirelessly to benefit the lives of
others. In doing so, she showed the
world there are no boundaries.
I would like to read a couple of
quotes of Helen Keller: ‘‘Remember, no
effort that we make to attain some-
thing beautiful is ever lost.’’
‘‘Sometime, somewhere, somehow we
shall find that which we seek.’’
In an article from 1933, entitled, ‘‘The
Simplest Way to Be Happy,’’ she wrote:
‘‘A happy life consists not in the ab-
sence, but in the mastery of hard-
ships.’’
These quotes embody her persever-
ance. The Helen Keller National Center
carries on this message by working to
give the deaf-blind community the
tools they need to work and thrive in
communities of their choice.
The center offers hope and dignity to
those it serves through on-campus as-
sistive technology education; voca-
tional, orientation and mobility, and
communication services; and inde-
pendent living support through its
headquarters in Sands Point, New
York. Individuals from across the
country travel to their headquarters
for these incredible resources.
The National Center also provides
similar services to local communities
in all 50 States, the District of Colum-
bia, and the U.S. territories. The goal
of these programs and services is to ad-
vance the personal development and
independence of individuals who are
deaf-blind.
Federal support allows the center to
continue its invaluable research and
development programs in several areas,
including communication techniques
and teaching methods. All of this leads
to improved program offerings and, ul-
timately, better lives for deaf-blind
Americans and their families.
H.R. 2134 will reauthorize the Helen
Keller Center through the year 2023,
which demonstrates this body’s contin-
ued commitment to providing deaf-
blind youths and adults with opportu-
nities to lead successful, independent
lives. By passing this legislation, Con-
gress recognizes the unique needs of in-
dividuals who are deaf-blind as well as
the unique care and developmental pro-
grams they need.
I urge my colleagues to support this
bipartisan bill. Doing so allows us to
carry on Hellen Keller’s incredible
story of independence and success that
has given hope to generations of those
who are deaf-blind.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Ms. JAYAPAL. Mr. Speaker, I yield 3
minutes to the gentleman from Wis-
consin (Mr. POCAN), who is the sponsor
of this bill, H.R. 2134, a member of the
Appropriations Committee, and my co-
chair of the Congressional Progressive
Caucus. He is a real champion for com-
munities across the country.
Mr. POCAN. Mr. Speaker, I want to
thank my friend, Ms. JAYAPAL, for
yielding me some time. I want to
thank my friend from Wisconsin (Mr.
GROTHMAN) for his supportive words. I
appreciate that.
I am happy that we here today to
pass H.R. 2134, the Helen Keller Na-
tional Center Reauthorization Act of
2019, which I am glad to author and in-
troduce with my colleagues, Represent-
atives TOM SUOZZI and TOM COLE. With-
out their support, as well as the sup-
port of Representatives ROSA DELAURO,
PETE KING, and Chairman BOBBY
SCOTT, this legislation would not be on
the floor today.
The Helen Keller National Center for
Deaf-Blind Youths and Adults was first
authorized by Congress in 1967 to assist
the deaf-blind community in America.
To this day, it is the only comprehen-
sive national program that provides in-
formation, referrals, support, and
training exclusively to Americans who
have combined vision and hearing loss,
while also supporting families and pro-
fessionals who work with the deaf-blind
community.
Unfortunately, the center’s author-
ization has lapsed, but through our ac-
tions today, we will be able to reau-
thorize it through 2023 and continue to
advocate on its behalf during the an-
nual appropriations process.
In my home State of Wisconsin, the
Helen Keller National Center has
partnered with the Wisconsin Division
of Vocational Rehabilitation through a
formal agreement to provide job prepa-
ration and job placement services,
independent living, and communica-
tion skills, training, and self-advocacy
training.
Additionally, it co-led the Midwest
Deaf-Blind Transition Institute this
past July, where deaf-blind youths
from across Wisconsin and their family
members explored post-high school op-
tions and met with peer mentors.
The center has also recently provided
training to 55 professionals in Wis-
consin on haptics, a system of pro-
viding tactual signs to deaf-blind per-
sons to relay information, which can
increase independence and engagement
in daily life.
Clearly, the work the Helen Keller
National Center performs is vital and
life-changing. That is why I am proud
to stand here on the floor of the House
of Representatives in support of the
center and its work. The Helen Keller
National Center is worthy of all of our
support.
I thank Sue Ruzenski at the Helen
Keller National Center for bringing its
work and the needs of the deaf-blind
community to my attention.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:12 Sep 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00017 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K17SE7.029 H17SEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7734 September 17, 2019
I thank Jacque Mosely of the House
Education and Labor Committee, who
has been invaluable.
Mr. Speaker, I urge all of my col-
leagues to stand in support of the
American deaf-blind community and
vote in favor of this bipartisan legisla-
tion before us.
Mr. GROTHMAN. Mr. Speaker, I
yield myself the balance of my time.
H.R. 2134 is legislation to reauthorize
the Helen Keller National Center for
Deaf-Blind Youths and Adults. The
center offers groundbreaking edu-
cational programs across the country
that help deaf-blind individuals tri-
umph over adversity, just as Helen Kel-
ler did more than 50 years ago. By pass-
ing today’s legislation, we ensure this
center can continue its critical work
providing our Nation’s deaf-blind with
the resources needed to lead successful
and independent lives.
Mr. Speaker, I join my colleague,
Congressman POCAN, whom I thank for
authoring this bill. I once again urge
my colleagues to vote ‘‘yes’’ on H.R.
2134, and I yield back the balance of my
time.
Ms. JAYAPAL. Mr. Speaker, I yield 3
minutes to the gentleman from New
York (Mr. SUOZZI), who is my good
friend.
Mr. SUOZZI. Mr. Speaker, I thank
Congresswoman JAYAPAL for yielding
me time.
Today I rise in support of H.R. 2134,
the Helen Keller National Center Reau-
thorization Act of 2019.
The Helen Keller National Center for
Deaf-Blind Youths and Adults is lo-
cated in my district in Sands Point,
Long Island. It is a national organiza-
tion and, really, the only one of its
type.
I want to thank my colleagues, Rep-
resentative POCAN, who is the author of
this bill, and Congressman PETER KING,
Congressman BOBBY SCOTT, Congress-
woman DELAURO, Congressman COLE,
and Congresswoman LOWEY, for cham-
pioning the authorization of the Helen
Keller National Center.
Think about it: This was formed in
1967, and it is a unique facility in that
it serves a population that is both deaf
and blind, combined. Imagine how im-
portant this organization is in the lives
of these folks who are confronting
being deaf and blind at the same time.
It is estimated that there are 2.4 mil-
lion deaf and blind youths and adults
in America, and that number is going
up dramatically as the population ages.
Mr. Speaker, this organization serv-
ices adults who are over 16 years of
age. They travel from all over the
country to come to this facility, as
well as having regional centers, which
have been mentioned already, that pro-
vide what you would characterize as
outpatient services.
In my second week in office, in 2017,
I visited the Helen Keller National Cen-
ter in my district. I met with deaf and
blind individuals in the program. I
learned about their experiences and
how Helen Keller services made a dif-
ference in their lives and the lives of
their families. Many described how
they had gained skills in order to live
independently and to be successfully
employed in a career of their choice.
We must all recognize the critical
importance of this group, and the reau-
thorization of the Helen Keller Act is
one significant way that Congress can
collectively convey to the deaf-blind
community that we are all committed
to ensuring quality services are avail-
able to promote their empowerment
and their success, not only the work
they have done in the past, but that
they will do in the future as well.
I want people to know that, since
coming to Congress in 2017, after years
of no increases in their funding, my
colleagues and I have helped increase
funding at the Helen Keller National
Center from $10.3 million a year to $13.5
million for the Helen Keller National
Center. It is really a modest invest-
ment, but with this funding, they have
been able to provide a wider array of
critical services to deaf-blind individ-
uals by building a network all across
the Nation among professionals and
service providers with 11 regional of-
fices located across the country. This
year’s appropriations bill package
passed by the House included $16 mil-
lion and is awaiting action in the Sen-
ate.
Again, Mr. Speaker, I want to thank
all of my colleagues who have done so
much for such an important organiza-
tion.
Ms. JAYAPAL. Mr. Speaker, in clos-
ing, this is commonsense, bipartisan
legislation to help deaf-blind students
across the country. I am so proud that
the House is considering this legisla-
tion today. I urge a ‘‘yes’’ vote, and I
yield back the balance of my time.
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today in strong support of H.R. 2134 the
‘‘Helen Keller National Center Reauthorization
Act of 2019.’’
Helen Keller was an American author, polit-
ical activist, and lecturer who was the first
deaf-blind person to earn a Bachelors Degree
in the United States.
She was born in Tuscumbia, Alabama on
June 27, 1880 and she spent her life cam-
paigning for women’s suffrage, labor rights
and antimilitarism.
The Helen Keller National Center Act estab-
lished a Helen Keller National Center for Deaf-
Blind Youths and Adults to provide specialized
intensive services for deaf-blind persons, to
train personnel to provide such services, and
to conduct applied research, development,
and demonstrations relating to communication
techniques, teaching methods, aids, devices
and delivery of services.
This bill requires an annual audit of the
Center and it directs the Secretary of Edu-
cation to ensure that Center service and train-
ing programs are monitored regularly, and
Center operation is evaluated annually, with
written reports to the President and Congress
submitted by specified deadlines.
There are approximately thirty-six million
adult Americans that suffer some type of hear-
ing loss and approximately ten million Ameri-
cans that are blind or visually impaired.
This legislation will help ensure that these
Americans get the help they need to fulfill their
dreams.
That is why I urge all Members to join me
in voting for H.R. 2134.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentlewoman from Washington
(Ms. JAYAPAL) that the House suspend
the rules and pass the bill, H.R. 2134, as
amended.
The question was taken; and (two-
thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the bill, as
amended, was passed.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
b 1715
FOSTERING UNDERGRADUATE
TALENT BY UNLOCKING RE-
SOURCES FOR EDUCATION ACT
Ms. ADAMS. Mr. Speaker, I move to
suspend the rules and pass the bill
(H.R. 2486) to reauthorize mandatory
funding programs for historically
Black colleges and universities and
other minority-serving institutions, as
amended.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 2486
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Fostering
Undergraduate Talent by Unlocking Re-
sources for Education Act’’ or the ‘‘FUTURE
Act’’.
SEC. 2. STRENGTHENING HISTORICALLY BLACK
COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES AND
OTHER MINORITY-SERVING INSTITU-
TIONS.
Section 371(b)(1)(A) of the Higher Edu-
cation Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1067q(b)(1)(A)) is
amended—
(1) in the first sentence, by striking
‘‘through 2019’’ and inserting ‘‘through 2021’’;
and
(2) in the second sentence, by striking
‘‘2019’’ and inserting ‘‘2021’’.
SEC. 3. ELIMINATION OF ACCOUNT MAINTE-
NANCE FEES.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 458 of the Higher
Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1087h) is
amended—
(1) in subsection (a)—
(A) by striking paragraphs (1), (4), and (5);
and
(B) by redesignating paragraphs (3), (6), (7),
and (8) as paragraphs (1), (2), (3), and (4), re-
spectively;
(2) by striking subsection (b); and
(3) by redesignating subsection (c) as sub-
section (b).
(b) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.—Section
422B(c) of the Higher Education Act of 1965
(20 U.S.C. 1072b(c)) is amended—
(1) by striking paragraph (3); and
(2) by redesignating paragraphs (4) through
(6) as paragraphs (3) through (5), respec-
tively.
(c) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments
made by this section shall take effect on Oc-
tober 1, 2019.
SEC. 4. TRANSFER OF FEDERAL PELL GRANT
FUNDS.
Section 401(b)(7)(A)(iv) of the Higher Edu-
cation Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C.
1070a(b)(7)(A)(iv)) is amended by striking
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:12 Sep 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00018 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K17SE7.030 H17SEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7735
September 17, 2019
subclauses (X) and (XI) and inserting the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(X) $1,267,000,000 for fiscal year 2020;
‘‘(XI) $1,145,000,000 for fiscal year 2021;
‘‘(XII) $1,145,000,000 for fiscal year 2022;
‘‘(XIII) $1,145,000,000 for fiscal year 2023;
‘‘(XIV) $1,145,000,000 for fiscal year 2024;
‘‘(XV) $1,394,000,000 for fiscal year 2025; and
‘‘(XVI) $1,145,000,000 for fiscal year 2026 and
each succeeding fiscal year.’’.
SEC. 5. DETERMINATION OF BUDGETARY EF-
FECTS.
The budgetary effects of this Act, for the
purpose of complying with the Statutory
Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010, shall be deter-
mined by reference to the latest statement
titled ‘‘Budgetary Effects of PAYGO Legisla-
tion’’ for this Act, submitted for printing in
the Congressional Record by the Chairman of
the Committee on the Budget of the House of
Representatives, provided that such state-
ment has been submitted prior to the vote on
passage.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentlewoman from
North Carolina (Ms. ADAMS) and the
gentleman from North Carolina (Mr.
WALKER) each will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from North Carolina.
GENERAL LEAVE
Ms. ADAMS. Mr. Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that all Members
have 5 legislative days to revise and ex-
tend and include extraneous materials
on H.R. 2486.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gentle-
woman from North Carolina?
There was no objection.
Ms. ADAMS. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R.
2486, Fostering Undergraduate Talent
by Unlocking Resources for Education,
or better known as the FUTURE Act.
This bill is an absolutely crucial
piece of legislation. It represents the
number one priority of our minority-
serving institutions, which educate
nearly 30 percent of all undergraduate
students in America.
The FUTURE Act would reauthorize
title 3, part F of the Higher Education
Act, providing $255 million in funding
for MSIs for the next 2 years.
This includes:
$85 million of historically Black col-
leges and universities;
$30 million for Tribal colleges and
universities;
$100 million for Hispanic-serving in-
stitutions; and
$15 million each for predominantly
Black institutions, Alaska Native and
Native Hawaiian-serving institutions
and Asian American and Native Amer-
ican Pacific Islander-serving institu-
tions.
First authorized in 2010, title 3, part
F have helped MSIs prepare their stu-
dents for STEM professions, fortified
failing infrastructure on MSIs cam-
puses, and provided fiscal stability for
many of our smaller MSIs.
In order for MSIs to continue this
work for fiscal year 2020 and beyond,
the House must act tonight and ensure
that our low-income, first generation
college students are not left behind.
This bill is about their future.
H.R. 2486 is not only integral to MSIs
and the millions of students that they
serve, it is also responsible legislation
that is completely paid for, not adding
one cent to the deficit. H.R. 2486 does
this by repealing automatic mainte-
nance fees, a relic of the now-defunct
Federal Family Education Loan Pro-
gram, where the government-paid pri-
vate institutions called guaranty agen-
cies to manage student loan accounts.
And with the Federal Government now
directly lending to student borrowers,
these fees are no longer paid, and are
increasingly being phased out.
Mr. Speaker, I ask for support for
H.R. 2486, and I include in the RECORD
a letter from the American Council on
Education and 43 other national orga-
nizations in support of passage of this
bill tonight by the House.
AMERICAN COUNCIL ON EDUCATION,
Washington, DC, September 16, 2019.
Representative NANCY PELOSI,
Speaker of the House, House of Representatives,
Washington, DC.
Representative KEVIN MCCARTHY,
Minority Leader, House of Representatives,
Washington, DC.
DEAR SPEAKER PELOSI AND LEADER MCCAR-
THY: On behalf of the undersigned organiza-
tions representing Historically Black Col-
leges and Universities (HBCUs), Tribal Col-
leges and Universities (TCUs), Hispanic-
Serving Institutions (HSIs), other Minority-
Serving Institutions (MSIs), and the higher
education community at large, we write to
ask that you and the members you lead vote
in favor of H.R. 2486, the Fostering Under-
graduate Talent by Unlocking Resources for
Education (FUTURE) Act when it comes up
for a vote tomorrow.
This bicameral, bipartisan bill was intro-
duced by Representative Alma Adams (D–
NC) and Representative Mark Walker (R–NC)
to extend vital mandatory funding for
Science, Technology, Engineering, and
Mathematics (STEM) education, student
completion and infrastructure programs ben-
efiting HBCUs, TCUs, HSIs, and other MSIs
in Title III, Part F of the Higher Education
Act of 1965 (HEA) before it expires on Sep-
tember 30, 2019.
Mandatory funding for STEM education
and other programs at these important insti-
tutions was first instituted when the College
Cost and Reduction Act of 2007 was signed
into law. This bill passed both the House and
Senate on a bipartisan basis and allowed for
mandatory funding to flow to HBCUs, TCUs,
HSIs and other MSIs from 2008 to 2009. Short-
ly thereafter, the Higher Education Oppor-
tunity Act, which maintained this important
stream of funding, passed both the House and
Senate on a bipartisan basis and was signed
into law in 2008.
It was not until 2010 that these mandatory
funds were extended for an additional ten
years because Congress recognized the value
in securing funding for institutions that
served large numbers of low-income, first-
generation college students of color.
According to a recent report, there are
more than ‘‘20 million young people of color
in the United States whose representations
in STEM education pathways and in the
STEM workforce [fall] . . . far below their
proportions of the general population.’’ It
was emphasized in this report that ‘‘the edu-
cational outcomes and STEM readiness of
students of color will have direct implica-
tions on America’s economic growth, na-
tional security, and global prosperity.’’
Furthermore, a report released by the
White House’s National Science and Tech-
nology Council stated that the ‘‘national
benefits of a strong STEM foundation cannot
be fully realized until all members of society
have equitable access to STEM education
and [until] there is much broader participa-
tion by those historically underserved and
underrepresented in STEM fields . . .’’ The
report goes on to highlight the importance of
diversity in the workplace leading to more
engaged, innovative, and higher-performing
organizations.
It is clear that diversifying our STEM
workforce should be a priority for our coun-
try and would pay immediate dividends to
our economy. The FUTURE Act helps avoid
a $2.55 billion-dollar cliff in funding over 10
years for HBCUs, TCUs, HSIs, and other
MSIs by extending mandatory funding until
Fiscal Year 2021. This bill is revenue neutral
and allows these important institutions to
continue the valuable work of offering qual-
ity STEM programs.
We thank you for your consideration of
this request, and look forward to working
with you to enact this legislation before the
September 30 deadline.
Sincerely,
TED MITCHELL,
President.
On behalf of:
Achieving the Dream, Inc.; ACPA-College
Student Educators International; ACT, Inc.;
American Association of Colleges of Nursing;
American Association of Collegiate Reg-
istrars and Admissions Officers; American
Association of Community Colleges; Amer-
ican Association of State Colleges and Uni-
versities; American Association of Univer-
sity Professors; American Council on Edu-
cation; American Dental Education Associa-
tion; American Indian Higher Education
Consortium; APPA, Leadership in Edu-
cational Facilities; Association of American
Colleges and Universities; Association of
American Universities; Association of Catho-
lic Colleges and Universities.
Association of Community College Trust-
ees; Association of Governing Boards of Uni-
versities and Colleges; Association of Jesuit
Colleges and Universities; Association of
Public and Land-grant Universities; Coali-
tion of Urban and Metropolitan Universities;
College and University Professional Associa-
tion for Human Resources; Common App;
Consortium of Universities of the Wash-
ington Metropolitan Area; Council for Ad-
vancement and Support of Education; Coun-
cil for Christian Colleges & Universities;
Council for Higher Education Accreditation;
Council for Opportunity in Education; Coun-
cil of Graduate Schools; Council of Inde-
pendent Colleges; Council on Social Work
Education.
EDUCAUSE; ETS; Hispanic Association of
Colleges and Universities; NAFSA: Associa-
tion of International Educators; NASPA—
Student Affairs Administrators in Higher
Education; National Association for College
Admission Counseling; National Association
of College and University Business Officers;
National Association of Independent Col-
leges and Universities; National Association
of System Heads; National Council for Com-
munity and Education Partnerships;
Thurgood Marshall College Fund; UNCF;
UPCEA.
Ms. ADAMS. Mr. Speaker, I reserve
the balance of my time.
Mr. WALKER. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, today I am proud to rise
in support of H.R. 2486, the Fostering
Undergraduate Talent by Unlocking
Resources for Education Act, also
known as the FUTURE Act.
First, I would like to thank the gen-
tlewoman from North Carolina (Ms.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:25 Sep 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00019 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A17SE7.031 H17SEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7736 September 17, 2019
ADAMS), my colleague, and Senators
TIM SCOTT and DOUG JONES for working
with me on this critical piece of legis-
lation.
The FUTURE Act supports STEM
programs for Historically Black Col-
leges and Universities and other minor-
ity-serving institutions, ensuring the
students in our communities receive
the best science, tech, engineering, and
math education in the country by pro-
viding and extending these grants.
Representing the largest HBCU in
the country, North Carolina A&T State
University, I have seen firsthand the
significant impact these STEM grants
have on our HBCU students. On a per-
sonal note, as Representative ADAMS
knows, and I have mentioned before,
my wife is a family nurse practitioner
at Wake Forest Baptist Medical Center
and a two-time graduate from an
HBCU.
Thanks to the FUTURE Act, 300,000
students across more than 100 HBCUs
will have the opportunities that come
with a STEM education. From the en-
gineers that will build our roads and
bridges, to the mathematicians who
will solve complex questions of phys-
ics, to the computer scientists coding
for smart electric grids, our future lies
in the hands of STEM graduates.
In the rapidly changing environment
of higher education, our schools and
students—especially those at minority-
serving institutions—need the stability
and assuredness that comes with know-
ing that they have our full support.
The House needs to pass the FUTURE
Act for HBCUs and the students they
serve.
Again, I thank the gentlewoman
from North Carolina (Ms. ADAMS), my
colleague, and Senators DOUG JONES
and TIM SCOTT for working together to
get this important piece of legislation
across the finish line.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
support this bipartisan, bicameral bill,
and I reserve the balance of my time.
Ms. ADAMS. Mr. Speaker, I yield 3
minutes to the gentleman from Vir-
ginia (Mr. SCOTT), the chair of the
Committee on Education and Labor, of
which I am privileged to serve under.
Mr. SCOTT of Virginia. Mr. Speaker,
I want to thank the gentlewoman from
North Carolina (Ms. ADAMS) and the
gentleman from North Carolina (Mr.
WALKER) for their continued leadership
of this bill, specifically, and with the
HBCU Caucus, generally.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of this
legislation to preserve funding for his-
torically Black colleges and univer-
sities and other minority-serving insti-
tutions. These institutions play a crit-
ical role in expanding access to higher
education for low-income students and
students of color.
Collectively, they educate more than
one-quarter of all graduates, nearly 6
million students, including many in
our Nation’s underserved the commu-
nities. Typically, these under-
resourced schools educate first-time
college attendees, many of whom hail
from impoverished communities.
The funding that supports minority-
serving institutions is the only pro-
gram authorized in the Higher Edu-
cation Act that expires if not reauthor-
ized this year. Accordingly, if Congress
fails to pass this bill by September 30,
these historic institutions will suffer a
$255 million shortfall, causing lost jobs,
lost opportunities, and diminished fi-
nancial support for students across the
country.
Members of this body often speak
glowingly about the role of HBCUs and
other minority-serving institutions.
And today, we have an opportunity to
back those words with action. The FU-
TURE Act, which is fully paid for, pre-
serves vital investments in minority-
serving institutions, as well as the stu-
dents and communities they serve.
Mr. Speaker, I encourage all of my
colleagues to support this legislation.
Mr. WALKER. Mr. Speaker, I yield 2
minutes to the gentlewoman from
North Carolina (Ms. FOXX), former
chair and ranking member, and a lady
who has given her life to the education
arena.
Ms. FOXX of North Carolina. Mr.
Speaker, I thank both of my colleagues
from North Carolina for their leader-
ship on doing their best to help HBCUs.
However, Mr. Speaker, I rise today in
opposition to H.R. 2486, the FUTURE
Act. Under the guise of a manufactured
deadline, House Democrats are rushing
through a bill that will negatively im-
pact student borrowers across the
country.
I want to make one thing clear: In no
way does my criticism of the under-
lying bill diminish my support for
America’s HBCUs and MSIs and the im-
portant role these institutions of high-
er learning play in our country.
My issue is with this bill and the
process by which it is before us. We
have a responsibility to diligently and
responsibly allocate taxpayer dollars.
Too many in this body find it way too
easy to spend hard-earned taxpayer
dollars without promising account-
ability. That is an insult to every cit-
izen who has entrusted us with their
representation. Yet, the Democrats’
bill before us uses budget gimmicks to
skirt House protocols.
This flawed bill also eliminates ac-
count maintenance fees, programs that
serve low-income minority students
through financial aid awareness and
borrower assistance services. In addi-
tion to funding and policy issues, the
bill has serious process issues. Our col-
leagues have skipped the markup proc-
ess and brought it straight to the floor.
This unnecessary move to push for-
ward a bill without the deliberation of
the committee is a disservice to Amer-
ica’s students. We have the time to de-
liberate this legislation with all par-
ties at the table, but my colleagues
aren’t interested in sound policy, they
are interested in sound bites.
Simply put, there are better ways to
accomplish the policy goals of this bill
and really work toward improving the
future of American students.
Ms. ADAMS. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
AMFs are a maintenance fee given to
guaranty agencies for a program that
no longer originates new loans. And
while some guaranty agencies may be
using AMFs for financial literacy, it is
important to know that these are aux-
iliary activities not required by HEA,
and guaranty agencies do not report
any information on these activities.
There is no data across agencies that
show how much of the AMF, if any, is
actually being used for this type of
outreach or what the actual impact
will be on students in your district.
If this were true when Republicans
had control of the House, they would
have moved a bill to permanently au-
thorize funds to these institutions. In-
stead, the Republicans allowed for the
expiration to happen in hopes that it
would be eliminated through no action.
The MSI mandatory funding is a
unique program, and it expires in less
than 15 days. And this justifies imme-
diate action. I also mentioned that
these schools will lose a tremendous
amount of money that they need, and I
just want to remind the gentlewoman
from North Carolina (Ms. FOXX) that
we are talking about $1.1 million in fis-
cal years 2017 and 2018 to Winston-
Salem State University; that is in the
Fifth District.
As we look at all of the schools that
will benefit from this funding, I think
we have some responsibility to help
these young people—who, we said to
them, You need an education—and help
them move through this process that
will make it easier for them to not
only stay in school, but for these col-
leges and universities to stay open.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. WALKER. Mr. Speaker, I yield 2
minutes to the gentleman from North
Carolina (Mr. BUDD), a champion for
HBCU causes since arriving in Congress
21⁄2 years ago.
Mr. BUDD. Mr. Speaker, I thank the
gentleman from North Carolina (Mr.
WALKER), my friend, for yielding, and I
thank him for his leadership on this
very important piece of legislation.
And I also thank the gentlewoman
from North Carolina (Ms. ADAMS), my
colleague, for her leadership on this
bill.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong
support of the FUTURE Act. This bi-
partisan bill would extend mandatory
funding under title 3 of the Higher Edu-
cation Act to HBCUs around the coun-
try.
HBCUs play a vital role in expanding
opportunity to students in North Caro-
lina, especially in my district, where I
am fortunate to represent three of
them: Bennett College, North Carolina
A&T, and Livingstone College.
Now, a recent report I came across
found that HBCUs generate $1.7 billion
in Federal economic impact in North
Carolina. This figure includes direct
spending on faculty, academic pro-
grams, and by the students directly at-
tending these institutions.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:25 Sep 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00020 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K17SE7.035 H17SEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7737
September 17, 2019
HBCUs are an engine of economic
growth in our communities because
they expand the economic playing field
to students from every background.
Our economy works best when every-
one has a shot at success.
As current funding to HBCUs is set to
expire on September 30, it is critical
that this legislation makes it across
the finish line and onto the President’s
desk.
b 1730
The FUTURE Act would provide
funding to more than 100 HBCUs across
19 different States. It will allow univer-
sities and their students to continue
down the pathway to success. In my
view, having healthy HBCUs is critical
for our State’s economic future.
Mr. Speaker, I thank my friends
again for their leadership on this bill.
Ms. ADAMS. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I have no further speak-
ers, but before I close, I do want to,
first of all, thank both gentlemen from
North Carolina, Representative WALK-
ER and Representative BUDD, for their
support of HBCUs.
Congressman WALKER is correct. He
represents the largest public HBCU in
the Nation, of which I had the privilege
of studying at and graduating from
twice, North Carolina A&T, and served
that school for more than 40 years in
the district.
I am watching Congressman WALKER,
and I appreciate him and Representa-
tive BUDD and all the support they are
giving to our HBCUs.
I taught 40 years at Bennett College
in Greensboro, so HBCUs are really
running through my veins.
Mr. Speaker, I will include in the
RECORD letters of support submitted by
36 individual schools—IHEs, HBCUs—
for the passage of this bill, and I have
some other documents that I also will
include in the RECORD from NAFEO,
UNCF, and TMCF, and also from Harry
Williams from TMCF.
Mr. Speaker, let me just say before I
close, Mr. BUDD mentioned a couple of
those statistics about our schools.
Our schools, HBCUs, confer 40 per-
cent of all STEM degrees, 60 percent of
all engineering degrees. We educate 50
percent of African American teachers
and 40 percent of African American
health professionals. We produce 70
percent of African American dentists
and physicians. I could go on and on.
Yes, there is a serious economic im-
pact of about $15 billion—$14.8 billion,
to be specific. We are not slouching.
HBCUs are doing a lot with a little. We
still don’t receive equitable funding,
but this, certainly, will help not only
the colleges and universities, the MSIs,
but it is also going to help our stu-
dents—first-generation students, as I
was—who have the privilege of going
on and getting a good education from
one of our Nation’s best HBCUs.
Let me say before I close, I, again,
thank both gentlemen, and I ask the
House to approve H.R. 2486.
Mr. Speaker, I want to rebut a couple
of things.
First, as has been explained, account
maintenance fees are a dwindling
source of funds. They have been made
obsolete now, and they are being re-
placed by the Direct Loan Program.
The funds now represent 3.5 percent of
the average guaranty agency’s total
revenue, which last year totaled about
$4 billion. When the opposition talks
about AMFs and how important they
are, we have to note that they are re-
ferring to just 3.5 percent of $4 billion.
I would also like to say that because
funds from AMFs can be used for what-
ever purpose they desire, on the con-
trary, title III, part F only can be used
for specific purposes that improve in-
stitutional stability and academic pro-
grams.
We don’t want to be on record saying
that $140 million that may be used to
help low-income students is more im-
portant than $255 million that must
help low-income students, which com-
prises about 60 percent of the popu-
lation at our HBCUs, TCUs, and MSIs.
The other side says that the manda-
tory funds should not go to institu-
tions, but account maintenance fees
are exactly that. They are funds that
must be paid by the government to pri-
vate institutions.
Our HBCUs account for 3 percent of
all colleges and universities. We grad-
uate 10 percent of all Black college
graduates, a third of Black STEM pro-
fessionals.
Our TCUs serve geographically re-
mote areas that help close gaps in
healthcare services and formal edu-
cation attainment in Tribal commu-
nities. Since 1965, the Federal Govern-
ment has tried to atone for this neglect
by providing institutional aid to these
students.
To turn our backs on these schools
by letting these important mandatory
funds expire, which it has already been
noted will expire in about 2 weeks, is
unconscionable. It is a slap in the face
to many who look to these schools as
their ticket to the middle class.
Mr. Speaker, I have already sub-
mitted those documents for the
RECORD, but I do want to urge all of my
colleagues to pass this FUTURE Act. It
is about the future of our schools, the
future of our students, those who need
that opportunity, the opportunity that
W.E.B. Du Bois spoke about when he
said, ‘‘Of all the civil rights for which
the world has struggled and fought for
500 years, the right to learn is undoubt-
edly the most fundamental.’’
I thank my colleagues for continuing
to believe in that fundamental right
for these young people to have that op-
portunity.
Mr. Speaker, I ask the Chamber
again to support and champion our
low-income, our first-generation col-
lege students by approving H.R. 2486,
and I yield back the balance of my
time.
Mr. WALKER. Mr. Speaker, I know
Congresswoman ADAMS is yielding
back only because I am the Member
who represents North Carolina A&T at
this point.
Mr. Speaker, I have no more speak-
ers, and with great big Aggie pride, I
yield back the balance of my time as
well.
Mr. SABLAN. Madam Speaker, I rise in sup-
port of H.R. 2486, the Fostering Under-
graduate Talent by Unlocking Resources for
Education (FUTURE) Act, which ensures fed-
eral funding for Minority-Serving Institutions
(MSIs) across our nation, including Northern
Marianas College, continues after September
30, 2019.
Enrolling two out of every three students of
color, MSIs play an important role in providing
access to a quality higher education and ca-
reer opportunities. However, many of these
schools, which serve over 25 percent of all un-
dergraduates, have historically been under-
funded which affects their ability to serve their
students who primarily come from disadvan-
taged backgrounds. This is why Congress au-
thorized funding for MSIs under the Higher
Education Act to help students of color suc-
ceed through better access to degree pro-
grams that prepare them for in-demand jobs,
academic counseling and other support serv-
ices. Through this funding, Northern Marianas
College established Project PROA which of-
fers high school juniors, seniors and first-year
college students free academic tutoring, col-
lege mentoring, counseling, and a center with
access to computers while incorporating the
indigenous Chamorro and Refaluwasch cul-
tures. 86 percent of participants passed more
than half of their classes after receiving
Project PROA tutoring services.
Mandatory funding for these institutions will
expire on September 30, 2019. The FUTURE
Act, which I cosponsored, ensures this will not
happen. Under H.R. 2486, Historically Black
Colleges and Universities, Hispanic-Serving
Institutions, Tribally Controlled Colleges and
Universities, and Asian American and Native
American Pacific Islander-Serving Institutions
like Northern Marianas College will continue to
receive $255 million for the next two years.
Should funding lapse, the impact would fall on
students the most if schools have to make
cuts to the very academic programs and serv-
ices that were established to help them suc-
ceed.
I thank the gentlelady from North Carolina,
Ms. ADAMS, for her leadership on this legisla-
tion and urge my colleagues to support H.R.
2486.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentlewoman from North Carolina
(Ms. ADAMS) that the House suspend
the rules and pass the bill, H.R. 2486, as
amended.
The question was taken; and (two-
thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the bill, as
amended, was passed.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
MOTION TO GO TO CONFERENCE
ON S. 1790, NATIONAL DEFENSE
AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FIS-
CAL YEAR 2020
Mr. SMITH of Washington. Mr.
Speaker, I ask unanimous consent to
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:25 Sep 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00021 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K17SE7.036 H17SEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7738 September 17, 2019
take from the Speaker’s table the bill
(S. 1790) to authorize appropriations for
fiscal year 2020 for military activities
of the Department of Defense, for mili-
tary construction, and for defense ac-
tivities of the Department of Energy,
to prescribe military personnel
strengths for such fiscal year, and for
other purposes, and ask for its imme-
diate consideration in the House; to
strike out all after the enacting clause
of such bill and insert in lieu thereof
the provisions of H.R. 2500 as passed by
the House; to pass the Senate bill, as
amended; and to insist on the House
amendment thereto and request a con-
ference with the Senate thereon.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Clerk will report the title of the bill.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from Washington?
There was no objection.
MOTION TO INSTRUCT OFFERED BY MR.
THORNBERRY
Mr. THORNBERRY. Mr. Speaker, I
have a motion to instruct conferees at
the desk.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Clerk will report the motion.
The Clerk read as follows:
Mr. Thornberry moves that the managers
on the part of the House at the conference on
the disagreeing votes of the two Houses on
the House amendment to the bill S. 1790 be
instructed to agree to section 2906 of the
Senate bill with the following amendments:
In subsection (a), strike ‘‘military con-
struction projects authorized by such Acts’’
and insert ‘‘the military construction
projects described in subsection (d)’’.
Add at the end the following new sub-
section:
(d) MILITARY CONSTRUCTION PROJECTS DE-
SCRIBED.—The military construction projects
described in this subsection are the projects
set forth in the following table:
Deferred military construction projects
State/Location Installation Project Amount
Alabama ................................................. Anniston Army Depot .......................... Weapon Maintenance Shop ................... $5,200,000
Alaska .................................................... Eielson AFB ......................................... Repair Central Heat/Power Plant Boil-
er PH 4 ............................................... $41,000,000
Eielson AFB ......................................... Repair Central Heat & Power Plant
Boiler Ph3 .......................................... $34,400,000
Eielson AFB ......................................... Eielson AFB Improved CATM Range ... $19,000,000
Fort Greely .......................................... Missile Field #1 Expansion ................... $8,000,000
Arizona .................................................. Fort Huachuca ..................................... Ground Transport Equipment Building $30,000,000
California ............................................... Channel Islands ANGS ......................... Construct C-130J Flight Simulator Fa-
cility ................................................. $8,000,000
Colorado ................................................. Peterson AFB ....................................... Space Control Facility ......................... $8,000,000
Florida ................................................... Tyndall AFB ......................................... Fire/Crash Rescue Station ................... $17,000,000
Hawaii .................................................... Joint Base Pearl Harbor-Hickam ......... Consolidated Training Facility ............ $5,500,000
Kaneohe Bay ........................................ Security Improvements Mokapu Gate $26,492,000
Indiana ................................................... Crane Army Ammunition Plant ........... Railcar Holding Area ........................... $16,000,000
Hulman Regional Airport ..................... Construct Small Arms Range ............... $8,000,000
Kentucky ............................................... Fort Campbell, Kentucky ..................... Ft Campbell Middle School .................. $62,634,000
Louisiana ............................................... Joint Reserve Base New Orleans .......... NORTHCOM - Construct Alert Apron .. $15,000,000
Joint Reserve Base New Orleans .......... NORTHCOM - Construct Alert Facili-
ties .................................................... $24,000,000
Maryland ................................................ Fort Meade ........................................... Cantonment Area Roads ...................... $16,500,000
Joint Base Andrews .............................. PAR Relocate Haz Cargo Pad and EOD
Range ................................................ $37,000,000
Joint Base Andrews .............................. Child Development Center ................... $13,000,000
Mississippi ............................................. Jackson IAP ......................................... Construct Small Arms Range ............... $8,000,000
New Mexico ............................................ Holloman AFB ...................................... MQ-9 FTU Ops Facility ........................ $85,000,000
White Sands ......................................... Information Systems Facility ............. $40,000,000
New York ............................................... U.S. Military Academy ........................ Engineering Center .............................. $95,000,000
U.S. Military Academy ........................ Parking Structure ................................ $65,000,000
North Carolina ....................................... Camp Lejeune, North Carolina ............. 2nd Radio BN Complex, Phase 2 ........... $25,650,000
Camp Lejeune, North Carolina ............. Ambulatory Care Center Add-Alt ......... $15,300,000
Fort Bragg ............................................ Butner Elementary School Replace-
ment .................................................. $32,944,000
Seymour Johnson AFB ......................... KC-46A ADAL for Alt Mission Storage $6,400,000
Oklahoma ............................................... Tulsa IAP ............................................. Construct Small Arms Range ............... $8,000,000
Oregon .................................................... Klamath Falls IAP ............................... Construct Indoor Range ....................... $8,000,000
Klamath Falls IAP ............................... Replace Fuel Facilities ........................ $2,500,000
South Carolina ....................................... Beaufort ............................................... Laurel Bay Fire Station Replacement $10,750,000
Texas ...................................................... Fort Bliss ............................................. Defense Access Roads ........................... $20,000,000
Joint Base San Antonio ....................... Camp Bullis Dining Facility ................ $18,500,000
Utah ....................................................... Hill AFB ............................................... Composite Aircraft Antenna Calibra-
tion Fac ............................................. $26,000,000
Hill AFB ............................................... UTTR Consolidated Mission Control
Center ................................................ $28,000,000
Virginia .................................................. Joint Base Langley-Eustis ................... Construct Cyber Ops Facility ............... $10,000,000
Norfolk ................................................. Replace Hazardous Materials Ware-
house ................................................. $18,500,000
Pentagon .............................................. Pentagon Metro Entrance Facility ...... $12,111,000
Portsmouth .......................................... Replace Hazardous Materials Ware-
house ................................................. $22,500,000
Portsmouth .......................................... Ships Maintenance Facility ................. $26,120,000
Washington ............................................ Bangor .................................................. Pier and Maintenance Facility ............ $88,960,000
Wisconsin ............................................... Truax Field .......................................... Construct Small Arms Range ............... $8,000,000
Guam ..................................................... Joint Region Marianas ......................... Earth Covered Magazines ..................... $52,270,000
Joint Region Marianas ......................... PRTC Roads ......................................... $2,500,000
Joint Region Marianas ......................... Water Well Field .................................. $56,088,000
Joint Region Marianas ......................... Navy-Commercial Tie-In Hardening .... $37,180,000
Joint Region Marianas ......................... Machine Gun Range ............................. $50,000,000
Joint Region Marianas ......................... APR - Munitions Storage Igloos, Ph 2 .. $35,300,000
Joint Region Marianas ......................... Hayman Munitions Storage Igloos
MSA 2 ................................................ $9,800,000
Joint Region Marianas ......................... APR - SATCOM C4I Facility ................ $14,200,000
Puerto Rico ............................................ Arroyo .................................................. Readiness Center .................................. $30,000,000
Camp Santiago ..................................... Company Headquarters Bldg/-Tran-
sient Training ................................... $47,000,000
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:25 Sep 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00022 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K17SE7.038 H17SEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7739
September 17, 2019
Deferred military construction projects—Continued
State/Location Installation Project Amount
Camp Santiago ..................................... Dining Facility, Transient Training .... $13,000,000
Camp Santiago ..................................... Engineering-Housing Maintenance
Shops (DPW) ...................................... $11,000,000
Camp Santiago ..................................... Maneuver Area Training Equipment
Site .................................................... $80,000,000
Camp Santiago ..................................... National Guard Readiness Center ........ $50,000,000
Camp Santiago ..................................... Power Substation-Switching Station
Building ............................................. $18,500,000
Gurabo .................................................. Vehicle Maintenance Shop ................... $28,000,000
Punta Borinquen .................................. Ramey Unit School Replacement ........ $61,071,000
San Juan .............................................. Aircraft Maintenance Hangar (AASF) $64,000,000
Virgin Islands ........................................ St. Croix ............................................... Vehicle Maintenance Shop ................... $20,000,000
St. Croix ............................................... Power Substation-Switching Station
Building ............................................. $3,500,000
St. Thomas ........................................... National Guard Vehicle Maintenance
Shop Add-Alt ..................................... $3,875,000
Overseas ................................................. Various Locations ................................ Various Projects ................................... $1,836,755,000
Mr. THORNBERRY (during the read-
ing). Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous
consent that the remainder of the mo-
tion be considered as read.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from Texas?
There was no objection.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 7 of rule XXII, the gen-
tleman from Texas (Mr. THORNBERRY)
and the gentleman from Washington
(Mr. SMITH) each will control 30 min-
utes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from Texas.
Mr. THORNBERRY. Mr. Speaker, I
yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
Mr. Speaker, this motion to instruct
conferees instructs the House conferees
to agree to the Senate position to re-
place money transferred from out of
the military construction projects
under title X, section 2808.
Just to clarify, when the Senate
passed its bill, we didn’t know which
specific projects we were talking
about. The Senate has, in its bill, a
provision to replace the full $3.6 billion
that was then expected to be trans-
ferred out of military construction and
used for border security.
Well, now we know what specific
projects those are, so the only dif-
ference in the motion and this under-
lying Senate provision is to list the
specific projects.
It is important to remember, Mr.
Speaker, that the Senate passed its bill
replacing the full $3.6 billion by a vote
of 86–8. Three Republicans and five
Democrats voted ‘‘no’’ on the whole
measure, but, overwhelmingly, they
supported the bill that includes a pro-
vision to replace this money.
Each of the projects that is listed in
the motion to instruct has been specifi-
cally authorized and appropriated by
the House and the Senate and signed
into law by the President.
Now, it is true that the Secretary of
Defense, Secretary Esper, has tried to
minimize the effects on our military
when this transfer was made. But it is
still true, even with his efforts, that
there was $544 million taken away from
dependent schools, $13 million taken
away from child dependent centers,
$15.3 million from medical clinics,
more money from fire stations, dining
facilities, et cetera.
Despite his best efforts, our troops
are affected by the transfer of this
money.
Mr. Speaker, we are really good at
fighting, arguing, and pointing fingers
of blame about how this came to be,
and I am sure we all have different
opinions about that. But voting ‘‘yes’’
or ‘‘no’’ on this motion to instruct will
not change that at all, will not change
the transfer, will not change any of
those underlying facts.
The only thing that we have an abil-
ity to influence with this motion to in-
struct is whether or not the troops
have to suffer as a result of Wash-
ington dysfunction. It will make a dif-
ference to them.
I would suggest, Mr. Speaker, that
the right thing to do for national secu-
rity and, certainly, the right thing to
do for our troops is for the House to in-
struct our conferees to agree with the
Senate provision, the only difference
being we would list the specific
projects rather than the total amount.
That way, we can ensure that, as we
continue to argue about border secu-
rity and a whole variety of other
issues, our troops do not suffer as a re-
sult of that argument.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. SMITH of Washington. Mr.
Speaker, I yield myself such time as I
may consume.
Mr. Speaker, first of all, I want to
make sure everyone understands: This
provision is actually completely irrele-
vant. It will impact nothing, from a
substantive standpoint.
There is no way our troops are going
to be harmed whether we pass this in-
struction or whether we follow this in-
struction or not. That is important to
understand.
We authorize military construction
projects, when we authorize them, for 5
years. Every single project that the
President has listed as the ones that he
has stolen the money from to build the
border wall that Congress expressly
said they did not want to spend this
money on is already authorized.
Whether or not we put an additional
authorization into the fiscal year 2020
defense bill is, literally, irrelevant.
b 1745
It has no impact whatsoever on
whether or not the troops, their fami-
lies, whatever the construction
projects are, get funded or not. That
will be a DOD decision. They have the
authority to do it. How do they wish to
spend their money?
So please don’t let anyone say on
this motion to instruct that if you
don’t vote for it, you are voting to not
fund these projects. You are not. All of
them are authorized for 5 years. There
are a couple of projects that were first
authorized in 2016, but we are in that 5-
year window for every single project in
question, so this has nothing to do with
that.
What this amounts to is a sense of
Congress on whether or not we ought
to allow a President to effectively steal
$3.6 billion out of the Pentagon’s budg-
et for his own personal policy desire
that Congress has already said they
shouldn’t.
And in a bipartisan way, I am quite
certain, but for the politics sur-
rounding this issue, that Congress
would emphatically say ‘‘no.’’ If we
pass a defense budget that says this is
where you ought to spend the money,
we are not saying, Mr. President,
here’s a piggy bank. Have fun with it.
Okay? If you find something, and it is
$3.6 billion out of the military con-
struction fund—it is actually a little
over $6 billion total that the President
took out of the FY19 defense budget to
build a wall that Congress said they did
not want.
I think this has huge implications
and, as members of the Armed Services
Committee, we ought to be alarmed
about this. And I can guarantee you
that if President Obama had done this
to the defense budget, for any reason,
there would have been no end to the
fury about it, and rightly so. Because if
we are going to say, Look, the defense
budget is crucially important—in fact,
particularly the members of the minor-
ity party in this body have frequently
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:25 Sep 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00023 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A17SE7.030 H17SEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7740 September 17, 2019
argued that the defense budget is un-
derfunded. They will give you chapter
and verse and, in fact, did just a couple
of months ago, about all the areas in
our defense budget that don’t have
enough money.
Now they are standing up and saying,
as short as the defense budget is, as
much as we have claimed that there is
not enough money in the defense budg-
et, we are perfectly okay with the
President taking $6 billion out of it for
something that has nothing to do with
the Department of Defense. That is an
appalling position for any member of
the Armed Services Committee to
take.
This motion to instruct, while irrele-
vant substantially, does give us the op-
portunity to express the sense of Con-
gress that this should not be done for
any purpose.
It is worth noting that we had a big
fight about 6, 7 months ago when we
shut down the government. The Presi-
dent said he wanted to have his wall
funding, and we entered into a negotia-
tion and, at the end of it, I think we
came up with about $1.5 billion that we
allowed the President for his wall. So
we had that fight.
And after that fight, he decided that
the Pentagon was just one big piggy
bank; that what we do over here is all
kinds of irrelevant. We are throwing
money out there and the President can
grab it for any purpose.
I will just close by saying, I disagree
with one statement that the distin-
guished ranking member of the Armed
Services Committee said, and that is,
you know, We can all argue about who
is responsible for this.
Seriously?
It is pretty clear who is responsible
for this. The President of the United
States decided to take this $3.6 billion
out of existing Pentagon projects and
spend it on his wall after Congress said
they didn’t want it to be done.
Now you want to argue that he
should have, because for whatever rea-
son, that is fine. But there is no ques-
tion why we are here. And there is no
question that if Congress endorses this,
if Congress says it is okay for the
President of the United States to use
the Pentagon as his own personal piggy
bank—personal is a bit of an overstate-
ment; I understand this is policy—but
basically to decide to spend money
wherever he wants to spend it, irre-
spective of what we say, why are we
even here?
Why do we even bother to authorize
what the Pentagon is doing?
So, again, these projects are already
authorized. If the Pentagon wants to
go find the money in the $738 billion
that we have now all agreed that we
are going to spend, they can go find it.
But there is no way that the United
States Congress ought to even irrele-
vantly endorse this particular action
by the President.
I would strongly urge every Member
to reject this motion to instruct.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. THORNBERRY. Mr. Speaker, I
yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from
Alabama (Mr. ROGERS), the distin-
guished ranking member of the Home-
land Security Committee.
Mr. ROGERS of Alabama. Mr. Speak-
er, I thank the ranking member for
yielding time and for his leadership on
our committee.
I rise in support of Ranking Member
THORNBERRY’s motion to instruct con-
ferees. It is vital that Congress fund all
of the projects that have been listed
today as we vote later. The Senate did
the right thing, and now the House
should follow suit.
Securing our border is a vital compo-
nent to national security. If we can’t
control our borders, then we cannot
tell the American people they are se-
cure at home.
Even President Obama’s former At-
torney General, Eric Holder, said just
this week: ‘‘Democrats have to under-
stand that borders mean something.’’
This motion to instruct conferees
supports the President’s task of keep-
ing America safe. It also supports our
military by funding construction
projects, including the weapons main-
tenance shop at Anniston Army Depot
in my district. This project would con-
solidate maintenance operations that
currently happen in different buildings
in different States under one roof. This
facility is in preparation for future
modernizations in support of our force
readiness.
This is a simple vote today for secur-
ing our borders and building projects
for the military. I urge support of this
motion.
Mr. SMITH of Washington. Mr.
Speaker, I yield myself such time as I
may consume.
I want to quickly point out, again,
this doesn’t make any difference in
terms of whether or not these projects
get funded.
Then, second, I think the gentleman
is correct. This is a debate about
whether or not it makes sense to spend
money on the wall. But I just want to
emphasize two points about that:
One, regardless how you feel about
the wall, you should not be in favor of
being able to simply take the money
out of the Pentagon to pay for it.
Second, the border crisis that we
have is not going to be even remotely
alleviated by a wall. The border crisis
that we have right now is asylum seek-
ers pouring up to the border and turn-
ing themselves in. Now, there are all
kinds of challenges associated with
that, no question, and all kinds of poli-
cies that have led to that happening.
I think it is absolutely shameful
right now the way the United States of
America is handling this. So many peo-
ple are seeking refuge from violence
and horrific conditions, and we are
treating them horribly; and there is a
lot that we need to do to change that.
But building a wall will not stop asy-
lum seekers. It is a billion-dollar waste
of money focusing on a campaign
promise instead of focusing on the ac-
tual problem that we have. But, again,
that is a debate that Congress should
have. They should not have it out of
the Pentagon budget. This is the wrong
place for it.
I urge Members to reject this Presi-
dential grab of money out of the Pen-
tagon that would set a very dangerous
precedent.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. THORNBERRY. Mr. Speaker, I
have no further requests for time other
than myself to close.
I reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. SMITH of Washington. Mr.
Speaker, I yield back the balance of
my time.
Mr. THORNBERRY. Mr. Speaker, I
yield myself the balance of my time.
Earlier, the term was used that the
President had stolen, or would steal
this money. Actually, section 2808 au-
thorizes any President, when a na-
tional emergency is declared, to trans-
fer military construction funds to deal
with that situation.
Now, again, we will debate about
whether this was a true national emer-
gency, and whether he should or should
not have done it here. But the Presi-
dent did exactly what he has the au-
thority to do. The only question is,
what are—who is going to suffer be-
cause of that.
As the gentleman from Alabama
pointed out, no President and no Mem-
ber of Congress ought to have to choose
between border security and supporting
our troops. And yet, that is, unfortu-
nately, the situation that, without
adopting this motion to instruct, Mem-
bers are put into.
The administration requested specifi-
cally, in the fiscal year 2020 budget re-
quest, that this $3.6 billion which was
transferred out of military construc-
tion be put back into military con-
struction so that these projects could
be funded.
Now, you can have a 5-year author-
ization, but you have got to have the
money that year in order to actually
build them. And so that is what the
Senate did in their provision. That is
what this motion to instruct would in-
struct the House conferees to do, with
more specificity.
Mr. Speaker, just so Members have a
general idea, we are talking about a
weapons maintenance shop in Ala-
bama, central heat and power in the
State of Alaska. Arizona has a ground
transport equipment building. Cali-
fornia has a C–130 simulator. Colorado,
a space control facility; Florida, fire
crash rescue station; Hawaii, security
improvements for a gate; Indiana, con-
struct a small arms range; Kentucky,
Fort Campbell Middle School. Those
are some of the specific projects, and I
could go on. Louisiana has
NORTHCOM, various air facility im-
provements; Maryland, a child develop-
ment center at Joint Base Andrews;
New Mexico, an MQ–9 ops facility.
Specific projects are listed in this
motion to instruct, specific projects
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:25 Sep 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00024 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K17SE7.040 H17SEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7741
September 17, 2019
which FY20 money would then fund, if
the conferees would agree to what the
Senate has already agreed to and what
the motion seeks to get the House to
endorse.
Again, Mr. Speaker, bottom line,
there is a lot of argument on border
issues. There is a lot of dysfunction in
Washington these days. But our troops
and their families should not suffer the
consequences of those arguments and
that dysfunction.
This motion to instruct offers a path
forward to at least ensure that they
have some insulation from those dif-
ferences, and I urge Members to adopt
it.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Without
objection, the previous question is or-
dered on the motion to instruct.
There was no objection.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion to instruct.
The question was taken; and the
Speaker pro tempore announced that
the noes appeared to have it.
Mr. THORNBERRY. Mr. Speaker, on
that I demand the yeas and nays.
The yeas and nays were ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, further pro-
ceedings on this question will be post-
poned.
f
RECESS
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 12(a) of rule I, the Chair
declares the House in recess until ap-
proximately 6:30 p.m. today.
Accordingly (at 5 o’clock and 56 min-
utes p.m.), the House stood in recess.
f
b 1830
AFTER RECESS
The recess having expired, the House
was called to order by the Speaker pro
tempore (Ms. KUSTER of New Hamp-
shire) at 6 o’clock and 30 minutes p.m.
f
REPORT ON RESOLUTION PRO-
VIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF
H.R. 1423, FORCED ARBITRATION
INJUSTICE REPEAL ACT;
WAIVING A REQUIREMENT OF
CLAUSE 6(A) OF RULE XIII WITH
RESPECT TO CONSIDERATION OF
CERTAIN RESOLUTIONS RE-
PORTED FROM THE COMMITTEE
ON RULES; AND PROVIDING FOR
CONSIDERATION OF MOTIONS TO
SUSPEND THE RULES
Mrs. TORRES of California, from the
Committee on Rules, submitted a priv-
ileged report (Rept. No. 116–210) on the
resolution (H. Res. 558) providing for
consideration of the bill (H.R. 1423) to
amend title 9 of the United States Code
with respect to arbitration; waiving a
requirement of clause 6(a) of rule XIII
with respect to consideration of certain
resolutions reported from the Com-
mittee on Rules; and providing for con-
sideration of motions to suspend the
rules, which was referred to the House
Calendar and ordered to be printed.
f
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER
PRO TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pro-
ceedings will resume on questions pre-
viously postponed. Votes will be taken
in the following order:
The motion to instruct on S. 1790;
and
The motion to permit closed con-
ference meetings on S. 1790, if offered.
The first electronic vote will be con-
ducted as a 15-minute vote. Pursuant
to clause 9 of rule XX, remaining elec-
tronic votes will be conducted as 5-
minute votes.
f
MOTION TO INSTRUCT CONFEREES
ON S. 1790, NATIONAL DEFENSE
AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FIS-
CAL YEAR 2020
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, the unfin-
ished business is the question on the
motion to instruct on the bill (S. 1790)
to authorize appropriations for fiscal
year 2020 for military activities of the
Department of Defense, for military
construction, and for defense activities
of the Department of Energy, to pre-
scribe military personnel strengths for
such fiscal year, and for other pur-
poses, offered by the gentleman from
Texas (Mr. THORNBERRY) on which the
yeas and nays were ordered.
The Clerk will redesignate the mo-
tion.
The Clerk redesignated the motion.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion to instruct.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—yeas 198, nays
219, not voting 15, as follows:
[Roll No. 531]
YEAS—198
Aderholt
Allen
Amodei
Armstrong
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Bergman
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (UT)
Bost
Brady
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Byrne
Calvert
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Cline
Cloud
Cole
Collins (GA)
Collins (NY)
Comer
Conaway
Cook
Crawford
Crenshaw
Cunningham
Curtis
Davidson (OH)
Davis, Rodney
DesJarlais
Diaz-Balart
Duffy
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Estes
Ferguson
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Flores
Fortenberry
Foxx (NC)
Fulcher
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Gonzalez (OH)
Gooden
Gosar
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Griffith
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Hagedorn
Harris
Hartzler
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Hill (AR)
Holding
Hollingsworth
Hudson
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Katko
Keller
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
Lamborn
Latta
Lesko
Long
Loudermilk
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Luria
Maloney, Sean
Marchant
Marshall
Massie
McAdams
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McHenry
McKinley
Meadows
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Mullin
Newhouse
Norman
Nunes
Olson
Palazzo
Palmer
Pence
Perry
Peterson
Posey
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (SC)
Riggleman
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rooney (FL)
Rose, John W.
Rouzer
Roy
Rutherford
Scalise
Schweikert
Scott, Austin
Sensenbrenner
Shimkus
Simpson
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smucker
Spano
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stewart
Stivers
Taylor
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Torres Small
(NM)
Turner
Upton
Van Drew
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Watkins
Weber (TX)
Wenstrup
Westerman
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yoho
Young
Zeldin
NAYS—219
Adams
Aguilar
Allred
Amash
Axne
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Beyer
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brindisi
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Bustos
Butterfield
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Cohen
Connolly
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Davids (KS)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
Deutch
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Evans
Finkenauer
Fletcher
Foster
Frankel
Fudge
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Golden
Gomez
Gottheimer
Green, Al (TX)
Grijalva
Haaland
Harder (CA)
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Higgins (NY)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Huffman
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (TX)
Kaptur
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Lamb
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Lowenthal
Lowey
Luján
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Matsui
McBath
McCollum
McGovern
McNerney
Meeks
Meng
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Murphy (FL)
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Norcross
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Perlmutter
Peters
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Porter
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Rice (NY)
Richmond
Rose (NY)
Rouda
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
VerDate Sep 11 2014 20:32 Dec 02, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00025 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\RECORD19\SEPTEMBER\H17SE9.REC H17SE9
CORRECTION
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7742 September 17, 2019
Schrader
Schrier
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (WA)
Soto
Spanberger
Speier
Stanton
Stevens
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Thompson (CA)
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Trahan
Trone
Underwood
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watson Coleman
Welch
Wexton
Wild
Yarmuth
NOT VOTING—15
Abraham
Arrington
Clyburn
Cummings
DeSaulnier
Gabbard
Gonzalez (TX)
LaMalfa
Mast
McEachin
Roby
Ryan
Thompson (MS)
Webster (FL)
Wilson (FL)
b 1859
Mr. BLUMENAUER, Ms. KAPTUR,
Mr. COURTNEY, Ms. CASTOR of Flor-
ida, Mrs. TRAHAN, Mr. LUJÁN, Ms.
MCCOLLUM, Messrs. DEFAZIO,
DANNY K. DAVIS of Illinois, PRICE of
North Carolina, NEAL, HIMES,
HUFFMAN, YARMUTH, MOULTON,
Ms. OMAR, Messrs. WELCH, QUIGLEY,
and Ms. SPEIER changed their vote
from ‘‘yea’’ to ‘‘nay.’’
Messrs. HARRIS, ROUZER, and
STEWART changed their vote from
‘‘nay’’ to ‘‘yea.’’
So the motion to instruct was re-
jected.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
COMMUNICATION FROM THE
CLERK OF THE HOUSE
The SPEAKER laid before the House
the following communication from the
Clerk of the House of Representatives:
OFFICE OF THE CLERK,
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
Washington, DC, September 12, 2019.
Hon. NANCY PELOSI,
The Speaker, House of Representatives,
Washington, DC.
DEAR MADAM SPEAKER: I have the honor to
transmit herewith a scanned copy of a letter
received from Katelyn Love, General Coun-
sel, North Carolina State Board of Elections,
indicating that, according to the preliminary
results of the Special Election held Sep-
tember 10, 2019, the Honorable Dan Bishop
was elected Representative to Congress for
the Ninth Congressional District, State of
North Carolina.
With best wishes, I am,
Sincerely,
CHERYL L. JOHNSON.
NORTH CAROLINA
STATE BOARD OF ELECTIONS,
Raleigh, NC, September 12, 2019.
Hon. CHERYL L. JOHNSON,
Clerk, House of Representatives,
Washington, DC.
DEAR MS. JOHNSON: This is to advise you
that current unofficial election night results
of the Special Election held on Tuesday, Sep-
tember 10, 2019, for a Representative in Con-
gress from the Ninth Congressional District
of North Carolina, show that Dan Bishop re-
ceived 96,081 or 50.74% of the votes cast for
that office.
While vote counting at the precinct and of
approved absentee ballots occurs imme-
diately after the polls close, provisional offi-
cial ballots and absentee ballots received on
or after Election Day, September 10, 2019, are
still being counted. See N.C.G.S. 163A–
1169(a), 163A–1310, 163A–1344, 163A–1346. Civil-
ian and UOCAVA absentee ballots shall be
counted if received by 5:00 pm on Friday,
September 13, 2019 and all other require-
ments are met.
The county canvasses will occur on Mon-
day, September 16, 2019. Prior to canvass,
county boards of elections complete sample
audit counts of a statistically significant
sample in each county. The purpose of the
audit is to provide for a sample hand-to-eye
count of ballots in each county to ensure
equipment used to count votes during the
election worked properly.
Any protest concerning the conduct of the
election must be filed with the county board
of elections by 5:00 pm on Thursday, Sep-
tember 18, 2019. See N.C.G.S. 163A–1177. To
the best of my knowledge and belief as of the
date of this letter, no protest has been filed.
The State Board will hold its canvass on
Tuesday, October 1, 2019. State and county
board staff complete additional post-election
audits prior to this date. After the State
canvass of votes for the Ninth Congressional
District of North Carolina has been com-
pleted, an official Certificate of Election will
be prepared for transmittal as required by
law.
Sincerely,
KATELYN LOVE,
General Counsel.
f
COMMUNICATION FROM THE
CLERK OF THE HOUSE
The SPEAKER laid before the House
the following communication from the
Clerk of the House of Representatives:
OFFICE OF THE CLERK,
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
Washington, DC, September 12, 2019.
Hon. NANCY PELOSI,
The Speaker, House of Representatives,
Washington, DC.
DEAR MADAM SPEAKER: I have the honor to
transmit herewith a scanned copy of a letter
received from Katelyn Love, General Coun-
sel, North Carolina State Board of Elections,
indicating that, according to the preliminary
results of the Special Election held Sep-
tember 10, 2019, the Honorable Greg Murphy
was elected Representative to Congress for
the Third Congressional District, State of
North Carolina.
With best wishes, I am,
Sincerely,
CHERYL L. JOHNSON.
NORTH CAROLINA
STATE BOARD OF ELECTIONS,
Raleigh, NC, September 12, 2019.
Hon. CHERYL L. JOHNSON,
Clerk, House of Representatives,
The Capitol, Washington, DC.
DEAR MS. JOHNSON: This is to advise you
that current unofficial election night results
of the Special Election held on Tuesday, Sep-
tember 10, 2019, for a Representative in Con-
gress from the Third Congressional District
of North Carolina, show that Greg Murphy
received 70,142 or 61.74% of the votes cast for
that office.
While vote counting at the precinct and of
approved absentee ballots occurs imme-
diately after the polls close, provisional offi-
cial ballots and absentee ballots received on
or after Election Day, September 10, 2019, are
still being counted. See N.C.G.S. 163A–
1169(a), 163A–1310, 163A–1344, 163A–1346. Due
to Hurricane Dorian, the deadline to receive
absentee ballots was extended. Civilian ab-
sentee ballots delivered by mail or commer-
cial courier service shall be counted if post-
marked by Election Day and received by 5:00
pm on Wednesday, September 18, 2019.
UOCAVA absentee ballots shall be counted if
received by 5:00 pm Thursday, September 19,
2019.
The county canvasses will occur on Friday,
September 20, 2019. Prior to canvass, county
boards of elections complete sample audit
counts of a statistically significant sample
in each county. The purpose of the audit is
to provide for a sample hand-to-eye count of
ballots in each county to ensure equipment
used to count votes during the election
worked properly.
Any protest concerning the conduct of the
election must be filed with the county board
of elections by 5:00 pm on Tuesday, Sep-
tember 24, 2019. See N.C.G.S. 163A–1177. To
the best of my knowledge and belief as of the
date of this letter, no protest has been filed.
The State Board will hold its canvass on
Tuesday, October 1, 2019. State and county
board staff complete additional post-election
audits prior to this date. After the State
canvass of votes for the Third Congressional
District of North Carolina has been com-
pleted, an official Certificate of Election will
be prepared for transmittal as required by
law.
Sincerely,
KATELYN LOVE,
General Counsel.
f
SWEARING IN OF THE HONORABLE
DAN BISHOP, OF NORTH CARO-
LINA, AND THE HONORABLE
GREG MURPHY, OF NORTH CARO-
LINA, AS MEMBERS OF THE
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Mr. PRICE of North Carolina. Madam
Speaker, I ask unanimous consent that
the gentlemen from North Carolina,
the Honorable Dan Bishop and the Hon-
orable Greg Murphy, be permitted to
take the oath of office today.
Their certificates of election have
not arrived, but there is no contest and
no question has been raised with regard
to their elections.
The SPEAKER. Is there objection to
the request of the gentleman from
North Carolina?
There was no objection.
f
SWEARING IN OF MEMBERS-ELECT
The SPEAKER. Will the Representa-
tives-elect please present themselves in
the well.
Mr. BISHOP of North Carolina and
Mr. MURPHY of North Carolina ap-
peared at the bar of the House and took
the oath of office, as follows:
Do you solemnly swear or affirm that you
will support and defend the Constitution of
the United States against all enemies, for-
eign and domestic; that you will bear true
faith and allegiance to the same; that you
take this obligation freely, without any
mental reservation or purpose of evasion;
and that you will well and faithfully dis-
charge the duties of the office on which you
are about to enter, so help you God.
The SPEAKER. Congratulations. You
are now Members of the 116th Congress.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:50 Sep 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00026 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A17SE7.032 H17SEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7743
September 17, 2019
WELCOMING THE HONORABLE DAN
BISHOP OF NORTH CAROLINA
AND THE HONORABLE GREG
MURPHY OF NORTH CAROLINA
TO THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTA-
TIVES
The SPEAKER. Without objection,
the gentleman from North Carolina
(Mr. PRICE) is recognized for 1 minute.
There was no objection.
Mr. PRICE of North Carolina. Madam
Speaker, as dean of the North Carolina
delegation, it is my privilege to intro-
duce our two newest colleagues, Rep-
resentatives GREG MURPHY and DAN
BISHOP.
Representative MURPHY was born in
Raleigh, our capital city, before at-
tending Davidson College and UNC
Medical School. He is a urologist by
training, and he has served in the
North Carolina House of Representa-
tives since 2015, focusing on healthcare
policy.
Representative BISHOP was born in
Charlotte and also graduated from the
University of North Carolina as an un-
dergraduate and from the law school.
He has an extensive record of public
service in North Carolina, initially
elected as a commissioner in Mecklen-
burg County in 2005 before serving in
both the North Carolina House and
Senate.
Madam Speaker, I want to welcome
both of these new Members to the peo-
ple’s House. They are experienced leg-
islators who have traveled long and
sometimes unexpected paths to get
here, and they both face special chal-
lenges. The Ninth District has been
without a House Member for 257 days
following evidence of election fraud in
the 2018 election. The Third District
was represented by one of the most
independent-minded and well-liked
Members of this institution, our friend,
the late Walter Jones, Jr.
Madam Speaker, our new Members
had hard-fought campaigns, and the
people of North Carolina have spoken.
On behalf of our entire delegation and
this entire body, I want to welcome
them to the House of Representatives.
Madam Speaker, I yield to the gen-
tlewoman from North Carolina (Ms.
FOXX), who is the senior Republican in
our delegation.
Ms. FOXX of North Carolina. Madam
Speaker, I want to thank Congressman
PRICE for his very kind comments and
associate myself with them.
I want to welcome our new Members,
and I want to thank all of the Members
here in advance for helping them feel
welcomed to this wonderful body and
for helping them get adjusted in a
hurry to their work here.
Former Speaker Boehner always said
that the North Carolina delegation
punched above its weight. I want to say
that, with the addition of these two
wonderful Members, we are going to
continue that tradition of punching
above our weight and bring to the peo-
ple’s House a wealth of experience and
a commitment to helping all of the
people of the United States of America.
So I want to welcome, again, Rep-
resentative BISHOP and Representative
MURPHY to the people’s House and say:
God bless you, and may God continue
to bless all of us.
Mr. PRICE of North Carolina. Madam
Speaker, I yield to the gentleman from
North Carolina (Mr. BISHOP).
Mr. BISHOP of North Carolina.
Madam Speaker, I am grateful for Rep-
resentative PRICE, Representative
FOXX, members of the North Carolina
delegation, and for all Members.
I want to say, just briefly, there is a
cute, short blonde in that gallery up
there. Her name is Jo Bishop, and I
love her more than anything in the
world. Right next to her is our only
son, Jack, who needs to get back to
North Carolina State University and do
well in that test tomorrow.
I thank my family members—my sis-
ters, Mary Ann and Cecelia—and the
large group of our supporters for their
support. I am grateful for the voters of
the Ninth District and for all the Mem-
bers.
Madam Speaker, I know that you and
all the Members continue to feel this
every day when you walk on this floor,
the majesty of this place, what it rep-
resents and the history made here. It is
an overwhelming experience.
Madam Speaker, I look forward to
getting to know all the Members and
working together with you to make
commonsense solutions to make the
lives of Americans better.
God bless you all.
Mr. PRICE of North Carolina. Madam
Speaker, I yield to the gentleman from
North Carolina (Mr. MURPHY).
Mr. MURPHY of North Carolina.
Madam Speaker, I thank all the Mem-
bers of the North Carolina delegation
for making me feel so much at home. I
thank all the Members for the warm
welcome.
Just a moment of thanks:
I would like to thank my God for giv-
ing me the opportunity of life and the
ability to experience all the great won-
ders that He has given us.
I thank this country for the freedom
it has given me as an individual and
how much I can enjoy that freedom.
I thank most of all, here in the room,
my wonderful wife, Wendy, who has
been with me side by side for all these
elections. She followed me through
medical school, through surgical resi-
dency, and through the maze of raising
three wonderful children. I love her
with all my heart.
I thank her parents, Gary and Carol
Simes, who have supported me all the
way; my cousins, Frank Wood and
Betsy Wood; and all the clan who have
come from eastern North Carolina and
even from Davidson College to support
me.
I thank the people of eastern North
Carolina for bringing me here, and I
thank, especially, one particular mem-
ber of my campaign team, Lynda
Blount, who could not be here tonight.
She is with us in heart and spirit, and
we love her very, very much.
I also want to thank Congressman
Walter Jones. Walter was a friend of
mine, and he was a mentor. I know he
was beloved by this institution, and I
would not be here today without him.
So, Madam Speaker, I look forward
to working with each and every one of
you and getting to know each and
every one of you so that we can con-
tinue to make this the greatest nation
on Earth.
May God bless you all.
f
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER
The SPEAKER. Under clause 5(d) of
rule XX, the Chair announces to the
House that, in light of the administra-
tion of the oath to the gentlemen from
North Carolina, the whole number of
the House is 435.
f
MOTION TO CLOSE CONFERENCE
COMMITTEE MEETINGS ON S.
1790, NATIONAL DEFENSE AU-
THORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL
YEAR 2020
Mr. SMITH of Washington. Madam
Speaker, pursuant to clause 12 of rule
XXII, I move that meetings of the con-
ference between the House and the Sen-
ate on the bill (S. 1790) to authorize ap-
propriations for fiscal year 2020 for
military activities of the Department
of Defense, for military construction,
and for defense activities of the De-
partment of Energy, to prescribe mili-
tary personnel strengths for such fiscal
year, and for other purposes, may be
closed to the public at such times as
classified national security informa-
tion may be discussed, provided that
any sitting Member of Congress shall
be entitled to attend any meeting of
the conference.
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Ms.
KUSTER of New Hampshire). Pursuant
to clause 12 of rule XXII, the motion is
not debatable, and the yeas and nays
are ordered.
This will be a 5-minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—yeas 407, nays 4,
not voting 23, as follows:
[Roll No. 532]
YEAS—407
Adams
Aderholt
Aguilar
Allen
Allred
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Axne
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Bergman
Beyer
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (GA)
Bishop (NC)
Bishop (UT)
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Bost
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brady
Brindisi
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Bustos
Butterfield
Byrne
Calvert
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Cleaver
Cline
Cloud
Cohen
Cole
Collins (GA)
Collins (NY)
Comer
Conaway
Connolly
Cook
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:50 Sep 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00027 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K17SE7.046 H17SEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7744 September 17, 2019
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crawford
Crenshaw
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cunningham
Curtis
Davids (KS)
Davidson (OH)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Davis, Rodney
Dean
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DesJarlais
Deutch
Diaz-Balart
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Duffy
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Estes
Evans
Ferguson
Finkenauer
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Fletcher
Flores
Fortenberry
Foster
Foxx (NC)
Frankel
Fudge
Fulcher
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (OH)
Gonzalez (TX)
Gooden
Gosar
Gottheimer
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Green, Al (TX)
Griffith
Grijalva
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Haaland
Hagedorn
Harder (CA)
Harris
Hartzler
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Higgins (NY)
Hill (AR)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Holding
Hollingsworth
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hudson
Huffman
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Johnson (TX)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Kaptur
Katko
Keating
Keller
Kelly (IL)
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
Lamb
Lamborn
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Latta
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Lesko
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Lofgren
Long
Loudermilk
Lowenthal
Lowey
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Marchant
Marshall
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McCollum
McGovern
McHenry
McKinley
McNerney
Meadows
Meeks
Meng
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Mullin
Murphy (FL)
Murphy (NC)
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Newhouse
Norcross
Norman
Nunes
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Olson
Omar
Palazzo
Pallone
Palmer
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Pence
Perlmutter
Perry
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Porter
Posey
Pressley
Price (NC)
Raskin
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (NY)
Rice (SC)
Richmond
Riggleman
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rooney (FL)
Rose (NY)
Rose, John W.
Rouda
Rouzer
Roy
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Rutherford
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scalise
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Schweikert
Scott (VA)
Scott, Austin
Sensenbrenner
Serrano
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Shimkus
Simpson
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (WA)
Smucker
Soto
Spanberger
Spano
Speier
Stanton
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stevens
Stewart
Stivers
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Taylor
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Titus
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Turner
Underwood
Upton
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walorski
Waltz
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watkins
Watson Coleman
Weber (TX)
Welch
Wenstrup
Westerman
Wexton
Wild
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yarmuth
Yoho
Young
Zeldin
NAYS—4
Amash
Blumenauer
Massie
Tlaib
NOT VOTING—23
Abraham
Clay
Clyburn
Cummings
DeFazio
DeSaulnier
Gabbard
Hoyer
LaMalfa
Loebsack
Mast
McEachin
Quigley
Roby
Ryan
Scott, David
Sewell (AL)
Smith (NJ)
Thompson (MS)
Trone
Walker
Webster (FL)
Wilson (FL)
b 1920
So the motion was agreed to.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
PERMITTING STATES TO TRANS-
FER CERTAIN FUNDS FROM
CLEAN WATER REVOLVING FUND
TO DRINKING WATER REVOLV-
ING FUND
Mr. PALLONE. Madam Speaker, I
ask unanimous consent to take from
the Speaker’s table the bill (S. 1689) to
permit States to transfer certain funds
from the clean water revolving fund of
a State to the drinking water revolving
fund of the State in certain cir-
cumstances, and for other purposes,
and ask for its immediate consider-
ation in the House.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Ms.
HOULAHAN). Is there objection to the
request of the gentleman from New
Jersey?
There was no objection.
The text of the bill is as follows:
S. 1689
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. TRANSFER AUTHORITY.
(a) FINDINGS.—Congress finds that—
(1) lead is a toxic chemical that—
(A) is particularly harmful to young chil-
dren; and
(B) can cause reduced intelligence
quotients, attention disorders, and other se-
rious health problems;
(2) excessive and harmful levels of lead
have been found in water systems across all
50 States and those water systems serve
drinking water to millions of people in the
United States;
(3) hundreds of the water systems described
in paragraph (2) are water systems that pro-
vide drinking water to schools or day care
centers;
(4) not all States have sufficient funds in
the drinking water revolving fund of that
State to address the threat to public health
from heightened exposure to lead in drinking
water; and
(5) some States have available funds in the
clean water revolving fund of that State that
could be used to provide additional resources
to help address lead in drinking water.
(b) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) CLEAN WATER REVOLVING FUND.—The
term ‘‘clean water revolving fund’’ means a
State water pollution control revolving fund
established under title VI of the Federal
Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. 1381
et seq.).
(2) DRINKING WATER REVOLVING FUND.—The
term ‘‘drinking water revolving fund’’ means
a State drinking water treatment revolving
loan fund established under section 1452 of
the Safe Drinking Water Act (42 U.S.C. 300j–
12).
(c) AUTHORITY.—In addition to the transfer
authority in section 302(a) of the Safe Drink-
ing Water Act Amendments of 1996 (42 U.S.C.
300j–12 note; Public Law 104–182), and not-
withstanding section 1452(d) of the Safe
Drinking Water Act (42 U.S.C. 300j–12(d)),
during the 1-year period beginning on the
date of enactment of this Act, if a State, in
consultation with the Administrator of the
Environmental Protection Agency, deter-
mines that available funds in the clean water
revolving fund of the State are necessary to
address a threat to public health as a result
of heightened exposure to lead in drinking
water, the State may transfer an amount
equal to not more than 5 percent of the cu-
mulative clean water revolving fund Federal
grant dollars to the State to the drinking
water revolving fund of the State. Funds
transferred pursuant to this subsection shall
be used by the State to provide additional
subsidy to eligible recipients in the form of
forgiveness of principal, negative interest
loans, or grants (or any combination of
these).
The bill was ordered to be read a
third time, was read the third time,
and passed, and a motion to reconsider
was laid on the table.
f
ALASKA REMOTE GENERATOR RE-
LIABILITY AND PROTECTION ACT
Mr. PALLONE. Madam Speaker, I
ask unanimous consent that the Com-
mittee on Energy and Commerce be
discharged from further consideration
of the bill (S. 163) to prevent cata-
strophic failure or shutdown of remote
diesel power engines due to emission
control devices, and for other purposes,
and ask for its immediate consider-
ation in the House.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from New Jersey?
There was no objection.
The text of the bill is as follows:
S. 163
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Alaska Re-
mote Generator Reliability and Protection
Act’’.
SEC. 2. REVISION OF REGULATIONS REQUIRED.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The Administrator of the
Environmental Protection Agency shall re-
vise section 60.4216(c) of title 40, Code of Fed-
eral Regulations (as in effect on the date of
enactment of this Act), by striking ‘‘that
was not certified’’ and all that follows
through ‘‘compared to engine-out emissions’’
and inserting ‘‘must have that engine cer-
tified as meeting at least Tier 3 PM stand-
ards’’.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:57 Sep 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00028 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A17SE7.036 H17SEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7745
September 17, 2019
(b) EMISSIONS AND ENERGY RELIABILITY
STUDY.—Not later than 1 year after the date
of enactment of this Act, the Administrator
of the Environmental Protection Agency, in
consultation with the Secretary of Energy,
shall submit to the Committee on Environ-
ment and Public Works of the Senate and
the Committee on Energy and Commerce of
the House of Representatives a report assess-
ing options for the Federal Government to
assist remote areas in the State of Alaska in
meeting the energy needs of those areas in
an affordable and reliable manner using—
(1) existing emissions control technology;
or
(2) other technology that achieves emis-
sions reductions similar to the technology
described in paragraph (1).
The bill was ordered to be read a
third time, was read the third time,
and passed, and a motion to reconsider
was laid on the table.
f
REMOVAL OF NAME OF MEMBER
AS COSPONSOR OF H.R. 4297
Mr. PETERSON. Madam Speaker, I
ask unanimous consent to remove my
name as a cosponsor on H.R. 4297.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from Minnesota?
There was no objection.
f
REMOVAL OF NAME OF MEMBER
AS COSPONSOR OF H.R. 132
Mr. WILLIAMS. Madam Speaker, I
ask unanimous consent to be removed
as cosponsor of H.R. 132.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from Texas?
There was no objection.
f
APPOINTMENT OF CONFEREES ON
S. 1790, NATIONAL DEFENSE AU-
THORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL
YEAR 2020
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Without
objection, the Chair appoints the fol-
lowing conferees on S. 1790:
From the Committee on Armed Serv-
ices, for consideration of the Senate
bill and the House amendment, and
modifications committed to con-
ference: Mr. SMITH of Washington, Mrs.
DAVIS of California, Messrs. LANGEVIN,
LARSEN of Washington, COOPER, COURT-
NEY, GARAMENDI, Ms. SPEIER, Messrs.
NORCROSS, GALLEGO, MOULTON,
CARBAJAL, BROWN of Maryland,
KHANNA, KEATING, VELA, KIM, Ms.
KENDRA S. HORN of Oklahoma, Messrs.
CISNEROS, THORNBERRY, WILSON of
South Carolina, TURNER, ROGERS of
Alabama, CONAWAY, LAMBORN, WITT-
MAN, Mrs. HARTZLER, Ms. STEFANIK,
Messrs. KELLY of Mississippi, BACON,
BANKS, and Ms. CHENEY.
From the Permanent Select Com-
mittee on Intelligence, for consider-
ation of matters within the jurisdic-
tion of that committee under clause 11
of rule X: Mr. SCHIFF, Ms. SEWELL of
Alabama, and Mr. NUNES.
From the Committee on the Budget,
for consideration of sections 4 and 10608
of the Senate bill, and sections 1006 and
1112 of the House amendment, and
modifications committed to con-
ference: Messrs. YARMUTH, PETERS, and
JOHNSON of Ohio.
From the Committee on Education
and Labor, for consideration of sec-
tions 571, 572, and 5501 of the Senate
bill, and sections 211, 576, 580, 1099N,
1117, 3120, and 3503 of the House amend-
ment, and modifications committed to
conference: Mr. SCOTT of Virginia, Mrs.
TRAHAN, and Ms. FOXX of North Caro-
lina.
From the Committee on Energy and
Commerce, for consideration of sec-
tions 214, 315, 318, 703, 3112, 3113, 3201–03,
5318, 6001, 6006, 6021, 6701, 6711, 6721–24,
6741, 6742, 6751–54, 8101, 8202, 10421, 10422,
and 10742 of the Senate bill, and sec-
tions 315, 330F, 330H, 330O, 606, 737, 3111,
3112, 3127, 3128, 3201, and 3202 of the
House amendment, and modifications
committed to conference: Messrs. PAL-
LONE, TONKO, and UPTON.
From the Committee on Financial
Services, for consideration of sections
6017, 6018, 6804, 6811, 6813–16, 6834, 6835,
and title LXIX of the Senate bill, and
sections 550K, 560G, subtitle I of title
X, sections 1240B, 1292, 1704, 1711, 1713–
16, 1733, and 2843 of the House amend-
ment, and modifications committed to
conference: Ms. WATERS, Messrs. SHER-
MAN, and BARR.
From the Committee on Foreign Af-
fairs, for consideration of sections 834,
1011, 1043, 1202, 1203, 1205, 1206, 1211, 1212,
1215, 1221–24, 1231–36, 1238, 1252, 1281–84,
title XIII, sections 1671, 1681, 2822, 6203–
06, 6210, 6213, 6215, 6231, 6236, title
LXVIII, sections 6921, 6922, 6931, 6941,
6943, 6954, part I of subtitle B of title
LXXXV, section 8562, and 10701 of the
Senate bill, and sections 634, 1036, 1046,
1050, 1099X, 1201, 1202, 1204, 1207, 1210,
1213, 1215, 1218, 1221–25, 1229, 1231–34,
1240A, 1241, 1250D, 1251, 1255, 1258, 1260A,
1260B, 1265, 1266, 1269, 1270, 1270G, 1270H,
1270I, 1270N, 1270R, 1270S, 1270T, 1270W,
subtitle I of title XII, subtitle J of title
XII, title XIII, sections 1521, 1669, and
title XVII of the House amendment,
and modifications committed to con-
ference: Messrs. ENGEL, MEEKS, and
MCCAUL.
b 1930
From the Committee on Homeland
Security, for consideration of sections
6006, 6012, and 8543 of the Senate bill,
and modifications committed to con-
ference: Mr. ROSE of New York, Ms.
UNDERWOOD, and Mr. WALKER.
From the Committee on the Judici-
ary, for consideration of sections 1025,
1031, 1044, 1682, 6004, 6206, 6804, 6811,
6813–16, 6835, 6921, and 6944 of the Sen-
ate bill, and sections 530F, 530G, 550D,
550F, 550J, 570H, 729, 827, 1011, 1048, 1049,
1050C, 1093, 1099C, 1099K, 1099V, 1099Z–3,
1212, 1296A, 1704, 1711, 1713–16, and 1733
of the House amendment, and modi-
fications committed to conference: Mr.
NADLER, Ms. LOFGREN, and Mr. COLLINS
of Georgia.
From the Committee on Natural Re-
sources, for consideration of sections
314, 2812, 2814, 6001, 6020, subtitle C of
title LXVII, section 8524, part I of sub-
title B of title LXXXV, sections 8554,
and 8571 of the Senate bill, and sections
330G, 1094, 1099D, 1099F, 1099U, 2851, sub-
title F of title XXVIII, sections 2876,
and 2880 of the House amendment, and
modifications committed to con-
ference: Mr. GRIJALVA, Ms. HAALAND,
and Mr. BISHOP of Utah.
From the Committee on Oversight
and Reform, for consideration of sec-
tions 218, 530, 559, 579, 1081, 1082, title
XI, sections 5802, 6012, subtitle B of
title LXV, sections 9304, 9307, 9311, 9313,
9314, 10303, 10432, 10434, 10601, 10603–05,
10612, 10741, and 10742 of the Senate bill,
and sections 212, 239, 550O, 629, 633, 804,
829, 842, 861, 872, 877, 883, 884, 891, 895,
899E, 899H, 899I, 1064, 1085, 1099B, title
XI, sections 1704, 1711, 1713–16, and 3127
of the House amendment, and modi-
fications committed to conference:
Messrs. LYNCH, CONNOLLY, and GREEN
of Tennessee.
From the Committee on Science,
Space, and Technology, for consider-
ation of sections 216, 219, 1612, 6001,
6006, 6008, 6009, 6742, 6754, 8524, and 10742
of the Senate bill, and sections 214, 217,
882, and 1089 of the House amendment,
and modifications committed to con-
ference: Mses. JOHNSON of Texas,
SHERRILL, and Mr. BAIRD.
From the Committee on Small Busi-
ness, for consideration of section 841 of
the Senate bill, and sections 872–76, 878,
879, 881, 882, and 886–89 of the House
amendment, and modifications com-
mitted to conference: Ms. VELÁZQUEZ,
Messrs. GOLDEN, and CHABOT.
From the Committee on Transpor-
tation and Infrastructure, for consider-
ation of sections 353, 1612, 1682, 2805,
title XXXV, sections 6001, 6006, 6012,
6015, 6019, 6021, 6754, 8500, 8511, 8517, 8519,
8520, 8522, 8523, 8525, 8532, 8543, 8545, 8546,
and 8571 of the Senate bill, and sections
311, 313, 330A, 330O, 351, 354, 555, 569,
580C, 606, 896, 2808, 3501, and 3504 of the
House amendment, and modifications
committed to conference: Messrs.
DELGADO, PAPPAS, and KATKO.
From the Committee on Veterans’
Affairs, for consideration of sections
568, 721, 726, 727, 1083, 1431, 2812, 2813,
5702, and 6007 of the Senate bill, and
sections 530, 530A, 545, 546, 550E, 550G,
550H, 550I, 550J, 569, 570E, 570F, 574, 624,
705, 706, 713, 715, 1093, 1126, and 1411 of
the House amendment, and modifica-
tions committed to conference: Mr.
TAKANO, Ms. BROWNLEY of California,
and Mr. WATKINS.
There was no objection.
f
CALLING FOR EXPANDED CIVICS
EDUCATION ON NATIONAL CON-
STITUTION DAY
(Mr. LANGEVIN asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. LANGEVIN. Madam Speaker, I
rise today on National Constitution
Day to renew my call for expanded
civics education.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:50 Sep 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00029 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A17SE7.037 H17SEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7746 September 17, 2019
The father of our Constitution,
James Madison, wrote: ‘‘A popular gov-
ernment, without popular information,
or the means of acquiring it, is but a
prologue to a farce or a tragedy; or,
perhaps both.’’
Yet, today, it feels as if we are in the
middle acts of Madison’s feared drama.
Sadly, only 26 percent of Americans
can name all three branches of govern-
ment, and 37 percent cannot name a
single right guaranteed under the First
Amendment. Meanwhile, public trust
in government and voter participation
is low, and foreign adversaries have
taken advantage of this to sow discord
among us.
Madam Speaker, I was proud to in-
clude a program in the House-passed
National Defense Authorization Act to
fund further development and evalua-
tion of civics education programs, but
this is just a first step. We must ensure
that every child has access to evidence-
based civics programs. The future of
our democracy depends on it.
f
RECOGNIZING NATIONAL FAMILY
MEALS MONTH
(Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania
asked and was given permission to ad-
dress the House for 1 minute and to re-
vise and extend his remarks.)
Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania.
Madam Speaker, I rise today to recog-
nize September as National Family
Meals Month.
Between work, school, and extra-
curricular activities, it can be hard to
find time to share a meal as a family,
but the benefits that come from carv-
ing out time to eat together are re-
warded tenfold.
Family meals are great for the mind,
body, and spirit. Regular meals provide
children and their parents with great
nutritional value, helping them to
meet the recommended servings of
fruits and vegetables. It also expands
the variety of food children will eat,
making them less picky about what is
on the table.
For young, developing children, con-
versation heard at the dinner table in-
volves vocabulary and reading com-
prehension. Adolescents also benefit,
often being more likely to achieve
higher grades in school.
Meals bring families closer and pro-
vide a setting for parents and children
to engage in meaningful dialogue that
can reduce stress and negative behav-
ior and improve communications
skills.
Madam Speaker, I encourage all fam-
ilies to prioritize time for family meals
and strengthen their ties to one an-
other.
f
TRANSFORM STUDENT DEBT TO
HOME EQUITY
(Ms. KAPTUR asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Ms. KAPTUR. Madam Speaker, I rise
today in response to two crises facing
America’s young adults: the student
debt crisis and the homeownership cri-
sis.
Since World War II, America’s middle
class experienced unprecedented
growth in homeownership and wealth
accumulation. Tragically, today, due
to exploding levels of student debt,
which, cumulatively, total over $1.5
trillion, the option of homeownership
for far too many young, aspiring Amer-
icans remains out of reach.
The homeownership rate for those
under 35 is just 36 percent, 10 percent-
age points lower than 2006. These dis-
mal numbers have exacerbated the ra-
cial wealth gap as well.
During the financial crash of 2008, Af-
rican Americans lost half of their accu-
mulated wealth since the founding of
the Republic. In 2017, African American
homeownership fell to 43 percent, effec-
tively negating any progress since the
Fair Housing Act.
That is why I have introduced H.R.
3511, the Transform Student Debt to
Home Equity Act. My bill directs HUD
and the Federal Housing Finance Agen-
cy to establish a pilot program to re-
negotiate creditworthy Federal student
debt holders with eligible homes.
I thank the Financial Services Com-
mittee for considering it this week, and
I ask my colleagues to consider cospon-
soring this important legislation.
f
HONORING THE MUSSER FAMILY
(Mr. BERGMAN asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. BERGMAN. Madam Speaker, I
rise today to honor and recognize the
Musser family of Michigan for nearly
nine decades of outstanding tradition
and service at the Grand Hotel on
Mackinac Island in Michigan’s beau-
tiful First District.
The famous ‘‘world’s largest front
porch’’ has welcomed five sitting U.S.
Presidents, thousands of dignitaries,
business leaders, movie stars, and over
150,000 guests each season.
The rich traditions of the Grand
Hotel are world-renowned and have set
the standards in the tourism industry
for almost a century.
I personally congratulate my friend
Dan Musser on 30 years of exceptional
service as the president of the Grand
and wish him and his wife, Marlee, and
his sister, Mimi Cunningham, all the
best as they pass the torch and set out
on new adventures.
f
HONORING NICK BUONICONTI
(Ms. SHALALA asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend her re-
marks.)
Ms. SHALALA. Madam Speaker, I
rise in honor of my friend Nick
Buoniconti, the humanitarian and foot-
ball legend. He passed away on July 30,
2019, at the age of 78.
Nick’s career with the Miami Dol-
phins began in 1969. With his help, the
Dolphins went undefeated in 1972, cul-
minating with a Super Bowl victory.
The team won the Super Bowl the next
year as well and remains the only team
in the National Football League to go
an entire season undefeated.
After Nick retired from professional
football, his son Marc sustained a spi-
nal cord injury in a college football
game, leaving him paralyzed from the
neck down.
After this, Nick dedicated himself to
focusing on his son’s health and sup-
porting the Miami Project to Cure Pa-
ralysis, of which Marc currently serves
as president.
In addition, Nick and his family
founded the Buoniconti Fund to Cure
Paralysis, which has raised over $500
million in support of the Miami
Project’s research objectives.
Nick Buoniconti’s influence will be
felt in Miami for years to come. We
will remember him with love and pride.
f
b 1945
HONORING THE LIFETIME OF
SERVICE OF TERRY OTTINGER
(Mr. SPANO asked and was given per-
mission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Mr. SPANO. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to honor Terry Ottinger, who has
retired after 14 years of faithful service
on staff with the Lakeland Chamber of
Commerce and, 17 years before that, as
a business owner. Few have done more
to advance the cause of the local entre-
preneur than Terry.
Since 1921, the Lakeland Chamber of
Commerce has served as an advocate
for business and, today, is the largest
chamber in Polk County, with over
1,400 investor businesses.
During Terry’s tenure as chamber
vice president, Lakeland has risen to
the fourth fastest growing metropoli-
tan area in the Nation. His leadership
has been instrumental in expanding
training workshops, promoting small
business development, and providing
opportunities for investors and vision-
aries to network.
The city of Lakeland is a stronger re-
gional partner and a more desirable lo-
cation for prospective businesses be-
cause of Terry’s professionalism, stra-
tegic outlook, team building talents,
and honest friendship.
Thank you, Terry. Thank you for a
lifetime of service. You are not done,
though, and we look forward to keep-
ing you engaged in our community for
years to come.
f
HONORING THE LIFE OF ANTHONY
MARTINEZ, SR.
(Mr. COX of California asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute and to revise and extend
his remarks.)
Mr. COX of California. Madam
Speaker, I rise today to recognize the
life of Anthony Martinez, Sr., a true
leader in Delano, California, and the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:50 Sep 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00030 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K17SE7.054 H17SEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7747
September 17, 2019
Central Valley, who dedicated his life
to helping others.
Tony was born in Santa Paula, Cali-
fornia, and grew up in Hanford, where
he graduated from high school, and
then went on to pursue higher edu-
cation at Bakersfield College, San Jose
State, and Porterville College.
A selfless leader, Tony proudly
served in the California National Guard
and the United States Air Force.
Among his many jobs in life, Tony
managed a Thrifty Drug Store, but
then, with the support of his wife, Pat,
accomplished a lifelong dream by open-
ing the renowned Tony’s Pizza in Dela-
no and also founded the Anthony Mar-
tinez Farmers Insurance Agency.
During his impressive 40-year busi-
ness career, Tony volunteered count-
less hours to his community and served
in elected roles as both a city council
member and as mayor.
Tony passed away on June 20, 2019,
but he leaves behind a legacy that will
live on.
Madam Speaker, I urge my col-
leagues to join me in honoring the life
of Anthony ‘‘Tony’’ Martinez. May he
rest in peace, and may we always re-
member his dedication to Delano, the
Central Valley, and our great Nation.
f
AUGUST 2019 JOBS REPORT
(Mr. WILSON of South Carolina
asked and was given permission to ad-
dress the House for 1 minute and to re-
vise and extend his remarks.)
Mr. WILSON of South Carolina.
Madam Speaker, in the August jobs re-
port, job numbers were once again
strong. Over 570,000 people joined the
labor force, and the unemployment
rate remained at its 50-year low of 3.7
percent. In addition, 130,000 jobs were
added in the United States and wages
were increased.
I am grateful for this consistent
change for the better and for President
Donald Trump’s policies in continuing
to create jobs. By creating jobs, low-
ering unemployment, and increasing
wages, President Trump is continuing
his effective record of keeping his
promises. With more jobs created,
there has been also an impressive in-
crease in wages.
One number that specifically stood
out in this past August’s report was
the number of women employed. Cur-
rently, the number of employed women
is at the highest level since 2002.
I am grateful that the Trump admin-
istration will continue to focus on
American families and the creation of
jobs.
In conclusion, God bless our troops,
and we will never forget September the
11th in the global war on terrorism.
I am grateful to recognize today is
Constitution Day.
HONORING EAGLE SCOUT SEAN
DUFFY
(Mr. VAN DREW asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. VAN DREW. Madam Speaker,
thank you for allowing me to honor a
remarkable young man of South Jer-
sey.
Recently, Scout Sean Duffy of Egg
Harbor Township in South Jersey
earned the outstanding honor of be-
coming an Eagle Scout. For his Eagle
Scout project, Sean decided to beautify
the nature reserve in Egg Harbor
Township.
Sean led his fellow scouts in the con-
struction of the gazebo and oversaw
the project from the very beginning to
the very end. Because of this excep-
tional young man, the community of
Egg Harbor Township can enjoy a new
place of recreation and gathering at
the nature reserve for many years to
come.
At times, we must all take initiative
and assume a role of leadership. We
continue to be inspired by brave and
passionate young people like Sean
Duffy who step forward and guide their
peers in order to better their own com-
munity. We are proud of him. He is a
true leader.
Congratulations, Sean. We wish you
the best going forward and thank you
for your contribution to our commu-
nity. South Jersey, New Jersey, and
the United States of America are proud
of the work that you have done.
Good luck.
f
APPOINTMENT OF INDIVIDUAL TO
HEALTH INFORMATION TECH-
NOLOGY ADVISORY COMMITTEE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair announces the Speaker’s ap-
pointment, pursuant to section 4003(e)
of the 21st Century Cures Act (Pub. L.
114–255), and the order of the House of
January 3, 2019, of the following indi-
vidual on the part of the House to the
Health Information Technology Advi-
sory Committee to fill the existing va-
cancy thereon:
Dr. Jim Jirjis, Nashville, Tennessee
f
LEAVE OF ABSENCE
By unanimous consent, leave of ab-
sence was granted to:
Mr. MAST (at the request of Mr.
MCCARTHY) for today through final
votes on September 18 on account of a
death in the family.
f
SENATE CONCURRENT
RESOLUTION REFERRED
A concurrent resolution of the Sen-
ate of the following title was taken
from the Speaker’s table and, under
the rule, referred as follows:
S. Con. Res. 25. Concurrent resolution rec-
ognizing September 11, 2019, as a ‘‘National
Day of Service and Remembrance’’; to the
Committee on Oversight and Reform.
f
ENROLLED BILL SIGNED
Cheryl L. Johnson, Clerk of the
House, reported and found truly en-
rolled a bill of the House of the fol-
lowing title, which was thereupon
signed by the Speaker:
H.R. 1200. An act to increase, effective as of
December 1, 2019, the rates of compensation
for veterans with service-connected disabil-
ities and the rates of dependency and indem-
nity compensation for the survivors of cer-
tain disabled veterans, and for other pur-
poses.
f
ADJOURNMENT
Mr. VAN DREW. Madam Speaker, I
move that the House do now adjourn.
The motion was agreed to; accord-
ingly (at 7 o’clock and 51 minutes
p.m.), under its previous order, the
House adjourned until tomorrow,
Wednesday, September 18, 2019, at 10
a.m. for morning-hour debate.
f
OATH OF OFFICE MEMBERS, RESI-
DENT COMMISSIONER, AND DEL-
EGATES
The oath of office required by the
sixth article of the Constitution of the
United States, and as provided by sec-
tion 2 of the act of May 13, 1884 (23
Stat. 22), to be administered to Mem-
bers, Resident Commissioner, and Dele-
gates of the House of Representatives,
the text of which is carried in 5 U.S.C.
3331:
‘‘I, AB, do solemnly swear (or af-
firm) that I will support and defend
the Constitution of the United
States against all enemies, foreign
and domestic; that I will bear true
faith and allegiance to the same;
that I take this obligation freely,
without any mental reservation or
purpose of evasion; and that I will
well and faithfully discharge the
duties of the office on which I am
about to enter. So help me God.’’
has been subscribed to in person and
filed in duplicate with the Clerk of the
House of Representatives by the fol-
lowing Member of the 116th Congress,
pursuant to the provisions of 2 U.S.C.
25:
GREGORY F. MURPHY,
Third District of North Carolina.
DAN BISHOP,
Ninth District of North Carolina.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 20:40 Dec 02, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00031 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\RECORD19\SEPTEMBER\H17SE9.REC H17SE9
CORRECTION
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7748 September 17, 2019
EXPENDITURE REPORTS CONCERNING OFFICIAL FOREIGN TRAVEL
Reports concerning the foreign currencies and U.S. dollars utilized for Official Foreign Travel during the second and
third quarters of 2019, pursuant to Public Law 95–384, are as follows:
REPORT OF EXPENDITURES FOR OFFICIAL FOREIGN TRAVEL, REV. PATRICK J. CONROY, EXPENDED BETWEEN JULY 26 AND AUG. 5, 2019
Name of Member or employee
Date
Country
Per diem 1 Transportation Other purposes Total
Arrival Departure
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Patrick J. Conroy ...................................................... 7/27 7/29 Paris, France ........................................ .................... 350.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 350.00
7/29 7/31 Venice, Italy .......................................... .................... 294.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 294.00
7/31 8/3 Rome, Italy ........................................... .................... 411.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 411.00
8/3 8/5 Rabat, Morocco ..................................... .................... 536.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 536.00
Committee total ......................................... ............. ................. ............................................................... .................... 1,591.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,591.00
1 Per diem constitutes lodging and meals.
2 If foreign currency is used, enter U.S. dollar equivalent; if U.S. currency is used, enter amount expended.
3 Military air transportation.
REV. PATRICK J. CONROY, Sept. 9, 2019.
REPORT OF EXPENDITURES FOR OFFICIAL FOREIGN TRAVEL, WILLIE LYLES III, EXPENDED BETWEEN AUG. 4 AND AUG. 9, 2019
Name of Member or employee
Date
Country
Per diem 1 Transportation Other purposes Total
Arrival Departure
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Willie Lyles, III ......................................................... 8/4 8/9 Italy/Germany ........................................ .................... .................... .................... 3,971.03 .................... .................... .................... ....................
8/5 8/6 Italy ....................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 196.47 .................... ....................
8/5 8/6 Italy ....................................................... Ö129.00 142.00 ....................
8/6 8/7 Germany ................................................ Ö218.86 242.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... ....................
8/6 8/7 Germany ................................................ .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 140.00 .................... ....................
8/8 8/9 Germany ................................................ Ö96.77 107.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... ....................
8/8 8/9 Germany ................................................ .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 145.90
Committee total ......................................... ............. ................. ............................................................... Ö444.63 491.00 .................... 3,971.03 .................... 482.37 .................... 4,944.40
1 Per diem constitutes lodging and meals.
2 If foreign currency is used, enter U.S. dollar equivalent; if U.S. currency is used, enter amount expended.
MR. WILLIE LYLES, III, Aug. 29, 2019.
REPORT OF EXPENDITURES FOR OFFICIAL FOREIGN TRAVEL, SARAH BURKE, EXPENDED BETWEEN AUG. 3 AND AUG. 13, 2019
Name of Member or employee
Date
Country
Per diem 1 Transportation Other purposes Total
Arrival Departure
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Sarah Burke ............................................................. 8/4 8/6 Japan .................................................... .................... 458.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 458.00
8/6 8/8 Singapore .............................................. .................... 264.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 264.00
8/8 8/11 Australia ............................................... .................... 406.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 406.00
8/11 8/12 Fiji ......................................................... .................... 96.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 96.00
Committee total ......................................... ............. ................. ............................................................... .................... 1,224.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,224.00
1 Per diem constitutes lodging and meals.
2 If foreign currency is used, enter U.S. dollar equivalent; if U.S. currency is used, enter amount expended.
3 Military air transportation.
MS. SARAH BURKE, Sept. 3, 2019.
REPORT OF EXPENDITURES FOR OFFICIAL FOREIGN TRAVEL, DELEGATION TO ITALY AND GHANA, EXPENDED BETWEEN JULY 26 AND AUG. 1, 2019
Name of Member or employee
Date
Country
Per diem 1 Transportation Other purposes Total
Arrival Departure
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Hon. Nancy Pelosi .................................................... 7/27 7/28 Italy ....................................................... .................... 915.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 915.00
Hon. James Clyburn ................................................. 7/27 7/28 Italy ....................................................... .................... 915.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 915.00
Hon. John Lewis ....................................................... 7/27 7/28 Italy ....................................................... .................... 915.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 915.00
Hon. Bobby Rush ..................................................... 7/27 7/28 Italy ....................................................... .................... 915.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 915.00
Hon. Sheila Jackson Lee .......................................... 7/27 7/28 Italy ....................................................... .................... 915.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 915.00
Hon. Barbara Lee .................................................... 7/27 7/28 Italy ....................................................... .................... 915.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 915.00
Hon. Yvette Clarke ................................................... 7/27 7/28 Italy ....................................................... .................... 915.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 915.00
Hon. Hank Johnson .................................................. 7/27 7/28 Italy ....................................................... .................... 915.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 915.00
Hon. Marcia Fudge .................................................. 7/27 7/28 Italy ....................................................... .................... 915.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 915.00
Hon. Karen Bass ...................................................... 7/27 7/28 Italy ....................................................... .................... 915.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 915.00
Hon. Terri Sewell ..................................................... 7/27 7/28 Italy ....................................................... .................... 915.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 915.00
Hon. Frederica Wilson .............................................. 7/27 7/28 Italy ....................................................... .................... 915.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 915.00
Hon. Joyce Beatty .................................................... 7/27 7/28 Italy ....................................................... .................... 915.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 915.00
Hon. Ilhan Omar ...................................................... 7/27 7/28 Italy ....................................................... .................... 915.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 915.00
Dr. Brian Monahan .................................................. 7/27 7/28 Italy ....................................................... .................... 915.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 915.00
Terri McCullough ..................................................... 7/27 7/28 Italy ....................................................... .................... 915.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 915.00
Wyndee Parker ......................................................... 7/27 7/28 Italy ....................................................... .................... 915.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 915.00
Kate Knudson Wolters ............................................. 7/27 7/28 Italy ....................................................... .................... 915.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 915.00
Ashley Etienne ......................................................... 7/27 7/28 Italy ....................................................... .................... 915.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 915.00
Kristina Jeter ........................................................... 7/27 7/28 Italy ....................................................... .................... 915.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 915.00
Julio Obscura ........................................................... 7/27 7/28 Italy ....................................................... .................... 915.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 915.00
Michael Collins ........................................................ 7/27 7/28 Italy ....................................................... .................... 915.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 915.00
Janette Yarwood ...................................................... 7/27 7/28 Italy ....................................................... .................... 915.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 915.00
Hon. Nancy Pelosi .................................................... 7/28 8/01 Ghana ................................................... .................... 981.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 981.00
Hon. James Clyburn ................................................. 7/28 8/01 Ghana ................................................... .................... 981.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 981.00
Hon. John Lewis ....................................................... 7/28 8/01 Ghana ................................................... .................... 981.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 981.00
Hon. Bobby Rush ..................................................... 7/28 8/01 Ghana ................................................... .................... 981.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 981.00
Hon. Sheila Jackson Lee .......................................... 7/28 8/01 Ghana ................................................... .................... 981.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 981.00
Hon. Barbara Lee .................................................... 7/28 8/01 Ghana ................................................... .................... 981.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 981.00
Hon. Yvette Clarke ................................................... 7/28 8/01 Ghana ................................................... .................... 981.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 981.00
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:04 Sep 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00032 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 8634 E:\CR\FM\A17SE7.018 H17SEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7749
September 17, 2019
REPORT OF EXPENDITURES FOR OFFICIAL FOREIGN TRAVEL, DELEGATION TO ITALY AND GHANA, EXPENDED BETWEEN JULY 26 AND AUG. 1, 2019—Continued
Name of Member or employee
Date
Country
Per diem 1 Transportation Other purposes Total
Arrival Departure
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Hon. Hank Johnson .................................................. 7/28 8/01 Ghana ................................................... .................... 981.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 981.00
Hon. Marcia Fudge .................................................. 7/28 8/01 Ghana ................................................... .................... 981.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 981.00
Hon. Karen Bass ...................................................... 7/28 8/01 Ghana ................................................... .................... 981.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 981.00
Hon. Terri Sewell ..................................................... 7/28 8/01 Ghana ................................................... .................... 981.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 981.00
Hon. Frederica Wilson .............................................. 7/28 8/01 Ghana ................................................... .................... 981.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 981.00
Hon. Joyce Beatty .................................................... 7/28 8/01 Ghana ................................................... .................... 981.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 981.00
Hon. Ilhan Omar ...................................................... 7/28 8/01 Ghana ................................................... .................... 981.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 981.00
Dr. Brian Monahan .................................................. 7/28 8/01 Ghana ................................................... .................... 981.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 981.00
Terri McCullough ..................................................... 7/28 8/01 Ghana ................................................... .................... 981.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 981.00
Wyndee Parker ......................................................... 7/28 8/01 Ghana ................................................... .................... 981.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 981.00
Kate Knudson Wolters ............................................. 7/28 8/01 Ghana ................................................... .................... 981.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 981.00
Ashley Etienne ......................................................... 7/28 8/01 Ghana ................................................... .................... 981.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 981.00
Kristina Jeter ........................................................... 7/28 8/01 Ghana ................................................... .................... 981.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 981.00
Julio Obscura ........................................................... 7/28 8/01 Ghana ................................................... .................... 981.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 981.00
Michael Collins ........................................................ 7/28 8/01 Ghana ................................................... .................... 981.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 981.00
Janette Yarwood ...................................................... 7/28 8/01 Ghana ................................................... .................... 981.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 981.00
Michael Long ........................................................... 7/27 8/01 Ghana ................................................... .................... 1,242.00 .................... 4,067.53 .................... .................... .................... 5,309.53
Latrice Powell .......................................................... 7/27 8/01 Ghana ................................................... .................... 1,242.00 .................... 4,067.53 .................... .................... .................... 5,309.53
Committee total ......................................... ............. ................. ............................................................... .................... 46,092.00 .................... 8,135.06 .................... .................... .................... 54,227.06
1 Per diem constitutes lodging and meals.
2 If foreign currency is used, enter U.S. dollar equivalent; if U.S. currency is used, enter amount expended.
3 Military air transportation.
HON. NANCY PELOSI, Sept. 3, 2019.
(AMENDED) REPORT OF EXPENDITURES FOR OFFICIAL FOREIGN TRAVEL, DELEGATION TO ITALY AND GHANA, EXPENDED BETWEEN JULY 26 AND AUG. 1, 2019
Name of Member or employee
Date
Country
Per diem 1 Transportation Other purposes Total
Arrival Departure
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Hon. Nancy Pelosi .................................................... 7/27 7/28 Italy ....................................................... .................... 915.00 (3) .................... .................... .................... .................... 915.00
Hon. James Clyburn ................................................. 7/27 7/28 Italy ....................................................... .................... 915.00 (3) .................... .................... .................... .................... 915.00
Hon. John Lewis ....................................................... 7/27 7/28 Italy ....................................................... .................... 915.00 (3) .................... .................... .................... .................... 915.00
Hon. Bobby Rush ..................................................... 7/27 7/28 Italy ....................................................... .................... 915.00 (3) .................... .................... .................... .................... 915.00
Hon. Sheila Jackson Lee .......................................... 7/27 7/28 Italy ....................................................... .................... 915.00 (3) .................... .................... .................... .................... 915.00
Hon. Barbara Lee .................................................... 7/27 7/28 Italy ....................................................... .................... 915.00 (3) .................... .................... .................... .................... 915.00
Hon. Yvette Clarke ................................................... 7/27 7/28 Italy ....................................................... .................... 915.00 (3) .................... .................... .................... .................... 915.00
Hon. Hank Johnson .................................................. 7/27 7/28 Italy ....................................................... .................... 915.00 (3) .................... .................... .................... .................... 915.00
Hon. Marcia Fudge .................................................. 7/27 7/28 Italy ....................................................... .................... 915.00 (3) .................... .................... .................... .................... 915.00
Hon. Karen Bass ...................................................... 7/27 7/28 Italy ....................................................... .................... 915.00 (3) .................... .................... .................... .................... 915.00
Hon. Terri Sewell ..................................................... 7/27 7/28 Italy ....................................................... .................... 915.00 (3) .................... .................... .................... .................... 915.00
Hon. Frederica Wilson .............................................. 7/27 7/28 Italy ....................................................... .................... 915.00 (3) .................... .................... .................... .................... 915.00
Hon. Joyce Beatty .................................................... 7/27 7/28 Italy ....................................................... .................... 915.00 (3) .................... .................... .................... .................... 915.00
Hon. Ilhan Omar ...................................................... 7/27 7/28 Italy ....................................................... .................... 915.00 (3) .................... .................... .................... .................... 915.00
Dr. Brian Monahan .................................................. 7/27 7/28 Italy ....................................................... .................... 915.00 (3) .................... .................... .................... .................... 915.00
Terri McCullough ..................................................... 7/27 7/28 Italy ....................................................... .................... 915.00 (3) .................... .................... .................... .................... 915.00
Wyndee Parker ......................................................... 7/27 7/28 Italy ....................................................... .................... 915.00 (3) .................... .................... .................... .................... 915.00
Kate Knudson Wolters ............................................. 7/27 7/28 Italy ....................................................... .................... 915.00 (3) .................... .................... .................... .................... 915.00
Ashley Etienne ......................................................... 7/27 7/28 Italy ....................................................... .................... 915.00 (3) .................... .................... .................... .................... 915.00
Kristina Jeter ........................................................... 7/27 7/28 Italy ....................................................... .................... 915.00 (3) .................... .................... .................... .................... 915.00
Julio Obscura ........................................................... 7/27 7/28 Italy ....................................................... .................... 915.00 (3) .................... .................... .................... .................... 915.00
Michael Collins ........................................................ 7/27 7/28 Italy ....................................................... .................... 915.00 (3) .................... .................... .................... .................... 915.00
Janette Yarwood ...................................................... 7/27 7/28 Italy ....................................................... .................... 915.00 (3) .................... .................... .................... .................... 915.00
Paul Irving ............................................................... 7/27 7/28 Italy ....................................................... .................... 915.00 (3) .................... .................... .................... .................... 915.00
Hon. Nancy Pelosi .................................................... 7/28 8/1 Ghana ................................................... .................... 981.00 (3) .................... .................... .................... .................... 981.00
Hon. James Clyburn ................................................. 7/28 8/1 Ghana ................................................... .................... 981.00 (3) .................... .................... .................... .................... 981.00
Hon. John Lewis ....................................................... 7/28 8/1 Ghana ................................................... .................... 981.00 (3) .................... .................... .................... .................... 981.00
Hon. Bobby Rush ..................................................... 7/28 8/1 Ghana ................................................... .................... 981.00 (3) .................... .................... .................... .................... 981.00
Hon. Sheila Jackson Lee .......................................... 7/28 8/1 Ghana ................................................... .................... 981.00 (3) .................... .................... .................... .................... 981.00
Hon. Barbara Lee .................................................... 7/28 8/1 Ghana ................................................... .................... 981.00 (3) .................... .................... .................... .................... 981.00
Hon. Yvette Clarke ................................................... 7/28 8/1 Ghana ................................................... .................... 981.00 (3) .................... .................... .................... .................... 981.00
Hon. Hank Johnson .................................................. 7/28 8/1 Ghana ................................................... .................... 981.00 (3) .................... .................... .................... .................... 981.00
Hon. Marcia Fudge .................................................. 7/28 8/1 Ghana ................................................... .................... 981.00 (3) .................... .................... .................... .................... 981.00
Hon. Karen Bass ...................................................... 7/28 8/1 Ghana ................................................... .................... 981.00 (3) .................... .................... .................... .................... 981.00
Hon. Terri Sewell ..................................................... 7/28 8/1 Ghana ................................................... .................... 981.00 (3) .................... .................... .................... .................... 981.00
Hon. Frederica Wilson .............................................. 7/28 8/1 Ghana ................................................... .................... 981.00 (3) .................... .................... .................... .................... 981.00
Hon. Joyce Beatty .................................................... 7/28 8/1 Ghana ................................................... .................... 981.00 (3) .................... .................... .................... .................... 981.00
Hon. Ilhan Omar ...................................................... 7/28 8/1 Ghana ................................................... .................... 981.00 (3) .................... .................... .................... .................... 981.00
Dr. Brian Monahan .................................................. 7/28 8/1 Ghana ................................................... .................... 981.00 (3) .................... .................... .................... .................... 981.00
Paul Irving ............................................................... 7/28 8/1 Ghana ................................................... .................... 981.00 (3) .................... .................... .................... .................... 981.00
Terri McCullough ..................................................... 7/28 8/1 Ghana ................................................... .................... 981.00 (3) .................... .................... .................... .................... 981.00
Wyndee Parker ......................................................... 7/28 8/1 Ghana ................................................... .................... 981.00 (3) .................... .................... .................... .................... 981.00
Kate Knudson Wolters ............................................. 7/28 8/1 Ghana ................................................... .................... 981.00 (3) .................... .................... .................... .................... 981.00
Ashley Etienne ......................................................... 7/28 8/1 Ghana ................................................... .................... 981.00 (3) .................... .................... .................... .................... 981.00
Kristina Jeter ........................................................... 7/28 8/1 Ghana ................................................... .................... 981.00 (3) .................... .................... .................... .................... 981.00
Julio Obscura ........................................................... 7/28 8/1 Ghana ................................................... .................... 981.00 (3) .................... .................... .................... .................... 981.00
Michael Collins ........................................................ 7/28 8/1 Ghana ................................................... .................... 981.00 (3) .................... .................... .................... .................... 981.00
Janette Yarwood ...................................................... 7/28 8/1 Ghana ................................................... .................... 981.00 (3) .................... .................... .................... .................... 981.00
Michael Long ........................................................... 7/27 8/1 Ghana ................................................... .................... 1,308.00 (3) $4,067.53 .................... .................... .................... 5,375.53
Latrice Powell .......................................................... 7/27 8/1 Ghana ................................................... .................... 1,308.00 (3) $4,067.53 .................... .................... .................... 5,375.53
Committee total ......................................... ............. ................. ............................................................... .................... 48,120.00 .................... 8,135.06 .................... .................... .................... 56,255.06
1 Per diem constitutes lodging and meals.
2 If foreign currency is used, enter U.S. dollar equivalent; if U.S. currency is used, enter amount expended.
3 Military air transportation.
HON. NANCY PELOSI, SEPT. 10, 2019.
REPORT OF EXPENDITURES FOR OFFICIAL FOREIGN TRAVEL, DELEGATION TO GUATEMALA, EL SALVADOR, AND HONDURAS, EXPENDED BETWEEN AUG. 8 AND AUG. 11, 2019
Name of Member or employee
Date
Country
Per diem 1 Transportation Other purposes Total
Arrival Departure
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Hon. Nancy Pelosi .................................................... 8/8 8/9 El Salvador ........................................... .................... 219.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 219.00
Hon. Eliot Engel ....................................................... 8/8 8/9 El Salvador ........................................... .................... 219.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 219.00
Hon. Nydia Velázquez .............................................. 8/8 8/9 El Salvador ........................................... .................... 219.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 219.00
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:04 Sep 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00033 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 8634 E:\CR\FM\A17SE7.018 H17SEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7750 September 17, 2019
REPORT OF EXPENDITURES FOR OFFICIAL FOREIGN TRAVEL, DELEGATION TO GUATEMALA, EL SALVADOR, AND HONDURAS, EXPENDED BETWEEN AUG. 8 AND AUG. 11, 2019—
Continued
Name of Member or employee
Date
Country
Per diem 1 Transportation Other purposes Total
Arrival Departure
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Hon. Jim McGovern .................................................. 8/8 8/9 El Salvador ........................................... .................... 219.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 219.00
Hon. Lucille Roybal-Allard ....................................... 8/8 8/9 El Salvador ........................................... .................... 219.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 219.00
Hon. Henry Cuellar .................................................. 8/8 8/9 El Salvador ........................................... .................... 219.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 219.00
Hon. Amata Coleman Radewagen ........................... 8/8 8/9 El Salvador ........................................... .................... 219.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 219.00
Hon. Norma Torres ................................................... 8/8 8/9 El Salvador ........................................... .................... 219.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 219.00
Hon. Anthony Brown ................................................ 8/8 8/9 El Salvador ........................................... .................... 219.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 219.00
Hon. Mary Gay Scanlon ........................................... 8/8 8/9 El Salvador ........................................... .................... 219.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 219.00
Hon. Jesús Garcı́a .................................................... 8/8 8/9 El Salvador ........................................... .................... 219.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 219.00
Hon. Katie Hill ......................................................... 8/8 8/9 El Salvador ........................................... .................... 219.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 219.00
Hon. Lauren Underwood .......................................... 8/8 8/9 El Salvador ........................................... .................... 219.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 219.00
Dr. Brian Monahan .................................................. 8/8 8/9 El Salvador ........................................... .................... 219.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 219.00
Paul Irving ............................................................. 8/8 8/9 El Salvador ........................................... .................... 219.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 219.00
Wyndee Parker ........................................................ 8/8 8/9 El Salvador ........................................... .................... 219.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 219.00
Kate Knudson Wolters ............................................ 8/8 8/9 El Salvador ........................................... .................... 219.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 219.00
Emily Berret ........................................................... 8/8 8/9 El Salvador ........................................... .................... 219.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 219.00
Taylor Griffin .......................................................... 8/8 8/9 El Salvador ........................................... .................... 219.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 219.00
Eric Jacobstein ....................................................... 8/8 8/9 El Salvador ........................................... .................... 219.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 219.00
Cindy Buhl ............................................................. 8/8 8/9 El Salvador ........................................... .................... 219.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 219.00
Hon. Nancy Pelosi .................................................... 8/9 8/10 Honduras .............................................. .................... 284.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 284.00
Hon. Eliot Engel ....................................................... 8/9 8/10 Honduras .............................................. .................... 284.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 284.00
Hon. Nydia Velázquez .............................................. 8/9 8/10 Honduras .............................................. .................... 284.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 284.00
Hon. Jim McGovern .................................................. 8/9 8/10 Honduras .............................................. .................... 284.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 284.00
Hon. Lucille Roybal-Allard ....................................... 8/9 8/10 Honduras .............................................. .................... 284.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 284.00
Hon. Henry Cuellar .................................................. 8/9 8/10 Honduras .............................................. .................... 284.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 284.00
Hon. Amata Coleman-Radewagen ........................... 8/9 8/10 Honduras .............................................. .................... 284.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 284.00
Hon. Norma Torres ................................................... 8/9 8/10 Honduras .............................................. .................... 284.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 284.00
Hon. Anthony Brown ................................................ 8/9 8/10 Honduras .............................................. .................... 284.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 284.00
Hon. Mary Gay Scanlon ........................................... 8/9 8/10 Honduras .............................................. .................... 284.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 284.00
Hon. Jesús Garcı́a .................................................... 8/9 8/10 Honduras .............................................. .................... 284.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 284.00
Hon. Katie Hill ......................................................... 8/9 8/10 Honduras .............................................. .................... 284.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 284.00
Hon. Lauren Underwood .......................................... 8/9 8/10 Honduras .............................................. .................... 284.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 284.00
Dr. Brian Monahan .................................................. 8/9 8/10 Honduras .............................................. .................... 284.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 284.00
Paul Irving ............................................................... 8/9 8/10 Honduras .............................................. .................... 284.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 284.00
Wyndee Parker ......................................................... 8/9 8/10 Honduras .............................................. .................... 284.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 284.00
Kate Knudson Wolters ............................................. 8/9 8/10 Honduras .............................................. .................... 284.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 284.00
Emily Berret ............................................................. 8/9 8/10 Honduras .............................................. .................... 284.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 284.00
Taylor Griffin ............................................................ 8/9 8/10 Honduras .............................................. .................... 284.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 284.00
Eric Jacobstein ........................................................ 8/9 8/10 Honduras .............................................. .................... 284.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 284.00
Cindy Buhl ............................................................... 8/9 8/10 Honduras .............................................. .................... 284.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 284.00
Committee total ......................................... ............. ................. ............................................................... .................... 10,563.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 10,563.00
1 Per diem constitutes lodging and meals.
2 If foreign currency is used, enter U.S. dollar equivalent; if U.S. currency is used, enter amount expended.
3 Military air transportation.
HON. NANCY PELOSI, Sept. 12, 2019.
REPORT OF EXPENDITURES FOR OFFICIAL FOREIGN TRAVEL, COMMITTEE ON ARMED SERVICES, HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, EXPENDED BETWEEN APR. 1 AND JUNE 30, 2019
Name of Member or employee
Date
Country
Per diem 1 Transportation Other purposes Total
Arrival Departure
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Travel to Argentina, Brazil, Colombia—April 13–
19, 2019 with CODEL McCarthy
Hon. William M. ‘‘Mac’’ Thornberry ......................... 4/13 4/15 Argentina .............................................. .................... 723.96 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 723.96
4/15 4/17 Brazil .................................................... .................... 666.02 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 666.02
4/17 4/19 Germany ................................................ .................... 579.22 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 579.22
Travel to Afghanistan—April 16–17, 2019
Paul Arcangeli ......................................................... 4/16 4/17 Afghanistan .......................................... .................... 33.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 33.00
Commercial airfare ......................................... ............. ................. ............................................................... .................... .................... .................... 10,693.93 .................... .................... .................... 10,693.93
Jennifer Stewart ....................................................... 4/16 4/17 Afghanistan .......................................... .................... 33.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 33.00
Commercial airfare ......................................... ............. ................. ............................................................... .................... .................... .................... 10,693.93 .................... .................... .................... 10,693.93
William Johnson ....................................................... 4/16 4/17 Afghanistan .......................................... .................... 33.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 33.00
Commercial airfare ......................................... ............. ................. ............................................................... .................... .................... .................... 10,693.93 .................... .................... .................... 10,693.93
Mark Morehouse ...................................................... 4/16 4/17 Afghanistan .......................................... .................... 33.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 33.00
Commercial airfare ......................................... ............. ................. ............................................................... .................... .................... .................... 10,693.93 .................... .................... .................... 10,693.93
Peter Villano ............................................................ 4/16 4/17 Afghanistan .......................................... .................... 33.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 33.00
Commercial airfare ......................................... ............. ................. ............................................................... .................... .................... .................... 10,693.93 .................... .................... .................... 10,693.93
Lindsay Kavanaugh ................................................. 4/16 4/17 Afghanistan .......................................... .................... 33.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 33.00
Commercial airfare ......................................... ............. ................. ............................................................... .................... .................... .................... 10,693.93 .................... .................... .................... 10,693.93
Travel to Afghanistan, Jordan—May 2–7, 2019
Hon. Susan Davis .................................................... 5/4 5/5 Afghanistan .......................................... .................... 33.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 33.00
5/5 5/7 Jordan ................................................... .................... 771.37 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 771.37
Commercial airfare ......................................... ............. ................. ............................................................... .................... .................... .................... 18,416.73 .................... .................... .................... 18,416.73
Hon. Xochitl Torres Small ........................................ 5/4 5/5 Afghanistan .......................................... .................... 33.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 33.00
5/5 5/7 Jordan ................................................... .................... 771.37 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 771.37
Commercial airfare ......................................... ............. ................. ............................................................... .................... .................... .................... 18,416.73 .................... .................... .................... 18,416.73
Hon. Kendra Horn .................................................... 5/4 5/5 Afghanistan .......................................... .................... 33.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 33.00
5/5 5/7 Jordan ................................................... .................... 771.37 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 771.37
Commercial airfare ......................................... ............. ................. ............................................................... .................... .................... .................... 18,416.73 .................... .................... .................... 18,416.73
Craig Greene ............................................................ 5/4 5/5 Afghanistan .......................................... .................... 33.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 33.00
5/5 5/7 Jordan ................................................... .................... 771.37 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 771.37
Commercial airfare ......................................... ............. ................. ............................................................... .................... .................... .................... 18,416.73 .................... .................... .................... 18,416.73
Sarah Mineiro .......................................................... 5/4 5/5 Afghanistan .......................................... .................... 33.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 33.00
5/5 5/7 Jordan ................................................... .................... 771.37 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 771.37
Commercial airfare ......................................... ............. ................. ............................................................... .................... .................... .................... 18,416.73 .................... .................... .................... 18,416.73
Travel to Australia—May 28–31, 2019
Hon. William M. ‘‘Mac’’ Thornberry ......................... 5/28 5/31 Australia ............................................... .................... 1,033.63 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,033.63
Commercial airfare ......................................... ............. ................. ............................................................... .................... .................... .................... 14,011.33 .................... .................... .................... 14,011.33
Jennifer Stewart ....................................................... 5/28 5/31 Australia ............................................... .................... 1,033.63 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,033.63
Commercial airfare ......................................... ............. ................. ............................................................... .................... .................... .................... 14,011.33 .................... .................... .................... 14,011.33
Travel to Korea, Singapore—May 28–June 3, 2019
Hon. Adam Smith .................................................... 5/29 5/31 South Korea .......................................... .................... 729.13 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 729.13
5/31 6/3 Singapore .............................................. .................... 1,223.64 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,223.64
Commercial airfare ......................................... ............. ................. ............................................................... .................... .................... .................... 9,983.63 .................... .................... .................... 9,983.63
Hon. William M. ‘‘Mac’’ Thornberry ......................... 5/31 6/3 Singapore .............................................. .................... 1,223.64 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,223.64
Hon. Rick Larsen ..................................................... 5/29 5/31 South Korea .......................................... .................... 729.13 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 729.13
5/31 6/3 Singapore .............................................. .................... 1,223.64 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,223.64
Commercial airfare ......................................... ............. ................. ............................................................... .................... .................... .................... 8,799.33 .................... .................... .................... 8,799.33
Hon. Anthony Brown ................................................ 5/29 5/31 South Korea .......................................... .................... 729.13 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 729.13
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:04 Sep 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00034 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A17SE7.018 H17SEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7751
September 17, 2019
REPORT OF EXPENDITURES FOR OFFICIAL FOREIGN TRAVEL, COMMITTEE ON ARMED SERVICES, HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, EXPENDED BETWEEN APR. 1 AND JUNE 30, 2019—
Continued
Name of Member or employee
Date
Country
Per diem 1 Transportation Other purposes Total
Arrival Departure
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
5/31 6/3 Singapore .............................................. .................... 1,223.64 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,223.64
Commercial airfare ......................................... ............. ................. ............................................................... .................... .................... .................... 16,650.23 .................... .................... .................... 16,650.23
Hon. Donald Norcross .............................................. 5/29 5/31 South Korea .......................................... .................... 729.13 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 729.13
5/31 6/3 Singapore .............................................. .................... 1,223.64 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,223.64
Commercial airfare ......................................... ............. ................. ............................................................... .................... .................... .................... 10,780.38 .................... .................... .................... 10,780.38
Paul Arcangeli ......................................................... 5/29 5/31 South Korea .......................................... .................... 729.13 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 729.13
5/31 6/3 Singapore .............................................. .................... 1,223.64 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,223.64
Commercial airfare ......................................... ............. ................. ............................................................... .................... .................... .................... 15,947.43 .................... .................... .................... 15,947.43
Jennifer Stewart ....................................................... 5/31 6/3 Singapore .............................................. .................... 1,223.64 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,223.64
Matt Rhoades .......................................................... 5/29 5/31 South Korea .......................................... .................... 729.13 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 729.13
5/31 6/3 Singapore .............................................. .................... 1,223.64 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,223.64
Commercial airfare ......................................... ............. ................. ............................................................... .................... .................... .................... 15,947.43 .................... .................... .................... 15,947.43
Mark Morehouse ...................................................... 5/29 5/31 South Korea .......................................... .................... 729.13 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 729.13
5/31 6/3 Singapore .............................................. .................... 1,223.64 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,223.64
Commercial airfare ......................................... ............. ................. ............................................................... .................... .................... .................... 16,042.33 .................... .................... .................... 16,042.33
Committee total ......................................... ............. ................. ............................................................... .................... 24,372.98 .................... 278,420.65 .................... .................... .................... 302,793.63
1 Per diem constitutes lodging and meals.
2 If foreign currency is used, enter U.S. dollar equivalent; if U.S. currency is used, enter amount expended.
HON. ADAM SMITH, Aug. 30, 2019.
REPORT OF EXPENDITURES FOR OFFICIAL FOREIGN TRAVEL, COMMISSION ON SECURITY AND COOPERATION IN EUROPE, EXPENDED BETWEEN APR. 1 AND JUNE 30, 2019
Name of Member or employee
Date
Country
Per diem 1 Transportation Other purposes Total
Arrival Departure
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Erika Schlager ......................................................... 4/10 4/13 Slovakia ................................................ Euro 779.00 .................... 13,208.63 .................... .................... .................... 13,987.63
4/13 4/14 Austria .................................................. Euro 197.07 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 197.07
Janice Helwig ........................................................... 4/16 4/17 Poland ................................................... Zloty .................... .................... 1,538.10 .................... .................... .................... 1,538.10
Rachel Bauman ....................................................... 3/27 4/2 Ukraine ................................................. Hryvnia 1,954.17 .................... 11,089.73 .................... .................... .................... 13,043.90
Robert Hand ............................................................ 4/5 4/8 Denmark ............................................... Krone 1,046.00 .................... 942.43 .................... .................... .................... 1,988.43
Mark Toner ............................................................... 4/11 4/13 Austria .................................................. Euro 738.14 .................... 13,129.03 .................... .................... .................... 13,867.17
Robert Hand ............................................................ 4/17 4/23 North Macedonia .................................. Denar 1,343.97 .................... 1,830.43 .................... .................... .................... 3,174.40
Alex Johnson ............................................................ 4/21 4/23 Ukraine ................................................. Hryvnia 746.48 .................... 11,086.03 .................... .................... .................... 11,832.51
4/23 4/25 Hungary ................................................ Forint 696.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 696.00
4/25 4/29 Romania ............................................... Leu 566.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 566.00
Mischa Thompson .................................................... 5/20 5/23 United Kingdom .................................... Pound 1,728.35 .................... 14,860.93 .................... .................... .................... 16,589.28
5/23 5/27 Romania ............................................... Leu 731.37 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 731.37
Paul Massaro ........................................................... 5/29 6/1 Canada ................................................. Dollar 948.00 .................... 9,075.91 .................... .................... .................... 10,023.91
6/2 6/5 United Kingdom .................................... Pound 1,401.27 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,401.27
6/5 6/7 France ................................................... Euro .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... ....................
Everett Price ............................................................ 6/3 6/5 United Kingdom .................................... Pound 934.18 .................... 2,745.53 .................... .................... .................... 3,679.71
6/5 6/7 France ................................................... Euro .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... ....................
Alex Tiersky .............................................................. 6/4 6/8 France ................................................... Euro 1,391.00 .................... 1,703.33 .................... .................... .................... 3,094.33
Committee total ......................................... ............. ................. ............................................................... ................... 15,201.00 .................... 81,210.08 .................... .................... .................... 96,411.08
1 Per diem constitutes lodging and meals.
2 If foreign currency is used, enter U.S. dollar equivalent; if U.S. currency is used, enter amount expended.
HON. ALCEE L. HASTINGS, Aug. 26, 2019.
h
BUDGETARY EFFECTS OF PAYGO LEGISLATION
Pursuant to the Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010 (PAYGO), Mr. YARMUTH hereby submits, prior to the vote on
passage, the attached estimate of the costs of H.R. 2486, the FUTURE Act, for printing in the CONGRESSIONAL RECORD.
ESTIMATE OF PAY-AS-YOU-GO EFFECTS FOR H.R. 2486
By fiscal year, in millions of dollars—
2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 2026 2027 2028 2029
2019–
2024
2019–
2029
NET INCREASE OR DECREASE (¥) IN THE DEFICIT
Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Impact ........................................................................................................... 0 ¥131 ¥84 154 68 ¥37 13 133 ¥41 ¥39 ¥35 ¥30 0
Components may not sum to totals because of rounding.
h
EXECUTIVE COMMUNICATIONS,
ETC.
Under clause 2 of rule XIV, executive
communications were taken from the
Speaker’s table and referred as follows:
2140. A letter from the Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer, Farm Credit Administra-
tion, transmitting the Administration’s pro-
posed rule — Organization; Funding and Fis-
cal Affairs, Loan Policies and Operations,
and Funding Operations; Investment Eligi-
bility (RIN: 3052-AD35) received September
17, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A);
Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to
the Committee on Agriculture.
2141. A letter from the Acting Director, Of-
fice of Management and Budget, Executive
Office of The President, transmitting the Of-
fice’s Sequestration Update Report to the
President and Congress for Fiscal Year 2020,
pursuant to 2 U.S.C. 904(e); Public Law 99-177,
Sec. 254(e) (as amended Public Law 112-25,
Sec. 103); (125 Stat. 246); to the Committee on
Appropriations.
2142. A letter from the Administrator, En-
vironmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting a report of a violation of the
Antideficiency Act, pursuant to 31 U.S.C.
1351; Public Law 97-258; (96 Stat. 926); to the
Committee on Appropriations.
2143. A letter from the Senior Counsel, Bu-
reau of Consumer Financial Protection,
transmitting the Bureau’s policy guidance
and procedural rule — Policy on Compliance
Assistance Sandbox [Docket No.: CFPB-2018-
0042] received September 9, 2019, pursuant to
5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec.
251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on Fi-
nancial Services.
2144. A letter from the Chief Counsel, De-
partment of Homeland Security, transmit-
ting the Department’s final rule — Suspen-
sion of Community Eligibility [Docket ID:
FEMA-2019-0003; Internal Agency Docket
No.: FEMA-8589] received September 9, 2019,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 20:41 Dec 02, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00035 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\RECORD19\SEPTEMBER\H17SE9.REC H17SE9
CORRECTION
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7752 September 17, 2019
pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law
104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Com-
mittee on Financial Services.
2145. A letter from the Acting Associate
General Counsel for Legislation and Regula-
tions, Office of Housing, Department of
Housing and Urban Development, transmit-
ting the Department’s final rule — Project
Approval for Single-Family Condominiums
[Docket No.: FR-5715-F-02] (RIN: 2502-AJ30)
received September 5, 2019, pursuant to 5
U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec.
251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on Fi-
nancial Services.
2146. A letter from the Director, Regu-
latory Management Division, Environmental
Protection Agency, transmitting the Agen-
cy’s final rule — Air Plan Approval; Indiana;
Regional Haze Plan and Prong 4 (Visibility)
for the 2006 and 2012 PM2.5, 2010 NO2, 2010
SO2, and 2008 Ozone NAAQS [EPA-R05-OAR-
2017-0700; FRL-9999-33-Region 5] received Sep-
tember 3, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Energy and
Commerce.
2147. A letter from the Director, Regu-
latory Management Division, Environmental
Protection Agency, transmitting the Agen-
cy’s final rule — Air Plan Approval; Mis-
souri; Compliance Monitoring Usage [EPA-
R07-2019-0315; FRL-9998-90-Region 7] received
September 3, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Energy and
Commerce.
2148. A letter from the Director, Regu-
latory Management Division, Environmental
Protection Agency, transmitting the Agen-
cy’s final rule — Approval of Iowa and Ne-
braska Air Quality Implementation Plans;
Infrastructure SIP Requirements for the 2012
Annual Fine Particulate Matter (PM2.5) Na-
tional Ambient Air Quality Standard Inter-
state Transport [EPA-R07-OAR-2019-0332;
FRL-9998-89-Region 7] received September 3,
2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public
Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the
Committee on Energy and Commerce.
2149. A letter from the Director, Regu-
latory Management Division, Environmental
Protection Agency, transmitting the Agen-
cy’s direct final rule — Air Plan Approval:
ID; Update to CRB Fee Billing Procedures
[EPA-R10-OAR-2019-0403; FRL-9998-96-Region
10] received September 3, 2019, pursuant to 5
U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec.
251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on En-
ergy and Commerce.
2150. A letter from the Director, Regu-
latory Management Division, Environmental
Protection Agency, transmitting the Agen-
cy’s final rule — Spinosad; Pesticide Toler-
ances [EPA-HQ-OPP-2018-0525; FRL-9995-90]
received September 9, 2019, pursuant to 5
U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec.
251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on En-
ergy and Commerce.
2151. A letter from the Director, Regu-
latory Management Division, Environmental
Protection Agency, transmitting the Agen-
cy’s final rule — Significant New Use Rules
on Certain Chemical Substances (17-3) [EPA-
HQ-OPPT-2017-0464; FRL-9998-12] (RIN: 2070-
AB27) received September 9, 2019, pursuant
to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121,
Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on
Energy and Commerce.
2152. A letter from the Director, Regu-
latory Management Division, Environmental
Protection Agency, transmitting the Agen-
cy’s final rule — Significant New Use Rules
on Certain Chemical Substances [EPA-HQ-
OPPT-2017-0414; FRL-9999-26] (RIN: 2070-
AB27) received September 9, 2019, pursuant
to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121,
Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on
Energy and Commerce.
2153. A letter from the Director, Regu-
latory Management Division, Environmental
Protection Agency, transmitting the Agen-
cy’s final rule — Reconsideration of the Area
Designation for the 2010 1-Hour Sulfur Diox-
ide (SO2) Primary National Ambient Air
Quality Standard for Williamson County, Il-
linois [EPA-HQ-OAR-2019-0011; FRL-9999-60-
OAR] (RIN: 2060-AU14) received September 9,
2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public
Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the
Committee on Energy and Commerce.
2154. A letter from the Director, Regu-
latory Management Division, Environmental
Protection Agency, transmitting the Agen-
cy’s final rule — Pyraflufen-ethyl; Pesticide
Tolerances [EPA-HQ-OPP-2018-0514; FRL-
9998-98] received September 9, 2019, pursuant
to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121,
Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on
Energy and Commerce.
2155. A letter from the Director, Regu-
latory Management Division, Environmental
Protection Agency, transmitting the Agen-
cy’s final rule — Adopting Subpart Ba Re-
quirements in Emission Guidelines for Mu-
nicipal Solid Waste Landfills [EPA-HQ-OAR-
2018-0696: FRL-9998-82-OAR] (RIN: 2060-AU33)
received September 3, 2019, pursuant to 5
U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec.
251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on En-
ergy and Commerce.
2156. A letter from the Assistant Secretary,
Bureau of Legislative Affairs, Department of
State, transmitting the Department’s report
covering the period from March 12 to May 10,
2019 on the Authorization for Use of Military
Force Against Iraq Resolution, pursuant to
50 U.S.C. 1541 note; Public Law 107-243, Sec.
4(a); (116 Stat. 1501) and 50 U.S.C. 1541 note;
Public Law 102-1, Sec. 3 (as amended by Pub-
lic Law 106-113, Sec. 1000(a)(7)); (113 Stat.
1501A-422); to the Committee on Foreign Af-
fairs.
2157. A letter from the Secretary, Depart-
ment of the Treasury, transmitting a six-
month periodic report on the national emer-
gency with respect to Venezuela that was de-
clared in Executive Order 13629 of March 8,
2015, pursuant to 50 U.S.C. 1641(c); Public
Law 94-412, Sec. 401(c); (90 Stat. 1257) and 50
U.S.C. 1703(c); Public Law 95-223, Sec 204(c);
(91 Stat. 1627); to the Committee on Foreign
Affairs.
2158. A letter from the Secretary, Depart-
ment of the Treasury, transmitting a semi-
annual report detailing telecommunications-
related payments made to Cuba pursuant to
Treasury Department licenses during the pe-
riod from January 1 through June 30, 2019,
pursuant to 22 U.S.C. 6004(e)(6); Public Law
102-484, Sec. 1705(e)(6) (as amended by Public
Law 104-114, Sec. 102(g)); (110 Stat. 794); to
the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
2159. A letter from the Secretary, Depart-
ment of the Treasury, transmitting a six-
month periodic report on the national emer-
gency with respect to Zimbabwe that was de-
clared in Executive Order 13288 of March 6,
2003, pursuant to 50 U.S.C. 1641(c); Public
Law 94-412, Sec. 401(c); (90 Stat. 1257) and 50
U.S.C. 1703(c); Public Law 95-223, Sec 204(c);
(91 Stat. 1627); to the Committee on Foreign
Affairs.
2160. A letter from the Secretary, Depart-
ment of the Treasury, transmitting a six-
month periodic report on the national emer-
gency with respect to Ukraine that was de-
clared in Executive Order 13660 of March 6,
2014, pursuant to 50 U.S.C. 1641(c); Public
Law 94-412, Sec. 401(c); (90 Stat. 1257) and 50
U.S.C. 1703(c); Public Law 95-223, Sec 204(c);
(91 Stat. 1627); to the Committee on Foreign
Affairs.
2161. A letter from the Assistant Legal Ad-
visor, Office of Treaty Affairs, Department of
State, transmitting reports concerning
international agreements other than treaties
entered into by the United States to be
transmitted to the Congress within the
sixty-day period specified in the Case-Za-
blocki Act, pursuant to 1 U.S.C. 112b(a); Pub-
lic Law 92-403, Sec. 1(a) (as amended by Pub-
lic Law 108-458, Sec. 7121(b)); (118 Stat. 3807);
to the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
2162. A letter from the Director, Defense
Security Cooperation Agency, Department of
Defense, transmitting Transmittal No. 19-40,
pursuant to the reporting requirements of
Section 36(b)(1) of the Arms Export Control
Act, as amended; to the Committee on For-
eign Affairs.
2163. A letter from the Director, Defense
Security Cooperation Agency, Department of
Defense, transmitting Transmittal No. 19-35,
pursuant to the reporting requirements of
Section 36(b)(1) of the Arms Export Control
Act, as amended; to the Committee on For-
eign Affairs.
2164. A letter from the Director, Defense
Security Cooperation Agency, Department of
Defense, transmitting Transmittal No. 19-48,
pursuant to the reporting requirements of
Section 36(b)(1) of the Arms Export Control
Act, as amended; to the Committee on For-
eign Affairs.
2165. A letter from the Director, Defense
Security Cooperation Agency, Department of
Defense, transmitting Transmittal No. 19-46,
pursuant to the reporting requirements of
Section 36(b)(1) of the Arms Export Control
Act, as amended; to the Committee on For-
eign Affairs.
2166. A letter from the Director, Defense
Security Cooperation Agency, Department of
Defense, transmitting Transmittal No. 19-50,
pursuant to the reporting requirements of
Section 36(b)(1) of the Arms Export Control
Act, as amended; to the Committee on For-
eign Affairs.
2167. A letter from the Assistant Secretary,
Bureau of Legislative Affairs, Department of
State, transmitting Transmittal No. DDTC
19-005, pursuant to the reporting require-
ments of Section 36(c) of the Arms Export
Control Act; to the Committee on Foreign
Affairs.
2168. A letter from the Assistant Secretary,
Bureau of Legislative Affairs, Department of
State, transmitting Transmittal No. DDTC
19-023, pursuant to the reporting require-
ments of Section 36(c) of the Arms Export
Control Act; to the Committee on Foreign
Affairs.
2169. A letter from the Director, Regu-
latory Management Division, Environmental
Protection Agency, transmitting the Agen-
cy’s final action — Clean Water Act Haz-
ardous Substances Spill Prevention [EPA-
HQ-OLEM-2018-0024; FRL-9999-99-OLEM]
(RIN: 2050-AG87) received September 3, 2019,
pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law
104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Com-
mittee on Transportation and Infrastruc-
ture.
f
REPORTS OF COMMITTEES ON
PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS
Under clause 2 of rule XIII, reports of
committees were delivered to the clerk
for printing and reference to the proper
calendar, as follows:
Mrs. TORRES of California: Committee on
Rules. House Resolution 558. Resolution pro-
viding for consideration of the bill (H.R. 1423)
to amend title 9 of the United States Code
with respect to arbitration; waiving a re-
quirement of clause 6(a) of rule XIII with re-
spect to consideration of certain resolutions
reported from the Committee on Rules; and
providing for consideration of motions to
suspend the rules (Rept. 116–210). Referred to
the House Calendar.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:50 Sep 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00036 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\L17SE7.000 H17SEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7753
September 17, 2019
PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS
Under clause 2 of rule XII, public
bills and resolutions of the following
titles were introduced and severally re-
ferred, as follows:
By Mr. JEFFRIES (for himself and Mr.
KING of New York):
H.R. 4340. A bill to assist in the conserva-
tion of highly endangered amphibian species
in foreign countries, and for other purposes;
to the Committee on Natural Resources.
By Mr. HUFFMAN (for himself, Mr.
BUCHANAN, Ms. SCHAKOWSKY, Mr.
FITZPATRICK, Mr. VAN DREW, Mr.
KING of New York, Ms. WILD, Mr.
BLUMENAUER, Mr. BEYER, Mr.
LOWENTHAL, Ms. LOFGREN, Mr.
COHEN, and Mr. HASTINGS):
H.R. 4341. A bill to assist in the conserva-
tion of critically endangered species in for-
eign countries, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Natural Resources.
By Ms. FINKENAUER (for herself, Ms.
WILSON of Florida, Mr. FITZPATRICK,
and Mr. MCKINLEY):
H.R. 4342. A bill to direct the Secretary of
Education to conduct a study on the feasi-
bility of a single certification for certain
programs under the Higher Education Act of
1965; to the Committee on Education and
Labor.
By Mrs. TRAHAN (for herself and Mr.
SMUCKER):
H.R. 4343. A bill to amend the Higher Edu-
cation Act of 1965 to direct the Secretary of
Education to publish requirements for finan-
cial aid offers to be provided by institutions
of higher education to enrolled and prospec-
tive students, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Education and Labor.
By Mr. MCADAMS (for himself and Mr.
HUIZENGA):
H.R. 4344. A bill to amend the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 to allow the Securities
and Exchange Commission to seek and Fed-
eral courts to grant disgorgement of unjust
enrichment, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Financial Services.
By Mrs. LURIA (for herself, Mr. SCOTT
of Virginia, Mr. WITTMAN, and Mr.
MCEACHIN):
H.R. 4345. A bill to provide for the acquisi-
tion of non-Federal land for inclusion in the
Fort Monroe National Monument in the
State of Virginia, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Natural Resources.
By Mr. LOWENTHAL:
H.R. 4346. A bill to amend the Mineral
Leasing Act to make certain adjustments to
the regulation of surface-disturbing activi-
ties and to protect taxpayers from unduly
bearing the reclamation costs of oil and gas
development, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Natural Resources.
By Mr. CARTWRIGHT (for himself, Mr.
WEBSTER of Florida, Mr. LOWENTHAL,
Miss GONZÁLEZ-COLÓN of Puerto Rico,
Mr. GOSAR, Mr. ROUDA, Mr. CON-
NOLLY, Mr. LAMALFA, Ms. NORTON,
and Mr. ROUZER):
H.R. 4347. A bill to enhance the Federal
Government’s planning and preparation for
extreme weather and the Federal Govern-
ment’s dissemination of best practices to re-
spond to extreme weather, thereby increas-
ing resilience, improving regional coordina-
tion, and mitigating the financial risk to the
Federal Government from such extreme
weather, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Transportation and Infrastruc-
ture, and in addition to the Committee on
Oversight and Reform, for a period to be sub-
sequently determined by the Speaker, in
each case for consideration of such provi-
sions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned.
By Mr. GRIJALVA (for himself, Mr.
BEYER, Mrs. DINGELL, Ms. BONAMICI,
Mr. CASE, Mr. COHEN, Ms. HAALAND,
Mr. HUFFMAN, Mr. TED LIEU of Cali-
fornia, Mr. LOWENTHAL, Mrs. LOWEY,
Mr. MCEACHIN, Mr. MCGOVERN, Ms.
MUCARSEL-POWELL, Mr. NEGUSE, Ms.
NORTON, Mr. PANETTA, Ms. PORTER,
Mr. QUIGLEY, Mr. SABLAN, Mr.
SCHIFF, Ms. SHALALA, Mr. SOTO, and
Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire):
H.R. 4348. A bill to terminate certain rules
issued by the Secretary of the Interior and
the Secretary of Commerce relating to en-
dangered and threatened species, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Natural
Resources.
By Mrs. WALORSKI (for herself, Mrs.
MURPHY of Florida, and Ms. TITUS):
H.R. 4349. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to provide that floor plan
financing includes the financing of certain
trailers and campers; to the Committee on
Ways and Means.
By Mr. LARSON of Connecticut (for
himself and Mr. NUNES):
H.R. 4350. A bill to amend title XVIII of the
Social Security Act to modernize payments
for ambulatory surgical centers under the
Medicare program, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Energy and Commerce,
and in addition to the Committee on Ways
and Means, for a period to be subsequently
determined by the Speaker, in each case for
consideration of such provisions as fall with-
in the jurisdiction of the committee con-
cerned.
By Mr. HECK (for himself, Mr. HOL-
LINGSWORTH, Mr. CLAY, Ms. FOXX of
North Carolina, Mr. QUIGLEY, and Ms.
HERRERA BEUTLER):
H.R. 4351. A bill to require certain grantees
under title I of the Housing and Community
Development Act of 1974 to submit a plan to
track discriminatory land use policies, and
for other purposes; to the Committee on Fi-
nancial Services.
By Ms. BASS (for herself, Mr. LAN-
GEVIN, Mr. BACON, Mrs. LAWRENCE,
and Mr. MITCHELL):
H.R. 4352. A bill to amend part B of title IV
of the Social Security Act to provide grants
to develop and enhance, or to evaluate, kin-
ship navigator programs, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
By Mr. DESAULNIER:
H.R. 4353. A bill to amend the Public
Health Service Act to establish a grant pro-
gram to provide self-harm and suicide pre-
vention services in primary care offices, and
for other purposes; to the Committee on En-
ergy and Commerce.
By Mrs. DINGELL:
H.R. 4354. A bill to direct the Secretary of
Transportation to prescribe a motor vehicle
safety standard requiring motor vehicles to
be equipped with an advanced alcohol detec-
tion device that prevents a vehicle from
being operated if the operator is intoxicated,
to provide for a fleet demonstration of such
devices, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Energy and Commerce, and in ad-
dition to the Committee on Oversight and
Reform, for a period to be subsequently de-
termined by the Speaker, in each case for
consideration of such provisions as fall with-
in the jurisdiction of the committee con-
cerned.
By Mr. GONZALEZ of Ohio (for him-
self, Ms. STEVENS, Mr. BAIRD, and Ms.
HILL of California):
H.R. 4355. A bill to direct the Director of
the National Science Foundation to support
research on the outputs that may be gen-
erated by generative adversarial networks,
otherwise known as deepfakes, and other
comparable techniques that may be devel-
oped in the future, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Science, Space, and Tech-
nology.
By Mr. HARDER of California (for him-
self and Mr. WENSTRUP):
H.R. 4356. A bill to amend the
Servicemembers Civil Relief Act to allow
certain individuals to terminate contracts
for telephone, multichannel video program-
ming, or internet access service, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Vet-
erans’ Affairs.
By Ms. HERRERA BEUTLER (for her-
self and Mr. SCHRADER):
H.R. 4357. A bill to require the Secretary of
Agriculture to carry out a program to charge
and collect not less than the fair market
value for forest botanical products harvested
on National Forest System lands, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Agri-
culture, and in addition to the Committee on
Natural Resources, for a period to be subse-
quently determined by the Speaker, in each
case for consideration of such provisions as
fall within the jurisdiction of the committee
concerned.
By Mr. KATKO (for himself and Mr.
CUNNINGHAM):
H.R. 4358. A bill to direct the Adminis-
trator of the Federal Emergency Manage-
ment Agency to submit to Congress a report
on preliminary damage assessment and to es-
tablish damage assessment teams in the Fed-
eral Emergency Management Agency, and
for other purposes; to the Committee on
Transportation and Infrastructure.
By Mr. KHANNA (for himself, Mr.
CLAY, Mr. RUSH, Mr. THOMPSON of
Mississippi, Mr. RASKIN, Mr. MEEKS,
Ms. CLARKE of New York, Ms. NOR-
TON, Ms. SCHAKOWSKY, Mr. PAYNE,
Mr. BUTTERFIELD, Mr. VEASEY, Ms.
PRESSLEY, Ms. LEE of California, Mr.
HASTINGS, Ms. JACKSON LEE, Mr.
GARCÍA of Illinois, Mrs. WATSON
COLEMAN, Mr. CARSON of Indiana, Ms.
OCASIO-CORTEZ, Mr. POCAN, Ms.
WATERS, and Ms. JAYAPAL):
H.R. 4359. A bill to provide that a Federal
law enforcement officer may not use deadly
force or less lethal force unless such force is
necessary, to encourage States to adopt
similar laws or policies, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. KIM (for himself and Mr. HILL
of Arkansas):
H.R. 4360. A bill to amend title 38, United
States Code, to improve the due process ac-
corded veterans with respect to recovery of
overpayments made by the Department and
other amounts owed by veterans to the
United States, to improve the processing of
veterans benefits by the Department of Vet-
erans Affairs, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Veterans’ Affairs.
By Mr. MALINOWSKI (for himself, Mr.
CURTIS, Mr. CLEAVER, Mr.
FITZPATRICK, Ms. MOORE, and Ms.
JACKSON LEE):
H.R. 4361. A bill to require an accounting of
certain property forfeited to the United
States, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary.
By Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of
New York (for herself and Mr.
BEYER):
H.R. 4362. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to provide an exception
from certain reporting requirements with re-
spect to the foreign accounts of individuals
who live abroad; to the Committee on Ways
and Means.
By Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of
New York (for herself and Mr.
BEYER):
H.R. 4363. A bill to establish a commission
to study how Federal laws and policies affect
United States citizens living in foreign coun-
tries; to the Committee on Oversight and Re-
form, and in addition to the Committees on
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:50 Sep 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00037 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\L17SE7.100 H17SEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7754 September 17, 2019
Financial Services, Ways and Means, the Ju-
diciary, House Administration, and Energy
and Commerce, for a period to be subse-
quently determined by the Speaker, in each
case for consideration of such provisions as
fall within the jurisdiction of the committee
concerned.
By Mr. MCADAMS (for himself and Mr.
ROONEY of Florida):
H.R. 4364. A bill to amend the Mineral
Leasing Act to make certain adjustments to
the fiscal terms for fossil fuel development
and to make other reforms to improve re-
turns to taxpayers for the development of
Federal energy resources, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Natural Re-
sources.
By Mr. MEADOWS:
H.R. 4365. A bill to require the Comptroller
General of the United States to analyze cer-
tain legislation in order to prevent duplica-
tion of and overlap with existing Federal
programs, offices, and initiatives; to the
Committee on Oversight and Reform, and in
addition to the Committees on Rules, and
the Budget, for a period to be subsequently
determined by the Speaker, in each case for
consideration of such provisions as fall with-
in the jurisdiction of the committee con-
cerned.
By Mr. RIGGLEMAN:
H.R. 4366. A bill to require oversight of li-
censes involving financial services and the
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, and
for other purposes; to the Committee on Fi-
nancial Services.
By Mr. JOHN W. ROSE of Tennessee:
H.R. 4367. A bill to support the capacity of
the International Monetary Fund to prevent
money laundering and financing of ter-
rorism; to the Committee on Financial Serv-
ices.
By Mr. TAKANO:
H.R. 4368. A bill to prohibit the use of trade
secrets privileges to prevent defense access
to evidence in criminal proceedings, provide
for the establishment of Computational Fo-
rensic Algorithm Standards, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on the Judici-
ary, and in addition to the Committee on
Science, Space, and Technology, for a period
to be subsequently determined by the Speak-
er, in each case for consideration of such pro-
visions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned.
By Mr. WALKER (for himself, Mr.
BALDERSON, Mr. SPANO, Mrs. ROD-
GERS of Washington, Mr. WRIGHT, Mr.
RUTHERFORD, Mr. MEUSER, and Mr.
CRAWFORD):
H.R. 4369. A bill to expand access to ap-
prenticeships and pre-apprenticeships among
certain populations, and for other purposes;
to the Committee on Education and Labor,
and in addition to the Committees on the Ju-
diciary, Armed Services, and Veterans’ Af-
fairs, for a period to be subsequently deter-
mined by the Speaker, in each case for con-
sideration of such provisions as fall within
the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
By Ms. JOHNSON of Texas:
H. Res. 559. A resolution expressing support
for designation of the week of September 15,
2019, through September 21, 2019, as ‘‘Balance
Awareness Week‘‘; to the Committee on En-
ergy and Commerce.
By Ms. PRESSLEY:
H. Res. 560. A resolution inquiring whether
the House of Representatives should impeach
Brett M. Kavanaugh, an Associate Justice of
the Supreme Court of the United States of
America; to the Committee on Rules.
f
CONSTITUTIONAL AUTHORITY
STATEMENT
Pursuant to clause 7 of rule XII of
the Rules of the House of Representa-
tives, the following statements are sub-
mitted regarding the specific powers
granted to Congress in the Constitu-
tion to enact the accompanying bill or
joint resolution.
By Mr. JEFFRIES:
H.R. 4340.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Clause 8, Section 18 to make all
Laws which shall be necessary and proper for
carrying into Execution the foregoing Pow-
ers.
By Mr. HUFFMAN:
H.R. 4341.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8
By Ms. FINKENAUER:
H.R. 4342.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
This bill is enacted pursuant to the power
granted to Congress under Article I, Section
8, Clause 18 of the United States Constitu-
tion.
By Mrs. TRAHAN:
H.R. 4343.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
This bill is enacted pursuant to the power
granted to Congress under Article I, Section
8, Clause 3 of the United States Constitution.
By Mr. MCADAMS:
H.R. 4344.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8
By Mrs. LURIA:
H.R. 4345.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
U.S. Constitution, Article I, Section 8.
By Mr. LOWENTHAL:
H.R. 4346.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Atiicle IV, Section 3 of the U.S. Constitu-
tion
‘‘The Congress shall have power to dispose
of and make all needful rules and regulations
respecting the territory or other property
belonging to the United States; and nothing
in this Constitution shall be so construed as
to prejudice any claims of the United States,
or of any particular state.’’
By Mr. CARTWRIGHT:
H.R. 4347.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 3 (relating to
the power of Congress to regulate Commerce
with foreign Nations, and among the several
States, and with the Indian Tribes.)
By Mr. GRIJALVA:
H.R. 4348.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I Section 8 of the U.S. Constitution
By Mrs. WALORSKI:
H.R. 4349.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 1
By Mr. LARSON of Connecticut:
H.R. 4350.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Under Article I, Section 8
By Mr. HECK:
H.R. 4351.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8 of U.S. Constitution
By Ms. BASS:
H.R. 4352.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 1 of the United States
Constitution, providing—‘‘All legislative
Powers herein granted shall be vested in a
Congress of the United States, which shall
consist of a Senate and House of Representa-
tives.’’
By Mr. DESAULNIER:
H.R. 4353.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8.
By Mrs. DINGELL:
H.R. 4354.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1 Section 8
By Mr. GONZALEZ of Ohio:
H.R. 4355.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the U.S. Constitu-
tion
By Mr. HARDER of California:
H.R. 4356.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
U.S. Const. art. I, sec. 8
By Ms. HERRERA BEUTLER:
H.R. 4357.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the U.S. Constitu-
tion
By Mr. KATKO:
H.R. 4358.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 1, Article I,
Section 8, Clause 3, and Article I, Section 8,
Clause 18 of the U.S. Constitution.
By Mr. KHANNA:
H.R. 4359.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8
By Mr. KIM:
H.R. 4360.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8 of the U.S. Constitu-
tion
By Mr. MALINOWSKI:
H.R. 4361.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8
By Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of
New York:
H.R. 4362.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8 of the U.S. Constitu-
tion
By Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of
New York:
H.R. 4363.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8 of the U.S. Constitu-
tion
By Mr. MCADAMS:
H.R. 4364.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, section 8
By Mr. MEADOWS:
H.R. 4365.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 18
By Mr. RIGGLEMAN:
H.R. 4366.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 3 of the United
States Constitution
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:57 Sep 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00038 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\L17SE7.100 H17SEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7755
September 17, 2019
By Mr. JOHN W. ROSE of Tennessee:
H.R. 4367.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8
By Mr. TAKANO:
H.R. 4368.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the Constitution of
the United States
By Mr. WALKER:
H.R. 4369.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1 Section 8
f
ADDITIONAL SPONSORS
Under clause 7 of rule XII, sponsors
were added to public bills and resolu-
tions, as follows:
H.R. 40: Ms. DELBENE.
H.R. 94: Mr. CARTWRIGHT and Mr. POCAN.
H.R. 96: Ms. DELBENE.
H.R. 140: Mr. POSEY.
H.R. 149: Mr. DELGADO.
H.R. 155: Mr. MULLIN.
H.R. 333: Mrs. BEATTY.
H.R. 361: Mr. ESTES.
H.R. 414: Ms. SLOTKIN.
H.R. 500: Mr. DELGADO and Mr. MCHENRY.
H.R. 510: Mr. DELGADO and Mrs. MILLER.
H.R. 550: Ms. SPANBERGER, Mr. MCHENRY,
and Mr. SCOTT of Virginia.
H.R. 553: Mr. DELGADO.
H.R. 587: Mr. GRAVES of Georgia.
H.R. 598: Mr. SCHWEIKERT.
H.R. 647: Mr. CASTEN of Illinois and Mr.
PERLMUTTER.
H.R. 649: Mr. WRIGHT.
H.R. 655: Mr. FOSTER.
H.R. 728: Ms. SPANBERGER.
H.R. 835: Mr. ROUDA.
H.R. 848: Mr. BIGGS.
H.R. 871: Mr. LYNCH.
H.R. 912: Mr. GALLEGO and Mr. RUIZ.
H.R. 913: Mr. POCAN.
H.R. 921: Ms. LEE of California.
H.R. 943: Mr. MEUSER, Mr. TIMMONS, Mr.
MOONEY of West Virginia, Ms. DEGETTE, Mr.
THOMPSON of Mississippi, Mr. COSTA, Mr.
NEAL, Mr. RUIZ, and Mr. THOMPSON of Cali-
fornia.
H.R. 948: Mr. SMITH of New Jersey.
H.R. 961: Ms. BARRAGÁN.
H.R. 1002: Mr. RASKIN.
H.R. 1007: Mr. ROUDA and Mr. CISNEROS.
H.R. 1055: Ms. BARRAGÁN.
H.R. 1073: Mrs. TRAHAN.
H.R. 1078: Ms. ESCOBAR.
H.R. 1118: Mr. NEGUSE.
H.R. 1119: Mr. NEGUSE.
H.R. 1120: Mr. NEGUSE.
H.R. 1134: Ms. ESHOO.
H.R. 1152: Ms. WILD.
H.R. 1166: Mr. CISNEROS and Mr. RICHMOND.
H.R. 1174: Mr. HIGGINS of New York.
H.R. 1221: Ms. LOFGREN.
H.R. 1230: Ms. OCASIO-CORTEZ.
H.R. 1236: Mr. LEWIS and Mr. RYAN.
H.R. 1272: Ms. SPANBERGER and Mr. RUIZ.
H.R. 1309: Mrs. LURIA.
H.R. 1370: Mr. KILDEE and Mr. KELLY of
Pennsylvania.
H.R. 1379: Mr. WALTZ and Mr. HARRIS.
H.R. 1407: Mr. DANNY K. DAVIS of Illinois.
H.R. 1417: Ms. STEVENS.
H.R. 1440: Mr. BERGMAN.
H.R. 1446: Mr. KATKO and Mr. CASTEN of Il-
linois.
H.R. 1530: Mrs. MILLER.
H.R. 1551: Ms. SCHAKOWSKY and Mr. RUIZ.
H.R. 1570: Mrs. MCBATH.
H.R. 1597: Mr. GALLEGO, Mr. KILDEE, Miss
RICE of New York, Mr. STAUBER, Ms. SCAN-
LON, Mr. GONZALEZ of Ohio, Mr. VAN DREW,
Mr. HECK, Mr. RUIZ, and Mr. MCNERNEY.
H.R. 1605: Mr. SMITH of Missouri.
H.R. 1609: Mrs. LESKO.
H.R. 1679: Ms. HILL of California and Mr.
TIMMONS.
H.R. 1695: Mr. RYAN, Mr. GONZALEZ of Ohio,
and Mr. DELGADO.
H.R. 1707: Mr. LEVIN of Michigan and Mr.
CARBAJAL.
H.R. 1727: Ms. LOFGREN.
H.R. 1733: Mr. PERLMUTTER.
H.R. 1754: Mr. HARRIS, Ms. BARRAGÁN, and
Mr. MEUSER.
H.R. 1766: Ms. DEAN.
H.R. 1773: Mr. MCHENRY.
H.R. 1786: Mr. SIRES, Mr. ZELDIN, and Mr.
ROSE of New York.
H.R. 1830: Mr. TAYLOR and Mr. MCHENRY.
H.R. 1832: Ms. SCANLON.
H.R. 1858: Mr. DAVIDSON of Ohio.
H.R. 1863: Ms. CRAIG.
H.R. 1865: Mr. FERGUSON, Ms. KENDRA S.
HORN of Oklahoma, and Mr. ROSE of New
York.
H.R. 1869: Mrs. LAWRENCE, Mr. KING of New
York, Mr. ARRINGTON, and Mr. ZELDIN.
H.R. 1873: Ms. STEVENS, Mr. CONAWAY, Mr.
TIPTON, and Mr. LARSEN of Washington.
H.R. 1878: Mr. TONKO.
H.R. 1948: Ms. TITUS, Ms. JUDY CHU of Cali-
fornia, and Mr. SIMPSON.
H.R. 1964: Mr. YOUNG.
H.R. 1968: Mr. QUIGLEY and Mr. VISCLOSKY.
H.R. 1978: Mrs. FLETCHER.
H.R. 1980: Mr. GONZALEZ of Ohio.
H.R. 1982: Mr. RASKIN.
H.R. 2093: Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia and Mr.
GARCÍA of Illinois.
H.R. 2111: Mr. KRISHNAMOORTHI.
H.R. 2124: Mr. WEBSTER of Florida.
H.R. 2146: Mr. WELCH.
H.R. 2148: Mr. HECK and Mr. LYNCH.
H.R. 2149: Mr. ROONEY of Florida.
H.R. 2150: Mr. BACON.
H.R. 2153: Mr. KATKO and Ms. NORTON.
H.R. 2156: Ms. SLOTKIN.
H.R. 2166: Mr. RESCHENTHALER and Mr.
TRONE.
H.R. 2168: Mr. RUSH.
H.R. 2184: Ms. JUDY CHU of California.
H.R. 2199: Mrs. DAVIS of California, Ms.
BARRAGÁN, and Mr. TED LIEU of California.
H.R. 2207: Mr. CISNEROS.
H.R. 2213: Mr. CISNEROS and Mr. LIPINSKI.
H.R. 2214: Ms. ESCOBAR and Ms. GARCIA of
Texas.
H.R. 2218: Mr. EMMER.
H.R. 2219: Mr. BROWN of Maryland.
H.R. 2231: Mr. KHANNA.
H.R. 2245: Ms. SCHAKOWSKY, Mr. SOTO, and
Mrs. DAVIS of California.
H.R. 2258: Mr. HAGEDORN and Ms. MOORE.
H.R. 2312: Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia.
H.R. 2315: Mr. SARBANES.
H.R. 2349: Ms. LEE of California.
H.R. 2381: Mr. STEWART and Mr. BIGGS.
H.R. 2406: Miss GONZÁLEZ-COLÓN of Puerto
Rico.
H.R. 2417: Mr. KATKO.
H.R. 2420: Mr. GOSAR, Mr. WELCH, Mrs.
LOWEY, Ms. SCHAKOWSKY, Mr. LAWSON of
Florida, Mr. KIM, and Mr. ALLRED.
H.R. 2435: Mr. LARSEN of Washington, Mr.
STEWART, Mr. DELGADO, Mr. MORELLE, and
Mr. POCAN.
H.R. 2441: Mr. BRENDAN F. BOYLE of Penn-
sylvania and Mr. TRONE.
H.R. 2468: Mr. SERRANO, Ms. CASTOR of
Florida, Mr. ROSE of New York, and Mr. CUM-
MINGS.
H.R. 2482: Mr. NADLER and Mr. JEFFRIES.
H.R. 2483: Ms. SCANLON.
H.R. 2486: Mr. CÁRDENAS, Mr. ROSE of New
York, Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia, Ms. HAALAND,
and Mr. GRIJALVA.
H.R. 2491: Mr. RUSH.
H.R. 2593: Mr. PRICE of North Carolina.
H.R. 2594: Mr. PAPPAS and Mr. COHEN.
H.R. 2648: Mr. TRONE.
H.R. 2694: Ms. BONAMICI.
H.R. 2702: Mr. GOMEZ, Ms. KELLY of Illinois,
Mr. CÁRDENAS, Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD, Mrs.
NAPOLITANO, Mr. LOWENTHAL, and Mr.
SCHIFF.
H.R. 2708: Mr. GONZALEZ of Texas, Ms.
DEGETTE, Ms. PINGREE, Mr. RUIZ, and Mr.
PAPPAS.
H.R. 2732: Ms. SCANLON.
H.R. 2734: Ms. SCANLON.
H.R. 2746: Mr. POCAN.
H.R. 2749: Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD.
H.R. 2771: Mr. GALLAGHER.
H.R. 2775: Mr. HIMES.
H.R. 2781: Mr. MORELLE.
H.R. 2782: Mr. BALDERSON and Mr. RICE of
South Carolina.
H.R. 2785: Mr. NEAL.
H.R. 2818: Mr. CARBAJAL.
H.R. 2825: Mr. GRAVES of Louisiana and Mr.
KATKO.
H.R. 2829: Mrs. KIRKPATRICK and Mr. DANNY
K. DAVIS of Illinois.
H.R. 2836: Mr. HUFFMAN.
H.R. 2846: Mr. BOST.
H.R. 2862: Mr. MARSHALL.
H.R. 2867: Mr. TONKO, Mr. HASTINGS, Mr.
CICILLINE, Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD, Mr. RYAN,
Mr. BRENDAN F. BOYLE of Pennsylvania, Mr.
LOWENTHAL, Ms. MOORE, Mr. RUPPERS-
BERGER, and Ms. SCANLON.
H.R. 2902: Mr. SOTO and Mr. RUSH.
H.R. 2903: Mr. GALLAGHER and Mr. LAM-
BORN.
H.R. 2905: Mr. KIND.
H.R. 2933: Ms. NORTON.
H.R. 2970: Mr. VAN DREW.
H.R. 2975: Mr. ROSE of New York.
H.R. 2980: Mr. KING of New York.
H.R. 2986: Mr. MCHENRY.
H.R. 3006: Mr. RIGGLEMAN.
H.R. 3036: Mr. MEADOWS.
H.R. 3062: Mr. DUNN and Mr. HARRIS.
H.R. 3073: Mr. DELGADO.
H.R. 3106: Ms. JUDY CHU of California and
Mr. CARBAJAL.
H.R. 3110: Mrs. LURIA.
H.R. 3119: Mr. MCGOVERN.
H.R. 3125: Mr. LONG and Mr. LAWSON of
Florida.
H.R. 3182: Mr. GRIFFITH, Mr. FLORES, Mr.
ROUZER, and Mr. KEVIN HERN of Oklahoma.
H.R. 3208: Mr. HECK.
H.R. 3219: Ms. SÁNCHEZ, Mrs. CAROLYN B.
MALONEY of New York, and Ms. VELÁZQUEZ.
H.R. 3222: Mr. CÁRDENAS, Mr. RUSH, Mr.
COHEN, and Mr. THOMPSON of California.
H.R. 3249: Mr. BRENDAN F. BOYLE of Penn-
sylvania.
H.R. 3274: Mr. KHANNA.
H.R. 3289: Mr. POCAN, Mr. DIAZ-BALART,
Mr. WRIGHT, and Mr. MCCLINTOCK.
H.R. 3297: Ms. SLOTKIN.
H.R. 3369: Mrs. TRAHAN and Mr. RASKIN.
H.R. 3406: Mr. SIRES and Mr. DEFAZIO.
H.R. 3427: Mr. SENSENBRENNER.
H.R. 3444: Ms. PINGREE.
H.R. 3446: Mr. DELGADO, Mr. ESPAILLAT,
and Mr. PERLMUTTER.
H.R. 3452: Mr. VEASEY, Mr. SOTO, Mr. SMITH
of Washington, and Ms. JUDY CHU of Cali-
fornia.
H.R. 3463: Mr. SARBANES, Ms. WEXTON, Mr.
KIND, Mr. CARBAJAL, Ms. SLOTKIN, Ms.
OCASIO-CORTEZ, and Mr. VELA.
H.R. 3479: Mr. TED LIEU of California.
H.R. 3497: Ms. SLOTKIN, Mr. REED, and Mr.
SMITH of Washington.
H.R. 3503: Mr. COSTA.
H.R. 3519: Mr. DEFAZIO.
H.R. 3520: Mr. LUETKEMEYER.
H.R. 3522: Mr. BARR.
H.R. 3524: Mr. COSTA and Ms. LEE of Cali-
fornia.
H.R. 3555: Ms. JUDY CHU of California and
Mr. RASKIN.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:50 Sep 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00039 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A17SE7.055 H17SEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7756 September 17, 2019
H.R. 3575: Mr. FOSTER.
H.R. 3584: Mrs. RODGERS of Washington,
Mr. WELCH, Mr. THOMPSON of California, Mr.
MOOLENAAR, and Mr. BUDD.
H.R. 3593: Mr. GARCÍA of Illinois, Mr. ROSE
of New York, and Mr. GRIJALVA.
H.R. 3619: Mr. TAYLOR.
H.R. 3626: Mr. SCHWEIKERT.
H.R. 3632: Mr. PAYNE, Mr. CARSON of Indi-
ana, Mr. KINZINGER, Mr. PASCRELL, and Mr.
BOST.
H.R. 3654: Ms. HAALAND, Mr. ROGERS of
Alabama, and Mr. COMER.
H.R. 3668: Ms. LOFGREN and Mr. LEWIS.
H.R. 3706: Ms. NORTON.
H.R. 3740: Mr. AUSTIN SCOTT of Georgia.
H.R. 3742: Mr. HUIZENGA.
H.R. 3744: Mr. PANETTA and Mr. BAIRD.
H.R. 3749: Mr. KHANNA.
H.R. 3757: Mr. RESCHENTHALER.
H.R. 3758: Mr. CARBAJAL.
H.R. 3778: Mrs. RADEWAGEN and Ms. ROY-
BAL-ALLARD.
H.R. 3779: Miss GONZÁLEZ-COLÓN of Puerto
Rico.
H.R. 3797: Ms. NORTON, Ms. TITUS, Ms. LEE
of California, Mr. GRIJALVA, Mr. CORREA, and
Mrs. HARTZLER.
H.R. 3798: Ms. PINGREE.
H.R. 3801: Mr. KIND and Mr. PANETTA.
H.R. 3818: Mr. BACON.
H.R. 3870: Mr. KATKO.
H.R. 3876: Ms. PINGREE.
H.R. 3882: Miss GONZÁLEZ-COLÓN of Puerto
Rico.
H.R. 3884: Mr. LUJÁN and Ms. PINGREE.
H.R. 3896: Mr. BROWN of Maryland and Mr.
HIGGINS of New York.
H.R. 3934: Mr. GONZALEZ of Ohio.
H.R. 3957: Mrs. DEMINGS.
H.R. 3960: Ms. ESHOO and Mr. POCAN.
H.R. 3961: Mr. HASTINGS.
H.R. 3969: Miss GONZÁLEZ-COLÓN of Puerto
Rico.
H.R. 3975: Mr. RESCHENTHALER.
H.R. 4006: Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD.
H.R. 4007: Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD.
H.R. 4009: Mr. DIAZ-BALART.
H.R. 4029: Mr. CLEAVER and Ms. WEXTON.
H.R. 4065: Ms. OCASIO-CORTEZ.
H.R. 4077: Ms. BONAMICI and Mr. TRONE.
H.R. 4092: Mr. CASE, Mr. PHILLIPS, Ms.
ESHOO, and Ms. DEAN.
H.R. 4098: Mr. DUNCAN.
H.R. 4101: Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD.
H.R. 4127: Mrs. LURIA.
H.R. 4129: Ms. WILD.
H.R. 4138: Mr. KING of New York.
H.R. 4143: Mr. ROONEY of Florida.
H.R. 4193: Ms. KENDRA S. HORN of Okla-
homa, Mr. ROUDA, and Ms. SEWELL of Ala-
bama.
H.R. 4200: Mr. NEGUSE, Mr. BUCK, Mr. PERL-
MUTTER, Mr. LAMBORN, Ms. DEGETTE, and
Mr. CROW.
H.R. 4203: Mr. DEUTCH.
H.R. 4206: Ms. BONAMICI, Ms. JAYAPAL, Mr.
COURTNEY, Mr. SABLAN, Mr. HARDER of Cali-
fornia, Mrs. DAVIS of California, Ms. WILSON
of Florida, and Mr. FOSTER.
H.R. 4228: Mr. VISCLOSKY.
H.R. 4230: Mr. LEVIN of California.
H.R. 4236: Mr. SIRES.
H.R. 4249: Ms. GARCIA of Texas and Ms.
JUDY CHU of California.
H.R. 4255: Mr. CÁRDENAS, Ms. SCHAKOWSKY,
and Mr. CICILLINE.
H.R. 4270: Mr. GREEN of Tennessee, Mr.
SUOZZI, Ms. NORTON, Mr. LEVIN of Michigan,
and Mr. MEADOWS.
H.R. 4272: Mr. NADLER, Mr. DEUTCH, Ms.
DEAN, Mr. NEGUSE, Mr. WELCH, Mr. SMITH of
Washington, Mr. CÁRDENAS, and Ms. TLAIB.
H.R. 4276: Mr. ARMSTRONG.
H.R. 4278: Ms. OCASIO-CORTEZ.
H.R. 4285: Mr. FITZPATRICK.
H.R. 4292: Mr. GOSAR.
H.R. 4294: Mr. OLSON.
H.R. 4296: Ms. NORTON, Mr. KHANNA, and
Ms. VELÁZQUEZ.
H.R. 4298: Ms. FRANKEL, Mr. SWALWELL of
California, Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD, and Ms.
JUDY CHU of California.
H.R. 4301: Mr. TRONE, Mr. DESAULNIER, Mr.
SABLAN, Mr. TAKANO, Ms. SEWELL of Ala-
bama, Mr. MORELLE, Ms. WILSON of Florida,
Mr. SUOZZI, Mrs. TRAHAN, and Mr. DANNY K.
DAVIS of Illinois.
H.R. 4309: Mr. FITZPATRICK, Mr. ROUDA, and
Mr. COOPER.
H.R. 4324: Mr. RASKIN.
H.R. 4327: Mr. LOWENTHAL, Mr. TONKO, Ms.
JUDY CHU of California, Mrs. NAPOLITANO,
Mr. HASTINGS, and Ms. KUSTER of New Hamp-
shire.
H.R. 4339: Ms. TLAIB and Ms. MOORE.
H.J. Res. 52: Mr. MEADOWS.
H. Con. Res. 27: Mr. JOHNSON of South Da-
kota.
H. Con. Res. 58: Mr. HARRIS.
H. Con. Res. 59: Mr. PRICE of North Caro-
lina, Mr. POCAN, and Mr. CISNEROS.
H. Res. 17: Mr. VELA, Mr. WEBER of Texas,
Mr. CICILLINE, and Mr. MCGOVERN.
H. Res. 23: Ms. KENDRA S. HORN of Okla-
homa and Ms. STEVENS.
H. Res. 33: Ms. KENDRA S. HORN of Okla-
homa, Ms. GARCIA of Texas, and Ms. STE-
VENS.
H. Res. 54: Ms. KENDRA S. HORN of Okla-
homa and Ms. STEVENS.
H. Res. 114: Ms. DELBENE, Mr. SCHRADER,
Mr. VAN DREW, Mr. WALTZ, Mrs. AXNE, Mr.
FOSTER, Mr. PERLMUTTER, and Mr. CLEAVER.
H. Res. 138: Mr. LAMB.
H. Res. 146: Ms. PRESSLEY and Ms. MCCOL-
LUM.
H. Res. 189: Mr. DIAZ-BALART, Mr. GOODEN,
Mr. PANETTA, Mr. HECK, and Mr. ESPAILLAT.
H. Res. 230: Mr. LOWENTHAL.
H. Res. 242: Mrs. LEE of Nevada.
H. Res. 255: Mr. CISNEROS and Mr. STEIL.
H. Res. 299: Mr. SARBANES.
H. Res. 323: Mr. SUOZZI and Mr. HARRIS.
H. Res. 326: Mr. RYAN.
H. Res. 399: Mr. SCHWEIKERT.
H. Res. 452: Mr. RASKIN and Mr. TAKANO.
H. Res. 469: Mr. CARBAJAL.
H. Res. 493: Mr. CHABOT, Mr. BILIRAKIS, Mr.
STEWART, Mr. WALKER, and Mr. FLORES.
H. Res. 517: Mr. LUJÁN, Mr. BRINDISI, Mr.
PRICE of North Carolina, Ms. HAALAND, Mr.
RASKIN, Mr. MCGOVERN, and Mr. BERA.
H. Res. 539: Mr. RASKIN.
H. Res. 542: Mr. LANGEVIN, Mr. BACON, Mrs.
LAWRENCE, Mr. MITCHELL, Mr. SEAN PATRICK
MALONEY of New York, and Mr. DANNY K.
DAVIS of Illinois.
H. Res. 543: Mr. MCGOVERN, Mr. CASTRO of
Texas, Mr. CURTIS, and Mr. HURD of Texas.
H. Res. 546: Mr. ROUDA, Mr. COSTA, Mr.
MALINOWSKI, and Ms. KAPTUR.
f
DELETIONS OF SPONSORS FROM
PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS
Under clause 7 of rule XII, sponsors
were deleted from public bills and reso-
lutions, as follows:
H.R. 132: Mr. WILLIAMS.
H.R. 4297: Mr. PETERSON.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:50 Sep 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00040 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A17SE7.043 H17SEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
Congressional Record
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
United States
of America PROCEEDINGS AND DEBATES OF THE 116th
CONGRESS, FIRST SESSION
∑ This ‘‘bullet’’ symbol identifies statements or insertions which are not spoken by a Member of the Senate on the floor.
.
S5499
Vol. 165 WASHINGTON, TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 17, 2019 No. 149
Senate
The Senate met at 10 a.m. and was
called to order by the President pro
tempore (Mr. GRASSLEY).
f
PRAYER
The Chaplain, Dr. Barry C. Black, of-
fered the following prayer:
Let us pray.
Almighty God, our fortress and
might, deliver us from clouds of pes-
simism and fear. Lead our lawmakers
in these challenging times, fulfilling
Your purposes through them. Be ex-
alted, O God, above the highest heaven,
as You demonstrate Your power to
make the crooked places straight.
Have mercy upon us and protect us,
for Your unfailing love and faithfulness
sustain us. Shine Your glory over all
the Earth as we learn to trust You at
all times.
And, Lord, we thank You that Sen-
ator GRASSLEY has had another won-
derful birthday.
We pray in Your strong Name. Amen.
f
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
The President pro tempore led the
Pledge of Allegiance, as follows:
I pledge allegiance to the Flag of the
United States of America, and to the Repub-
lic for which it stands, one nation under God,
indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mrs.
HYDE-SMITH). The Senator from Iowa.
Mr. GRASSLEY. Madam President, I
ask unanimous consent to speak for 1
minute as in morning business.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
CONSTITUTION DAY
Mr. GRASSLEY. Since the day I was
born, I have celebrated Constitution
Day. That is because the 39 delegates
signed the U.S. Constitution on Sep-
tember 17, which is exactly 146 years
before I was born. It is a gift to share
my birthday with the historic signing
of our Nation’s founding charter.
The Constitution lends weight to the
resilience of our heritage and to the he-
roes who fought to defend and protect
our borders at home and from distant
shores around the world.
On this Constitution Day, it is my
hope that Americans of all ages will re-
flect upon the blessings of freedom
handed down from one generation to
the next and protected by the U.S. Con-
stitution.
I yield the floor.
f
RECOGNITION OF THE MAJORITY
LEADER
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The ma-
jority leader is recognized.
f
APPROPRIATIONS
Mr. MCCONNELL. The American peo-
ple deserve for the Federal Government
to spend their money in a considered,
deliberate fashion, and until very re-
cently, we have been on a track to con-
duct a smooth, regular appropriations
process for this year.
More than a month ago, leaders in
both parties, in both Chambers, and at
both ends of Pennsylvania Avenue all
agreed to terms that had been nego-
tiated by the Speaker of the House and
the President’s team. It specified
topline funding levels and put guard-
rails around the appropriations process
to keep out poison pills and all of our
other disagreements.
So yesterday, to keep us on track, I
began the process to advance the first
set of appropriations bills. The next
step is a vote tomorrow to begin con-
sideration of a package of House-passed
funding bills that Speaker PELOSI
grouped together. They include several
of the domestic funding bills along
with the legislation to fund the Depart-
ment of Defense. There should be no
reason for Democrats to vote against
this first procedural step.
As Chairman SHELBY and our com-
mittee colleagues continue to process
Senate legislation, proceeding to this
floor action will help to keep us on
track toward passing as many of the 12
bills as possible this month before we
turn to a temporary continuing resolu-
tion.
So it has been distressing to hear
troubling signals from the Democratic
side. We have heard that they may
choose to filibuster the Defense fund-
ing bill. They may block the very in-
crease of defense funding that they all
just agreed to a month ago.
Progress on our shared priorities,
good faith cooperation in areas of dis-
agreement—it seems all of this may be
taking a backseat to a familiar litany
of partisan stumbling blocks. My
Democratic colleagues seem eager to
bog down the funding process with all
their outstanding disagreements with
the President, in other words, taking
exactly the kind of partisan approach
we had successfully avoided last year
and in which both sides pledged just
last month—just a month ago—to
avoid this time as well.
A couple of weeks ago, everyone at
the table seemed to understand that
the world was too dangerous to leave
funding for our military vulnerable to
poison pill riders or political copouts. I
wish Democrats would keep bearing
that in mind today.
So whatever rationale my colleagues
across the aisle may offer for these new
disruptions, let’s get one thing
straight: Holding defense funding hos-
tage for political gain is a losing strat-
egy, not only for Members of this body,
not only for the appropriations process,
but a losing strategy for the safety and
strength of our Nation.
As partisanship bogs us down here in
Washington, Moscow and Beijing are
not exactly slowing down to wait for
us. Our two most capable great-power
adversaries are expanding their own ca-
pabilities and modernizing their forces
by the day.
In the current international system,
delivering on our promises to Amer-
ica’s men and women in uniform is not
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:24 Sep 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A17SE6.000 S17SEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5500 September 17, 2019
a simple matter of routine mainte-
nance on equipment. If we would like
the U.S. military of the future to re-
main the world’s preeminent fighting
force, then, the stakes are much high-
er. As Russia rattles its saber and de-
velops weapons such as hypersonic
cruise missiles and quiet submarines,
we need to continue funding for re-
search and development of our own
cutting-edge capabilities.
We have to provide for the mod-
ernization of infrastructure and update
defenses against cyber threats so that
China’s ever-bolder meddling in this
domain cannot bring about the cyber
hegemony it craves. We cannot turn
our back on our interests and partners
in the broader Middle East. In Afghani-
stan, Syria, Yemen, Somalia, and be-
yond, we face ongoing terrorist
threats. Iran’s violent aggression cer-
tainly highlights the need for vigilance
and for strength. All of this is need-
lessly more difficult if we don’t fund
the military’s modernization and readi-
ness. The stakes are too high for us to
fail.
We cannot afford to abdicate our re-
sponsibility to deliver timely funding
to the critical priorities of the Federal
Government, least of all to the men
and women in uniform who keep us
safe. So I would urge each of my col-
leagues to engage in this process,
honor our agreement that we made just
1 month ago—just a month ago—and
keep us on track to deliver for our
country.
f
RESERVATION OF LEADER TIME
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the leadership time
is reserved.
f
CONCLUSION OF MORNING
BUSINESS
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Morning
business is closed.
f
EXECUTIVE SESSION
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the Senate will pro-
ceed to executive session to resume
consideration of the following nomina-
tion, which the clerk will report.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read the nomination of John Rakolta,
Jr., of Michigan, to be Ambassador Ex-
traordinary and Plenipotentiary of the
United States of America to the United
Arab Emirates.
Mr. MCCONNELL. I suggest the ab-
sence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Mr. SCHUMER. Madam President, I
ask unanimous consent that the order
for the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
RECOGNITION OF THE MINORITY LEADER
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
Democratic leader is recognized.
CONTINUING RESOLUTION
Mr. SCHUMER. Madam President, as
negotiations continue on a continuing
resolution to keep the government
open past next week, we should be lay-
ing the groundwork to process the 12
appropriations bills for fiscal year 2020.
In an ideal world, the Republicans on
the Appropriations Committee would
be negotiating in good faith with the
Democrats on the Appropriations Com-
mittee to determine the allocations
and the content of those bills, but the
Republicans, unfortunately, have not
chosen to do this. They are acting in a
totally partisan way. The Republicans
have chosen to back the President’s de-
mand for an additional $12 billion in
funding for his border wall, taken from
other sources, including medical re-
search, opioid treatment, and funding
intended for our military, their fami-
lies, and their kids. Mexico, oddly, isn’t
chipping in a penny.
This was all done totally on the Re-
publican side with there having been
no consultation of the Democrats and,
certainly, no buy-in. So, of course, the
Democrats oppose taking funds from
Congress to use on the President’s bor-
der wall that have been intended for
our military. Everyone knows that. In
fact, 12 Senate Republicans opposed the
very same thing this year, but in typ-
ical Washington, blame-game fashion,
Republican leader MITCH MCCONNELL
has been accusing the Democrats of
threatening to block military funding
because we don’t want to pass a bill
that steals money from the military.
That is right. The Democrats are the
ones threatening not to vote for this
bill because we oppose a Republican
bill that would shortchange the mili-
tary.
I have heard some howlers in my day,
but that is pretty rich, what MCCON-
NELL is saying.
Leader MCCONNELL constantly talks
about stunts. He doesn’t like stunts be-
cause they won’t be signed or passed
into law. This is a stunt if I have ever
seen one, that of putting this bill—$12
billion more for the wall and with no
buy-in by the Democrats—to a vote. It
will lose. We know it will lose.
What is the point, Leader MCCON-
NELL? You say you don’t like stunts.
You say you don’t want to bring bills
to the floor that won’t become law.
Well, this one certainly won’t.
The fact is the Republican leader
knows well that the Democrats oppose
taking funding away from our troops
to use on the President’s wall. He
knows that Members of his own caucus
oppose taking money out of their
States to spend on the President’s bor-
der wall. Some have been quite vocal;
yet Leader MCCONNELL is moving for-
ward with the bill all the same, know-
ing that it lacks votes.
For him to say the Democrats are
the ones threatening to block military
funding when, in fact, we oppose a Re-
publican bill that would shortchange
the military is the height of double
talk by the Republican leader.
Again, the Republican leader is fond
of reminding the press that he doesn’t
like to engage in stunts—that the Sen-
ate is for making laws and is not a
forum for political theater. Yet putting
this bill on the floor of the Senate that
everyone knows lacks the votes is the
definition of a stunt.
Leader MCCONNELL—and I mean this
with all due respect—it is time to nego-
tiate. Both sides must sit down and
have a serious negotiation—no stunts,
no blame game. The Democrats want
to work with our Republican col-
leagues, but we need a willing partner,
and time is quickly running out to get
a bipartisan appropriations process
back on track.
BACKGROUND CHECKS
Madam President, now, on guns, a
week and a half after our return from
the August work period, Senators from
both sides of the aisle are still waiting
to hear what the President proposes in
order to combat the epidemic of gun vi-
olence. According to reports, the Presi-
dent’s yet-to-be-released plan will like-
ly not include universal background
checks or even a significant expansion
of background checks. If those reports
are true, it will be a profound shame.
Without closing the loopholes in our
background check system, most other
gun safety measures, like emergency
risk protection orders, would be se-
verely compromised. Background
checks must be the base, the founda-
tion, of gun safety legislation. If back-
ground checks aren’t included, we will
still be allowing guns to fall into the
wrong hands—those of convicted crimi-
nals, domestic abusers, the adjudicated
mentally ill.
You can have one of these emergency
risk protection orders issued to some-
one—let’s say to Mr. John Smith. Yet,
if we don’t close these loopholes, John
Smith, the next day, will be able to go
online and get a new gun because there
will be no background check, and the
seller of the gun will have no way of
knowing there will have been a protec-
tion order against him. Without having
background checks, a lot of this other
stuff isn’t going to do the job. It isn’t
going to save the most lives that we
can.
I hope the President thinks long and
hard before releasing a proposal that
falls short of making meaningful
progress, particularly on background
checks.
In the past, Republican Senators,
Congressmen, and candidates promised
action after mass shootings, only to
have announced support for legislation
that was specifically designed not to
offend the NRA. We have seen that be-
fore.
This is a chance for the President to
do something different and, frankly,
something courageous. It would be a
terrible shame if he were to squander
that very much needed opportunity. If
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:24 Sep 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G17SE6.001 S17SEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5501
September 17, 2019
whatever the President announces this
week falls short of what the American
people are demanding, the Democrats
will continue to press the issue.
Later tonight, I will join several of
my Democratic colleagues on the floor
for an extended debate on the issue of
gun violence. Many of my colleagues
have seen their communities torn
apart by gun violence—some by hor-
rific mass shootings, others by a re-
lentless, daily stream. Many of them
have worked for years to put common-
sense gun safety measures before the
Senate. Tonight, the Democrats will
hold a forum to bring those stories to
the Senate floor—the stories of fami-
lies who have been shattered by gun vi-
olence and the stories of our constitu-
ents who demand that we take action.
My Republican colleagues, I hope,
will listen closely and, more impor-
tantly, will join the Democrats in
working to pass meaningful legislation.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from South Dakota.
UNITED STATES-MEXICO-CANADA TRADE
AGREEMENT
Mr. THUNE. Madam President, I
spent a lot of time talking to South
Dakota farmers over the August break,
and I can tell you that if there is one
thing on farmers’ minds right now, it is
trade; it is markets; it is having a
place to sell the things that we raise
and grow. Farmers and ranchers have
had a rough few years. Low commodity
prices and low livestock prices, natural
disasters, and protracted trade disputes
have left our agricultural economy
trailing behind our economy as a
whole.
As farmers emphasized to me during
August, one of the biggest things we
can do to help our agricultural econ-
omy is to implement trade agreements
that benefit American farmers and
ranchers. The United States is cur-
rently involved in trade negotiations
on multiple fronts—with the European
Union, with China, with Japan, and
with other Asian-Pacific countries.
Like many farmers and ranchers, I
support the President’s goal of address-
ing trade imbalances and securing
more favorable conditions for Amer-
ican products abroad, but we need to
conclude these agreements as soon as
possible. The longer negotiations drag
on, the tougher the situation for farm-
ers, who face retaliatory tariffs as well
as a lot of uncertainty about what
markets are going to look like.
We have had some recent successes.
In August, the administration an-
nounced a deal to increase U.S. beef
sales to Europe. In May, the adminis-
tration announced a deal with Japan to
remove all remaining age restrictions
on U.S. beef, giving American ranchers
full access to the Japanese market for
the first time in more than a decade.
Yet that is just a tiny fraction of what
needs to get done on the trade front
when it comes to agriculture.
Every time I speak with the Presi-
dent and his administration, I empha-
size what South Dakota farmers have
told me: We need to conclude negotia-
tions on the various trade deals that
we are working on, and we need to do
it now. We need to open new markets,
expand existing ones, and give farmers
and ranchers certainty about what
those markets are going to look like.
While we are still in negotiations on
a number of agreements, one deal that
we don’t need to wait for is the United
States-Mexico-Canada Free Trade
Agreement. This agreement has al-
ready been fully negotiated by our
three countries, and Congress can take
it up at any point.
The United States-Mexico-Canada
Agreement is a clear and significant
win for our farmers and ranchers. Can-
ada and Mexico are the No. 1 and No. 2
export markets for American food and
agricultural products. This agreement
will preserve and expand farmers’ ac-
cess to these critical markets and will
give farmers certainty about what
these markets will look like in the
long term.
I am particularly pleased with the
improvements the agreement makes
for U.S. dairy producers. South Dakota
has experienced a massive dairy expan-
sion over the past few years, and this
agreement will benefit U.S. dairy pro-
ducers by substantially expanding mar-
ket access in Canada, which is where
U.S. dairy sales have been restricted.
The U.S. International Trade Commis-
sion estimates that the agreement will
boost U.S. dairy exports by more than
$277 million. The agreement will also
expand market access for U.S. poultry
and egg producers, and it will make it
easier for U.S. producers to export
wheat to Canada.
Of course, while I have been talking a
lot about farmers, the benefits of the
United States-Mexico-Canada Agree-
ment will not be limited to the agricul-
tural industry. Virtually every sector
of our economy will benefit from this
agreement—from manufacturing to
digital services, to the automotive in-
dustry. It will create 176,000 new U.S.
jobs, will grow our economy, and will
raise wages for workers.
The Republicans in the Senate are
ready to consider the United States-
Mexico-Canada Agreement. We are just
waiting for the House Democrats to
stop threatening to oppose the agree-
ment and to show a willingness to put
it to an up-or-down vote in the House
of Representatives.
The administration has made ad-
dressing the Democrats’ concerns a pri-
ority throughout the negotiation proc-
ess, and it seems to me that if you are
a Democrat who is unhappy with the
status quo, voting for the USMCA is
the best way to fix it.
I am encouraged by the fact that the
Democrats appear to be working with
the administration to reach a resolu-
tion on this agreement, and I hope they
will continue to work with the White
House to bring this agreement to a
vote as soon as possible in the House of
Representatives. America’s farmers
and ranchers need the United States-
Mexico-Canada Agreement. While it
won’t be a cure-all for all of the prob-
lems that are facing farm country, it
will be a significant step forward.
Congress should pass this agreement
as soon as possible and allow farmers
and ranchers and the rest of the Amer-
ican economy to start realizing the
benefits.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Illinois.
REMEMBERING MARCA BRISTO
Mr. DURBIN. Madam President, the
disability rights movement is one of
the great civil rights achievements of
our time, and Chicago’s Marca Bristo
was that movement’s Rosa Parks.
Marca was a visionary and inspiring
leader, who helped change Chicago and
change the world when it came to the
rights of the disabled, and she was my
friend.
Sadly, Marca died last week in her
adopted hometown of Chicago at 66
years of age.
In typical Marca style, she worked
right on up to the few days before her
death, trying to bend the arc of history
just a little more toward justice before
she drew her last breath.
I was happy to join my colleague
Senator TAMMY DUCKWORTH this week
in sponsoring a resolution honoring
Marca’s life and work.
I would like to take a few moments
on the floor today to remember this
amazing woman.
While most Americans have never
heard of Marca Bristo, few lives went
untouched by her lifelong quest on be-
half of people with disabilities. She was
a nationally and internationally ac-
claimed leader in the disability rights
movement.
She helped to write and to pass the
Americans with Disabilities Act in
1990, which outlawed discrimination
against the estimated one in four
Americans with disabilities, and she
spent the rest of her life making sure
the ADA was faithfully implemented.
Along with leaders like Justin Dart,
Marca changed the way Americans
thought about disabilities. She per-
suaded us to view the disability experi-
ence as a civil rights issue, not just a
medical issue.
To Marca’s mind, what kept many
people with disabilities from leading
full lives was not their disability but
the barriers they faced. What needed to
change, she said, was not the person
with disabilities but those obstacles
that blocked their path. The problem
was not that her wheelchair was too
wide for certain doors; the problem was
the doors were too narrow for her
wheelchair. Remove the barriers, and
people with disabilities can lead rich
and full lives and make enormous con-
tributions. That is part of what Marca
taught me.
She was tough, smart, funny, deter-
mined, and fearless. She knew how to
motivate others and how to build coali-
tions.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:24 Sep 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G17SE6.002 S17SEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5502 September 17, 2019
Her parents actually named her
Marcia, but during her freshman year
in college, a classmate called her
Marca. She liked it, and it stuck.
She moved to Chicago and earned a
nursing degree from Rush University
College of Nursing in 1976.
In 1977, when Marca was 23 years old,
working as a labor-delivery nurse at a
Chicago hospital, she and her friend
were sitting on the shore of Lake
Michigan, when a dog grabbed her fa-
vorite pair of sandals and ran into the
water with them. Marca dove in to re-
trieve her shoes, not realizing the
water was shallow. She broke her neck
and was paralyzed from the waist down
for the rest of her life.
Because of her paralysis, she lost her
job, her health insurance, her home,
her car, and the ability to navigate the
city she loved. She thought she would
never work again, but luckily the di-
rector of Northwestern University’s
Prentice Women’s Hospital thought
otherwise and convinced her to return
to nursing.
At one point, she attended a work
conference in San Francisco and saw
for the first time an abundance of curb
cuts—curb cuts that enabled people
with disabilities to cross the street. It
was an eye-opener for Marca.
As she later wrote:
No longer did I see curbs or stairs or inac-
cessible buses and bathrooms as a problem
around which I needed to navigate. Rather, I
saw them as examples of societal discrimina-
tion—and felt a responsibility to get in-
volved to help people with disabilities, in Il-
linois and beyond.
In 1980, Marca founded Access Living
in Chicago, a nonprofit dedicated to
helping people with disabilities live as
independently as possible rather than
warehoused in institutions.
Access Living led the fight to make
public transportation in Chicago more
accessible. Marca was not a shrinking
violet. In 1984, she joined others, chain-
ing themselves to Chicago Transit Au-
thority buses. She ended up getting ar-
rested, and they ended up filing a law-
suit in reply against the transit agen-
cy.
Her determination led to the instal-
lation of wheelchair lifts and critical
changes to CTA buses and rail stations.
Access Living became a disability lead-
ership model for other cities around
the country and around the world.
In 1992, Marca cofounded the Na-
tional Council on Independent Living,
which she led for many years.
In 1993, President Clinton named her
to head the National Council on Dis-
ability. She was the first person with a
disability ever to hold that post, and
she held it until 2002.
She was elected president of the U.S.
International Council on Disabilities
and traveled around the world advo-
cating for people with disabilities and
their families.
She participated in the negotiation
for the U.N. Convention on the Rights
of Persons with Disabilities, a global
accord based on the Americans with
Disabilities Act. More than 160 nations
have signed that treaty, including the
United States. Sadly, this Senate has
failed to ratify that treaty. I worked
hours and hours with Marca to try to
win the votes in the Senate for this bi-
partisan measure to help people with
disabilities. We even brought former
U.S. Senator Bob Dole, a World War II
hero and a father of the ADA, to sit on
the floor of the Senate when we cast
the votes on this treaty. Unfortu-
nately, it did not pass.
Marca called July 26, 1990, the day
President George H.W. Bush signed the
Americans with Disabilities Act, ‘‘Our
Independence Day.’’
On that day, she said:
This ragtag army of people who couldn’t
see, hear, walk and talk did what everyone
said couldn’t be done. We passed the most
comprehensive civil rights law since the pas-
sage of the 1964 Civil Rights Act.
In a 2015 video interview for Rush
University Medical Center, celebrating
the 25th anniversary of the Americans
with Disabilities Act, Marca said: ‘‘The
law for the first time enshrined in fed-
eral law that disability is a normal
part of the human condition, and the
world needed to change.’’
In July 2017, days before another
ADA anniversary, Marca was again
fighting for justice. She was 1 of more
than 60 who were arrested for pro-
testing against the proposed deep cuts
in the Medicaid Program that had been
included in a Republican effort to re-
peal the Affordable Care Act.
As the Capitol Police wheeled her
away, Marca raised a clenched fist and
smiled. That is how I am going to re-
member her: optimistic, determined,
even against long odds.
Days after her arrest, another Amer-
ican hero with a disability, John
McCain, came to this floor and in the
well of this Senate, shocked his party
and the Nation by becoming the decid-
ing vote against the repeal of the Af-
fordable Care Act. I like to think my
colleague from Arizona, John McCain,
saw in Marca Bristo and her deter-
mined friends the same courage he had
witnessed so often in our military.
My wife Loretta and I extend our
condolences to Marca’s husband of 32
years, Bob Kettlewell; their two chil-
dren, Samuel and Madeline; her grand-
daughter, who was born in June; to
Marca’s sister Gail; and to her count-
less friends and colleagues.
Marca made the lives of hundreds of
millions of people better. I am going to
miss her warm smile, her wise advice,
her vision, and her courage.
EMERGENCY FUNDING
Madam President, I rise in opposition
today to President Trump’s continued
efforts to move funding from our mili-
tary in order to build his beloved wall
on our southern border, and I rise as
well in defense of the powers given to
Congress in article I of the Constitu-
tion.
Last week, the President announced
he was taking $3.6 billion from Amer-
ica’s military to build his wall. He did
so by canceling 127 military construc-
tion projects around the world and in
26 States and territories. Already,
President Trump had taken $2.5 billion
from our military earlier this year.
Last week’s decision brings the total to
over $6 billion—$6 billion of invest-
ments in our American military and
national security that the President of
the United States has diverted so he
can have a bragging point in the reelec-
tion campaign about his beloved wall.
This decision has rippled across the
country and the world.
Remember the terrible damage Hur-
ricane Maria did in Puerto Rico, which
is still being repaired? Our military
prioritized $400 million to rebuild Na-
tional Guard facilities and the school
for military children there. With the
stroke of a pen, and without the ap-
proval of Congress, the President took
away these funds.
Joint Base Andrews in Maryland
needed a new childcare facility for
military families. Some of the rooms
in that current facility have been
closed due to mold, which has created
overcrowding. There are 130 children on
a waiting list to get into this facility.
Their parents are paying for expensive
off-base childcare. It is unacceptable.
So Congress, on behalf of these mili-
tary families at Joint Base Andrews in
Maryland, approved the money to up-
grade the childcare center. Once again,
with the stroke of a pen, President
Trump took the military family
childcare funds for his almighty wall.
Military children at Fort Campbell,
KY, the home State of the Republican
majority leader of the Senate, are
forced to use overcrowded classrooms
and a cafeteria so small that students
are often shipped off to the library to
eat.
With the same stroke of a pen, $62
million that Congress authorized for
Senator MCCONNELL’s home State of
Kentucky to fix the problem are gone,
headed to the border of the United
States for the President to be able to
boast at a rally.
As if these stories weren’t troubling
enough, the Air Force is also sounding
the alarm. A leaked internal review by
the Air Force warns that President
Trump’s decision to cancel 51 Air Force
projects poses serious national security
risks to our country.
Imagine if the shoe were on the other
foot and the President were a member
of my party, the Democratic Party.
What would we be hearing from the Re-
publican side of the aisle?
One of the projects that has been
canceled for the Air Force by the Presi-
dent’s effort to divert military funds to
his wall is Incirlik Air Base in Turkey.
They needed an upgrade for security on
their main gate. The Air Force says
that without this project, the base is
‘‘vulnerable to hostile penetration in
the midst of contingency operations
and an increased terrorist threat.’’
For goodness’ sake. The President is
building a wall in the middle of a
desert that is not solving the problem
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:24 Sep 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G17SE6.004 S17SEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5503
September 17, 2019
we face with our southern border and
taking money away from the main gate
of an Air Force Base in Turkey that
has been identified as needing to be re-
built for security against terrorism?
The report also describes how can-
celing upgrades to a munitions site at
an air base in Guam may impact the
ability of fighter and bomber aircraft
to operate properly.
I ask my colleagues honestly: Are
these risks worth taking from our mili-
tary so the President can have a walk-
off line at one of his political rallies?
U.S. allies across the globe that are
committed to our defense are starting
to doubt if this White House is still in-
terested in being the leader of the free
world.
U.S. troops based in NATO ally coun-
tries like Poland, Italy, Germany, and
Estonia expected $770 million in invest-
ments in training center and logistical
support to push back on Russian ag-
gression in Europe. I can tell you, hav-
ing visited the Baltic States, how criti-
cally important these funds are to re-
mind the people of that region that the
United States and NATO allies still
stand solidly behind them, as Putin
threatens them with aggression on a
daily basis, and now President Trump
has removed many of these funds.
Similarly, U.S. troops in South Korea
and Japan were planning on $670 mil-
lion to protect them from threats from
North Korea and China.
The cancellation of all these projects
is based on a national emergency de-
clared by the President that was re-
jected by both Houses of Congress in
bipartisan votes. Congress should not
be silent when anyone dismisses the
real needs of our men and women in
uniform for politics. Nor should it sit
back when the President of any party
tries to undermine its constitutional
duty to provide for the common de-
fense of the United States.
I am greatly concerned that these
events set a precedent that undermines
the Appropriations Committee, which I
have dedicated my Senate career to.
We all remember President Donald
Trump’s idea that we need a 2,000-mile
concrete wall, as he said, ‘‘from sea to
shining sea,’’ paid for by Mexico. He
said it 200 times when he campaigned
for the Office of President, but as we
have seen, Mexico hasn’t put up a peso.
The President has decided the Amer-
ican military should pay for it instead.
The resulting damage to our military
and to the Appropriations Committee’s
constitutional authority continues to
accumulate.
It has to stop, and it can stop if my
colleagues on both sides of the aisle
can come together to reassert their ob-
ligations under the Constitution and
provide our military families with the
certainty that they haven’t been for-
gotten in the midst of the runup to the
2020 campaign.
I hope all of us think long and hard
about the importance of this decision
and our obligation to stand behind our
men and women in the military.
Madam President, I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Tennessee.
BRETT KAVANAUGH
Mrs. BLACKBURN. Madam Presi-
dent, I want to get straight to the
point this morning. I find it incompre-
hensible that some of our friends
across the aisle are repeating the same
missteps that turned last fall’s Su-
preme Court confirmation battle into a
black mark on the history of this body.
I want to make it clear that I have
no desire to relitigate the disputes
borne from Justice Brett Kavanaugh’s
confirmation hearings. I do not want to
hear my friends on the other side of the
aisle leverage more of the same base-
less, salacious allegations in the name
of partisan politicking. But when you
stop and think about it, since they
have chosen to go there, it is impera-
tive that I speak out—that we speak
out—about what is transpiring.
I was not in the Senate for the first
go-around on this, but I am here now,
and I can tell you that I intend to give
their arguments exactly the amount of
deference and respect they deserve.
Sitting on the sidelines is never easy,
but it is especially difficult when you
are watching a fight and you know you
could get in there and help win that
fight. I know this feeling very well.
Last fall, I was fighting to go from the
House of Representatives to the Sen-
ate. I was also fighting to become the
first female Senator from the great
State of Tennessee—the very first.
While on the campaign trail, I got
more than an earful from other Ten-
nessee women who were watching this
breathless coverage of Justice
Kavanaugh’s confirmation. These
women were concerned that their
voices were not being heard in this de-
bate. They were concerned also for
spouses, sons, brothers, and male col-
leagues. They could see these baseless
claims, and they were concerned for
the lack of due process. They did not
like for 1 minute what they were see-
ing, and I didn’t like it either.
These women came from all political
walks of life and all areas of our State.
They were disgusted by the nature of
the sexual assault allegations, and
they were horrified by what they right-
ly saw as an eagerness to set aside the
due process that is so important to this
Nation and to the rule of law. It was
being set aside in order to make an ex-
ample out of Kavanaugh.
Were flimsy allegations and social
justice buzzwords really the new stand-
ard for credibility?
As much as I wanted to reassure
these women that sanity would prevail,
in the back of my mind I remained
fully aware that, if left unchecked, in-
sanity is fully capable of carrying the
day. It knows no bounds.
As it turns out, conservatism pre-
vailed in Tennessee, and sanity pre-
vailed in the U.S. Senate. I was hum-
bled when Supreme Court Justice Brett
Kavanaugh performed my ceremonial
swearing-in this past January and
when I received the additional honor of
being one of two Republican women af-
forded a seat on the Senate Judiciary
Committee—humbled, truly humbled,
but also prepared to stand up for what
I know is right.
I will not abide by or participate in
the lack of civility that we saw during
Justice Kavanaugh’s confirmation. We
have to realize that this is more seri-
ous than just evaluating a final tally of
political points on the board. Politi-
cians, journalists, and activists are
leveraging unfounded criminal allega-
tions against a duly confirmed Su-
preme Court justice. I repeat that:
They are leveraging unfounded crimi-
nal allegations against a duly con-
firmed Supreme Court justice in an ef-
fort to undermine not only his work
but ultimately the entire Court as an
institution.
Is this honestly what we have come
to? Is this the new low of lows? Can no
one see the danger in doing this and
letting it continue and giving it air to
breathe or to thrive? This is a danger.
We are a nation of laws, and the Senate
is a body built on process and delibera-
tion.
Tennesseans are asking: Who is going
to stand and who is going to defend
that process in this body?
As a woman, as a new Senator and a
member of the Senate Judiciary Com-
mittee, I stand to defend the process
and for civility. I refuse to leave this
political chaos unchecked, and I wel-
come my colleagues and my friends
across the aisle to join me in recog-
nizing that due process and civil dis-
course are required for constructive,
respectful debate.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
SCOTT of Florida). The Senator from
Montana.
TARIFFS
Mr. TESTER. Mr. President, we all
returned to Washington last week
after, in my case, spending 5 weeks in
the State of Montana. It is always
great being in Montana, being able to
get around the State and visit with
folks and see the challenges they are
dealing with on a daily basis and hear
directly from them.
I can tell you that one of the things
I heard a lot about—Montana is an ag
State—was the price of grain and the
price of cattle. The marketplace is
very, very depressed. It doesn’t matter
that Montana is a big State, and it
doesn’t matter what corner of the
State you are in. We have some chal-
lenges, and those challenges have been
brought about by really, really bad
public policy when it comes to tariffs.
These tariffs have increased the price
of steel, for example, which increases
the price of the equipment that folks in
agriculture and everybody have to buy.
On the other side of the coin, because
of the tariffs that are put on ag com-
modities, it has driven all ag commod-
ities down. The tariffs on soy, for ex-
ample, have driven all the commodities
down, including wheat, which we raise
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:24 Sep 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G17SE6.005 S17SEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5504 September 17, 2019
a lot of in Montana, but also pulse
crops and everything.
In fact, when I was determining what
we were going to plant this spring, I
was trying to find what we could make
money off of. Quite frankly, com-
modity prices are down across the
board, and there wasn’t anything that
you could turn a profit on. I don’t say
that being a farmer who wants to com-
plain about prices, because we do that
occasionally. I say that because the
price of hard red ordinary winter
wheat, which probably doesn’t mean
much to anybody unless you are in ag-
riculture, is about the same price it
was in about May of 1978, when I took
the farm over. That is not inflation-ad-
justed prices. That is what it is selling
for, a little over $3.50 a bushel.
If you take a look back at 1978, it
doesn’t take a nuclear physicist to fig-
ure out that things cost a little less
back then. You could buy a car for
probably about 15 percent of what you
are paying for one now, and farm
equipment was the same way. It was
far, far, far less expensive. My dad
bought a brand-new four-wheel drive
tractor, for example, 3 years earlier, in
1975. He paid about $20,000 for it, and
today that tractor would run you north
of $200,000.
So we have a lot of challenges out
there, and it all starts with the price of
ag commodities. It isn’t like Mother
Nature frowned on us all and put us
into a drought or put a hailstorm on us
or put locusts on us. It is all man-
made.
I think most people in this body
would tell you that, as to what is going
on with China right now, even though
China does need to be held accountable,
we can’t do it alone. We have to bring
our allies in. That is why it is not
working, and that is why ag com-
modity prices are in the tank.
So why should anybody care if you
are not involved in agriculture?
There was an old bumper sticker that
was on cars a few decades ago that
said: If you eat, you are involved in ag-
riculture. That is a fact. If you want to
talk about things like food security
and being able to have food on the
shelves, those family farmers are criti-
cally important. If you force them out
of business, that is more consolidation,
that is less people living in rural Amer-
ica, and that is a problem, and it is less
certainty with our food supply.
We feed the world for a good reason—
because there are a lot of family farm-
ers out there who work very, very hard
each and every day, and we over-
produce, and the overproduced items
need to be exported. If they are not,
the prices go down. That is what we see
right now. We see overproduction, be-
cause we produce food, and if that food
is not exported, the prices go down, and
they go down and they go down. Now
they are prices that we had 40 years
ago.
Now, this administration’s solution
for this problem is to borrow money
from our kids and write farmers
checks. I don’t know a farmer out
there who wants to go down to the
local FSA, or the Farm Service Agen-
cy, government office and get a check.
We do it, but that is not the preferred
place. The preferred place is from the
grain elevator or from the livestock
auction. But because prices are so low,
now farmers have to have a bailout.
People talk about socialism and who
is advocating for socialism around
here, but the fact is that this is pretty
much socialistic. The sad part is that
the amount farmers are getting is
probably about a tenth, once again, of
what they are losing in the market-
place, if we had trade, if we were out
promoting trade, and if we were mov-
ing the ball forward to get rid of the
excess production. But instead, it is
tariff after tariff after tariff because
we are trying to teach somebody a les-
son. Unfortunately, because we don’t
have our allies onboard with us, we
haven’t seen much success.
We have a problem. The forefathers
set forth three coequal branches of gov-
ernment. Unfortunately, I have been a
bit frustrated because the legislative
branch hasn’t been able to do much
about these tariffs, and we need to re-
insert ourselves.
I have a bill that I intend to drop in
very soon that will empower the legis-
lative branch. Hopefully, we can get it
through committee and get it to the
floor. It seems that we always ask per-
mission of the administration as to
whether we are going to take up any
bills on the floor in this body, the
greatest deliberative body—it used to
be; it is not anymore—when, in fact, we
need to take back the power. We need
to hold the administration, the execu-
tive branch—whether there is a Demo-
crat in the White House or a Repub-
lican in the White House—accountable
on these issues that revolve around
trade.
It is important because we are having
a debate right now about whether we
should be just a rubberstamp for the
executive branch on appropriations. We
have given away our power on trade. It
is our job to deal with issues of trade.
I am talking about Congress’s job. I
have a bill to bring back some of that
power.
I will tell you, I hope that tomorrow
all these tariffs and trade issues go
away. I don’t think that is realistic. In
fact, I think we have seen a lot of our
foreign trading partners that were tra-
ditionally our partners turn to other
countries to get their products. I think
that is a problem long term and cer-
tainly a problem short term because we
are feeling it in the short term. When
they start getting their ag commod-
ities from Australia and Argentina or
some other country, it is hard to get
those customers back, even when the
trade agreements have been ratified.
I ask the executive branch to quit
playing games with American agri-
culture. I know that most of the farm-
ers support the Trump administration,
but I am telling you, we saw a mass ex-
odus off the farms in the 1980s—the
family farm agriculture—because of
bad policies, due in part to this town,
and I am afraid we are going to see
that again. I have already seen it in my
neighborhood, and I think it is just the
start.
It is time that we start to do what we
do; that is, we need to export some of
this product.
The Farmers Union was in last week,
and one of the people in the Farmers
Union, from the Montana group, said:
What do we do about the excess supply?
Well, what we do with the excess sup-
ply is what we have always done with
the excess supply: We ship it out. We
export it. And when those exports dry
up, we have wheat. We can’t get rid of
soy. Corn is in a pinch. As I said ear-
lier, all ag commodities are depressed.
While we sit here and talk about the
important stuff that we talk about,
just know that the American farmer,
the family farmer, is hurting. I will tell
you that one thing that made this
country great is family farm agri-
culture. If it gets consolidated, wheth-
er it is a family who owns tens of thou-
sands of acres or controls tens of thou-
sands of acres or whether it is a cor-
poration, it is the same thing. You
have nobody living in rural America,
and it impacts our food security in this
country. Quite frankly, it is very bad
for democracy.
I invited the President to come to
Montana to visit with the producers so
he could hear it from their mouths. I
haven’t gotten a response. The bottom
line is, he needs to know that rural
America is not New York City. It has
challenges, and if we don’t do our job
and get products exported, we are
going to see it change, we are going to
see it dry up, and we are literally going
to see it blow away. It is not a step for-
ward. It is not making this country
great. In fact, it is exactly the oppo-
site.
I hope the President comes to Mon-
tana. I hope he visits with the pro-
ducers. He will find a friendly crowd. I
think most of them voted for him. He
will be able to hear from the horse’s
mouth what is happening with trade
and hopefully get these trade tariffs
and all the things around trade that
have been negative for family farm ag-
riculture put behind us. I think time is
of the essence. It may be too late for a
lot of folks. We may see a lot of good
operators no longer able to make a liv-
ing in agriculture. Time is of the es-
sence.
With that, I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk proceeded to
call the roll.
Mr. KENNEDY. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:24 Sep 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G17SE6.007 S17SEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5505
September 17, 2019
TAXES
Mr. KENNEDY. Mr. President, I want
to talk a little bit today about some-
thing I am embarrassed about on be-
half of the Federal Government. Before
I explain why I am embarrassed on be-
half of my government, I need to give
a little background.
Did you ever stop and think about
how much we pay in taxes in this coun-
try? We have city taxes. We have coun-
ty taxes. In Louisiana, we call our
counties parishes, so we have parish
taxes. We have State taxes. We have
fees at all of those levels. Sometimes
politicians will try to call a hand in
your pocket a fee as opposed to a tax,
like you are going to be dumb enough
to think that makes a difference. It is
still money out of your pocket. And
then we have Federal taxes. The gov-
ernment taxes the food we eat, the
clothes we buy, the houses we live in,
the cars we drive. The government
taxes when we work and when we play.
If you want to go fishing, you have to
pay a tax. If you want to go hunting,
you have to pay a tax. The government
even taxes us when we die.
Let me talk about the Federal taxes
for a second. This is just a fraction of
the money people pay. At the Federal
level, our main tax is income taxes—
corporate income tax, personal income
tax. Do you know how much we pay
every year—the American people—in
corporate and personal income tax? I
am going to show you. I am going to
write it out because it is impressive.
Do you see all those zeros? There are 12
zeros—$2 trillion every year. Do you
know how much $2 trillion is? That is
$2,000 billion. Do you know how much a
billion is? If right now I started count-
ing to a billion, do you know when I
would finish? It would take me 32
years. I would finish in 2051. I wouldn’t
make it; I will be dead by then.
I will tell you how big a billion is. A
billion seconds ago, it was 1986 and
Ronald Reagan was President. That is
how big a billion is. A billion minutes
ago, the Romans were conquering
Mesopotamia. A billion hours ago,
Neanderthals roamed the Earth. That
is 1 billion. The American people pay
$2,000 billion in taxes every year—not
State and not local; Federal corporate
and personal income taxes.
Now, look, we know that as a result
of the social contract we have made
among ourselves, we are better off liv-
ing and working together and pooling
our money so we can hire cops and
build roads and educate our children.
We know that is the price to pay in a
civilized society, but that is still a lot
of money.
Now, I don’t know about you, but I
get mad when some people cheat—when
all people whom I know of cheat on
their taxes. That means that law-abid-
ing citizens have to pay more to make
up for those who cheat.
Do you know what else makes me
mad? What also makes me mad is when
the Federal entity to which we pay
these taxes has money of ours and they
don’t return it. I am not talking about
tax refunds. I am talking about some-
thing else, and that is going to be the
subject of my talk for a few minutes
today.
Now, look, the Internal Revenue
Service, which is housed, as you know,
in the Department of Treasury—they
are very aggressive. Oh Lord, you bet-
ter pay your taxes. If you don’t pay
your taxes, they are on you like a hobo
on a ham sandwich. They will chase
you like a hound from Hades. You bet-
ter pay them the right amount, and
you better pay them on time. Most
Americans don’t like that but are OK
with it because they know we have to
run government, we have to defend our
country, and we have to educate our
kids. But what happens when the De-
partment of Treasury, which houses
the Internal Revenue Service, owes
money to the American people and re-
fuses to give it back? That is what em-
barrasses me, and that is what makes
me angry.
Right now, our U.S. Department of
Treasury is holding $26 billion—remem-
ber I told you how big a billion is—it
owes to the American people in un-
claimed, matured savings bonds. And
you know what a savings bond is. That
is a loan by an American citizen to our
government. We funded World War II in
part through savings bonds.
This is how a savings bond works. It
is very simple. Let’s suppose I go buy a
$100 savings bond. I give $100 to the
U.S. Department of Treasury, which
collects $2 trillion through IRS. I give
$100 to the Department of Treasury. It
is a loan. The Treasury takes that $100
and promises to give me in, say, 20
years, $200 back. I don’t get annual in-
terest payments. There are some excep-
tions to that. In the old days, I got a
paper bond. Today, it is all done elec-
tronically. I loan the Federal Govern-
ment $100. I wait 20 years, and interest
accrues. I don’t get the checks. In 2
years, I go down with my savings bond,
and I say: OK, I want my $200.
But sometimes people forget. They
put those bonds in a safe deposit box
or—today, we don’t use paper bonds; we
do it electronically. People will forget.
In the old days when we used paper
bonds, sometimes they would lose
those bonds. A lot of times, as a birth-
day present, grandparents would give a
bond to their grandchildren, give them
a $100 bond, and they would say to
their son or grandson or grand-
daughter: Hold on to this bond, and in
20 years, you will have $200. Of course,
sometimes the young people would lose
them. They are not really completely
lost. The bond might have been lost—
the physical bond—in the days when we
used paper bonds.
The people who loaned the money to
the Federal Government might have
forgotten about the bonds, but do you
know who knows about the bonds? The
U.S. Department of Treasury, because
they have the names and the addresses.
Right now, they have the names and
addresses, and they have the money—
$26 billion—that they are holding that
belongs to the American people, and
they won’t give it back.
I used to be a State treasurer in Lou-
isiana. I and some my colleagues sued
the Federal Department of Treasury.
Do you know why we sued them? Be-
cause as State treasurers, we have pro-
grams called unclaimed property pro-
grams—you might have heard about
them—where we would return money
to people in our States that we would
take in from businesses that owed peo-
ple money but couldn’t find the people.
Let’s suppose you go rent an apart-
ment back in your home State. You
put down a utility deposit, and you
move and you don’t get back your util-
ity deposit. You forget about it. The
utility can’t keep that deposit. They
are supposed to look for you, but they
can’t find you. They can’t keep that
money. It doesn’t belong to them. It is
a deposit. They have to turn it over to
the State treasurer.
The State treasurers of every State
work very hard to contact the people
and to give them back their utility de-
posits. Every day, State treasurers re-
turn utility deposits, apartment depos-
its, uncashed payroll checks, lost
stocks, lost bonds, and tax refunds.
Every State treasurer is very active.
They have the infrastructure set up,
they have websites, they have com-
puters, and they return this money to
people every day. When a business has
your money and can’t find you, they
can’t keep it; they have to turn it over
to the State treasurer.
So the treasurers sued the U.S. De-
partment of Treasury and said: We
have these unclaimed property pro-
grams. Give us the names and address-
es of these people to whom the Treas-
ury Department owes $26 billion, and
we will give it back to people.
Do you know what the Department of
Treasury said? Nothing. Not a thing.
They just ignored the treasurers. When
we finally got their attention, they
said: No, we are not giving it back. We
are keeping the money.
Well, the treasurers sued them and
are still in court. And not only has the
U.S. Department of Treasury not given
the money back, they have gone and
hired lawyers. They are spending mil-
lions and millions and millions of dol-
lars to try to keep this money from the
American people.
Remember, the U.S. Department of
Treasury—they have the names and
they have the addresses. They may be
old addresses, but all they would have
to do would be to give the names and
the old addresses to the State treas-
urers in every State. For example, in
my State in Louisiana—and we have
asked Treasury to do this. The U.S. De-
partment of Treasury could just give
all the names of all the people in Lou-
isiana to whom this money is owed
through savings bonds and give them
the addresses, and the treasurer in my
State will track these people down and
give them back their money. But the
U.S. Department of Treasury won’t do
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:24 Sep 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G17SE6.008 S17SEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5506 September 17, 2019
it. They are fighting us in court. Do
you know why they won’t do it? Greed.
They figure people will never go claim
their money. They are just going to
keep it. You can’t do that if you are a
business. If you are a business in Amer-
ica and you have somebody’s money,
you have to go look for them—it is a
law in every State—and if you can’t
find them, you have to turn the money
over to the State treasurer, and the
State treasurer gives it back. Not the
Federal Government. Not the Depart-
ment of Treasury. We are talking real
money here.
I am going to give an example. I see
my good friend Senator CORNYN over
here. He works hard for the people of
Texas. They love him. I just came back
from San Antonio. They love Senator
CORNYN. Do you know how much the
U.S. Department of Treasury owes Sen-
ator CORNYN’s people just in Texas?
They are owed $2.1 billion. This money
isn’t lost; the Department of Treasury
has it. They have the names, and they
have the addresses.
Now, as we went along in our law-
suit—and the lawsuit is still pending.
It is not mine anymore. I am no longer
State treasurer. One of the statements
that the Department of Treasury filed
in court—I almost laughed. If I had
been in court, I would have laughed.
They said: Yeah, we have the names
and we have the addresses, but it would
cost $128 million to organize the
records. That was one of the excuses
they gave to the judge. Give me a
break. If you believe that, you will
never own your own home. If you and I
lie to the government, we can go to
jail, but if the government lies to us—
‘‘Oh, it will take $128 million to orga-
nize the records’’—that is called poli-
tics. Oklahoma, which is next door to
Texas, is owed $312 million. As far as
Michigan, the U.S. Department of
Treasury is holding $773 million in
fully redeemed—they are not paying
interest anymore—but unclaimed sav-
ings bonds from the people of Michi-
gan. Do you think some of those folks
in Michigan could use that money
right now to maybe save for retirement
or maybe to educate their children?
Idaho is not very big. It has a bunch of
lakes, and it is a great State. It is owed
$128 million. Tennessee is owed $480
million; Wyoming, $45 million; and New
York, $1.5 billion.
I am just beside myself. Do you won-
der why people hate government? Here
it is. We have to pay our taxes in the
right amount and on time. If we don’t
do it, they come and take our first-
born, and if we are late, they fine us.
This is the IRS under the Department
of Treasury. But here they have $26 bil-
lion, and they have the names and they
have the addresses, and they won’t give
it back. It is an embarrassment. It is a
disgrace. They should hide their heads
in a bag.
Now, I have a bill. I am hoping my
colleagues will support it. It is called
the Unclaimed Savings Bond Act of
2019, S. 2417. It is a very simple bill. It
would just tell the U.S. Department of
Treasury to do its job. It doesn’t own
this money. It doesn’t own this money,
it is not theirs, and they need to give it
back. And they don’t have to spend a
lot of time on it. All they have to do is
give the names and the addresses to
every State treasurer. I will give them
their cell numbers if they want it. Just
give the names and the addresses to
the State treasurers.
I would like to get our Senators in-
volved in Florida, where our Presiding
Officer and Senator RUBIO are from. I
would like them to have the names.
Maybe they could go out—we used to
do this when we had unclaimed prop-
erty in Louisiana. You can go advertise
in the paper or on the radio or on tele-
vision or on the internet and say: I am
going to be out at the so-and-so mall
this Saturday from 10 to 12 with my
computers and my team’s computers.
Come on out and check your name and
see if you have unredeemed savings
bonds.
People come out, and you would be
surprised, they find their name, and
you say: OK. We will get your current
address, and we will get you a check in
2 weeks. People say: Gosh, the last
time the government gave me any
money was never. But they feel a little
bit better about their government.
This bill will work. I can’t imagine
who would oppose this bill except my
friends at the Department of Treasury,
and they don’t have a good reason for
opposing it. They just want to keep the
money.
I am going to be talking about this a
lot because the money is important.
People have worked hard for this. But
I will tell you what is more impor-
tant—the principle. We have to pay our
taxes in the right amount and on time.
When the government has our money,
they ought to give it back to us in the
right amount and on time.
Thank you for your attention and
your time.
I yield to Senator CORNYN, who has
over $2 billion of uncashed savings
bonds in his State, thanks to our De-
partment of Treasury.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Texas.
Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, let me
begin my remarks by thanking my
friend for, No. 1, visiting Texas this
past weekend. We are next-door neigh-
bors. We share a lot in common. But,
particularly, I want to thank him for
highlighting this injustice. It is shock-
ing to me that a U.S. Senator would
have to introduce legislation to pass
both Houses and get the President’s
signature for people to get their money
back from the Federal Government. It
is shocking, and I didn’t know any-
thing about it until the Senator from
Louisiana highlighted it, so I thank
him for that.
I am proud to be a cosponsor of the
bill and would encourage all of our col-
leagues to join. I can’t imagine why it
couldn’t pass by unanimous consent. I
don’t even know why we need to proc-
ess this through the normal regular
order, as we call it around here, but I
wish him good luck and certainly my
constituents would like to see that $2.1
billion back in their pockets instead of
the Federal Treasury. So I thank him.
PRESCRIPTION DRUGS
Mr. President, on another matter,
during the August break back home, I
heard from a startling number of my
constituents about their increasing
struggles to deal with the cost of their
prescription medications. This in-
cluded stories about skipping their
blood pressure medication or diabetics
rationing their insulin and people trav-
eling across the border, going to Mex-
ico—to the farmacias in Mexico—to get
inhalers at a lower price. Of course, the
problem is, you don’t know when you
go to another country whether it is as
advertised, whether it is counterfeit, or
whether it is genuine. So there are
risks associated with that. But my
point is that people are struggling to
deal with their drug costs, and they are
going to extraordinary means, some of
which are potentially dangerous to
their health.
I know my constituents back home
are frustrated by confusing price hikes.
They don’t understand the dramatic
price differences from one pharmacy to
the next. They are terrified about what
will happen if the price gets so high
that they will have to give up taking
their prescriptions altogether.
It is no surprise that a recent Gallup
poll found that Americans view the
pharmaceutical industry more nega-
tively than any other industry. A
whopping 58 percent said that they
have a negative view of the pharma-
ceutical industry, and 48 percent have
a negative view of the healthcare in-
dustry as a whole. Congress’s numbers
are much worse than that, but the
point is, people are concerned, and they
want us to do something about it.
When the products and services these
groups provide mean the difference be-
tween life and death—which they do—
that lack of trust is a bad sign, to be
sure. I believe, along with many of my
colleagues, that it is time to get to the
bottom of these rising costs and pro-
vide the American people with some
transparency, some clarity, some peace
of mind, and hopefully a break in their
out-of-pocket costs for prescription
drugs.
In the Senate we have taken a bipar-
tisan approach that reaches across sev-
eral of our standing committees, and
we have made some serious progress. I
would like to remind anybody who is
listening what we have done so far and
what we need to do next.
Earlier this summer, the Senate
Health, Education, Labor, and Pen-
sions Committee passed a package to
end surprise billing to create more
transparency and create more competi-
tion. The Senate Finance Committee
on which I sit passed a package of bills
designed to reduce prescription drug
prices for seniors and children, and the
Judiciary Committee, on which I also
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:24 Sep 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G17SE6.010 S17SEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5507
September 17, 2019
sit, has passed several bills to lower
the cost of prescription drugs and stop
bad actors from gaming the system.
We have talked to every major player
in the supply chain and have asked
questions about the confusing practices
that are driving up costs. Of course, I
would be remiss if I didn’t acknowledge
the Presiding Officer’s leadership when
it comes to this topic, knowledgeable
as he is about the healthcare industry,
beyond the average Senator.
One example of the problem is the
anti-competitive behavior of drug man-
ufacturers. Companies pour extensive
time and money into research and de-
velopment of new medications, and
that is good. What they get in return is
the ability to recover their costs and
earn a profit under a patent. These pat-
ents justifiably protect the intellectual
property of these drugs for a time and
are a key driver behind the incredible
innovation that occurs here in the
United States.
The United States discovers and
manufactures more innovative and life-
saving drugs than any other country in
the world, but we are increasingly see-
ing companies using the patent system
as a shield for competition beyond the
life of a patent, and it is time we put
that to a stop.
One of the bills in the Judiciary Com-
mittee that I introduced is called the
Affordable Prescriptions for Patients
Act, which would address two cir-
cumstances that lead to higher drug
costs. First is something called product
hopping, which occurs when a company
develops a reformulation of a product
that is about to lose its patent and
pulls the original product from the
market. This is done not because the
new formula is more effective, nec-
essarily, but because it prevents ge-
neric competitors from competing with
the original product.
One example is a drug called
Namenda, which is used by patients
with Alzheimer’s disease, a terrible,
devastating disease. Near the end of
the exclusivity period, the manufactur-
ers switched from a twice-daily drug to
a once-daily drug. That move, under
the current law, prevented pharmacists
from being able to switch patients to a
lower cost generic—even though it is
just as effective—so the company could
continue to earn a profit under this ex-
clusivity provision under the patent
laws. By defining these types of anti-
competitive behaviors, the Federal
Trade Commission would be able to
bring antitrust suits against the bad
actors who deliberately game the sys-
tem.
Secondly, the bill disarms patent
thickets, which occur when an inno-
vator uses multiple overlapping pat-
ents or patents with identical claims to
make it harder for competitors to
enter the field. One example is the drug
HUMIRA, which is commonly used to
treat arthritis and a number of other
conditions. AbbVie, the manufacturer
of HUMIRA, has 136 patents and 247
patent applications on that drug,
which has been available for more than
15 years. This type of behavior makes
it very difficult for biosimilar manu-
facturers to bring a product to mar-
ket—competition. While the patent on
the actual drug formula may have ex-
pired, there are still, in this case, hun-
dreds of other patents to sort through.
Litigating all of these extraneous pat-
ents is expensive, difficult, and unnec-
essary. This artificial structure denies
market entry for competitors years be-
yond the exclusivity period that the
law intends to grant. Today, there are
five competitors of HUMIRA that are
available in Europe, but they are
blocked from being sold in the United
States until 2023.
This bill will not stifle innovation or
punish those who use the patent sys-
tem as it is intended; it simply stops
the bad guys from profiting off the
backs of patients. This is a critical
component of our efforts to bring down
drug costs, and I am glad this proposal
received unanimous support in the Ju-
diciary Committee.
Later this week, the House Energy
and Commerce Subcommittee is hold-
ing a hearing about pharmaceutical
companies gaming the system, and I
am eager to see what kinds of pro-
posals our friends in the House intro-
duce as part of this effort.
I think it is fair to say that we have
done some serious work here in the
Senate when it comes to reducing pre-
scription drug costs, but we have work
ahead of us to do. In other words, we
have to bring them to the floor for a
vote, and I hope we do so soon.
I appreciate the countless Texans
who have reached out and commu-
nicated with me and who continue to
reach out to share their concerns and
their stories about unnecessarily high
out-of-pocket drug costs. I am com-
mitted to working with all of our col-
leagues across the aisle to address
these rising healthcare costs generally
and to ensure that drug companies put
patients before profits.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Utah.
NOMINATION OF JOHN RAKOLTA, JR.
Mr. ROMNEY. Mr. President, I rise
today to speak on behalf of the nomi-
nation of Mr. John Rakolta to become
the Ambassador to the United Arab
Emirates.
Mr. Rakolta is the owner of a con-
struction company that builds major
projects like factories, churches, hos-
pitals, and airports. His firm guides the
work of thousands of workers here in
the United States and in countries
around the globe. With revenues of ap-
proximately $1.7 billion annually, he
has built one of the largest and most
successful general contractors in the
Nation.
I presume this success has made him
a prosperous person, but he is also a
person who is actively engaged in his
community. He has served on the
boards of numerous organizations, sev-
eral of which have focused on the reju-
venation of his city of Detroit and its
less advantaged citizens. He has also
received so many awards that it would
be impractical to list them all here
today, but I note that he has been hon-
ored by such groups as United Way, the
Michigan Black Chamber of Commerce,
the Urban League of Detroit, the Boy
Scouts of America, and New Detroit.
Of course, my friends on the other
side of the aisle are dutiful in their ex-
amination of any possible flaw. I am
convinced that the concerns they may
have raised are not well-founded, and
he is, in fact, entirely qualified and ap-
propriately nominated to this impor-
tant position.
I note that I am biased in favor of
Mr. Rakolta because I have known him
personally for more than 30 years. He
and his family have spent dozens of
evenings in the home of my parents,
studying the teachings of their faith.
He is a man who makes commitments
only after a great deal of thought, and
when they are made, he is fully loyal
to them in his business, in his commu-
nity, in his Nation, in his faith, and in
his marriage and family of 4 children
and 11 grandchildren.
I know John Rakolta as a man of
honor and integrity, and I am con-
vinced that he will serve the country
well.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mrs.
BLACKBURN). The question is, Will the
Senate advise and consent to the
Rakolta nomination?
Mr. ROMNEY. Madam President, I
ask for the yeas and nays.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there a
sufficient second?
There appears to be a sufficient sec-
ond.
The clerk will call the roll.
The bill clerk called the roll.
Mr. THUNE. The following Senators
are necessarily absent: the Senator
from Tennessee (Mr. ALEXANDER) and
the Senator from Kansas (Mr. ROB-
ERTS).
Further, if present and voting, the
Senator from Tennessee (Mr. ALEX-
ANDER) would have voted ‘‘yea.’’
Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the
Senator from Colorado (Mr. BENNET),
the Senator from New Jersey (Mr.
BOOKER), the Senator from California
(Ms. HARRIS), the Senator from
Vermont (Mr. SANDERS), and the Sen-
ator from Massachusetts (Ms. WARREN)
are necessarily absent.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Are there
any other Senators in the Chamber de-
siring to vote?
The result was announced—yeas 63,
nays 30, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 283 Ex.]
YEAS—63
Barrasso
Blackburn
Blunt
Boozman
Braun
Burr
Capito
Cassidy
Collins
Coons
Cornyn
Cotton
Cramer
Crapo
Cruz
Daines
Enzi
Ernst
Fischer
Gardner
Graham
Grassley
Hassan
Hawley
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Inhofe
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:24 Sep 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G17SE6.011 S17SEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5508 September 17, 2019
Isakson
Johnson
Jones
Kennedy
King
Lankford
Lee
Manchin
McConnell
McSally
Moran
Murkowski
Murphy
Paul
Perdue
Peters
Portman
Risch
Romney
Rounds
Rubio
Sasse
Scott (FL)
Scott (SC)
Shaheen
Shelby
Sinema
Stabenow
Sullivan
Tester
Thune
Tillis
Toomey
Van Hollen
Wicker
Young
NAYS—30
Baldwin
Blumenthal
Brown
Cantwell
Cardin
Carper
Casey
Cortez Masto
Duckworth
Durbin
Feinstein
Gillibrand
Heinrich
Hirono
Kaine
Klobuchar
Leahy
Markey
Menendez
Merkley
Murray
Reed
Rosen
Schatz
Schumer
Smith
Udall
Warner
Whitehouse
Wyden
NOT VOTING—7
Alexander
Bennet
Booker
Harris
Roberts
Sanders
Warren
The nomination was confirmed.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the motion to re-
consider is considered made and laid
upon the table and the President will
be immediately notified of the Senate’s
action.
f
CLOTURE MOTION
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Pursuant
to rule XXII, the Chair lays before the
Senate the pending cloture motion,
which the clerk will state.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on the nomi-
nation of Kenneth A. Howery, of Texas, to be
Ambassador Extraordinary and Pleni-
potentiary of the United States of America
to the Kingdom of Sweden.
Mitch McConnell, David Perdue, John
Cornyn, John Barrasso, Mike Crapo,
John Thune, Tim Scott, John Hoeven,
Shelley Moore Capito, Kevin Cramer,
John Boozman, Steve Daines, Richard
Burr, James E. Risch, Roy Blunt,
Thom Tillis, Martha McSally.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. By unan-
imous consent, the mandatory quorum
call has been waived.
The question is, Is it the sense of the
Senate that debate on the nomination
of Kenneth A. Howery, of Texas, to be
Ambassador Extraordinary and Pleni-
potentiary of the United States of
America to the Kingdom of Sweden,
shall be brought to a close?
The yeas and nays are mandatory
under the rule.
The clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
called the roll.
Mr. THUNE. The following Senators
are necessarily absent: the Senator
from Tennessee (Mr. ALEXANDER) and
the Senator from Kansas (Mr. ROB-
ERTS).
Further, if present and voting, the
Senator from Tennessee (Mr. ALEX-
ANDER) would have voted ‘‘yea.’’
Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the
Senator from Colorado (Mr. BENNET),
the Senator from New Jersey (Mr.
BOOKER), the Senator from California
(Ms. HARRIS), the Senator from
Vermont (Mr. SANDERS), the Senator
from Massachusetts (Ms. WARREN), and
the Senator from Oregon (Mr. WYDEN)
are necessarily absent.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
CRUZ). Are there any other Senators in
the Chamber desiring to vote?
The yeas and nays resulted—yeas 63,
nays 29, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 284 Ex.]
YEAS—63
Barrasso
Blackburn
Blunt
Boozman
Braun
Burr
Capito
Carper
Cassidy
Collins
Coons
Cornyn
Cotton
Cramer
Crapo
Cruz
Daines
Enzi
Ernst
Fischer
Gardner
Graham
Grassley
Hassan
Hawley
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Inhofe
Isakson
Johnson
Jones
Kaine
Kennedy
King
Lankford
Lee
Manchin
McConnell
McSally
Merkley
Moran
Murkowski
Murphy
Paul
Perdue
Portman
Risch
Romney
Rounds
Rubio
Sasse
Scott (FL)
Scott (SC)
Shaheen
Shelby
Sinema
Sullivan
Thune
Tillis
Toomey
Warner
Wicker
Young
NAYS—29
Baldwin
Blumenthal
Brown
Cantwell
Cardin
Casey
Cortez Masto
Duckworth
Durbin
Feinstein
Gillibrand
Heinrich
Hirono
Klobuchar
Leahy
Markey
Menendez
Murray
Peters
Reed
Rosen
Schatz
Schumer
Smith
Stabenow
Tester
Udall
Van Hollen
Whitehouse
NOT VOTING—8
Alexander
Bennet
Booker
Harris
Roberts
Sanders
Warren
Wyden
The PRESIDING OFFICER. On this
vote, the yeas are 63, the nays are 29.
The motion is agreed to.
f
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the nomination.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read the nomination of Kenneth A.
Howery, of Texas, to be Ambassador
Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of
the United States of America to the
Kingdom of Sweden.
f
RECESS
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the Senate stands
in recess until 2:15 p.m.
Thereupon, the Senate, at 1:20 p.m.,
recessed until 2:15 p.m. when called to
order by the Presiding Officer (Mrs.
CAPITO).
f
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR—Continued
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Georgia.
TRIBUTE TO JOHNNY ISAKSON
Mr. PERDUE. Madam President, I
rise today with mixed emotions. I rise
to recognize an incredible Georgian, a
true statesman, a titan of the United
States Senate, and, maybe most impor-
tant, a friend to me and many people
here in this town and back home in
Georgia: Senator JOHNNY ISAKSON.
Like everyone, I was surprised and
saddened to hear of JOHNNY’s upcoming
retirement. Since my very first day in
the Senate walking through this door
back here to be sworn in with JOHNNY
escorting me, I have come to revere
this guy. He has been a mentor that I
have looked up to. He has been a great
leader for our State for many years. He
has been a reliable and effective col-
league. Most of all, he has been a friend
whom I deeply cherish.
It will be hard to see him go, but the
reality is he won’t go. He will still be
involved here. I am sure I will get the
phone calls about when we might have
disagreed on a vote or why didn’t I
think about this. He has been a tre-
mendous partner for me these last 4
years.
However, JOHNNY has left a profound
legacy that is worth celebrating. It is
one that we should all strive to follow
here in this body. He epitomizes the
best of this body, the United States
Senate.
His legacy can be summed up in one
word: service. No matter what he does,
JOHNNY puts other people before him-
self, and this has continued since the
first day I knew him back when he was
running a real estate company in At-
lanta, GA. JOHNNY puts other people
first before himself. He doesn’t do it for
recognition or fame. Many times, he
does it when people don’t even notice
or know he did it. He does it because it
is the right thing to do.
He served his country as a member of
the Georgia Air National Guard. He
served his community as a Sunday
schoolteacher for 30 years. I have done
that, and I know that is a labor of love.
That takes a lot of work.
He served the people of Georgia in
the statehouse and the State senate
and later in both houses of the U.S.
Congress. In fact, he is the only Geor-
gian to ever have done that. No matter
what role JOHNNY has been in, he is al-
ways focused on helping others.
His dedication to service is even
more impressive because it has pro-
duced incredible results for our coun-
try. This town has a lot of activity, but
it is short on results. JOHNNY knew the
difference. For example, one of JOHN-
NY’s top priorities in Congress had been
to take care of our country’s veterans.
Georgia is home to over 700,000 vet-
erans today. As a veteran himself,
JOHNNY treats each one of them as his
own sister or brother. When JOHNNY
saw the shameful conditions and mis-
management happening at the VA, he
immediately sprang into action.
Fixing the VA seemed impossible,
but no challenge was too large for
JOHNNY ISAKSON. Thanks to him, as
chairman of the Senate Veterans Ad-
ministration Committee, we have made
incredible progress on this and many
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:30 Sep 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00010 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A17SE6.001 S17SEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5509
September 17, 2019
other fronts relating to the VA. His ef-
forts, such as the VA MISSION Act,
have helped bring accountability, effi-
ciency, and trust back to the depart-
ment.
As the junior Senator from Georgia, I
have had the great pleasure of working
directly with JOHNNY on a number of
other issues affecting our State. Each
time, I saw firsthand how effective
JOHNNY ISAKSON really is. I have lik-
ened him to the Howard Baker of our
era. He speaks softly, but when he
speaks, people listen.
Working with JOHNNY, we broke the
politic logjam to provide much-needed
disaster relief for farmers in south
Georgia just this year. We secured
funding for the deepening of the Port of
Savannah after 20 years of trying to
get that port deepened just 5 feet. We
solved the tax problem under his lead-
ership for Plant Vogtle, which secured
funding for the first two nuclear reac-
tors built in this country in the last 30
years, and he helped pass the First
Step Act, which makes our justice sys-
tem fairer, while still deterring crimi-
nal behavior.
These achievements would not have
been possible without JOHNNY’s steady
hand and his leadership. When he
speaks, people listen. He gets the job
done. He understands what priority
means; yet JOHNNY isn’t the kind of
leader who gives orders and makes de-
mands. He is someone who leads from a
place of respect, compromise, and un-
derstanding with both sides of the
aisle. With JOHNNY, it doesn’t matter
who you are or what party you are in
or where you are from. He is always
there to talk and always ready to lis-
ten.
JOHNNY ISAKSON is exactly the kind
of servant leader that the Founding
Mothers and Founding Fathers envi-
sioned for our country. It is what
makes him a true statesman, and it is
a model I am sure our Founding Moth-
ers and Founding Fathers would indeed
be very proud of today.
Of course, the road has not always
been easy for JOHNNY—not every battle
has been won, not all news has been
good. What I have always admired
about JOHNNY, though, is his stalwart
resilience. Whenever circumstances
have tried to knock him down, he al-
ways gets back up with a smile, and he
keeps serving others. You know you
feel guilty when you are around JOHN-
NY ISAKSON when you are having a bad
day and JOHNNY says: How are you
doing? You better say great because he
is going to give you that same answer.
As he and Dianne head into this next
chapter of their life, I have no doubt
that JOHNNY will continue to serve oth-
ers and help make our world a better
place because that is exactly who he is.
Scripture tells us in Matthew 23 that
‘‘The greatest among you will be a
servant.’’ When you consider all that
JOHNNY has done, it is clear to me that
JOHNNY ISAKSON truly is the greatest
among us.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from California.
GUN CONTROL MEASURES
Mrs. FEINSTEIN. Madam President,
to my right is an August 11, 2019, cover
from the Washington Post. It shows the
faces of the 423 people killed in mass
shootings between the Sandy Hook
massacre in 2012 and the recent shoot-
ing in Dayton, OH. This is more than a
third of the 1,196 people killed in mass
shootings since 1966, so shootings have
grown dramatically in this country.
This should not be the face of America.
I think we have got to do much more
to stop the plague of gun violence that
continues to take the lives of the most
innocent among us, including the 20
small beautiful children who lost their
lives that December in Newtown. I
have their photo at home, and I look at
it almost every day, and it is indeed a
heartbreaker.
Today, I would like to speak about a
few bills that I believe the Senate
should be voting on right now. Specifi-
cally, we should be voting on requiring
universal background checks, banning
assault weapons, banning high-capac-
ity magazines, and supporting enact-
ment of extreme risk laws.
The House passed a strong bill on
universal background checks that has
been sitting on Leader MCCONNELL’s
desk now for more than 200 days. Ac-
cording to a Washington Post-ABC
News poll, 89 percent of Americans sup-
port universal background checks, and
that includes 83 percent of Repub-
licans; yet that bill sits on Leader
MCCONNELL’s desk.
We have seen even more lives lost in
the last several weeks while this bill
languishes on the Senate calendar. The
shootings in Gilroy, Dayton, El Paso,
Midland-Odessa took the lives of 41
people, including a 6-year-old boy
named Steven Romero. A background
check could have prevented the shooter
in Odessa and Midland from getting his
gun.
Unfortunately, he was able to pur-
chase a firearm through a private sale
that does not require a background
check, and still, we wait for a vote on
this bill to close the gaping loopholes
of our background check system.
Please, Leader MCCONNELL, let us vote
on this bill.
Sadly, what has become all too com-
mon is that each of the shootings I
mentioned involved an assault weapon.
The Gilroy shooter used a WASR 10,
which is an AK–47 style semiautomatic
weapon. The rifle was equipped with a
75-round drum magazine. In this case,
the shooter intentionally crossed into
Nevada to purchase the gun, as the sale
of assault weapons is banned in Cali-
fornia. The Dayton shooter used an
AM15 assault rifle equipped with a 100-
round drum magazine. The El Paso
shooter also used a WASR 10 rifle, and
the shooter in Midland and Odessa used
an AR–15-style rifle.
These are weapons of war, plain and
simple. Their main function is to kill
as many people as possible. In fact, in
two of these shootings—Gilroy and
Dayton—law enforcement arrived in
less than a minute, but in that time,
dozens of people had been injured or
killed.
I strongly believe that reinstating
the Federal ban on assault weapons
could have saved some of the lives that
have been recently lost. As the New
York Times reported in an op-ed titled,
‘‘That Assault Weapons Ban? It Really
Did Work,’’ data shows that, compared
with the decade before its adoption, the
Federal assault weapons ban, in effect
from September 1994 through 2004, was
associated with a 25-percent drop in
gun massacres—a massacre is from 6 to
8 people—and a 40-percent drop in fa-
talities from 81 to 49. We need to rein-
state the Federal assault weapons ban.
It worked before, and it will work
again.
We also need to ban high-capacity
magazines. My legislation to ban as-
sault weapons includes this provision,
and there are standalone bills as well.
Just a few weeks ago, at Northern Po-
lice Station in San Francisco, I had the
opportunity to examine a 100-round
magazine personally—two rounds that
fit on a rifle or a revolver. I couldn’t
believe it, 100 rounds that could be used
just round after round after round so
easily. It is lightweight. It is simple to
use. It is diabolical. And the only pur-
pose of it is to kill as many people as
possible as fast as possible.
Keeping high-capacity magazines out
of the hands of mass shooters is par-
ticularly important because, many
times, shootings are only stopped when
the shooter has to pause and reload. In
2011, the shooter in Tucson, who shot
then-Congresswoman Gabrielle Gif-
fords, was only stopped when bystand-
ers wrestled the shooter to the ground
after he stopped firing to reload. Civil-
ians have no use for these devices, so
all they are doing is costing innocent
life.
Finally, the Senate should be consid-
ering legislation on extreme risk laws.
Seventeen States and the District of
Columbia already have them. These
laws allow family members and law en-
forcement to go to court before a judge
and get a temporary lawful order to
keep a gun out of the hands of someone
who is dangerous. These orders involve
judicial findings, presentation of evi-
dence, and court proceedings that pro-
tect people’s due process rights. There
is legislation, too. It is called the Ex-
treme Risk Protection Order Act of
2019. It would create new grants to
incentivize States to enact their own
extreme risk laws.
The House Judiciary Committee re-
cently passed companion legislation,
and polls have shown the majority of
Americans support these measures.
According to the same Washington
Post-ABC News poll I mentioned ear-
lier, 86 percent of Americans support
these measures—86 percent, including
85 percent of Republicans.
I hope Members will listen to this be-
cause these are needless deaths and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:30 Sep 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00011 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G17SE6.018 S17SEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5510 September 17, 2019
needless murders. They need not have
happened. Simply put, this body and
the Senate Judiciary Committee
should really be taking action today to
protect against gun violence.
Last week, the House Judiciary Com-
mittee passed three bills that would
ban high-capacity magazines, would
prohibit people convicted of hate
crimes from possessing firearms, and
would incentivize States to create ex-
treme risk laws. I am so disappointed
our colleagues on the other side of the
aisle have blocked these commonsense
measures for years, and I would appeal
to them: Please, it is time for us to act.
We cannot let another mass shooting
go by and not take even these simple
steps.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant bill clerk pro-
ceeded to call the roll.
Mr. COONS. Madam President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mrs.
BLACKBURN). Without objection, it is so
ordered.
Mr. COONS. Madam President, I
come to the floor to recognize the crit-
ical moment that is before us as a
country. We have an opportunity to
make real progress on bipartisan gun
reforms that will help keep our com-
munities safer while respecting our
treasured Second Amendment rights.
America’s epidemic of gun violence
continues to devastate communities
and families across our Nation. Last
month, in just August alone, mass
shootings in El Paso, in Dayton, and in
Odessa claimed the lives of more than
50 innocent Americans. Individual
Americans, meanwhile, fall victim to
gun violence every single day. Whether
through suicide or homicide, they take
far too many lives far too early. Just
this past weekend, four Delawareans in
my hometown were shot, and in 2017,
up and down my home State, 111 Dela-
wareans were killed by firearms. Guns
are now the third leading cause of
death for Delaware’s children under
age 17.
Folks, these are not just numbers;
each gun death is a son, a daughter, a
neighbor, a congregation member, or a
friend.
In a recent meeting with Moms De-
mand Action in my office in Wil-
mington, I listened to young parents
who were confronting for the first time
the reality of active shooter drills in
schools as they sent their children to
school for the first time and had them
come home and ask questions about
why we as parents could not do more to
keep them safe in school.
Viewing this ongoing crisis through
the eyes of our children—those who are
told to be quiet, to hide in a closet, to
wait out a moment of sheer terror—is a
reminder that our children are scared,
that our families are scared, that our
neighbors are scared, and that we can
and must do more to address this epi-
demic.
Some of the most crucial steps we
take must be taken at the Federal
level. Yet, to make progress, the party
that controls this body and this floor
has to join hands with those of us in
my party—those willing to work across
the aisle in a responsible way—and
lead. Frankly, more than anything
else, as has been said by the Repub-
lican majority leader, President Trump
needs to take a clear and firm position
and stick to it. The American people
deserve no less. If this body is going to
take up and pass gun control legisla-
tion, it will require our President to
lead.
I think bringing bipartisan bills to
the floor here for a vote is a great place
to start. I want to talk for a few min-
utes about one of those bills that I in-
troduced with Republican Senator PAT
TOOMEY, of the neighboring Common-
wealth of Pennsylvania, called the
NICS Denial Notification Act.
It has a simple objective. For those
who are prohibited by law from owning
a weapon—those who are convicted fel-
ons or who have been adjudicated men-
tally ill—but who go to a firearms deal-
er, fill out the background check form,
lie on it, and say they are able to buy
a gun but get denied, get turned down
once that NICS background check is
run, what do you think happens with
that information? Where does the in-
formation go showing that convicted
felons are trying to buy weapons once
they have been denied?
In my home State, it goes nowhere.
In 34 States, it goes nowhere. In States
across the country, not just in Dela-
ware but in New York, Kentucky, and
Texas, local law enforcement may
never learn about a convicted felon
who is actively trying to buy a gun and
who is often committing another of-
fense by lying about it in that attempt.
Our bill would fix that.
It requires Federal authorities to
alert State law enforcement of any
background check denial so State au-
thorities can decide whether to inves-
tigate or to prosecute or to go and pay
a visit to someone given this important
and imminent sign of an intention to
engage in criminal activity.
It also requires our Federal Depart-
ment of Justice to publish an annual
report with statistics about its pros-
ecution of background check denial
cases so we in Congress and so folks
around the country can better enforce
our existing gun laws.
What I hear, time and again in town-
halls back home in Delaware, is that
folks want us to enforce our existing
gun laws more thoroughly and more
wisely, and that is exactly what this
proposal would do.
In Delaware, I have met with and
heard from law enforcement leaders up
and down our State. The chiefs of po-
lice from our State police, our county
police, and our municipal police have
uniformly said they would welcome the
information of those convicted felons
in their towns, in their counties, or in
our State who are trying to get their
hands on guns.
At a hearing back in May in the Sen-
ate Judiciary Committee, Chairman
LINDSEY GRAHAM said this proposal was
a painfully obvious bipartisan bill that
we should take up and pass. He has
committed to me that he would like to
see it pass committee. There are a lot
of other Senators who agree, not just
Democrats like Senators DUCKWORTH,
JONES, and KLOBUCHAR but also friends
from across the aisle. Senators
PERDUE, RUBIO, and COLLINS have
joined in cosponsoring this, and I know
there are other Senators who are eager
or who are willing to join in the days
ahead. The NICS Denial Notification
Act is exactly the sort of common-
sense, narrowly crafted bipartisan bill
that would pass the Senate tomorrow if
Leader MCCONNELL would bring it to
the floor for a vote.
Simply put, bills like this and bills
such as we discussed at that hearing on
the Committee on the Judiciary re-
garding extreme risk protection orders
provide an appropriate way for there to
be due process protections for demon-
strably mentally ill individuals who
threaten harm to others by having
their guns removed from them for a
brief period or for there to be universal
background checks, such as legislation
that advanced in the House 6 months
ago on a bipartisan basis. These sorts
of proposals can help to keep guns
away from people who should not have
them.
It is clear to me, from poll after poll,
survey after survey, and tragic story
after tragic story, that the American
people want us to act, and they want us
to act on background checks. We
should vote on the Senate companion
to H.R. 8. It is long past time for our
leader, the majority leader, to join
with the majority of the country and
put that bill on the Senate floor.
Just last week, the House Committee
on the Judiciary passed the Keep
Americans Safe Act, which would pro-
hibit the high-capacity magazines that
have been used in so many of these re-
cent, tragic mass shootings. If the lead-
er were to bring this to the floor and it
were to pass, it, along with all of the
other bills I just referenced, would help
to save lives.
It is my hope that our President will
see this moment as an opportunity for
real leadership and will listen to the
majority of Americans, the majority of
Democrats, the majority of Repub-
licans, and the majority of gun owners
who would like to see us act in a re-
sponsible and bipartisan way in order
to reduce the easy access criminals
have to guns and will take an impor-
tant step forward in making our coun-
try, our schools, our communities, and
our families safe.
What I hear back home in Delaware
is that the overwhelming majority of
Americans are sick and tired of our
thoughts and prayers after every
shooting. They would be so much more
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:24 Sep 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00012 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G17SE6.020 S17SEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5511
September 17, 2019
inspired if we actually took the risk of
enacting legislation together. I think
it is long past time for us to do just
that, and I hope we will in the days
ahead.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk proceeded to
call the roll.
Mr. BLUNT. Madam President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The question is, Will the Senate ad-
vise and consent to the Howery nomi-
nation?
Mr. LANKFORD. Madam President, I
ask for the yeas and nays.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there a
sufficient second?
There appears to be a sufficient sec-
ond.
The clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk called the roll.
Mr. THUNE. The following Senators
are necessarily absent: the Senator
from Tennessee (Mr. ALEXANDER) and
the Senator from Kansas (Mr. ROB-
ERTS).
Further, if present and voting, the
Senator from Tennessee (Mr. ALEX-
ANDER) would have voted ‘‘yea.’’
Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the
Senator from New Jersey (Mr. BOOKER),
the Senator from California (Ms. HAR-
RIS), the Senator from Vermont (Mr.
SANDERS), and the Senator from Massa-
chusetts (Ms. WARREN) are necessarily
absent.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. CAS-
SIDY). Are there any other Senators in
the Chamber desiring to vote?
The result was announced—yeas 62,
nays 32, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 285 Ex.]
YEAS—62
Barrasso
Blackburn
Blunt
Boozman
Braun
Burr
Capito
Cassidy
Collins
Coons
Cornyn
Cotton
Cramer
Crapo
Cruz
Daines
Enzi
Ernst
Fischer
Gardner
Graham
Grassley
Hassan
Hawley
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Inhofe
Isakson
Johnson
Jones
Kaine
Kennedy
King
Lankford
Lee
Manchin
McConnell
McSally
Merkley
Moran
Murkowski
Murphy
Paul
Perdue
Portman
Risch
Romney
Rounds
Rubio
Sasse
Scott (FL)
Scott (SC)
Shaheen
Shelby
Sinema
Sullivan
Thune
Tillis
Toomey
Warner
Wicker
Young
NAYS—32
Baldwin
Bennet
Blumenthal
Brown
Cantwell
Cardin
Carper
Casey
Cortez Masto
Duckworth
Durbin
Feinstein
Gillibrand
Heinrich
Hirono
Klobuchar
Leahy
Markey
Menendez
Murray
Peters
Reed
Rosen
Schatz
Schumer
Smith
Stabenow
Tester
Udall
Van Hollen
Whitehouse
Wyden
NOT VOTING—6
Alexander
Booker
Harris
Roberts
Sanders
Warren
The nomination was confirmed.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the motions to re-
consider are considered made and laid
upon the table, and the President will
be immediately notified of the Senate’s
action.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Alaska.
Mr. SULLIVAN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the remaining
votes in this series be 10 minutes in
length.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
CLOTURE MOTION
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Pursuant
to rule XXII, the Chair lays before the
Senate the pending cloture motion,
which the clerk will state.
The legislative clerk read as follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on the nomi-
nation of Robert A. Destro, of Virginia, to be
Assistant Secretary of State for Democracy,
Human Rights, and Labor.
Mitch McConnell, David Perdue, John
Cornyn, John Barrasso, Mike Crapo,
John Thune, Tim Scott, John Hoeven,
Shelley Moore Capito, Kevin Cramer,
John Boozman, Steve Daines, Richard
Burr, James E. Risch, Roy Blunt,
Thom Tillis, Martha McSally.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. By unan-
imous consent, the mandatory quorum
call has been waived.
The question is, Is it the sense of the
Senate that debate on the nomination
of Robert A. Destro, of Virginia, to be
Assistant Secretary of State for De-
mocracy, Human Rights, and Labor,
shall be brought to a close?
The yeas and nays are mandatory
under the rule.
The clerk will call the roll.
The bill clerk called the roll.
Mr. THUNE. The following Senators
are necessarily absent: the Senator
from Tennessee (Mr. ALEXANDER), the
Senator from Texas (Mr. CRUZ), and the
Senator from Kansas (Mr. ROBERTS).
Further, if present and voting, the
Senator from Tennessee (Mr. ALEX-
ANDER) would have voted ‘‘yea.’’
Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the
Senator from New Jersey (Mr. BOOKER),
the Senator from California (Ms. HAR-
RIS), the Senator from Vermont (Mr.
SANDERS), and the Senator from Massa-
chusetts (Ms. WARREN) are necessarily
absent.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Are there
any other Senators in the Chamber de-
siring to vote?
The yeas and nays resulted—yeas 49,
nays 44, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 286 Ex.]
YEAS—49
Barrasso
Blackburn
Blunt
Boozman
Braun
Burr
Capito
Cassidy
Cornyn
Cotton
Cramer
Crapo
Daines
Enzi
Ernst
Fischer
Gardner
Graham
Grassley
Hawley
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Inhofe
Isakson
Johnson
Kennedy
Lankford
Lee
McConnell
McSally
Moran
Murkowski
Paul
Perdue
Portman
Risch
Romney
Rounds
Rubio
Sasse
Scott (FL)
Scott (SC)
Shelby
Sullivan
Thune
Tillis
Toomey
Wicker
Young
NAYS—44
Baldwin
Bennet
Blumenthal
Brown
Cantwell
Cardin
Carper
Casey
Collins
Coons
Cortez Masto
Duckworth
Durbin
Feinstein
Gillibrand
Hassan
Heinrich
Hirono
Jones
Kaine
King
Klobuchar
Leahy
Manchin
Markey
Menendez
Merkley
Murphy
Murray
Peters
Reed
Rosen
Schatz
Schumer
Shaheen
Sinema
Smith
Stabenow
Tester
Udall
Van Hollen
Warner
Whitehouse
Wyden
NOT VOTING—7
Alexander
Booker
Cruz
Harris
Roberts
Sanders
Warren
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The yeas
are 49 and the nays are 44.
The motion is agreed to.
f
CLOTURE MOTION
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Pursuant
to rule XXII, the Chair lays before the
Senate the pending cloture motion,
which the clerk will state.
The bill clerk read as follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on the nomi-
nation of Brent James McIntosh, of Michi-
gan, to be an Under Secretary of the Treas-
ury.
Mitch McConnell, David Perdue, John
Cornyn, John Barrasso, Mike Crapo,
John Thune, Tim Scott, John Hoeven,
Shelley Moore Capito, Kevin Cramer,
John Boozman, Steve Daines, Richard
Burr, James E. Risch, Roy Blunt,
Thom Tillis, Martha McSally.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. By unan-
imous consent, the mandatory quorum
call has been waived.
The question is, Is it the sense of the
Senate that debate on the nomination
of Brent James McIntosh, of Michigan,
to be Under Secretary of the Treasury,
shall be brought to a close?
The yeas and nays are mandatory
under the rule.
The clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant bill clerk called
the roll.
Mr. THUNE. The following Senators
are necessarily absent: the Senator
from Tennessee (Mr. ALEXANDER) and
the Senator from Kansas (Mr. ROB-
ERTS).
Further, if present and voting, the
Senator from Tennessee (Mr. ALEX-
ANDER) would have voted ‘‘yea.’’
Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the
Senator from New Jersey (Mr. BOOKER),
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:33 Sep 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00013 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G17SE6.021 S17SEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5512 September 17, 2019
the Senator from California (Ms. HAR-
RIS), the Senator from Vermont (Mr.
SANDERS), and the Senator from Massa-
chusetts (Ms. WARREN) are necessarily
absent.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Are there
any other Senators in the Chamber de-
siring to vote?
The yeas and nays resulted—yeas 54,
nays 40, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 287 Ex.]
YEAS—54
Barrasso
Blackburn
Blunt
Boozman
Braun
Burr
Capito
Cassidy
Collins
Cornyn
Cotton
Cramer
Crapo
Cruz
Daines
Enzi
Ernst
Fischer
Gardner
Graham
Grassley
Hawley
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Inhofe
Isakson
Johnson
Jones
Kennedy
Lankford
Lee
Manchin
McConnell
McSally
Moran
Murkowski
Murphy
Perdue
Portman
Risch
Romney
Rounds
Rubio
Sasse
Scott (FL)
Scott (SC)
Shelby
Sinema
Sullivan
Thune
Tillis
Toomey
Wicker
Young
NAYS—40
Baldwin
Bennet
Blumenthal
Brown
Cantwell
Cardin
Carper
Casey
Coons
Cortez Masto
Duckworth
Durbin
Feinstein
Gillibrand
Hassan
Heinrich
Hirono
Kaine
King
Klobuchar
Leahy
Markey
Menendez
Merkley
Murray
Paul
Peters
Reed
Rosen
Schatz
Schumer
Shaheen
Smith
Stabenow
Tester
Udall
Van Hollen
Warner
Whitehouse
Wyden
NOT VOTING—6
Alexander
Booker
Harris
Roberts
Sanders
Warren
The PRESIDING OFFICER. On this
vote, the yeas are 54, the nays are 40.
The motion is agreed to.
f
CLOTURE MOTION
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Pursuant
to rule XXII, the Chair lays before the
Senate the pending cloture motion,
which the clerk will state.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on the nomi-
nation of Brian Callanan, of New Jersey, to
be General Counsel for the Department of
the Treasury.
Mitch McConnell, David Perdue, John
Cornyn, John Barrasso, Mike Crapo,
John Thune, Tim Scott, John Hoeven,
Shelley Moore Capito, Kevin Cramer,
John Boozman, Steve Daines, Richard
Burr, James E. Risch, Roy Blunt,
Thom Tillis, Martha McSally.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. By unan-
imous consent, the mandatory quorum
call has been waived.
The question is, Is it the sense of the
Senate that debate on the nomination
of Brian Callanan, of New Jersey, to be
General Counsel for the Department of
the Treasury, shall be brought to a
close?
The yeas and nays are mandatory
under the rule.
The clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
called the roll.
Mr. THUNE. The following Senators
are necessarily absent: the Senator
from Tennessee (Mr. ALEXANDER), the
Senator from Wisconsin (Mr. JOHNSON),
and the Senator from Kansas (Mr. ROB-
ERTS).
Further, if present and voting, the
Senator from Tennessee (Mr. ALEX-
ANDER) would have voted ‘‘yea.’’
Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the
Senator from New Jersey (Mr. BOOKER),
the Senator from California (Ms. HAR-
RIS), the Senator from Minnesota (Ms.
KLOBUCHAR), the Senator from
Vermont (Mr. SANDERS), and the Sen-
ator from Massachusetts (Ms. WARREN)
are necessarily absent.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Are there
any other Senators in the Chamber de-
siring to vote?
The yeas and nays resulted—yeas 55,
nays 37, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 288 Ex.]
YEAS—55
Barrasso
Blackburn
Blunt
Boozman
Braun
Burr
Capito
Cardin
Carper
Cassidy
Collins
Cornyn
Cotton
Cramer
Crapo
Cruz
Daines
Enzi
Ernst
Fischer
Gardner
Graham
Grassley
Hawley
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Inhofe
Isakson
Jones
Kennedy
Lankford
Lee
Manchin
McConnell
McSally
Moran
Murkowski
Murphy
Perdue
Portman
Risch
Romney
Rounds
Rubio
Sasse
Scott (FL)
Scott (SC)
Shelby
Sinema
Sullivan
Thune
Tillis
Toomey
Wicker
Young
NAYS—37
Baldwin
Bennet
Blumenthal
Brown
Cantwell
Casey
Coons
Cortez Masto
Duckworth
Durbin
Feinstein
Gillibrand
Hassan
Heinrich
Hirono
Kaine
King
Leahy
Markey
Menendez
Merkley
Murray
Paul
Peters
Reed
Rosen
Schatz
Schumer
Shaheen
Smith
Stabenow
Tester
Udall
Van Hollen
Warner
Whitehouse
Wyden
NOT VOTING—8
Alexander
Booker
Harris
Johnson
Klobuchar
Roberts
Sanders
Warren
The PRESIDING OFFICER. On this
vote, the yeas are 55, the nays are 37.
The motion is agreed to.
f
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the nomination.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read the nomination of Brian Callanan,
of New Jersey, to be General Counsel
for the Department of the Treasury.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The ma-
jority leader is recognized.
ORDER OF PROCEDURE
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that notwith-
standing rule XXII, the postcloture
time on the Destro, McIntosh, and
Callanan nominations expire at 11 a.m.
on Wednesday, September 18, and if the
nominations are confirmed, the mo-
tions to reconsider be considered made
and laid upon the table and the Presi-
dent be immediately notified of the
Senate’s action.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
LEGISLATIVE SESSION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate proceed to legislative session, with
Senators permitted to speak therein
for up to 10 minutes each.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
HONORING THE CENTENNIAL OF
THE AEROSPACE INDUSTRIES
ASSOCIATION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate proceed to the consideration of S.
Res. 314, submitted earlier today.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the resolution by
title.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
as follows:
A resolution (S. Res. 314) honoring the cen-
tennial of the Aerospace Industries Associa-
tion.
There being no objection, the Senate
proceeded to consider the resolution.
Mr. MCCONNELL. I ask unanimous
consent that the resolution be agreed
to, the preamble be agreed to, and the
motions to reconsider be considered
made and laid upon the table with no
intervening action or debate.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The resolution (S. Res. 314) was
agreed to.
The preamble was agreed to.
(The resolution, with its preamble, is
printed in today’s RECORD under ‘‘Sub-
mitted Resolutions.’’)
f
ORDERS FOR WEDNESDAY,
SEPTEMBER 18, 2019
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that when the
Senate completes its business today, it
adjourn until 10 a.m., Wednesday, Sep-
tember 18; further, that following the
prayer and pledge, the morning hour be
deemed expired, the Journal of pro-
ceedings be approved to date, the time
for the two leaders be reserved for their
use later in the day, morning business
be closed, and the Senate proceed to
executive session and resume consider-
ation of the Destro nomination under
the previous order.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
objection?
Without objection, it is so ordered.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:33 Sep 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00014 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A17SE6.007 S17SEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5513
September 17, 2019
ORDER FOR ADJOURNMENT
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, if
there is no further business to come be-
fore the Senate, I ask unanimous con-
sent that it stand adjourned under the
previous order, following the remarks
of our Democratic colleagues.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The Senator from Michigan is recog-
nized.
f
GUN CONTROL MEASURES
Ms. STABENOW. Mr. President, I
rise this evening with many of my
Democratic colleagues to speak about
an issue that is on the minds of fami-
lies all across our country. I thank
Senator MURPHY for organizing this
very important action this evening.
Back-to-school always brings back
such great memories of my own chil-
dren, my son and daughter. I remember
them packing crayons and paper in
their new backpacks and eagerly head-
ing off to meet their new teachers and
catch up with friends to talk about
what they did during the summer. It
had always been such an exciting time
of year for them. Unfortunately, it is
not the same now for their children,
my grandchildren.
I have two grandsons and a grand-
daughter who are now in school. The
first new question that was asked when
buying their backpacks was: Do you
want a bulletproof backpack? Do you
want a bulletproof backpack, was one
of the questions in buying their
backpacks for school.
I also think of 2 weeks ago when my
youngest grandson started second
grade. My daughter and I were talking
about the fact that in addition to all of
the excitement and the energy around
starting school, there were changes—
like a new front door and bulletproof
windows and a new way to get into the
school, walking in and having to stop
and buzz and go through another door,
and all of the changes and the costs
that have gone into reconfiguring the
school so you can’t walk directly into
classrooms.
It was important for the school to do
that, but I am sure that what they
would rather have been doing is adding
more music and art classes and teach-
ers and technology and other things for
the children in that elementary school,
rather than bulletproof windows and
safety doors to stop a gunman from
getting into the school.
Americans have learned that whether
it is a school, a store, a church, a coun-
try music festival, a movie theater, or
even sitting on your front porch, no
place is safe anymore. Thanks to this
country’s epidemic of gun violence,
even a child playing football in his own
backyard or doing her homework at
the kitchen table in her own home can
become the target of a stray bullet.
Last week, Senate Democrats re-
leased a report that shows 100 Ameri-
cans are killed by guns every single
day—100 people every single day. That
is enough people to fill every desk in
this Chamber day after day after day—
100 people killed by gun violence every
single day.
In fact, since the House passed the
Bipartisan Background Checks Act,
there have been an estimated 20,200
people killed by gun violence, 12,322
suicides using a gun, and 808 children—
808 children—killed by firearms.
Those are some of the numbers, but
we are not here tonight to just talk
about numbers. We are talking about
people’s lives. These people have names
like Judy and Barbara, Mary Jo and
Mary Lou, and Richard and Tyler.
These six people were killed in 2016
when an Uber driver went on a shoot-
ing spree across Kalamazoo County,
MI. Two other people, Abigail and
Tiana, were gravely wounded.
Tiana watched the car coming to-
ward her and saw the driver pull out a
handgun. Tiana told her daughters to
run and stood still to shield them. Once
she knew they were safe, she tried to
get away too. The gunman pulled the
trigger 15 times. Tiana was shot four
times. Only when she laid on the
ground and played dead did the bullets
stop.
Broken bodies, shattered families,
grieving communities. This story is
one that is repeated across this coun-
try every single day now, and it has to
stop.
The American people expect the Sen-
ate to do its job and take action to
make their lives better and safer. Un-
fortunately, that isn’t happening, and
the American people are paying the
price.
Two hundred and two days ago—202
days ago the Democratic House passed
the Bipartisan Background Checks
Act—202 days ago—which would re-
quire a background check for every gun
sale, something pretty simple and com-
mon sense. That could have stopped
the shooter in West Texas who killed 7
innocent people and wounded another
25. It makes you wonder how many of
the 301 mass shootings that have hap-
pened since January 1 could have been
prevented and how many lives could
have been saved.
Requiring a background check for
every gun purchase isn’t controversial.
In fact, it is what Americans are ask-
ing for. It is pretty common sense.
I come from rural Michigan, and in
Northern Michigan my whole family is
involved in hunting and all of the great
outdoor sports. I have lived with legal,
safe gun ownership my whole life. No
one in my family believes that some-
one should be able to buy a gun with-
out getting a background check. It is
just common sense.
That is why more than 90 percent of
Americans want Congress to do just
that—to pass universal background
checks. Yet the bill sits on the Senate
Republican leader’s desk, Senator
MCCONNELL’s desk, waiting, waiting,
waiting for action for 202 days. While
MITCH MCCONNELL and President
Trump wait for approval from Big
Money special interests, Americans are
dying. It is time to act.
The beginning of school should be
something our young people look for-
ward to, not fear.
Next year, students at Fruitport
High School in West Michigan will at-
tend a brandnew school in a brandnew
building. It has all sorts of amenities—
10 science classrooms with spacious
labs, a drafting lab with a 3D printer,
and art studios complete with pottery
kilns. It will also feature curved hall-
ways to reduce a shooter’s sight line,
shatterproof glass, and wing walls that
will provide places for students to hide
in classrooms.
It is great that the school district is
investing in the safety of its students,
but it is also heartbreaking that they
have to do so. Students in Fruitport
and across Michigan should be focused
on next week’s math test or tomorrow
night’s football game, not where they
can duck and take cover in their
school.
It is time for America to stop failing
our young people. Majority Leader
MCCONNELL, what are you waiting for?
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Illinois.
Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, I thank
my colleague from Michigan and those
who have joined together on the Demo-
cratic side to speak out on the issue of
gun safety this afternoon and this
evening.
I guess one of the real blessings in
life is to have a grandchild, and I have
got six really good ones. One is a little
girl who has just entered the third
grade in a public school in Brooklyn,
NY. She is a sweetheart, and I love her
to pieces.
She came home to tell her mom and
dad last year, when she was in the sec-
ond grade, that they just had a drill in
her classroom, and they told her what
to do if someone showed up in the hall-
way or outside with a gun: hide under
the desk, stay away from the windows.
To think that little 7-year-old girl
had to receive that kind of warning in
America today breaks my heart. Why?
Does anyone really honestly believe
that when the Second Amendment to
the Constitution was written they en-
visioned the fear that would go
through the minds of children who,
after Connecticut, worry that some
shooter will come in with a semiauto-
matic weapon and kill dozens of kids in
one moment? That is the reality of gun
violence today. That is one of the reali-
ties, and it is one that just breaks my
heart as a father and grandfather.
Over the past few weeks, our Nation
has been rocked by mass shootings in
El Paso, Dayton, and Odessa, TX, that
left 38 victims dead and dozens more
injured.
According to the Gun Violence Ar-
chive, so far this year there have been
300 mass shootings. That means shoot-
ings where more than four people were
shot in one event. This is in addition to
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:33 Sep 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00015 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G17SE6.034 S17SEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5514 September 17, 2019
the daily toll of gun homicides, sui-
cides, and accidents that kill nearly
40,000 Americans a year.
Every week, I see the grim statistics
of people killed and wounded by gun-
fire in my home State of Illinois. Just
this past weekend—just this past week-
end, in Chicago, at least 8 people were
killed and 19 more injured by gunfire.
Gun violence is an epidemic in Amer-
ica. It affects communities large and
small. I have met countless people who
have lost loved ones or who have been
traumatized by gun violence.
Millions of Americans now live in
fear that when they send their kids—or
grandkids—off to school, when they go
to a movie theater, a concert, or to
church, or even when they sit on their
front porch, they could be shot. This is
unacceptable. America is better than
this.
There are many people in this great
Nation who are doing all they can to
try to reduce the epidemic of shoot-
ings—parents, community leaders,
teachers, faith leaders, law enforce-
ment, the medical community, and
public officials, but what are we doing
in the U.S. Senate? The answer is noth-
ing—nothing.
There is no single reform that can
prevent every shooting, but we know
there are big gaps in our gun laws that
make it easy for felons, abusers, and
mentally unstable people to get their
hands on guns. Closing these gaps and
loopholes in our background checks
system would significantly reduce
shootings and save lives.
It is estimated that 22 percent of gun
sales nationwide currently occur with-
out a background check. Now, I know
the critics say: Oh, great, Senator. You
are going to have better background
checks. Let me tell you, the people who
want these guns are not going to go
through that process. It turns out that,
last year, 100,000 of them were ignorant
enough to try, and they were caught in
the act. They had been disqualified
from purchasing a firearm under Fed-
eral law, and yet they made that try.
Why would we ever let them success-
fully buy a firearm? Without a real
background check, they will.
Gun show and internet loopholes are
the problems that haunt us today.
They enable unlicensed sellers to make
sales without even checking on the
background of the buyer. According to
news reports, the gunman in the Odes-
sa, TX, mass shooting bought his gun
through a private sale with no back-
ground check because he previously
failed a check. Clearly, there is a gap
in the law that needs to be closed.
Polling consistently shows that 90
percent of Americans support closing
these gaps in the background check
system. How many other issues do 90
percent of Americans agree on, to have
that kind of number, for Democrats,
Republicans, and Independents?
The people of America are trying to
tell the Senators to do something, and
yet Senator MCCONNELL refuses. Even
the conservative Republican Lieuten-
ant Governor of Texas, Dan Patrick,
has called for closing these gaps in the
background check system. I hope the
Senators from Lieutenant Governor
Patrick’s State are listening. The
House of Representatives have listened,
and they have done so.
The bipartisan House background
check bill, H.R. 8, passed the House 240
to 190, on a bipartisan rollcall on Feb-
ruary 27. Here we are, over 200 days
later. The Senate, which does virtually
nothing every single day, through Sen-
ator MCCONNELL’s leadership, refuses
to even consider this bill. Senate Re-
publicans refuse to even consider the
bipartisan House-passed gun safety leg-
islation that Americans of both polit-
ical parties overwhelmingly support.
In fact, they are avoiding taking up
any bills at all. Week after week after
week, we vote on nomination after
nomination after nomination. We hard-
ly ever debate. We hardly ever vote on
legislation to address the needs the
American people say are the primary
concerns on their minds.
While Republican leadership in the
Senate these days doesn’t seem to like
to vote, they do like to tweet. Perhaps
we shouldn’t have been surprised when
one of our Republican colleagues, the
junior Senator from Texas, responded
to a recent mass shooting by tweeting
criticism of gun laws in the city of Chi-
cago.
There seems to be a fundamental
misunderstanding by this Senator and
some other Republicans who believe
that, despite what the maps show us,
Chicago is actually an island. Well, it
is not. They seem to think there is no
way that people could actually drive 20
minutes into northwest Indiana, go to
a gun show, buy a truckload of guns,
and sell them in the alleyways of the
city of Chicago at night. It happens. It
is the reason why a State law can’t
solve the problem.
Chicago’s mayor—my friend—Lori
Lightfoot, pointed out the obvious to
the junior Senator from Texas. Sixty
percent of illegal firearms recovered in
Chicago come from out of State. That
is why we need a Federal background
check reform bill like the one that
passed the House.
Mayor Lightfoot is right. She gra-
ciously invited Senator CRUZ, our col-
league, to come visit Chicago, to see
that it is not an island—it is connected
to other States—and to see what the
city is doing, trying to work to reduce
the scourge of gun violence, and how
Republican Senators, if they really
want to help, can help by passing legis-
lation for true background checks. I
hope that the Senator from Texas ac-
cepts the invitation. It is a great town.
We would like to show it to him.
Another area in which this do-noth-
ing Senate has fallen short is when it
comes to public safety threats posed by
violent White supremacists. I have in-
troduced the Domestic Terrorism Pre-
vention Act. It is the only legislation
pending in the Senate to address White
supremacist violence.
The gunman in the August 3 mass
shooting in El Paso posted a White su-
premacist manifesto before he shot and
killed 22 people and injured 24 others at
a Walmart. Unfortunately, this was not
an isolated incident.
An unclassified May 2017 FBI-DHS
joint intelligence bulletin found that
‘‘white supremacist extremism poses
[a] persistent threat of lethal vio-
lence.’’ It also found that White su-
premacists ‘‘were responsible for 49
homicides in 26 attacks from 2000 to
2016 . . . more than any other domestic
extremist movement.’’
At a July hearing, FBI Director Mr.
Wray told me that the majority of do-
mestic terrorism arrests this year in-
volved White supremacists, White na-
tionalists—and now they call them-
selves White identitarians, whatever
that means.
It is clear that violent White su-
premacists are the most significant do-
mestic terrorism threat facing Amer-
ica today. What have we done to ad-
dress this? Nothing. Just like H.R. 8,
just like the gun safety legislation,
which we should be considering, Sen-
ator MCCONNELL refuses to bring any-
thing before the Senate.
My bill, cosponsored by 21 Senators,
including the Democratic leader, Sen-
ator SCHUMER, would establish offices
to combat domestic terrorism at the
Justice Department, FBI, and Depart-
ment of Homeland Security. These of-
fices will be required to take concrete
steps to prevent domestic terrorism,
including assessing and publicly re-
porting on domestic terrorism threats,
focusing limited resources on the most
significant threats, and providing in-
formation, training, and resources to
assist State and local and Tribal law
enforcement.
This would produce a sustained and
coordinated effort with significantly
more resources directed towards com-
bating White supremacist violence. It
would make America safer.
It is time for the Senate Republican
majority leader, Senator MCCONNELL,
to let the Senate be a Senate, to actu-
ally debate. I stand tonight on the
floor—and I am honored to be here, but
let’s face it, I am giving a speech to a
largely empty Chamber in the hopes
that some following the speech on C–
SPAN or reading it later may take
some information of value from it. I
would much rather be engaged in a de-
bate at this very moment on H.R. 8,
how to pass it—if necessary, how to
amend it—but to do something to re-
spond to gun violence in Chicago, in Il-
linois, and across the entire United
States.
It is time for Senator MCCONNELL to
let the Senate be the Senate and vote
on the House-passed gun background
check bill. We need to take up other
critical legislation as well to prevent
gun violence and domestic terrorism. I
hope he will consider my bill to address
White supremacist violence. This legis-
lation can make us safer and save lives
if we can just bring it to a vote.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:33 Sep 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00016 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G17SE6.036 S17SEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5515
September 17, 2019
I yield the floor.
Ms. KLOBUCHAR. Madam President,
I rise today to join my colleagues in
calling on Leader MCCONNELL to imme-
diately bring to the floor commonsense
gun violence prevention legislation
that is supported by the majority of
the American people.
We must take action in response to
the tragedies that have touched too
many communities across the country,
including in Gilroy, El Paso, Dayton,
Midland, and Odessa just this summer.
Time and again, we saw the American
people respond with courage—the cour-
age of a mother who shielded her child
from gun fire, the courage of first re-
sponders who ran into the line of fire
to save lives. It is time for the United
States Senate to find the resolve to act
with courage; the American people can-
not afford any more inaction.
There are three bipartisan bills sit-
ting on Leader MCCONNELL’s desk that
will help to save lives: the Bipartisan
Background Checks Act, which re-
quires a background check for the sale
of all guns; the Enhanced Background
Checks Act, which closes the Charles-
ton loophole and gives law enforcement
more time to complete a background
check; and the reauthorization of the
Violence Against Women Act, which
includes a provision based on my bill,
the Protecting Domestic Violence and
Stalking Victims Act, to keep domes-
tic abusers and convicted stalkers from
buying or owning a gun.
We should also take action to ban the
sale of assault weapons and high-capac-
ity magazines and encourage States to
enact extreme risk protection order
laws to allow law enforcement or fam-
ily members to intervene when a per-
son is a danger to themselves or others.
In a nation plagued by gun violence,
passing these commonsense provisions
will help save lives.
There are more shootings and more
tragic losses all too often, and every
time, we hear expressions of sympathy,
but we have yet to see votes or action.
The time has come to act, and we must
act now.
Thank you.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Ms.
MCSALLY). The Senator from Wash-
ington.
Mrs. MURRAY. Madam President, as
we grieve with the communities of El
Paso, Dayton, and Midland, I can’t help
but be reminded of the Seattle Jewish
Federation, Marysville, Seattle Pacific
University, Freeman High School, and
so many other communities in my
home State of Washington and nation-
wide that are suffering as a result of
tragic and tragically preventable gun
violence.
After each of these heartbreaking
events, families in Washington State
ask me, Why does this keep happening,
and why can we not stop it?
The answer is the same every time:
We can’t stop it because Republicans,
led by Leader MCCONNELL and, now,
President Trump, will not let us. Be-
cause of this inaction, we have entered
a very destructive cycle. People going
about their days—to school, a movie
theater, place of worship—to places
where they should feel safe—lose their
lives to gun violence.
Communities and Democrats speak
out and call for commonsense reforms,
such as the universal background
checks, which the vast majority of
Americans support. Meanwhile, Repub-
licans stand by and refuse to take any
meaningful action to stop these vio-
lent, senseless, preventable deaths, so
nothing happens in Congress.
And then, months, weeks, days, or
even hours later, the cycle starts all
over again. Every time we have seen
this cycle—across all of the terrible
shootings that have plagued our coun-
try in recent years—there are two com-
mon threads. The first is that, in re-
sponse to tragedy, communities have
banded together to make their voices
heard and press for change. I have been
proud of gun advocates in Washington
State, like the Alliance for Gun Re-
sponsibility and Moms Demand Action
chapters in Spokane and across the
State, who are leading the way and
staying determined.
The second common thread is Senate
Republicans. Every time we push for
lifesaving reforms, it always ends at
the same place, with the same thing
standing in the way of change. The
most frustrating part of this is that
there are steps we could take right
now—today—that will save lives.
The House has passed the universal
background check legislation, H.R. 8,
with bipartisan support. It is now lan-
guishing in the Senate, despite our
calls for a vote, all because the major-
ity leader just will not bring it up.
President Trump, who is so willing to
use his bully pulpit for far less worthy
causes, hasn’t used it to take action in
ways that could save lives right now.
In other words, the President and Sen-
ate Republicans continue to make
clear they are more interested in pro-
tecting the NRA than the families in
my home State and across the country.
That is simply unacceptable. Demo-
crats are not going to stop calling for
action.
Leader MCCONNELL should break the
cycle here and now by putting H.R. 8
up for a vote, which would implement
universal background checks and close
inexplicable gun show and internet
loopholes.
Considering that more than 80 per-
cent of Americans support universal
background checks, this bill should be
a no-brainer. It is the first step we need
to take to curb gun violence in our
country, but it can’t be the only one. If
we are serious about truly putting an
end to this epidemic, we should look at
legislation to expand access to extreme
risk protection orders—which has, by
the way, been implemented in my
home State of Washington—to get guns
out of the hands of those who are in
crisis. We should limit magazine sizes.
We should revive the assault weapons
ban and invest in gun violence research
prevention.
These commonsense reforms can help
us begin to break this cycle. We have
to take action now to curb gun vio-
lence. That means starting with the
universal background check legislation
that is waiting right here in the Senate
to take action.
My Democratic colleagues in the
Senate and I have repeatedly called for
a vote on H.R. 8, and we are going to
keep putting pressure on Republicans
in the Senate until we get one. We
can’t do it alone. We need to keep lift-
ing up our voices together to demand
change, as we did after Sandy Hook,
after Parkland, after Marysville, and
now following the terror in Texas and
in Ohio.
It is not easy. I am not going to give
up, and I know the millions of parents
and grandparents and students and so
many across our Nation are not going
to give up either. Together, we can
break this senseless cycle. It starts
with the majority leader.
While we often disagree on the steps
we believe need to be taken, I believe
that all of us who are elected in the
Senate would say that we came here to
make a difference and certainly to do
whatever we could to ensure the people
we represent are safe. Right now, far
too often, they are not. So the Senate
is not doing its job.
I call on the majority leader to let us
vote on H.R. 8. Let’s send it to the
President’s desk. Let’s do what the
vast majority of Americans want us to
do and take this first step to stop gun
violence so we can finally begin to put
a stop to this terrible deadly cycle.
Madam President, I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from New Mexico.
Mr. HEINRICH. Madam President, we
are all coming to the Senate floor this
evening to demand that we finally take
real steps to address our Nation’s gun
violence epidemic. This epidemic is
wide-reaching and knows no bounds.
We need to listen to the students and
to the young people who have grown
weary from so many shootings at our
schools.
In my home State of New Mexico in
recent years, we have seen gun violence
tragically take the lives of high school
students in Aztec and Clovis and, just
last month, college students in Hobbs.
Every student and teacher should feel
safe at school. No parent should have
to live in fear of their child not coming
home at the end of the day.
Across our Nation, we have wit-
nessed, with grave horror, mass shoot-
ers armed with assault rifles gun down
Americans in churches, in synagogues,
in concert venues, and in shopping cen-
ters. Amid our grief and anguish,
Americans have come together to call
on their leaders to not let this sense-
less, heart-wrenching violence con-
tinue unabated. They are calling on us
to do something. We can no longer ac-
cept these horrific shootings as the sta-
tus quo.
In my hometown of Albuquerque,
just last Thursday night, five people,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:51 Sep 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00017 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G17SE6.037 S17SEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5516 September 17, 2019
including three teenagers, were shot to
death in multiple shootings across our
city, and six others were wounded.
While police are still investigating
these senseless acts of violence, no one
can tell me that this level of gun vio-
lence is somehow acceptable.
There are things we can do. There is
no doubt that this debate brings up
very emotional and difficult questions,
and there are large challenges we need
to grapple with that are fueling gun vi-
olence in America. Many of the most
horrific acts of violence and terror that
we have witnessed have been inspired
by hateful ideologies, by racist bigotry,
and by divisive rhetoric. But we need
to acknowledge that they were carried
out with deadly weapons, weapons that
we are clearly not doing enough to
keep out of the hands of those who
would seek to cause us harm.
We may not all agree on what steps
should be taken at the Federal level to
address this crisis, but can we at least
agree that something needs to be done
to combat the epidemic of gun violence
in this country?
We need to listen to our Nation’s stu-
dents and mothers who are calling for
us to come together on the things we
can agree on. At the very least, that
includes universal background checks.
There is bipartisan legislation on back-
ground checks that passed out of the
House and is sitting on the majority
leader’s desk right now. Let’s vote on
that bill.
Someone who can’t pass a back-
ground check should not be allowed to
purchase a firearm. We shouldn’t be
putting guns in the hands of those con-
victed of domestic violence or sexual
assault who continue to be a threat to
their victims. Someone who has been
found by family and friends to be a
danger to themselves and their commu-
nity should not be in possession of a
deadly firearm. If our government has
put someone on a no-fly list because of
the risk that they pose, we should not
allow that potential terrorist to buy a
gun. I can’t, frankly, understand how
any of that is controversial.
The Senate majority is refusing to
act. They are hoping that if they hide
long enough—if they hide long
enough—this will just blow over. Can
we at least agree that more public
health and scientific research is needed
on this gun violence epidemic?
All of us in some way are grasping
for answers on our Nation’s unparal-
leled violence, but even funding re-
search into gun violence is being ve-
toed by the NRA. It is hard to believe
that Senate Republicans could find a
way to be against so many common-
sense solutions. Nearly every solution
is being rejected. The overwhelming
majority of Americans, including gun
owners like me, agree that Congress
needs to finally take these real steps to
address gun violence.
Look, this is not an issue I take
lightly. Like many Americans, I am a
gun owner, but with that privilege
should come a great deal of responsi-
bility. I am teaching my two sons how
to responsibly use firearms. In fact,
when our family sits down to a meal
that includes red meat, it is almost al-
ways from the wild game we have har-
vested.
I think you will find, when you talk
to most gun owners and most sports-
men, they, more than anyone, know
how much we need to respect the dead-
ly force inherent in these tools. Most
agree we should make sure that fire-
arms are used responsibly and safely.
Those of us in Congress should never
hide behind phony arguments that use
fear to intimidate us away from action.
Americans are desperate for us to act.
I join my Democratic colleagues once
again in calling upon Majority Leader
MCCONNELL and President Trump:
Enough is enough. It is long past time
to do something and to stop hiding. It
is long past time for us to finally turn
our Nation’s grief and frustration into
meaningful action to protect our kids
and our communities.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from New York.
Mrs. GILLIBRAND. Madam Presi-
dent, I rise to join my colleague Sen-
ator HEINRICH and others who have
come before. I am calling on Senator
MCCONNELL to act now to address the
gun crisis in our country.
Every day that the Senate Repub-
lican leaders refuse to act, they are
making a choice to be complicit as
more lives continue to be lost. People
across my State and the country want
to see action, and they are tired of
waiting for it.
I have met with countless families
across New York who have lost their
children, spouses, friends, community
members, and neighbors to gun vio-
lence. I have met people who have sur-
vived mass shootings and people who
live every single day with the threat of
gun violence in their neighborhoods. I
have heard their stories and seen how
their lives have been torn apart by gun
violence. Today I want to tell some of
those stories to you.
Robert Gaafar, one of my constitu-
ents from Long Island and a father of
young children, was at the Route 91
Harvest Music Festival in Las Vegas
for work. He heard loud popping noises
and soon realized they weren’t coming
from the performance on stage but
from a gun. As the shooter fired round
after round, Robert hid behind a metal
vending machine for protection. The
bullets being fired around him were so
powerful he could actually feel the
shock waves. He said that he would
never forget the silence of 20,000 people
at a concert or the horrific screams of
grown men and women he could hear as
the gunman reloaded. He was lucky. He
survived. But 58 people did not, and
many more were injured.
Another New Yorker, Trenelle
Gabay, had to make the unthinkable
decision to take her husband off of life
support after he was shot in the cross-
fire of two rival gangs at a community
festival in Brooklyn. He was just an in-
nocent bystander, and, ironically, he
was an attorney for the State who
helped draft the NY SAFE Act, which
set a precedent for one of the strongest
gun laws in the country. He was not
immune from gun violence himself. As
Trenelle told it, her husband’s life and
bright light were extinguished by guns.
At the trial, Trenelle heard a crimi-
nal testify about how easy it was for
him to purchase a gun and traffic it
from Georgia to New York. It should
not be this easy for criminals to get ac-
cess to dangerous weapons. It should
not be so easy for lives to be taken so
senselessly.
One mother I met in New York, Jack-
ie Rowe-Adams, lost not one but two
sons to gun violence. One of her sons
was shot when he was 17 years old out-
side of a bodega in Harlem. The reason?
Two men with a gun believed that her
son was staring at them, so they killed
him.
Ms. Rowe-Adams lost her second son
to gun violence during a robbery out-
side of her apartment. The boy who
shot him was only 13 years old. He
should never have had access to a gun.
Imagine the horror of being a mother
and losing two of your sons to gun vio-
lence.
Then there is another one of my con-
stituents, Edwin Vargas. His 16-year-
old son Luis was killed on Halloween
when an unknown gunman decided to
fire his weapon into the crowd in a
neighborhood in the Bronx. The gun-
man was irritated by a group of teen-
agers who were throwing eggs in his
neighborhood, so he began to randomly
shoot into the crowd. The gunman hit
three innocent bystanders, including
Luis. Luis was simply in the wrong
place at the wrong time.
These are the tragic and heart-
wrenching stories that New Yorkers
have shared with me. They are by no
means unique. In every State around
the country, there are too many stories
just like these. The reality is that
mass shootings can and have happened
in every corner of this country in all
types of places.
Gun violence is becoming the new
normal in America. Certainly it has
happened in Arizona. We do not have to
live in a country where mass shootings
occur in our schools, our houses of wor-
ships, our movie theaters, our play-
grounds, our stores, our community
gatherings, at festivals, at concerts, at
nightclubs, and at Congress on your
corner.
Madam President, I am speaking to
you and to every other Republican in
this Chamber. We all have a responsi-
bility to do the right thing and stand
up to the NRA and stand up to the
greed and corruption that is in this
country today that makes every deci-
sion about whether we have a vote on
commonsense gun reform.
I can poll your State for you. I can
ask every NRA member in America: Do
you support universal background
checks, banning large magazines, mili-
tary-style weapons? Leave them in the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:51 Sep 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00018 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G17SE6.039 S17SEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5517
September 17, 2019
hands of military members, not some-
one who walks into a store and buys
them because he wants to shoot large
numbers of people in minutes and sec-
onds. That is what is happening in
America today.
I would like you to look up because I
have to say this is something all of us
should be caring about, especially from
Arizona, where my dear friend Gabby
Giffords was shot for doing her job and
a young girl showing up for ‘‘Congress
on Your Corner’’ to meet her Congress-
woman died. It is not OK. The time for
turning a blind eye is over.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from New Mexico.
Mr. UDALL. Thank you for the rec-
ognition, Madam President.
Last month, on August 22, an 86-year-
old grandmother, born and raised in
my hometown of Santa Fe, NM, was
gunned down while she was shopping at
Walmart in El Paso by a White su-
premacist with an AK–47 style assault
weapon. The gunman said he ‘‘wanted
to shoot as many Mexicans as pos-
sible.’’ The shooter told police he had
purchased 1,000 rounds of ammunition.
Less than 24 hours later, it took the
shooter in Dayton, OH, only 32 seconds
to kill 10 people and wound 27 others
with his .223-caliber, high-capacity
rifle with 100-round drum magazines.
Had the Dayton police not responded
immediately, the numbers of dead and
injured in the crowded Dayton down-
town area could have been exponen-
tially higher.
On August 31, in Odessa, TX, a shoot-
er killed 7 and injured 25, including a
17-month-old girl, who was shot in the
face. The shooter had failed a back-
ground check in 2014 because a court
had found he was mentally unfit to
own a gun. He purchased his AR–15
style weapon in a private gun sale,
which is not subject to a background
check.
Assault rifles, often paired with high-
capacity magazines, were used to
slaughter innocents at Sandy Hook,
Las Vegas, Aurora, Orlando, San
Bernardino, the Sutherland Springs
church, and the Tree of Life synagogue
in Pittsburgh.
According to the Gun Violence Ar-
chive, there have been 10,552 gun-re-
lated deaths this year. That includes
2,681 children and teens. Mass shoot-
ings number 300. That is more than one
mass shooting every day of this year.
The American people support com-
monsense gun safety legislation in
overwhelming numbers. Recent polls
confirm that 90 percent or more reg-
istered voters support background
checks for all gun sales—90 percent.
Think about that. The American peo-
ple support a ban on high-capacity
magazines. They support a ban on as-
sault weapons. They support keeping
guns out of the hands of dangerous in-
dividuals.
People all across the country are
worried about their communities, their
schools, their churches, and their chil-
dren. They are worried that they will
be caught in the next mass shooting,
that their community will be the next
El Paso, the next Sandy Hook, or the
next Aztec.
When I was in school, we had safety
drills in the event of a nuclear strike
from the Soviet Union. Children now
have safety drills in the event of a
shooter from within our own commu-
nities.
The American people are demanding
that Congress take action on this na-
tional crisis. After El Paso and Dayton,
many of us implored Leader MCCON-
NELL to call us back into session to
vote on the gun safety bills sitting on
his desk gathering dust. Leader
MCCONNELL says he will only bring
bills before the Senate that the Presi-
dent will sign.
We are the legislative body. We are
sent here by our constituents to pass
laws, to do their will, to protect their
welfare. We do not depend on the Presi-
dent to pass gun safety legislation. We
do not have to wait for him while the
NRA lobbyists try to wear him down.
He can take his cues from us for a
change. We are not his lapdogs. Pro-
tecting our communities, schools, and
churches cannot wait, cannot be rel-
egated to the leader’s legislative grave-
yard. Too many lives have been lost,
and too many lives will be lost if we
don’t act.
The fact is, too many Republican
elected officials are beholden to the
scandal-ridden National Rifle Associa-
tion. The NRA no longer even rep-
resents gun owners; it represents the
gun industry. Now we know it also rep-
resents dark campaign spending and in-
ternal corruption.
There is no mystery why the Repub-
licans refuse to take up gun safety leg-
islation that Americans overwhelm-
ingly support. The NRA has poured
millions into campaign coffers, and
they use that money to intimidate
Members of Congress into opposing
bills with 90 percent support nation-
ally. This is yet one more example of
why we need to overturn Citizens
United and enact comprehensive fi-
nance reform. Our Democratic institu-
tions are not representing the people.
We need to pass the bills on Leader
MCCONNELL’s desk, but we should not
stop there. We also must halt the rise
of White nationalism and White su-
premacy in our country. Hateful views
have fueled too many of these trage-
dies—the Emanuel African Methodist
Episcopal Church in Charleston, SC;
the Tree of Life synagogue; and in El
Paso.
The El Paso shooter’s fear of ‘‘the
Hispanic invasion of Texas’’ too closely
echoes the President’s repeated warn-
ings of an ‘‘invasion’’ at our southern
border. The shooter’s anti-immigrant
screed rings of the President’s attacks
on immigrants as criminals and rapists
who need to be kept out of our country
by a border wall. Las Cruces, NM, is
only 45 minutes from El Paso. El Paso
is like a sibling to us. New Mexico, like
El Paso, takes great pride in our diver-
sity. Our diversity does not divide us.
It defines us. It unifies us. The Presi-
dent’s anti-immigrant, nativist rhet-
oric is not only deeply offensive to New
Mexicans, it also fuels the worst ele-
ments of our society—elements that
now have ready access to military-
style weapons.
The FBI Director recently reported
to Congress that the Bureau had ar-
rested almost as many domestic terror-
ists as foreign terrorists this year. He
said most of the racially motivated do-
mestic terrorism cases were likely con-
nected to White supremacy.
It is up to this body to stand up to
the President’s anti-immigrant and
racist rhetoric and unequivocally af-
firm this Nation’s values—equality,
tolerance, and inclusiveness. It is up to
this body to stand up to the NRA and
stand with the American people.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The bill clerk proceeded to call the
roll.
Mr. BENNET. Madam President, I
ask unanimous consent that the order
for the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
Mr. BENNET. Madam President, last
month, over 50 Americans were killed
in mass shootings in this country while
we were on the August recess when we
should have been here doing our job.
One hundred Americans are killed
every day from gun violence. There are
100 desks in this room. There are 100
chairs by those desks. And if these
were the Americans killed by gun vio-
lence, they would add up to every sin-
gle desk that is in this room. Yet the
majority leader didn’t bring us back
during the August recess. He didn’t say
we should cancel our vacation and
come back to work for the American
people. He hasn’t put a bill on the floor
or given an opportunity for anybody
else to put a bill on the floor now that
we have been back in session for the
last 2 weeks.
In the last 18 months, Colorado alone
has lost 885 people to gun violence.
That is a record in my State.
The House of Representatives has
done their job. I think more than 200
days ago, they passed background
checks over there, and we haven’t even
taken them up over here. This isn’t a
matter of bringing up the bill and vot-
ing on the bill; we can’t even get the
bill to the floor. For 200 days, we
haven’t been able to bring the bill to
the floor. Why? Because the majority
leader of the United States of America
says that he is only going to bring gun
legislation to the floor if he knows
what the President will sign. He is not
capable, as the majority leader of the
United States, to put an amendment on
the floor for an up-or-down vote even
when that amendment passed the
House of Representatives 200 days ago
and 96 percent of the American people
support it. Ninety-six percent of the
American people support it.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:51 Sep 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00019 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G17SE6.040 S17SEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5518 September 17, 2019
Why can’t he bring it to the floor? He
says that only if the President tells
him that he will sign it will he bring it
to the floor. We all know how hard it is
for the President to make up his mind
about anything—particularly about
guns when he has one thing to say
right after a tragedy has happened, and
then 2 days later, after he meets with
the NRA, he is singing from a com-
pletely different song sheet.
Here is what MITCH MCCONNELL said
in 2014:
The Senate should be setting national pri-
orities, not simply waiting on the White
House to do it for us.
I wholeheartedly agree with that sen-
timent. This is an independent branch
of government. The 100 people sitting
in this room have been sent here to
represent the people who voted for us
and the people who didn’t vote for us.
And 96 percent of them say they want
background checks on guns, but we
can’t even have a vote.
I would like to see a vote just so I
could see who in this Chamber wants to
vote against background checks. I
think it would be amazing for the
American people to learn that, instead
of just hiding behind this myth that
the President of the United States gets
to decide what comes to the floor. He is
not the majority leader. There is one
person in America who gets to decide
what comes to this floor—one person in
America—and that is the majority
leader, MITCH MCCONNELL from Ken-
tucky. It is not Donald Trump. He
knew that in 2014, and he knows it
today. But the NRA is too scared to see
this thing come to the floor because
they know that it will pass and that
they will lose as a result of that. It is
long past time for us to beat the NRA
on this issue.
I know my colleague from Wash-
ington State is here, so I will not go on
for too long, but if I could, I will just
take a couple of minutes.
I am also from a Western State, the
State of Colorado, and 20 years ago, we
had one of the very first school shoot-
ings in this country. It was at Col-
umbine High School. In the wake of
that, we passed background checks. We
passed the same bill that MITCH
MCCONNELL will not bring to the
floor—the same bill almost 20 years
ago.
My oldest daughter is 20 years old.
She was born right after Columbine.
Our two other daughters are 19 and 15.
Like so many children across this
country, they have grown up thinking
that going to school is unsafe, that
they could be shot at school. They have
had to do drills that we never had to do
when we were kids—never had to do.
They have the knowledge that the U.S.
Congress doesn’t care about them be-
cause for 20 years we have done noth-
ing.
In Colorado—a Western State, a Sec-
ond Amendment State—we passed
these background checks. As a result,
every year, 2 or 3 percent of the people
who come to buy a gun can’t buy a gun
because they are murderers or they are
rapists or they are domestic abusers.
They are people who shouldn’t have a
gun. I would like to see anybody come
to this floor and tell me why Colorado
would be safer if we didn’t have those
background checks; why we would be
safer if murderers got guns and rapists
got guns and domestic abusers got
guns. They can’t come here and do it.
They are hiding from the vote, and it
is their responsibility to vote. There is
only one person in America who can
hold that vote, and that is MITCH
MCCONNELL. I can tell you this: It is
not because we are too busy around
here. We were in session last week for
27 hours. That is not even a French
workweek. That is pitiful—pitiful—27
hours. Do you know how many amend-
ments we have considered in the 9
months that we have been here this
year? We have considered 18. That is
two amendments a month. We have
passed four amendments in this broken
place. It is pitiful.
Before he became majority leader,
MITCH MCCONNELL came down here and
said that we were going to work on Fri-
days, that we were going to have reg-
ular order. We had a 27-hour workweek.
I can tell you this: It is not because we
are considering the election protection
legislation, which is one of the bipar-
tisan bills the Senators in this Cham-
ber want to vote on to respond to the
Russian attack on our democracy. It is
not because we are too busy with those
bills. We are doing nothing here except
for confirming judges for Donald
Trump.
I think I speak for my colleagues
when I say I am willing to work more
than 27 hours. I am willing to work a
French workweek or a U.S. workweek
if it means we could actually have
votes on amendments that 96 percent
of the American people support.
I close by saying there is no one else
to do this job but us. The House has
done its job. Donald Trump can’t make
up his mind about anything. Maybe he
would like us to send him the back-
ground checks to help him make up his
mind about what he can do for the
American people, but I can tell you
this: Our kids can’t do this. They are
too busy. They are in school. They are
trying to learn reading and math. They
should not be asked to try to figure out
how to stop these mass shootings in
this country or what it would look like
to have a representative body of the
United States actually represent the
people who sent us here instead of sit-
ting around in our offices, trying to
avoid hard votes. How is it a hard vote
when 9 out of 10 Americans support it?
It is only a hard vote because the NRA
is taking names and watching this.
I say to my colleagues: We would be
so much better off, Democrats and Re-
publicans, with our ripping this band-
aid off and getting on with the business
that the American people sent us here
to do. MITCH MCCONNELL should put on
this floor these background checks.
I thank my colleagues for their pa-
tience.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Washington.
Ms. CANTWELL. Madam President, I
join my colleagues on the floor to-
night.
I thank the Senator from Colorado
for an articulate and very passionate
speech about the reasons the U.S. Sen-
ate should be voting on sensible gun
laws.
That is what we are really here to
say tonight—that it is past time we
take action and that we in the U.S.
Senate should let the American people
know where Members of the U.S. Sen-
ate stand on these important issues.
Too many Americans have been im-
pacted by gun violence, and too many
places have been the sites of these at-
tacks, whether they be churches, syna-
gogues, or mosques or whether they be
our schoolchildren or people just going
about their everyday lives with their
shopping, going to a concert, or even
watching a movie. Too many families
and friends are left waiting, trying to
understand whether their loved ones
are going to return home, and too
many have been devastated to find out
that their loved ones aren’t coming
back.
It is time that we act here in the U.S.
Senate and support legislation that we
know the American people support. In
my home State, there are places like
the Seattle Pacific University and the
Jewish Federation of Greater Seattle,
Freeman High School outside of Spo-
kane, Marysville Pilchuck High
School, the Burlington shopping mall
in Skagit County, and White Swan. All
of these communities have taught us
that we need to act. It is past time for
us to act here.
The good news is that the people of
Washington State did act. Those people
rose up and helped to support legisla-
tive initiatives that went to a vote of
the people. Not only have they been
successfully passed, but they are show-
ing successful results.
In the State of Washington, we
passed universal background checks by
a popular vote in 2014, and we saw
amazing results in just the first 14
months. They helped to prevent over 50
gun sales to felons. My colleague from
Colorado mentioned a similar thing in
his State. And after closing private
sale loopholes, it resulted in 144 denials
to those with expanded background
checks. It does mean that the people of
Washington State are at least safer in
this regard because we have more tools
in our toolbox with which to deal with
this.
I also want people to understand that
we passed a law to allow extreme risk
protection orders. That was passed in
2016 with nearly 70 percent of Wash-
ington State voters helping and voting
in that election. What we saw was that
in a State where we probably have 27
percent gun ownership, we saw in 32
out of 39 counties people supporting
this measure to say that people who
pose an extreme risk should not be al-
lowed to get their hands on a gun. This
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:51 Sep 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00020 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G17SE6.042 S17SEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5519
September 17, 2019
was supported in rural communities,
suburban communities, and urban com-
munities.
In front of the Senate Judiciary Com-
mittee last year, King County Senior
Deputy Prosecuting Attorney Kim-
berly Wyatt testified. She called this
measure a ‘‘critical, evidence-based,
harm reduction tool.’’ Now, how does
that sound so threatening—a tool that
law enforcement is telling us is critical
and evidence-based that is going to
help us to reduce harm to our fellow
citizens?
Senior Deputy Prosecuting Attorney
Kimberly Wyatt told a story of a doc-
tor who contacted police because a pa-
tient who had wanted to obtain a con-
cealed weapon permit had repeatedly
talked about making a hit list and
‘‘doing harm to people.’’ In using the
extreme risk protection order, we are
allowed to help to keep these people
from getting their hands on gun and
doing harm to themselves and to fellow
citizens.
These measures supported in my
State are initiatives by the people. As
I said, they are supported by wide ma-
jorities across all geographic areas of
our State. Yet we can’t find out here in
the U.S. Senate how our Senate col-
leagues would vote on these very im-
portant measures.
I hope those on the other side of the
aisle will consider these. We will go
State by State if necessary. We will get
the people involved in passing these
laws. Why? It is that they know they
are common sense, and they work, and
we want to keep the public safe. We
know that we want to have these tools
so law enforcement and others can do
their jobs. It is long overdue to have a
vote in the U.S. Senate on these issues,
and I hope our colleagues will give us
that opportunity.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Massachusetts.
Mr. MARKEY. Madam President, I
rise to echo the sentiments of the Sen-
ator from Washington State. She has
absolutely articulated the reasons this
Senate should just stop what it is
doing and bring these bills to the floor
for a vote so we can begin to make it
more difficult for the wrong people to
be able to buy guns in our country. We
have no background checks, no ability
to identify who they are.
This debate is one that should have
already taken place in August after
what happened in El Paso and after
what happened in Dayton. We should
have had the debate out here on the
Senate floor. The House has already
passed legislation that deals with the
background checks of any person who
wants to buy a gun in our country.
That is the least we should be able to
do.
By the way, it polls out at 89 percent.
There aren’t many issues that poll out
at 89 percent. The reason it does is that
the country is horrified by what it is
seeing day after day on its televisions
as the carnage continues to rise, as the
hemorrhaging of communities con-
tinues unabated across our country.
The NRA retains a vice-like grip on
the Senate of the United States. It is
almost as though it is able to put a
lock on these doors—courtesy of the
Republican leadership—so that no bill
can come down here into the well of
the Senate to be debated on back-
ground checks. The NRA just refuses to
allow those bills to come out here. So
we have no debates. We have no votes.
We have no accountability. This is the
status of the U.S. Senate in September
of 2019 as we see an epidemic of vio-
lence across our country.
Bring those bills onto the floor, Re-
publican Party. Forget the money from
the NRA. Forget all of its spending.
Let us not put a price on the lives of
34,000 Americans who died just last
year on top of the lives of those who
died the year before and the year be-
fore and those who will be part of a
preventable epidemic in our country
next year and the year after and the
year after into the future.
After we finish debating background
checks, we should then have a debate
on military-style assault weapons and
whether they should be sold in our
country and a debate on high-capacity
magazines and whether they should be
sold in our country. Those were the
weapons that were used in Dayton.
Those were the weapons that were used
in El Paso. Let’s have a debate here on
the floor of the U.S. Senate.
Let’s have people have to be made ac-
countable for allowing these dangerous
weapons that belong on battlefields but
not on the streets of our country. In
fact, when they are on the streets of
our country, they turn our streets into
battlegrounds, whereby the criminal—
whereby the bad person—has a weapon,
in many instances, that is more power-
ful than that of the police. That is just
plain wrong. We can do something
about it if the Senate allows these
doors to open, if the Republicans allow
this debate to take place. Of course, it
will not because the NRA controls ac-
cess to the floor of this Senate.
Then let’s have a debate on the loop-
holes that allow abusers—domestic
abusers and terrorists—to be able to
purchase guns in the United States.
Let’s have that debate here on the
floor of the Senate.
Let’s have people have to vote on
whether or not they want domestic
abusers to be able to purchase guns in
our country or if they should be able to
keep their guns if they have already
been identified by the local police as
being a danger because they are domes-
tic abusers, and the same thing is true
for safeguards against terrorists pur-
chasing weapons.
And when are we going to have the
debate on research at the Centers for
Disease Control on the causes of gun
violence in our country?
I have introduced that bill for 10
years to have that research done. The
House has now moved legislation to
deal with that issue, but over here, so
far, these doors are locked. That legis-
lation cannot make it to the well of
the Senate so that we can have a de-
bate.
The NRA guards these doors. The
NRA will not give permission to have a
debate on whether or not we do re-
search on gun violence in our country.
What are the causes? Why are we the
highest among industrialized coun-
tries? What is it that differentiates us
from other countries in the world?
So for me, I say it is time for us on
this floor to ensure that NRA stands
for not relevant anymore in American
politics, in senatorial politics, and that
the doors are open, that the legislation
can come down, and that we can have a
full debate here on the Senate floor
after all that we have learned in these
last weeks and months and years about
how unnecessarily easy it is for people
to be able to purchase these weapons.
This is a debate that the American
people want, and we are either going to
have that debate in the course of reg-
ular Senate business or we are going to
have it next year in the Presidential
and House and Senate races all across
our country, because this issue now is
completely changed in terms of how
the public views it except among the
Republican leadership in our country.
So if that is how they want it, then,
just be sure that young people espe-
cially are outraged across our country.
They are outraged that we don’t debate
climate change in the well of the Sen-
ate. They are outraged that we don’t
debate gun safety legislation in the
Senate.
So there is a kind of a ‘‘sow the wind,
reap the whirlwind’’ political con-
sequence that is going to occur, and all
I can say is that we can hope and pray
that the Senate Republican leadership
allows for this debate and does not
wait for Donald Trump to give them
permission to have this debate. There
shouldn’t have to be a complete and
total excision of senatorial preroga-
tives to another branch of government.
We should be able to do this our-
selves—the Senate.
This issue goes right to the core of
the safety of every family in our coun-
try, and if we do it, I actually think
that almost every Senator here will be
praised for ensuring that we have back-
ground checks. That is what the poll-
ing says.
If we don’t, then perhaps a small
handful of Republican Senators will be
praised by the NRA, but it will be at a
terrible price in terms of the lives that
are lost.
In Massachusetts, we have the lowest
gun fatality rate in the country. If
Massachusetts’ laws were the laws for
the whole country, 34,000 people would
not have died last year, but only 6,000
people would have died.
And what is our key law? If you want
to buy a gun and get a license in Mas-
sachusetts, you have to go into the po-
lice station and talk to the police
chief. We have 351 cities and towns.
That is how you get a gun license. It is
the police.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:51 Sep 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00021 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G17SE6.044 S17SEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5520 September 17, 2019
So we know how simple it is to have
a background check to make sure that
we know who is buying these guns.
Down in Parkland, the home of that
young man had been visited over and
over and over by the police, but he
didn’t have to go to the police to get a
license. He got right around that sys-
tem.
Who knows you best? The local police
do. We don’t want to keep guns out of
the hands of those who should be able
to purchase them—hunters and oth-
ers—but you do want the police to be
involved. You do want background
checks to make sure that the wrong
people can’t buy them. We know that is
at the heart of this problem.
So for me, this is an absolute neces-
sity for the Senate to have to have
dealt with before the end of this ses-
sion. It would be historically inexcus-
able for us to have avoided having that
debate here.
I just say that enough is enough.
Let’s just end business as usual. Let’s
put in place the process by which this
Senate—this greatest deliberative body
in the world—reclaims the reputation
that it has lost, and let’s debate gun
safety legislation here on the floor of
the Senate.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Connecticut.
Mr. BLUMENTHAL. Madam Presi-
dent, I am here after talking to my
good friend Fred Guttenberg, who vis-
ited my office just minutes ago to talk
about what we are doing here on the
floor of the Senate—what we are fail-
ing to do, more precisely, and what we
have an obligation to do at this mo-
ment in history.
Fred Guttenberg lost his precious,
beautiful daughter Jamie in Parkland
at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High
School in a tragedy that we all recall—
at least I do—as though it happened
yesterday.
Fred Guttenberg has made it his
life’s mission now, in his daughter’s
memory, to fight for commonsense
steps to save other children from that
kind of violence and other parents from
all of our worst nightmare—I say that
as a father of four.
But Fred Guttenberg, being the enor-
mously hopeful, energetic, and positive
person that he is, talked to me about
Florida’s extreme risk protection order
statute—or, as it is known there, red
flag statute—and about how it is work-
ing to save lives and how it has been
used more than 2,000 times since it was
passed barely a year ago and how it, in
fact, worked most recently in the case
of a young man who made threats on-
line with a stash of firearms in his
home that were turned over to law en-
forcement voluntarily when they came
to his home. They were turned over
voluntarily by his parents.
They didn’t need to use the warrant
because his parents knew that a risk
warrant was telling them something
they already knew, which is that their
son was dangerous and that firearms in
that home posed a clear and present
and urgent threat of another Marjory
Stoneman Douglas tragedy.
So using that red flag or emergency
risk protection order statute was actu-
ally unnecessary there, but it provided
the police and law enforcement with a
means to an end, and it has been used
more than 2,000 times.
In fact, in our Judiciary Committee,
a nominee for the Southern District of
Florida, who is now a sitting State
court judge, related to us how he has
applied this statute. What he said to us
is it works. It saves lives. It prevents
suicides. It helps stop domestic vio-
lence that can lead to fatalities. These
laws work.
These laws work to save lives, as we
have seen in Connecticut, where proud-
ly we have led the Nation in adopting
a comprehensive set of gun violence
prevention laws. The experience of
Connecticut, the empirical evidence,
the facts on the ground, the testimony
of law enforcement all tell us these
laws work. It isn’t just one law. There
is no single panacea. There is no one
solution. It is a comprehensive set of
commonsense measures.
The opponents of these measures will
point to one tragedy or another that
could not have been prevented by one
law or another, and that is the reason
that it has to be comprehensive, and it
will never prevent all of the tragedy.
There will still be gun deaths in this
country, but these laws work to save
lives.
And as Fred and I said to each other,
if one life has been saved in the State
of Florida by its emergency risk pro-
tection order statute, it was worth
doing. If one daughter of one poten-
tially grieving parent was saved, it was
worth doing.
But it is many more than one life
that will be saved if we adopt the meas-
ures that are before us. Ideally, H.R. 8,
universal background checks that has
come to us from the House, the closing
of the Charleston loophole, which I
have long championed and I have intro-
duced as a separate measure here,
emergency risk protection order or red
flag statutes that my colleague and I,
Senator LINDSEY GRAHAM, have worked
on, negotiated over months and now is
on the verge of introduction—we know
that the task before us is to keep guns
out of the hands of dangerous people,
to prevent people who will kill or in-
jure themselves or others from having
those firearms.
The universal background check goal
is to enforce a statute that was adopt-
ed many years ago that keeps guns out
of the hands of specific people who are
dangerous because they are convicted
felons or drug addicts or fall into other
categories, keeps guns out of the hands
of dangerous people before they are
hurt.
An extreme risk protection order
statute keeps guns out of the hands of
people who, like the shooter in Park-
land, as my colleague Senator GRAHAM
says, all but took out an ad in the
newspaper saying he was going to kill
people—as this young man did in Coral
Springs, when he went on the internet.
Under our statute, there is complete
due process because not only must a
statutory standard of proof be met for
the warrant—the risk warrant, much
like an arrest warrant or a search war-
rant—but then, in a subsequent hearing
within a week or 2 or 3 weeks under
other jurisdictions, there is a right to a
hearing, and the burden of proof is even
higher for that gun to be kept away.
Then the order itself lasts for a specific
period of time.
There are guarantees of due process
here. Every one of these proposals—
universal background checks and ex-
treme risk protection orders—is within
the Heller decision, consistent with the
Second Amendment. We respect the
Second Amendment. It is the law of the
land, but they can help save lives.
That is why 90 percent of the Amer-
ican people support universal back-
ground checks, and they support ex-
treme risk protection order laws. They
know lives can be saved if guns are
kept out of the hands of dangerous peo-
ple.
These stories are so common and so
tragic:
A young man exhibits disturbing be-
havior. He is clearly troubled. His
friends, relatives, teachers, even law
enforcement are aware of his hateful
rants. He posts pro-Nazi photos online.
We know the end of this story too. It is
the story of Dakota Reed that started
like so many others—Charleston, Pitts-
burgh, Orlando, Dayton, El Paso. He
posted on November 11, 2018: ‘‘I’m
shooting for 30 Jews.’’ Except here is
how that story ended: When this young
man threatened an anti-Semitism-
fueled massacre, law enforcement was
granted an extreme risk protection
order. Dakota Reed was online, threat-
ening to kill people, and law enforce-
ment seized his 12 firearms.
For so long, we have been told there
is nothing that can be done, but this
one example, like the young man in
Coral Springs, shows there are effective
solutions. These laws work.
As so many Americans know, there is
no shortage of ideas to stop prevent-
able gun violence. There is only a
shortage of courage. There is only a
dearth of will.
For too long, Congress has been
complicit. Congress has blood on its
hands if it continues to fail in meeting
this basic responsibility to keep Amer-
icans safer than they are now.
Almost every community has been
affected by this national epidemic of
gun violence. Massacres in El Paso and
Dayton within a 24-hour period left 31
dead. Before Congress returned from its
recess, a shooter in Odessa, TX, killed
another seven. Communities are for-
ever changed by these events. The fear
that is engendered and the trauma of
these shootings affects a community
and tears it apart in ways that take
years to recover from it.
Like my colleagues from Connecticut
in the House and in the Senate, I will
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:51 Sep 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00022 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G17SE6.045 S17SEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5521
September 17, 2019
live forever with the sights and sounds
of that day in Sandy Hook, the cries of
grief in that afternoon and afterward,
when 26 beautiful people—6 great edu-
cators and 20 young children—were
killed. I was at the firehouse where
parents went to find out if their chil-
dren were dead or alive. They found out
by waiting as the children arrived—but
not all of the children. That is how the
parents who lost their children found
out.
Those anguished cries, the sobbing,
the grief have been repeated 2,226 times
since in mass shootings. They have left
2,000 communities grieving, but more
than those mass shootings, there are
the deaths—every day, 90 deaths; 36,000
Americans killed by gun violence every
year. That is about 100 every day, and
gun deaths are on the rise, not reduc-
ing. There were 39,773 gun deaths for
2017, the most recent year for which it
is available. That is not even counting
the physically wounded, those who es-
caped mass shootings physically un-
scathed but with lifelong mental scars,
and the thousands of friends and family
members of victims and near-victims
whose lives are forever altered by these
incidents of gun violence.
Despite this unconscionable loss of
life, Congress has done nothing,
complicit in the mass shootings but
also in the suicides and domestic vio-
lence.
Lori Jackson’s death in Connecticut
was at the hand of her estranged hus-
band. Her children were traumatized
losing their mother, and her parents
became active advocates—courageous
and strong advocates for a change in
the law.
We have an obligation to act regard-
less of whatever the President says or
does. There is nothing in the Constitu-
tion that says the U.S. Senate can act
only if the President commits to sign-
ing some law. There is nothing in the
Constitution that says we can act only
if the President endorses a specific
measure. We have that duty, inde-
pendent of the President. We have a
constitutional duty. We have already
ceded too much of our power in too
many areas. We cannot, we need not,
we must not cede that independent ob-
ligation we have to act and act now.
Medical research tells us that 80 per-
cent of the perpetrators of mass vio-
lence exhibit clear signs that they are
going to carry out an attack, often in-
cluding explicit threats of violence.
The Parkland shooter is one of the lat-
est examples. In all of those jurisdic-
tions that have extreme risk protec-
tion order statutes, the experience is
that they work.
I have introduced Jamie’s Law that
would provide for background checks
on ammunition purchases—there
should be universal background checks
on purchases—in honor of Fred
Guttenberg’s daughter, Jaime. I have
supported a ghost gun statute that
would take account of the need to act
on weapons that are literally made in
people’s homes using kits like the one
used by the Rancho Tehama gunman.
They are referred to as ‘‘ghost guns’’
because they possess no serial number
or any kind of traceable identification
or registration. One scholar estimates
that at least hundreds of thousands of
unmarked receivers already have been
sold in the United States.
Of course, we need an assault weap-
ons ban. There are some weapons that
no one should ever be able to use as
they were in El Paso, Dayton, Las
Vegas, Parkland, Orlando, Newtown,
Aurora, Columbine. These tragedies
alone account for 211 people lost to gun
violence.
Assault weapons are literally weap-
ons of war. Assault-style weapons can
fire hundreds of rounds in a minute,
and until recently they could be con-
verted to automatic weapons. A recent
study found that when assault-style
weapons are used with high-capacity
magazines, 155,000 more people are shot
and 47 percent more are killed than in
other instances.
Earlier this year, I was pleased to
join dozens of my colleagues in intro-
ducing the Assault Weapons Ban of
2019, making the sale, manufacture,
transport, and importation of 205 spe-
cific military-style assault weapons, by
name as well as by a number of fea-
tures and modifications, illegal—
banned under our law.
I was pleased, also with my colleague
CHRIS MURPHY, to introduce a safe
storage law named after Ethan Song of
Guilford, CT, who was killed while
playing with a weapon in his friend’s
home. This legislation would enact
Federal requirements for safe storage,
penalties for violators, and a grant pro-
gram to help States establish their own
safe storage law.
The SECURE Firearms Storage Act
would require firearms importers, man-
ufacturers, and dealers to safely store
their inventory and, as well, individual
gun owners to use standards that in
fact have been endorsed by the NRA.
Safely securing firearms prevents theft
and unintended use of lawfully ac-
quired and possessed owned guns.
In 2016, alone, 238,000 firearms were
reported stolen in the United States.
These kinds of laws are championed by
Michael and Kristin Song because they
know these laws work. Their child,
their young son, was accidentally
killed by a gun stored in a friend’s clos-
et, accessible to those two teens with-
out any impediment. In many cases, in-
cluding Sandy Hook, safe gun storage
could have prevented mountains of
grief and heartache and a river of
tears. Gun owners who fail to safely
store or secure their firearms must be
held accountable, as this law would do
in honor of Ethan Song.
Of course, high-capacity magazines—
which is to say magazines that can fire
more than 10 rounds—to help stop mass
shootings should be banned as well.
There are other measures—and my
colleagues have talked about them—to
keep gun dealers honest, to prevent
hate crimes, to stop domestic and gen-
der-based violence, to require develop-
ment of smart gun technology. That is
why also, on smart gun technology,
with Senator MURPHY, I introduced the
SAFETY Act, which would encourage
manufactures to develop and con-
sumers to purchase smart gun tech-
nology.
Smart gun technology is actually one
that I championed as attorney general.
A number of gun manufacturers—at
least one agreed to implement it, and
he was nearly drummed out of business
by other gun manufacturers at the
time.
The firearm industry and responsible
gun owners should already be embrac-
ing innovations that have been devel-
oped, inventions that are feasible,
smart gun technology that has already
created locks that prevent accidental
shootings and fingerprint scans that
can disable firearms for anyone but
their lawful owners. We need to har-
ness the power of American innovation
and create smarter, safer firearms.
There is no reason to wait another
day before passing these laws. We know
there is a political movement that is
gaining strength from groups like
Moms Demand Action, Everytown for
Gun Safety, Students Demand Action,
Brady, Giffords, the Coalition Against
Gun Violence, the Connecticut Coali-
tion, the New Town Action Alliance,
and Sandy Hook Promise. So many of
these organizations are coming to-
gether to create a seismic change, a
tectonic groundswell of support. That
is the reason we are here tonight and
the reason the President is even talk-
ing about a measure or set of measures
that will help prevent gun violence.
We can do this. We can pass this
measure. The President can stand up to
the gun lobby and the NRA. The Re-
publican leadership has it within their
power to seize this moment made pos-
sible by the American public expecting
and demanding that we act and saying
to us: Enough is enough. Truly, enough
is enough.
On December 14, 2012, I pledged that
I would do everything I could do to
make sure no more parents have to
bury their children, as did those coura-
geous and strong families in Newtown
who have come to us asking for action,
as have survivors and loved ones from
countless other families. No other par-
ent should have to bury children as a
result of preventable gun violence. I
have fought as long and as hard as I
know how, and I will continue because
we are not going away. We are not giv-
ing up. Nothing could persuade me to
break that pledge.
I have been proud to stand with my
colleague CHRIS MURPHY in our part-
nership as a team that has brought to-
gether so many of our colleagues who
are speaking tonight. The only ques-
tion before us now is, How long will it
take? How many more children and
lives will be lost? How many more com-
munities have to be added to that
dreaded list of mass shootings? How
many more suicides, including veteran
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:51 Sep 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00023 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G17SE6.047 S17SEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5522 September 17, 2019
suicides—20 every day, not all from gun
violence but many of them due to fire-
arms. How many more grieving fami-
lies? How many more lives lost need-
lessly and senselessly? I thank my col-
leagues for being here tonight. We all
hope the answer is fewer. We all hope
that lives will be saved, as many lives
as possible, as quickly as possible. That
is why I have been willing to engage in
discussions with the White House, as
well as with my colleagues, along with
my colleague CHRIS MURPHY and others
who are here—Senator MANCHIN and
Senator TOOMEY. That is why we have
spared no effort and left no stone
unturned.
How many more days will go by be-
fore we fulfill our duty? The answer
really should be ‘‘none.’’ We all have an
obligation to fulfill our constitutional
duty as a Congress to act—whether or
not the President does. But to the
President and to the Republican lead-
ership, my message is this: Please,
please work it out. Please lead. Lead or
get out of the way. Please lead or at
least give us a vote on H.R. 8, on uni-
versal background checks, on emer-
gency risk protection, on commonsense
steps that we know work. These meas-
ures work. They save lives.
Madam President, I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Hawaii.
Ms. HIRONO. Madam President, our
country demands that we take action
to confront the crisis of gun violence.
One hundred people die from gun vio-
lence in our country every single day.
If 100 people died every day because of
any other single cause, even Repub-
licans would call it an epidemic and de-
mand that we do something about it.
Think about it. The lives of 100 men,
women, and children are cut tragically
short by someone using a firearm every
single day in our country. Some of
them are killed sitting in church, oth-
ers while shopping for school supplies,
and others while sitting in their class-
rooms. Some are targeted because they
are Latino, Jewish, Muslim, Black,
gay, or transgender. Some are killed
for reasons we will never know.
Victims of gun violence come from
all walks of life and different cir-
cumstances, but they were all struck
down by someone with a firearm—fire-
arms which in many cases were pur-
chased legally because we have gaping
loopholes in our gun safety laws; fire-
arms which, even when purchased le-
gally, too often end up in the hands of
someone who has absolutely no busi-
ness owning a gun.
There are a lot of steps Congress can
take—and my colleague just articu-
lated some of them—to combat the cri-
sis of gun violence in our country. We
can ban assault weapons. We can ban
high-capacity magazines. We can look
at requiring gun licensing at the na-
tional level.
Each of these steps would make a
major difference in combating gun vio-
lence, but I acknowledge that they
would be controversial and are un-
likely to pass, to become law, in the
current Congress. But there is one step
the Senate can take right now to con-
front the gun violence epidemic in our
country. The Senate can take up and
pass H.R. 8, the Bipartisan Background
Checks Act of 2019, which passed the
House nearly 7 months ago.
This legislation passed with a strong
bipartisan vote to close the loopholes
in our background check system. It
would require checks not just for fire-
arms purchased from licensed dealers
but also from unlicensed individuals at
gun shows, between friends, and be-
tween most unrelated people. Some
people say that will not do much and
that it will just be a drop in the buck-
et, but when that bucket is over-
flowing, as it is now, with the blood of
innocent people, anything we do will
help curb this epidemic.
At a time when our country is deeply
divided on so many issues, it is note-
worthy that 90 percent of Americans
support universal background checks—
90 percent. The American public knows
a sensible gun safety bill when they see
one, even if too many Members of Con-
gress remain blind.
Sensible gun safety laws work. I
know that because Hawaii, which has
some of the most restrictive gun laws
on the books, is, according to the Cen-
ters for Disease Control, the State with
the lowest rate of death by firearms in
the Nation. Anyone in Hawaii wanting
to buy a gun, whether from a licensed
dealer or private seller, must apply for
a permit in their county, and they can-
not receive a permit unless they pass a
background check. The permit appli-
cant has to sign a waiver allowing the
county to access their mental health
records, and, of course, there is a check
of the Federal National Instant Crimi-
nal Background Check System, or
NICS. If they fail a background check,
they can’t purchase a gun. They are re-
ported to law enforcement and pros-
ecuting officials in the State in case
they try again to purchase a gun.
Being this careful about who can own
a gun has resulted in Hawaii being the
most gun-safe State in the country. In
Hawaii, the CDC reported 2.5 firearm
deaths per 100,000 people for 2017, the
most recently available data. Compare
that to Texas, with 12.4 deaths per
100,000; or Kentucky, with 16.2 deaths;
or, sadly, Alabama, with 22.9 deaths per
100,000 people. Of course, there are
many factors at play in these statis-
tics, but we can’t deny that being more
careful about who gets to own a gun is
a contributing factor. It is common
sense.
To be clear, Hawaii is not a State de-
void of guns. We have nearly as many
guns as we do people. Hunting is one of
the most popular outdoor activities in
Hawaii. Some hunting seasons in our
State are year-round. We have a num-
ber of shooting ranges and gun clubs in
our State, and both they and our hunt-
ing opportunities are important drivers
of Hawaii’s tourism economy.
Clearly, gun safety, gun ownership,
and hunting are compatible. Hawaii is
showing the way. So knowing that we
can balance commonsense gun safety
laws with responsible gun ownership,
as we do in Hawaii, we are left with a
few simple questions. Why hasn’t the
Senate passed H.R. 8, a bill that would
expand background checks for gun pur-
chases? Why has the Senate let this
House-passed bill languish for 200 days?
Why is the Senate failing the American
people?
In normal times, we would have a
majority leader who would rush to pass
a law favored by 90 percent of the peo-
ple of our country. In normal times, we
would be anxious to restrict firearms
ownership to those who can pass a
background check, just as we are anx-
ious to ban flavored e-cigarettes that
target children with addictive prod-
ucts. But these are not normal times.
In these times, we have a majority
leader who is sitting around waiting
for Donald Trump to tell him what to
do or doing the bidding of the NRA.
Instead of waiting around for the er-
ratic, inconsistent, always-changing-
his-mind Donald Trump to make up his
mind—we should live so long—the ma-
jority leader should take action. It is
time for the Senate to reassert its role
as a separate branch of government,
stand up to the NRA, and pass H.R. 8.
It has been 200 days. One hundred peo-
ple a day die in our country by fire-
arms. Do the math. That is 2,000 fire-
arm deaths since the House passed the
bill.
It is way past time for the Senate to
do something, but as we wait for the
majority leader and the President to
summon the fortitude to act, we are
treated to a familiar refrain from the
NRA and their allies in Congress. You
have heard it before. ‘‘Guns don’t kill
people; people kill people.’’ Well, a per-
son with a gun killed 58 people at a
music festival in Las Vegas. A person
with a gun killed 49 people at the Pulse
nightclub in Orlando. A person with a
gun killed 32 people at Virginia Tech. A
person with a gun killed 27 people, in-
cluding little children, at Sandy Hook
Elementary. A person with a gun killed
17 people at Marjory Stoneman Doug-
las High School in Parkland, FL. A
person with a gun killed 11 people at
the Tree of Life synagogue in Pitts-
burgh. A person with a gun killed 26
people at the First Baptist Church in
Sutherland Springs, TX. A person with
a gun killed nine people at the Mother
Emanuel AME Church in Charleston,
SC.
Since the beginning of August, a
total of 113 people have been killed in
mass shootings across the country, in-
cluding incidents where a person with a
gun killed 22 people at a Walmart in El
Paso, a person with a gun killed 9 peo-
ple outside a bar in Dayton, OH, and a
person with a gun killed 7 people in a
shooting spree across Odessa-Midland,
TX.
Obviously, people with guns kill peo-
ple.
It is a sad day in our country when
elementary school children have to
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:51 Sep 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00024 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G17SE6.048 S17SEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5523
September 17, 2019
practice drills in how to escape a
masked shooter. Our country’s con-
tinuing tragedy of these deaths has re-
sulted in an entire industry of compa-
nies that come to schools and tell the
schools: We can build you a safe school.
We could end up with citadels for
schools instead of the places of learn-
ing they should be. That is what is hap-
pening in our country.
It is past time to retire the NRA’s old
canard that ‘‘guns don’t kill; it is peo-
ple that kill.’’ It is people with guns
who kill people. It is time for us to act.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from New Jersey.
Mr. MENENDEZ. Madam President, I
rise today to once again call for this
body to act on commonsense gun safe-
ty legislation. Time and again we have
witnessed unfathomable carnage at the
hands of assault-style rifles and high-
capacity magazines. It is a horror
movie we have seen over and over.
As parents bury children, as infants
lose parents, as America grieves the
senseless loss of life, the NRA just
tightens its grip on the President and
the majority leader.
I am heartened by the grassroots
movement that has grown across our
Nation in recent years, and, likewise, I
am encouraged by the many polls indi-
cating that Americans overwhelmingly
want action.
Americans are tired of having their
voices drowned out by the NRA. They
are tired of a Congress that fears NRA
attack ads more than the next mass
shooting, and they are tired of being
told time and again that this is a men-
tal health problem or a violent video
game problem when we know it is a
gun problem. It is time for real action
in the Senate.
Earlier this year, the House of Rep-
resentatives passed universal back-
ground checks for every gun sale—the
kind of measure that would have
stopped the shooter in Midland, TX,
from bypassing a criminal background
check if it had been a law.
Just last week, the House Judiciary
Committee passed the Keep Americans
Safe Act, my legislation to limit the
sale of ammunition to no more than 10
rounds. We know that a magazine that
holds 30 or 60 or even 100 rounds of am-
munition, like the Dayton shooter’s
did, is not for hunting or self-defense or
protecting your home. High-capacity
magazines are designed for one thing,
and that is high-capacity killing.
It is true that no single law is going
to prevent all gun deaths. It is also
true that we can prevent some gun
deaths, and reducing magazine size is a
proven way to do so.
What will it take for the majority
leader to take action? I am not the
only one asking this question. Indeed,
on September 3, the Washington Post
published an editorial calling on the
majority leader to act. They asked:
‘‘Would any volume of bloodshed con-
vince the Kentucky Republican that
Congress faces a moral imperative to
act?’’
Alongside their call for action, the
Post also published a staggering list of
names—names of fellow Americans who
have lost their lives in mass shootings,
many involving high-capacity ammuni-
tion. I will read as many of these
names as I can in my allotted time
today: Cassie Bernall, Steven Curnow,
Corey DePooter, Kelly Fleming, Mat-
thew Kechter, Daniel Mauser, Daniel
Rohrbough, William ‘‘Dave’’ Sanders,
Rachel Scott, Isaiah Shoels, John
Tomlin, Lauren Townsend, Kyle
Velasquez, Jennifer Bragg Capobianco,
Janice Hagerty, Louis ‘‘Sandy’’ Ja-
velle, Rose Manfredi, Paul Marceau,
Cheryl Troy, Craig Wood, Derrick
Brun, Dewayne Lewis, Chase Lussier,
Daryl Lussier, Neva Rogers, Chanelle
Rosebear, Michelle Sigana, Thurlene
Stillday, Alicia White, Naomi Ebersol,
Marian Stoltzfus Fisher, Lena Zook
Miller, Mary Liz Miller, Anna Mae
Stoltzfus, Ross Abdallah Alameddine,
Christopher James Bishop, Brian
Bluhm, Ryan Clark, Austin Cloyd,
Jocelyne Couture-Nowak, Daniel Perez
Cueva, Kevin Granata, Matthew G.
Gwaltney, Caitlin Hammaren, Jeremy
Herbstritt, Rachael Elizabeth Hill,
Emily Hilscher, Jarrett Lane, Matthew
J. La Porte, Henry Lee, Liviu Librescu,
G.V. Loganathan, Partahi
Lumbantoruan, Lauren McCain, Daniel
O’Neil, Juan Ramon Ortiz, Minal
Panchal, Erin Peterson, Michael Pohle,
Julia Pryde, Mary Read, Reema
Samaha, Waleed Shaalan, Leslie Sher-
man, Maxine Turner, Nicole R. White,
Beverly Flynn, Janet Jorgensen, Gary
Joy, John McDonald, Gary Scharf,
Angie Schuster, Dianne Trent, Maggie
Webb, Parveen Ali, Almir Alves, Marc
Henry Bernard, Maria Sonia Bernard,
Hong Xiu Mao, Jiang Ling, Layla
Khalil, Roberta King, Lan Ho, Li Guo,
Dolores Yigal, Maria Zobniw, Michael
Grant Cahill, Libardo Eduardo
Caraveo, Justin Michael DeCrow, John
Gaffaney, Frederick Greene, Jason
Dean Hunt, Amy S. Krueger, Aaron
Thomas Nemelka, Michael S. Pearson,
Russell Seager, Francheska Velez, Jua-
nita L. Warman, Kham See Xiong,
Christina Taylor Green, Dorothy Mor-
ris, John M. Roll, Phyllis Schneck,
Dorwan Stoddard, Gabriel Zimmerman,
Demetrius Hewlin, Russell King, Jr.,
Daniel Parmertor, Tshering Rinzing
Bhutia, Doris Chibuko, Sonam
Choedon, Grace Eunhea Kim, Katleen
Ping, Judith O. Seymour, Lydia Sim,
Jonathan Blunk, A.J. Boik, Jesse
Childress, Gordon Cowden, Jessica
Ghawi, John Thomas Larimer, Mat-
thew McQuinn, Micayla Medek,
Veronica Moser-Sullivan, Alex Mat-
thew Sullivan, Alexander Teves, Re-
becca Ann Wingo, Satwant Singh
Kaleka, Suveg Singh Khattra,
Paramjit Kaur, Prakash Singh, Ranjit
Singh, Sita Singh, Charlotte Bacon,
Daniel Barden, Rachel D’Avino, Olivia
Engel, Josephine Gay, Dylan Hockley,
Dawn Hochsprung, Madeleine F. Hsu,
Catherine V. Hubbard, Chase Kowalski,
Jesse Lewis, Ana G. Marquez-Greene,
James Mattioli, Grace McDonnell,
Anne Marie Murphy, Emilie Parker,
Jack Pinto, Noah Pozner, Caroline
Previdi, Jessica Rekos, Avielle
Richman, Lauren Russeau, Mary
Sherlach, Victoria Soto, Benjamin
Wheeler, Allison Wyatt.
My time is almost up, but I haven’t
even reached the names of those who
died after Newtown nearly 7 years ago.
I will close with one last point. It is
heartbreaking to know that some of
the people on this list might be alive
today if we only had the courage to
pass the Keep Americans Safe Act or to
establish universal background checks
or a new assault weapons ban. It is just
as heartbreaking to know that more
names of more sons and daughters,
mothers and fathers, brothers and sis-
ters, friends and colleagues will end up
on this list in the days ahead should
the Senate continue to fail to act. That
is the truth. That is the truth.
Every day without action is another
closer to America’s next mass shoot-
ing. The time to save lives is now.
I ask unanimous consent that the
Washington Post’s entire list of mass
shooting victims be printed in the
RECORD.
There being no objection, the mate-
rial was ordered to be printed in the
RECORD, as follows:
[From the Washington Post, Sept. 3, 2019]
HOW MANY MORE NAMES WILL BE ADDED TO
THE LIST BEFORE MITCH MCCONNELL ACTS
ON GUNS?
(By the Editorial Board)
Rodolfo Julio Arco, 57; Kameron Karltess
Brown, 30; Raul Garcia, 35; Mary Granados,
29; Joseph Griffith, 40; Leilah Hernandez, 15;
Edwin Peregrino, 25.
Add those seven individuals, randomly
slaughtered Saturday by a shooter in the
West Texas cities of Midland and Odessa, to
the toll of those lost to America’s gun insan-
ity. And then pose this question:
What if there was a mass shooting in the
United States not once or twice or four or
six times monthly, but every single day, a
big one, the kind that electrifies social
media and squats for days on Page 1—would
that be enough to move Senate Majority
Leader Mitch McConnell from his insistent
inertia on gun safety? Would any volume of
bloodshed convince the Kentucky Repub-
lican that Congress faces a moral imperative
to act? Thirty-eight people were slain in
three such shootings in August—in Dayton,
Ohio, and El Paso, as well as West Texas—
and still Senate Republicans and President
Trump refuse to act.
The list below, far from comprehensive, is
tragic, in part, because it is so far from inev-
itable. No, no single law would end gun vio-
lence. But there are reasonable, obvious
measures that would help.
For example: Ban the sale of military-
grade assault weapons. Unneeded by civil-
ians, they are a blight on the nation, their
ready availability a national disgrace. Elimi-
nating them would slow the growth of this
list. It would save lives.
April 20, 1999, at Columbine High School in
Littleton, Colo.: Cassie Bernall, 17; Steven
Curnow, 14; Corey DePooter, 17; Kelly Flem-
ing, 16; Matthew Kechter, 16; Daniel Mauser,
15; Daniel Rohrbough, 15; William ‘‘Dave’’
Sanders, 47; Rachel Scott, 17; Isaiah Shoels,
18; John Tomlin, 16; Lauren Townsend, 18;
Kyle Velasquez, 16.
Dec. 26, 2000, at Edgewater Technology in
Wakefield, Mass.: Jennifer Bragg
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:51 Sep 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00025 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G17SE6.049 S17SEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5524 September 17, 2019
Capobianco, 29; Janice Hagerty, 46; Louis
‘‘Sandy’’ Javelle, 58; Rose Manfredi, 48; Paul
Marceau, 36; Cheryl Troy, 50; Craig Wood, 29.
March 21, 2005, at Red Lake High School on
the Red Lake Indian Reservation in Red
Lake, Minn.: Derrick Brun, 28; Dewayne
Lewis, 15; Chase Lussier, 15; Daryl Lussier,
58; Neva Rogers, 62; Chanelle Rosebear, 15;
Michelle Sigana, 32; Thurlene Stillday, 15;
Alicia White, 15.
Oct. 2, 2006, at an Amish schoolhouse in
Lancaster County, Pa.: Naomi Ebersol, 7;
Marian Stoltzfus Fisher, 13; Lena Zook Mil-
ler, 7; Mary Liz Miller, 8; Anna Mae
Stoltzfus, 12.
April 16, 2007, at Virginia Tech in
Blacksburg, Va.: Ross Abdallah Alameddine,
20; Christopher James ‘‘Jamie’’ Bishop, 35;
Brian Bluhm, 25; Ryan Clark, 22; Austin
Cloyd, 18; Jocelyne Couture-Nowak, 49; Dan-
iel Perez Cueva, 21; Kevin Granata, 46; Mat-
thew G. Gwaltney, 24; Caitlin Hammaren, 19;
Jeremy Herbstritt, 27; Rachael Elizabeth
Hill, 18; Emily Hilscher, 19; Jarrett Lane, 22;
Matthew J. La Porte, 20; Henry Lee, 20; Liviu
Librescu, 76; G.V. Loganathan, 51; Partahi
Lumbantoruan, 34; Lauren McCain, 20; Dan-
iel O’Neil, 22; Juan Ramon Ortiz, 26; Minal
Panchal, 26; Erin Peterson, 18; Michael
Pohle, 23; Julia Pryde, 23; Mary Read, 19;
Reema Samaha, 18; Waleed Shaalan, 32; Les-
lie Sherman, 20; Maxine Turner, 22; Nicole R.
White, 20.
Dec. 5, 2007, at the Westroads Mall in
Omaha: Beverly Flynn, 47; Janet Jorgensen,
66; Gary Joy, 56; John McDonald, 65; Gary
Scharf, 48; Angie Schuster, 36; Dianne Trent,
53; Maggie Webb, 24.
April 3, 2009, at the American Civic Asso-
ciation immigration services center in Bing-
hamton, N.Y.: Parveen Nln Ali, 26; Almir O.
Alves, 43; Marc Henry Bernard, 44; Maria
Sonia Bernard, 46; Hai Hong Zhong, 54; Hong
Xiu Mao, 35; Jiang Ling, 22; Layla Khalil, 57;
Roberta King, 72; Lan Ho, 39; Li Guo, 47; Do-
lores Yigal, 53; Maria Zobniw, 60.
Nov. 5, 2009, at Fort Hood, near Killeen,
Tex.: Michael Grant Cahill, 62; Libardo
Eduardo Caraveo, 52; Justin Michael DeCrow,
32; John P. Gaffaney, 56; Frederick Greene,
29; Jason Dean Hunt, 22; Amy S. Krueger, 29;
Aaron Thomas Nemelka, 19; Michael S. Pear-
son, 22; Russell Seager, 51; Francheska Velez,
21; Juanita L. Warman, 55; Kham See Xiong,
23.
Jan. 8, 2011, in the parking lot of a grocery
store near Tucson: Christina Taylor Green, 9;
Dorothy Morris, 76; John M. Roll, 63; Phyllis
Schneck, 79; Dorwan Stoddard, 76; Gabriel
Zimmerman, 30.
Feb. 27, 2012, at Chardon High School in
Chardon, Ohio: Demetrius Hewlin, 16; Russell
King, Jr., 17; Daniel Parmertor, 16.
April 2, 2012, at Oikos University in Oak-
land, Calif.: Tshering Rinzing Bhutia, 38;
Doris Chibuko, 40; Sonam Choedon, 33; Grace
Eunhea Kim, 23; Katleen Ping, 24; Judith O.
Seymour, 53; Lydia Sim, 21.
July 20, 2012, at the Century Aurora 16
movie complex in Aurora, Colo.: Jonathan
Blunk, 26: A.J. Boik, 18; Jesse Childress, 29;
Gordon W. Cowden, 51; Jessica Ghawi, 24;
John Thomas Larimer, 27; Matthew
McQuinn, 27; Micayla Medek, 23; Veronica
Moser-Sullivan, 6; Alex Matthew Sullivan,
27; Alexander Teves, 24; Rebecca Ann Wingo,
32.
Aug. 5, 2012, at the Sikh Temple of Wis-
consin in Oak Creek, Wis.: Satwant Singh
Kaleka, 65; Suveg Singh Khattra, 84;
Paramjit Kaur, 41; Prakash Singh, 39; Ranjit
Singh, 49; Sita Singh, 41.
Dec. 14, 2012, at Sandy Hook Elementary
School in Newtown, Conn.: Charlotte Bacon,
6; Daniel Barden, 7; Rachel D’Avino, 29;
Olivia Engel, 6; Josephine Gay, 7; Dylan
Hockley, 6; Dawn Hochsprung, 47; Madeleine
F. Hsu, 6; Catherine V. Hubbard, 6; Chase
Kowalski, 7; Jesse Lewis, 6; Ana G. Marquez-
Greene, 6; James Mattioli, 6; Grace McDon-
nell, 7; Anne Marie Murphy, 52; Emilie
Parker, 6; Jack Pinto, 6; Noah Pozner, 6;
Caroline Previdi, 6; Jessica Rekos, 6; Avielle
Richman, 6; Lauren Russeau, 30; Mary
Sherlach, 56; Victoria Soto, 27; Benjamin
Wheeler, 6; Allison N. Wyatt, 6.
Sept. 16, 2013, at the Washington Navy
Yard in the District: Michael Arnold, 59;
Martin Bodrog, 54; Arthur Daniels, 51; Sylvia
Frasier, 53; Kathy Gaarde, 62; John Roger
Johnson, 73; Mary Frances DeLorenzo
Knight, 51; Frank Kohler, 51; Vishnu
Bhalchandra Pandit, 61; Kenneth Bernard
Proctor, 46; Gerald Read, 58; Richard Michael
Ridge11, 52.
June 17, 2015, at Emanuel African Meth-
odist Episcopal Church in Charleston, S.C.:
Sharonda Coleman-Singleton, 45; DePayne V.
Middleton Doctor, 49; Cynthia Graham Hurd,
54; Susie Jackson, 87; Ethel Lee Lance, 70;
Clementa C. Pinckney, 41; Tywanza Sanders,
26; Daniel Simmons, 74; Myra Thompson, 59.
July 16, 2015, at an armed services recruit-
ing center and a Navy reserve center in
Chattanooga, Tenn.: Carson A. Holmquist,
25; Randall Smith, 26; Thomas J. Sullivan,
40; Squire K. ‘‘Skip’’ Wells, 21, David A.
Wyatt, 35.
Oct. 1, 2015, at a community college in
Roseburg, Ore.: Lucero Alcaraz, 19; Treven
Taylor Anspach, 20; Rebecka Ann Carnes, 18;
Quinn Glen Cooper, 18; Kim Saltmarsh Dietz,
59; Lucas Eibel, 18; Jason Dale Johnson, 33;
Lawrence Levine, 67; Sarena Dawn Moore, 44.
Nov. 27, 2015, at a Planned Parenthood clin-
ic in Colorado Springs: Jennifer Markovsky,
36; Ke’Arre M. Stewart, 29; Garrett Swasey,
44.
Dec. 2, 2015, at an office park in San
Bernardino, Calif.: Robert Adams, 40; Isaac
Amanios, 60; Bennetta Betbadal, 46; Harry
Bowman, 46; Sierra Clayborn, 27; Juan
Espinoza, 50; Aurora Godoy, 26; Shannon
Johnson, 45; Larry Daniel Kaufman, 42;
Damian Meins, 58; Tin Nguyen, 31; Nicholas
Thalasinos, 52; Yvette Velasco, 27; Michael
Raymond Wetzel, 37.
June 12, 2016, at Pulse nightclub in Or-
lando: Stanley Almodovar III, 23; Amanda L.
Alvear, 25; Oscar A. Aracena Montero, 26;
Rodolfo Ayala Ayala, 33; Antonio Davon
Brown, 29; Darryl Roman Burt II, 29; Angel
Candelario-Padro, 28; Juan Chavez Martinez,
25; Luis Daniel Conde, 39; Cory James
Connell, 21; Tevin Eugene Crosby, 25; Deonka
Deidra Drayton, 32; Simón Adrian Carrillo
Fernández, 31; Leroy Valentin Fernandez, 25;
Mercedez Marisol Flores, 26; Peter Ommy
Gonzalez Cruz, 22; Juan Ramon Guerrero, 22;
Paul Terrell Henry, 41; Frank Hernandez, 27;
Miguel Angel Honorato, 30; Javier Jorge
Reyes, 40; Jason Benjamin Josaphat, 19;
Eddie Jamoldroy Justice, 30; Anthony Luis
Laureano Disla, 25; Christopher Andrew
Leinonen, 32; Alejandro Barrios Martinez, 21,
Brenda Marquez McCool, 49; Gilberto R.
Silva Menendez, 25; Kimberly Jean Morris,
37; Akyra Monet Murray, 18; Luis Omar
Ocasio Capo, 20; Geraldo A. Ortiz Jimenez,
25; Eric Ivan Ortiz-Rivera, 36; Joel Rayon
Paniagua, 32; Jean Carlos Mendez Perez, 35;
Enrique L. Rios Jr., 25; Jean Carlos Nieves
Rodrı́guez, 27; Xavier Emmanuel Serrano-
Rosado, 35; Christopher Joseph Sanfeliz, 24;
Yilmary Rodrı́guez Solivan, 24; Edward
Sotomayor Jr., 34; Shane Evan Tomlinson,
33; Martin Benitez Torres, 33; Jonathan A.
Camuy Vega, 24; Juan Pablo Rivera
Velázquez, 37; Luis Sergio Vielma, 22;
Franky Jimmy DeJesus Velázquez, 50; Luis
Daniel Wilson-Leon, 37; Jerald Arthur
Wright, 31.
Jan. 6, 2017, at the baggage claim of Fort
Lauderdale-Hollywood International Airport
in Florida: Mary Louise Amzibel, 69; Terry
Andres, 62; Michael Oehme, 57; Shirley
Timmons, 70; Olga Woltering, 84.
June 5, 2017, at an awning company near
Orlando: Kevin Clark, 53; Kevin Lawson, 46;
Brenda Montanez-Crespo, 44; Jeffrey Roberts,
57; Robert Snyder, 69.
Oct. 1, 2017, on the Las Vegas Strip: Han-
nah Ahlers, 34; Heather Alvarado, 35; Dorene
Anderson, 49; Carrie Barnette, 34; Jack
Beaton, 54; Stephen Berger, 44; Candice Bow-
ers, 40; Denise Burditus, 50; Sandy Casey, 35;
Andrea Castilla, 28; Denise Cohen, 58; Austin
Davis, 29; Thomas Day Jr., 54; Christiana
Duarte, 22; Stacee Rodrigues Etcheber, 50;
Brian Fraser, 39; Keri Galvan, 31; Dana Gard-
ner, 52; Angela Gomez, 20; Charleston
Hartfield, 34; Christopher Hazencomb, 44;
Jennifer Topaz Irvine, 42; Teresa Nicol
Kimura, 38; Jessica Klymchuk, 34; Carly
Kreibaum, 33; Rhonda LeRocque, 42; Victor
Link, 55; Jordan McIldoon, 23; Kelsey
Breanne Meadows, 28; Calla-Marie Medig, 28;
Sonny Melton, 29; Patricia Mestas, 67; Aus-
tin Meyer, 24; Adrian Murfitt, 35; Rachael
Parker, 33; Jennifer Parks, 36; Carolyn Par-
sons, 31; Lisa Patterson, 46; John Phippen,
56; Melissa Ramirez, 26; Jordyn Rivera, 21;
Quinton Robbins, 20; Cameron Robinson, 28;
Rocio Guillen Rocha, 40; Tara Roe, 34; Lisa
Romero-Muniz, 48; Christopher Roybal, 28;
Brett Schwanbeck, 61; Bailey Schweitzer, 20;
Laura Shipp, 50; Erick Silva, 21; Susan
Smith, 53; Brennan Stewart, 30; Derrick Tay-
lor, 56; Neysa Tonks, 46; Michelle Vo, 32;
Kurt Von Tillow, 55; Bill Wolfe Jr., 42.
Nov. 5, 2017, at the First Baptist Church in
Sutherland Springs, Tex.: Keith Allen
Braden, 62; Robert Michael Corrigan, 51;
Shani Louise Corrigan, 51; Emily Garcia, 7;
Emily Rose Hill, 11; Gregory Lynn Hill, 13;
Megan Gail Hill, 9; Crystal Marie Holcombe,
36; John Bryan Holcombe, 60; Karla Plain
Holcombe, 58; Marc Daniel Holcombe, 36;
Noah Holcombe, 1; Dennis Neil Johnson, 77;
Sara Johns Johnson, 68; Haley Krueger, 16;
Robert Scott Marshall, 56; Karen Sue Mar-
shall, 56; Tara E. McNulty, 33; Annabelle
Renae Pomeroy, 14; Ricardo Cardona Rodri-
guez, 64; Therese Sagan Rodriguez, 66;
Brooke Bryanne Ward, 5; Joann Lookingbill
Ward, 30; Peggy Lynn Warden, 56; Lula
Woicinski White, 71.
Feb. 14, 2018, at Marjory Stoneman Douglas
High School in Parkland, Fla.: Alyssa
Alhadeff, 14; Scott Beigel, 35; Martin Duque,
14; Nicholas Dworet, 17; Aaron Feis, 37;
Jaime Guttenberg, 14; Chris Hixon, 49; Luke
Hoyer, 15; Cara Loughran, 14; Gina Montalto,
14; Joaquin Oliver, 17; Alaina Petty, 14;
Meadow Pollack, 18; Helena Ramsay, 17; Alex
Schachter, 14; Carmen Schentrup, 16; Peter
Wang, 15.
May 18, 2018, at Santa Fe High School in
Santa Fe, Tex.: Jared Black, 17; Shana Fish-
er, 16; Christian Riley Garcia, 15; Aaron Kyle
McLeod, 15; Glenda Ann Perkins, 64;
Angelique Ramirez, 15; Sabika Sheikh, 17;
Christopher Stone, 17; Cynthia Tisdale, 63;
Kimberly Vaughan, 14.
June 28, 2018, at the Capital Gazette news-
room in Annapolis: Gerald Fischman, 61; Rob
Hiaasen, 59; John McNamara, 56; Rebecca
Smith, 34; Wendi Winters, 65.
Oct. 27, 2018, at Tree of Life synagogue in
Pittsburgh: Joyce Fienberg, 75; Richard
Gottfried, 65; Rose Mallinger, 97; Jerry
Rabinowitz, 66; Cecil Rosenthal, 59; David
Rosenthal, 54; Bernice Simon, 84; Sylvan
Simon, 86; Daniel Stein, 71; Melvin Wax, 87;
Irving Younger, 69.
Nov. 7, 2018, at the Borderline Bar and Grill
in Thousand Oaks, Calif.: Sean Adler, 48;
Cody Coffman, 22; Blake Dingman, 21; Jake
Dunham, 21, Ron Helus, 54; Alaina Housley,
18; Dan Manrique, 33; Justin Meek, 23; Mark
Meza Jr., 20, Kristina Morisette, 20;
Telemachus Orfanos, 27; Noel Sparks, 21.
Jan. 23, 2019, at the SunTrust Bank in
Sebring, Fla.: Debra Cook, 54; Marisol Lopez,
55; Jessica Montague, 31; Ana Piñon-Wil-
liams, 38; Cynthia Watson, 65.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:01 Sep 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00026 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A17SE6.008 S17SEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5525
September 17, 2019
Feb. 15, 2019, at the Henry Pratt Co. in Au-
rora, Ill.: Russell Beyer, 47; Vicente Juarez,
54; Clayton Parks, 32; Josh Pinkard, 37;
Trevor Wehner, 21.
May 31, 2019, at the Virginia Beach Munic-
ipal Center, in Virginia Beach : LaQuita C.
Brown, 39; Ryan Keith Cox, 50; Tara Welch
Gallagher, 39; Mary Louise Gayle, 65; Alex-
ander Mikhail Gusev, 35; Joshua O. Hardy,
52; Michelle ‘‘Missy’’ Langer, 60; Richard H.
Nettleton, 65; Katherine A. Nixon, 42; Chris-
topher Kelly Rapp, 54; Herbert ‘‘Bert’’
Snelling, 57; Robert ‘‘Bobby’’ Williams, 72.
July 28, 2019, at the Gilroy Garlic Festival
in California: Trevor Deon Irby, 25; Stephen
Romero, 6; Keyla Salazar, 13.
Aug. 3, 2019, at a Walmart Supercenter in
El Paso: Andre Anchondo, 24; Jordan
Anchondo, 25; Arturo Benavides, 60; Leo
Campos, 41; Angelina Englisbee, 86; Maria
Flores, 77; Raul Flores, 83; Jorge Calvillo
Garcı́a, 61; Adolfo Cerros Hernández, 68;
Maribel Hernández, 56; Alexander Gerhard
Hoffman, 66; David Johnson, 63; Luis Juarez,
90; Maria Eugenia Legarreta, 58; Ivan
Filiberto Manzano, 45; Gloria Irma Márquez,
61; Elsa Mendoza, 57; Margie Reckard, 63;
Sara Esther Regalado, 66; Javier Amir Rodri-
guez, 15; Teresa Sanchez, 82; Juan de Dios
Velázquez, 77.
Aug. 4, 2019, at the Oregon Historic District
in Dayton, Ohio: Megan K. Betts, 22; Monica
E. Brickhouse, 39; Nicholas P. Cumer, 25;
Derrick R. Fudge, 57; Thomas J. McNichols,
25; Lois L. Oglesby, 27; Saeed Saleh, 38;
Logan M. Turner, 30; Beatrice N. Warren-
Curtis, 36.
Mr. MENENDEZ. I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Mr. MERKLEY. Madam President, I
ask unanimous consent that the order
for the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
Mr. MERKLEY. Madam President, I
am rising to speak tonight as a Sen-
ator that comes from a passionate Sec-
ond Amendment State. The citizens of
my home State of Oregon value their
guns for collecting, for target practice,
for personal defense, and, certainly, for
hunting. But it is also a State where
citizens have said they do not want in-
dividuals who are deeply disturbed or
individuals who have felony back-
grounds to get ahold of guns because
we have a responsibility to make sure
that guns don’t end up in the wrong
hands and that guns are not abused.
Our State then proceeded to do a se-
ries of things to strengthen a back-
ground check system. It was in the
year 2000 that the citizens drew a bal-
lot measure supported by almost 62
percent of the State that chose to close
the gun show loophole that previously
had allowed purchasers to buy guns at
gun shows without completing a back-
ground check, making a background
check in gun stores essentially irrele-
vant.
It was in 2015 that the citizens of Or-
egon closed the Craig’s List loophole,
and it was in the year 2018 when they
closed through the legislature the
‘‘boyfriend’’ loophole, saying that if an
individual had a restraining order
against them or a stalking conviction,
they shouldn’t have the ability to buy
a gun in our State.
Now, I do a lot of townhalls. I do one
in every county every year. At the end
of this year, I am hitting about 400
townhalls since the time I have been in
the Senate. Of the 36 counties I go to
each year, 22 of them would be what
you would describe politically as being
very red counties, and gun violence
comes up all the time. Yet even in
those conservative red counties, people
are incredibly supportive of having a
background check system nationally
like Oregon has created, because right
now in Oregon it is kind of a big hole
if somebody just ignores a background
check and goes across the border to an-
other State to buy guns.
Then we have the challenges of straw
buyers, and we need to have rigorous
enforcement of that. It is only with a
national system that this works.
Every year, thousands of people go to
more than 4,000 gun shows held across
America, and they purchase between 4
to 9 percent of all the annual firearms
that are sold in America at these
events. Because gun shows in most
States don’t require background
checks, people who couldn’t pass a
background check simply can go and
acquire their weapon in that fashion.
For this reason, guns purchased at
gun shows are disproportionately the
ones that are used in criminal activi-
ties. The same is true for individuals
purchasing guns in other States
through websites like Craig’s List. Just
like gun show purchasers, individuals
purchasing firearms online from pri-
vate sellers are exempt from back-
ground checks in all but 12 States and
the District of Columbia.
So, nationally, there is powerful sup-
port for a solid background check sys-
tem that doesn’t have loopholes that
just make it irrelevant—closing of the
loophole for gun shows, closing the
loophole for Craig’s List, and closing
the loophole for stalkers and domestic
abusers.
Speaking of domestic abusers, in just
an average week, about 17 women—
about 17 women—are fatally shot by
former or current romantic partners.
As we talk about the challenge with
guns and violent deaths in America, we
have the names of various cities ring-
ing in our ears—cities like Dayton, 9
dead and 27 wounded; El Paso, 22 dead
and 24 wounded; Odessa and Midland, 7
dead and 21 wounded. But recognize
this: While those extra traumatic
events capture the headlines, there is a
mass shooting in America more than
once per day. As of September 1 of this
year, which was the 244th day of the
year, there have been 283 mass shoot-
ings.
What is a mass shooting? It is a situ-
ation in which more than four people
are hit by gunfire.
So it is time to act. Right now, this
is the moment that demands action be-
cause 92 percent of Americans favor a
background check for all gun sales. We
owe it to Americans to support back-
ground checks for all gun sales and to
actually act. We owe it to our children,
who are now scared of going to school
and who are forced to practice hiding
from a crazed murderer in active shoot-
ing drills. We owe it to our teachers,
who are prepared to put their lives on
the line for their students in case of an
emergency. And we owe it to the fami-
lies of the countless Americans who
have lost their lives to gun violence—
to the mothers, fathers, sisters, and
brothers, and the loved ones of those
who are lost. They have an unhealable
pain.
One of those individuals, Fred
Guttenberg, is here tonight. On Valen-
tine’s Day 2018, Fred’s 14-year-old
daughter, Jamie Guttenberg was
gunned down at her school in Park-
land, FL. Jamie was, in her father’s
words, ‘‘tough as nails,’’ but also
‘‘silly, funny, energetic . . . wherever
she went, she was the energy in the
room.’’
She wanted to be a pediatric physical
therapist and work with children to
make their lives better. She was a 14-
year-old with her whole life ahead of
her. She was a competitive dancer. She
was a freshman in high school with so
many life chapters to be written.
But she didn’t get to write those
chapters—chapters having fun with her
friends, chapters getting stressed out
by back-to-school homework or plan-
ning for the prom or making plans for
the future or deciding what path to go
in life and where to attend school. All
of it was stolen from her and stolen
from her family.
Her father Fred has said:
‘‘Everybody thinks this gets easier as time
goes on. It actually doesn’t. It gets harder,
because every day there’s just going to be a
new reminder of what you lost.’’
She was the second to the last to be
shot. She was shot in the spine running
away from the shooter. Fred notes that
it was his daughter, but it could have
been your daughter. It could have been
your son. It could have been the child
of any one of us.
(Mr. BARRASSO assumes the Chair.)
Mr. President, we are here in the
Chamber to help make life better. We
are here to keep Americans safe, but
we are doing nothing, and doing noth-
ing with 90-plus percent of America
crying out and saying: Have the guts to
act.
Mr. President, let’s have the guts to
act. Let’s have the guts to put the bill
here on the floor. The House passed
H.R. 8, the basic background check bill.
We are not here to do the interests of
big corporations. We are not here to do
the interests of special interests. Nine-
ty-plus percent of Americans say to act
on the basics of doing a background
check when people buy a gun, no mat-
ter where they buy it.
Let’s act. Let’s hold a debate. Let’s
actually talk to each other. Let’s make
the arguments pro and con. Let’s hear
why we shouldn’t listen to the vast ma-
jority of Americans. It is the vast ma-
jority of Democrats, it is the vast ma-
jority of Independents, and it is the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:01 Sep 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00027 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A17SE6.010 S17SEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5526 September 17, 2019
vast majority of Republicans, with vir-
tually no difference in the level of sup-
port between the Democrats, Independ-
ents, and Republicans. All of America
is saying that background checks make
sense.
The American people deserve safety
in their homes, workplaces, schools,
and their communities, but all I have
heard is a majority leader who says
that he will only allow a bill on the
floor when the President says it is OK.
Well, the last time I checked the
Constitution, it is our responsibility
here in the Senate and House to act,
not to hide behind the skirts of the
President. This President, we know,
has been spineless—absolutely spine-
less. One call from a special interest
group, one meeting with the NRA, and
suddenly his conviction dissipates like
light rain on hot asphalt.
Are we going to abdicate our respon-
sibility to legislate to a spineless
President? It is not his role to decide
what bills are passed in this country. It
is our responsibility here in the Sen-
ate. I believe that if Democrats and Re-
publicans come together and honor
their responsibility to act and pass the
bill, the President will be in the Oval
Office signing it because all of America
is crying out for him to do so.
It has been a long time since the bill
was passed in the House. It has been 202
days. That is 202 opportunities that we
have had to debate the House bill and
take a vote on it. It has been 202 oppor-
tunities in which the leadership of this
Chamber has failed the American peo-
ple by refusing to have a debate on this
floor.
When I came here, not long ago, vir-
tually any Senator could get any issue
before the Senate. Suddenly, we have a
dictator in the Senate. The majority
leader says only the bills that he wants
will be considered and only the amend-
ments that he wants will be considered
on the floor of the Senate.
What happened to my Republican
colleagues who believed in the right to
amend and the right to legislate, who
now yield to one individual in the Sen-
ate dictating what is considered in this
august Chamber? We are not much of a
legislative chamber if only one person
can determine what is considered here
on the floor of the Senate.
The American people are asking for
better. Let’s deliver much better. Let’s
consider H.R. 8. Let’s get it on the
floor. Let’s debate and let’s vote.
Thank you.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
BRAUN). The Senator from Connecticut.
Mr. MURPHY. Mr. President, I thank
my colleagues for their indulgence this
evening and those of you who help us
keep this floor open.
I will make some longer remarks
later this evening, but while we have a
short break on the floor and await Sen-
ator BROWN, I want to say a word of ap-
preciation to all of my colleagues who
have decided to join us this evening on
the floor.
This is my first appearance here to
talk about the imperative of changing
the Nation’s gun laws, recognizing that
this number—100 Americans killed by
guns every single day—is not inevi-
table. Almost every single one of these
murders and suicides and accidental
shootings is preventable if we make
different choices here on the floor of
the U.S. Senate.
Our purpose tonight is to try to bring
some consistency of effort to a case
that we have been making for a very
long time. So I will be back here later
this evening to walk through the case,
as far as I see it, for universal back-
ground checks in particular but also
for a host of other measures that are
broadly popular amongst the American
public.
One point I will make right now is
that this issue is really unique in
American politics today. It is not a
controversial issue out in America. It
is only controversial here inside the
political process. In fact, there are very
few matters in public life today that
are, frankly, more controversial than
this issue. When you go out and ask
people if they support universal back-
ground checks, which is the measure
that passed the House of Representa-
tives by a 9-to-1 margin, they support
universal background checks. There is
almost nothing else in American poli-
tics today—I would endeavor to say
there is nothing else in American poli-
tics today that is as popular as this
measure; yet it has this reputation of
being a third rail of political discourse
here in Washington.
I would simply encourage my col-
leagues to get out there and have con-
versations with their constituents, to
have conversations with members of
their own parties, to have conversa-
tions with gun owners. You will find
that there is a consistency of opinion
at least on a large number of pieces of
legislation that are before this body.
At the top of that list are universal
background checks. I have this con-
versation over and over and over
again—and then I will leave the floor
to Senator BROWN and return later—
with the President’s supporters, with
supporters of the Second Amendment,
and with members of the NRA in my
State.
Of course, I have acquired a reputa-
tion of being a forceful and vocal advo-
cate for stronger gun laws in this Na-
tion, and the NRA often targets me in
its advertisements and its emails. I
will often be confronted by my con-
stituents who will see me at a public
event. They will come on a beeline over
to me and start confronting me about
my agenda to confiscate their weapons
or to take away their guns. Of course,
I try to disabuse them of that notion,
and as soon as I can, I take the con-
versation to background checks.
I say: Listen, let me ask you a ques-
tion. Do you think that everybody who
is buying a gun in this country should
have to go through a background
check?
Almost invariably, the individual,
who just moments ago was so
confrontational with me about the
issue of guns—his defenses drop, and he
says: Well, yes. Of course, I support
that. Of course, everybody should get a
background check before buying a gun.
I said: You got one, right?
He said: I got one. It was 3- or 4-min-
utes long. That is not what I am talk-
ing about. I object to all of the other
things, but, of course, I want back-
ground checks.
Gun owners support background
checks by an 80- to 90-percent margin.
NRA members support it. Polls suggest
that 75 to 80 percent of NRA members
support background checks. This is
just one of the least controversial
issues that exists out there in the
American public today.
We are going to have a conversation
today about the efficacy of these meas-
ures, but we should remember that
there are many times when we get de-
luded into believing something is much
more of a vexing political conversation
than it truly is, and background checks
are on that agenda.
At this point, I yield the floor, and I
will come back down later for longer
remarks. I am glad to be joined this
evening by Senator BROWN from Ohio.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Ohio.
Mr. BROWN. Mr. President, I am also
joined by Senator CASEY, of Pennsyl-
vania, who has been a leader as Sen-
ator MURPHY has been. We look to Sen-
ator MURPHY every day in this body be-
cause he has seen this tragedy up close
in the most vivid, awful ways. We ap-
preciate how he has represented vic-
tims and people who might end up
being victims. If we do this right, they
won’t end up being victims. His leader-
ship has really mattered.
On a Sunday morning 6 weeks ago,
Connie and I woke up, checked our
iPhones, and immediately called out to
each other and said: Oh, my gosh. Look
what has happened in Dayton.
It was the first Saturday night in Au-
gust. At 1 o’clock that Sunday morn-
ing, a local man with an assault weap-
on walked into the Oregon District in
Dayton, as people were out having fun
that night, and just opened fired. He
killed his sister, and he killed eight
others. He wounded more than 20. In
the space of 32 seconds, he had fired 41
bullets. It tells you the kind of gun he
had. Heroically, six police officers de-
scended on him. They shot him and
killed him before he could walk into
this nightclub where he would have
probably killed 20 other people.
I called Mayor Nan Whaley that
morning, probably at 8:30. It was pretty
incredible. This happened at 1 o’clock
in the morning. I called her at 8:30—71⁄2
hours later. The first thing she said to
me was that she had gotten emails and
texts and calls—in her words—from
several dozen mayors around the coun-
try who had either had to deal with
this, as many had, or had had situa-
tions in which they had had gun vio-
lence and had just offered to help her
in any way they could.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:51 Sep 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00028 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G17SE6.053 S17SEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5527
September 17, 2019
We know what happens. We know
that every time there is gun violence—
every time there is a mass shooting—
the first thing the Republicans say is:
My thoughts and prayers are with the
victims.
How can you not agree with that? We
all think that.
Then they say ‘‘Now is not the time
to talk about it’’ as if they ever want
to talk about it.
Then they say: You know, we have to
do something about mental health in
this country.
Ask Senator CASEY about his efforts
on Medicaid and my efforts on Med-
icaid. The people who sit on this side of
the aisle—where the Republicans sit
here—are the ones who stood a year
ago at every one of these desks, all of
the Senators having their health insur-
ance paid for by the government, paid
for by taxpayers, and tried to take
away health insurance for millions and
millions of Americans.
Senator CASEY told me today that 1.1
million people in Pennsylvania now
have health insurance because of the
Affordable Care Act. In my State,
where my daughter Elizabeth Brown is
a councilperson in Columbus, 900,000
people have insurance because of that.
On this side of the aisle, every single
Senator except for three—one of whom
has passed away—voted to take away
the insurance, to repeal the Affordable
Care Act. Then they have the gall to
say we have to do more on mental
health. If that had passed—if they had
repealed the Affordable Care Act—hun-
dreds of thousands of Pennsylvanians
and Ohioans wouldn’t have had the
mental health services they are getting
now. So spare me that whining. Spare
me that ‘‘oh, we want to take care of
mental health issues.’’ No, they don’t.
They just want to do the NRA’s bid-
ding.
Look down this aisle. Look down this
hall. Right down this hall is Senator
MCCONNELL’s office. I am not going to
say that gun lobbyists walk down that
hall and walk into his office and hand
him money. I don’t think they do that.
Yet I do know that until we break the
addiction that Donald Trump and
MITCH MCCONNELL and most of the Re-
publicans—most of the people in this
body—have to gun lobby money, cam-
paign contributions, we will never
solve this problem.
We heard that. That is what we heard
the first day in Dayton. My wife and I
drove to Dayton that afternoon. The
President came to Dayton 2 days later.
I joined President Trump at the bot-
tom of Air Force One. As he got off the
plane, I stood with Mayor Whaley.
We both looked President Trump in
the eye and said: Mr. President, I hope
you will call Senator MCCONNELL and
ask him to bring the Senate back.
This was in early August. The Senate
was out of session for 5 weeks.
I hope you will ask Senator MCCON-
NELL to bring the Senate back into ses-
sion and pass the House bill that sets
up something very simple—universal
background checks.
As Senator MURPHY said, 90 percent
of the American public supports back-
ground checks. You know, the only
people who don’t support background
checks are professional lobbyists for
the NRA and the people who sit over
here. Other than that, it is over 90 per-
cent. A majority of gun owners in Ohio
support universal background checks.
A majority of Republicans support uni-
versal background checks. A majority
of NRA members in Ohio support uni-
versal background checks. The only
people who don’t are Members of this
body and that tiny group of NRA pro-
fessional lobbyists. It is not NRA mem-
bers who are stopping background
checks from passing. It is that narrow
group of millionaire, NRA, highly paid,
professional lobbyists. That is why we
can’t pass it here. That is what we have
had happen.
Mayor Nan Whaley and I asked Presi-
dent Trump to pass it, and he said: I
am going to do big things. We are going
to do big things and fix this.
Then we saw him later at the hos-
pital. President Trump went around
the hospital with the First Lady. They
were kind and generous and empa-
thetic, I believe, with the patients who
were there who had been injured and
with their family members. Then we
met the police officers—the six heroic
police officers. We thanked them pro-
fusely—all of us—for their courage in
saving lives.
Then we walked out of the room, the
Governor and the other Senator from
Ohio and the local Congressman and
the mayor, and he said: We are going to
have the biggest awards ever. We are
going to give them the biggest Presi-
dential medals ever made for these he-
roes.
I said: That is really good, Mr. Presi-
dent, but do you know what they would
really like? What they would really
like is for us to pass background
checks and make their jobs a little
easier, so when they walk in, they are
not ambushed by people with illegal
guns.
The President said he was going to do
something, then he talked to the NRA,
and then he talked to the gun lobby. It
is the same story.
Again, when I open this door and
look down the hall, I don’t expect to
see—well, it is late in the day, but I
don’t expect to see gun lobbyists lining
up handing MITCH MCCONNELL money.
It is illegal. I don’t think he does stuff
like that, take money in this body.
I do know, again, that until we break
the addiction, until the voters or the
Congress or somehow we break the ad-
diction to gun lobby money that MITCH
MCCONNELL and Donald Trump and the
majority party have, we can’t solve
this.
This is just too important. For every
mass shooting that makes a headline,
there are so many other Americans
whose lives are taken by gun violence
but don’t get the same attention. This
has to end.
No more stigmatizing people with
mental illness. We should stop stigma-
tizing people with mental illness. Con-
gress should stop taking orders from
the NRA and start acting to keep peo-
ple safe.
I will close with this before Senator
CASEY speaks: The shooting was at 1 in
the morning on a Sunday. Sunday
night, people gathered in the Oregon
District—heartbroken people, rel-
atives, friends, community people, just
people who were just shellshocked and
felt awful about what happened to
their city and to those victims—gath-
ered in the Oregon District in Dayton.
The Governor was there, and the mayor
was up front, and one or two people
started yelling: Do something. Do
something. Then more and more people
joined in, and they started chanting:
Do something. Do something.
They were chanting it to local offi-
cials. They were chanting it so the
Governor heard it and maybe even
some State legislators in Ohio heard it.
They were shouting loud enough that
in this body we should hear that shout
to do something.
It starts by taking the bill that
passed the House down the hall, bring-
ing it to the Senate floor, debating it,
voting on it, passing strong, reasonable
background checks. That is the step we
need to take. There is simply no excuse
for not doing it.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Pennsylvania.
Mr. CASEY. Mr. President, I rise to-
night to speak about the issue that has
been consuming a lot of our time, and
appropriately so, not only tonight but
for many weeks, since some of the
tragedies of this summer, starting in
early August and continuing but also
an issue that has occupied the time of
the American people over the course of
not just weeks or months but years and
even decades now.
I thank our colleague from Con-
necticut, Senator MURPHY, for orga-
nizing this time to bring Members of
the Senate together.
I thank my colleague from Ohio, Sen-
ator BROWN, the senior Senator, for his
words tonight, his passion about this
issue, and his commitment to change.
That should be a commitment that is
shared by everyone here, but we will be
talking about what has not happened
here tonight as much as what has hap-
pened.
When I think about this issue, the
issue of gun violence, which is an epi-
demic, it is also uniquely an American
problem. No other country has this
problem. In fact, America didn’t have
this problem for all of its history. De-
pending on where you start the clock,
it is years old, if not a lot longer than
that.
When I think about the issue and
think about the debates we are having,
sometimes we start with the names of
communities, and we, unfortunately,
have them memorized. So many com-
munities are known for so much—so
much that is positive about their cul-
ture, about their history, and about
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:51 Sep 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00029 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G17SE6.057 S17SEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5528 September 17, 2019
their future, and the dynamism of
some of our great communities.
There are some communities that
have all that but also now have at-
tached to their history—I hope not for-
ever but certainly for a period of
time—that that city, that community,
was a place where an act of gun vio-
lence occurred that was of such a scale
that the American people focused on
that one community for a sustained pe-
riod of time because of a mass shoot-
ing.
Of course, we should be remembering
all of the examples on a night like to-
night, where it doesn’t reach the level
of a mass shooting by way of victims or
carnage but also as a place we should
remember when one person dies on a
dark street in the middle of the night
or a child is injured or in fact killed,
but it may not be counted as a mass
shooting.
You know all the names now. Just
this summer we have added several
more, as everyone knows. I will not go
through all the events—these horrific,
tragic events—but it is important to
remember the names of the commu-
nities, and then, of course, I want to
talk about some of the people.
Whether it is El Paso or Dayton or
Odessa-Midland—many years ago, it
was Columbine, it was Newtown, CT,
Virginia Tech, Las Vegas, Parkland,
Aurora, CO, Orlando, and, more re-
cently, Gilroy, CA, and Virginia Beach.
I have left a lot off. That is just a
handful in the last number of years.
So we think about this issue in terms
of those who were lost or those whose
lives have been irreparably damaged,
sometimes irreparably damaged, per-
manently damaged because of the in-
jury—an injury they will carry with
them for the rest of their lives.
Of course, you don’t have to be phys-
ically injured to sustain an injury by
way of the impact on your psyche. I
can’t even imagine, can’t even begin to
imagine, nor can most people imagine
the horror of being anywhere near a
mass shooting.
Tonight we remember those victims
and their families and those commu-
nities. We also remember the indi-
vidual people who were lost, the indi-
vidual families who were affected—
mothers and fathers and brothers and
sisters, children. In so many of these
instances, children are directly af-
fected or indirectly, but that indirect
affect means they lost a parent or they
lost a sibling or they lost something in
that moment that they will be perma-
nently scarred by for the rest of their
lives.
I want to focus on two groups of peo-
ple tonight. We could spend hours talk-
ing about so many Americans. One will
be parochial in the sense that it is
about my home State of Pennsylvania,
and the other will be at the other end
of the age scale about children who
were lost in December of 2012.
I will start with the most recent for
Pennsylvania. We have had, obviously,
example after example—too many to
count, hundreds and hundreds—over
the last couple of years where someone
was killed or injured.
We, thankfully, have not had mul-
tiple mass shootings, but just a couple
of weeks ago in the city of Philadel-
phia, on about the same day that a guy
was gunned down in Philadelphia,
there was a standoff in a Philadelphia
neighborhood, where one gunman—be-
cause of the power of his weapon and
because of the advantage he had of
being behind closed doors—was able to
hold off part of a police force because
he was shooting indiscriminately with
a high-powered weapon.
Thankfully, those six police officers
who were injured—the injuries turned
out to not be serious, and the police of-
ficers were released virtually on the
same day. So we were blessed on that
day.
Right across the street, a very nar-
row street, there was a childcare center
that could have been the scene of hor-
rific carnage if it had gone another
way. Thankfully, those children were
safe in that childcare center that
wasn’t a block away. It wasn’t a half a
block away. It was barely yards and
feet away. That childcare center was
less than the width of this Chamber
away from where that shooter was sta-
tioned.
I will start with folks who were wor-
shiping in the Tree of Life synagogue
on a Saturday in October of 2018. I will
not go through all of the details, but I
think everyone by now knows what
happened there. It was the worst act of
violence against the Jewish commu-
nity in American history that we know
of.
In this case, these were the victims.
My wife Terese was kind enough to
suggest to me that when you have a
list or something you want to remem-
ber an event by, you should probably
frame it or preserve it in some fashion.
She was kind enough to help me get
this framed.
What I am holding here—you can’t
see it from any distance—is just a
framed card with names of the victims.
I will just read what it says so you
know what I am talking about.
This card came from a newspaper,
the Pittsburgh Post-Gazette, and the
date is October 29, 2018. They put this
on the front page of the paper. All it
says is ‘‘Victims of the Synagogue
Shooting,’’ and then it lists each indi-
vidual and their ages: Joyce Fienberg,
75; Richard Gottfried, 65; Rose
Mallinger, 97; Jerry Rabinowitz, 66;
Cecil Rosenthal, 59; David Rosenthal,
54; Bernice Simon, 84; Sylvan Simon,
86; Daniel Stein, 71; Melvin Wax, 87;
and Irving Younger, 69.
So this was a group of Pittsburghers
worshiping on the Sabbath in a syna-
gogue. They were lost on that day be-
cause a hate-filled person came into
that synagogue, intent by way of
things he said and intent by way of the
weapons he had and the ammunition he
had, intent on killing as many mem-
bers of that congregation as possible—
so, basically, a congregation where the
victims were ages 54 to 97.
That was one incident in my home
State, and it seems like every State
has a day like that where a community
is torn apart.
Those folks were obviously at the
other end of the age scale. How about
folks a lot younger? This just happens
to be a matted copy of a page in the
Wall Street Journal from December of
2012 after the Newtown, CT, shooting
that we all know, unfortunately, so
much about—Sandy Hook Elementary
School.
This is dated December 17, 2012. What
the Wall Street Journal did was put a
picture of each child with their name
and their age and a little vignette
about their young life.
I will not go through all of them to-
night. I have referred to them in the
past, and not every child had a picture
ready at the time of this publication.
These 20 children and 7 adults listed
here are part of what we are talking
about—the carnage that has enveloped
our country over these last number of
years.
I want to read their names tonight,
and then I want to get to the legisla-
tion: Charlotte Bacon, 6; Daniel
Barden, 7; Olivia Engel, 6; Josephine
Gay, 7; Ana Marquez-Greene, 6; Cath-
erine V. Hubbard, 6; Jesse Lewis, 6;
Grace McDonnell, 7; Emilie Parker, 6;
Noah Pozner, 6; Caroline Previdi, 6;
Jessica Rekos, 6; Madeline F. Hsu, 6;
Chase Kowalski 7; and James Mattioli,
6.
Then, there were several children
who didn’t have pictures at the time of
this publication for the Wall Street
Journal: Dylan Hockley, 6; Jack Pinto,
6; Avielle Richman, 6; Benjamin Wheel-
er, 6; and, Allison N. Wyatt, age 6.
When we talk about what we should
do here and what we must do, we have
to remember more than just a list of
communities, which in a sense is about
place, and it is about geography. We
also have to remember those who were
lost. I think we have to begin to ask
ourselves some really fundamental
questions, maybe in ways we don’t
often do even in this Chamber, even in
this body, which is supposed to be the
greatest deliberative body in the world.
This is a place where we should ask
some of the questions that many of us
have been asking. When we remember
what those children suffered and what
their families suffered, is it too much
to ask if we can pass a background
check bill that, as Senator BROWN and
so many others have noted, is sup-
ported by more than 90 percent of the
American people? Is it too much of a
lift for the Senate to pass just one bill?
It is not a bill that is going to solve
all the problems. We know that. No-
body is arguing that. But we know a re-
cent example of where a background
check bill might have been the dif-
ference between the gunman having a
weapon and killing a number of Ameri-
cans or not. That was Odessa and Mid-
land. We have to do a lot more than
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:51 Sep 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00030 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G17SE6.059 S17SEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5529
September 17, 2019
background checks, but let’s start with
what is in front of us.
You have a piece of legislation that
has been sitting here for over 200
days—over 200 days. It came over from
the House, H.R. 8. H.R. 8, in my judg-
ment, is the best background check bill
we have. There are other proposals, and
we should debate them. But is it too
much of a lift to say that we are going
to debate and vote on H.R. 8, which
closes the loopholes on these back-
ground checks and I think would do the
best job of any proposal? Then, if some-
one has another proposal—I know that
Senator MANCHIN and Senator TOOMEY
have a proposal—let’s debate that and
vote on that too. If there is a third pro-
posal, let’s debate and vote on that.
Let’s get it right, or at least let’s give
the American people a chance to see
whether or not this legislative body,
this Senate, reflects the will of the
American people—the overwhelming
percentage of American people who
support background checks.
We should also make sure there is an
opportunity to debate and vote on the
Extreme Risk Protection Order Act or
another version of that. Let’s make
sure that happens.
I don’t think we are asking the ma-
jority leader to take on a challenge
that he hasn’t already committed to.
What I heard Majority Leader MCCON-
NELL say in August was that when we
come back, we will debate and vote on
at least those two measures. I think
that was a pretty clear promise. If we
did that, would every problem be
solved? No. Would gun violence be sub-
stantially reduced in a matter of weeks
or months? No. No one is making that
claim. But at least we could say that
we made some progress in reducing the
likelihood of greater gun violence.
I think the bigger question here that
we have to ask over and over, until we
act or at least begin to act, is this: Is
there nothing that we can do? Because
that is part of the argument by those
who say no on background checks,
those who say no on extreme risk pro-
tection orders, no on a limitation on
the magazines and the number of bul-
lets you can shoot at any one time,
which Senator BROWN referred to. In
Dayton, in 32 seconds, 9 people were
killed and about 25 injured. In 32 sec-
onds, the police officers got there fast-
er than superman could get there, and
that wasn’t fast enough because of the
power of the weapon and because of the
amount of ammunition.
There is nothing we can do about
that, we are told. We are told over and
over, here and around the country,
where disciples of this point of view
have their time to debate, that there is
nothing that the most powerful coun-
try in the history of the human race
can do to make sure that doesn’t hap-
pen in another American city, or at
least take action to reduce the likeli-
hood that that would happen in an-
other American city.
So there is apparently nothing, ac-
cording to this argument, that this
great Nation of ours can do to prevent
someone from, in 32 seconds, killing 9
people and injuring, I guess, about 25.
What haunted me, among many
things—and I am sure it haunted many
Americans at the time of the December
2012 Sandy Hook Elementary School in
Newtown, CT, shooting—was that the
evidence indicated, according to an
NBC News report at the time, which I
was watching on my television at home
in Scranton, PA, that there was evi-
dence that the killer, after killing 20
children and several adults, was mov-
ing to the next classroom. We know
that hundreds of children were in that
school. I don’t know the exact number,
but it wasn’t just a school of 20 chil-
dren. A lot more than 20 were in that
school.
Again, as for taking this argument
that there is nothing we can do except
to enforce existing law, we hear over
and over that we can’t do anything and
that we have to enforce existing law.
That is the argument. They have been
making this argument for decades.
Based upon that argument, there is
nothing we could have done in that in-
stance, either, to prevent someone
from killing 20 children or hundreds of
children in 1 school, and then maybe
several months later going to another
school and killing hundreds of children.
Does anyone really believe that there
is no law, no action you can take to at
least reduce the likelihood that that
will not happen in the United States of
America? We don’t believe that be-
cause we call ourselves Americans. We
have never had that attitude. Think of
our history. Think of what happened in
the last century, if we had that point
of view: nothing we can do about this
threat in Europe; nothing we can do to
advance medical research, because we
just have to accept the fact and try to
nibble around the edges.
No one really believes that. So that
argument is getting pretty tired—that
enforcement of existing law is the an-
swer here.
This is a uniquely American problem.
No country has this problem. It has
been building and building for years
and decades. By inaction we allow the
problem to get a lot worse, and it is
about as bad as it gets right now. Huge
numbers of Americans now—not like 5
percent or 8 percent, but like 40 per-
cent of Americans now—believe that
they can be a victim of gun violence.
Forty percent of a country of over 300
million people believes that because of
what they have seen. But again, the an-
swer here from one side over and over
is that there is nothing we can do, as
more and more people believe they
could be a victim next.
You saw the footage for the news
coverage of children going off to school
at the start of this school year with
their backpacks with a protective
shield, like a Kevlar shield—I am not
sure exactly what it is, but I saw the
reports—in their backpack. An Amer-
ican child has to go to school and have
armor-plated backpacks in America—
that is not happening anywhere else—
because their parents are worried
about them going to school. Now we
have to worry about where you go to
school, where you worship, where you
go for entertainment, and what public
event do you not want to go to, because
the U.S. Senate, for years now, hasn’t
voted on a series of gun bills in years.
I guess people should get used to being
afraid and wondering if they will be
next or their children will be next.
In essence, what they are telling us
on the other side, when they say no to
background checks, absolutely not—
that is what they are saying—and no to
any kind of action, is that the most
powerful country in the world should
surrender to this problem. That is what
it is. It is surrendering to this prob-
lem—that there is nothing that this
country can do to make sure that you
never have a full page of a newspaper
with 20 children listed there ages 6 and
7 years old. That is not America. That
is not who we are or, at least, it is not
who we claim to be.
I would say in conclusion—and I
know I am well over my time—that the
least we can do—this isn’t hard, guys—
is to debate and vote. Debate and
vote—is that hard? It is not that stren-
uous—to debate and vote on back-
ground checks, to debate and vote on
extreme risk protection orders. I would
go further than that, but we don’t have
time for that tonight. Let’s debate and
vote. We are not going to wait. Why
would we wait for the President to give
us the high sign about what he will
sign into law?
This Chamber should not wait for
any other official. We should debate
and vote and see where things are. The
American people will sort it out after
we vote, and they will know who is on
the record voting which way. But at
least let’s give them something to indi-
cate that we are Americans. We don’t
surrender to problems. We don’t sur-
render to big problems. We don’t sur-
render to problems from an enemy,
from a disease, and from an epidemic
called gun violence.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Maryland.
Mr. VAN HOLLEN. Mr. President, I
thank my friend and colleague from
Pennsylvania for his leadership on this
issue and his very clear remarks and
call to action. I am also very pleased to
be here on the floor with my friend the
Senator from Connecticut, Mr. MUR-
PHY, who has been at the forefront of
this battle for many years. We will not
let up until we see meaningful action
here in the Senate, because we have an
epidemic of gun violence in this coun-
try.
The only question is, What are we
going to do about it? We have seen 293
mass shootings in the last 9 months.
We see people being killed by gun vio-
lence in our streets and in our neigh-
borhoods every day. All told, 100 of our
fellow Americans die from gun violence
every day. It can happen anytime, any-
where, to anybody. It can happen in
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:51 Sep 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00031 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G17SE6.060 S17SEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5530 September 17, 2019
our schools, our movie theaters, our
homes, our concerts, our bars, our
shopping centers, our streets. No one is
immune or free from this violence.
If this were an epidemic caused by a
preventable disease, this Congress
would convene on an emergency basis.
We would be having a bipartisan gath-
ering to immediately pass legislation
to help discover new cures and vaccines
for whatever disease was killing 100 of
our fellow Americans every day. When
it comes to gun violence, here in the
U.S. Senate, there is nothing, no ac-
tion.
Inaction is complicity. It is com-
plicity in the carnage when we know
there are commonsense measures we
can take together to reduce the gun vi-
olence. Are we going to stop every sin-
gle gun death? No. But we know that
these commonsense measures can save
thousands of American lives. Yet we do
nothing here in the Senate. That is de-
spite the fact that we have at the desk
a bill that was passed by the U.S.
House of Representatives 202 days ago.
I have a copy of that bill in my hand.
It is H.R. 8. If you look at it, it says:
‘‘Read the second time’’ and ‘‘Placed
on . . . Calendar.’’ For people who may
be listening in, what it means to be
placed on the calendar is that it is here
at the desk in the U.S. Senate. It
means we could take it up anytime. We
could take it up right now.
In fact, now I am holding what is
called the Calendar of Business for
Tuesday, September 17, 2019. If you
look at it—No. 29, H.R. 8—how does it
describe H.R. 8? Very simply, ‘‘An act
to require a background check for
every firearm sale.’’ It is very simple.
It is something supported by over 90
percent of the American people, re-
gardless of party.
I have in my hand a copy of the U.S.
Constitution. I want to read article I,
section 1, because it is very straight-
forward. It says: ‘‘All legislative Pow-
ers herein granted shall be vested in a
Congress of the United States, which
shall consist of a Senate and a House of
Representatives.’’
The House of Representatives has
acted. As I said, H.R. 8, a bill for uni-
versal background checks, is at the
Senate desk. It is the Senate that
hasn’t acted. Yet I heard the Repub-
lican leader said as recently as today
at a press event, when asked when the
Senate was going to take up gun safety
legislation, when we are going to take
up universal background checks, ‘‘Ask
them,’’ meaning ask the President, ask
the executive branch. I don’t know
when we, the U.S. Senate, contracted
out our constitutional responsibilities
to the executive branch and to the gun
lobby and others when we have it in
our power right here tonight to take up
a lifesaving measure.
The majority leader also said that we
are in a holding pattern. What are we
holding for as more and more Ameri-
cans die—100 per day—from gun vio-
lence?
In my State of Maryland, we have
been the victims, like every other
State, of people dying by guns. We had
a mass shooting. It was at the Capital
Gazette newspaper. Five souls were
taken. We had a school shooting in
Maryland, at Great Mills High School
in Southern Maryland. Every day, we
see people in Maryland being harmed
by gun violence in our streets and
neighborhoods.
Maryland has actually done some-
thing about it. As a State, we passed
some important gun measures. We
closed the gun show loophole. We re-
quire universal background checks in
Maryland. We have actually banned
semiautomatic assault weapons—a law
that was upheld by the Supreme Court
of the United States. We require a per-
mit to purchase a gun.
Someone might ask: OK, well, Mary-
land has passed these laws, the State.
Why do you have a gun violence prob-
lem?
If you look at the figures from the
ATF, if you look at their gun-tracing
statistics, you find that 54 percent of
crimes committed in Maryland with a
gun come from guns from outside the
State of Maryland, from our sur-
rounding States. Maryland is not an is-
land; we are part of the United States
of America. Our State can pass sensible
gun laws. We can help reduce the car-
nage in Maryland, and we have. Until
we act as a country, until we pass uni-
versal background checks, Maryland
will continue to be vulnerable to the
negligence of other States and most of
all, the negligence of the U.S. Senate,
which has refused to act.
The President knows where the
American people are on this issue.
After we have a mass shooting, the
President always makes public com-
ments about how he is going to do
something about it, including address-
ing background checks. After the
slaughters in El Paso and Dayton, on
his way to visit those grieving commu-
nities, the President said: ‘‘I’m looking
to do background checks. I think back-
ground checks are important.’’ He went
on to say: ‘‘I think we can bring up
background checks like we never had
before.’’
After the shooting at Marjory
Stoneman Douglas High School, he
called some Members of Congress to
the White House, including Senator
MURPHY. Senator MURPHY talked about
the importance of background checks.
The President told him: You know, we
have a new President now, and we are
going to work together to get this
done. We have a different attitude.
That is what the President always
says after a terrible shooting, but then
the President gets a call from the NRA,
gets a call from the gun lobby, and you
get a headline like this one, which we
saw on August 20, 2019: ‘‘NRA Gets Re-
sults . . . in One Phone Call With
Trump.’’ The President knows how the
country feels. The President knows the
country wants action. The President
knows the country wants the Senate to
act, so he says those things publicly,
but then he gets a phone call from the
gun lobby, and then he backpedals.
That is where we are now, with the
Senate stalling, pretending, going
through these sorts of fake actions,
pretending we are going to get there.
I hope we do get there, but what the
President has said and done in the past
gives me no confidence, which is why I
come back to the very place I started,
which is that this body, the U.S. Sen-
ate, has its own responsibilities under
the Constitution. The Constitution—
article I—gives the House and the Sen-
ate the lawmaking power, not the
President of the United States. We
shouldn’t be looking down Pennsyl-
vania Avenue and saying ‘‘What is the
President thinking?’’ before we take
action to help save lives.
We are the U.S. Senate. We now have
right in front of us at the desk, right
here, a bill that will save lives, passed
by the House of Representatives 202
days ago. It is for universal back-
ground checks.
Senator MCCONNELL and other Sen-
ators—if they don’t want to support
the position taken by 90 percent of the
American people, then they can vote
no on H.R. 8. If the majority leader
doesn’t think the people of Kentucky
support H.R. 8, it is his prerogative to
vote no. That is the right of every Sen-
ator. What is outrageous is blocking
every other Senator in this body from
exercising their right to represent
their constituents and help save lives
around the country.
We support the voices of 90 percent of
the American people, who want us to
take action to reduce gun violence in
the United States of America, to ad-
dress this like the epidemic it is and to
address it like we would address a dis-
ease epidemic that was killing 100 of
our fellow Americans every day.
Let’s stop ignoring our responsibil-
ities. Let’s stop pointing to the other
end of Pennsylvania Avenue. There is
really no time to wait. ‘‘Thoughts and
prayers’’ will not end the gun violence.
Senate action and a vote on H.R. 8 can
help save lives in the United States of
America. Every single day that goes by
that we don’t take that vote is a day
that this body is complicit in more
deaths by gun violence.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mrs.
HYDE-SMITH). The Senator from Ha-
waii.
Mr. SCHATZ. Madam President, I
want to recognize my friend and col-
league Senator MURPHY for his moral
leadership on this issue and for con-
tinuously demanding that all of us do
better and that all of us do more to ad-
dress what is an epidemic of gun vio-
lence.
We are here tonight and through the
night to call on Leader MCCONNELL to
do a very simple thing, which is to
bring background check legislation and
other gun safety legislation to the Sen-
ate floor for a vote.
Forty thousand Americans had their
lives cut short by guns last year. Forty
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:51 Sep 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00032 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G17SE6.062 S17SEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5531
September 17, 2019
thousand Americans died. It is un-
thinkable that we would allow mass vi-
olence to occur in our country with
this type of frequency. What is shock-
ing is that not only do we accept this
as part of the American way of life—as
though it were enshrined in the Con-
stitution that we must have this
amount of violence in order to have our
Second Amendment rights—but that
we allowed the question of what to do
to keep our people safe to turn into a
partisan question. The Democrats are
out here on the floor saying: Why don’t
we figure out what we can do to make
people safer? And on the other side of
the Chamber, there is no one.
This isn’t the first time this has hap-
pened or the second time or the third
time or the fifth time. When we come
down to the floor to demand action on
gun safety, we have no dance partner.
It shouldn’t be this way, especially
given where the public is.
I don’t just mean Democrats or Inde-
pendents. Americans of all stripes,
Democratic and Republican gun own-
ers, agree that commonsense gun safe-
ty reforms are the way forward. This
means background checks. It means no
guns for violent criminals or domestic
abusers and no guns for anyone who
could endanger themselves or endanger
others.
About 90 percent of all Americans
support these very sensible reforms.
Here is the thing. They support them
not for purely ideological reasons or
partisan reasons; the reason these
things pull 85, 90 percent of all Ameri-
cans, even among NRA members, is be-
cause, A, it doesn’t infringe on your
Second Amendment rights, and, B, it
works.
It is no coincidence that the two
steepest drops in murder rates in our
country came right after the passage of
two sets of significant gun laws: The
first were the national firearms control
acts of 1934 and 1938, and the second
were the background checks and as-
sault weapons ban bills in 1993 and 1994.
Those legislative efforts, and the de-
crease in violence that followed their
passage, prove that progress is pos-
sible.
Here is the thing. Whenever we get
into this conversation, we get into
kind of trying to figure out whether
whatever law we are trying to pass
would retroactively be able to fix
whichever moment of silence we are
now focused on and sad about and de-
spairing about. That is not the way to
look at this.
Sure, there are individual situations,
where, if we pass background checks, it
would absolutely help, but it is also a
matter of the Federal Government put-
ting some parameters on the kinds of
guns that you can get and the require-
ments in order to own a gun.
What is happening? Why are we still
stuck? Why are we still stuck? Repub-
licans in the Senate are just waiting on
the White House. It is as simple as
that.
This isn’t some partisan attack from
me, a partisan Democrat. This is lit-
erally what Leader MCCONNELL said.
He said he will not schedule a vote or
schedule a debate on the House-passed
bill to expand background checks for
gun purchases because President
Trump has indicated he will not sign
it. According to Leader MCCONNELL:
‘‘[I]f the President took a position on a
bill so that we knew we would actually
be making a law and not having serial
votes, [he would] be happy to put it on
the floor.’’
Let me just say, that is not actually
how the Senate is supposed operate. We
are supposed to originate the legisla-
tion. We are supposed to be the world’s
greatest deliberative body. We are sup-
posed to determine what kind of law to
make. We are not supposed to play
‘‘Mother, may I’’ with the President of
the United States and wait for clear-
ance before we even initiate a debate.
The idea that, in this body, where
today we voted on the UAE Ambas-
sador, the Ambassador to Sweden, I
think—not that those are unimportant
matters—but we had full postcloture
debate time when, basically, we were in
a quorum call—we were in a quorum
call; no one was talking—we cannot af-
ford to set aside 30 hours or 50 hours or
2 weeks of Senate time to figure out
what to do about the gun violence epi-
demic? Shame on us.
Congress should be taking up bills,
debating them, passing them, and the
President can make his decision about
whether to sign or veto them. We can-
not wait for President Trump on this
because he is deeply, deeply incon-
sistent, not just generally speaking but
specifically on the question of gun
safety.
In the immediate aftermath of every
horrific shooting, the President talked
about doing something meaningful to
address gun violence, but then he back-
tracked.
In February of 2018, in the wake of
the horrific shooting at Parkland,
President Trump said: ‘‘[W]e’re going
to be very strong on background
checks.’’ A year later and 2 days before
the House passed legislation that
would require universal background
checks for most gun purchases and
transfers, Trump threatened to veto
the bill if it passed.
In February of 2018, during a tele-
vised meeting with lawmakers, the
President proposed raising the age for
buying assault rifles from 18 to 21, and
then he backtracked.
More recently, following the shoot-
ings in Texas and Ohio that left 29 dead
and dozens wounded, Trump tweeted on
August 5 that Washington ‘‘must come
together’’ to ‘‘get strong background
checks.’’ That sounds pretty good.
On August 19, just 14 days later, he
reversed course. When talking with re-
porters, he used an NRA-approved talk-
ing point: ‘‘[J]ust remember, we al-
ready have a lot of background
checks,’’ and he warned of gun con-
trol’s ‘‘slippery slope.’’
The President has a long history of
changing his position on guns. In 2011,
he was against gun control. In 2013, he
supported background checks. A year
after that, he protested against back-
ground checks for gun purchases in
New York State. This is just how he
rolls, specifically, on this issue but
frankly on a lot of stuff. You could say
the same thing about having an honest
broker as it relates to immigration. He
is just not reliable. That is how he
rolls.
We don’t have to be downstream from
all of that. We are the article I branch.
We can do what we decide to do as the
so-called world’s greatest deliberative
body.
To make it worse, in the weeks since
the attacks in Ohio and Texas, we keep
hearing from Republicans that gun vio-
lence is not caused by guns. To quote
the President directly: ‘‘[M]ental ill-
ness and hatred pulls the trigger, not
the gun.’’
‘‘[M]ental illness and hatred pulls the
trigger, not the gun.’’ I want to spend
a little time on this one because this
one is really offensive and really deep-
ly hurtful. Setting aside the lack of
progress on guns, we are also losing 10,
20, 30 years of progress we have made
destigmatizing mental health services.
Mass shooters and regular people ex-
perience mental illness at the same
rate. There is no indication that mass
shooters or individual people who are
homicidal experience mental illness at
any higher rate than your general pop-
ulation. Blaming the mentally ill is
just factually untrue, but it is more in-
sidious than that.
About 20 percent of all Americans at
some point need some mental health
services. The great difficulty in terms
of getting mental health services is not
just the availability of care; it is also
that people still feel embarrassed to
say: I need some help.
Shame on the President of the United
States to equate someone who may
need care for postpartum depression or
post-traumatic stress coming back
from Iraq or Afghanistan, or who may
experience bipolar disorder, or what-
ever it may be—a kid with autism—to
imply that people who need mental
health services are somehow dangerous
and that they are the ones who should
be cracked down on. That is a deeply,
deeply dangerous thing to say about 20
percent of all Americans who simply
need to get better and who simply need
to not be characterized as crazy or dan-
gerous or that they should be ashamed
of what they are experiencing. Shame
on the President of the United States
for equating mental illness with being
dangerous to society.
Consider for a minute the progress
we have made as a society to
destigmatize mental health. We have
fundamentally changed the way we
talk about it, and because of that, we
have helped to reduce the shame
around living with mental health chal-
lenges, and more people are willing to
prioritize their mental well-being. Peo-
ple should not be embarrassed or
scared to seek the help they need, and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:51 Sep 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00033 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G17SE6.063 S17SEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5532 September 17, 2019
they certainly shouldn’t be blamed for
the gun violence epidemic in our coun-
try.
I want to read a letter from a Hawaii
resident, Elizabeth Sader from
Lahaina, Maui. She writes:
Two mass shootings in 24 hours. This can-
not be our new norm. We need change. . . .
We can no longer assume heading to the
store, an event, or school is safe anymore.
There are places in the United States that
make it easier to get a gun than it is to
adopt a pet at a local animal shelter. This is
not right.
We need sensible gun laws in this country.
We need better systems in place to prevent
this from happening again. I cannot imagine
what the world is going to look like for chil-
dren growing up today.
The Senate has the power to save
lives and protect more of our kids by
enacting sensible reforms. What we
need is for Republicans to do the right
thing and to rise to the moment. Thou-
sands of people are dying every month.
We cannot wait for the President.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Connecticut.
Mr. MURPHY. Madam President, let
me thank, once again, my colleagues
for being on the floor with us this
evening, for the compelling testimony
of Senator SCHATZ, Senator CASEY,
Senator BROWN, Senator VAN HOLLEN,
and so many others who have joined us
this evening. We have a few more who
will come down later in the evening.
I want to take a moment to put a
face on this issue. There are 100 Ameri-
cans who are killed every day by guns.
The majority of these are suicides, but
many are homicides, and many are ac-
cidental shootings and domestic homi-
cides.
Shootings in this country happen at
a rate 10 times that of any other high-
income nation. This is a uniquely
American epidemic. Senator SCHATZ
very aptly pointed out that it can’t be
because of mental health because we
have no more mental illness in this
country than any other nation does. It
can’t be because of lack of law enforce-
ment resources; we spend just as much
money, if not more, on law enforce-
ment than any other country in the
world. It is not because we put less
money into treatment for mental ill-
ness; we put more money, on a per cap-
ita basis, than other nations do.
To explain our abnormally high rate
of gun violence—10 times that of other
high-income nations—you have to tell
a story of the proliferation of dan-
gerous weapons, of the ability of al-
most anyone, regardless of their crimi-
nal history or their history of mental
illness, to get their hands on a weapon.
Nowhere else in the high-income world
is it so easy to get your hands on a
weapon and often a weapon of mass de-
struction.
Leo Spencer was born an only child.
He grew up in Bridgeport, CT, but he
was far from an only child in his mind.
His cousins were like his siblings. He
spent summer after summer after sum-
mer with them in Boston, in Con-
necticut, in Cape Verde, and in St.
Thomas. He was known as ‘‘Lil Bill.’’
His friends described him affection-
ately as an amazing person, a phe-
nomenal soul, the greatest friend they
ever had, and the best family member
they knew.
A family member said Leo was ‘‘a
simple man who loved to keep to him-
self, but deep down inside he was a free
spirit that wanted nothing more than
to make people laugh. Always joking
around, he kept us on our toes, and his
smile lit up the room.’’
Another friend said:
Never one to follow trends, Leo was intent
on making his own path through hard work
and unparalleled ambition. He was a creative
soul with a deep love for expressing himself
through music and loved fiercely without
bounds.
Leo placed a priority on making sure
his family and friends were happy. He
made each person feel like they were
the most important person in the
world. He loved his parents. He did ev-
erything he could for them. He wanted
to take care of his mom the way she
took care of him.
On September 8 of 2019, just a few
days ago, Leo was shot in the head and
the neck while sitting in the passenger
seat of a friend’s car. His friend hit the
accelerator and drove him as fast as he
could to Bridgeport Hospital, but he
was pronounced dead shortly there-
after.
Leo Spencer is 1 of the 100 Americans
who die every day from gun violence. It
is so much bigger than Leo. I men-
tioned Leo’s cousins, his family mem-
bers, and his friends. Their lives will
never be the same either, forever al-
tered.
Studies show that when 1 person dies
from a gunshot wound, there are 20
other people who experience life-alter-
ing trauma. It becomes a cycle that be-
comes hard to get out of.
I will talk a little bit later about
Sandy Hook, CT, but Sandy Hook will
never ever be the same—never—after
what that community has been
through.
Leo, whether he knew it or not, may
already have been affected by gun vio-
lence because when you grow up in
places like Bridgeport, where kids lit-
erally fear for their lives when they are
walking to and from school, the trau-
ma associated with the fear of losing
your life from gun violence ruins your
brain. We call this a public health epi-
demic, not to be cute with our words
but because that is exactly what it is.
When you don’t know whether you
are going to make it through the rest
of the week as a child—and studies
show that, criminally, a high number
of young people of color in this country
living in urban environments that are
violent don’t believe they are going to
live past 25 years old—when that is
your belief, something happens to your
brain.
Most of us in this Chamber have
probably confronted only once or twice
in our lives a fight-or-flight moment.
That is a moment in your life where
you face a risk that is so great, a dan-
ger that is so acute, that you have to
make a decision in a split second: Do
you fight or do you run? Our bodies are
designed to rush into our brains a hor-
mone called cortisol that helps us
make that quick decision.
Many of us may never have actually
faced that moment, and, frankly, I
don’t hope that anyone ever has. But
when you grow up in a place like the
east end of Bridgeport, you face that
decision: Fight or flee on a weekly
basis.
What doctors will tell you is that the
brains of these kids who grow up in
these neighborhoods are literally
bathed in cortisol. Cortisol, when it
comes in and out in an instant once or
twice in your life, can be helpful. But
when it is flowing through your cir-
cuitry on a regular basis, it literally
corrupts your brain. It corrupts your
brain. So it is no coincidence that all
of the ‘‘underperforming’’ schools in
this country are in the violent neigh-
borhoods because these kids show up
with brains that cannot learn, brains
that cannot cope and cannot create
lasting relationships, brains that have
been atrophied by the daily fear for
their lives and their daily experience.
This Congress has done nothing—noth-
ing—to address their reality.
We are here on the floor today to tell
you about people like Leo so that
maybe our colleagues who aren’t re-
sponding to the numbers may respond
to the stories of those lives that have
been lost.
Let me tell you another one. Over
the winter, we shut down the govern-
ment for an unacceptable period of
time. We were all figuring out what to
do with our days when we weren’t leg-
islating. I decided one day to take a
trip to Baltimore.
Baltimore, in some years, has been
the most violent city in the country
with the most kids who are going
through this life-altering cycle of trau-
ma. But I had heard about a program
in an elementary school that was
teaching kids how to be entrepreneurs
and was giving them a vision for their
lives after growing up in one of the
poorest neighborhoods in Baltimore.
They are trying to give them a path-
way or a ray of sunshine in their lives.
I went up to talk to the person who
ran that program. Her name is Joni
Holifield. She and I sat down in a class-
room on the second floor of Matthew
Henson Elementary School, and she
started to explain to me her path out
of the corporate world into program-
ming for kids at schools like Matthew
Henson and what she thought that pro-
gram could bring to those kids.
In the middle of this conversation,
the intercom starts blaring a recorded
message: code green, code green, code
green. I didn’t know what a code green
was. Joni didn’t know what a code
green was. Shortly thereafter, a teach-
er opened the door to our classroom
and yelled: Shut the blinds. Turn off
the lights.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Sep 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00034 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G17SE6.065 S17SEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5533
September 17, 2019
We did as instructed, and we sat
there a little nervous, not knowing
what a code green was. Shortly there-
after, someone from the main office,
knowing that there was a U.S. Senator
in a second floor classroom, called up.
Joni answered the phone and was told
that a code green means there has been
a shooting in the proximity of the
school and that the school is on
lockdown.
The day that I was there at this ele-
mentary school in Baltimore, there
was a shooting within a block or two of
the school. Here is what I found out.
That morning there had been a delay in
school starting. It had snowed that
morning, so I walked in with all the
rest of the kids at around 9:30, 10
o’clock. About the same time that I
was showing up at the school that
morning, a young man by the name of
Corey Dodd brought his two little twin
girls to school. He was doing the drop-
off for his wife, who was home tending
to their relatively newborn child.
Corey decided to bring the kids to
school that morning himself. He drove
home a couple of blocks away after
dropping the twins off, probably right
about the time that I was walking up-
stairs to the second floor. When he got
out of his car, he was shot to death.
One of his other little daughters al-
ways sits at the door waiting for her
dad to come home, and she was there
waiting for Corey. Her mom had to tell
her that her dad was never coming
home. He had been shot outside of their
house that morning.
As that code green was happening in-
side that elementary school—and the
kids were probably having a little bit
of fun, wondering when the lights were
going to come back on—there were two
little girls who were never going to see
their father again and who were going
to be told in a matter of hours that
this shooting had taken the life of
their dad. And every single kid in that
school was going to be wondering: Is it
going to be my dad next? Is it going to
be my mom next? That cycle of trauma
and that cortisol that bathes kids’
brains were going to be reality once
again for all of these kids in this neigh-
borhood. That is just one day that I
happened to be in Baltimore.
Imagine that it isn’t just coinci-
dence. Imagine that is the reality day
after day after day for kids all across
this country. Why are we doing noth-
ing? Why are we sitting on our hands?
Why are my Republican colleagues
waiting for the President to give them
direction?
It would be one thing if we didn’t
know what to do—if we were over-
flowing with compassion for those two
little twin girls in Baltimore, MD, and
for the family of Leo Spencer in
Bridgeport and we just couldn’t figure
out what would make the situation
better. That is not the case.
We know what will make the situa-
tion better. There is no mystery about
it. In my State of Connecticut, we
passed a law requiring all handgun
buyers to pass a background check as
part of the permit process. Studies
show that there was a 40 percent reduc-
tion in the gun homicide rate after
Connecticut passed that law.
You might say: OK, well, that is just
one State. And 40 percent—that is pret-
ty serious. That is a pretty big return
on one change in the law. Give me an-
other State, you say.
OK, let’s take a look at Missouri,
which did the opposite. A few years
ago, it repealed its purchase permit law
that requires you to get a background
check with every sale of a weapon in
Missouri. Guess what happened. A year
later, gun homicides went up by 23 per-
cent, controlling for every other factor
that could have explained it. In fact,
during that period of time, gun homi-
cide rates were going down in all the
States around Missouri, and they went
up in Missouri.
Then they found out that, in fact, in
other States, what did go up in those
other States was the number of weap-
ons used in crimes that came from Mis-
souri because all of a sudden you didn’t
need a background check in Missouri.
So if you wanted to traffic guns from
another State, Missouri was the place
to get them.
Across the board, when you look at
all of the States’ experiences, you don’t
get 40 percent and 23 percent every-
where, but, on average, States that
have background checks have 15 per-
cent lower homicide rates than States
that don’t have them.
If we did this on a national basis,
even States that have universal back-
ground checks would benefit. Why? Be-
cause the guns that are being used in
Connecticut aren’t coming from Con-
necticut. They are coming from States
with—you guessed it—no universal
background checks.
The guns being used in Chicago don’t
come from Chicago. The guns being
used for crimes in New York City don’t
come from New York City. One percent
of guns used in crimes in New York
City come from New Jersey. Do you
know why? New Jersey has universal
background checks. Those guns are
coming up from South Carolina and
Georgia and places where you can go to
a gun show and get a whole truckload
of guns without having to ever go
through a background check.
Background checks work. They are
the most impactful public policy meas-
ure. Since the background check law
was passed in the midnineties, over 3.5
million sales have been blocked to vio-
lent criminals and other prohibited in-
dividuals, and that is just the tip of the
iceberg because those are the people
who actually have the gall to set foot
in a gun store, knowing that they have
an offense in their history that would
prohibit them from buying a gun—
maybe not, knowing that. But these
are the people who went into the gun
store and tried to buy a gun and got de-
nied. There are millions and millions
more people who wanted guns but
couldn’t get them and didn’t go into
the gun store in the first place.
The problem is, today, getting that
denial from the gun store is not really
a barrier to buying a gun because 20, 30
percent of gun sales now happen with-
out a background check. They happen
in a private sale between one person
and another. They happen at gun
shows, which are forums that don’t re-
quire, under Federal law, background
checks.
A man in Odessa, TX, failed a back-
ground check because he had been diag-
nosed by a clinician as seriously men-
tally ill. That didn’t stop him from get-
ting a gun. He just found a private sell-
er; he found another way. The private
seller gave him a gun and didn’t re-
quire him to go through a background
check. He took that gun, and he used it
to kill 7 people and injure 20 more.
I don’t think you have to pass a law
to fit the last mass shooting. I think
that is a ridiculous trap that people try
to put us in. This isn’t the only mass
shooting in which universal back-
ground checks could have changed the
outcome. One of the first mass shoot-
ings that sits in my consciousness is
that in Columbine as another example
of a shooter who got a gun outside the
background check system who couldn’t
have gotten one through it.
So whether you want anecdotal evi-
dence or statistical data, I have it all.
Background checks work. Here is what
is so maddening. People love back-
ground checks. Apple pie, baseball, and
grandma—none of them are as popular
as background checks are. Ninety per-
cent of Americans like background
checks. Show me any other public pol-
icy today in the United States of
America that gets 90 percent support in
this country; 80 percent of gun owners
and 70 percent of NRA members, every-
body wants background checks—uni-
versal background checks. They don’t
want Manchin-Toomey, which just ex-
pands background checks to commer-
cial sales. They want H.R. 8. They want
H.R. 8, which has passed the House of
Representatives and has been sitting
on the floor of the U.S. Senate for 202
days. That is what Americans want.
Ninety percent of Americans support
H.R. 8.
Don’t tell me that this issue is con-
troversial. It is just controversial in
this bubble. It is not controversial out
in the American public, and it is not a
blue State or a red State issue. Back-
ground checks are just as popular in
Georgia as they are in Connecticut.
As Senator SCHATZ said, we don’t
have to wait for the President to tell
us what to do. Senator MCCONNELL has
a different copy of the Constitution
than I have. My copy of the Constitu-
tion says that none of us are required
to get permission slips from the Presi-
dent before we act or before we do
something that we think is good for
the country.
It is wild to me how the Republican
leadership is so eager to advertise that
the Senate will do nothing unless
President Trump gives it permission.
He is not the most popular guy. I don’t
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Sep 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00035 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G17SE6.071 S17SEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5534 September 17, 2019
know why my friends on the Repub-
lican side would just openly admit that
they don’t act unless the President
tells them it is OK. That is not how it
has to be. We can make the decision
ourselves, and on this one, every single
person here should do it because it is
the right thing, and it is also going to
win you a lot of support back home.
I have a few more colleagues who
want to say a few words, and then I
may wrap up at the end. I want to fin-
ish, in my last 5 minutes or so, by read-
ing something to you. I apologize to
my friend Neil Heslin because I made a
commitment to read this every Fa-
ther’s Day after the shooting in Sandy
Hook. I forgot to do it this year. This
is a makeup effort.
I don’t want to talk too much about
what happened at Sandy Hook this
evening. I have spent plenty of time
talking to my colleagues about it.
Unfortunately, there is a macabre
club of Senators and Congressmen who
have now had to walk with their com-
munities through these horrific mass
shootings. Maybe there is not another
one like Sandy Hook where 26 7-year-
olds lost their lives in a matter of 5
minutes, but they are all terrible. They
are all awful.
One of the things that happens in the
wake of these mass atrocities is that
you get to know the victims’ families.
You get to know the parents, the
brothers, and the sisters. They become
friends of yours. I feel like I have a per-
sonal obligation to the families of
Sandy Hook separate and aside from
the global obligation I believe I have to
human beings in this country to do
something about the issue of gun vio-
lence.
Amongst the parents, one of those
whom I have become closest to is a
gentleman by the name of Neil Heslin.
Jesse Lewis was one of the children
who lost their lives that day. Neil has
had an up-and-down life—an up-and-
down life. He would admit that to you.
It hasn’t been an easy life for Neil.
Jesse was Neil’s best friend, not just
his son.
I tell his story every Father’s Day
because it is a reminder to all of us
who are fathers how none of us are pro-
tected from this. Neil thought he was.
Neil never ever thought this would
happen to him, but it did. It is a re-
minder that but for the good grace of
God, any of us could be a victim, any of
us could know a victim. So why sit on
our hands and do nothing when we
could do something?
Let me finish by reading an excerpt
from Neil Heslin’s testimony that he
gave to the U.S. Senate in February
2013, 2 months after his son was shot,
and I will wrap up after I finish this
page and a half of his testimony.
My name is Neil Heslin. Jesse Lewis was
my son. He was a boy that loved life and
lived it to the fullest. He was my best friend.
On December 14, he lost his life at Sandy
Hook Elementary because of a gun that no-
body needs and nobody should have a right
to have. I’m here to tell his story. I know
what I am doing here today won’t bring my
son back, but I hope that maybe if you listen
to what I say today and you do something
about it—maybe nobody else will have to ex-
perience what I have experienced.
On December 14, Jesse got up and got ready
for school. He was always excited to go to
school. I remember on that day that we
stopped at the Misty Vale Deli. It’s funny
the things you remember. I remember Jesse
got the sausage, egg and cheese he always
gets, with some hot chocolate. And I remem-
ber the hug he gave me when I dropped him
off. He just held me, and he rubbed my back.
I can still feel that hug.
And Jesse said ‘‘It’s going to be alright.
Everything’s going to be okay, Dad.’’ Look-
ing back, it makes me wonder. What did he
know? Did he have some idea about what was
about to happen? But at the time I didn’t
think much of it. I just thought he was being
sweet.
He was always being sweet like that. He
was the kind of kid who used to leave me
voice messages where he’d sing me happy
birthday even when it wasn’t my birthday.
I’d ask him about it, and he’d say ‘‘I just
wanted to make you feel happy.’’ Half the
time I felt like he was the parent and I was
his son.
He had so much wisdom. He would know
things, and I would have no idea how he
knew. But whatever he said, it was always
right. And he would remember things we’d
done and places we’d been that I had com-
pletely forgotten about. I used to think of
him as my tiny adult. He had this inner calm
and maturity that just made me feel so
much better when I was around him.
Other people felt it, too. Teachers would
tell me about his laugh, how he made things
at school more fun just by being there. If
somebody was ever unhappy, Jesse would
find a way to make him feel better. If he
heard a baby crying he wouldn’t stop until
he got the kid to smile.
Jesse had this idea that you never leave
people hurt. If you can help somebody, you
do it. If you can make somebody feel better,
you do it. If you can leave somebody a little
better off, you do it.
They tell me that’s how he died. I guess we
still don’t know exactly what happened at
that school. Maybe we’ll never know. But
what people tell me is that Jesse did some-
thing different. When he heard the shooting,
he didn’t run and hide. He started yelling.
People disagree on the last thing he said.
One person who was there says he yelled
‘‘run.’’ Another person said he told every-
body to ‘‘run now.’’ Ten kids from my son’s
class made it to safety. I hope to God some-
thing Jesse did helped them survive that
day.
What I know is that Jesse wasn’t shot in
the back. He took two bullets. The first one
grazed the side of his head, but that didn’t
stop him from yelling. The other hit him in
the forehead. Both bullets were fired from
the front. That means the last thing my son
did was look Adam Lanza straight in the
face and scream to his classmates to run.
The last thing he saw was that coward’s
eyes.
Jesse grew up with guns, just like I did. I
started shooting skeet when I was eight
years old. My dad was vice president for
years at a local gun club. . . . Jesse actually
had an interest in guns. He had a bb gun. . . .
I taught him gun safety. He knew it. He
could recite it to you. He got it. And I think
he would have got what we are talking about
today. He liked looking at pictures of army
guns, but he knew those [guns] weren’t for
him. Those were for killing people.
Before he died, Jesse and I used to talk
about maybe coming to Washington some-
day. He wanted to go up the Washington
monument. When we talked about it last
year, Jesse asked if we could come and meet
the President.
[I’m a] little cynical about politicians. But
Jesse believed in you. He learned about you
in school and he believed in you. I want to
believe in you, too. I know you can’t give me
Jesse back. Believe me, if I thought you
could, I would be asking you for that. But I
want to believe that you will think about
what I told you here today. I want to believe
that you will think about it and then you
will do something about it, whatever you can
do to make sure that no other father has to
see what I’ve seen. You can start by passing
[legislation to take] these senseless weapons
out of the hands of people like Adam Lanza.
Do something, he said. Do something.
Seven years later, we haven’t done
anything.
So we are down here on the floor to-
night begging our colleagues to put a
bill on the floor. Amend it, debate it,
do whatever you want, but let’s not
stay silent any longer.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Rhode Island.
Mr. WHITEHOUSE. We are here to-
night when we should not be, because
the epidemic, the pageant of gun vio-
lence in this country should have been
addressed by us by now. We have not
acted. We have not acted in large part
because we are engaged in a bizarre,
self-inflicted political experiment in
this country in which we allow big spe-
cial interests to use secret money in
elections to manipulate our politics.
This ought to be easy. There have
been 293 mass shootings since January
1, 2019—this year alone. These trage-
dies have galvanized the American pub-
lic in support of sensible restrictions
on guns, and the amount of agreement
among the American public is astound-
ing. Eighty-six percent of Americans
support implementing what we call red
flag laws that allow a judge to remove
guns from someone who is determined
to be a danger to himself or others.
You could barely get 86 percent of the
Senate to agree on the day of the week.
Additionally, 89 percent support ex-
panding Federal background checks to
cover private sales and to close the gun
show loophole, 86 percent support an
assault weapons ban, and 70 percent
support a ban on large-capacity maga-
zines. These are large, popular majori-
ties, and in a functional democracy, we
would listen to them, we would hear
them, we would honor them, and we
would respond to this bloodshed. Why
we have not done that takes us on a
sordid crawl through the sewers of
modern politics inhabited by the Na-
tional Rifle Association.
The National Rifle Association spent
$30 million supporting President
Trump. No wonder they can undo all of
our work with a simple phone call to
the Oval Office. But it is much worse
than that. Reports emerged last year
that the NRA accepted money from
foreign sources, including Russian
banker and Putin ally Aleksandr
Torshin, and spent that money in poli-
tics in America.
Senator WYDEN sent letters to the
NRA and to the Treasury Department
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Sep 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00036 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G17SE6.072 S17SEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5535
September 17, 2019
about these reports. The NRA re-
sponded maintaining that it properly
segregates any foreign donations so
that they are not used for political pur-
poses. Fat chance of that, with money
being fungible. I joined Senator WYDEN
on a followup letter renewing the re-
quest following the arrest of Maria
Butina, an evident NRA go-between.
The IRS, under President Trump,
took no action against the NRA in re-
sponse to these allegations. In August,
the Federal Election Commission dead-
locked 2 to 2 on whether to investigate
this matter at all. The FEC is so
locked up on this now that they
wouldn’t even investigate.
FEC Commissioner Weintraub in des-
peration wrote:
Some allegations are too serious to ignore.
Too serious to simply take [the NRA’s] deni-
als at face value. Too serious to play games
with. Yet in this matter, my colleagues ran
their usual evidence-blocking play and the
Commission’s attorneys placed too much
faith in the few facts [the NRA] put before
us.
So we can’t even look into the extent
of Russian interference in our politics
through the NRA.
It goes on. Last fall, the Campaign
Legal Center and Giffords Center filed
complaints with the Federal Election
Commission alleging that the NRA was
evading the anti-coordination rules of
our election between the Trump cam-
paign and with various Republican
Senate campaigns. The complaints al-
lege that the NRA and the campaigns
coordinated spending through a GOP
media consulting firm. What had the
media consulting firm done? It had set
up a series of shell corporations
through which the campaigns paid.
We have all used media consulting
firms in getting to the Senate. Which
of those media consulting firms set up
shell corporations?
In fact, these shell corporations—
these supposedly separate companies—
shared staff, office space, and other re-
sources, so that the firm coordinated
the ad buys between the NRA and the
campaigns. Once again, the FEC did
nothing, so the Campaign Legal Center
had to sue the Federal Election Com-
mission in district court.
The NRA’s political spending has
more than quintupled since the Su-
preme Court—I should say more spe-
cifically, since five Republican ap-
pointees on the Supreme Court—al-
lowed unlimited, anonymous money
into our political system—from $10
million in 2010, the year of the Citizens
United decision, to about $55 million in
the 2016 election. The NRA now spends
unlimited amounts of dark money on
political ads. They can come after peo-
ple. They can threaten people. They
can make promises to people. That is
why 86 percent, 89 percent of the U.S.
public gets ignored around here.
When Representative RASKIN and I
wrote the NRA and the consultants
about this coordination scheme, guess
what the supposedly independent
groups did? They wrote back to us in
the same letter from the same lawyer—
some independence. Of course, we are
still waiting on the FEC to take any
action at all.
By way of a visitor’s guide to the
sewer of modern politics inhabited by
the NRA, I ask unanimous consent that
a September 17 article from The Trace
titled ‘‘Guide to Every Known Inves-
tigation of the NRA’’ be appended to
my remarks as an exhibit.
I will close where I began. There have
been 293 mass shootings since January
1 of this year, and the American public
has an extraordinarily common voice
for red flag laws, for expanding Federal
background checks, closing the gun
show loophole, banning assault weap-
ons, and banning large-capacity maga-
zines, and we don’t listen to the pop-
ular will here because of the menace
that the NRA has become in our poli-
tics—the anti-Democratic menace that
the NRA has become.
There being no objection, the mate-
rial was ordered to be printed in the
RECORD, as follows:
[From the Trace, Sept. 17, 2019]
BANG FOR THE BUCK—A GUIDE TO EVERY
KNOWN INVESTIGATION OF THE NRA
HERE ARE THE FACTS ABOUT ALL TEN ACTIVE
INQUIRIES INTO THE GUN RIGHTS GROUP
(By Daniel Nass)
The National Rifle Association is caught
up in a rapidly expanding tangle of inves-
tigations—eight launched this year alone.
Investigators in the House, Senate, New
York State, and D.C. are scrutinizing the
gun group’s nonprofit status following al-
leged financial misconduct exposed by The
Trace, while other probes have their sights
on the NRA’s ties to Kremlin-linked Rus-
sians and to Donald Trump’s presidential
campaign, as well as several potential cam-
paign finance violations.
Because it’s challenging to keep track of
these probes, we’ve rounded them up below.
We included only investigations that di-
rectly involve the NRA or its staff. We’ll
keep this post updated to reflect the latest
developments, and will add new investiga-
tions to the list, should they arise.
WHAT’S UNDER INVESTIGATION
A fourth investigation of the NRA’s non-
profit status is underway, this one initiated
by D.C. Attorney General Karl Racine. Ra-
cine’s office is seeking documents from the
gun group and its affiliated foundation re-
garding ‘‘financial records, payments to ven-
dors, and payments to officers and direc-
tors.’’ The NRA Foundation is chartered in
Washington, D.C. NRA attorney William
Brewer said in a statement that ‘‘the NRA
has full confidence in its accounting prac-
tices and commitment to good governance.’’
WHAT’S UNDER INVESTIGATION
Amid the ongoing strife between the NRA
and its former communications firm Acker-
man McQueen, another congressional com-
mittee is attempting to determine whether
the NRA has violated its tax-exempt status.
In a letter to Wayne LaPierre, House Ways
and Means Committee member Representa-
tive Brad Schneider demanded documents re-
lated to internal audits, financial mis-
conduct, and conflicts of interest. It’s the
third probe of the NRA’s finances launched
since The Trace and The New Yorker first re-
ported on alleged financial improprieties in
April. In August, Schneider expanded the in-
quiry, sending a letter to Ackerman CEO
Revan McQueen requesting documents re-
lated to the firm’s past relationship with the
NRA.
WHAT’S UNDER INVESTIGATION
Three Democratic members of the Senate
Finance Committee, which oversees tax-ex-
empt organizations, are probing alleged fi-
nancial impropriety within the NRA. Letters
addressed to NRA Executive Vice President
Wayne LaPierre and ex-President Oliver
North request documentation of alleged fi-
nancial misconduct raised by North during a
public power struggle for control of the gun
group, which culminated with North’s ouster
from his leadership role. A third letter re-
quests documentation from Revan McQueen,
the CEO of top NRA vendor Ackerman
McQueen, due to LaPierre’s claim that Ack-
erman had prepared a damaging memo in
order to blackmail him. The feud erupted
after reporting by The Trace and other news
organizations revealed a culture of self-deal-
ing and financial mismanagement within the
NRA, particularly around its relationship
with Ackerman. The NRA has refused to co-
operate with the investigation, and a letter
from Ackerman McQueen to the senators in-
dicates that the NRA has not given the ven-
dor permission to share relevant materials.
WHAT’S UNDER INVESTIGATION
New York Attorney General Letitia James
has opened an investigation into the NRA’s
nonprofit status, asking the organization, its
charitable foundation, and other affiliated
groups to preserve financial records. The
probe, first reported by The New York
Times, also touches the gun group’s ‘‘related
businesses,’’ although information about the
parties involved is not yet public. James has
jurisdiction because the NRA was chartered
in New York in 1871. In August, the attorney
general’s office expanded the inquiry, issuing
subpoenas to more than 90 current and
former NRA board members, including
former president Oliver North.
The probe follows a series of media reports
about financial misconduct within the NRA,
including a Trace investigation detailing al-
legations that former IRS official Marc
Owens said ‘‘could lead to the revocation of
the NRA’s tax-exempt status.’’
WHAT’S UNDER INVESTIGATION
The NRA is among more than 80 organiza-
tions and individuals that received requests
for documents as part of a wide-ranging
House Judiciary Committee probe which
aims to establish whether President Trump
and those in his orbit have engaged in ‘‘ob-
struction of justice, public corruption, and
other abuses of power.’’ A letter from com-
mittee Chairman Jerrold Nadler to NRA boss
LaPierre demands information on the gun
group’s contacts with and about Russia and
the Trump campaign during the run-up to
the 2016 election. The NRA has reportedly
submitted nearly 1,500 pages of documents in
response to the request.
WHAT’S UNDER INVESTIGATION
Representatives Ted Lieu and Kathleen
Rice, concerned by a ‘‘lack of transparency’’
around the NRA’s 2015 visit to Moscow and
its other ties to Russia, have launched a new
investigation intended to illuminate those
connections. Another probe of the gun
group’s Kremlin connections is underway in
the Senate, but House Democrats, unlike
their counterparts in the Senate, hold the
majority required to issue subpoenas.
WHAT’S UNDER INVESTIGATION
A joint House-Senate probe is inves-
tigating possible ‘‘illegal, excessive, and un-
reported in-kind donations’’ made by the
NRA to Donald Trump’s 2016 presidential
campaign and to several Republican Senate
candidates. Sparked by The Trace’s report-
ing, Senator Sheldon Whitehouse and Con-
gressman Jamie Raskin have contacted NRA
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Sep 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00037 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G17SE6.074 S17SEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5536 September 17, 2019
Executive Vice President Wayne LaPierre
and five campaign advertising vendors to re-
quest information about the groups’ rela-
tionships. ‘‘The evidence shows the NRA is
moving money through a complex web of
shell organizations to avoid campaign fi-
nance rules and boost candidates willing to
carry their water,’’ Whitehouse told The
Trace.
WHAT’S UNDER INVESTIGATION
As part of a probe into security clearances
issued by the Trump administration, House
Oversight Committee Chairman Elijah Cum-
mings has requested documents from the
NRA regarding Trump national security ad-
visor John Bolton’s contacts with Russia. In
2013, Bolton appeared in a video for The
Right to Bear Arms, the Russian gun-rights
group linked to Maria Butina and Alexander
Torshin. He also headed the NRA’s sub-
committee on international affairs, which
Cummings has also requested information
about. The Oversight Committee investiga-
tion came months after Cummings and Rep-
resentative Stephen Lynch first sought in-
formation from the White House about
Bolton’s ties to Russia.
WHAT’S UNDER INVESTIGATION
An NRA delegation’s trip to Moscow in 2015
is under the scrutiny of the Senate Intel-
ligence Committee, headed by Senators
Richard Burr and Mark Warner, which in No-
vember requested documents about contacts
with high-profile Russians during the excur-
sion. In January, investigators grilled
former Trump aide Sam Nunberg about the
links between the Trump campaign, the
NRA, and Russian nationals including Maria
Butina. Burr, the committee’s chair, has re-
ceived ample campaign support from the
NRA.
WHAT’S UNDER INVESTIGATION
Senator Ron Wyden, the ranking member
of the Senate Finance Committee, has sent a
series of requests to the NRA and the Treas-
ury Department seeking information about
the gun group’s financial ties to Russian offi-
cial Alexander Torshin and other Putin-
linked politicians. After the arrest of self-
confessed Russian agent Maria Butina in
July, Wyden and committee members Shel-
don Whitehouse and Bob Menendez followed
up with the Treasury requesting further in-
formation about Butina’s financial links to
the NRA. Butina later pleaded guilty to con-
spiring in the United States. Earlier this
month, the Finance Committee launched a
separate probe into a conservative think
tank linked to Butina and Torshin. Senator
Charles Grassley, who chairs the Finance
Committee, has ties to the NRA.
A few other investigations bear men-
tioning. An inquiry by the House Intel-
ligence Committee and the FBI’s reported
investigation of Alexander Torshin both
probed the gun group’s ties to Russia, al-
though there is no hard evidence that the
NRA or its employees have been pulled into
either of those probes. Watchdog organiza-
tions have filed a series of complaints with
the Federal Election Commission regarding
the NRA’s campaign finance activities, and
two groups are now suing the regulator for
its failure to act on those complaints.
We’ll update this post as new information
comes to light.
Mr. WHITEHOUSE. I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from New York.
Mr. SCHUMER. Madam President, I
rise tonight to join the chorus of
Democratic Senators in this Chamber
demanding action to address the Amer-
ican gun violence epidemic. We stand
here tonight on behalf of the tens of
millions of Americans, from one end of
the country to the other, who are cry-
ing out for change.
Every few months, it seems that our
Nation is rocked by another horrifying
mass shooting. El Paso and Dayton are
only the latest entries in our national
register of tragedy, a list that
stretches from Parkland to Pittsburgh,
Charleston to Columbine, Aurora to
Orlando, Blacksburg to Binghamton,
San Bernardino to Sandy Hook, and to
Las Vegas. Because that ever-growing
list can sometimes seem abstract, let’s
not forget about the specific places
where these awful shootings occurred:
movie theaters and night clubs, shop-
ping malls and office parks, music fes-
tivals and traffic stops, churches, syna-
gogues, mosques, colleges, high
schools, and an elementary school.
Our hearts remain with the families
of the victims and the survivors of
these mass shootings whose lives were
turned upside down in an instance by
mad men who never should have had
access to a gun. The touching letter
that Senator MURPHY read from one of
his constituents whose child died in
Sandy Hook is just one of many testa-
ments to that turning upside down—in-
stantly ruining your life forever by one
of these horrible, awful incidents.
At the same time, our hearts are
with tens of thousands more whose
lives were ended or forever altered by
everyday gun violence. It doesn’t make
the headlines, but we remember them,
too. They are no less tragic and no less
painful for the parents who lost chil-
dren, and brothers and sisters, sons and
daughters who lost mothers and fa-
thers.
Whether it is a mass shooting or an
individual shooting, people who
shouldn’t have guns are killing our fel-
low American citizens, and Congress
just sits on its hands—the Senate does,
anyway—and does nothing.
Let me mention a few stories of New
Yorkers whose lives were cut short by
gun violence just this year. The list
goes on and on, I assure you.
Norzell Aldridge, of Cheektowaga in
western New York, was a youth foot-
ball coach. He was shot in the chest
and killed a few weeks ago while trying
to break up a fight at a park in Buf-
falo’s East Side. Coach Aldridge’s team
had just finished playing the first game
of their season.
Rhyan Williams-Cannon, a 21-year-
old from Syracuse, was shot and killed
in March as he was leaving the corner
store. He was the youngest of seven
siblings. He had just earned his GED in
October. Rhyan’s family said he was
like a father to his nephew, sneaking
candies to him behind his mother’s
back.
Shakeel Khan, of Johnson City, was
murdered by a mass gunman in April
while closing up his restaurant.
Shakeel was the sole provider for his
wife and his three children, aged 14, 12,
and 8.
May God rest their souls.
I can stand here for hours and tell 100
more stories, each one as heart-
breaking as the next. Each one is about
senseless violence that might not have
occurred if we had adequate laws on
the books, all the people around
them—their families, their friends,
their communities—devastated by the
recklessness, senselessness of this gun
violence.
It is our solemn duty to the victims
of those terrible tragedies who can’t
speak for themselves, but their memo-
ries call down to us for justice, to cure
this terrible plague of gun violence
that claims tens of thousands of lives
every single day of every single year.
I have been fighting this fight for
such a long time. Back in 1993, I was in
my sixth term representing Brooklyn
and Queens in the House of Representa-
tives. I knew the terrible toll of gun vi-
olence firsthand because the streets of
my community were testimony to it.
East New York and Cypress Hills were
known as the Killing Grounds back
then because someone was murdered an
average of once every 63 hours, so I was
more than eager to help write, intro-
duce, and pass the legislation estab-
lishing our background check system
that later became known as the Brady
Bill.
As we take stock of the legacy of
that bill 25 years later, there is no
question that it saved countless lives.
There are literally thousands and thou-
sands of people walking the streets of
their communities who are alive today
and would have been dead had the
Brady Law not passed. We don’t know
who they are. They don’t know who
they are. But we know they are alive,
and we are thankful for it.
Ever since the National Instant
Criminal Background Check System
went online in 1998, there have been
more than 1.5 million denials to dis-
qualified buyers. The ability to keep
guns out of the hands of convicted fel-
ons has helped lead to a steep drop in
murder rates experienced by commu-
nities across the country.
Take my hometown of New York
City. In the early 1990s, before the
Brady Bill was enacted, an average of
2,500 people were murdered every year
in the five boroughs. Last year, that
number was just 289.
But that doesn’t mean our work is
done—far from it. What seemed like a
minor compromise in 1993—allowing
the sale of firearms without back-
ground checks at gun shows—has be-
come a massive loophole. At the time
when I wrote the Brady Bill, gun shows
were a place for collectors to sell an-
tiques, but gun shows have grown expo-
nentially in popularity because people
who don’t want background checks
know they can get guns there and peo-
ple who want to sell guns to people who
don’t go through background checks
sell their guns there. And even of
greater dimension, the internet ex-
ploded to facilitate private sales be-
tween strangers, no questions asked.
While some cities like New York
have thankfully seen an overall de-
crease in gun deaths, there are still too
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Sep 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00038 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A17SE6.026 S17SEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5537
September 17, 2019
many pockets in cities across the coun-
try where this epidemic persists. At
the same time, the frequency and
lethality of mass shootings have rap-
idly increased.
The internet allows for copycats.
People up to no good see someone else
has killed many people and think that
maybe they should do the same. We
have seen the frequency of these awful
mass shootings continue on and on.
We finally have an opportunity to
close that loophole and keep guns from
falling into the wrong hands in the
first place. We have the opportunity to
simply update the Brady Law—not
change it, not expand it, just plug the
holes that were punctured in it as time
moved forward. No gun will be taken
away from someone who is a law-abid-
ing citizen by this law. No, only people
who shouldn’t have guns will not get
them. And who could disagree with
that? Certainly not the American peo-
ple who are overwhelmingly on our
side.
We Senate Democrats are here to-
night because the House of Representa-
tives has finally passed legislation
closing the private sale loophole,
marking the first time that either
Chamber of Congress has passed an
overhaul of a background check system
since the Brady law more than 25 years
ago.
What we are asking for is very simple
and shouldn’t cause us to come here at
night. It should be an obvious thing to
do: a simple up-or-down vote on legis-
lation—an up-or-down vote on H.R. 8.
Let me say it again. Leader MCCON-
NELL, put H.R. 8 up for a vote on the
floor of the Senate as soon as possible.
Let us do what we were sent here to do
by our constituents—what our con-
stituents demand we do, which is fix
the most pressing problems facing our
Nation. If we fail to do so, it is plain
and simple and terrible: More innocent
people will die.
Before I yield the floor, I want to
thank the survivors and families of vic-
tims who have done so much to remind
the American people of just what is at
stake when it comes to gun violence. I
keep on a desk in my office pictures of
the children who were murdered in
Sandy Hook given to me by their ailing
and grieving parents. And those par-
ents and the thousands and thousands
of others like them—survivors who
amazingly choose to light a candle to
prevent greater darkness despite the
darkness that had overcome their lives
and that has surrounded their lives,
these are beautiful people, saint-like
people—and we thank them.
A year and a half ago, we watched in
horror as tragedy struck the Parkland
community in Florida. Once again, the
safety and sanctuary of a school was
torn apart by the unthinkable, but this
time felt different. Almost imme-
diately, the students started speaking
out, turning their immeasurable pain
into courageous advocacy. Just 2 weeks
later, I welcomed these Parkland teens
into my office. My God, what courage,
what fortitude, what inner strength.
Even in the darkest of nights, some
choose not to curse the darkness but to
light a candle.
A few weeks later, I joined millions
of New Yorkers who were inspired to
march for change by these Parkland
teens. Millions more Americans across
the country did the same. And now, a
little more than a year later, this Sen-
ate has the opportunity to vote on H.R.
8, universal background checks, among
several other pieces of legislation
passed by the House that would save
lives from gun violence.
Times have changed. People forget
that the Brady Bill was first intro-
duced in 1987, 6 years after Jim Brady
and President Reagan were wounded
and more than 6 years before it was en-
acted into law. Now, we are moving
from tragedy to action in a year. The
movement that Jim and Sarah Brady
started in the 1980s has reached a new
era. The American people are no longer
willing to wait months or years for
change. Long gone are the days that
Senate Republicans can just bury their
heads in the sand and ignore that more
than 30,000 Americans are killed by a
gun every year. Politicians offering
their thoughts and prayers just doesn’t
cut it anymore. It is put up or shut up.
Leader MCCONNELL, Senate Repub-
licans, what will you do?
I yield the floor.
f
MORNING BUSINESS
ADDITIONAL STATEMENTS
TRIBUTE TO ROBERT L. STEWART
∑ Mr. SHELBY. Madam President,
today I wish to honor the career of
Robert L. Stewart, a retired U.S. Army
brigadier general and former NASA as-
tronaut, from Huntsville, AL. Robert
Stewart is an acknowledged leader in
the aerospace industry, with over 40
years of hard work and dedication
throughout his career, including self-
less service in the military. He has
worked for decades to improve the
quality of life in his community and
across the State of Alabama.
Mr. Robert Stewart entered Active
Duty with the U.S. Army in 1964. He
spent time at Gunter Air Force Base in
Montgomery, AL, as well as Fort
Rucker in Dale County, AL. Mr. Stew-
art has military and civilian experi-
ence, flying over 40 types of airplanes
and helicopters, including over 1,200
hours of jet time, 1,015 combat flight
hours, and over 6,000 logged hours total
flight time.
Mr. Stewart became an astronaut in
August of 1979. He has logged 289 hours
in space, including approximately 12
hours of extravehicular activities oper-
ations. While training for his scheduled
third flight at NASA, Stewart was se-
lected by the Army for promotion to
brigadier general. He retired from the
Army in 1992. Stewart has received
multiple recognitions for his distin-
guished service and work.
At home in north Alabama, Robert is
married to Mary Jane. They have two
daughters and four grandchildren. He
received a bachelor of science degree in
mathematics from the University of
Southern Mississippi in 1964 and a mas-
ter of science in aerospace engineering
from the University of Texas at Arling-
ton in 1972.
I am proud to take this time to rec-
ognize Robert for his significant ca-
reer. His achievements and dedication
to advancing the industry have not
gone unnoticed. I join Robert Stewart’s
friends, family, and colleagues in cele-
brating his career, and I thank him for
his commitment to Alabama.∑
f
MESSAGE FROM THE HOUSE
ENROLLED BILL SIGNED
At 8:00 p.m., a message from the
House of Representatives, delivered by
Mrs. Cole, one of its reading clerks, an-
nounced that the Speaker has signed
the following enrolled bill:
H.R. 1200. An act to increase, effective as of
December 1, 2019, the rates of compensation
for veterans with service-connected disabil-
ities and the rates of dependency and indem-
nity compensation for the survivors of cer-
tain disabled veterans, and for other pur-
poses.
f
MEASURES REFERRED ON JULY
24, 2019
The following bill was read the first
and the second times by unanimous
consent, and referred as indicated:
H.R. 3196. An Act to designate the Large
Synoptic Survey Telescope as the ‘‘Vera C.
Rubin Observatory’’; to the Committee on
Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
f
EXECUTIVE AND OTHER
COMMUNICATIONS
The following communications were
laid before the Senate, together with
accompanying papers, reports, and doc-
uments, and were referred as indicated:
EC–2594. A communication from the Ad-
ministrator, Agricultural Marketing Serv-
ice, Department of Agriculture, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Establishment of Milk Donation Re-
imbursement Program’’ ((RIN0581–AD87)
(Docket No. AMS–DA–19–0001)) received in
the Office of the President of the Senate on
September 16, 2019; to the Committee on Ag-
riculture, Nutrition, and Forestry.
EC–2595. A communication from the Assist-
ant Director for Regulatory Affairs, Office of
Foreign Assets Control, Department of the
Treasury, transmitting, pursuant to law, the
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Cuban Assets Con-
trol Regulations’’ (31 CFR Part 515) received
in the Office of the President of the Senate
on September 16, 2019; to the Committee on
Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs.
EC–2596. A communication from the Chair-
man, Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety
Board, transmitting, pursuant to law, the
Uniform Resource Locator (URL) for the
Board’s fiscal year 2017 Federal Activities In-
ventory Reform (FAIR) Act submission of its
commercial and inherently governmental ac-
tivities; to the Committee on Homeland Se-
curity and Governmental Affairs.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:38 Sep 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00039 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G17SE6.068 S17SEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5538 September 17, 2019
EC–2597. A communication from the Chair-
man of the National Transportation Safety
Board, transmitting, pursuant to law, the
Board’s fiscal year 2019 Federal Activities In-
ventory Reform (FAIR) Act submission of its
commercial and inherently governmental ac-
tivities; to the Committee on Homeland Se-
curity and Governmental Affairs.
EC–2598. A communication from the Chair,
Federal Election Commission, transmitting,
pursuant to law, a report relative to its
budget request for fiscal year 2021; to the
Committee on Rules and Administration.
EC–2599. A communication from the Direc-
tor, Office of Regulation Policy and Manage-
ment, Department of Veterans Affairs, trans-
mitting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule
entitled ‘‘VA Acquisition Regulation: Envi-
ronment, Energy and Water Efficiency, Re-
newable Energy Technologies, Occupational
Safety and Drug-Free Workplace, Protection
of Privacy and Freedom of Information,
Other Socioeconomic Programs, and Con-
tract Modifications’’ (RIN2900–AQ24) re-
ceived during adjournment of the Senate in
the Office of the President of the Senate on
September 13, 2019; to the Committee on Vet-
erans’ Affairs.
EC–2600. A communication from the Regu-
lation Policy Development Coordinator, Of-
fice of Regulation Policy and Management,
Department of Veterans Affairs, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘VA Acquisition Regulation: Con-
tracting by Negotiation; Service Con-
tracting’’ (RIN2900–AQ20) received during ad-
journment of the Senate in the Office of the
President of the Senate on September 13,
2019; to the Committee on Veterans’ Affairs.
EC–2601. A communication from the Dep-
uty Assistant Administrator for Regulatory
Programs, National Marine Fisheries Serv-
ice, Department of Commerce, transmitting,
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Taking and Importing Marine Mammals;
Taking Marine Mammals Incidental to Alas-
ka Fisheries Science Center Fisheries Re-
search’’ (RIN0648–BG64) received in the Office
of the President of the Senate on September
16, 2019; to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation.
EC–2602. A communication from the Chief
of Regulatory Development, Federal Motor
Carrier Safety Administration, Department
of Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Hours of
Service of Drivers - Restart Provisions’’
(RIN2126–AC30) received in the Office of the
President of the Senate on September 12,
2019; to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation.
EC–2603. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Standard
Instrument Approach Procedures, and Take-
off Minimums and Obstacle Departure Proce-
dures; Miscellaneous Amendments; Amend-
ment No. 3865’’ (RIN2120–AA65) received in
the Office of the President of the Senate on
September 12, 2019; to the Committee on
Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–2604. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Standard
Instrument Approach Procedures, and Take-
off Minimums and Obstacle Departure Proce-
dures; Miscellaneous Amendments; Amend-
ment No. 3866’’ (RIN2120–AA65) received in
the Office of the President of the Senate on
September 12, 2019; to the Committee on
Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–2605. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Standard
Instrument Approach Procedures, and Take-
off Minimums and Obstacle Departure Proce-
dures; Miscellaneous Amendments; Amend-
ment No. 3867’’ (RIN2120–AA65) received in
the Office of the President of the Senate on
September 12, 2019; to the Committee on
Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–2606. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Standard
Instrument Approach Procedures, and Take-
off Minimums and Obstacle Departure Proce-
dures; Miscellaneous Amendments; Amend-
ment No. 3868’’ (RIN2120–AA65) received in
the Office of the President of the Senate on
September 12, 2019; to the Committee on
Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–2607. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Amend-
ment of Class D Airspace; New Iberia, LA’’
((RIN2120–AA66) (Docket No. FAA–2019–0344))
received in the Office of the President of the
Senate on September 12, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Commerce, Science, and Transpor-
tation.
EC–2608. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Amend-
ment of Class E Airspace; Ashland, KY’’
((RIN2120–AA66) (Docket No. FAA–2019–0450))
received in the Office of the President of the
Senate on September 12, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Commerce, Science, and Transpor-
tation.
EC–2609. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Establish-
ment of Class D and E Airspace; Wichita,
KS’’ ((RIN2120–AA66) (Docket No. FAA–2017–
0890)) received in the Office of the President
of the Senate on September 12, 2019; to the
Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation.
EC–2610. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Establish-
ment of Class E Airspace; Lander, WY’’
((RIN2120–AA66) (Docket No. FAA–2019–0390))
received in the Office of the President of the
Senate on September 12, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Commerce, Science, and Transpor-
tation.
EC–2611. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘IFR Alti-
tudes; Miscellaneous Amendments Amend-
ments No. 548’’ ((RIN2120–AA63) (Docket No.
31273)) received in the Office of the President
of the Senate on September 12, 2019; to the
Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation.
EC–2612. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthi-
ness Directives; Airbus SAS Airplanes’’
((RIN2120–AA64) (Docket No. FAA–2019–0403))
received in the Office of the President of the
Senate on September 12, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Commerce, Science, and Transpor-
tation.
EC–2613. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthi-
ness Directives; Airbus SAS Airplanes’’
((RIN2120–AA64) (Docket No. FAA–2019–0320))
received in the Office of the President of the
Senate on September 12, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Commerce, Science, and Transpor-
tation.
EC–2614. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthi-
ness Directives; Airbus SAS Airplanes’’
((RIN2120–AA64) (Docket No. FAA–2019–0672))
received in the Office of the President of the
Senate on September 12, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Commerce, Science, and Transpor-
tation.
EC–2615. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthi-
ness Directives; Airbus Helicopters’’
((RIN2120–AA64) (Docket No. FAA–2019–0641))
received in the Office of the President of the
Senate on September 12, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Commerce, Science, and Transpor-
tation.
EC–2616. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthi-
ness Directives; Airbus Helicopters Deutsch-
land GmbH’’ ((RIN2120–AA64) (Docket No.
FAA–2019–0656)) received in the Office of the
President of the Senate on September 12,
2019; to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation.
EC–2617. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthi-
ness Directives; Bombardier, Inc., Airplanes’’
((RIN2120–AA64) (Docket No. FAA–2019–0327))
received in the Office of the President of the
Senate on September 12, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Commerce, Science, and Transpor-
tation.
EC–2618. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthi-
ness Directives; The Boeing Company Air-
planes’’ ((RIN2120–AA64) (Docket No. FAA–
2019–0023)) received in the Office of the Presi-
dent of the Senate on September 12, 2019; to
the Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation.
EC–2619. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthi-
ness Directives; International Aero Engines
AG Turbofan Engines’’ ((RIN2120–AA64)
(Docket No. FAA–2019–0268)) received in the
Office of the President of the Senate on Sep-
tember 12, 2019; to the Committee on Com-
merce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–2620. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthi-
ness Directives; Leonardo S.p.A. Heli-
copters’’ ((RIN2120–AA64) (Docket No. FAA–
2018–0057)) received in the Office of the Presi-
dent of the Senate on September 12, 2019; to
the Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Sep 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00040 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A17SE6.014 S17SEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5539
September 17, 2019
PETITIONS AND MEMORIALS
The following petitions and memo-
rials were laid before the Senate and
were referred or ordered to lie on the
table as indicated:
POM–134. A resolution adopted by the City
Council of Lakewood, Ohio memorializing its
support for the Solidarity Action Plan, pas-
sage of the Green New Deal Resolution, and
the Energy Innovation and Carbon Dividend
Act; to the Committee on Finance.
POM–135. A resolution adopted by the
Council of the Borough of Narberth, Mont-
gomery County, Pennsylvania urging the
United States Congress to enact the Energy
Innovation and Carbon Dividend Act of 2019;
to the Committee on Finance.
POM–136. A petition from a citizen of the
Commonwealth of Pennsylvania memori-
alizing a resolution adopted by the House of
Representatives of the Commonwealth of
Pennsylvania urging the United States Con-
gress to facilitate and ensure implementa-
tion of the VA Maintaining Internal Systems
and Strengthening Integrated Outside Net-
works Act of 2018; to the Committee on Vet-
erans’ Affairs.
f
INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND
JOINT RESOLUTIONS
The following bills and joint resolu-
tions were introduced, read the first
and second times by unanimous con-
sent, and referred as indicated:
By Mr. BROWN (for himself and Mr.
WICKER):
S. 2481. A bill to facilitate effective re-
search on and treatment of neglected trop-
ical diseases through coordinated domestic
and international efforts; to the Committee
on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
By Ms. HIRONO (for herself, Mr. MAR-
KEY, Mrs. FEINSTEIN, Ms. HARRIS, Mr.
BLUMENTHAL, Mrs. MURRAY, Mrs.
GILLIBRAND, Mr. BOOKER, Ms.
DUCKWORTH, Mr. CARDIN, Mr. BROWN,
Mr. BENNET, Ms. WARREN, Mr. VAN
HOLLEN, Mr. DURBIN, Mr. WYDEN, Ms.
KLOBUCHAR, Mr. SANDERS, Mr. CASEY,
Mr. REED, Mr. UDALL, Mr. KAINE, Ms.
CORTEZ MASTO, Ms. BALDWIN, Mr.
COONS, Mr. MENENDEZ, Mr. HEINRICH,
and Mr. MERKLEY):
S. 2482. A bill to prohibit the use of Federal
funds to carry out the final rule of the De-
partment of Homeland Security entitled ‘‘In-
admissibility on Public Charge Grounds’’; to
the Committee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. WICKER (for himself, Mr.
CARDIN, Mr. RUBIO, Mr. WHITEHOUSE,
and Mr. GARDNER):
S. 2483. A bill to counter efforts by foreign
governments to pursue, harass, or otherwise
persecute individuals for political and other
unlawful motives overseas, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Foreign Rela-
tions.
By Ms. HIRONO:
S. 2484. A bill to amend title 38, United
States Code, to extend the authority for op-
eration of a Department of Veterans Affairs
regional office in Manila, the Republic of the
Philippines, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Veterans’ Affairs.
By Mr. PETERS (for himself, Ms. WAR-
REN, Mr. UDALL, Ms. BALDWIN, Mr.
BENNET, Mr. BLUMENTHAL, Mr.
BROWN, Mr. CARDIN, Mr. CARPER, Mr.
CASEY, Ms. CORTEZ MASTO, Ms.
DUCKWORTH, Mr. DURBIN, Mrs. FEIN-
STEIN, Mrs. GILLIBRAND, Ms. HARRIS,
Ms. HASSAN, Mr. HEINRICH, Ms.
HIRONO, Mr. KAINE, Mr. KING, Ms.
KLOBUCHAR, Mr. LEAHY, Mr. MARKEY,
Mr. MENENDEZ, Mr. MERKLEY, Mrs.
MURRAY, Mr. SCHATZ, Mr. SCHUMER,
Mrs. SHAHEEN, Ms. SINEMA, Ms. STA-
BENOW, Mr. TESTER, Mr. VAN HOLLEN,
Mr. WHITEHOUSE, and Mr. WYDEN):
S. 2485. A bill to prohibit Federal agencies
from using Government funds to pay for ex-
penses at lodging establishments that are
owned by or employ certain public officials
or their relatives; to the Committee on
Homeland Security and Governmental Af-
fairs.
By Ms. HASSAN (for herself, Mr.
KAINE, and Mr. VAN HOLLEN):
S. 2486. A bill to authorize the Secretary of
Housing and Urban Development to award
grants for landlord-tenant mediation pro-
grams; to the Committee on Banking, Hous-
ing, and Urban Affairs.
By Ms. ERNST:
S. 2487. A bill to improve the effectiveness
and efficiency and reduce the cost of the sup-
ply chain and inventory management of the
Department of Defense by consolidating un-
necessary and unneeded storage centers; to
the Committee on Armed Services.
By Mr. VAN HOLLEN:
S. 2488. A bill to amend the Securities Ex-
change Act of 1934 to require the Securities
and Exchange Commission to issue rules
that prohibit officers and directors of certain
companies from trading securities in antici-
pation of a current report, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Banking, Hous-
ing, and Urban Affairs.
By Ms. HIRONO:
S. 2489. A bill to amend title 38, United
States Code, to extend the authority for fi-
nancial assistance for supportive services for
very low-income veteran families in perma-
nent housing, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Veterans’ Affairs.
By Ms. MCSALLY (for herself, Ms.
ERNST, Mr. BRAUN, and Mr. SCOTT of
Florida):
S. 2490. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to make permanent certain
changes made by Public Law 115–97 to the
child tax credit; to the Committee on Fi-
nance.
By Mr. UDALL (for himself, Mr.
BLUMENTHAL, Mr. BOOKER, Mrs. FEIN-
STEIN, Ms. CANTWELL, Mr. MERKLEY,
Ms. HIRONO, Ms. HARRIS, Mr. SAND-
ERS, Mr. MENENDEZ, and Ms. WAR-
REN):
S. 2491. A bill to terminate certain rules
issued by the Secretary of the Interior and
the Secretary of Commerce relating to en-
dangered and threatened species, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Envi-
ronment and Public Works.
By Mr. GARDNER (for himself, Mr.
JONES, Mrs. CAPITO, Mr. COONS, Ms.
HASSAN, Mr. BLUMENTHAL, and Mr.
CORNYN):
S. 2492. A bill to amend the Public Health
Service Act to provide best practices on stu-
dent suicide awareness and prevention train-
ing and condition State educational agen-
cies, local educational agencies, and tribal
educational agencies receiving funds under
section 520A of such Act to establish and im-
plement a school-based student suicide
awareness and prevention training policy; to
the Committee on Health, Education, Labor,
and Pensions.
By Ms. KLOBUCHAR (for herself and
Mr. REED):
S. 2493. A bill to establish the Malign For-
eign Influence Response Center in the Office
of the Director of National Intelligence, and
for other purposes; to the Select Committee
on Intelligence.
SUBMISSION OF CONCURRENT AND
SENATE RESOLUTIONS
The following concurrent resolutions
and Senate resolutions were read, and
referred (or acted upon), as indicated:
By Mrs. HYDE-SMITH (for herself, Mr.
JONES, Mr. YOUNG, Mr. TILLIS, Ms.
COLLINS, Mr. VAN HOLLEN, Mr.
BRAUN, Ms. ERNST, Mr. HOEVEN, Ms.
CANTWELL, Ms. SINEMA, and Ms. MUR-
KOWSKI):
S. Res. 313. A resolution designating the
week of September 22 through September 28,
2019, as ‘‘Gold Star Families Remembrance
Week’’; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. MORAN (for himself and Mr.
WARNER):
S. Res. 314. A resolution honoring the cen-
tennial of the Aerospace Industries Associa-
tion; considered and agreed to.
By Mr. JONES:
S. Res. 315. A resolution memorializing the
discovery of the Clotilda; to the Committee
on Energy and Natural Resources.
f
ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS
S. 191
At the request of Ms. KLOBUCHAR, the
name of the Senator from Hawaii (Ms.
HIRONO) was added as a cosponsor of S.
191, a bill to direct the Secretary of De-
fense to include in periodic health as-
sessments, separation history and
physical examinations, and other as-
sessments an evaluation of whether a
member of the Armed Forces has been
exposed to open burn pits or toxic air-
borne chemicals, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 211
At the request of Mr. HOEVEN, the
name of the Senator from Arizona (Ms.
SINEMA) was added as a cosponsor of S.
211, a bill to amend the Victims of
Crime Act of 1984 to secure urgent re-
sources vital to Indian victims of
crime, and for other purposes.
S. 279
At the request of Mr. THUNE, the
name of the Senator from North Da-
kota (Mr. CRAMER) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 279, a bill to allow tribal
grant schools to participate in the Fed-
eral Employee Health Benefits Pro-
gram.
S. 315
At the request of Ms. HASSAN, the
name of the Senator from New York
(Mr. SCHUMER) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 315, a bill to authorize cyber
hunt and incident response teams at
the Department of Homeland Security,
and for other purposes.
S. 362
At the request of Mr. WYDEN, the
name of the Senator from Kentucky
(Mr. PAUL) was added as a cosponsor of
S. 362, a bill to amend the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986 to reform tax-
ation of alcoholic beverages.
S. 427
At the request of Mr. MENENDEZ, the
name of the Senator from Nevada (Ms.
CORTEZ MASTO) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 427, a bill to amend the Public
Health Service Act to enhance activi-
ties of the National Institutes of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Sep 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00041 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A17SE6.013 S17SEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5540 September 17, 2019
Health with respect to research on au-
tism spectrum disorder and enhance
programs relating to autism, and for
other purposes.
At the request of Mr. ENZI, the name
of the Senator from North Carolina
(Mr. BURR) was added as a cosponsor of
S. 427, supra.
S. 433
At the request of Ms. COLLINS, the
names of the Senator from Minnesota
(Ms. SMITH) and the Senator from Mas-
sachusetts (Mr. MARKEY) were added as
cosponsors of S. 433, a bill to amend
title XVIII of the Social Security Act
to improve home health payment re-
forms under the Medicare program.
S. 460
At the request of Mr. WARNER, the
name of the Senator from Utah (Mr.
ROMNEY) was added as a cosponsor of S.
460, a bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to extend the exclu-
sion for employer-provided education
assistance to employer payments of
student loans.
S. 633
At the request of Mr. MORAN, the
names of the Senator from Iowa (Ms.
ERNST), the Senator from Massachu-
setts (Ms. WARREN) and the Senator
from Nevada (Ms. CORTEZ MASTO) were
added as cosponsors of S. 633, a bill to
award a Congressional Gold Medal to
the members of the Women’s Army
Corps who were assigned to the 6888th
Central Postal Directory Battalion,
known as the ‘‘Six Triple Eight’’.
S. 655
At the request of Mr. DURBIN, the
names of the Senator from New Hamp-
shire (Mrs. SHAHEEN), the Senator from
Maryland (Mr. CARDIN) and the Senator
from Hawaii (Ms. HIRONO) were added
as cosponsors of S. 655, a bill to impose
additional restrictions on tobacco fla-
vors for use in e-cigarettes.
S. 668
At the request of Mr. BROWN, the
name of the Senator from Indiana (Mr.
YOUNG) was added as a cosponsor of S.
668, a bill to amend title XVIII of the
Social Security Act to waive coinsur-
ance under Medicare for colorectal can-
cer screening tests, regardless of
whether therapeutic intervention is re-
quired during the screening.
S. 692
At the request of Mr. TOOMEY, the
name of the Senator from Florida (Mr.
SCOTT) was added as a cosponsor of S.
692, a bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to repeal the excise
tax on medical devices.
S. 743
At the request of Mr. ISAKSON, the
name of the Senator from Arizona (Ms.
SINEMA) was added as a cosponsor of S.
743, a bill to award a Congressional
Gold Medal to the soldiers of the 5307th
Composite Unit (Provisional), com-
monly known as ‘‘Merrill’s Maraud-
ers’’, in recognition of their bravery
and outstanding service in the jungles
of Burma during World War II.
S. 785
At the request of Mr. TESTER, the
name of the Senator from Arkansas
(Mr. BOOZMAN) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 785, a bill to improve mental
health care provided by the Depart-
ment of Veterans Affairs, and for other
purposes.
S. 789
At the request of Mrs. MURRAY, the
name of the Senator from Indiana (Mr.
BRAUN) was added as a cosponsor of S.
789, a bill to amend the Higher Edu-
cation Act of 1965 to improve the finan-
cial aid process for homeless and foster
care youth.
S. 803
At the request of Mr. TOOMEY, the
name of the Senator from Minnesota
(Ms. SMITH) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 803, a bill to amend the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986 to restore incen-
tives for investments in qualified im-
provement property.
S. 901
At the request of Ms. COLLINS, the
names of the Senator from Maryland
(Mr. VAN HOLLEN) and the Senator
from Minnesota (Ms. KLOBUCHAR) were
added as cosponsors of S. 901, a bill to
amend the Older Americans Act of 1965
to support individuals with younger
onset Alzheimer’s disease.
S. 959
At the request of Ms. COLLINS, the
names of the Senator from West Vir-
ginia (Mrs. CAPITO) and the Senator
from Minnesota (Ms. KLOBUCHAR) were
added as cosponsors of S. 959, a bill to
establish in the Smithsonian Institu-
tion a comprehensive women’s history
museum, and for other purposes.
S. 966
At the request of Mr. PORTMAN, the
name of the Senator from Tennessee
(Mrs. BLACKBURN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 966, a bill to amend title
XVIII of the Social Security Act to
modernize the physician self-referral
prohibitions to promote care coordina-
tion in the merit-based incentive pay-
ment system and to facilitate physi-
cian practice participation in alter-
native payment models under the
Medicare program, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 1168
At the request of Mr. BLUNT, the
names of the Senator from Iowa (Mr.
GRASSLEY) and the Senator from Indi-
ana (Mr. YOUNG) were added as cospon-
sors of S. 1168, a bill to amend the
Higher Education Act of 1965 to ensure
campus access at public institutions of
higher education for religious groups.
S. 1222
At the request of Mr. SCHATZ, the
name of the Senator from Connecticut
(Mr. BLUMENTHAL) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 1222, a bill to require the
Secretary of Veterans Affairs to carry
out a pilot program to provide hospital
care and medical services to veterans
in the Freely Associated States of the
Republic of Palau, the Republic of the
Marshall Islands, and the Federated
States of Micronesia, and to conduct a
study on the feasibility and advis-
ability of establishing regional offices,
suboffices, contact units, or other sub-
ordinate offices of the Department of
Veterans Affairs in the Freely Associ-
ated States to provide such care and
services, and for other purposes.
S. 1263
At the request of Ms. CORTEZ MASTO,
the names of the Senator from Arizona
(Ms. SINEMA) and the Senator from Ar-
kansas (Mr. BOOZMAN) were added as
cosponsors of S. 1263, a bill to require
the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to es-
tablish an interagency task force on
the use of public lands to provide med-
ical treatment and therapy to veterans
through outdoor recreation.
S. 1307
At the request of Mr. UDALL, the
name of the Senator from New Mexico
(Mr. HEINRICH) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 1307, a bill to amend the Rich-
ard B. Russell National School Lunch
Act and the Child Nutrition Act of 1966
to improve nutrition in tribal areas,
and for other purposes.
S. 1427
At the request of Mr. COONS, the
name of the Senator from Maine (Ms.
COLLINS) was added as a cosponsor of S.
1427, a bill to amend the National Insti-
tute of Standards and Technology Act
to improve the Network for Manufac-
turing Innovation Program, and for
other purposes.
S. 1462
At the request of Mr. CASEY, the
name of the Senator from Illinois (Ms.
DUCKWORTH) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 1462, a bill to prevent a person
who has been convicted of a mis-
demeanor hate crime, or received an
enhanced sentence for a misdemeanor
because of hate or bias in the commis-
sion, from obtaining a firearm.
S. 1476
At the request of Mrs. GILLIBRAND,
the name of the Senator from Maine
(Mr. KING) was added as a cosponsor of
S. 1476, a bill to waive the 24-month
waiting period for Medicare eligibility
for individuals disabled by Hunting-
ton’s disease.
S. 1676
At the request of Mr. CARDIN, the
name of the Senator from Michigan
(Ms. STABENOW) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 1676, a bill to improve the un-
derstanding of, and promote access to
treatment for, chronic kidney disease,
and for other purposes.
S. 1757
At the request of Ms. ERNST, the
names of the Senator from Mississippi
(Mrs. HYDE-SMITH), the Senator from
Kansas (Mr. MORAN) and the Senator
from Missouri (Mr. BLUNT) were added
as cosponsors of S. 1757, a bill to award
a Congressional Gold Medal, collec-
tively, to the United States Army
Rangers Veterans of World War II in
recognition of their extraordinary serv-
ice during World War II.
S. 1791
At the request of Mrs. GILLIBRAND,
the name of the Senator from New
Hampshire (Ms. HASSAN) was added as
a cosponsor of S. 1791, a bill to prohibit
discrimination on the basis of religion,
sex (including sexual orientation and
gender identity), and marital status in
the administration and provision of
child welfare services, to improve safe-
ty, well-being, and permanency for les-
bian, gay, bisexual, transgender, and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 21:21 Dec 02, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00042 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\RECORD19\SEPTEMBER\S17SE9.REC S17SE9
CORRECTION
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5541
September 17, 2019
queer or questioning foster youth, and
for other purposes.
S. 1822
At the request of Mr. WICKER, the
names of the Senator from Alabama
(Mr. JONES) and the Senator from Indi-
ana (Mr. BRAUN) were added as cospon-
sors of S. 1822, a bill to require the Fed-
eral Communications Commission to
issue rules relating to the collection of
data with respect to the availability of
broadband services, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 1838
At the request of Mr. RUBIO, the
names of the Senator from Indiana
(Mr. YOUNG) and the Senator from Or-
egon (Mr. WYDEN) were added as co-
sponsors of S. 1838, a bill to amend the
Hong Kong Policy Act of 1992, and for
other purposes.
S. 1840
At the request of Mrs. FISCHER, the
name of the Senator from New Jersey
(Mr. BOOKER) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 1840, a bill to establish certain re-
quirements for the small refineries ex-
emption of the renewable fuels provi-
sions under the Clean Air Act, and for
other purposes.
S. 1863
At the request of Mr. DURBIN, the
name of the Senator from Virginia (Mr.
KAINE) was added as a cosponsor of S.
1863, a bill to require the Secretary of
the Interior to conduct a special re-
source study of the sites associated
with the life and legacy of the noted
American philanthropist and business
executive Julius Rosenwald, with a
special focus on the Rosenwald
Schools, and for other purposes.
S. 1906
At the request of Mr. BOOZMAN, the
name of the Senator from Indiana (Mr.
YOUNG) was added as a cosponsor of S.
1906, a bill to require the Secretary of
Veterans Affairs to provide financial
assistance to eligible entities to pro-
vide and coordinate the provision of
suicide prevention services for veterans
at risk of suicide and veteran families
through the award of grants to such en-
tities, and for other purposes.
S. 1970
At the request of Ms. HIRONO, the
name of the Senator from Montana
(Mr. TESTER) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 1970, a bill to secure the rights of
public employees to organize, act
concertedly, and bargain collectively,
which safeguard the public interest and
promote the free and unobstructed flow
of commerce, and for other purposes.
S. 2001
At the request of Ms. STABENOW, the
name of the Senator from Tennessee
(Mrs. BLACKBURN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 2001, a bill to award a
Congressional Gold Medal to Willie
O’Ree, in recognition of his extraor-
dinary contributions and commitment
to hockey, inclusion, and recreational
opportunity.
S. 2024
At the request of Mr. CORNYN, the
name of the Senator from New Hamp-
shire (Ms. HASSAN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 2024, a bill to amend the
Higher Education Act of 1965 to im-
prove the American History for Free-
dom grant program.
S. 2061
At the request of Mr. TESTER, the
names of the Senator from Oregon (Mr.
MERKLEY) and the Senator from Con-
necticut (Mr. BLUMENTHAL) were added
as cosponsors of S. 2061, a bill to amend
the United States Housing Act of 1937
and title 38, United States Code, to ex-
pand eligibility for the HUD–VASH
program, to direct the Secretary of
Veterans Affairs to submit annual re-
ports to the Committees on Veterans’
Affairs of the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives regarding homeless vet-
erans, and for other purposes.
S. 2103
At the request of Mr. DURBIN, the
names of the Senator from Oregon (Mr.
MERKLEY) and the Senator from Indi-
ana (Mr. BRAUN) were added as cospon-
sors of S. 2103, a bill to improve access
to affordable insulin.
S. 2179
At the request of Mr. CARDIN, the
names of the Senator from Texas (Mr.
CORNYN) and the Senator from Maine
(Mr. KING) were added as cosponsors of
S. 2179, a bill to amend the Older Amer-
icans Act of 1965 to provide social serv-
ice agencies with the resources to pro-
vide services to meet the urgent needs
of Holocaust survivors to age in place
with dignity, comfort, security, and
quality of life.
S. 2203
At the request of Mr. BLUNT, the
names of the Senator from Tennessee
(Mrs. BLACKBURN), the Senator from
Arkansas (Mr. BOOZMAN), the Senator
from West Virginia (Mrs. CAPITO) and
the Senator from Virginia (Mr. KAINE)
were added as cosponsors of S. 2203, a
bill to extend the transfer of Electronic
Travel Authorization System fees from
the Travel Promotion Fund to the Cor-
poration for Travel Promotion (Brand
USA) through fiscal year 2027, and for
other purposes.
S. 2206
At the request of Mr. TILLIS, the
name of the Senator from Arkansas
(Mr. BOOZMAN) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 2206, a bill to express the sense
of Congress regarding restoration and
maintenance of the Mardasson Memo-
rial in Bastogne, Belgium.
S. 2321
At the request of Mr. BLUNT, the
name of the Senator from Iowa (Ms.
ERNST) was added as a cosponsor of S.
2321, a bill to require the Secretary of
the Treasury to mint a coin in com-
memoration of the 100th anniversary of
the establishment of Negro Leagues
baseball.
S. 2417
At the request of Mr. KENNEDY, the
name of the Senator from South Caro-
lina (Mr. GRAHAM) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 2417, a bill to provide for
payment of proceeds from savings
bonds to a State with title to such
bonds pursuant to the judgment of a
court.
S. 2462
At the request of Ms. DUCKWORTH,
the name of the Senator from Illinois
(Mr. DURBIN) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 2462, a bill to help reduce house-
hold energy burdens by expanding ac-
cess to solar energy for low-income
households.
S. 2463
At the request of Mr. WYDEN, the
name of the Senator from Hawaii (Mr.
SCHATZ) was added as a cosponsor of S.
2463, a bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to provide for regula-
tion and taxation of electronic ciga-
rettes and alternative nicotine prod-
ucts.
S.J. RES. 11
At the request of Mr. MERKLEY, the
name of the Senator from Hawaii (Ms.
HIRONO) was added as a cosponsor of
S.J. Res. 11, a joint resolution to pro-
hibit the unauthorized use of United
States Armed Forces in hostilities with
respect to Venezuela.
S. RES. 205
At the request of Mr. MURPHY, the
name of the Senator from Connecticut
(Mr. BLUMENTHAL) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. Res. 205, a resolution ex-
pressing the gratitude of the Senate for
the people who operate or support dia-
per banks and diaper distribution pro-
grams in their local communities.
S. RES. 252
At the request of Mr. GRAHAM, the
names of the Senator from Tennessee
(Mr. ALEXANDER), the Senator from In-
diana (Mr. BRAUN) and the Senator
from Arkansas (Mr. COTTON) were
added as cosponsors of S. Res. 252, a
resolution designating September 2019
as National Democracy Month as a
time to reflect on the contributions of
the system of government of the
United States to a more free and stable
world.
S. RES. 274
At the request of Mr. MENENDEZ, the
name of the Senator from Michigan
(Ms. STABENOW) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. Res. 274, a resolution express-
ing solidarity with Falun Gong practi-
tioners who have lost lives, freedoms,
and other rights for adhering to their
beliefs and practices, and condemning
the practice of non-consenting organ
harvesting, and for other purposes.
S. RES. 303
At the request of Mr. HAWLEY, the
name of the Senator from Iowa (Ms.
ERNST) was added as a cosponsor of S.
Res. 303, a resolution calling upon the
leadership of the Government of the
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea
to dismantle its kwan-li-so political
prison labor camp system, and for
other purposes.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Sep 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00043 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A17SE6.022 S17SEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5542 September 17, 2019
SUBMITTED RESOLUTIONS
SENATE RESOLUTION 313—DESIG-
NATING THE WEEK OF SEP-
TEMBER 22 THROUGH SEP-
TEMBER 28, 2019, AS ‘‘GOLD STAR
FAMILIES REMEMBRANCE
WEEK’’
Mrs. HYDE-SMITH (for herself, Mr.
JONES, Mr. YOUNG, Mr. TILLIS, Ms. COL-
LINS, Mr. VAN HOLLEN, Mr. BRAUN, Ms.
ERNST, Mr. HOEVEN, Ms. CANTWELL, Ms.
SINEMA, and Ms. MURKOWSKI) sub-
mitted the following resolution; which
was referred to the Committee on the
Judiciary.:
S. RES. 313
Whereas the last Sunday in September—
(1) is designated as ‘‘Gold Star Mother’s
Day’’ under section 111 of title 36, United
States Code; and
(2) was first designated as ‘‘Gold Star
Mother’s Day’’ under the Joint Resolution
entitled ‘‘Joint Resolution designating the
last Sunday in September as ‘Gold Star
Mother’s Day’, and for other purposes’’, ap-
proved June 23, 1936 (49 Stat. 1895);
Whereas there is no date dedicated to fami-
lies affected by the loss of a loved one who
died in service to the United States;
Whereas a gold star symbolizes a family
member who died in the line of duty while
serving in the Armed Forces;
Whereas the members and veterans of the
Armed Forces, through their service, bear
the burden of protecting the freedom of the
people of the United States;
Whereas the selfless example of the service
of the members and veterans of the Armed
Forces, as well as the sacrifices made by the
families of those individuals, inspires all in-
dividuals in the United States to sacrifice
and work diligently for the good of the
United States; and
Whereas the sacrifices of the families of
the fallen members of the Armed Forces and
the families of veterans of the Armed Forces
should never be forgotten: Now, therefore, be
it
Resolved, That the Senate—
(1) designates the week of September 22
through September 28, 2019, as ‘‘Gold Star
Families Remembrance Week’’;
(2) honors and recognizes the sacrifices
made by—
(A) the families of members of the Armed
Forces who made the ultimate sacrifice in
order to defend freedom and protect the
United States; and
(B) the families of veterans of the Armed
Forces; and
(3) encourages the people of the United
States to observe Gold Star Families Re-
membrance Week by—
(A) performing acts of service and good
will in their communities; and
(B) celebrating families in which loved
ones made the ultimate sacrifice so that oth-
ers could continue to enjoy life, liberty, and
the pursuit of happiness.
f
SENATE RESOLUTION 314—HON-
ORING THE CENTENNIAL OF THE
AEROSPACE INDUSTRIES ASSO-
CIATION
Mr. MORAN (for himself and Mr.
WARNER) submitted the following reso-
lution; which was considered and
agreed to:
S. RES. 314
Whereas 100 years ago, in 1919, the Aero-
space Industries Association was incor-
porated as the Aeronautical Chamber of
Commerce of America (ACCA) in the State of
New York, later adopting its current name
in 1959;
Whereas, for more than 100 years, the aero-
space industry has moved, connected, se-
cured, and inspired the modern world with
countless innovations and technologies that
play a role in almost every aspect of daily
life;
Whereas the centennial of the Aerospace
Industries Association celebrates the world-
changing impact aerospace technologies
have had and the role of aerospace tech-
nologies in strengthening the economy and
national security of the United States;
Whereas the aerospace industry supports
the National Defense Strategy of the United
States by providing the Armed Forces the
most technologically advanced and effective
platforms and systems in the world;
Whereas the aerospace industry is a lead-
ing employer of veterans and retirees of the
Armed Forces and recognizes the incredible
contribution those veterans and retirees
have made to the United States through
their service;
Whereas the aerospace industry has con-
tributed to the advancement of humankind
as a key facilitator and collaborator in
space, from the Apollo 11 mission to the fu-
ture mission of the United States to Mars;
Whereas innovations in aerospace tech-
nologies continue to spur economic growth,
as the aerospace industry maintains a pres-
ence in all 50 States and sustains approxi-
mately 2,500,000 jobs in the United States;
and
Whereas the aerospace industry strives to
inspire young people in the United States,
including women and underrepresented com-
munities, to study science, technology, engi-
neering, and mathematics and pursue
science-related careers that lead to future
innovations and major scientific break-
throughs: Now, therefore, be it
Resolved, That the Senate—
(1) acknowledges 2019 as the centennial for
the Aerospace Industries Association;
(2) recognizes the need to promote the
fields of science, technology, engineering,
and mathematics and encourages young peo-
ple in the United States to pursue careers in
such fields; and
(3) commends the aerospace industry for
continuing to innovate and develop tech-
nologies that will shape the United States
for the next 100 years.
f
SENATE RESOLUTION 315—MEMO-
RIALIZING THE DISCOVERY OF
THE CLOTILDA
Mr. JONES submitted the following
resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Energy and Natural Re-
sources:
S. RES. 315
Whereas, from 1525 to 1866, the trans-
atlantic slave trade resulted in more than
12,000,000 individuals being taken from their
homes in Africa and made to endure the hor-
rors of the Middle Passage to the Americas,
where those individuals were forced into en-
slavement;
Whereas, on March 2, 1807, Congress en-
acted legislation banning the importation of
enslaved people, which went into effect on
January 1, 1808;
Whereas, in contravention of that ban, the
last enslaved Africans forced to endure the
voyage to the United States came aboard the
Clotilda, which—
(1) left from Whydah, modern-day Benin, in
May of 1860;
(2) arrived in Port of Pines in Grand Bay,
Mississippi, on July 9, 1860; and
(3) was ultimately brought to Mobile Bay,
Alabama, on July 14, 1860, carrying 110 indi-
viduals, including men, women, and children;
Whereas, shortly after arrival in Mobile
Bay, Alabama, the Captain of the Clotilda
scuttled and burned the ship to the waterline
in order to conceal the evidence of his crime;
Whereas, following the end of the Civil War
and the emancipation of enslaved Africans,
some of the captives brought to the United
States aboard the Clotilda settled in the area
now known as Africatown, Alabama;
Whereas, on May 22, 2019, the Alabama His-
torical Commission and a team of scientists
confirmed that a wreckage found in the
Twelve Mile Island section of the Mobile
River was the Clotilda;
Whereas, in the 160 years since the Clotilda
was brought to Mobile Bay, the residents of
Africatown, Alabama, have played a critical
role in preserving the unique and important
heritage and traditions of their community;
Whereas the Africatown Historic District
was listed on the National Register of His-
toric Places on December 4, 2012, and is home
to a number of important historic sites, in-
cluding—
(1) the Mobile County Training School;
(2) the Old Landmark Baptist Church, now
known as the Union Baptist Church; and
(3) the Africatown Cemetery, where many
of the individuals who survived the forced
migration to the United States in 1860 are
buried: Now, therefore, be it
Resolved, That it is the sense of the Senate
that—
(1) the recent confirmation of the wreck-
age of the Clotilda, the last slave ship to ar-
rive in the United States, constitutes a mon-
umental discovery of local, national, and
international importance and educational
value;
(2) discovery of the Clotilda may serve as
an inflection point for meaningful conversa-
tion about both past and present injustices;
(3) the residents of Africatown, Alabama,
embody a spirit of resilience and a deter-
mination to build a better community for
their descendants; and
(4) all efforts should be made—
(A) to preserve and protect the Clotilda and
associated historic sites in Africatown, Ala-
bama; and
(B) to use the discovery of the Clotilda to
provide education to local, national, and
international audiences about—
(i) the violent history of the transatlantic
slave trade;
(ii) the stories of the last enslaved Africans
to arrive in the United States; and
(iii) the rich and unique history of the
community built by the descendants of those
individuals.
f
AMENDMENTS SUBMITTED AND
PROPOSED
SA 939. Mr. LEE submitted an amendment
intended to be proposed by him to the bill
H.R. 1044, to amend the Immigration and Na-
tionality Act to eliminate the per-country
numerical limitation for employment-based
immigrants, to increase the per-country nu-
merical limitation for family-sponsored im-
migrants, and for other purposes; which was
referred to the Committee on the Judiciary.
f
TEXT OF AMENDMENTS
SA 939. Mr. LEE submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed by
him to the bill H.R. 1044, to amend the
Immigration and Nationality Act to
eliminate the per-country numerical
limitation for employment-based im-
migrants, to increase the per-country
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Sep 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00044 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A17SE6.031 S17SEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5543
September 17, 2019
numerical limitation for family-spon-
sored immigrants, and for other pur-
poses; which was referred to the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary; as follows:
Strike all after the enacting clause and in-
sert the following:
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Fairness for
High-Skilled Immigrants Act of 2019’’.
SEC. 2. NUMERICAL LIMITATION TO ANY SINGLE
FOREIGN STATE.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 202(a)(2) of the
Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C.
1152(a)(2)) is amended to read as follows:
‘‘(2) PER COUNTRY LEVELS FOR FAMILY-SPON-
SORED IMMIGRANTS.—Subject to paragraphs
(3) and (4), the total number of immigrant
visas made available to natives of any single
foreign state or dependent area under section
203(a) in any fiscal year may not exceed 15
percent (in the case of a single foreign state)
or 2 percent (in the case of a dependent area)
of the total number of such visas made avail-
able under such section in that fiscal year.’’.
(b) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.—Section 202
of such Act (8 U.S.C. 1152) is amended—
(1) in subsection (a)—
(A) in paragraph (3), by striking ‘‘both sub-
sections (a) and (b) of section 203’’ and in-
serting ‘‘section 203(a)’’; and
(B) by striking paragraph (5); and
(2) by amending subsection (e) to read as
follows:
‘‘(e) SPECIAL RULES FOR COUNTRIES AT
CEILING.—If the total number of immigrant
visas made available under section 203(a) to
natives of any single foreign state or depend-
ent area will exceed the numerical limita-
tion specified in subsection (a)(2) in any fis-
cal year, immigrant visas shall be allotted to
such natives under section 203(a) (to the ex-
tent practicable and otherwise consistent
with this section and section 203) in a man-
ner so that, except as provided in subsection
(a)(4), the proportion of the visas made avail-
able under each of paragraphs (1) through (4)
of section 203(a) is equal to the ratio of the
total visas made available under the respec-
tive paragraph to the total visas made avail-
able under section 203(a).’’.
(c) COUNTRY-SPECIFIC OFFSET.—Section 2 of
the Chinese Student Protection Act of 1992 (8
U.S.C. 1255 note) is amended—
(1) in subsection (a), by striking ‘‘(as de-
fined in subsection (e))’’;
(2) by striking subsection (d); and
(3) by redesignating subsection (e) as sub-
section (d).
(d) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments
made by this section shall take effect as if
enacted on September 30, 2019, and shall
apply to fiscal year 2020 and each subsequent
fiscal year.
(e) TRANSITION RULES FOR EMPLOYMENT-
BASED IMMIGRANTS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Subject to paragraphs (2)
through (5), and notwithstanding title II of
the Immigration and Nationality Act (8
U.S.C. 1151 et seq.), the following rules shall
apply:
(A) For fiscal year 2020, 15 percent of the
immigrant visas made available under each
of paragraphs (2) and (3) of section 203(b) of
such Act (8 U.S.C. 1153(b)) shall be allotted to
immigrants who are natives of a foreign
state or dependent area that is not one of the
two states with the largest aggregate num-
bers of natives obtaining immigrant visas
under such paragraphs.
(B) For fiscal year 2021, 10 percent of the
immigrant visas made available under each
of such paragraphs shall be allotted to immi-
grants who are natives of a foreign state or
dependent area that is not one of the two
states with the largest aggregate numbers of
natives obtaining immigrant visas under
such paragraphs.
(C) For fiscal year 2022, 10 percent of the
immigrant visas made available under each
of such paragraphs shall be allotted to immi-
grants who are natives of a foreign state or
dependent area that is not one of the two
states with the largest aggregate numbers of
natives obtaining immigrant visas under
such paragraphs.
(2) PER-COUNTRY LEVELS.—
(A) RESERVED VISAS.—The number of visas
reserved under each of subparagraphs (A)
through (C) of paragraph (1) made available
to natives of any single foreign state or de-
pendent area in the appropriate fiscal year
may not exceed 25 percent (in the case of a
single foreign state) or 2 percent (in the case
of a dependent area) of the total number of
such visas.
(B) UNRESERVED VISAS.—Not more than 85
percent of the immigrant visas made avail-
able under each of paragraphs (2) and (3) of
section 203(b) of the Immigration and Na-
tionality Act (8 U.S.C. 1153(b)) and not re-
served under paragraph (1), for each of the
fiscal years 2020, 2021, and 2022, may be allot-
ted to immigrants who are natives of any
single foreign state.
(3) SPECIAL RULE TO PREVENT UNUSED
VISAS.—If, with respect to fiscal year 2020,
2021, or 2022, the application of paragraphs (1)
and (2) would prevent the total number of
immigrant visas made available under para-
graph (2) or (3) of section 203(b) of the Immi-
gration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1153(b))
from being issued, such visas may be issued
during the remainder of such fiscal year
without regard to paragraphs (1) and (2).
(4) TRANSITION RULE FOR CURRENTLY AP-
PROVED BENEFICIARIES.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Notwithstanding section
202 of the Immigration and Nationality Act,
as amended by this Act, immigrant visas
under section 203(b) of the Immigration and
Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1153(b)) shall be al-
located such that no alien described in sub-
paragraph (B) receives a visa later than the
alien otherwise would have received said visa
had this Act not been enacted.
(B) ALIEN DESCRIBED.—An alien is de-
scribed in this subparagraph if the alien is
the beneficiary of a petition for an immi-
grant visa under section 203(b) of the Immi-
gration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1153(b))
that was approved prior to the date of enact-
ment of this Act.
(5) RULES FOR CHARGEABILITY.—Section
202(b) of such Act (8 U.S.C. 1152(b)) shall
apply in determining the foreign state to
which an alien is chargeable for purposes of
this subsection.
(6) SHORTAGE OCCUPATIONS.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—For each of fiscal years
2020 through 2028, not fewer than 5,000 of the
immigrant visas made available under para-
graph (3) of section 203(b) of the Immigration
and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1153(b)) shall
be allotted to immigrants who are—
(i) described in section 656.5(a) of title 20,
Code of Federal Regulations (or a successor
regulation); and
(ii) seeking admission to the United States
to work in an occupation described in that
section.
(B) FISCAL YEARS 2020, 2021, AND 2022.—The
visas allotted under this paragraph for fiscal
years 2020, 2021, and 2022 shall be allotted in
addition to the visas allotted for such fiscal
years under paragraph (1).
SEC. 3. POSTING AVAILABLE POSITIONS
THROUGH THE DEPARTMENT OF
LABOR.
(a) DEPARTMENT OF LABOR WEBSITE.—Sec-
tion 212(n)(6) of the Immigration and Nation-
ality Act (8 U.S.C. 1182(n)(6)) is amended to
read as follows:
‘‘(6) For purposes of complying with para-
graph (1)(C)—
‘‘(A) Not later than 180 days after the date
of the enactment of the Fairness for High-
Skilled Immigrants Act of 2019, the Sec-
retary of Labor shall establish a searchable
internet website for posting positions in ac-
cordance with paragraph (1)(C) that is avail-
able to the public without charge, except
that the Secretary may delay the launch of
such website for a single period identified by
the Secretary by notice in the Federal Reg-
ister that shall not exceed 30 days.
‘‘(B) The Secretary may work with private
companies or nonprofit organizations to de-
velop and operate the Internet website de-
scribed in subparagraph (A).
‘‘(C) The Secretary shall promulgate rules,
after notice and a period for comment, to
carry out this paragraph.’’.
(b) PUBLICATION REQUIREMENT.—The Sec-
retary of Labor shall submit to Congress,
and publish in the Federal Register and in
other appropriate media, a notice of the date
on which the Internet website required under
section 212(n)(6) of the Immigration and Na-
tionality Act, as established by subsection
(a), will be operational.
(c) APPLICATION.—The amendment made by
subsection (a) shall apply to any application
filed on or after the date that is 90 days after
the date described in subsection (b).
(d) INTERNET POSTING REQUIREMENT.—Sec-
tion 212(n)(1)(C) of such Act is amended—
(1) by redesignating clause (ii) as subclause
(II);
(2) by striking ‘‘(i) has provided’’ and in-
serting the following:
‘‘(ii)(I) has provided’’; and
(3) by inserting before clause (ii), as redes-
ignated by paragraph (2), the following:
‘‘(i) except in the case of an employer fil-
ing a petition on behalf of an H–1B non-
immigrant who has already been counted
against the numerical limitations and is not
eligible for a full 6-year period, as described
in section 214(g)(7), or on behalf of an H–1B
nonimmigrant authorized to accept employ-
ment under section 214(n), has posted on the
internet website described in paragraph (6),
for at least 30 calendar days, a description of
each position for which a nonimmigrant is
sought, that includes—
‘‘(I) the occupational classification, and if
different the employer’s job title for the po-
sition, in which the nonimmigrant(s) will be
employed;
‘‘(II) the education, training, or experience
qualifications for the position;
‘‘(III) the salary or wage range and em-
ployee benefits offered;
‘‘(IV) the location(s) at which the non-
immigrant(s) will be employed; and
‘‘(V) the process for applying for a posi-
tion; and’’.
SEC. 4. H–1B EMPLOYER APPLICATION REQUIRE-
MENTS.
(a) WAGE DETERMINATION INFORMATION.—
Section 212(n)(1)(D) of the Immigration and
Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1182(n)(1)(D)) is
amended by inserting ‘‘the prevailing wage
determination methodology used under sub-
paragraph (A)(i)(II),’’ after ‘‘shall contain’’.
(b) NEW APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS.—Sec-
tion 212(n)(1) of the Immigration and Nation-
ality Act (8 U.S.C. 1182(n)(1)) is amended by
inserting after subparagraph (G)(ii) the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(H)(i) The employer, or a person or entity
acting on the employer’s behalf, has not ad-
vertised any available position specified in
the application in an advertisement that
states or indicates that—
‘‘(I) such position is only available to an
individual who is or will be an H–1B non-
immigrant; or
‘‘(II) an individual who is or will be an H–
1B nonimmigrant shall receive priority or a
preference in the hiring process for such po-
sition.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Sep 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00045 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A17SE6.032 S17SEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5544 September 17, 2019
‘‘(ii) The employer has not primarily re-
cruited individuals who are or who will be H–
1B nonimmigrants to fill such position.
‘‘(I) If the employer, in a previous period
specified by the Secretary, employed one or
more H–1B nonimmigrants, the employer
shall submit to the Secretary the Internal
Revenue Service Form W–2 Wage and Tax
Statements filed by the employer with re-
spect to the H–1B nonimmigrants for such
period.’’.
(c) LABOR CONDITION APPLICATION FEE.—
Section 212(n) of the Immigration and Na-
tionality Act (8 U.S.C. 1182(n)) is amended by
adding at the end the following:
‘‘(6)(A) The Secretary of Labor shall pro-
mulgate a regulation that requires appli-
cants under this subsection to pay an admin-
istrative fee to cover the average paperwork
processing costs and other administrative
costs.
‘‘(B)(i) Fees collected under this paragraph
shall be deposited as offsetting receipts with-
in the general fund of the Treasury in a sepa-
rate account, which shall be known as the
‘H–1B Administration, Oversight, Investiga-
tion, and Enforcement Account’ and shall re-
main available until expended.
‘‘(ii) The Secretary of the Treasury shall
refund amounts in such account to the Sec-
retary of Labor for salaries and related ex-
penses associated with the administration,
oversight, investigation, and enforcement of
the H–1B nonimmigrant visa program.’’.
(d) ELIMINATION OF B–1 IN LIEU OF H–1.—
Section 214(g) of the Immigration and Na-
tionality Act (8 U.S.C. 1184(g)) is amended by
adding at the end the following:
‘‘(12)(A) Unless otherwise authorized by
law, an alien normally classifiable under sec-
tion 101(a)(15)(H)(i) who seeks admission to
the United States to provide services in a
specialty occupation described in paragraph
(1) or (3) of subsection (i) may not be issued
a visa or admitted under section 101(a)(15)(B)
for such purpose.
‘‘(B) Nothing in this paragraph may be
construed to authorize the admission of an
alien under section 101(a)(15)(B) who is com-
ing to the United States for the purpose of
performing skilled or unskilled labor if such
admission is not otherwise authorized by
law.’’.
SEC. 5. INVESTIGATION AND DISPOSITION OF
COMPLAINTS AGAINST H–1B EM-
PLOYERS.
(a) INVESTIGATION, WORKING CONDITIONS,
AND PENALTIES.—Section 212(n)(2)(C) of the
Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C.
1182(n)(2)(C)) is amended by striking clause
(iv) and inserting the following:
‘‘(iv)(I) An employer that has filed an ap-
plication under this subsection violates this
clause by taking, failing to take, or threat-
ening to take or fail to take a personnel ac-
tion, or intimidating, threatening, restrain-
ing, coercing, blacklisting, discharging, or
discriminating in any other manner against
an employee because the employee—
‘‘(aa) disclosed information that the em-
ployee reasonably believes evidences a viola-
tion of this subsection or any rule or regula-
tion pertaining to this subsection; or
‘‘(bb) cooperated or sought to cooperate
with the requirements under this subsection
or any rule or regulation pertaining to this
subsection.
‘‘(II) An employer that violates this clause
shall be liable to the employee harmed by
such violation for lost wages and benefits.
‘‘(III) In this clause, the term ‘employee’
includes—
‘‘(aa) a current employee;
‘‘(bb) a former employee; and
‘‘(cc) an applicant for employment.’’.
(b) INFORMATION SHARING.—Section
212(n)(2)(H) of the Immigration and Nation-
ality Act (8 U.S.C. 1182(n)(2)(H)) is amended
to read as follows:
‘‘(H)(i) The Director of U.S. Citizenship and
Immigration Services shall provide the Sec-
retary of Labor with any information con-
tained in the materials submitted by em-
ployers of H–1B nonimmigrants as part of
the petition adjudication process that indi-
cates that the employer is not complying
with visa program requirements for H–1B
nonimmigrants.
‘‘(ii) The Secretary may initiate and con-
duct an investigation and hearing under this
paragraph after receiving information of
noncompliance under this subparagraph.’’.
SEC. 6. LABOR CONDITION APPLICATIONS.
(a) APPLICATION REVIEW REQUIREMENTS.—
Section 212(n)(1) of the Immigration and Na-
tionality Act (8 U.S.C. 1182(n)(1)) is amended,
in the undesignated matter following sub-
paragraph (I), as added by section 4(b)—
(1) in the fourth sentence, by inserting ‘‘,
and through the internet website of the De-
partment of Labor, without charge.’’ after
‘‘Washington, D.C.’’;
(2) in the fifth sentence, by striking ‘‘only
for completeness’’ and inserting ‘‘for com-
pleteness, clear indicators of fraud or mis-
representation of material fact,’’;
(3) in the sixth sentence, by striking ‘‘or
obviously inaccurate’’ and inserting ‘‘, pre-
sents clear indicators of fraud or misrepre-
sentation of material fact, or is obviously in-
accurate’’; and
(4) by adding at the end the following: ‘‘If
the Secretary’s review of an application
identifies clear indicators of fraud or mis-
representation of material fact, the Sec-
retary may conduct an investigation and
hearing in accordance with paragraph (2).’’.
(b) ENSURING PREVAILING WAGES ARE FOR
AREA OF EMPLOYMENT AND ACTUAL WAGES
ARE FOR SIMILARLY EMPLOYED.—Section
212(n)(1)(A) of the Immigration and Nation-
ality Act (8 U.S.C. 1182(n)(1)(A)) is amended—
(1) in clause (i), in the undesignated matter
following subclause (II), by striking ‘‘and’’ at
the end;
(2) in clause (ii), by striking the period at
the end and inserting ‘‘, and’’; and
(3) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(iii) will ensure that—
‘‘(I) the actual wages or range identified in
clause (i) relate solely to employees having
substantially the same duties and respon-
sibilities as the H–1B nonimmigrant in the
geographical area of intended employment,
considering experience, qualifications, edu-
cation, job responsibility and function, spe-
cialized knowledge, and other legitimate
business factors, except in a geographical
area there are no such employees, and
‘‘(II) the prevailing wages identified in
clause (ii) reflect the best available informa-
tion for the geographical area within normal
commuting distance of the actual address of
employment at which the H–1B non-
immigrant is or will be employed.’’.
(c) PROCEDURES FOR INVESTIGATION AND
DISPOSITION.—Section 212(n)(2)(A) of the Im-
migration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C.
1182(n)(2)(A)) is amended—
(1) by striking ‘‘(2)(A) Subject’’ and insert-
ing ‘‘(2)(A)(i) Subject’’;
(2) by striking the fourth sentence; and
(3) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(ii)(I) Upon receipt of a complaint under
clause (i), the Secretary may initiate an in-
vestigation to determine whether such a fail-
ure or misrepresentation has occurred.
‘‘(II) The Secretary may conduct—
‘‘(aa) surveys of the degree to which em-
ployers comply with the requirements under
this subsection; and
‘‘(bb) subject to subclause (IV), annual
compliance audits of any employer that em-
ploys H–1B nonimmigrants during the appli-
cable calendar year.
‘‘(III) Subject to subclause (IV), the Sec-
retary shall—
‘‘(aa) conduct annual compliance audits of
each employer that employs more than 100
full-time equivalent employees who are em-
ployed in the United States if more than 15
percent of such full-time employees are H–1B
nonimmigrants; and
‘‘(bb) make available to the public an exec-
utive summary or report describing the gen-
eral findings of the audits conducted under
this subclause.
‘‘(IV) In the case of an employer subject to
an annual compliance audit in which there
was no finding of a willful failure to meet a
condition under subparagraph (C)(ii), no fur-
ther annual compliance audit shall be con-
ducted with respect to such employer for a
period of not less than 4 years, absent evi-
dence of misrepresentation or fraud.’’.
(d) PENALTIES FOR VIOLATIONS.—Section
212(n)(2)(C) of the Immigration and Nation-
ality Act (8 U.S.C. 1182(n)(2)(C)) is amended –
(1) in clause (i)—
(A) in the matter preceding subclause (I),
by striking ‘‘a condition of paragraph (1)(B),
(1)(E), or (1)(F)’’ and inserting ‘‘a condition
of paragraph (1)(B), (1)(E), (1)(F), (1)(H), or
1(I)’’; and
(B) in subclause (I), by striking ‘‘$1,000’’
and inserting ‘‘$3,000’’;
(2) in clause (ii)(I), by striking ‘‘$5,000’’ and
inserting ‘‘$15,000’’;
(3) in clause (iii)(I), by striking ‘‘$35,000’’
and inserting ‘‘$100,000’’; and
(4) in clause (vi)(III), by striking ‘‘$1,000’’
and inserting ‘‘$3,000’’.
(e) INITIATION OF INVESTIGATIONS.—Section
212(n)(2)(G) of the Immigration and Nation-
ality Act (8 U.S.C. 1182(n)(2)(G)) is amended—
(1) in clause (i), by striking ‘‘In the case of
an investigation’’ in the second sentence and
all that follows through the period at the
end of the clause;
(2) in clause (ii), in the first sentence, by
striking ‘‘and whose identity’’ and all that
follows through ‘‘failure or failures.’’ and in-
serting ‘‘the Secretary of Labor may conduct
an investigation into the employer’s compli-
ance with the requirements under this sub-
section.’’;
(3) in clause (iii), by striking the second
sentence;
(4) by striking clauses (iv) and (v);
(5) by redesignating clauses (vi), (vii), and
(viii) as clauses (iv), (v), and (vi), respec-
tively;
(6) in clause (iv), as so redesignated—
(A) by striking‘‘clause (viii)’’ and inserting
‘‘clause (vi)’’; and
(B) by striking ‘‘meet a condition described
in clause (ii)’’ and inserting ‘‘comply with
the requirements under this subsection’’;
(7) by amending clause (v), as so redesig-
nated, to read as follows:
‘‘(v)(I) The Secretary of Labor shall pro-
vide notice to an employer of the intent to
conduct an investigation under clause (i) or
(ii).
‘‘(II) The notice shall be provided in such a
manner, and shall contain sufficient detail,
to permit the employer to respond to the al-
legations before an investigation is com-
menced.
‘‘(III) The Secretary is not required to
comply with this clause if the Secretary de-
termines that such compliance would inter-
fere with an effort by the Secretary to inves-
tigate or secure compliance by the employer
with the requirements of this subsection.
‘‘(IV) A determination by the Secretary
under this clause shall not be subject to judi-
cial review.’’;
(8) in clause (vi), as so redesignated, by
striking ‘‘An investigation’’ in the first sen-
tence and all that follows through ‘‘the de-
termination.’’ in the second sentence and in-
serting ‘‘If the Secretary of Labor, after an
investigation under clause (i) or (ii), deter-
mines that a reasonable basis exists to make
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Sep 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00046 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A17SE6.032 S17SEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5545
September 17, 2019
a finding that the employer has failed to
comply with the requirements under this
subsection, the Secretary shall provide inter-
ested parties with notice of such determina-
tion and an opportunity for a hearing in ac-
cordance with section 556 of title 5, United
States Code, not later than 60 days after the
date of such determination.’’; and
(9) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(vii) If the Secretary of Labor, after a
hearing, finds that the employer has violated
a requirement under this subsection, the
Secretary may impose a penalty pursuant to
subparagraph (C).’’.
f
AUTHORITY FOR COMMITTEES TO
MEET
Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, I have 5
requests for committees to meet during
today’s session of the Senate. They
have the approval of the Majority and
Minority leaders.
Pursuant to rule XXVI, paragraph
5(a), of the Standing Rules of the Sen-
ate, the following committees are au-
thorized to meet during today’s session
of the Senate:
COMMITTEE ON ENERGY AND NATURAL
RESOURCES
The Committee on Energy and Nat-
ural Resources is authorized to meet
during the session of the Senate on
Tuesday, September 17, 2019, at 9:30
a.m., to conduct a hearing.
COMMITTEE ON THE JUDICIARY
The Committee on the Judiciary is
authorized to meet during the session
of the Senate on Tuesday, September
17, 2019, at 10 a.m., to conduct a hear-
ing.
SELECT COMMITTEE ON INTELLIGENCE
The Select Committee on Intel-
ligence is authorized to meet during
the session of the Senate on Tuesday,
September 17, 2019, at 2:30 p.m., to con-
duct a closed hearing.
SUBCOMMITTEE ON ANTITRUST, COMPETITION
POLICY AND CONSUMER RIGHTS
The Subcommittee on Antitrust,
Competition Policy and Consumer
Rights of the Committee on the Judici-
ary is authorized to meet during the
session of the Senate on Tuesday, Sep-
tember 17, 2019, at 2.30 p.m., to conduct
a hearing.
SUBCOMMITTEE ON EMERGING THREATS AND
CAPABILITIES
The Subcommittee on Emerging
Threats and Capabilities of the Com-
mittee on Armed Services is authorized
to meet during the session of the Sen-
ate on Tuesday, September 17, 2019, at
3 p.m., to conduct a hearing.
f
PRIVILEGES OF THE FLOOR
Mr. BROWN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that Tanya Otsuka,
a fellow for the minority staff on the
Committee on Banking, Housing, and
Urban Affairs, be granted floor permis-
sion until Tuesday, December 31, and
also to recognize Drew Martineau, Abi-
gail Duggan, and Shomari Figures.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
ADJOURNMENT UNTIL 10 A.M.
TOMORROW
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the Senate stands
adjourned until 10 a.m. tomorrow.
Thereupon, the Senate, at 10:17 p.m.,
adjourned until Wednesday, September
18, 2019, at 10 a.m.
f
CONFIRMATIONS
Executive nominations confirmed by
the Senate September 17, 2019:
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
KENNETH A. HOWERY, OF TEXAS, TO BE AMBASSADOR
EXTRAORDINARY AND PLENIPOTENTIARY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA TO THE KINGDOM OF SWE-
DEN.
JOHN RAKOLTA, JR., OF MICHIGAN, TO BE AMBAS-
SADOR EXTRAORDINARY AND PLENIPOTENTIARY OF
THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA TO THE UNITED ARAB
EMIRATES.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Sep 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00047 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 9801 E:\CR\FM\A17SE6.032 S17SEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
EXTENSIONS OF REMARKS
∑ This ‘‘bullet’’ symbol identifies statements or insertions which are not spoken by a Member of the Senate on the floor.
Matter set in this typeface indicates words inserted or appended, rather than spoken, by a Member of the House on the floor.
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E1155
September 17, 2019
RECOGNIZING SEPTEMBER 15
THROUGH 21, 2019 AS RESPON-
SIBLE GAMING EDUCATION
WEEK
HON. DINA TITUS
OF NEVADA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, September 17, 2019
Ms. TITUS. Madam Speaker, I rise to recog-
nize this week as Responsible Gaming Edu-
cation Week.
In 1998, the American Gaming Association
established Responsible Gaming Education
Week to promote responsible gaming nation-
wide and to educate employees and cus-
tomers on the subject.
I am proud to represent Las Vegas, the gold
standard when it comes to gaming and gam-
ing regulation. Gaming generates jobs for 1.8
million Americans, providing $74 billion in
wages, benefits, and tips. The U.S. casino in-
dustry at large generates more than $40 billion
in federal, state, and local taxes, supporting a
range of needed services like hospitals,
schools, transportation routes, and public safe-
ty.
The gaming industry goes to great lengths
to make sure employees are trained in best
practices for recognizing and dealing with
problem gaming and patrons are aware of op-
tions for help if they need it. The industry con-
tributes hundreds of millions of dollars each
year toward research and treatment of prob-
lem gambling as well as awareness and other
training programs. In short, responsible gam-
ing has become an integral part of their daily
operations.
I am proud to support the goals and ideals
of Responsible Gaming Education Week
which brings together the gaming industry, ad-
vocacy groups, regulators, and other key
stakeholders to promote transparency and
gaming literacy. I commend the industry for its
work on the issue and the education provided
to promote responsible play and awareness of
gaming disorders.
I also applaud the employees of the gaming
industry for the work they do every day edu-
cating patrons about the issue. Las Vegas is
a better community and tourism destination for
it.
f
RECOGNIZING JOHN MORFORD OF
LIVINGSTON
HON. GREG GIANFORTE
OF MONTANA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, September 17, 2019
Mr. GIANFORTE. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to honor John Morford of Livingston for
his many years of dedicated service to Mon-
tana and the Livingston community through his
participation and leadership in the Benevolent
and Protective Order of Elks.
John has served selflessly through the local
and state Elks Lodges, including as president
of both lodges. His project management skills
have helped turn many Elks programs into
well-oiled machines that reach hundreds of
people throughout our communities.
For over a decade, John has been the di-
rector of the annual Hoop Shoot program in
which thousands of Montana students com-
pete against students nationwide to be one of
the six national champions. This competition is
aimed at helping children develop and rein-
force perseverance.
He also assists with the Elks’ food basket
distribution project, which coordinates commu-
nity efforts to provide families in need with a
traditional Thanksgiving meal. Last November
they delivered food baskets to over 300 fami-
lies in Livingston and surrounding commu-
nities.
John also created a scholarship for Montana
students interested in studying music. Stem-
ming from his love of music, he created a
unique music scholarship program through the
Elks almost 10 years ago, securing the nec-
essary funding and creating a panel of musi-
cally-versed Elks members. High school sen-
iors throughout Montana, who plan to major or
minor in music performance or education,
send their musical pieces to the panel for a
chance to win a scholarship.
Madam Speaker, for his dedication to chari-
table giving in the community and the state of
Montana, I recognize John Morford of Living-
ston for his spirit of Montana.
f
COMMENDING THE WORK OF THE
PEOPLE’S LAW OFFICE
HON. BOBBY L. RUSH
OF ILLINOIS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, September 17, 2019
Mr. RUSH. Madam Speaker, today I rise to
celebrate the 50th anniversary of The People’s
Law Office. Founded in August of 1969 in Chi-
cago, the PLO has championed many impor-
tant struggles against official racism, police vi-
olence, and mass incarceration over the past
50 years.
The first important case taken on by the
PLO was the Fred Hampton Black Panther
case. My friends and fellow students of the
struggle, Fred Hampton and Mark Clark, were
killed by 14 raiding Chicago police officers
under the command of Cook County State’s
Attorney Edward V. Hanrahan on the early
morning of December 4, 1969. After 13 years
of hard-fought court battles in the wake of
Fred’s death, the PLO and their clients in the
Illinois Black Panther Party proved that Fred
was murdered in his bed as part of the FBI’s
COINTELPRO initiative. As the founder of the
Illinois Black Panther Party, I was privileged to
have a front-row seat to the commitment, dili-
gence, and resilience of the PLO’s lawyers.
Together, we won a victory for justice and ac-
countability, and made sure that Fred’s death
was not in vain.
The PLO was also an early pioneer in fight-
ing against the inhumanity of America’s pris-
ons both in Illinois and nationally. Its lawyers
were instrumental in fighting for justice for the
men who were murdered, tortured, and un-
justly prosecuted in the 1971 Attica prison re-
bellion. They also fought for years for justice
in the Marion Federal Penitentiary and several
Illinois prisons, including Pontiac, Stateville
and Dwight. Together with other Chicago law-
yers and activists, the PLO obtained the ac-
quittal of 16 Pontiac prisoners wrongfully pros-
ecuted for capital murder after the Pontiac
Prison rebellion in 1978.
In my district, as well as the greater city of
Chicago, PLO has fought for more than 30
years to expose and bring to justice a ring of
racist police torturers, led by police com-
mander Jon Burge, who tortured more than
125 suspects of color from 1972 to 1991.
Their work in uncovering the scope and
breadth of this officially sanctioned scandal
has been instrumental in freeing numerous
men who were wrongfully convicted as a re-
sult of torture, winning money settlements for
many of those men, helping to end the death
penalty in Illinois, in obtaining the firing and
conviction of Burge, and in obtaining from the
City of Chicago a historic and wide ranging
package of financial and non-financial repara-
tions for many of the survivors of police tor-
ture.
PLO lawyers also fought for justice in
Greensboro, North Carolina, in a case brought
by the families of five anti-Ku Klux Klan dem-
onstrators who were massacred by KKK and
Nazi members in 1979.
The PLO continues to champion cases that
advance the civil rights and civil liberties that
uphold the very foundations of our govern-
ment. The PLO has represented many gen-
erations of protestors, Puerto Rican independ-
ence and Palestinian activists, victims of po-
lice brutality, and other forms of official vio-
lence and abuse.
Madam Speaker, I congratulate the PLO on
fifty years of fighting for truth, justice, and ac-
countability. I wish them another fifty years of
success in protecting the civil rights of my fel-
low Chicagoans.
f
TRIBUTE TO THE ASSISTANCE
LEAGUE OF LOS ANGELES
HON. ADAM B. SCHIFF
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, September 17, 2019
Mr. SCHIFF. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to honor the Assistance League of Los Ange-
les upon its centennial anniversary.
Beginning in the mid-1890s, Assistance
League founder Anne Banning and a small
group of prominent Los Angeles women initi-
ated a tradition of benevolence and compas-
sion by performing local relief work for those
underserved by conventional charities. By
1906, the group’s humanitarian efforts ex-
tended beyond Southern California to victims
of the devastating San Francisco earthquake.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:38 Sep 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\K17SE8.001 E17SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E1156 September 17, 2019
Joined by her close friend and co-founder Ada
Edwards Laughlin in 1919, Mrs. Banning offi-
cially formed the Assistance League of South-
ern California as part of the first wave of
American nonprofits that empowered ordinary
citizens to serve their communities through
long-term volunteerism. As the organization
expanded in the coming decades, Mrs. Ban-
ning and Mrs. Laughlin founded the National
Assistance League in 1935, which today sup-
ports over 120 individual branches with the
Assistance League of Los Angeles as the
founding chapter.
Over the last century, the Assistance
League of Los Angeles has responded effec-
tively and compassionately to national, state
and local issues, staying true to Mrs. Ban-
ning’s original vision, acting ‘‘as a friend at any
and all times to men, women and children in
need of care, guidance and assistance, spir-
itually, materially and physically.’’ The League
began by providing food and clothing to fami-
lies severely impacted by World War I and the
Great Depression, before moving on to orga-
nize blood drives supporting the Red Cross
and holiday gift exchanges for soldiers during
World War II. Closer to home, the League
formed auxiliaries that tackled a diverse array
of issues and broadened the scope of the or-
ganization’s assistance. Among their many
achievements, these auxiliaries organized day
nurseries and preschool programs, counseled
families in need, provided clothing and sup-
plies to underserved schoolchildren, and
raised funds through theater performances,
fashion shows, thrift stores, and other efforts.
Today, the Assistance League of Los Ange-
les continues its commitment to helping the
Los Angeles community, with eight auxiliaries
conducting six significant services. These
services include The Preschool Learning Cen-
ter, Foster Children’s Resource Center, The-
atre for Children, Hollywood Children’s Club,
and Operation School Bell support children
and families, giving future generations re-
sources they need to succeed and grow. Addi-
tionally, the Court Referred Volunteer Center
enables adults and youth convicted of infrac-
tions, misdemeanors, or felonies to serve the
community they have wronged as a more
meaningful and beneficial alternative to fines
and incarceration.
I am honored to recognize the Assistance
League of Los Angeles for 100 years of out-
standing service to the greater Los Angeles
community. I ask all Members to join me in
congratulating the Assistance League for its
remarkable achievements.
f
RECOGNIZING THOMAS J. COLLINS
OF COLLINS ENGINEERS, INC. ON
THE COMPANY’S 40TH ANNIVER-
SARY
HON. DANIEL LIPINSKI
OF ILLINOIS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, September 17, 2019
Mr. LIPINSKI. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to recognize and applaud Thomas J. Collins,
founder of Collins Engineers, Inc., on his com-
pany’s 40th anniversary. Tom has been a
longtime constituent and resident of La
Grange, Illinois.
Born and raised in Chicago, Mr. Collins is a
Vietnam War veteran, a professional engineer,
and a certified diver. He pioneered the use of
engineers as diving inspectors for underwater
bridge infrastructure that eventually became
the basis of the U.S. Department of Transpor-
tation’s (DOT’s) program mandate for under-
water bridge inspections. Additionally, Mr. Col-
lins developed and carried out several DOT
training programs for infrastructure assess-
ment and management, including teaching
best practices to ensure public safety.
Mr. Collins played a significant role in Viet-
nam as part of the 39th Detachment, setting
up operations at Cam Ranh Bay in the then-
largest military quarry in the world, operated
by the 864th Battalion. During this time, he
joined the local Society of American Military
Engineers (SAME) Post and continued to ad-
vance his noteworthy military career. In Feb-
ruary 1967, he became the quarry officer and
supervised drilling, blasting, and crushing to
produce aggregate. In July 1967, he was as-
signed as the Battalion Civil Engineer before
leaving active duty to return home with an
honorable discharge.
Mr. Collins’ expertise led him to found Col-
lins Engineers, Inc. in 1979, a civil and struc-
tural engineering firm with a concentration on
infrastructure that supports a safe and efficient
transportation system. Under Mr. Collins’s
leadership and with innovation as a guiding
principle, Collins Engineers, Inc. pioneered the
use of underwater inspections. Today, the
company is using underwater imaging, un-
manned aerial vehicles (UAVs), and partner-
ships with technology firms like Google for
mobile work platforms and asset management.
Mr. Collins is a fellow of the American Soci-
ety of Civil Engineers, a diplomate of the
Academy of Coasts, Ocean, Port & Navigation
Engineers, a member of the Standing Com-
mittee on Structure Maintenance of the Trans-
portation Research Board (TRB), Chair of the
Underwater Inspection and Maintenance Sub-
committee of the TRB, and was elected a per-
manent member of the Ports & Harbors Com-
mittee of the Coasts, Oceans, Ports and Riv-
ers Institute, among many other notable dis-
tinctions. He is a mentor to generations of en-
gineers, including his five children, three of
whom are currently in the business, and a de-
voted husband to Roxanne Horswell since
1966.
I ask my colleagues to join me in recog-
nizing the accomplishments of Mr. Collins and
Collins Engineers, Inc. as they celebrate 40
years of hard work and innovation. I look for-
ward to their continued success for many
years in the future.
f
RECOGNIZING WHITING AMERICAN
LEGION POST 80’S 100TH ANNI-
VERSARY
HON. PETER J. VISCLOSKY
OF INDIANA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, September 17, 2019
Mr. VISCLOSKY. Madam Speaker, it is my
distinct honor to rise today to honor one of
America’s finest organizations, the American
Legion, and to recognize one if its local posts,
Whiting American Legion Post 80, on its 100th
anniversary. Post 80 came to be shortly after
the founding of the national organization. In
honor of this momentous occasion, the mem-
bers of Post 80 will be celebrating with dinner
and entertainment on Thursday, September
19, 2019, at the legion hall in Whiting.
For the past one hundred years, Whiting
Post 80 has been an extraordinary example of
the ideals and mission of the American Le-
gion. Overall, the American Legion boasts
nearly 13,000 posts, and remarkably, consists
of nearly two million members. In their com-
munities, American Legion posts are a source
of pride for their many contributions made to
aid and honor veterans and to better their
communities.
Throughout the years, Whiting Post 80 has
taken heed of the American Legion’s mission.
They have been well known in the Whiting—
Robertsdale area for their many activities
aimed at honoring veterans, which have in-
cluded an honor guard and drum and bugle
corps, but also for their many programs that
serve the youth and families in their commu-
nity.
At this time, I would like to acknowledge the
elected officers, committee members, and del-
egates for 2019–2020 who have dedicated
their time and efforts to Whiting American Le-
gion Post 80. They include Commander Harry
Triplett, First Vice Commander William
Montanez, Second Vice Commander Kevin
Fuller, Adjutant and Finance Officer Bill Palm-
er, Chaplain Bob Downey, Sergeant-at-Arms
Johnathan Hernandez, Judge Advocate Mike
Wooden, Historian Dan Scott, Service Officer
Brian Humenik, and Executive Finance Officer
Harry Nee. The executive committee nomi-
nees include Bob Downey, Art Peschke, and
Moe Davila, and the delegate nominees in-
clude Commander Harry Triplett, Mike Wood-
en, and Bill Palmer.
Madam Speaker, I ask that you and my
other distinguished colleagues join me in rec-
ognizing American Legion Post 80 and its
members on its 100th anniversary. I also ask
that you join me in honoring its membership
for their service to their community, its vet-
erans, and their commitment to the ideals of
the American Legion. Their efforts have
played a major role in elevating the quality of
life in their community.
f
HONORING LOUISE JEAN SIGNORE
HON. ELIOT L. ENGEL
OF NEW YORK
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, September 17, 2019
Mr. ENGEL. Madam Speaker, it is my honor
to recognize today Co-op City’s oldest resi-
dent, Louise Jean Signore, who this year is
turning a remarkable 107 years old.
Louise, or Jean as she is also known to her
friends and family, was born on July 31, 1912
in Manhattan. One of five siblings born to
Theodore and Marie, the family moved to the
Bronx in 1926, where Louise’s father worked
as a custom tailor to the rich and famous.
Louise’s mother was very social, and would
host open houses on Sundays, serving waf-
fles.
Louise worked for the Mass Transit Author-
ity for 34 years as an Administrative Assistant
and retired in 1977. As a retiree, Louise loved
to swim. She’d pack a lunch bag and head to
Orchard Beach during the week days early in
the morning. Louise did this, incredibly, into
her 90’s. On weekends, Louise and her sister
would go dancing. In the 1940’s they fre-
quented the Essex Ballroom, Roseland Ball-
room, the Savoy Manor and the ABC Club.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:38 Sep 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\K17SE8.004 E17SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E1157
September 17, 2019
They also traveled extensively to Europe;
twice by ship to Italy and also to places like
Spain. She also enjoyed domestic trips, espe-
cially to Los Angeles. Louise felt like she edu-
cated herself through her travels.
Though she is now 107, Louise is not slow-
ing down. She still loves to dance and exer-
cise, has a great sense of humor, and is still
as sharp as a whip. Louise younger sister
Renee credits both of their long lives to their
faith in God and their avoidance of prescrip-
tion medication.
Madam Speaker, I lived in Co-op City and
know what makes it so special. It’s the people.
People like Louise Signore, who have made
an indelible impact on the community. I want
to congratulate Louise in reaching this incred-
ible milestone. Here’s to many more years of
joy and happiness.
f
CONGRATULATING KENNETH COOK
HON. JOHN JOYCE
OF PENNSYLVANIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, September 17, 2019
Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania. Madam Speak-
er, it is my honor to congratulate Kenneth
Cook, one of the recipients of this year’s En-
compass Health Personal Achievement
Award.
Last October, Kenneth first came to Encom-
pass Health with the diagnosis of Guillain
Barre. He had very little movement in his
lower extremities and little strength in his
upper extremities. On his first day, he needed
the help of two therapists to get out of bed.
Kenneth knew that he had a long road to re-
covery ahead of him, but he was determined
to emerge victorious. He never missed a day
of therapy and always showed up with a posi-
tive attitude and willingness to work.
In four short weeks, Kenneth was able to
walk under his own power with a walker. He
eventually regained his ability to walk without
a walker and return to work.
It is thrilling to hear that Kenneth was able
to accomplish this with hard work and deter-
mination. Congratulations once again to Ken-
neth on this recognition.
f
IN RECOGNITION OF HELAL
FARHAT’S APPOINTMENT TO
THE WAYNE COUNTY THIRD CIR-
CUIT COURT
HON. DEBBIE DINGELL
OF MICHIGAN
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, September 17, 2019
Mrs. DINGELL. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to recognize Helal Farhat on his ap-
pointment to the Wayne County Third Circuit
Bench.
Since receiving his Juris Doctor from Wayne
State University Law School in 2002, Farhat
has been an active member of the legal com-
munity. For the past 16 years, Farhat served
as the principal attorney at Farhat & Associ-
ates, a firm he established that specializes in
commercial and business litigation, criminal
law, family law, and immigration, and formerly
served as partner at Salamey & Farhat. In ad-
dition to his work as an attorney, Farhat
served as a magistrate judge on the 19th Dis-
trict Court in Dearborn. He held this position
from 2009 to 2012, and then again from 2016
until his appointment to the Wayne County
Circuit Court by Governor Whitmer on March
28, 2019.
Helal Farhat has established himself as a
pillar of the Dearborn community, earning his
impeccable reputation amongst his peers, the
legal community at large, and the judiciary
through his accomplished legal background.
Aside from serving southeast Michigan in a
professional capacity, Farhat also dedicates a
significant amount of time to charity work and
involvement with advocacy organizations. No-
tably, Farhat is the President of the Leaders
Advancing and Helping Communities, a non-
profit organization dedicated to empowering
Michigan families by supporting their social,
health, educational, and economic well-being.
Throughout all his work, Farhat displays an
overwhelming commitment to protecting the
fundamental rights of all Americans, and his
efforts have received widespread acclaim, evi-
denced through his designation as a Super
Lawyer and President of the Dearborn Bar As-
sociation.
Madam Speaker, I ask my colleagues to join
me today in honoring Helal Farhat for his ap-
pointment to the Wayne County Circuit Court.
His legal expertise, character, and public serv-
ice experience will make him an excellent
judge who will dutifully serve the people of
Michigan.
f
HONORING GLADYS BARKER
GRAUER
HON. DONALD M. PAYNE, JR.
OF NEW JERSEY
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, September 17, 2019
Mr. PAYNE. Madam Speaker, I ask my col-
leagues in the U.S. House of Representatives
to join me as I rise to pay tribute to Gladys
Barker Grauer, the ‘‘Mother of Newark Arts,’’
after her passing on September 5, 2019.
Gladys Barker Grauer was a renowned art-
ist, gallery owner, and arts educator for more
than 70 years. She was born Gladys Frances
Barker in Cincinnati, Ohio on August 15, 1923,
to Maudie and Charles Barker. When her fam-
ily moved to Chicago, Illinois, she discovered
her love of art at Englewood High School and
later studied at the Art Institute of Chicago. In
1946, she met and married Solomon Grauer.
Five years later, they moved to Newark’s
South Ward, a place where she would live her
entire life.
Mrs. Grauer established herself as a true
force in Newark’s art scene in 1971 when she
opened the city’s first African-American-owned
art gallery, the Aard Studio Gallery on Bergen
Street. Her art focused on Newark’s
marginalized populations with themes that in-
cluded poverty, homelessness, and urban con-
flict. Her art has been exhibited locally, nation-
ally and internationally in locations as varied
as the Victoria and Albert Museum in London;
the National Museum of American Art in
Washington, D.C.; The Newark Museum and
the Jane Voorhees Zimmerli Art Museum at
Rutgers-New Brunswick. Her most recent
show, called ‘‘Speaking Her Mind: Then and
Now,’’ was showcased at Gallery Aferro in
Newark just last year. In addition, she has
painted five murals around the city for current
residents and visitors to enjoy.
More than an artist, she was a dedicated
teacher of art. The Aard Studio Galley was a
place where young artists, particularly young
artists of color, could learn and showcase their
artistic talents. They knew that the Aard Studio
provided them a rare and critical place for mu-
tual support and professional networking as
well as a location for exhibitions and sales of
their work. Also, she taught commercial art for
the Essex County Vocational Schools from
1974 to 1989.
She was a founding member of Black
Woman in Visual Perspective, New Jersey
Chapter of the National Conference of Artists,
and the Newark Arts Council. She even re-
ceived the 2019 Lifetime Achievement Award
from the Women’s Caucus for the Arts for her
contributions to the local art scene and sup-
port for local artists.
Madam Speaker, I know my fellow members
of the U.S. House of Representatives agree
that Gladys Barker Grauer deserves to be rec-
ognized at the time of her passing for her tre-
mendous contributions to the international ar-
tistic community and her dedication to the
education and betterment of Newark’s artists
of color.
f
CONGRATULATING CAMERON
YINGLING
HON. JOHN JOYCE
OF PENNSYLVANIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, September 17, 2019
Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania. Madam Speak-
er, it is my honor to congratulate Cameron
Yingling, one of the recipients of this year’s
Encompass Health Personal Achievement
Award.
This past summer, Cameron and his brother
were diagnosed with Friedreich’s Ataxia. This
disease affects balance, coordination, mobility,
and the heart. There is no treatment or cure,
but that has not deterred the boys. Following
their diagnosis, they started selling blue ‘‘Fight
Ataxia’’ bracelets and donated all to research.
Since coming to Encompass Health, he and
his brother have always showed up with a
fighting spirit and a positive attitude each ses-
sion as they participate in aqua and land ther-
apy to maintain muscle strength and mobility.
It is thrilling to hear that Cameron was also
able to help others in his program to push a
little harder once they saw his work ethic.
Congratulations once again to Cameron on
this recognition.
f
HONORING COMMUNITY LEADER
FAY H. WILLIAMS
HON. ANDRÉ CARSON
OF INDIANA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, September 17, 2019
Mr. CARSON of Indiana. Madam Speaker,
today I rise to honor and recognize Fay H.
Williams, an attorney, civil rights activist and
community advocate in my district. Fay is
being celebrated by the Asante Children’s
Theatre as a living legend, receiving the 2019
Asante Legacy Honoree.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:38 Sep 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A17SE8.001 E17SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E1158 September 17, 2019
Fay has dedicated her life to the betterment
of her fellow citizens through a commitment to
fighting for the rights of women and minorities,
as well as disenfranchised and mentally ill in-
dividuals. She has also championed diversity
and inclusion in our community and around
Central Indiana.
For the past half a century, Fay has served
as a board member for several prominent non-
profit organizations including the American
Red Cross Indiana Region Chapter, Children’s
Museum of Indianapolis and United Way of
Central Indiana. At United Way, she co-
launched the Minority Key Club, later renamed
the Diversity Leadership Circle, a cornerstone
organization with a commitment to diversity
through talent acquisition in the community.
Fay also went on to establish the Indianapolis
Chapter of Coalition of 100 Black Women and
served as a founding board-member of the In-
dianapolis Urban League and Girls Inc. of
Greater Indianapolis.
Today, I ask my colleagues to join me in
celebrating Fay H. Williams for her invaluable
and ongoing contributions to our community,
state and country.
f
HONORING ASSYRIAN MEMORIAL
DAY
HON. ELIOT L. ENGEL
OF NEW YORK
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, September 17, 2019
Mr. ENGEL. Madam Speaker, I rise to
honor the memory of the Assyrian people. On
the occasion of Assyrian Memorial Day, we
pay our respects to and remember those As-
syrians who have lost their lives to genocide
and persecution.
The Assyrian people have faced systematic
persecution from the early 20th century to the
present day. From 1915 to 1918, 750,000
men, women, and children of Assyrian de-
scent were killed under the Ottoman Empire,
while still hundreds of thousands more be-
came homeless and stateless refugees. In the
Simele Massacre on August 7, 1933, 3,000
Assyrians were killed at the hands of the then-
government of Iraq. In recent years, ISIS com-
mitted a brutal genocide against religious and
ethnic minorities, including Assyrians, killing
thousands of people.
We will ensure these tragedies are never
forgotten. I would like to recognize New York
State Assemblyman Nader Sayegh for his
work in highlighting the valuable contributions
that members of the Assyrian-American com-
munity have made in my state and across the
country. We must recall the commitment of the
United States to promoting freedom and
human rights for all people regardless of their
national, religious, or ethnic identity and re-
main steadfast in our conviction.
We must continue to speak out against in-
justice everywhere and contribute to a world in
which all people can live without fear of geno-
cide or persecution.
HONORING THE LIFE AND LEGACY
OF ROBERT LEE SMITH
HON. ALCEE L. HASTINGS
OF FLORIDA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, September 17, 2019
Mr. HASTINGS. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to honor the life and legacy of Mr. Rob-
ert Lee Smith. For decades, Robert pursued
public service as a dedicated teacher, school
administrator, and a member of the United
States Air Force. We have lost a great leader,
a tremendous educator, and a dear friend and
advisor.
Robert dedicated his life to sharing knowl-
edge. He sought out opportunities through
which he could give back to his community,
progressing first as a high school valedictorian
and scholarship recipient to earning degrees
from Florida A&M University and Columbia
University Teachers School in education and
school administration. As an exceptional Com-
munications Specialist in the United States Air
Force, education remained a focus as he addi-
tionally served as a part-time instructor and
education services coordinator. Robert’s serv-
ice was rewarded with the National Defense
Service Medal, the Good Conduct Medal, and
the Outstanding Airman Award. He was Hon-
orably Discharged as a Sergeant on June 10,
1956. Robert knew what it meant to serve his
community and our nation. He always went
above and beyond to improve the lives of
those around him.
Robert’s 36-year career in the Broward
County School System enriched the lives of
thousands of students, having served as a
well-respected and cherished elementary
school teacher and principle. His leadership
expanded far beyond school walls, as he was
president of Justice for All in Broward and the
Golden Heights Homeowners’ Association and
he was the first African-American president of
the Fort Lauderdale Optimist Club. He was
also a leader in the First Baptist Church Piney
Grove and his 63-year membership included
serving as a Deacon and as Chairman of the
Deacon Board. Undoubtedly, Robert’s mem-
bership to the NAACP and position as Board
Chairman for the L.A. Lee YMCA ensured his
indelible mark on every facet of our commu-
nity.
I extend my deepest condolences to Rob-
ert’s wife, Betty; his daughter, Anitha
Rhodette; his son-in-law, Darrell; his grand-
son, Kamyron; and his entire family during this
extremely difficult time. His life and legacy will
always live on and he will be dearly missed.
f
CONGRATULATING DICK SHAFFER
HON. JOHN JOYCE
OF PENNSYLVANIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, September 17, 2019
Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania. Madam Speak-
er, it is my honor to congratulate Dick Shaffer,
one of the recipients of this year’s Encompass
Health Personal Achievement Award.
Dick’s first injury was in 1991 when he fell
off a ladder while he got stung by a hornet as
he was cleaning his gutters. He shattered his
hip as a result of this. Most recently he fell at
his home, cutting his head.
Throughout the years he has showed up
each time for his rehabilitation with the deter-
mination to succeed over his injury, working
hard to return to his healthy self.
Despite the challenges he faced, Dick never
let his previous injuries deter him from living
his life. He still maintains his positive attitude.
strength, and love for his family.
Congratulations once again to Dick on this
recognition.
f
REMEMBERING WILBERT
GREENFIELD
HON. STEVE COHEN
OF TENNESSEE
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, September 17, 2019
Mr. COHEN. Madam Speaker, I rise today
in praise of Dr. Wilbert Greenfield, the 10th
President of Johnson C. Smith University in
Charlotte, North Carolina as well as the 10th
President of Virginia State University in Pe-
tersburg, Virginia. Dr. Greenfield passed away
last month at the age of 86. As President of
the historically black university from 1973 to
1982, Dr. Greenfield strengthened Johnson C.
Smith by gaining the financial support of sev-
eral government and community agencies, by
creating an Honors Program and by devel-
oping an Archival Center for preserving the
university’s heritage. He garnered funds to
build new dormitories, which had not been
done for years. The University’s Board of
Trustees named Wilbert Greenfield Hall in his
honor in 1984. While at Johnson C. Smith, Dr.
Greenfield became a founding member of
NAFEO, the National Association for Equal
Opportunity In Higher Education and remained
a member until his death. The City of Char-
lotte benefitted by having a growing Johnson
C. Smith University on its west side thanks to
Dr. Greenfield’s efforts.
After ten years of dedicated service at John-
son C. Smith, Dr. Greenfield accepted the po-
sition as President of Virginia State University,
where he served from 1983 to 1988. During
his presidency, the University experienced nu-
merous academic strides. He instituted the ex-
pansion and renovation of the Hunter-
McDaniel Science building as well as other
academic buildings. Additionally, grant funds
were secured for an agricultural research
building. This vigorous initiative led to the revi-
talization of the Randolph Experimental Farm,
which is located near the University’s main
campus. It is noted that one of Dr. Green-
field’s proudest moments was bringing aqua-
culture (fish farming) to the Commonwealth of
Virginia. Due to his legendary vision, VSU
took the lead in Virginia as the pioneer in
aquaculture. During his VSU tenure, Dr.
Greenfield visited the White House under the
Reagan and Bush Administrations to continue
strategic initiatives to enhance higher edu-
cation for minorities. In addition, Dr. Greenfield
was named Educator of the Year in 1988 by
the Phi Delta Kappa Fraternity, a worldwide
organization with more than 150,000 mem-
bers.
Dr. Greenfield was born on July 18, 1933 in
Seven Springs, North Carolina, and earned
degrees from North Carolina Agricultural and
Technical State College in Greensboro and
was the fifth African American in this country
to earn a PhD in Cardiac Physiology from the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:38 Sep 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A17SE8.006 E17SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E1159
September 17, 2019
University of Iowa-Iowa City. Dr. Greenfield
began his academic career in 1967 as Pro-
fessor, Chairman of the Department of Biology
and Academic Dean at Jackson State Univer-
sity in Jackson, Mississippi where he taught
NFL legend Walter Payton, among others. I
wish to express my condolences to Dr. Green-
field’s friends, former students and family, and
especially to his son George whose technical
expertise keeps my Congressional offices run-
ning smoothly. Dr. Greenfield will long be re-
membered in those places where he made
such a profound impact and legacy.
f
CELEBRATING THE LIFE OF REVIS
BROWN
HON. MIKE BOST
OF ILLINOIS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, September 17, 2019
Mr. BOST. Madam Speaker, I rise today to
celebrate the life of Revis Brown of Anna, Illi-
nois, who passed away peacefully earlier this
month. Revis, born on August 5, 1926, was a
decorated World War II and Korean War vet-
eran who served his country as a member of
the U.S. Marine Corps.
Immediately after graduating high school,
Revis enlisted to serve his country in the Pa-
cific during World War II. While fighting in the
Battle of Iwo Jima, Revis was blasted and
wounded with shrapnel, but continued to fight
on bravely. Though some of this shrapnel re-
mained in his back for the rest of his life,
Revis selflessly reenlisted to fight in the Ko-
rean War. After his service was finished, Revis
worked for the U.S. Geological Survey. Revis
Brown was a hero during wartime and an ex-
emplary citizen during times of peace. He was
the definition of a true American, and we wish
his family and friends our prayers in their time
of mourning.
Madam Speaker, please join me in honoring
Corporal Revis Brown for his service to our
country and his contributions to Southern Illi-
nois. May he rest in peace.
f
RECOGNITION OF REVEREND
DEBBIE LEE BRYANT’S FAMILY
CELEBRATING 379 YEARS IN
HAMPTON
HON. ELAINE G. LURIA
OF VIRGINIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, September 17, 2019
Mrs. LURIA. Madam Speaker, I rise today to
honor and recognize Reverend Debbie Lee
Bryant celebrating her family’s 379th year in
Hampton, Virginia.
Reverend Bryant’s rich and diverse ancestry
in Hampton Roads epitomizes the complex
backgrounds so many fellow Americans share
by telling the story of the Native Americans
who lived on the land we now call home, the
enslaved Africans who were brought here by
force, and the plantation owners who profited
from the properties.
I also wish to commend Reverend Bryant’s
diligent work as an historian documenting and
researching the origins of the first Africans to
land at Old Point Comfort. We must continue
to remember the difficult past so we can move
forward together as a community toward a
better future for all.
I thank Reverend Bryant for sharing this
milestone with me and all that she does in our
community.
f
IN RECOGNITION OF AMERICAN
LEGION POST 11 ELEFSON-
ZEUSKE’S 100TH ANNIVERSARY
HON. MIKE GALLAGHER
OF WISCONSIN
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, September 17, 2019
Mr. GALLAGHER. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to honor American Legion Post 117
Elefson-Zeuske as its members celebrate the
100th anniversary of their charter in Shawano,
Wisconsin.
Post 117 was chartered on November 1,
1919 in the name of Edwin Elefson as a patri-
otic veterans organization dedicated to sup-
porting America’s service members and vet-
erans. A member of the 32nd Red Arrow Divi-
sion, Elefson was killed in action on Sep-
tember 14, 1918 in France. He is memorial-
ized at the Oise-Aisne American Cemetery.
The Post held its first meeting on November
17, 1919 shortly after 30 members signed the
original charter. In 1942, the Post changed its
name to Elefson-Zeuske in honor of Wilmer
Zeuske. A Sergeant in the U.S. Army, Wilmer
Zeuske was killed in action during World War
II.
For 100 years, the Post has been an active
member of the greater Shawano community
by sponsoring numerous activities with the
goal of improving the community, state, and
nation. The members work hard to improve
youth leadership through school programs,
Boy Scout programs, and American Legion
baseball.
The Post has helped develop statewide vet-
eran programs to ensure that veterans are
cared for when they return home from service.
The members of Elefson-Zeuske truly embody
the qualities of patriotism and selfless service
to this country.
Madam Speaker, I urge all members of this
body to join me in thanking Post 117 for its
support of veterans, students, and the
Shawano community.
f
HONORING THELMA FIXLER’S
100TH BIRTHDAY
HON. ELIOT L. ENGEL
OF NEW YORK
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, September 17, 2019
Mr. ENGEL. Madam Speaker, it is my honor
and privilege to mark a tremendous milestone
for one of my constituents, Thelma Fixler of
Larchmont, who is celebrating her 100th birth-
day on September 17, 2019.
Thelma has lived an amazing life, filled with
some impressive roles. Born in Buffalo in
1919, she started singing at a young age, and
after winning an inter-scholastic vocal contest
at the age of 15, she matriculated at the East-
man School of Music at the University of
Rochester. Thelma graduated in 1942 and left
Rochester for New York City to pursue a ca-
reer in opera. A mezzo soprano, Thelma
joined the chorus of the Broadway production
of the operetta Rosalinda. She made her Met-
ropolitan Opera debut on November 22, 1943
in Boris Godunov on opening night of the
Met’s Diamond Jubilee Year. This was the first
time an American-born singer debuted on an
opening night. Thelma sang at the Met for
seven years, performing 299 times in roles in-
cluding Suzuki in Madame Butterfly, Mercedes
in Carmen, and numerous ‘‘pants’’ roles.
Thelma met her husband Robert (Bob)
Fixler, an Army Air Corps veteran and New
York attorney, and the two were wed in 1950.
The couple moved to Larchmont Woods in
New Rochelle in 1954 with their two young
sons, Michael and Peter. The family joined
Temple Israel of New Rochelle, and Thelma
became an active member of the Sisterhood
and served as its president from 1983 to
1985. Thelma spent a number of years as a
volunteer with the New Rochelle Meals on
Wheels program and with the Coalition for Mu-
tual Respect, an African American-Jewish dia-
logue group. After Bob passed away, Thelma
moved to Larchmont in 1999 and remained an
active member of her synagogue, including
helping to plan monthly lunch-and-learn
events. She regularly attends Met Opera live
broadcasts, frequents Westchester restaurants
with friends, and enjoys attending Broadway
shows and shopping with her grandchildren.
Madam Speaker, on this special occasion I
want to personally wish Thelma a very happy
100th birthday and thank her for the years of
service and dedication she has shown to the
community.
f
CONGRATULATING ROD BARONNER
HON. JOHN JOYCE
OF PENNSYLVANIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, September 17, 2019
Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania. Madam Speak-
er, it is my honor to congratulate Rod
Baronner, one of the recipients of this year’s
Encompass Health Personal Achievement
Award.
Rod came to Encompass Health for rehabili-
tation following brain surgery. When he first
arrived, he required a hoyer lift to get him out
of bed due to his weakness. Rod had to focus
on the basic fundamentals from the beginning,
including to lift his head.
As his rehabilitation continued, his wife
Rose began to attend more therapy sessions
and helped Rod in his recovery.
In 43 days in rehabilitation, he progressed
from limited mobility, to requiring only
steadying assistance to walk with a walker
and was able to care for himself. He continues
to make progress each and every day and has
been able to return to things he loves like
camping with his family.
It is thrilling to hear what Rod was able to
accomplish with hard work and determination.
Congratulations once again to Rod on this
recognition.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:38 Sep 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A17SE8.010 E17SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E1160 September 17, 2019
CONGRATULATING AMY CAMP-
BELL ON BEING NAMED WASH-
INGTON STATE TEACHER OF THE
YEAR
HON. JAIME HERRERA BEUTLER
OF WASHINGTON
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, September 17, 2019
Ms. HERRERA BEUTLER. Madam Speak-
er, I rise today to recognize and congratulate
Amy Campbell, from Camas, Washington on
being named Washington state’s Teacher of
the Year.
Amy has been teaching special education at
Helen Baller Elementary for the past 12 years
and has been an invaluable resource for stu-
dents and families in Camas.
The Washington State Teacher of the Year
program helps shine a much-deserved light on
our educators who are dedicated to their stu-
dents and communities—and Amy is no ex-
ception.
From helping make her students feel in-
spired, to encouraging them to see their own
potential, Amy works tirelessly to ensure each
one of her students is successful. This kind of
hard work and dedication is exactly why Amy
was given this well-earned recognition.
Once again, I want to congratulate Amy on
receiving this honor. I want to thank her and
all of our teachers for their hard work and de-
votion in serving our students and families in
Southwest Washington.
f
HONORING THE KESSELRING
NAVAL PROPULSION SITE IN
WEST MILTON, NY FOR RECEIV-
ING THE TOWN HERITAGE
AWARD ON THEIR 70TH YEAR
ANNIVERSARY
HON. ELISE M. STEFANIK
OF NEW YORK
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, September 17, 2019
Ms. STEFANIK. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to honor the Kesselring Naval Propul-
sion Site in West Milton, NY for receiving the
Town Heritage Award on the occasion of its
70th anniversary.
The Kesselring Naval Propulsion Site was
founded in 1948 and began operations in
1955. Previously known as the West Milton
site, it was renamed the Kenneth A. Kessel-
ring Site in 1968. Despite being established to
serve as a testing location for liquid-metal
cooled power breeder reactors, the site’s
focus changed to the testing of propulsion
plants through the Naval Nuclear Propulsion
Program. Over the next four decades, several
generations of power plants were successfully
tested at Kesselring before being deployed
onto submarines like the USS Ohio.
Today, the Kesselring Naval Propulsion Site
serves as a training site for Nuclear Reactor
Operators. Kesselring allows for trainees to
have a hands-on experience to better prepare
them for operating these complex systems.
Kesselring has trained over 50,000 sailors
since 1955.
On behalf of New York’s 21st congressional
district, I want to join The Saratoga County
History Roundtable in honoring the Kesselring
Naval Propulsion site and the Town of Milton
on this historic occasion. I also want to thank
the leadership team at Kesselring and the
service members who have trained there for
their dedicated service. I look forward to the
continued success of the Kesselring Naval
Propulsion site training future generations of
sailors and submariners.
f
RECOGNIZING BUMP BOXES FOR
WINNING SMALL BUSINESS OF
THE YEAR THROUGH THE TUR-
NER CENTER SMALL BUSINESS
AWARDS
HON. CHERI BUSTOS
OF ILLINOIS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, September 17, 2019
Mrs. BUSTOS. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to recognize Bump Boxes in Peoria, Illinois for
winning the Small Business of the Year award
through the Bradley University Turner Center’s
Small Business Awards.
Bump Boxes was founded in 2015 by Chris-
tine and Leland Deehring as an idea to pro-
vide healthy and chemical-free products to ex-
pecting mothers through a monthly delivery
service. They moved to their first warehouse
in 2015, and by 2016 hit a $1 million revenue
with six employees, which meant they had to
add a second warehouse. In 2017, they hit $3
million in revenue with 11 employees and ac-
quired Hello Mamas in addition to launching
Glow Organics. By 2018, the business hit $8
million with 32 employees. They are currently
thriving and continuing to develop their com-
pany. It takes dedication and hard work to
keep a small business prospering and I am so
proud of all Bump Boxes has done for the Pe-
oria community.
It is because of community leaders like
those at Bump Boxes that I am especially
proud to serve Illinois’ 17th Congressional Dis-
trict. Madam Speaker, I would like to again
formally congratulate Bump Boxes for winning
the Small Business of the Year award through
the Bradley University Turner Center’s Small
Business Awards.
f
IN RECOGNITION OF AUBURN UNI-
VERSITY BASS FISHING CLUB
WINNING NATIONAL CHAMPION-
SHIP
HON. MIKE ROGERS
OF ALABAMA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, September 17, 2019
Mr. ROGERS of Alabama. Madam Speaker,
I ask for the House’s attention to recognize
the Auburn University Bass Fishing Club for
winning the first ever Major League Fishing
College Redcrest National Championship.
The championship took place in August in
LaCrosse, Wisconsin on the Mississippi River.
The Auburn University Bass Fishing Club
was founded in 2007. This season, the club
will compete in up to 20 events.
Club members include Logan Parks, Lucas
Lindsay, Will Phillips, Chase Mundhenke,
Patch Pelt and Anthony Vinston.
Madam Speaker, please join me in recog-
nizing the Auburn University Bass Fishing
Club.
f
TRIBUTE TO MICHAEL BAUER
HON. JANICE D. SCHAKOWSKY
OF ILLINOIS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, September 17, 2019
Ms. SCHAKOWSKY. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to honor the memory of Michael Bauer,
a larger than life, beloved Chicagoan who
made an impact on the most powerful Amer-
ican leaders as well as the most humble and
vulnerable people.
Michael Bauer was only 66 years old when
he passed away after a battle with cancer on
August 29th. On September 3rd, hundreds
gathered at Anshe Emet Synagogue on Chi-
cago’s north side to pay tribute to Michael and
hear from some of the people whose lives
were deeply affected by this passionate and
exuberant activist.
Speakers included Chicago Mayor Lori
Lightfoot, a long-time and very close friend,
who Michael worked day and night to help
elect, as well as Senator DICK DURBIN, a friend
and political ally. Governor JB Pritzker was in
attendance along with several Members of
Congress, including me, and many members
of the State Legislature as well as officials at
the County and local level.
Michael had a law degree and an MBA, but
his real passions were fighting for the rights of
the LGBTQ community, Holocaust Remem-
brance and progressive politics. As a gay
man, he began his activism during the rav-
aging days of the AIDS epidemic, but he
never stopped fighting to end all forms of dis-
crimination. He worked to change laws at
every level of government to assure the right
of gay couples to marry and the rights of
transgender people, among other issues.
Both of Michael’s parents were Holocaust
survivors, and he and his brother Jerry grew
up without grandparents, aunts and uncles or
cousins. Poignantly, Michael’s beloved mother
Tema Bauer, 103 years old, was at the funeral
of her younger son. Not surprisingly, Michael
played an important role in the establishment
of the Illinois Holocaust Museum & Education
Center in Skokie, Illinois, a city that is home
to many survivors.
And Michael was deeply involved in politics,
raising money and campaigning for his chosen
candidates. His endorsement was heavily
sought by Democratic candidates, but each
had to pledge support for Michael’s priorities,
including protecting women’s reproductive
rights.
For nearly four decades, Michael shared his
life with his partner and husband Roger
Simon. They were inseparable, particularly
going through the difficult phases of Michael’s
illness—Roger always at his side, always lov-
ingly caring for his every need.
Michael was a dear, dear friend of mine. My
husband and I loved to be in the same room
with Michael and Roger, often watching Mi-
chael command the space—always forcefully
making a point, or making a joke and being
the force of nature that he was. He will be
deeply missed.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:38 Sep 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A17SE8.016 E17SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E1161
September 17, 2019
RECOGNIZING THE LAUNCH OF
THE 50TH UPWARD ACADEMY AT
THE TYSON FOODS PLANT IN
ZEELAND, MI
HON. BILL HUIZENGA
OF MICHIGAN
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, September 17, 2019
Mr. HUIZENGA. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to celebrate the launch of the 50th Up-
ward Academy at the Tyson Foods Plant in
Zeeland, Michigan.
This unique in-plant educational program of-
fers a plethora of empowering resources and
courses to all workers, from the frontlines to
the offices, at no-cost. By partnering with local
community organizations, Upward Academy
provides team members the opportunity to ac-
cess important classes that would otherwise
be unattainable. Examples include English as
a Second Language, General Educational De-
velopment (GED), and United States citizen-
ship, among others. For new immigrants to the
U.S., Upward Academy helps to assimilate
and integrate them into American society,
thereby creating a bedrock for their future suc-
cess.
Moreover, the Upward Academy includes
multiple components focused on workplace
skills and professional training to develop tal-
ent, especially in rural or marginalized areas.
This includes classes in driver education, com-
puter technology, financial literacy, and a vari-
ety of soft skills. Through these programs, Up-
ward Academy brings knowledgeable experts
directly to workers so they can move beyond
entry-level jobs, receive valuable qualifica-
tions, and perform at high levels.
The 50th launch of Upward Academy will
open the door for all team members at
Tyson’s Plant in Zeeland, MI to strive beyond
current limitations. Tyson Foods and Upward
Academy’s commitment to cultivating a
modem workforce that is prepared for the 21st
century will help our community grow stronger
and make West Michigan a better place to
live, work, and raise a family.
Madam Speaker, please join me in officially
recognizing the launch of the 50th Upward
Academy at the Tyson Foods Plant in Zee-
land, MI.
f
CONGRATULATING TIM HOYER
HON. JOHN JOYCE
OF PENNSYLVANIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, September 17, 2019
Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania. Madam Speak-
er, it is my honor to congratulate Tim Hoyer,
this year’s recipient of the Encompass Health
Advocate Award.
Tim has been active with brain injury sup-
port groups since his own injury in 2012. In
January 2016, Tim assumed leadership of the
Blair County Brain Injury Support Group. He
has also founded an Asperger’s support
group. Tim has taken special interest in each
group member and encourages them to reach
whatever goals they have set.
Tim is a tireless advocate in our community,
and his work is truly deserving of this recogni-
tion.
Congratulations once again to Tim on this
recognition
HONORING THE LIFE OF DON
ALLEN WOLF
HON. JIM BANKS
OF INDIANA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, September 17, 2019
Mr. BANKS. Madam Speaker, I rise today to
honor and remember the incredible life of Mr.
Don Wolf. Don was an upstanding citizen, fa-
ther, husband and business leader in north-
east Indiana who dedicated his life to the
humble service of others. The lives of his fel-
low Hoosiers have been vastly improved be-
cause of Don’s generosity and good will.
Don truly lived out the American Dream. He
established Do It Best Hardware which is
presently the largest privately-held company in
the state of Indiana and has a large presence
across the entire country. The City of Fort
Wayne and the entire Hoosier State feels a
deep sense of pride in counting him as one of
our own.
Achieving great success, Don set out to bet-
ter the community he loved so much and
worked to significantly improve the lives of
those around him. His many philanthropic ef-
forts range from serving as the first president
of Big Brothers of Greater Fort Wayne, the
founder of Study Connection, and a member
of the Junior Achievement Hall of Fame.
There can be no doubt that Don’s top priority
was to set our future generations up for suc-
cess.
The positive impact Don made on his city,
his state, and people across the country will
not soon be lost or forgotten. Through a life as
a business leader and community servant,
Don Wolf shines as an example of what it
means to live well and live for others.
f
RECOGNIZING THE GREATER PEO-
RIA ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
COUNCIL FOR WINNING THE
COMMUNITY PARTNER OF THE
YEAR THROUGH THE TURNER
CENTER SMALL BUSINESS
AWARDS
HON. CHERI BUSTOS
OF ILLINOIS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, September 17, 2019
Mrs. BUSTOS. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to recognize the Greater Peoria Economic De-
velopment Council for winning the Community
Partner of the Year award through the Bradley
University Turner Center’s Small Business
Awards.
The Greater Peoria Economic Development
Council—a non-profit organization focused on
helping local businesses, site selectors and
the local community develop in the Peoria
community—is a wonderful resource for all
businesses in the Peoria area. The Council
currently runs several programs, including Ele-
vate, Manufacturing Network, Economic Gar-
dening, Startup, Pathways, Hello Greater Peo-
ria, Farm Forums and Co Starters. These pro-
grams all help local businesses thrive. I com-
mend the Council for all of its work in Peoria
and I wish them all the best in their future en-
deavors.
It is because of community builders like the
Greater Peoria Economic Development Coun-
cil that I am especially proud to serve Illinois’
17th Congressional District. Madam Speaker, I
would like to again formally congratulate the
Greater Peoria Economic Development Coun-
cil for winning the Community Partner of the
Year award through the Bradley University
Turner Center’s Small Business Awards.
f
HONORING EPISCOPAL HOMES OF
MINNESOTA ON ITS 125TH ANNI-
VERSARY
HON. BETTY McCOLLUM
OF MINNESOTA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, September 17, 2019
Ms. MCCOLLUM. Madam Speaker, I rise to
recognize Episcopal Homes of Minnesota on
its 125th anniversary of caring for and serving
senior communities in Saint Paul.
Episcopal Homes began in 1894 with a vi-
sionary leader named Sister Annette Relf. Sis-
ter Annette was a hospital nurse and Min-
nesota’s first Episcopal Deaconess, who saw
a need for a home and place of comfort for
poor and elderly women. The first home was
founded at 710 Martin Street in Saint Paul. In
1909, Sister Annette herself became a resi-
dent of the home until she died in 1915. The
tradition of strong women’s leadership contin-
ued in 1930, when Eliza May was elected as
the first President of the Board and women
took over daily management of the home.
The Great Depression brought major chal-
lenges to the community, and the federal gov-
ernment responded by granting the home an
exception from taxes. The Social Security Act
was passed which kept many residents out of
poverty by providing retirement security. After
World War II, the home grew to accommodate
70 residents. In 1970, the home officially be-
came the Episcopal Church Home of Min-
nesota. The need for more supportive services
led to the hiring of an occupational therapist
who could address the physical, recreation
and social needs of residents.
Episcopal Homes has continued to grow to
serve residents, receiving a major grant from
the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban
Development (HUD) to build subsidized hous-
ing for seniors. In 2011, Kings Crossing Apart-
ments opened in Saint Paul’s Frogtown neigh-
borhood, which HUD lauded as a model for in-
novative community planning and neighbor-
hood revitalization. This federal investment
has continued and been valuable to Episcopal
Homes’ nine senior communities located near
Green Line Light Rail stops along University
Avenue in Saint Paul. Episcopal Homes has
won numerous awards and recognition for its
care and services—including those from Aging
Services of Minnesota, the Metropolitan Coun-
cil, the Midway Chamber of Commerce, the
Saint Paul Area Chamber of Commerce and
U.S. News & World Report.
Today, Episcopal Homes is home to more
than 1400 residents who thrive in their retire-
ment years through the continuum of care of-
fered through the homes in the heart of Saint
Paul. Madam Speaker, please join me in hon-
oring the 125th anniversary of Episcopal
Homes of Minnesota’s dedication to building
affordable, diverse, vibrant communities and
enhancing the lives of older adults.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:38 Sep 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A17SE8.021 E17SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E1162 September 17, 2019
TRIBUTE TO HONOR THE LIFE OF
ELIZABETH JANE KERLEY
HON. ANNA G. ESHOO
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, September 17, 2019
Ms. ESHOO. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to honor the life of Elizabeth (Betty) Jane
Kerley, who died peacefully at her Rossmoor
home on May 22, 2019. Betty was born on
March 6, 1923 in Oakland to first-generation
Welsh immigrants, Hugh and Anna Williams.
Betty was the youngest of three children and
was very proud of her Welsh stock. She was
a lively and resilient child, qualities that she
drew upon throughout her long life.
When Betty was ten, her mother died of
pneumonia. Betty took charge of the house,
helped by her father Hugh and their house-
keeper Mrs. Benson.
Betty’s father was a noted professional sing-
er who was once Director of the famed Grace
Cathedral Boys Choir. Believing that his
daughter was a child prodigy, he encouraged
her to pursue her unquestionable musical tal-
ents to become a concert pianist. Betty at-
tended San Francisco State College to pursue
a teaching degree, and in 1944, she married
William Strehl, a Seabee who shipped out
shortly after their marriage. Their first child
Katherine was born in 1944 and their son Bill
in 1954.
In 1959, Betty became a single mother rais-
ing two children on her own. She secured a
position with the University of California’s Of-
fice of the President, and worked at UC for 17
years. Betty met and married Robert F. Kerley
(Bob) in 1975, and moved with him to
Rossmoor in 1977. There they joined a vibrant
community of UC retirees and enjoyed many
years of retirement. Betty enjoyed art and gar-
dening, and she and Bob worked tirelessly in
her daughter’s garden in Menlo Park, Cali-
fornia. She started her own interior decorating
company, but her real passion was painting
. . . first with oils and later watercolors. She
lived a long and happy life and was known for
her loving smile, her loyalty to family and
friends, her wit and laughter, the glint in her
eye and for always being a classy lady. She
was loved by many and will be dearly missed.
Betty is survived by her two children: Kath-
erine (Bill Dempsey) Strehl of Menlo Park,
California, Bill (Sue) Strehl of Eugene, Oregon
and stepchildren, Kathleen James of Bend,
Oregon, Maureen (Taylor) Douglas of Bend,
Oregon, Barbara Neill of Austin, Texas and
Bill (Jerri Townsend) of Austin, Texas; ten
grandchildren and three great grandchildren.
Her beloved husband of 31 years, Bob, died
in 2006. She is also survived by her loving
caregiver Atiola Raura, Ati’s husband Emosi,
and their family of seven children who brought
love and joy to Betty in her last six years of
life.
Madam Speaker, I ask the entire House of
Representatives to join me in honoring the life
of Elizabeth Jane Kerley, and in extending our
most sincere condolences to her family and
loved ones.
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. VICENTE GONZALEZ
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, September 17, 2019
Mr. GONZALEZ of Texas. Madam Speaker,
I was unable to cast my vote on September
12, 2019 for Roll Call Vote 529 and Roll Call
530. Had I been present, my vote would have
been the following: Nay on Roll Call Vote 529
and No on Roll Call Vote 530.
f
CONGRATULATING ADAM GEE
HON. JOHN JOYCE
OF PENNSYLVANIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, September 17, 2019
Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania. Madam Speak-
er, it is my honor to congratulate Adam Gee,
one of the recipients of this year’s Encompass
Health Personal Achievement Award.
Adam first came to Encompass Health in
December of 2018 after falling off a ladder at
work and sustaining a spinal cord injury. He
arrived on his first day in a wheelchair. Adam
knew that he had a long road to recovery
ahead of him, but he was determined to
emerge victorious. Adam set goals and strived
to meet them each session. He struggled to
take his first few steps after the injury, barely
walking three feet, but that did not deter him.
During his rehabilitation, Adam continued to
work and live his life. He chose to modify his
everyday tasks, rather than sit and wait for
things to get better.
It is thrilling to hear all that Adam was able
to accomplish with hard work and determina-
tion.
Congratulations once again to Adam on this
recognition.
f
HONORING THE LIFE AND LEGACY
OF THE HONORABLE JANET POSS
HON. ROSA L. DeLAURO
OF CONNECTICUT
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, September 17, 2019
Ms. DELAURA. Madam Speaker, it is with
the heaviest of hearts but the greatest of
memories that I rise today to pay tribute to the
Honorable Janet Poss as family, friends, and
colleagues gather to remember her invaluable
contributions to the Guilford community. We
lost Jan earlier this year and at the age of
ninety-six she certainly lived a full life, but her
presence will most certainly be missed by all
of those fortunate enough to have known her.
Jan was one of the community giants on
whose shoulders we all stand. She was in-
credibly generous with her time and energy,
serving on a myriad of boards and commis-
sions throughout her life. The Youth Services
Board, the Guilford ABC program, the East
Shore Adult Daycare Center, the Human Serv-
ices Council of Guilford, Guilford Interfaith
Housing, and the East Shore League of
Women Voters are just some of the organiza-
tions she dedicated countless hours to over
the years.
In addition to that, Jan also served in public
life, having been elected as both a member of
the Guilford Board of Selectmen and as the
State Representative for Connecticut’s 98th
District. She was best known for no-nonsense
personality—she worked on behalf of the peo-
ple she served and did not apologize for doing
what she believed was right. Jan was also
known as a voice of reason during the most
heated of debates.
Jan was also a mentor to many in the com-
munity who followed her in public service.
There are many who can tell you stories of
her sitting down with those interested in seek-
ing public office and working out a strategy to
ensure an election night victory. I have the
fondest of memories of Jan from when I first
ran for office. She was an extraordinary
sounding board and had a great sense of
humor. I consider myself fortunate to have
called her my friend.
It extend my deepest sympathies to Jan’s
family and hope that they know what a re-
markable impact she had on all of those who
knew her. Jan has left an indelible mark on
the Guilford community and a legacy of serv-
ice and dedication to which we all should
strive.
f
HONORING LILLIAN STEWART
HON. BARBARA LEE
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, September 17, 2019
Ms. LEE of California. Madam Speaker, I
rise today to honor the life and legacy of Ms.
Lillian Stewart and to extend my deepest con-
dolences to her family upon her passing at the
blessed age of 95. Ms. Stewart was a devoted
mother, grandmother, and community activist.
I am also privileged to have been able to call
Ms. Stewart my friend.
Born in Mecklenberg County, North Caro-
lina, in 1923, Ms. Stewart was born the middle
of five children. She spent her formative years
in Washington, D.C., where she attended Gar-
net-Patterson Junior High School and Cardoza
High School.
After graduating from high school, Ms.
Stewart went on to continue her education,
completing a postgraduate course in Cosme-
tology at Madame CJ Walker’s College of
Beauty Culture; a foreign language course at
the University of the District of Columbia; and
medical secretary training by the District of
Columbia Medical Society; and earning a
Montgomery Ward Consumer Education ‘‘Art
of Interior Decorating Home Fashion Forum’’
certificate.
Ms. Stewart spent much of her professional
career at Howard University Hospital, where
she served in several support and junior man-
agement positions. She retired from the hos-
pital as Hospital Utilization Review Coordi-
nator. Upon retirement, Ms. Stewart dedicated
her time to a range of community activities
and small business ventures. She was active
in the AARP Shepherd Park Chapter No.
2667, chair of the Southwest Advisory Coun-
cil-Southwest Health Clinic and was a D.C.
Public Notary. Ms. Stewart was also an out-
spoken activist. She actively protested the
planned closure of DC General Hospital, lo-
cated in a predominately African American
neighborhood, in 2001.
As a mother, Ms. Stewart encouraged a
pursuit of education in her children. She was
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:38 Sep 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A17SE8.026 E17SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E1163
September 17, 2019
privileged to live to witness her three chil-
dren’s professional accomplishments in com-
munications, medicine, and photography. She
also leaves behind six grandchildren and six
great-grandchildren.
On a personal note, I had the honor of
spending private time with Ms. Stewart thanks
to her loving son Dwight who has been a dear
friend for decades. I loved being with her. She
brought me joy and made me laugh. Her
colorful descriptions and deep insights were
remarkable. I attended mass with her on sev-
eral occasions and she demonstrated in words
and deeds her belief in God, who she knew
was all merciful and loving. I will deeply miss
Ms. Stewart, but her indomitable spirit will en-
dure forever.
Today, I join Ms. Stewart’s family in cele-
brating her life and enduring legacy. May she
rest in power and in peace.
f
HONORING AMERICAN CLERGY
LEADERSHIP CONFERENCE NA-
TIONAL PARENTS’ DAY AWARDS
LUNCHEON
HON. ELIOT L. ENGEL
OF NEW YORK
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, September 17, 2019
Mr. ENGEL. Madam Speaker, I want to take
a moment to recognize and honor this year’s
National Parents’ Day Award Luncheon hosted
by the American Clergy Leadership Con-
ference in my district, New York 16.
In 1994, Congress unanimously passed
‘‘The Parents’ Day Resolution’’—which I co-
sponsored—establishing the fourth Sunday of
July as an annual holiday, like Mother’s Day
and Father’s Day. National Parents’ Day this
year will actually be on Sunday, July 28.
The American Clergy Leadership con-
ference is an interfaith and interracial coalition
of faith leaders working together beyond de-
nomination to strengthen marriages and fami-
lies, renew communities and our nation. ACLC
ministers share the vision that America should
be an example to the world showing how all
people can live together as one family.
To mark National Parents’ Day, the ACLC is
promoting family as a way to support the com-
munity by upholding and awarding people who
have been role models in parenting their chil-
dren and serving the broader community.
As Representative and a proud parent of
three wonderful children, I applaud the work
the ACLC is doing to recognize and celebrate
all of the wonderful parents we have in this
amazing district. I want to congratulate this
year’s ACLC Awards Luncheon honorees and
thank them, along with our dear friends in
ACLC, for all they do every day to better our
community and create a strong foundation on
which our children can learn and grow.
f
RECOGNIZING LUX BLOX FOR WIN-
NING INNOVATION OF THE YEAR
THROUGH THE TURNER CENTER
SMALL BUSINESS AWARDS
HON. CHERI BUSTOS
OF ILLINOIS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, September 17, 2019
Mrs. BUSTOS. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to recognize Lux Blox for winning the Innova-
tion of the Year award through the Bradley
University Turner Center’s Small Business
Awards.
Lux Blox was founded by Michael and
Heather Acerra of Galesburg, Illinois, who cre-
ated a construction system designed to build
things the same way nature builds itself. The
blocks curve, bend and move without the lim-
its of traditional building blocks. With the help
of Daniel Wollin, a 15 year-old down the street
from their home, and a 3-D printer, they devel-
oped these innovative building blocks. Their
product aims to inspire future creativity and
exploration. The blocks are manufactured near
Galesburg, Illinois, and are packaged by the
skilled hands of those with disabilities living
their community.
It is because of community pioneers like Lux
Blox that I am especially proud to serve Illi-
nois’ 17th Congressional District. Madam
Speaker, I would like to again formally con-
gratulate Lux Blox for winning the Innovation
of the Year award through the Bradley Univer-
sity Turner Center’s Small Business Awards.
f
CONGRATULATING BREENEN
YINGLING
HON. JOHN JOYCE
OF PENNSYLVANIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, September 17, 2019
Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania. Madam Speak-
er, it is my honor to congratulate Breenen
Yingling, one of the recipients of this year’s
Encompass Health Personal Achievement
Award.
This past summer, Breenen and his brother
were diagnosed with Friedreich’s Ataxia. This
disease affects balance, coordination, mobility,
and the heart. There is no treatment or cure,
but that has not deterred the boys. Following
their diagnosis, they started selling blue ‘‘Fight
Ataxia’’ bracelets and donated all proceeds to
research.
Since coming to Encompass Health,
Breenen and his brother have always showed
up with a fighting spirit and a positive attitude
each session as they participate in aqua and
land therapy to maintain muscle strength and
mobility.
It is thrilling to hear that Breenen was also
able to help others in his program to push a
little harder once they saw his work ethic.
Congratulations once again to Breenen on
the recognition.
f
RECOGNIZING THE SERVICE OF
LIEUTENANT COLONEL MARISOL
CHALAS
HON. BETTY McCOLLUM
OF MINNESOTA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, September 17, 2019
Ms. MCCOLLUM. Madam Speaker, I rise to
pay tribute to Lieutenant Colonel Marisol
Chalas for her exemplary dedication to duty
and service as an Army Congressional Fellow
in my office and Congressional Budget Liaison
for the Assistant Secretary of the Army (Finan-
cial Management and Comptroller). Lieutenant
Colonel Chalas is transitioning from her cur-
rent assignment to serve as the Legislative
Assistant to the Vice Chief of Staff, Army.
Born in Bani, Dominican Republic, Lieuten-
ant Colonel Chalas moved with her family to
the United States at the age of nine. She
began her military career as an enlisted Sol-
dier in July 1990, and in 2001 she received
her commission as Second Lieutenant in the
Aviation branch from the Georgia Military Insti-
tute Officer Candidate School. She received
her Bachelor of Science degree in Marine En-
gineering from Massachusetts Maritime Acad-
emy, a Master of Business Administration from
Georgia State University and a Master of Leg-
islative Affairs from George Washington Uni-
versity.
Lieutenant Colonel Chalas has served in a
broad range of assignments during her exten-
sive military career. These include two rota-
tions as Company Commander, operational
experience at multiple echelons with Army
units and Joint Task forces, international du-
ties with Dominican Republic Canadian
Forces, and completion of the Army Congres-
sional Fellowship program.
In 2017, as an Army Congressional Fellow,
I had the privilege of working with Lieutenant
Colonel Chalas in my office for a year and
during her subsequent assignment as a Con-
gressional Budget Liaison for the U.S. Army.
She worked tirelessly as Defense Fellow, as-
sisted my office on a range of legislative
issues, and coordinated with Members of Con-
gress and their staffs to accurately articulate
the Army’s budget positions to the Appropria-
tions Committees. Her professionalism, dili-
gence, and commitment to the mission are un-
matched, and her work both as a fellow and
as a liaison very effectively represented the
U.S. Army and the Department of Defense to
the United States Congress.
Throughout her career, Lieutenant Colonel
Chalas has positively impacted soldiers,
peers, and superiors. Our country has bene-
fited from her extraordinary leadership, judg-
ment, and passion for the Army profession. I
join my colleagues today in honoring her dedi-
cation to our Nation and invaluable service to
the United States Congress as an Army Con-
gressional Budget Liaison.
Madam Speaker, it has been a genuine
pleasure to have worked with Lieutenant Colo-
nel Chalas since the first session of the 115th
Congress. It is with great appreciation that I
recognize and commend Marisol for her serv-
ice to our country and wish her all the best as
she continues her service in the United States
Army.
f
250TH ANNIVERSARY OF THE
FOUNDING OF HOPE TOWNSHIP,
NEW JERSEY
HON. JOSH GOTTHEIMER
OF NEW JERSEY
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, September 17, 2019
Mr. GOTTHEIMER. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to mark the 250th anniversary of Hope
Township, New Jersey. Hope Township is a
community with rich history, located in my Dis-
trict, the Fifth Congressional District of New
Jersey.
Hope Township is one of the earliest
planned communities in our nation. In 1769,
German Moravians settled in what is now
Hope Township. Prior to 1769, several families
farmed on Jenny Jump Mountain and on John
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:38 Sep 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A17SE8.030 E17SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E1164 September 17, 2019
Samuel Green, Jr.’s farm in the center of what
is now the Village in Hope Township.
The first industrial building in Hope was the
Grist Mill and its Mill Race which diverted a
channel of water to the Mill to grind flour. This
was built in one year and began immediate
production, which continued into the 1950s. A
tragic fire in 1918 destroyed several blocks in
the town, but Hope bounced back, even
stronger than before. Major development often
bypassed Hope, which has allowed the Town-
ship to maintain the original town structure for
so many decades.
In 1973, Hope Township was named a His-
toric Place in both the National and New Jer-
sey Registers of Historic Places, and the
Township has maintained its commitment to
preserving history.
Under the leadership of Mayor Tim
McDonough and the Township Committee,
Hope Township has continued to flourish. I en-
courage my colleagues to come enjoy the nat-
ural beauty of Hope Township and visit great
attractions including the Land of Make Believe,
the Hope Historical Museum, and the Inn at
Millrace Pond.
As the Representative for the Fifth Congres-
sional District of New Jersey, I am proud to
recognize Hope Township on their 250th anni-
versary.
Madam Speaker, I ask my colleagues to join
me in recognizing Hope Township for reaching
this amazing milestone and look forward to
many great years ahead.
f
U.S. TREASURY SETTLES WITH
DR. VALENTIN GAPONTSEV
HON. JAMES P. McGOVERN
OF MASSACHUSETTS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, September 17, 2019
Mr. MCGOVERN. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to highlight the settlement concluded be-
tween the Department of Treasury and my
constituent, Dr. Valentin Gapontsev, acknowl-
edging that Dr. Gapontsev is not a Russian
oligarch for purposes of the CAATSA listing
that appears on Treasury’s website. Dr.
Gapontsev is the founder and CEO of IPG
Photonics, headquartered in Oxford, Massa-
chusetts, a global leader in fiber laser tech-
nology. I have followed his dispute with Treas-
ury for over 18 months, and I am glad to see
it resolved favorably on behalf of my con-
stituent.
Therefore, I include in the RECORD the fol-
lowing: September 11, 2019 Letter from De-
partment of the Treasury to Dr. Gapontsev;
September 11, 2019 Press Release by IPG
Photonics; and September 11, 2019 Wash-
ington Post article, ‘‘Treasury admits Russian-
born physicist shouldn’t be on oligarch list that
it cribbed from Forbes.’’
DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY,
Washington, DC, September 11, 2019.
Dr. VALENTIN P. GAPONTSEV,
c/o IPG Photonics Corporation,
Oxford, MA.
IPG PHOTONICS CORPORATION,
Oxford, MA.
DEAR DR. GAPONTSEV AND IPG PHOTONICS
CORPORATION: The following concerns the
Secretary of the Treasury’s unclassified re-
port to Congress on January 29, 2018, pursu-
ant to Section 241 of the Countering Amer-
ica’s Adversaries Through Sanctions Act
(‘‘CAATSA’’), Pub. L. No. 115–44, 131 Stat. 886
(2017) (‘‘the Section 241 Report’’). The United
States Department of the Treasury is of the
opinion that, if it had to create the unclassi-
fied report today, Dr. Valentin Gapontsev
would not be listed among oligarchs in the
Russian Federation referred to in Section 241
of CAATSA. Consequently, Dr. Gapontsev is
not an oligarch in the Russian Federation
for purposes of Section 241 of CAATSA. The
Department’s view is based on information
we did not have at the time the report was
submitted to Congress. Among other things,
Dr. Valentin Gapontsev is a U.S. citizen and
chairman and CEO of IPG Photonics Cor-
poration, a publicly-traded corporation
headquartered in the United States.
Any reference to Dr. Valentin Gapontsev
in the unclassified Section 241 Report does
not reflect any judgment of the Treasury De-
partment regarding compliance with U.S.
law, including those relating to sanctions
against Russia or its oligarchs.
Sincerely,
PAUL AHERN,
Acting Principal Dep-
uty Assistant Sec-
retary, Office of Ter-
rorist Financing and
Financial Crimes.
[From IPG Photonics, September 11, 2019]
US TREASURY ACKNOWLEDGES THAT VALENTIN
GAPONTSEV IS NOT AN OLIGARCH
DR VALENTIN GAPONTSEV AND IPG SETTLE LITI-
GATION WITH US TREASURY OVER CONGRES-
SIONAL REPORT
OXFORD, MA.—IPG Photonics Corporation
(NASDAQ: IPGP) today announced that the
U.S. Treasury publicly acknowledged Dr.
Valentin P. Gapontsev is not an oligarch in
the Russian Federation for purposes of Sec-
tion 241 of Countering America’s Adversaries
Through Sanctions Act (CAATSA). Litiga-
tion over his inclusion in the so-called oli-
garch report was resolved in consideration
for the Treasury Department’s official and
public finding that Dr. Gapontsev is not an
oligarch in the Russian Federation, and he
would not be included in the report to Con-
gress if it were compiled today.
Dr. Valentin P. Gapontsev, founder and
CEO of IPG Photonics, a U.S.-based global
leader in fiber laser technology, sued the
U.S. Treasury in December 2018 over its re-
port to Congress listing him as an oligarch of
the Russian Federation under CAATSA. Dr.
Gapontsev asserted that the U.S. Treasury
had no basis in law or fact for including him
in the report.
The letter, signed by Paul Ahern, Acting
Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary of the
U.S. Treasury, says ‘‘Treasury is of the opin-
ion that, if it had to create the unclassified
report today, Dr. Valentin Gapontsev would
not be listed among oligarchs in the Russian
Federation referred to in Section 241 of
CAATSA based upon information it did not
have when the report was submitted to Con-
gress.’’ The letter also states ‘‘[a]ny ref-
erence to Dr. Valentin Gapontsev in the un-
classified 2018 report does not reflect any
judgment of the Treasury Department re-
garding compliance with U.S. law.’’ The
Treasury published the letter on its website
at https://home.treasury.gov/system/files/136/
Letter-09–11–2019.pdf.
‘‘Ever since the Treasury Department
issued the 2018 CAATSA report to Congress,
we have asserted that it was wrong in declar-
ing Dr. Gapontsev to be a Russian oligarch.
We are pleased that the Treasury has finally
admitted this much in its letter,’’ said An-
gelo Lopresti, IPG Photonics’ General Coun-
sel. He continued, ‘‘During a court hearing,
the U.S. Government conceded that the U.S.
Treasury based its unclassified CAATSA oli-
garch report entirely on a list taken from a
2017 Forbes Magazine article. Dr. Gapontsev,
a U.S. citizen, is a world-renowned scientist
and entrepreneur who created thousands of
U.S. jobs as he commercialized fiber laser
technology.’’
On January 29, 2018, the U.S. Treasury Sec-
retary designated 96 individuals as
‘‘oligarchs in the Russian Federation’’ pursu-
ant to Section 241 of the CAATSA, including
Dr. Valentin Gapontsev. IPG Photonics,
headquartered in Massachusetts, is the world
leader in fiber laser technology, with more
than 4,000 customers, 25 facilities and 6,000
employees worldwide.
Dr. Gapontsev asserted in the litigation
that his wealth stems entirely from success-
fully growing IPG Photonics and his fiber
laser innovations over the last three decades,
not from any connections with the Russian
government.
ABOUT IPG PHOTONICS CORPORATION
IPG Photonics Corporation is the leader in
high-power fiber lasers and amplifiers used
primarily in materials processing and other
diverse applications. The company’s mission
is to make its fiber laser technology the tool
of choice in mass production. IPG accom-
plishes this mission by delivering superior
performance, reliability and usability at a
lower total cost of ownership compared with
other types of lasers and non-laser tools, al-
lowing end users to increase productivity
and decrease costs. A member of the S&P
500® Index, IPG is headquartered in Oxford,
Massachusetts and has more than 25 facili-
ties worldwide. For more information, visit
www.ipgphotonics.com.
[From the Washington Post, Sept. 11, 2019]
TREASURY ADMITS RUSSIAN-BORN PHYSICIST
SHOULDN’T BE ON OLIGARCH LIST THAT IT
CRIBBED FROM FORBES
(By Steven Mufson)
The U.S. Treasury Department issued a
letter Wednesday stating that Valentin P.
Gapontsev, an 80-year-old laser physicist
who became a U.S. citizen a decade ago, does
not belong on a list of Russian oligarchs that
Treasury admitted in court to having
cribbed entirely from a 2017 Forbes Magazine
article.
Gapontsev, who has built a $6.8 billion
company called IPG Photonics based in Ox-
ford, Mass., was No. 27 on the list of 96 Rus-
sians that Treasury gave Congress when law-
makers were eager to retaliate for Russian
interference in U.S. elections.
In the letter Treasury issued Wednesday, it
said it was revising its view ‘‘based on infor-
mation we did not have at the time the re-
port was submitted to Congress.’’
Gapontsev has said that he never belonged
on the list and that he had feared that Con-
gress might use the list as a tool for apply-
ing pressure on the Kremlin. He said that un-
like the Russian oligarchs, he built his com-
pany over three decades based on its ad-
vanced laser technology, not Kremlin con-
nections.
Under sanctions law, targets could be
banned from entering the United States, and
their assets could be frozen. Some law-
makers in 2018 quickly launched a letter-
writing initiative aimed at getting financial
institutions to identify the assets of people
on the list as a way to make banks skittish
about doing business with them.
Treasury wouldn’t budge on the listing,
however, and Gapontsev filed suit in federal
court Dec. 3, 2018.
The Treasury said in a settlement Wednes-
day that Gapontsev did not belong on the list
under Section 241 of the Countering Amer-
ica’s Adversaries Through Sanctions Act. It
said that it was ‘‘of the opinion that, if it
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:38 Sep 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00010 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A17SE8.035 E17SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E1165
September 17, 2019
had to create the unclassified report today,
Dr. Valentin Gapontsev would not be listed
among oligarchs in the Russian Federation.’’
The CAATSA legislation was passed by
overwhelming margins in Congress on Aug.
2, 2017, in a rare show of bipartisanship. The
measure demanded both classified and un-
classified lists of ‘‘the most significant sen-
ior foreign political figures and oligarchs in
the Russian Federation, as determined by
their closeness to the Russian regime and
their net worth.’’
‘‘Ever since the Treasury Department
issued the 2018 CAATSA report to Congress,
we have asserted that it was wrong in declar-
ing Dr. Gapontsev to be a Russian oligarch.
We are pleased that the Treasury has finally
admitted this much in its letter,’’ Angelo
Lopresti, IPG Photonics’ general counsel,
said in a statement.
Gapontsev earned his doctorate and
worked at the Moscow Institute of Physics
and Technology. In 1990, at age 51, he started
IPG Photonics, which produces high-power
fiber-optic lasers for telecommunications
and cutting materials. He also opened facili-
ties in Burbach, Germany.
But he soon moved the firm to the United
States, then his biggest market. BellSouth
was one of his main customers. He raised
$100 million of private-equity investments
from U.S. firms.
‘‘During a court hearing, the U.S. Govern-
ment conceded that the U.S. Treasury based
its unclassified CAATSA oligarch report en-
tirely on a list taken from a 2017 Forbes
Magazine article,’’ Lopresti added.
He said that Gapontsev ‘‘is a world-re-
nowned scientist and entrepreneur who cre-
ated thousands of U.S. jobs as he commer-
cialized fiber laser technology.’’
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:38 Sep 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00011 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A17SE8.037 E17SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
REMARKS
D1017
Tuesday, September 17, 2019
Daily Digest
Senate
Chamber Action
Routine Proceedings, pages S5499–S5545
Measures Introduced: Thirteen bills and three reso-
lutions were introduced, as follows: S. 2481–2493,
and S. Res. 313–315. Page S5539
Measures Passed:
Centennial of the Aerospace Industries Associa-
tion: Senate agreed to S. Res. 314, honoring the cen-
tennial of the Aerospace Industries Association.
Page S5512
Destro Nomination—Cloture: By 49 yeas to 44
nays (Vote No. EX. 286), Senate agreed to the mo-
tion to close further debate on the nomination of
Robert A. Destro, of Virginia, to be Assistant Sec-
retary of State for Democracy, Human Rights, and
Labor. Page S5511
A unanimous-consent agreement reached pro-
viding that at approximately 10 a.m., on Wednes-
day, September 18, 2019, Senate resume consider-
ation of the nomination. Page S5512
McIntosh Nomination—Cloture: By 54 yeas to 40
nays (Vote No. EX. 287), Senate agreed to the mo-
tion to close further debate on the nomination of
Brent James McIntosh, of Michigan, to be an Under
Secretary of the Treasury. Pages S5511–12
Callanan Nomination—Cloture: Senate resumed
consideration of the nomination of Brian Callanan, of
New Jersey, to be General Counsel for the Depart-
ment of the Treasury. Page S5512
During consideration of this nomination today,
Senate also took the following action:
By 55 yeas to 37 nays (Vote No. EX. 288), Senate
agreed to the motion to close further debate on the
nomination. Page S5512
Nominations–Agreement: A unanimous-consent
agreement was reached providing that notwith-
standing Rule XXII, the post-cloture time on the
nominations of Robert A. Destro, of Virginia, to be
Assistant Secretary of State for Democracy, Human
Rights, and Labor, Brent James McIntosh, of Michi-
gan, to be an Under Secretary of the Treasury, and
Brian Callanan, of New Jersey, to be General Coun-
sel for the Department of the Treasury, expire at 11
a.m., on Wednesday, September 18, 2019.
Page S5512
Nominations Confirmed: Senate confirmed the fol-
lowing nominations:
By 63 yeas to 30 nays (Vote No. EX. 283), John
Rakolta, Jr., of Michigan, to be Ambassador to the
United Arab Emirates. Pages S5500–08
By 62 yeas to 32 nays (Vote No. EX. 285), Ken-
neth A. Howery, of Texas, to be Ambassador to the
Kingdom of Sweden. Pages S5508–11
During consideration of this nomination today,
Senate also took the following action:
By 63 yeas to 29 nays (Vote No. EX. 284), Senate
agreed to the motion to close further debate on the
nomination. Page S5508
Messages from the House: Page S5537
Executive Communications: Pages S5537–38
Petitions and Memorials: Page S5539
Additional Cosponsors: Pages S5539–41
Statements on Introduced Bills/Resolutions:
Additional Statements: Page S5537
Amendments Submitted: Pages S5542–45
Authorities for Committees to Meet: Page S5545
Privileges of the Floor: Page S5545
Record Votes: Six record votes were taken today.
(Total—288) Pages S5507–08, S5511–12
Adjournment: Senate convened at 10 a.m. and ad-
journed at 10:17 p.m., until 10 a.m. on Wednesday,
September 18, 2019. (For Senate’s program, see the
remarks of the Majority Leader in today’s Record on
page S5512.)
Committee Meetings
(Committees not listed did not meet)
BUSINESS MEETING
Committee on Appropriations: Subcommittee on Trans-
portation, Housing and Urban Development, and
Related Agencies approved for full committee con-
sideration an original bill making appropriations for
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:16 Sep 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D17SE9.REC D17SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D1018 September 17, 2019
the Department of Transportation, the Department
of Housing and Urban Development, and Related
Agencies for the fiscal year ending September 30,
2020.
BUSINESS MEETING
Committee on Appropriations: Subcommittee on Finan-
cial Services and General Government approved for
full committee consideration an original bill making
appropriations for Financial Services and General
Government for the fiscal year ending September 30,
2020.
BUSINESS MEETING
Committee on Appropriations: Subcommittee on Agri-
culture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Admin-
istration, and Related Agencies approved for full
committee consideration an original bill making ap-
propriations for the Department of Agriculture,
Rural Development, the Food and Drug Administra-
tion, and Related Agencies for the fiscal year ending
September 30, 2020.
SOUTHEASTERN EUROPE
Committee on Armed Services: Subcommittee on Emerg-
ing Threats and Capabilities concluded a hearing to
examine the situation in Southeastern Europe, after
receiving testimony from Damon M. Wilson, Atlan-
tic Council; David O. Shullman, International Re-
publican Institute; and Janusz Bugajski, Center for
European Policy Analysis.
MINERALS FOR CLEAN ENERGY
TECHNOLOGIES
Committee on Energy and Natural Resources: Committee
concluded a hearing to examine the sourcing and use
of minerals needed for clean energy technologies,
after receiving testimony from Daniel Simmons, As-
sistant Secretary of Energy for Energy Efficiency and
Renewable Energy; Morgan D. Bazilian, Colorado
School of Mines Payne Institute for Public Policy,
Golden; Allison Carlson, FP Analytics, and W. Rob-
ert Kang, Blue Whale Materials LLC, both of Wash-
ington, D.C.; and Mark P. Mills, Manhattan Insti-
tute, New York, New York.
HOLOCAUST-ERA INSURANCE CLAIMS
Committee on the Judiciary: Committee concluded a
hearing to examine Holocaust-era insurance claims,
after receiving testimony from Baird Webel, Spe-
cialist in Financial Economics, Congressional Re-
search Service, Library of Congress; Stuart E.
Eizenstat, former Ambassador and Special Advisor on
Holocaust Issues, Department of State; David
Mermelstein, Holocaust Survivors of Miami-Dade
County, Miami, Florida; Anna B. Rubin, New York
State Department of Financial Services Holocaust
Claims Processing Office, New York, New York;
and Samuel J. Dubbin, Holocaust Survivors Founda-
tion USA, Coral Gables, Florida.
ENFORCEMENT OF THE ANTITRUST LAWS
OVERSIGHT
Committee on the Judiciary: Subcommittee on Anti-
trust, Competition Policy and Consumer Rights con-
cluded an oversight hearing to examine enforcement
of the antitrust laws, after receiving testimony from
Joseph Simons, Chairman, Federal Trade Commis-
sion; and Makan Delrahim, Assistant Attorney Gen-
eral, Antitrust Division, Department of Justice.
INTELLIGENCE
Select Committee on Intelligence: Committee held closed
hearings on intelligence matters, receiving testimony
from officials of the intelligence community.
Committee recessed subject to the call.
Daily Digest
h
House of Representatives
Chamber Action
Public Bills and Resolutions Introduced: 30 pub-
lic bills, H.R. 4340–4369; and 2 resolutions, H.
Res. 559–560 were introduced. Pages H7753–54
Additional Cosponsors: Pages H7755–56
Report Filed: A report was filed today as follows:
H. Res. 558, providing for consideration of the
bill (H.R. 1423) to amend title 9 of the United
States Code with respect to arbitration; waiving a re-
quirement of clause 6(a) of rule XIII with respect to
consideration of certain resolutions reported from the
Committee on Rules; and providing for consider-
ation of motions to suspend the rules (H. Rept.
116–210). Pages H7741, H7752
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:16 Sep 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D17SE9.REC D17SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D1019
September 17, 2019
Speaker: Read a letter from the Speaker wherein she
appointed Representative Peters to act as Speaker pro
tempore for today. Page H7717
Recess: The House recessed at 12:15 p.m. and re-
convened at 2 p.m. Page H7719
Guest Chaplain: The prayer was offered by the
Guest Chaplain, Brother Peter Tabichi, OFM Keriko
Mixed Day Secondary School, Pwani Village, Kenya.
Page H7719
Recess: The House recessed at 2:06 p.m. and recon-
vened at 4 p.m. Page H7719
Suspensions: The House agreed to suspend the rules
and pass the following measures:
Stop Tip-overs of Unstable, Risky Dressers on
Youth Act: H.R. 2211, amended, to require the
Consumer Product Safety Commission to promulgate
a consumer product safety rule for free-standing
clothing storage units to protect children from tip-
over related death or injury; Pages H7720–23
Nicholas and Zachary Burt Carbon Monoxide
Poisoning Prevention Act of 2019: H.R. 1618,
amended, to encourage States to require the installa-
tion of residential carbon monoxide detectors in
homes; Pages H7723–27
Portable Fuel Container Safety Act of 2019:
H.R. 806, amended, to require compliant flame
mitigation devices to be used on portable fuel con-
tainers for flammable liquid fuels; Pages H7727–29
Helen Keller National Center Reauthorization
Act of 2019: H.R. 2134, amended, to reauthorize
the Helen Keller National Center for Youths and
Adults Who Are Deaf-Blind; and Pages H7732–34
Fostering Undergraduate Talent by Unlocking
Resources for Education Act: H.R. 2486, amended,
to reauthorize mandatory funding programs for his-
torically Black colleges and universities and other
minority-serving institutions. Pages H7734–37
Recess: The House recessed at 5:56 p.m. and recon-
vened at 6:30 p.m. Page H7741
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal
Year 2020—Motion to go to Conference: The
House agreed by unanimous consent to take from
the Speakers table the bill S. 1790, to authorize ap-
propriations for fiscal year 2020 for military activi-
ties of the Department of Defense, for military con-
struction, and for defense activities of the Depart-
ment of Energy, to prescribe military personnel
strengths for such fiscal year, and ask for its imme-
diate consideration in the House; to strike out all
after the enacting clause and insert in lieu thereof
provisions of H.R. 2500 as passed by the House; to
pass the Senate bill, as amended; and to insist on the
House amendment thereto and request a conference
with the Senate thereon. Pages H7737–41, H7741–42,
H7743–44, H7745
Rejected the Thornberry motion to instruct con-
ferees by a yea-and-nay vote of 198 yeas to 219 nays,
Roll No. 531. Pages H7738–41, H7741–42
Agreed to the Smith (WA) motion to close por-
tions of the conference by a yea-and-nay vote of 407
yeas to 4 nays, Roll No. 532. Pages H7743–44
Later, the Chair appointed the following conferees:
From the Committee on Armed Services, for consid-
eration of the Senate bill and the House amendment,
and modifications committed to conference: Rep-
resentatives Smith of Washington, Davis of Cali-
fornia, Langevin, Larsen of Washington, Cooper,
Courtney, Garamendi, Speier, Norcross, Gallego,
Moulton, Carbajal, Brown of Maryland, Khanna,
Keating, Vela, Kim, Kendra S. Horn of Oklahoma,
Cisneros, Thornberry, Wilson of South Carolina,
Turner, Rogers of Alabama, Conaway, Lamborn,
Wittman, Hartzler, Stefanik, Kelly of Mississippi,
Bacon, Banks, and Cheney. Page H7745
From the Permanent Select Committee on Intel-
ligence, for consideration of matters within the juris-
diction of that committee under clause 11 of rule X:
Representatives Schiff, Sewell of Alabama, and
Nunes. Page H7745
From the Committee on the Budget, for consider-
ation of secs. 4 and 10608 of the Senate bill, and
secs. 1006 and 1112 of the House amendment, and
modifications committed to conference: Representa-
tives Yarmuth, Peters, and Johnson of Ohio.
Page H7745
From the Committee on Education and Labor, for
consideration of secs. 571, 572, and 5501 of the Sen-
ate bill, and secs. 211, 576, 580, 1099N, 1117,
3120, and 3503 of the House amendment, and
modifications committed to conference: Representa-
tives Scott of Virginia, Trahan, and Foxx of North
Carolina. Page H7745
From the Committee on Energy and Commerce,
for consideration of secs. 214, 315, 318, 703, 3112,
3113, 3201–03, 5318, 6001, 6006, 6021, 6701,
6711, 6721–24, 6741, 6742, 6751–54, 8101, 8202,
10421, 10422, and 10742 of the Senate bill, and
secs. 315, 330F, 330H, 3300, 606, 737, 3111,
3112, 3127, 3128, 3201, and 3202 of the House
amendment, and modifications committed to con-
ference: Representatives Pallone, Tonka, and Upton.
Page H7745
From the Committee on Financial Services, for
consideration of secs. 6017, 6018, 6804, 6811,
6813–16, 6834, 6835, and title LXIX of the Senate
bill, and secs. 550K, 560G, subtitle I of title X,
secs. 1240B, 1292, 1704, 1711, 1713–16, 1733,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:16 Sep 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D17SE9.REC D17SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D1020 September 17, 2019
and 2843 of the House amendment, and modifica-
tions committed to conference: Representatives
Waters, Sherman, and Barr. Page H7745
From the Committee on Foreign Affairs, for con-
sideration of secs. 834, 1011, 1043, 1202, 1203,
1205, 1206, 1211, 1212, 1215, 1221–24, 1231–36,
1238, 1252, 1281–84, title XIII, secs. 1671, 1681,
2822, 6203–06, 6210, 6213, 6215, 6231, 6236,
title LXVIII, secs. 6921, 6922, 6931, 6941, 6943,
6954, part I of subtitle B of title LXXXV, secs.
8562, and 10701 of the Senate bill, and secs. 634,
1036, 1046, 1050, 1099X, 1201, 1202, 1204,
1207, 1210, 1213, 1215, 1218, 1221–25, 1229,
1231–34, 1240A, 1241, 1250D, 1251, 1255, 1258,
1260A, 1260B, 1265, 1266, 1269, 1270, 1270G,
1270H, 1270I, 1270N, 1270R, 1270S, 1270T,
1270W, subtitle I of title XII, subtitle J of title
XII, title XIII, secs. 1521, 1669, and title XVII of
the House amendment, and modifications committed
to conference: Messrs. Engel, Meeks, and McCaul.
Page H7745
From the Committee on Homeland Security, for
consideration of secs. 6006, 6012, and 8543 of the
Senate bill, and modifications committed to con-
ference: Representatives Rose of New York, Under-
wood, and Walker. Page H7745
From the Committee on the Judiciary, for consid-
eration of secs. 1025, 1031, 1044, 1682, 6004,
6206, 6804, 6811, 6813–16, 6835, 6921, and 6944
of the Senate bill, and secs. 530F, 530G, 550D,
550F, 550J, 570H, 729, 827, 1011, 1048, 1049,
1050C, 1093, 1099C, 1099K, 1099V, 1099Z–3,
1212, 1296A, 1704, 1711, 1713–16, and 1733 of
the House amendment, and modifications committed
to conference: Representatives Nadler, Lofgren, and
Collins of Georgia. Page H7745
From the Committee on Natural Resources, for
consideration of secs. 314, 2812, 2814, 6001, 6020,
subtitle C of title LXVII, sec. 8524, part I of sub-
title B of title LXXXV, secs. 8554, and 8571 of the
Senate bill, and secs. 330G, 1094, 1099D, 1099F,
1099U, 2851, subtitle F of title XXVIII, secs. 2876,
and 2880 of the House amendment, and modifica-
tions committed to conference: Representatives Gri-
jalva, Haaland, and Bishop of Utah. Page H7745
From the Committee on Oversight and Reform,
for consideration of secs. 218, 530, 559, 579, 1081,
1082, title XI, secs. 5802, 6012, subtitle B of title
LXV, secs. 9304, 9307, 9311, 9313, 9314, 10303,
10432, 10434, 10601, 10603–05, 10612, 10741,
and 10742 of the Senate bill, and secs. 212, 239,
550O, 629, 633, 804, 829, 842, 861, 872, 877,
883, 884, 891, 895, 899E, 899H, 899I, 1064,
1085, 1099B, title XI, secs. 1704, 1711, 1713–16,
and 3127 of the House amendment, and modifica-
tions committed to conference: Representatives
Lynch, Connolly, and Green of Tennessee. Page H7745
From the Committee on Science, Space, and Tech-
nology, for consideration of secs. 216, 219, 1612,
6001, 6006, 6008, 6009, 6742, 6754, 8524, and
10742 of the Senate bill, and secs. 214, 217, 882,
and 1089 of the House amendment, and modifica-
tions committed to conference: Representatives John-
son of Texas, Sherrill, and Baird. Page H7745
From the Committee on Small Business, for con-
sideration of sec. 841 of the Senate bill, and secs.
872–76, 878, 879, 881, 882, and 886–89 of the
House amendment, and modifications committed to
conference: Representatives Velázquez, Golden, and
Chabot. Page H7745
From the Committee on Transportation and Infra-
structure, for consideration of secs. 353, 1612, 1682,
2805, title XXXV, secs. 6001, 6006, 6012, 6015,
6019, 6021, 6754, 8500, 8511, 8517, 8519, 8520,
8522, 8523, 8525, 8532, 8543, 8545, 8546, and
8571 of the Senate bill, and secs. 311, 313, 330A,
330O, 351, 354, 555, 569, 580C, 606, 896, 2808,
3501, and 3504 of the House amendment, and
modifications committed to conference: Representa-
tives Delgado, Pappas, and Katko. Page H7745
From the Committee on Veterans’ Affairs, for con-
sideration of secs. 568, 721, 726, 727, 1083, 1431,
2812, 2813, 5702, and 6007 of the Senate bill, and
secs. 530, 530A, 545, 546, 550E, 550G, 550H,
550I, 550J, 569, 570E, 570F, 574, 624, 705, 706,
713, 715, 1093, 1126, and 1411 of the House
amendment, and modifications committed to con-
ference: Representatives Takano, Brownley of Cali-
fornia, and Watkins. Page H7745
Oath of Office—Ninth Congressional District of
North Carolina: Representative-elect Dan Bishop
presented himself in the well of the House and was
administered the Oath of Office by the Speaker. Ear-
lier, the Clerk of the House transmitted a scanned
copy of a letter received from Katelyn Love, General
Counsel, North Carolina State Board of Elections, in-
dicating that, according to the preliminary results of
the Special Election held September 10, 2019, the
Honorable Dan Bishop was elected Representative to
Congress for the Ninth Congressional District, State
of North Carolina. Pages H7742, H7747
Oath of Office—Third Congressional District of
North Carolina: Representative-elect Greg Murphy
presented himself in the well of the House and was
administered the Oath of Office by the Speaker. Ear-
lier, the Clerk of the House transmitted a scanned
copy of a letter received from Katelyn Love, General
Counsel, North Carolina State Board of Elections, in-
dicating that, according to the preliminary results of
the Special Election held September 10, 2019, the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:16 Sep 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D17SE9.REC D17SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D1021
September 17, 2019
Honorable Gregory Murphy was elected Representa-
tive to Congress for the Third Congressional Dis-
trict, State of North Carolina. Pages H7742, H7747
Whole Number of the House: The Speaker an-
nounced to the House that, in light of the adminis-
tration of the oath to the gentlemen from North
Carolina, the whole number of the House is 435.
Page H7743
Permitting States to transfer certain funds from
the clean water revolving fund of a State to the
drinking water revolving fund of the State in
certain circumstances: The House agreed to take
from the Speaker’s table and pass S. 1689, to permit
States to transfer certain funds from the clean water
revolving fund of a State to the drinking water re-
volving fund of the State in certain circumstances.
Page H7744
Alaska Remote Generator Reliability and Protec-
tion Act: The House agreed to discharge from com-
mittee and pass S. 163, to prevent catastrophic fail-
ure or shutdown of remote diesel power engines due
to emission control devices. Pages H7744–45
Suspension—Proceedings Postponed: The House
debated the following measure under suspension of
the rules. Further proceedings were postponed.
Department of Veterans Affairs Expiring Au-
thorities Act of 2019: H.R. 4285, to amend title 38,
United States Code, to extend and modify certain
authorities and requirements relating to the Depart-
ment of Veterans Affairs. Pages H7729–32
Health Information Technology Advisory Com-
mittee—Appointment: The Chair announced the
Speaker’s appointment of the following individual on
the part of the House to the Health Information
Technology Advisory Committee to fill the existing
vacancy thereon: Dr. Jim Jirjis of Nashville, Ten-
nessee. Page H7747
Presidential Message: Read a message from the
President wherein he notified Congress of his intent
to enter into a trade agreement regarding tariff bar-
riers with Japan—referred to the Committee on
Ways and Means and ordered to be printed (H. Doc.
116–63). Page H7719
Senate Referral: S. Con. Res. 25 was referred to the
Committee on Oversight and Reform. Page H7747
Senate Message: Message received from the Senate
by the Clerk and subsequently presented to the
House today appears on page H7719.
Quorum Calls—Votes: Two yea-and-nay votes de-
veloped during the proceedings of today and appear
on pages H7741–42 and H7743–44. There were no
quorum calls.
Adjournment: The House met at 12 noon and ad-
journed at 7:51 p.m.
Committee Meetings
PRESIDENTIAL OBSTRUCTION OF JUSTICE
AND ABUSE OF POWER
Committee on the Judiciary: Full Committee held a
hearing entitled ‘‘Presidential Obstruction of Justice
and Abuse of Power’’. Testimony was heard from
public witnesses.
FORCED ARBITRATION INJUSTICE REPEAL
ACT
Committee on Rules: Full Committee held a hearing on
H.R. 1423, the ‘‘Forced Arbitration Injustice Repeal
Act’’. The Committee granted, by record vote of
6–3, a structured rule providing for consideration of
H.R. 1423, the ‘‘Forced Arbitration Injustice Repeal
Act’’. The rule provides one hour of general debate
equally divided and controlled by the chair and
ranking minority member of the Committee on the
Judiciary. The rule waives all points of order against
consideration of the bill. The rule makes in order as
original text for the purpose of amendment an
amendment in the nature of a substitute consisting
of the text of Rules Committee Print 116–32, modi-
fied by the amendment printed in part A of the
Rules Committee report, and provides that it shall
be considered as read. The rule waives all points of
order against that amendment in the nature of a
substitute. The rule makes in order only those fur-
ther amendments printed in part B of the Rules
Committee report. Each such amendment may be of-
fered only in the order printed in the report, may
be offered only by a Member designated in the re-
port, shall be considered as read, shall be debatable
for the time specified in the report equally divided
and controlled by the proponent and an opponent,
shall not be subject to amendment, and shall not be
subject to a demand for division of the question. The
rule waives all points of order against the amend-
ments printed in part B of the report. The rule pro-
vides one motion to recommit with or without in-
structions. The rule waives the requirement of clause
6(a) of Rule XIII, for a two-thirds vote to consider
a report from the Committee on Rules on the same
day it is presented to the House with respect to any
resolution reported through the legislative day of
September 20, 2019, relating to a measure making
or continuing appropriations for the fiscal year end-
ing September 30, 2020. Finally, the rule provides
that it shall be in order at any time on the legisla-
tive day of September 19, 2019, or September 20,
2019, for the Speaker to entertain motions that the
House suspend the rules and that the Speaker or her
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:16 Sep 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D17SE9.REC D17SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D1022 September 17, 2019
designee shall consult with the Minority Leader or
his designee on the designation of any matter for
consideration pursuant to this section. Testimony
was heard from Representatives Cicilline and Arm-
strong.
BUSINESS MEETING
Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence: Full Com-
mittee held a business meeting on releasing certain
executive session material. A motion to release cer-
tain executive session material passed, without
amendment.
Joint Meetings
No joint committee meetings were held.
f
COMMITTEE MEETINGS FOR WEDNESDAY,
SEPTEMBER 18, 2019
(Committee meetings are open unless otherwise indicated)
Senate
Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation: to
hold hearings to examine mass violence, extremism, and
digital responsibility, 10 a.m., SH–216.
Committee on Environment and Public Works: to hold hear-
ings to examine improving American economic competi-
tiveness through water resources infrastructure, 10 a.m.,
SD–406.
Committee on Foreign Relations: to hold hearings to exam-
ine United States policy in the Indo-Pacific region, focus-
ing on Hong Kong, alliances and partnerships, and other
issues, 10 a.m., SD–419.
Full Committee, business meeting to consider the
nominations of Andrew P. Bremberg, of Virginia, to be
Representative of the United States of America to the Of-
fice of the United Nations and Other International Orga-
nizations in Geneva, with the rank of Ambassador, John
Leslie Carwile, of Maryland, to be Ambassador to the Re-
public of Latvia, Anthony F. Godfrey, of Virginia, to be
Ambassador to the Republic of Serbia, Doug Manchester,
of California, to be Ambassador to the Commonwealth of
The Bahamas, Erin Elizabeth McKee, of California, to be
Ambassador to the Independent State of Papua New
Guinea, and to serve concurrently and without additional
compensation as Ambassador to the Solomon Islands and
Ambassador to the Republic of Vanuatu, Herro Mustafa,
of California, to be Ambassador to the Republic of Bul-
garia, and Adrian Zuckerman, of New Jersey, to be Am-
bassador to Romania, all of the Department of State, rou-
tine lists in the Foreign Service, and other pending cal-
endar business, 1:30 p.m., S–116, Capitol.
Subcommittee on Western Hemisphere, Transnational
Crime, Civilian Security, Democracy, Human Rights, and
Global Women’s Issues, to hold hearings to examine
United States-Colombia relations, focusing on new oppor-
tunities to reinforce and strengthen the bilateral relation-
ship, 2:30 p.m., SD–419.
Committee on Indian Affairs: to hold hearings to examine
the Government Accountability Office report on tribal ac-
cess to spectrum, focusing on promoting communications
services in Indian country, 2:30 p.m., SD–628.
House
Committee on Appropriations, Subcommittee on the De-
partments of Labor, Health and Human Services, Edu-
cation, and Related Agencies, hearing entitled ‘‘Oversight
Hearing: Mental Health Needs of Children in HHS Cus-
tody’’, 10 a.m., 2358–C Rayburn.
Committee on Armed Services, Subcommittee on Military
Personnel, hearing entitled ‘‘Shattered Families, Shattered
Service: Taking Military Domestic Violence Out of the
Shadows’’, 2 p.m., 2118 Rayburn.
Committee on Education and Labor, Full Committee,
markup on H.R. 4334, the ‘‘Dignity in Aging Act of
2019’’; and H.R. 4301, the ‘‘School Shooting Safety and
Preparedness Act’’, 10:15 a.m., 2175 Rayburn.
Committee on Energy and Commerce, Subcommittee on En-
vironment and Climate Change, hearing entitled ‘‘Build-
ing a 100 Percent Clean Economy: Pathways to Net Zero
Industrial Emissions’’, 10 a.m., 2123 Rayburn.
Committee on Financial Services, Full Committee, markup
on H.R. 123, the ‘‘FHA Additional Credit Pilot Program
Reauthorization Act’’; H.R. 132, the ‘‘North America
Development Bank Improvement Act of 2019’’; H.R.
4029, the ‘‘Tribal Eligibility for Homeless Assistance
Grants Act of 2019’’; H.R. 4067, the ‘‘Financial Inclu-
sion in Banking Act of 2019’’; H.R. 4242, the ‘‘Greater
Accountability in Pay Act of 2019’’; H.R. 4300, the
‘‘Fostering Stable Housing Opportunities Act of 2019’’;
H.R. 4302, the ‘‘Facilitating Access to Homeless Assist-
ance Act of 2019’’; H.R. 4328, the ‘‘Protecting Innocent
Consumers Affected by a Shutdown Act’’; H.R. 4329, the
‘‘ESG Disclosure Simplification Act of 2019’’; legislation
to amend the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934 to
allow for the SEC to seek and Federal courts to grant res-
titution to investors and disgorgement of unjust enrich-
ment; legislation on the 8–K Trading Gap Act of 2019;
and legislation on the Corporate Management Account-
ability Act of 2019, 10 a.m., 2128 Rayburn.
Committee on Foreign Affairs, Subcommittee on Europe,
Eurasia, Energy, and the Environment; and Full Com-
mittee of the House Select Committee on the Climate
Crisis, joint hearing entitled ‘‘Voices Leading the Next
Generation on the Global Climate Crisis’’, 10 a.m., 2172
Rayburn.
Subcommittee on Asia, the Pacific, and Nonprolifera-
tion, hearing entitled ‘‘U.S. Interests in East Asia and the
Pacific and the FY20 Budget’’, 2 p.m., 2172 Rayburn.
Subcommittee on the Middle East, North Africa, and
International Terrorism; and the Subcommittee on Intel-
ligence and Counterterrorism of the House Committee on
Homeland Security, hearing entitled ‘‘Meeting the Chal-
lenge of White Nationalist Terrorism at Home and
Abroad’’, 2 p.m., 310 Cannon.
Committee on House Administration, Full Committee,
hearing entitled ‘‘Oversight of the Smithsonian Institu-
tion’’, 9 a.m., 1310 Longworth.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:16 Sep 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D17SE9.REC D17SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D1023
September 17, 2019
Committee on the Judiciary, Full Committee, hearing en-
titled ‘‘Oversight of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance
Act’’, 10 a.m., 2141 Rayburn.
Committee on Natural Resources, Full Committee, markup
on H.R. 182, to extend the authorization for the Cape
Cod National Seashore Advisory Commission; H.R. 263,
to rename the Oyster Bay National Wildlife Refuge as
the Congressman Lester Wolff Oyster Bay National
Wildlife Refuge; H.R. 473, to authorize the Every Word
We Utter Monument to establish a commemorative work
in the District of Columbia and its environs, and for
other purposes; H.R. 560, the ‘‘Northern Mariana Islands
Residents Relief Act’’; H.R. 737, the ‘‘Shark Fin Sales
Elimination Act of 2019’’; H.R. 1023, the ‘‘Great Lakes
Fishery Research Authorization Act of 2019’’; H.R. 1218,
the ‘‘American Fisheries Advisory Committee Act’’; H.R.
1314, the ‘‘Integrated Coastal and Ocean Observation
System Act Amendments of 2019’’; H.R. 1380, the ‘‘Big
Cat Public Safety Act’’; H.R. 1446, the ‘‘Multinational
Species Conservation Funds Semipostal Stamp Reauthor-
ization Act of 2019’’; H.R. 2189, the ‘‘Digital Coast
Act’’; H.R. 2245, the ‘‘CECIL Act’’; H.R. 2405, the
‘‘National Sea Grant College Program Amendments Act
of 2019’’; H.R. 2406, the ‘‘National Oceanic and Atmos-
pheric Administration Commissioned Officer Corps
Amendments Act of 2019’’; H.R. 2490, to amend the
National Trails System Act to direct the Secretary of the
Interior to conduct a study on the feasibility of desig-
nating the Chief Standing Bear National Historic Trail,
and for other purposes; and H.R. 2819, the ‘‘Gold Star
Families National Monument Extension Act’’, 10 a.m.,
1324 Longworth.
Committee on Oversight and Reform, Subcommittee on
Government Operations, hearing entitled ‘‘Overseeing the
Overseers: Council of the Inspectors General on Integrity
and Efficiency at 10 Years’’, 11 a.m., 2154 Rayburn.
Committee on Science, Space, and Technology, Subcommittee
on Space and Aeronautics, hearing entitled ‘‘Developing
Core Capabilities for Deep Space Exploration: An Update
on NASA’s SLS, Orion, and Exploration Ground Sys-
tems’’, 10 a.m., 2318 Rayburn.
Subcommittee on Energy, hearing entitled ‘‘The Next
Mile: Technology Pathways to Accelerate Sustainability
within the Transportation Sector’’, 2 p.m., 2318 Ray-
burn.
Committee on Small Business, Full Committee, hearing
entitled ‘‘The Role of the SBA’s 8(a) Program in Enhanc-
ing Economic Opportunities’’, 11:30 a.m., 2360 Ray-
burn.
Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, Sub-
committee on Water Resources and Environment, hearing
entitled ‘‘The Administration’s Priorities and Policy Ini-
tiatives Under the Clean Water Act’’, 10 a.m., 2167 Ray-
burn.
Committee on Veterans’ Affairs, Full Committee, business
meeting to Reauthorize the Women Veterans’ Task Force,
2 p.m., HVC–210.
Full Committee, hearing entitled ‘‘Critical Impact:
How Barriers to Hiring at VA Affect Patient Care and
Access’’, 2:05 p.m., HVC–210.
Joint Meetings
Joint Economic Committee: to hold hearings to examine
gun violence in America, focusing on understanding and
reducing the costs of firearm injuries and deaths, 2:15
p.m., 210, Cannon Building.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:16 Sep 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D17SE9.REC D17SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
Congressional Record The Congressional Record (USPS 087–390). The Periodicals postage
is paid at Washington, D.C. The public proceedings of each House
of Congress, as reported by the Official Reporters thereof, are
printed pursuant to directions of the Joint Committee on Printing as authorized by appropriate provisions of Title 44, United
States Code, and published for each day that one or both Houses are in session, excepting very infrequent instances when
two or more unusually small consecutive issues are printed one time. ¶ Public access to the Congressional Record is available online through
the U.S. Government Publishing Office, at www.govinfo.gov, free of charge to the user. The information is updated online each day the
Congressional Record is published. For more information, contact the GPO Customer Contact Center, U.S. Government Publishing Office.
Phone 202–512–1800, or 866–512–1800 (toll-free). E-Mail, contactcenter@gpo.gov. ¶ To place an order for any of these products, visit the U.S.
Government Online Bookstore at: bookstore.gpo.gov. Mail orders to: Superintendent of Documents, P.O. Box 979050, St. Louis, MO
63197–9000, or phone orders to 866–512–1800 (toll-free), 202–512–1800 (D.C. area), or fax to 202–512–2104. Remit check or money order, made
payable to the Superintendent of Documents, or use VISA, MasterCard, Discover, American Express, or GPO Deposit Account. ¶ Following
each session of Congress, the daily Congressional Record is revised, printed, permanently bound and sold by the Superintendent of Documents
in individual parts or by sets. ¶ With the exception of copyrighted articles, there are no restrictions on the republication of material from
the Congressional Record.
POSTMASTER: Send address changes to the Superintendent of Documents, Congressional Record, U.S. Government Publishing Office,
Washington, D.C. 20402, along with the entire mailing label from the last issue received.
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
D1024 September 17, 2019
Next Meeting of the SENATE
10 a.m., Wednesday, September 18
Senate Chamber
Program for Wednesday: Senate will resume consider-
ation of the nomination of Robert A. Destro, of Virginia,
to be Assistant Secretary of State for Democracy, Human
Rights, and Labor, post-cloture, and vote on confirmation
of the nominations of Robert A. Destro, Brent James
McIntosh, of Michigan, to be an Under Secretary of the
Treasury, and Brian Callanan, of New Jersey, to be Gen-
eral Counsel for the Department of the Treasury, at 11
a.m.
Following disposition of the nomination of Brian
Callanan, Senate will vote on the motion to invoke clo-
ture on the motion to proceed to consideration of H.R.
2740, Labor, Health and Human Services, Education, De-
fense, State, Foreign Operations, and Energy and Water
Development Appropriations Act.
Next Meeting of the HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
10 a.m., Wednesday, September 18
House Chamber
Program for Wednesday: Consideration of H.R.
1423—Forced Arbitration Injustice Repeal Act (Subject
to a Rule).
Extensions of Remarks, as inserted in this issue
HOUSE
Banks, Jim, Ind., E1161
Bost, Mike, Ill., E1159
Bustos, Cheri, Ill., E1160, E1161, E1163
Carson, André, Ind., E1157
Cohen, Steve, Tenn., E1158
DeLauro, Rosa L., Conn., E1162
Dingell, Debbie, Mich., E1157
Engel, Eliot L., N.Y., E1156, E1158, E1159, E1163
Eshoo, Anna G., Calif., E1162
Gallagher, Mike, Wisc., E1159
Gianforte, Greg, Mont., E1155
Gonzalez, Vicente, Tex., E1162
Gottheimer, Josh, N.J., E1163
Hastings, Alcee L., Fla., E1158
Herrera Beutler, Jaime, Wash., E1160
Huizenga, Bill, Mich., E1161
Joyce, John, Pa., E1157, E1157, E1158, E1159, E1161,
E1162, E1163
Lee, Barbara, Calif., E1162
Lipinski, Daniel, Ill., E1156
Luria, Elaine G., Va., E1159
McCollum, Betty, Minn., E1161, E1163
McGovern, James P., Mass., E1164
Payne, Donald M., Jr., N.J., E1157
Rogers, Mike, Ala., E1160
Rush, Bobby L., Ill., E1155
Schakowsky, Janice D., Ill., E1160
Schiff, Adam B., Calif., E1155
Stefanik, Elise M., N.Y., E1160
Titus, Dina, Nev., E1155
Visclosky, Peter J., Ind., E1156
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:16 Sep 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 0664 Sfmt 0664 E:\CR\FM\D17SE9.REC D17SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
DIGEST
