Congressional Record
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
United States
of America PROCEEDINGS AND DEBATES OF THE 116th
CONGRESS, FIRST SESSION
b This symbol represents the time of day during the House proceedings, e.g., b 1407 is 2:07 p.m.
Matter set in this typeface indicates words inserted or appended, rather than spoken, by a Member of the House on the floor.
.
H8681
Vol. 165 WASHINGTON, THURSDAY, OCTOBER 31, 2019 No. 173
House of Representatives
The House met at 9 a.m. and was
called to order by the Speaker pro tem-
pore (Mr. TONKO).
f
DESIGNATION OF THE SPEAKER
PRO TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore laid be-
fore the House the following commu-
nication from the Speaker:
WASHINGTON, DC,
October 31, 2019.
I hereby appoint the Honorable PAUL
TONKO to act as Speaker pro tempore on this
day.
NANCY PELOSI,
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
f
PRAYER
The Chaplain, the Reverend Patrick
J. Conroy, offered the following prayer:
Dear God, we give You thanks for
giving us another day.
We ask Your special blessing upon
the Members of this people’s House.
They face difficult decisions in difficult
times, with many forces and interests
demanding their attention.
Give them generosity to enter into
their work. May they serve You in the
work they do as You deserve; give of
themselves and not count the cost;
fight for what is best for our Nation
and not count the political wounds;
toil until their work is done and not
seek to rest; and labor without seeking
any reward, other than knowing they
are doing Your will, and serving the
people of this great Nation.
Bless them, O God, and be with them
and with us all this day and every day
to come. May all that is done be for
Your greater honor and glory.
Amen.
f
THE JOURNAL
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair has examined the Journal of the
last day’s proceedings and announces
to the House his approval thereof.
Pursuant to clause 1, rule I, the Jour-
nal stands approved.
f
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Will the
gentleman from Ohio (Mr. JOYCE) come
forward and lead the House in the
Pledge of Allegiance.
Mr. JOYCE of Ohio led the Pledge of
Allegiance as follows:
I pledge allegiance to the Flag of the
United States of America, and to the Repub-
lic for which it stands, one nation under God,
indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
f
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER
PRO TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair will entertain up to five requests
for 1-minute speeches on each side of
the aisle.
f
RECOGNIZING THE LIFE AND
LEGACY OF ELIAS ‘‘SKIP’’ ASHOOH
(Mr. PAPPAS asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. PAPPAS. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today on behalf of all Granite Staters
to recognize the life and legacy of Elias
‘‘Skip’’ Ashooh who passed away this
week. He embodied the spirit of the
Queen City and left this world too
soon.
As a lifelong Manchester resident and
Saint Anselm College alum, Skip dedi-
cated his career and life to bettering
his community. He was a successful
businessman, local leader, and philan-
thropist who never gave up on the po-
tential of Manchester and all its resi-
dents. He was a community fixture who
loved taking in the downtown area he
helped revitalize.
As chair of the Manchester Develop-
ment Corporation, Skip was instru-
mental in making the civic center
project a reality, one of the city’s most
consequential economic development
projects since the industrial revolu-
tion. His immense impact was known
by all, which is why he was named Cit-
izen of the Year in 2000.
I hope we can honor Skip Ashooh’s
legacy by continuing to work together
to move Manchester and New Hamp-
shire forward.
I offer condolences to his wife, Gail,
the Ashooh family, friends, and all who
knew him.
May Skip’s memory be eternal.
f
HONORING THE LIFE AND SERVICE
OF U.S. ARMY SERGEANT THOM-
AS COLE WALKER OF CONNEAUT,
OHIO
(Mr. JOYCE of Ohio asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute.)
Mr. JOYCE of Ohio. Madam Speaker,
it is with a heavy heart that I rise to
honor the life and service of U.S. Army
Sergeant Thomas Cole Walker of
Conneaut, Ohio.
Sergeant Walker, who enlisted after
graduating from Conneaut High School
in 2016, was tragically killed on Octo-
ber 20 during a training exercise at
Fort Stewart.
Just 22 years old, he had been award-
ed the Army Good Conduct Medal, the
National Defense Service Medal, the
Korea Defense Service Medal, and the
Army Service Ribbon.
His dedication to protecting this Na-
tion was nothing short of heroic and
serves as an inspiration to us all. But
Sergeant Walker was more than a pa-
triot. He was also a son, a brother, and
a husband. His loss is felt by many.
Madam Speaker, please join me in
extending condolences to the friends,
fellow soldiers, and family of Sergeant
Walker, especially his wife, Taylor; his
brother, Jared; his sisters Payton,
Whitney, and Wendy; and his father,
Thomas.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:12 Nov 01, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A31OC7.000 H31OCPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8682 October 31, 2019
I pray that the outpouring of support
from the Conneaut community will
help ease their sorrow during this dif-
ficult time. I know this entire Chamber
joins me in thanking Sergeant Walker
for his service, honoring his life, and
praying for his family.
f
LIMOUSINE SAFETY STANDARDS
(Mr. TONKO asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. TONKO. Madam Speaker, this
month marked the painful anniversary
of one fateful afternoon in Schoharie,
New York, when 20 precious souls were
lost in the preventable crash of a lim-
ousine that should never have been al-
lowed on the road.
The families of those lost—many
from my hometown of Amsterdam,
New York—the families of eight young
people devastated by the Cutchogue
crash on Long Island in 2015, and
countless others touched by these pre-
ventable tragedies have raised their
voices to demand action.
Last week we introduced bipartisan
legislation that answers their call. It is
important, I believe, to respond to that
call and to that request. The SAFE
Limos Act, the Take Unsafe Limos Off
the Road Act, and the End the Limo
Loophole Act have responded to them
with great sensitivity.
I thank my friend, ANTONIO DELGADO,
for joining me in sponsoring this life-
saving legislation, and I thank our col-
leagues on both sides of the aisle who
have signed on in support. These com-
monsense measures will save lives and
ensure that this never happens to an-
other family.
Madam Speaker, I urge this body to
raise our Nation’s limousine safety
standards without delay.
f
SKILLED NURSING SHORTAGE
(Mr. MCKINLEY asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Mr. MCKINLEY. Madam Speaker, I
rise today to commend the House for
passing H.R. 728, the bipartisan Title
VIII Nursing Workforce Reauthoriza-
tion Act.
My wife, Mary, was a critical care
nurse for over 45 years, and we could
tell you firsthand the role that nurses
play in patient care.
But America is facing a shortage of
skilled nurses. Our nursing workforce
in America is aging, and the average
age is 50 years old. By 2022 there will be
1 million nursing jobs open and avail-
able.
We must find a way to encourage
people to go into nursing. This bill
helps not only to recruit nurses but to
provide rural and underserved commu-
nities a competitive way to attract and
keep talent.
Madam Speaker, H.R. 728 is a step
forward in addressing our Nation’s
growing need for nurses.
VENTURE ACADEMY: MOCK TRIAL
WORLD CHAMPIONS
(Mr. MCNERNEY asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute and to revise and extend
his remarks.)
Mr. MCNERNEY. Madam Speaker, I
rise today to congratulate a group of
talented students in my district who
recently earned the title of Mock Trial
World Champions.
Venture Academy’s mock trial team
was one of 38 teams that traveled to
New York to compete for this honor in
the Empire Mock Trial World Cham-
pionship. They successfully argued a
fictional case involving a construction
company that was accused of failing to
take proper safety precautions by por-
traying the prosecutors and defendants
as well as the witnesses in the case.
They ended up bringing back the top
prize to Stockton.
This isn’t Venture Academy’s first
big success. Last year the team placed
fifth in the Empire contest, and for the
past 6 years they have won first place
in the San Joaquin County mock trial
competition.
One day some of these students could
come here and stand at this podium,
putting their debate skills to work
while arguing for or against important
legislation.
So, Madam Speaker, please join me
in congratulating Venture Academy’s
mock trial team, the Mock Trial World
Champions.
f
PHONY IMPEACHMENT INQUIRIES
(Mr. LAMALFA asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. LAMALFA. Madam Speaker,
today we will vote on a resolution that
will somehow try to legitimize the last
5 weeks’ worth of phony impeachment
inquiries going on downstairs in a se-
cure room.
Instead of voting on and taking up
the issues that matter to the American
people, we continue to chase this witch
hunt trying to take down the accom-
plishments of our President, Donald J.
Trump. Indeed, the economy we have,
the low unemployment we have, and
the success we are having in the Middle
East and other areas around the world
aren’t good enough.
When my colleagues on the other side
of the aisle admit that they probably
won’t win another election and they
have to try to use the impeachment
process to try to take the President
down, that shows how phony this proc-
ess is.
So to try today to pass a resolution
to somehow legitimize the last 5-plus
weeks’ worth of work and, indeed, real-
ly 21⁄2 years’ worth of attacking this
President shows that this place has a
misplaced set of priorities.
Instead of doing the work of the
American people, they are using this as
a political process to attack what we
have all been able to accomplish.
PRESCRIPTION DRUGS
(Mr. CARBAJAL asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. CARBAJAL. Madam Speaker, I
rise on behalf of the people of my dis-
trict, California’s central coast, who
are worried about healthcare and the
high cost of prescription drugs.
Earlier this month at home, I spoke
with people at retirement commu-
nities, town halls, and at their door-
steps delivering food for Meals on
Wheels. Throughout these conversa-
tions, one thing was made clear: We
need to lower the cost of prescription
drugs.
I am proud the House passed H.R. 987
to strengthen health protections and
bring down drug costs. I am excited
that we are looking ahead to do more
to ensure people never have to choose
between lifesaving medicine and put-
ting food on the table.
That is why I cosponsored H.R. 3, the
Lower Drug Costs Now Act. When we
give the power to Medicare to nego-
tiate prices directly with drug compa-
nies and make these lower prices avail-
able to everyone, we all win.
H.R. 3 gives power back to the pa-
tients. It is what people in my district
are working for, and I am proud to sup-
port it.
f
IMPEACHMENT INQUIRY
(Mr. SPANO asked and was given per-
mission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. SPANO. Madam Speaker, I rise
in strong opposition to the resolution
that attempts to justify the sham im-
peachment process that I have person-
ally witnessed. The majority claims
this resolution will ensure a ‘‘fair,
open, and transparent process.’’
Madam Speaker, do you want to
know how fair this process is?
The resolution names the Financial
Services Committee as part of the in-
vestigation. Earlier this month, the
chairwoman of that committee said
that President Trump should be
‘‘placed in solitary confinement.’’
Further, Republicans will only be al-
lowed to subpoena witnesses with
Chairman SCHIFF’s approval, as deemed
necessary to the investigation.
If we have learned anything from the
investigation so far, we know the ma-
jority does not think due process is
necessary. They don’t even think basic
fairness is necessary.
A ‘‘yes’’ vote on this resolution today
gives a stamp of approval to a process
that has been damaged beyond all re-
pair and is a blatant and obvious coup
to unseat a sitting President of the
United States. I will not support a res-
olution that promises an open and fair
process without the basic, fundamental
procedures necessary to ensure it.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:12 Nov 01, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K31OC7.003 H31OCPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8683
October 31, 2019
b 0915
AFFIRMING U.S. RECORD ON
ARMENIAN GENOCIDE
(Ms. LEE of California asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute and to revise and extend
her remarks.)
Ms. LEE of California. Madam
Speaker, I rise today in strong support
of H. Res. 296, which is an important
resolution affirming the United States
record on the Armenian genocide that
the House overwhelmingly passed on
Tuesday. This historic resolution
makes clear that our Nation unequivo-
cally recognizes the Armenian geno-
cide and encourages education and un-
derstanding of these tragic events.
Madam Speaker, the Armenian geno-
cide, the first genocide in the 20th cen-
tury, took place from 1915 to 1923. Dur-
ing this tragedy in history, 1.5 million
Armenians were killed—men, women,
and children.
I was privileged to visit Armenia ear-
lier this year and talk to many Arme-
nians about this tragic history. We
must remember and acknowledge the
lives that were taken and the pain that
was inflicted. We can neither forget the
atrocities that took place then, or
other examples of ethnic cleansing, nor
allow them to continue.
Madam Speaker, I am pleased that
the body passed this critical resolution
on Tuesday for constituents in my dis-
trict, across the Nation, and the world.
f
DIRECTING CERTAIN COMMITTEES
TO CONTINUE ONGOING INVES-
TIGATIONS INTO WHETHER SUF-
FICIENT GROUNDS EXIST FOR
THE IMPEACHMENT OF DONALD
JOHN TRUMP, PRESIDENT OF
THE UNITED STATES
Mr. MCGOVERN. Madam Speaker, by
direction of the Committee on Rules, I
call up H. Res. 660 and ask for its im-
mediate consideration.
The Clerk read the resolution, as fol-
lows:
H. RES. 660
Resolved, That the Permanent Select Com-
mittee on Intelligence and the Committees
on Financial Services, Foreign Affairs, the
Judiciary, Oversight and Reform, and Ways
and Means, are directed to continue their on-
going investigations as part of the existing
House of Representatives inquiry into
whether sufficient grounds exist for the
House of Representatives to exercise its Con-
stitutional power to impeach Donald John
Trump, President of the United States of
America.
SEC. 2. OPEN AND TRANSPARENT INVESTIGATIVE
PROCEEDINGS BY THE PERMANENT
SELECT COMMITTEE ON INTEL-
LIGENCE.
For the purpose of continuing the inves-
tigation described in the first section of this
resolution, the Permanent Select Committee
on Intelligence (referred to in this resolution
as the ‘‘Permanent Select Committee’’) is
authorized to conduct proceedings pursuant
to this resolution as follows:
(1) The chair of the Permanent Select
Committee shall designate an open hearing
or hearings pursuant to this section.
(2) Notwithstanding clause 2(j)(2) of rule XI
of the Rules of the House of Representatives,
upon recognition by the chair for such pur-
pose under this paragraph during any hear-
ing designated pursuant to paragraph (1), the
chair and ranking minority member of the
Permanent Select Committee shall be per-
mitted to question witnesses for equal speci-
fied periods of longer than five minutes, as
determined by the chair. The time available
for each period of questioning under this
paragraph shall be equal for the chair and
the ranking minority member. The chair
may confer recognition for multiple periods
of such questioning, but each period of ques-
tioning shall not exceed 90 minutes in the
aggregate. Only the chair and ranking mi-
nority member, or a Permanent Select Com-
mittee employee if yielded to by the chair or
ranking minority member, may question
witnesses during such periods of questioning.
At the conclusion of questioning pursuant to
this paragraph, the committee shall proceed
with questioning under the five-minute rule
pursuant to clause 2(j)(2)(A) of rule XI.
(3) To allow for full evaluation of minority
witness requests, the ranking minority mem-
ber may submit to the chair, in writing, any
requests for witness testimony relevant to
the investigation described in the first sec-
tion of this resolution within 72 hours after
notice is given for the first hearing des-
ignated pursuant to paragraph (1). Any such
request shall be accompanied by a detailed
written justification of the relevance of the
testimony of each requested witness to the
investigation described in the first section of
this resolution.
(4)(A) The ranking minority member of the
Permanent Select Committee is authorized,
with the concurrence of the chair, to require,
as deemed necessary to the investigation—
(i) by subpoena or otherwise—
(I) the attendance and testimony of any
person (including at a taking of a deposi-
tion); and
(II) the production of books, records, cor-
respondence, memoranda, papers, and docu-
ments; and
(ii) by interrogatory, the furnishing of in-
formation.
(B) In the case that the chair declines to
concur in a proposed action of the ranking
minority member pursuant to subparagraph
(A), the ranking minority member shall have
the right to refer to the committee for deci-
sion the question whether such authority
shall be so exercised and the chair shall con-
vene the committee promptly to render that
decision, subject to the notice procedures for
a committee meeting under clause 2(g)(3)(A)
and (B) of rule XI.
(C) Subpoenas and interrogatories so au-
thorized may be signed by the ranking mi-
nority member, and may be served by any
person designated by the ranking minority
member.
(5) The chair is authorized to make pub-
licly available in electronic form the tran-
scripts of depositions conducted by the Per-
manent Select Committee in furtherance of
the investigation described in the first sec-
tion of this resolution, with appropriate
redactions for classified and other sensitive
information.
(6) The Permanent Select Committee is di-
rected to issue a report setting forth its find-
ings and any recommendations and append-
ing any information and materials the Per-
manent Select Committee may deem appro-
priate with respect to the investigation de-
scribed in the first section of this resolution.
The chair shall transmit such report and ap-
pendices, along with any supplemental, mi-
nority, additional, or dissenting views filed
pursuant to clause 2(l) of rule XI, to the
Committee on the Judiciary and make such
report publicly available in electronic form,
with appropriate redactions to protect clas-
sified and other sensitive information. The
report required by this paragraph shall be
prepared in consultation with the chairs of
the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the
Committee on Oversight and Reform.
SEC. 3. TRANSMISSION OF ADDITIONAL MATE-
RIALS.
The chair of the Permanent Select Com-
mittee or the chair of any other committee
having custody of records or other materials
relating to the inquiry referenced in the first
section of this resolution is authorized, in
consultation with the ranking minority
member, to transfer such records or mate-
rials to the Committee on the Judiciary.
SEC. 4. IMPEACHMENT INQUIRY PROCEDURES IN
THE COMMITTEE ON THE JUDICI-
ARY.
(a) The House authorizes the Committee on
the Judiciary to conduct proceedings relat-
ing to the impeachment inquiry referenced
in the first section of this resolution pursu-
ant to the procedures submitted for printing
in the Congressional Record by the chair of
the Committee on Rules, including such pro-
cedures as to allow for the participation of
the President and his counsel.
(b) The Committee on the Judiciary is au-
thorized to promulgate additional proce-
dures as it deems necessary for the fair and
efficient conduct of committee hearings held
pursuant to this resolution, provided that
the additional procedures are not incon-
sistent with the procedures referenced in
subsection (a), the Rules of the Committee,
and the Rules of the House.
(c)(1) The ranking minority member of the
Committee on the Judiciary is authorized,
with the concurrence of the chair of the
Committee on the Judiciary, to require, as
deemed necessary to the investigation—
(A) by subpoena or otherwise—
(i) the attendance and testimony of any
person (including at a taking of a deposi-
tion); and
(ii) the production of books, records, cor-
respondence, memoranda, papers, and docu-
ments; and
(B) by interrogatory, the furnishing of in-
formation.
(2) In the case that the chair declines to
concur in a proposed action of the ranking
minority member pursuant to paragraph (1),
the ranking minority member shall have the
right to refer to the committee for decision
the question whether such authority shall be
so exercised and the chair shall convene the
committee promptly to render that decision,
subject to the notice procedures for a com-
mittee meeting under clause 2(g)(3)(A) and
(B) of rule XI.
(3) Subpoenas and interrogatories so au-
thorized may be signed by the ranking mi-
nority member, and may be served by any
person designated by the ranking minority
member.
(d) The Committee on the Judiciary shall
report to the House of Representatives such
resolutions, articles of impeachment, or
other recommendations as it deems proper.
The SPEAKER. The gentleman from
Massachusetts is recognized for 1 hour.
Mr. MCGOVERN. Madam Speaker, for
the purpose of debate only, I yield the
customary 30 minutes to the gen-
tleman from Oklahoma (Mr. COLE),
pending which I yield myself such time
as I may consume.
Let me say, Madam Speaker, I appre-
ciate the professionalism that my
friend from Oklahoma has dem-
onstrated throughout this process. We
don’t see eye to eye on this impeach-
ment inquiry, but he has always con-
ducted himself with integrity and de-
fended this institution.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:54 Nov 01, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K31OC7.006 H31OCPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8684 October 31, 2019
During consideration of this resolu-
tion, all time yielded is for the purpose
of debate only.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. MCGOVERN. Madam Speaker, I
ask unanimous consent that all Mem-
bers be given 5 legislative days to re-
vise and extend their remarks.
The SPEAKER. Is there objection to
the request of the gentleman from Mas-
sachusetts?
There was no objection.
Mr. MCGOVERN. Madam Speaker, on
Wednesday afternoon, the Committee
on Rules marked up and favorably re-
ported H. Res. 660, directing certain
committees to continue their ongoing
investigations as part of the existing
House of Representatives inquiry into
whether sufficient grounds exist for the
House of Representatives to exercise
its constitutional power to impeach
Donald John Trump, President of the
United States of America.
Madam Speaker, this is a sad day for
our country. Over 230 years ago, when
the Founders of our country wrote the
Constitution, they entrusted us with
the gift of self-government, but they
knew the persistence of this gift was
not assured.
It may be taken for granted today,
but having just shaken off a tyrant, the
Founders knew better. They under-
stood that the very foundations of our
country are dependent on safeguarding
against one branch of government en-
croaching on the others. That is what
the idea of checks and balances is all
about.
Within that system, the Framers
gave only this Congress the power, if
need be, to impeach a President over
possible wrongdoing. This fact—that no
one is above the law—is what separates
this country from so many others.
Because of its seriousness, the im-
peachment process has been rarely
used for Presidents. For just the fourth
time in our Nation’s history, Congress
is now investigating whether to im-
peach a President of the United States.
Our authority to do so under Article II,
Section 4 of the Constitution of the
United States and the Rules of the
House of Representatives is clear, and
the courts have recently agreed.
For all the disagreements I have with
President Trump, for all of his policies,
his tweets, and his rhetoric that I deep-
ly disagree with, I never wanted our
country to reach this point. I do not
take any pleasure in the need for this
resolution.
We are not here in some partisan ex-
ercise. We are here because the facts
compel us to be here.
There is serious evidence that Presi-
dent Trump may have violated the
Constitution. This is about protecting
our national security and safeguarding
our elections. That is why the Intel-
ligence Committee has been gathering
evidence and hearing testimony.
Like any investigation, reasonable
confidentiality has been paramount.
Witnesses should not be able to coordi-
nate testimony in advance. The truth
must be allowed to prevail.
Republicans have been a part of
every single proceeding conducted so
far. Republicans conducting these
depositions, along with their staffs,
have had an opportunity to question
each and every witness.
Now, Madam Speaker, we are enter-
ing the public-facing phase of this
process, and I commend the investiga-
tive committees and their staffs for the
professional manner in which they
have conducted themselves.
I would also like to commend the
courageous public servants that have
bravely come forward to tell the truth.
Without their courage, this possible
wrongdoing would never have seen the
light of day.
The public should not be left in the
dark. They should see the facts about
the President’s conduct firsthand.
That is why I introduced this resolu-
tion. It establishes the next steps of
this inquiry, including establishing the
procedure for public-facing hearings
conducted by the Intelligence Com-
mittee and the process for transferring
evidence to the Committee on the Ju-
diciary.
It is about transparency, and it is
about due process for the President.
Some on the other side will never be
satisfied with any process that uncov-
ers the truth of what the President did.
Madam Speaker, none of us know
whether or not President Trump will
be impeached or convicted. Only the
facts, and how we respond to them, will
dictate the outcome. But I truly be-
lieve that, 100 years from now, histo-
rians will look back at this moment
and judge us by the decisions we make
here today.
This moment calls for more than pol-
itics. It calls for people concerned not
about the reactions of partisans today
but of the consequences of inaction
decades from now. If we don’t hold this
President accountable, we could be
ceding our ability to hold any Presi-
dent accountable.
At the end of the day, this resolution
isn’t about Donald Trump. It isn’t
about any of us. It is about our Con-
stitution. It is about our country.
I urge my colleagues to not just
think about the political pressures of
the moment. These will pass. Please
consider the heavy responsibility you
have today to this institution, the Con-
stitution, and to our country.
Madam Speaker, I reserve the bal-
ance of my time.
b 0930
Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, I thank
the gentleman from Massachusetts
(Mr. MCGOVERN) for yielding me the
customary 30 minutes, and I yield my-
self such time as I may consume.
I want to begin by thanking my
friend for his kind words and for the
professionalism with which he handled
last night’s hearing.
But before I begin, Madam Speaker, I
would ask the chairman if he would
withdraw his resolution, at which time
I will ask unanimous consent that the
House immediately proceed to the con-
sideration of H.R. 668 instead, which
provides for consideration of H. Res.
660, under a rule.
Madam Speaker, this would in no
way prevent consideration of the reso-
lution before us today; however, it
would provide us with an opportunity
for all Members to participate in the
process.
My proposed rule would provide for 4
hours of general debate on H. Res. 660,
allow for amendments under an open
process, and provide for a motion to re-
commit.
On an issue as important as this,
Madam Speaker, 1 hour of debate on a
resolution written in the dark of night
and marked up in a process where no
Republican amendments were accepted
is simply insufficient.
Additionally, it would allow all Mem-
bers to offer amendments to improve
the process to get to the truth, which I
am sure is the goal of all my colleagues
on both sides of the aisle.
Madam Speaker, with that, I would
ask the chairman to accept my re-
quest.
I yield to my friend.
Mr. MCGOVERN. No, I do not.
REQUEST TO EXTEND DEBATE TIME
Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that the debate
time on H. Res. 660 be expanded to 4
hours so every Member could partici-
pate.
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Ms.
DEGETTE). The gentleman from Massa-
chusetts has yielded all time for debate
only. The gentleman from Massachu-
setts would have to yield for that re-
quest.
Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, I want to
begin by echoing my friend’s words. It
is a sad day for all of us, for me person-
ally, I am sure for all of my colleagues
on the Rules Committee, and for the
institution as a whole.
Today’s resolution sets forth a proc-
ess for impeaching the President of the
United States. It is not a fair process;
it is not an open process; it is not a
transparent process; but, instead, it is
a limited and a closed process with a
preordained outcome.
Impeachment of the President is one
of the most consequential acts that the
House of Representatives can do, and it
should only be done after the fullest
consideration. Yet, over the last
month, without a vote and with only
the Speaker’s say-so, committees have
been engaged in a closed impeachment
inquiry on what amounts to nothing
more than a partisan fishing expedi-
tion.
At least today the majority is admit-
ting what we have known all along:
that the House was not following an
appropriate process for impeachment.
But I do not think the process we are
setting forward in this resolution is a
fair one either. It is not fair to the
President of the United States; it is
not fair to the House of Representa-
tives; and it is not fair to the American
people.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:54 Nov 01, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K31OC7.007 H31OCPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8685
October 31, 2019
The process laid out in the resolution
before us is different from the process
used for both President Nixon in 1974
and President Clinton in 1998. Today’s
resolution provides fewer process pro-
tections and fewer protections for mi-
nority rights than what we have seen
in previous impeachment efforts.
At our markup yesterday, Repub-
licans tried to change that. We tried to
offer constructive amendments that
made the process more fair, that would
give rights to the minority, that would
give rights to the accused, and that
would ensure due process for everyone.
Republicans offered 17 amendments,
and not one—not one, Madam Speak-
er—was accepted. Not one.
We offered amendments that would
align the subpoena powers in this reso-
lution with the subpoena powers used
for President Clinton.
Unlike the Clinton inquiry, today’s
resolution does not provide for coequal
subpoena power. Instead, it grants the
minority the right to subpoena wit-
nesses and materials only with the con-
currence of the chair, with no such lim-
itation on the rights of the chair to
issue subpoenas. We offered amend-
ments that would change that, but the
majority rejected each of them in turn.
We offered an amendment that would
allow all Members the right to fully ac-
cess committee records. This is com-
mon sense. If you are doing something
as serious as impeaching the President,
then Members should have the right to
see what records the committee pro-
duced so that they will know what they
are voting on. Yet the majority re-
jected that.
We offered an amendment that would
require the chairman of the Rules Com-
mittee to promulgate procedures to
allow for the participation of the Presi-
dent and his counsel in proceedings of
the Intelligence Committee, the Over-
sight and Reform Committee, and the
Foreign Affairs Committee. This right
was granted to President Clinton in
1998, yet it is not present here. And the
majority, again, rejected the amend-
ment.
I think the difference is clear: To-
day’s resolution fails to give the mi-
nority the same rights as were present
during the Clinton impeachment, and
it fails to offer the same due process
protections that were given to Presi-
dents Nixon and Clinton.
And, in the latter case, I note those
rights were given by a Republican
House to a Democratic President. To-
day’s resolution shows a Democratic
House failing to give these same pro-
tections to a Republican President.
Madam Speaker, the unfairness is
clear. This is not a fair process, nor
was it ever intended to be. It was pre-
ordained from the beginning.
Without due process and without a
fair process that respects minority
rights, I do not believe the American
people will regard that process as le-
gitimate. A legitimate process is one
that offers protections for everyone in-
volved. Without those protections, this
will be seen as just another partisan
exercise, one the majority has been
pushing since the very first days of the
116th Congress.
We can do better than that, Madam
Speaker. The Rules Committee should
have done better than this. But since
the Rules Committee didn’t, the House
must.
Madam Speaker, I urge opposition to
the measure, and I reserve the balance
of my time.
Mr. MCGOVERN. Madam Speaker, I
yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
Let me just say, briefly, that this
resolution provides better protections
for the President than those Presidents
Nixon and Clinton received. And just
like under Nixon and Clinton, in the
Judiciary Committee, the President’s
counsel can submit additional testi-
mony or evidence for the committee to
consider. The President and his counsel
can attend all hearings and raise objec-
tions. They can question any witness.
This is going beyond Nixon and Clin-
ton. This resolution allows the Presi-
dent’s counsel to ask questions at the
presentation of evidence.
Under our procedures, the ranking
minority members of the Judiciary
Committee and the Intelligence Com-
mittee may issue subpoenas if author-
ized by a committee vote. These are
the same subpoena powers that the
ranking minority member was given
during Clinton and Nixon.
Our resolution allows for greater
Member participation than under past
impeachment procedures, including a
robust process for the minority to pro-
pose witnesses and even issue sub-
poenas if authorized by committees.
And let me just say, I think the fact
of the matter is I don’t think there is
any process that we can propose that
Republicans who prefer to circle the
wagons around this President and pre-
vent us from getting to the truth would
accept.
Madam Speaker, I include in the
RECORD H. Res. 581 from the 105th Con-
gress, the Clinton impeachment in-
quiry resolution that contains the
same minority subpoena powers as this
resolution.
Authorizing and directing the Committee
on the Judiciary to investigate whether suf-
ficient grounds exist for the impeachment of
William Jefferson Clinton, President of the
United States.
Resolved, That the Committee on the Judi-
ciary, acting as a whole or by any sub-
committee thereof appointed by the chair-
man for the purposes hereof and in accord-
ance with the rules of the committee, is au-
thorized and directed to investigate fully and
completely whether sufficient grounds exist
for the House of Representatives to exercise
its constitutional power to impeach William
Jefferson Clinton, President of the United
States of America. The committee shall re-
port to the House of Representatives such
resolutions, articles of impeachment, or
other recommendations as it deems proper.
SEC. 2. (a) For the purpose of making such
investigation, the committee is authorized
to require—
(1) by subpoena or otherwise—
(A) the attendance and testimony of any
person (including at a taking of a deposition
by counsel for the committee); and
(B) the production of such things; and
(2) by interrogatory, the furnishing of such
information; as it deems necessary to such
investigation.
(b) Such authority of the committee may
be exercised—
(1) by the chairman and the ranking mi-
nority member acting jointly, or, if either
declines to act, by the other acting alone, ex-
cept that in the event either so declines, ei-
ther shall have the right to refer to the com-
mittee for decision the question whether
such authority shall be so exercised and the
committee shall be convened promptly to
render that decision, or
(2) by the committee acting as a whole or
by subcommittee.
Subpoenas and interrogatories so author-
ized may be issued over the signature of the
chairman, or ranking minority member, or
any member designated by either of them,
and may be served by any person designated
by the chairman, or ranking minority mem-
ber, or any member designated by either of
them. The chairman, or ranking minority
member, or any member designated by ei-
ther of them (or, with respect to any deposi-
tion, answer to interrogatory, or affidavit,
any person authorized by law to administer
oaths) may administer oaths to any witness.
For the purposes of this section, ‘‘things’’ in-
cludes, without limitation, books, records,
correspondence, logs, journals, memoran-
dums, papers, documents, writings, draw-
ings, graphs, charts, photographs, reproduc-
tions, recordings, tapes, transcripts, print-
outs, data compilations from which informa-
tion can be obtained (translated if necessary,
through detection devices into reasonably
usable form), tangible objects, and other
things of any kind.
Mr. MCGOVERN. Madam Speaker, I
also include in the RECORD H. Res. 803
from the 93rd Congress, the Nixon im-
peachment inquiry resolution, which
also contains the same minority sub-
poena powers as this resolution.
Resolved, That the Committee on the Judi-
ciary, acting as a whole or by any sub-
committee thereof appointed by the chair-
man for the purposes hereof and in accord-
ance with the rules of the committee, is au-
thorized and directed to investigate fully and
completely whether sufficient grounds exist
for the House of Representatives to exercise
its constitutional power to impeach Richard
M. Nixon, President of the United States of
America. The committee shall report to the
House of Representatives such resolutions,
articles of impeachment, or other rec-
ommendations as it deems proper.
Sec. 2. (a) For the purpose of making such
investigation, the committee is authorized
to require—
(1) by subpena or otherwise—
(A) the attendance and testimony of any
person (including at a taking of a deposition
by counsel for the committee) ; and
(B) the production of such things; and
(2) by interrogatory, the furnishing of such
information; as it deems necessary to such
investigation.
(b) Such authority of the committee may
be exercised—
(1) by the chairman and the ranking mi-
nority member acting jointly, or, if either
declines to act, by the other acting alone, ex-
cept that in the event either so declines, ei-
ther shall have the right to refer to the com-
mittee for decision the question whether
such authority shall be so exercised and the
committee shall be convened promptly to
render that decision; or
(2) by the committee acting as a whole or
by subcommittee.
Subpenas and interrogatories so authorized
may be issued over the signature of the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:08 Nov 01, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K31OC7.008 H31OCPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8686 October 31, 2019
chairman, or ranking minority member, or
any member designated by either of them,
and may be served by any person designated
by the chairman, or ranking minority mem-
ber, or any member designated by either of
them. The chairman, or ranking minority
member, or any member designated by ei-
ther of them (or, with respect to any deposi-
tion, answer to interrogatory, or affidavit,
any person authorized by law to administer
oaths) may administer oaths to any witness.
For the purposes of this section, ‘‘things’’ in-
cludes, without limitation, books, records,
correspondence, logs, journals, memoran-
dums, papers, documents, writings, draw-
ings, graphs, charts, photographs, reproduc-
tions, recordings, tapes, transcripts, print-
outs, data compilations from which informa-
tion can be obtained (translated if necessary,
through detection devices into reasonably
usable form), tangible objects, and other
things of any kind.
Sec. 3. For the purpose of making such in-
vestigation, the committee, and any sub-
committee thereof, are authorized to sit and
act, without regard to clause 31 of rule XI of
the Rules of the House of Representatives,
during the present Congress at such times
and places within or without the United
States, whether the House is meeting, has
recessed, or has adjourned, and to hold such
hearings, as it deems necessary.
Sec. 4. Any funds made available to the
Committee on the Judiciary under House
Resolution 702 of the Ninety-third Congress,
adopted November 15, 1973, or made available
for the purpose hereafter, may be expended
for the purpose of carrying out the investiga-
tion authorized and directed by this resolu-
tion.
Mr. MCGOVERN. Madam Speaker, I
yield 1 minute to the gentleman from
New Mexico (Mr. LUJÁN), the Assistant
Speaker.
Mr. LUJÁN. Madam Speaker, I rise
today in support of the resolution on
the floor.
We are here today because of the rule
of law. This resolution, the inquiry, is
Congress upholding the oath we
pledged to the Constitution.
We are here because of the President,
his actions, his jeopardizing our na-
tional security for his own political
gain.
We are here because we know the
White House and the President admit-
ted that President Trump used the
power of the Presidency to pressure
and strong-arm the President of a for-
eign country for his political gain. He
called it ‘‘a favor.’’ ‘‘Do us a favor,’’ he
said. But it wasn’t a favor. It was a co-
ordinated attempt to undermine the
rule of law.
Because of those actions, Congress is
compelled to be here to uphold the rule
of law; to make sure Americans hear
the truth; to say that no one, not even
a President, can abuse the system
without fair and just consequences.
Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, I yield 2
minutes to the gentleman from Cali-
fornia (Mr. NUNES), the distinguished
ranking member of the House Intel-
ligence Committee.
Mr. NUNES. Madam Speaker, we are
not here to run a show trial in an effort
to impeach the President of the United
States.
It is clear that, since the Democrats
took control of the House of Represent-
atives, they have always intended to
transform the Intelligence Committee
into the impeachment committee.
Every one of their actions, from the
staff they hire to the Trump con-
spiracy theories they investigate, their
willful neglect of our basic oversight
duties, demonstrate that this has been
their plan from day one.
And now this is further confirmed by
the adoption of these rules, which sim-
ply give the House approval for the In-
telligence Committee Democrats to
continue pursuing their bizarre obses-
sion with overturning the results of the
last Presidential election.
Nevertheless, after spending 3 years
trying to manufacture a crime they
can attribute to President Trump, they
have come up empty.
First, they insisted that the Presi-
dent is a Russian agent. Then they
claimed he is a money launderer and a
tax cheat and a fraudulent business-
man. And now they have decided they
don’t like the way he talks to foreign
leaders.
But they have no evidence and no ar-
gument to support impeachment. All
they have is the unconditional coopera-
tion of the media to advance their pre-
posterous narrative.
If they had a real case, they wouldn’t
be wasting time spoon-feeding ridicu-
lous attacks that include defamation
and slander on both current and former
Republican staff of the Intelligence
Committee.
What we are seeing among Demo-
crats on the Intelligence Committee
down in the SCIF right now is like a
cult. These are a group of people loy-
ally following their leader as he
bounces from one outlandish con-
spiracy theory to another.
And the media are the cult followers,
permanently stationed outside the
committee spaces, pretending to take
everything seriously, because they,
too, support the goal of removing the
President from office.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
time of the gentleman has expired.
Mr. COLE. I yield the gentleman
from California an additional 15 sec-
onds to close.
Mr. NUNES. After today, The House
Intelligence Committee ceases to exist.
Oversight is not being done, and we
now have a full-fledged impeachment
committee in the basement of the Cap-
itol.
Think about that, America.
Mr. MCGOVERN. Madam Speaker, I
yield 1 minute to the gentleman from
Maryland (Mr. RASKIN), a distinguished
member of the Rules Committee.
Mr. RASKIN. Madam Speaker, the
House impeachment inquiry has dis-
covered a substantial body of evidence
that the President of the United States
has violated the Constitution by plac-
ing his political interests above the in-
terests of the country, thereby putting
both our democracy and the Nation’s
security in jeopardy.
In light of this evidence, the House of
Representatives must fully investigate.
We have sworn a sacred oath to uphold
and defend the Constitution of the
United States against all enemies, for-
eign and domestic. We will honor our
oath by countering all high crimes and
misdemeanors committed against the
American people and our Constitution.
Today’s resolution sets the table for
the next phase of the inquiry. This
phase includes open hearings, led by
the Intelligence Committee, to allow
the American people to hear from wit-
nesses who have personal knowledge of
the President’s actions. Relevant mate-
rials will then be transferred to the Ju-
diciary Committee so we may fulfill
our solemn and time-honored duty to
determine whether to recommend Arti-
cles of Impeachment.
The majority has conducted hearings
up to this point in a scrupulously bi-
partisan way, giving professional staff
counsel for both the majority and the
minority precisely equal time to ques-
tion witnesses and equal opportunities
for members of the majority and the
minority to question them, too.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
time of the gentleman has expired.
Mr. MCGOVERN. I yield the gen-
tleman from Maryland an additional 20
seconds.
Mr. RASKIN. We will afford the
President all the due process protec-
tions that were afforded to his prede-
cessors in a similar situation. That in-
cludes the ability to attend hearings,
question witnesses, and submit evi-
dence.
As recently as Friday, the Federal
courts have reaffirmed that the House
is the sole judge of impeachment, and
we set the rules here. These rules are
fair and strong and will make sure that
we can and we will defend the Constitu-
tion of the United States.
Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, I yield 2
minutes to the gentleman from Ohio
(Mr. JORDAN), the distinguished rank-
ing member of the House Oversight
Committee.
Mr. JORDAN. Madam Speaker, try-
ing to put a ribbon on a sham process
doesn’t make it any less of a sham.
Never forget how this whole thing
started.
Democrats are trying to impeach the
President of the United States 13
months before an election based on an
anonymous whistleblower with no
firsthand knowledge, who has a bias
against the President and who worked
with Vice President Biden.
The day after the now famous phone
call between President Trump and
President Zelensky, the so-called whis-
tleblower gets a readout from some-
body on that call, writes a memo. In
the memo, he uses terms like ‘‘this call
was scary,’’ ‘‘frightening.’’
But what does he do? He waits 18
days before he files a complaint.
And who is the first person he goes to
see, the first people he goes to see in
that 18-day timeframe? Chairman
SCHIFF’s staff. Chairman SCHIFF’s staff.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:08 Nov 01, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A31OC7.014 H31OCPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8687
October 31, 2019
Madam Speaker, 435 Members of Con-
gress and only one individual, one
Member of this body, knows who this
person is who started this whole darn
crazy process: Chairman SCHIFF.
And what does this resolution do? It
gives him even more power to run this
secret proceeding in a bunker in the
basement of the Capitol.
b 0945
This resolution continues the unfair
and partisan process. Just 2 days ago, 2
days ago, we were prevented from hav-
ing the witness answer our questions in
one of these depositions. And this reso-
lution is going to give more power to
the person who made that decision in
the bunker in the basement of the Cap-
itol.
We have less than 13 months before
the next election. Americans under-
stand that this is unfair. Americans
get fairness. They instinctively know
this is an unfair and partisan process.
They will see how unfair and partisan
it is today when the vote happens on
the floor of this House. We can do a lot
better than this. We can do a lot better
than this, and the American people see
through it.
I urge a ‘‘no’’ vote on this resolution,
and I thank the gentleman on the
Rules Committee for his work and his
leadership.
Mr. MCGOVERN. Madam Speaker, I
include in the RECORD a New York
Times article entitled ‘‘Army Officer
Who Heard Trump’s Ukraine Call Re-
ported Concerns’’ in which Colonel
Alexander Vindman, an Army officer
who was on the call, said, ‘‘I did not
think it was proper to demand that a
foreign government investigate a U.S.
citizen,’’ and ‘‘This would all under-
mine U.S. national security.’’
[From the New York Times, October 28, 2019]
ARMY OFFICER WHO HEARD TRUMP’S UKRAINE
CALL REPORTED CONCERNS
(By Danny Hakim)
THE TOP UKRAINE EXPERT AT THE WHITE HOUSE
WILL TELL IMPEACHMENT INVESTIGATORS HE
TWICE REPORTED CONCERNS ABOUT PRESI-
DENT TRUMP’S PRESSURE TACTICS ON
UKRAINE, ACTING OUT OF A ‘‘SENSE OF DUTY.’’
WASHINGTON—A White House national se-
curity official who is a decorated Iraq war
veteran plans to tell House impeachment in-
vestigators on Tuesday that he heard Presi-
dent Trump appeal to Ukraine’s president to
investigate one of his leading political ri-
vals, a request the aide considered so dam-
aging to American interests that he reported
it to a superior.
Lt. Col. Alexander S. Vindman of the
Army, the top Ukraine expert on the Na-
tional Security Council, twice registered in-
ternal objections about how Mr. Trump and
his inner circle were treating Ukraine, out of
what he called a ‘‘sense of duty,’’ he plans to
tell the inquiry, according to a draft of his
opening statement obtained by The New
York Times.
He will be the first White House official to
testify who listened in on the July 25 tele-
phone call between Mr. Trump and President
Volodymyr Zelensky of Ukraine that is at
the center of the impeachment inquiry, in
which Mr. Trump asked Mr. Zelensky to in-
vestigate former Vice President Joseph R.
Biden Jr.
‘‘I did not think it was proper to demand
that a foreign government investigate a U.S.
citizen, and I was worried about the implica-
tions for the U.S. government’s support of
Ukraine,’’ Colonel Vindman said in his state-
ment. ‘‘I realized that if Ukraine pursued an
investigation into the Bidens and Burisma it
would likely be interpreted as a partisan
play which would undoubtedly result in
Ukraine losing the bipartisan support it has
thus far maintained.’’
Burisma Holdings is an energy company on
whose board Mr. Biden’s son served while his
father was vice president.
‘‘This would all undermine U.S. national
security,’’ Colonel Vindman added, referring
to Mr. Trump’s comments in the call.
The colonel, a Ukrainian-American immi-
grant who received a Purple Heart after
being wounded in Iraq by a roadside bomb
and whose statement is full of references to
duty and patriotism, could be a more dif-
ficult witness to dismiss than his civilian
counterparts.
‘‘I am a patriot,’’ Colonel Vindman plans
to tell the investigators, ‘‘and it is my sa-
cred duty and honor to advance and defend
our country irrespective of party or poli-
tics.’’
He was to be interviewed privately on
Tuesday by the House Intelligence, Foreign
Affairs and Oversight and Reform Commit-
tees, in defiance of a White House edict not
to cooperate with the impeachment inquiry.
The colonel, who is represented by Michael
Volkov, a former federal prosecutor, declined
to comment for this article.
In his testimony, Colonel Vindman plans
to say that he is not the whistle-blower who
initially reported Mr. Trump’s pressure cam-
paign on Ukraine. But he will provide an ac-
count that corroborates and fleshes out cru-
cial elements in that complaint, which
prompted Democrats to open their impeach-
ment investigation.
‘‘I did convey certain concerns internally
to national security officials in accordance
with my decades of experience and training,
sense of duty, and obligation to operate
within the chain of command,’’ he plans to
say.
He will testify that he watched with alarm
as ‘‘outside influencers’’ began pushing a
‘‘false narrative’’ about Ukraine that was
counter to the consensus view of American
national security officials, and harmful to
United States interests. According to docu-
ments reviewed by The Times on the eve of
his congressional testimony, Colonel
Vindman was concerned as he discovered
that Rudolph W. Giuliani, the president’s
personal lawyer, was leading an effort to
prod Kiev to investigate Mr. Biden’s son, and
to discredit efforts to investigate Mr.
Trump’s former campaign chairman, Paul
Manafort, and his business dealings in
Ukraine.
His account strongly suggests that he may
have been among the aides the whistle-blow-
er referred to in his complaint when he wrote
that White House officials had recounted the
conversation between Mr. Trump and Mr.
Zelensky to him, and ‘‘were deeply disturbed
by what had transpired in the phone call.’’
Colonel Vindman did not interact directly
with the president, but was present for a se-
ries of conversations that shed light on his
pressure campaign on Ukraine.
He will also testify that he confronted Gor-
don D. Sondland, the United States ambas-
sador to the European Union, the day the
envoy spoke in a White House meeting with
Ukrainian officials about ‘‘Ukraine deliv-
ering specific investigations in order to se-
cure the meeting with the president.’’
Even as he expressed alarm about the pres-
sure campaign, the colonel and other offi-
cials worked to keep the United States rela-
tionship with Ukraine on track. At the direc-
tion of his superiors at the National Security
Council, including John R. Bolton, then the
national security adviser, Colonel Vindman
drafted a memorandum in mid-August that
sought to restart security aid that was being
withheld from Ukraine, but Mr. Trump re-
fused to sign it, according to documents re-
viewed by the Times. And he drafted a letter
in May congratulating Mr. Zelensky on his
inauguration, but Mr. Trump did not sign
that either, according to the documents.
Colonel Vindman was concerned after he
learned that the White House budget office
had taken the unusual step of withholding
the $391 million package of security assist-
ance for Ukraine that had been approved by
Congress. At least one previous witness has
testified that Mr. Trump directed that the
aid be frozen until he could secure a commit-
ment from Mr. Zelensky to announce an in-
vestigation of the Bidens.
While Colonel Vindman’s concerns were
shared by a number of other officials, some
of whom have already testified, he was in a
unique position. Because he emigrated from
Ukraine along with his family when he was
a child and is fluent in Ukrainian and Rus-
sian, Ukrainian officials sought advice from
him about how to deal with Mr. Giuliani,
though they typically communicated in
English.
On two occasions, the colonel brought his
concerns to John A. Eisenberg, the top law-
yer at the National Security Council. The
first came on July 10. That day, senior
American officials met with senior Ukrain-
ian officials at the White House, in a stormy
meeting in which Mr. Bolton is said to have
had a tense exchange with Mr. Sondland
after the ambassador raised the matter of in-
vestigations he wanted Ukraine to under-
take. That meeting has been described in
previous testimony in the impeachment in-
quiry.
At a debriefing later that day attended by
the colonel, Mr. Sandland again urged
Ukrainian officials to help with investiga-
tions into Mr. Trump’s political rivals.
‘‘Ambassador Sondland emphasized the im-
portance that Ukraine deliver the investiga-
tions into the 2016 election, the Bidens and
Burisma,’’ Colonel Vindman said in his draft
statement.
‘‘I stated to Ambassador Sondland that his
statements were inappropriate’’ and that the
‘‘request to investigate Biden and his son
had nothing to do with national security,
and that such investigations were not some-
thing the N.S.C. was going to get involved in
or push,’’ he added.
The colonel’s account echoed the testi-
mony of Fiona Hill, one of his superiors, who
has previously testified behind closed doors
that she and Mr. Bolton were angered by ef-
forts to politicize the interactions with
Ukraine.
The colonel said that after his confronta-
tion with Mr. Sandland, ‘‘Dr. Hill then en-
tered the room and asserted to Ambassador
Sondland that his statements were inappro-
priate.’’
Ms. Hill, the former senior director for Eu-
ropean and Russian affairs, also reported the
incident to Mr. Eisenberg.
The colonel went to Mr. Eisenberg a couple
of weeks later, after the president’s call with
Mr. Zelensky. This time, the colonel was ac-
companied by his identical twin brother,
Yevgeny, who is a lawyer on the National
Security Council.
The picture painted by Colonel Vindman’s
testimony has been echoed by several other
senior officials, including William B. Taylor
Jr., the top American diplomat in Ukraine,
who testified last week that multiple senior
administration officials had told him that
the president blocked security aid to
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:06 Nov 01, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K31OC7.012 H31OCPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8688 October 31, 2019
Ukraine and would not meet with Mr.
Zelensky until he publicly pledged to inves-
tigate Mr. Trump’s political rivals.
While the White House has urged witnesses
subpoenaed by Congress not to participate in
the impeachment inquiry, failing to comply
with a congressional subpoena would be a
risky career move for an active-duty mili-
tary officer.
As tensions grew over Ukraine policy, the
White House appears to have frozen out Colo-
nel Vindman. Since early August, he has
been excluded from a number of relevant
meetings and events, including a diplomatic
trip to three countries under his purview:
Ukraine, Moldova and Belarus.
Colonel Vindman said he had reported con-
cerns up his chain of command because he
believed he was obligated to do so.
‘‘On many occasions I have been told I
should express my views and share my con-
cerns with my chain of command and proper
authorities,’’ he said. ‘‘I believe that any
good military officer should and would do
the same, thus providing his or her best ad-
vice to leadership.’’
Mr. MCGOVERN. Madam Speaker, I
yield 1 minute to the gentleman from
South Carolina (Mr. CLYBURN), the ma-
jority whip.
Mr. CLYBURN. Madam Speaker, I
thank the gentleman for yielding me
the time.
Over the last month, the impeach-
ment inquiry has built a powerful body
of evidence around President Trump’s
call with President Zelensky of
Ukraine when he told a foreign leader,
‘‘I’d like you to do us a favor, though.’’
We have learned so much about that
call and things that followed it because
some dedicated public servants have
demonstrated patriotism to this great
country by coming forward and testi-
fying and giving us the information as
they know it.
These brave patriots, career dip-
lomats, have been called ‘‘radical
unelected bureaucrats.’’ They have
been called that by a group of people
who Thomas Paine would call summer
soldiers and sunshine patriots. He
warned us that these people will, in a
‘‘crisis, shrink from the service of their
country; but he that stands by it now,
deserves the love and thanks of man
and woman. Tyranny, like hell, is not
easily conquered; yet we have this con-
solation with us, that the harder the
conflict, the more glorious the tri-
umph.’’
We are here today because brave,
dedicated public servants and patriots
are standing up for their country.
Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, I yield 2
minutes to the gentleman from Texas
(Mr. BURGESS), my good friend and fel-
low member of the Rules Committee.
Mr. BURGESS. Madam Speaker, I
thank the gentleman for yielding. Yes-
terday the Rules Committee reported
an impeachment resolution that was
hastily drafted without Republican
input with just 24 hours’ notice for re-
view. Last night we offered, on the Re-
publican side, 17 amendments.
Unsurprisingly, none were adopted.
Despite assurances that all Members
will have access to materials sup-
porting the Articles of Impeachment,
to date, Chairman SCHIFF has ignored
72 bipartisan requests to view Ambas-
sador Volker’s transcript, but pursuant
to rule XI, clause 2(e)(2), committee
records are the property of the House,
and thus, Members of the House should
have access.
Last night at the Rules Committee,
it was stated that perhaps Republicans
were not requesting the information at
the right time, so we have to ask:
When is the right time to ask to view
our own House records? Republicans re-
quested an authorizing vote, and now
we will have one. However, this process
has not been open and transparent, and
it diverts from precedent set in the two
most recent Presidential impeachment
investigations. As a result, this inves-
tigation will be conducted with no mi-
nority input.
A Presidential impeachment inves-
tigation is a national trauma. All
Members must take this constitu-
tionally vested power seriously, and
Americans deserve to be represented in
this process. Unfortunately, neither se-
rious nor equal consideration, nor full
access to records appear to be a cri-
teria under which the Democrats are
willing to conduct this investigation.
That is a shame, and it renders this
process a sham.
Mr. MCGOVERN. Madam Speaker, I
yield 1 minute to the gentlewoman
from Pennsylvania (Ms. SCANLON), a
distinguished member of the Rules
Committee.
Ms. SCANLON. Madam Speaker, I
take no joy in contemplating the im-
peachment of a President because, in
contemplating it, we must acknowl-
edge a threat to our Constitution and
the values that bind us not only as
Members of Congress but as Americans.
We have tried to work within tradi-
tional means to get to the bottom of
serious allegations of misconduct so
that we can deliver the truth to the
American people. Committees have
called witnesses and requested evi-
dence, only to be stonewalled. The
President’s defenders have tried to dis-
tract the American people by falsely
claiming to have been excluded from
the investigation while their stunts
and smears have hindered the constitu-
tional process.
This resolution outlines ground rules
for the House as we move forward,
granting the same or greater due proc-
ess rights to the President and the mi-
nority as they themselves drafted when
they were in the majority. We will
have open hearings. They can question
witnesses. They can propose subpoenas.
They can present evidence.
I am proud to sponsor this resolution.
Our Constitution requires it, and our
democracy depends on it.
Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, I yield 2
minutes to the gentleman from Geor-
gia (Mr. COLLINS), my good friend and
distinguished Republican ranking
member of the House Judiciary Com-
mittee.
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Madam
Speaker, no matter what is said by the
other side today, this is a dark day,
and a cloud has fallen on this House. It
has been falling for 10 months, and it is
showing itself today.
What we are seeing is this: If the gen-
tleman, who is a friend of mine from
the Rules Committee, would actually
have wanted to talk about whether
these are the same rules as Clinton and
Nixon, then we would have had a much
longer period of debate, because he
knows and I know it is not. There are
similarities—some better, some not—
but they are not the same. Let’s get
that out of the way first.
The problem I am having here is the
resolution before us today is not about
transparency; it is about control. It is
not about fairness; it is about winning.
It isn’t about following the facts. This
resolution is about delivering results.
You know how I know this? Because
the resolution gives no proper way for
how these abilities or transferring of
documents from the Intelligence Com-
mittee to the Judiciary Committee
will happen. It doesn’t even give a
timeframe.
And I have heard a lot of discussion
today about maybe we didn’t know how
to properly ask last night in Rules
Committee. I guarantee you, my staff
and I know how to properly use rule XI
2(e) to ask for information, and we
were told yesterday by one of the com-
mittees that we couldn’t have access to
that because the Parliamentarian said
we couldn’t. That is just false. It needs
to stop.
This House is developing and shred-
ding procedures every day. And if Mem-
bers on the minority or the majority
cannot have the rights that they are
given, then we are in a sad situation.
And, in fact, in the haste to put this
together they didn’t even exempt, as
was done in Clinton and Nixon, the rule
XI 2(e). They didn’t exempt it out.
Even in those two impeachments, it
was known that maybe we don’t let
every Member come see this while this
is going on. We didn’t even exempt it
during this time. We were so hurried to
impeach this President, we don’t really
give a darn about the rules.
But here is my biggest concern: As
ranking member of the Judiciary Com-
mittee, I have a question. We have been
here 200-plus years as a committee, and
our committee has been neutered. Our
committee who handles impeach-
ment—we are the reason in that com-
mittee; that is our jurisdiction—we
have been completely sidelined. Our
chairman and others have been side-
lined, so I have been sidelined. It is so
bad that they had to have the Rules
Committee write the Presidential due
process and give it to us. This is not
right.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
time of the gentleman has expired.
Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, I yield
an additional 15 seconds to the gen-
tleman from Georgia (Mr. COLLINS).
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Madam
Speaker, I do not know what happened
to our committee, but we still exist.
Due process only kicks in at Judiciary
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:04 Nov 01, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A31OC7.019 H31OCPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8689
October 31, 2019
for the President. It does not kick in in
the closed-door, secret hearings of
ADAM SCHIFF. This is a travesty.
No one should vote for this. This is a
sad day. The curtain is coming down on
this House because the majority has no
idea about process and procedure. They
are simply after a President.
Mr. MCGOVERN. Madam Speaker, I
get it. My friends on the other side of
the aisle want to talk about process,
process, process, but it is interesting
that not one of them wants to talk
about the President’s conduct, and
that speaks volumes.
Madam Speaker, I yield 1 minute to
the gentleman from Florida (Mr. HAS-
TINGS), another distinguished member
of the Rules Committee.
Mr. HASTINGS. Madam Speaker, I
thank Ranking Member COLE for the
manner in which you all are shep-
herding us through this difficult proc-
ess.
Madam Speaker, it is time for the
American people to see how the admin-
istration put our national security on
the auction block in exchange for po-
litical favors.
At the heart of this scandal is the
White House’s decision to slam the
brakes on nearly $400 million of mili-
tary aid for Ukraine, military aid for a
vital partner, military aid that was
desperately needed to beat back Rus-
sian aggression, military aid that was
key to our own national security and
essential in keeping an adversary at
bay.
We know what our Ukrainian friends
thought about this. They were horri-
fied. The facts are clear. Our top na-
tional security experts viewed it as a
grave and dangerous mistake. And as
we have seen time and time again from
the Trump administration, this deci-
sion played right into Vladimir Putin’s
hands.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
time of the gentleman has expired.
Mr. MCGOVERN. Madam Speaker, I
yield an additional 20 seconds to the
gentleman from Florida (Mr. HAS-
TINGS).
Mr. HASTINGS. Madam Speaker, I
support pushing ahead with this in-
quiry because I swore an oath to defend
the Constitution against America’s en-
emies. The American people deserve
the facts about how this abuse of power
betrayed our national security and put
our country at risk.
Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, before I
proceed, I yield myself such time as I
may consume to quickly respond to my
friend, Mr. MCGOVERN.
We are debating process here because
that is what this is. This is a process
resolution to impeach the President of
the United States. You didn’t accept a
single amendment last night. You
didn’t confer with us when you did it,
so that is why we are talking process.
It is an unfair process.
Madam Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to
the gentlewoman from Arizona (Mrs.
LESKO), my good friend and fellow
member of the Rules Committee.
Mrs. LESKO. Madam Speaker, I
thank Representative COLE for yield-
ing.
This impeachment process is a total
sham. This resolution, which seeks to
legitimize it, misleads the American
public. Section 2 of this bill is titled,
‘‘The Open and Transparent Investiga-
tive Proceedings by the Permanent Se-
lect Committee on Intelligence,’’ but
the process set forth in this resolution
is far from open and far from trans-
parent. In fact, it is the exact opposite.
The resolution continues the closed-
door meetings that blocks entry to
Members of Congress and prohibits the
President’s due process rights. And it
merely authorizes, but does not re-
quire, Chairman SCHIFF to make tran-
scripts public.
Last night Republicans offered 17
amendments to add some fairness into
the process, but Democrats rejected
them all.
I had an amendment to ensure minor-
ity witnesses could call an equal num-
ber of witnesses as the majority. Demo-
crats said no.
I had an amendment to require the
Intel chairman to turn over excul-
patory materials to the Judiciary Com-
mittee. Democrats shot it down.
I had an amendment to give ranking
members the same authority as the
chairman to submit materials to the
Judiciary Committee. Democrats re-
jected that, too.
The process set forth by this resolu-
tion violates basic standards of fair-
ness.
I urge opposition to this resolution.
Mr. MCGOVERN. Madam Speaker, I
yield myself 10 seconds.
The gentlewoman wants to talk
about a sham process; let’s talk about
a sham process.
Instead of respecting the constitu-
tional authority of the House of Rep-
resentatives, the White House has ob-
structed our investigation, ignored our
duly authorized subpoenas, withheld
key documents, prevented witnesses
from testifying, and intimidated wit-
nesses. They have tried to disparage
Members of Congress who are trying to
fulfill their responsibilities under the
Constitution of the United States.
Article I of the Constitution gives
the House the right to investigate the
President, and we are taking our re-
sponsibility seriously.
Madam Speaker, I yield 1 minute to
the gentleman from New York (Mr.
JEFFRIES), the chairman of the Demo-
cratic Caucus.
Mr. JEFFRIES. Madam Speaker, the
House impeachment inquiry is about
abuse of power. It is about betrayal. It
is about corruption. It is about na-
tional security. It is about the under-
mining of our elections. It is about de-
fending our democracy for the people.
The House is a separate and coequal
branch of government. We don’t work
for this President or any President. We
work for the American people. We have
a constitutional responsibility to serve
as a check and balance on an out-of-
control executive branch. Our job is to
ask difficult questions on behalf of the
American people.
What we are doing right here is con-
sistent with the words of James Madi-
son who, in Federalist 51, said the
House should be a rival to the execu-
tive branch. Why did Madison use the
word ‘‘rival’’? The Founders didn’t
want a king. They didn’t want a dic-
tator. They didn’t want a monarch.
They wanted a democracy, and that is
exactly what we are defending right
now. No one is above the law.
b 1000
Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, I yield 2
minutes to the gentlewoman from Wy-
oming (Ms. CHENEY), my good friend,
the distinguished Conference chair for
the Republican Party.
Ms. CHENEY. Madam Speaker, I
thank our Republican leader of the
Rules Committee for yielding to me.
Madam Speaker, we have heard a lot
this morning already, a desire, a des-
peration almost, on the part of my col-
leagues on the other side of the aisle
that the Nation take this body seri-
ously. They need to start acting like
they take themselves seriously, Madam
Speaker.
When we are here gathered, dis-
cussing this most grave and solemn ob-
ligation we have, addressing impeach-
ment, we know, Madam Speaker, what
a serious process would look like. We
have seen it before. We have seen Mem-
bers on both sides of this aisle in the
past when we have been engaged in the
impeachment of a President act in a
way that is serious, reflects the dignity
of this body, and reflects the impor-
tance of the Constitution. That is the
opposite, Madam Speaker, of what we
have seen so far.
No matter what my colleagues say
about this legislation, no matter what
my colleagues say about the process
they have been engaged in to date, it is
absolutely the case that it has been a
secret process that has denied rights to
the minority, that has involved leaking
selectively things that the majority
would like to have leaked, in which
rights have absolutely been denied, and
they cannot fix that. They cannot fix
what has been a tainted record and a
tainted process by now suddenly pre-
tending they are opening it up.
Madam Speaker, let me say one other
thing. Every time I hear my colleagues
on the other side of the aisle talk
about efforts to somehow undermine
national security for political gain, I
can’t help but think about what they
are doing precisely this morning.
When we are facing the threats we
are facing as a Nation, my colleagues
on the other side of the aisle—Speaker
PELOSI, Chairman SCHIFF, and others—
take what is arguably the single most
important national security committee
in this body, the House Intelligence
Committee, and they tell the House In-
telligence Committee: Turn away from
those threats. Do not focus on over-
sight. Do not focus on the challenges
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:04 Nov 01, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K31OC7.015 H31OCPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8690 October 31, 2019
we face. Instead, we are going to con-
sume you in a political, partisan proc-
ess to impeach the President of the
United States.
Madam Speaker, my colleagues on
the Democratic side of the aisle will be
held accountable by history for what
they are doing.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
time of the gentlewoman has expired.
Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, I yield
an additional 15 seconds to the gentle-
woman.
Ms. CHENEY. Madam Speaker, they
will be held accountable by history for
what they are doing. They have abso-
lutely no right to talk about threats to
this Nation if they are diverting the
full attention, resources, and focus of
the House Intelligence Committee onto
a sham political process run by Chair-
man SCHIFF and Speaker PELOSI.
Madam Speaker, I urge my col-
leagues to oppose this resolution.
Mr. MCGOVERN. Madam Speaker, I
yield 1 minute to the gentlewoman
from Florida (Ms. SHALALA), a distin-
guished member of the Rules Com-
mittee.
Ms. SHALALA. Madam Speaker, hav-
ing been through this before, I know
how painful impeachment investiga-
tions can be. I also know that I am not
alone in saying that supporting this
continuing inquiry is not a decision
that any of us makes lightly.
None of us ever hoped to consider in-
vestigating our own President for com-
promising our national security and
obstructing justice. Regardless of polit-
ical ideology, we all understand our
constitutional duty.
It is with profound sadness and dis-
appointment that we have to continue
this investigation. The accusations the
House is investigating go straight to
the heart of our Constitution.
Our Constitution endows us with not
only the authority but also the duty to
hold our colleagues in the Federal Gov-
ernment accountable if they fail to act
in the best interest of our Nation. I
don’t think anyone here believes that
domestic politics should interfere with
foreign policy.
I hope we will all vote to continue
this investigation simply so that we
can be clear on all the facts. More than
anything, I am confident that all of us
possess a capacity for fairness and a
commitment to doing what is right for
the country we love.
Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, I yield 1
minute to the gentleman from Texas
(Mr. BRADY), my good friend, the dis-
tinguished Republican ranking member
on the House Ways and Means Com-
mittee.
Mr. BRADY. Madam Speaker, the im-
peachment and removal of the Presi-
dent is a serious matter. At its heart,
it lets a small, partisan group in Wash-
ington overturn the will of the entire
American people.
Above all, Americans believe in fair-
ness and, when accused, the right to
due process. This sham impeachment
offers neither.
It is secret. It is partisan. It is being
conducted behind closed doors to hide
information from the American people,
all with one goal in mind: take down
President Trump by any means nec-
essary.
I will not legitimize this unprece-
dented and unfair charade with this
vote today.
Speaker PELOSI and Chairman SCHIFF
long ago abandoned the due process
and fairness that was guaranteed dur-
ing the Clinton impeachment. I know
because I was here in Congress for it.
There is simply no cause for this im-
peachment inquiry—none. It is shame-
ful to create a constitutional crisis for
purely partisan reasons.
Mr. MCGOVERN. Madam Speaker, I
yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from
California (Mr. SCHIFF), the distin-
guished chairman of the Permanent Se-
lect Committee on Intelligence.
Mr. SCHIFF. Madam Speaker, I rise
in strong support of H. Res. 660.
I rise in strong support, but I do not
take any pleasure in the events that
have made this process necessary. I
rise in strong support of the resolution,
but I do so with an understanding that
the task before us is a solemn one.
How each Member of this Chamber
approaches the vote this morning, and
the days and weeks ahead, may be the
most important service as Members of
Congress we will ever pay to the coun-
try and Constitution that we all love
and have pledged to defend.
For the past several weeks, the Intel-
ligence Committee, the Oversight and
Reform Committee, and the Foreign
Affairs Committee have engaged in an
intensive investigation. That work,
which has been conducted with equal
opportunities for both parties to ques-
tion witnesses, has added a great deal
to our understanding of the President’s
conduct, as evident in the July 25 call
record and the events that both pre-
ceded and followed that call.
That work has necessarily occurred
behind closed doors because we have
had the task of finding the facts our-
selves, without the benefit of the inves-
tigation that the Justice Department
declined to undertake.
Despite attempts to obstruct, we
have interviewed numerous witnesses
who have provided important testi-
mony about the efforts to secure polit-
ical favors from Ukraine. We have re-
viewed text messages among key play-
ers which show how securing political
investigations was placed at the fore-
front of our foreign policy toward
Ukraine.
This resolution sets the stage for the
next phase of our investigation, one in
which the American people will have
the opportunity to hear from the wit-
nesses firsthand.
We will continue to conduct this in-
quiry with the seriousness of purpose
that our task deserves, because it is
our duty and because no one is above
the law.
Madam Speaker, I urge passage of
the resolution.
Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, I yield 1
minute to the gentleman from Texas
(Mr. BABIN), my good friend.
Mr. BABIN. Madam Speaker, what
began with a rallying cry of, ‘‘We are
going to impeach the ‘expletive de-
leted,’ ’’ to a crowd of liberal activists
and young children by my colleague
from Michigan on the very first day of
this new Congress is now the major-
ity’s flagship initiative. What a shame,
and what a waste of time in the peo-
ple’s House.
In my view, our President was doing
his job, ensuring that if taxpayer dol-
lars from my constituents and yours
were going to the other side of the
world, that it would be paired with a
commitment to crack down on corrup-
tion at all levels, no matter who some-
one’s daddy is or what their political
ambitions are.
I think we all know that this was in-
evitable. From the moment Donald J.
Trump was elected, the ends of harass-
ment and impeachment have just been
waiting for the means, and they think
that they have found them. They are
wrong.
There is, however, one small measure
we can take as one House to bring a
shred of dignity to these disgraceful
proceedings. I can stand and be count-
ed. We can stand and be counted, one
by one, and announce our ‘‘yea’’ or
‘‘nay’’ with a vote by a call of the roll.
Mr. MCGOVERN. Madam Speaker, I
yield 1 minute to the gentlewoman
from California (Ms. PELOSI), the
Speaker of the House.
Ms. PELOSI. Madam Speaker, I
thank the gentleman for yielding.
I want to begin my remarks with
some of the most beautiful words in
our country’s history: ‘‘We the people
of the United States, in order to form
a more perfect union, establish justice,
ensure domestic tranquility, provide
for the common defense, promote the
general welfare, and secure the bless-
ings of liberty to ourselves and our pos-
terity, do ordain and establish this
Constitution of the United States of
America.’’
It goes on immediately to establish
Article I, the legislative branch; Arti-
cle II, the executive branch; Article III,
the judiciary—the genius of the Con-
stitution, a separation of powers, three
coequal branches of government to be a
check and balance on each other.
It is to that that we take the oath of
office. We gather here on that opening
day with our families gathered around
to proudly raise our hand to protect
and defend the Constitution of the
United States. And that is exactly
what we are doing today.
Sadly, this is not any cause for any
glee or comfort. This is something that
is very solemn, that is something pray-
erful, and that we had to gather so
much information to take us to this
next step.
Again, this is a solemn occasion. No-
body, I doubt anybody in this place or
anybody that you know, who comes to
Congress to take the oath of office
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:04 Nov 01, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00010 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K31OC7.017 H31OCPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8691
October 31, 2019
comes to Congress to impeach the
President of the United States unless
his actions are jeopardizing our hon-
oring our oath of office.
I am grateful to our committee
chairs for all the careful and thought-
ful investigation they have been doing
as this inquiry has proceeded.
Today, the House takes the next step
forward, as we establish the procedures
for open hearings conducted by the
House Intelligence Committee so that
the public can see the facts for them-
selves.
This resolution ensures trans-
parency, advancing the public disclo-
sure of deposition transcripts, and out-
lining the procedure for the transfer of
evidence to the Judiciary Committee
to use in its proceedings.
It enables effective public hearings,
setting out procedures for the ques-
tioning of witnesses, and continuing
the precedent of giving the minority
the same rights in questioning wit-
nesses as the majority, which has been
true at every step of this inquiry, de-
spite what you might hear fomenting
there.
It provides the President and his
counsel opportunities to participate,
including presenting his case, submit-
ting requests for testimony, attending
hearings, raising objections to testi-
mony given, cross-examining wit-
nesses, and more.
Contrary to what you may have
heard today, we give more opportunity
to his case than was given to other
Presidents before.
Madam Speaker, I thank Chairman
SCHIFF for making that point so clear-
ly.
These actions—this process, these
open hearings, seeking the truth and
making it available to the American
people—will inform Congress on the
very difficult decisions we will have to
make in the future as to whether to
impeach the President.
That decision has not been made.
That is what the inquiry will inves-
tigate. Then, we can make the decision
based on the truth. I don’t know why
the Republicans are afraid of the truth.
Every Member should support allow-
ing the American people to hear the
facts for themselves. That is really
what this vote is about. It is about the
truth.
What is at stake? What is at stake in
all of this is nothing less than our de-
mocracy.
Madam Chair, I proudly stand next to
the flag, and I thank the gentleman
from New York for providing it for us.
So many have fought and died for this
flag, which stands for our democracy.
When Benjamin Franklin came out of
Independence Hall—you have heard
this over and over—on September 17,
1787, the day our Constitution was
adopted, people said to him: ‘‘Dr.
Franklin, what do we have, a mon-
archy or a republic?’’ As you know, he
said: ‘‘A republic, if you can keep it.’’
If we can keep it.
This Constitution is the blueprint for
our Republic and not a monarchy.
b 1015
But when we have a President who
says Article II says ‘‘I can do whatever
I want,’’ that is in defiance of the sepa-
ration of powers. That is not what our
Constitution says.
What is at stake? Our democracy.
What are we fighting for? Defending
our democracy for the people.
In the early days of our Revolution,
Thomas Paine said, ‘‘The times have
found us.’’ The times found our Found-
ers to declare independence from a
monarchy, to fight a war of independ-
ence, to win, to write our founding doc-
uments—and, thank God, they made
them amendable so that we can always
be expanding freedom.
And the genius—again, the genius—of
that Constitution was the separation of
powers. Any usurping of that power is
a violation of our oath of office.
So, proudly, we all raised our hand to
protect, defend, and support the Con-
stitution of the United States. That is
what this vote is about.
Today, we think the times found our
Founders. The times have found others
in the course of our history to protect
our democracy and to keep our country
united.
The times have found each and every
one of us in this room—and in our
country—to pay attention to how we
protect and defend the Constitution of
the United States: honoring the vision
of our Founders who declared independ-
ence from a monarch and established a
country contrary to that principle;
honoring the men and women in uni-
form who fight for our flag, for our
freedom, and for our democracy; and
honoring the aspirations of our chil-
dren so that no President, whoever he
or she may be in the future, could de-
cide that Article II says they can do
whatever they want.
Again, let us honor our oath of office.
Let us defend our democracy. Let us
have a good vote, today, and have clar-
ity—clarity—as to how we proceed,
why we proceed, and, again, doing so in
a way that honors the Constitution.
We must honor the Constitution in
how we do this; we must respect the in-
stitution we serve; and we must heed
the further words of our Founders, ‘‘e
pluribus unum,’’ ‘‘out of many, one.’’
They didn’t know how many it would
be or how different we would be, but
they knew that we needed to always be
unifying.
Hopefully, as we go forward with this
with a clarity of purpose, a clarity of
procedure, a clarity of fact, and a clar-
ity of truth—it is about the truth; it is
about the Constitution—we will do so
in a way that brings people together
that is healing rather than dividing,
and that is how we will honor our oath
of office.
Madam Speaker, I urge an ‘‘aye’’
vote.
Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, I yield 2
minutes to the distinguished gen-
tleman from Texas (Mr. MCCAUL), my
good friend and ranking Republican
member on the House Foreign Affairs
Committee.
Mr. MCCAUL. Madam Speaker, I
would also argue that Article I does
not say you can do whatever you want
to do. The Constitution says that, and
our Founding Fathers said that, as
well.
Madam Speaker, for 38 days, I have
objected to this impeachment probe be-
cause it denies due process, funda-
mental transparency, and basic fair-
ness to Republicans, the White House,
and the American people.
From day one, Democrats have ig-
nored the rules and 45 years of historic
impeachment precedent.
Without any authorization, ADAM
SCHIFF has conducted a secret probe
outside of his committee’s jurisdiction.
He has blocked us from calling our own
witnesses. His witnesses are being
interviewed behind closed doors in the
most secretive room in the United
States Capitol.
That is not democracy.
He has muzzled Republicans—I have
been in the room—placing a gag order
on depositions, while leaking cherry-
picked facts to the press. He refuses to
even allow us to read the transcripts
without being babysat by a Democrat
staffer.
He has refused to let us hear from the
most important witness who brought
this entire thing: the whistleblower.
He has barred White House counsel
from any participation.
And now, 38 days into the Democrats’
rush to impeachment, Speaker PELOSI
claims she wants to establish ‘‘rules’’
and transparency. You cannot make
your game fair by allowing the oppos-
ing team onto the field at the 2-minute
warning.
The bipartisan precedents from
Nixon and Clinton still must be fol-
lowed, and they are not being followed
under this resolution. White House
counsel remains shut out of this proc-
ess. This is unacceptable.
Only three times in our Nation’s his-
tory has Congress exercised its grave
power of impeachment.
Our Founding Fathers, in Federalist
Paper No. 65, Alexander Hamilton
warned us of abusing this power be-
cause they saw a future Congress abus-
ing it.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
time of the gentleman has expired.
Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, I yield
an additional 15 seconds to the gen-
tleman from Texas.
Mr. MCCAUL. They foresaw a Con-
gress at one point in history abusing
this process for partisan political gain.
Madam Speaker, instead of over-
turning an entire election with a par-
tisan weapon, we should just allow the
American people to vote.
Mr. MCGOVERN. Madam Speaker, I
am proud to yield 1 minute to the gen-
tlewoman from California (Mrs.
TORRES), a distinguished member of
the Rules Committee.
Mrs. TORRES of California. Madam
Speaker, I rise in strong support of H.
Res. 660.
Madam Speaker, impeachment is not
something that we take lightly, but
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:04 Nov 01, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00011 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K31OC7.018 H31OCPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8692 October 31, 2019
when the President endangers our na-
tional security, he gives us no other
choice.
We now know from Trump’s own call
record that he pressured a foreign gov-
ernment to interfere in our elections
and investigate his political opponent.
We now know that Trump potentially
sought to apply leverage on Ukraine,
first with a coveted White House meet-
ing and, second, by withholding secu-
rity assistance to fend off Russian ag-
gression.
Today’s resolution allows us to
present these facts in a clear, profes-
sional, and fair way.
Madam Speaker, I urge passage of H.
Res. 660 so the American people can,
too, learn the truth.
Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, I yield 30
seconds to the distinguished gentleman
from Arizona (Mr. BIGGS), my good
friend.
Mr. BIGGS. Madam Speaker, I have
heard today how much my colleagues
on the other side wish to make this an
open and transparent process and ‘‘this
is for we, the people.’’ I would really
like to believe that.
Yet, after they introduced the resolu-
tion, they have another full week of
hearings behind closed doors, and they
have scheduled another full week of
hearings behind closed doors.
If this is about transparency, then
open it up. If you want the American
people to see it, open it up. Give Mem-
bers access to the transcripts. Let the
media into the room. Let us partici-
pate. Failing to do so denies trans-
parency.
Mr. MCGOVERN. Madam Speaker, I
am proud to yield 1 minute to the gen-
tleman from California (Mr.
DESAULNIER), a distinguished member
of the Rules Committee.
Mr. DESAULNIER. Madam Speaker, I
rise in strong support of this resolu-
tion.
Madam Speaker, from the very start
of this inquiry, the White House has
obstructed the House of Representa-
tives. The White House has ignored
duly authorized subpoenas and has
tried to prevent witnesses from testi-
fying.
The White House has also directed
other agencies to do the same. The De-
partment of State, the Department of
Energy, the Department of Defense,
and the Office of Management and
Budget all have refused to produce a
single document in response to valid
subpoenas.
This is an unprecedented cover-up.
The White House and its defenders in
Congress have tried to justify it with
baseless procedural claims that con-
tradict the Constitution and historical
precedent.
History will judge us all.
After today, there are no more ex-
cuses for those who want to focus on
process instead of substance. After
today, there are no more excuses for
those who want to ignore the facts in-
stead of defending the Constitution.
And there are no more excuses for
those who turn a blind eye while the
President pressures foreign actors to
interfere with our democracy.
Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, I reserve
the balance of my time.
Mr. MCGOVERN. Madam Speaker, I
yield 1 minute to the gentleman from
New York (Mr. MORELLE), another dis-
tinguished member of the Rules Com-
mittee.
Mr. MORELLE. Madam Speaker, I
rise today in strong support of H. Res.
660.
Madam Speaker, I am deeply trou-
bled that this process has become nec-
essary at all, but we have no choice.
We must continue to investigate
alarming allegations of misconduct by
the President, and we continue with a
public process through which all Amer-
icans will have the ability to access
and to assess the evidence.
This has been and will continue to be
a fair and sober inquiry. Members on
both sides will continue to have the op-
portunity to question witnesses, seek
evidence, and refute testimony pre-
sented during these proceedings. In-
deed, the President will have strong
protections as we weigh the evidence
during our deliberations.
Our only goal is uncovering the
truth: Did the President pressure
Ukrainian leaders with the threat of
withholding critical military assist-
ance in order to serve his political in-
terests? Has the President endangered
American interests abroad by engaging
in domestic political intrigue? These
are serious issues, not of politics, but
of national security.
This inquiry is our solemn obliga-
tion, but it is our obligation, nonethe-
less.
Madam Speaker, I urge my col-
leagues to join me in supporting this
resolution so we may uphold our oath
to the Constitution and preserve a
transparent process on behalf of our
Republic and the citizens it serves.
Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, I yield 3
minutes to the gentleman from Lou-
isiana (Mr. SCALISE), the distinguished
whip of the House Republican Con-
ference and my good friend.
Mr. SCALISE. Madam Speaker, I
thank my colleague, Mr. COLE, for
yielding.
Madam Speaker, I rise in strong op-
position to this resolution.
Unfortunately, we have seen, since
the day that President Trump was in-
augurated, some people who made it
public that they wanted to impeach
him—not because there are high crimes
and misdemeanors, which is the con-
stitutional standard, but just because
they don’t agree with the results of the
2016 election.
That, Madam Speaker, is not why
you impeach a president. There is
precedent.
This has only happened three times
in the history of our country. Every
time, it not only started with a full
vote of the House, but it also started
with actual fairness. We are not get-
ting that fairness today.
When you look through this resolu-
tion, in multiple places, it gives veto
authority by the chair to literally re-
ject any witness who is brought for-
ward by the minority. So no rights for
the minority unless the chair so des-
ignates.
In fact, in this resolution, it allows
the chair to veto even the ability for
the President to have legal counsel in
the room. If the chair chooses, at his
whim, they can literally kick out the
President’s legal counsel.
This is unprecedented. It is not only
unprecedented, this is Soviet-style
rules.
Maybe in the Soviet Union you do
things like this: where only you make
the rules, where you reject the ability
for the person you are accusing to even
be in the room to question what is
going on, for anybody else to call wit-
nesses, when only one person has the
right to call witnesses.
And as we saw just the other day, the
chairman was literally directing the
witness to not answer certain ques-
tions by the Republicans. What kind of
fairness is that?
Maybe you think it is fairness if you
can run roughshod over somebody be-
cause you have got the votes, but that
is not how impeachment was supposed
to go. In fact, Alexander Hamilton
himself, during the debate on the Con-
stitution, in the Federalist Papers,
warned of days like this, that the
greatest danger is that the decision on
impeachment ‘‘will be regulated more
by the comparative strength of parties
than by the real demonstrations of in-
nocence or guilt.’’ Alexander Hamilton
warned about days like today.
This is not what we should be doing,
clearly, when you ask the American
people, who know that they are paying
higher drug prices and they see that
there is legislation, bipartisan legisla-
tion, to lower drug prices that won’t
come to this floor because of the in-
fatuation with impeachment.
We don’t even have a bill to formally
pay our troops and make sure they
have the tools they need to defend this
country because there is such an in-
fatuation with impeachment.
b 1030
Madam Speaker, when you look
through this resolution, you see how
one-sided, how Soviet-style this is run-
ning. This is the United States of
America. Don’t run a sham process, a
tainted process like this resolution en-
sures.
It ought to be rejected, and I think
you will see bipartisan rejection of this
resolution.
Mr. MCGOVERN. Madam Speaker, I
yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from
New York (Mr. NADLER), the distin-
guished chairman of the Committee on
the Judiciary.
Mr. NADLER. Madam Speaker, I sup-
port this resolution because it is the
solemn duty of the Congress to inves-
tigate the serious allegations against
the President.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:04 Nov 01, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00012 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K31OC7.020 H31OCPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8693
October 31, 2019
I support this resolution because it is
indefensible for any official to demand
an ally—one depending on our support
in an existential struggle with Russia—
investigate his or her political adver-
saries.
I support this resolution because no
person, Republican or Democrat,
should be permitted to jeopardize
America’s security and reputation for
self-serving political purposes.
I support this resolution because if,
after a fair and thorough inquiry, the
allegations against President Trump
are found to be true, they would rep-
resent a profound offense against the
Constitution and the people of this
country.
I support this resolution because I
believe it is the duty of this House to
vindicate the Constitution and to make
it crystal clear to future Presidents
that such conduct, if proven, is an af-
front to the great public trust placed in
him or her.
I support this resolution, not because
I want the allegations to be true—they
sadden me deeply—but because, if they
are true, the Constitution demands
that we take action.
I support this resolution because it
lays the groundwork for open hearings.
The House and the American public
must see all of the evidence for them-
selves.
I support this resolution because I
know we must overcome this difficult
moment for the Nation. This resolution
is necessary to ensure that our con-
stitutional order remains intact for fu-
ture generations.
I support this resolution because we
have no choice.
Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, I am
waiting for a speaker to come. I reserve
the balance of my time.
Mr. MCGOVERN. Madam Speaker, I
yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from
New York (Mr. ENGEL), the distin-
guished chairman of the Committee on
Foreign Affairs.
Mr. ENGEL. Madam Speaker, I thank
the gentleman and rise to support mov-
ing forward to the next open phase of
this impeachment inquiry so that the
American people can hear from wit-
nesses, see the evidence, and under-
stand the troubling story of what has
taken place in this administration.
As chairman of the Foreign Affairs
Committee, my priorities are sup-
porting American diplomats and diplo-
macy, working with partners and al-
lies, and ensuring that our foreign pol-
icy advances America’s interests.
This administration has, unfortu-
nately, undermined all of those prior-
ities since its first day. But in the last
month, we have learned more and more
about just how deep this goes.
The facts are clear: The White House
launched a shadow foreign policy that
circumvented and undermined our nor-
mal diplomatic channels.
A distinguished career ambassador
was publicly smeared and pushed aside.
Critical military aid for Ukraine, a
valued partner—locked in a life-or-
death struggle with Russia—was
blocked.
The goal? Not some foreign policy
priority; not an effort to make our
country safer or stronger—quite the
opposite, as delaying these resources
hurt Ukraine and directly benefited
Vladimir Putin.
Why, then? To pressure a foreign gov-
ernment to interfere in our 2020 elec-
tions. It is what the Framers feared
most.
The President’s own words say it best
from the record of the call with Presi-
dent Zelensky as he sought the tools to
push back against Russia. Mr. Trump’s
answer: ‘‘I would like you to do us a
favor, though.’’
Since that first damning piece of evi-
dence came to light, the Intelligence,
Oversight, and Foreign Affairs Com-
mittees have worked to fill in the
pieces of the puzzle, thanks to the
courage of public servants who obeyed
the law and testified, even in the face
of bullying and intimidation from the
administration and of ugly, baseless
smears from the President’s allies.
I condemn the shameful efforts to
identify and harass the whistleblower
whose life may be jeopardized for com-
ing forward to tell the truth.
I salute all of those patriots, and I
salute my fellow committee chairs Mr.
SCHIFF, Mrs. MALONEY, and the late Mr.
Cummings—
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
time of the gentleman has expired.
Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, I con-
tinue to reserve the balance of my
time.
Mr. MCGOVERN. Madam Speaker, I
yield 1 minute to the gentlewoman
from California (Ms. WATERS), the dis-
tinguished chairwoman of the Com-
mittee on Financial Services.
Ms. WATERS. Madam Speaker, I
thank Chairman MCGOVERN for yield-
ing.
I rise in support of H. Res. 660 and the
process that is set forth within it by
which the impeachment inquiry will
continue to be conducted.
To be clear, contrary to what these
desperate Republicans have claimed,
the Constitution imposes no require-
ment that a procedural resolution,
such as H. Res. 660, should be voted on
by the House. Claiming otherwise is
but a fabrication meant to distract
from the mountain of growing evidence
that demonstrates this President
abused his power for personal benefit.
However, while not necessary, this
resolution provides for impartial proce-
dures similar to those used during the
past impeachment proceedings.
Because Republicans requested a for-
mal procedural vote, I expect nothing
less than their full support for H. Res.
660. Anything less would be shameful.
As chairwoman of the Financial
Services Committee, we have been con-
ducting credible investigations into
the conduct of this administration.
And this work——
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
time of the gentlewoman has expired.
Ms. WATERS.—will continue in the
manner outlined by H. Res. 660. I look
forward to Democrats and Republicans
alike——
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
time of the gentlewoman has expired.
The gentleman from Oklahoma is rec-
ognized.
Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, I con-
tinue to reserve the balance of my
time.
Mr. MCGOVERN. Madam Speaker, I
yield 1 minute to the gentleman from
California (Mr. SWALWELL).
Mr. SWALWELL of California.
Madam Speaker, ‘‘I would like you to
do us a favor, though.’’
President Trump said those 10 words
on July 25 to Ukraine’s President be-
fore asking Ukrainian President
Zelensky to investigate a potential po-
litical opponent.
For the past month, the Intelligence
Committee has led an investigation
into what happened around that phone
call. In this early investigative stage,
we have heard powerful, corroborating
evidence that President Trump led an
extortion shakedown scheme over the
Ukrainians, leveraging $391 million of
taxpayer dollars to have a foreign
power assist him in his upcoming cam-
paign.
Just as powerful as the evidence we
heard is the courage of the people who
have come forward to provide it,
defying lawless White House orders to
obstruct and, instead, adhering to law-
ful congressional subpoenas.
The evidence, however, is not a con-
clusion. At this stage, we must move
now to a public process with due proc-
ess protections for the President to se-
cure and test that evidence.
When our Founders designed the Con-
stitution, they considered a lawless
President and how to hold that person
accountable. James Madison said the
Constitution needed a provision for de-
fending the community against law-
lessness. Now we must solemnly em-
bark upon this journey.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
time of the gentleman has expired.
Members are reminded to refrain
from engaging in personalities toward
the President.
Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, I would
like to inquire from my friend if he has
additional speakers.
Mr. MCGOVERN. Madam Speaker, we
do.
Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, in that
case, I reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. MCGOVERN. Madam Speaker, I
yield 30 seconds to the gentleman from
Colorado (Mr. NEGUSE).
Mr. NEGUSE. Madam Speaker, today
is a serious and solemn day for our
country. The House’s impeachment in-
quiry has exposed the truth and uncov-
ered significant evidence that the
President abused his power.
To honor the oath to defend the Con-
stitution that each of us took, we must
move forward with this impeachment
inquiry. As Thomas Jefferson once said
hundreds of years ago: ‘‘A sacred re-
spect for the constitutional law is the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:04 Nov 01, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00013 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K31OC7.023 H31OCPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8694 October 31, 2019
vital principle, the sustaining energy
of a free government.’’
Let us honor the Constitution and de-
fend it today by voting ‘‘yes’’ on this
resolution.
Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, I con-
tinue to reserve the balance of my
time.
Mr. MCGOVERN. Madam Speaker, I
yield 30 seconds to the gentleman from
Pennsylvania (Mr. BRENDAN F. BOYLE).
Mr. BRENDAN F. BOYLE of Pennsyl-
vania. Madam Speaker, I did not come
here to launch an impeachment proc-
ess. However, the facts demand it. ‘‘A
Republic, if you can keep it.’’
What we decide today will say more
about us than it says about the con-
duct of the President.
Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, I con-
tinue to reserve the balance of my
time.
Mr. MCGOVERN. Madam Speaker, I
yield 30 seconds to the gentleman from
Rhode Island (Mr. CICILLINE).
Mr. CICILLINE. Madam Speaker, on
opening day, we take an oath of office.
We take an oath not to a king, not to
a President, but to protect and defend
the Constitution. It is our solemn duty.
In fact, this resolution sets forth the
procedures for the next phase of our
impeachment inquiry. We know sub-
stantial evidence has been presented
that the President abused his power,
undermined our national security, and
undermined the integrity of our elec-
tions.
We are duty-bound to proceed. It is a
sad day, but not because Congress has
the courage to stand up for our democ-
racy, but because the President’s con-
duct has forced this action.
I urge my colleagues to approve this
resolution.
Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, I con-
tinue to reserve the balance of my
time.
Mr. MCGOVERN. Madam Speaker, I
am prepared to close for our side, so I
will yield to the gentleman.
Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Madam Speaker, if we defeat the pre-
vious question, I will amend the resolu-
tion to ensure transparency for the
American people.
My amendment will do three very
simple things:
First, it will require the chairman of
the Permanent Select Committee on
Intelligence to publicly release the
transcripts of all depositions and inter-
views in a timely manner to allow any
necessary redactions to protect classi-
fied or sensitive information.
My colleagues on the other side have
been operating in secret and behind
closed doors. They have been violating
standing House rules by preventing
Members access to documents, let
alone sharing anything with the people
who elected them to serve.
Second, my amendment requires the
Intelligence Committee chairman to
transfer all records or materials, in-
cluding exculpatory records or mate-
rials, to the Judiciary Committee. The
chairman is instructed to, again, make
the necessary redactions to protect any
classified or sensitive information. In
contrast, the Democratic majority’s
resolution lets the chairman choose
what information he will share.
Finally, my amendment requires the
Intelligence Committee’s records and
reports, as well as any material re-
ceived from any other committee in-
volved, be made available at least 72
hours prior to the Judiciary Com-
mittee considering any Articles of Im-
peachment or other recommendations.
The resolution before us today does
absolutely nothing to guarantee that
the American people will see this vital
information.
The procedures my Democratic col-
leagues set up for this impeachment in-
quiry are fundamentally unfair and
fundamentally partisan. They reject
due process. They reject minority
rights, and they reject adequate public
disclosure.
The American people will not respect
a process that is not fair, Madam
Speaker. I urge the House to reject this
measure, and I urge the House to insist
on bipartisan procedures that respect
the rights of the minority and the
right of due process.
Madam Speaker, I yield 1 minute to
the gentleman from California (Mr.
MCCARTHY), our distinguished Repub-
lican leader.
Mr. MCCARTHY. Madam Speaker, I
thank the gentleman for yielding.
Madam Speaker, elections have con-
sequences. Our fellow Americans used
their vote to choose who will work for
them. So I ask you all a simple ques-
tion—especially to my colleagues: Is
that what is happening here today?
Are we gathered in these final mo-
ments, before we depart for a week, to
fund our government or to pay our
troops?
Are we gathered today to approve a
new trade deal? Or are we gathered to
debate the critical national security
issues regarding China or Iran?
That answer would be unanimously
‘‘no.’’ We are not working for the
American people.
b 1045
Those items would resemble the
achievements of a productive Congress,
a Congress that truly works for the
people.
But do you know what this Congress
counts?
This Congress’ record is more sub-
poenas than laws. That is the legacy. It
is not just devoid of solutions for the
American people; it is now abusing its
power to discredit democracy.
By using secret interviews and selec-
tive leaks to portray the President’s le-
gitimate actions as an impeachable of-
fense, Democrats are continuing their
permanent campaign to undermine his
legitimacy.
For the last 3 years, they have pre-
determined the President’s guilt, and
they have never accepted the voters’
choice to make him President. So for
37 days and counting, they have run an
unprecedented, undemocratic, and un-
fair investigation. This resolution
today only makes it worse.
I have heard Members on the other
side say they promise rights to the
President, but only if he does what
they want. That is the equivalent of
saying in the First Amendment that
you have the right to the freedom of
speech, but you can only say the words
I agree with. That is what you call due
process, Madam Speaker.
The amendment offered by my col-
league, Mr. COLE, would help correct
some of the transparency concerns we
have witnessed over the last few weeks.
But today is about more than the fair-
ness of the impeachment process. It is
about the integrity of our electoral
process. Democrats are trying to im-
peach the President because they are
scared they cannot defeat him at the
ballot box. Those are not my words.
Those are the words from my col-
leagues on the other side of the aisle
who have offered impeachment three
different times.
This impeachment is not only an at-
tempt to undo the last election, it is an
attempt to influence the next one as
well.
This is not what Democrats promised
when they entered the majority 11
months ago. In this Chamber, we heard
from our Speaker. While we all sat
here, we heard what the Speaker said
when she talked about words of opti-
mism and cooperation.
It was said that we would work to-
gether to make America stronger,
more secure, and more prosperous. We
were told our mission was to return
power to the people. In fact, our new
colleagues on the other side of the aisle
were sent to Washington with a man-
date to do just that.
So what has happened?
There is nothing like that today.
Not long ago, Democrats recognized
that a partisan impeachment would
put politics over people and harm our
Nation.
That exact same Speaker talked
about cooperation and talked about
and promised the American people that
they would be different if you trusted
them with the majority.
Madam Speaker, you have failed in
that promise.
That Speaker said: ‘‘Impeachment is
so divisive to the country that unless
there’s something so compelling and
overwhelming and bipartisan’’—the
word bipartisan—‘‘I don’t think we
should go down that path, because it
divides the country.’’
What has changed since those words
have been spoken?
Alexander Hamilton wrote that:
There will always be the greatest danger
that the decision to use the impeachment
power would be driven by partisan animos-
ities instead of real demonstrations of inno-
cence or guilt.
This sham impeachment by Demo-
crats has proven Hamilton right, and it
betrays the Speaker’s own words.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:04 Nov 01, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00014 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K31OC7.024 H31OCPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8695
October 31, 2019
I know emotions are high. I know
Members would even run for positions
of chair simply on the fact that they
would be a better chair for impeach-
ment right after the election. But when
we all stood that day and listened to
the words of the Speaker of coopera-
tion, we all raised our hand to uphold
the Constitution.
Tomorrow is November 1. We are 1
year away from an election, not just
for this House but for the highest office
of Presidency.
Madam Speaker, why do you not
trust the people?
Why do you not allow the people to
have a voice?
Why, in a process that America lends
their voice to all of us, do you deny us
the opportunity to speak for them?
Has animosity risen that high?
Has Hamilton been proven correct
again?
Madam Speaker, there is a moment
in time that you should rise to the oc-
casion. This is that moment. This is
the moment that history will write.
History will ask you, Madam Speaker,
when you cast this vote to justify
something that has gone on behind
closed doors, I want you to ask the his-
torian and answer the question: What
do you know that happened there?
Madam Speaker, have you read any-
thing that took place that you just jus-
tified?
What do you believe the definition of
‘‘due process’’ is?
What do you think the First Amend-
ment is, that you have the right to
have a voice or only say the words that
you agree with?
Madam Speaker, you may get elected
in a primary, but in a general election,
you are elected to represent the people
of America, not to deny their voice.
This House is so much better than
what is transforming today. I believe
everyone who runs for this office runs
to solve a problem. But when you go
back to the American public with the
achievement of more subpoenas than
laws, that is not why you ran. That is
not why we are here.
That is why I agree with my col-
league, Mr. COLE, who believes in the
power of the people and people before
politics, that we believe and know we
can do better, that we believed the
Speaker when she spoke about coopera-
tion, we believed her when she said
that if you trusted them with the ma-
jority then they would be different.
Madam Speaker, I guess it is only fit-
ting you take this vote on Halloween.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Mem-
bers are directed to address their re-
marks to the Chair.
The gentleman from Oklahoma has 1
minute remaining.
Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, I yield
back the balance of my time.
Mr. MCGOVERN. Madam Speaker, I
yield myself the balance of my time.
Let me assure the distinguished mi-
nority leader that this Democratic ma-
jority can legislate and also fulfill our
constitutional responsibilities to hold
this President to account because it is
our job. We took an oath to do that.
In terms of our legislative accom-
plishments, they are second to none.
When the Republicans were in the ma-
jority, they shut the government down.
Today the Education and Labor Com-
mittee just reported out the higher
education bill, we passed a bill to deal
with gun violence, we passed the
Dream Act, and we raised the min-
imum wage. We are working on a bill
to lower prescription drugs, and we
passed a bill to protect our elections so
Russia doesn’t interfere in our elec-
tions ever again.
So, Madam Speaker, I want to say to
my colleagues that I am proud of the
process we are following here today
that brought us this resolution.
Madam Speaker, past Congresses
under the impeachments of Presidents
Nixon and Clinton found it prudent to
have a resolution in place laying out
the path forward, and that is what we
are doing here today.
This resolution before us today is
based on precedent. It includes protec-
tions for President Trump. The Presi-
dent’s counsel is given the right to ask
questions when the evidence is pre-
sented. The rules here expressly pro-
vide his counsel the chance to be in-
vited to offer a concluding presen-
tation. Neither of these things were
guaranteed to President Nixon or
President Clinton.
It lays out a clear path forward so
that the American people know what
to expect going forward.
Madam Speaker, the obstruction
from this White House is unprece-
dented. It is stunning. We don’t know
whether President Trump will be im-
peached, but the allegations are as se-
rious as it gets, endangering national
security for political gain.
Madam Speaker, history is testing
us, and I worry, based on what we have
heard from the other side today, that
some may be failing that test.
There are no kings and queens in
America. That is what separates this
country from so many other nations.
No one is above the law. Let me repeat
that: No one is above the law.
Madam Speaker, I urge my col-
leagues to support this resolution.
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Madam Speaker, as a
senior member of the House Judiciary Com-
mittee and one of only 5 members and one of
three Democrats to serve on that House Judi-
ciary Committee during the impeachment of
1998, I rise in strong support of the Rule gov-
erning debate for H. Res. 660, as well as the
underlying legislation—a resolution directing
committees to continue their ongoing inves-
tigations as part of the existing House of Rep-
resentatives inquiry into whether sufficient
grounds exist for the House of Representa-
tives to exercise the constitutional power, sole-
ly vested in the House of Representatives, to
impeach Donald John Trump, the current
President of the United States of America.
This is a somber and solemn time.
Today we choose our beloved nation over
individual self-interest and a political party.
We choose due process, regular order and
fairness.
And as the founding fathers crafted a docu-
ment, which 230 years later, from 1789 to
2019, we can abide by, we choose the Con-
stitution.
When the Framers of our Constitution de-
signed our government, they bifurcated power
between the federal and state governments,
and divided power among the branches.
Indeed as the Framers debated ratification
of the Constitution, they knew of the need to
remove an individual who breached the public
trust.
James Madison of Virginia argued in favor
of impeachment stating that some provision
was ‘‘indispensable’’ to defend the community
against ‘‘the incapacity, negligence or perfidy
of the chief Magistrate.’’
With a single executive, Madison argued,
unlike a legislature whose collective nature
provided security, ‘‘loss of capacity or corrup-
tion was more within the compass of probable
events, and either of them might be fatal to
the Republic.’’
They wrote Article I and vested in the Con-
gress the capacity to make the laws.
They wrote Article II, and in the Executive
vested the power to faithfully execute those
laws.
Because the House enjoyed a natural supe-
riority, as most representative of the passions
of the populace, the Framers vested in the
House of Representatives the sole power of
impeachment, and made the Senate the
judges.
In Article II, they specified the standard by
which a president or any constitutional officer
is to be removed from office: for High Crimes
and Misdemeanors.
It is against that backdrop that we debate
this resolution.
In support this resolution because it protects
our interests, holds us responsible, protects
the American people and gives the president
ample opportunity to try to justify his conduct.
In September, members of the House of
Representatives learned of a complaint filed
by a whistleblower within the Intelligence
Community.
The whistleblower alleged that on July 25,
2019, in a telephone conversation with the
President of Ukraine, the American President
sought to withhold foreign military aid from the
besieged and beleaguered nation of Ukraine
unless and until the Government of Ukraine
produced or manufactured produced political
dirt against a person he deemed his most for-
midable political rival.
The allegation suggests an effort and intent
to extort the assistance of a foreign power to
help the current president retain his office.
This is similar to the allegations surrounding
his 2016 election victory, which were at the
heart of the Special Counsel’s Report regard-
ing Russian election interference.
After the whistleblower’s details were made
public, the White House engaged in a series
of untenable defenses, all designed to dis-
credit the courageous whistleblower’s account,
which the Intelligence Community Inspector
General found credible.
First, the White House indicated that the
whistleblower should not be trusted because it
referenced secondhand information, forgetting
that much of the information in the Whistle-
blower’s complaint was corroborated by the
White House itself.
Next, the White House claimed, without
proof, that the whistleblower was a liar.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:04 Nov 01, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00015 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\K31OC7.026 H31OCPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8696 October 31, 2019
Then, the White House spread a lie that it
was a ‘‘perfect’’ call between the two leaders.
Outrageously, the White House then
claimed that Chairman ADAM SCHIFF is lying
and had helped the Whistleblower draft his
complaint.
That was before the President said that the
whistleblower’s complaint is a lie made up by
the ‘‘Deep State.’’
And that was before the President said that
he made the call at Rick Perry’s urging and
that the phone conversations with the Vice
President are more problematic than his.
The President and his last defenders are
now trying to denigrate the life and accom-
plishments of Ambassador Bill Taylor, a grad-
uate of the United States Military Academy at
West Point, and decorated soldier, and dis-
missing him as a Never Trumper, as if that is
a demerit.
This past Tuesday, Lt. Colonel Alexander
Vindman, a member of the National Security
Council who immigrated from Ukraine when
he was three-years old and was dismissed by
the President as insufficiently loyal to him, be-
fore one of the President’s acolytes suggested
Lt. Col. Vindman held a greater loyalty for
Ukraine over the United States.
Lt. Col. Vindman has loyally served our
country and our Constitution. He was injured
in the war in Iraq, for which he was awarded
the Purple Heart.
It is thus fitting that when Lt. Col. Vindman
appeared to testify in this impeachment in-
quiry, he did so wearing his Army class A uni-
form, and had inside his leg shrapnel from the
attack that wounded him, and won him the
commendation of his superior officers in the
Army.
And when he began his testimony, he indi-
cated just what service to this nation meant.
He stated:
I have dedicated my entire professional life
to the United States of America. For more
than two decades, it has been my honor to
serve as an officer in the United States
Army. As an infantry officer, I served mul-
tiple overseas tours, including South Korea
and Germany, and a deployment to Iraq for
combat operations. In Iraq, I was wounded in
an IED attack and awarded a Purple Heart.
An immigrant to this country, Lt. Col.
Vindman stated:
The privilege of serving my country is not
only rooted in my military service, but also
in my personal history. I sit here, as a Lieu-
tenant Colonel in the United States Army,
an immigrant. My family fled the Soviet
Union when I was three and a half years old.
Upon arriving in New York City in 1979, my
father worked multiple jobs to support us,
all the while learning English at night. He
stressed to us the importance of fully inte-
grating into our adopted country. For many
years, life was quite difficult. In spite of our
challenging beginnings, my family worked to
build its own American dream. I have a deep
appreciation for American values and ideals
and the power of freedom. I am a patriot, and
it is my sacred duty and honor to advance
and defend OUR country, irrespective of
party or politics.
When Lt. Col. Vindman testified, he spoke
of the horror he felt when he realized that our
country’s national security apparatus was
being manipulated for the president’s personal
and political gain.
He stated in his testimony:
On July 21, 2019, President Zelensky’s
party won Parliamentary elections in a land-
slide victory. The NSC proposed that Presi-
dent Trump call President Zelensky to con-
gratulate him. On July 25, 2019, the call oc-
curred. I listened in on the call in the Situa-
tion Room with colleagues from the NSC and
the office of the Vice President. As the tran-
script is in the public record, we are all
aware of what was said. I was concerned by
the call. I did not think it was proper to de-
mand that a foreign government investigate
a U.S. citizen, and I was worried about the
implications for 6 the U.S. government’s sup-
port of Ukraine. I realized that if Ukraine
pursued an investigation into the Bidens and
Burisma, it would likely be interpreted as a
partisan play which would undoubtedly re-
sult in Ukraine losing the bipartisan support
it has thus far maintained. This would all
undermine U.S. national security. Following
the call, I again reported my concerns to
NSC’s lead counsel.
Throughout the last five weeks, Congres-
sional Republicans have presented a series of
strawman arguments designed to deflect but
not delve into the very serious charges against
the President.
Congressional Republicans’ claims that the
whistleblower complaint was hearsay are spe-
cious because its contents have been inde-
pendently and repeatedly confirmed.
Similarly, there is no merit to the claim that
there was no quid pro quo when the evidence
adduced to date confirms there was.
In their perverse logic, Congressional Re-
publicans decried the lack of due process for
a man who once suggested that the Central
Park Five should be summarily executed for a
crime for which they were later exonerated,
and could shoot someone in broad daylight
with impunity.
Despite these specious arguments, it is like-
ly that these process arguments are only
made because the substance of the presi-
dent’s allegations are utterly indefensible.
The American people and their elected rep-
resentatives cannot be distracted; they are
paying close attention to the substantial
wrongdoing emanating from this White House.
They know what the President, which is why
a clear majority support impeachment and re-
moval of this President.
As the House of Representatives continues
its impeachment inquiry, H. Res. 660 is an es-
pecially timely piece of legislation, which
squarely addresses the concerns of the Presi-
dent’s most fervent supporters.
Specifically, this legislation reaffirms that the
six investigating committees—including the
House Judiciary Committee, of which I am a
senior member and which has exclusive juris-
diction to draft Articles of Impeachment—an-
nounced by Speaker NANCY PELOSI have been
engaged in an impeachment inquiry and di-
rects them to continue their vital work.
That we have been engaged in an ongoing
impeachment inquiry was ratified by the Article
III branch when Judge Beryl Howell, the Chief
Judge for the United States District court for
the District of Columbia, recently held that the
House is conducting an impeachment inquiry,
which does not require a formal floor vote.
Second, H. Res. 660 authorizes the House
Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence
(HPSCI) to make public transcripts of recent
depositions with appropriate redactions made
for classified or other sensitive information.
This legislation, too, establishes procedures
for all investigating committees to transmit
their evidence to the Committee on the Judici-
ary for use in their proceedings.
The resolution is also prospective, as it re-
lates to these hearings moving from secure in-
telligence facilities to public view. H. Res. 660
also serves to enable effective public hearings
as it permits staff counsels to question wit-
nesses for up to 45 minutes.
This is consistent with precedent estab-
lished in 1998 of having staff counsel conduct
initial questioning, followed by Member ques-
tions, by Republicans used to question Inde-
pendent Counsel Kenneth Starr in 1998.
The resolution also continues the precedent
of giving the minority the same rights to ques-
tion witnesses that was afforded the majority.
This has been true at every step of the in-
quiry.
Additionally, H. Res. 660 also permits the
President opportunities to participate in this in-
quiry, in a manner consistent with past partici-
pation by Presidents.
The resolution establishes opportunities for
the President or his counsel to participate in
impeachment proceedings held by the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary, including to present
his case and respond to evidence.
The President can submit written requests
for additional testimony or other evidence.
The President can attend hearings, includ-
ing those held in executive session, raise an
objection to testimony given and cross-exam-
ine witnesses.
But, if the President unlawfully refuses to
cooperate with Congressional requests, the
Chair shall have the discretion to impose
sanctions to enforce appropriate remedies, in-
cluding by denying specific requests by the
President or his counsel.
H. Res. 660 explicates the procedure that
applies after testimony is adduced in the
HPSCI.
H. Res. 660 directs the Committee on the
Judiciary to review the evidence and, if nec-
essary, to report Articles of Impeachment to
the House.
Following the precedent of every modern
impeachment inquiry, the Committee on the
Judiciary will decide whether Articles shall be
reported to the House.
H. Res. 660 is important legislation that
specifies the parameters and the terms this
body will follow as it undergoes its solemn and
constitutional task.
It affords equal time to the Chairman and
Ranking Member to question witnesses and it
treats the President and his counsel fairly.
And, importantly, it lays out for the American
people the manner in which this inquiry will
proceed to the House Judiciary Committee—
the committee of jurisdiction for impeachment
and where I will bring to bear my decades of
experience on Capitol Hill, including the les-
sons learned in the impeachment of 1998.
Unlike that occasion, the allegations at the
heart of this matter are serious, and damning
of the president’s conduct and fitness to serve
and his ability to safeguard our national secu-
rity.
These allegations represent a violation of
his oath, a betrayal of our national interests, a
repudiation of Americans’ cherished Demo-
cratic Values, and a violation of federal cam-
paign finance laws.
When the President stated that Article II
permits him to do whatever he wants, he was
invoking a fear of Thomas Jefferson, the au-
thor of the Declaration of Independence.
As the author of one of our nation’s endur-
ing documents, Jefferson was well-versed with
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:04 Nov 01, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00016 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A31OC7.024 H31OCPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8697
October 31, 2019
what troubles would merit the erosion of public
trust in its leaders.
After all, the Declaration of Independence
was a list of grievances of a lawless King, who
felt impunity.
But, almost 50 years after the adoption of
the Declaration of Independence, Thomas Jef-
ferson wrote to another of our nation’s found-
ers: Nathaniel Macon.
In 1821, Jefferson wrote: ‘‘Our government
is now taking so steady a course, as to shew
by what road it will pass to destruction, to wit,
by consolidation first; and then corruption, it’s
necessary consequence.’’
It is clear that the consolidation that Jeffer-
son feared—and the corruption which he said
would be its necessary consequence—has
now been realized in the actions of this Presi-
dent.
We will not permit this to continue and we
will put a stop to it.
The President will be held to account. H.
Res. 660 is the first step towards that account-
ability, and I am proud to support it.
The material previously referred to
by Mr. COLE is as follows:
AMENDMENT TO H. RES. 660, AS REPORTED
OFFERED BY MR. COLE
In section 2, strike paragraph (5) and insert
the following:
(5) Not later than 15 days after the Perma-
nent Select Committee conducts a deposi-
tion or an interview in furtherance of the in-
vestigation described in the first section of
this resolution, the chair shall make pub-
licly available in electronic form the tran-
script of such deposition or interview, with
appropriate redactions for classified and
other sensitive information.
In section 3, strike ‘‘is authorized’’ and in-
sert ‘‘shall’’.
In section 3, strike ‘‘to transfer’’ and insert
‘‘transfer’’.
In section 3, insert after ‘‘records or mate-
rials’’ the following: ‘‘, including exculpatory
records or materials, with appropriate
redactions for classified or other sensitive
information,’’.
In section 4, strike subsection (d) and in-
sert the following:
(d) In the case that the Committee on the
Judiciary proceeds to consideration of a res-
olution, article of impeachment, or other
recommendation, the chair shall, at least 72
hours prior to committee consideration,
make available to the public, the report re-
ceived from the Permanent Select Com-
mittee on Intelligence, and any and all
records or materials, including exculpatory
records or materials, with appropriate
redactions for classified or other sensitive
information, that were transferred from the
Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence
or any other committee involved in the in-
quiry referenced in the first section of this
resolution.
Mr. MCGOVERN. Madam Speaker, I
yield back the balance of my time, and
I move the previous question on the
resolution.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on ordering the previous
question.
The question was taken; and the
Speaker pro tempore announced that
the ayes appeared to have it.
Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, on that I
demand the yeas and nays.
The yeas and nays were ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 9 of rule XX, the Chair
will reduce to 5 minutes the minimum
time for any electronic vote on the
question of adoption of the resolution.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—yeas 231, nays
196, not voting 4, as follows:
[Roll No. 603]
YEAS—231
Adams
Aguilar
Allred
Amash
Axne
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Beyer
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brindisi
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Bustos
Butterfield
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Clyburn
Cohen
Connolly
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cunningham
Davids (KS)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Evans
Finkenauer
Fletcher
Foster
Frankel
Fudge
Gabbard
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (TX)
Gottheimer
Green, Al (TX)
Grijalva
Haaland
Harder (CA)
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Higgins (NY)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Huffman
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (TX)
Kaptur
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Lamb
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Lowenthal
Lowey
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCollum
McGovern
McNerney
Meeks
Meng
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Murphy (FL)
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Norcross
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Perlmutter
Peters
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Porter
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Rice (NY)
Richmond
Rose (NY)
Rouda
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Ryan
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (WA)
Soto
Spanberger
Speier
Stanton
Stevens
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Underwood
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watson Coleman
Welch
Wexton
Wild
Wilson (FL)
Yarmuth
NAYS—196
Abraham
Aderholt
Allen
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Bergman
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (NC)
Bishop (UT)
Bost
Brady
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Byrne
Calvert
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Cline
Cloud
Cole
Collins (GA)
Comer
Conaway
Cook
Crawford
Crenshaw
Curtis
Davidson (OH)
Davis, Rodney
DesJarlais
Diaz-Balart
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Estes
Ferguson
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Flores
Fortenberry
Foxx (NC)
Fulcher
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Gonzalez (OH)
Gooden
Gosar
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Griffith
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Hagedorn
Harris
Hartzler
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Higgins (LA)
Hill (AR)
Holding
Hollingsworth
Hudson
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Katko
Keller
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamborn
Latta
Lesko
Long
Loudermilk
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Marchant
Marshall
Massie
Mast
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McHenry
McKinley
Meadows
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Mullin
Murphy (NC)
Newhouse
Norman
Nunes
Olson
Palazzo
Palmer
Pence
Perry
Peterson
Posey
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (SC)
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rooney (FL)
Rouzer
Roy
Rutherford
Scalise
Schweikert
Scott, Austin
Sensenbrenner
Shimkus
Simpson
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smucker
Spano
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stewart
Stivers
Taylor
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Tipton
Turner
Upton
Van Drew
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Watkins
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Wenstrup
Westerman
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yoho
Young
Zeldin
NOT VOTING—4
Hice (GA)
McEachin
Rose, John W.
Timmons
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER PRO TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore (during
the vote). There are 2 minutes remain-
ing.
b 1119
Messrs. TURNER and VAN DREW
changed their vote from ‘‘yea’’ to
‘‘nay.’’
Miss RICE of New York changed her
vote from ‘‘nay’’ to ‘‘yea.’’
So the previous question was ordered.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
The SPEAKER. The question is on
the resolution.
The question was taken; and the
Speaker announced that the ayes ap-
peared to have it.
Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, on that I
demand the yeas and nays.
The yeas and nays were ordered.
The SPEAKER. This is a 5-minute
vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—yeas 232, nays
196, not voting 4, as follows:
[Roll No. 604]
YEAS—232
Adams
Aguilar
Allred
Amash
Axne
Barragán
VerDate Sep 11 2014 17:07 Nov 05, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00017 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\RECORD19\OCTOBER\H31OC9.REC H31OC9
CORRECTION
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8698 October 31, 2019
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Beyer
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brindisi
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Bustos
Butterfield
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Clyburn
Cohen
Connolly
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cunningham
Davids (KS)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Evans
Finkenauer
Fletcher
Foster
Frankel
Fudge
Gabbard
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (TX)
Gottheimer
Green, Al (TX)
Grijalva
Haaland
Harder (CA)
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Higgins (NY)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Huffman
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (TX)
Kaptur
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Lamb
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Lowenthal
Lowey
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCollum
McGovern
McNerney
Meeks
Meng
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Murphy (FL)
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Norcross
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Pelosi
Perlmutter
Peters
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Porter
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Rice (NY)
Richmond
Rose (NY)
Rouda
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Ryan
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (WA)
Soto
Spanberger
Speier
Stanton
Stevens
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Underwood
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watson Coleman
Welch
Wexton
Wild
Wilson (FL)
Yarmuth
NAYS—196
Abraham
Aderholt
Allen
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Bergman
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (NC)
Bishop (UT)
Bost
Brady
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Byrne
Calvert
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Cline
Cloud
Cole
Collins (GA)
Comer
Conaway
Cook
Crawford
Crenshaw
Curtis
Davidson (OH)
Davis, Rodney
DesJarlais
Diaz-Balart
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Estes
Ferguson
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Flores
Fortenberry
Foxx (NC)
Fulcher
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Gonzalez (OH)
Gooden
Gosar
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Griffith
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Hagedorn
Harris
Hartzler
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Higgins (LA)
Hill (AR)
Holding
Hollingsworth
Hudson
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Katko
Keller
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamborn
Latta
Lesko
Long
Loudermilk
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Marchant
Marshall
Massie
Mast
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McHenry
McKinley
Meadows
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Mullin
Murphy (NC)
Newhouse
Norman
Nunes
Olson
Palazzo
Palmer
Pence
Perry
Peterson
Posey
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (SC)
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rooney (FL)
Rouzer
Roy
Rutherford
Scalise
Schweikert
Scott, Austin
Sensenbrenner
Shimkus
Simpson
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smucker
Spano
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stewart
Stivers
Taylor
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Tipton
Turner
Upton
Van Drew
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Watkins
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Wenstrup
Westerman
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yoho
Young
Zeldin
NOT VOTING—4
Hice (GA)
McEachin
Rose, John W.
Timmons
b 1127
So the resolution was agreed to.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
REQUEST TO ADDRESS THE HOUSE
FOR 1 MINUTE
Mr. CLEAVER. Madam Speaker, I re-
quest permission to speak for 1 minute
out of turn.
The SPEAKER. Is there objection to
the request of the gentleman from Mis-
souri?
Mr. GRIFFITH. Madam Speaker, I
object.
The SPEAKER. Objection is heard.
f
COLORADO OUTDOOR RECREATION
AND ECONOMY ACT
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Ms.
DEGETTE). Pursuant to House Resolu-
tion 656 and rule XVIII, the Chair de-
clares the House in the Committee of
the Whole House on the state of the
Union for the further consideration of
the bill, H.R. 823.
Will the gentleman from California
(Mr. AGUILAR) kindly take the chair.
b 1130
IN THE COMMITTEE OF THE WHOLE
Accordingly, the House resolved
itself into the Committee of the Whole
House on the state of the Union for the
further consideration of the bill (H.R.
823) to provide for the designation of
certain wilderness areas, recreation
management areas, and conservation
areas in the State of Colorado, and for
other purposes, with Mr. AGUILAR (Act-
ing Chair) in the chair.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The Acting CHAIR. When the Com-
mittee of the Whole rose on Wednesday
October 30, 2019, a request for a re-
corded vote on amendment No. 6 print-
ed in part B of House Report 116–264 of-
fered by the gentleman from Colorado
(Mr. CROW) had been postponed.
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE ACTING CHAIR
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
clause 6 of rule XVIII, proceedings will
now resume on those amendments
printed in part B of House Report 116–
264 on which further proceedings were
postponed, in the following order:
Amendment No. 1 by Mr. CURTIS of
Utah.
Amendment No. 5 by Mr. TIPTON of
Colorado.
Amendment No. 6 by Mr. CROW of
Colorado.
AMENDMENT NO. 1 OFFERED BY MR. CURTIS
The Acting CHAIR. The unfinished
business is the demand for a recorded
vote on the amendment offered by the
gentleman from Utah (Mr. CURTIS) on
which further proceedings were post-
poned and on which the noes prevailed
by voice vote.
The Clerk will redesignate the
amendment.
The Clerk redesignated the amend-
ment.
RECORDED VOTE
The Acting CHAIR. A recorded vote
has been demanded.
A recorded vote was ordered.
The Acting CHAIR. This will be a 2-
minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—ayes 180, noes 240,
not voting 17, as follows:
[Roll No. 605]
AYES—180
Abraham
Aderholt
Allen
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Bergman
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (NC)
Bishop (UT)
Bost
Brady
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Byrne
Carter (GA)
Chabot
Cheney
Cline
Cloud
Cole
Collins (GA)
Comer
Conaway
Cook
Crawford
Crenshaw
Curtis
Davidson (OH)
Davis, Rodney
DesJarlais
Diaz-Balart
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Estes
Ferguson
Fleischmann
Flores
Fortenberry
Foxx (NC)
Fulcher
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gonzalez (OH)
Gooden
Gosar
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Griffith
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Hagedorn
Harris
Hartzler
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Higgins (LA)
Hill (AR)
Holding
Hollingsworth
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Keller
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
King (IA)
Kinzinger
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:04 Nov 01, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00018 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A31OC7.020 H31OCPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8699
October 31, 2019
LaMalfa
Lamborn
Latta
Lesko
Long
Loudermilk
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Marchant
Marshall
Massie
Mast
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McHenry
McKinley
Meadows
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Mullin
Murphy (NC)
Newhouse
Norman
Nunes
Olson
Palazzo
Palmer
Pence
Perry
Posey
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (SC)
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rooney (FL)
Rouzer
Roy
Rutherford
Scalise
Schweikert
Scott, Austin
Sensenbrenner
Shimkus
Simpson
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smucker
Spano
Stauber
Steil
Steube
Stewart
Stivers
Taylor
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Turner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Watkins
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Wenstrup
Westerman
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yoho
Young
Zeldin
NOES—240
Adams
Aguilar
Allred
Amash
Axne
Barragán
Bass
Bera
Beyer
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brindisi
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Bustos
Butterfield
Calvert
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Clyburn
Cohen
Connolly
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cunningham
Davids (KS)
Davis, Danny K.
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Evans
Finkenauer
Fitzpatrick
Fletcher
Foster
Frankel
Fudge
Gabbard
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (TX)
Gottheimer
Green, Al (TX)
Grijalva
Haaland
Harder (CA)
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Higgins (NY)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Huffman
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (TX)
Kaptur
Katko
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
King (NY)
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Lamb
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lowenthal
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCollum
McGovern
McNerney
Meeks
Meng
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Murphy (FL)
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Norcross
Norton
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Perlmutter
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Porter
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Rice (NY)
Richmond
Rogers (KY)
Rose (NY)
Rouda
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Ryan
Sablan
San Nicolas
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (NJ)
Smith (WA)
Soto
Spanberger
Speier
Stanton
Stefanik
Stevens
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Thompson (CA)
Tipton
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Underwood
Upton
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watson Coleman
Welch
Wexton
Wild
Wilson (FL)
Yarmuth
NOT VOTING—17
Beatty
Carter (TX)
Davis (CA)
Gohmert
González-Colón
(PR)
Hice (GA)
Hudson
Lofgren
Lowey
McEachin
Plaskett
Radewagen
Rogers (AL)
Rose, John W.
Thompson (MS)
Timmons
Wagner
b 1135
So the amendment was rejected.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
AMENDMENT NO. 5 OFFERED BY MR. TIPTON
The Acting CHAIR. The unfinished
business is the demand for a recorded
vote on the amendment offered by the
gentleman from Colorado (Mr. TIPTON)
on which further proceedings were
postponed and on which the noes pre-
vailed by voice vote.
The Clerk will redesignate the
amendment.
The Clerk redesignated the amend-
ment.
RECORDED VOTE
The Acting CHAIR. A recorded vote
has been demanded.
A recorded vote was ordered.
The Acting CHAIR. This is a 2-
minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—ayes 185, noes 231,
not voting 21, as follows:
[Roll No. 606]
AYES—185
Abraham
Aderholt
Allen
Amash
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Bergman
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (UT)
Bost
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Byrne
Calvert
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Cline
Cloud
Cole
Collins (GA)
Comer
Conaway
Cook
Crawford
Crenshaw
Curtis
Davidson (OH)
Davis, Rodney
DesJarlais
Diaz-Balart
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Estes
Ferguson
Fleischmann
Flores
Fortenberry
Foxx (NC)
Fulcher
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Gonzalez (OH)
Gooden
Gosar
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Griffith
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Hagedorn
Harris
Hartzler
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Higgins (LA)
Hill (AR)
Holding
Hollingsworth
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Katko
Keller
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamborn
Latta
Lesko
Long
Loudermilk
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Marchant
Marshall
Massie
Mast
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McHenry
McKinley
Meadows
Meuser
Miller
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Mullin
Murphy (NC)
Newhouse
Norman
Nunes
Olson
Palazzo
Palmer
Pence
Perry
Posey
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (SC)
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (KY)
Rouzer
Roy
Rutherford
Scalise
Schweikert
Scott, Austin
Sensenbrenner
Shimkus
Simpson
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Spano
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stewart
Stivers
Taylor
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Tipton
Turner
Upton
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Watkins
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Wenstrup
Westerman
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yoho
Young
Zeldin
NOES—231
Adams
Aguilar
Allred
Axne
Barragán
Bass
Bera
Beyer
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brindisi
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Bustos
Butterfield
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Clyburn
Cohen
Connolly
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cunningham
Davids (KS)
Davis, Danny K.
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Evans
Finkenauer
Fitzpatrick
Fletcher
Foster
Frankel
Fudge
Gabbard
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (TX)
Gottheimer
Green, Al (TX)
Grijalva
Haaland
Harder (CA)
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Higgins (NY)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Huffman
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (TX)
Kaptur
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Lamb
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lowenthal
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCollum
McGovern
McNerney
Meeks
Meng
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Murphy (FL)
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Norcross
Norton
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Perlmutter
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Porter
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Rice (NY)
Richmond
Rooney (FL)
Rose (NY)
Rouda
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Ryan
Sablan
San Nicolas
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Slotkin
Smith (WA)
Soto
Spanberger
Speier
Stanton
Stevens
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Thompson (CA)
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Underwood
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:04 Nov 01, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00019 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A31OC7.022 H31OCPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8700 October 31, 2019
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watson Coleman
Welch
Wexton
Wild
Wilson (FL)
Yarmuth
NOT VOTING—21
Beatty
Bishop (NC)
Brady
Davis (CA)
González-Colón
(PR)
Hice (GA)
Hudson
Lofgren
Lowey
McEachin
Mitchell
Plaskett
Radewagen
Rogers (AL)
Rose, John W.
Sires
Smucker
Thompson (MS)
Timmons
Wagner
Walberg
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE ACTING CHAIR
The Acting CHAIR (during the vote).
There is 1 minute remaining.
b 1140
So the amendment was rejected.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
Stated for:
Mr. BISHOP of North Carolina. Mr. Chair, I
was momentarily indisposed and unable to
cast my vote on this amendment.
Had I been present, I would have voted
‘‘yea‘‘ on rollcall No. 606.
AMENDMENT NO. 6 OFFERED BY MR. CROW
The Acting CHAIR. The unfinished
business is the demand for a recorded
vote on the amendment offered by the
gentleman from Colorado (Mr. CROW)
on which further proceedings were
postponed and on which the ayes pre-
vailed by voice vote.
The Clerk will redesignate the
amendment.
The Clerk redesignated the amend-
ment.
RECORDED VOTE
The Acting CHAIR. A recorded vote
has been demanded.
A recorded vote was ordered.
The Acting CHAIR. This will be a 2-
minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—ayes 410, noes 6,
not voting 21, as follows:
[Roll No. 607]
AYES—410
Abraham
Adams
Aderholt
Aguilar
Allen
Allred
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Axne
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Barragán
Bass
Bera
Bergman
Beyer
Bilirakis
Bishop (GA)
Bishop (NC)
Bishop (UT)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Bost
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brindisi
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Bustos
Butterfield
Byrne
Calvert
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Cline
Cloud
Clyburn
Cohen
Cole
Collins (GA)
Comer
Conaway
Connolly
Cook
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crawford
Crenshaw
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cunningham
Curtis
Davids (KS)
Davidson (OH)
Davis, Danny K.
Davis, Rodney
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
DesJarlais
Deutch
Diaz-Balart
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Dunn
Emmer
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Estes
Evans
Ferguson
Finkenauer
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Fletcher
Flores
Fortenberry
Foster
Foxx (NC)
Frankel
Fudge
Fulcher
Gabbard
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (OH)
Gonzalez (TX)
Gooden
Gottheimer
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Green, Al (TX)
Griffith
Grijalva
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Haaland
Hagedorn
Harder (CA)
Harris
Hartzler
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Higgins (LA)
Higgins (NY)
Hill (AR)
Hill (CA)
Holding
Hollingsworth
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Huffman
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Johnson (TX)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Kaptur
Katko
Keating
Keller
Kelly (IL)
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamb
Lamborn
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Latta
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Lesko
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Long
Loudermilk
Lowenthal
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Marchant
Marshall
Massie
Mast
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McCollum
McGovern
McHenry
McKinley
McNerney
Meadows
Meeks
Meng
Meuser
Miller
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Mullin
Murphy (FL)
Murphy (NC)
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Newhouse
Norcross
Norman
Norton
Nunes
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Olson
Omar
Palazzo
Pallone
Palmer
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Pence
Perlmutter
Perry
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Porter
Posey
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (NY)
Richmond
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (KY)
Rooney (FL)
Rose (NY)
Rouda
Rouzer
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Rutherford
Ryan
Sablan
San Nicolas
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scalise
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Schweikert
Scott (VA)
Scott, Austin
Scott, David
Sensenbrenner
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Shimkus
Simpson
Slotkin
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smith (WA)
Smucker
Soto
Spanberger
Spano
Speier
Stanton
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stevens
Stewart
Stivers
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Taylor
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Tipton
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Turner
Underwood
Upton
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watkins
Watson Coleman
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Welch
Wenstrup
Westerman
Wexton
Wild
Williams
Wilson (FL)
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yarmuth
Yoho
Young
Zeldin
NOES—6
Amash
Biggs
Duncan
Gosar
Rice (SC)
Roy
NOT VOTING—21
Beatty
Brady
Davis (CA)
González-Colón
(PR)
Hice (GA)
Himes
Hudson
Lofgren
Lowey
McEachin
Mitchell
Plaskett
Radewagen
Rogers (AL)
Rose, John W.
Sherrill
Sires
Thompson (MS)
Timmons
Wagner
Walberg
b 1149
So the amendment was agreed to.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
The Acting CHAIR (Ms. KELLY of Illi-
nois). There being no further amend-
ments, under the rule, the Committee
rises.
Accordingly, the Committee rose;
and the Speaker pro tempore (Mr.
AGUILAR) having assumed the chair,
Ms. KELLY of Illinois, Acting Chair of
the Committee of the Whole House on
the state of the Union, reported that
that Committee, having had under con-
sideration the bill (H.R. 823) to provide
for the designation of certain wilder-
ness areas, recreation management
areas, and conservation areas in the
State of Colorado, and for other pur-
poses, and, pursuant to House Resolu-
tion 656, she reported the bill, as
amended by that resolution, back to
the House with sundry further amend-
ments adopted in the Committee of the
Whole.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under
the rule, the previous question is or-
dered.
Is a separate vote demanded on any
further amendment reported from the
Committee of the Whole? If not, the
Chair will put them en gros.
The amendments were agreed to.
PARLIAMENTARY INQUIRIES
Mr. HARRIS. Mr. Speaker, I have a
parliamentary inquiry.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tleman will state his parliamentary in-
quiry.
Mr. HARRIS. Mr. Speaker, when a
Member of the minority rises to object
to a motion to lay on the table, the
motion to reconsider to lay on the
table, whose discretion is it to recog-
nize that standing Member making the
objection?
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tleman is not making a proper par-
liamentary inquiry.
Mr. HARRIS. Mr. Speaker, I have a
parliamentary inquiry.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Does the
gentlemen seek a recorded vote?
Mr. HARRIS. Mr. Speaker, I seek a
parliamentary inquiry.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tleman will state his parliamentary in-
quiry.
Mr. HARRIS. Mr. Speaker, when a
Member of the minority party rises to
object to the motion to lay on the
table, not to reconsider a resolution,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:04 Nov 01, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00020 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A31OC7.026 H31OCPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8701
October 31, 2019
whose discretion is it to recognize that
standing Member making the objec-
tion?
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tleman is engaged in debate. The gen-
tleman is not recognized.
Mr. HARRIS. Mr. Speaker, that is a
parliamentary inquiry. That is abso-
lutely a parliamentary inquiry.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Does the
gentleman seek a recorded vote?
Mr. HARRIS. Mr. Speaker, I make a
parliamentary inquiry.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tleman will state his parliamentary in-
quiry.
Mr. HARRIS. Mr. Speaker, under the
rules, when a Member of the minority
party rises to object to the motion to
lay on the table the reconsideration of
a resolution, under the rules, whose ob-
ligation is it, or at whose discretion is
that Member recognized, under the
rules?
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tleman is not stating an inquiry about
the pending proceedings.
Mr. HARRIS. Mr. Speaker, I make a
parliamentary inquiry.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Does the
gentleman seek a recorded vote?
Mr. HARRIS. Mr. Speaker, I make a
parliamentary inquiry.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tleman will state his parliamentary in-
quiry.
Mr. HARRIS. Mr. Speaker, at this
stage of House deliberations, what op-
tions do we have to reconsider the
amendments or to consider the vote on
the amendments on this bill?
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair finds that the gentleman is ref-
erencing a previous resolution that was
adopted by the House.
Mr. HARRIS. No, Mr. Speaker. I am
referencing the piece of business that is
in front of the House right now.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Does the
gentleman object to the amendments?
Mr. HARRIS. Mr. Speaker, I object to
the amendments.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Does the
gentleman seek a recorded vote?
Mr. HARRIS. Mr. Speaker, I have a
parliamentary inquiry. What options
are available to a Member standing
asking for recognition to seek a vote?
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Does the
gentleman seek a recorded vote on
these amendments? That is the pending
matter before the House.
Mr. HARRIS. Mr. Speaker, this is a
parliamentary inquiry.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Does the
gentleman seek a recorded vote?
Mr. HARRIS. No. I actually seek an
answer to my first parliamentary in-
quiry, and you can have your choice
which one the Chair wants to answer.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the engrossment and
third reading of the bill.
The bill was ordered to be engrossed
and read a third time, and was read the
third time.
MOTION TO RECOMMIT
Mr. TIPTON. Mr. Speaker, I have a
motion to recommit at the desk.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is the
gentleman opposed to the bill?
Mr. TIPTON. Yes, in its current
form.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tleman qualifies. The Clerk will report
the motion to recommit.
The Clerk read as follows:
Mr. Tipton moves to recommit the bill
H.R. 823 to the Committee on Natural Re-
sources with instructions to report the same
back to the House forthwith with the fol-
lowing amendment:
At the end of the bill, add the following:
TITLE V—EFFECT OF ACT
SEC. 501. EFFECT OF ACT.
Nothing in this Act or an amendment
made by this Act restricts or precludes—
(1) any low-level overflight of military air-
craft over any area subject to this Act or an
amendment made by this Act, including
military overflights that can be seen, heard,
or detected within such an area;
(2) flight testing or evaluation over an area
described in paragraph (1);
(3) the use or establishment of—
(A) any new unit of special use airspace
over an area described in paragraph (1); or
(B) any military flight training or trans-
portation over such an area; or
(4) military aircraft from deviating from
service level requirements if oxygen require-
ments, icing levels, engine power limita-
tions, cloud clearances, or turbulence pre-
vent such aircraft from safely transiting an
area described in paragraph (1) while main-
taining such service level requirements.
Mr. TIPTON (during the reading).
Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent
to dispense with the reading.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from Colorado?
There was no objection.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentleman from
Colorado is recognized for 5 minutes in
support of his motion.
Mr. TIPTON. Mr. Speaker, my dis-
trict is home to the High-Altitude
Army National Guard Aviation Train-
ing Site, or HAATS. It is both a privi-
lege and an honor representing the U.S.
Department of Defense’s lone training
site where special aviators in the Na-
tion’s Armed Forces and the militaries
of our foreign allies learn how to fly
safely in mountainous, high-altitude
environments. HAATS is a vital asset
to our national security.
Proposed wilderness expansions in
this bill around HAATS are creating
concerns about the future of the site’s
ability to be able to ensure military
readiness for the men and women who
may be deployed in combat zones in
the Middle East.
The sponsors of the CORE Act have
indicated that their goal is to protect
HAATS. The DOD looks to the Colo-
rado-specific language of DOD’s flight
guidance, as published in the DOD AP/
1 handbook, with regard to how to op-
erate under the CORE Act.
While I appreciate the DOD’s guid-
ance, I know all too well that regu-
latory changes do not provide cer-
tainty. We cannot risk the guidance
being overturned by future administra-
tions.
So, in conversations with DOD, I
asked if they had any objections to the
Colorado language that is laid out in
the AP/1 handbook being codified. Sub-
sequently, in direct correspondence
with my office on both May 13 and
June 4 of this year, DOD both times
stated no objection to the codification.
The only way to be able to provide
certainty for HAATS is to ensure the
implementation of the Colorado guid-
ance by codifying that in this bill.
So, what is that guidance? Current
law requires DOD aircraft to be able to
fly at a minimum of 2,000 feet above
designated wilderness areas. However,
in Colorado, the terrain conditions
make maintaining the 2,000-foot min-
imum altitude challenging and dan-
gerous.
The Colorado guidance indicates that
if oxygen requirements, icing levels,
engine power limitations, cloud clear-
ance, or turbulence prevent the DOD
aircrews from meeting the 2,000-foot re-
quirement, the aircraft are authorized
to be able to deviate from the require-
ment to safely transit the wilderness
areas.
You can see, clearly, why it is impor-
tant that the CORE Act includes provi-
sions to be able to codify the Colorado
guidance. I do not understand the re-
sistance of the majority to make this
commonsense change to the bill.
Perhaps it is because some of my col-
leagues remain supportive of other
pending wilderness legislation that, as
drafted, would, among other things,
have a direct and negative impact on
HAATS, affecting aviators utilizing 71
landing zones amounting to 40 percent
of the HAATS training area.
Perhaps the rejection of this com-
monsense idea thus far is yet another
example of the need to be able to reach
out to all stakeholders and hear the
concerns and ideas from the district
most impacted by it, not allowing im-
portant amendments even to be consid-
ered by this House. We let eight
amendments, Mr. Speaker, sit in the
Rules Committee, not allowing Mem-
bers to be able to vote on them. These
are voices from our communities in the
Third District directly impacted by the
bill.
It is important to be able to seek
broad community support outreach.
This is needed to be able to build true
consensus for a successful public lands
effort.
I will also note that calling up the
ghosts of past failed public lands pro-
posals that never had broad commu-
nity consensus or got off the ground to
begin with is not an adequate sub-
stitute for direct community outreach
and consensus building, and also the
compromise needed for a bipartisan
success story. It is an unfortunate
missed opportunity in the House to be
able to get it right.
My good friend from Colorado’s
sense-of-Congress amendment that was
just adopted is a good message on
HAATS, but, after all, that is what a
sense of Congress is: just a message
with no legislative teeth.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:06 Nov 01, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00021 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K31OC7.039 H31OCPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8702 October 31, 2019
Given wilderness legislation being
considered by the House today con-
cerning federally designated wilderness
in Colorado, HAATS needs more than
just a good message. It deserves some-
thing codified in law.
This MTR will do just that, at least
in H.R. 823. We will be able to codify
this and ensure that nothing in this
bill will override the important Colo-
rado guidance critical to the mission
and operation of HAATS and the safety
of our men and women in the United
States military.
Mr. Speaker, I urge adoption of this
motion to recommit that promotes our
national security, and I yield back the
balance of my time.
Mr. NEGUSE. Mr. Speaker, I rise in
opposition to the motion to recommit.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tleman from Colorado is recognized for
5 minutes.
Mr. NEGUSE. Mr. Speaker, this bill
that we are considering today, the Col-
orado Outdoor Recreation and Econ-
omy Act, is about more than partisan
debate. This bill is about hiking; it is
about hunting; it is about fishing; it is
about skiing—some of you all might
not think I ski, but I do—it is about
camping; and it is about a Colorado
way of life and preserving our public
lands.
The experiences we have outdoors
with our loved ones bond us together.
And, for me, that was hiking with my
father in Rocky Mountain National
Park.
Yesterday, my wife called me to let
me know that our 1-year-old daughter
walked for the first time. I cannot wait
to go back to Colorado and be able to
hike with my daughter in the iconic
public lands that are protected under
this bill.
Ultimately, this bill is about ensur-
ing that we protect our most pristine
and treasured places for generations
long after we are gone. That is the es-
sence of our service: leaving a better
world for those who come next.
As Teddy Roosevelt once said: ‘‘Here
is your country. Cherish these national
wonders, cherish the natural resources,
cherish the history and the romance as
a sacred heritage, for your children and
your children’s children. Do not let
selfish men or greedy interests skin
your country of its beauty, its riches,
or its romance.’’
At the end of the day, we have an ob-
ligation to protect these public lands,
which is why I am so honored to lead
this bill. And I will just say that we
have worked incredibly hard to make
this bill something that our State can
be proud of.
I am proud that the House has voted
to accept two of my colleagues’ amend-
ments, because in Colorado we get
things done by collaboration and con-
sensus.
I am proud that every local jurisdic-
tion impacted by a title of this bill sup-
ports those very same titles—Repub-
lican and Democrat.
I am proud that this bill has bipar-
tisan support back in the State of Colo-
rado.
It is unfortunate that this motion to
recommit is not about any of those
things: It is not about improving the
bill; it is not about reaching consensus.
It is purely political, and here is why.
Just a few moments ago, over 400
Members in this Chamber voted in
favor of an amendment offered by my
distinguished colleague from Colorado
(Mr. CROW), who bravely served in our
Armed Forces—fought for our country
in Afghanistan and Iraq—and he of-
fered an amendment to stress the im-
portance of Colorado’s Army National
Guard High Altitude Aviation Training
Site.
That measure passed unanimously—
or almost unanimously; I guess seven
or eight folks voted against it—because
they recognized that the HAATS pro-
gram is something we must protect.
But the truth of the matter is this
bill already addresses the concerns of-
fered by my colleague.
I will quote from the bill on page 37,
subparagraph (f): ‘‘Military Over-
flights. Nothing in this title or an
amendment made by this title restricts
or precludes any low-level overflight of
military aircraft over any area subject
to this title or an amendment made by
this title. . . .’’
I could go on, but you also are going
to have to take my word for it.
I have a letter from the Colorado Na-
tional Guard. As my colleague, Mr.
CROW, said yesterday during floor de-
bate, we ought to listen to our troops,
to our commanders and what they have
told us:
It is through the diligent efforts of staff
within the Department, the offices of the bill
sponsors, and the Department of Defense we
have mitigated prior concerns related to
military overflight over the potential wilder-
ness areas identified in this bill, and I appre-
ciate the efforts of Congressman NEGUSE and
yourself.
The letter from the Colorado Na-
tional Guard concludes by thanking
the delegation for their effort to pre-
serve Colorado’s natural beauty and
looking forward to the passage of this
important legislation. Those are not
my words, those are the words of the
Colorado National Guard.
It is important for us not to lose
sight of the bigger picture. The CORE
Act presents an opportunity for us to
come together to show that we can
still govern on issues that are so im-
portant to all of our constituents.
While I may be new to Congress, Mr.
Speaker, the components of this bill
that we are slated to vote on in just a
few short minutes are not new to this
Congress:
Title I of this bill has been intro-
duced for five straight Congresses;
Title II of this bill dates back to 2009;
Local advocates have been asking for
the withdrawal of the Thompson Divide
since 2010;
Title IV of this bill was introduced in
2009.
Mr. Speaker, these bills have been
around since George W. Bush was
President. When those bills were being
drafted, the Washington Nationals had
not yet played their first game in Na-
tionals Park.
Mr. Speaker, I would ask that we all
vote against this motion to recommit
and support our public lands.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Without
objection, the previous question is or-
dered on the motion to recommit.
There was no objection.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion to recommit.
The question was taken; and the
Speaker pro tempore announced that
the noes appeared to have it.
RECORDED VOTE
Mr. TIPTON. Mr. Speaker, I demand
a recorded vote.
A recorded vote was ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 9 of rule XX, the Chair
will reduce to 5 minutes the minimum
time for any electronic vote on the
question of passage. This is a 5-minute
vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—ayes 199, noes 210,
not voting 22, as follows:
[Roll No. 608]
AYES—199
Abraham
Aderholt
Allen
Amash
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Axne
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Bergman
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (NC)
Bishop (UT)
Bost
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Byrne
Calvert
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Cline
Cloud
Cole
Collins (GA)
Comer
Conaway
Cook
Cox (CA)
Crawford
Crenshaw
Curtis
Davidson (OH)
Davis, Rodney
DesJarlais
Diaz-Balart
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Estes
Ferguson
Finkenauer
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Fortenberry
Foxx (NC)
Fulcher
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Golden
Gonzalez (OH)
Gooden
Gosar
Gottheimer
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Griffith
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Hagedorn
Harris
Hartzler
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Higgins (LA)
Hill (AR)
Holding
Hollingsworth
Horn, Kendra S.
Houlahan
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Katko
Keller
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
Lamb
Lamborn
Latta
Lesko
Long
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Marchant
Marshall
Massie
Mast
McAdams
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McHenry
McKinley
Meadows
Meuser
Miller
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Mullin
Murphy (NC)
Newhouse
Nunes
Olson
Palazzo
Palmer
Pence
Perry
Porter
Posey
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (SC)
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (KY)
Rooney (FL)
Rose (NY)
Rouzer
Roy
Rutherford
Scalise
Schweikert
Scott, Austin
Sensenbrenner
Shimkus
Simpson
Slotkin
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smucker
Spanberger
Spano
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:17 Nov 01, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00022 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K31OC7.042 H31OCPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8703
October 31, 2019
Steube
Stewart
Stivers
Taylor
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Tipton
Turner
Upton
Van Drew
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Watkins
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Wenstrup
Westerman
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yoho
Young
Zeldin
NOES—210
Adams
Aguilar
Allred
Barragán
Bass
Bera
Beyer
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brindisi
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Bustos
Butterfield
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Clyburn
Cohen
Connolly
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Craig
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cunningham
Davids (KS)
Davis, Danny K.
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Dingell
Doggett
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Evans
Fletcher
Flores
Foster
Frankel
Fudge
Gabbard
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Gomez
Gonzalez (TX)
Green, Al (TX)
Grijalva
Haaland
Harder (CA)
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Higgins (NY)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Horsford
Hoyer
Huffman
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (TX)
Kaptur
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lowenthal
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Matsui
McBath
McCollum
McGovern
McNerney
Meeks
Meng
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Murphy (FL)
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Norcross
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Perlmutter
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Rice (NY)
Richmond
Rouda
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Ryan
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Smith (WA)
Soto
Speier
Stanton
Stevens
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Thompson (CA)
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Underwood
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watson Coleman
Wexton
Wild
Wilson (FL)
Yarmuth
NOT VOTING—22
Beatty
Brady
Davis (CA)
Doyle, Michael
F.
Hice (GA)
Hudson
LaMalfa
Lofgren
Loudermilk
Lowey
McEachin
Mitchell
Norman
Rogers (AL)
Rose, John W.
Sherrill
Sires
Thompson (MS)
Timmons
Wagner
Walberg
Welch
b 1214
So the motion to recommit was re-
jected.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
Stated for:
Mr. FLORES. Madam Speaker, on rollcall
no. 608, I mistakenly voted no when I in-
tended to vote yes.
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Ms.
KELLY of Illinois). The question is on
the passage of the bill.
The question was taken; and the
Speaker pro tempore announced that
the ayes appeared to have it.
RECORDED VOTE
Mr. BISHOP of Utah. Madam Speak-
er, I demand a recorded vote.
A recorded vote was ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. This is a
5-minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—ayes 227, noes 182,
not voting 22, as follows:
[Roll No. 609]
AYES—227
Adams
Allred
Axne
Barragán
Bass
Bera
Beyer
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brindisi
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Bustos
Butterfield
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Clyburn
Cohen
Connolly
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cunningham
Davids (KS)
Davis, Danny K.
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Engel
Escobar
Espaillat
Evans
Finkenauer
Fitzpatrick
Fletcher
Foster
Frankel
Fudge
Gabbard
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (TX)
Gottheimer
Green, Al (TX)
Grijalva
Haaland
Harder (CA)
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Higgins (NY)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Huffman
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (TX)
Kaptur
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Lamb
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lowenthal
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Matsui
McBath
McCollum
McGovern
McNerney
Meeks
Meng
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Murphy (FL)
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Norcross
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Perlmutter
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Porter
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Rice (NY)
Richmond
Rooney (FL)
Rose (NY)
Rouda
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Ryan
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Simpson
Slotkin
Smith (NJ)
Smith (WA)
Soto
Spanberger
Speier
Stanton
Stevens
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Thompson (CA)
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Underwood
Upton
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watson Coleman
Welch
Wexton
Wild
Wilson (FL)
Yarmuth
NOES—182
Abraham
Aderholt
Allen
Amash
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Bergman
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (NC)
Bishop (UT)
Bost
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Byrne
Calvert
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Cline
Cloud
Cole
Collins (GA)
Comer
Conaway
Cook
Crawford
Crenshaw
Curtis
Davidson (OH)
Davis, Rodney
Diaz-Balart
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Estes
Ferguson
Fleischmann
Flores
Fortenberry
Foxx (NC)
Fulcher
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Gonzalez (OH)
Gooden
Gosar
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Griffith
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Hagedorn
Harris
Hartzler
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Higgins (LA)
Hill (AR)
Holding
Hollingsworth
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Katko
Keller
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamborn
Latta
Lesko
Long
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Marchant
Marshall
Massie
Mast
McAdams
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McHenry
McKinley
Meadows
Meuser
Miller
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Mullin
Murphy (NC)
Newhouse
Nunes
Olson
Palazzo
Palmer
Pence
Perry
Posey
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (SC)
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (KY)
Rouzer
Roy
Rutherford
Scalise
Schweikert
Scott, Austin
Sensenbrenner
Shimkus
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smucker
Spano
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stewart
Stivers
Taylor
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Tipton
Turner
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Watkins
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Wenstrup
Westerman
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yoho
Young
Zeldin
NOT VOTING—22
Aguilar
Beatty
Brady
Davis (CA)
DesJarlais
Eshoo
Hice (GA)
Hudson
Lofgren
Loudermilk
Lowey
McEachin
Mitchell
Norman
Rogers (AL)
Rose, John W.
Sherrill
Sires
Thompson (MS)
Timmons
Wagner
Walberg
b 1220
So the bill was passed.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
Mr. HUDSON. Madam Speaker, I was un-
avoidably detained and missed a vote series.
Had I been present, I would have voted ‘‘yea’’
on rollcall No. 605, ‘‘yea’’ on rollcall No. 606,
‘‘yea’’ on rollcall No. 607, ‘‘yea’’ on rollcall No.
608, and ‘‘nay’’ on rollcall No. 609.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:17 Nov 01, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00023 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A31OC7.029 H31OCPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8704 October 31, 2019
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
Mr. HICE of Georgia. Madam Speaker. I
was not present for the following votes due to
the passing of my father. Had I been present,
I would have voted ‘‘nay’’ on rollcall No. 603,
‘‘nay’’ on rollcall No. 604, ‘‘yea’’ on rollcall No.
605, ‘‘yea’’ on rollcall No. 606, ‘‘yea’’ on rollcall
No. 607, ‘‘yea’’ on rollcall No. 608, and ‘‘nay’’
on rollcall No. 609.
f
PERMISSION TO INCLUDE AMEND-
MENT TEXT IMMEDIATELY
PRIOR TO VOTE ON PREVIOUS
QUESTION ON H. RES. 660
Ms. SCANLON. Madam Speaker, I
ask unanimous consent that my col-
league from the Rules Committee,
Ranking Member COLE from Oklahoma,
be permitted to insert the text of the
amendment he would have offered had
the House rejected the previous ques-
tion on H. Res. 660, along with extra-
neous material, into the RECORD imme-
diately prior to the vote on ordering
the previous question on H. Res. 660.
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mrs.
LEE of Nevada). Is there objection to
the request of the gentlewoman from
Pennsylvania?
There was no objection.
f
COMMUNICATION FROM THE
CLERK OF THE HOUSE
The SPEAKER pro tempore laid be-
fore the House the following commu-
nication from the Clerk of the House of
Representatives:
OFFICE OF THE CLERK,
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
Washington, DC, October 31, 2019.
Hon. NANCY PELOSI,
The Speaker, House of Representatives,
Washington, DC.
DEAR MADAM SPEAKER: Pursuant to the
permission granted in Clause 2(h) of Rule II
of the Rules of the U.S. House of Representa-
tives, the Clerk received the following mes-
sage from the Secretary of the Senate on Oc-
tober 30, 2019, at 1:32 p.m.:
That the Senate passed S. 1678.
With best wishes, I am
Sincerely,
LLOYD HORWICH,
Legal Counsel.
f
REMOVAL OF NAMES OF MEM-
BERS AS COSPONSORS OF H.R.
2505
Mrs. RODGERS of Washington.
Madam Speaker, I ask unanimous con-
sent to remove Representatives WELCH,
KIRKPATRICK, TORRES SMALL of New
Mexico, and WESTERMAN from H.R.
2505.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gentle-
woman from Washington?
There was no objection.
f
MESSAGES FROM THE PRESIDENT
Messages in writing from the Presi-
dent of the United States was commu-
nicated to the House by Miss Kaitlyn
Roberts, on of his secretaries.
HOUR OF MEETING ON TOMORROW
Mr. HOYER. Madam Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that when the
House adjourns today, it adjourn to
meet at 1 p.m. tomorrow.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from Maryland?
There was no objection.
f
CONGRATULATING WASHINGTON
NATIONALS ON WINNING WORLD
SERIES
(Mr. HOYER asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Mr. HOYER. Madam Speaker, today
is a serious day. Last night was an ex-
traordinary night.
I rise for the millions of people who
live in the Washington metropolitan
area to congratulate and to exalt with
all of our region on the extraordinary
achievement of the Washington Na-
tionals.
This morning in Washington, the
heavens are crying tears of joy. In
other words, it is raining. But there is
no rain in any of our hearts or minds
today. It may be raining, but the faces
of Nationals fans are shining with pride
and happiness.
For the first time in 95 years—we
have waited a long time, Madam
Speaker—the Major League Baseball
team from our Nation’s Capital is
bringing home a World Series Cham-
pionship. My colleague Ms. NORTON is
here, being urged to put on a sweater,
over her pride.
With the might of their bats and the
lightness of their feet, the Nats pushed
through to a hard-won victory in game
seven last night against the Houston
Astros—arguably, the best team in ei-
ther league this year—who won the
most games.
While I congratulate the Houston
Astros on an extraordinary season,
they just didn’t count on the Wash-
ington Nationals.
But, today, the Houston Astros and
the Washington Nationals are in abso-
lute agreement. It is my understanding
that they are sending a joint letter to
Major League Baseball, saying: ‘‘We
want all of our games to be road games
from now on.’’
In case you didn’t get that, neither
team won at home. They all won games
on the road. The good news was, the
Washington Nationals had four games
in Houston, and the Astros had only
three games in Washington.
So there is joy in Washington this
day. It is sustained by a spirit of cama-
raderie and sportsmanship. Our Nats
grew strength from their dedicated
fans across this region, including, of
course, my district.
We have been waiting a very long
time for this day, so I hope my col-
leagues will join me in congratulating
the 2019 Nationals, led by their extraor-
dinary manager Dave Martinez, who
played earlier in his career for the
team that moved from Montreal to be-
come the Nats. How appropriate. How
wonderful.
I hope my colleagues will also join
me in congratulating this year’s most
valuable player. Very frankly, there
were a lot to choose from on the Wash-
ington Nats, who started out with a 19-
wins-and-31-losses season.
What an extraordinary achievement
to come that far that quickly, to meet,
arguably, as I said at the beginning,
the best team in baseball, the Houston
Astros.
I also want to mention, as I said, the
most valuable player. There were a lot
to choose from. Stephen Strasburg was
recruited and signed by the Wash-
ington Nationals some years ago as a
very young man. He pitched extraor-
dinarily, then got his elbow and had to
be operated on, a Tommy John oper-
ation, they call it, and he has come
back to be one of the best pitchers in
the major leagues. He won three
games. What an extraordinary achieve-
ment. So let’s congratulate, as well as
Stephen Strasburg, all the members of
the team on this victory.
To paraphrase the old poem: ‘‘Oh,
somewhere in this favored land the sun
is shining bright;
The band is playing somewhere, and
somewhere hearts are light;
And somewhere men are laughing,
and somewhere children shout.’’
Today, Madam Speaker, that some-
where is the Nation’s Capital.
Congratulations, Nationals. We love
you.
f
b 1230
SOVIET-STYLE IMPEACHMENT
(Mr. KELLER asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Mr. KELLER. Madam Speaker, last
week I joined several dozen of my col-
leagues at the SCIF in protest of the
secret impeachment inquiry.
Seventy-five percent of the elected
Members of Congress have been shut
out of this impeachment inquest. This
whole inquiry is a sham led by the
Speaker of this House and her impeach-
ment czar, the chairman of the Perma-
nent Select Committee on Intelligence.
Their attempt today to try and open
these proceedings is nothing short of
Soviet glasnost—a fake transparency
that only leads to less participation,
more secrecy, and less due process.
Madam Speaker, this is too little too
late. You can’t unring the bell on this
sham process that is your high water-
mark in seeking to undo the 2016 elec-
tion at all costs.
Case in point: while saying there will
be a resolution to try and bring trans-
parency to these proceedings, this in-
quiry has continued to take deposi-
tions in secret. Democrats in this
Chamber have been acting like bank
robbers after they have tripped an
alarm and they are trying to shove as
much money in the bag as they can be-
fore the police get there.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:17 Nov 01, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00024 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A31OC7.033 H31OCPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8705
October 31, 2019
We demand due process.
f
LAW AND ORDER IMPEACHMENT
(Ms. JACKSON LEE asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute and to revise and extend
her remarks.)
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Madam Speaker,
this is a somber and solemn time.
I rise in support of H. Res. 660, a reso-
lution establishing procedures for the
impeachment of the President. I do it
with a heavy heart.
But today we choose our beloved Na-
tion over individual self-interest and
political party. We choose due process,
regular order, and fairness. We choose
this little document called the Con-
stitution, lasting for over 200 years.
We are reminded of the words of
James Madison who argued in favor of
impeachment, stating that some provi-
sion was indispensable to defend the
community against the incapacity or
negligence of the chief magistrate.
We do not do this in a rush, and we
do not do it eagerly.
We are reminded of Lieutenant Colo-
nel Vindman who came here at 3 years
old. He said he had dedicated his entire
professional life to the United States of
America. And he said about the call
that he was on: I realized that this was
troubling, that if Ukraine pursued an
investigation into the Bidens, it would
be heavy and wrong. I do not think it
is proper to demand that a foreign gov-
ernment investigate a U.S. citizen.
Again, we stand on the Constitution.
We must do it right and do it fairly.
This is a somber and solemn time.
Today we choose our beloved nation over
individual self-interest and a political party.
We choose due process, regular order and
fairness.
And as the founding fathers crafted a docu-
ment, which 230 years later, from 1789 to
2019, we can abide by, we choose the Con-
stitution.
When the Framers of our Constitution de-
signed our government, they bifurcated power
between the federal and state governments,
and divided power among the branches.
Indeed as the Framers debated ratification
of the Constitution, they knew of the need to
remove an individual who breached the public
trust.
James Madison of Virginia argued in favor
of impeachment stating that some provision
was ‘‘indispensable’’ to defend the community
against ‘‘the incapacity, negligence or perfidy
of the chief Magistrate.’’
With a single executive, Madison argued,
unlike a legislature whose collective nature
provided security, ‘‘loss of capacity or corrup-
tion was more within the compass of probable
events, and either of them might be fatal to
the Republic.’’
They wrote Article I and vested in the Con-
gress the capacity to make the laws.
They wrote Article II, and in the Executive
vested the power to faithfully execute those
laws.
Because the House enjoyed a natural supe-
riority, as most representative of the passions
of the populace, the Framers vested in the
House of Representatives the sole power of
impeachment, and made the Senate the
judges.
In Article II, they specified the standard by
which a president or any constitutional officer
is to be removed from office: for High Crimes
and Misdemeanors.
It is against that backdrop that we debate
this resolution.
I support this resolution because it protects
our interests, holds us responsible, protects
the American people and gives the president
ample opportunity to try to justify his conduct.
In September, members of the House of
Representatives learned of a complaint filed
by a whistleblower within the Intelligence
Community.
The whistleblower alleged that on July 25,
2019, in a telephone conversation with the
President of Ukraine, the American President
sought to withhold foreign military aid from the
besieged and beleaguered nation of Ukraine
unless and until the Government of Ukraine
produced or manufactured produced political
dirt against a person he deemed his most for-
midable political rival.
The allegation suggests an effort and intent
to extort the assistance of a foreign power to
help the current president retain his office.
This is similar to the allegations surrounding
his 2016 election victory, which were at the
heart of the Special Counsel’s Report regard-
ing Russian election interference.
After the whistleblower’s details were made
public, the White House engaged in a series
of untenable defenses, all designed to dis-
credit the courageous whistleblower’s account,
which the Intelligence Community Inspector
General found credible.
First, the White House indicated that the
whistleblower should not be trusted because it
referenced secondhand information, forgetting
that much of the information in the Whistle-
blower’s complaint was corroborated by the
White House itself.
Next, the White House claimed, without
proof, that the whistleblower was a liar.
Then, the White House spread a lie that it
was a ‘‘perfect’’ call between the two leaders.
Outrageously, the White House then
claimed that Chairman Adam Schiff is lying
and had helped the Whistleblower draft his
complaint.
That was before the President said that the
whistleblower’s complaint is a lie made up by
the ‘‘Deep State.’’
And that was before the President said that
he made the call at Rick Perry’s urging and
that the phone conversations with the Vice
President are more problematic than his.
The President and his last defenders are
now trying to denigrate the life and accom-
plishments of Ambassador Bill Taylor, a grad-
uate of the United States Military Academy at
West Point, and decorated soldier, and dis-
missing him as a Never Trumper, as if that is
a demerit.
This past Tuesday, Lt. Colonel Alexander
Vindman, a member of the National Security
Council who immigrated from Ukraine when
he was three-years old and was dismissed by
the President as insufficiently loyal to him, be-
fore one of the President’s acolytes suggested
Lt. Col. Vindman held a greater loyalty for
Ukraine over the United States.
Lt. Col. Vindman has loyally served our
country and our Constitution. He was injured
in the war in Iraq, for which he was awarded
the Purple Heart.
It is thus fitting that when Lt. Col. Vindman
appeared to testify in this impeachment in-
quiry, he did so wearing his Army class A uni-
form, and had inside his leg shrapnel from the
attack that wounded him, and won him the
commendation of his superior officers in the
Army.
And when he began his testimony, he indi-
cated just what service to this nation meant.
He stated:
I have dedicated my entire professional life
to the United States of America. For more
than two decades, it has been my honor to
serve as an officer in the United States
Army. As an infantry officer, I served mul-
tiple overseas tours, including South Korea
and Germany, and a deployment to Iraq for
combat operations. In Iraq, I was wounded in
an IED attack and awarded a Purple Heart.
And immigrant to this country, Lt. Col.
Vindman stated:
The privilege of serving my country is not
only rooted in my military service, but also
in my personal history. I sit here, as a Lieu-
tenant Colonel in the United States Army,
an immigrant. My family fled the Soviet
Union when I was three and a half years old.
Upon arriving in New York City in 1979, my
father worked multiple jobs to support us,
all the while learning English at night. He
stressed to us the importance of fully inte-
grating into our adopted country. For many
years, life was quite difficult. In spite of our
challenging beginnings, my family worked to
build its own American dream. I have a deep
appreciation for American values and ideals
and the power of freedom. I am a patriot, and
it is my sacred duty and honor to advance
and defend OUR country, irrespective of
party or politics.
When Lt. Col. Vindman testified, he spoke
of the horror he felt when he realized that our
country’s national security apparatus was
being manipulated for the president’s personal
and political gain.
He stated in his testimony:
On July 21, 2019, President Zelenskyy’s
party won Parliamentary elections in a land-
slide victory. The NSC proposed that Presi-
dent Trump call President Zelenskyy to con-
gratulate him. On July 25, 2019, the call oc-
curred. I listened in on the call in the Situa-
tion Room with colleagues from the NSC and
the office of the Vice President. As the tran-
script is in the public record, we are all
aware of what was said. I was concerned by
the call. I did not think it was proper to de-
mand that a foreign government investigate
a U.S. citizen, and I was worried about the
implications for 6 the U.S. government’s sup-
port of Ukraine. I realized that if Ukraine
pursued an investigation into the Bidens and
Burisma, it would likely be interpreted as a
partisan play which would undoubtedly re-
sult in Ukraine losing the bipartisan support
it has thus far maintained. This would all
undermine U.S. national security. Following
the call, I again reported my concerns to
NSC’s lead counsel.
Throughout the last five weeks, Congres-
sional Republicans have presented a series of
strawman arguments designed to deflect but
not delve into the very serious charges against
the President.
Congressional Republicans’ claims that the
whistleblower complaint was hearsay are spe-
cious because its contents have been inde-
pendently and repeatedly confirmed.
Similarly, there is no merit to the claim that
there was no quid pro quo when the evidence
adduced to date confirms there was.
In their perverse logic, Congressional Re-
publicans decried the lack of due process for
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:42 Nov 01, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00025 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\K31OC7.051 H31OCPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8706 October 31, 2019
a man who once suggested that the Central
Park Five should be summarily executed for a
crime for which they were later exonerated,
and could shoot someone in broad daylight
with impunity.
Despite these specious arguments, it is like-
ly that these process arguments are only
made because the substance of the presi-
dent’s allegations are utterly indefensible.
The American people and their elected rep-
resentatives cannot be distracted; they are
paying close attention to the substantial
wrongdoing emanating from this White House.
They know what the President, which is why
a clear majority support impeachment and re-
moval of this President.
As the House of Representatives continues
its impeachment inquiry, H. Res. 660 is an es-
pecially timely piece of legislation, which
squarely addresses the concerns of the Presi-
dent’s most fervent supporters.
Specifically, this legislation reaffirms that the
six investigating committees—including the
House Judiciary Committee, of which I am a
senior member and which has exclusive juris-
diction to draft Articles of Impeachment—an-
nounced by Speaker NANCY PELOSI have been
engaged in an impeachment inquiry and di-
rects them to continue their vital work.
That we have been engaged in an ongoing
impeachment inquiry was ratified by the Article
III branch when Judge Beryl Howell, the Chief
Judge for the United States District court for
the District of Columbia, recently held that the
House is conducting an impeachment inquiry,
which does not require a formal floor vote.
Second, H. Res. 660 authorizes the House
Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence
(HPSCI) to make public transcripts of recent
depositions with appropriate redactions made
for classified or other sensitive information.
This legislation, too, establishes procedures
for all investigating committees to transmit
their evidence to the Committee on the Judici-
ary for use in their proceedings.
The resolution is also prospective, as it re-
lates to these hearings moving from secure in-
telligence facilities to public view. H. Res. 660
also serves to enable effective public hearings
as it permits staff counsels to question wit-
nesses for up to 45 minutes.
This is consistent with precedent estab-
lished in 1998 of having staff counsel conduct
initial questioning, followed by Member ques-
tions, by Republicans used to question Inde-
pendent Counsel Kenneth Starr in 1998.
The resolution also continues the precedent
of giving the minority the same rights to ques-
tion witnesses that was afforded the majority.
This has been true at every step of the in-
quiry.
Additionally, H. Res. 660 also permits the
President opportunities to participate in this in-
quiry, in a manner consistent with past partici-
pation by Presidents.
The resolution establishes opportunities for
the President or his counsel to participate in
impeachment proceedings held by the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary, including to present
his case and respond to evidence.
The President can submit written requests
for additional testimony or other evidence.
The President can attend hearings, includ-
ing those held in executive session, raise an
objection to testimony given and cross-exam-
ine witnesses.
But, if the President unlawfully refuses to
cooperate with Congressional requests, the
Chair shall have the discretion to impose
sanctions to enforce appropriate remedies, in-
cluding by denying specific requests by the
President or his counsel.
H. Res. 660 explicates the procedure that
applies after testimony is adduced in the
HPSCI.
H. Res. 660 directs the Committee on the
Judiciary to review the evidence and, if nec-
essary, to report Articles of Impeachment to
the House.
Following the precedent of every modern
impeachment inquiry, the Committee on the
Judiciary will decide whether Articles shall be
reported to the House.
H. Res. 660 is important legislation that
specifies the parameters and the terms this
body will follow as it undergoes its solemn and
constitutional task.
It affords equal time to the Chairman and
Ranking Member to question witnesses and it
treats the President and his counsel fairly.
And, importantly, it lays out for the American
people the manner in which this inquiry will
proceed to the House Judiciary Committee—
the committee of jurisdiction for impeach-
ment—and where I will bring to bear my dec-
ades of experience on Capitol Hill, including
the lessons learned in the impeachment of
1998.
Unlike that occasion, the allegations at the
heart of this matter are serious, and damning
of the president’s conduct and fitness to serve
and his ability to safeguard our national secu-
rity.
These allegations represent a violation of
his oath, a betrayal of our national interests, a
repudiation of Americans’ cherished Demo-
cratic Values, and a violation of federal cam-
paign finance laws.
When the President stated that Article II
permits him to do whatever he wants, he was
invoking a fear of Thomas Jefferson, the au-
thor of the Declaration of Independence.
As the author of one of our nation’s endur-
ing documents, Jefferson was well-versed with
what troubles would merit the erosion of public
trust in its leaders.
After all, the Declaration of Independence
was a list of grievances of a lawless King, who
felt impunity.
But, almost 50 years after the adoption of
the Declaration of Independence, Thomas Jef-
ferson wrote to another of our nation’s found-
ers: Nathaniel Macon.
In 1821, Jefferson wrote: ‘‘Our government
is now taking so steady a course, as to shew
by what road it will pass to destruction, to wit,
by consolidation first; and then corruption, it’s
necessary consequence.’’
It is clear that the consolidation that Jeffer-
son feared—and the corruption which he said
would be its necessary consequence—has
now been realized in the actions of this Presi-
dent.
We will not permit this to continue and we
will put a stop to it.
The President will be held to account.
H. Res. 660 is the first step towards that ac-
countability.
Madam Speaker, as a senior member of the
House Judiciary Committee and one of only 5
members and one of three Democrats to
serve on that House Judiciary Committee dur-
ing the impeachment of 1998, I rise in strong
support of H. Res. 660, a resolution directing
committees to continue their ongoing inves-
tigations as part of the existing House of Rep-
resentatives inquiry into whether sufficient
grounds exist for the House of Representa-
tives to exercise the constitutional power, sole-
ly vested in the House of Representatives, to
impeach Donald John Trump, the current
President of the United States of America.
f
USMCA
(Mr. COMER asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. COMER. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to reiterate my support for the
United States-Mexico-Canada Trade
Agreement, a commonsense deal that
supports farmers and workers.
However, USMCA sits unratified even
as President Trump, Mexico, and Can-
ada signed the agreement over a year
ago. Each day that the USMCA is not
ratified, we are losing out on valuable
jobs and opportunities. Speaker PELOSI
must get serious about bringing this
legislation to a vote in Congress.
My Republican colleagues and I are
ready to vote on the deal, but House
Democrats setting their sights on the
baseless impeachment of the President
choose to neglect important opportuni-
ties like this.
I just voted against an impeachment
resolution against the President when I
should be voting on issues like USMCA.
I implore Speaker PELOSI to bring
USMCA for a vote so we can finally de-
liver for American farmers and manu-
facturers. Let’s get back to what we
promised the American people we
would do.
I hope that my colleagues across the
aisle can agree that expanding access
to markets, remaining competitive,
and growing our economy is what is
best for Americans instead of engaging
in political shams that do nothing to
move this country forward.
f
SAN PEDRO PACKAGES FOR
PATRIOTS
(Ms. BARRAGÁN asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute and to revise and extend
her remarks.)
Ms. BARRAGÁN. Madam Speaker,
currently military families who send
all-important care packages to their
loved ones overseas have to pay some
postage. These families are already
paying a lot just by enduring the ab-
sence of their loved one. That is why I
am reintroducing the Military Care
Package Program Act which would
waive these postal fees for family-sent
care packages.
In this spirit, I would like to take a
moment to recognize an organization
in my district called San Pedro’s Pack-
ages for Patriots. Packages for Patri-
ots have been sending care packages,
letters, and comfort items to our
Armed Forces members overseas since
2008.
These packages symbolize love and
hope. For some soldiers, it truly means
the world. This amazing organization
was started by San Pedro residents
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:42 Nov 01, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00026 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A31OC7.036 H31OCPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8707
October 31, 2019
Mike Walker and his wife, Shirley
Vojkovich. Together, along with their
group of dedicated volunteers, Pack-
ages for Patriots has shipped over
16,000 care packages with over 200,000
pounds of supplies to American service-
members deployed in Iraq and Afghani-
stan.
I am sure every Member of this body
would like to join me in applauding
their efforts in support of our service-
members overseas.
f
RECOGNIZING SERGEANT FIRST
CLASS BRYAN JENKINS
(Mr. YOHO asked and was given per-
mission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. YOHO. Madam Speaker, Michel
de Montaigne once said: ‘‘Valor is sta-
bility, not of legs and arms, but of
courage and the soul.’’
This quote describes Sergeant First
Class Bryan Jenkins of Gainesville,
Florida, who tragically lost his life
during a military exercise last week in
Georgia.
Throughout his 18-year military ca-
reer, he has distinguished himself as a
true patriot. Sergeant First Class Jen-
kins has a long list of accomplish-
ments. He went on two tours in Iraq
and also earned 14 different military
awards.
Our thoughts and prayers are with
his wife, Shana; his three children,
Branson, Bryanna, and Delilah, as well
as the families of the other two col-
leagues, Corporal Thomas Walker and
Private First Class Antonio Garcia who
were also killed during this exercise.
The impact that Sergeant First Class
Jenkins had on those around him will
not soon be forgotten. We thank him
for all the sacrifices he made for this
great Nation. He truly was a man of
honor.
f
INTRODUCING THE THREE SEAS
RESOLUTION
(Ms. KAPTUR asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Ms. KAPTUR. Madam Speaker, I rise
to introduce a resolution supporting
the Three Seas Initiative to bolster en-
ergy infrastructure security in Central
and Eastern Europe. I am pleased to
co-lead this bipartisan effort with the
ranking member of the House Foreign
Affairs Subcommittee on Europe, Eur-
asia, Energy, and the Environment,
ADAM KINZINGER.
Energy security is national security.
For years, Russia has sought to under-
mine liberty and security in Europe by
forcing Central and East European na-
tions into reliance on Russia for their
energy needs. They do this through
projects including the Nord Stream 2
and TurkStream, Russian gas pipe-
lines.
Thankfully, 12 of our closest allies in
Central and Eastern Europe have band-
ed together to increase their energy
autonomy through collective financing
of energy infrastructure projects: the
Three Seas Initiative.
This resolution makes clear U.S.’s
strong support for the initiative and
encourages member nations to take ac-
tion on joint financing of future
projects. Additionally, it encourages
the member nations to consider financ-
ing of clean energy projects as the
world addresses our dire climate
change crises.
In the face of increased Russian ag-
gression, the U.S. must play a leading
role in energy security in Europe, and
I urge my colleagues to support this
important resolution.
f
CONGRATULATING OWEN ALLEN
(Mr. WRIGHT asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Mr. WRIGHT. Madam Speaker, 15
years ago a future gridiron star named
Owen Allen was born. He was born with
a gift, and that gift was superior ath-
letic ability.
At 15 he is already a standout run-
ning back for the Southlake Carroll
varsity football team. In last week’s
game alone, he rushed more than 200
yards and scored four touchdowns.
Madam Speaker, Texans love com-
petition, we love champions, and we
love winners. We find the best of all
these things in high school football. If
you want to know why Texans are
crazy about those Friday night lights,
look no further than Owen Allen. His
performance on the field excites and
inspires.
Running back Allen was just named
the Dallas-Fort Worth High School Of-
fensive Player of the Week. But
athleticism is only one of young Mr.
Allen’s qualities. He is also a young
man of great character, integrity, and
decency.
As a Member of Congress, I congratu-
late Mr. Allen and wish him many
years of success as an athlete and as a
human being. I have prayed God’s
blessings on him and his family.
f
ACCIDENTAL SHOOTINGS
(Mr. LEVIN of California asked and
was given permission to address the
House for 1 minute and to revise and
extend his remarks.)
Mr. LEVIN of California. Madam
Speaker, every single day, eight kids
are killed or injured by unintentional
shootings with guns found in the home.
Last week a 9-year-old child acciden-
tally shot their 4-year-old sibling in
the face at their home in Tennessee.
Earlier this year a 4-year-old boy in
Oakland barely survived after acciden-
tally shooting himself in the head with
a gun he found under the pillow.
These accidental shootings are pre-
ventable. That is why I am introducing
the Prevent Family Fire Act of 2019, a
bipartisan bill to reduce gun violence
by providing a modest tax credit to
incentivize the sale of things like gun
safes. If we expand safe storage, we can
reduce accidental shootings by 73 per-
cent.
It is not just accidental shootings.
Over 75 percent of school shootings in-
volve kids and teens having access to
unsecured guns at home, and more
than 80 percent of guns used by youth
in suicide attempts were kept in the
home of a victim, a relative, or a
friend.
There is much more we need to do to
address gunfire, but this commonsense
bill is a step we can take to save lives.
f
VOTERS ARE ANGRY AT MEDIA
(Mr. MOONEY of West Virginia asked
and was given permission to address
the House for 1 minute and to revise
and extend his remarks.)
Mr. MOONEY of West Virginia.
Madam Speaker, a Rasmussen poll con-
ducted on October 2 of 2019 found that
a sky-high 69 percent of independent
voters were ‘‘angry’’ at the media, and
over 60 percent of all voters share that
anger.
These voters are not upset at the
media because they are balanced and
fair, they are upset because the media
is biased and telling them what to
think—or not telling them at all.
The results of this astounding poll
didn’t appear in the Nation’s largest
newspapers or the most watched TV
news programs and was hardly men-
tioned on social media.
The media’s credibility is already at
a record low. The road back to credi-
bility for the media is to give the
American people the truth and let
them make up their own minds.
f
AMERICA’S GROWING AGING
POPULATION
(Mr. TRONE asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. TRONE. Madam Speaker, today I
rise to praise the House for unani-
mously passing the Dignity in Aging
Act. This act includes two bipartisan
bills that I led to respond to challenges
facing a growing aging American popu-
lation: social isolation and younger
onset Alzheimer’s.
As I heard from seniors and their
families in my district at my seniors
workshop, we need to do more to sup-
port caregivers, improve economic op-
portunities for older individuals, and
ensure Americans can age with dignity,
security, and quality of life. This act
does that.
This week Democrats and Repub-
licans worked together in Washington
to pass the Dignity in Aging Act. That
is a win for Congress, a win for seniors,
and a win for the American people.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:17 Nov 01, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00027 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K31OC7.052 H31OCPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8708 October 31, 2019
b 1245
PASS LEGISLATION FOR THE
PEOPLE
(Mr. CARTWRIGHT asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute.)
Mr. CARTWRIGHT. Madam Speaker,
Congress exists to serve the American
people by passing legislation that will
protect their rights and promote their
welfare.
Since January of this year, House
Democrats have been vigorously legis-
lating for the people and have passed
more than 200 bills—200 bills—bills to
secure a living wage for American
workers, bills to protect pensions and
fight discrimination in the workplace,
bills to expand access to healthcare
and lower the cost of prescription
drugs. We have passed bills to safe-
guard our elections, the bedrock of our
democracy, from both foreign and do-
mestic interference.
In contrast, the Republican-con-
trolled Senate has offered little but ob-
struction and inaction. Their leader
proudly calls himself the ‘‘grim reap-
er’’ for laying waste to our 200 bills.
So, I rise today to implore Senate
lawmakers: Do your job. Take up these
House-passed measures and start serv-
ing the American people.
f
HONORING FIL BAKE SHOP DUR-
ING FILIPINO AMERICAN HERIT-
AGE MONTH
(Mr. COX of California asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute.)
Mr. COX of California. Madam
Speaker, I rise today, on the last day of
Filipino American Heritage Month, to
honor the Fil Bake Shop in Delano,
California, and to congratulate them
on becoming the Delano Business of
the Year.
Owner Tessie Patricio, or Aunty
Tess, and workers of the Fil Bake Shop
have been dedicated to hard work and
unconditional love for their business
for nearly 30 years. As a result, Fil
Bake Shop has become a staple of the
Delano community and a personal fa-
vorite of mine.
One-third of the 52,000 residents of
Delano are Filipino, and Fil Bake Shop
has been a steadfast supporter of our
community in Delano and across the
Pacific.
When the Philippines are struck by
natural disasters, Fil Bake Shop sends
care to the islands. They collect dona-
tions in times of disaster to support
families back in the Philippines, while
still providing the hardworking farm-
workers and families of Delano with
their delicious sweetbreads.
As this local gem is honored as Busi-
ness of the Year by the Delano Filipino
community, I am proud to represent
such a tremendous place in the 21st
District of California.
CELEBRATING A DOUBLE WIN FOR
D.C.
(Ms. NORTON asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend her re-
marks.)
Ms. NORTON. Madam Speaker, with
the impeachment inquiry vote, the
House made history today, but the
Washington Nationals made unprece-
dented history just last night.
Our D.C. Nats won the World Series
for the very first time in American his-
tory. Our Nats were the underdogs
throughout the series, just like their
hometown, the District of Columbia,
has been for 218 years.
But hold on, America. We are about
to make it a double: Nats’ victory last
night; House passage of H.R. 51, the
D.C. statehood bill, during the 116th
Congress.
Watch for how I make my friend,
SHEILA JACKSON LEE, pay up on our bet
against the Houston Astros.
Go Nats! Long live D.C. statehood!
f
HONORING OUR VETERANS
(Mr. GUEST asked and was given per-
mission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. GUEST. Madam Speaker, on Vet-
erans Day, we remember the devotion
of the brave men and women of the
military who have honorably served
our Nation. Our veterans have fought
to preserve this Nation, its ideals, de-
mocracy, freedom, and prosperity.
American veterans not only have
helped maintain the rights that were
established by our Founding Fathers,
but they have also set an example of
enduring patriotism, returning home
to become leaders in their commu-
nities, States, and Nation. Back home,
they have helped advance our country
by embodying the American spirit of
hard work and preservation.
Today, we acknowledge these men
and women who have served our Nation
as members of our military. We thank
them for their many contributions to
our country. We remember in prayer
those men and women who never re-
turned home from foreign soil.
f
SPEAK OUT AGAINST GENOCIDE
(Ms. GABBARD asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Ms. GABBARD. Madam Speaker, the
history of the United States has been
intertwined with that of the Armenian
people and the Armenian genocide.
It was American missionaries and
diplomats who let the world know that
the Ottoman Empire was attempting to
cleanse itself of the Armenian and
Christian populations. The U.S. became
home to many survivors.
Their experience inspired Raphael
Lemkin to create the term ‘‘genocide,’’
only to see his Jewish family suffer the
same fate at the hands of Nazi Ger-
many.
The denial of the Armenian genocide
has had contemporary consequences. I
have visited both Armenia and
Nagorno-Karabakh. I saw that a Tur-
key which denies genocide has no fear
of committing it again. In fact, Turkey
has begun an ethnic cleansing of the
Syrian Kurds in northern Syria.
I have long called for our government
to officially recognize the Armenian
genocide. I am an original cosponsor of
H. Res. 296.
The House has spoken with a clear
voice, breaking the silence, recognizing
the Armenian genocide. We call on the
Senate and President Trump to do the
same.
We cannot allow history to repeat
itself.
f
DOMESTIC VIOLENCE AWARENESS
MONTH
(Mrs. LESKO asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Mrs. LESKO. Madam Speaker, I rise
in observance of Domestic Violence
Awareness Month.
Over 25 years ago, I was in an abusive
relationship with my ex-husband. I be-
came a single mother to a young
daughter, working just to survive day
to day. I never dreamed in a million
years that I would be standing here be-
fore you today as a Member of Con-
gress, speaking on the floor of the U.S.
House of Representatives. But I not
only survived, I thrived.
I share my story in hopes of helping
others. I hope they find strength in our
efforts to acknowledge their suffering
and recognize the many organizations
that exist to help them today.
f
TERMINATION OF DESIGNATION
OF REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON AS
A BENEFICIARY SUB-SAHARAN
AFRICAN COUNTRY UNDER
AGOA—MESSAGE FROM THE
PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED
STATES (H. DOC. NO. 116–77)
The SPEAKER pro tempore laid be-
fore the House the following message
from the President of the United
States; which was read and referred to
the Committee on Ways and Means and
ordered to be printed:
To the Congress of the United States:
In accordance with section
506A(a)(3)(B) of the Trade Act of 1974,
as amended (19 U.S.C. 2466a(a)(3)(B)), I
am providing notice of my intent to
terminate the designation of the Re-
public of Cameroon (Cameroon) as a
beneficiary sub-Saharan African coun-
try under the African Growth and Op-
portunity Act (AGOA).
I am taking this step because I have
determined that the Government of
Cameroon currently engages in gross
violations of internationally recog-
nized human rights, contravening the
eligibility requirements of section 104
of the AGOA.
Despite intensive engagement be-
tween the United States and the Gov-
ernment of Cameroon, Cameroon has
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:17 Nov 01, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00028 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K31OC7.055 H31OCPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8709
October 31, 2019
failed to address concerns regarding
persistent human rights violations
being committed by Cameroonian secu-
rity forces. These violations include
extrajudicial killings, arbitrary and
unlawful detention, and torture.
Accordingly, I intend to terminate
the designation of Cameroon as a bene-
ficiary sub-Saharan African country
under the AGOA as of January 1, 2020.
I will continue to assess whether the
Government of Cameroon engages in
gross violations of internationally rec-
ognized human rights, in accordance
with the AGOA eligibility require-
ments.
DONALD J. TRUMP.
THE WHITE HOUSE, October 31, 2019.
f
CONTINUATION OF NATIONAL
EMERGENCY WITH RESPECT TO
SUDAN—MESSAGE FROM THE
PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED
STATES (H. DOC. NO. 116–78)
The SPEAKER pro tempore laid be-
fore the House the following message
from the President of the United
States; which was read and, together
with the accompanying papers, referred
to the Committee on Foreign Affairs
and ordered to be printed:
To the Congress of the United States:
Section 202(d) of the National Emer-
gencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1622(d)) provides
for the automatic termination of a na-
tional emergency unless, within 90
days before the anniversary date of its
declaration, the President publishes in
the Federal Register and transmits to
the Congress a notice stating that the
emergency is to continue in effect be-
yond the anniversary date. In accord-
ance with this provision, I have sent to
the Federal Register for publication the
enclosed notice stating that the na-
tional emergency with respect to
Sudan declared in Executive Order
13067 of November 3, 1997, is to continue
in effect beyond November 3, 2019.
Despite recent positive develop-
ments, the crisis constituted by the ac-
tions and policies of the Government of
Sudan that led to the declaration of a
national emergency in Executive Order
13067; the expansion of that emergency
in Executive Order 13400 of April 26,
2006; and with respect to which addi-
tional steps were taken in Executive
Order 13412 of October 13, 2006, Execu-
tive Order 13761 of January 13, 2017, and
Executive Order 13804 of July 11, 2017,
has not been resolved. These actions
and policies continue to pose an un-
usual and extraordinary threat to the
national security and foreign policy of
the United States. Therefore, I have de-
termined that it is necessary to con-
tinue the national emergency declared
in Executive Order 13067, as expanded
by Executive Order 13400, with respect
to Sudan.
DONALD J. TRUMP.
THE WHITE HOUSE, October 31, 2019.
f
IMPEACHMENT: THEN AND NOW
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under
the Speaker’s announced policy of Jan-
uary 3, 2019, the gentleman from Texas
(Mr. GOHMERT) is recognized for 60 min-
utes as the designee of the minority
leader.
Mr. GOHMERT. Madam Speaker, we
had a vote today. Some would say it
was very important, but actually, it
didn’t do so much. In fact, it revoked
some of our history, some of our prece-
dent, some of our rules to take an un-
usual step toward supposed impeach-
ment.
I still continue to be of the opinion
that we will not end up having a vote
in this Chamber on whether or not to
actually impeach President Trump be-
cause if that happens, it goes to the
Senate. It gets slam-dunked down in
the Senate, both on the basis of a mas-
sive failure of due process as well as no
direct evidence of any wrongdoing, un-
less we are talking about someone who
is a Democrat and has held the second-
highest office before. But this is not
due process.
By the way, of course, once it gets to
the Senate, they vote it down, and then
it ensures a repeat of 1996, where the
current President is reelected. I am
sure my friends across the aisle don’t
want to do that.
I am still of the opinion that I don’t
think we will end up with a vote to ac-
tually impeach or not impeach Presi-
dent Trump. We will see how that plays
out. But it is worth looking at prece-
dent, as an old history major who has
never quit studying history.
If we look at the impeachment com-
mittee authorizations in 1974 and 1998,
back then, when there was bipartisan
concern about due process, not just
one-sided concern, the authorization by
the House directed the Committee on
the Judiciary to investigate if there
were sufficient grounds for impeach-
ment.
Currently, though, the Speaker di-
rected six different committees, with
the House Intelligence Committee at
the forefront, to continue their ongo-
ing investigations as part of what was
called an impeachment inquiry.
Regarding the subpoena power in 1974
and 1998, what was authorized in the
resolution back in the days when there
was concern about due process and fair-
ness and ensuring justice would be
done, the resolution authorized both
the chairman and the ranking member
of the Committee on the Judiciary to
issue subpoenas acting jointly or uni-
laterally.
b 1300
If either the chairman or the ranking
member declined to act, then the other
had the right to refer the decision to
the full committee.
Currently, under what we voted on
today, it authorized the chair of the In-
telligence Committee, Chairman
SCHIFF, and Judiciary Committee to
issue subpoenas, but the authorization
to the ranking member only is with the
consent or approval of the chairman. It
is incredible.
I mean, basically, our friends have
said, well, it is like a grand jury. Well,
I have been a prosecutor in front of
grand juries. I have been a judge who
impaneled grand juries, answered their
questions, and dealt with issues that
arose over grand juries. I am quite fa-
miliar with them.
With a grand jury, every single per-
son on the grand jury who is going to
get a vote gets to hear every witness,
gets to ask any question they wish, and
they could even send the prosecutor
out of the grand jury if they wish. He
is only there as an adviser.
But what we have had not only was a
sham impeachment inquiry, but they
actually had armed guards outside of
the Sensitive Compartmented Informa-
tion Facility, the SCIF. They had
armed guards with guns to try to keep
us out, people like me, on the Judici-
ary Committee, who is fully author-
ized, under the current rules, to sit in
on any impeachment inquiry, partici-
pate, because the rules, through prece-
dent, have made clear it is the Judici-
ary Committee that does that.
The Speaker can’t just stand up and
say: ‘‘I am changing all the rules uni-
laterally’’—except for the fact that, in
this case, that is exactly what hap-
pened. ‘‘Forget the rules. I am decree-
ing these are the committees that will
do an investigation.’’
And I didn’t realize until we went
into the SCIF, which I am authorized
to do and which, under the rules, Judi-
ciary having jurisdiction, I should have
a right to hear each one of those wit-
nesses.
I didn’t know until we got in there, it
turns out, Chairman SCHIFF, each time
a witness was about to begin to speak
to the Intelligence Committee, the
committees, he would instruct, now,
this is unclassified, so if a question is
asked that you think might end up re-
vealing something classified, then you
can just say you can’t answer, it might
reveal classified information.
It sounds to me like that was in-
struction, when the Republicans ask
you a question you don’t want to an-
swer, just say, well, it may reveal clas-
sified information, and you don’t have
to answer their questions.
Except that then we find out that, in
the more recent depositions, the wit-
nesses were actually instructed not to
answer questions.
Well, this metaphor of a grand jury
totally breaks down. It doesn’t apply.
There has never been a grand jury
where one grand juror could tell the
witness you don’t have to answer these
other grand jurors’ questions, and we
are going to put armed guards where
people that are on the grand jury can’t
get in to hear the testimony if we don’t
want to hear the testimony.
Sure, they will have to vote at some
point, but we are going to put armed
guards to keep the biggest part of the
grand jury out of being able to see the
witnesses, to see their countenance as
they answered questions.
It is why in military courts martial
that I participated in, in Federal trials,
in State trials we have an aversion to
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:17 Nov 01, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00029 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A31OC7.037 H31OCPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8710 October 31, 2019
having depositions. Yes, you have a lot
of depositions in civil trials.
But in criminal trials, something as
important as liberty—and I would sub-
mit, a President being thrown out that
was duly elected is just as important.
In such a case, you get to ask the ques-
tions, see the questions; you get to
hear the answers; and you get to ob-
serve the witnesses. It is important.
Yet, under orders of the Speaker and
Chairman SCHIFF, this so-called com-
parative grand jury kept the huge ma-
jority out of those hearings where we
could hear and see for ourselves.
Now we find out, through the vote
today, that, yes, the Judiciary Com-
mittee is ultimately going to get this
from the Intelligence Committee. But
never in the history of this country
have we had such gross unfairness that
one party would put armed guards with
guns to prevent the duly authorized
people from being able to hear the wit-
nesses and see them for themselves.
Then, oh, we hear from this resolu-
tion today, we are going to send you
the depositions after we get through
doctoring and looking at and editing
the transcripts. We will send you those
so you have the evidence you need.
That is not the kind of evidence that
a coup should be based on. If we are
going to have what they are trying to
legalize as a coup, we ought to have a
right to see each of those witnesses.
And the only potential use for the
depositions should be impeachment of
those witnesses, nothing else, not for
anything substantive.
The President’s attorneys, unlike in
1974 and 1998, were not allowed to be
there or even see and hear the wit-
nesses. So the references to this being
a Star Chamber are not inappropriate.
It is outrageous what has been going on
for people who truly care about due
process.
Regarding the procedures now, the
Judiciary Committee must operate
pursuant to the procedures imposed by
the chairman of the Rules Committee.
Well, previously, one of the oldest
committees in the House of Represent-
atives, the Judiciary Committee, in
prior impeachments made the rules for
the impeachment hearing. We didn’t
have it dictated by the Rules Com-
mittee, no, because this is the Judici-
ary Committee. These are people who
are supposed to have expertise in con-
stitutional issues.
So when you have the committee
that has more expertise in constitu-
tional issues, what did the majority
do? We don’t want the committee with
the most expertise on constitutional
issues dealing with these constitu-
tional issues. We want to put armed
guards outside a hearing and have it in
a Secret Compartmented Information
Facility.
And we are not going to let the other
side call their own witnesses so we get
a fair picture of what actually went on,
and we are not even going to let them
ask questions we don’t want them to
ask. We will instruct the witnesses not
to answer because, you see, they want
it to be a one-sided, non-due process,
sham court.
It is about to push this country to a
civil war if they were to get their wish-
es. And if there is one thing I don’t
want to see in my lifetime, I don’t
want to ever have participation in, it is
a civil war.
Some historian—I don’t remember
who—said guns are only involved in the
last phase of a civil war. What is going
on here has not protected the Constitu-
tion. It has not protected the institu-
tions. It has not protected this little
experiment in self-government. No.
What it has done is put it all at risk
because what some people in this body
don’t seem to understand is, when you
set a precedent as dangerous as what
we have been watching for the last 3
years, it won’t be me, but there will be
Republicans, if this isn’t stopped, there
will be Republicans who will take the
precedent of what the Democrats have
done here and use it against a Demo-
cratic President, try to set him up and
create a coup.
Like I say, it won’t be me, but that is
the way history works. When somebody
sets a precedent, then eventually some-
body also not concerned about due
process is going to try to mimic that
and go one further.
In 1974 and 1998, the committee pro-
cedures during the Nixon and Clinton
impeachment processes, they included
the ability of the President’s counsel
to attend all hearings, including those
in executive session; question any and
all witnesses called before the com-
mittee; submit written questions for
additional testimony; provide sum-
maries of what he would propose to
show; and respond to evidence received
and testimony presented, either orally
or in writing, as determined by the
committee. The President’s counsel
could also review all evidence obtained
in the course of the impeachment in-
quiry.
Not only has the President’s counsel
not been allowed to do any of those
things that have been done in the past
to ensure due process and fairness,
even the rest of this voting body that
will have to vote on an impeachment
were not allowed to see the witnesses,
to hear the witnesses, to review the
transcript until after they are through
working with the transcripts.
This resolution today, it bifurcates
the impeachment, only allows the
President’s counsel to participate in
Judiciary Committee proceedings. It
provides no ability to participate in
the ongoing Intelligence Committee in-
vestigation.
If we presume that the procedures
the Rules Committee has dictated to us
on high allow the President’s counsel
to participate in Judiciary Committee
proceedings at all, they will only have
access to documents transmitted to the
Judiciary Committee and not all the
material obtained in the course of the
Intelligence Committee’s hearings.
I just happen to have H. Res. 803 from
1974 that involved—well, it was from
Chairman—Democratic Chairman Ro-
dino, from the Committee on the Judi-
ciary.
See, that is the way it is supposed to
be done. That is the way it has been
done in the past, 1974, 1998.
Under the rules that the Democrats
passed earlier this year, in January,
the rules say, if a rule is not specific
about a matter, then precedence is the
rule. That is the rule, and it has been
ignored repeatedly.
So we voted today basically
rubberstamping the secret Star Cham-
ber hearings, the one-sided questioning
of the witnesses. Oh, we did hear today
Republicans have equal time to the
Democrats. It is just that Democrats
could ask whatever they wanted and
get answers, and Republicans couldn’t.
Impeachment in the past, when we
have impeached Federal judges before,
came through our Judiciary Com-
mittee, very bipartisan, because, even
as recent as the last 10, 12 years, even
ADAM SCHIFF realized, when you are
going to remove a Federal officer from
a position he is duly placed in, you
have got to make sure you provide due
process, and you allow buy-in on both
sides.
There was no buy-in today because,
even though there are some Repub-
licans who are not big fans of the
President, to put it mildly, they realize
this process is an outrage, and it is a
threat to our little experiment in self-
government.
b 1315
So an article comes out yesterday by
Paul Sperry, entitled: ‘‘The Beltway’s
‘Whistleblower’ Furor Obsesses Over
One Name.’’
To my knowledge, I have not ever
talked to this Paul Sperry with
RealClearInvestigations, but he brings
out a name that has been bandied
about on the internet. A lot of people
are speculating this guy was the whis-
tleblower.
Regardless of whether this guy is the
whistleblower or not, it is important to
look at what has been going on with
him. Just forget about the claim he is
a whistleblower; look at what he has
been doing.
The more you find out, the more you
realize, wow, President Trump should
have revoked clearances for prior po-
tential conspirators long before he did.
But then, in the article, it mentions
a 33-year-old—we already knew he was
a male, that he worked for Vice Presi-
dent Biden, this guy. He was held over
from the Obama White House.
And one of the things that President
Obama was able to do so much better
than President Trump was make sure
that the people who worked in the
White House, in the CIA, in the DOJ,
the FBI, but especially in the White
House, in the Old Executive Office
Building for the Vice President, they
made much better certainty that ev-
erybody there was going to be loyal to
President Obama and Vice President
Biden. They did a magnificent job of
that.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:17 Nov 01, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00030 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K31OC7.059 H31OCPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8711
October 31, 2019
So anybody who is held over—in fact,
I understand H. R. McMaster, great
Obama Democrat loyalist that was
working, continuing to work in the
Trump administration, made clear that
he didn’t want to hear any of his people
ever say again that someone was an
Obama holdover. I guess he didn’t want
people outed in front of people loyal to
the President as being loyal to Presi-
dent Obama.
But McMaster also was a boss of this
guy. He did work for Biden. He worked
for CIA Director John Brennan.
Brennan, as the article said, was ‘‘a
vocal critic of Trump who helped ini-
tiate the Russia ‘collusion’ investiga-
tion of the Trump campaign during the
2016 election.’’
Further, this guy ‘‘left his National
Security Council posting in the White
House’s West Wing in mid-2017. . . .’’
This guy was working in the White
House; Loved Brennan, loved
McMaster, and he is in President
Trump’s White House and part of the
National Security Council. They get to
see everything that concerns anything
on foreign policy and our own national
security.
But there were ‘‘concerns about neg-
ative leaks to the media. He has since
returned to CIA headquarters in Lang-
ley, Virginia.’’
The article says: ‘‘ ‘He was accused of
working against Trump and leaking
against Trump,’ said a former NSC offi-
cial, speaking on condition of anonym-
ity to discuss intelligence matters.’’
Alas, this guy ‘‘huddled for ‘guid-
ance’ with the staff of House Intel-
ligence Committee Chairman ADAM
SCHIFF, including former colleagues
also held over from the Obama era
whom SCHIFF’s office had recently re-
cruited from the National Security
Council.’’
This guy ‘‘worked with a Democratic
National Committee operative who dug
up the dirt on the Trump campaign
during the 2016 election, inviting her
into the White House for meetings,
former White House colleagues said.
The operative, Alexandra Chalupa, a
Ukrainian American who supported
Hillary Clinton, led an effort to link
the Republican campaign to the Rus-
sian Government. ‘He knows her. He
had her in the White House,’ said one
former coworker. . . .’’
‘‘Documents confirm the DNC opposi-
tion researcher attended at least one
White House meeting with’’ this guy
‘‘in November 2015. She visited the
White House with a number of Ukrain-
ian officials lobbying the Obama ad-
ministration for aid to Ukraine.’’
And that is the aid we know we have
seen, heard former Vice President
Biden bragging: Hey, I am leaving in 6
hours, and if they want this $1 billion,
then they are going to have to fire the
prosecutor, who just happened to be in-
vestigating the gas company that was
giving millions of dollars to his son.
The article says: ‘‘ ‘Everyone knows
who he’ ’’—the whistleblower—‘‘ ‘is.
CNN knows. The Washington Post
knows. The New York Times knows.
Congress knows. The White House
knows. Even the President knows who
he is,’ said Fred Fleitz, a former CIA
analyst and National Security Advisor
to Trump, who has fielded dozens of
calls from the media.
‘‘Yet a rare hush swept across the Po-
tomac.’’
You know, normally, The New York
Times and The Washington Post, they
can’t wait to out a whistleblower, can’t
wait, don’t mind seeing them de-
stroyed. But you look at a real whistle-
blower, not a fake one like we have
here, a real whistleblower with direct
information like Adam Lovinger, who,
working in the Defense Department—I
didn’t know that this scheme went that
far.
But Lovinger is supposed to inves-
tigate improper payments by the De-
fense Department, and he saw hundreds
of thousands of dollars being paid at
different times to a guy named Stefan
Halper, who is a professor, and he
couldn’t see anything in return for all
the money.
Then we have this investigation
about President Trump and find out
that, actually, Halper was getting paid
by the Defense Department to help set
up Trump campaign people so they
could use that information to go before
a Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act
court and get a warrant to spy on the
Trump campaign.
Phenomenal. The Defense Depart-
ment is paying a guy to help set up the
Trump campaign before President
Trump was ever elected so they could
get warrants to spy on the campaign.
It is incredible. The article says,
‘‘Trump supporters blame the con-
spiracy of silence on a ‘corrupt’ and ‘bi-
ased’ media trying to protect the whis-
tleblower from due scrutiny about his
political motives. They also complain
Democrats have falsely claimed that
exposing his identity would violate
whistleblower protections, even though
the relevant statute provides limited,
not blanket, anonymity, and doesn’t
cover press disclosures.
‘‘His Democrat attorneys meanwhile
have warned that outing him would put
him and his family ‘at risk of harm,’
although the government security per-
sonnel have been assigned to protect
him.’’
And I come back to the facts. There
are lots of people that have testified
adversely to President Donald J.
Trump. As far as I know, they are all
still living, breathing, and saying
nasty things about him. Their health is
not put in jeopardy in any way. Their
personal safety is not a problem.
Now, that is not true of some other
people that have been in high positions
in this town where people end up dead
in the morgue. I am not saying they
caused it. I am just saying, if you are
worried about outing some incident,
somebody, President Trump is not the
one you need to worry about.
Fleitz said, ‘‘They’re hiding him.
They’re hiding him because of his po-
litical bias. A CIA officer specializing
in Russia and Ukraine,’’ this person,
‘‘was detailed over to the National Se-
curity Council from the agency,’’
meaning CIA, ‘‘in the summer of 2015,
working under Susan Rice, President
Obama’s national security adviser. He
also worked closely with the former
vice president.’’
That is the same Susan Rice—accord-
ing to a book a few years after—accord-
ing to that book it reported that Sec-
retary Clinton called her husband and
said, they are wanting me to go out
there and say this attack in Benghazi
was all about a video. And the advice
was, you know, you can’t be the one
that goes on the Sunday shows because
nobody is going to buy that.
So Susan Rice was picked to go out
and tell people the attack in Benghazi
was based on a video, when most every-
body, maybe not Susan Rice, but most
people who had looked into it at all
knew it was not about a video at all.
And the Obama administration had
been warned repeatedly of the threat
that was coming and didn’t give them
the security they needed, nor did they
allow anyone to go lift a finger to help
the people at Benghazi.
And I love hearing people on the
other side say, oh, you investigated
Benghazi for so long and you had noth-
ing. Yes, that is because the Obama ad-
ministration wouldn’t produce any-
thing that we asked for, the important
things we asked for. They covered
things up. Same on Fast and Furious,
and we didn’t have a Speaker on the
Republican side that would allow us to
go to court and get those things re-
leased.
So the more important things that
got released were a result of Judicial
Watch, Tom Fitton’s folks going to
court and getting the court order to
get things produced, but still there was
so much that was not produced we
don’t know all the facts about what
happened.
By the way, I do know that Intel-
ligence people lied to the Republican
chairman of Intelligence back then and
he never would wake up and realize it.
Because he reported to our Republican
conference after Benghazi about 6
months after, well, guys, some of you
have asked me, isn’t there somebody at
Walter Reed that was injured? We keep
hearing rumors. And Mike said, no, I
can tell you, there is no one who was
injured at Benghazi that is at Walter
Reed.
I couldn’t sit still anymore. It was in
one of my trips to Walter Reed I met
such a person. He was on the roof with
Tyrone Woods and the other heroes. He
had much of his leg blown off. And I
had met him, and I honored his request
for anonymity being out there.
But I couldn’t sit there and listen to
the Republican chairman of Intel-
ligence perpetrating what he thought
was true but was not, and I knew it
wasn’t. I said, That is not true. He got
red faced and said, That is true. I said,
No, I had lunch with the one yesterday.
He said, That is not true.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:23 Nov 01, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00031 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K31OC7.060 H31OCPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8712 October 31, 2019
And he told me later after the meet-
ing, I have talked to our intelligence
people, and they tell me that the guy
you must have seen, he is not at Walter
Reed, he comes there for physical ther-
apy. And I said, No, I can tell you the
building number and where his apart-
ment is, and it adjoins the physical
therapy. It is right there on Walter
Reed.
b 1330
Anyway, he didn’t believe it.
I had emailed this great hero and
didn’t hear from him for a couple of
weeks. He later emailed back that:
Gee, the strangest thing happened. I
had the most painful surgery on my
leg.
He had numerous surgeries, but this
was the most painful since half of it
got blown off on that rooftop in
Benghazi. He said: They medicated me
because of all the pain. That night, in
the middle of the night, these guys
show up at our apartment there, and
they moved my wife, my kids, all of us
immediately off the hospital property.
It doesn’t make sense.
Well, it made sense to me because we
had intelligence people that were cov-
ering up the lie that they had told the
chairman of the Intelligence Com-
mittee because he was a Republican
chair. I bet they don’t lie like that to
ADAM SCHIFF.
Anyway, Federal records, according
to the article, show that Biden’s office
invited this guy ‘‘to an October 2016
state luncheon the Vice President
hosted for Italian Prime Minister
Matteo Renzi. Other invited guests in-
cluded Brennan, as well as then-FBI
Director James Comey and then-Na-
tional Intelligence Director James
Clapper.’’
Several U.S. officials told
RealClearInvestigations that the invi-
tation that was extended to this guy,
who was a relatively low-level GS–13
Federal employee, ‘‘was unusual and
signaled he was politically connected
inside the Obama White House.’’
Former White House officials said
this guy ‘‘worked on Ukrainian policy
issues for Biden in 2015 and 2016, when
the Vice President was President
Obama’s ‘point man’ for Ukraine.’’ He
is a Yale graduate, speaks Russian,
Ukrainian, as well as Arabic.
‘‘He had been assigned to the NSC by
Brennan. He was held over into the
Trump administration and headed the
Ukraine desk at the NSC,’’ under Presi-
dent Trump, ‘‘eventually transitioning
into the West Wing, until June 2017.
‘He was moved over to the front office,’
to temporarily fill a vacancy, said a
former White House official, where he
‘saw everything, read everything.’’’
The official added that it soon be-
came clear among NSC staff that this
guy ‘‘opposed the new Republican
President’s foreign policies. ‘My recol-
lection . . . is that he was very smart
and very passionate, particularly about
Ukraine and Russia. That was his
thing, Ukraine,’ he said. ‘He didn’t ex-
actly hide his passion with respect to
what he thought was the right thing to
do with Ukraine and Russia, and his
views were at odds with the President’s
policies.’’’
In May 2017, this guy went ‘‘ ‘outside
his chain of command,’ according to a
former NSC coworker, to send an email
alerting another agency that Trump
happened to hold a meeting with Rus-
sian diplomats in the Oval Office the
day after firing Comey, who led the
Trump-Russia investigation. The email
also noted that Russian President
Vladimir Putin had phoned the Presi-
dent a week earlier. Contents of the
email appeared to have ended up in the
media, which reported Trump boasted
to the Russian officials about firing
Comey, whom he allegedly called
‘crazy, a real nut job.’’’
In effect, this guy ‘‘helped generate
the ‘Putin fired Comey’ narrative, ac-
cording to the research dossier making
the rounds in Congress.’’
Anyway, it is a mess.
Now, one of the things about whistle-
blower protections, though, is if you
were to be prosecuted for committing a
crime, then the whistleblower status
could be used to help hold off potential
prosecution. It is my understanding
that it would not likely win the day,
but it could delay a prosecution.
Say, hypothetically, you worked for
somebody like Brennan, or say, hypo-
thetically, you worked for somebody
like McMaster and Brennan, and you
helped come up with a conspiracy to
oust a duly-elected sitting President by
alleging some conspiracy with Russia,
and you found out that the Attorney
General and the U.S. attorney assigned
to investigate the origins of the Russia
hoax were closing in on participants of
your conspiracy.
Well, if you had a really smart law-
yer, he might just tell you, if you could
get whistleblower status, if they start
closing in on you, then we can start fil-
ing motions to keep you out of that
prosecution because if you are a whis-
tleblower, you are in a protected sta-
tus. It shouldn’t prevent the ultimate
prosecution, but it could delay things
for a while.
So it could make sense, if you are a
coconspirator and trying to bring down
a duly-elected President, that you
might want that whistleblower status.
The problem with that is—and this is
a problem for a tainted inspector gen-
eral who would protect such a whistle-
blower—if you are complaining, it has
to be, to get that status, somebody in
your chain of command. The President,
we were told, is not in the whistle-
blower’s chain of command because
that is outside, the CIA.
It has to be within that leadership
ladder, and the President is outside of
that. So he wasn’t a real whistle-
blower. Plus, a whistleblower has to
have direct evidence.
What we have seen with this march
of the gossipmongers, as it is best de-
scribed, that have been paraded into
the secret Star Chamber with the
armed guards outside of it so that
other members of this grand jury can’t
get to see and hear the witnesses, it
really appears to be a march of those
who don’t like President Trump and
are willing to sully in some cases val-
iant military service, a great career.
They are willing to have that tarnished
and sullied by becoming
gossipmongers.
For example, one person who appar-
ently had a great career in the Army,
William Taylor, I understand he was in
the infantry for 6 years. I was at Fort
Benning for 4 years, and I can tell you,
anybody who was a commander in the
infantry didn’t last any time at all if
he allowed gossipmongers, like he has
become, to come before him and say:
Captain, Captain, I heard that some-
body else heard something that was
said.
He would throw him out of the office:
I am not going to be running a gossip
column here. If somebody knows some-
thing directly, send them to me, but
don’t you come in here being a
gossipmonger.
Well, now he has become the
gossipmonger. ‘‘Well, I heard that
somebody else heard that they heard
the President say. . . .’’
I just come back to this, as someone
who had to sit and listen and evaluate
evidence and make life and death deci-
sions in a courtroom, you analyze what
kind of person this is before me as a
witness. If you have a witness before
you that is willing to try to destroy
and remove a President from office
who was duly elected under our Con-
stitution, and they are now willing to
use secondhand, thirdhand, fourth-
hand gossip, it tells you they are not
the great person that they once were.
They are not the patriot they once
were. They are nothing but
gossipmongers.
If you are going to be a fair arbiter of
truth and justice, it should dramati-
cally diminish your evaluation and
analysis of what they have to say. This
is not a classy person. This is a
gossipmonger.
That is what William Taylor became
for the Intelligence Committee, and
that is what Vindman became.
Some have said: Oh, gee, Lieutenant
Colonel Vindman, he is the ultimate
American. He even came in uniform.
Well, I was trained that if you are
going to say bad things about someone
in your chain of command, including
the Commander in Chief—because a lot
of us were not happy with President
Carter when I was at Fort Benning, but
we all knew you can’t say anything
negative about President Carter, espe-
cially not in uniform. It doesn’t matter
if it is true. You can’t do it.
He comes parading in, in his uniform,
to try to take down a sitting President,
and he uses gossip to do that.
We also have to wonder, okay, so
whistleblower number one, this great
patriot, we are told—who he is not. He
is a gossipmonger. Where did he get
that information since he didn’t get it
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:17 Nov 01, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00032 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K31OC7.062 H31OCPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8713
October 31, 2019
firsthand? He was not allowed to re-
ceive information about those tele-
phone calls the President made to the
leader of another country, so somebody
violated the law by telling him. We
don’t know who that was. Whoever it
was, Vindman or anybody else, there is
a good chance they committed a crime.
That crime and all the surrounding
information about their crime should
be admissible in helping impeach and
analyze that witness’s testimony. You
ought to be able to pursue it, but we
are told, when Republicans were asking
Colonel Vindman who he told about
this, who did he transfer information
to, they were shut down by the chair-
man.
That tells you the chairman must
know what the answers were, and he
didn’t want the Republicans to have
them. It sounds to me like there is a
chance he committed a crime, and that
was being covered up. Otherwise, if you
want due process, if you want a fair
process, if you want justice, then we
have to hear the good, the bad, the
ugly, so we can make a fair determina-
tion.
Every person elected as a Member of
Congress is going to have a right to
vote on that impeachment, if it ever
comes up, and we have a right to hear
the witnesses. Anything else is a sham.
By the way, this Colonel Vindman, it
turns out, it has been published, he
went to the stenographers. We had
heard previously from the President
there were four stenographers who
take down everything.
Well, I have used court reporters my
whole adult life, and they miss a word
from time to time. I have had to fix
transcripts where they have missed
something. We have that problem here.
They are amazing. These stenographers
are absolutely incredible, but they
miss a word from time to time.
But they have four. Apparently, we
are told, the reason is that they don’t
want to tape it so that no foreign lead-
er has to worry about ever hearing his
own voice say things that he said in a
private conversation with the Presi-
dent of the United States. So they have
four stenographers so that they make
sure they get exactly what was said.
And this guy Vindman goes to the
stenographers and tells them: I want to
get these words inserted in the tran-
script, Burisma—the name of the gas
company they are trying to go after
President Trump and say he demanded
information on them.
Apparently, none of the stenog-
raphers heard that. It sounds like not
only is he a potential criminal for
leaking information to people who
weren’t supposed to get it, but there is
also potential there that this is part—
when you go to prove a conspiracy in
Federal court, you have to prove not
only that you plotted but that there
was an overt act. His overt act of going
to stenographers and trying to get
words embedded into the transcript
that the President didn’t say could po-
tentially be such an overt act in fur-
therance of the conspiracy.
b 1345
There is a lot we don’t know here,
but this process has the possibility to
bring this Nation’s constitutional Re-
public to the brink of the end on our
watch.
This ought to be a bipartisan thing.
You can hate a President; you can dis-
agree with him; but let’s make sure
that we have due process so we don’t
get drug into a third world status.
We know no country lasts forever, no
country ever will. If we are going to
perpetuate this any further, we have
got to have some bipartisan concern
for justice, for due process, for making
sure that all of the protections to pro-
tect against a Star Chamber-type thing
are not what we use here. Unfortu-
nately, that is what we have been see-
ing for nearly 3 years.
One of the things I was taught in law
school is what separates us is that we
don’t just take somebody and try to
find a crime. That is unconstitutional.
You have a crime that you find was
committed, and then you try to find
out who probably committed it. When
you get probable cause, you can get
them indicted, then you can have a
trial.
What we have seen clearly is that,
over 3 years ago, some people in Jus-
tice, FBI, Intelligence, maybe Defense,
maybe somebody in the White House,
decided: Here is Donald J. Trump. Let’s
find a crime, whether he committed it
or not, that we can wrap around his
throat.
That is what we have been watching
happen. They found somebody. Now
let’s find a crime that we can allege.
The problem with this one about the
quid pro quo, demanding something,
they are going to have to prosecute
Vice President Joe Biden. They are
going to have to prosecute some U.S.
Senators who have sent letters that
have said: Gee, if you don’t do this or
that, we are going to cut off funding to
you.
Whoa, Joe Biden bragged about it: I
told him that, if you want this billion
dollars, you better fire that prosecutor.
They are going to have to prosecute
all of those people before they go after
President Trump, and he didn’t do any-
thing nearly like he was accused of.
There is nothing wrong with a Presi-
dent saying to a foreign leader: Your
country apparently was involved in a
conspiracy to affect our election. Could
you help us out by giving us informa-
tion about what happened? We just
need to know.
There is nothing wrong with it.
And you look at the transcript not
amended by somebody who was trying
to set up the President, but by four ste-
nographers who were intent on having
everything in there that was said, and
you see there was nothing wrong with
this phone call. What was wrong was
the process of trying to commit a coup
d’etat and take out a duly elected
President.
It is time we wake up and we do what
is right for this country.
Madam Speaker, I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
f
RISE AND MAKE TOMORROW
BETTER THAN TODAY
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under
the Speaker’s announced policy of Jan-
uary 3, 2019, the gentlewoman from
California (Ms. HILL) is recognized for
60 minutes as the designee of the ma-
jority leader.
GENERAL LEAVE
Ms. HILL of California. Madam
Speaker, I ask unanimous consent that
all Members have 5 legislative days to
revise and extend their remarks and in-
clude extraneous material on the sub-
ject of my Special Order.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gentle-
woman from California?
There was no objection.
Ms. HILL of California. Madam
Speaker, this is the last speech that I
will give from this floor as a Member of
Congress. I wasn’t ready for my time
here to come to an end so soon. It is a
reality I am still grappling with, and I
will be for a long time to come.
I expected, or I at least hoped, to be
here for as long as the voters of Cali-
fornia’s 25th District deemed me wor-
thy of the honor of representing them.
I thought I could make a difference
here in making our community, our
great country, and the world a better
place for generations to come.
I, like so many of my colleagues, ran
for office because I believed that our
political system was broken, controlled
by the powerful and the wealthy, ignor-
ing and failing the regular people that
it is supposed to serve. I came here to
give a voice to the unheard in the halls
of power.
I wanted to show young people, queer
people, working people, and imperfect
people that they belong here because
this is the people’s House. I fell short
of that, and I am sorry.
To every young person who saw
themselves and their dreams reflected
in me, I am sorry.
To those who felt like I gave them
hope in one of the darkest times in our
Nation’s history, I am sorry.
To my family, my friends, my staff,
my colleagues, my mentors, and to ev-
eryone who has supported and believed
in me, I am sorry.
To the thousands of people who spent
hours knocking on doors in the hot
summer Sun, who made countless
phone calls, and who sacrificed more
than I could ever know to give every-
thing they could in every possible way
so that I could be here, I am so, so
sorry.
And to every little girl who looked
up to me, I hope that one day you can
forgive me.
The mistakes I made and the people
I have hurt that led to this moment
will haunt me for the rest of my life,
and I have to come to terms with that.
Ever since those images first came
out, I barely left my bed. I have ig-
nored all the calls and the texts. I went
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:17 Nov 01, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00033 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K31OC7.064 H31OCPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8714 October 31, 2019
to the darkest places that a mind can
go, and I have shed more tears than I
thought were possible.
I have hidden from the world because
I am terrified of facing the people that
I let down. But I made it through be-
cause the people who loved me most
dragged me back into the light and re-
minded me that I was stronger than
that.
To those of you who were by my side
in my worst moments—you know who
you are—I love you. I am so grateful,
and I will never forget.
And I am here today because so many
of the people I let down—people close
to me, supporters, colleagues, people I
have never even met—told me to stand
back up and that, despite all of my
faults, they still believed in me and
they were still counting on me. And I
realized that hiding away and dis-
appearing would be the one unforgiv-
able sin.
I will never shirk my responsibility
for this sudden ending to my time here,
but I have to say more because this is
bigger than me.
I am leaving now because of a double
standard.
I am leaving because I no longer
want to be used as a bargaining chip.
I am leaving because I didn’t want to
be peddled by papers and blogs and
websites, used by shameless operatives
for the dirtiest gutter politics that I
have ever seen and the rightwing media
to drive clicks and expand their audi-
ence by distributing intimate photos of
me taken without my knowledge, let
alone my consent, for the sexual enter-
tainment of millions.
I am leaving because of a
misogynistic culture that gleefully
consumed my naked pictures, capital-
ized on my sexuality, and enabled my
abusive ex to continue that abuse, this
time with the entire country watching.
I am leaving because of the thou-
sands of vile, threatening emails, calls,
and texts that made me fear for my life
and the lives of the people that I care
about.
Today is the first time I have left my
apartment since the photos taken
without my consent were released, and
I am scared.
I am leaving because, for the sake of
my community, my staff, my family,
and myself, I can’t allow this to con-
tinue, because I have been told that
people were angry when I stood strong
after the first article was posted and
that they had hundreds more photos
and text messages that they would re-
lease bit by bit until they broke me
down to nothing, while they used my
faults and my past to distract from the
things that matter most.
I am leaving because there is only
one investigation that deserves the at-
tention of this country, and that is the
one that we voted on today.
Today, I ask you all to stand with me
and commit to creating a future where
this no longer happens to women and
girls.
Yes, I am stepping down, but I refuse
to let this experience scare off other
women who dare to take risks, who
dare to step into this light, and who
dare to be powerful.
It might feel like they have won in
the short term, but they can’t in the
long term. We cannot let them.
The way to overcome this setback is
for women to keep showing up, to keep
running for office, and to keep stepping
up as leaders; because the more we
show up, the less power they have.
I am leaving, but we have men who
have been credibly accused of inten-
tional acts of sexual violence and re-
main in boardrooms, on the Supreme
Court, in this very body, and, worst of
all, in the Oval Office.
So, the fight goes on to create the
change that every woman and girl in
this country deserves. Here in the Halls
of Congress, the fight will go on with-
out me.
I trust so many of my colleagues to
be strong on this front while I move on
to one of the many other battlefields,
because we have an entire culture that
has to change, and we see it in stark
clarity today:
The forces of revenge by a bitter,
jealous man, cyber exploitation and
sexual shaming that target our gender,
and a large segment of society that
fears and hates powerful women have
combined to push a young woman out
of power and say that she doesn’t be-
long here; yet a man who brags about
his sexual predation, who has had doz-
ens of women come forward to accuse
him of sexual assault, who pushes poli-
cies that are uniquely harmful to
women, and who has filled the courts
with judges who proudly rule to de-
prive women of the most fundamental
right to control their own bodies sits in
the highest office of the land.
And so today, as my last vote, I voted
on impeachment proceedings, not just
because of corruption, obstruction of
justice, or gross misconduct, but be-
cause of the deepest abuse of power, in-
cluding the abuse of power over
women.
Today, as my final act, I voted to
move forward with the impeachment of
Donald Trump on behalf of the women
of the United States of America. We
will not stand down; we will not be bro-
ken; and we will not be silenced. We
will rise, and we will make tomorrow
better than today.
Madam Speaker, I yield back the bal-
ance of my time for now, but not for-
ever.
f
ISSUES OF THE DAY
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under
the Speaker’s announced policy of Jan-
uary 3, 2019, the Chair recognizes the
gentleman from Wisconsin (Mr.
GROTHMAN) for 30 minutes.
Mr. GROTHMAN. Madam Speaker, it
is an honor to be here on the floor of
the House of Representatives this 502nd
anniversary of Reformation Day.
Madam Speaker, prior to discussing
immigration policy and the other
issues of the day, I yield to the gen-
tleman from Texas (Mr. ARRINGTON).
Mr. ARRINGTON. Madam Speaker, I
thank the gentleman for his leadership
on the Budget Committee, and I thank
him for his patriotism, his love of this
country, and for his desire to do what
is right for our country, first and fore-
most.
Madam Speaker, today was a sad
day, I believe, for our country. We have
got, now, round two of this phony im-
peachment process.
It is purely political. It is not based
in facts, not based in the pursuit of
truth and justice. There is no openness;
there is no fairness; and there is, real-
ly, no credibility.
The American people are not buying
this bologna, not a single bit.
That is why we are seeing round two
of putting lipstick on a pig, as we say
in Texas. But, listen, the nature of this
phony process is what it is, no matter
how you dress it up.
It is sad because we are allowing this
institution to be degraded. We are
making a mockery out of this Cham-
ber, the serious business of this coun-
try, and the serious nature of impeach-
ment.
I would say, first and foremost, that
the claim that this President has com-
mitted a high crime, treason, or im-
peachable offense is absurd, really.
From the outset, I would say that
this is a baseless claim that only first-
hand knowledge, the only primary
source of evidence, is his conversation
with President Zelensky. Unlike the
cherry-picked leaks from Chairman
SCHIFF, he let it be known what he
said, what their conversation was
about, in the full sunshine, for all the
public to see.
And it was clear that the President
not only didn’t have a quid pro quo, the
President not only didn’t commit some
impeachable offense, for heaven’s sake,
he was ensuring that taxpayer dollars,
as the fiduciary, the chief fiduciary of
this country, weren’t going to be wast-
ed or abused or misspent on anything
except for what they were intended for
and that every stone would be turned
over to root out graft and corruption.
b 1400
Now, that is not just appropriate;
that is to be commended for any chief
executive, especially for our President.
I think that this process is purely po-
litical and aimed, again, not at truth
and justice, but at a distraction from
what is not happening on trade, on pre-
scription drugs, and a whole host of
things that we have to address if we
are going to have a real impact on our
fellow countrymen and move this coun-
try forward.
I think it is a distraction from the
socialist policies that have been ad-
vanced through this Chamber that
have no chance of having any real ef-
fect on mainstream America.
I think, ultimately, it is to discredit
this President; and instead of actually
doing battle for hearts and minds the
old-fashioned way in the public squares
and at the ballot box, they are doing it
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:17 Nov 01, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00034 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K31OC7.066 H31OCPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8715
October 31, 2019
by weaponizing this serious constitu-
tional provision of impeachment.
Again, it is a sad day. But what I
would say in closing, to my dear friend
from Wisconsin, is that it is one thing
to take the oxygen out of this Chamber
for actually doing things that are
going to have a real impact and make
a real difference in the lives of our fel-
low Americans, it is one thing to take
this President down yet another rabbit
hole, another Russian collusion hoax,
but another thing to do irreparable
harm to our democracy.
The Presidency, how is it ever going
to be the same after this? How will a
President ever have a phone call with a
foreign leader where they can have the
candor that is necessary to build rela-
tionships and to do the people’s busi-
ness.
Madam Speaker, I say to my fellow
Americans: This isn’t about truth and
justice. This is about fear and hate,
hate for our President and for what he
stands for, for his agenda, and fear that
they can’t beat him at the ballot box,
so they are going to do it by
weaponizing our congressional over-
sight responsibility and abusing the
power of this great institution for their
political objectives. I say that is whol-
ly un-American.
For my children’s sake, they are
doing irreparable harm to not only the
Presidency, but to all of our demo-
cratic institutions. If you lose that,
you lose the ability to govern, Repub-
lican or Democrat; you lose the ability
to govern functionally for the Amer-
ican people.
What a sad day. History will judge
cruelly those who participated in this
instead of doing it the old-fashioned
American way, from house to house in
the neighborhoods, in the public
squares, and at the ballot box.
God save our great country, and God
help us all if this political railroad job
and farce continues any longer.
I thank my friend from Wisconsin for
yielding to me. I am grateful for the
opportunity.
God bless America, and go, West
Texas.
Mr. GROTHMAN. Madam Speaker, I
thank the gentleman for his comments.
I realized that a lot of what has been
said here the last few days focuses on
an impeachment inquiry, and one has
to ask oneself why we have so many
people who have been wanting to try to
impeachment President Trump imme-
diately.
It was, obviously, a very important
vote today, but it is the fourth vote I
have taken, I believe, since President
Trump has been sworn in on impeach-
ment. So far, nothing has turned up. I
don’t expect anything to turn up in the
future.
But I think one of the motivations
for this impeachment inquiry is to
keep other stories off the page, to keep
other stories out of the mainstream
media. And that is why, today, I want
to address what I think is the biggest
threat to America in the short term
and a threat, unless we deal with it,
which will ultimately destroy our
country, and that is the threat of ille-
gal immigration, of people flowing
across the southern border.
I have been at the southern border
three times this year to see for myself
what Border Patrol and other people in
charge of securing our border have to
put up with, and I would like to say
that they have done a tremendous job.
Yesterday, in this building, while so
many people were focused on the im-
peachment inquiry, we had a hearing in
the subcommittee of the Oversight and
Reform Committee in which Ken
Cuccinelli, the United States Citizen-
ship and Immigration Services office
head, and Matthew Albence, Acting Di-
rector of ICE, were testifying before
our subcommittee.
It was interesting, the appalling com-
ments that they had to put up with
from Members of this House, being
called white supremacists, just doing
their job trying to secure the border.
Those are the type of things that every
American should be aware of what is
going on in this building.
But I would like to update people on
the good job that President Trump has
been able to do in the last 6 months,
why he has been able to do this job, and
the hatred which it has brought our
President.
In May, over 145,000 people were proc-
essed trying to get into this country,
and we allowed over 100,000 people in
this country.
About a year ago, there was a study
put out by MIT and Yale which in-
creased the estimated number of people
in this country illegally from 10 to 11
million to 20 to 22 million people. That
is a lot of people.
Obviously, we could not forever go
on, May after May after May, in which
100,000 people were allowed in this
country.
That, by the way, is in addition to
people who sneak in the country with-
out being detected because we have no
wall and we have not adequately fund-
ed our Border Patrol. I think experts
believe another 10,000 people probably
came in, at least 10,000 came into this
country in May undetected.
Since that time, President Trump
has reached agreements with Mexico,
in part by threatening tariffs, in part
by just general suasion, and we have
reduced the number of people coming
into this country from over 100,000 in
May to, I am told by the Border Patrol,
perhaps under 5,000 in September after
processing 40,000 to 50,000. This is be-
cause President Trump reached an
agreement with Mexico that they will
hold asylum seekers down there.
He has reached out and reached
agreements or received help from Gua-
temala, Honduras, and El Salvador, in
addition to Mexico, in not only keeping
more of their citizens there, but if peo-
ple try to leave other countries for asy-
lum, more are being kept in places like
Mexico, El Salvador, and Honduras.
I want to point out, too, that this is
not something that Congress helped
him with. These are things that he has
had to do on his own.
There are other things that he is try-
ing to do that Congress should be tak-
ing up, but isn’t.
He has been trying to keep people
from coming into this country if they
are a public charge. We have enough
people who we are taking care of in our
country—some through their own
fault, some through no fault of their
own—on various welfare programs.
President Trump tried to say: Hey,
we will maybe take people who are
working. We will take people who want
to come here legally. But courts, in-
cluding a prominent judge appointed
by President Clinton, struck that
down. So President Trump was denied
the opportunity to prevent people from
coming here who are going to be a pub-
lic charge.
President Trump is still waiting—and
I hope he does—to do something about
birthright citizenship, another situa-
tion that I saw when I was on the bor-
der in which, obviously, America, being
1 of only 2 of the 40 wealthiest coun-
tries in the world to say, if you have a
child here, you get to be a citizen.
His Border Patrol has been acting
with inadequate funding. They have
had, up until recently, 2,000 vacancies.
They could use more people in addition
to that.
We are in the process of building 500
miles of wall. It is not going to be
enough. But we like to believe we are
going to be able to get that done by the
end of December.
But, in any event, after doing all of
these actions, we have done a much
better job—I would say the best job we
have had in years—of holding down the
number of immigrants in this country.
Like I said, the sad thing is, largely,
this is President Trump acting on his
own while Congress tries to remove the
immigration crisis from the headlines
by spending day after day talking
about impeachment, trying to chase
some rumor down, or maybe somebody
operating under the guidance of a Con-
gressman making charges against
President Trump.
But I will just ask the American pub-
lic to keep their eye on the ball, and
that ball is immigration. We cannot go
back to the days of 100,000 people being
allowed in this country every month.
We have to make sure that the poli-
cies that President Trump has imple-
mented in the last 5 months continue
to be implemented.
We have to demand from Congress ac-
tion on the variety of things that they
should be doing instead of filling up the
press with stories on impeachment.
Madam Speaker, I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
f
SENATE BILL REFERRED
A bill of the Senate of the following
title was taken from the Speaker’s
table and, under the rule, referred as
follows:
S. 1678. An Act to express United States
support for Taiwan’s diplomatic alliances
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:17 Nov 01, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00035 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K31OC7.068 H31OCPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8716 October 31, 2019
around the world; to the Committee on For-
eign Affairs; in addition, to the Committee
on Ways and Means for a period to be subse-
quently determined by the Speaker, in each
case for consideration of such provisions as
fall within the jurisdiction of the committee
concerned.
f
ADJOURNMENT
Mr. GROTHMAN. Madam Speaker, I
move that the House do now adjourn.
The motion was agreed to; accord-
ingly (at 2 o’clock and 10 minutes
p.m.), under its previous order, the
House adjourned until tomorrow, Fri-
day, November 1, 2019, at 1 p.m.
f
EXECUTIVE COMMUNICATIONS,
ETC.
Under clause 2 of rule XIV, executive
communications were taken from the
Speaker’s table and referred as follows:
2810. A letter from the Director, Office of
Legislative Affairs, Federal Deposit Insur-
ance Corporation, transmitting the Corpora-
tion’s final rule — Company-Run Stress
Testing Requirements for FDIC-Supervised
State Nonmember Banks and State Savings
Associations (RIN: 3064-AE84) received Octo-
ber 30, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A);
Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to
the Committee on Financial Services.
2811. A letter from the Assistant Secretary
for Export Administration, Bureau of Indus-
try and Security, Department of Commerce,
transmitting the Department’s final rule —
Restricting Additional Exports and Reex-
ports to Cuba [Docket No.: 191011-0062] (RIN:
0694-AH90) received October 30, 2019, pursuant
to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121,
Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on
Foreign Affairs.
2812. A letter from the Wildlife Biologist,
U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, Department
of the Interior, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s Major final rule — Migratory Bird
Hunting; Seasons and Bag and Possession
Limits for Certain Migratory Game Birds
[Docket No.: FWS-HQ-MB-2018-0030;
FF09M21200-189-FXMB1231099BPP0] (RIN:
1018-BD10) received October 29, 2019, pursuant
to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121,
Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on
Natural Resources.
2813. A letter from the Wildlife Biologist,
U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, Department
of the Interior, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s Major final rule — Migratory Bird
Hunting; Migratory Bird Hunting Regula-
tions on Certain Federal Indian Reservations
and Ceded Lands for the 2019-20 Season
[Docket No.: FWS-HQ-MB-2018-0030;
FF09M21200-189-FXMB1231099BPP0] (RIN:
1018-BD10) received October 29, 2019, pursuant
to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121,
Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on
Natural Resources.
2814. A letter from the Chief, Branch of
Delisting and Foreign Species, Fish and
Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior,
transmitting the Department’s final rule —
Endangered and Threatened Wildlife and
Plants; Removing the Foskett Speckled
Dace From the List of Endangered and
Threatened Wildlife [Docket No.: FWS-R1-
ES-2017-0051; FXES11130900000-178-
FF09E42000] (RIN: 1018-BC09) received Octo-
ber 29, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A);
Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to
the Committee on Natural Resources.
2815. A letter from the Chief, Branch of
Listing Policy and Support, U.S. Fish and
Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior,
transmitting the Department’s final rule —
Endangered and Threatened Wildlife and
Plants; Regulations for Interagency Coopera-
tion [Docket No.: FWS-HQ-ES-2018-0009;
FXES11140900000-189-FF09E300000; Docket
No.: 180207140-8140-01; 4500090023] (RIN: 0648-
BH41; 1018-BC87) received October 29, 2019,
pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law
104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Com-
mittee on Natural Resources.
2816. A letter from the National Species
Status Assessment Team Lead, Fish and
Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior,
transmitting the Department’s final rule —
Endangered and Threatened Wildlife and
Plants; Endangered Species Status for
Barrens Topminnow [Docket No.: FWS-R4-
ES-2017-0094; 4500030113] (RIN: 1018-BC52) re-
ceived October 29, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Natural Re-
sources.
2817. A letter from the Chief, Branch of
Delisting and Foreign Species, Fish and
Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior,
transmitting the Department’s final rule —
Endangered and Threatened Wildlife and
Plants; Removing the Kirtland’s Warbler
From the Federal List of Endangered and
Threatened Wildlife [Docket No.: FWS-R3-
ES-2018-0005; FXES11130900000] (RIN: 1018-
BC01) received October 29, 2019, pursuant to 5
U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec.
251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on Nat-
ural Resources.
2818. A letter from the Chief, Branch of
Delisting and Foreign Species, Fish and
Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior,
transmitting the Department’s final rule —
Endangered and Threatened Wildlife and
Plants; Removal of the Monito Gecko
(Sphaerodactylus micropithecus) From the
Federal List of Endangered and Threatened
Wildlife [Docket No.: FWS-R4-ES-2017-0082;
FXES11130900000C2-178-FF09E42000] (RIN:
1018-BB76) received October 29, 2019, pursuant
to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121,
Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on
Natural Resources.
2819. A letter from the Branch Chief, U.S.
Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the
Interior, transmitting the Department’s
final rule — Migratory Bird Hunting; Final
Frameworks for Migratory Bird Hunting
Regulations [Docket No.: FWS-HQ-MB-2018-
0030; FF09M21200-189-FXMB1231099BPP0]
(RIN: 1018-BD10) received October 29, 2019,
pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law
104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Com-
mittee on Natural Resources.
2820. A letter from the Branch Chief, U.S.
Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the
Interior, transmitting the Department’s
final rule — Migratory Bird Permits; Regula-
tions Concerning a Depredation Order [Dock-
et Number: FWS-HQ-MB-2018-0225;
FF09M29000-190-FXMB12320900000] (RIN: 1018-
BB77) received October 29, 2019, pursuant to 5
U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec.
251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on Nat-
ural Resources.
2821. A letter from the Supervisory Regula-
tions Specialist, Office of Subsistence Man-
agement, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, De-
partment of the Interior, transmitting the
Department’s final rule — Subsistence Man-
agement Regulations for Public Lands in
Alaska-2019-20 and 2020-21 Subsistence Tak-
ing of Fish Regulations [Docket No.: FWS-
R7-SM-2017-0096; FXFR13350700640-190-
FF07J00000; FBMS #4500133004] (RIN: 1018-
BC06) received October 29, 2019, pursuant to 5
U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec.
251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on Nat-
ural Resources.
2822. A letter from the Supervisory Regula-
tions Specialist, Office of Subsistence Man-
agement, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, De-
partment of the Interior, transmitting the
Agency’s final rule — Subsistence Manage-
ment Regulations for Public Lands in Alas-
ka-Cook Inlet Area Regulations [Docket No.:
FWS-R7-SM-2018-0003; FXFR13350700640-190-
FF07J00000; FBMS# 4500133005] (RIN: 1018-
BB99) received October 29, 2019, pursuant to 5
U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec.
251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on Nat-
ural Resources.
2823. A letter from the Fish and Wildlife
Administrator, Policy Lead, Wildlife and
Sport Fish Restoration Program, U.S. Fish
and Wildlife Service, Department of the Inte-
rior, transmitting the Department’s final
rule — Financial Assistance: Wildlife Res-
toration, Sport Fish Restoration, Hunter
Education and Safety [Docket No.: FWS-HQ-
WSR-2017-0002; 91400-5110-POLI-7B; 91400-9410-
POLI-7B] (RIN: 1018-BA33) received October
29, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A);
Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to
the Committee on Natural Resources.
2824. A letter from the Acting Director, Of-
fice of Sustainable Fisheries, NMFS, Na-
tional Oceanic and Atmospheric Administra-
tion, transmitting the Administration’s tem-
porary rule — Fisheries of the Exclusive Eco-
nomic Zone Off Alaska; Pacific Cod by
Catcher Vessels Less Than 50 Feet Length
Overall Using Hook-and-Line Gear in the
Central Regulatory Area of the Gulf of Alas-
ka [Docket No.: 180831813-9170-02] (RIN: 0648-
XY024) received October 30, 2019, pursuant to
5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec.
251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on Nat-
ural Resources.
2825. A letter from the Acting Director, Of-
fice of Sustainable Fisheries, NMFS, Na-
tional Oceanic and Atmospheric Administra-
tion, transmitting the Administration’s tem-
porary rule — Fisheries of the Exclusive Eco-
nomic Zone Off Alaska; Pacific Cod in the
Central Regulatory Area of the Gulf of Alas-
ka [Docket No.: 180831813-9170-02] (RIN: 0648-
XY047) received October 30, 2019, pursuant to
5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec.
251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on Nat-
ural Resources.
2826. A letter from the Acting Director, Of-
fice of Sustainable Fisheries, NMFS, Na-
tional Oceanic and Atmospheric Administra-
tion, transmitting the Administration’s tem-
porary rule — Fisheries of the Exclusive Eco-
nomic Zone Off Alaska; Pacific Cod by Ves-
sels Using Pot Gear in the Central Regu-
latory Area of the Gulf of Alaska [Docket
No.: 180831813-9170-02] (RIN: 0648-XY022) re-
ceived October 30, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Natural Re-
sources.
2827. A letter from the Acting Director, Of-
fice of Sustainable Fisheries, NMFS, Na-
tional Oceanic and Atmospheric Administra-
tion, transmitting the Administration’s tem-
porary rule — Fisheries of the Exclusive Eco-
nomic Zone Off Alaska; Reallocation of Atka
Mackerel in the Bering Sea and Aleutian Is-
lands Management Area [Docket No.:
180713633-9174-02] (RIN: 0648-XY040) received
October 30, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Natural Re-
sources.
2828. A letter from the Director, Office of
Regulation Policy and Management, Office
of the Secretary, Department of Veterans Af-
fairs, transmitting the Department’s final
rule — Center for Innovation for Care and
Payment (RIN: 2900-AQ56) received October
30, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A);
Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to
the Committee on Veterans’ Affairs.
2829. A letter from the Director RMD, RD
Innovation Center, Rural Development, De-
partment of Agriculture, transmitting the
Department’s final rule — Rural Develop-
ment Environmental Regulation for Rural
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:17 Nov 01, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00036 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A31OC7.039 H31OCPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8717
October 31, 2019
Infrastructure [RUS-18-Agency-0005, RBS-18-
None-0029, RHS-18-None-0026] (RIN: 0572-
AC44) received October 30, 2019, pursuant to 5
U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec.
251; (110 Stat. 868); jointly to the Committees
on Agriculture and Financial Services.
2830. A letter from the Regulations Coordi-
nator, Department of Health and Human
Services, transmitting the Department’s
final rule — Administrative Simplification:
Rescinding the Adoption of the Standard
Unique Health Plan Identifier and Other En-
tity Identifier [CMS-0054-F] (RIN: 0938-AT42)
received October 29, 2019, pursuant to 5
U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec.
251; (110 Stat. 868); jointly to the Committees
on Energy and Commerce and Ways and
Means.
f
REPORTS OF COMMITTEES ON
PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS
Under clause 2 of rule XIII, reports of
committees were delivered to the Clerk
for printing and reference to the proper
calendar, as follows:
Mr. NADLER: Committee on the Judici-
ary. H.R. 35. A bill to amend section 249 of
title 18, United States Code, to specify lynch-
ing as a hate crime act (Rept. 116–267). Re-
ferred to the Committee of the Whole House
on the state of the Union.
f
PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS
Under clause 2 of rule XII, public
bills and resolutions of the following
titles were introduced and severally re-
ferred, as follows:
By Mrs. NAPOLITANO (for herself and
Mr. CISNEROS):
H.R. 4936. A bill to establish a grant pro-
gram to provide temporary housing to home-
less individuals, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Financial Services.
By Mr. SMUCKER:
H.R. 4937. A bill to amend the Workforce
Innovation and Opportunity Act to make
permanent a grant program to promote and
assist in the reentry of justice-involved indi-
viduals into the workforce; to the Com-
mittee on Education and Labor.
By Ms. SEWELL of Alabama (for her-
self, Mr. NUNES, Mr. WELCH, Mr.
MULLIN, and Mr. BLUMENAUER):
H.R. 4938. A bill to amend title XVIII to
strengthen ambulance services furnished
under part B of the Medicare program; to the
Committee on Energy and Commerce, and in
addition to the Committee on Ways and
Means, for a period to be subsequently deter-
mined by the Speaker, in each case for con-
sideration of such provisions as fall within
the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
By Mr. BACON (for himself and Mr.
CISNEROS):
H.R. 4939. A bill to amend title 18, United
States Code, to combat straw purchases of
firearms; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. FLORES:
H.R. 4940. A bill to require the Secretary of
the Treasury to mint coins in commemora-
tion of the 200th anniversary of the estab-
lishment of the Nation’s first statewide in-
vestigative law enforcement agency, the
Ranger Division of the Texas Department of
Public Safety; to the Committee on Finan-
cial Services.
By Mr. KIM (for himself, Mr. COOK, and
Mr. CISNEROS):
H.R. 4941. A bill to amend title 10, United
States Code, to improve the Transition As-
sistance Program by allowing certain vet-
erans’ service organizations to contact vet-
erans regarding benefits and to better inform
veterans of employment opportunities, and
for other purposes; to the Committee on
Armed Services, and in addition to the Com-
mittee on Veterans’ Affairs, for a period to
be subsequently determined by the Speaker,
in each case for consideration of such provi-
sions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned.
By Mr. GOTTHEIMER (for himself and
Mr. FITZPATRICK):
H.R. 4942. A bill to direct the Transpor-
tation Security Administration to develop
and disseminate best practices for rental
companies and dealers to report suspicious
behavior to law enforcement agencies at the
point of sale of a covered rental vehicle to
prevent and mitigate acts of terrorism using
motor vehicles, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Homeland Security.
By Mrs. MURPHY of Florida (for her-
self and Mr. DIAZ-BALART):
H.R. 4943. A bill to amend the Elementary
and Secondary Education Act of 1965 to pro-
vide that children who have relocated from
Puerto Rico to the States are fully consid-
ered for purposes of State allotments under
the English Language Acquisition grants; to
the Committee on Education and Labor.
By Mr. BURCHETT:
H.R. 4944. A bill to require the Small Busi-
ness Administration to issue licenses under
the Small Business Investment Act of 1958
within particular time frames, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Small Busi-
ness.
By Mr. GRIFFITH (for himself, Mr.
WELCH, Mr. BILIRAKIS, Mr. SOTO, and
Mr. LARSON of Connecticut):
H.R. 4945. A bill to amend title XVIII of the
Social Security Act to exclude ventilators
from competitive acquisition programs
under the Medicare program for 5years, and
for other purposes; to the Committee on En-
ergy and Commerce, and in addition to the
Committee on Ways and Means, for a period
to be subsequently determined by the Speak-
er, in each case for consideration of such pro-
visions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned.
By Mr. WELCH (for himself, Mr. GRIF-
FITH, Mr. LOEBSACK, Mr. CARTER of
Georgia, Mr. GONZALEZ of Texas, Mr.
CRAWFORD, Mr. WESTERMAN, Mr.
DAVID P. ROE of Tennessee, Mrs. ROD-
GERS of Washington, Mrs. AXNE, Mr.
ALLEN, and Mr. PETERSON):
H.R. 4946. A bill to amend title XVIII of the
Social Security Act to ensure equal access of
Medicare beneficiaries to community phar-
macies in underserved areas as network
pharmacies under Medicare prescription
drug coverage, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Energy and Commerce, and in
addition to the Committee on Ways and
Means, for a period to be subsequently deter-
mined by the Speaker, in each case for con-
sideration of such provisions as fall within
the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
By Mr. BIGGS:
H.R. 4947. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to expand the deduction for
qualified business income, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
By Mr. BISHOP of North Carolina (for
himself, Mr. BUDD, and Mr. MEAD-
OWS):
H.R. 4948. A bill to provide for the effective
use of immigration detainers to enhance
public safety; to the Committee on the Judi-
ciary.
By Mr. BOST (for himself, Mr.
CUNNINGHAM, Mrs. WALORSKI, Mr.
RUTHERFORD, Mr. MEADOWS, Mr. CAL-
VERT, and Ms. STEFANIK):
H.R. 4949. A bill to direct the Secretary of
Veterans Affairs to establish qualifications
for the human resources positions within the
Veterans Health Administration of the De-
partment of Veterans Affairs, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Veterans’ Af-
fairs.
By Mr. BUDD (for himself and Mr.
BISHOP of North Carolina):
H.R. 4950. A bill to direct the Secretary of
Education to conduct a study on Federal
data collection related to student participa-
tion and performance in career and technical
education programs, and for other purposes;
to the Committee on Education and Labor.
By Mr. CARTER of Texas:
H.R. 4951. A bill to amend the Elementary
and Secondary Education Act of 1965 to
strengthen school security; to the Com-
mittee on Education and Labor.
By Ms. CHENEY:
H.R. 4952. A bill to direct the Secretary of
Transportation to issue regulations to revise
title 49, Code of Federal Regulations, to re-
quire an air carrier to permit eligible service
animals to accompany eligible veterans dur-
ing travel, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Transportation and Infra-
structure.
By Mr. DANNY K. DAVIS of Illinois
(for himself and Mr. HOLDING):
H.R. 4953. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to modify the tax rate for
excise tax on investment income of private
foundations; to the Committee on Ways and
Means.
By Mr. DANNY K. DAVIS of Illinois:
H.R. 4954. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Act of 1986 to strengthen the earned in-
come tax credit and expand eligibility for
childless individuals, homeless youth, and
qualified foster youth; to the Committee on
Ways and Means.
By Mr. ENGEL (for himself, Mr. GUTH-
RIE, Mr. SCHRADER, and Mr. HUDSON):
H.R. 4955. A bill to amend the Federal
Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act to clarify the
meaning of a new chemical entity; to the
Committee on Energy and Commerce.
By Ms. FOXX of North Carolina (for
herself and Mrs. WAGNER):
H.R. 4956. A bill to provide that the Execu-
tive order entitled ‘‘Establishing a White
House Council on Eliminating Regulatory
Barriers to Affordable Housing‘‘ shall have
the force and effect of law, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Financial Serv-
ices.
By Mr. GALLEGO (for himself and Mr.
COOK):
H.R. 4957. A bill to amend the Indian Child
Protection and Family Violence Prevention
Act; to the Committee on Natural Resources.
By Mr. GOHMERT:
H.R. 4958. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to tax bona fide residents
of the District of Columbia in the same man-
ner as bona fide residents of possessions of
the United States; to the Committee on
Ways and Means.
By Mr. KEVIN HERN of Oklahoma (for
himself, Mr. BANKS, Mr. NORMAN, Mr.
MURPHY of North Carolina, Mr.
KELLY of Pennsylvania, Mr. ROY, Mr.
MEUSER, Mr. JOHNSON of Louisiana,
Mr. GOODEN, Mr. MULLIN, Mr.
WOMACK, Mr. MEADOWS, Mr. UPTON,
Mr. DAVIDSON of Ohio, Mr. JORDAN,
Mr. RESCHENTHALER, and Mr. GREEN
of Tennessee):
H.R. 4959. A bill to amend the Congres-
sional Budget and Impoundment Control Act
of 1974 to provide for cost estimates of major
legislation; to the Committee on Rules, and
in addition to the Committee on the Budget,
for a period to be subsequently determined
by the Speaker, in each case for consider-
ation of such provisions as fall within the ju-
risdiction of the committee concerned.
By Mr. HILL of Arkansas (for himself,
Mr. FOSTER, Mr. SCHWEIKERT, Mrs.
MURPHY of Florida, Mr. VEASEY, and
Mr. CHABOT):
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:17 Nov 01, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00037 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\L31OC7.000 H31OCPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8718 October 31, 2019
H.R. 4960. A bill to require the Secretary of
Commerce to conduct an assessment and
analysis relating to the decline in the busi-
ness formation rate in the United States; to
the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
By Mr. HUFFMAN (for himself, Ms.
TLAIB, and Ms. BARRAGÁN):
H.R. 4961. A bill to limit financial support
for certain international energy projects; to
the Committee on Appropriations, and in ad-
dition to the Committees on Financial Serv-
ices, and Foreign Affairs, for a period to be
subsequently determined by the Speaker, in
each case for consideration of such provi-
sions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned.
By Mr. KATKO (for himself and Miss
RICE of New York):
H.R. 4962. A bill to direct the Secretary of
Education to award grants for cybersecurity
curriculum for secondary schools, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Edu-
cation and Labor.
By Mr. KATKO (for himself, Miss RICE
of New York, Mr. WALDEN, Mr.
CORREA, and Mr. SOTO):
H.R. 4963. A bill to amend the Controlled
Substances Act to clarify how controlled
substance analogues that are imported or of-
fered for import are to be regulated, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Energy
and Commerce, and in addition to the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary, for a period to be
subsequently determined by the Speaker, in
each case for consideration of such provi-
sions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned.
By Mr. KELLY of Pennsylvania:
H.R. 4964. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to extend the employer
credit for paid family and medical leave, and
for other purposes; to the Committee on
Ways and Means, and in addition to the Com-
mittee on Education and Labor, for a period
to be subsequently determined by the Speak-
er, in each case for consideration of such pro-
visions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned.
By Mr. POCAN (for himself, Mr.
ESPAILLAT, Mr. SIRES, Mr. CARSON of
Indiana, Mr. LEVIN of Michigan, Ms.
ESHOO, Ms. LEE of California, Mr.
LUJÁN, Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi,
Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN, Mrs. LAW-
RENCE, Mr. HIGGINS of New York,
Mrs. AXNE, Mr. LAMB, Mr. KILDEE,
Mr. SOTO, Mr. DAVID SCOTT of Geor-
gia, Ms. HAALAND, Mrs. DINGELL, Mr.
KILMER, Mr. EVANS, Ms. NORTON, Ms.
SLOTKIN, Mr. PALLONE, Mr. CISNEROS,
Mr. SABLAN, Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia,
Mr. RASKIN, Ms. SCHAKOWSKY, Mr.
CROW, Mr. LANGEVIN, Mr. MCGOVERN,
Mr. COURTNEY, Mr. MORELLE, Mr.
SERRANO, Mr. VARGAS, Ms. ROYBAL-
ALLARD, Mr. DESAULNIER, Mr.
TAKANO, Mr. ROSE of New York, and
Mr. LOWENTHAL):
H.R. 4965. A bill to promote effective reg-
istered apprenticeships, for skills, creden-
tials, and employment, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Education and
Labor.
By Ms. PRESSLEY:
H.R. 4966. A bill to require the chief execu-
tive officers of global systemically impor-
tant bank holding companies to provide an-
nual testimony to Congress, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Financial
Services.
By Mr. SCOTT of Virginia (for himself,
Mr. WITTMAN, Mr. SARBANES, Mr.
CONNOLLY, Mr. FITZPATRICK, Mr.
CARTWRIGHT, Mr. HASTINGS, Ms. NOR-
TON, Mrs. LURIA, Mr. RIGGLEMAN, Mr.
HOYER, Mr. RASKIN, Mr. TRONE, Ms.
WEXTON, and Mr. BEYER):
H.R. 4967. A bill to authorize the Secretary
of the Interior to establish a program to re-
store and protect the Chesapeake Bay water-
shed, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Natural Resources, and in addition
to the Committee on Transportation and In-
frastructure, for a period to be subsequently
determined by the Speaker, in each case for
consideration of such provisions as fall with-
in the jurisdiction of the committee con-
cerned.
By Mrs. TORRES of California (for her-
self, Ms. LEE of California, Mr.
CARBAJAL, Mr. VARGAS, Mrs. WATSON
COLEMAN, Mr. PANETTA, Mr. HAS-
TINGS, Mr. CISNEROS, Mr. LOWENTHAL,
Ms. LOFGREN, Mr. KHANNA, Mr.
CÁRDENAS, and Mr. TAKANO):
H.R. 4968. A bill to provide for the basic
needs of students at institutions of higher
education; to the Committee on Education
and Labor.
By Ms. TORRES SMALL of New Mex-
ico (for herself, Mr. LUJÁN, and Ms.
HAALAND):
H.R. 4969. A bill to name the Department of
Veterans Affairs community-based out-
patient clinic in Las Cruces, New Mexico, as
the ‘‘Las Cruces Bataan Memorial Clinic‘‘; to
the Committee on Veterans’ Affairs.
By Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN:
H.R. 4970. A bill to restrict the authority of
the Attorney General to enter into contracts
for Federal correctional facilities and com-
munity confinement facilities, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on the Judici-
ary.
By Ms. WEXTON (for herself, Mr.
BEYER, Mr. CLINE, Mr. CONNOLLY,
Mrs. LURIA, Mr. MCEACHIN, Mr.
RIGGLEMAN, Mr. SCOTT of Virginia,
and Ms. SPANBERGER):
H.R. 4971. A bill to designate the facility of
the United States Postal Service located at
15 East Market Street in Leesburg, Virginia,
as the ‘‘Norman Duncan Post Office Build-
ing’’; to the Committee on Oversight and Re-
form.
By Ms. GABBARD:
H. Con. Res. 70. Concurrent resolution di-
recting the President pursuant to section
5(c) of the War Powers Resolution to remove
United States Armed Forces from hostilities
in the Syrian Arab Republic that have not
been authorized by Congress; to the Com-
mittee on Foreign Affairs.
By Mr. HASTINGS (for himself and Mr.
BUCHANAN):
H. Con. Res. 71. Concurrent resolution urg-
ing all nations to outlaw the dog and cat
meat trade and to enforce existing laws
against such trade; to the Committee on
Foreign Affairs, and in addition to the Com-
mittee on Agriculture, for a period to be sub-
sequently determined by the Speaker, in
each case for consideration of such provi-
sions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned.
By Mr. COLE:
H. Res. 668. A resolution providing for con-
sideration of the resolution (H.Res. 660) di-
recting certain committees to continue their
ongoing investigations as part of the exist-
ing House of Representatives inquiry into
whether sufficient grounds exist for the
House of Representatives to exercise its Con-
stitutional power to impeach Donald John
Trump, President of the United States of
America, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Rules.
By Mr. YARMUTH (for himself, Mr.
TAYLOR, Mr. LANGEVIN, and Ms.
TITUS):
H. Res. 669. A resolution expressing support
for designation of the week of November 3
through 9, 2019, as National Family Service
Learning Week; to the Committee on Edu-
cation and Labor.
By Mr. GRIJALVA:
H. Res. 670. A resolution commemorating
the 30th annual event of the All Souls Pro-
cession in Tucson, Arizona, and calling for
an end to migrant deaths along the United
States-Mexico border; to the Committee on
the Judiciary, and in addition to the Com-
mittee on Homeland Security, for a period to
be subsequently determined by the Speaker,
in each case for consideration of such provi-
sions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned.
By Mr. CLEAVER:
H. Res. 671. A resolution urging the United
Arab Emirates to immediately end any ac-
tivities enabling money laundering in viola-
tion of United States sanctions against Iran;
to the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
By Ms. KAPTUR (for herself, Mr.
KINZINGER, Mr. KEATING, Mr. SIRES,
Mr. PENCE, Mr. GOODEN, Mr. COSTA,
Mr. ROONEY of Florida, Mr. HUNTER,
Mr. HARRIS, Mr. WEBER of Texas, Mr.
HECK, Mr. TURNER, Mr. QUIGLEY, and
Mr. PRICE of North Carolina):
H. Res. 672. A resolution expressing support
of the Three Seas Initiative in its efforts to
increase energy independence and infrastruc-
ture connectivity thereby strengthening the
United States and European national secu-
rity; to the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
By Mr. LARSEN of Washington (for
himself, Mrs. WAGNER, Ms. NORTON,
Ms. MOORE, Mr. HIGGINS of New York,
Ms. VELÁZQUEZ, Mr. FITZPATRICK, Mr.
NEWHOUSE, Mrs. LESKO, Mr. RUSH,
Mr. CARSON of Indiana, Mr.
GOTTHEIMER, Mr. ROUDA, Mr. PA-
NETTA, and Ms. MENG):
H. Res. 673. A resolution expressing appre-
ciation during ‘‘National Domestic Violence
Awareness Month‘‘ to all providers working
tirelessly to educate communities, provide
shelter and assistance to victims, and end
the scourge of domestic violence; to the
Committee on Education and Labor.
By Mrs. TORRES of California:
H. Res. 674. A resolution expressing the
sense of the House of Representatives regard-
ing the achievements of Edgar Ricardo
Arjona Morales, in honor of Hispanic Herit-
age Month; to the Committee on Foreign Af-
fairs.
By Mr. WALKER (for himself, Mr.
BROOKS of Alabama, Mr. DESJARLAIS,
Mr. FULCHER, Mr. GAETZ, Mr.
MCCLINTOCK, Mr. MURPHY of North
Carolina, Mr. WILLIAMS, Mr. GIBBS,
Mr. FLEISCHMANN, Mr. RIGGLEMAN,
Mr. DAVID P. ROE of Tennessee, Mr.
BANKS, Mr. CLOUD, Mr. HICE of Geor-
gia, Mr. RUTHERFORD, Mr. WEBER of
Texas, Mr. GUEST, Mr. CHABOT, Mr.
EMMER, Mr. CRAWFORD, Mr.
LAMALFA, Mr. WILSON of South Caro-
lina, Mr. SPANO, Mr. KELLY of Mis-
sissippi, Mr. DUNCAN, Mr. KEVIN HERN
of Oklahoma, Mr. CRENSHAW, Mr.
MARSHALL, Mr. LAMBORN, Mr. KING of
Iowa, Mr. WITTMAN, Mr. DAVIDSON of
Ohio, Mr. CONAWAY, Mr. COMER, Mr.
JOHNSON of Louisiana, Mr. WRIGHT,
Mr. BABIN, Mr. GOODEN, and Mr.
MULLIN):
H. Res. 675. A resolution expressing the
sense of the House of Representatives that
socialist proposals such as Medicare for All,
student loan forgiveness, and the Green New
Deal with a guaranteed job for all, are anti-
thetical to American foundational values of
self-responsibility and opportunity, and by
guaranteeing these programs as ‘‘rights’’, we
risk abandoning our actual rights; to the
Committee on Financial Services, and in ad-
dition to the Committee on the Judiciary,
for a period to be subsequently determined
by the Speaker, in each case for consider-
ation of such provisions as fall within the ju-
risdiction of the committee concerned.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:17 Nov 01, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00038 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\L31OC7.100 H31OCPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8719
October 31, 2019
PRIVATE BILLS AND
RESOLUTIONS
Under clause 3 of rule XII,
Miss RICE of New York introduced A
bill (H.R. 4972) for the relief of Ted
Simonson and Reoforce, Inc; which
was referred to the Committee on the
Judiciary.
f
CONSTITUTIONAL AUTHORITY
STATEMENT
Pursuant to clause 7 of rule XII of
the Rules of the House of Representa-
tives, the following statements are sub-
mitted regarding the specific powers
granted to Congress in the Constitu-
tion to enact the accompanying bill or
joint resolution.
By Mrs. NAPOLITANO:
H.R. 4936.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 1
By Mr. SMUCKER:
H.R. 4937.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Clause 3 of section 8 of article 1 of the Con-
stitution.
By Ms. SEWELL of Alabama:
H.R. 4938.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Sec. 8, Clause 18
By Mr. BACON:
H.R. 4939.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 3 of the U.S.
Constitution, which gives Congress the
power ‘‘to regulate commerce with foreign
nations, and among the several states, and
with the Indian tribes.’’
By Mr. FLORES:
H.R. 4940.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 5 of the Con-
stitution of the United States:
The Congress shall have Power to coin
Money, regulate the Value thereof, and of
foreign Coin, and fix the Standard of Weights
and Measures;
By Mr. KIM:
H.R. 4941.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8
By Mr. GOTTHEIMER:
H.R. 4942.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
section 8 of article I of the United States
Constitution.
By Mrs. MURPHY of Florida:
H.R. 4943.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, which provides Con-
gress with the power to regulate commerce
among the several states, the power to pro-
mote the progress of science and the useful
arts, and the power to make all laws nec-
essary and proper for carrying out the fore-
going powers.
By Mr. BURCHETT:
H.R. 4944.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article IV,
Section 3, Clause 2. The Congress shall
have Power to dispose of and make all need-
ful Rules and Regulations respecting the
Territory or other Property belonging to the
United States; and nothing in this Constitu-
tion shall be so construed as to Prejudice
any Claims of the United States, or of any
particular State.
By Mr. GRIFFITH:
H.R. 4945.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
This bill is enacted pursuant to the power
granted to Congress under Article I, Section
8 of the United States Constitution.
By Mr. WELCH:
H.R. 4946.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 18: The Con-
gress shall have Power To . . . make all
Laws which shall be necessary and proper for
carrying into Execution the foregoing Pow-
ers, and all other Powers vested by this Con-
stitution in the Government of the United
States, or in any Department or Officer
thereof..
By Mr. BIGGS:
H.R. 4947.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I of the U.S. Constitution
By Mr. BISHOP of North Carolina:
H.R. 4948.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I Section 8 of the Constitution
By Mr. BOST:
H.R.. 4949.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 1
By Mr. BUDD:
H.R. 4950.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I Section 8
By Mr. CARTER of Texas:
H.R. 4951.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
This bill is enacted pursuant to the power
granted to Congress under Article 1, Section
8, Clause 1 of the United States Constitution.
By Ms. CHENEY:
H.R. 4952.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8
By Mr. DANNY K. DAVIS of Illinois:
H.R. 4953.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I of the Constitution and its subse-
quent amendments and further clarified and
interpreted by the Supreme Court of the
United States.
By Mr. DANNY K. DAVIS of Illinois:
H.R. 4954.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I of the Constitution and its subse-
quent amendments and further clarified and
interpreted by the Supreme Court of the
United States.
By Mr. ENGEL:
H.R. 4955.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 3
By Ms. FOXX of North Carolina:
H.R. 4956.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8
By Mr. GALLEGO:
H.R. 4957.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Artile I, Section 8, Clause 18
By Mr. GOHMERT:
H.R. 4958.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, US Constitution:
To exercise exclusive Legislation in all
Cases whatsoever, over such District (not ex-
ceeding ten Miles square) as may, by Cession
of particular States, and the acceptance of
Congress, become the Seat of the Govern-
ment of the United States, and to exercise
like Authority over all Places purchased by
the Consent of the Legislature of the State
in which the Same shall be, for the Erection
of Forts, Magazines, Arsenals, dock-Yards,
and other needful Buildings
By Mr. KEVIN HERN of Oklahoma:
H.R. 4959.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section VIII of the United States
Constitution
By Mr. HILL of Arkansas:
H.R. 4960.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8
By Mr. HUFFMAN:
H.R. 4961.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 1: The Congress
shall have Power to lay and collect Taxes,
Duties, Impost and Excises; to pay the Debts
and provide for the common Defense and
general Welfare of the United States; but all
Duties, Imposts and Excises shall be uniform
throughout the United States.
Article I, Section 8, Clause 3: To regulate
Commerce with foreign Nations, and among
the several States, and with the Indian
Tribes.
By Mr. KATKO:
H.R. 4962.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1 Section 8: The Congress shall
have Power To lay and collect Taxes, Duties,
Imposts and Excises, to pay the Debts and
provide for the common Defence and general
Welfare of the United States
By Mr. KATKO:
H.R. 4963.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the United States
Constitution.
By Mr. KELLY of Pennsylvania:
H .R. 4964.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
The Congress enacts this bill pursuant to
Article I Section 8 of the United States Con-
stitution.
By Mr. POCAN:
H.R. 4965.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the U.S. Constitu-
tion.
By Ms. PRESSLEY:
H.R. 4966.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 18 of the United
States Constitution
By Mr. SCOTT of Virginia:
H.R. 4967.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8
By Mrs. TORRES of California:
H.R. 4968.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
According to Article 1: Section 8: Clause
18: of the United States Constitution, seen
below, this bill falls within the Constitu-
tional Authority of the United States Con-
gress.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:17 Nov 01, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00039 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\L31OC7.101 H31OCPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8720 October 31, 2019
Article 1: Section 8: Clause 18: To make all
Laws which shall be necessary and proper for
carrying into Execution the foregoing Pow-
ers, and all other Powers vested by this Con-
stitution in the Government of the United
States, or in any Department or Officer
thereof.
By Ms. TORRES SMALL of New Mex-
ico:
H.R. 4969.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 3 of the U.S.
Constitution
By Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN:
H.R. 4970.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8
By Ms. WEXTON:
H.R. 4971.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, clause 7
By Miss. RICE of New York:
H.R. 4972.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8
ADDITIONAL SPONSORS
Under clause 7 of rule XII, sponsors
were added to public bills and resolu-
tions, as follows:
H.R. 3: Ms. JUDY CHU of California, Ms.
STEVENS, Mr. PERLMUTTER, and Ms. DAVIDS
of Kansas.
H.R. 35: Mr. NEGUSE.
H.R. 40: Ms. DEGETTE.
H.R. 180: Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi.
H.R. 230: Mr. LEWIS.
H.R. 566: Mr. SUOZZI.
H.R. 838: Mr. MEEKS and Mr. ROGERS of
Kentucky.
H.R. 849: Mr. LANGEVIN and Mr. CASTEN of
Illinois.
H.R. 935: Mr. BRENDAN F. BOYLE of Penn-
sylvania and Mr. ROGERS of
Kentucky.
H.R. 1043: Mr. CUNNINGHAM and Mr. JOHN-
SON of Ohio.
H.R. 1049: Mr. LYNCH.
H.R. 1092: Mr. RASKIN.
H.R. 1110: Mr. WRIGHT.
H.R. 1133: Ms. OCASIO-CORTEZ.
H.R. 1155: Mr. PENCE.
H.R. 1171: Mr. MEEKS.
H.R. 1175: Mr. RICHMOND.
H.R. 1188: Mr. DOGGETT.
H.R. 1254: Ms. WEXTON.
H.R. 1257: Mr. RUTHERFORD.
H.R. 1289: Ms. MATSUI.
H.R. 1309: Mr. RICHMOND and Mr. BISHOP of
Georgia.
H.R. 1367: Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia and Mr.
LEVIN of Michigan.
H.R. 1383: Mr. OLSON.
H.R. 1418: Mr. SCHRADER.
H.R. 1468: Mr. GRIJALVA.
H.R. 1498: Ms. SCHAKOWSKY, Mr. PERL-
MUTTER, Ms. SCANLON, Ms. DEAN, and Mr.
GRIJALVA.
H.R. 1528: Mr. TRONE.
H.R. 1652: Mr. SCHRADER, Mrs. AXNE, Mr.
CORREA, Mr. KRISHNAMOORTHI, Mr. EVANS,
and Ms. VELÁZQUEZ.
H.R. 1673: Mr. HARRIS.
H.R. 1680: Ms. SCANLON, Mr. WOMACK, Mr.
FERGUSON, and Mr. BYRNE.
H.R. 1705: Mrs. LAWRENCE.
H.R. 1748: Mr. SHERMAN, Mr. CROW, Mr. VIS-
CLOSKY, Mr. STAUBER, Mr. CARTWRIGHT, Mr.
VARGAS, Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD, Ms. TORRES
SMALL of New Mexico, and Mr. KEATING.
H.R. 1754: Mr. LYNCH, Mrs. LURIA, Mr.
KIND, Ms. BASS, and Mr. LARSON of Con-
necticut.
H.R. 1765: Mr. MCKINLEY.
H.R. 1777: Ms. MENG.
H.R. 1923: Mr. PRICE of North Carolina, Mr.
SERRANO, Mr. WELCH, Mr. LOWENTHAL, and
Ms. GARCIA of Texas.
H.R. 2051: Mr. SUOZZI.
H.R. 2075: Ms. MUCARSEL-POWELL.
H.R. 2086: Mrs. LURIA.
H.R. 2117: Mr. JOYCE of Ohio.
H.R. 2147: Mr. KILDEE, Ms. MOORE, Mrs.
LURIA, Mr. GOTTHEIMER, and Mr. CALVERT.
H.R. 2210: Mr. SOTO.
H.R. 2222: Mr. SMITH of Nebraska.
H.R. 2235: Mr. CRAWFORD, Mr. PAYNE, Ms.
NORTON, Mr. LYNCH, and Mr. KELLY of Penn-
sylvania.
H.R. 2279: Miss GONZÁLEZ-COLÓN of Puerto
Rico, Mr. GROTHMAN, Mr. RUSH, Mr. NEGUSE,
and Mr. KENNEDY.
H.R. 2283: Mr. LEWIS.
H.R. 2301: Mr. BACON.
H.R. 2411: Ms. SPANBERGER and Mr. COMER.
H.R. 2433: Mr. SIRES.
H.R. 2498: Ms. SEWELL of Alabama.
H.R. 2501: Mr. SOTO.
H.R. 2521: Mr. SOTO, Ms. CASTOR of Florida,
Mr. BUCSHON, Ms. NORTON, and Mr. RODNEY
DAVIS of Illinois.
H.R. 2584: Mr. OLSON and Mr. HICE of Geor-
gia.
H.R. 2645: Ms. JACKSON LEE.
H.R. 2653: Mrs. AXNE.
H.R. 2656: Ms. SLOTKIN.
H.R. 2668: Mr. YOUNG and Ms. FINKENAUER.
H.R. 2693: Mr. SMITH of Nebraska, Mr.
HOLDING, Mr. SMITH of Missouri, and Mr.
ARRINGTON.
H.R. 2746: Miss GONZÁLEZ-COLÓN of Puerto
Rico.
H.R. 2747: Ms. SPEIER and Mr. MICHAEL F.
DOYLE of Pennsylvania.
H.R. 2788: Mr. AMODEI.
H.R. 2802: Ms. FINKENAUER and Ms. SCHA-
KOWSKY.
H.R. 2825: Mrs. WALORSKI.
H.R. 2862: Mr. BALDERSON.
H.R. 2867: Ms. BROWNLEY of California.
H.R. 2985: Mr. NUNES and Mr. ROUDA.
H.R. 2986: Mr. LEWIS and Mr. BLUMENAUER.
H.R. 2990: Mr. HICE of Georgia, Mr. DUNCAN,
Mr. NORMAN, Ms. STEVENS, and Mr. DAVIDSON
of Ohio.
H.R. 3048: Mr. SMITH of Missouri.
H.R. 3062: Mr. JOHNSON of Ohio.
H.R. 3080: Mr. BRINDISI and Ms. WATERS.
H.R. 3127: Mr. WELCH and Mr. SMITH of Ne-
braska.
H.R. 3138: Mr. NORCROSS.
H.R. 3155: Mr. GAETZ, Mr. MARCHANT, Mr.
WALTZ, Mr. HOLLINGSWORTH, Mr. PERRY, Mr.
COLLINS of Georgia, Mr. HURD of Texas, Mrs.
ROBY, Mr. STAUBER, Mr. MCCAUL, Mr. KATKO,
Ms. STEFANIK, Mr. REED, Mr. PENCE, Mr.
BISHOP of North Carolina, Mr. MCKINLEY, Mr.
WILSON of South Carolina, Mr. KELLY of Mis-
sissippi, Mrs. LURIA, Mr. BURGESS, Mr. RICE
of South Carolina, Mr. ARRINGTON, Mr.
BUCSHON, Mr. PETERSON, Mr. HOLDING, Mr.
ARMSTRONG, Mr. MCCLINTOCK, Mr. BUCHANAN,
and Mr. RESCHENTHALER.
H.R. 3157: Mr. GARCÍA of Illinois.
H.R. 3165: Mr. DOGGETT and Ms. STEVENS.
H.R. 3166: Mrs. BUSTOS and Ms. ROYBAL-
ALLARD.
H.R. 3192: Mr. BLUMENAUER.
H.R. 3195: Ms. GARCIA of Texas and Ms.
BLUNT ROCHESTER.
H.R. 3212: Mr. TED LIEU of California and
Mr. ESPAILLAT.
H.R. 3214: Mr. SOTO.
H.R. 3224: Ms. MENG, Ms. GABBARD, Ms.
Velázquez, Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN, Ms.
SPEIER, Mr. TAKANO, Ms. MOORE, Mr.
CUELLAR, Mr. RUSH, Mr. RYAN, and Ms. NOR-
TON.
H.R. 3235: Mr. ROUDA.
H.R. 3250: Mr. VARGAS.
H.R. 3328: Ms. TLAIB and Mrs. DAVIS of
California.
H.R. 3461: Mr. GOMEZ.
H.R. 3495: Mr. GUTHRIE, Mr. KEVIN HERN of
Oklahoma, and Mrs. MCBATH.
H.R. 3497: Mr. STEIL, Mr. CARBAJAL, Mr.
BACON, Mr. KIND, Mr. WENSTRUP, Ms. JACK-
SON LEE, Mr. GALLAGHER, and Mrs. LURIA.
H.R. 3502: Mr. GREEN of Tennessee.
H.R. 3516: Ms. MUCARSEL-POWELL.
H.R. 3584: Ms. KENDRA S. HORN of Okla-
homa and Mr. DEFAZIO.
H.R. 3598: Mr. CARBAJAL and Mr. GONZALEZ
of Texas.
H.R. 3637: Ms. BONAMICI.
H.R. 3654: Mrs. WALORSKI.
H.R. 3657: Mr. SEAN PATRICK MALONEY of
New York and Mr. BACON.
H.R. 3708: Ms. SCHRIER.
H.R. 3762: Ms. BROWNLEY of California, Mr.
NEWHOUSE, and Mr. RUSH.
H.R. 3772: Mr. LOEBSACK.
H.R. 3801: Ms. HAALAND.
H.R. 3814: Mr. WEBER of Texas.
H.R. 3836: Mr. GARAMENDI.
H.R. 3910: Mr. HIGGINS of New York.
H.R. 3911: Ms. LOFGREN.
H.R. 3934: Mr. HICE of Georgia.
H.R. 3957: Mr. RICHMOND and Ms. MOORE.
H.R. 3961: Mr. TED LIEU of California.
H.R. 3969: Ms. BROWNLEY of California.
H.R. 4019: Mrs. DAVIS of California.
H.R. 4065: Mr. MCGOVERN.
H.R. 4104: Mr. GRIJALVA.
H.R. 4138: Mr. GALLAGHER.
H.R. 4148: Mr. MEEKS.
H.R. 4162: Mr. MOOLENAAR.
H.R. 4189: Ms. GARCIA of Texas.
H.R. 4194: Mr. BILIRAKIS, Mr. SCHNEIDER,
and Mrs. NAPOLITANO.
H.R. 4206: Mr. CARSON of Indiana.
H.R. 4230: Ms. PINGREE.
H.R. 4266: Mr. BLUMENAUER.
H.R. 4269: Mr. SARBANES.
H.R. 4304: Mr. MOONEY of West Virginia.
H.R. 4347: Mr. KIND.
H.R. 4426: Mr. CLEAVER, Mr. COOPER, Mr.
CUELLAR, Ms. BONAMICI, Mr. GARCÍA of Illi-
nois, Mr. LARSON of Connecticut, Ms. LEE of
California, Mr. TED LIEU of California, Mr.
LUJÁN, Mr. MCNERNEY, Mr. VELA, Mr. SHER-
MAN, Mr. PASCRELL, Ms. SHALALA, Mr.
TRONE, and Ms. STEFANIK.
H.R. 4438: Ms. LOFGREN.
H.R. 4524: Mr. PAPPAS.
H.R. 4540: Mr. LIPINSKI.
H.R. 4547: Mr. NEGUSE.
H.R. 4553: Mr. STEIL.
H.R. 4607: Mr. GOMEZ.
H.R. 4640: Ms. DELAURO.
H.R. 4665: Mr. WELCH.
H.R. 4681: Ms. NORTON.
H.R. 4684: Ms. JACKSON LEE.
H.R. 4691: Mr. SHERMAN.
H.R. 4697: Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN, Mr.
DANNY K. DAVIS of Illinois, and Mrs. BUSTOS.
H.R. 4707: Mr. KILMER.
H.R. 4708: Mr. DANNY K. DAVIS of Illinois.
H.R. 4709: Mr. DANNY K. DAVIS of Illinois.
H.R. 4719: Ms. PINGREE.
H.R. 4724: Mr. CICILLINE, Ms. LEE of Cali-
fornia, Ms. BASS, Mr. KHANNA, Ms. PINGREE,
and Ms. VELÁZQUEZ.
H.R. 4777: Mr. CÁRDENAS.
H.R. 4779: Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania.
H.R. 4782: Ms. TORRES SMALL of New Mex-
ico and Ms. SLOTKIN.
H.R. 4789: Mr. MEADOWS.
H.R. 4790: Ms. KENDRA S. HORN of Okla-
homa.
H.R. 4807: Mr. SMITH of New Jersey.
H.R. 4823: Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia, Mr.
NEGUSE, Ms. TLAIB, and Ms. LEE of Cali-
fornia.
H.R. 4890: Mr. RUSH, Ms. NORTON, Ms.
TLAIB, Ms. MOORE, and Mr. BLUMENAUER.
H.R. 4914: Mr. GARCÍA of Illinois.
H.R. 4924: Mr. CISNEROS, Mr. DESAULNIER,
and Mr. SCHIFF.
H.R. 4928: Mr. GRIJALVA.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:17 Nov 01, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00040 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A31OC7.006 H31OCPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8721
October 31, 2019
H.J. Res. 76: Mr. BLUMENAUER.
H. Con. Res. 10: Mr. KEVIN HERN of Okla-
homa and Mr. STEUBE.
H. Con. Res. 43: Mr. POCAN.
H. Res. 54: Mr. SENSENBRENNER and Mr.
YOHO.
H. Res. 250: Mr. PHILLIPS.
H. Res. 255: Mr. SCALISE and Mr. BANKS.
H. Res. 399: Mr. TONKO.
H. Res. 517: Ms. HERRERA BEUTLER.
H. Res. 540: Ms. ESHOO, Mr. TED LIEU of
California, Ms. LEE of California, Ms. MCCOL-
LUM, Mr. DANNY K. DAVIS of Illinois, Ms.
DEAN, Mr. CASE, Ms. SCHRIER, Mr. TRONE,
Mr. MEEKS, Mr. ZELDIN, Mr. AGUILAR, Mrs.
NAPOLITANO, Mr. PASCRELL, Mr. KENNEDY,
Ms. BASS, Mrs. AXNE, Mr. DIAZ-BALART, Mr.
THOMPSON of California, Mr. FLEISCHMANN,
Mrs. LURIA, Mrs. MCBATH, Ms. WILD, Ms.
SHALALA, Ms. ESCOBAR, Mr. PANETTA, Mr.
CASTEN of Illinois, Mrs. FLETCHER, Ms.
DELBENE, Ms. BONAMICI, Ms. KENDRA S. HORN
of Oklahoma, Mr. HIGGINS of New York, Mr.
MALINOWSKI, and Mr. MCNERNEY.
H. Res. 621: Mr. LOWENTHAL.
H. Res. 641: Ms. WILSON of Florida, Ms.
OMAR, Ms. NORTON, Mr. ESPAILLAT, and Mr.
GARCÍA of Illinois.
H. Res. 649: Mr. LEWIS and Mr. GARCÍA of Il-
linois.
f
DELETIONS OF SPONSORS FROM
PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS
Under clause 7 of rule XII, sponsors
were deleted from public bills and reso-
lutions, as follows:
H.R. 2505: Mr. WESTERMAN, Ms. TORRES
SMALL of New Mexico, Mrs. KIRKPATRICK,
and Mr. WELCH.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:17 Nov 01, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00041 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A31OC7.011 H31OCPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
Congressional Record
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
United States
of America PROCEEDINGS AND DEBATES OF THE 116th
CONGRESS, FIRST SESSION
∑ This ‘‘bullet’’ symbol identifies statements or insertions which are not spoken by a Member of the Senate on the floor.
.
S6309
Vol. 165 WASHINGTON, THURSDAY, OCTOBER 31, 2019 No. 173
Senate
The Senate met at 10 a.m. and was
called to order by the President pro
tempore (Mr. GRASSLEY).
f
PRAYER
The Chaplain, Dr. Barry C. Black, of-
fered the following prayer:
Let us pray.
Most High God, Your steadfast love
endures throughout the generations.
Your faithfulness sustains the seasons
of our earthly pilgrimage. You are wor-
thy of our praise.
Infuse our lawmakers with reveren-
tial awe, as they remember You are the
one constituent they absolutely must
please. Because of You, they live and
move and breathe and have their being.
Although they may plan, You alone de-
cide what will or will not prevail. May
our Senators make You their refuge,
their shelter in the time of storms.
And Lord, we thank You for the in-
spiration of a stupendous World Series.
We pray in Your glorious Name.
Amen.
f
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
The President pro tempore led the
Pledge of Allegiance, as follows:
I pledge allegiance to the Flag of the
United States of America, and to the Repub-
lic for which it stands, one nation under God,
indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mrs.
HYDE-SMITH). The Senator from Iowa.
Mr. GRASSLEY. Madam President, I
ask unanimous consent to speak as in
morning business for 90 seconds.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
PRESCRIPTION DRUG COSTS
Mr. GRASSLEY. Madam President,
today is Halloween. This may sound a
little ‘‘candy corny,’’ but this Iowan
wants to talk about the scary prices of
prescription drugs.
Since January, I have joined with bi-
partisan forces to drive a stake in the
heart of ghoulish price-gouging. Sen-
ator WYDEN and I are working to shut
down the pranks poisoning the drug
supply chain. We need our fellow law-
makers to step up and nail the coffin
shut on monstrous drug price in-
creases.
One example that can’t masquerade
as a next-generation drug is the 500-
percent increase for insulin, which
helps Americans with diabetes regulate
blood sugar. This medicine was discov-
ered 100 years ago, about the time the
first horror movie debuted. There is no
rhyme or reason for the terrifying
price hikes spooking Americans.
The real horror story this Halloween
is what is preventing Congress from
doing its job. Big Pharma is spending a
frightening amount of money to kill
drug-pricing reforms.
Let’s fix the real injustice haunting
the American people, which is sticker
shock at the pharmacy counter. Every
Senator can be a superhero for Hal-
loween. All you have to do is join us to
dig a grave for batty prescription drug
prices. Ending Big Pharma’s pricing
tricks would be a real treat for Ameri-
cans.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
I ask unanimous consent that the order
for the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
CONGRATULATING THE
WASHINGTON NATIONALS
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
to lead off, I would certainly be remiss
not to congratulate the 2019 World Se-
ries champions, the Washington Na-
tionals. This year, our national pas-
time came down to a dramatic finish.
The Nationals and the Astros traded
blows right up until the final innings of
game seven.
For the first time ever, the away
team won all seven games of the series.
And now Stephen Strasburg, Max
Scherzer, Anthony Rendon, Juan Soto,
and the rest of the 2019 Nationals are
bringing a World Series trophy here to
the Nation’s Capital for the first time
since 1924. Back then, of course, the
home team was officially the Wash-
ington Senators, although still often
called the Nationals. That is a distin-
guished name for a team.
This squad has to be hands-down the
most athletic, most resilient, most
team-spirited bunch of ballplayers cer-
tainly this city has ever had. These re-
markable players; their manager, Dave
Martinez; the Nationals’ front office;
and the team’s owners, the Lerner fam-
ily—and I particularly want to men-
tion Ted Lerner, the patriarch, who is
94 years old. Many people thought he
might not be around to see the Wash-
ington Nationals’ first championship,
but he was. He is a great owner, a great
friend of the city, and it was fun to see
him after the game revel in this great
accomplishment. They achieved, actu-
ally, a small miracle. For a couple of
weeks, they gave us something that all
of Washington, DC, could unite
around—a miracle indeed. It is some-
thing we can use around here these
days. Congratulations to the cham-
pions.
f
APPROPRIATIONS
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
on another matter, later today we are
going to vote on something that should
not be controversial: funding for our
national defense, for supporting serv-
icemembers and their families, for sus-
taining American global leadership and
strategic edge. This vital priority is
not something that can take a back
seat to partisan dysfunction.
Our men and women in uniform don’t
get to go on sabbatical while they wait
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:59 Nov 01, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A31OC6.000 S31OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6310 October 31, 2019
for Congress to get its act together.
They have to stay vigilant, remain in
harm’s way, and stay at their posts.
Our military commanders don’t get
to put critical overseas operations on
pause until Washington does its job.
Their objectives loom large whether or
not we give them a predictable plan-
ning foundation.
Russia, China, and Iran will certainly
not take a water break if uncertainty
leaves our Nation flat-footed. They will
keep growing their defense spending
and seeking to expand their influence.
I had hoped our Democratic friends
would be able to put impeachment
aside long enough to at least fund the
Department of Defense. We had heard
public pronouncements from Speaker
PELOSI and my colleague the Demo-
cratic leader that they intended to
work with us on substantial legisla-
tion. If anything qualifies as substan-
tial legislation, it is this. It meets the
Pentagon’s request for targeted invest-
ments in the U.S. military of the fu-
ture. There are new resources for ex-
panded missile defense capabilities,
trauma training, fleet maintenance,
and key partnerships with allies
around the world.
But, alas, the Democratic leader an-
nounced at a press conference Tuesday
that he plans to filibuster the annual
funding for our Armed Forces. This
would put our colleagues across the
aisle in quite an unusual position. The
same Democrats who have recently re-
discovered hawkish-sounding positions
on Syria and the Middle East are really
going to filibuster $745 million for the
Counter-ISIS Train and Equip Fund,
for Iraq and for Syria, and filibuster all
the other broader funding of our Armed
Forces? Really? The same Democrats
whose latest effort to impeach the
President hinges on delayed military
assistance to Ukraine are themselves—
themselves—going to filibuster funding
for the exact same program, the
Ukraine Security Assistance Initia-
tive? Really? It looks like it. The
Democratic Party is too busy impeach-
ing President Trump for supposedly
slow-walking assistance for Ukraine to
fund the exact same program them-
selves?
These are political gymnastics per-
formed at an Olympic level—at an
Olympic level. The core message here
is hard to miss: Our Democratic col-
leagues have a priority list. Picking
fights with the White House is priority
No. 1. And our men and women in uni-
form fall somewhat further down.
It does not have to be this way. Even
in a time as politically charged as an
impeachment inquiry, it doesn’t have
to be this way. Back in 1998, just days
before the Republican House began its
impeachment inquiry into President
Clinton, the House and the Senate
passed a regular appropriations bill.
Then, some weeks later, even after
the inquiry was underway, both Cham-
bers were still able to pass more bills
to address the fundamental business of
funding the government, and President
Clinton signed it into law during the
impeachment.
So if Democrats follow through on
their threat to filibuster the Defense
funding later today, they will frankly
be making even the 1998 impeachment
period look like a clinic—a clinic—in
bipartisan cooperation.
A Democratic filibuster of Defense
funding is not the vote the military
families and military installations in
their home States deserve. It is not the
vote our commanders deserve, and it is
not the vote our national security de-
serves.
f
IMPEACHMENT
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
now, on a related matter, speaking of
past precedent, I understand this morn-
ing House Democrats will finally cast
their first impeachment vote on an im-
peachment resolution, which I under-
stand they are afraid to actually call
an impeachment resolution.
As I mentioned yesterday, Demo-
crats’ draft does not even come close to
restoring the kinds of customary due
process rights and protections that
past impeachment inquiries included,
either for President Trump or for their
own Republican colleagues in the mi-
nority.
Here is what their resolution an-
nounced today. This is basically what
it says: ‘‘No due process now . . . but
maybe some later . . . if we feel like
it.’’ It says: ‘‘No due process now . . .
but maybe some later . . . if we feel
like it.’’ This is not a fair way to treat
any American, and it certainly is no
way to conduct something as grave as
an impeachment process, which seeks
to overturn the American people’s
choice in a democratic election.
I hope the House of Representatives
sees the light and steps away from
their unfair and arbitrary process.
f
TURKEY AND SYRIA
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
now, on another matter, many of us
have been concerned for some time
about the trajectory of our strategi-
cally important NATO ally Turkey
under the leadership of President
Erdogan.
Despite the hopes of the Obama ad-
ministration and others that he would
be a model of Islamic democracy,
Erdogan has instead used democracy to
work toward undemocratic ends. Free-
dom of the press, secularism, and
human rights have suffered under his
rule, while corruption has flourished.
Opposition to Erdogan is growing, but
the political space for Turks to express
their opposition is shrinking.
Obviously, in recent days, our con-
cerns have centered on Turkey’s incur-
sion into northeast Syria. We are
angry about the damage Turkey has
caused for our local Kurdish partners
in Syria.
I have spoken at length about my
concerns on Turkey’s incursion and my
opposition to withdrawing U.S. forces
from Syria, but I believe we need to be
guided by our strategic interests, not
emotions, as we seek to contain the
damage of Turkey’s incursion, peel An-
kara away from Moscow, and encour-
age better behavior at home and
abroad by Erdogan’s government.
I hope we will carefully consider all
of our options to achieve these impor-
tant objectives and carefully examine
whether a broad mandatory sanctions
bill is really the best solution.
We should think carefully about
what specific effect we want sanctions
to have, how Turkey will respond to
them, and how Russia or others may
exploit growing tensions between
Washington and Ankara.
Before targeting an economy that is
highly integrated with Europe’s econ-
omy, we should seek a better under-
standing of the specific economic im-
pact that broad sanctions will have on
the global economy, on our European
partners, and on American workers and
job creators. We should reflect on
whether we would be better off working
in concert with European allies to
shape Turkey’s behavior versus abrupt-
ly forcing European companies to cut
ties with Turkey through the threat of
sanctions.
Before using these kinds of policy
tools—the kinds we use against Iran
and North Korea—against a democracy
of 80 million people, we should consider
the political impact that blunt sanc-
tions will have on the Turkish people.
Will sanctions rally them to our cause
or to Erdogan’s? Would more targeted
sanctions perhaps avoid some of these
unintended consequences? These are
just some of the critical questions I
hope our committees of jurisdiction
and the administration are able to ex-
amine before we act.
f
THE MIDDLE EAST
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
now, on one final matter, I have spoken
at length in recent weeks about the
protests in Hong Kong and the situa-
tion in Syria. I would like to close
today by recognizing other important
developments in the Middle East that,
regrettably, haven’t received much at-
tention.
Massive protests are underway in
Lebanon and Iraq. Millions have taken
to the streets to demand more respon-
sive, more transparent, and less sec-
tarian governance, and an end to ramp-
ant corruption. By all accounts, these
protests are cross-sectarian, directed
at an entire class of political leaders
who have behaved undemocratically
and unethically.
The protests are also directed at
Iran. The Islamic Republic has long
sought, through proxies like Hezbollah
and Iraqi militias, to undermine the
sovereignty of Lebanon and Iraq. Now
even Shiite communities that have
typically been heavily influenced by
Iran are demanding politicians rep-
resent their interests instead of
Tehran’s interests.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:00 Nov 01, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G31OC6.002 S31OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6311
October 31, 2019
Unsurprisingly, the Iranian regime is
reportedly involved in violently sup-
pressing peaceful protests in Lebanon,
Iraq, Syria, and, of course, Iran itself.
The mullahs are showing the same fear
as the Chinese Communist Party. They
are afraid of citizens demanding reform
and speaking up for basic freedoms.
The United States should stand with
the protesters.
The administration should use the
tools at its disposal to expose corrup-
tion and foreign interference in these
nations, impose consequences for vio-
lent crackdowns on peaceful protests,
and work with the Lebanese and Iraqi
leaders who are committed to doing
right by their people.
f
AMENDMENT NO. 1121
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
for the information of the Senate, in
the managers’ package of amendments
that was announced last night, amend-
ment No. 1121 was misidentified as a
Murkowski amendment. It is actually
an amendment by Senator WHITEHOUSE
that Senator MURKOWSKI cosponsored.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Duly
noted.
f
MEASURE PLACED ON THE
CALENDAR—S. 2755
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
I understand there is a bill at the desk
due for a second reading.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will read the title of the bill for
the second time.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
A bill (S. 2755) to require a report on the
plan to secure the enduring defeat of the Is-
lamic State of Iraq and Syria.
Mr. MCCONNELL. In order to place
the bill on the calendar under the pro-
visions of rule XIV, I would object to
further proceedings.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Objec-
tion having been heard, the bill will be
placed on the calendar.
f
RESERVATION OF LEADER TIME
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the leadership time
is reserved.
f
CONCLUSION OF MORNING
BUSINESS
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Morning
business is closed.
f
COMMERCE, JUSTICE, SCIENCE,
AGRICULTURE, RURAL DEVELOP-
MENT, FOOD AND DRUG ADMIN-
ISTRATION, INTERIOR, ENVIRON-
MENT, MILITARY CONSTRUC-
TION, VETERANS AFFAIRS,
TRANSPORTATION, AND HOUSING
AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT AP-
PROPRIATIONS ACT, 2020—Re-
sumed
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the Senate will re-
sume consideration of H.R. 3055, which
the clerk will report.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
A bill (H.R. 3055) making appropriations
for the Departments of Commerce and Jus-
tice, Science, and Related Agencies for the
fiscal year ending September 30, 2020, and for
other purposes.
Pending:
Shelby amendment No. 948, in the nature
of a substitute.
McConnell (for Shelby) amendment No.
950, to make a technical correction.
AMENDMENT NOS. 953, 1023, 1037, 1088, AS MODI-
FIED, 1099, 1121, 1133, 1143, 1149, 1161, 1163, 1217, 1223,
1224, 951, 1077, 1094, 1129, 1146, 1150, 1234, 1025, 1079,
1081, 1151, 1159, 1160, 1162, 1182, 1193, 1199, 1211, 1215,
1220, 1227, 956, 1002, 1005, 1010, 1061, 1062, 1114, 1130,
1214, AND 1235 EN BLOC TO AMENDMENT NO. 948
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Pursuant
to the order of yesterday, the 45
amendments listed in the order are
considered and agreed to en bloc and
the motions to reconsider are consid-
ered made and laid upon the table.
The amendments (Nos. 953, 1023, 1037,
1088 As Modified, 1099, 1121, 1133, 1143,
1149, 1161, 1163, 1217, 1223, 1224, 951, 1077,
1094, 1129, 1146, 1150, 1234, 1025, 1079, 1081,
1151, 1159, 1160, 1162, 1182, 1193, 1199, 1211,
1215, 1220, 1227, 956, 1002, 1005, 1010, 1061,
1062, 1114, 1130, 1214, 1235) to Amend-
ment No. 948 were agreed to en bloc as
follows:
AMENDMENT NO. 953
(Purpose: To provide for the availability of
funds for Agricultural Research Service re-
search facilities to provide public access)
On page 129, line 4, strike the period at the
end and insert ‘‘: Provided further, That
amounts made available under this heading
may be used to provide public access to a
river at a research facility of the Agricul-
tural Research Service.’’.
AMENDMENT NO. 1023
(Purpose: To amend provisions relating to
the rental assistance program of the Rural
Housing Service)
On page 155, line 10, insert after ‘‘one-year
period:’’ the following: ‘‘Provided further,
that upon request by an owner of a project
financed by an existing loan under section
514 or 515 of the Act, the Secretary may
renew the rental assistance agreement for a
period of 20 years or until the term of such
loan has expired, subject to annual appro-
priations:’’.
On page 156, line 4, strike ‘‘third proviso’’
and insert ‘‘fourth proviso’’.
AMENDMENT NO. 1037
(Purpose: To require a study on the eco-
nomic and environmental impacts of im-
porting orchids in growing media)
At the appropriate place in title VII of di-
vision B, insert the following:
SEC. 7ll. (a) IN GENERAL.—Not later than
180 days after the date of enactment of this
Act, the Secretary of Agriculture shall sub-
mit to Congress a report that describes the
economic and environmental impacts of im-
porting orchids in growing media.
(b) REQUIREMENTS.—The report under sub-
section (a) shall include—
(1) a description of—
(A) the economic impact of importing or-
chids in growing media on a State-by-State
basis, with data collected from local growers;
and
(B) any incidents of pests detected on or-
chids imported with growing media; and
(2) an analysis with respect to the addi-
tional resources that are necessary to pre-
vent and mitigate the introduction of pests
resulting from importing orchids in growing
media.
AMENDMENT NO. 1088, AS MODIFIED
(Purpose: To provide appropriations for cen-
ters of excellence at 1890 Institutions, with
an offset)
At the appropriate place in title VII of di-
vision B, insert the following:
SEC. 7ll. (a) There is appropriated
$3,000,000 to carry out section 1673(d) of the
Food, Agriculture, Conservation, and Trade
Act of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 5926(d)).
(b) The amount made available under the
heading ‘‘OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY’’ in title
I for necessary expenses of the Office of the
Secretary shall be reduced by $3,000,000,
which shall be derived by reducing the
amount provided under that heading for De-
partmental Administration by $3,000,000.
AMENDMENT NO. 1099
(Purpose: To increase the appropriation for
the Farm and Ranch Stress Assistance
Network, with an offset)
At the appropriate place in title VII of di-
vision B, insert the following:
SEC. 7ll. (a) Notwithstanding any other
provision of this Act, the amount made
available under the heading ‘‘EXTENSION AC-
TIVITIES’’ under the heading ‘‘NATIONAL IN-
STITUTE OF FOOD AND AGRICULTURE’’ under
the heading ‘‘AGRICULTURAL PRO-
GRAMS’’ in title I shall be increased by
$5,000,000, which shall be used by increasing
by that amount the amount specified for the
Farm and Ranch Stress Assistance Network
in the table titled ‘‘National Institute of
Food and Agriculture, Extension Activities’’
in the report accompanying this Act.
(b) Notwithstanding any other provision of
this Act, the amount made available for the
Office of the Chief Financial Officer under
the heading ‘‘OFFICE OF THE CHIEF FINANCIAL
OFFICER’’ under the heading ‘‘AGRICUL-
TURAL PROGRAMS’’ in title I shall be re-
duced by $5,000,000.
AMENDMENT NO. 1121
(Purpose: To set aside funding for the ocean
agriculture working group)
On page 122, line 19, insert ‘‘: Provided fur-
ther, That of the funds made available under
this heading, $3,000,000 shall be made avail-
able to the Office of the Secretary to carry
out the duties of the working group estab-
lished under section 770 of the Agriculture,
Rural Development, Food and Drug Adminis-
tration, and Related Agencies Appropria-
tions Act, 2019 (Public Law 116–6; 133 Stat.
89)’’ before the period at the end.
AMENDMENT NO. 1133
(Purpose: To provide funding for the new be-
ginning for Tribal students program, with
an offset)
At the appropriate place in title VII of di-
vision B, insert the following:
SEC. 7ll. (a) There is appropriated
$5,000,000 to carry out section 1450 of the Na-
tional Agricultural Research, Extension, and
Teaching Policy Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 3222e).
(b) Notwithstanding any other provision of
this Act, the amount provided under the
heading ‘‘AGRICULTURE BUILDINGS AND FA-
CILITIES’’ under the heading ‘‘AGRICUL-
TURAL PROGRAMS’’ in title I shall be re-
duced by $5,000,000.
AMENDMENT NO. 1143
(Purpose: To increase the appropriation for
rural decentralized water systems)
On page 164, line 21, strike ‘‘$1,500,000’’ and
insert ‘‘$3,000,000’’.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:59 Nov 01, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G31OC6.004 S31OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6312 October 31, 2019
AMENDMENT NO. 1149
(Purpose: To require the Secretary of Agri-
culture to prioritize maintenance and staff
needs relating to assistance provided by
the Rural Housing Service)
At the appropriate place in title VII of di-
vision B, insert the following:
SEC. 7ll. In providing assistance under
title V of the Housing Act of 1949 (42 U.S.C.
1471 et seq.) using amounts made available
under title III, the Secretary of Agriculture
shall prioritize the maintenance needs for
rural housing facilities and staff needs,
which shall include prioritizing—
(1) oversight of aging rental housing pro-
gram properties with capital repair needs;
(2) the needs of staff overseeing the Rural
Housing Service and field staff conducting
housing inspections; and
(3) enforcement against property owners
when those owners fail to make necessary re-
pairs.
AMENDMENT NO. 1161
(Purpose: To increase the appropriation for
the distance learning and telemedicine
program, with an offset)
At the appropiate place in title VII of divi-
sion B, insert the following:
SEC. 7ll. (a) Notwithstanding any other
provision of this Act, the amount appro-
priated under this Act to the Rural Utilities
Service under the heading ‘‘DISTANCE LEARN-
ING, TELEMEDICINE, AND BROADBAND PRO-
GRAM’’ for grants for telemedicine and dis-
tance learning services in rural areas shall
be increased by $1,000,000.
(b) Notwithstanding any other provision of
this Act, the amount appropriated under this
Act to the Department of Agriculture under
the heading ‘‘AGRICULTURE BUILDINGS AND
FACILITIES’’ shall be reduced by $1,000,000.
AMENDMENT NO. 1163
(Purpose: To provide funding for the emer-
gency and transitional pet shelter and
housing assistance grant program, with an
offset)
At the appropriate place in title VII of di-
vision B, insert the following:
SEC. 7ll. (a) There is appropriated
$3,000,000 to carry out the emergency and
transitional pet shelter and housing assist-
ance grant program established under sec-
tion 12502(b) of the Agriculture Improvement
Act of 2018 (34 U.S.C. 20127).
(b) The amount made available under the
heading ‘‘OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY’’ in title
I for necessary expenses of the Office of the
Secretary shall be reduced by $3,000,000,
which shall be derived by reducing the
amount provided under that heading for De-
partmental Administration by $3,000,000.
AMENDMENT NO. 1217
(Purpose: To provide funding for States im-
pacted by Eastern equine encephalitis,
with an offset)
At the appropriate place in title VII of di-
vision B, insert the following:
SEC. 7ll. (a) Notwithstanding any other
provision of this Act, the amount appro-
priated under the heading ‘‘SALARIES AND EX-
PENSES’’ under the heading ‘‘ANIMAL AND
PLANT HEALTH INSPECTION SERVICE’’ in title
I shall be increased by $1,000,000, to remain
available until expended, which shall be for
surveillance, testing, prevention, and re-
search relating to Eastern equine encepha-
litis in impacted States.
(b) Notwithstanding any other provision of
this Act, the amount appropriated under this
Act to the Department of Agriculture under
the heading ‘‘OFFICE OF THE CHIEF FINANCIAL
OFFICER’’ shall be reduced by $1,000,000.
AMENDMENT NO. 1223
(Purpose: To provide funding for the Office of
Urban Agriculture and Innovative Produc-
tion, with an offset)
At the appropriate place in title VII of di-
vision B, insert the following:
SEC. 7ll. (a) There is appropriated
$5,000,000 to carry out section 222 of the De-
partment of Agriculture Reorganization Act
of 1994 (7 U.S.C. 6923).
(b) Notwithstanding any other provision of
this Act, the amount provided under the
heading ‘‘AGRICULTURE BUILDINGS AND FA-
CILITIES’’ under the heading ‘‘AGRICUL-
TURAL PROGRAMS’’ in title I shall be re-
duced by $6,000,000.
AMENDMENT NO. 1224
(Purpose: To provide funding for pilot
projects to address food insecurity, with an
offset)
On page 223, between lines 13 and 14, insert
the following:
SEC. 7ll. (a) There is appropriated
$2,000,000 to carry out section 30 of the Food
and Nutrition Act of 2008 (7 U.S.C. 2036d).
(b) Notwithstanding any other provision of
this Act, the amount provided under the
heading ‘‘AGRICULTURE BUILDINGS AND FA-
CILITIES’’ under the heading ‘‘AGRICUL-
TURAL PROGRAMS’’ in title I shall be re-
duced by $2,000,000.
AMENDMENT NO. 951
(Purpose: To require the Attorney General to
report to Congress on, and establish a
deadline for, the implementation of the
Ashanti Alert Act of 2018)
At the appropriate place in division A, in-
sert the following:
SEC. lll. Not later than 30 days after the
date of enactment of this Act, the Attorney
General shall submit to Congress a report
that—
(1) details the progress of the implementa-
tion of the Ashanti Alert Act of 2018 (Public
Law 115–401; 132 Stat. 5336) and the amend-
ments made by that Act; and
(2) establishes a deadline for full imple-
mentation of that Act and the amendments
made by that Act, which shall be not later
than 90 days after the date of enactment of
this Act.
AMENDMENT NO. 1077
(Purpose: To make $10,000,000 available for
the SelectUSA program)
On page 5, line 19, insert ‘‘Provided further,
That, of the amounts provided under this
heading, up to $10,000,000 shall be available
for the SelectUSA program:’’ after ‘‘activi-
ties:’’.
AMENDMENT NO. 1094
(Purpose: To require the Administrator of
the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Ad-
ministration submit to Congress a report
on existing supercomputing capacity and
needs of the Administration)
On page 17, line 7, before the period, insert
the following: ‘‘Provided further, That the Ad-
ministrator of the National Oceanic and At-
mospheric Administration submit to Con-
gress a report on existing supercomputing
capacity and needs of the Administration
and on the incremental improvement to
operational weather forecasts that would re-
sult from a significant investment in addi-
tional compute capacity’’.
AMENDMENT NO. 1129
(Purpose: To require that the Secretary of
Commerce use amounts appropriated or
otherwise made available for the Bureau of
Industry and Security for operations and
administration to publish and submit to
Congress a report on the findings of the in-
vestigation into the effect on national se-
curity of imports of automobiles and auto-
motive parts)
At the appropriate place in title I of divi-
sion A, insert the following:
SEC. lll. Not later than one day after
the date of the enactment of this Act, using
amounts appropriated or otherwise made
available in this title for the Bureau of In-
dustry and Security for operations and ad-
ministration, the Secretary of Commerce
shall—
(1) publish in the Federal Register the re-
port on the findings of the investigation into
the effect on national security of imports of
automobiles and automotive parts that the
Secretary initiated on May 23, 2018, under
section 232(b) of the Trade Expansion Act of
1962 (19 U.S.C. 1862(b)), as required under
paragraph (3)(B) of that section; and
(2) submit to Congress any portion of the
report that contains classified information,
which may be viewed only by Members of
Congress and their staff with appropriate se-
curity clearances.
AMENDMENT NO. 1146
(Purpose: To require the Drug Enforcement
Administration to continue to establish
and utilize data collection and sharing
agreements in order to properly estimate
rates of overdose deaths and overall public
health impact related to certain controlled
substances, for the purpose of determining
diversion and establishing annual opioid
production quotas)
On page 38, line 18, strike ‘‘expenses’’ and
insert the following: ‘‘expenses: Provided,
That, using amounts made available under
this heading, the Drug Enforcement Admin-
istration shall continue to establish and uti-
lize data collection and sharing agreements
with other Federal agencies and continue to
consider other sources of information to
properly assess the estimated rates of over-
dose deaths and abuse and the overall public
health impact regarding covered controlled
substances as required under section 306(i) of
the Controlled Substances Act (21 U.S.C.
826(i)), and shall report to the Committee on
Appropriations of the Senate not later than
30 days after the date of enactment of this
Act regarding the establishment and utiliza-
tion of such data collection and sharing
agreements’’.
AMENDMENT NO. 1150
(Purpose: To increase funding for the COPS
Office Anti-Methamphetamine Task Forces
grant program)
At the appropriate place in title II of divi-
sion A, insert the following:
SEC. ll. (a) Notwithstanding any other
provision of this Act, the total amount made
available under the heading ‘‘COMMUNITY ORI-
ENTED POLICING SERVICES PROGRAMS (INCLUD-
ING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)’’ under the heading
‘‘COMMUNITY ORIENTED POLICING SERVICES’’
under the heading ‘‘DEPARTMENT OF JUS-
TICE’’ in this title shall be increased by
$1,000,000, which shall be used by increasing
by that amount the amount specified in
paragraph (3) under such headings for com-
petitive grants to State law enforcement
agencies in States with high seizures of pre-
cursor chemicals, finished methamphet-
amine, laboratories, and laboratory dump
seizures.
(b) Notwithstanding any other provision of
this Act, the total amount made available
for necessary expenses for information shar-
ing technology under the heading ‘‘JUSTICE
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:59 Nov 01, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A31OC6.004 S31OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6313
October 31, 2019
INFORMATION SHARING TECHNOLOGY (INCLUDING
TRANSFER OF FUNDS)’’ under the heading
‘‘GENERAL ADMINISTRATION’’ under the head-
ing ‘‘DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE’’ in this
title shall be decreased by $1,000,000.
AMENDMENT NO. 1234
(Purpose: To require the Attorney General to
submit a report on the enforcement of ani-
mal welfare laws)
At the appropriate place in title II of divi-
sion A, insert the following:
SEC. 2ll. Not later than 90 days after the
date of enactment of this Act, the Attorney
General shall submit a report to the Com-
mittee on Appropriations and the Committee
on the Judiciary of the Senate detailing the
efforts of the Department of Justice to com-
bat and enforce animal fighting and animal
welfare statutes, which shall include—
(1) a break down of the number of per-
sonnel dedicated to animal welfare crimes on
a full-time basis, including their respective
departmental component;
(2) a list of all cases involving animal wel-
fare crimes that the Department of Justice
has prosecuted since 2014;
(3) a list of investigations that were re-
ferred to the Department of Justice that
have been delayed or declined to be pros-
ecuted by the Department of Justice and the
reason for any deferral or declination; and
(4) a qualitative description of how the De-
partment of Justice coordinates the efforts
of the Department with other governmental
partners to ensure proper enforcement of
animal welfare laws.
AMENDMENT NO. 1025
(Purpose: To require a Bureau of Indian Af-
fairs report analyzing the facilities invest-
ments required to improve direct service
and tribally operated detention and public
safety facilities in Indian country)
On page 253, line 2, strike ‘‘costs:’’ and in-
sert the following: ‘‘costs: Provided further,
That not later than 120 days after the date of
enactment of this Act, the Director of the
Bureau of Indian Affairs shall submit to the
Committee on Appropriations of the Senate
and the Committee on Appropriations of the
House of Representatives a report describing
the facilities investments required to im-
prove the direct service and tribally oper-
ated detention and public safety facilities in
Indian country that are in poor condition,
including associated cost estimates:’’.
AMENDMENT NO. 1079
(Purpose: To prohibit bogus bonus payments
to contractors)
In division C, insert after section 429 the
following:
SEC. 430. Notwithstanding any other provi-
sion of this Act, none of the funds appro-
priated or otherwise made available by this
Act may be used to pay award or incentive
fees for contractor performance that has
been judged to be below satisfactory per-
formance or for performance that does not
meet the basic requirements of a contract,
unless the Agency determines that any such
deviations are due to unforeseeable events,
government-driven scope changes, or are not
significant within the overall scope of the
project and/or program and unless such
awards or incentive fees are consistent with
16.401(e)(2) of the FAR.
AMENDMENT NO. 1081
(Purpose: To require the Director of the Of-
fice of Management and Budget to submit
to Congress a report on projects that are
over budget and behind schedule)
At the appropriate place in division C, in-
sert the following:
SEC. ll. (a) Not later than 1 year after
the date of enactment of this Act, the Direc-
tor of the Office of Management and Budget
shall submit to Congress and post on the
website of the Office of Management and
Budget a report on each project funded by an
agency that is appropriated funds under this
division—
(1) that is more than 5 years behind sched-
ule; or
(2) for which the amount spent on the
project is not less than $1,000,000,000 more
than the original cost estimate for the
project.
(b) Each report submitted and posted under
subsection (a) shall include, for each project
included in the report—
(1) a brief description of the project, in-
cluding—
(A) the purpose of the project;
(B) each location in which the project is
carried out;
(C) the year in which the project was initi-
ated;
(D) the Federal share of the total cost of
the project; and
(E) each primary contractor, subcon-
tractor, grant recipient, and subgrantee re-
cipient of the project;
(2) an explanation of any change to the
original scope of the project, including by
the addition or narrowing of the initial re-
quirements of the project;
(3) the original expected date for comple-
tion of the project;
(4) the current expected date for comple-
tion of the project;
(5) the original cost estimate for the
project, as adjusted to reflect increases in
the Consumer Price Index for All Urban Con-
sumers, as published by the Bureau of Labor
Statistics;
(6) the current cost estimate for the
project, as adjusted to reflect increases in
the Consumer Price Index for All Urban Con-
sumers, as published by the Bureau of Labor
Statistics;
(7) an explanation for a delay in comple-
tion or increase in the original cost estimate
for the project; and
(8) the amount of and rationale for any
award, incentive fee, or other type of bonus,
if any, awarded for the project.
AMENDMENT NO. 1151
(Purpose: To increase funding for the con-
struction of high priority water and waste-
water facilities on the United States-Mex-
ico Border, with an offset)
At the appropriate place in title IV of divi-
sion C, insert the following:
UNITED STATES-MEXICO BORDER PROGRAM
SEC. 4ll. (a) Notwithstanding any other
provision of this division, funds made avail-
able under the heading ‘‘ENVIRONMENTAL
PROGRAMS AND MANAGEMENT’’ under the
heading ‘‘ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION
AGENCY’’ under title II shall be reduced by
$5,489,000, which shall be reduced from
amounts for Operations and Administration
as described in the report accompanying this
Act.
(b) Notwithstanding any other provision of
this division, the amount made available
under the heading ‘‘STATE AND TRIBAL AS-
SISTANCE GRANTS’’ under the heading ‘‘ENVI-
RONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY’’
under title II shall be increased by $5,489,000.
(c) Notwithstanding any other provision of
this division, the amount made available
under paragraph (2) under the heading
‘‘STATE AND TRIBAL ASSISTANCE GRANTS’’
under the heading ‘‘ENVIRONMENTAL
PROTECTION AGENCY’’ under title II shall
be increased by $5,489,000.
AMENDMENT NO. 1159
(Purpose: To provide for a report on certain
programs of the United States Holocaust
Memorial Museum)
On page 346, line 14, strike the period and
insert ‘‘: Provided, That, not later than 120
days after the date of enactment of this Act,
the Director of the United States Holocaust
Memorial Museum shall submit to the Com-
mittee on Appropriations of the Senate and
the Committee on Appropriations of the
House of Representatives a report that de-
scribes the efforts of the United States Holo-
caust Memorial Museum to support memory
and a range of educational programs relating
to the Holocaust, including the collection
and usage of historical documentation, such
as survivor testimony.’’.
AMENDMENT NO. 1160
(Purpose: To set aside funds for certain Lake
Tahoe restoration activities)
On page 230, line 18, insert ‘‘, of which
$4,088,000 shall be for activities under section
5(d)(2) of the Lake Tahoe Restoration Act
(Public Law 106–506; 114 Stat. 2353; 130 Stat.
1786)’’ after ‘‘2021’’.
AMENDMENT NO. 1162
(Purpose: To require a study of law
enforcement staffing needs of Indian Tribes)
At the end of title I of division C, add the
following:
LAW ENFORCEMENT REPORTING
SEC. 1ll. The Bureau of Indian Affairs
shall conduct a study to identify the law en-
forcement staffing needs of Indian Tribes,
which shall include—
(1) a detailed analysis, by Indian Tribe, of
law enforcement hiring impediments and
challenges;
(2) a strategy on how to recruit and train
law enforcement officers and fill law enforce-
ment vacancies; and
(3) a proposed strategy that could be used
to address the impediments and challenges
identified in paragraph (1).
AMENDMENT NO. 1182
(Purpose: To increase money appropriated
for Geographic Programs, with an offset)
At the appropriate place in title IV of divi-
sion C, insert the following:
GEOGRAPHIC PROGRAMS
SEC. 4ll. (a) Notwithstanding any other
provision of this division, the amount made
available for Geographic Programs under the
heading ‘‘ENVIRONMENTAL PROGRAMS AND
MANAGEMENT’’ under the heading ‘‘ENVI-
RONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY’’
under title II shall be increased by 3 percent,
and the amount made available for each Geo-
graphic Program described in the report ac-
companying this Act shall be increased by 3
percent.
(b) Notwithstanding any other provision of
this division, the amount authorized to be
transferred under the fourth paragraph
under the heading ‘‘ADMINISTRATIVE PROVI-
SIONS—ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY’’
under the heading ‘‘ENVIRONMENTAL
PROTECTION AGENCY’’ under title II shall
be increased by the additional amount made
available for the Great Lakes Restoration
Initiative under subsection (a).
(c) Notwithstanding any other provision of
this division, funds made available under the
heading ‘‘ENVIRONMENTAL PROGRAMS AND
MANAGEMENT’’ under the heading ‘‘ENVI-
RONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY’’
under title II for operations and administra-
tion, as specified in the report accompanying
this Act, shall be reduced by an amount
equal to the total amount additionally ap-
propriated for Geographic Programs under
subsection (a).
AMENDMENT NO. 1193
(Purpose: To make available funds for the
Smithsonian Latino Center)
On page 338, line 22, after the semicolon in-
sert the following: ‘‘Provided further, That of
the funds appropriated herein, not less than
$4,292,000 shall be made available for the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:59 Nov 01, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A31OC6.001 S31OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6314 October 31, 2019
Smithsonian Latino Center and related ini-
tiative.’’.
AMENDMENT NO. 1199
(Purpose: To set aside funds for the Partner-
ship Wild and Scenic Rivers program)
On page 238, line 5, strike the period and
insert the following ‘‘: Provided further, That,
of the funds made available under this head-
ing, $3,576,000 shall be made available for the
Partnership Wild and Scenic Rivers program
and similarly managed rivers.’’.
AMENDMENT NO. 1211
(Purpose: To set aside funds for the 400 Years
of African-American History Commission)
On page 238, line 5, strike the period and
insert the following: ‘‘: Provided further,
That, notwithstanding sections 7(b), 8, and 9
of the 400 Years of African-American History
Commission Act (36 U.S.C. note prec. 101;
Public Law 115–102), of the amount made
available under this heading, $500,000 shall be
provided to the 400 Years of African-Amer-
ican History Commission for expenditure on
activities authorized by that Act through
July 1, 2021.’’.
AMENDMENT NO. 1215
(Purpose: To require a report on the status of
the Four Forest Restoration Initiative)
On page 311, line 2, insert ‘‘Provided further,
That not later than 90 days after the date of
enactment of this Act, the Chief of the For-
est Service shall submit to the Committees
on Appropriations and Natural Resources of
the House of Representatives and the Com-
mittees on Appropriations and Energy and
Natural Resources of the Senate a report de-
tailing the status of efforts to accelerate for-
est ecosystem restoration under the Four
Forest Restoration Initiative:’’ after
‘‘7303(f):’’.
AMENDMENT NO. 1220
(Purpose: To make available funds for the
Women’s History Initiative)
On page 338, line 22, at the appropriate
place insert the following: ‘‘Provided further,
That of the funds appropriated herein, not
less than $3,700,000 shall be made available
for the Women’s History Initiative.’’.
AMENDMENT NO. 1227
(Purpose: To provide for a Government Ac-
countability Office study on outdoor recre-
ation)
At the appropriate place in title I of divi-
sion C, insert the following:
SEC. 1lll. GAO STUDY ON OUTDOOR RECRE-
ATION.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) COVERED AGENCY.—The term ‘‘covered
agency’’ means—
(A) the Department of Agriculture;
(B) the Department of the Interior;
(C) the Corps of Engineers;
(D) the National Marine Fisheries Service;
and
(E) the Office of National Marine Sanc-
tuaries of the National Oceanic and Atmos-
pheric Administration.
(2) OUTDOOR RECREATION.—The term ‘‘out-
door recreation’’ means all recreational ac-
tivities undertaken for pleasure that—
(A) generally involve some level of inten-
tional physical exertion; and
(B) occur in nature-based environments
outdoors.
(b) STUDY REQUIRED.—The Comptroller
General of the United States shall conduct a
study that—
(1) identifies each program carried out by a
covered agency that directly impacts the
outdoor recreation sector, including each
program that affects the management and
conservation of, and access to, the land,
waters, and natural resources of the Unites
States; and
(2) describes, for each program identified
under paragraph (1), the spending level for
that program during each of the 20 fiscal
years preceding the year in which the report
is submitted.
(c) REQUIRED COORDINATION.—In conducting
the study under subsection (b), the Comp-
troller General of the United States shall co-
ordinate with the outdoor recreation indus-
try, nongovernmental organizations, the Bu-
reau of Economic Analysis of the Depart-
ment of Commerce, and other interested
stakeholders.
(d) REPORT.—Not later 240 days after the
date of enactment of this Act, the Comp-
troller General of the United States shall
submit to the appropriate committees of
Congress a report that describes the results
of the study conducted under subsection (b).
AMENDMENT NO. 956
(Purpose: To require the Secretary of Hous-
ing and Urban Development to provide
Congress with recommendations and asso-
ciated costs for future research on rental
payment insurance)
At the appropriate place in title II of divi-
sion D, insert the following:
SEC. 2ll. The Secretary of Housing and
Urban Development shall include in the
budget materials submitted to Congress in
support of the budget of the President sub-
mitted under section 1105 of title 31, United
States Code, for fiscal year 2021, rec-
ommendations and any associated costs for
future research on insurance models de-
signed to reduce evictions or expand access
to rental opportunities for tenants, such as
rental payment insurance.
AMENDMENT NO. 1002
(Purpose: To make a technical correction)
On page 489, line 17, strike ‘‘$2,761,00,000’’
and insert ‘‘$2,761,000,000’’.
AMENDMENT NO. 1005
(Purpose: To express the sense of Congress)
At the appropriate place in title I of divi-
sion D, insert the following:
SEC. ll. SENSE OF CONGRESS.
It is the sense of Congress that the Admin-
istrator of the Federal Aviation Administra-
tion, as part of ongoing efforts to review reg-
ulations regarding the emergency medical
equipment carried by passenger airlines,
should continue to prioritize the demands of
our nation’s growing opioid epidemic and
take timely action to issue additional guid-
ance to air carriers to ensure the expeditious
inclusion of opioid antagonists in emergency
medical kits.
AMENDMENT NO. 1010
(Purpose: To ensure funding for the FAA
remote tower pilot program)
On page 383, line 10, insert the following
after ‘‘Budget’’ : ‘‘Provided further, That of
the amounts made available for Enterprise,
Concept Development, Human Factors, and
Demonstration, not less than $9,500,000 shall
be available for the remote tower pilot pro-
gram as authorized by section 161 of the FAA
Reauthorization Act of 2018 (49 U.S.C. 47104
note)’’.
AMENDMENT NO. 1061
(Purpose: To require a report on engagement
with local interests relating to intelligent
transportation systems technologies and
smart cities solutions)
At the appropriate place, insert the fol-
lowing:
SEC. lll. Not later than 90 days after the
date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary
of Transportation shall submit to the Com-
mittees on Appropriations, Commerce,
Science, and Transportation, and Environ-
ment and Public Works of the Senate and
the Committees on Appropriations and
Transportation and Infrastructure of the
House of Representatives a report on efforts
by the Department of Transportation to en-
gage with local communities, metropolitan
planning organizations, and regional trans-
portation commissions on advancing data
and intelligent transportation systems tech-
nologies and other smart cities solutions.
AMENDMENT NO. 1062
(Purpose: To prohibit the use of funds to ter-
minate the ITS program advisory com-
mittee)
At the appropriate place in title II of Divi-
sion D, insert the following:
SEC. ll. None of the funds made available
by this Act shall be used to terminate the In-
telligent Transportation System Program
Advisory Committee established under sec-
tion 5305(h) of SAFETEA–LU (23 U.S.C. 512
note; Public Law 109–59).
AMENDMENT NO. 1114
(Purpose: To improve the bill)
On page 482, line 10, strike the period and
insert ‘‘: Provided further, That of the funds
made available under this paragraph, not
less than $1,000,000 shall be available to sup-
port utilization, outreach, and capacity
building with tribes and tribal housing orga-
nization for the Tribal HUD-VASH pro-
gram.’’.
AMENDMENT NO. 1130
(Purpose: To provide a sense of Congress re-
lating to preserving manufactured home
communities)
At the appropriate place in title II of divi-
sion D, insert the following:
SEC. 2ll. It is the sense of Congress
that—
(1) more than 17,000,000 people live in man-
ufactured homes and benefit from high-qual-
ity affordable homes which provide stability;
(2) owners of manufactured homes have
disproportionately low-income households,
and in 2013, the median annual household in-
come for living in manufactured housing was
$28,400;
(3) approximately 75 percent of manufac-
tured home households earn less than $50,000
per year;
(4) more than 10 percent of veterans in the
United States live in manufactured homes;
(5) in late 1990, manufactured housing rep-
resented 2⁄3 of the new affordable housing
produced in the United States and remains a
significant source of unsubsidized affordable
housing in the United States;
(6) in 2015, the average cost per square foot
for a new manufactured home was 48 dollars,
less than half of the cost per square foot for
a new-site built, structure-only home, which
was $101;
(7) in 2009, 43 percent of all new homes that
sold for less than $150,000 were manufactured
homes;
(8) manufactured homes account for 23 per-
cent of new home sales under $200,000;
(9) more than 50,000 manufactured home
communities, also referred to as ‘‘mobile
home parks’’, exist throughout the United
States;
(10) more than 2,900,000 manufactured
homes are placed in manufactured home
communities;
(11) manufactured home communities pro-
vide critical affordable housing, but receive
very little Federal, State, or local funds to
subsidize the cost of manufactured homes;
(12) manufactured home owners in such
communities may own the home, but they do
not own the land under the home, which
leaves the home owners vulnerable to rent
increases, arbitrary rule enforcement, and in
the case of a manufactured home community
owner converting the land to some other use,
community closure;
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:59 Nov 01, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A31OC6.002 S31OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6315
October 31, 2019
(13) an eviction or closure of a manufac-
tured home community is very disruptive to
a resident who may be unable to pay the
thousands of dollars it takes to move the
manufactured home or find a new location
for the manufactured home;
(14) in an effort to preserve a crucial source
of affordable housing within the past two
decades, a national network of housing pro-
viders has helped residents purchase and own
the land under the manufactured home com-
munity, and manage the manufactured home
community;
(15) nationwide, there are more than 1,000
stable, permanent ownership cooperatives or
nonprofit-owned developments in more than
a dozen States;
(16) members of manufactured home com-
munities continue to own such homes indi-
vidually, own an equal share of the land be-
neath the entire manufactured home com-
munity, participate in the governing of the
community, and elect a board of directors
who make major decisions within the manu-
factured home community by a democratic
vote;
(17) in New Hampshire, more than 30 per-
cent of manufactured home communities are
owned by residents;
(18) resident-owned cooperatives and non-
profit owned communities have also flour-
ished in Vermont, Massachusetts, Rhode Is-
land, Washington, Oregon, and Minnesota;
(19) nationwide, only 2 percent of all manu-
factured home communities are resident or
nonprofit-owned;
(20) when the owner of a manufactured
home community or his or her heirs sell the
community to the highest bidder, it can re-
sult in displacement for dozens and some-
times hundreds of families; and
(21) Congress should endeavor to protect
residents of manufactured home commu-
nities by encouraging the owners of those
properties to sell them to nonprofit organi-
zations or to the residents themselves to own
cooperatively.
AMENDMENT NO. 1214
(Purpose: To provide for a veterans pilot
training competitive grant program)
At the appropriate place under the heading
‘‘OPERATIONS’’ under the heading ‘‘FEDERAL
AVIATION ADMINISTRATION’’ in title I of divi-
sion D, insert the following: ‘‘Provided fur-
ther, That of the funds appropriated under
this heading, not less than $5,000,000 shall be
used for a veterans pilot training competi-
tive grant program.’’.
AMENDMENT NO. 1235
(Purpose: To provide additional funding for
the family unification program of the De-
partment of Housing and Urban Develop-
ment)
At the appropriate place in paragraph (2)
under the heading ‘‘TENANT-BASED RENTAL
ASSISTANCE’’ under the heading ‘‘PUBLIC AND
INDIAN HOUSING’’ in title II of division D, in-
sert the following: ‘‘the family unification
program under section 8(x) of the Act,’’.
Mr. MCCONNELL. I suggest the ab-
sence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Mr. THUNE. Madam President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The majority whip is recognized.
H.R. 3055
Mr. THUNE. Madam President, last
weekend, I had the privilege of attend-
ing the welcome-home ceremony for
112 members of the South Dakota Na-
tional Guard. These men and women,
who serve in the 147th Forward Support
Company or the Bravo Battery of the
1–147th Field Artillery Battalion, were
deployed to Europe as part of Atlantic
Resolve, a partnership with our allies
in Eastern and Central Europe devel-
oped in response to Russia’s invasion of
Crimea in 2014.
The Atlantic Resolve allows U.S. and
allied forces to build strong working
relationships and to hone their ability
to conduct operations. Members of
Bravo Battery and the 147th Forward
Support Company spent most of the
year in Europe working with partner
forces. They participated in two multi-
national exercises and brought artil-
lery to Germany and Hungary.
These soldiers finally got home last
weekend, but they didn’t leave Atlan-
tic Resolve without South Dakota sup-
port. Other members of the 147th For-
ward Support Company and Alpha Bat-
tery of the 1–147th Field Artillery Bat-
talion head for Europe in September.
Other South Dakota-based military
members—airmen from Ellsworth Air
Force Base—also deployed abroad re-
cently.
Four B–1 bombers from the 34th and
37th Bomb Squadrons at Ellsworth
made a flying trip to Saudi Arabia late
this month to support the U.S. mili-
tary presence there. The bombers flew
directly from South Dakota to Saudi
Arabia, refueling six times in midair,
once again demonstrating the incred-
ible capability of this aircraft and of
our Ellsworth airmen.
Atlantic Resolve, the B–1 mission,
the death of ISIS leader Abu Bakr al-
Baghdadi during a raid conducted by
U.S. troops—they are all a reminder of
the vital work that our military mem-
bers are doing.
A lot of military missions don’t
make a big splash in the news. We
don’t hear a lot about everything that
our men and women are doing on a
daily basis. We don’t hear details of all
the operations: the joint exercises with
our allies, the countless training evo-
lutions, the never-ending aircraft and
vehicle maintenance, the hours watch-
ing radar systems for contacts, the
endless logistical work to support
troops in the field, the painstaking
weeks and months of intelligence gath-
ering for a single mission.
Every hour of every day, members of
the U.S. military are on duty working
to keep the peace and to ensure the se-
curity of our Nation. As Members of
Congress, we have no greater obliga-
tion than to ensure that our troops
have the resources they need. We owe
it to the men and women who get up
each day willing to lay down their lives
for us, and we owe it to every man,
woman, and child we represent because
the safety of our country depends upon
the strength of our military.
Ensuring that our troops have the re-
sources they need obviously means en-
suring that they have adequate fund-
ing, but it also means getting that
funding to them in a timely fashion. It
means passing regular order appropria-
tions bills instead of forcing our mili-
tary to rely on temporary funding
measures that leave the military in
doubt about funding levels and unable
to start important new projects.
Getting military funding approved in
a timely manner is a priority for me
and for a lot of my colleagues here in
the Senate. Chairman SHELBY, the
chairman of the Senate Appropriations
Committee, worked hard this year to
ensure that we could bring the Defense
appropriations bill to the floor in a
timely fashion, but Senate Democrats
have so far blocked Senate consider-
ation of this important legislation.
Their refusal to allow the Senate to
move forward on funding has left the
military in limbo, unable to fully fund
2020 priorities and to move ahead on
key projects for the future.
Later today, Democrats will have an-
other chance to move forward with the
Defense appropriations bill and to get
our military the resources that it
needs. I am hoping that they will have
a change of heart and decide that fund-
ing our military is more important
than the partisan games they have
been playing. Our military members
are waiting on that funding. Their abil-
ity to do their jobs is being jeopardized
by Democrats’ continued blockade of
Defense appropriations.
We live in peace and safety every sin-
gle day because of the men and women
of the U.S. military. It is not a new
sentiment, but it bears repeating be-
cause it is too easy to forget that we
would not be enjoying the freedoms
and benefits that we enjoy without the
constant vigilance of our men and
women in uniform. The least—the very
least—that we can do in return is to
make sure that they have every re-
source they need to do their jobs and to
come home safely.
I strongly urge my Democratic col-
leagues to vote yes on moving forward
with the Defense appropriations bill
later today and to send a loud and
clear message to the American mili-
tary that we are going to ensure here
in the Congress that you have the re-
sources, the training, the weapons sys-
tems, the equipment, and everything
that you need to keep Americans safe
each and every single day.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Mr. THUNE. Madam President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
AMENDMENT NO. 1143 CORRECTION
Mr. THUNE. Madam President, for
the information of the Senate, in the
managers’ package of amendments
that was just agreed to, amendment
No. 1143 was misidentified as a Capito
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:59 Nov 01, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A31OC6.005 S31OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6316 October 31, 2019
amendment. It is actually an amend-
ment by Senator JONES that Senator
CAPITO cosponsored.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Duly
noted.
Mr. THUNE. I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Arizona.
AMENDMENT NO. 1141
Ms. MCSALLY. Madam President, I
rise today in strong support of my
amendment with the Senator from Ala-
bama, Mr. JONES, to this domestic
spending package.
Our amendment will permanently
block an impending $1.2 billion cut to
Federal investments and Federal trans-
portation. Without our legislative ac-
tion to block this cut, public transit
agencies across the country will suffer
a 12-percent across-the-board cut.
These cuts will be devastating to all of
our communities.
Transit funds in my home State in
Arizona are critically important to our
quickly growing communities. Mari-
copa County was the fastest growing
county in the United States last year,
and cities such as Flagstaff and Tucson
are also attracting more jobs and more
families. Our State continues to have
to meet the demands of our expanding
cities and towns, and that is true from
Phoenix to Flagstaff and all through-
out the State.
Our amendment would block more
than $15.4 million in cuts to Arizona
transit agencies. These cuts could re-
sult in drastically reduced services, in-
cluding those for low-income individ-
uals and individuals with disabilities,
and reduce funds necessary to mod-
ernize bus and rail fleets, as well as
slow construction of news stations and
shelters.
A broad coalition of over 30 associa-
tions—including the American Public
Transportation Association, the Asso-
ciated General Contractors of America,
and the U.S. Chamber of Commerce—
support our efforts and this amend-
ment to block these cuts.
Madam President, I ask unanimous
consent to have printed in the RECORD
a copy of a letter from the 32 national
associations urging Congress to sup-
port our amendment.
There being no objection, the mate-
rial was ordered to be printed in the
RECORD, as follows:
OCTOBER 22, 2019.
Hon. RICHARD C. SHELBY,
Chairman, Committee on Appropriations, U.S.
Senate, Washington, DC.
Hon. SUSAN M. COLLINS,
Chairman, Committee on Appropriations, Sub-
committee on Transportation, Housing and
Urban Development, and Related Agencies,
U.S. Senate, Washington, DC.
Hon. PATRICK J. LEAHY,
Vice Chairman, Committee on Appropriations
U.S. Senate, Washington, DC.
Hon. JACK REED,
Ranking Member, Committee on Appropriations,
Subcommittee on Transportation, Housing
and Urban Development, and Related Agen-
cies, U.S. Senate, Washington, DC.
DEAR CHAIRMAN SHELBY, VICE CHAIRMAN
LEAHY, CHAIRMAN COLLINS, AND RANKING
MEMBER REED: We greatly appreciate your
bipartisan efforts to advance S. 2520, the
Transportation, Housing and Urban Develop-
ment, and Related Agencies (THUD) Appro-
priations Act, 2020. Although S. 2520 includes
many critical investments for public trans-
portation, it reduces total funding for public
transportation by $457 million compared to
the Fiscal Year (FY) 2019 enacted levels. As
you continue working together on the bill,
we strongly urge you to increase investment
in public transportation and permanently
block the impending $1.2 billion across-the-
board cut to transit formula funds.
Infrastructure investment is critical for
our nation’s economic growth and now is the
time to invest more, not less, in public
transportation. Increased investment will
provide the necessary resources to begin to
address the more than $90 billion state-of-
good-repair backlog in our nation’s transit
systems and meet the mobility demands of
growing communities.
In addition, we urge you to include a provi-
sion in the bill permanently blocking the im-
pending 12 percent across-the-board cut to
each public transit agency throughout the
country. We greatly appreciate your leader-
ship in ensuring that the Continuing Appro-
priations Act, 2020 (P.L. 116–59, Division A)
included a provision temporarily preventing
this cut, but further and immediate action is
needed to ensure that this harmful provision
does not take effect in FY 2020.
Americans ride public transportation 10
billion times a year, and every trip meets a
need or provides an opportunity. It gets peo-
ple to work, their doctors, local businesses,
and schools. It is a lifeline that connects
communities. We urge you to support in-
creased investment in public transportation
for critical projects in small, medium, and
large communities across the nation.
In summary, as you continue working to-
gether on the Senate THUD Appropriations
bill, we strongly urge you to increase invest-
ment in public transportation and perma-
nently block the impending $1.2 billion
across-the-board cut to transit formula
funds.
Thank you for your consideration.
Sincerely,
American Public Transportation Associa-
tion, Amalgamated Transit Union; American
Association of State Highway and Transpor-
tation Officials; American Concrete Pipe As-
sociation; American Council of Engineering
Companies; American Planning Association;
American Road & Transportation Builders
Association; American Society of Civil Engi-
neers; Associated General Contractors of
America; Association of Equipment Manu-
facturers; Association of Metropolitan Plan-
ning Organizations; The Bus Coalition; Com-
munity Transportation Association of Amer-
ica; Concrete Reinforcing Steel Institute;
The Intelligent Transportation Society of
America; International Union of Operating
Engineers; National Asphalt Pavement Asso-
ciation.
National Association of City Transpor-
tation Officials; National Association of
Counties; National Association of Regional
Councils; National League of Cities; Na-
tional Precast Concrete Association; Na-
tional Ready Mixed Concrete Association;
Natural Resources Defense Council; National
Stone, Sand, and Gravel Association; Port-
land Cement Association; Railway Supply
Institute; Transport Workers Union; Trans-
portation for America; Transportation
Trades Department, AFL-CIO; United States
Chamber of Commerce; The United States
Conference of Mayors.
Ms. MCSALLY. Madam President, I
urge my colleagues to join Senator
JONES from Alabama and me in sup-
porting this important bipartisan
amendment.
I yield the floor.
RECOGNITION OF THE MINORITY LEADER
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
Democratic leader is recognized.
APPROPRIATIONS
Mr. SCHUMER. Madam President,
today we come to an inflection point in
the appropriations process this year.
Leader MCCONNELL has scheduled a
vote on the Defense appropriations bill,
which comes with a certain irony. A
bill that is supposed to provide re-
sources for our troops and their fami-
lies actually steals money from them
and puts it toward a border wall that
President Trump promised Mexico
would pay for.
Democrats will not vote to proceed
to a bill that steals money from our
troops and their families. Republicans
know it is a nonstarter. Yet Leader
MCCONNELL has scheduled a show vote
this afternoon to demonstrate some-
thing that everyone already knows:
There is nowhere close to the necessary
votes in the Senate for President
Trump’s border wall and, of course,
there is not in the House. So this is
just a show vote.
Leader MCCONNELL, a few weeks ago,
got on the floor and railed against
show votes. He said: I only want to put
things on the floor that are going to
pass. But we all know this ain’t pass-
ing. I understand memories in politics
can be short, but the exercise we will
go through today is absurd, even by
those low standards.
Senate Republicans, by pursuing a
partisan process, by doing President
Trump’s bidding on the wall—they
know he is wrong, most of them. They
are just so afraid of him they just say
‘‘Yes, sir’’ whenever he proposes an ab-
surd idea. They repeat the same failed
strategy that led to the longest shut-
down in our Nation’s history. I warned
Leader MCCONNELL and our Republican
friends that if they continue down this
path, they will lead us straight to an-
other government shutdown, and their
party and President Trump will shoul-
der the responsibility. The last time,
they had to retreat from that position
after the longest shutdown in history
with their tails between their legs.
Isn’t history teaching them anything?
We know it will not teach President
Trump much, but we would hope the
Republicans in the Senate would have
more sense.
Instead of standing up and defending
their own position that they want the
money for the wall—however indefen-
sible in my judgment—Senate Repub-
licans have resorted to bogus attacks
against Democrats. Senate Republicans
accuse Democrats of delaying a pay
raise for our troops, even though, first,
the pay raise is strongly bipartisan,
and, more important, the standing law
of the land dictates it will go into ef-
fect regardless of whether we pass the
Defense appropriations.
Our Republican friends are so des-
perate to divert attention from their
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:11 Nov 01, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G31OC6.006 S31OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6317
October 31, 2019
holding up these bills for President
Trump’s wall that they come up with
completely false arguments, such as
the statement that if we don’t pass
this, the troops will not get a pay
raise.
Yesterday, Leader MCCONNELL and
President Trump repeated a slightly
less specific but even more outrageous
charge, claiming that Democrats are
not supporting the fight against ISIS
due to the disagreement on appropria-
tions. Hello. Who was it who abandoned
our Kurdish friends who led the fight
against ISIS? Not the Democrats in the
Senate, not even the Republicans in
the Senate—it was President Trump.
President Trump’s reckless decision
to greenlight President Erdogan’s inva-
sion of northern Syria left hundreds of
hardened ISIS fighters out of jail and,
according to most experts, set a course
for a likely resurgence of ISIS. But in-
stead of blaming President Trump—al-
though some of them did early on—
they are trying to switch the blame. It
is a typical tactic that Leader MCCON-
NELL is using with more and more regu-
larity, but like his previous attempts,
it fails.
We were briefed yesterday by senior
administration officials, and they ac-
knowledged the fallout in the wake of
the President’s decision and the need
to pick up the pieces of what was their
strategy to defeat ISIS.
The majority leader and I have been
working together on legislation requir-
ing specific plans and reports from the
administration on the ISIS threat. I
hope it will receive some action on the
floor soon. Let’s cut the nonsense that
Democrats don’t support the troops or
the fight against ISIS. It is not true. It
is laughable, and it ain’t going to
stick. So instead of this bunk, Leader
MCCONNELL and my Republican friends,
roll up your sleeves and work with us
to get something done.
Democrats and Republicans have
been working through a package of ap-
propriations bills, as is clear in the
bills we are voting on. Where there is
agreement, we can move forward. This
week has shown the Senate can effi-
ciently work through these bills, and
we have a bipartisan buy-in. That is
how Democrats want to proceed on the
remainder of the bills.
Republican friends, work with us as
you did on these four bills to come up
with bipartisan bills, and we can get
them done.
IMPEACHMENT
Mr. President, on impeachment, at
least a dozen witnesses have testified
in Congress as part of the House’s im-
peachment inquiry. The facts that are
already in the public record are trou-
bling and require further investigation.
The Founders greatly feared foreign
interference in our elections. Here, we
have a President who allegedly used
the powers of his office to pressure or
coerce a foreign leader to investigate a
domestic political rival. The matter at
hand is serious; both parties must treat
it as such. But already some of our Re-
publican colleagues have tried to kick
up as much dust as possible to distract
or detract from the facts of the case be-
cause they know the reality will be
damaging to the President if these
facts prove to be true.
Last week, roughly 40 Republicans
stormed the secure facility in the Cap-
itol in a fit of staged protest, even
though one-third of them were already
allowed to participate in the hearings
that were taking place.
In the Senate, my colleague Senator
GRAHAM, a veteran of the House im-
peachment process, put together a res-
olution of trumped-up charges that the
House process was unfair, all of which
have been thoroughly debunked as mis-
leading or baseless. Again, it is an at-
tempt by our Republican friends to do
Donald Trump’s bidding no matter how
false, reckless, or harmful that bidding
is.
Meanwhile, the White House and its
allies in the Congress and the media
have leveled shameful attacks against
the witnesses in the House inquiry,
questioning the loyalties of a U.S.
Army lieutenant colonel and Purple
Heart recipient and calling the whistle-
blower a treasonous spy. That is des-
picable.
Worse still, reports suggest that Re-
publicans on the House committee and
members of their staffs are conducting
a vicious campaign to deliberately dis-
close or cause to be disclosed the iden-
tity of the whistleblower, placing that
courageous individual’s safety and that
of his or her family in jeopardy.
We are supposed to be engaging with
the facts of the case on the merits. We
have a solemn constitutional duty to
do so. Even the President himself has
said he would ‘‘rather go into the de-
tails of the case rather than the proc-
ess.’’
My Republican friends in Congress
should stick to the facts, quit the par-
tisan theatrics, quit the politics of
blame, and quit trying to harm the
very serious patriots whose lives and
safety might be in danger. This is a
time to put country over party and ex-
amine the facts—only the facts.
PENSIONS
Madam President, finally, on pen-
sions, this week, Murray Energy, which
employed over 5,000 people, has filed
for Chapter 11 bankruptcy, putting
thousands of hard-working Americans
at risk of losing their pensions. Forty
percent of Murray’s employees are rep-
resented by either the United Mine
Workers or the Seafarers International
Union. Murray faces over $8 billion in
pension obligations, of which over $2
billion are unfunded and under threat.
This is only the latest example of the
danger facing millions of Americans
with pensions from construction, min-
ing, truck driving, bakeries, and other
industries.
These workers did nothing wrong.
They saved up little by little, week by
week, expecting to retire with security
and dignity, but their pension plans are
sadly now at risk of becoming insol-
vent because of circumstances totally
outside of their control.
The time has come for Congress to
bring relief to these working families.
Members on both sides of the aisle have
been working on legislation that would
provide relief to these underfunded
pensions. Just 2 months ago, the House
passed the Butch Lewis Act, which I
proudly support and which would pro-
vide immediate relief to critical and
declining pension plans, but Leader
MCCONNELL has inexplicably refused to
take action on this bipartisan legisla-
tion—another tombstone in his legisla-
tive graveyard.
Leader MCCONNELL and the Repub-
lican majority are turning their backs
on hard-working middle-class Ameri-
cans who need their pensions. They
could be robbed of them through no
fault of their own. I hope the news this
week magnifies the consequences of
Republican inaction.
President Trump has claimed to be a
champion for American workers, but
under his Presidency, working Ameri-
cans have slipped further and further
behind. Now, for millions of hard-work-
ing Americans, a secure retirement is
also at risk. If the President were truly
a champion for working Americans,
now is the time for him to show some
leadership by urging Leader MCCON-
NELL and his Republicans in the Senate
to work with Democrats to protect
these pension plans.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Montana.
REMEMBERING KAY HAGAN
Mr. TESTER. Madam President, I
have a number of things I want to talk
about today. On Monday of this week,
we lost a fine lady in Kay Hagan. It is
very difficult for me to put into words
my admiration for the Senator from
North Carolina, but the fact is, Kay
was the kind of person who, the first
time you met her, had the ability to
calm the situation down.
When she was running in 2008, I went
to North Carolina, and she had an
event at a farm. I think it was a hog
operation, if my memory serves me
correctly. I had a chance to meet her
for the first time. She was somebody
who you knew, if she were able to get
into this body, would be successful.
Well, in 2008, she won that election.
She came here, and she made a dif-
ference. She made a difference for
working families, small businesses, and
family farm agriculture.
I just want to express my condo-
lences to her husband Chip, her kids
and grandkids, and let them know she
was very loved by all in this body.
HEALTHCARE
Madam President, I also want to rise
today and speak on behalf of the thou-
sands of Montanans who have pre-
existing conditions or struggle with
the cost of prescription drugs.
Even with the Affordable Care Act’s
protections, many of these folks strug-
gle to afford their medical bills, their
copays at the pharmacy counter and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:59 Nov 01, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G31OC6.008 S31OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6318 October 31, 2019
the local doctors’ offices. Instead of
working to fix these problems, this ad-
ministration—the Trump administra-
tion—has issued a rule that brings us
back to the dark ages by letting insur-
ance companies discriminate against
working families across Montana and
this country.
The Affordable Care Act guaranteed
health coverage for all Americans. It
required health insurance companies to
issue policies to folks regardless of
whether they had preexisting condi-
tions. The Trump administration is
chipping away at these laws, and they
are tossing these protections out the
window so that big insurance can make
big bucks.
Health insurance companies across
this country are flooding the market
with junk plans. They are called junk
plans because they are cheap insurance
that are junk. When you think you
have health insurance and you get
sick, it is not there.
Trust me, I know firsthand how this
works. When I was 9 years old, I lost
three fingers in a meat grinder, and my
folks thought they had insurance. They
didn’t because they had bought a junk
plan. They ended up paying every dime
for the surgeries related to my left
hand out of their pockets—money they
didn’t have.
These plans tell folks they have in-
surance, but, truthfully, they don’t.
They have less coverage, and they
don’t even cover the most essential
health benefits.
Need prescription drugs? You can get
them, but it’s going to cost you. Mater-
nity care? Sorry, the plan doesn’t cover
that. Mental health? You would not get
that coverage in your wildest dreams.
These insurers will tell you that you
are getting a great deal, but the truth
of the matter is your pocketbook is
going to pay the price. God forbid if
you ever get in a situation where you
need to use it.
What we see is insurance companies
lining their pockets and selling plans
that do nothing. And the majority
leader is working to make it easier for
them to do it, all by blocking reason-
able, bipartisan bills to improve the
ACA and make healthcare more afford-
able to working families and small
businesses around this country.
The Senate was established by our
Founders as the greatest deliberative
body in the world to be a check and
balance on the Office of the Presi-
dency, the executive branch. That sim-
ply is not occurring right now.
I mean take a look at the tariff situ-
ation. The President puts on tariffs in
a knee-jerk reaction, doesn’t bring any
of our allies along. We are seeing small
businesses and family farm agriculture
literally being put to the point of being
put out of business, and this body lets
him do it. A couple of weeks ago, the
President said: You know what, we are
pulling our troops out of northern
Syria, and to hell with our allies.
The Kurds, who have been fighting
with us, fighting as partners for the
last 15 years, well, too bad. Done noth-
ing. No checks and balances.
The President asked for other coun-
tries to come in and influence our elec-
tions, and it seems like the Senate is
just fine with that. The greatest coun-
try in the world is going to let other
countries determine who is elected to
our elected offices in this country,
whether it be the Presidency, the Sen-
ate, or any of us.
Now, we can’t even pass a budget. We
continue to kick the can down the
road. We do have a vote on the Defense
bill, which by the way, this body is
going to allow the President, if the ma-
jority leader has his way, to take any
amount of money they want out of that
Defense bill and put it into a wall—a
wall that costs $25 million to $35 mil-
lion a mile—and we are not even talk-
ing about expenses down the road for
upkeep.
So we just deal with continuing reso-
lutions—more uncertainty, more un-
certainty for families, more uncer-
tainty for business. So right now, we
are standing by letting funding for our
schools, our roads, our hospitals run
out, leaving families across this coun-
try—especially in rural America and
States like Montana—without re-
sources to be able to do the job.
And that is exactly the case for com-
munity health centers in this country.
These facilities provide lifesaving care
to nearly one-tenth of people in Mon-
tana, running 65 healthcare clinics
across our State. They don’t even know
if they are going to have funding come
November 21st when the continuing
resolution we passed expires.
How can we expect these places to
stay open, let alone recruit and retain
staff, when they don’t even know if
they are going to be around in another
month? What do I say to folks when
their own community health clinics
like Hardin, or Libby, or Haver—these
communities rely on these health clin-
ics to keep their communities healthy.
And quite frankly, because we can’t sit
down and negotiate and come up with
long-term funding agreements, they
potentially are going to be out of busi-
ness.
But the uncertainty for families
doesn’t start there. The number of kids
who don’t have insurance has gone up
since this administration started its
war on healthcare. Kids in Montana are
getting the worst of it. The number of
kids in my State without insurance
went up 25 percent between 2016 and
2018.
Let me say that again. The number
of kids in the State of Montana with-
out insurance went up 25 percent be-
tween 2016 and 2018. That is the fifth
highest percentage jump in the United
States. There are places worse. The
kids being hit hardest are the kids that
are in the most vulnerable groups.
They are in Indian Country, which con-
tinues to have the highest uninsured
rate in this country. These young folks
are our future leaders. They are our
next generation. We are not doing our
job. We are failing them.
This coordinated sabotage of our
healthcare system by this administra-
tion and this body is unacceptable, and
our children deserve better. I am not
going to sit here and tell you that the
Affordable Care Act was perfect. I said
from day one that we needed to work
together to make improvements and
build upon the successes that were in
that bill.
The ACA allowed States like Mon-
tana to pass Medicaid Expansion. That
insured more than 90,000 Montanans in
the process and helped greatly toward
keeping our small hospitals open.
It helped millions of Montanans with
preexisting conditions rest easy at
night knowing that they were not
going to be kicked off their plans be-
cause of that preexisting condition or
hit an annual cap on care. All of that is
gone. Americans have spoken clearly.
They want more access to afford-
ability, not less. When my colleagues
on the other side of the aisle attempted
to repeal the ACA a couple of years
ago, folks all across this country stood
up and said: No.
But here we are again, watching the
majority and the Trump administra-
tion pushing plans to rip away afford-
able health insurance from hard-
working Americans. I would encourage
my colleagues to join together in work-
ing and find a bipartisan solution to
improve our healthcare system. We
need to reduce health insurance pre-
miums and out-of-pocket costs. We
need to crack down on skyrocketing
prescription drugs, and we need to ex-
pand insurance to more Americans. We
need to make sure that when people
put their hard-earned money on the
line to buy an insurance policy, that it
is not junk.
CONGRATULATING THE WASHINGTON NATIONALS
Mr. President, now, on a lighter sub-
ject. Back in my early years on the
farm, I would come in on Wednesday
night and there would be baseball night
in Canada. I got to watch the Montreal
Expos for a couple of decades play some
pretty darned good baseball. They
didn’t win, but they were very enter-
taining.
That franchise moved to Washington,
DC, I think in 2006, the same year I got
elected to the United States Senate. So
consequently, I got to watch the Nats
and be entertained by them again—oc-
casionally, even in person.
Last night, they did the impossible.
After being 19 and 31, I believe around
the 23rd, 24th of May of this year, they
ripped off a hundred games and won the
World Series. I just want to congratu-
late them on that feat and look for-
ward to a repeat next season.
Mr. President, I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
SCOTT of Florida). The Senator from
New Hampshire.
REMEMBERING KAY HAGAN
Mrs. SHAHEEN. Mr. President, I rise
to honor the life and legacy of my
friend and former colleague, Senator
Kay Hagan of North Carolina. There
have been several eloquent tributes to
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:59 Nov 01, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00010 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G31OC6.009 S31OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6319
October 31, 2019
Kay. I am sure we will hear many more
in the days to come. They all note her
profound grace, her fighting spirit, her
charm, and of course, I agree with all
of those remarks.
I want to especially extend my very
sincere condolences to her husband,
Chip; to her children, Jeanette, Tilden,
and Carrie; and to her father Joe.
The news of her death on Monday was
deeply felt here in the Senate. Kay and
I were in the same class of freshmen
Senators. We came in, in 2008, and as
the only two women in that class, we
became fast friends. But of course, it
wasn’t hard to make friends with Kay
Hagan. She never met a stranger. She
had contagious optimism and joy, and
she drew everyone in with her smile
and kindness.
Kay was first in the Senate, not as a
Senator, but as an intern, where she
had the job of operating the elevators.
Of course, those were the days when
women Senators were few, and they
were often appointed to fill temporary
vacancies. So I am sure it was a very
powerful moment when Kay took the
elevator here in the Capitol for the
first time as a United States Senator,
only the second woman from her State,
North Carolina, to do that.
Kay and I often compared notes
about our new roles as Senators. We
talked about our families and the chal-
lenges of commuting to and from DC. I
remember Kay showing me and the
other women in the Senate pictures of
her daughters’ weddings and beaming
with excitement. She was so tremen-
dously proud of her children and so ap-
preciated the support she received from
them and from Chip during her cam-
paigns for public office.
Of course, in addition to her char-
acter, Kay had boundless energy. Grow-
ing up, she studied ballet, and she as-
pired to be a professional dancer. And I
remember she told me about her
‘‘magic bag’’ that she took with her ev-
erywhere, so she could exercise in the
morning. It carried a yoga mat and ev-
erything else she needed to exercise.
She recommended that I get one, and
of course, I was never quite energetic
enough to do that.
In addition to yoga, Kay loved early
morning runs, Pilates, and swimming.
It was that swimming that brought
Kay some early ‘‘notoriety.’’ I use that
term in quotes because Kay wanted to
use the Senator’s swimming pool in the
mornings, but when she first got here,
there was a sign on the door that said
it was for men only. What we learned,
after Kay did a little bit of inves-
tigating, was it was because some of
the male Senators were not interested
in wearing appropriate swimming at-
tire when they swam.
Well, Kay put a quick stop to that,
and it wasn’t long before all of the men
were wearing swim trunks, and Kay
was swimming laps in the pool with
them.
That was Kay. She was incredibly
kind, but she was also tough. When she
was falsely accused of being an atheist
during her first Senate race, Kay didn’t
miss a beat. She responded imme-
diately with an ad that set the record
straight. She demonstrated to her sup-
porters and to her detractors alike
what she was made of.
I have fond memories of our calls
when we were both up for reelection in
2014. Kay would call and buck me up. I
remember she called me after her last
debate to say she was finished. She
didn’t have to do any more debates.
Since I was still looking at having to
do two of them, she was very encour-
aging to me.
With Kay, the glass was always half
full. When she arrived in the Senate, it
didn’t take long for her to make her
mark on the issues of greatest impor-
tance to North Carolina and the Na-
tion. She applied her skills as a prag-
matic legislator, which were honed in
the North Carolina Senate, and she got
to work on the pressing issues of the
day.
She fought tirelessly for jobs and the
economic well-being of her constitu-
ents. She was a champion of small
businesses, for expanding rural
broadband, for developing regional in-
frastructure. She helped pass the his-
toric reforms to Wall Street following
the financial crisis because she served
on the Banking Committee.
We worked together, along with the
rest of the members of the class of 2008,
to try and improve the Affordable Care
Act as it was being drafted. Kay took a
tough vote in favor of the ACA, but she
did it because she knew it was going to
help her constituents get insurance
coverage and healthcare and that it
would provide protections for millions
of Americans.
Kay and I served together on the
Armed Services Committee in the Sen-
ate. She fought for our servicemem-
bers, for their families, and for improv-
ing the defense of our nation. Kay’s
husband, father, and brother all served
their country in uniform. The chal-
lenges that servicemembers and mili-
tary families face were always top of
mind for Kay.
In my office here in the Capitol,
there is a photo of me and Kay. It is on
our first trip to Afghanistan. We had
only been in the Senate about 5 months
at that point. We were smiling from
ear to ear, even though it was over 100
degrees, we were wearing body armor,
and we were in a helicopter with the
doors open heading to a Forward Oper-
ating Base.
We were smiling because we were so
excited and because it was always so
fun to travel with Kay. There wasn’t a
better partner than Kay for these trips.
She was diligent. She was inquisitive.
She always held herself with grace and
kindness and resolve. That was her
trademark.
Serving her country and her beloved
home State in the United States Sen-
ate was a profound honor for Kay, as it
is for all of us. I feel fortunate to have
known and worked alongside her. She
will be dearly missed, not just by all of
us in the Senate, but by so many of her
constituents whom she represented in
North Carolina.
I want to again extend my deepest
condolences to the Hagan family and to
the State of North Carolina.
Thank you, Mr. President.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from New Mexico.
Mr. UDALL. Mr. President, I just
want to follow on the comments by my
good friend Senator SHAHEEN with re-
gard to Kay Hagan. We came to the
Senate together with Senator SHA-
HEEN. We were all in that class of 2008.
It was a big class. We traveled exten-
sively with Kay Hagan. We got to know
her very well.
It was really good to hear—I talked
to her husband Chip on the phone. We
call him Chip; he is Charles. He told me
that up to the very last, she was ex-
tremely busy. They were traveling
around North Carolina. They were
doing things. She actually had a very
special visit with Vice President Biden
before she passed away.
Our heart goes out to the whole fam-
ily—to the three children. We very
much miss her and will miss her a lot.
We missed her a lot in the Senate. We
are going to miss her.
I will put in a more extensive state-
ment about Kay Hagan.
AMENDMENT NO. 1209
Mr. President, I rise to oppose the
Lee amendment and efforts to under-
mine the Land and Water Conservation
Fund. This amendment would prohibit
the Department of Interior from using
land and water conservation funds to
acquire Federal lands and waters.
The underlying bill actually in-
creases funding for the Land and Water
Conservation Fund by $30 million, and
it does so with deep bipartisan support
from a majority of Senators. The cru-
cial point here is that this bill passed
the Appropriations Committee 31 to 0,
so this is a broadly supported program
and a broadly supported bill. I urge the
Senate to send another strong message
today to support the LWCF.
There are many bipartisan land-ac-
quisition priorities that are funded by
this bill. They include things like funds
to improve access to the Aravaipa Can-
yon in Arizona; preserve wildlife habi-
tat in the Everglades Headwaters and
St. Marks Refuges in Florida, I would
let the Presiding Officer know. There is
also money to protect the Palo Alto
Battlefield in Texas and other historic
battlefield sites, as well as funds to ex-
pand the El Malpais National Monu-
ment in my home State of New Mexico.
These are just a few of the projects
that our constituents back home are
expecting the Department to fund.
They would all be stopped in their
tracks if this amendment were adopt-
ed.
We need LWCF to establish better ac-
cess for Americans to their own public
lands. This program works with private
landowners and willing sellers to con-
tinue to protect special places for gen-
erations to come. I know a bipartisan
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:59 Nov 01, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00011 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G31OC6.011 S31OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6320 October 31, 2019
majority of this body understands that,
and I ask my colleagues to stand with
me to defeat this amendment.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Rhode Island.
AMENDMENT NO. 1141
Mr. REED. Mr. President, I rise to
speak in favor of the Jones amendment
No. 1141, cosponsored by Senator
MCSALLY of Arizona. I want to thank
the Senator from Alabama for filing
this important amendment to preserve
transit funding at the levels authorized
by Congress under the FAST Act.
Without this amendment, transit agen-
cies across the country will face a 12-
percent cut. A cut of this magnitude
would be devastating, particularly for
smaller agencies that rely on Federal
funding to meet their annual operating
expenses and to carry out necessary
maintenance. Without this funding,
communities would be forced to scale
back capital projects and bus acquisi-
tions, and reduce services, eliminating
a major mobility option for many of
our constituents, including seniors and
persons with disabilities.
At a time when the transit industry
faces a $90 billion state of good repair
backlog, we should be increasing tran-
sit investments in order to preserve
these critical transportation systems.
These cuts would reverse the progress
we have made over the last 2 years due
to the budget agreement that allowed
for desperately needed investments in
infrastructure. We must prevent any
degradation of funding for our transit
systems and instead help these agen-
cies modernize their fleets.
This amendment is supported by over
63 associations, including the National
League of Cities, the U.S. Conference of
Mayors, and the U.S. Chamber of Com-
merce.
Mr. President, I ask unanimous con-
sent that the list of the supporting or-
ganizations be printed in the RECORD.
There being no objection, the mate-
rial was ordered to be printed in the
RECORD, as follows:
American Public Transportation Associa-
tion, Amalgamated Transit Union, American
Association of State Highway and Transpor-
tation Officials, American Concrete Pipe As-
sociation, American Council of Engineering
Companies, American Planning Association,
American Road & Transportation Builders
Association, American Society of Civil Engi-
neers, Associated General Contractors of
America, Association of Equipment Manu-
facturers, Association of Metropolitan Plan-
ning Organizations, The Bus Coalition, Com-
munity Transportation Association of Amer-
ica, Concrete Reinforcing Steel Institute,
The Intelligent Transportation Society of
America, International Union of Operating
Engineers, National Asphalt Pavement Asso-
ciation, National Association of City Trans-
portation Officials, National Association of
Counties, National Association of Regional
Councils, National League of Cities, Na-
tional Precast Concrete Association, Na-
tional Ready Mixed Concrete Association,
Natural Resources Defense Council, National
Stone, Sand, and Gravel Association, Port-
land Cement Association, Railway Supply
Institute.
Transport Workers Union, Transportation
for America, Transportation Trades Depart-
ment, AFL-CIO, United States Chamber of
Commerce, The United States Conference of
Mayors, American Road & Transportation
Builders Association (co-chair), Associated
General Contractors of America (co-chair),
Transport Workers Union, American Coal
Ash Association, American Concrete Pave-
ment Association, American Concrete Pipe
Association, American Council of Engineer-
ing Companies, American Subcontractors
Association, American Iron and Steel Insti-
tute, American Society of Civil Engineers,
American Traffic Safety Services Associa-
tion, Asphalt Emulsion Manufacturers Asso-
ciation, Asphalt Recycling & Reclaiming As-
sociation, Associated Equipment Distribu-
tors, Association of Equipment Manufactur-
ers.
Concrete Reinforcing Steel Institute,
International Slurry Surfacing Association,
International Association of Bridge, Struc-
tural, Ornamental and Reinforcing Iron
Workers, International Union of Operating
Engineers, Laborers-Employers Cooperation
and Education Trust, Laborers’ Inter-
national Union of North America, National
Asphalt Pavement Association, National As-
sociation of Surety Bond Producers, Na-
tional Electrical Contractors Association,
National Ready Mixed Concrete Association,
National Steel Bridge Alliance, National
Stone, Sand and Gravel Association, Na-
tional Utility Contractors Association, Port-
land Cement Association, Precast/
Prestressed Concrete Institute, The Road In-
formation Program, United Brotherhood of
Carpenters and Joiners of America.
Mr. REED. Mr. President, I ask that
my colleagues join me and Senator
COLLINS in supporting this amendment.
I would also like to take this oppor-
tunity to thank the staff members who
actually made this Transportation,
Housing and Urban Development—T-
HUD—bill possible. They did extraor-
dinary work. We all recognize that it is
their efforts that make these difficult
and complicated legislative initiatives
possible. On the majority staff, I thank
Clare Doherty, Jason Woolwine, Rajat
Mathur, Gus Maples, Courtney Young,
and LaShawnda Smith. On my staff, I
particularly want to thank Dabney
Hegg, Christina Monroe, Jessi Axe, and
Elisabeth Coats.
I think I speak for all of my col-
leagues when I salute all the staff
members who make this legislation
possible.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Utah.
AMENDMENT NO. 1209
Mr. LEE. Mr. President, there is no
doubt that we are blessed with beau-
tiful, useful, and productive lands in
our Nation. And there is no doubt that
some of them should be preserved as
what they are, which happen to be na-
tional treasures. But, unfortunately,
the Federal Government owns far too
much land. It owns far more of these
Federal public lands than it should own
and far more of these lands than it can
possibly take care of.
Let’s take a look at this map, for ex-
ample. This shows in red the land that
is owned by the Federal Government in
parts of the United States. The Federal
Government owns most of the land.
This is certainly the case in my home
State of Utah, where the Federal Gov-
ernment owns two-thirds of the land.
Notice, by the way, that in every State
east of Colorado, the Federal Govern-
ment owns less than 15 percent of the
land—in most States, significantly
less. In every State west of Colorado,
the Federal Government owns more
than 15 percent of the land, and in
many cases, a whole lot more than 15
percent.
The sheer volume of land that it
owns is nothing short of staggering. In
fact, the Federal Government owns 640
million acres of land. This is a total
larger than the entireties of France,
Spain, Germany, Poland, Italy, the
United Kingdom, Austria, Switzerland,
and the Netherlands combined. That is
how much land the Federal Govern-
ment owns just in America.
With such a vast estate, it is no won-
der that there is currently a $19.38 bil-
lion maintenance backlog on those
lands. Of that backlog, $11.92 billion is
on lands owned and managed by just
the National Park Service. In fact,
there are National Park Service back-
logs in every single State in the coun-
try, as this map demonstrates.
I see here that the question is not
whether a particular State has a Na-
tional Park Service backlog within its
State; the question is, How much? In
some States, it is very severe. In some
States, it is significant but not yet se-
vere. But there is a National Park
Service maintenance backlog in every
single State.
Many of my colleagues—especially
those from the Midwest, as this map
shows—don’t have a whole lot of Fed-
eral land in their States. They have a
whole lot less Federal land to main-
tain, and therefore they have less of a
maintenance backlog. They should
thank their lucky stars for that. That
is a position to be envied.
On one end of the spectrum, there is
a $1.3 million backlog on National Park
Service properties in Delaware. The
backlog for the parks in Rhode Island
is just under $1 million. But at the
other end of the spectrum, California
alone has a whopping $1.8 billion main-
tenance backlog just on its national
parks alone. That is in just one State.
What does that mean? That means the
damage from wildfires, ill-kept roads
and trails, and neglected facilities have
actually kept citizens from accessing
our national treasures—national treas-
ures like Yosemite and Yellowstone,
our National Mall and the Grand Can-
yon. Visitors who come from far and
wide to see them are either unable to
see them at all, or perhaps they make
it, but they don’t have a good experi-
ence when they do. All the while,
Washington continues to purchase ever
more land, so the maintenance backlog
continues to grow.
This must not continue. This stag-
gering, stunning maintenance backlog
on the Federal land that we own—the
Federal land that is more than all of
the long list of European countries I
mentioned just a minute ago—can’t
continue. If we continue on this path,
we will only do greater disservice to
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:56 Nov 01, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00012 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G31OC6.015 S31OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6321
October 31, 2019
our citizens and to the lands them-
selves.
That is why I have introduced an
amendment that would stop the Fed-
eral Government’s use of taxpayer dol-
lars to acquire more lands in the next
year. Specifically, it would prevent the
money currently going to the Land and
Water Conservation Fund, the Range
Improvement Funds, the Fish and
Wildlife Service, and the National Park
Service from being used to acquire new
lands that the Federal Government
cannot properly care for.
It is important, when describing a
piece of legislation—in this case, an
amendment to another piece of legisla-
tion—to explain both what it does and
what it does not do. Let me be very
clear in telling you what this amend-
ment does not do. This amendment
would not reduce the dollar amount
being given to any of these programs—
not one of them, not by one dollar. It
would simply reauthorize the money to
ensure that it is being used to care for
the lands we already own and lands
that need to be cared for so des-
perately.
While some of my colleagues may
disagree with me and may believe that
we should continue growing the Fed-
eral estate, I ask that, at least for this
year, we think of our current lands and
our existing national parks and that
we think of those States where there
are a lot of them and States where the
maintenance backlog is especially
staggering. These lands won’t be na-
tional treasures for everyone if we
don’t, can’t, or simply won’t properly
care for them.
If we continue in this pattern of ne-
glect, there will be treasures for no
one. If we continue with this pattern of
neglect, we will continue to inflict sig-
nificant environmental harm that, in
addition to being stunning in and of
itself, may, in some cases, be difficult
or impossible to reverse.
If you support the environment, if
you want to protect the environment
and the natural wonders and beauties
with which this land has been blessed,
if you want to protect our national
treasures, then you should vote for this
amendment.
Voting against this amendment
means you are willing to have the glut-
tonous Federal Government continue
to acquire more land, even while it re-
fuses to and professes itself to be ut-
terly incapable of maintaining the land
it has.
For now, at the very least, we ought
to ensure that these lands are safe and
accessible for generations to come. Our
lands, our citizens, and our environ-
ment deserve nothing less.
AMENDMENT NO. 1209 TO AMENDMENT NO. 948
(Purpose: To prohibit the expenditure
of certain amounts from the Land and
Water Conservation Fund for land ac-
quisition.)
Mr. LEE. Mr. President, I call up my
amendment No. 1209.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report.
The legislative clerk read as follows:
The Senator from Utah [Mr. LEE] proposes
an amendment numbered 1209 to amendment
No. 948.
Mr. LEE. I ask unanimous consent
that the reading of the amendment be
dispensed with.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
(The amendment is printed in the
RECORD of October 28, 2019, under ‘‘Text
of Amendments.’’)
Mr. LEE. Mr. President, I ask unani-
mous consent that there now be 2 min-
utes of debate between each vote in
this series and that all votes after the
first be 10 minutes in length.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
VOTE ON AMENDMENT NO. 1209 TO AMENDMENT
NO. 948
The question is on agreeing to the
Lee amendment No. 1209.
Mr. LEE. Mr. President, I ask for the
yeas and nays.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there a
sufficient second?
There appears to be a sufficient sec-
ond.
The clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk called the roll.
Mr. THUNE. The following Senator is
necessarily absent: the Senator from
Georgia (Mr. ISAKSON).
Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the
Senator from Colorado (Mr. BENNET),
the Senator from New Jersey (Mr.
BOOKER), the Senator from California
(Ms. HARRIS), the Senator from Min-
nesota (Ms. KLOBUCHAR), the Senator
from Vermont (Mr. SANDERS), and the
Senator from Massachusetts (Ms. WAR-
REN) are necessarily absent.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mrs.
FISCHER). Are there any other Sen-
ators in the Chamber desiring to vote?
The result was announced—yeas 29,
nays 64, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 339 Leg.]
YEAS—29
Barrasso
Braun
Cassidy
Cornyn
Crapo
Cruz
Enzi
Ernst
Fischer
Grassley
Hawley
Inhofe
Johnson
Kennedy
Lankford
Lee
Moran
Paul
Risch
Romney
Rounds
Rubio
Sasse
Scott (FL)
Sullivan
Thune
Tillis
Toomey
Wicker
NAYS—64
Alexander
Baldwin
Blackburn
Blumenthal
Blunt
Boozman
Brown
Burr
Cantwell
Capito
Cardin
Carper
Casey
Collins
Coons
Cortez Masto
Cotton
Cramer
Daines
Duckworth
Durbin
Feinstein
Gardner
Gillibrand
Graham
Hassan
Heinrich
Hirono
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Jones
Kaine
King
Leahy
Manchin
Markey
McConnell
McSally
Menendez
Merkley
Murkowski
Murphy
Murray
Perdue
Peters
Portman
Reed
Roberts
Rosen
Schatz
Schumer
Scott (SC)
Shaheen
Shelby
Sinema
Smith
Stabenow
Tester
Udall
Van Hollen
Warner
Whitehouse
Wyden
Young
NOT VOTING—7
Bennet
Booker
Harris
Isakson
Klobuchar
Sanders
Warren
The amendment (No. 1209) was re-
jected.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Alabama.
AMENDMENT NO. 1141, AS MODIFIED, TO
AMENDMENT NO. 948
Mr. JONES. Madam President, under
the previous order, I call up amend-
ment No. 1141, as modified.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report.
The legislative clerk read as follows:
The Senator from Alabama [Mr. JONES],
for himself and Ms. MCSALLY, proposes an
amendment numbered 1141 to amendment
No. 948.
Mr. JONES. Madam President, I ask
unanimous consent that the reading of
the amendment be dispensed with.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The amendment is as follows:
(Purpose: To prohibit the implementation of
the ‘‘Rostenkowski Test’’ with respect to
the Mass Transit Account of the Highway
Trust Fund)
At the appropriate place in title I of divi-
sion E, insert the following:
SEC. 1ll. None of the funds made avail-
able by this Act or any other Act may be
used to adjust apportionments or withhold
funds from apportionments pursuant to sec-
tion 9503(e)(4) of the Internal Revenue Code
of 1986.
Mr. JONES. Madam President, I rise
in support of the amendment offered by
myself and my friend from Arizona,
Senator MCSALLY.
This amendment would permanently
block an impending $1.2 billion in cuts
to the Federal public transportation
investment. These cuts will affect
every one of our States—every one—in-
cluding 7 million in my home State of
Alabama.
Without this legislation to block
what is known as the ‘‘Rostenkowski
Test,’’ every public transit agency will
suffer a 12-percent across-the-board cut
to transit formula grants this year. For
many transit agencies, particularly
these smaller transit agencies that
serve rural States such as mine, these
cuts could be devastating. These cuts
would reduce services that are so im-
portant to the community, for in-
stance, services for low-income people
and services to those who have disabil-
ities.
These cuts would reduce funds for
important bus and rail efforts to mod-
ernize our transportation.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator has used 1 minute.
Mr. JONES. I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Arizona.
Ms. MCSALLY. Madam President, I
rise in strong support of my amend-
ment with Senator JONES from Ala-
bama. As he said, this is a very impor-
tant amendment to block $1.2 billion in
cuts to these transit agencies that are
impacting every single one of our
States. Across Arizona, this is millions
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:59 Nov 01, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00013 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G31OC6.016 S31OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6322 October 31, 2019
of dollars, a 12-percent cut in every
State, and we are going to stop that
from happening here today.
As Senator JONES mentioned, this is
impacting people of low income, of dis-
abilities, and in rural communities
across the board. A broad coalition of
over 30 associations—including the
American Public Transportation Asso-
ciation, Associated General Contrac-
tors of America, and the U.S. Chamber
of Commerce—support our efforts
today to block these cuts.
I urge our colleagues to please join us
and vote for our amendment.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on agreeing to the amend-
ment.
Mr. THUNE. Madam President, I ask
for the yeas and nays.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there a
sufficient second?
There appears to be a sufficient sec-
ond.
The clerk will call the roll.
The bill clerk called the roll.
Mr. THUNE. The following Senator is
necessarily absent: the Senator from
Georgia (Mr. ISAKSON).
Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the
Senator from Colorado (Mr. BENNET),
the Senator from New Jersey (Mr.
BOOKER), the Senator from California
(Ms. HARRIS), the Senator from Min-
nesota (Ms. KLOBUCHAR), the Senator
from Vermont (Mr. SANDERS), and the
Senator from Massachusetts (Ms. WAR-
REN) are necessarily absent.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Are there
any other Senators in the Chamber de-
siring to vote?
The result was announced—yeas 82,
nays 11, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 340 Leg.]
YEAS—82
Alexander
Baldwin
Barrasso
Blumenthal
Blunt
Boozman
Brown
Burr
Cantwell
Capito
Cardin
Carper
Casey
Cassidy
Collins
Coons
Cornyn
Cortez Masto
Cotton
Cramer
Crapo
Daines
Duckworth
Durbin
Enzi
Ernst
Feinstein
Fischer
Gardner
Gillibrand
Graham
Grassley
Hassan
Hawley
Heinrich
Hirono
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Inhofe
Johnson
Jones
Kaine
Kennedy
King
Leahy
Manchin
Markey
McConnell
McSally
Menendez
Merkley
Moran
Murkowski
Murphy
Murray
Peters
Portman
Reed
Risch
Roberts
Rosen
Rounds
Rubio
Schatz
Schumer
Scott (SC)
Shaheen
Shelby
Sinema
Smith
Stabenow
Sullivan
Tester
Thune
Tillis
Udall
Van Hollen
Warner
Whitehouse
Wicker
Wyden
Young
NAYS—11
Blackburn
Braun
Cruz
Lankford
Lee
Paul
Perdue
Romney
Sasse
Scott (FL)
Toomey
NOT VOTING—7
Bennet
Booker
Harris
Isakson
Klobuchar
Sanders
Warren
The amendment (No. 1141), as modi-
fied, was agreed to.
AMENDMENT NO. 950 WITHDRAWN
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, amendment No. 950
was withdrawn.
Amendment No. 948, as amended, is
agreed to.
The cloture motion on H.R. 3055 is
withdrawn.
The bill was ordered to be engrossed
for a third reading and was read the
third time.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. There
will now be 2 minutes of debate equally
divided.
The Senator from Vermont.
Mr. LEAHY. Madam President, I see
my friend, the senior Senator from
Alabama, on the floor. I want to offer
my praise for him because we are going
to vote on final passage of the fiscal
year 2020 Senate Commerce, Justice,
and Science appropriations bill, the
Agriculture appropriations bill, the In-
terior appropriations bill, and the
Transportation, Housing and Urban De-
velopment appropriations bill. I urge
all Members to vote aye.
These are good, bipartisan bills. They
show that despite whatever political
atmosphere we operate in, the Appro-
priations Committee can put partisan
politics aside and do our work on be-
half of the American people.
These bills make responsible invest-
ments that build on what we were able
to accomplish in fiscal year 2019 while
strongly rejecting the shortsighted
cuts the Trump administration pro-
posed. They back up our commitment
to invest in rural communities and
farms, law enforcement, and the envi-
ronment.
We have reached this point because
we worked together quietly during eve-
nings and weekends to get it done. I
want to thank the chairs and the rank-
ing members of the subcommittees for
their work: Senators HOEVEN and
MERKLEY, Senators MURKOWSKI and
UDALL, Senators COLLINS and REED,
and Senators MORAN and SHAHEEN.
I have often said that Senators are
merely constitutional impediments to
their staff, and Senator SHELBY and I
are lucky to have such a staff. They
have worked very long days and nights.
I ask unanimous consent to have
printed in the RECORD the list of the
staff, both Republicans and Democrats,
who deserve our thanks.
There being no objection, the material was
ordered to be printed in the RECORD, as fol-
lows:
VICE CHAIRMAN LEAHY LIST FOR H.R. 3055
(MINIBUS #2) STAFF FOR THE RECORD
Charles Kieffer, Chanda Betourney, Jessica
Berry, Jay Tilton, Hannah Chauvin, Olivia
Matthews, Dianne Nellor, Jean Toal Eisen,
Rachael Taylor, Dabney Hegg, Adrienne
Wojciechowski, Bob Ross, Teri Curtin, Jen-
nifer Eskra, Blaise Sheridan, Elisabeth
Coats, Ryan Hunt, Melissa Zimmerman,
Faisal Amin, Jessi Axe, Christina Monroe,
Shannon Hines, Jonathan Graffeo, David
Adkins, Margaret Pritchard, Morgan Ulmer,
Hamilton Bloom, Emy Lesofski, Clare
Doherty, Patrick Carroll, Elizabeth Dent,
Anna Lanier Fischer, Amber Beck, Allen
Cutler, Matt Womble, Sydney Crawford,
Lucas Agnew, Nona McCoy, Gus Maples,
Rajat Mathur, LaShawnda Smith, Jason
Woolwine, Courtney Young, Valerie Hutton,
Elmer Barnes, Penny Myles, Karin Thames,
Bob Putnam, Jenny Winkler, Christy
Greene, George Castro
Mr. LEAHY. I yield the floor, and I
urge an aye vote.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The bill
having been read the third time, the
question is, Shall the bill, as amended,
pass?
Mr. LEAHY. I ask for the yeas and
nays.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there a
sufficient second?
There appears to be a sufficient sec-
ond.
The clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
called the roll.
Mr. THUNE. The following Senator is
necessarily absent: the Senator from
Georgia (Mr. ISAKSON).
Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the
Senator from Colorado (Mr. BENNET),
Senator from New Jersey (Mr. BOOKER),
Senator from California (Ms. HARRIS),
Senator from Minnesota (Ms. KLO-
BUCHAR), Senator from Vermont (Mr.
SANDERS) and Senator from Massachu-
setts (Ms. WARREN) are necessarily ab-
sent.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Are there
any other Senators in the Chamber de-
siring to vote?
The result was announced—yeas 84,
nays 9, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 341 Leg.]
YEAS—84
Alexander
Baldwin
Barrasso
Blumenthal
Blunt
Boozman
Brown
Burr
Cantwell
Capito
Cardin
Carper
Casey
Cassidy
Collins
Coons
Cornyn
Cortez Masto
Cotton
Cramer
Crapo
Daines
Duckworth
Durbin
Enzi
Ernst
Feinstein
Fischer
Gardner
Gillibrand
Graham
Grassley
Hassan
Hawley
Heinrich
Hirono
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Inhofe
Jones
Kaine
Kennedy
King
Lankford
Leahy
Manchin
Markey
McConnell
McSally
Menendez
Merkley
Moran
Murkowski
Murphy
Murray
Perdue
Peters
Portman
Reed
Risch
Roberts
Romney
Rosen
Rounds
Rubio
Schatz
Schumer
Scott (SC)
Shaheen
Shelby
Sinema
Smith
Stabenow
Sullivan
Tester
Thune
Tillis
Udall
Van Hollen
Warner
Whitehouse
Wicker
Wyden
Young
NAYS—9
Blackburn
Braun
Cruz
Johnson
Lee
Paul
Sasse
Scott (FL)
Toomey
NOT VOTING—7
Bennet
Booker
Harris
Isakson
Klobuchar
Sanders
Warren
The PRESIDING OFFICER. On this
vote, the yeas are 84, the nays are 9.
The 60-vote threshold having been
achieved, the bill, as amended, is
passed.
The bill (H.R. 3055), as amended, was
passed, as follows:
(The bill will be printed in a future
edition of the RECORD.)
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:13 Nov 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00014 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\RECORD19\OCTOBER\S31OC9.REC S31OC9
abonner
on
DSK9F5VC42PROD
with
CONG-REC-ONLINE
CORRECTION
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6323
October 31, 2019
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Utah.
f
LABOR, HEALTH AND HUMAN
SERVICES, EDUCATION, DE-
FENSE, STATE, FOREIGN OPER-
ATIONS, AND ENERGY AND
WATER DEVELOPMENT APPRO-
PRIATIONS ACT, 2020—Motion to
Proceed
Mr. LEE. Madam President, I ask
unanimous consent that the Senate re-
sume consideration on the motion to
proceed on H.R. 2740.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
objection?
Without objection, it is so ordered.
The Clerk will report the bill by
title.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
A bill (H.R. 2740) making appropriations
for the Departments of Labor, Health and
Human Services, and Education, and related
agencies for the fiscal year ending Sep-
tember 30, 2020, and for other purposes.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Utah.
FAIRNESS FOR HIGH-SKILLED IMMIGRANTS ACT
Mr. LEE. Madam President, I would
like to speak briefly about an issue im-
portant to me, about an issue impor-
tant to many Americans, and I would
like to speak briefly about Senator
DURBIN’s recent request for a hearing
concerning the Fairness for High-
Skilled Immigrants Act.
The Fairness for High-Skilled Immi-
grants Act is a bill that many Senators
have worked for, for nearly a decade,
and it has long been a top priority of
mine. I have introduced this bill in
every single Congress, ever since I was
first elected to the Senate back in 2010.
During that time, it has been a sub-
ject of widespread debate and discus-
sion. There has been a period of time in
which a lot of people have learned a lot
about this area. The debate and the
discussion has occurred both on the
Hill and off the Hill throughout the
United States.
Other Members, including Senator
SCHUMER, have sought to pass the bill,
as I am doing. Whether that passage
occurs by unanimous consent or
through some other form matters less
to me than that we get it passed, but
we do need to get it passed. This year,
we have come closer to making this
important and bipartisan reform a re-
ality, closer than we have ever come
before at any point over the nearly dec-
ade that this has gotten a lot of atten-
tion.
In early July, the House of Rep-
resentatives passed the bill on the Sus-
pension Calendar by a wide bipartisan
supermajority vote of 365 to 65. Around
that time, I negotiated an agreement
with Senator GRASSLEY to help ad-
vance the bill by adding provisions
drawn from the Durbin-Grassley H–1B
reform bill.
Senator GRASSLEY has for many
years, openly and publicly, made it
known that he had concerns with the
bill. I was therefore very pleased that
we were able to sit down and work out
an agreement to address those con-
cerns, while keeping the bill narrow
and focused on the immediate problem
that it is trying to solve. That is elimi-
nating the country of origin discrimi-
nation in our employment green card
system. I thank Senator GRASSLEY for
working with me on that.
The process by which I have tried to
advance this bill through Congress has
been open, transparent, and straight-
forward. I have sought and continue to
seek unanimous consent to pass the
bill on the floor. If any Member has
raised concern about the bill, I have
been willing to work with them quick-
ly and in good faith to address their
concerns.
That is why, after reaching an agree-
ment with Senator GRASSLEY, I also
worked with other Members to resolve
their concerns. For much of the past
few months, I simply didn’t know who,
if anyone else on the Democratic side
of the aisle, might have had concerns
with the bill. We were told that there
might be holds on the Democratic hot-
line, but we were not told who exactly
might be holding the bill, and no one
approached me with objections.
I certainly had no reason to think
that Senator DURBIN would have con-
cerns with the bill. As I have explained
before, he was a leading cosponsor of
the bill in a previous Congress. What is
more, the only substantial difference
between the bill he supported and the
bill I put forward in this Congress is
the addition of the amendment that I
negotiated with Senator GRASSLEY,
which is drawn almost entirely from
provisions of the Durbin-Grassley H1–B
reform bill.
In September, I learned that Senator
DURBIN did in fact have concerns about
the bill in this Congress. As I have with
other Members and as I have expressed
the willingness to do with other Mem-
bers, I am ready and willing to work
with Senator DURBIN in good faith to
quickly and reasonably resolve any ob-
jection he may have, while preserving
the bipartisan support that this bill
has long enjoyed and that it deserves
to enjoy.
As I have said before, I don’t believe
that any further factual development
concerning this bill is necessary. In-
deed at this point, I believe a hearing
can serve no purpose other than to
delay speedy action on this important
reform and jeopardize our ability to act
before the end of the year.
For that reason, I do not support
Senator DURBIN’s calls for a public
hearing. Every day that we delay ac-
tion on this bill is another day that
suffering experienced by immigrants
stuck in the green-card backlog con-
tinues and indeed intensifies. That is
precisely why I will continue to work
to pass this bill at the earliest possible
date.
The Fairness for High-Skilled Immi-
grants Act arguably has wider and
more bipartisan support than any
other immigration bill that has been
considered in this body in recent years.
The reason for that is that it is focused
on a single, serious, solvable problem
that I think we can all agree needs to
be solved.
Whatever other reforms you think
might need to be made to our immigra-
tion system, with good reason, we can
all agree that America should not treat
immigrants differently based on their
country of origin. There is no reason
for this bill to become yet another cas-
ualty to the polarized, partisan divi-
sions that plague immigration policy.
I look forward to working with Sen-
ator DURBIN to resolve the concerns he
may have about this bill. I reiterate
that, once again, this is a narrowly fo-
cused bill, one that focuses on a simple
but long-standing problem, a problem
that subjects some immigrants to
needlessly lengthy delays for no reason
other than their country of origin. This
is from a bygone era that we shouldn’t
be perpetuating in this country.
We need to fix the problem. The Fair-
ness for High-Skilled Immigrants Act
would do that, and I encourage all of
my colleagues to join me. We are al-
most there, but we need to get it over
the finish line.
Thank you, Mr. President.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
YOUNG). The Senator from Georgia.
H.R. 2740
Mr. PERDUE. Mr. President, I rise to
talk about the vote we are going to
have in just a few minutes to appro-
priate our first appropriations bill for
this fiscal year, which, by the way, we
are already in the first month of our
new fiscal year.
We are under a continuing resolu-
tion, which we have talked about ad
nauseam in this body and how dam-
aging that is to our military and how
expensive it is over the long run. I had
breakfast with one of our Secretaries
in the DOD today, and he told me that
just in the Navy alone, a continuing
resolution this year would cost the
Navy almost $5 billion. That is $50 bil-
lion just in one service over the next
decade. We can do better than this.
I want to praise Senator SHELBY and
Senator LEAHY, the ranking member
and the chairman of the Appropria-
tions Committee. They have done their
job. The subcommittee chairman and
ranking members have done their jobs.
We are ready to vote on these bills, and
it comes down to just an obstructionist
issue about funding the wall versus
funding our military.
Just last weekend, President Trump
announced that Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi,
the leader of ISIS, had been taken off
the battlefield by his own hand, I
might say. This is a win not just for
our country but for the world in this
fight against terrorism.
As we now know, the world has got-
ten to be very dangerous—maybe the
most dangerous in my lifetime—with
five threats across five domains. We
are worried now about places like
China, Russia, North Korea, and Iran,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:59 Nov 01, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00015 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G31OC6.019 S31OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6324 October 31, 2019
as well as the asymmetric threat of
terrorism around the world in over five
domains—air, land and sea, and now we
have to worry about cyber and space as
well.
Let’s just take a moment and realize
that without a strong military, this
Special Operations op over the week-
end would not have been possible. Our
intelligence community, our special
operators, our military personnel, all
the supply people, all the people in-
volved in supporting these people at
the tip of the sphere came to bear and
brought us a victory this week over the
No. 1 terrorist in the world.
Everybody in America should be cele-
brating this incredible achievement by
our military. Rather than celebrating,
however, our friends across the aisle
are trying to change the subject in
many ways. One way is in the U.S.
House with the hypocritical approach
we are seeing right now of denying due
process to our President and having a
vote this week that is a real mockery
of the process in itself. There is no
guarantee of due process to the Presi-
dent in this resolution.
I believe the Democrats just don’t
understand how President Trump got
elected, and they hate it so much, they
will not even let him have this win rel-
ative to taking a major terrorist off
the battlefield.
We must never forget how depraved
this gentleman was and their ideology
really is. These ISIS thugs have been a
scourge on that part of the world, and
they are not going away, by the way.
Since 2014, ISIS has beheaded two
American journalists, James Foley and
Steven Sotloff. Let us never forget that
these things occurred. They forced
women into sex slavery, including 26-
year-old Kayla Mueller, a humani-
tarian worker who went there to try to
do good who was later killed.
These are the people, under al-
Baghdadi’s leadership, who set fire to a
Jordanian pilot—a captured pilot—vio-
lating the rules of war. They put him
in a cage, poured gasoline on him, and
lit him on fire alive. These are the peo-
ple who lined up 21 Coptic Christians
on a beach in Libya and beheaded them
in front of a video. They crucified
Christians across the Middle East for
years.
Al-Baghdadi inspired all of these
atrocities. His death brings justice to
these countless victims. The fight is
not over yet. We have taken out the
leadership. We denied them the terri-
torial caliphate. We are now moving to
protect the oil so these people will be
denied resources so they cannot recon-
stitute again. These people will not go
away. The ideology has not died. We
have just taken their caliphate away.
We have to continue to do that.
The current strategy has not changed
in Syria. The President has said this
publicly. The Chairman of the Joint
Chiefs of Staff said it publicly. We are
there to defeat ISIS. We are there to
protect Iraq, deter Iran, and support
our friends in Israel, but we need bipar-
tisan support and consistent funding to
achieve this bigger mission. That is
just one of them in one domain. We
have others across the world. With an
ever-growing military capacity in
China alone, we have to get serious
about how we fund, consistently, our
U.S. military effort.
Yet, as I stand here today, we are
under a continuing resolution, which
we know handcuffs our own military
and adds hundreds of billions of dollars
over the next decade to the cost of
funding our military. We have a CR
right now that has us actually spend-
ing $4 billion that the Department of
Defense has already identified that
they don’t want to spend. Yet because
of continuing resolution rules, they
have to keep spending against these ob-
solete programs and wasting that $4
billion.
In addition, we are sitting here at the
end of October, the first month of the
fiscal year, and we have not even final-
ized the authorization for our defense
because of not being able to work this
out with the House.
We have to do that and get to fund-
ing right away to fund our military.
Our men and women in uniform are the
best that we have in America, and we
owe it to them to not drop the ball in
this eleventh hour to show them that
we have their backs. They can do the
job, but only if we fund them.
This is a travesty, and right now it is
broken down into partisan politics, not
over defending our country. It puts our
national security at risk.
I will give us just one little piece of
data here to close this out. Over the
last 50 years, we disinvested in our
military by at least 25 percent three
different times under three Democratic
Presidents. That is just historical fact;
that is not a partisan observation. We
did it in 1976 to 1980; we did it in the
1990s; we did it in the last administra-
tion over 8 years. We disinvested in the
military by at least 25 percent.
We saw the travesty that the mili-
tary had in terms of readiness in Janu-
ary 1, 2017. We saw how bad our readi-
ness was when two-thirds of our elite
Strike Fighters, FA–18s, in the Navy
could not fly. Only 3 of our 58 Army
brigades could go to war that night. It
was a terrible position to be in. Under
new leadership, we have gotten that
readiness back, but now we have to re-
build the military that has been burned
up over the last 20 years fighting ter-
rorism.
The challenge we have before us right
now is to do our No. 1 job, and that is
to fund and appropriate the Federal
Government. Of that, discretionary
spending is what this is all about. It is
only $1.3 trillion of the $4.6 trillion the
Federal Government will totally spend
this year, but of that, the military, the
VA, and all domestic discretionary pro-
grams make up $1.3 trillion.
I am advocating today that we take
our responsibility seriously to fund our
military because of the growing
threats around the world and the dam-
age we see that it does to the efforts of
freedom by our friends abroad. There is
no bigger responsibility we can have
than to support our men and women in
uniform who put their lives on the line
every day. The best testament of that
is this example we just saw of a success
in Syria, very close to the Turkish bor-
der, pulled off through places where
Russians and Syrian Government and
Syrian rebels and Turkish soldiers
were all in the general vicinity. We
pulled off a miraculous victory for free-
dom in the world. Now it is our job to
fund defense and get on with that. I
highly suggest that we take that very
seriously.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Vermont.
Mr. LEAHY. Mr. President, today,
the Senate is going to vote on whether
to invoke cloture on the motion to pro-
ceed to a package of appropriations
bills that will include the Senate De-
fense appropriations bill, and the Sen-
ate Labor, Health and Human Services,
and Education (Labor-HHS) appropria-
tions bill.
There are many things in these bills
that I support, but I am going to
strongly urge all Senators to vote no. I
am disappointed that the majority
leadership has taken this step. They
bowed to demands by President Trump,
and that is continuing to delay funding
for our troops.
They insist on including in this bill
authority for President Trump to raid
American tax dollars from our military
and their families. President Trump
wants to raid that money to pay for his
wall, after he had given his solemn
word that Mexico would pay for it, and
that is not acceptable. Because he can-
not keep his word, he has already raid-
ed $6.2 billion from the Department of
Defense this year alone for his border
wall.
He did all of that without congres-
sional approval of either Republicans
or Democrats. He diverted $2.6 billion
from the fiscal year 2019 Defense Ap-
propriations Act. Then he took another
$3.6 billion from military construction
projects for his southern border wall.
That money came from projects that
would have improved the lives of our
troops and their families: military
schools, childcare centers, and im-
proved training facilities, many of
which have been damaged by hurri-
canes and other natural disasters.
On this side, we oppose this bill be-
cause we are fighting to protect funds
that are meant for the women and men
of our military and their families. We
oppose this bill because we stand with
those patriotic Americans, and we
refuse to place the President’s failed
campaign promises on their backs.
That alone should convince every
Member of this Chamber to oppose this
package. Yet the Labor-HHS appropria-
tions bill that is tied to this Defense
bill also shortchanges the domestic pri-
orities of the American people by steal-
ing even more money to pay for Presi-
dent Trump’s vanity wall.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:59 Nov 01, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00016 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G31OC6.022 S31OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6325
October 31, 2019
If all things were equal, the Labor-
HHS appropriations bill—our largest
domestic funding bill—would receive a
3-percent increase in fiscal year 2020,
but the Republican bill provides less
than a 1-percent increase for Labor-
HHS, while the Department of Home-
land Security’s appropriations bill re-
ceives a 7-percent increase to cover the
cost of the President’s demand for his
wall. It doesn’t add up to me, and it
doesn’t add up to most Americans, who
broadly oppose President Trump’s wall.
If, in the House and Senate, we were
to have an up-or-down vote on the wall,
I suspect it would fail. So now, they
are trying to do it through a backdoor
way—a shortsighted cash grab directed
by President Trump. This is a bill that
fails to cover even the annual costs of
inflation in public health, Head Start,
childcare, special education, veterans’
training grants, and dozens of other
programs that are relied upon by the
American people. He will cut the vet-
erans programs and he will cut the
childcare programs to pay for this wall.
I am also disappointed by the willful
spread of misinformation by President
Trump and the Republican leadership
regarding our opposition to this bill.
They have baselessly accused the
Democrats of blocking a 3.1-percent
pay raise for our troops by our oppos-
ing this package. That is ridiculous.
Regardless of the action we take in
this Chamber, the men and women of
our military will see a raise in Janu-
ary. No matter what we do, they are
going to get that raise. This well-de-
served raise is based on a statutory for-
mula that does not need to be author-
ized by the legislation before us. In
fact, neither the House nor the Senate
Defense appropriations bills contain
any provision that is related to a pay
raise. Reaching a bipartisan-bicameral
consensus on a $693 billion Defense ap-
propriations bill is hard enough with-
out there being the willful and irre-
sponsible spreading of misinformation.
This campaign of misinformation
does not stop there. The Republican
leadership has even accused the Senate
Democrats of holding up aid to
Ukraine. That would be laughable if it
were not for the real-world con-
sequences we are seeing play out in
Ukraine today. It is the Republicans
who are holding both military funding
and Ukraine aid hostage to President
Trump’s vanity wall. It is the Repub-
licans who refuse to bring a bill to the
floor unless Congress enables President
Trump to continue stealing funds from
our troops and our military families to
pay for the wall that he gave his sol-
emn word that Mexico would pay for.
The Senate Democrats have long ad-
vocated for aid to Ukraine. We insisted
it be included in the fiscal year 2020 ap-
propriations bills, and we will continue
to do so because it is the right thing to
do. Since 2015, I have personally sup-
ported more than $3.3 billion in aid for
Ukraine. That is a level that far ex-
ceeds the President’s request.
These baseless accusations are mere-
ly attempts to distract from why the
Senate Democrats are actually oppos-
ing this package. We will not stand
idly by as President Trump continues
to rob our military families—using
them as his personal piggy bank—for a
failed campaign promise that he can-
not keep. We will not stand idly by as
the domestic priorities of the Amer-
ican people are shortchanged to pay for
some unnecessary monument to the
President’s ego along our southern bor-
der.
We have been down this road before.
Just last month, the Republican lead-
ership failed to get the votes that were
necessary to move these bills, but I
think it is prudent to remind everyone
that this entire strategy has been tried
before. It failed before, and it will fail
again—that strategy being the wall
over everything, that strategy being
the wall at all costs no matter how
much damage it does to our veterans,
no matter how much damage it does to
our military families, and no matter
how much damage it does to American
children. It is a strategy of a wall and
a campaign promise over the American
people.
That same strategy drove the coun-
try into the longest government shut-
down in American history earlier this
year that cost the taxpayers billions of
dollars, and they got absolutely noth-
ing in return. Incidentally, that was
when the Republicans controlled both
Chambers of Congress, and they still
allowed this shutdown. So, if you think
this failed Republican strategy will
work on the second go-around, I have a
fence for you to paint back at my home
in Vermont.
Everyone here knows there is only
one real path forward to our reaching
agreement on bipartisan bills, and I be-
lieve it is time we reached that agree-
ment. I have tremendous respect for
my good friend Chairman SHELBY.
Look at the bills we just passed over-
whelmingly. That is because Senator
SHELBY and I were able to sit down and
work on these bills, put them together,
and do them in a bipartisan way. I have
told the Secretary of Defense and oth-
ers that we still have time to do that
on the Defense appropriations bill. We
can do it.
When we come back next week, we
should try again. Let the grownups in
both parties in this body work on it.
We will get it done, but the clock is
ticking. It is really time to stop the po-
litical maneuverings and to stop the
sloganeering. Let’s do real work.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Alabama.
Mr. SHELBY. Mr. President, I rise in
the U.S. Senate to fight for America’s
military.
This past week, our Special Forces
eliminated the leader of ISIS and his
likely successor. Their accomplish-
ments should remind all of us that our
brave troops always carry out their du-
ties no matter what the circumstances.
They shouldn’t expect anything dif-
ferent from the U.S. Congress. Yet they
do. They have come to expect that
their elected leaders will fail to exe-
cute the most fundamental of their du-
ties—funding the government. They
don’t deserve failure, and they cer-
tainly shouldn’t expect it. They de-
serve our gratitude, and they deserve
our unwavering commitment.
The best way to demonstrate that
gratitude and commitment, I believe,
is by passing an appropriations bill
that gives our military what it needs.
Our men and women in uniform should
never find themselves on the battle-
field, wondering if they will be able to
support their families back home. They
should never wonder if their training
needs, support requirements, or mis-
sion objectives will be held hostage by
partisan bickering in the Congress.
They should never wonder why Amer-
ica’s adversaries are doubling down on
their military investments while
America is sitting idle.
I believe the United States must
maintain its edge over our adversaries.
China is escalating its defense spend-
ing, which we all know. Yet America’s
military is operating under a con-
tinuing resolution. That means that
our military is having to face tomor-
row’s threats with yesterday’s funding
levels. That means that our military’s
planning and operations are weighed
down with uncertainty.
That should be unacceptable to all of
us, on both sides of the aisle, in the
U.S. Senate. We have an opportunity to
change that today by voting to proceed
to the fiscal year 2020 Defense appro-
priations bill. What are we talking
about here? We are talking about $695
billion in total defense funding. That is
national security for the United States
of America. That is an increase of
about $20 billion over last year’s level.
This increased funding, among other
things, would provide a 3.1-percent pay
increase for our men and women in uni-
form—the largest in 10 years. Believe
me, they need it. It would continue the
development of the world’s most ad-
vanced weapons systems, and we will
need them. It would increase our in-
vestments in hypersonics, 5G tech-
nology, artificial intelligence, missile
defense, and cyber security, and we
need that. I believe all of this is abso-
lutely essential to maintaining Amer-
ica’s strategic advantage over our main
adversaries and competitors—China
and Russia. We had better not lose
sight of that here in the Senate.
Unfortunately, at the moment, my
Democratic colleagues seem more fo-
cused on scoring political points than
ensuring that our military has the cer-
tainty and the funding it needs to
counter our adversaries. They have
said they will not allow us to fund our
military here in the Senate until the
funding levels for all 12 appropriations
bills are agreed to with the House. If
that defies most Americans’ senses of
how our government works and what is
most important, it should.
My Democratic colleagues want to
press the pause button here in the Sen-
ate. I don’t agree with that. I believe
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:59 Nov 01, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00017 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G31OC6.024 S31OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6326 October 31, 2019
that we must complete our work, and I
believe that most of the Democrats
want to get this done.
Foremost, we should certainly com-
plete our work on the Defense bill.
Funding America’s military should be
our priority. It should come first here
in the Senate. Our men and women in
uniform don’t get to hit the pause but-
ton, as we do. They don’t get to shirk
their duties, and neither does Congress.
We cannot afford additional delay. Our
service men and women—those troops
whom we have entrusted to keep us
safe and protect our democracy, our
country, and our allies—cannot afford
additional delay. We must not kick the
can down the road when it comes to
America’s security and America’s mili-
tary.
Let’s come together. We have done
this. Senator LEAHY and I worked to-
gether last year, and for the first time
in years, we met the deadline. We can
do this again. We need the green light
here. We need to provide the resources
that are necessary to maintain the
greatest fighting force the world has
ever known. We should never be second
to anybody else. Let’s show our troops
that we can actually get our work done
here, that we actually care about
them.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The bill clerk proceeded to call the
roll.
Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President, I
yield back all time.
I ask unanimous consent that the
vote start now.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
objection?
Without objection, it is so ordered.
CLOTURE MOTION
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Pursuant
to rule XXII, the Chair lays before the
Senate the pending cloture motion,
which the clerk will state.
The legislative clerk read as follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on the mo-
tion to proceed to Calendar No. 140, H.R.
2740, a bill making appropriations for the De-
partments of Labor, Health and Human Serv-
ices, and Education, and related agencies for
the fiscal year ending September 30, 2020, and
for other purposes.
Richard C. Shelby, Mike Crapo, John
Cornyn, Roy Blunt, Thom Tillis, Shel-
ley Moore Capito, Roger F. Wicker,
Lisa Murkowski, Mike Rounds, Pat
Roberts, John Boozman, Marco Rubio,
Rick Scott, John Barrasso, Kevin
Cramer, Richard Burr, Mitch McCon-
nell.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. By unan-
imous consent, the mandatory quorum
call has been waived.
The question is, Is it the sense of the
Senate that debate on the motion to
proceed to H.R. 2740, an act making ap-
propriations for the Departments of
Labor, Health and Human Services,
and Education, and related agencies for
the fiscal year ending September 30,
2020, and for other purposes, shall be
brought to a close?
The yeas and nays are mandatory
under the rule.
The clerk will call the roll.
The bill clerk called the roll.
Mr. THUNE. The following Senators
are necessarily absent: the Senator
from Georgia (Mr. ISAKSON) and the
Senator from Kansas (Mr. MORAN).
Further, if present and voting, the
Senator from Kansas (Mr. MORAN)
would have voted ‘‘yea.’’
Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the
Senator from Colorado (Mr. BENNET),
the Senator from New Jersey (Mr.
BOOKER), the Senator from California
(Ms. HARRIS), the Senator from Min-
nesota (Ms. KLOBUCHAR), the Senator
from Vermont (Mr. SANDERS), and the
Senator from Massachusetts (Ms. WAR-
REN) are necessarily absent.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Are there
any other Senators in the Chamber de-
siring to vote?
The yeas and nays resulted—yeas 51,
nays 41, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 342 Leg.]
YEAS—51
Alexander
Barrasso
Blackburn
Blunt
Boozman
Braun
Burr
Capito
Cassidy
Collins
Cornyn
Cotton
Cramer
Crapo
Cruz
Daines
Enzi
Ernst
Fischer
Gardner
Graham
Grassley
Hawley
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Inhofe
Johnson
Jones
Kennedy
Lankford
Lee
McSally
Murkowski
Perdue
Peters
Portman
Risch
Roberts
Romney
Rounds
Rubio
Sasse
Scott (FL)
Scott (SC)
Shelby
Sullivan
Thune
Tillis
Toomey
Wicker
Young
NAYS—41
Baldwin
Blumenthal
Brown
Cantwell
Cardin
Carper
Casey
Coons
Cortez Masto
Duckworth
Durbin
Feinstein
Gillibrand
Hassan
Heinrich
Hirono
Kaine
King
Leahy
Manchin
Markey
McConnell
Menendez
Merkley
Murphy
Murray
Paul
Reed
Rosen
Schatz
Schumer
Shaheen
Sinema
Smith
Stabenow
Tester
Udall
Van Hollen
Warner
Whitehouse
Wyden
NOT VOTING—8
Bennet
Booker
Harris
Isakson
Klobuchar
Moran
Sanders
Warren
The PRESIDING OFFICER. On this
vote, the yeas are 51, the nays are 41.
Three-fifths of the Senators having not
voted in the affirmative, the motion is
not agreed to.
The majority leader.
MOTION TO RECONSIDER
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
enter a motion to reconsider the vote.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The mo-
tion is entered.
LEGISLATIVE SESSION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
move to proceed to legislative session.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on agreeing to the motion.
The motion was agreed to.
f
EXECUTIVE SESSION
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
move to proceed to executive session to
consider Calendar No. 355.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on agreeing to the motion.
The motion was agreed to.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the nomination.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read the nomination of David Austin
Tapp, of Kentucky, to be a Judge of the
United States Court of Federal Claims
for a term of fifteen years.
CLOTURE MOTION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President,
there is a cloture motion at the desk.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clo-
ture motion having been presented
under rule XXII, the Chair directs the
clerk to read the motion.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on the nomi-
nation of David Austin Tapp, of Kentucky,
to be a Judge of the United States Court of
Federal Claims for a term of fifteen years.
Tim Scott, Roger F. Wicker, John
Thune, Mike Rounds, John Cornyn,
Cindy Hyde-Smith, Mike Braun, Rich-
ard Burr, Thom Tillis, John Boozman,
John Hoeven, David Perdue, Kevin
Cramer, John Barrasso, Michael B.
Enzi, Chuck Grassley, Mitch McCon-
nell.
f
LEGISLATIVE SESSION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
move to proceed to legislative session.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on agreeing to the motion.
The motion was agreed to.
f
EXECUTIVE SESSION
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
move to proceed to executive session to
consider Calendar No. 463.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on agreeing to the motion.
The motion was agreed to.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the nomination.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read the nomination of Danielle J.
Hunsaker, of Oregon, to be United
States Circuit Judge for the Ninth Cir-
cuit.
CLOTURE MOTION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
send a cloture motion to the desk.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:25 Nov 01, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00018 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G31OC6.025 S31OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6327
October 31, 2019
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clo-
ture motion having been presented
under rule XXII, the Chair directs the
clerk to read the motion.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on the nomi-
nation of Danielle J. Hunsaker, of Oregon, to
be United States Circuit Judge for the Ninth
Circuit.
John Thune, Thom Tillis, Chuck Grass-
ley, Mike Crapo, James E. Risch, Cindy
Hyde-Smith, Mike Rounds, Lindsey
Graham, Shelley Moore Capito, John
Boozman, Tom Cotton, John Cornyn,
Joni Ernst, Roy Blunt, Roger F.
Wicker, Jerry Moran, Mitch McCon-
nell.
f
LEGISLATIVE SESSION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
move to proceed to legislative session.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on agreeing to the motion.
The motion was agreed to.
f
EXECUTIVE SESSION
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
move to proceed to executive session to
consider Calendar No. 464.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on agreeing to the motion.
The motion was agreed to.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the nomination.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read the nomination of William Joseph
Nardini, of Connecticut, to be United
States Circuit Judge for the Second
Circuit.
CLOTURE MOTION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
send a cloture motion to the desk.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clo-
ture motion having been presented
under rule XXII, the Chair directs the
clerk to read the motion.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on the nomi-
nation of William Joseph Nardini, of Con-
necticut, to be United States Circuit Judge
for the Second Circuit.
John Thune, Thom Tillis, Chuck Grass-
ley, Mike Crapo, James E. Risch, Cindy
Hyde-Smith, Mike Rounds, Lindsey
Graham, Mitch McConnell, John Booz-
man, Tom Cotton, John Cornyn, Joni
Ernst, Roy Blunt, Roger F. Wicker,
Jerry Moran, Shelley Moore Capito.
f
LEGISLATIVE SESSION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
move to proceed to legislative session.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on agreeing to the motion.
The motion was agreed to.
f
EXECUTIVE SESSION
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
move to proceed to executive session to
consider Calendar No. 458.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on agreeing to the motion.
The motion was agreed to.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the nomination.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read the nomination of Lee Philip
Rudofsky, of Arkansas, to be United
States District Judge for the Eastern
District of Arkansas.
CLOTURE MOTION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
send a cloture motion to the desk.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clo-
ture motion having been presented
under rule XXII, the Chair directs the
clerk to read the motion.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on the nomi-
nation of Lee Philip Rudofsky, of Arkansas,
to be United States District Judge for the
Eastern District of Arkansas.
Richard C. Shelby, Mike Crapo, John
Cornyn, Roy Blunt, Thom Tillis, Shel-
ley Moore Capito, Roger F. Wicker,
Lisa Murkowski, Mike Rounds, Pat
Roberts, John Boozman, Marco Rubio,
Rick Scott, John Barrasso, Kevin
Cramer, Richard Burr, Mitch McCon-
nell.
f
LEGISLATIVE SESSION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
move to proceed to legislative session.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on agreeing to the motion.
The motion was agreed to.
f
EXECUTIVE SESSION
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
move to proceed to executive session to
consider Calendar No. 365.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on agreeing to the motion.
The motion was agreed to.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the nomination.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read the nomination of Jennifer
Philpott Wilson, of Pennsylvania, to be
United States District Judge for the
Middle District of Pennsylvania.
CLOTURE MOTION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
send a cloture motion to the desk.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clo-
ture motion having been presented
under rule XXII, the Chair directs the
clerk to read the motion.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on the nomi-
nation of Jennifer Philpott Wilson, of Penn-
sylvania, to be United States District Judge
for the Middle District of Pennsylvania.
Mitch McConnell, John Boozman, John
Cornyn, Mike Crapo, Pat Roberts, Mike
Rounds, Thom Tillis, Roger F. Wicker,
Cindy Hyde-Smith, Kevin Cramer,
John Hoeven, Rob Portman, Dan Sul-
livan, Chuck Grassley, Richard Burr,
John Thune, Roy Blunt.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent the mandatory
quorum calls for the cloture motions
be waived.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Arkansas.
f
LEGISLATIVE SESSION
MORNING BUSINESS
Mr. COTTON. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the Senate
proceed to legislative session and be in
a period of morning business, with Sen-
ators permitted to speak therein for up
to 10 minutes each.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
(At the request of Mr. SCHUMER, the
following statement was ordered to be
printed in the RECORD.)
∑ Ms. HARRIS. Mr. President, on Octo-
ber 30, 2019, I was not present for the
vote on S.J. Res. 52, providing for con-
gressional disapproval under chapter 8
of title 5, United States Code, of the
rule submitted by the Secretary of the
Treasury and the Secretary of Health
and Human Services relating to ‘‘State
Relief and Empowerment Waivers.’’ If I
were present, I would have voted yes.∑
f
VOTE EXPLANATION
Mr. BRAUN. Mr. President, today I
voted against amendment No. 1141. I
would like to take an opportunity to
explain my position.
In September 2019, the Treasury De-
partment reported, in accordance with
Federal laws, that the highway trust
fund’s mass transit account had an un-
funded authorization of $27 billion but
only estimated $26 billion in revenue to
be collected over the next 4 years. In
other words, the account was expected
to take on more than $1 billion in obli-
gations than it would be able to collect
in revenue.
Instead of correcting the problem,
the Jones amendment ignored it, pre-
venting Treasury from implementing
the law to bring the mass transit ac-
count back into balance.
Since I joined this body in January, I
have repeatedly noted my concern for
our nearly $1 trillion annual budget
deficit and our more than $22 trillion
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:25 Nov 01, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00019 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G31OC6.030 S31OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6328 October 31, 2019
Federal debt. Washington is broken.
We do not have the money to finance
even the most basic functions of our
government: infrastructure and our na-
tional defense.
Today’s vote was an example of the
consequences we may face when Con-
gress lets these serious financial issues
languish. We cannot continue to ignore
these problems. We cannot continue to
pretend our fiscal problems are solved
by waving away protections placed by
prior Congresses.
I believe that Congress must fix this
problem and bring our trust funds into
long-term solvency. When the Environ-
ment and Public Works Committee ap-
proved our highway bill in July, I en-
sured the bill contained language stat-
ing our intent to do just that.
Today, Congress was lucky—we could
push our spending problem off to an-
other day. One day soon, we will not be
so lucky.
f
REMEMBERING KAY HAGAN
Mrs. FEINSTEIN. Mr. President, I
would like to say a few words in mem-
ory of my good friend and former col-
league Kay Hagan, who passed away
this week.
One of the hardest aspects of this
work in the Senate is the loss of a col-
league. So my thoughts are with Sen-
ator Hagan’s family and friends in this
difficult time.
I recall well her 6 years here with
both deep respect and friendship.
In the time we served in this body to-
gether, I was able to get to know Kay
very well, and I can honestly say I am
lucky to call her a friend. She was al-
ways kind and a positive face and
worked hard for her constituents and
the Nation.
Kay was a dedicated public servant
who served North Carolinians for 16
years. She got her start in politics in
the 1970s when she interned right here
in the Senate. As an elevator operator
during her internship, she brushed
shoulders with some of the biggest
names of the day. Kay later described
the experience as ‘‘infectious,’’ and it
inspired her own political ambitions.
In 1998, that political career took her
to the North Carolina State Senate. It
didn’t take long for Kay’s talents to be
noticed. She rose through the ranks
quickly and became cochair of the
budget committee.
Her trademark pragmatism and focus
on problem solving served her well in
that position. Her hard work earned
her a ranking as one of the top 10 most
influential members in the State sen-
ate.
In 2008 Kay won a race that brought
her here, to the U.S. Senate, where her
passion and focus continued to distin-
guish her. Kay was a fierce advocate
for her State, using her position on the
Armed Service Committee to help
North Carolina’s military families.
Whether it was asking the tough ques-
tions on water contamination at mili-
tary bases or mustering support for
veterans’ caregivers, Kay was always
there for our servicemembers.
Kay was also a breath of fresh air in
the Senate. There were only 15 women
serving in the Senate when she came to
Washington in January 2009. When she
first arrived, she soon learned that the
Senate pool was only open to men. She
thought that was wrong and got the
rules changed. She was a firm believer
in equality and making the changes
you want to see in the world.
No matter how big or small the issue,
Kay always tried to help the people of
North Carolina. Just a few months ago,
she made one of her last public appear-
ances at a groundbreaking for a new
air traffic control tower at Piedmont
Triad International Airport. When she
was first elected to the Senate, she
toured the old air traffic control tower
at Piedmont and learned that a project
to replace it was stalled in Washington.
Kay took on the project and fought for
funding to finally get it moving for-
ward. It is through her work and dili-
gence that the tower is being built
today.
From reproductive rights to vet-
erans’ healthcare to transportation in-
frastructure, you could always count
on Kay to deliver. She will be missed
by many for her warmth and devotion
to public service.
I send my deepest condolences to her
husband, Charles ‘‘Chip’’, and her three
children, Jeanette, Tilden, and Carrie.
(At the request of Mr. SCHUMER, the
following statement was ordered to be
printed in the RECORD.)
f
REMEMBERING KAY HAGAN
∑ Ms. KLOBUCHAR. Mr. President,
today I rise to honor and pay tribute to
my good friend Senator Kay Hagan.
When I think of Kay, I will always
think of joy, as reflected by the bright
colors she used to love wearing. Re-
gardless of how things could get at
times, her wonderful spirit would make
it all seem better.
You could always count on Kay to
look out for people, whether it was re-
storing a program to pay tuition for
Active-Duty servicemembers, estab-
lishing stronger protections for victims
of domestic violence, or passing the
Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act to stop
pay discrimination.
Kay made history. She was the first
woman Democratic Senator from
North Carolina and the State’s second
woman ever elected to the U.S. Senate.
I have always thought that the women
of the Senate work harder, work to-
gether, and get things done. Kay was
definitely one of those women.
In fact Kay, in her inimitable way,
summed it up best when she said,
‘‘There are only two types of senators:
those who’d spend all day on their hair
. . . and the women senators.’’
Kay loved to swim, and when she ar-
rived as a new Senator in 2009, she went
down to the Senate pool only to find a
sign outside that said ‘‘Men Only’’—a
fact that she mentioned during one of
her first speeches as a Senator without
realizing media was present. When the
press started calling around to various
offices asking about the ‘‘men only’’
Senate pool, some were quick to push
back on Kay’s claim, so Kay asked
them to meet her down at the pool to
see for themselves. Within a day, the
sign was changed to ‘‘Co-Ed Aquatic
Facility: Please Dress Appropriately.’’
As it turned out, four male Senators
had been swimming naked. But because
of Kay Hagan, now all Senators can
enjoy the pool, and everyone wears
‘‘appropriate attire’’.
That is what I loved about working
with Kay. She always looked out for
her colleagues. And so when Kay left
the Senate, the women Senators had a
special farewell party for her next to
the pool.
Kay’s drive to get things done came
in part from her family. Born in
Shelby, NC, as the second of three chil-
dren and the only daughter, Kay once
remarked ‘‘being the girl in the middle
. . . I had to fight for everything I
got.’’
And fight she did, rising from an in-
ternship in the U.S. Capitol in the
1970s, where she operated the elevators
for U.S. Senators, to eventually becom-
ing a Senator herself. In between, Kay
served as State senator for 10 years and
was named as one of North Carolina’s
‘‘Ten Most Effective Senators’’ three
terms in a row.
My friend, former Vice President
Walter Mondale, once told me that
when elected officials gain power, they
‘‘either grow or they swell.’’ Kay was a
Senator who grew.
Kay was one bright yellow ray of sun-
shine for everyone she touched—the
Senate, her beloved State of North
Carolina, her friends, and her family.
As she struggled with her illness the
last few years, her loving husband,
Chip, and their family were always at
her side. I encourage everyone to look
up at the Sun and think of Kay.∑
f
REMEMBERING KAY HAGAN
Mr. UDALL. Mr. President, today I
rise to pay tribute to former Senator
Kay Hagan, who left us this week,
much too early, at the age of 66. Kay
and I entered the Senate together, in
2009. Our class of freshman Democratic
Senators was very close, and I spent a
lot of time with Kay. She was warm
and vivacious and 100 percent com-
mitted to her home State of North
Carolina.
Kay was the first woman Democratic
Senator elected from North Carolina,
and she beat a formidable incumbent.
By the time she entered the Senate,
she had already gained a reputation in
her State as a leader and a fighter,
having served in the State senate for 10
years.
Kay was a woman of great strength,
grace, and accomplishment. She was a
lawyer, a banker, a legislator, a moth-
er of three, and grandmother of five.
Kay came to the Senate to get things
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:59 Nov 01, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00020 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A31OC6.052 S31OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6329
October 31, 2019
done for North Carolina and the Na-
tion. To be effective, she worked across
the aisle to find solutions to the every-
day problems facing Americans. When
she entered the Senate, she said, ‘‘We
have a Congress now that is kind of di-
vided, and I want to be one of the ones
that helps bring people together.’’
Kay was a woman of principle. She
was a key vote in support of the Af-
fordable Care Act—that resulted in
millions of Americans gaining access
to health care. She stood in favor of
choice for women, gay marriage, equal
pay for women, the Violence Against
Women Act, and expanding background
checks on gun sales.
She was a fierce defender of military
families, of which there are so many in
North Carolina, and served on the
Armed Services Committee. In hear-
ings, she pressed the Army on the un-
explained deaths of 11 infants at Fort
Bragg and pushed for full disclosure of
documents related to contaminated
drinking water at Camp Lejeune. And
before many others, she supported
women serving in combat zones. ‘‘Any-
body’s who qualified should be able to
serve,’’ she said.
Kay fought for the ‘‘little guy.’’ She
used her banking expertise to fight
against payday lending. She wanted a
fairer minimum wage, so families can
support themselves. She supported job
creation and small business. ‘‘For me
in North Carolina, it’s jobs, jobs, jobs,’’
she said.
She understood that big money in
politics was drowning the voice of reg-
ular Americans and that access to the
ballot box is being blocked. After her
Senate loss, Kay went on to serve as
resident fellow at the Institute of Poli-
tics at Harvard University with a focus
on money in politics and voting rights,
saying, ‘‘We need to encourage young
folks across the country to go exercise
their constitutional right to vote. It is
something that our Constitution gives
us, but not enough people exercise it.’’
Kay wanted to inspire young people—
especially young women—to vote, to be
informed, to run for office. Kay did in-
spire. And she leaves us with a legacy
of integrity, commitment, and civility.
I was proud to be her colleague, but I
was even more proud to be her friend,
and I send my heartfelt condolences to
her family.
Mr. HEINRICH. Mr. President, it is
with deep sadness that I remember and
recognize the life of former U.S. Sen-
ator Kay Hagan of North Carolina.
I am grateful that I had the privilege
to serve with Senator Hagan here in
the United States Senate. Her ap-
proach to her job was something we
would all do well to learn from. Kay
was a model of civility, optimism, and
selfless service to the State she loved.
Early in her life, Kay served as a
Capitol Hill intern for her uncle, Sen-
ator Lawton Chiles of Florida. Her du-
ties included operating the Senators-
only elevator. In time, she would go on
to prove that she belonged on that ele-
vator, too.
After 10 years in the North Carolina
Senate, she won election to the United
States Senate and served her home
State with dignity. Even in the face of
one of the most expensive and chal-
lenging election campaigns in this
body’s history, Senator Hagan re-
mained focused first and foremost on
how to find common ground in this
Chamber and the ways she could de-
liver for her constituents in North
Carolina.
I am particularly grateful for the
model that Senator Hagan set as the
cochair of the Congressional Sports-
men’s Caucus. In that role, she worked
hard to forge bipartisan consensus
around a comprehensive package of
bills to increase public access for hunt-
ing and fishing and to extend impor-
tant fish and wildlife conservation pro-
grams.
Julie and I are keeping her husband,
Chip; their three children, Jeanette,
Tilden, and Carrie; and all of their
grandchildren in our hearts. We will all
miss Kay.
Mrs. FISCHER. Mr. President, I first
met Kay Hagan at a People magazine
photoshoot for the Senate’s ‘‘Leading
Ladies’’ after I was elected in 2012. I ap-
preciated how warm and welcoming she
was towards me. I have fond memories
of working with Kay on the Senate
Armed Services Committee, and we
forged a partnership through our lead-
ership roles on the Emerging Threats
and Capabilities Subcommittee.
My deepest sympathies are with her
family during this difficult time.
f
NORTH DAKOTA
Mr. CRAMER. Mr. President, I rise
today to mark the 130th birthday of the
State of North Dakota. On November 2,
1889, President Benjamin Harrison
signed the documents turning Dakota
Territory into two States, North Da-
kota and South Dakota. In the 13 dec-
ades since then, the people of North
Dakota hive embraced the many oppor-
tunities and challenges of living in the
geographic center of North America.
God has blessed us with abundant
natural resources, and with hard work
and innovation, North Dakotans have
fed the world and fueled our Nation. We
are top producers of wheat, sunflowers,
dry edible beans, navy and pinto beans,
canola, flaxseed, and honey. Our ranch-
ers raise 1.7 million beef cattle—or al-
most three head of cattle for every
North Dakotan.
As the Nation’s second largest pro-
ducer of oil in the country, we are one
of the reasons the United States be-
comes closer every year to being en-
ergy independent. As one of the coun-
try’s top 10 coal-producing States, our
lignite reserves have an 800-year sup-
ply. Before there were Federal rec-
lamation laws, North Dakota was en-
forcing its own, and our air quality has
been ranked at among the best in the
Nation. We proudly embrace an ‘‘all of
the above’’ energy policy that, in addi-
tion to oil and coal, supports produc-
tion of wind and biofuels.
Every year, visitors and new resi-
dents discover the beauty of our State,
with its distinct geographic regions. A
young Theodore Roosevelt’s years of
ranching in the North Dakota Badlands
greatly influenced his conservation
policies as our Nation’s 26th President.
North Dakota has been regarded the
birthplace of conservation as Roo-
sevelt, who was known as the Con-
servation President, established vast
protections for wildlife and public
lands through new national forests,
bird reserves, game preserves, national
parks, and national monuments. He
said, ‘‘I would not have been President
had it not been for my experience in
North Dakota.’’
My State can often be found at the
top of quality of life rankings in Amer-
ica, largely due to the strong sense of
community engagement and social sup-
port present from border to border.
I speak for all North Dakotans in the
pride we have for what our State has
given to the Nation and world in our
first 130 years, but, in true North Da-
kota spirit, I believe most would agree
with me that we are just getting start-
ed and the best is yet to come. Happy
Birthday, North Dakota.
f
TRIBUTE TO JOSEPH R. BRITTON
Mr. HEINRICH. Mr. President, it is
an honor to recognize the years of dedi-
cation and service of my friend and de-
parting chief of staff, Joseph R.
Britton.
Joe has served as my chief of staff for
more than 4 years and has managed my
Senate office in a professional and pur-
poseful manner. He has overseen my
team with incredible leadership and
has consistently motivated us all to
work hard and make a difference for
New Mexicans each and every day.
Joe’s career on Capitol Hill began in
2003, when he served as a legislative as-
sistant for U.S. Senator Ben Nelson
from his home State of Nebraska. He
then served as legislative director and
deputy chief of staff in the office of
U.S. Senator MARK UDALL. He also
served as a senior adviser to former
U.S. Secretary of Agriculture Tom
Vilsack before coming to my office in
2015. He brought with him passion and
expertise in healthcare, public lands,
budget, and appropriations policy.
As chief of staff, Joe has led both our
Washington, DC, and New Mexico of-
fices in Albuquerque, Roswell, Las
Cruces, Farmington, and Santa Fe. Joe
visited every corner of our State. It is
a testament to his dedication to main-
taining strong working relationships
that New Mexicans know that they can
count on our office to be reliable, ac-
cessible, and in their corner. Joe took
the time to learn about New Mexico
and understand our rich history, our
thriving culture, and the complex,
pressing issues we face in the Land of
Enchantment. Throughout his service,
Joe has shared my mission and drive to
solve problems and find ways to make
a difference for New Mexicans.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:59 Nov 01, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00021 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A31OC6.054 S31OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6330 October 31, 2019
I recognize that Joe couldn’t be
where he is or who he is today without
the love and support of his family. For
her support of him and constant dedi-
cation, I thank his wife, Katie. I would
also like to recognize Joe and Katie’s
children, Louise and Jamey, for light-
ing up their parent’s lives. We all look
forward to seeing them grow up in the
years ahead.
On behalf of the American people, the
people of the State of New Mexico, and
on behalf of my team that Joe has so
ably led for the past 4 years, I thank
him for his service. While I am sad to
see him go, I know that he will con-
tinue to make a difference in the lives
of everyone he meets. Joe has been
doing that from his first day on Capitol
Hill.
I ask my colleagues in the United
States Senate to join me in recognizing
the dedicated service of my chief of
staff, Joseph R. Britton.
f
TRIBUTE TO EVANN BERRY
Mrs. HYDE-SMITH. Mr. President, I
am pleased to commend Evann Berry
for her contributions and dedicated
service as a member of my personal of-
fice staff.
A native of Jackson, MS, Evann
earned her bachelor of science in bio-
logical engineering at Bagley College
of Engineering at Mississippi State
University. After her college tenure,
Evann began her professional career by
serving as an emerging leader scholar
for the Congressional Black Caucus
Foundation, followed by an internship
with the office of the late U.S. Senator
Thad Cochran. In May 2016, Evann was
hired as a full-time staff member for
Senator Cochran, where she easily
proved how indispensable her talents
were for serving the good constituents
of Mississippi. Following Senator Coch-
ran’s retirement, Evann maintained a
model work ethic within my office that
has proven to be a testament to her
good character.
Evann’s contributions throughout
her tenure have been invaluable to the
legislative functions of not just my of-
fice but my predecessor’s office as well,
and her insightful input will be missed.
I, along with the rest of my office, have
benefitted from Evann’s knowledge and
experience. Her personal qualities are
impeccable. She is a hard-working,
courteous, and intelligent young
woman, who has a strong sense of re-
sponsibility, good judgment, and a
pleasant demeanor that makes her an
easy person to like.
Mr. President, Mississippi and our
Nation have been well-served by the
diligence, dedication, and commitment
to excellence Evann provided on a
daily basis. She has put forth her best
efforts to reflect credit on me, our
State, and the U.S. Senate and has
been successful in doing so. I will miss
Evann’s good counsel. She has my ap-
preciation and gratitude for the nota-
ble job she has done in the Senate. I
wish Evann all the best in her future
endeavors.
ADDITIONAL STATEMENTS
TRIBUTE TO MARGARET ST. CLAIR
PLASTINO
∑ Mr. RISCH. Mr. President, I rise
today to honor a true inspiration from
my home State of Idaho, Margaret St.
Clair Plastino. Likely the oldest living
registered nurse in Idaho, Margaret has
truly used her 102 years on this earth
to improve the health of those in her
community. Because of this lifetime of
service, she is being honored on Mon-
day, November 4, 2019, by her fellow
nurses at the Idaho Nurses Recognition
Dinner cosponsored by the Idaho Cen-
ter for Nursing, Nurse Leaders of
Idaho, and the American Nurses Asso-
ciation of Idaho. This is a well-deserved
honor, as Margaret spent the majority
of her life improving healthcare in
Idaho.
Margaret was born in Utah in 1917 to
Edwin St. Clair and Evelyn Borrow be-
fore she and her family moved to Shel-
ley, ID. She has remained in eastern
Idaho ever since, helping her commu-
nity and serving as a positive influence
in the lives of those she encounters.
Margaret graduated from the Idaho
Falls LDS Hospital School of Nursing
in 1939 and was hired by Bonneville
County as county nurse in 1942. Begin-
ning her career during the Great De-
pression, Margaret not only provided
much needed medical care, she also
provided emotional support and com-
fort to patients. She treated each pa-
tient with the devotion and care that
were central to her character.
Margaret married her husband, Ben
Plastino, in 1948, and they were blessed
with three daughters. She began a new
full-time role raising their family in
1952. Although she was no longer spend-
ing her days caring for patients as a
full-time nurse, Margaret continued to
help provide healthcare to the commu-
nity where she could, including admin-
istering important vaccines. She even-
tually returned to the nursing profes-
sion, becoming the first home health
nurse in southeastern Idaho. After she
retired, she maintained active in the
field and volunteered in various roles
for the next 25 years.
There are countless stories that illus-
trate Margaret’s devotion as a nurse.
Many of these have been shared in
local and State newspapers recently
and there are certainly more to be
shared amongst her friends, family,
and community. Such instances in-
clude Margaret’s decision to admin-
ister tetanus shots to those affected by
the Teton Dam collapse in 1976. She
also cared for children of a struggling
family when she found out they did not
have sufficient food in their household.
It is heartening to hear stories such as
these and I hope they will continue to
spread and inspire more individuals to
do as Margaret has.
Margaret went the extra mile in all
that she did to ensure the best care was
administered to her community. She
did not do this for accolades or atten-
tion. She recognized that she could be
of service to her community and want-
ed to use her skill sets to help. She has
demonstrated the love she has for her
community and demonstrated how to
treat each patient in a manner that re-
flects their dignity as a person. Mar-
garet is selfless and the type of indi-
vidual who makes her community and
Idaho such a special place. There is no
one more deserving to be honored.
Today, I express appreciation on be-
half of countless individuals from the
great State of Idaho, impacted by
Margaret’s selfless service. She’s truly
an extraordinary citizen who didn’t
just see providing healthcare as a pro-
fession but as a calling. I join her col-
leagues in honoring her lifetime of
service.∑
f
HONOR FLIGHT NEVADA
∑ Ms. ROSEN. Mr. President, I rise
today with great pride to recognize a
group of national heroes as they have
embarked on their Honor Flight from
Nevada to Washington, DC. Nevada is
home to over 225,000 veterans, and I am
glad that we are able to honor 41 of
these brave individuals today. These
courageous men and women served in
our military and sacrificed so much to
defend our freedoms and values. To-
day’s honor flight includes individuals
who served in the Army, Marine Corps,
Navy, Air Force, and the Coast Guard.
As we welcome them to the Nation’s
Capital, let us remember that these
men and women put their lives on the
line to answer our country’s call to
duty, and let us strive to emulate the
greatness that they have so selflessly
displayed.
I would like to begin with honoring
individuals who served in the United
States Army. Mr. Glenn Christman, 93,
who served in the Army from 1944–1960,
spanning World War II and Korea. He
was a soldier in the Special Forces, as
well as a paratrooper, and attained the
highest enlisted rank of sergeant
major. He was shot nine times through-
out his service and was awarded both
the Purple Heart and the Bronze Star.
Mr. Vincent Cimino, 86, who served in
the Army from 1953–1955 during the Ko-
rean war. He was a soldier stationed in
Germany as a clerk typist, responsible
for making dog tags for his battalion.
Mr. Donald Davis, 85, who served in the
Army from 1954–1956 during the Korean
war. He was a soldier in the Quarter-
master Corps. Mr. Alfred Fiel, 90, who
served in the Army during the Korean
war. He was stationed in Frankfurt,
Germany, and served as a supply clerk
for the military police. Mr. Ronald
Fortmeyer, 87, who served in the Army
during the Korean war from 1952–1954.
He was a private first c1ass serving as
an infantry soldier on the 38th parallel.
Mr. Charles Nola, 82, who served during
the Korean and Cold wars. He was a
soldier stationed in Germany, as well
as in the U.S. working as a senior
movement specialist. Mr. William
Sanchanko, 92, who served in the Army
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:59 Nov 01, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00022 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A31OC6.056 S31OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6331
October 31, 2019
during World War II. He was stationed
in Manila, Philippines, serving as a
military policeman. Mr. Michael Stem,
82, who served in the Army from 1961–
1968 during the Vietnam war. He was a
chief warrant officer 2, and was award-
ed the Purple Heart and Bronze Star.
The second group of individuals I
would like to honor today are those
that served in the United States Ma-
rine Corps. Mr. Jerome ‘‘Jerry’’
Gardberg, 82, served 32 years as a ma-
rine, a career that spanned both the
Vietnam and Cold wars, as a commu-
nications officer. Mr. John Jesse, 83,
who served in the Marines from 1954–
1962, working in helicopter warfare de-
velopment, and rising to the rank of
sergeant before separating from the
Marine Corps.
The third group of individuals I
would like to honor today are those
that served in the United States Navy.
Mr. Anthony Barbaro, 85, who served
during the Korean war and was sta-
tioned in the United States, Phil-
ippines, and Japan. He was a crew chief
aboard the USS Boxer. Mr. Eugene
‘‘Frenchy’’ Bousquet, 84, who served
during the Korean and Vietnam wars
and spent 22 years in the Navy as an
electrician and instructor. Mr. Kenneth
Knudson, 81, who served during the
Vietnam war as part of a Navy career
that spanned from 1960–1980. He was a
line and naval security group officer,
and attained the rank of lieutenant
commander. Mr. Gerald May, 86, who
served from 1951–1955 during the Ko-
rean war. Seaman First Class David
Miller, 92, who served during World
War II aboard the USS Breton. Fireman
Second Class Daniel Nall, 93, who
served during World War II from 1944–
1945 as a motor machinist mate. Mr.
Larry ‘‘Nick’’ Nicolai, 82, who was sta-
tioned in the South Pacific during the
Korean war as an electrician’s mate
aboard the USS Prestige and the USS
Mattaponi. Seaman Abraham Sabori,
86, who served from 1951–1954 during the
Korean war. Mr. Donald Van De Steeg,
96, who served during World War II
from 1943–1946 in the 7th Fleet under
Admiral Thomas C. Kinkaid.
Torpedoman First Class Marvin Wear,
84, who served during both the Korean
and Vietnam wars aboard destroyers
and submarines as part of a Navy ca-
reer that spanned from 1952–1972. Petty
Officer First Class Patricia Whitlock,
who served in Desert Storm during a
career that spanned from 1978–1996 in
which she worked as a mess specialist
career counselor, and metal craftsmith.
The fourth group of individuals I
would like to honor today are those
that served in the United States Air
Force. Colonel Mack Boone, 90, who
served 25 years of intermittent service
of Reserve and Active Duty from 1949–
1989. He was a B–26 Navigator, com-
mander of Class A Unit,and was award-
ed the Distinguished Flying Cross and
four Air Medals. Ms. Anne Bousquet,
84, who served during the Korean war
from 1953–1957. She worked in commu-
nications at the Pentagon and in Eng-
land. Mr. Donald Furlong, 85, who
served during the Vietnam war as part
of a 22-year career from 1953–1975. He
was stationed in North Africa and Eng-
land as an aircraft maintenance crew
chief on the Recon Bomber 47. Mr. Skip
Gruber, 81, who served during the Viet-
nam war in the Air Force and Army
working as an aircraft electronics re-
pairman. He was awarded the Bronze
Star. Mr. Min Hiu Hen, 79, who served
during the Vietnam war in the Air
Force and Army as a transportation of-
ficer and pilot. He was shot down on
his 318th combat mission and awarded
the Distinguished Flying Cross and
Purple Heart. Senior Airman Robert
Kundel, 75, who served during the Viet-
nam war from 1963–1967 refueling air-
craft. Private First Class Luis
Maldonado, 92, who served during
World War II in both the Army and Air
Force, his career spanning from 1946–
1949. He worked in the hangar storage
department and guarded prisoners
waiting to be repatriated. Airman First
Class Ralph Reggans, 84, who served
during the Korean war in the Army and
Air Force from 1950–1960 as a combat
engineer. Senior Master Sergeant
Fredrick Marshall Stilt Sr., 93, who
served during the second World War, as
well as the Korean and Vietnam wars
in both the Army and Air Force as a
casualty} reporting assistant. He
earned the Bronze Star Medal for his
service during the Tripoli Evacuation
of 1967. Master Sergeant Fredrick Mar-
shall Stilt Jr., 72, who served during
the Vietnam war in the Army and Air
Force. During his 20-year career, he
worked in radio communications. Mr.
Lloyd Tatro, 87, who served during the
Korean and Vietnam wars. During his
career that spanned from 1950–1970, he
worked in radar support directing B–52
bombers to their targets. Mr. Rollie
Tatro, 85, who served during the Ko-
rean and Vietnam wars. During his ca-
reer that spanned from 1952–1975, he
worked as a baker and supervisor. Mr.
William ‘‘Bing’’ Tatro, 83, who served
during the Korean and Vietnam wars,
he was a navigator technician on B–52
bombers for 13 years. Major Francis
Walls, 89, who served during the Ko-
rean, Vietnam, and Cold wars as part of
a military career that spanned from
1948–1973. He worked in aircraft main-
tenance and was awarded the Bronze
Star. Senior Master Sergeant Richard
Wellington, 84, who served from 1954–
1974 as an electrician, including during
the Vietnam war, in both the Navy and
Air Force. Mr. Clifford ‘‘Yank’’ Wiltse,
who served during the Korean war from
1952–1956. He worked in the Strategic
Air Command and the Military Trans-
port Service.
Finally, I would like to honor Mr.
Bernard Pachter, 92, who served in the
Coast Guard from 1945–1948. With his
service starting towards the end of
World War II in the Pacific, he was a
working medic in Guam, lwo Jima, and
Ulithi, and earned the rank of hospital
corpsman second class.
Our Nation owes a debt of gratitude
to all of these men and women, and it
is my distinct privilege to honor their
service today and welcome them to the
Nation’s Capital.∑
f
MESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT
A message from the President of the
United States was communicated to
the Senate by Ms. Roberts, one of his
secretaries.
f
EXECUTIVE MESSAGE REFERRED
As in executive session the Presiding
Officer laid before the Senate a mes-
sage from the President of the United
States submitting a nomination which
was referred to the Committee on For-
eign Relations.
(The message received today is print-
ed at the end of the Senate pro-
ceedings.)
f
PRESIDENTIAL MESSAGES
REPORT RELATIVE TO THE CON-
TINUATION OF THE NATIONAL
EMERGENCY WITH RESPECT TO
SUDAN AS DECLARED IN EXECU-
TIVE ORDER 13067 OF NOVEMBER
3, 1997—PM 34
The PRESIDING OFFICER laid be-
fore the Senate the following message
from the President of the United
States, together with an accompanying
report; which was referred to the Com-
mittee on Banking, Housing, and
Urban Affairs:
To the Congress of the United States:
Section 202(d) of the National Emer-
gencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1622(d)) provides
for the automatic termination of a na-
tional emergency unless, within 90
days before the anniversary date of its
declaration, the President publishes in
the Federal Register and transmits to
the Congress a notice stating that the
emergency is to continue in effect be-
yond the anniversary date. In accord-
ance with this provision, I have sent to
the Federal Register for publication the
enclosed notice stating that the na-
tional emergency with respect to
Sudan declared in Executive Order
13067 of November 3, 1997, is to continue
in effect beyond November 3, 2019.
Despite recent positive develop-
ments, the crisis constituted by the ac-
tions and policies of the Government of
Sudan that led to the declaration of a
national emergency in Executive Order
13067; the expansion of that emergency
in Executive Order 13400 of April 26,
2006; and with respect to which addi-
tional steps were taken in Executive
Order 13412 of October 13, 2006, Execu-
tive Order 13761 of January 13, 2017, and
Executive Order 13804 of July 11, 2017,
has not been resolved. These actions
and policies continue to pose an un-
usual and extraordinary threat to the
national security and foreign policy of
the United States. Therefore, I have de-
termined that it is necessary to con-
tinue the national emergency declared
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:00 Nov 01, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00023 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A31OC6.046 S31OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6332 October 31, 2019
in Executive Order 13067, as expanded
by Executive Order 13400, with respect
to Sudan.
DONALD J. TRUMP.
THE WHITE HOUSE, October 31, 2019.
f
TRANSMITTING NOTIFICATION OF
THE PRESIDENT’S INTENT TO
TERMINATE THE DESIGNATION
OF THE REPUBLIC OF CAM-
EROON AS A BENEFICIARY SUB-
SAHARAN AFRICAN COUNTRY
UNDER THE AFRICAN GROWTH
AND OPPORTUNITY ACT (AGOA)—
PM 35
The PRESIDING OFFICER laid be-
fore the Senate the following message
from the President of the United
States; which was referred to the Com-
mittee on Finance:
To the Congress of the United States:
In accordance with section
506A(a)(3)(B) of the Trade Act of 1974,
as amended (19 U.S.C. 2466a(a)(3)(B)), I
am providing notice of my intent to
terminate the designation of the Re-
public of Cameroon (Cameroon) as a
beneficiary sub-Saharan African coun-
try under the African Growth and Op-
portunity Act (AGOA).
I am taking this step because I have
determined that the Government of
Cameroon currently engages in gross
violations of internationally recog-
nized human rights, contravening the
eligibility requirements of section 104
of the AGOA.
Despite intensive engagement be-
tween the United States and the Gov-
ernment of Cameroon, Cameroon has
failed to address concerns regarding
persistent human rights violations
being committed by Cameroonian secu-
rity forces. These violations include
extrajudicial killings, arbitrary and
unlawful detention, and torture.
Accordingly, I intend to terminate
the designation of Cameroon as a bene-
ficiary sub-Saharan African country
under the AGOA as of January 1, 2020.
I will continue to assess whether the
Government of Cameroon engages in
gross violations of internationally rec-
ognized human rights, in accordance
with the AGOA eligibility require-
ments.
DONALD J. TRUMP.
THE WHITE HOUSE, October 31, 2019.
f
MESSAGES FROM THE HOUSE
At 10:23 a.m., a message from the
House of Representatives, delivered by
Mr. Novotny, one of its reading clerks,
announced that the House has passed
the following bills, in which it requests
the concurrence of the Senate:
H.R. 1373. An act to protect, for current
and future generations, the watershed, eco-
system, and cultural heritage of the Grand
Canyon region in the State of Arizona, and
for other purposes.
H.R. 2181. An act to provide for the with-
drawal and protection of certain Federal
land in the State of New Mexico.
At 4:31 p.m., a message from the
House of Representatives, delivered by
Mrs. Cole, one of its reading clerks, an-
nounced that the House has passed the
following bill, in which it requests the
concurrence of the Senate:
H.R. 823. An act to provide for the designa-
tion of certain wilderness areas, recreation
management areas, and conservation areas
in the State of Colorado, and for other pur-
poses.
f
MEASURES REFERRED
The following bills were read the first
and the second times by unanimous
consent, and referred as indicated:
H.R. 823. An act to provide for the designa-
tion of certain wilderness areas, recreation
management areas, and conservation areas
in the State of Colorado, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Energy and Nat-
ural Resources.
H.R. 1373. An act to protect, for current
and future generations, the watershed, eco-
system, and cultural heritage of the Grand
Canyon region in the State of Arizona, and
for other purposes; to the Committee on En-
ergy and Natural Resources.
H.R. 2181. An act to provide for the with-
drawal and protection of certain Federal
land in the State of New Mexico; to the Com-
mittee on Energy and Natural Resources.
f
MEASURES PLACED ON THE
CALENDAR
The following bill was read the sec-
ond time, and placed on the calendar:
S. 2755. A bill to require a report on the
plan to secure the enduring defeat of the Is-
lamic State of Iraq and Syria.
f
EXECUTIVE AND OTHER
COMMUNICATIONS
The following communications were
laid before the Senate, together with
accompanying papers, reports, and doc-
uments, and were referred as indicated:
EC–3084. A communication from the Chief
of the Law Enforcement Division, Depart-
ment of the Army, Department of Defense,
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of
a rule entitled ‘‘Military Police Investiga-
tion’’ ((RIN0702–AB01) (32 CFR Part 637)) re-
ceived in the Office of the President of the
Senate on October 29, 2019; to the Committee
on Armed Services.
EC–3085. A communication from the Sec-
retary of the Treasury, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, a six-month periodic report on
the national emergency that was declared in
Executive Order 13851 of November 27, 2018,
with respect to Nicaragua; to the Committee
on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs.
EC–3086. A communication from the Policy
Associate Director, Bureau of Consumer Fi-
nancial Protection, transmitting, pursuant
to law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Con-
sumer Leasing (Regulation M)’’ ((RIN7100–
AF59) (Docket No. R–1676)) received in the
Office of the President of the Senate on Oc-
tober 30, 2019; to the Committee on Banking,
Housing, and Urban Affairs.
EC–3087. A communication from the Policy
Associate Director, Bureau of Consumer Fi-
nancial Protection, transmitting, pursuant
to law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Ap-
praisals for Higher-Priced Mortgage Loans
Exemption Threshold’’ ((RIN7100–AF61)
(Docket No. R–1678)) received in the Office of
the President of the Senate on October 30,
2019; to the Committee on Banking, Housing,
and Urban Affairs.
EC–3088. A communication from the Policy
Associate Director, Bureau of Consumer Fi-
nancial Protection, transmitting, pursuant
to law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Truth
in Lending (Regulation Z)’’ ((RIN7100–AF60)
(Docket No. R–1677)) received in the Office of
the President of the Senate on October 30,
2019; to the Committee on Banking, Housing,
and Urban Affairs.
EC–3089. A communication from the Sec-
retary of Energy, transmitting, pursuant to
law, a report entitled ‘‘Report on the Utiliza-
tion of Federal Technology for Fiscal Years
2016 and 2017’’; to the Committee on Energy
and Natural Resources.
EC–3090. A communication from the Super-
visory Regulations Specialist, Fish and Wild-
life Service, Department of the Interior,
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of
a rule entitled ‘‘Subsistence Management
Regulations for Public Lands in Alaska—
2019–20 and 2020–21 Subsistence Taking of
Fish Regulations’’ (RIN1018–BC06) received
in the Office of the President of the Senate
on October 29, 2019; to the Committee on En-
ergy and Natural Resources.
EC–3091. A communication from the Super-
visory Regulations Specialist, Fish and Wild-
life Service, Department of the Interior,
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of
a rule entitled ‘‘Subsistence Management
Regulations for Public Lands in Alaska—
Cook Inlet Area Regulations’’ (RIN1018–
BB99) received in the Office of the President
of the Senate on October 29, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Energy and Natural Resources.
EC–3092. A communication from the Assist-
ant General Counsel for Legislation, Regula-
tion and Energy Efficiency, Department of
Energy, transmitting, pursuant to law, the
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Revisions to the
Office of Hearings and Appeals Procedural
Regulations’’ ((RIN1903–AA10) (10 CFR Part
1003)) received in the Office of the President
of the Senate on October 30, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Energy and Natural Resources.
EC–3093. A communication from the Wild-
life Biologist, Fish and Wildlife Service, De-
partment of the Interior, transmitting, pur-
suant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Migratory Bird Hunting; Migratory Bird
Hunting Regulations on Certain Federal In-
dian Reservations and Ceded Lands for the
2019–20 Season’’ (RIN1018–BD07) received in
the Office of the President of the Senate on
October 29, 2019; to the Committee on Envi-
ronment and Public Works.
EC–3094. A communication from the
Branch Chief, Fish and Wildlife Service, De-
partment of the Interior, transmitting, pur-
suant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Migratory Bird Hunting; Final Frameworks
for Migratory Bird Hunting Regulations’’
(RIN1018–BD10) received in the Office of the
President of the Senate on October 29, 2019;
to the Committee on Environment and Pub-
lic Works.
EC–3095. A communication from the
Branch Chief, Fish and Wildlife Service, De-
partment of the Interior, transmitting, pur-
suant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Migratory Bird Permits; Regulations Con-
cerning a Depredation Order’’ (RIN1018–BB77)
received in the Office of the President of the
Senate on October 29, 2019; to the Committee
on Environment and Public Works.
EC–3096. A communication from the Wild-
life Biologist, Fish and Wildlife Service, De-
partment of the Interior, transmitting, pur-
suant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Migratory Bird Hunting; Seasons and Bag
and Possession Limits for Certain Migratory
Game Birds’’ (RIN1018–BD10) received in the
Office of the President of the Senate on Oc-
tober 29, 2019; to the Committee on Environ-
ment and Public Works.
EC–3097. A communication from the
Branch Chief, Fish and Wildlife Service, De-
partment of the Interior, transmitting, pur-
suant to law, the report of a rule entitled
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:59 Nov 01, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00024 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A31OC6.029 S31OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6333
October 31, 2019
‘‘Endangered and Threatened Wildlife and
Plants; Regulations for Interagency Coopera-
tion (Delay of Effective Date)’’ (RIN1018–
BC87) received in the Office of the President
of the Senate on October 29, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Environment and Public Works.
EC–3098. A communication from the
Branch Chief, Fish and Wildlife Service, De-
partment of the Interior, transmitting, pur-
suant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Endangered and Threatened Wildlife and
Plants; Removing the Foskett Speckled
Dace from the List of Endangered and
Threatened Wildlife’’ (RIN1018–BC09) re-
ceived in the Office of the President of the
Senate on October 29, 2019; to the Committee
on Environment and Public Works.
EC–3099. A communication from the Fish
and Wildlife Administrator, Fish and Wild-
life Service, Department of the Interior,
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of
a rule entitled ‘‘Financial Assistance: Wild-
life Restoration, Sport Fish Restoration,
Hunter Education and Safety’’ (RIN1018–
BA33) received in the Office of the President
of the Senate on October 29, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Environment and Public Works.
EC–3100. A communication from the
Branch Chief, Fish and Wildlife Service, De-
partment of the Interior, transmitting, pur-
suant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Endangered and Threatened Wildlife and
Plants; Removal of the Monito Gecko
(Sphaerodactylus micropithecus) from the
Federal List of Endangered and Threatened
Wildlife’’ (RIN1018–BB76) received in the Of-
fice of the President of the Senate on Octo-
ber 29, 2019; to the Committee on Environ-
ment and Public Works.
EC–3101. A communication from the
Branch Chief, Fish and Wildlife Service, De-
partment of the Interior, transmitting, pur-
suant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Endangered and Threatened Wildlife and
Plants; Removing the Kirtland’s Warbler
from the Federal List of Endangered and
Threatened Wildlife’’ (RIN1018–BC01) re-
ceived in the Office of the President of the
Senate on October 29, 2019; to the Committee
on Environment and Public Works.
EC–3102. A communication from the Na-
tional Species Status Assessment Team
Lead, Fish and Wildlife Service, Department
of the Interior, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Endan-
gered and Threatened Wildlife and Plants;
Endangered Species Status for Barrens
Topminnow’’ (RIN1018–BC52) received in the
Office of the President of the Senate on Oc-
tober 29, 2019; to the Committee on Environ-
ment and Public Works.
f
EXECUTIVE REPORTS OF
COMMITTEE
The following executive reports of
nominations were submitted:
By Mr. GRAHAM for the Committee on the
Judiciary.
Sarah E. Pitlyk, of Missouri, to be United
States District Judge for the Eastern Dis-
trict of Missouri.
Richard Earnest Myers II, of North Caro-
lina, to be United States District Judge for
the Eastern District of North Carolina.
Daniel Mack Traynor, of North Dakota, to
be United States District Judge for the Dis-
trict of North Dakota.
Jodi W. Dishman, of Oklahoma, to be
United States District Judge for the Western
District of Oklahoma.
(Nominations without an asterisk
were reported with the recommenda-
tion that they be confirmed.)
INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND
JOINT RESOLUTIONS
The following bills and joint resolu-
tions were introduced, read the first
and second times by unanimous con-
sent, and referred as indicated:
By Mr. GARDNER (for himself and Mr.
PETERS):
S. 2756. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to facilitate program-re-
lated investments by private foundations; to
the Committee on Finance.
By Mr. LANKFORD (for himself, Ms.
HASSAN, Mr. RUBIO, and Mr. INHOFE):
S. 2757. A bill to waive the imposition of a
civil fine for certain first-time paperwork
violations by small business concerns; to the
Committee on Homeland Security and Gov-
ernmental Affairs.
By Mr. HAWLEY (for himself, Mr.
SCOTT of Florida, and Mr. CORNYN):
S. 2758. A bill to impose sanctions under
the Global Magnitsky Human Rights Ac-
countability Act to combat the suppression
of the freedoms of speech, association, as-
sembly, procession, and demonstration of the
people of Hong Kong, and for other purposes;
to the Committee on Banking, Housing, and
Urban Affairs.
By Mrs. SHAHEEN (for herself and Ms.
HASSAN):
S. 2759. A bill to require the United States
Postal Service to designate a single, unique
ZIP code for Swanzey, New Hampshire; to
the Committee on Homeland Security and
Governmental Affairs.
By Mr. CASEY:
S. 2760. A bill to amend the Richard B. Rus-
sell National School Lunch Act to enhance
direct certification under the school lunch
program; to the Committee on Agriculture,
Nutrition, and Forestry.
By Mr. RUBIO (for himself and Mr.
MURPHY):
S. 2761. A bill to amend the Elementary
and Secondary Education Act of 1965 to pro-
vide that children who have relocated from
Puerto Rico to the States are fully consid-
ered for purposes of State allotments under
the English Language Acquisition grants; to
the Committee on Health, Education, Labor,
and Pensions.
By Ms. COLLINS:
S. 2762. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to increase the limitation
on the amount individuals filing jointly can
deduct for certain State and local taxes; to
the Committee on Finance.
By Mr. THUNE (for himself, Mr.
BLUMENTHAL, Mr. MORAN, Mrs.
BLACKBURN, and Mr. WARNER):
S. 2763. A bill to require that internet plat-
forms give users the option to engage with a
platform without being manipulated by algo-
rithms driver by user-specific data; to the
Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation.
By Mr. GRASSLEY (for himself, Ms.
ERNST, and Mrs. FEINSTEIN):
S. 2764. A bill to amend the Controlled Sub-
stances Act to clarify how controlled sub-
stance analogues that are imported or of-
fered for import are to be regulated, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on the Ju-
diciary.
By Mr. ENZI (for himself, Mr. WHITE-
HOUSE, Mr. GRASSLEY, Mr. KAINE, Mr.
CRAPO, Mr. KING, Mr. GRAHAM, Mr.
COONS, Mr. BARRASSO, Mr. BLUNT, Mr.
JOHNSON, Mr. PERDUE, Mr. KENNEDY,
Mr. CRAMER, and Mr. BRAUN):
S. 2765. A bill to improve Federal fiscal
controls and the congressional budget proc-
ess; to the Committee on the Budget.
By Ms. COLLINS (for herself and Mr.
CARDIN):
S. 2766. A bill to support and expand civic
engagement and political leadership of ado-
lescent girls around the world, and other
purposes; to the Committee on Foreign Rela-
tions.
By Mr. JONES (for himself and Mr.
SCOTT of Florida):
S. 2767. A bill to amend the Federal Water
Pollution Control Act to establish a pilot
competitive grant program for improving
the sharing of water quality data, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Envi-
ronment and Public Works.
By Mr. CARPER:
S. 2768. A bill to amend title 49, United
States Code, to prohibit smoking on Amtrak
trains; to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation.
By Mr. JOHNSON (for himself and Mr.
PETERS):
S. 2769. A bill to eliminate or modify cer-
tain Federal agency reporting requirements,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Homeland Security and Governmental Af-
fairs.
f
SUBMISSION OF CONCURRENT AND
SENATE RESOLUTIONS
The following concurrent resolutions
and Senate resolutions were read, and
referred (or acted upon), as indicated:
By Mr. TESTER:
S. Res. 391. A resolution reaffirming a
strong commitment to the U.S. producers
and American-made commodities; to the
Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and
Forestry.
By Mr. MERKLEY (for himself, Mr.
MARKEY, Mr. GARDNER, Ms. HIRONO,
Mr. YOUNG, and Ms. DUCKWORTH):
S. Res. 392. A resolution recognizing the
importance of the Young Southeast Asian
Leaders Initiative to the relationship be-
tween the United States and the member
states of the Association of Southeast Asian
Nations and to advancing the policy of the
United States in the Indo-Pacific region; to
the Committee on Foreign Relations.
By Mr. YOUNG (for himself and Mr.
CARDIN):
S. Res. 393. A resolution recognizing the
historical, cultural, and religious signifi-
cance of the 550th birthday of Guru Nanak
and the contributions and sacrifices made by
Sikhs of the United States; to the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. COTTON (for himself, Mr. GRA-
HAM, Mr. CRUZ, and Mr. BRAUN):
S. Res. 394. A resolution honoring the
members of the military and intelligence
community who carried out the mission that
killed Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi, and for other
purposes; considered and agreed to.
By Mr. ISAKSON (for himself, Mr.
BLUMENTHAL, and Mr. LEAHY):
S. Res. 395. A resolution recognizing the
40th anniversary of the Iran Hostage Crisis,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Foreign Relations.
By Mr. MURPHY (for himself, Mrs.
HYDE-SMITH, Mr. VAN HOLLEN, and
Mr. SCOTT of South Carolina):
S. Res. 396. A resolution designating Octo-
ber 2019 as ‘‘National Health Literacy
Month’’; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. TESTER (for himself and Mr.
DAINES):
S. Res. 397. A resolution celebrating the
25th anniversary of the passage of the Mike
Mansfield Fellowship Act creating the Mike
Mansfield Fellowship Program; to the Com-
mittee on Foreign Relations.
By Mr. JONES:
S. Res. 398. A resolution recognizing the
National Peanut Festival held annually in
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:59 Nov 01, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00025 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A31OC6.027 S31OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6334 October 31, 2019
Dothan, Alabama, and the importance of the
peanut industry in the State of Alabama and
the United States; to the Committee on Ag-
riculture, Nutrition, and Forestry.
By Mr. HOEVEN (for himself, Mr. HEIN-
RICH, Mr. PORTMAN, Mr. TESTER, Mr.
CORNYN, Ms. WARREN, Mr. ROBERTS,
Mr. MARKEY, Mr. ENZI, Mr. UDALL,
Mr. CRAMER, Mrs. MURRAY, Mr.
MORAN, Mr. SCHUMER, Mr. ROUNDS,
Ms. BALDWIN, Mr. THUNE, Mr. BEN-
NET, Mr. BRAUN, Mr. BOOZMAN, Mr.
INHOFE, Mrs. HYDE-SMITH, Mr. WHITE-
HOUSE, and Ms. SMITH):
S. Res. 399. A resolution designating No-
vember 2, 2019, as ‘‘National Bison Day’’;
considered and agreed to.
By Mr. RUBIO (for himself, Mr.
CARDIN, Mr. BRAUN, Ms. CANTWELL,
Mr. GRASSLEY, Mr. COONS, Mr. RISCH,
Ms. HIRONO, Mr. KENNEDY, Ms.
DUCKWORTH, Mrs. CAPITO, Ms. ROSEN,
Mr. SCOTT of Florida, Mrs. FEINSTEIN,
Mr. GARDNER, Mr. WYDEN, Mr. CRAPO,
Ms. KLOBUCHAR, Mr. BARRASSO, Mr.
KING, Ms. COLLINS, Ms. HASSAN, Mrs.
BLACKBURN, Ms. SINEMA, Mrs. FISCH-
ER, Mr. CRAMER, Mr. SCOTT of South
Carolina, Mr. YOUNG, Ms. ERNST, Mr.
PERDUE, Mr. ROBERTS, Mr. DAINES,
Mr. WICKER, Mr. ROMNEY, Mr. ENZI,
Mr. INHOFE, Mr. ALEXANDER, Mr.
HAWLEY, Mr. LANKFORD, Mrs. HYDE-
SMITH, Mr. BOOKER, Mr. PETERS, Mr.
HOEVEN, and Ms. MCSALLY):
S. Res. 400. A resolution recognizing Octo-
ber 2019 as ‘‘National Women’s Small Busi-
ness Month’’; considered and agreed to.
By Ms. HIRONO (for herself, Ms. MUR-
KOWSKI, Mr. BOOKER, Ms. CANTWELL,
Mr. CARDIN, Ms. CORTEZ MASTO, Ms.
DUCKWORTH, Mr. DURBIN, Ms. HARRIS,
Mrs. FEINSTEIN, Mr. KAINE, Ms. KLO-
BUCHAR, Mr. MENENDEZ, Mrs. MUR-
RAY, Ms. ROSEN, Mr. SCHATZ, Mr. VAN
HOLLEN, Ms. WARREN, and Mr. SAND-
ERS):
S. Res. 401. A resolution recognizing the
month of October 2019 as Filipino American
History Month and celebrating the history
and culture of Filipino Americans and their
immense contributions to the United States;
considered and agreed to.
By Mr. BROWN (for himself and Mr.
PORTMAN):
S. Res. 402. A resolution honoring the life,
work, and legacy of Toni Morrison; consid-
ered and agreed to.
By Mr. LEAHY (for himself, Ms. COL-
LINS, Mr. BROWN, and Mr. PERDUE):
S. Res. 403. A resolution designating Octo-
ber 2019 as ‘‘National Farm to School
Month’’; considered and agreed to.
By Mr. CARDIN (for himself, Ms. COL-
LINS, Mr. MENENDEZ, Mr. SCHATZ, Mr.
MARKEY, Mr. WHITEHOUSE, Mr.
UDALL, Mr. BLUMENTHAL, Mrs. SHA-
HEEN, Mrs. GILLIBRAND, Mr. DURBIN,
Mr. REED, Mr. COONS, Mr. BENNET,
Mr. BOOKER, Ms. WARREN, Mr. LEAHY,
Mr. BROWN, Mr. CARPER, Ms. STABE-
NOW, Ms. HIRONO, Mr. KAINE, Mrs.
FEINSTEIN, Ms. KLOBUCHAR, Ms. HAR-
RIS, Ms. BALDWIN, Mr. MERKLEY, Mr.
MURPHY, Ms. SMITH, Mr. VAN HOLLEN,
Mr. SANDERS, Mr. WARNER, and Ms.
HASSAN):
S. Res. 404. A resolution expressing the
sense of the Senate that the United States
should work in cooperation with the inter-
national community and continue to exer-
cise global leadership to address the causes
and effects of climate change, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Foreign Rela-
tions.
By Mr. GRASSLEY:
S. Res. 405. A resolution expressing support
for the designation of October as ‘‘Brain
Health Awareness Month’’; to the Committee
on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
f
ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS
S. 206
At the request of Mr. TESTER, the
names of the Senator from Arizona
(Ms. SINEMA) and the Senator from
Delaware (Mr. COONS) were added as co-
sponsors of S. 206, a bill to award a
Congressional Gold Medal to the fe-
male telephone operators of the Army
Signal Corps, known as the ‘‘Hello
Girls’’.
S. 283
At the request of Ms. COLLINS, the
name of the Senator from Arizona (Ms.
SINEMA) was added as a cosponsor of S.
283, a bill to amend title XVIII of the
Social Security Act to improve access
to, and utilization of, bone mass meas-
urement benefits under part B of the
Medicare program by establishing a
minimum payment amount under such
part for bone mass measurement.
S. 377
At the request of Mr. BROWN, the
name of the Senator from Massachu-
setts (Ms. WARREN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 377, a bill to amend title
XVIII of the Social Security Act to re-
quire the Secretary of Health and
Human Services to negotiate prices of
prescription drugs furnished under part
D of the Medicare program.
S. 386
At the request of Mr. LEE, the name
of the Senator from Connecticut (Mr.
BLUMENTHAL) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 386, a bill to amend the Immigra-
tion and Nationality Act to eliminate
the per-country numerical limitation
for employment-based immigrants, to
increase the per-country numerical
limitation for family-sponsored immi-
grants, and for other purposes.
S. 457
At the request of Mr. CORNYN, the
name of the Senator from New Hamp-
shire (Mrs. SHAHEEN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 457, a bill to require that
$1 coins issued during 2019 honor Presi-
dent George H.W. Bush and to direct
the Secretary of the Treasury to issue
bullion coins during 2019 in honor of
Barbara Bush.
S. 500
At the request of Mr. PORTMAN, the
name of the Senator from Indiana (Mr.
YOUNG) was added as a cosponsor of S.
500, a bill to amend title 54, United
States Code, to establish, fund, and
provide for the use of amounts in a Na-
tional Park Service Legacy Restora-
tion Fund to address the maintenance
backlog of the National Park Service,
and for other purposes.
S. 560
At the request of Ms. BALDWIN, the
names of the Senator from Massachu-
setts (Ms. WARREN) and the Senator
from Mississippi (Mrs. HYDE-SMITH)
were added as cosponsors of S. 560, a
bill to amend the Public Health Serv-
ice Act, the Employee Retirement In-
come Security Act of 1974, and the In-
ternal Revenue Code of 1986 to require
that group and individual health insur-
ance coverage and group health plans
provide coverage for treatment of a
congenital anomaly or birth defect.
S. 878
At the request of Mr. COTTON, the
name of the Senator from Missouri
(Mr. HAWLEY) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 878, a bill to foster security in
Taiwan, and for other purposes.
S. 880
At the request of Ms. STABENOW, the
names of the Senator from Minnesota
(Ms. SMITH) and the Senator from Cali-
fornia (Ms. HARRIS) were added as co-
sponsors of S. 880, a bill to provide out-
reach and reporting on comprehensive
Alzheimer’s disease care planning serv-
ices furnished under the Medicare pro-
gram.
S. 1007
At the request of Mr. CRAPO, the
name of the Senator from Louisiana
(Mr. KENNEDY) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 1007, a bill to amend the Horse
Protection Act to designate additional
unlawful acts under the Act, strength-
en penalties for violations of the Act,
improve Department of Agriculture en-
forcement of the Act, and for other
purposes.
S. 1123
At the request of Mr. COONS, the
names of the Senator from Rhode Is-
land (Mr. REED) and the Senator from
New Mexico (Mr. UDALL) were added as
cosponsors of S. 1123, a bill to transfer
and limit Executive Branch authority
to suspend or restrict the entry of a
class of aliens.
S. 1218
At the request of Mr. VAN HOLLEN,
the name of the Senator from Massa-
chusetts (Ms. WARREN) was added as a
cosponsor of S. 1218, a bill to require
the review of the service of certain
members of the Armed Forces during
World War I to determine if such mem-
bers should be awarded the Medal of
Honor, to authorize the award of the
Medal of Honor based on the results of
the review, and for other purposes.
S. 1235
At the request of Mrs. BLACKBURN,
the names of the Senator from New
Jersey (Mr. BOOKER) and the Senator
from New Jersey (Mr. MENENDEZ) were
added as cosponsors of S. 1235, a bill to
require the Secretary of the Treasury
to mint coins in commemoration of
ratification of the 19th Amendment to
the Constitution of the United States,
giving women in the United States the
right to vote.
S. 1257
At the request of Mr. CRAMER, the
name of the Senator from Texas (Mr.
CORNYN) was added as a cosponsor of S.
1257, a bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to expand tax-free
distributions from individual retire-
ment accounts to include rollovers for
charitable life-income plans for chari-
table purposes.
S. 1294
At the request of Mr. WICKER, the
name of the Senator from Wisconsin
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:59 Nov 01, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00026 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A31OC6.021 S31OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6335
October 31, 2019
(Ms. BALDWIN) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 1294, a bill to require Federal
agencies with jurisdiction over
broadband deployment to enter into an
interagency agreement related to cer-
tain types of funding for broadband de-
ployment.
S. 1590
At the request of Mr. MERKLEY, the
name of the Senator from New Jersey
(Mr. BOOKER) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 1590, a bill to amend the State De-
partment Basic Authorities Act of 1956
to authorize rewards for thwarting
wildlife trafficking linked to
transnational organized crime, and for
other purposes.
S. 1601
At the request of Mr. WICKER, the
names of the Senator from Arizona
(Ms. MCSALLY), the Senator from Mas-
sachusetts (Mr. MARKEY), the Senator
from California (Mrs. FEINSTEIN), the
Senator from Minnesota (Ms. SMITH),
the Senator from New York (Mrs.
GILLIBRAND) and the Senator from Ohio
(Mr. BROWN) were added as cosponsors
of S. 1601, a bill to direct the Secretary
of Transportation to issue a rule re-
quiring all new passenger motor vehi-
cles to be equipped with a child safety
alert system, and for other purposes.
S. 1657
At the request of Ms. COLLINS, the
names of the Senator from Indiana
(Mr. BRAUN) and the Senator from
Vermont (Mr. SANDERS) were added as
cosponsors of S. 1657, a bill to provide
assistance to combat the escalating
burden of Lyme disease and other tick
and vector-borne diseases and dis-
orders.
S. 1703
At the request of Ms. CANTWELL, the
name of the Senator from Nevada (Ms.
CORTEZ MASTO) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 1703, a bill to amend the Inter-
nal Revenue Code of 1986 to reform the
low-income housing credit, and for
other purposes.
S. 1757
At the request of Ms. ERNST, the
name of the Senator from Alaska (Ms.
MURKOWSKI) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 1757, a bill to award a Congres-
sional Gold Medal, collectively, to the
United States Army Rangers Veterans
of World War II in recognition of their
extraordinary service during World
War II.
S. 1781
At the request of Mr. RUBIO, the
name of the Senator from South Da-
kota (Mr. ROUNDS) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 1781, a bill to authorize
appropriations for the Department of
State for fiscal years 2020 through 2022
to provide assistance to El Salvador,
Guatemala, and Honduras through bi-
lateral compacts to increase protection
of women and children in their homes
and communities and reduce female
homicides, domestic violence, and sex-
ual assault.
S. 1782
At the request of Mr. KENNEDY, the
name of the Senator from Nevada (Ms.
ROSEN) was added as a cosponsor of S.
1782, a bill to add suicide prevention re-
sources to school identification cards.
S. 1812
At the request of Mr. MERKLEY, the
name of the Senator from California
(Ms. HARRIS) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 1812, a bill to authorize the Ad-
ministrator of the Environmental Pro-
tection Agency to conduct research on
wildfire smoke, and for other purposes.
S. 1813
At the request of Mr. MERKLEY, the
name of the Senator from California
(Ms. HARRIS) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 1813, a bill to amend the Robert T.
Stafford Disaster Relief and Emer-
gency Assistance Act to provide wild-
fire smoke mitigation assistance to
States and units of local government,
and for other purposes.
S. 1814
At the request of Mr. MERKLEY, the
name of the Senator from California
(Ms. HARRIS) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 1814, a bill to authorize the Presi-
dent to declare a smoke emergency,
and for other purposes.
S. 1815
At the request of Mr. MERKLEY, the
name of the Senator from California
(Ms. HARRIS) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 1815, a bill to establish an occupa-
tional safety and health standard to
protect farmworkers from wildfire
smoke, and for other purposes.
S. 1838
At the request of Mr. RUBIO, the
name of the Senator from Arizona (Ms.
MCSALLY) was added as a cosponsor of
S. 1838, a bill to amend the Hong Kong
Policy Act of 1992, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 2026
At the request of Mr. LEAHY, the
name of the Senator from Montana
(Mr. TESTER) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 2026, a bill to amend the Richard
B. Russell National School Lunch Act
to reauthorize the farm to school pro-
gram, and for other purposes.
S. 2179
At the request of Mr. CARDIN, the
name of the Senator from Ohio (Mr.
PORTMAN) was added as a cosponsor of
S. 2179, a bill to amend the Older Amer-
icans Act of 1965 to provide social serv-
ice agencies with the resources to pro-
vide services to meet the urgent needs
of Holocaust survivors to age in place
with dignity, comfort, security, and
quality of life.
S. 2246
At the request of Mr. MORAN, the
name of the Senator from Nevada (Ms.
CORTEZ MASTO) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 2246, a bill to amend titles
XVIII and XIX of the Social Security
Act to provide equal coverage of in
vitro specific IgE tests and
percutaneous tests for allergies under
the Medicare and Medicaid programs,
and for other purposes.
S. 2248
At the request of Mr. SCOTT of South
Carolina, the name of the Senator from
Nevada (Ms. CORTEZ MASTO) was added
as a cosponsor of S. 2248, a bill to
amend title 10, United States Code, to
redesignate and expand the Troops-to-
Teachers Program, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 2254
At the request of Mr. BROWN, the
name of the Senator from New York
(Mrs. GILLIBRAND) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 2254, a bill to amend the
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to create
a Pension Rehabilitation Trust Fund,
to establish a Pension Rehabilitation
Administration within the Department
of the Treasury to make loans to mul-
tiemployer defined benefit plans, and
for other purposes.
S. 2491
At the request of Mr. UDALL, the
name of the Senator from Delaware
(Mr. COONS) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 2491, a bill to terminate certain
rules issued by the Secretary of the In-
terior and the Secretary of Commerce
relating to endangered and threatened
species, and for other purposes.
S. 2570
At the request of Ms. SINEMA, the
name of the Senator from Montana
(Mr. TESTER) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 2570, a bill to award a Congres-
sional Gold Medal to Greg LeMond in
recognition of his service to the United
States as an athlete, activist, role
model, and community leader.
S. 2603
At the request of Mr. DURBIN, the
name of the Senator from Connecticut
(Mr. BLUMENTHAL) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 2603, a bill to amend the
Immigration and Nationality Act to
end the immigrant visa backlog, and
for other purposes.
S. 2641
At the request of Mr. RISCH, the
names of the Senator from Michigan
(Mr. PETERS) and the Senator from
Georgia (Mr. ISAKSON) were added as
cosponsors of S. 2641, a bill to promote
United States national security and
prevent the resurgence of ISIS, and for
other purposes.
S. 2671
At the request of Ms. DUCKWORTH,
her name was added as a cosponsor of
S. 2671, a bill to build safer, thriving
communities, and save lives by invest-
ing in effective violence reduction ini-
tiatives.
At the request of Mr. CASEY, his
name was added as a cosponsor of S.
2671, supra.
S. 2680
At the request of Mr. RUBIO, the
name of the Senator from Mississippi
(Mr. WICKER) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 2680, a bill to impose sanctions
with respect to foreign support for Pal-
estinian terrorism, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 2690
At the request of Mr. CORNYN, the
name of the Senator from Oklahoma
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:59 Nov 01, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00027 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A31OC6.035 S31OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6336 October 31, 2019
(Mr. LANKFORD) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 2690, a bill to reduce mass vio-
lence, strengthen mental health col-
laboration in communities, improve
school safety, and for other purposes.
S. 2695
At the request of Mr. ROBERTS, the
names of the Senator from Iowa (Mr.
GRASSLEY) and the Senator from Kan-
sas (Mr. MORAN) were added as cospon-
sors of S. 2695, a bill to authorize the
Secretary of Agriculture to provide for
the defense of United States agri-
culture and food through the National
Bio and Agro-Defense Facility, and for
other purposes.
S. 2710
At the request of Mr. MERKLEY, the
name of the Senator from Maryland
(Mr. VAN HOLLEN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 2710, a bill to prohibit the
commercial export of covered muni-
tions items to the Hong Kong Police
Force.
S. 2722
At the request of Ms. ERNST, the
name of the Senator from Montana
(Mr. DAINES) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 2722, a bill to prohibit agencies
from using Federal funds for publicity
or propaganda purposes, and for other
purposes.
S. 2740
At the request of Mr. ISAKSON, the
name of the Senator from Indiana (Mr.
BRAUN) was added as a cosponsor of S.
2740, a bill to amend the Federal Food,
Drug, and Cosmetic Act to clarify the
regulatory framework with respect to
certain nonprescription drugs that are
marketed without an approved new
drug application, and for other pur-
poses.
S. RES. 150
At the request of Mr. CRUZ, the name
of the Senator from Utah (Mr. ROMNEY)
was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 150,
a resolution expressing the sense of the
Senate that it is the policy of the
United States to commemorate the Ar-
menian Genocide through official rec-
ognition and remembrance.
S. RES. 376
At the request of Mr. MERKLEY, the
name of the Senator from New Hamp-
shire (Mrs. SHAHEEN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. Res. 376, a resolution em-
phasizing the importance of a career,
nonpartisan Foreign Service of the
United States.
AMENDMENT NO. 1005
At the request of Mrs. SHAHEEN, the
name of the Senator from Connecticut
(Mr. BLUMENTHAL) was added as a co-
sponsor of amendment No. 1005 pro-
posed to H.R. 3055, a bill making appro-
priations for the Departments of Com-
merce and Justice, Science, and Re-
lated Agencies for the fiscal year end-
ing September 30, 2020, and for other
purposes.
AMENDMENT NO. 1088
At the request of Mr. BROWN, the
name of the Senator from California
(Ms. HARRIS) was added as a cosponsor
of amendment No. 1088 proposed to
H.R. 3055, a bill making appropriations
for the Departments of Commerce and
Justice, Science, and Related Agencies
for the fiscal year ending September 30,
2020, and for other purposes.
AMENDMENT NO. 1099
At the request of Ms. BALDWIN, the
names of the Senator from Michigan
(Mr. PETERS) and the Senator from
Ohio (Mr. BROWN) were added as co-
sponsors of amendment No. 1099 pro-
posed to H.R. 3055, a bill making appro-
priations for the Departments of Com-
merce and Justice, Science, and Re-
lated Agencies for the fiscal year end-
ing September 30, 2020, and for other
purposes.
AMENDMENT NO. 1114
At the request of Mr. HEINRICH, the
name of the Senator from Massachu-
setts (Ms. WARREN) was added as a co-
sponsor of amendment No. 1114 pro-
posed to H.R. 3055, a bill making appro-
priations for the Departments of Com-
merce and Justice, Science, and Re-
lated Agencies for the fiscal year end-
ing September 30, 2020, and for other
purposes.
AMENDMENT NO. 1122
At the request of Mr. HEINRICH, the
name of the Senator from Alaska (Ms.
MURKOWSKI) was added as a cosponsor
of amendment No. 1122 intended to be
proposed to H.R. 3055, a bill making ap-
propriations for the Departments of
Commerce and Justice, Science, and
Related Agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2020, and for
other purposes.
AMENDMENT NO. 1130
At the request of Mrs. SHAHEEN, the
name of the Senator from Massachu-
setts (Ms. WARREN) was added as a co-
sponsor of amendment No. 1130 pro-
posed to H.R. 3055, a bill making appro-
priations for the Departments of Com-
merce and Justice, Science, and Re-
lated Agencies for the fiscal year end-
ing September 30, 2020, and for other
purposes.
AMENDMENT NO. 1135
At the request of Ms. STABENOW, the
name of the Senator from California
(Ms. HARRIS) was added as a cosponsor
of amendment No. 1135 intended to be
proposed to H.R. 3055, a bill making ap-
propriations for the Departments of
Commerce and Justice, Science, and
Related Agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2020, and for
other purposes.
AMENDMENT NO. 1163
At the request of Ms. MCSALLY, the
name of the Senator from Michigan
(Mr. PETERS) was added as a cosponsor
of amendment No. 1163 proposed to
H.R. 3055, a bill making appropriations
for the Departments of Commerce and
Justice, Science, and Related Agencies
for the fiscal year ending September 30,
2020, and for other purposes.
AMENDMENT NO. 1182
At the request of Mr. PETERS, the
name of the Senator from Wisconsin
(Ms. BALDWIN) was added as a cospon-
sor of amendment No. 1182 proposed to
H.R. 3055, a bill making appropriations
for the Departments of Commerce and
Justice, Science, and Related Agencies
for the fiscal year ending September 30,
2020, and for other purposes.
AMENDMENT NO. 1193
At the request of Mr. MENENDEZ, the
name of the Senator from Massachu-
setts (Ms. WARREN) was added as a co-
sponsor of amendment No. 1193 pro-
posed to H.R. 3055, a bill making appro-
priations for the Departments of Com-
merce and Justice, Science, and Re-
lated Agencies for the fiscal year end-
ing September 30, 2020, and for other
purposes.
AMENDMENT NO. 1223
At the request of Ms. STABENOW, the
name of the Senator from Michigan
(Mr. PETERS) was added as a cosponsor
of amendment No. 1223 proposed to
H.R. 3055, a bill making appropriations
for the Departments of Commerce and
Justice, Science, and Related Agencies
for the fiscal year ending September 30,
2020, and for other purposes.
f
STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED
BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS
By Ms. COLLINS:
S. 2762. A bill to amend the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986 to increase the
limitation on the amount individuals
filing jointly can deduct for certain
State and local taxes; to the Com-
mittee on Finance.
Ms. COLLINS. Mr. President, I rise
to introduce a bill to ensure that the
treatment of the State and Local Prop-
erty Tax deduction, also known as the
‘‘SALT deduction,’’ does not unfairly
penalize married taxpayers. The SALT
Deduction Fairness Act would elimi-
nate the marriage penalty imposed by
the current $10,000 cap on SALT by
doubling this amount for married fil-
ers.
The SALT deduction has been in the
tax code since 1913 when the income
tax was first established and is in-
tended to prevent double taxation. The
original Senate tax reform bill in 2017
would have eliminated the deduction
altogether. During the consideration of
the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, I fought to
keep the SALT deduction in the Fed-
eral tax code because of the incredible
tax burden a complete elimination of
this deduction would have imposed on
American taxpayers, many of whom
pay high taxes on everything from
their incomes to their vehicles.
My amendment, which was adopted
by the Senate, retained the SALT de-
duction for up to $10,000 in State and
local taxes such as State income taxes,
local property taxes, and vehicle excise
taxes. This was especially important to
families living in high-tax states like
Maine, which not only has one of our
Nation’s highest tax burdens, but also
a relatively low per household in-
come—approximately $6,300 below the
U.S average. Maintaining the deduc-
tion provided important tax relief for
those hard-working Mainers who con-
tinued to itemize.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:00 Nov 01, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00028 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A31OC6.037 S31OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6337
October 31, 2019
But a basic unfairness still exists in
the tax code that penalizes married
couples. Currently, individual tax-
payers can deduct up to $10,000 in State
and local taxes. If two people marry,
however, the deduction remains at
$10,000. As a result, a couple could be fi-
nancially better off not getting mar-
ried when it comes to the current
SALT deduction.
This legislation very simply would
remove the marriage penalty by dou-
bling the SALT deduction from $10,000
to $20,000 for joint filers. This straight-
forward change would remove a bias
against marriage from the tax code.
And, most important, it would help
make the dream of home ownership a
reality for married couples.
The National Association of Realtors
recently wrote to me about the impor-
tance of eliminating this marriage pen-
alty, stating, ‘‘Homeownership has
long been a vital part of the American
Dream. Research shows that an over-
whelming majority of current renters
aspire to own a home, and we know
that our Nation’s faith in homeowner-
ship has persisted through the Great
Recession. For well over a century, our
tax system has helped American fami-
lies in reaching this Dream.’’
Mr. President, we should not unfairly
penalize American taxpayers for being
married. This common sense legisla-
tion will fix this undue burden who are
penalized for their filing status.
By Mr. THUNE (for himself, Mr.
BLUMENTHAL, Mr. MORAN, Mrs.
BLACKBURN, and Mr. WARNER):
S. 2763. A bill to require that internet
platforms give users the option to en-
gage with a platform without being
manipulated by algorithms driver by
user-specific data; to the Committee on
Commerce, Science, and Transpor-
tation.
Mr. THUNE. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the text of the
bill be printed in the RECORD.
There being no objection, the text of
the bill was ordered to be printed in
the RECORD, as follows:
S. 2763
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Filter Bub-
ble Transparency Act’’.
SEC. 2. DEFINITIONS.
In this Act:
(1) ALGORITHMIC RANKING SYSTEM.—The
term ‘‘algorithmic ranking system’’ means a
computational process, including one derived
from algorithmic decision-making, machine
learning, statistical analysis, or other data
processing or artificial intelligence tech-
niques, used to determine the order or man-
ner that a set of information is provided to
a user on a covered internet platform, in-
cluding the ranking of search results, the
provision of content recommendations, the
display of social media posts, or any other
method of automated content selection.
(2) COMMISSION.—The term ‘‘Commission’’
means the Federal Trade Commission.
(3) CONNECTED DEVICE.—The term ‘‘con-
nected device’’ means a physical object
that—
(A) is capable of connecting to the inter-
net, either directly or indirectly through a
network, to communicate information at the
direction of an individual; and
(B) has computer processing capabilities
for collecting, sending, receiving, or ana-
lyzing data.
(4) COVERED INTERNET PLATFORM.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The term ‘‘covered inter-
net platform’’ means any public-facing
website, internet application, or mobile ap-
plication, including a social network site,
video sharing service, search engine, or con-
tent aggregation service.
(B) EXCLUSIONS.—Such term shall not in-
clude a platform that—
(i) is wholly owned, controlled, and oper-
ated by a person that—
(I) for the most recent 6-month period, did
not employ more than 500 employees;
(II) for the most recent 3-year period, aver-
aged less than $50,000,000 in annual gross re-
ceipts; and
(III) collects or processes on an annual
basis the personal data of less than 1,000,000
individuals; or
(ii) is operated for the sole purpose of con-
ducting research that is not made for profit
either directly or indirectly.
(5) INPUT-TRANSPARENT ALGORITHM.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The term ‘‘input-trans-
parent algorithm’’ means an algorithmic
ranking system that does not use the user-
specific data of a user to determine the order
or manner that information is furnished to
such user on a covered internet platform, un-
less the user-specific data is expressly pro-
vided to the platform by the user for such
purpose.
(B) INCLUSION OF AGE-APPROPRIATE CONTENT
FILTERS.—Such term shall include an algo-
rithmic ranking system that uses user-spe-
cific data to determine whether a user is old
enough to access age-restricted content on a
covered internet platform, provided that the
system otherwise meets the requirements of
subparagraph (A).
(C) DATA PROVIDED FOR EXPRESS PURPOSE
OF INTERACTION WITH PLATFORM.—For pur-
poses of subparagraph (A), user-specific data
that is provided by a user for the express
purpose of determining the order or manner
that information is furnished to a user on a
covered internet platform—
(i) shall include user-supplied search
terms, filters, speech patterns (if provided
for the purpose of enabling the platform to
accept spoken input or selecting the lan-
guage in which the user interacts with the
platform), saved preferences, and the user’s
current geographical location;
(ii) shall include data supplied to the plat-
form by the user that expresses the user’s de-
sire that information be furnished to them,
such as the social media profiles the user fol-
lows, the video channels the user subscribes
to, or other sources of content on the plat-
form the user follows;
(iii) shall not include the history of the
user’s connected device, including the user’s
history of web searches and browsing, geo-
graphical locations, physical activity, device
interaction, and financial transactions; and
(iv) shall not include inferences about the
user or the user’s connected device, without
regard to whether such inferences are based
on data described in clause (i).
(6) OPAQUE ALGORITHM.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The term ‘‘opaque algo-
rithm’’ means an algorithmic ranking sys-
tem that determines the order or manner
that information is furnished to a user on a
covered internet platform based, in whole or
part, on user-specific data that was not ex-
pressly provided by the user to the platform
for such purpose.
(B) EXCEPTION FOR AGE-APPROPRIATE CON-
TENT FILTERS.—Such term shall not include
an algorithmic ranking system used by a
covered internet platform if—
(i) the only user-specific data (including
inferences about the user) that the system
uses is information relating to the age of the
user; and
(ii) such information is only used to re-
strict a user’s access to content on the basis
that the individual is not old enough to ac-
cess such content.
(7) SEARCH SYNDICATION CONTRACT; UP-
STREAM PROVIDER; DOWNSTREAM PROVIDER.—
(A) SEARCH SYNDICATION CONTRACT.—The
term ‘‘search syndication contract’’ means a
contract or subcontract for the sale, license,
or other right to access an index of web
pages on the internet for the purpose of oper-
ating an internet search engine.
(B) UPSTREAM PROVIDER.—The term ‘‘up-
stream provider’’ means, with respect to a
search syndication contract, the person that
grants access to an index of web pages on the
internet to a downstream provider under the
contract.
(C) DOWNSTREAM PROVIDER.—The term
‘‘downstream provider’’ means, with respect
to a search syndication contract, the person
that receives access to an index of web pages
on the internet from an upstream provider
under such contract.
(8) USER-SPECIFIC DATA.—The term ‘‘user-
specific data’’ means information relating to
an individual or a specific connected device
that would not necessarily be true of every
individual or device.
SEC. 3. REQUIREMENT TO ALLOW USERS TO SEE
UNMANIPULATED CONTENT ON
INTERNET PLATFORMS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Beginning on the date
that is 1 year after the date of enactment of
this Act, it shall be unlawful—
(1) for any person to operate a covered
internet platform that uses an opaque algo-
rithm unless the person complies with the
requirements of subsection (b); or
(2) for any upstream provider to grant ac-
cess to an index of web pages on the internet
under a search syndication contract that
does not comply with the requirements of
subsection (c).
(b) OPAQUE ALGORITHM REQUIREMENTS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The requirements of this
subsection with respect to a person that op-
erates a covered internet platform that uses
an opaque algorithm are the following:
(A) The person provides notice to users of
the platform that the platform uses an
opaque algorithm that makes inferences
based on user-specific data to select the con-
tent the user sees. Such notice shall be pre-
sented in a clear, conspicuous manner on the
platform whenever the user interacts with
an opaque algorithm for the first time, and
may be a one-time notice that can be dis-
missed by the user.
(B) The person makes available a version
of the platform that uses an input-trans-
parent algorithm and enables users to easily
switch between the version of the platform
that uses an opaque algorithm and the
version of the platform that uses the input-
transparent algorithm by selecting a promi-
nently placed icon, which shall be displayed
wherever the user interacts with an opaque
algorithm.
(2) NONAPPLICATION TO CERTAIN DOWN-
STREAM PROVIDERS.—Paragraph (1) shall not
apply with respect to an internet search en-
gine if—
(A) the search engine is operated by a
downstream provider with fewer than 1,000
employees; and
(B) the search engine uses an index of web
pages on the internet to which such provider
received access under a search syndication
contract.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:25 Nov 01, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00029 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A31OC6.041 S31OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6338 October 31, 2019
(c) SEARCH SYNDICATION CONTRACT RE-
QUIREMENT.—The requirements of this sub-
section with respect to a search syndication
contract are that—
(1) as part of the contract, the upstream
provider makes available to the downstream
provider the same input-transparent algo-
rithm used by the upstream provider for pur-
poses of complying with subsection (b)(1)(B);
and
(2) the upstream provider does not impose
any additional costs, degraded quality, re-
duced speed, or other constraint on the func-
tioning of such algorithm when used by the
downstream provider to operate an internet
search engine relative to the performance of
such algorithm when used by the upstream
provider to operate an internet search en-
gine.
SEC. 4. ENFORCEMENT BY FEDERAL TRADE COM-
MISSION.
(a) UNFAIR OR DECEPTIVE ACTS OR PRAC-
TICES.—A violation of this Act by an oper-
ator of a covered internet platform shall be
treated as a violation of a rule defining an
unfair or deceptive act or practice prescribed
under section 18(a)(1)(B) of the Federal Trade
Commission Act (15 U.S.C. 57a(a)(1)(B)).
(b) POWERS OF COMMISSION.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in
paragraph (3), the Federal Trade Commission
shall enforce this Act in the same manner,
by the same means, and with the same juris-
diction, powers, and duties as though all ap-
plicable terms and provisions of the Federal
Trade Commission Act (15 U.S.C. 41 et seq.)
were incorporated into and made a part of
this Act.
(2) PRIVILEGES AND IMMUNITIES.—Except as
provided in paragraph (3), any person who
violates this Act shall be subject to the pen-
alties and entitled to the privileges and im-
munities provided in the Federal Trade Com-
mission Act (15 U.S.C. 41 et seq.).
(3) COMMON CARRIERS AND NONPROFIT ORGA-
NIZATIONS.—Notwithstanding section 4,
5(a)(2), or 6 of the Federal Trade Commission
Act (15 U.S.C. 44, 45(a)(2), 46) or any jurisdic-
tional limitation of the Commission, the
Commission shall also enforce this Act, in
the same manner provided in paragraphs (1)
and (2) of this paragraph, with respect to—
(A) common carriers subject to the Com-
munications Act of 1934 (47 U.S.C. 151 et seq.)
and Acts amendatory thereof and supple-
mentary thereto; and
(B) organizations not organized to carry on
business for their own profit or that of their
members.
(4) AUTHORITY PRESERVED.—Nothing in this
Act shall be construed to limit the authority
of the Commission under any other provision
of law.
By Ms. COLLINS (for herself and
Mr. CARDIN):
S. 2766. A bill to support and expand
civic engagement and political leader-
ship of adolescent girls around the
world, and other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Foreign Relations.
Ms. COLLINS. Mr. President, today I
am pleased to be joined by my friend
and colleague from Maryland, Senator
CARDIN, to introduce the Girls Leader-
ship, Engagement, and Advocacy in De-
velopment, or Girls LEAD, Act. Our
legislation would support and expand
civic engagement and political leader-
ship of adolescent girls around the
world.
Despite comprising over 50 percent of
the world’s population, women are
underrepresented at all levels of public
sector decision-making. Recently, Con-
gress has taken steps to combat this
issue with new laws, including the
Women, Peace, and Security Act and
the Women’s Entrepreneurship and
Economic Empowerment Act. The
Girls LEAD Act will complement these
efforts by specifically addressing the
civic involvement and leadership of ad-
olescent girls, an area where there is
currently a gap in U.S. foreign assist-
ance programing. The United States
can help foster a pipeline of adolescent
girls who will aspire to assume leader-
ship roles in their communities.
Adolescence is a pivotal time in a
girl’s life that brings about significant
physical, emotional, and social
changes. Yet, according to UNESCO,
132 million adolescent girls between
the age of 6 and 17 are not enrolled in
school. As reported by UNICEF, more
than 150 million girls will marry as
children by 2030. It is vitally important
that girls and young women in child-
hood are empowered, and that we in-
vest in their leadership potential early
so that they can develop pathways to
positions of political leadership and
civic engagement.
The Girls LEAD Act would combat
these terrible statistics by making it
the policy of the United States to pro-
mote and ensure that all adolescents
are able to fully participate in society,
and are specifically able to exercise
their civil and political rights in their
communities and countries. We know
that women’s political participation
results in tangible change for democ-
racies and the United States must con-
tinue to be a leader in this arena.
Specifically, our legislation would di-
rect the Department of State and the
U.S. Agency for International Develop-
ment to implement a strategy that
strengthens adolescent girls’ participa-
tion in democracy and governance.
This strategy would include U.S. for-
eign assistance programs that focus on
increasing adolescent girls’ civic and
political knowledge, advocacy, leader-
ship, and research skills, while address-
ing the common barriers that can pre-
clude their participation. The bill
would require that this strategy be de-
veloped in consultation with civil soci-
ety, including the participation of ado-
lescent girls.
As a senior member of the Senate Ap-
propriations Committee, for years I
have pushed to set aside resources in
the annual State Department funding
bill for women’s leadership and polit-
ical participation programs, and I have
seen first-hand the positive effects of
greater political involvement on the
part of women here in the United
States. I believe our Nation can and
must continue its leadership role in
empowering women and girls world-
wide, and turning more attention to
the civic engagement of adolescent
girls will help advance that mission.
I urge my colleagues to join me and
Senator CARDIN in supporting the Girls
LEAD Act, which will help to improve
and create a more secure world now
and in the future.
SUBMITTED RESOLUTIONS
SENATE RESOLUTION 391—RE-
AFFIRMING A STRONG COMMIT-
MENT TO THE U.S. PRODUCERS
AND AMERICAN-MADE COMMOD-
ITIES
Mr. TESTER submitted the following
resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition,
and Forestry.
S. RES. 391
Whereas the U.S. farmers and ranchers
raise the best meat in the world;
Whereas Americans should have the right
to knowingly buy made in America products;
Whereas American farmers, ranchers,
workers and consumers benefit from trans-
parency on the origin of food;
Whereas Congress overwhelmingly sup-
ported Country-of-Origin Labeling (COOL) in
the Food, Conservation, and Energy Act of
2008 (Public Law 110–246; 122 Stat. 1651) be-
cause 87 percent of consumers want to know
the country of origin of their meat;
Whereas in 2015, Congress repealed the
Country-of-Origin Labeling (COOL) law for
beef and pork, reducing the competitive ad-
vantage of products born, raised, and slaugh-
tered in the U.S.;
Whereas there is no standardized definition
of the term ‘‘truth in labeling’’,
disadvantaging American producers;
Whereas Congress supports American prod-
ucts, and consumers deserve the right to
know where their food comes from;
Whereas the United States has the highest
phytosanitary standards in the world while
other countries place less emphasis on food
safety;
Whereas foreign commodities, like beef
and pork, are misleadingly labeled ‘‘Product
of USA’’ if they are processed or packed in
the United States;
Whereas technological advancements make
it possible to accurately and efficiently iden-
tify the origin of beef and pork without cost-
ly segregation of imported and domestic
commodities;
Whereas this gives producers and con-
sumers the ability to identify true American
products from foreign imported meat; and
Whereas Country-of-Origin labeling is good
for farmers, ranchers, workers, and packers,
because it allows them to identify their
products as born and raised in the United
States: Now, therefore, be it
Resolved, That the Senate supports legisla-
tion to reinstate Country-of-Origin labeling
for pork and beef to allow consumers to
make an informed and free choice about
where their food comes from.
f
SENATE RESOLUTION 392—RECOG-
NIZING THE IMPORTANCE OF
THE YOUNG SOUTHEAST ASIAN
LEADERS INITIATIVE TO THE
RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN THE
UNITED STATES AND THE MEM-
BER STATES OF THE ASSOCIA-
TION OF SOUTHEAST ASIAN NA-
TIONS AND TO ADVANCING THE
POLICY OF THE UNITED STATES
IN THE INDO-PACIFIC REGION
Mr. MERKLEY (for himself, Mr.
MARKEY, Mr. GARDNER, Ms. HIRONO,
Mr. YOUNG, and Ms. DUCKWORTH) sub-
mitted the following resolution; which
was referred to the Committee on For-
eign Relations.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:59 Nov 01, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00030 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A31OC6.032 S31OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6339
October 31, 2019
S. RES. 392
Whereas the Young Southeast Asian Lead-
ers Initiative (YSEALI) was created in 2013
to build a cadre of emerging leaders in mem-
ber states of the Association of Southeast
Asian Nations (ASEAN) with the goal of fos-
tering regional cooperation and partnership
with the United States;
Whereas YSEALI is composed of influen-
tial young leaders who are between 18 and 35
years of age from ASEAN countries (Brunei,
Burma, Cambodia, Laos, Indonesia, Malay-
sia, the Philippines, Singapore, Thailand,
and Vietnam) and Timor-Leste who are mak-
ing a difference in their communities, coun-
tries, and the region;
Whereas 65 percent of the population of the
ASEAN region is under 35 years of age, and
these 400,000,000 youth will determine the fu-
ture of the region for decades to come;
Whereas YSEALI aims to further strength-
en the enduring partnership between the
United States and ASEAN;
Whereas YSEALI encourages its leaders to
partner with each other and the United
States Government to address common chal-
lenges, including economic growth, sustain-
able development, education, and civic en-
gagement;
Whereas YSEALI academic and profes-
sional exchange programs in the United
States allow visiting leaders to experience
the culture and values of the United States
first-hand, while establishing personal and
professional ties to experts, institutions, or-
ganizations, companies, and local govern-
ments in the United States;
Whereas YSEALI exchange visitors, upon
returning to their countries, help promote a
positive understanding of the United States;
Whereas YSEALI allows United States ex-
perts to visit ASEAN countries to share
their expertise and work with YSEALI alum-
ni on projects that advance common goals;
Whereas YSEALI programs in the Indo-Pa-
cific region build the capacity of civil soci-
ety in the fields of human rights, good gov-
ernance, anti-corruption and transparency,
social entrepreneurship, and media literacy,
which are key to the Indo-Pacific efforts of
the United States Government;
Whereas YSEALI programming increases
the visibility of the United States in the
Indo-Pacific region;
Whereas, in 5 years, YSEALI has grown
into a thriving community of more than
5,000 alumni and more than 140,000 virtual
network participants;
Whereas YSEALI alumni are already dis-
tinguishing themselves as influential gov-
ernment officials, entrepreneurs, human
rights activists, journalists, social entre-
preneurs, and educators;
Whereas outstanding YSEALI alumni in-
clude 2 Malaysian cabinet ministers and a
Pulitzer Prize-winning Burmese journalist
imprisoned for investigating human rights
violations against the Rohingya;
Whereas YSEALI alumni are valuable part-
ners to embassies and agencies of the United
States overseas;
Whereas the Asia Reassurance Initiative
Act of 2018 (Public Law 115–409; 132 Stat. 5387)
(referred to in this preamble as ‘‘ARIA’’) em-
phasized the importance of ASEAN to the
United States and supported the elevation of
the relationship between the United States
and ASEAN to a strategic partnership; and
Whereas ARIA authorized $25,000,000 to be
appropriated for each of fiscal years 2019
through 2023 to support Indo-Pacific young
leaders initiatives, including YSEALI, the
ASEAN Youth Volunteers Program, and
other people-to-people exchange programs
that focus on building the capacity of democ-
racy, human rights, and good governance ac-
tivists in the Indo-Pacific region: Now,
therefore, be it
Resolved, That the Senate—
(1) celebrates the partnership of the United
States with young leaders in Southeast Asia;
(2) recognizes the importance of the Young
Southeast Asian Leaders Initiative
(YSEALI) in—
(A) advancing the soft power of the United
States in Southeast Asia; and
(B) promoting human rights, democracy,
and good governance in the Indo-Pacific re-
gion;
(3) emphasizes the key role of YSEALI in—
(A) strengthening the relationship of the
United States with the member states of the
Association of Southeast Asian Nations
(ASEAN); and
(B) elevating the profile and standing of
the United States as a main partner in the
region;
(4) stresses the importance of YSEALI in
building leadership capacity among civil so-
ciety in ASEAN member states and across
Southeast Asia; and
(5) encourages the Department of State to
promote the YSEALI program to the max-
imum extent possible as a valuable tool to
advance mutually beneficial cooperation
with partners in the Indo-Pacific region.
f
SENATE RESOLUTION 393—RECOG-
NIZING THE HISTORICAL, CUL-
TURAL, AND RELIGIOUS SIGNIFI-
CANCE OF THE 550TH BIRTHDAY
OF GURU NANAK AND THE CON-
TRIBUTIONS AND SACRIFICES
MADE BY SIKHS OF THE UNITED
STATES
Mr. YOUNG (for himself and Mr.
CARDIN) submitted the following reso-
lution; which was referred to the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary.
S. RES. 393
Whereas Sikhs have been living in the
United States for more than 120 years;
Whereas, during the early 20th century,
thousands of Sikhs of the United States
worked on farms, in lumber mills and mines,
and on the Oregon, Pacific, and Eastern Rail-
road;
Whereas Sikhism is a monotheistic reli-
gion and the fifth largest religion in the
world, with—
(1) more than 25,000,000 Sikhs worldwide;
and
(2) almost 1,000,000 Sikhs in the United
States;
Whereas 2019 is the year of the 550th birth-
day of Guru Nanak, the first of 10 gurus and
founders of Sikhism;
Whereas the Gurpurab of Guru Nanak—
(1) is 1 of the most important dates on the
Sikh calendar; and
(2) is celebrated across the United States
and worldwide;
Whereas Vaisakhi, which is 1 of the most
historically significant days of the year for
Sikhs—
(1) is celebrated on April 14; and
(2) is the day on which Guru Gobind Singh
Ji, the 10th Guru of Sikhism, created the
Warrior Saint tradition of the volunteer sol-
dier known as ‘‘Khalsa’’;
Whereas the Sikh place of worship is
known as Gurdwara Sahib, and there are
more than 500 Gurdwaras Sahib across the
United States;
Whereas a hallmark of Sikh values and
tradition is the community kitchen in every
Gurdwara, known as the ‘‘Langar’’, where
food is served, for free, to all visitors to the
Gurdwara regardless of faith, religion, or
background;
Whereas Sikh men and women have con-
tributed to the society of the United States
since the initial arrival of Sikhs in the
United States in the late 1800s;
Whereas Sikhs of the United States pursue
diverse professions that add to the social,
cultural, and economic vibrancy of the
United States, including—
(1) by serving as members of the Armed
Forces; and
(2) by making significant contributions to
agriculture, information technology, other
technology, small businesses, the hospitality
industry, trucking, and medicine;
Whereas Sikhs of the United States served
in the United States military during the
World Wars;
Whereas Sikhs stand for—
(1) equality of gender;
(2) equality of race; and
(3) freedom of faith;
Whereas Hoosier Sikhs are 1 of the fastest
growing business communities in Indiana;
Whereas Sikhs of the United States distin-
guish themselves by fostering respect among
all people through faith and service;
Whereas Sikhism preaches a message of de-
votion, truthful living, equality of mankind,
and social justice;
Whereas the Senate is committed to pro-
viding education to the people of the United
States about—
(1) the religions of the world;
(2) the value of religious diversity;
(3) tolerance grounded in the principles of
the First Amendment to the Constitution of
the United States;
(4) a culture of mutual understanding; and
(5) the importance of reducing violence;
and
Whereas the Senate seeks to further diver-
sity in the Senate community and afford all
people of the United States the opportunity
to better understand, recognize, and appre-
ciate the rich history and shared experiences
of Sikhs of the United States: Now, there-
fore, be it
Resolved, That the Senate—
(1) recognizes—
(A) the historical, cultural, and religious
significance of the 550th birthday of Guru
Nanak;
(B) the contributions and sacrifices made
by Sikhs of the United States; and
(C) the discrimination that Sikhs of the
United States have faced in the United
States and around the world; and
(2) expresses respect for all Sikhs who
practice their faith.
f
SENATE RESOLUTION 394—HON-
ORING THE MEMBERS OF THE
MILITARY AND INTELLIGENCE
COMMUNITY WHO CARRIED OUT
THE MISSION THAT KILLED ABU
BAKR AL-BAGHDADI, AND FOR
OTHER PURPOSES
Mr. COTTON (for himself, Mr. GRA-
HAM, Mr. CRUZ, and Mr. BRAUN) sub-
mitted the following resolution; which
was considered and agreed to.
S. RES. 394
Whereas the world’s number one wanted
terrorist, Ibrahim Awad Ibrahim al-Badri,
also referred to by his nom de guerre Abu
Bakr al-Baghdadi, was killed after years of
relentless pursuit by the United States;
Whereas President Donald J. Trump stat-
ed, ‘‘Capturing or killing Baghdadi has been
the top national security priority of my Ad-
ministration,’’ and ‘‘The world is now a
much safer place.’’;
Whereas, on October 26, 2019, members of
the United States Special Operations Com-
mand flawlessly executed a daring and com-
plex nighttime raid coordinated with numer-
ous partners to assault the compound in
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:59 Nov 01, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00031 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A31OC6.044 S31OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6340 October 31, 2019
which Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi was residing,
ultimately leading to his demise;
Whereas Secretary of Defense Mark Esper
said of the death of Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi,
‘‘This is a devastating blow. This is not just
their leader, it’s their founder. He was an in-
spirational leader in many ways. He formed
ISIS in 2014, he led to establishing the phys-
ical caliphate throughout the region, so this
is a major blow to them.’’; and
Whereas, although all members of the raid
force were able to return to a safe location
following the operation, two service mem-
bers suffered minor injuries and one military
working dog was also injured: Now, there-
fore, be it
Resolved, That the Senate—
(1) declares that the death of Abu Bakr al-
Baghdadi represents a measure of justice and
relief for the innumerable victims of ISIS;
(2) commends the men and women and
military working dogs of the United States
Armed Forces and the United States intel-
ligence community for their flawless plan
and execution to capture or kill the ISIS
leader;
(3) commends the President for ordering
the successful operation to locate and elimi-
nate Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi;
(4) recognizes the support from our allies
and partners, including the Syrian Kurds, for
assisting with executing this daring raid;
and
(5) reaffirms its commitment to disrupting,
dismantling, and defeating ISIS and affili-
ated radical Islamic terrorist organizations
around the world that threaten United
States national security, eliminating safe
havens for terrorists, and bringing terrorists
to justice.
f
SENATE RESOLUTION 395—RECOG-
NIZING THE 40TH ANNIVERSARY
OF THE IRAN HOSTAGE CRISIS,
AND FOR OTHER PURPOSES
Mr. ISAKSON (for himself, Mr.
BLUMENTHAL, and Mr. LEAHY) sub-
mitted the following resolution; which
was referred to the Committee on For-
eign Relations.
S. RES. 395
Whereas, on November 4, 1979, 66 United
States diplomats, military personnel, and ci-
vilians were taken hostage from the United
States Embassy in Tehran by the Govern-
ment of the Islamic Republic of Iran in what
became known as the Iran Hostage Crisis;
Whereas 13 of the 66 American hostages
were released by November 20, 1979;
Whereas 8 members of the United States
Armed Forces died in an attempt to rescue
the hostages on April 25, 1980;
Whereas another American hostage was re-
leased on July 11, 1980, after 250 days in cap-
tivity;
Whereas, after 444 days in captivity, the re-
maining 52 hostages were released on Janu-
ary 20, 1981, with the signing of the Algiers
Accords;
Whereas the Iran Hostages were subjected
to mock executions and other forms of phys-
ical and emotional torture at the hands of
the Government of the Islamic Republic of
Iran;
Whereas the Iran Hostages and their fami-
lies still suffer from the events of the Iran
Hostage Crisis;
Whereas the Algiers Accords prevented the
Iran Hostages from taking legal action to
pursue compensation from the Islamic Re-
public of Iran for their time in captivity;
Whereas many of the Iran Hostages and
their families finally became eligible to re-
ceive compensation through the enactment
in 2015 of the Justice for United States Vic-
tims of State Sponsored Terrorism Act (34
U.S.C. 20144) and the creation of the United
States Victims of State Sponsored Terrorism
Fund; and
Whereas, 40 years after its founding, the Is-
lamic Republic of Iran continues to promul-
gate a culture of fear, oppression, and vio-
lence as one of the leading state sponsors of
terrorism: Now, therefore, be it
Resolved, That the Senate—
(1) recognizes the 40th anniversary of the
Iran Hostage Crisis;
(2) honors the suffering of the Iran Hos-
tages and their families during the Iran Hos-
tage Crisis, as well as the sacrifices made by
those who attempted to rescue the hostages;
and
(3) supports the designation of a national
day of remembrance on November 4, 2019, for
the Iran Hostage Crisis.
f
SENATE RESOLUTION 396—DESIG-
NATING OCTOBER 2019 AS ‘‘NA-
TIONAL HEALTH LITERACY
MONTH’’
Mr. MURPHY (for himself, Mrs.
HYDE-SMITH, Mr. VAN HOLLEN, and Mr.
SCOTT of South Carolina) submitted
the following resolution; which was re-
ferred to the Committee on the Judici-
ary.
S. RES. 396
Whereas health literacy is the degree to
which individuals can obtain and understand
basic health information in order to make
informed health decisions;
Whereas, according to the latest national
assessment of health literacy, a majority of
adults have intermediate health literacy,
while more than 75,000,000 adults have basic
or below basic health literacy;
Whereas language and cultural differences
can affect health literacy and thereby lower
effective health communication between pro-
viders and patients;
Whereas, according to the Agency for
Healthcare Research and Quality, low health
literacy is associated with higher rates of
emergency care use, increased hospitaliza-
tions, and, among seniors, higher mortality;
Whereas the Agency for Healthcare Re-
search and Quality also found that low
health literacy can be associated with a lack
of medication adherence;
Whereas experts estimate that the annual
cost of low health literacy to the United
States economy is between $106,000,000,000
and $238,000,000,000;
Whereas mental health literacy may lead
to better outcomes for individuals with men-
tal disorders, particularly individuals with
suicidal ideation, either by facilitating early
help-seeking by those individuals or helping
others identify early signs of mental dis-
orders and seek help on behalf of those indi-
viduals;
Whereas health literacy can assist in pre-
venting disease and illness, increasing life
expectancy, improving patient care and out-
comes, and reducing health care costs;
Whereas, in 2010, the Department of Health
and Human Services issued a National Ac-
tion Plan to Improve Health Literacy that
establishes 7 goals; and
Whereas advocacy organizations have rec-
ognized the month of October as ‘‘National
Health Literacy Month’’ to increase aware-
ness about the importance of making health
information easy to understand: Now, there-
fore, be it
Resolved, That the Senate—
(1) designates October 2019 as ‘‘National
Health Literacy Month’’;
(2) encourages individuals to assess and im-
prove their health knowledge and literacy;
(3) recommends that health care providers
deliver health services in a clear and com-
prehensive manner; and
(4) encourages all interested parties to pro-
mote the importance of health literacy.
f
SENATE RESOLUTION 397—CELE-
BRATING THE 25TH ANNIVER-
SARY OF THE PASSAGE OF THE
MIKE MANSFIELD FELLOWSHIP
ACT CREATING THE MIKE MANS-
FIELD FELLOWSHIP PROGRAM
Mr. TESTER (for himself and Mr.
DAINES) submitted the following reso-
lution; which was referred to the Com-
mittee on Foreign Relations.
S. RES. 397
Whereas the distinguished tenure of Mike
Mansfield as Majority Leader of the Senate
spanned 16 years, making him the longest
serving Majority Leader in the history of the
Senate;
Whereas Mike Mansfield served as the
United States Ambassador to Japan from
1977 to 1988, the longest tenure of any United
States ambassador anywhere in the world;
Whereas, while serving as Ambassador,
Mike Mansfield was fond of reminding the
people of the United States and Japan that
the ‘‘U.S.-Japan relationship is the most im-
portant bilateral relationship in the world,
bar none’’;
Whereas, in 1994, through the Mike Mans-
field Fellowship Act (Public Law 103–236; 108
Stat. 428), Congress authorized the Mike
Mansfield Fellowship Program to build a
corps of Federal Government employees (in
this preamble referred to as ‘‘Mansfield Fel-
lows’’) knowledgeable about the language,
culture, economy, and politics of Japan, so
as to enhance mutual cooperation and under-
standing between the United States and
Japan;
Whereas the Bureau of Educational and
Cultural Affairs of the Department of State
provides financial support to make possible
the deployment of Mansfield Fellows and
their families to Japan, and the Government
of Japan provides generous in-kind support,
including a 2-month home-stay and language
training;
Whereas the first cohort of Mansfield Fel-
lows, recruited from across the Federal Gov-
ernment, began their service in Japan on
September 1, 1996;
Whereas the Mike Mansfield Fellowship
Program has created a robust network of of-
ficials from the Governments of the United
States and Japan with deep understanding of
the economic, political, and strategic dimen-
sions of the United States-Japan relation-
ship who work together to advance the mu-
tual interests of the United States and
Japan;
Whereas Mansfield Fellows have served in
52 ministries and agencies of the Govern-
ment of Japan, dozens of Diet offices, and
more than a dozen private sector companies
and nongovernmental organizations in
Japan;
Whereas alumni of the Mike Mansfield Fel-
lowship Program are currently employed
throughout the Federal Government, includ-
ing the House of Representatives and the
Senate, the Departments of State, Com-
merce, Defense, Energy, Transportation, and
the Treasury, the Office of the United States
Trade Representative, the Federal Aviation
Administration, and the Federal Bureau of
Investigation, as well as serving in the
Army, Air Force, Navy, and Marine Corps;
Whereas, every day, Mansfield Fellows are
drawing on their experience to enhance
United States-Japan bilateral relations and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:59 Nov 01, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00032 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A31OC6.044 S31OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6341
October 31, 2019
to strengthen United States-Japan coopera-
tion around the world to tackle common
global challenges;
Whereas, on April 29, 2015, the Prime Min-
ister of Japan, Shinzo Abe, declared before a
Joint Session of the United States Congress
that the United States and Japan have
forged ‘‘an alliance of hope’’ resting on a
foundation of shared democratic values and
common interests; and
Whereas the Mike Mansfield Fellowship
Program has been a cornerstone of United
States-Japan cooperation and has made im-
portant contributions to strengthening secu-
rity, economic, and cultural ties between the
2 allies: Now, therefore, be it
Resolved, That the Senate—
(1) celebrates the 25th anniversary of the
passage of the Mike Mansfield Fellowship
Act (Public Law 103–236; 108 Stat. 428) cre-
ating the Mike Mansfield Fellowship Pro-
gram;
(2) remembers the contributions of Senator
Mike Mansfield and his wife Maureen to the
United States Senate and to the United
States-Japan alliance;
(3) thanks more than 150 alumni of the
Mike Mansfield Fellowship Program for
bringing the expertise garnered during their
time in Japan back to the United States
Government to advance the interests of the
United States;
(4) conveys its appreciation to the people
of Japan for the warm welcome they have
given to each class of Mansfield Fellows;
(5) commends the Government of Japan for
opening its doors to Mansfield Fellows and
for providing steadfast and generous support
to the Mike Mansfield Fellowship Program;
and
(6) encourages the Bureau of Educational
and Cultural Affairs of the Department of
State and the Government of Japan to sus-
tain their support for the Mike Mansfield
Fellowship Program, which in turn strength-
ens the ‘‘alliance of hope’’ and the important
work of the program to further peace, sta-
bility, and prosperity in the world.
f
SENATE RESOLUTION 398—RECOG-
NIZING THE NATIONAL PEANUT
FESTIVAL HELD ANNUALLY IN
DOTHAN, ALABAMA, AND THE
IMPORTANCE OF THE PEANUT
INDUSTRY IN THE STATE OF
ALABAMA AND THE UNITED
STATES
Mr. JONES submitted the following
resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition,
and Forestry:
S. RES. 398
Whereas Dr. George Washington Carver, an
African-American scientist, inventor, educa-
tor, and former slave—
(1) proposed the planting of peanuts and
soybeans to restore nitrogen to soil left bar-
ren from cotton production;
(2) invented more than 300 products made
from peanuts; and
(3) became the first guest speaker in the
history of the National Peanut Festival;
Whereas the Incas of Peru began culti-
vating peanuts as early as 1500 B.C., and pea-
nuts were spread from South America to
Spain, Asia, and Africa;
Whereas, in the 1700s, Africans were the
first to introduce peanuts to North Ameri-
cans;
Whereas, beginning in the early 1800s, the
steady growth of peanut production allowed
peanuts to transition from being a food pri-
marily for livestock and the poor to a high-
protein and well-liked source of food for sol-
diers during the Civil War;
Whereas, in the early 1900s, demand for
peanuts grew due to advances in harvesting
and production methods that made peanuts
and peanut products more easily available;
Whereas Dr. Carver recommended peanuts
as a crop to rival the top commercial posi-
tion of Southern cotton, following the near
destruction of the cotton crop due to the boll
weevil;
Whereas, in 1938, the first National Peanut
Festival was held in Dothan, Alabama;
Whereas, as a result of his instrumental
work in promoting the peanut in the
Wiregrass area of the State of Alabama, Dr.
Carver was invited to serve as the first guest
speaker at the National Peanut Festival;
Whereas 2 awards were established at the
first National Peanut Festival—
(1) the Miss Peanut Award, first won by
Elizabeth Johnson from Headland, Alabama;
and
(2) the Volunteer of the Year Award,
named in honor of the first president of the
National Peanut Festival, Harry P. Hall, and
awarded annually since its establishment;
Whereas the National Peanut Festival has
become an established event over the past 81
years and became a nonprofit organization in
1952 through a resolution passed by the local
chamber of commerce;
Whereas, in 1996, the statue of Dr. Carver
in Dothan, Alabama, was dedicated to honor
the famed peanut pioneer and first guest
speaker at the National Peanut Festival;
Whereas, in 2010, the National Peanut Fes-
tival moved to its current location at the
fairgrounds on US Highway 231 South in
Dothan, Alabama;
Whereas peanuts remain a significant cash
crop grown in the United States that is val-
ued at more than $1,000,000,000 per year;
Whereas children and adults in the United
States consume an average of 6 pounds of
peanut products, including snack nuts and
candy, per person each year;
Whereas, each year, individuals in the
United States consume approximately
133,000,000 metric tons of peanut oil, a high-
quality cooking oil;
Whereas approximately half of all peanuts
grown in the United States originate within
a 100-mile radius of Dothan, Alabama; and
Whereas, in 2018, peanut farmers in Ala-
bama, of which there are close to 900—
(1) produced runner peanuts, the variety of
peanut that makes up 80 percent of all pea-
nut production in the United States;
(2) harvested 189,000 acres of peanuts; and
(3) produced 400,000,000 pounds of peanuts
valued at approximately $118,000,000: Now,
therefore, be it
Resolved, That it is the sense of the Senate
that the National Peanut Festival held in
Dothan, Alabama, is of remarkable impor-
tance to the State of Alabama, the United
States, and the peanut industry due to—
(1) the attendance of approximately 200,000
fairgoers over the course of a 10-day event;
(2) the economic impact of the National
Peanut Festival to the town of Dothan, Ala-
bama; and
(3) the celebration in the National Peanut
Festival of one of the most important, use-
ful, and well-loved cash crops in the United
States.
f
SENATE RESOLUTION 399—DESIG-
NATING NOVEMBER 2, 2019, AS
‘‘NATIONAL BISON DAY’’
Mr. HOEVEN (for himself, Mr. HEIN-
RICH, Mr. PORTMAN, Mr. TESTER, Mr.
CORNYN, Ms. WARREN, Mr. ROBERTS,
Mr. MARKEY, Mr. ENZI, Mr. UDALL, Mr.
CRAMER, Mrs. MURRAY, Mr. MORAN, Mr.
SCHUMER, Mr. ROUNDS, Ms. BALDWIN,
Mr. THUNE, Mr. BENNET, Mr. BRAUN,
Mr. BOOZMAN, Mr. INHOFE, Mrs. HYDE-
SMITH, Mr. WHITEHOUSE, and Ms.
SMITH) submitted the following resolu-
tion; which was considered and agreed
to:
S. RES. 399
Whereas on May 9, 2016, the North Amer-
ican bison was adopted as the national mam-
mal of the United States;
Whereas bison are considered a historical
symbol of the United States;
Whereas bison were integrally linked with
the economic and spiritual lives of many In-
dian Tribes through trade and sacred cere-
monies;
Whereas there are more than 60 Indian
Tribes participating in the InterTribal Buf-
falo Council, which is a Tribal organization
incorporated pursuant to section 17 of the
Act of June 18, 1934 (commonly known as the
‘‘Indian Reorganization Act’’) (25 U.S.C.
5124);
Whereas numerous members of Indian
Tribes are involved in bison restoration on
Tribal land;
Whereas members of Indian Tribes have a
combined herd of bison on more than
1,000,000 acres of Tribal land;
Whereas bison can play an important role
in improving the types of grasses found in
landscapes to the benefit of grasslands;
Whereas bison hold significant economic
value for private producers and rural com-
munities;
Whereas, as of 2017, the Department of Ag-
riculture estimates that 182,780 head of bison
were under the stewardship of private pro-
ducers, creating jobs and contributing to the
food security of the United States by pro-
viding a sustainable and healthy meat
source;
Whereas a bison has been depicted on the
official seal of the Department of the Inte-
rior since 1912;
Whereas a bison is portrayed on 2 State
flags;
Whereas the bison has been adopted by 3
States as the official mammal or animal of
those States;
Whereas the buffalo nickel played an im-
portant role in modernizing the currency of
the United States;
Whereas several sports teams have the
bison as a mascot, which highlights the
iconic significance of bison in the United
States;
Whereas a small group of ranchers helped
save bison from extinction in the late 1800s
by gathering the remaining bison of the di-
minished herds;
Whereas on December 8, 1905, William
Hornaday, Theodore Roosevelt, and others
formed the American Bison Society in re-
sponse to the near extinction of bison in the
United States;
Whereas on October 11, 1907, the American
Bison Society sent 15 captive-bred bison
from the New York Zoological Park, now
known as the ‘‘Bronx Zoo’’, to the first big
game refuge in the United States, now
known as the ‘‘Wichita Mountains Wildlife
Refuge’’;
Whereas, in 2005, the American Bison Soci-
ety was reestablished, bringing together
bison ranchers, managers from Indian
Tribes, Federal and State agencies, con-
servation organizations, and natural and so-
cial scientists from the United States, Can-
ada, and Mexico to create a vision for the
North American bison in the 21st century;
Whereas there are bison herds in national
wildlife refuges, national parks, and national
forests, and on other Federal land;
Whereas there are bison in State-managed
herds across 11 States;
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:59 Nov 01, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00033 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A31OC6.044 S31OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6342 October 31, 2019
Whereas private, public, and Tribal bison
leaders are working together to continue
bison restoration throughout North Amer-
ica;
Whereas there is a growing effort to cele-
brate and officially recognize the historical,
cultural, and economic significance of the
North American bison to the heritage of the
United States; and
Whereas members of Indian Tribes, bison
producers, conservationists, sportsmen, edu-
cators, and other public and private partners
have celebrated the annual National Bison
Day since 2012 and are committed to con-
tinuing this tradition annually on the first
Saturday of November: Now, therefore, be it
Resolved, That the Senate—
(1) designates November 2, 2019, the first
Saturday of November, as ‘‘National Bison
Day’’; and
(2) encourages the people of the United
States to observe the day with appropriate
ceremonies and activities.
f
SENATE RESOLUTION 400—RECOG-
NIZING OCTOBER 2019 AS ‘‘NA-
TIONAL WOMEN’S SMALL BUSI-
NESS MONTH’’
Mr. RUBIO (for himself, Mr. CARDIN,
Mr. BRAUN, Ms. CANTWELL, Mr. GRASS-
LEY, Mr. COONS, Mr. RISCH, Ms. HIRONO,
Mr. KENNEDY, Ms. DUCKWORTH, Mrs.
CAPITO, Ms. ROSEN, Mr. SCOTT of Flor-
ida, Mrs. FEINSTEIN, Mr. GARDNER, Mr.
WYDEN, Mr. CRAPO, Ms. KLOBUCHAR,
Mr. BARRASSO, Mr. KING, Ms. COLLINS,
Ms. HASSAN, Mrs. BLACKBURN, Ms.
SINEMA, Mrs. FISCHER, Mr. CRAMER, Mr.
SCOTT of South Carolina, Mr. YOUNG,
Ms. ERNST, Mr. PERDUE, Mr. ROBERTS,
Mr. DAINES, Mr. WICKER, Mr. ROMNEY,
Mr. ENZI, Mr. INHOFE, Mr. ALEXANDER,
Mr. HAWLEY, Mr. LANKFORD, Mrs.
HYDE-SMITH, Mr. BOOKER, Mr. PETERS,
Mr. HOEVEN, and Ms. MCSALLY) sub-
mitted the following resolution; which
was considered and agreed to:
S. RES. 400
Whereas the National Women’s Business
Council has declared October 2019 ‘‘National
Women’s Small Business Month’’;
Whereas there are more than 12,900,000
women-owned small businesses in the United
States;
Whereas women-owned small businesses
generate $1,900,000,000,000 in total receipts,
which is a 21 percent increase since 2014;
Whereas the growth rate for women-owned
employer firms is more than double the
growth rate of all other small businesses;
Whereas, in comparison to 2014, there are
nearly 2,250,000 additional women-owned em-
ployer firms and nearly 700,000 additional
jobs;
Whereas Congress continues to support the
National Women’s Business Council and its
focus on alleviating obstacles women face as
business owners and entrepreneurs;
Whereas the celebration of ‘‘National
Women’s Small Business Month’’ would—
(1) honor women small business owners and
women entrepreneurs; and
(2) recognize the significance of the con-
tributions of women to the small business
community: Now, therefore, be it
Resolved, That the Senate—
(1) recognizes October 2019 as ‘‘National
Women’s Small Business Month’’;
(2) honors the vital role of women small
business owners and women entrepreneurs in
the United States during ‘‘National Women’s
Small Business Month’’;
(3) recognizes the significant contributions
of women small business owners and women
entrepreneurs to the small business commu-
nity;
(4) supports and encourages young women
entrepreneurs to pursue their passions and
create more start-up businesses;
(5) recognizes the importance of creating
policies that promote a business-friendly en-
vironment for small business owners that is
free of unnecessary and burdensome regula-
tions and red tape; and
(6) supports efforts to—
(A) encourage consumers to shop locally;
and
(B) increase awareness of the value of lo-
cally-owned small businesses and the impact
of women-owned small businesses on the
economy of the United States.
f
SENATE RESOLUTION 401—RECOG-
NIZING THE MONTH OF OCTOBER
2019 AS FILIPINO AMERICAN HIS-
TORY MONTH AND CELEBRATING
THE HISTORY AND CULTURE OF
FILIPINO AMERICANS AND THEIR
IMMENSE CONTRIBUTIONS TO
THE UNITED STATES
Ms. HIRONO (for herself, Ms. MUR-
KOWSKI, Mr. BOOKER, Ms. CANTWELL,
Mr. CARDIN, Ms. CORTEZ MASTO, Ms.
DUCKWORTH, Mr. DURBIN, Ms. HARRIS,
Mrs. FEINSTEIN, Mr. KAINE, Ms. KLO-
BUCHAR, Mr. MENENDEZ, Mrs. MURRAY,
Ms. ROSEN, Mr. SCHATZ, Mr. VAN HOL-
LEN, Ms. WARREN, and Mr. SANDERS)
submitted the following resolution;
which was considered and agreed to:
S. RES. 401
Whereas the earliest documented Filipino
presence in the continental United States
was October 18, 1587, when the first ‘‘Luzones
Indios’’ arrived in Morro Bay, California, on
board the Nuestra Señora de Esperanza, a
Manila-built galleon ship;
Whereas the Filipino American National
Historical Society recognizes 1763 as the year
in which the first permanent Filipino settle-
ment in the United States was established in
St. Malo, Louisiana;
Whereas the recognition of the first perma-
nent Filipino settlement in the United
States adds a new perspective to the history
of the United States by bringing attention to
the economic, cultural, social, and other no-
table contributions made by Filipino Ameri-
cans to the development of the United
States;
Whereas the Filipino American community
is the third largest Asian American and Pa-
cific Islander group in the United States,
with a population of approximately 4,000,000;
Whereas, from the Civil War to the Iraq
and Afghanistan conflicts, Filipinos and Fili-
pino Americans have a longstanding history
of serving in the Armed Forces of the United
States;
Whereas more than 250,000 Filipinos fought
under the United States flag during World
War II to protect and defend the United
States in the Pacific theater;
Whereas a guarantee to pay back the serv-
ice of Filipinos through veterans benefits
was reversed by the First Supplemental Sur-
plus Appropriation Rescission Act, 1946 (Pub-
lic Law 79–301; 60 Stat. 6) and the Second
Supplemental Surplus Appropriation Rescis-
sion Act, 1946 (Public Law 79–391; 60 Stat.
221), which provided that the wartime service
of members of the Commonwealth Army of
the Philippines and the new Philippine
Scouts shall not be deemed to have been ac-
tive service and, therefore, those members
did not qualify for certain benefits;
Whereas 26,000 Filipino World War II vet-
erans were granted United States citizenship
as a result of the Immigration Act of 1990
(Public Law 101–649; 104 Stat. 4978), which
was signed into law by President George
H.W. Bush on November 29, 1990;
Whereas, on February 17, 2009, President
Barack Obama signed into law the American
Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (Pub-
lic Law 111–5; 123 Stat. 115), which estab-
lished the Filipino Veterans Equity Com-
pensation Fund to compensate Filipino
World War II veterans for their service to the
United States;
Whereas, since June 8, 2016, the Filipino
World War II Veterans Parole Program has
allowed Filipino World War II veterans and
certain family members to be reunited more
expeditiously than the immigrant visa proc-
ess allowed at that time, but, on August 2,
2019, the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration
Services announced its intention to termi-
nate the program;
Whereas, on December 14, 2016, President
Barack Obama signed into law the Filipino
Veterans of World War II Congressional Gold
Medal Act of 2015 (Public Law 114–265; 130
Stat. 1376) to award Filipino veterans who
fought alongside troops of the United States
in World War II the highest civilian honor
bestowed by Congress;
Whereas, on October 25, 2017, the Congres-
sional Gold Medal was presented to Filipino
World War II veterans in Emancipation Hall
in the Capitol Building, a recognition for
which the veterans had waited for more than
70 years;
Whereas Filipino Americans have received
the Congressional Medal of Honor, the high-
est award for valor in action against an
enemy force that may be bestowed on an in-
dividual serving in the Armed Forces, and
continue to demonstrate a commendable
sense of patriotism and honor in the Armed
Forces;
Whereas the late Thelma Garcia
Buchholdt, born in Claveria, Cagayan, on the
island of Luzon in the Philippines—
(1) moved with her family to Alaska in
1965;
(2) was elected to the House of Representa-
tives of Alaska in 1974;
(3) was the first Filipino woman elected to
a State legislature; and
(4) authored a comprehensive history book
entitled ‘‘Filipinos in Alaska: 1788–1958’’;
Whereas Filipino American farmworkers
and labor leaders, such as Philip Vera Cruz
and Larry Itliong, played an integral role in
the multiethnic United Farm Workers move-
ment, alongside Cesar Chávez, Dolores
Huerta, and other Latino workers;
Whereas Filipino Americans play an inte-
gral role in the healthcare system of the
United States as nurses, doctors, and other
medical professionals;
Whereas Filipino Americans have contrib-
uted greatly to music, dance, literature, edu-
cation, business, journalism, sports, fashion,
politics, government, science, technology,
the fine arts, and other fields that enrich the
United States;
Whereas, as mandated in the mission state-
ment of the Filipino American National His-
torical Society, efforts should continue to
promote the study of Filipino American his-
tory and culture because the roles of Filipino
Americans and other people of color have
largely been overlooked in the writing,
teaching, and learning of the history of the
United States;
Whereas it is imperative for Filipino
American youth to have positive role models
to instill—
(1) the significance of education, com-
plemented by the richness of Filipino Amer-
ican ethnicity; and
(2) the value of the Filipino American leg-
acy; and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:59 Nov 01, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00034 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A31OC6.045 S31OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6343
October 31, 2019
Whereas it is essential to promote the un-
derstanding, education, and appreciation of
the history and culture of Filipino Ameri-
cans in the United States: Now, therefore, be
it
Resolved, That the Senate—
(1) recognizes the celebration of Filipino
American History Month in October 2019 as—
(A) a testament to the advancement of Fil-
ipino Americans;
(B) a time to reflect on and remember the
many notable contributions that Filipino
Americans have made to the United States;
and
(C) a time to renew efforts toward the re-
search and examination of history and cul-
ture so as to provide an opportunity for all
people of the United States to learn more
about Filipino Americans and to appreciate
the historic contributions of Filipino Ameri-
cans to the United States; and
(2) urges the people of the United States to
observe Filipino American History Month
with appropriate programs and activities.
f
SENATE RESOLUTION 402—HON-
ORING THE LIFE, WORK, AND
LEGACY OF TONI MORRISON
Mr. BROWN (for himself and Mr.
PORTMAN) submitted the following res-
olution; which was considered and
agreed to:
S. RES. 402
Whereas Toni Morrison, born Chloe Ardelia
Wofford on February 18, 1931, in Lorain,
Ohio, to George Wofford and Ramah Willis
Wofford, was a pioneering novelist, writer,
editor, and professor;
Whereas Toni Morrison graduated from Lo-
rain High School in Lorain, Ohio, with hon-
ors in 1949;
Whereas, in 1953, Toni Morrison graduated
from Howard University in Washington,
D.C., with a bachelor of arts degree in
English and a minor in Classics;
Whereas, in 1955, Toni Morrison graduated
from Cornell University in Ithaca, New
York, with a master of arts degree in
English;
Whereas, in 1955, Toni Morrison became a
professor at Texas Southern University in
Houston, Texas;
Whereas, from 1957 to 1964, Toni Morrison
taught at Howard University in Washington,
D.C.;
Whereas, from 1965 to 1968, Toni Morrison
was a senior editor with textbook publisher
L.W. Singer in Syracuse, New York;
Whereas, from 1968 to 1983, Toni Morrison
was the first African-American woman sen-
ior editor in the history of Random House,
Inc., in New York City;
Whereas, in 1970, Holt, Rhinehart and Win-
ston published ‘‘The Bluest Eye’’, the first
novel by Toni Morrison;
Whereas, in 1973, Knopf published the novel
‘‘Sula’’ by Toni Morrison;
Whereas, in 1975, Toni Morrison received
the Ohioana Book Award for ‘‘Sula’’, which
was also nominated for the American Book
Award;
Whereas, from 1975 to 1977, Toni Morrison
was a visiting professor at Yale University in
New Haven, Connecticut;
Whereas, in 1977, Knopf published the novel
‘‘Song of Solomon’’ by Toni Morrison, which
was chosen as a Book-of-the-Month selection
the same year;
Whereas, in 1978, Toni Morrison received,
for ‘‘Song of Solomon’’—
(1) the National Book Critics Circle Award;
(2) the American Academy and Institute of
Arts and Letters Award;
(3) the Oscar Micheaux Award; and
(4) the Cleveland Arts Prize for Literature;
Whereas, in 1979, Toni Morrison was award-
ed the Barnard Medal of Distinction from
Barnard College in New York City;
Whereas, from 1979 to 1980, Toni Morrison
was a Distinguished Visiting Lecturer at
Bard College in Annandale-on-Hudson, New
York;
Whereas, in 1980, Toni Morrison was ap-
pointed by President Jimmy Carter to serve
on the National Council on the Arts, a posi-
tion Morrison held through 1987;
Whereas, in 1981—
(1) Knopf published the novel ‘‘Tar Baby’’
by Toni Morrison; and
(2) Toni Morrison—
(A) was elected to the American Acad-
emy of Arts and Letters; and
(B) received the Langston Hughes Award
from the City College of New York in New
York City;
Whereas, in 1983, ‘‘Recitatif’’, the only
short story by Toni Morrison, was published
in ‘‘Confirmations: An Anthology of African
American Women Writers’’;
Whereas, from 1983 to 1984, Toni Morrison
was a Distinguished Visiting Professor at
Rutgers University in New Brunswick, New
Jersey;
Whereas, from 1984 to 1989, Toni Morrison
was the Schweitzer Professor of the Human-
ities, College of the Humanities and Fine
Arts, at State University of New York in Al-
bany, New York;
Whereas, in 1985, Toni Morrison joined the
board of trustees of the New York Public Li-
brary;
Whereas, in 1986, Toni Morrison wrote
‘‘Dreaming Emmett’’, an unpublished play
commissioned by the New York State Writ-
ers Institute, for which Morrison received
the New York State Governor’s Arts Award
the same year;
Whereas, in 1987, Knopf published the novel
‘‘Beloved’’ by Toni Morrison, a portrait of a
woman haunted by the legacy of slavery in
post-Civil War Ohio, for which Morrison re-
ceived the Anisfield Wolf Book Award in
Race Relations in 1988;
Whereas, in 1988, Toni Morrison—
(1) won the Pulitzer Prize for ‘‘Beloved’’;
(2) received, for ‘‘Beloved’’—
(A) the Robert F. Kennedy Book Award;
(B) the Melcher Book Award; and
(C) the Elmer Holmes Bobst Award for
Fiction;
(3) received the Ohioana Career Medal
Award; and
(4) delivered the Robert C. Tanner Lecture
on Human Values at the University of Michi-
gan;
Whereas, from 1989 to 2006, Toni Morrison
was the Robert F. Goheen Professor in the
Council of the Humanities at Princeton Uni-
versity in Princeton, New Jersey, where she
was recognized with emeritus status in 2006;
Whereas, in 1990, Toni Morrison delivered—
(1) the Massey Lectures at Harvard Univer-
sity;
(2) the first Chazen Lecture at the Univer-
sity of Wisconsin;
(3) a Charter Lecture at the University of
Georgia; and
(4) the Clark Lectures at Trinity College in
Cambridge, England;
Whereas, in 1991, Toni Morrison was award-
ed the Rosenberger Medal at the University
of Chicago in Chicago, Illinois;
Whereas, in 1992—
(1) Knopf published the novel ‘‘Jazz’’ by
Toni Morrison;
(2) Pantheon published ‘‘Race-ing Justice,
En-gendering Power: Essays on Anita Hill,
Clarence Thomas, and the Construction of
Social Reality’’, a collection edited by Toni
Morrison; and
(3) Harvard University Press published
‘‘Playing in the Dark: Whiteness and the Lit-
erary Imagination’’ by Toni Morrison;
Whereas, in 1993, Toni Morrison—
(1) received the honor of Commandeur de
l’Ordre des Arts et des Lettres, a prestigious
award for distinguished contributions to
French and world culture;
(2) became the first African-American
woman to win the Nobel Prize in Literature
for being an author ‘‘who in novels charac-
terized by visionary force and poetic import,
gives life to an essential aspect of American
reality’’;
(3) wrote the lyrics for the song cycle
‘‘Honey and Rue’’ with composer André
Previn for Kathleen Battle, a work commis-
sioned by Carnegie Hall; and
(4) founded the Princeton Atelier, a studio
arts program at Princeton University that
brings together students and visiting artists
to explore the collaborative creative process;
Whereas, in 1994, Toni Morrison—
(1) received—
(A) the Condorcet Medal from the Ecole
Normale Supérierue in Paris, France; and
(B) the Pearl Buck Award from the Pearl
Buck Foundation;
(2) held the International Condorcet Chair
at the Ecole Normale Supérieure and the
College de France in Paris, France; and
(3) wrote lyrics for ‘‘Four Songs’’ with
composer André Previn, which was per-
formed by Sylvia McNair at Carnegie Hall;
Whereas, in 1996, Toni Morrison—
(1) was awarded the National Book Foun-
dation Medal for Distinguished Contribution
to American Letters in New York City;
(2) was named the Jefferson Lecturer in
the Humanities by the National Endowment
for the Humanities; and
(3) delivered the keynote address at the
250th Anniversary Convocation of Princeton
University;
Whereas, in 1997, Toni Morrison—
(1) co-edited ‘‘Birth of a Nation’hood: Gaze,
Script, and Spectacle in the O.J. Simpson
Case’’, a collection of essays on the O.J.
Simpson case published by Pantheon; and
(2) wrote the lyrics for ‘‘Sweet Talk’’ with
composer Richard Danielpour, which was
performed by Jessye Norman at Carnegie
Hall;
Whereas, from 1997 to 2003, Toni Morrison
was the A.D. White Professor-At-Large at
Cornell University in Ithaca, New York;
Whereas, in 1998—
(1) Knopf published the novel ‘‘Paradise’’
by Toni Morrison; and
(2) Toni Morrison wrote the lyrics for
‘‘Spirits in the Well’’ with composer Richard
Danielpour, which was performed by Jessye
Norman at Avery Fisher Hall;
Whereas, in 1998—
(1) the audio book ‘‘Beloved’’, which was
recorded by Toni Morrison, received a
Grammy nomination for Best Spoken Word
Album; and
(2) Toni Morrison delivered—
(A) the Moffitt Lecture at Princeton Uni-
versity; and
(B) the Berliner Lektionen at the The-
ater Berlin;
Whereas, in 1999, Toni Morrison—
(1) received the Ohioana Book Award for
Fiction; and
(2) co-authored with her son, Slade Morri-
son, ‘‘The Big Box’’, which was published by
Hyperion;
Whereas, in 2000, Toni Morrison—
(1) wrote the lyrics for ‘‘woman.life.song’’
with composer Judith Weir, which was per-
formed by Jessye Norman at Carnegie Hall;
and
(2) was awarded the National Humanities
Medal;
Whereas, in 2001, Toni Morrison—
(1) received—
(A) the Pell Award for Lifetime Achieve-
ment in the Arts; and
(B) the Cavore Prize in Turin, Italy;
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:59 Nov 01, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00035 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A31OC6.045 S31OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6344 October 31, 2019
(2) was honored at the Fete du Livre orga-
nized by Les Ecritures Croisées at the Cité
du Livre in Aix-en-Provence, France; and
(3) delivered a lecture at a lecture series
sponsored by the United Nations Secretary
General;
Whereas, in 2002, Toni Morrison—
(1) delivered the Alexander Lectures at the
University of Toronto; and
(2) wrote the libretto for ‘‘Margaret Gar-
ner’’ with composer Richard Danielpour, an
opera that was co-commissioned by—
(A) the Michigan Opera Theatre;
(B) the Cincinnati Opera; and
(C) the Opera Company of Philadelphia;
Whereas, in 2003—
(1) Toni Morrison received the Docteur
Honoris Causa from the Ecole Normale
Supérieure in Paris, France; and
(2) Knopf published the novel ‘‘Love’’ by
Toni Morrison;
Whereas, in 2004, Toni Morrison—
(1) delivered the Amnesty International
Lecture in Edinburgh, Scotland;
(2) received the ‘‘Arts and Communities’’
award from the Academy of Culture in Paris,
France; and
(3) received the Image Award for Out-
standing Literary Work in Fiction from the
National Association for the Advancement of
Colored People;
Whereas, in 2005, Toni Morrison—
(1) received—
(A) the Du Bois Medal from the W.E.B.
DuBois Institute in Cambridge, Massachu-
setts; and
(B) the Coretta Scott King Award from
the American Library Association; and
(2) was awarded a doctor of letters from
Oxford University in Oxford, England;
Whereas, in 2006—
(1) the New York Times rated ‘‘Beloved’’
by Toni Morrison as the ‘‘Best Work of
American Fiction of the Last 25 Years’’; and
(2) Toni Morrison—
(A) through the ‘‘Grand Invité’’ program
of the Musée du Louvre in Paris, France,
was the Guest Curator of the Musée du
Louvre; and
(B) was named a Life Trustee of the New
York Public Library;
Whereas, in 2007, Toni Morrison was award-
ed—
(1) the Docteur Honoris Causa from the
Université Paris Sorbonne – Paris IV in
Paris, France; and
(2) the Radcliffe Institute Medal from the
Radcliffe Institute for Advanced Study at
Harvard University in Cambridge, Massachu-
setts;
Whereas, in 2008, Knopf published the novel
‘‘A Mercy’’ by Toni Morrison;
Whereas, in 2010, Toni Morrison received
the Chevalier Ordre National de la L′egion
d’honneur, the highest national order of
merit in France;
Whereas, in 2011, Toni Morrison wrote the
play ‘‘Desdemona’’, which premiered in Vi-
enna, Austria;
Whereas, in 2012—
(1) Toni Morrison delivered the Ingersoll
Lecture at the Harvard Divinity School in
Cambridge, Massachusetts;
(2) Knopf published the novel ‘‘Home’’ by
Toni Morrison; and
(3) President Barack Obama awarded the
Presidential Medal of Freedom, the highest
civilian honor of the United States, to Toni
Morrison for her literary work and legacy as
‘‘one of our nation’s most celebrated novel-
ists’’;
Whereas, in 2014, Toni Morrison received
the Ivan Sandrof Lifetime Achievement
Award from the National Book Critics Cir-
cle;
Whereas, in 2015, Knopf published the novel
‘‘God Help the Child’’ by Toni Morrison;
Whereas, in 2016—
(1) Toni Morrison was the Charles E. Nor-
ton Professor at Harvard University in Cam-
bridge, Massachusetts;
(2) the American Academy of Arts and
Sciences awarded Toni Morrison the Emer-
son-Thoreau Medal for ‘‘her distinguished
achievement in the field of literature’’; and
(3) Toni Morrison received the PEN/Saul
Bellow Award for Achievement in American
Fiction;
Whereas, in 2017—
(1) Harvard University Press published
‘‘The Origin of Others’’ by Toni Morrison,
which was based on the Charles Eliot Norton
Lectures presented by Morrison at Harvard
University in 2016;
(2) Toni Morrison delivered the keynote
address at the Princeton Slavery Project
Symposium; and
(3) Princeton University dedicated the
naming of Morrison Hall in honor of Toni
Morrison, who was the Robert F. Goheen
Professor in the Humanities, Emeritus, at
Princeton University;
Whereas, in 2019—
(1) Knopf published ‘‘The Source of Self-
Regard: Selected Essays, Speeches, and
Meditations’’ by Toni Morrison; and
(2) the American Academy of Arts and Let-
ters awarded Toni Morrison a Gold Medal for
distinguished achievement in the field of lit-
erature;
Whereas the invaluable contributions of
Toni Morrison to literature in the United
States during a career that spanned more
than 5 decades will inform generations of au-
thors, scholars, teachers, and students in the
United States and around the world; and
Whereas, on August 5, 2019, at the age of 88,
Toni Morrison died, leaving a legacy of a vi-
sionary literature that—
(1) is extraordinary for the freshness of its
narrative strategies and procedures; and
(2) is dedicated to dramatizing the complex
humanity and art of Black people: Now,
therefore, be it
Resolved, That the Senate—
(1) extends heartfelt sympathy to the fam-
ily of Toni Morrison on the occasion of her
death;
(2) recognizes Toni Morrison as—
(A) one of the most formidable scholars,
educators, and authors of the United States;
and
(B) a writer of the stature of other great
literary figures of the United States, such
as—
(i) Nathaniel Hawthorne;
(ii) Ralph Waldo Emerson;
(iii) Herman Melville;
(iv) Walt Whitman;
(v) Mark Twain; and
(vi) William Faulkner;
(3) honors the life of Toni Morrison and the
achievements of Toni Morrison in human-
ities and literature; and
(4) expresses deep appreciation for the ex-
ceptional and vital work of Toni Morrison,
including—
(A) the vehemence of the work;
(B) the uncensored exploration of race in
the United States that the work presented;
and
(C) the enduring impact the work has had,
and will continue to have, on the United
States.
f
SENATE RESOLUTION 403—DESIG-
NATING OCTOBER 2019 AS ‘‘NA-
TIONAL FARM TO SCHOOL
MONTH’’
Mr. LEAHY (for himself, Ms. COL-
LINS, Mr. BROWN, and Mr. PERDUE) sub-
mitted the following resolution; which
was considered and agreed to:
S. RES. 403
Whereas farm to school programs of vary-
ing scale operate in nearly 43,000 schools
across the United States;
Whereas farm to school programs connect
schools and local farms in order to—
(1) serve nutritious meals in school cafe-
terias; and
(2) support local farmers, ranchers, and
fishermen;
Whereas farm to school programs include
experiential education components that can
lead to permanent improvements in the diets
of children, both in school and at home;
Whereas farm to school programs facilitate
the purchase of local food for school meals;
Whereas farm to school programs can ben-
efit small and mid-sized agricultural pro-
ducers by providing access to consistent
markets;
Whereas farm to school programs can be
particularly important for beginning or so-
cially disadvantaged farmers, as schools pro-
vide a consistent and secure customer base;
Whereas farm to school programs can ben-
efit local economies;
Whereas for every $1 spent on local foods in
schools, up to an additional $2 circulates in
the local economy;
Whereas data from the Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention shows that only 7
percent of children consume the rec-
ommended amount of vegetables;
Whereas communities with high levels of
poverty have less access to fresh fruits and
vegetables than higher income communities;
Whereas the increased consumption of
fresh fruits and vegetables is 1 of 6 major
strategies to prevent and control obesity, ac-
cording to the Centers for Disease Control
and Prevention;
Whereas studies have demonstrated that
children in schools with an active farm to
school program increase their average con-
sumption of fresh fruits and vegetables by 1
or more servings per day;
Whereas farm to school programs—
(1) are popular among children;
(2) can increase interest in school meal
programs; and
(3) can decrease food waste; and
Whereas October 2019 would be an appro-
priate month to designate as ‘‘National
Farm to School Month’’: Now, therefore, be
it
Resolved, That the Senate—
(1) designates October 2019 as ‘‘National
Farm to School Month’’;
(2) recognizes support for policy improve-
ments to farm to school programs in legisla-
tion reauthorizing child nutrition programs;
(3) encourages schools and local edu-
cational agencies to use local farm products
in meals; and
(4) encourages schools, farmers and farm
groups, local businesses, nonprofit institu-
tions, churches, cities, State governments,
and other local groups to raise awareness of
farm to school efforts in their communities.
f
SENATE RESOLUTION 404—EX-
PRESSING THE SENSE OF THE
SENATE THAT THE UNITED
STATES SHOULD WORK IN CO-
OPERATION WITH THE INTER-
NATIONAL COMMUNITY AND
CONTINUE TO EXERCISE GLOBAL
LEADERSHIP TO ADDRESS THE
CAUSES AND EFFECTS OF CLI-
MATE CHANGE, AND FOR OTHER
PURPOSES
Mr. CARDIN (for himself, Ms. COL-
LINS, Mr. MENENDEZ, Mr. SCHATZ, Mr.
MARKEY, Mr. WHITEHOUSE, Mr. UDALL,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:59 Nov 01, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00036 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A31OC6.045 S31OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6345
October 31, 2019
Mr. BLUMENTHAL, Mrs. SHAHEEN, Mrs.
GILLIBRAND, Mr. DURBIN, Mr. REED, Mr.
COONS, Mr. BENNET, Mr. BOOKER, Ms.
WARREN, Mr. LEAHY, Mr. BROWN, Mr.
CARPER, Ms. STABENOW, Ms. HIRONO,
Mr. KAINE, Mrs. FEINSTEIN, Ms. KLO-
BUCHAR, Ms. HARRIS, Ms. BALDWIN, Mr.
MERKLEY, Mr. MURPHY, Ms. SMITH, Mr.
VAN HOLLEN, Mr. SANDERS, Mr. WAR-
NER, and Ms. HASSAN) submitted the
following resolution; which was re-
ferred to the Committee on Foreign
Relations:
S. RES. 404
Whereas the consensus among climatolo-
gists and scientists studying the effects of
atmospheric change, including the Intergov-
ernmental Panel on Climate Change, the Na-
tional Academy of Science, the United
States Geological Survey, the National Oce-
anic and Atmospheric Administration
(NOAA), the National Aeronautics and Space
Administration (NASA), and other agencies
within the United States Global Change Re-
search Program, have determined that the
impact of climate change will include wide-
spread effects on health and welfare, includ-
ing increased outbreaks from waterborne dis-
eases, more droughts, diminished agricul-
tural production, severe storms and floods,
heat waves, wildfires, and a substantial rise
in global sea levels;
Whereas the objective of the 1992 United
Nations Framework Convention on Climate
Change (UNFCCC) is to stabilize greenhouse
gas concentrations in the atmosphere at a
level that will prevent dangerous human in-
terference with the climate system;
Whereas, under the UNFCCC, the United
States is obligated to report its progress on
reducing emissions;
Whereas the Senate provided its advice and
consent to the UNFCCC by division, with
two-thirds of Senators present voting in the
affirmative, on October 7, 1992;
Whereas, in 2011, at the 17th Conference of
the Parties (COP 17) to the UNFCCC in Dur-
ban, South Africa, parties agreed to nego-
tiate an agreement by the end of 2015 to re-
duce emissions in the post-2020 period;
Whereas the UNFCCC calls on parties to
submit intended nationally determined con-
tributions outlining voluntary individual
targets for emissions reductions by the time
parties convened in Paris on November 30,
2015, for the 21st Conference of the Parties
(COP 21) to the UNFCCC;
Whereas, prior to completing the multilat-
eral Paris Agreement on international co-
operation to address climate change, done at
Paris December 12, 2015, 187 nations, rep-
resenting more than 97 percent of global
greenhouse gas emissions, voluntarily sub-
mitted nationally determined goals and
plans to reduce their greenhouse gas pollu-
tion;
Whereas, according to research and data
analysis conducted independently by NOAA,
NASA, the Met Office Hadley Centre for Cli-
mate Science and Services of the United
Kingdom, the Japan Meteorological Agency,
and Berkeley Earth, each of the years 2014
through 2018 rank among the five warmest
years on record;
Whereas, according to NASA, 18 of the 19
warmest years on record have occurred since
2000;
Whereas, according to NOAA, 2019 will
likely be the second warmest year on record,
making the last six years the warmest years
on record;
Whereas the United States-China Joint An-
nouncement on Climate Change of November
2014 included a United States goal to reduce
its emissions by 26–28 percent below 2005 lev-
els by 2025 and a Chinese goal to peak emis-
sions output by 2030 and increase the use of
non-fossil fuels to 20 percent of its overall
energy portfolio by 2030;
Whereas, under the United States-India
Joint Announcement on Climate and Clean
Energy of January 2015, the two countries
pledged to increase cooperation on clean en-
ergy financing and development and India
committed to phase out use of
hydrofluorocarbons and increase promotion
of energy efficiency tools and reaffirmed its
commitment to add 100 gigawatts of solar ca-
pacity by 2022;
Whereas small island states, whose people
are among the most vulnerable to climate
change, are threatened with partial or vir-
tually total inundation by imminent rises in
sea level and increased intensity and fre-
quency of storms;
Whereas United States international lead-
ership on the global stage throughout the
United Nations Framework Convention on
Climate Change’s 21st Conference of Parties
process resulted in unprecedented inter-
national cooperation and engagement on the
development of the Paris Agreement;
Whereas the Paris Agreement received
consensus approval from the more than 190
delegates to the United Nations Framework
Convention on Climate Change’s 21st Con-
ference of Parties;
Whereas the Paris Agreement reached its
thresholds for entry into force faster than
any other multilateral international agree-
ment of comparable size and scope;
Whereas, as of the date of introduction of
this resolution, 187 of the 197 parties to the
Paris Agreement have officially joined the
agreement, demonstrating the urgency and
importance the global community places on
addressing climate change;
Whereas studies conducted by the NASA
Earth Observatory determined that as the
oceans have warmed, polar ice has melted
and porous landmasses have subsided, global
mean sea level has risen by 8 inches (20 cen-
timeters) since 1870, and the rate of sea level
rise is faster now than at any time in the
past 2,000 years, having doubled in the past
two decades, putting 55 to 60 percent of
United States citizens who live in counties
touching the Atlantic or Pacific Ocean, the
Gulf of Mexico, or the Great Lakes at risk
from the effects of sea level rise;
Whereas the Department of Defense has
identified climate change as a ‘‘threat multi-
plier’’ that will increase global instability
and conflict, with the potential to increase
terrorism;
Whereas the 2014 Quadrennial Defense Re-
view states that ‘‘[t]he impacts of climate
change may increase the frequency, scale,
and complexity of future missions, including
defense support to civil authorities, while at
the same time undermining the capacity of
our domestic installations to support train-
ing activities,’’ and notes that—
(1) climate change may exacerbate water
scarcity and lead to sharp increases in food
costs;
(2) the pressures caused by climate change
will influence resource competition while
placing additional burdens on economies, so-
cieties, and governance institutions around
the world; and
(3) these effects are threat multipliers that
will aggravate stressors abroad such as pov-
erty, environmental degradation, political
instability, and social tensions—conditions
that can enable terrorist activity and other
forms of violence;
Whereas the Department of Defense report,
‘‘National Security Implications of Climate-
Related Risks and a Changing Climate’’—
(1) states that global climate change will
have wide-ranging implications for United
States national security interests over the
foreseeable future because it will aggravate
existing problems, such as poverty, social
tensions, environmental degradation, inef-
fectual leadership, and weak political insti-
tutions, that threaten domestic stability in
a number of countries; and
(2) identifies four general areas of climate-
related risks: persistently recurring condi-
tions such as flooding, drought, and higher
temperatures; more frequent and more se-
vere extreme weather events; sea level rise
and temperature changes; and decreases in
Arctic ice cover, type, and thickness;
Whereas the Director of National
Intelligence’s 2017 Global Trends Report de-
termined that—
(1) changes in the climate will produce
more extreme weather events and put great-
er stress on humans and critical systems, in-
cluding oceans, freshwater, and biodiversity;
(2) these changes, in turn, will have direct
and indirect social, economic, political, and
security effects; and
(3) extreme weather can trigger crop fail-
ures, wildfires, energy blackouts, infrastruc-
ture breakdown, supply chain breakdowns,
migration, and infectious disease outbreaks,
and will be more pronounced as people con-
centrate in climate vulnerable locations,
such as cities, coastal areas, and water-
stressed regions;
Whereas the Department of Agriculture
has determined that climate change is likely
to diminish continued progress on global
food security through production disruptions
that lead to local availability limitations
and price increases, interrupted transport
conduits, and diminished food safety, among
other causes;
Whereas, according to the World Bank, ap-
proximately 1,600,000,000 people currently
live in countries and regions with absolute
water scarcity and the number is expected to
rise to 2,800,000,000 people by 2025 due to the
effects of climate change;
Whereas a 2018 special report of the Inter-
governmental Panel on Climate Change on
the impacts of global warming of 1.5 degrees
Celsius above pre-industrial levels and re-
lated global greenhouse gas emission path-
ways found with ‘‘high confidence’’, in the
context of strengthening the global response
to the threat of climate change, sustainable
development, and efforts to eradicate pov-
erty, that—
(1) human activities are estimated to have
caused approximately 1.0 degree Celsius of
global warming above pre-industrial levels,
with a likely range of 0.8 degrees Celsius to
1.2 degrees Celsius;
(2) global warming is likely to reach 1.5 de-
grees Celsius between 2030 and 2052 if global
warming continues to increase at the cur-
rent rate; and
(3) climate-related risks for natural and
human systems are higher for global warm-
ing of 1.5 degrees Celsius than at present, but
lower than at 2 degrees Celsius; and
Whereas the Fourth National Climate As-
sessment (NCA4) completed in November
2018, developed by the United States Global
Change Research Program, in collaboration
and cooperation with 13 Federal agencies,
‘‘to advance understanding of the changing
Earth system and maximize efficiencies in
Federal global change research’’—
(1) concludes that—
(A) the evidence of human-caused cli-
mate change is overwhelming and con-
tinues to strengthen;
(B) the impacts of climate change are in-
tensifying across the United States;
(C) climate-related threats to the phys-
ical, social, and economic well-being of the
United States are rising; and
(D) ‘‘[t]he impacts and costs of climate
change are already being felt in the United
States, and changes in the likelihood or se-
verity of some recent extreme weather
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:59 Nov 01, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00037 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A31OC6.043 S31OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6346 October 31, 2019
events can now be attributed with increas-
ingly higher confidence to human-caused
warming’’; and
(2) includes summary findings that—
(A) the quality and quantity of water
available for use by people and ecosystems
across the United States are being affected
by climate change, increasing risks and
costs to agriculture, energy production, in-
dustry, recreation, and the environment;
(B) impacts from climate change on ex-
treme weather and climate-related events,
air quality, and the transmission of disease
through insects and pests, food, and water
increasingly threaten the health and well-
being of the people of the United States,
particularly vulnerable populations;
(C) climate change increasingly threat-
ens the livelihoods, economies, health, and
cultural identities of indigenous commu-
nities by disrupting interconnected social,
physical, and ecological systems;
(D) the aging and deteriorating infra-
structure of the United States is further
stressed by increases in heavy precipita-
tion events, coastal flooding, heat,
wildfires, and other extreme events, as well
as changes to average precipitation and
temperature; and
(E) without adaptation, climate change
will continue to degrade infrastructure
performance over the rest of the century,
with the potential for cascading impacts
that threaten the economy, national secu-
rity, and essential services of the United
States and the health and well-being of the
United States people: Now, therefore, be it
Resolved, That it is the sense of the Senate
that the United States should—
(1) work in cooperation with the inter-
national community and continue to exer-
cise global leadership in our shared respon-
sibilities, including holding parties account-
able for meeting their commitments, and ad-
dress the causes and effects of climate
change;
(2) remain party to the Paris Agreement
and the UNFCCC;
(3) reassert strong leadership in imple-
menting the Paris Agreement;
(4) as acknowledged in the Nationally De-
termined Contribution submitted by the
United States to the UNFCCC in 2015, take
action to substantially accelerate the cur-
rent pace of greenhouse gas emission reduc-
tions in order to achieve, or surpass, the
emissions reduction target of the United
States;
(5) ensure that the development of the poli-
cies and procedures prescribed by the Paris
Agreement achieve maximum benefits for
the United States; and
(6) implement its commitments under the
Paris Agreement and the UNFCCC.
f
SENATE RESOLUTION 405—EX-
PRESSING SUPPORT FOR THE
DESIGNATION OF OCTOBER AS
‘‘BRAIN HEALTH AWARENESS
MONTH’’
Mr. GRASSLEY submitted the fol-
lowing resolution; which was referred
to the Committee on Health, Edu-
cation, Labor, and Pensions
S. RES. 405
Whereas millions of individuals in the
United States suffer from behavioral health
conditions, such as anxiety, depression, and
post-traumatic stress disorder, or a trau-
matic brain injury or acquired brain injury
that disrupts the normal function of the
brain;
Whereas a serious behavioral health condi-
tion, such as schizophrenia, or a traumatic
brain injury or acquired brain injury, such as
a stroke, that disrupts the normal function
of the brain often is linked to a lifetime of
cognitive and behavioral challenges;
Whereas millions of individuals in the
United States struggle with challenges
caused by a traumatic brain injury, stroke,
or mental health conditions;
Whereas hundreds of thousands of members
and veterans of the Armed Forces have been
diagnosed with traumatic brain injury and
millions more have been diagnosed with
post-traumatic stress disorder as a result of
their service, which can lead to persistent
challenges for those members and veterans
and their families;
Whereas approximately 1 in 5 people in the
United States struggle with behavioral
health disorders each year, but a majority of
those people do not seek treatment for their
condition, often due to the stigma associated
with doing so;
Whereas early and adequate access to care,
such as imaging technology that can identify
areas of the brain that have been com-
promised, promotes health and can greatly
increase the overall quality of life of many
individuals in the United States;
Whereas grassroots organizations such as
Brain Health Now of Iowa and Mental Health
Connecticut, which are dedicated to ending
the stigma of mental illness, have called for
every individual in the United States to
treat health conditions affecting the brain
with the same regard and care as physical
illnesses, such as heart disease; and
Whereas it is important to educate the
public on the incidence and prevalence of
brain injury and disease and to support the
needs of those who are injured: Now, there-
fore, be it
Resolved, That the Senate—
(1) supports the designation of October as
‘‘Brain Health Awareness Month’’; and
(2) encourages all individuals in the United
States to use Brain Health Awareness Month
as an opportunity to promote greater accept-
ance of and support for individuals living
with diseases or injuries affecting the brain.
f
AUTHORITY FOR COMMITTEES TO
MEET
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
have 5 requests for committees to meet
during today’s session of the Senate.
They have the approval of the Majority
and Minority leaders.
Pursuant to rule XXVI, paragraph
5(a), of the Standing Rules of the Sen-
ate, the following committees are au-
thorized to meet during today’s session
of the Senate:
COMMITTEE ON FOREIGN RELATIONS
The Committee on Foreign Relations
is authorized to meet during the ses-
sion of the Senate on Thursday, Octo-
ber 31, 2019, at 10 a.m., to conduct a
hearing on the following nominations:
Andeliz N. Castille, of New York, to be
United States Alternate Executive Di-
rector of the Inter-American Develop-
ment Bank, Alma L. Golden, of Texas,
to be an Assistant Administrator of the
United States Agency for International
Development, and Peter M. Haymond,
of Virginia, to be Ambassador to the
Lao People’s Democratic Republic,
Alina L. Romanowski, of Illinois, to be
Ambassador to the State of Kuwait,
and Leslie Meredith Tsou, of Virginia,
to be Ambassador to the Sultanate of
Oman, all of the Department of State.
COMMITTEE ON HEALTH, EDUCATION, LABOR,
AND PENSIONS
The Committee on Health, Edu-
cation, Labor, and Pensions is author-
ized to meet during the session of the
Senate on Thursday, October 31, 2019,
at 10 a.m., to conduct a hearing.
COMMITTEE ON HOMELAND SECURITY AND
GOVERNMENTAL AFFAIRS
The Committee on Homeland Secu-
rity and Governmental Affairs is au-
thorized to meet during the session of
the Senate on Thursday, October 31,
2019, at 9:30 a.m., to conduct a hearing.
COMMITTEE ON THE JUDICIARY
The Committee on the Judiciary is
authorized to meet during the session
of the Senate on Thursday, October 31,
2019, at 10 a.m., to conduct a hearing
following nominations: Halil Suleyman
Ozerden, of Mississippi, to be United
States Circuit Judge for the Fifth Cir-
cuit, Steven J. Menashi, to be United
States Circuit Judge for the Second
Circuit, Jodi W. Dishman, to be United
States District Judge for the Western
District of Oklahoma, Richard Earnest
Myers II, to be United States District
Judge for the Eastern District of North
Carolina, Sarah E. Pitlyk, to be United
States District Judge for the Eastern
District of Missouri, Daniel Mack
Traynor, to be United States District
Judge for the District of North Dakota,
Barbara Lagoa and Robert J. Luck,
both of Florida, both to be a United
States Circuit Judge for the Eleventh
Circuit, Sylvia Carreno-Coll, to be
United States District Judge for the
District of Puerto Rico, John M. Galla-
gher, to be United States District
Judge for the Eastern District of Penn-
sylvania, and Sherri A. Lydon, to be
United States District Judge for the
District of South Carolina.
SELECT COMMITTEE ON INTELLIGENCE
The Select Committee on Intel-
ligence is authorized to meet during
the session of the Senate on Thursday,
October 31, 2019, at 2 p.m., to conduct a
closed briefing.
f
PRIVILEGES OF THE FLOOR
Mr. CARDIN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that floor privi-
leges be granted to Tessa Silverman, a
member of my staff, during today’s ses-
sion of the Senate.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
HONORING THE MEMBERS OF THE
MILITARY AND INTELLIGENCE
COMMUNITY WHO CARRIED OUT
THE MISSION THAT KILLED ABU
BAKR AL-BAGHDADI
Mr. COTTON. Mr. President, last
weekend, elite U.S. Special Operations
forces embarked on a daring and dan-
gerous mission to locate and kill or
capture the terrorist leader of ISIS,
Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi.
These soldiers knew that Baghdadi’s
compound was well guarded by radical
Islamic terrorists who placed little
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:25 Nov 01, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00038 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A31OC6.043 S31OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6347
October 31, 2019
value on their own lives. They knew
the compound was booby-trapped and
that Baghdadi kept innocent children
as human shields to protect himself
against attack.
Nevertheless, these soldiers carried
out their mission fearlessly and flaw-
lessly. They breached the compound,
eliminated Baghdadi’s Praetorian
Guard, and then cornered the terrorist
leader in a dead end, underground tun-
nel.
Baghdadi chose the coward’s way
out, detonating a suicide vest, even
though he was surrounded by his own
children. True to form, he was as evil
in the final moments of his life as he
had been throughout it.
Now Baghdadi is dead, thanks to the
brave men and women of the U.S.
Armed Forces and our canines too.
There is no other Nation on Earth
whose military could have carried out
this raid, and the American people
ought to be proud of them.
To commemorate their stunning suc-
cess, Senator GRAHAM and I have a res-
olution to honor the leaders and mem-
bers of the military intelligence com-
munity who made it possible and to
commend the President for his decisive
leadership in ordering the raid.
Therefore, Mr. President, I ask unan-
imous consent the Senate proceed to
the consideration of S. Res. 394 sub-
mitted earlier today.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the resolution by
title.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
A resolution (S. Res. 394) honoring the
members of the military and intelligence
community who carried out the mission that
killed Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi, and for other
purposes.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
objection to proceeding to the meas-
ure?
There being no objection, the Senate
proceeded to consider the resolution.
Mr. COTTON. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent the resolution be
agreed to; the preamble be agreed to;
and that the motions to reconsider be
considered made and laid upon the
table with no intervening action or de-
bate.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The resolution (S. Res. 394) was
agreed to.
The preamble was agreed to.
(The resolution, with its preamble, is
printed in today’s RECORD under ‘‘Sub-
mitted Resolutions.’’)
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Maryland.
f
REMEMBERING KAY HAGAN
Mr. CARDIN. Mr. President, I stand
here today to mourn the loss of Kay
Hagan. Kay was a warm, kind person
with a wonderful sense of humor, and
she was an inspiring public servant. I
feel fortunate to have been her friend
and colleague here in the U.S. Senate.
I am deeply saddened to be among the
many who will miss her profoundly.
Kay knew from a young age that her
destiny was in politics, starting when
she worked here as an intern. She often
recalled operating the Senate elevators
in the 1970s. She would watch the Na-
tion’s leaders and influencers pass by,
including her maternal uncle, then-
Senator Lawton Chiles from Florida.
She would dream of riding those ele-
vators herself as an elected official.
Kay worked incredibly hard to
achieve that dream. She earned her BA
degree from Florida State University
and her JD from Wake Forest Univer-
sity School of Law. Before Kay began
her political career, she worked in fi-
nancial services and became a vice
president of North Carolina National
Bank, which is now part of Bank of
America.
In 1998, she was elected to the North
Carolina State Senate, where her tal-
ent in setting the State’s budget and
her devotion to her constituents earned
her a spot among North Carolina’s
‘‘Ten Most Effective Senators’’ 3 years
in a row. Then, in 2008, she became a
U.S. Senator in a historic election. Kay
was North Carolina’s second female
Senator ever and its first Democratic
female senator.
From the moment Kay arrived in the
Senate, she concerned herself with how
to use her platform to clear the way for
other people, especially other women,
to achieve their ambitions. The very
first bill she cosponsored was the Lilly
Ledbetter Fair Pay Act, which created
a fairer system for filing claims of pay
discrimination. She also worked with
Senator SCHUMER to open the Senate
swimming pool to female Senators for
the first time.
Where Kay saw injustice and where
she saw indignity, she saw opportuni-
ties to make the world a better place.
She was committed to fighting for any-
one who needed her help. She was a
fierce advocate for servicemembers,
veterans, and military families. Both
her father and brother served in the
U.S. Navy. She also spent much of her
Senate career campaigning to improve
education, financial literacy, and job
training for underserved communities.
She rallied people to these causes—not
with strong-arming or with steam-
rolling but with cleverness and com-
passion and coalition-building.
Kay was the type of legislator who
dug into issues that made a real dif-
ference in people’s lives, even if they
weren’t necessarily headline-grabbing.
I had the honor of working alongside
Kay in the Senate Small Business Com-
mittee for 4 years, and I watched her
tirelessly create economic opportunity
for North Carolinians and all Ameri-
cans. The programs and policies we
spearheaded there may not have made
front page news, but Kay knew she was
making a difference for entrepreneur-
ship opportunities in our country.
The only thing to rival Kay’s dedica-
tion to her constituents was her dedi-
cation to her family. Kay was endlessly
devoted to her husband Chip and their
three children, Tilden, Jeanette, and
Carrie, and all of her loved ones.
Her brother-in-law, Henry Hagan, is a
fellow Baltimorean, and he has told me
over the years how Kay truly was the
Sun around which the entire family or-
bited. She was a source of gravity and
life for them, as she was for so many
people who were lucky enough to know
her.
May her gravity continue to ground
us, and may her light continue to
warm and guide us. I wish all of Kay’s
family and friends comfort during this
difficult time.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Florida.
f
HEALTHCARE
Mr. SCOTT of Florida. Mr. President,
what we heard this week from my
Democratic colleagues on healthcare is
more of the same—more fearmongering
and more misinformation.
The issue this week is about what is
called 1332 waivers. These waivers
allow States flexibility in how they im-
plement healthcare programs. It is a
simple concept. Every State is dif-
ferent. Every State should have the
flexibility to design their healthcare
programs and regulations in a way to
best meet the needs of their citizens.
As a former Governor I know how im-
portant this is. Top-down, one-size-fits-
all Federal healthcare programs in-
crease costs and aren’t the way to best
serve the needs of the American people.
Even the Democrats realized that when
they passed ObamaCare. They created
the 1332 waiver for State innovation.
As Governor, I used a similar waiver
authority, an 1115 Medicaid waiver to
reform our Medicaid system and transi-
tion it from a fee-for-service to a man-
aged care system. This resulted in
lower costs to taxpayers and better
service and access for Florida fami-
lies—a win-win.
These waivers work, and if you be-
lieve in States’ rights, these waivers
are the way to give States the oppor-
tunity to provide better healthcare to
their citizens. But here is the problem:
The Democrats don’t believe in States’
rights or allowing State taxpayers and
citizens any flexibility to provide bet-
ter healthcare services to their citi-
zens. The Democrats want these top-
down, one-size-fits-all Federal pro-
grams. If there is choice and flexi-
bility, they want to restrict it. It is
how Big Government works, and the
Democrats love Big Government, re-
strictive mandates, and socialism.
When the Democrats are not attack-
ing Republicans for trying to dismantle
ObamaCare, the Democrats turn
around to their supporters and talk
about their efforts to replace
ObamaCare.
They don’t want to keep ObamaCare
programs as they are. They know
ObamaCare is not working. They want
to replace it with Medicare for All,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:59 Nov 01, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00039 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G31OC6.039 S31OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6348 October 31, 2019
which would be the biggest expansion
of government healthcare in history.
By some estimates, Medicare for All
would cost more than $30 trillion over
10 years. This one program would dou-
ble the Federal budget and would re-
quire massive tax increases on each
and every man, woman, and child in
America.
Right now, we collect $3 trillion in
Federal revenue. Medicare for All
would require everyone’s Federal taxes
to more than double. Coincidentally,
the Congressional Budget Office has so
far been unable to do an official score
of the Medicare for All bill. I have
asked the sponsor of the bill, the junior
Senator from Vermont, who happens to
be the ranking member of the Senate
Budget Committee, to join me in re-
questing the CBO score for his bill. So
far, crickets.
Why wouldn’t the Senator want a
score of his bill? It is because the
Democrats don’t want you to know
how much it would cost. They don’t
want you to know how many people
would lose the employer-sponsored
healthcare they have and like. They
don’t want you to know how much
taxes would have to go up.
Medicare for All is the Democrats’
dream: every American on a govern-
ment-run healthcare program, every
American reliant on the Federal Gov-
ernment for their healthcare. Any ef-
fort to undermine this goal is anath-
ema to them.
So this week they are going after 1332
waivers and claiming they somehow
undermine protections for people with
preexisting conditions. The Senate
Democratic leader claimed yesterday
that these waivers are an effort to
‘‘sabotage healthcare for millions.’’
I find that statement interesting. I
wonder what Democratic Governor
Jared Polis of Colorado thinks of the
Democratic leader’s claim that he is
trying to sabotage healthcare. His
State used these 1332 waivers to offer
healthcare plans to best meet the needs
of Coloradans. They have seen pre-
miums go down by 16 percent.
I wonder what Democratic Governor
John Carney of Delaware would say?
His State also used this waiver and has
seen premiums drop by 13 percent.
I wonder what Democratic Governor
Gina Raimondo of Rhode Island would
say? Premiums in her State have gone
down 6 percent since they got their 1332
waiver.
Contrary to the misinformation from
the Democratic leader, these waivers
do not eliminate protections for people
with preexisting conditions. These core
protections, which I strongly support,
remain unchanged.
This is personal to me. My brother
grew up with a preexisting condition,
and my mother had to drive 200 miles
to a charity hospital just to get treat-
ment for him. The Democrats are mis-
representing the facts about 1332 waiv-
ers because they realize they are losing
the argument.
Remember the ObamaCare promise:
You can keep your insurance plan,
your doctor, and every family will save
$2,500. ObamaCare only benefited hos-
pitals, insurance companies, and the
pharmaceutical industry. That is why
they originally supported it. But for
the average American, millions lost
their insurance and their doctors, pre-
miums skyrocketed, deductibles sky-
rocketed. The result is that while more
people have healthcare insurance,
fewer people have access to healthcare.
Now they want to double down with
Medicare for All.
There are three problems with our
current healthcare system, all caused
by government: cost, cost, and cost.
None of the Democrats’ proposals
would do a thing to address the cost of
healthcare. Their proposals only make
the problem worse. Keep that in mind
as you listen to the Democrats’
fearmongering on healthcare. They
have to misrepresent information be-
cause they can’t defend their own posi-
tion.
The American people don’t want and
can’t afford Medicare for All. We need
to reduce healthcare costs and provide
a safety net for those who cannot af-
ford their healthcare, not create a Fed-
eral Government-organized healthcare
market, which causes healthcare costs
to skyrocket.
Giving flexibility to the States is an
easy way to increase access and quality
of care for the American people. So, of
course, Democrats oppose that—except
for the Democratic Governors who are
doing it every day.
If you needed any more evidence of
how out of touch Washington Demo-
crats have become, look no further
than their criticism and their vote
against Democratic Governors for sup-
porting good policies that make sense.
Enough with the misrepresentations,
enough with the nonsense, enough with
the fearmongering. The American peo-
ple deserve better.
Let’s work together to lower the cost
of healthcare so that all taxpayers can
get the care they need at a price they
can afford.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Mr. SULLIVAN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
BRAUN). Without objection, it is so or-
dered.
f
H.R. 2740
Mr. SULLIVAN. Mr. President, I
want to say a few words this afternoon
about the funding of our military, the
support for our troops, and what just
happened on the U.S. Senate floor be-
cause it is a pretty sad exercise that,
unfortunately, happens way too often
in this body. I know it can be confusing
to the people who are watching in the
Gallery and on TV, but I want to ex-
plain what just happened because the
American people should know what is
happening right now in this body.
Unfortunately, it is deja vu all over
again on the Defense appropriations
bill. Now, I enjoy my bipartisan work.
Some of the best friends I have made
here in the Senate have been on the
other side of the aisle, but there are
also principled disagreements on key
issues between some of the parties
here. One of them is whether we fully
support our military and national de-
fense and if we make that support a
priority, not a political football, which
is what we just witnessed on the Sen-
ate floor.
Now, I know all of my colleagues are
patriotic. I have no doubt about that—
all 100. We all love our country. Yet, in
our looking at history over the decades
and also just in the past few years, it
certainly leaves one with the impres-
sion and the strong conclusion that my
colleagues on the other side of the aisle
support our military when it is conven-
ient but have much higher priorities
for which they are ready and willing to
undermine military funding, readiness,
and support for our troops who keep us
safe.
To put this in context, we just voted
to get on the Defense appropriations
bill, which is the bill that funds our
military. We had a budget agreement
several months ago that did that. We
just took up a previous appropriations
bill. The plan in the Senate was to go
from the bill on appropriations that we
just passed to the Defense bill. That
was the plan. Lo and behold, my col-
leagues on the other side of the aisle
said: No. We are going to filibuster the
funding for our military. That is what
just happened.
America, media, please understand
that this is what just happened.
As I mentioned with regard to my
colleagues on the other side of the
aisle, this priority for the military
isn’t always there. I also mentioned
decades. If you look at the national
Presidential level over the past four
decades during which a Democratic
President has been in power—think
about it: President Carter, President
Clinton, President Obama—what has
happened? Defense spending has been
cut dramatically every time, and the
readiness and morale of our military
forces has plummeted. That is a fact.
I chair the Armed Services Sub-
committee on Readiness and Manage-
ment Support. From 2010 to 2015, de-
fense spending for our military de-
clined by 25 percent, which was Presi-
dent Obama’s second term, and we are
still digging out of the hole we dug for
our military with regard to readiness.
Let me give you a couple of examples.
In 2015, when I first got to the Sen-
ate, 3 out of 58 brigade combat teams
in the U.S. Army were at the tier 1
level of readiness that we expect.
Think about that. The men and women
who joined the Army who were ready
to fight were in 3 out of the 58 brigade
combat teams. The brigade combat
team is the 5,000-man building block of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:59 Nov 01, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00040 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G31OC6.040 S31OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6349
October 31, 2019
the Army, but over half of the Marine
Corps naval aviation couldn’t fly in
2015. Think about that. In terms of
training for all pilots in the military,
the flight times plummeted to, I think
it was, about 8 hours a month.
My very first challenge in 2015 was
part of this Obama drawdown of the
military. Right when I got here, they
had announced that they were going to
cut an additional 50,000 U.S. Army Ac-
tive-Duty troops. This was in 2015. This
was only 4 years ago. Again, national
security challenges are growing in the
world, and 4 years ago, the Obama ad-
ministration cut the Army by an addi-
tional 50,000 Active-Duty troops. This
included a very important unit for the
Army that happened to be in my State,
the 4th Brigade Combat Team, 25th In-
fantry Division—a 5,000-man Airborne
brigade combat team. It was the only
airborne, Arctic-trained unit in the en-
tire Asia-Pacific, in the entire Arctic.
It was on the chopping block to go.
We fought that. I fought that. It was
an issue I put hundreds of hours into
with my team. I put a hold on the Sec-
retary of the Army’s confirmation. I
put a hold on the Chief of Staff of the
Army’s confirmation to finally get
their attention that this was a bad idea
for America’s national security. We
won that fight, but the other 40,000 Ac-
tive-Duty troops whom the Obama ad-
ministration decided to get rid of are
gone, and we are still rebuilding from
that.
Make no mistake, if one of my col-
leagues who is running for President—
my colleague from Massachusetts or
my colleague from Vermont—gets
elected next year, defense spending is
going to plummet. That is just the way
it is.
Go look at some of the versions of
the Green New Deal for which they are
advocating. It is not just about shut-
ting down resource development. Some
of the versions of that legislation, of
that idea, say we are going to cut de-
fense spending up to 50 percent. That is
in the legislation.
So that is at the national level.
What about what has been going on
in the U.S. Senate?
I have been here for almost 5 years.
One of the big reasons I ran for the
Senate was to stop the gutting of our
military and to take care of our troops.
I mentioned that from 2010 to 2015,
readiness plummeted and that defense
spending plummeted, but we have
turned that around. In this Congress,
with the Republicans in control and
with a Republican in the White House,
we have turned that around.
Now we are rebuilding our military,
and a lot of my Democratic colleagues
have supported this. I want to give
them credit. They realized the Obama
cuts were very harmful to our readi-
ness, to our military, and to their fam-
ilies. There has been bipartisan support
for rebuilding our military, but—and
this is a big ‘‘but’’—this has been a big
struggle. Why? Every time my col-
leagues on the other side of the aisle
have higher priorities than funding our
troops and the national security of our
Nation—and I am not sure there are
many higher priorities than that, not
in my view, anyway—they turn to
holding hostage defense spending by
filibustering the funding of our mili-
tary.
That is just what happened a couple
of hours ago—actually, an hour ago—
here on the Senate floor. Their friends
in the press don’t report on it, but it
happens all the time. This puts lives at
risk, and this undermines our military.
By the way, the members of the mili-
tary see this. The press might not re-
port on it, but our Nation’s troops and
their families watch.
I said it happens all the time. Let me
give you a couple of examples.
In 2015 and in 2016, when the minority
was led by Harry Reid, of Nevada, he
filibustered the Defense appropriations
bill seven times. Again, the media
didn’t report on it. I am a colonel in
the Marine Corps Reserves, and I
trained with the Marine Corps Forces
Special Operations Command. I re-
member being out, training with these
marines, many of whom are now going
off to the Middle East—to Syria, Iraq,
Afghanistan. Yet what was going on in
the Senate was that the minority lead-
er, Harry Reid, was blocking the fund-
ing of the troops.
I get it, that one leader of the Demo-
cratic Party was doing that, but what
really shocked me back then was why
all of the colleagues on his side fol-
lowed suit to do that. I still can’t un-
derstand it, especially the colleagues
who have a significant military pres-
ence in their States, like in my State,
the great State of Alaska.
During that time, I went to the ma-
jority leader, Leader MCCONNELL, and
asked him to keep bringing this bill to
the floor. Let’s debate it. Let’s talk
about it. Let’s see if the American peo-
ple understand what is happening,
which I think they did. As we kept
bringing this up to the minority leader
of the U.S. Senate, many of us came
down here and asked the questions:
Why are you doing this? Do you not
think the American people understand?
Do you not think the troops under-
stand? Come down to the Senate floor
and explain why you are not supporting
the funding of our troops and their
families and military readiness.
Unfortunately, he never did that.
That was a couple of years ago, and it
is deja vu all over again today.
We tried to bring the Defense appro-
priations bill to the floor in Sep-
tember, before the end of the fiscal
year, but my colleagues on the other
side filibustered. What does that mean?
It means they didn’t want to vote on it,
and they didn’t want to deal with it so
they didn’t let us vote and get the 60
votes to get on the bill.
Now we are a month into the new fis-
cal year, and as we just saw on the
floor, we finished another appropria-
tions bill that had strong bipartisan
support. The plan was to then go to De-
fense appropriations, but there was an-
other filibuster. Amazing. I still
haven’t heard an explanation from any-
body on the other side as to why they
are doing it, but I will tell you this: It
is clear to me that supporting our
troops and military readiness are not
their priorities.
Here are just a few items in the bill
that was just filibustered: a 31⁄2-percent
pay raise. For the Army, there is full
support for the 58 brigade combat
teams I mentioned that were in such a
low state of readiness. By the way, it is
increasing. I think the number is close
to 25 brigade combat teams now that
we have been funding the military at
tier 1 levels. Included is support for the
Navy’s carrier strike groups, amphib-
ious-ready groups for the Marines and
Navy, and Navy and Marine aviation
units. It funds the maximum amount of
flying and training for our Air Force
pilots, which has been such a problem
in terms of readiness. There is a huge
boost to missile defense, most of which
is based in the great State of Alaska,
and it appropriates the funding to buy
96 F–35s in fiscal year 2020. These are
the most sophisticated fifth-generation
fighters. Two squadrons of F–35s will be
coming to my State soon—this is fund-
ing for that—to compete with China
and Russia.
These are just a few of the particu-
lars, but what do these numbers really
amount to? A better paid, better
equipped, and more lethal military
force.
That is what the American people
want from us. It doesn’t matter party—
Democrat, Republican—or region—
South, North, Alaska, Florida—the
people want this. The troops want this.
Their families want this.
We have troops in harm’s way right
now all around the world. Yesterday,
almost every one of the Members of
this body—all 100 Senators—went to a
top secret briefing about the raid that
killed the ISIS leader, al-Baghdadi. We
were able to actually see some of the
video of the remarkable profes-
sionalism, courage, and dedication of
our military Special Forces who went
in there at great risk to their lives and
took out this ruthless, brutal, dan-
gerous terrorist.
We owe these and our other military
members and their families such a
huge debt of gratitude and certainly
the support of the Congress of the
United States.
I was honestly thinking this morn-
ing: How can any Senator who wit-
nessed that yesterday—and I think all
100 were there—come to the floor this
afternoon and filibuster the funding for
our military? Well, a bunch of them
just did.
I don’t know why, but as far as I can
tell, since I have been in the Senate—
going on 5 years—that is the ninth fili-
buster of defense spending in the appro-
priations for our military and their
families that my colleagues on the
Democratic side of this body have
done.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:59 Nov 01, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00041 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G31OC6.041 S31OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6350 October 31, 2019
Let me repeat that. Nine times in the
last 41⁄2 years, there has been this exer-
cise to hold our military hostage for
some other political priority by deny-
ing them funding—nine times.
I checked, and since I have been here,
there has been no bill—no bill—filibus-
tered more by my colleagues on the
other side of the aisle than the bill
that would fund our military.
Think about that. Think about that
for a minute. This is the bill, when
they want to leverage some other issue
that has nothing to do with national
security, that they pick out and they
filibuster—nine times in the last 4
years.
I think it is shameful. It is politics
pure and simple, certainly driven by
the extreme left of their party, many
of whom have not focused on the na-
tional security of our country and sup-
porting our troops. They are trying to
leverage funding for our troops to gain
political concessions on other issues.
Here is the bottom line: The men and
women who serve in the military don’t
deserve this. I wish the press would
write about it. Don’t hold your breath
on that.
For my part, I am going to continue
to come down here, as I have done be-
fore on this very issue, and say: Look,
if there is one thing we should be fo-
cused on, it is supporting our military
and funding them and their families to
make them ready, to make them le-
thal, to enable them to protect our
country.
If there is one bill in the Congress
that we shouldn’t have filibustered
nine times in the last 4 years, it is this
one. But that is what just happened.
I hope more Americans see this. Call
your Senators who voted no today and
tell them you don’t agree with that
vote. You do not agree with that vote.
I guarantee you, the men and women
who serve our country don’t either, and
they would appreciate if you would
weigh in on their behalf.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Michigan.
f
REMEMBERING KAY HAGAN
Ms. STABENOW. Mr. President, I
rise today to pay tribute to a woman
who was more than just our colleague.
She was our friend, and I am missing
my friend today.
When I think about Senator Kay
Hagan, I remember a lot of things.
First was her deep dedication to public
service. From the moment she woke up
until the sun set behind her beloved
Blue Ridge Mountains, Kay was fo-
cused on serving the people of North
Carolina and the State she loved so
much.
It was such an honor working with
her, especially on behalf of North Caro-
lina’s farmers, small towns, and rural
communities that she loved so much.
She was passionate about the health of
the land and the people who live and
work on it.
Second, Kay was a fighter. We all
knew that. Growing up between two
brothers probably contributed to that.
I have two brothers myself, and I can
attest to the fact that it toughens you
up.
We saw that spark every day on the
floor of the U.S. Senate. Kay had a
deep and abiding sense of justice, and
she stood up for North Carolina fami-
lies every single day, even when it
wasn’t easy and even when she paid a
political price for it.
She stood up for expanding
healthcare and protecting the rights of
North Carolina women and families.
That same fighting spirit kept her
going through her own grueling health
challenges.
I had the chance to visit with her a
couple of years ago when she was re-
ceiving treatment at a rehabilitation
hospital in Georgia. She was working
so hard to recover her ability to move
and to talk, but one thing hadn’t
changed—that spark in her eyes.
I know I speak for all of us when I
say that Kay’s grace and endurance
over the past 3 years were incredibly
inspiring.
Finally, when I think of Kay, I think
of kindness. In a city full of sharp
words and even sharper elbows, Kay
was unfailingly optimistic and an abso-
lute joy to work with.
I know that even my Republican col-
leagues would agree with me and join
in our sorrow over her loss.
Kay and I happened to have daugh-
ters who were getting married around
the same time, and as many of you
know, mothers of brides love to talk
about wedding plans and to share
photos about the big day, and we
shared a lot of photos.
I will never forget the way her face
would always light up whenever she
talked about her family. She was so
proud of each and every one of them,
and they were proud of her too.
In her final floor speech, Kay shared
one of her guiding principles, a para-
phrase of Luke 12:48: To whom much is
given, much is expected.
This Chamber and this country are
better for having known Senator Kay
Hagan. She lived by that principle. She
gave us so much, and she gave it with
her whole heart.
Knowing Kay was a gift, and I feel so
fortunate to have been able to call her
my friend. My deepest condolences are
with her husband Chip and their chil-
dren and their extended family and
many, many friends and her beloved
State of North Carolina.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The bill clerk proceeded to call the
roll.
Ms. CORTEZ MASTO. Mr. President,
I ask unanimous consent that the order
for the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
NOMINATION OF LAWRENCE
VANDYKE
Ms. CORTEZ MASTO. Madam Presi-
dent, I rise today in opposition to the
nomination of Lawrence VanDyke to
serve on the U.S. Court of Appeals for
the Ninth Circuit.
Mr. VanDyke fits neatly into this ad-
ministration’s pattern of picking Fed-
eral judges for our circuit courts of ap-
peal without meaningful input from
home State Senators. The President
continues to select ideologically ex-
treme nominees like Mr. VanDyke, and
the White House is putting forward
people without enough experience for
the momentous roles they have been
chosen to serve.
Mr. VanDyke has been nominated to
fill a Nevada seat on the Ninth Circuit
even though he is not a Nevadan. He
didn’t grow up in my State. He doesn’t
appear to own property there. He
doesn’t seem to have family ties. And
he was an active member of the Nevada
State bar for only 2 years.
Senator ROSEN and I engaged with
the White House to put forward highly
respected Nevadans with bipartisan
support, but our suggestions were sum-
marily ignored because the White
House was laser-focused on Mr. Van-
Dyke.
I want to be clear. The administra-
tion did not meaningfully consult
about this nomination with Nevada
Senators, and the result is a poor
nominee.
First and foremost, I am extremely
concerned about the effect that Law-
rence VanDyke’s lifetime appointment
would have on women’s reproductive
rights in America. As Montana’s solic-
itor general, Mr. VanDyke supported
an Arizona abortion ban. In an amicus
brief in Horne v. Isaacson, he con-
tended that the constitutional right to
choose should be revisited. He also de-
fended a Montana law that made it
harder for young women in that State
to seek an abortion, and he advocated
for letting corporations sidestep their
obligations to provide insurance cov-
erage for contraception.
Based on this record, I fear that, as a
Federal judge, Mr. VanDyke would
limit women’s health choices in Ne-
vada and throughout the country, in-
cluding their access to birth control.
His record on LGBTQ rights is also
dismal. Mr. VanDyke has ties to two
ideologically extreme, anti-LGBTQ
groups that the Southern Poverty Law
Center has designated as hate groups.
Those are the Alliance Defending Free-
dom and the Family Research Council.
These ties are hardly surprising given
that Mr. VanDyke has opposed gay
rights since law school, when he wrote
an article for the Harvard Law Record.
This is that article: ‘‘One student’s re-
sponse to ‘A Response to Glendon.’ ’’ It
is dated March 11, 2004, by Lawrence
VanDyke. In this article, he promotes
the truth that same-sex marriage
would hurt families, children, and soci-
ety. This is that article, and this is his
quote—clearly not only his writing but
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:25 Nov 01, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00042 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G31OC6.043 S31OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6351
October 31, 2019
his intent and thoughts behind what we
have fought for in this country for
LGBTQ rights in America for the last
10 years. What he says is, ‘‘What is
quite settled, however, is that children
on average fare best in stable, two par-
ent families. This, combined with the
correlative evidence of the decline in
the family unit in Scandinavia, where
de facto same-sex marriage has been
around for about a decade, does provide
ample reason for concern that same-sex
marriage will hurt families and con-
sequentially children and society.’’
Those are his own words.
As solicitor general of Montana, he
also strongly criticized LGBTQ anti-
discrimination laws and worked to
carve out religious exemptions to
them. When signing Montana on to an
amicus brief arguing that a photog-
raphy company could refuse to photo-
graph a same-sex wedding, Mr. Van-
Dyke described the case, which is
Elaine Photography v. Willock, as im-
portant because it would establish that
‘‘gay rights cannot always trump reli-
gious liberty.’’
What you have here is an email,
while he was a solicitor general in
Montana, talking about why this case
was important and why it was impor-
tant that they sign on to the amicus
brief. These are his arguments, his
statements in an email. He said: ‘‘This
is an important case because there is a
fairly obvious collision course between
religious freedom and gay rights, and
this case (because it is an extreme
case) could be very important in estab-
lishing that gay rights cannot always
trump religious liberty.’’ These are his
own words in an email from Montana
when he was solicitor general.
Throughout his career, he has weak-
ened environmental protections and
standards, as well. Mr. VanDyke has
argued in favor of fossil fuel drilling
and supported reviving the Keystone
Pipeline, ignoring the voices of con-
servationists and Native communities.
His actions do not protect our air and
water, nor do they recognize the im-
pacts of climate change or safeguard
endangered species, including the
iconic sage-grouse. In fact, as solicitor
general of Nevada, Mr. VanDyke chal-
lenged the Republican Governor he
served. He actively worked against
Governor Brian Sandoval’s bipartisan
agreement to protect my State’s native
species. Mr. VanDyke’s opposition to
land use restrictions to protect sage-
grouse was so extreme that Governor
Sandoval said publicly that Mr.
VanDyke’s position ‘‘did not represent
the State of Nevada, the governor, or
any state agencies.’’
With that background, clearly he
should not sit on a court with jurisdic-
tion over the West—home to nearly 75
percent of public lands in the Nation.
In the areas of reproductive rights,
LGBTQ protections, and the environ-
ment, Mr. VanDyke’s nomination is so
troubling because it is clear that he
puts his ideology above the law. This
vacancy should be filled with a judge
who will apply the law to the facts in
an unbiased way—something Mr. Van-
Dyke has proved unwilling to do.
Finally, Mr. VanDyke’s professional
qualifications are simply insufficient.
He has very little trial and litigation
experience. When he served as Montana
solicitor general, his colleagues raised
serious concerns about his work ethic
and legal skills. When he ran for the
Montana Supreme Court, six retired
judges of that court described him as
‘‘unqualified.’’
As you heard at the confirmation
hearings yesterday, the American Bar
Association, which provides ratings for
judicial nominees, gave him a rating of
‘‘not qualified.’’ That is worth repeat-
ing. The ABA—the American Bar Asso-
ciation—spoke with 60 lawyers and
judges across 4 States and concluded
that he wasn’t suitable for a position
as a judge on the court of appeals. The
people with the objections are his
former colleagues.
As far as records show, not a single
Federal judicial nominee has been ap-
pointed to the Federal bench who was
lacking both a ‘‘qualified’’ or ‘‘well
qualified’’ ABA rating and the approval
of the nominee’s home state Senators.
If confirmed, Mr. VanDyke would be
the very first Federal judge who was
judged not qualified and whose blue
slips were not returned by their home
State Senators. I don’t think that is a
precedent this Chamber should be
proud of.
The Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals is
the last stop for cases that affect Ne-
vada before they reach the Supreme
Court. It is vital that Ninth Circuit
nominees know the State of Nevada
and its issues.
This nominee lived in the Silver
State for a total of 4 years before mov-
ing to Washington to work at the De-
partment of Justice, where he is cur-
rently. In Nevada, we welcome new-
comers, but usually they stay in our
communities. Mr. VanDyke didn’t.
Rather than continue to serve Nevad-
ans, he left for a plum job in Wash-
ington and is now lobbying for a life-
time appointment on the Federal
bench. This isn’t someone who serves
the needs of Nevadans. This isn’t some-
one who knows Nevada or its issues.
This is a career political operative who
is looking for a guaranteed paycheck.
For all of these reasons, I do not be-
lieve Lawrence VanDyke deserves a
lifetime appointment to one of the
highest courts in the land, which han-
dles 70,000 critical cases each year. He
is not the right person in whose hands
to leave Americans’ reproductive free-
dom, their fundamental civil rights,
and their claim to a free and healthy
environment.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Nevada.
Ms. ROSEN. Mr. President, I rise
today to join my friend and colleague
Senator CORTEZ MASTO in opposing the
nomination of Lawrence VanDyke to
the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals in
Nevada.
Our Federal courts make decisions
every day that affect consumers, immi-
grants, small businesses, not to men-
tion our right to equal treatment, edu-
cation, and healthcare. As such, our
Federal judges must be serious, fair-
minded, and nonpartisan. We want
women and men on the Federal bench
who will look at the facts of a case,
apply the law, and work hard to reach
a just result regardless of who the par-
ties are in front of them. The Federal
bench must reflect our country in all
its diversity of experience and back-
ground.
Even though the Constitution gives
the President the power to nominate
Federal judges, it also requires the ad-
vice and consent of the Senate, and his-
torically the President consults with
home state Senators when there is a
vacancy. As the representatives to our
States, we are better equipped to iden-
tify qualified lawyers and judges to
serve on the Federal bench who have
done good work and who have good rep-
utations in our home communities.
We have numerous qualified, non-
partisan individuals working in the Ne-
vada legal community who would make
excellent additions to the Ninth Cir-
cuit. There are a number of amazing
Nevada lawyers whom Senator CORTEZ
MASTO and I would have gladly consid-
ered supporting for a seat on this pres-
tigious court. We have litigators, mag-
istrate judges, law professors, prosecu-
tors, public defenders, and existing dis-
trict court judges with stellar reputa-
tions from the State, lawyers and
judges from Nevada. They know our
State, and they have respected non-
partisan records. But the White House
didn’t nominate any of these individ-
uals for the Ninth Circuit. Instead, the
President nominated Lawrence Van-
Dyke, a Washington, DC, lawyer. He
wasn’t born in Nevada. He didn’t grow
up in Nevada. He didn’t go to school in
Nevada. He doesn’t live in Nevada now.
Mr. VanDyke, a Montana native who
ran for office there and also worked in
Texas, came to Nevada for a job a few
years ago, in 2015. When the person he
worked for lost a political race in 2018,
Mr. VanDyke quickly sold the house he
briefly owned in Nevada and moved to
Virginia to work in Washington, DC,
and as of last week, by his own admis-
sion, he hasn’t even been back to Ne-
vada since then.
He is a DC lawyer and a failed polit-
ical candidate from Montana who
shares this White House’s extreme po-
litical views. They are imposing him on
Nevada despite the fact that we have so
many qualified people in our own State
who enjoy broad support across the po-
litical spectrum.
Nevada has a vibrant community,
and we take pride in knowing each
other, respecting each other, and most
importantly, putting partisan politics
aside when it comes to working to-
gether for the betterment of our State.
So if someone is a good judge or law-
yer, if they are honest and they have a
good reputation professionally, if they
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:59 Nov 01, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00043 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G31OC6.045 S31OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6352 October 31, 2019
are civil in court and have a respectful
demeanor, you will usually hear the
same things about that person from ev-
eryone.
These are the types of people who
should be Federal judges: people who
treat everyone fairly and with respect,
who are smart, who are fair, and who
follow the facts to get a just result.
After reviewing Mr. VanDyke’s
record and meeting with him privately
and watching his testimony before the
Judiciary Committee yesterday, I have
arrived at the determination that Mr.
VanDyke does not fit that mold.
Mr. VanDyke spent a lot of time in
our meeting talking about how the role
of a Federal judge is simply to apply
the law and not to try to change it. His
record clearly shows otherwise.
How do we know this? Because before
coming to Nevada, Mr. VanDyke
worked for the Montana attorney gen-
eral. Many of his emails from that time
are public. They show he used that gov-
ernment office, where his job was to de-
fend the laws of Montana—instead,
what he chose to do is advance his own
personal ideological agenda, even when
it was against his State’s interests. At
least in one instance, he signed the
State of Montana onto a brief without
even bothering to read it.
Among the briefs Mr. VanDyke
signed in his home State of Montana
during his tenure as solicitor general
was one asking the Supreme Court to
strike down Roe v. Wade and all of the
reproductive cases that followed Roe.
When it comes to a woman’s right to
make her decisions about her own
body, Mr. VanDyke’s views and actions
are far outside the mainstream, and
they are far out of step with the views
of the people of Nevada.
I am also concerned about the com-
ments Mr. VanDyke has made about
LGBTQ Americans. In 2004, Mr. Van-
Dyke wrote that there is ‘‘ample rea-
son for concern that same-sex marriage
will hurt families, and consequentially
children and society.’’
The LGBTQ community is at a crit-
ical point in its fight for equality. This
term, the Supreme Court is considering
whether employers in the United
States can fire an individual merely for
being gay or transgender. When the
next case on LGBTQ rights comes up
for judicial consideration, it could
come before Lawrence VanDyke.
If that isn’t enough, here is one more
thing to consider. The American Bar
Association has, by a substantial ma-
jority, rated Mr. VanDyke as unquali-
fied. For a lifetime appointment, we
should always strive for a candidate
who is very qualified. No, they gave us
Lawrence VanDyke, who was rated
‘‘not qualified.’’
Why did the ABA make this deter-
mination? Well, I will let the ABA’s
words speak for themselves. Based on
interviews with 60 individuals who
have worked with Mr. VanDyke over
the years, including more than 40 law-
yers and over a dozen judges, this is
what the ABA said.
Mr. VanDyke’s past work is offset by the
assessments of interviewees that Mr. Van-
Dyke is . . . lazy, an ideologue, and lacking
in knowledge of the day-to-day practice in-
cluding procedural rules. There was a theme
that the nominee lacks humility, has an ‘‘en-
titlement’’ temperament, does not have an
open mind, and does not always have a com-
mitment to being candid and truthful.
Surely you agree, no matter who is
in the White House or who controls the
Senate, you would want the Federal
judges in your States to come from and
reflect your communities. You would
want to trust these judges to be fair to
your constituents and not use cases to
advance their own ideological agenda,
and you would want your judges to be,
at a minimum, qualified to serve on
the bench.
I oppose the nomination of Mr. Van-
Dyke, and if it is withdrawn or voted
down, I will be ready that day to work
with this White House on finding nomi-
nees from Nevada who are qualified and
fair and nonpartisan. The people of my
home State of Nevada, particularly
today, on Nevada Day, deserve nothing
less.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Texas.
f
LEGISLATION
Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, the end
of the fiscal year for the U.S. Govern-
ment came and went without a new
funding bill in place. It was a big dis-
appointment because this summer I
thought we had reached an agreement
on a 2-year budget package designed to
make the appropriations process much
simpler and eliminate the uncertainty
that comes from continuing resolu-
tions and stop-start funding for govern-
ment agencies.
We agreed to topline funding for de-
fense and nondefense spending. It was a
big deal. There was also a promise not
to derail the process with poison pill
policy riders, and we got it done with
plenty of time to spare.
I remember at the time thinking,
hey, maybe we can help restore some
regular order and put the function
back in Congress rather than the dys-
function. But, unfortunately, politics
got in the way. When the time came
last month to make good on the prom-
ises that were made during that 2-year
budget cap deal, Senate Democrats
blocked a bill to fund our national de-
fense. You heard me right. Senate
Democrats blocked the appropriations
for our national defense.
If there is one thing we should make
a priority here in Washington, DC, it is
protecting our country, keeping our
men and women in uniform adequately
trained with the equipment and the re-
sources they need in order to fight and
win the Nation’s wars, and, even bet-
ter, to prevent a war from being fought
in the first place.
But our Democratic colleagues sim-
ply blocked it. It wasn’t a disagree-
ment over the amount. No, it was
something they had already agreed to
last summer. They blocked the bill be-
cause, frankly, they don’t want Presi-
dent Trump to have any sort of wins
here, even when it undermines our na-
tional security.
It was a remarkable show of prior-
ities. Their animosity toward the
President exceeded their desire to see
funding flow to the men and women in
uniform and to defend the Nation. We
could have provided our troops with
the largest pay raise in a decade. We
could have sent vital funding to our
military as they battle looming threats
around the world. We could have put
the appropriations process back on
track and restored the basic func-
tioning of Congress. But, no, our Demo-
cratic colleagues chose to put politics
ahead of any of that.
With our only options being a gov-
ernment shutdown or a short-term
funding bill, we chose the lesser of two
evils. But it is still evil in the sense
that it is much less than we should be
doing to serve the Nation and serve our
constituents. We pushed the deadline,
and we kicked the can down the road
to November 21. We hoped our col-
leagues on the other side of the aisle
would have a change of heart, but now
they have proved us wrong.
Democrats have blocked money for
the military again and again. This is
beginning to feel like ‘‘Groundhog
Day.’’ They continue choosing to put
their ongoing feud with the President
before our most important responsi-
bility as a Congress: to provide for the
common defense.
As if we needed to be reminded of the
importance of our strong military, ear-
lier this week, our highly skilled Spe-
cial Forces troops took out the leader
of ISIS, one of the most feared and dan-
gerous terrorist leaders in the world.
That terrorist is no longer a threat,
thanks to the men and women of our
military—Special Forces, in particular.
It was a tremendous victory for the
United States and for our allies and un-
derscored the need for us to continue
to support our troops by funding the
Defense bill. For our forces to continue
fighting and risking death and injury
itself while defeating evil in every cor-
ner of the world, they need our support,
and there is no more tangible way to
demonstrate that support than for Con-
gress to pass this funding bill.
We also know, because of the need to
plan, they need stability. They need a
long-term funding bill and not just to
stop-start, kick the can down the road
a few weeks, and then come back and
refight the same fights over and over
and over again. That is really a pa-
thetic response to our duty to help sup-
port our men and women in uniform.
They need the unwavering support of
every man and woman in this Chamber.
But, right now, our Democratic col-
leagues seem content just to say no, to
get in the way, and to block this fund-
ing. Will they pay any price for doing
that? I don’t know. They don’t seem to
really particularly care.
I have no doubt that this obstruction
is tied to the obsession that the House
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:59 Nov 01, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00044 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G31OC6.046 S31OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6353
October 31, 2019
of Representatives has to remove
President Trump from office. We have
heard over and over again from our
Democratic colleagues that impeach-
ment will not interfere with their abil-
ity to legislate and to get work done,
but their actions speak louder than
words.
While I think the decision to block
defense funding is the most egregious
example so far, it is far from the only
one. The extent to which they will go
to try to defeat and slow down and im-
pede the President and anything he
might be able to point to as a victory—
here is another example.
It has been more than a year since
the landmark trade agreement between
Mexico and Canada was announced, but
we are still waiting for Speaker PELOSI
to show the green light and pass the
USMCA and send it to the Senate,
where I am sure it will pass over-
whelmingly. This agreement will pro-
vide billions of dollars in economic
growth, new jobs here at home, and
greater stability for our economy, but
we haven’t been able to reap those ben-
efits because the agreement is being
stalled in the House.
Well, why is that? Well, it could be
because they are obsessed with and pre-
occupied with impeachment, and they
can’t seem to get anything else done.
The Speaker claims progress is being
made, but it has been the same song
and dance for months with nothing to
show for it.
In the Senate, unfortunately, things
aren’t a lot different. A bill I intro-
duced with our Democratic colleague,
Senator BLUMENTHAL from Con-
necticut, to reduce drug prices, has
gotten caught in the crosshairs of this
partisan fighting too. This bill has
broad bipartisan support. It would
lower Federal spending by more than
one-half billion dollars in over 10 years.
It would also save consumers out-of-
pocket costs for prescription drugs.
According to Politico, the Demo-
cratic leader is blocking the bill, de-
spite the fact that folks in both parties
in Congress, as well as the President,
have said that they are eager to pass
legislation to reduce drug prices. The
Democratic leader will not let it come
to the floor.
To me, this is the greatest example
of our dysfunction here: When the
President is for something, when
Democrats are for something, when Re-
publicans are for something, when the
House is for something, when the Sen-
ate is for something, we still can’t
seem to get it done. That is a hard one
to explain. Sadly, the list doesn’t stop
there.
Here is another example. Earlier this
year, the Senate unanimously—unani-
mously—passed a bill I introduced to
reauthorize the Debbie Smith Act. This
program supplies funding to State and
local crime labs to test DNA, or foren-
sic evidence, and to reduce the rape kit
backlog. It is about as nonpartisan an
issue as they come. Unfortunately,
that didn’t make it immune from the
gamesmanship in the House. After
months of refusing to act on this bill,
we sent it over—I think it was in May.
They did nothing for a long time, and
they allowed the Debbie Smith Act to
expire.
When something as noncontroversial
as reducing the rape kit backlog gets
politicized, you know you are in trou-
ble. Well, I was finally glad to see last
week that the House changed its tune,
thanks to a lot of pressure both from
within and without, because their re-
fusal to reauthorize the Debbie Smith
Act and this critical rape kit backlog
funding was indefensible. So I am hope-
ful we can get that bill to the Presi-
dent’s desk now after this long and un-
necessary delay.
We all knew that the Democratic ob-
session with removing the President
from office began before he was inaugu-
rated, but no one expected it to get
this far out of hand or for the dysfunc-
tion to be so pervasive. Their impeach-
at-any-cost attitude has now brought
the work of Congress to a screeching
halt. Legislation is collecting cobwebs
in the corner while our Democratic col-
leagues are conducting secret hearings
behind closed doors in an effort to re-
verse the 2016 election.
While they are continuing this cha-
rade here in Washington, their con-
stituents are likely wondering what it
is their elected representatives are
doing to make their lives better at
home. Are they passing bills to bring
down drug prices, like the bill I have
with Senator BLUMENTHAL? Are they
trying to strengthen the economy by
improving trading relationships among
Mexico, Canada and the United States?
Are they passing legislation to support
our men and women in the military?
I am sad to say that for our Demo-
cratic colleagues, the answer to each of
those questions is no—no time for
tackling the big problems but plenty of
time for the politics of trying to re-
move the President from office, 1 year
before the next general election.
Speaker PELOSI knows this is going
to divide the country, and it is going to
occupy everyone’s attention here in
Washington, DC, until it is concluded,
and she also knows that the likelihood
of getting 66 votes in the Senate to
convict the President and to remove
him is incredibly unlikely. It has never
happened in our Nation’s history, even
though President Nixon did resign. No
previous President who has been im-
peached has actually been convicted
and removed from office.
The inability to separate their obses-
sion with the President from their du-
ties here in Congress should be embar-
rassing.
Impeachment may consume the news
cycle, but it shouldn’t stop all of us
from working together in the best in-
terests of our constituents and the
American people. I hope our Demo-
cratic colleagues will reconsider.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Mr. CARPER. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
Mr. CARPER. Mr. President, I am
here on a sad note and then on a
happier note as well. I am going to try
to tie the two together.
f
REMEMBERING KAY HAGAN
Mr. CARPER. Mr. President, I have
been privileged to serve, and this my
19th year here in the U.S. Senate. A
long time ago, I served as a naval offi-
cer in the Vietnam war and as later
State treasurer, Congressman, Gov-
ernor of Delaware, and now I serve as
U.S. Senator. I have had the privilege
of serving with literally hundreds of
people here, in the House, as Governor,
and certainly in the Navy and the
armed services during the Vietnam
war.
Among my all-time favorite col-
leagues of all of those, whether it was
in the military service, the State of
Delaware, or here in Congress, one of
my all-time favorite people to serve
with was a woman from North Caro-
lina, from a place called Shelby.
My wife is from North Carolina, from
a place called Boone. Her family is
from North Carolina. She has her fa-
ther down there. Boone is up in the
mountains. She has sisters. She has
sisters in Raleigh, and some of her fam-
ily has actually lived in Shelby, NC.
There was a woman born there on
May 26, 1953, named Kay Hagan. I don’t
know that she was born Kay Hagan,
but she became Kay Hagan, and maybe
that was after getting married. But she
was the daughter of a homemaker
named Jeanette, and her dad had a tire
business. Later, he worked as a real es-
tate broker. Apparently, politics was in
her blood. Her dad also served as
mayor, later on, of Lakeland, FL. That
was where Kay Hagan spent most of
her childhood.
Lakeland, FL, is near to me because
it is the spring training camp for the
Detroit Tigers. I have been a Detroit
Tigers fan since I was 9 years old. So it
has been a while. For the people watch-
ing the World Series, three of the best
pitchers in baseball used to pitch for
my Tigers. They went through training
camp in Lakeland and ended up with
other teams that took them into the
World Series.
Kay was not around to watch any of
those former Tigers pitch because she
passed away just about 3 days ago.
Her uncle was a former Governor of
Florida, with whom I served. Lawton
Chiles was one of the sweetest, best
guys I have ever known. He served here
in the U.S. Senate for many years—
sort of a centrist Democrat. He was be-
loved in his State and beloved here as
well.
Both Kay’s dad and her brother
served in the U.S. Navy. I did 23 years
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:59 Nov 01, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00045 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G31OC6.048 S31OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6354 October 31, 2019
in all, Active Duty and Reserve, in the
Navy, and I treasure those days.
Apparently, Kay also spent summers
on her grandparents’ farm. They had a
farm not in North Carolina but in a
place called Chesterfield in South
Carolina. Chesterfield used to be a to-
bacco brand, It was called Chesterfield.
She spent summers on her grand-
parents’ farm in Chesterfield, SC, and
there she helped to string tobacco and
harvest watermelons.
I grew up in Danville, VA, the world’s
biggest tobacco market. The kids in
my classes at school—the really cool
kids, apparently—strung tobacco and
probably havested watermelons, as
well, as Kay did.
She graduated from Lakeland High
School in 1971 and went on to Florida
State University and received her JD
from Wake Forest Law School in 1978.
Her husband Chip, whom she mar-
ried, I think, in 1977, was a trans-
actions lawyer. She raised her family
in Greensboro, NC. If you go 30 or 40
miles north of Greensboro, you are in
Virginia, and that is where I grew up,
in Danville, VA.
When I first met her, we kind of
talked about her background in the
Navy and her father, and we talked
about Lakeland, FL, and my affinity
for the Detroit Tigers, who have
trained there for decades. We talked
about her raising her family in Greens-
boro. I spent a lot of my childhood in
Danville, just north of Greensboro.
I told her a story about going to
Greensboro with my dad, as a kid, and
we got ourselves a hunting dog from
Greensboro, where she raised her fam-
ily.
She leaves behind three kids—Jea-
nette, who was named after her moth-
er, Tilden, and Carrie. She also is a
grandmother of five grandchildren
whom she loved and adored.
Before she got into politics she
worked in the financial industry. She
became vice president of what was then
North Carolina National Bank and
went on to become today part of Bank
of America.
She worked as a campaign manager
for a guy named Jim Hunt. Jim Hunt
was Governor for 8 years. In North
Carolina, you can be Governor for 8
years, and you have to step down, or
you can come back and be elected
again. He was elected for another 8
years. She worked for Jim Hunt, a
great education Governor, who always
surrounded himself with just the best
people in the world. I treasured serving
as a Governor with him and his friend-
ship, and the fact that she had been his
campaign manager endeared her to me.
She was first elected to office, I
think, when she was elected to the
North Carolina General Assembly, not
as a State representative but she was
elected as a State senator. She served,
I think, five terms, representing Guil-
ford County down in North Carolina.
She ran for the Senate in 2008 against
Elizabeth Dole, another person for
whom I had great affection, as I did for
her husband, Bob. Both of them actu-
ally served here in the Senate, Bob and
Elizabeth Dole. Elizabeth is from North
Carolina.
We were fond of her, and when the
two of them ran against each other, it
was tough, but stuff like that happens.
Kay won, and she came here and served
for 6 years until 2015.
She left the Senate in 2014. She was
defeated by THOM TILLIS, who serves
here today. She lost by, I think, less
than 50,000 votes, so it was a close vote.
After her term ended in the Senate, she
went on to work as a fellow at the Har-
vard Institute of Politics and a senior
policy consultant at a law firm, Akin
Gump.
She died October 28 of this year, 3
days ago, of encephalitis caused by a
virus she contracted from a tick bite,
and it is something that happened in
2016, and it was 3 years later that she
finally died, which is very, very sad.
She was the second female Senator
from North Carolina—first female
Democrat to be elected from North
Carolina to the Senate, the first female
Democrat. She served, while she was
here, on a number of committees. I did
not have the pleasure of serving with
her at the same time. She was on
Armed Services. There is a lot of mili-
tary in North Carolina, especially the
Marines there on the East Coast.
But she was on the Banking Com-
mittee. She joined the committee after
I left to be a member of the Finance
Committee. She served on the Health,
Education, Labor, and Pension Com-
mittee and Small Business and Entre-
preneurship.
In 6 years, you vote on a lot of
amendments, you vote on a lot of bills,
you offer a lot of bills and amend-
ments. She did all of that, and I just
wanted to focus on one thing that she
supported and worked on. She was a
person who believed that we have a
moral obligation to the least of these
in our society. Matthew 25 speaks to a
moral obligation—when people are
hungry, what we should do about it,
when they are naked or thirsty, what
are our obligations, regardless of our
faith.
Matthew 25 states: When I was hun-
gry, did you feed me? When I was
naked, did you clothe me? When I was
thirsty, did you give me drink? When I
was sick or in prison, did you visit me?
When I was a stranger in your land, did
you walk with me?
And she answered all of those ques-
tions: Yes, yes, yes.
She was somebody that thought we
had moral obligations for the least of
these, but since we didn’t have unlim-
ited amounts of money, we just
couldn’t waste our money, and we had
to spend it effectively. She believed
that we should not just give a person a
fish and feed them for a day, but teach
a person to fish and they would feed
themselves for a lifetime.
She was a fitness buff. I love to work
out, and my wife loves to work out, and
she did too. I think that is one of the
reasons that she was able to fight this
disease and fight it off as long as she
did. There is a gym here that used to
be little. It is a little bigger that it
used to be. The one in the House is
much bigger; they have a lot more peo-
ple.
But they have a little swimming pool
at the gym here, and I have never used
it. For years, it was just men only. In
fact, for years there was not even an
opportunity for women in the Senate
to actually have a fitness center to
work out. She changed that. She led
the fight to change that. I think when
she lost her race in 2014 and the women
in the Senate threw her a goodbye
party, they did it at the pool and in the
fitness center down in the basement of
the Russell building.
In the 1970s, she was an intern in the
Capitol—and we have some pages here.
I don’t think she was ever a page, but
later she was an intern. She became an
elevator operator. I am not sure if
Harry Reid, who was our majority lead-
er and minority leader here, he was an
elevator operator, but there was sort of
a pecking order, starting with pages at
a very young age and interns later on,
and then they become an elevator oper-
ator and have some other jobs here and
then go off to do amazing things with
their life.
And she certainly did that. She was
operating an elevator here in the Sen-
ate that carried Senators, including
her uncle Lawton Chiles, who I men-
tioned earlier.
Joe Biden visited Kay Hagan in
North Carolina the day before her
death—that would have been 4 days
ago—and what Joe said of Kay is that
she was a crucial partner in passing the
Affordable Care Act and the stimulus
package which got us off of our back
when we were going through the worst
recession since the Great Depression.
Joe said that ‘‘She was a crucial part-
ner’’ in passing the Affordable Care
Act, which passed by one vote, and she
was that one vote. I think she was
probably prouder of that vote than
anything that she did when she served
here.
I want to segue from Kay, but before
I do, she was always interested in fig-
uring out the right things to do, not
what was easy or expedient. She was
always asking what is the right thing
to do. I remember her being here and
other Senators—Democrats and Repub-
licans—and we were trying to figure
out what to do on a particular issue.
She would always say: What is the
right thing to do?
She was one of those people who had
deep faith, and she believed not only do
we have a moral obligation to the least
of these, but she thought that we ought
to treat other people the way we want-
ed to be treated, and that is the Golden
Rule.
As it turns out, about a week ago, I
was invited to worship in a Hindu wor-
ship service in Delaware with a con-
gregation of a thousand people, and I
was reminded there that the Golden
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:59 Nov 01, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00046 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G31OC6.049 S31OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6355
October 31, 2019
Rule—to treat other people the way we
want to be treated—is part of every
major religion, the Golden Rule. I do
not care if you are Catholic, I do not
care if you are a Jew, I do not care if
you are a Muslim, Hindu, some form of
the Golden Rule is right there. She was
a big proponent of the Golden Rule,
and that was the work of her life.
She was also one of those people who
focused on excellence in everything she
did. She was committed to doing things
well and wanted to be surrounded by
staff that did things well. When thing
would go well for her and she would do
a good job, she would always give cred-
it to her team. When her team would
fall short, she was not one of those peo-
ple who blamed the team; she blamed
herself.
Another thing I would say is she just
didn’t give up. She was tenacious—not
very tall, not tall in stature, but, boy,
was she tenacious. She showed this es-
pecially by the way she fought for her
life to the very end 3 days ago.
I want to talk just a little about her
vote on the Affordable Care Act and
why she thought it was the right thing
to do. Matthew 25 does not say any-
thing about: I was lame and you gave
me healthcare or access to healthcare.
My own source of healthcare was the
hospital, what did you do about it?
That doesn’t say that in the New Tes-
tament.
But I think the implication is clear.
We have an obligation—I think a moral
obligation to try to make sure every-
body has access to healthcare and,
hopefully, to affordable healthcare.
That is what we tried to do with the
Affordable Care Act, and that is why
she supported it.
Sometimes people think the Afford-
able Care Act is just the exchanges,
just the marketplaces. Every State has
an exchange or marketplace that is
there. It is sort of like a purchasing
pool for healthcare that people can be-
come a part of. If they don’t work for
an employer who provides healthcare,
that is issued by the employer, and
they are not old enough for Medicare
or their income level is too high to
allow them to participate in Medicaid
and, in those cases, they have to find
some way to get access to healthcare.
Back in 1993, the Republican Senator
from Rhode Island, John Chafee—who
is also a Navy guy, later Secretary of
the Navy—he introduced legislation
here in the Senate in 1993 as a Repub-
lican response to something Hillary
Clinton was doing during her husband’s
administration that was working to
find ways to make sure that everybody
had access to healthcare in this coun-
try.
We worked on something called
HillaryCare, and the Republicans ridi-
culed her efforts and those around her.
She said basically in response: What is
your idea? What is your idea?
The response was by Senator Chafee,
joined by 22 or 23 Republican Senators,
and part of what they came up with is
that every State should have an ex-
change and every State should have
the ability to set up the purchasing
pool in their State. People who didn’t
have coverage could get their coverage
in the exchanges.
Neither one was turned into law, but
about 10, 12 years later, the new Gov-
ernor of Massachusetts, MITT ROMNEY,
took the idea of the exchanges and in-
troduced the Mitt Romney Care so that
the people in his State would have the
opportunity to sign up for the coverage
in their exchange.
We wrote the Affordable Care Act, we
did it, and we took good ideas from all
over the country and all over the world
to provide healthcare to people that
was affordable. One of the ideas that
we stole to put in the Affordable Care
Act was Governor Romney’s idea of the
exchanges.
And you know what? It was a good
idea. It was a good idea. The first few
years of RomneyCare in Massachu-
setts, they did a pretty good job of ex-
tending coverage. They did not do such
a good job initially on affordability,
and they kept trying, and they finally
figured it out—competition in the mar-
ketplace, in the exchange, and more in-
surance companies providing, partici-
pating, and this worked well. We found
in the first 2 years that the Affordable
Care Act was standing up the ex-
changes 7, 8, or 9 years ago that it was
a challenge. It was difficult.
What has happened now is the insur-
ers are starting to figure it out. They
priced too high. The States have come
up with ways to buy down the risks for
the insurers and to make a number of
States’ health insurance in the ex-
changes more affordable, so that more
people can actually afford that help.
I would just close this here. The ma-
jority leader is standing here waiting
to speak, so I will just close if I can by
saying after a number of years seeing
the cost of healthcare coverages in ex-
changes across the country go up, up,
up—sometimes by double-digit rates—
the insurance companies were trying to
figure out how to price health insur-
ance for people who have not had
health insurance for years. It took
them several years to figure it out, but
they finally, for the most part, have.
The cost of healthcare in exchanges
doesn’t go up by double-digit rates any-
more.
In fact, we have 20 or more States
now where the cost of healthcare cov-
erage in the exchange is only going up
a couple of percentage points, maybe
less. In a half-dozen States, the cost of
healthcare in the exchanges is actually
going down. In the State of Delaware,
when the exchanges open up tomorrow,
the people will sign up for the
healthcare exchange in Delaware, the
price will not be going up next year. It
will be going down by 19 percent. There
are six other States where the con-
sumer experience is similar, and that is
encouraging.
A lot more insurance companies are
offering coverage in the States, 23 last
year and 45 this year—and that is going
to introduce competition and, we hope,
a cycle that will allow more people to
get better coverage for a lower price.
So, Kay Hagan, we miss you, and we
considered it a privilege to have served
with you here. Something good has
come out of something very difficult.
The passage of the Affordable Care Act
was hard. It has been hard finding a
way forward since then, but I think
better days lie ahead, and market
forces are starting to work, and that is
a good thing.
And with that, I will yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The ma-
jority leader.
f
EXECUTIVE SESSION
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate proceed to executive session for
consideration of Calendar Nos. 468
through 477 and all nominations on the
Secretary’s desk in the Air Force,
Army, Marine Corps, and Navy; that
the nominations be confirmed; that the
motions to reconsider be considered
made and laid upon the table with no
intervening action or debate; that no
further motions be in order; that any
statements related to the nominations
be printed in the RECORD; that the
President be immediately notified of
the Senate’s action, and the Senate
then resume legislative session.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The nominations considered and con-
firmed are as follows:
IN THE ARMY
The following named officers for appoint-
ment to the grade indicated in the United
States Army under title 10, U.S.C., section
624:
To be brigadier general
Col. Andrew C. Hilmes
IN THE AIR FORCE
The following named officer for appoint-
ment in the United States Air Force to the
grade indicated while assigned to a position
of importance and responsibility under title
10, U.S.C., section 601:
To be lieutenant general
Maj. Gen. James B. Hecker
IN THE NAVY
the following named officer for appoint-
ment in the United States Navy to the grade
indicated under title 10, U.S.C., section 624:
To be rear admiral (lower half)
Gregory C. Huffman
The following named officer for appoint-
ment in the grade indicated while serving as
Surgeon General of the Navy under title 10
U.S.C., section 8077:
To be rear admiral
Rear Adm. Bruce L. Gillingham
IN THE ARMY
The following named officer for appoint-
ment in the United States Army to the grade
indicated while assigned to a position of im-
portance and responsibility under title 10,
U.S.C., section 601:
To be lieutenant general
Maj. Gen Mark C. Schwartz
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:28 Nov 01, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00047 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G31OC6.050 S31OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6356 October 31, 2019
The following named Army National Guard
of the United States officer for appointment
in the Reserve of the Army to the grade indi-
cated under title 10, U.S.C., sections 12203
and 12211:
To be brigadier general
Col. Karl Konzelman
The following named officer for appoint-
ment in the United States Army to the grade
indicated while assigned to a position of im-
portance and responsibility under title 10,
U.S.C., section 601:
To be lieutenant general
Maj. Gen. Randy A. George
The following named officer for appoint-
ment in the United States Army to the grade
indicated while assigned to a position of im-
portance and responsibility under title 10,
U.S.C. section 601.
To be lieutenant general
Maj. Gen. Edwin J. Deedrick, Jr.
The following named officer for appoint-
ment in the United States Army to the grade
indicated while assigned to a position of im-
portance—and responsibility under title 10,
U.S.C., section 601.
To be lieutenant general
Gen. James E. Rainey
IN THE NAVY
The following named officer for appoint-
ment in The United States Navy to the grade
indicated while assigned to a position of im-
portance and responsibility under title 10,
U.S.C., section 601:
To be admiral
Vice Adm. Charles A. Richard
NOMINATIONS PLACED ON THE SECRETARY’S
DESK
IN THE AIR FORCE
PN1112 AIR FORCE nomination of David B.
Martin, which was received by the Senate
and appeared in the Congressional Record of
September 19, 2019.
PN1113 AIR FORCE nominations (2) begin-
ning MATTHEW W. STYLES, and ending
LINDSEY P. DAVIS, which nominations
were received by the Senate and appeared in
the Congressional Record of September 19,
2019.
PN1114 AIR FORCE nomination of Shayla
A. Canty-Smith, which was received by the
Senate and appeared in the Congressional
Record of September 19, 2019.
PN1116 AIR FORCE nominations (15) begin-
ning TRAVIS M. ALLEN, and ending CHRIS-
TOPHER D. UNDERWOOD, II, which nomi-
nations were received by the Senate and ap-
peared in the Congressional Record of Sep-
tember 19, 2019.
PN1118 AIR FORCE nomination of Brandon
R. Burden, which was received by the Senate
and appeared in the Congressional Record of
September 19, 2019.
PN1184 AIR FORCE nominations (4) begin-
ning STEVEN D. GRESSWELL, and ending
TESSA L. WINTERTON, which nominations
were received by the Senate and appeared in
the Congressional Record of October 15, 2019.
PN1185 AIR FORCE nomination of Jason
M. Zhao, which was received by the Senate
and appeared in the Congressional Record of
October 15, 2019.
PN1186 AIR FORCE nomination of Samuel
H. Bridges, which was received by the Senate
and appeared in the Congressional Record of
October 15, 2019.
PN1187 AIR FORCE nominations (2) begin-
ning TIMOTHY J. CURRY, and ending RYAN
J. GARLOW, which nominations were re-
ceived by the Senate and appeared in the
Congressional Record of October 15, 2019.
PN1188 AIR FORCE nominations (2) begin-
ning BRIAN P. BERLAKOVICH, and ending
SCOTT J. RUMISEK, which nominations
were received by the Senate and appeared in
the Congressional Record of October 15, 2019.
IN THE ARMY
PN1119 ARMY nomination of Timothy M.
Donelson, which was received by the Senate
and appeared in the Congressional Record of
September 19, 2019.
PN1120 ARMY nomination of Cesar A.
Patino, which was received by the Senate
and appeared in the Congressional Record of
September 19, 2019.
PN1121 ARMY nomination of John J.
Vogel, which was received by the Senate and
appeared in the Congressional Record of Sep-
tember 19, 2019.
PN1122 ARMY nomination of Lance A.
Brown, which was received by the Senate
and appeared in the Congressional Record of
September 19, 2019.
PN1123 ARMY nomination of Gregory J.
Hirschey, which was received by the Senate
and appeared in the Congressional Record of
September 19, 2019.
NOMINATIONS PLACED ON THE SECRETARY’S
DESK
PN1124 ARMY nomination of Michael C.
Haith, which was received by the Senate and
appeared in the Congressional Record of Sep-
tember 19, 2019.
PN1125 ARMY nomination of Christopher 0.
Dorsey, which was received by the Senate
and appeared in the Congressional Record of
September 19, 2019.
PN1126 ARMY nomination of Galen
Cipperly, which was received by the Senate
and appeared in the Congressional Record of
September 19, 2019.
PN1127 ARMY nomination of Wayne J.
Harsha, which was received by the Senate
and appeared in the Congressional Record of
September 19, 2019.
PN1128 ARMY nominations (12) beginning
PAULA A. BOICE, and ending CHUNAE ZOH,
which nominations were received by the Sen-
ate and appeared in the Congressional
Record of September 19, 2019.
PN1189 ARMY nomination of Brian E.
Burk, which was received by the Senate and
appeared in the Congressional Record of Oc-
tober 15, 2019.
PN1190 ARMY nomination of Rhianna K.
Riggs, which was received by the Senate and
appeared in the Congressional Record of Oc-
tober 15, 2019.
PN1191 ARMY nomination of Fatima H.
Khan, which was received by the Senate and
appeared in the Congressional Record of Oc-
tober 15, 2019.
PN1192 ARMY nomination of Demetrius E.
Walton, which was received by the Senate
and appeared in the Congressional Record of
October 15, 2019.
PN1193 ARMY nominations (12) beginning
GREGORY B. BATDORFF, and ending ERIC
W. WIDMAR, which nominations were re-
ceived by the Senate and appeared in the
Congressional Record of October 15, 2019.
PN1194 ARMY nominations (3) beginning
JOSEPH A. BURTON, and ending RONALD
C. VICARS, which nominations were re-
ceived by the Senate and appeared in the
Congressional Record of October 15, 2019.
PN1195 ARMY nomination of Eric L.
Rahman, which was received by the Senate
and appeared in the Congressional Record of
October 15, 2019.
PN1196 ARMY nomination of Guadalupe
Resendez, Jr., which was received by the
Senate and appeared in the Congressional
Record of October 15, 2019.
PN1197 ARMY nomination of Katrina A.
Parlow, which was received by the Senate
and appeared in the Congressional Record of
October 15, 2019.
PN1198 ARMY nominations (44) beginning
LESLIE E. AKINS, and ending D014484,
which nominations were received by the Sen-
ate and appeared in the Congressional
Record of October 15, 2019.
PN1199 ARMY nominations (8) beginning
MATTHEW W. CASPARI, and ending GLEN
E. TEMPLETON, which nominations were
received by the Senate and appeared in the
Congressional Record of October 15, 2019.
PN1200 ARMY nomination of Kenneth J.
Biskner, which was received by the Senate
and appeared in the Congressional Record of
October 15, 2019.
PN1201 ARMY nominations (7) beginning
NAVARI N. CAMERON, and ending JUAN A.
VILLATORO, which nominations were re-
ceived by the Senate and appeared in the
Congressional Record of October 15, 2019.
PN1202 ARMY nomination of Deleno M.
Harper, Jr., which was received by the Sen-
ate and appeared in the Congressional
Record of October 15, 2019.
PN1203 ARMY nomination of James M.
McCandless, which was received by the Sen-
ate and appeared in the Congressional
Record of October 15, 2019.
PN1204 ARMY nomination of Jens K.
Pederson, which was received by the Senate
and appeared in the Congressional Record of
October 15, 2019.
PN1207 ARMY nominations (2) beginning
GRECO E. CARRERAS, and ending PAUL E.
GEBHARDT, which nominations were re-
ceived by the Senate and appeared in the
Congressional Record of October 15, 2019.
PN1208 ARMY nomination of James H.
Feaster, which was received by the Senate
and appeared in the Congressional Record of
October 15, 2019.
PN1209 ARMY nomination of Christa M.
Chewar, which was received by the Senate
and appeared in the Congressional Record of
October 15, 2019.
PN1210 ARMY nomination of Erik A. Er-
nest, which was received by the Senate and
appeared in the Congressional Record of Oc-
tober 15, 2019.
PN1211 ARMY nomination of Joshua D.
Helsel, which was received by the Senate and
appeared in the Congressional Record of Oc-
tober 15, 2019.
PN1212 ARMY nomination of Scott T.
McCartney, which was received by the Sen-
ate and appeared in the Congressional
Record of October 15, 2019.
PN1213 ARMY nomination of Broderick L.
Gardner, which was received by the Senate
and appeared in the Congressional Record of
October 15, 2019.
PN1214 ARMY nomination of Kara S.
Krulewicz, which was received by the Senate
and appeared in the Congressional Record of
October 15, 2019.
PN1215 ARMY nomination of Tatchie O.
Manso, which was received by the Senate
and appeared in the Congressional Record of
October 15, 2019.
PN1216 ARMY nomination of Eduardo
Olvera, which was received by the Senate
and appeared in the Congressional Record of
October 15, 2019.
PN1217 ARMY nomination of Francisco
Rincon, which was received by the Senate
and appeared in the Congressional Record of
October 15, 2019.
PN1218 ARMY nomination of Wallace W.
Rollins, which was received by the Senate
and appeared in the Congressional Record of
October 15, 2019.
PN1219 ARMY nomination of Taylor S.
Schenck, which was received by the Senate
and appeared in the Congressional Record of
October 15, 2019.
PN1220 ARMY nomination of William D.
Swenson, which was received by the Senate
and appeared in the Congressional Record of
October 15, 2019.
IN THE MARINE CORPS
PN1147 MARINE CORPS nomination of
James M. Stephens, which was received by
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:28 Nov 01, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00048 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A31OC6.060 S31OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6357
October 31, 2019
the Senate and appeared in the Congres-
sional Record of September 19, 2019.
PN1148 MARINE CORPS nomination of
Carlos T. Jackson, which was received by the
Senate and appeared in the Congressional
Record of September 19, 2019.
IN THE NAVY
PN1129 NAVY nomination of Michael J.
Tagaloa, which was received by the Senate
and appeared in the Congressional Record of
September 19, 2019.
PN1130 NAVY nomination of Patcho N.
Santiago, which was received by the Senate
and appeared in the Congressional Record of
September 19, 2019.
PN1131 NAVY nomination of Bryan A.
Boldon, which was received by the Senate
and appeared in the Congressional Record of
September 19, 2019.
PN1132 NAVY nomination of Michael D.
Cribbs, which was received by the Senate and
appeared in the Congressional Record of Sep-
tember 19, 2019.
PN1133 NAVY nomination of Brackery L.
Battle, which was received by the Senate and
appeared in the Congressional Record of Sep-
tember 19, 2019.
PN1134 NAVY nomination of Joel D.
Myers, which was received by the Senate and
appeared in the Congressional Record of Sep-
tember 19, 2019.
PN1135 NAVY nominations (108) beginning
BRYAN M. ALLRED, and ending KENDRA
M. YATES, which nominations were received
by the Senate and appeared in the Congres-
sional Record of September 19, 2019.
PN1136 NAVY nominations (138) beginning
MARIO D. ADAME, and ending ANTHONY
M. YOUNG, which nominations were re-
ceived by the Senate and appeared in the
Congressional Record of September 19, 2019.
PN1137 NAVY nominations (1117) beginning
WILLIAM H. ABBITT, and ending RUBEN B.
ZWEIBAN, which nominations were received
by the Senate and appeared in the Congres-
sional Record of September 19, 2019.
PN1138 NAVY nominations (30) beginning
KELLY W. AGHA, and ending AMY L.
YOUNGER, which nominations were received
by the Senate and appeared in the Congres-
sional Record of September 19, 2019.
PN1139 NAVY nominations (39) beginning
KWADWO S. AGYEPONG, and ending
SHAUN E. WILLIAMS, which nominations
were received by the Senate and appeared in
the Congressional Record of September 19,
2019.
PN1140 NAVY nominations (6) beginning
BRADLEY E. CHERRY, and ending NEIL W.
WHITESELL, which nominations were re-
ceived by the Senate and appeared in the
Congressional Record of September 19, 2019.
PN1141 NAVY nominations (15) beginning
HERNAN R. BORJA, and ending BRIAN E.
YEE, which nominations were received by
the Senate and appeared in the Congres-
sional Record of September 19, 2019.
PN1142 NAVY nominations (15) beginning
BENJAMIN T. ANDERSON, and ending
MATTHEW A. STROUP, which nominations
were received by the Senate and appeared in
the Congressional Record of September 19,
2019.
PN1143 NAVY nominations (16) beginning
NICK AVILA, and ending ATHANASIOS R.
VARVOUTIS, which nominations were re-
ceived by the Senate and appeared in the
Congressional Record of September 19, 2019.
PN1144 NAVY nominations (17) beginning
MICHAEL ADAMSKI, JR., and ending AUS-
TIN C. WEST, which nominations were re-
ceived by the Senate and appeared in the
Congressional Record of September 19, 2019.
PN1145 NAVY nominations (60) beginning
JASON C. ABELL, and ending JAMES M.
ZWEIFEL, which nominations were received
by the Senate and appeared in the Congres-
sional Record of September 19, 2019.
PN1146 NAVY nominations (49) beginning
GARRETT L. ADAMS, and ending IRIS P.
WOOD, which nominations were received by
the Senate and appeared in the Congres-
sional Record of September 19, 2019.
PN1222 NAVY nomination of Joseph L.
Coffey, which was received by the Senate and
appeared in the Congressional Record of Oc-
tober 15, 2019.
f
LEGISLATIVE SESSION
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ate will now resume legislative session.
f
RESOLUTIONS SUBMITTED TODAY
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate now proceed to the en bloc consid-
eration of the following Senate resolu-
tions, which were submitted earlier
today: S. Res. 399, S. Res. 400, and S.
Res. 401.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
There being no objection, the Senate
proceeded to consider the resolutions
en bloc.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the reso-
lutions be agreed to, the preambles be
agreed to, and the motions to recon-
sider be considered made and laid upon
the table, all en bloc.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The resolutions (S. Res. 399, S. Res.
400, S. Res. 401) were agreed to.
The preambles were agreed to.
(The resolutions, with their pre-
ambles, are printed in today’s RECORD
under ‘‘Submitted Resolutions.’’)
f
HONORING THE LIFE, WORK, AND
LEGACY OF TONI MORRISON
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate proceed to the consideration of S.
Res. 402, which was submitted earlier
today.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The clerk will report the resolution
by title.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
A resolution (S. Res. 402) honoring the life,
work, and legacy of Toni Morrison.
There being no objection, the Senate
proceeded to consider the resolution.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
know of no further debate on the reso-
lution.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
further debate?
Hearing none, the question is on
adoption of the resolution.
The resolution (S. Res. 402) was
agreed to.
Mr. MCCONNELL. I ask unanimous
consent that the preamble be agreed to
and the motions to reconsider be con-
sidered made and laid upon the table
with no intervening action or debate.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The preamble was agreed to.
(The resolution, with its preamble, is
printed in today’s RECORD under ‘‘Sub-
mitted Resolutions.’’)
f
NATIONAL FARM TO SCHOOL
MONTH
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate proceed to the consideration of S.
Res. 403, submitted earlier today.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will read the resolution by title.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
A resolution (S. Res. 403) designating Octo-
ber 2019 as ‘‘National Farm to School
Month’’.
There being no objection, the Senate
proceeded to consider the resolution.
Mr. LEAHY. Mr. President, today I
am proud to honor the contributions of
farm to school programs around the
country by introducing a resolution
that designates October as ‘‘National
Farm to School Month.’’ I am glad
Senators COLLINS, BROWN, and PERDUE
joined me in introducing this resolu-
tion.
Under a provision I authored in the
2010 Healthy and Hunger-Free Kids Act,
farm to school programs across the
country have thrived. Grants have been
awarded in all 50 States and the Dis-
trict of Columbia to support programs
in more than 43,000 schools. We have
learned that one of the best ways to
help students make healthy choices is
to teach them about their food and how
it is grown. Making that connection
makes a difference.
We all know that hungry children
cannot learn. Studies have shown that
healthy nutrition in a young person’s
diet is crucial to cognitive ability and
better health in the long run. Food in-
security and obesity rates are still too
high in this country, resulting in poor
health and learning and behavioral dif-
ficulties at school. The school meal
program has made tremendous strides
in recent years to ensure not only that
children have access to meals through-
out the school day but that those
meals are nutritious. The Farm to
School Program has given children and
schools across the country the tools to
craft farm-fresh, healthy, and delicious
meals that students enjoy.
In Vermont, I have seen firsthand
how farm to school efforts have better
connected children with the food in
their cafeteria. Students participate in
school gardens, sustainability projects,
and taste tests for new school menu
items. Earlier this month, I was glad to
visit St. Albans, VT, to announce
grants that will enhance classroom
curriculum to help children become fa-
miliar with local food and how to eat
healthfully.
Ensuring children have enough food
to eat is an issue that unites us all.
There is simply no excuse that in the
wealthiest, most powerful Nation on
Earth, people go hungry. Small
changes in eating habits by children
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:59 Nov 01, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00049 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A31OC6.061 S31OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6358 October 31, 2019
will result in lifelong health benefits
for generations to come. The Farm to
School Program empowers children and
their families to make healthy choices
now and in the future. I am glad all
Senators joined us in recognizing the
importance of this program and recog-
nizing October 2019 as National Farm
to School Month.
Mr. MCCONNELL. I know of no fur-
ther debate on the measure.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. If there
is no further debate, the question is on
agreeing to the resolution.
The resolution (S. Res. 403) was
agreed to.
Mr. MCCONNELL. I ask unanimous
consent that the preamble be agreed to
and that the motions to reconsider be
considered made and laid upon the
table with no intervening action or de-
bate.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The preamble was agreed to.
(The resolution, with its preamble, is
printed in today’s RECORD under ‘‘Sub-
mitted Resolutions.’’)
f
WOMEN’S SUFFRAGE CENTENNIAL
COMMEMORATIVE COIN ACT
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate proceed to the immediate consider-
ation of H.R. 2423, which was received
from the House.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the bill by title.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
A bill (H.R. 2423) to require the Secretary
of the Treasury to mint coins in commemo-
ration of ratification of the 19th Amendment
to the Constitution of the United States, giv-
ing women in the United States the right to
vote.
There being no objection, the Senate
proceeded to consider the bill.
Mr. MCCONNELL. I ask unanimous
consent that the bill be considered read
a third time and passed and that the
motion to reconsider be considered
made and laid upon the table.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The bill (H.R. 2423) was ordered to a
third reading, was read the third time,
and passed.
f
SUPPORTING THE GOALS AND
IDEALS OF NATIONAL CYBERSE-
CURITY AWARENESS MONTH TO
RAISE AWARENESS ABOUT, AND
ENHANCE THE STATE OF, CY-
BERSECURITY IN THE UNITED
STATES
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Com-
mittee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation be discharged from fur-
ther consideration and the Senate now
proceed to S. Res. 345.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the resolution by
title.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
A resolution (S. Res. 345) supporting the
goals and ideals of National Cybersecurity
Awareness Month to raise awareness about,
and enhance the state of, cybersecurity in
the United States.
There being no objection, the com-
mittee was discharged, and the Senate
proceeded to consider the resolution.
Mr. MCCONNELL. I ask unanimous
consent that the resolution be agreed
to, the preamble be agreed to, and the
motions to reconsider be considered
made and laid upon the table.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The resolution (S. Res. 345) was
agreed to.
The preamble was agreed to.
(The resolution, with its preamble, is
printed in today’s RECORD under ‘‘Sub-
mitted Resolutions.’’)
f
ORDERS FOR MONDAY, NOVEMBER
4, 2019, AND TUESDAY, NOVEM-
BER 5, 2019
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that when the
Senate completes its business today, it
adjourn to then convene for pro forma
session only, with no business being
conducted, on Monday November 4, at 1
p.m. I further ask that when the Sen-
ate adjourns on Monday, November 4,
it next convene at 10 a.m., Tuesday,
November 5, and that following the
prayer and pledge, the morning hour be
expired, the Journal of proceedings be
approved to date, the time for the two
leaders be reserved for their use later
in the day, morning business be closed,
and the Senate proceed to executive
session and resume consideration of
the Tapp nomination; further, notwith-
standing the provisions of rule XXII,
the cloture motions filed during to-
day’s session ripen at 2:15 p.m. Tues-
day, November 5; finally, that the Sen-
ate recess from 12:30 p.m. until 2:15
p.m. to allow for the weekly conference
meetings.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
ORDER FOR ADJOURNMENT
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, if
there is no further business to come be-
fore the Senate, I ask the Senate stand
adjourned under the previous order fol-
lowing the remarks of Senator MUR-
KOWSKI.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Alaska.
f
REMEMBERING KAY HAGAN
Ms. MURKOWSKI. Mr. President, I
know that several of my colleagues
have had an opportunity to take to the
floor this week and today to speak to
the memory of a woman, a Senator,
and a friend—certainly a friend of
mine—former Senator Kay Hagan from
the State of North Carolina.
Kay was one of those women whom
you naturally gravitated to. She was
kind. She was generous in her southern
manner and in her charm.
I rarely use the word ‘‘delightful’’ to
describe people, but Kay was a delight-
ful woman. She was a friend to so
many of us, and she was a good col-
league in the Senate.
We had an opportunity to work to-
gether on different legislative matters,
whether it was initiatives I was leading
on mineral security or initiatives she
was working on with regard to small
business and HUBZones, but the one
area we really did connect on for a cou-
ple years was what we were trying to
do with our sportsmen’s bill.
We were successful in passing that
through the Senate a couple years ago,
but we worked on this back in 2014, and
it gave us an opportunity, as two
women from States where hunting and
fishing and being engaged with the out-
doors is something that Alaskans and
North Carolinians do and enjoy. We
shared stories. We shared just discus-
sion about how we were able to reach
common ground. We figured if these
two women from these two parts of the
country could figure this out and make
it happen, that would really be a good
day, a positive day.
Well, it didn’t happen at that par-
ticular time, but I am pleased to say
we were successful some years later,
and I think much of that was due, in
part, to the good work of Kay Hagan.
I know there have been references to
her legislative work, to her quality as
a woman and a leader. My heart is real-
ly with the Hagan family, with her
husband, Chip, and her extended family
who truly loved her and were very pro-
tective of her in so many ways. I know
their loss is a significant one.
I want them all to know that this
Senator from Alaska shares that love,
shares that loss for a woman who
served us all well. I wanted to make
sure that my comments were included
among the many who have spoken on
Kay’s life.
f
SAVANNA’S ACT
Ms. MURKOWSKI. Mr. President, I
want to speak to another matter this
afternoon, a matter that as I think
about my tenure in the Senate and
those initiatives I have been engaged
with that have really touched me in a
way that make me want to work all
that much harder because it is so chal-
lenging, it is so difficult, and in many,
many ways, it is so dark that anything
I can do to shine a light on it, I will do
so.
I came to the Senate floor 2 years
ago, joined by my former colleague
from North Dakota, Senator Heidi
Heitkamp. Heidi was on the floor
speaking about a bill she had intro-
duced, Savanna’s Act, but together we
were really working to speak to the ur-
gency of addressing this epidemic, if
you will, this growing number of miss-
ing and murdered Native women across
America.
The awful truth in this country is
that Native women are victims of vio-
lence in unprecedented proportions.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:59 Nov 01, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00050 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A31OC6.059 S31OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6359
October 31, 2019
When I say unprecedented, I will give
you some of Alaska’s numbers just to
kind of put it into perspective.
This month, October, is Domestic Vi-
olence Awareness Month, and so in
many of the communities in States
across the country, we have been fo-
cused on these issues of domestic vio-
lence and what more we can do to ad-
dress these issues of concern and safe-
ty.
Well, on October 1, the first day of
this month where we are raising this
awareness, the headlines in the State’s
largest newspaper stated that the rate
of rape in the State of Alaska was up 11
percent between 2017 and 2018—an 11-
percent increase in 1 year.
We are a State where, unfortunately,
Alaska Native women are 21⁄2 times
more likely to be a victim of domestic
violence. In Tribal villages and Native
communities, domestic violence rates
are up to 10 times higher than the rest
of the Nation—10 times higher.
So think about as bad as it is in areas
that you are in, in our Tribal villages
and some of the Native communities,
these rates are staggering.
In 2015, it was estimated that 40 per-
cent of sex trafficking victims were
Native Americans. Now, I know 2015
was a few years ago, but 40 percent of
the victims who have been sex traf-
ficked were Native Americans.
The rate of sexual violence victimiza-
tion among Alaska Native women is at
least seven times greater than non-Na-
tive females in the State. So think
about that. There is an unprecedented
level of victimization, of assault, of vi-
olence, of murder that is experienced
by Alaska Native women.
These are statistics that really
should shock the conscience. I know
they shock mine. I have been exposed
to them for so many years, but it con-
tinues to shock.
We all know these are not just statis-
tics. These are mothers, these are sis-
ters, these are aunts, these are cousins,
these are friends, and these are women
who are being violated at rates that
are unacceptable anywhere in any
State.
Now, I mentioned that some of the
statistics are old, and that is part of
the problem, trying to understand
what it is that we don’t know, so we
need to get updated data, but what
isn’t old—and, unfortunately, seem-
ingly, every day we get new statistics
that are added to what we have already
known.
It was just last week family and
friends packed an Anchorage court-
room for the arraignment of a man who
had been charged with murdering 52-
year-old Veronica Abouchuk. She was a
Native woman originally from the vil-
lage of St. Michael. She had been in
Anchorage for a period of time. She
had been reported missing earlier this
year, and then she was found dead near
the Old Glenn Highway in April.
It was just a few weeks ago now—
maybe about 3 weeks ago—the Alaska
community was just horrified as we
learned through the news of a video
cartridge that had been found on a
street, and what was revealed was a
tape of torture and abuse of a Native
woman.
That tape ultimately led to the ar-
rest of this same man who is accused of
killing Veronica. That video showed
the torture and the murder of 30-year-
old Kathleen Jo Henry. She was origi-
nally from a very small village, the vil-
lage of Eek.
These are stories of women. We read
about what they have experienced,
what they have endured, and we think
about their families who no longer
have these women in their lives. You
just can’t view them in the abstract as
statistics. What are we doing to re-
spond to them as women, women who
are vulnerable and are being preyed
upon? What are we doing to act, to
help?
I mentioned this is Domestic Vio-
lence Awareness Month. In Alaska, we
have started calling it Domestic Vio-
lence Action Month. Going from aware-
ness to action is really the key because
I am here to tell you, in Alaska, we are
very aware of how severe the problem
of violence against Native women is—
whether it is domestic violence, an as-
sault, to them being trafficked and
murdered. We know the statistics.
When I am talking with Alaskans
about what we are seeing with missing
and murdered indigenous women, the
subject of trafficking keeps coming
into every conversation because that
is, seemingly, what is happening to so
many who unfortunately go missing.
There are far, far, far too many sto-
ries that we then hear they were traf-
ficked and then ultimately murdered.
This nexus is what is really fright-
ening.
I mentioned the data and under-
standing what it is that we know and
what we don’t know—how big is the
problem, what is happening with our
Native women that they are being vic-
timized to the extent and to the level
we see. We are beginning to make some
progress. We are beginning to gather
more data and understanding.
There is a lot we know we have to
learn, but one thing that has become
clear is that these crimes are perme-
ating cities across America. They are
in the cities, but they are also in our
small, remote, and rural communities.
There is really no geographic bound-
ary that we are talking about here. Ini-
tially, we had thought the problem of
missing and murdered indigenous
women and girls was primarily a prob-
lem on the remote Indian reservations,
but we had some good, strong reporting
from the Seattle-based Urban Indian
Health Institute. We learned a lot
there about the gaps in the data. We
learned that the number of Native
women who go missing in urban cen-
ters is as significant as those who go
missing on reservations or in rural
areas.
In fact, last year there were 507 cases
of Native women killed in urban areas.
Of those, 282 were confirmed murdered,
127 were confirmed missing, and 98
cases are still listed in an unknown
status. These cases exist across 71
urban areas selected for the study—
from Baltimore to Orlando in the east
coast and all the way up to the North
Slope in the community of Utqiagvik.
According to the report, Anchorage
was among the top 10 cities identified
in this study, coming in at No. 3, with
21 cases of missing and murdered indig-
enous girls. Overall, Alaska was the
fourth highest State in the Nation with
52 cases. Keep in mind that these are
just the cases that have actually been
reported.
Making sure that we are under-
standing the extent of the problem and
the issues we are dealing with, the
spotlight we are shining on the issue of
murdered indigenous women is grow-
ing, but we need to answer those ques-
tions so we can move from awareness
to action.
What are we doing? How are we
doing? We are keenly focused—I am,
certainly, keenly focused—on what we
can do to improve public safety in
Alaska. As shocking as many of these
statistics are that I have shared with
you, what we know is that in far too
many communities in our State we
lack law enforcement presence. These
are remote communities. These are
small communities, maybe 300 people.
When you don’t have law enforcement,
when there is nobody there who can ad-
minister justice, who can be the law, it
is a safe place for bad people to go and
do bad things.
What we do to address this is on all
of us. So as we are looking at public
safety in rural Alaska, I reminded At-
torney General Barr when he partici-
pated in a video conference at the Alas-
ka Federation of Natives convention a
couple of weeks ago—he made the com-
ment that we want to make sure we
have public safety throughout Alaska
and that a woman shouldn’t have to
move to the city to feel safe, and I had
to remind him—that in the cities, un-
fortunately, we are not seeing the level
of safety that we would seek.
But we are making some headway,
and I want to share with colleagues
what we have just done in this Interior
appropriations bill that we moved
through in the full Senate just this
afternoon, and I thank colleagues for
that support.
For the first time, we are directing
real dollars to prioritize the crisis of
missing and murdered indigenous
women. We have included a specific
focus there within the Interior approps
bill for FY 2020. We provide funding to
address the crisis with support for cold
case investigations, equipment, train-
ing, and background checks. This will
be an effort where we will work with
the Department of Justice, with the
BIA, with the administration, with the
State, and with the Tribes.
We also encourage the Indian Health
Service to look at programs that can
help educate community health aides
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:59 Nov 01, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00051 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G31OC6.057 S31OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6360 October 31, 2019
on trauma informed care, which also
includes collecting medical evidence.
Through the CJS approps bill that we
passed, we build upon efforts to address
the high rates of violence that are ex-
perienced in far too many Alaskan
communities.
We have been advocating for the larg-
est possible Victims of Crime Act fund
set aside for Native communities that
disproportionately face violence and
have oftentimes extremely limited ac-
cess to service.
We also secured significant funding
for the Violence Against Women Pre-
vention and Prosecution Programs, and
for State and local law enforcement
and Tribal assistance, we provide addi-
tional resources, as well as resourcing
for the COPS, or the Community Ori-
ented Policing Services Program,
which is an initiative to increase the
number of police officers and ensure
they are properly trained.
So I think we are making some head-
way on the appropriations side, but I
think we know there is more that we
can do. We know there is more that we
must do.
I thank Attorney General Barr, who
came up to the State of Alaska in May
at the invitation of Senator SULLIVAN
and myself and many of our leaders
around the State, including our Tribal
leaders, and he was able to sit down at
roundtables in Anchorage and was able
to get up to Fort Yukon, on the Yukon
River, and come down to Bethel and to
go out to the small village of
Napakiak, a community of about 350
people.
Following his visit, he was so struck
by what he had heard and what he had
seen, and truly what he felt in his
heart, that he moved forward with a
designation of a public safety emer-
gency in the State of Alaska. He has
been working with us to help specifi-
cally address how we can make these
rural communities safer and what we
can be doing with everything from
training to basic infrastructure. It is
something we are working collabo-
ratively on.
We are also seeing so many individ-
uals, organizations, and communities
really speaking up about this issue.
Again, it is like the data. If you don’t
know it, you can’t respond to it. If the
stories aren’t shared, as hard and awful
as they are, it is difficult to know how
we respond. There are so many who are
speaking up in different ways to bring
light to the fact that so many Native
women have not received justice.
There is a woman by the name of
Amber Webb that I met when I was in
Fairbanks for the AFN conference. She
has created this really powerful visual
symbol to honor missing and murdered
women. She sketched the faces of more
than 200 missing and murdered indige-
nous women from across North Amer-
ica. She sketched them on a giant
white qaspeq. Qaspeq is the traditional
garb of a woman. She chose the qaspeq
because it symbolizes the adaptability
and the strength of Native women. It is
pretty impressive. It is about 15 feet
high. But, again, it is a white qaspeq,
with the portraits, the sketches, of
these women.
In the center is the face of not a
woman but a young girl, Ashley John-
son Barr. She was a 10-year-old girl
who was kidnapped and killed in
Kotzebue last year.
Being at Ashley’s memorial services
with the entire community of
Kotzebue—it probably felt like the
whole region—grieving the loss of that
child in that brutal and awful murder
in her home was something that never
leaves you.
On one sleeve of the qaspeq is
sketched the face of Sophie Sergei.
Sophie was killed in 1993. She was at
the University of Alaska Fairbanks in
one of the dorms. Her case was cold for
25 years. For 25 years, her family had
no idea who brutally killed her and left
her in a bathtub of blood in a campus
dorm room. That case broke loose with
some DNA testing not too many
months ago. Her family is hoping that
one day there will be justice for their
daughter, but the faces on that qaspeq
represent way too many lives lost.
Some of what we are facing in Alas-
ka, when it comes to public safety, is
the lack of public safety in rural areas
and an inability to ensure that people
are safe in their homes. When you look
at the statistics that we have, when
you look at the issues you face, some-
times you have to say: Maybe the way
we have been doing things for this long
just isn’t working out in these areas.
Maybe there needs to be a different dy-
namic.
I recently introduced what we are
calling the Alaska Tribal Public Safety
Empowerment Act. It builds on a legis-
lative provision that Congressman
YOUNG has introduced. It is a pilot for
Alaska Tribes to address violence
against Native women. In that bill, we
empower Tribes to exercise domestic
violence criminal jurisdiction on a
pilot basis, similar to what we did in
VAWA 2013 for those in Indian Country.
We allow Tribes to assume local con-
trol over local public safety matters.
We cannot deny safety or justice to an
individual based on jurisdictional
issues. This addresses one critical
piece, and that is the Tribal empower-
ment.
There is another very important ele-
ment, and that is coordination among
law enforcement agencies. I hear way
too often from Alaskans who tell me
that they don’t actually count a miss-
ing Native woman as missing because
the last time anybody saw her, she met
somebody, she left a village, she went
to Anchorage, and nobody really heard
of her again. But what we know is that
one of the most vulnerable times for
these young women is the transition
from a village to a hub community or
to a city. We have heard from law en-
forcement that Native people, espe-
cially these young Native girls, are tar-
geted by traffickers when they first ar-
rive in Anchorage or Fairbanks or a
hub community. It is important that
we both understand the scope of the
problem and address coordination be-
tween our State, our Federal, and our
Tribal governments. That is what Sa-
vanna’s Act and this counterpart legis-
lation, the Not Invisible Act, do to-
gether.
I reintroduced Savanna’s Act with
Senator CORTEZ MASTO earlier this
year. This was an effort where I was
proud to carry the torch for Senator
Heitkamp, who has truly been a leader
on this issue. Our bill combats the epi-
demic of murdered and missing Native
women and girls by improving the Fed-
eral Government’s response to address-
ing the crisis. Savanna’s Act increases
coordination among all levels of law
enforcement, increases data collection
in information sharing, and empowers
Tribal governments with the resources
they need in cases involving missing
and murdered indigenous women and
girls wherever they occurred.
This second bill that I mentioned,
with Senator CORTEZ MASTO, is the Not
Invisible Act. What we have seen for
far too long is that Native families and
communities mourn the loss of family
members, sometimes with the resolu-
tion of their cases of a murdered sister
or a missing loved one, but often the
cases remain unsolved.
As I mentioned earlier, we were
shocked in Alaska by the case of Kath-
leen Jo Henry and the related case of
Veronica Abouchuk. But what is just
as shocking is that the Abouchuk fam-
ily has already—already—experienced
the loss of one of their sisters, Martha
Toms, who was killed in 2005 and whose
case is still unsolved. So they have had
tragedy compounded upon tragedy.
These bills, Savanna’s Act and the
Not Invisible Act, attempt to bring the
issue of violence against Native women
and the ongoing epidemic of missing
and murdered Indians to the attention
of the Nation. These families have
faced unspeakable loss and, until re-
cently, have felt almost invisible, frus-
trated, and really just let down by this
system—the complex system that was
supposed to protect them.
But to truly honor the memory of
Savanna LaFontaine-Greywind and ac-
knowledge her family’s loss, we have to
close the jurisdictional loopholes that
criminals exploit. We have to improve
the coordination among law enforce-
ment at all levels of government, and
we have to provide the necessary re-
sources.
The Not Invisible Act designates an
official in BIA to coordinate violent
crime prevention efforts across Federal
agencies. It also establishes a commis-
sion of local, Tribal, and Federal stake-
holders to make recommendations to
the Department of the Interior and the
Department of Justice on how to com-
bat this epidemic of disappearances,
homicides, violent crimes, and traf-
ficking of Native Americans and Alas-
ka Natives.
We know we have a trust responsi-
bility to our Native people, but also we
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:59 Nov 01, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00052 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G31OC6.058 S31OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6361
October 31, 2019
have a duty of moral trust when we
talk about keeping all Americans safe.
We all have to be part of the solution.
By passing these bills, we are saying
that we are not going to accept what
we have dealt with and what we have
faced for far too long.
I think we have to have a sense of ur-
gency to keep Native women and girls
safe. It shouldn’t be anything that is
partisan. There is nothing partisan
about trying to protect women. There
is nothing partisan about trying to
protect Native women. There is noth-
ing Republican or Democratic about
the reality that we all deserve to have
the same level of protection and justice
as every other woman in this country.
So I am back here on the Senate
floor with the same message I had a
couple of years ago with Senator
Heitkamp, and that is to urge col-
leagues to move beyond awareness to
action. Let’s take up Savanna’s Act.
Let’s take up the Not Invisible Act.
Let’s act. Let’s provide for the safety
that all these women should expect.
With that, I yield the floor.
f
ADJOURNMENT UNTIL MONDAY,
NOVEMBER 4, 2019, AT 1 P.M.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the Senate stands
adjourned until 1 p.m. on Monday.
Thereupon, the Senate, at 5:48 p.m.,
adjourned until Monday, November 4,
2019, at 1 p.m.
f
NOMINATIONS
Executive nomination received by
the Senate:
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
STEPHEN E. BIEGUN, OF MICHIGAN, TO BE DEPUTY SEC-
RETARY OF STATE, VICE JOHN J. SULLIVAN.
f
CONFIRMATIONS
Executive nominations confirmed by
the Senate October 31, 2019:
IN THE ARMY
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICERS FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE UNITED STATES ARMY
UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 624:
To be brigadier general
COL. ANDREW C. HILMES
IN THE AIR FORCE
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
IN THE UNITED STATES AIR FORCE TO THE GRADE INDI-
CATED WHILE ASSIGNED TO A POSITION OF IMPORTANCE
AND RESPONSIBILITY UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION
601:
To be lieutenant general
MAJ. GEN. JAMES B. HECKER
IN THE NAVY
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
IN THE UNITED STATES NAVY TO THE GRADE INDICATED
UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 624:
To be rear admiral (lower half)
CAPT. GREGORY C. HUFFMAN
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
IN THE GRADE INDICATED WHILE SERVING AS SURGEON
GENERAL OF THE NAVY UNDER TITLE 10 U.S.C., SECTION
8077:
To be rear admiral
REAR ADM. BRUCE L. GILLINGHAM
IN THE ARMY
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
IN THE UNITED STATES ARMY TO THE GRADE INDICATED
WHILE ASSIGNED TO A POSITION OF IMPORTANCE AND
RESPONSIBILITY UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 601:
To be lieutenant general
MAJ. GEN. MARK C. SCHWARTZ
THE FOLLOWING NAMED ARMY NATIONAL GUARD OF
THE UNITED STATES OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT IN
THE RESERVE OF THE ARMY TO THE GRADE INDICATED
UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTIONS 12203 AND 12211:
To be brigadier general
COL. KARL KONZELMAN
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
IN THE UNITED STATES ARMY TO THE GRADE INDICATED
WHILE ASSIGNED TO A POSITION OF IMPORTANCE AND
RESPONSIBILITY UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 601:
To be lieutenant general
MAJ. GEN. RANDY A. GEORGE
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
IN THE UNITED STATES ARMY TO THE GRADE INDICATED
WHILE ASSIGNED TO A POSITION OF IMPORTANCE AND
RESPONSIBILITY UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 601:
To be lieutenant general
MAJ. GEN. EDWIN J. DEEDRICK, JR.
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
IN THE UNITED STATES ARMY TO THE GRADE INDICATED
WHILE ASSIGNED TO A POSITION OF IMPORTANCE AND
RESPONSIBILITY UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 601:
To be lieutenant general
LT. GEN. JAMES E. RAINEY
IN THE NAVY
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
IN THE UNITED STATES NAVY TO THE GRADE INDICATED
WHILE ASSIGNED TO A POSITION OF IMPORTANCE AND
RESPONSIBILITY UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 601:
To be admiral
VICE ADM. CHARLES A. RICHARD
IN THE AIR FORCE
AIR FORCE NOMINATION OF DAVID B. MARTIN, TO BE
LIEUTENANT COLONEL.
AIR FORCE NOMINATIONS BEGINNING WITH MATTHEW
W. STYLES AND ENDING WITH LINDSEY P. DAVIS, WHICH
NOMINATIONS WERE RECEIVED BY THE SENATE AND AP-
PEARED IN THE CONGRESSIONAL RECORD ON SEP-
TEMBER 19, 2019.
AIR FORCE NOMINATION OF SHAYLA A. CANTY–SMITH,
TO BE LIEUTENANT COLONEL.
AIR FORCE NOMINATIONS BEGINNING WITH TRAVIS M.
ALLEN AND ENDING WITH CHRISTOPHER D. UNDERWOOD
II, WHICH NOMINATIONS WERE RECEIVED BY THE SEN-
ATE AND APPEARED IN THE CONGRESSIONAL RECORD
ON SEPTEMBER 19, 2019.
AIR FORCE NOMINATION OF BRANDON R. BURDEN, TO
BE MAJOR.
AIR FORCE NOMINATIONS BEGINNING WITH STEVEN D.
GRESSWELL AND ENDING WITH TESSA L. WINTERTON,
WHICH NOMINATIONS WERE RECEIVED BY THE SENATE
AND APPEARED IN THE CONGRESSIONAL RECORD ON OC-
TOBER 15, 2019.
AIR FORCE NOMINATION OF JASON M. ZHAO, TO BE
MAJOR.
AIR FORCE NOMINATION OF SAMUEL H. BRIDGES, TO BE
LIEUTENANT COLONEL .
AIR FORCE NOMINATIONS BEGINNING WITH TIMOTHY J.
CURRY AND ENDING WITH RYAN J. GARLOW, WHICH
NOMINATIONS WERE RECEIVED BY THE SENATE AND AP-
PEARED IN THE CONGRESSIONAL RECORD ON OCTOBER
15, 2019.
AIR FORCE NOMINATIONS BEGINNING WITH BRIAN P.
BERLAKOVICH AND ENDING WITH SCOTT J. RUMISEK,
WHICH NOMINATIONS WERE RECEIVED BY THE SENATE
AND APPEARED IN THE CONGRESSIONAL RECORD ON OC-
TOBER 15, 2019.
IN THE ARMY
ARMY NOMINATION OF TIMOTHY M. DONELSON, TO BE
MAJOR.
ARMY NOMINATION OF CESAR A. PATINO, TO BE
MAJOR.
ARMY NOMINATION OF JOHN J. VOGEL, TO BE COLO-
NEL.
ARMY NOMINATION OF LANCE A. BROWN, TO BE COLO-
NEL.
ARMY NOMINATION OF GREGORY J. HIRSCHEY, TO BE
COLONEL.
ARMY NOMINATION OF MICHAEL C. HAITH, TO BE LIEU-
TENANT COLONEL.
ARMY NOMINATION OF CHRISTOPHER O. DORSEY, TO
BE MAJOR.
ARMY NOMINATION OF GALEN CIPPERLY, TO BE
MAJOR.
ARMY NOMINATION OF WAYNE J. HARSHA, TO BE COLO-
NEL.
ARMY NOMINATIONS BEGINNING WITH PAULA A. BOICE
AND ENDING WITH CHUNAE ZOH, WHICH NOMINATIONS
WERE RECEIVED BY THE SENATE AND APPEARED IN THE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD ON SEPTEMBER 19, 2019.
ARMY NOMINATION OF BRIAN E. BURK, TO BE COLO-
NEL.
ARMY NOMINATION OF RHIANNA K. RIGGS, TO BE
MAJOR.
ARMY NOMINATION OF FATIMA H. KHAN, TO BE MAJOR.
ARMY NOMINATION OF DEMETRIUS E. WALTON, TO BE
MAJOR.
ARMY NOMINATIONS BEGINNING WITH GREGORY B.
BATDORFF AND ENDING WITH ERIC W. WIDMAR, WHICH
NOMINATIONS WERE RECEIVED BY THE SENATE AND AP-
PEARED IN THE CONGRESSIONAL RECORD ON OCTOBER
15, 2019.
ARMY NOMINATIONS BEGINNING WITH JOSEPH A. BUR-
TON AND ENDING WITH RONALD C. VICARS, WHICH NOMI-
NATIONS WERE RECEIVED BY THE SENATE AND AP-
PEARED IN THE CONGRESSIONAL RECORD ON OCTOBER
15, 2019.
ARMY NOMINATION OF ERIC L. RAHMAN, TO BE COLO-
NEL.
ARMY NOMINATION OF GUADALUPE RESENDEZ, JR., TO
BE LIEUTENANT COLONEL.
ARMY NOMINATION OF KATRINA A. PARLOW, TO BE
LIEUTENANT COLONEL.
ARMY NOMINATIONS BEGINNING WITH LESLIE E. AKINS
AND ENDING WITH D014484, WHICH NOMINATIONS WERE
RECEIVED BY THE SENATE AND APPEARED IN THE CON-
GRESSIONAL RECORD ON OCTOBER 15, 2019.
ARMY NOMINATIONS BEGINNING WITH MATTHEW W.
CASPARI AND ENDING WITH GLEN E. TEMPLETON, WHICH
NOMINATIONS WERE RECEIVED BY THE SENATE AND AP-
PEARED IN THE CONGRESSIONAL RECORD ON OCTOBER
15, 2019.
ARMY NOMINATION OF KENNETH J. BISKNER, TO BE
COLONEL.
ARMY NOMINATIONS BEGINNING WITH NAYARI N. CAM-
ERON AND ENDING WITH JUAN A. VILLATORO, WHICH
NOMINATIONS WERE RECEIVED BY THE SENATE AND AP-
PEARED IN THE CONGRESSIONAL RECORD ON OCTOBER
15, 2019.
ARMY NOMINATION OF DELENO M. HARPER, JR., TO BE
MAJOR.
ARMY NOMINATION OF JAMES M. MCCANDLESS, TO BE
COLONEL.
ARMY NOMINATION OF JENS K. PEDERSON, TO BE
COLONEL.
ARMY NOMINATIONS BEGINNING WITH GRECO E.
CARRERAS AND ENDING WITH PAUL E. GEBHARDT,
WHICH NOMINATIONS WERE RECEIVED BY THE SENATE
AND APPEARED IN THE CONGRESSIONAL RECORD ON OC-
TOBER 15, 2019.
ARMY NOMINATION OF JAMES H. FEASTER, TO BE
COLONEL.
ARMY NOMINATION OF CHRISTA M. CHEWAR, TO BE
COLONEL.
ARMY NOMINATION OF ERIK A. ERNEST, TO BE MAJOR.
ARMY NOMINATION OF JOSHUA D. HELSEL, TO BE
MAJOR.
ARMY NOMINATION OF SCOTT T. MCCARTNEY, TO BE
MAJOR.
ARMY NOMINATION OF BRODERICK L. GARDNER, TO BE
MAJOR.
ARMY NOMINATION OF KARA S. KRULEWICZ, TO BE
MAJOR.
ARMY NOMINATION OF TATCHIE O. MANSO, TO BE
MAJOR.
ARMY NOMINATION OF EDUARDO OLVERA, TO BE
MAJOR.
ARMY NOMINATION OF FRANCISCO RINCON, TO BE
MAJOR.
ARMY NOMINATION OF WALLACE W. ROLLINS, TO BE
MAJOR.
ARMY NOMINATION OF TAYLOR S. SCHENCK, TO BE
MAJOR.
ARMY NOMINATION OF WILLIAM D. SWENSON, TO BE
LIEUTENANT COLONEL.
IN THE MARINE CORPS
MARINE CORPS NOMINATION OF JAMES M. STEPHENS,
TO BE MAJOR.
MARINE CORPS NOMINATION OF CARLOS T. JACKSON,
TO BE COLONEL.
IN THE NAVY
NAVY NOMINATION OF MICHAEL J. TAGALOA, TO BE
COMMANDER.
NAVY NOMINATION OF PATCHO N. SANTIAGO, TO BE
CAPTAIN.
NAVY NOMINATION OF BRYAN A. BOLDON, TO BE LIEU-
TENANT COMMANDER.
NAVY NOMINATION OF MICHAEL D. CRIBBS, TO BE
LIEUTENANT COMMANDER.
NAVY NOMINATION OF BRACKERY L. BATTLE, TO BE
LIEUTENANT COMMANDER.
NAVY NOMINATION OF JOEL D. MYERS, TO BE LIEUTEN-
ANT COMMANDER.
NAVY NOMINATIONS BEGINNING WITH BRYAN M.
ALLRED AND ENDING WITH KENDRA M. YATES, WHICH
NOMINATIONS WERE RECEIVED BY THE SENATE AND AP-
PEARED IN THE CONGRESSIONAL RECORD ON SEP-
TEMBER 19, 2019.
NAVY NOMINATIONS BEGINNING WITH MARIO D.
ADAME AND ENDING WITH ANTHONY M. YOUNG, WHICH
NOMINATIONS WERE RECEIVED BY THE SENATE AND AP-
PEARED IN THE CONGRESSIONAL RECORD ON SEP-
TEMBER 19, 2019.
NAVY NOMINATIONS BEGINNING WITH WILLIAM H.
ABBITT AND ENDING WITH RUBEN B. ZWEIBAN, WHICH
NOMINATIONS WERE RECEIVED BY THE SENATE AND AP-
PEARED IN THE CONGRESSIONAL RECORD ON SEP-
TEMBER 19, 2019.
NAVY NOMINATIONS BEGINNING WITH KELLY W. AGHA
AND ENDING WITH AMY L. YOUNGER, WHICH NOMINA-
TIONS WERE RECEIVED BY THE SENATE AND APPEARED
IN THE CONGRESSIONAL RECORD ON SEPTEMBER 19, 2019.
NAVY NOMINATIONS BEGINNING WITH KWADWO S.
AGYEPONG AND ENDING WITH SHAUN E. WILLIAMS,
WHICH NOMINATIONS WERE RECEIVED BY THE SENATE
AND APPEARED IN THE CONGRESSIONAL RECORD ON
SEPTEMBER 19, 2019.
NAVY NOMINATIONS BEGINNING WITH BRADLEY E.
CHERRY AND ENDING WITH NEIL W. WHITESELL, WHICH
NOMINATIONS WERE RECEIVED BY THE SENATE AND AP-
PEARED IN THE CONGRESSIONAL RECORD ON SEP-
TEMBER 19, 2019.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:59 Nov 01, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00053 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 9801 E:\CR\FM\G31OC6.060 S31OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6362 October 31, 2019
NAVY NOMINATIONS BEGINNING WITH HERNAN R.
BORJA AND ENDING WITH BRIAN E. YEE, WHICH NOMINA-
TIONS WERE RECEIVED BY THE SENATE AND APPEARED
IN THE CONGRESSIONAL RECORD ON SEPTEMBER 19, 2019.
NAVY NOMINATIONS BEGINNING WITH BENJAMIN T.
ANDERSON AND ENDING WITH MATTHEW A. STROUP,
WHICH NOMINATIONS WERE RECEIVED BY THE SENATE
AND APPEARED IN THE CONGRESSIONAL RECORD ON
SEPTEMBER 19, 2019.
NAVY NOMINATIONS BEGINNING WITH NICK AVILA AND
ENDING WITH ATHANASIOS R. VARVOUTIS, WHICH NOMI-
NATIONS WERE RECEIVED BY THE SENATE AND AP-
PEARED IN THE CONGRESSIONAL RECORD ON SEP-
TEMBER 19, 2019.
NAVY NOMINATIONS BEGINNING WITH MICHAEL
ADAMSKI, JR. AND ENDING WITH AUSTIN C. WEST, WHICH
NOMINATIONS WERE RECEIVED BY THE SENATE AND AP-
PEARED IN THE CONGRESSIONAL RECORD ON SEP-
TEMBER 19, 2019.
NAVY NOMINATIONS BEGINNING WITH JASON C. ABELL
AND ENDING WITH JAMES M. ZWEIFEL, WHICH NOMINA-
TIONS WERE RECEIVED BY THE SENATE AND APPEARED
IN THE CONGRESSIONAL RECORD ON SEPTEMBER 19, 2019.
NAVY NOMINATIONS BEGINNING WITH GARRETT L.
ADAMS AND ENDING WITH IRIS P. WOOD, WHICH NOMINA-
TIONS WERE RECEIVED BY THE SENATE AND APPEARED
IN THE CONGRESSIONAL RECORD ON SEPTEMBER 19, 2019.
NAVY NOMINATION OF JOSEPH L. COFFEY, TO BE CAP-
TAIN.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:59 Nov 01, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00054 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 9801 E:\CR\FM\A31OC6.016 S31OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
EXTENSIONS OF REMARKS
∑ This ‘‘bullet’’ symbol identifies statements or insertions which are not spoken by a Member of the Senate on the floor.
Matter set in this typeface indicates words inserted or appended, rather than spoken, by a Member of the House on the floor.
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E1381
October 31, 2019
HONORING JAMES I. MOORMAN,
OHIO VETERANS HALL OF FAME
INDUCTEE
HON. JIM JORDAN
OF OHIO
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, October 31, 2019
Mr. JORDAN. Madam Speaker, the Ohio
Veterans Hall of Fame will hold a ceremony in
Dublin on November 7 to mark the induction
of its 2019 class. I am honored to commend
to the House one of these inductees: James
I. Moorman of Sidney.
Mr. Moorman’s life and career are a model
for all who would commit themselves to public
service. After his time in the Air Force, he
joined the Shelby County Sheriff’s Office,
where as Jail Administrator he spearheaded
the planning and design of a new 172-bed fa-
cility. He was recognized by the Law Enforce-
ment Association of Shelby County as the
1978 Law Enforcement Officer of the Year.
Mr. Moorman is a life member of the Amer-
ican Legion, AMVETS, Disabled American
Veterans, Catholic War Veterans, and Vietnam
Veterans of America. For six years, he was a
member of the Shelby County Veterans Serv-
ice Commission.
He played a key role in helping neighboring
Logan County establish its own Vets to DC
Program, coordinating veterans’ trips to Wash-
ington to visit their memorials on the National
Mall at no cost to them.
Madam Speaker, selection for the Hall of
Fame is a high honor accorded to no more
than twenty Ohioans each year. To be consid-
ered, individuals must not only serve our na-
tion honorably in the military but also reflect
the high value of service to others in their
post-military careers.
I am pleased to join in the accolades for
James Moorman and his outstanding record of
service as he is inducted into the Ohio Vet-
erans Hall of Fame.
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. JOHN W. ROSE
OF TENNESSEE
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, October 31, 2019
Mr. JOHN W. ROSE of Tennessee. Madam
Speaker, on Thursday, October 31, I was un-
able to vote on the day’s legislation due to a
family emergency. Because of this unplanned
absence, I missed seven Roll Call votes. Im-
portantly, I was not present to cast my vote on
Roll Call No. 604 on the passage of House
Resolution 660 (H. Res. 660).
Had I been present to vote on H. Res. 660,
I would have voted ‘‘No.’’
I find it incredibly disappointing that the
House of Representatives took up H. Res.
660, which moves us away from historic
precedent and, instead, enacts unique con-
straints on Members of Congress who are in
the Minority during this impeachment inquiry.
In the resolution for the President Clinton im-
peachment inquiry, the House Majority pro-
vided strong, bipartisan checks and balances
regarding subpoena authority. These were the
same checks and balances afforded to Con-
gress during the President Nixon impeach-
ment inquiry.
However, H. Res. 660 removes Ranking
Members’ traditional co-equal subpoena
power. Members of the Minority also lose the
traditional right to refer to the committee ques-
tions on whether subpoenas can be exercised
unilaterally by the Chairman.
For a process as important and consequen-
tial as an impeachment inquiry, my constitu-
ents in the Sixth District of Tennessee, and
the American people, deserve better. They de-
serve fairness. They deserve transparency. H.
Res. 660 gives our constituents neither.
f
RECOGNIZING WILLIAM
STILLERMAN
HON. VIRGINIA FOXX
OF NORTH CAROLINA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, October 31, 2019
Ms. FOXX of North Carolina. Madam
Speaker, I rise to recognize William Stillerman
of Winston-Salem, North Carolina for his out-
standing tenure as President and CEO of Bap-
tist Retirement Homes. Throughout his 34
years of exceptional leadership, Baptist Retire-
ment Homes has been a pillar of effective
care and compassion for the elderly in North
Carolina communities.
The foundation he started now totals forty
million dollars, helping to serve the Homes’
over 500 residents and expand the reach of its
services for homebound seniors.
Seeing such a successful local initiative to
provide seniors access affordable prescrip-
tions, comfortable housing, meals, companion-
ship and many other needs is truly inspiring,
and I’m proud to represent the person who
embodies its powerful driving force.
Now that Mr. Stillerman himself is retiring, I
wish him the very best and thank him for his
incredible work and dedication in serving retir-
ees in our state.
f
BRANDON BORTLES AND NOAH
HEANEY
HON. ED PERLMUTTER
OF COLORADO
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, October 31, 2019
Mr. PERLMUTTER. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to recognize and applaud Brandon
Bortles and Noah Heaney for receiving the
Golden Mayor’s Award for Excellence.
Brandon Bortles & Noah Heaney both Gold-
en residents, own competing restaurants:
Brandon owns Abejas, and Noah co-owns
Miners Saloon. Instead of focusing on com-
peting for customers, Brandon and Noah de-
cided to work together to bring more diverse
dining options to downtown Golden. This col-
laboration has already brought us Sur Mesa
Taqueria, which opened inside Tributary Food
Hall in September, and will soon bring us
Nosu Ramen across the street. Together,
Brandon and Noah are making an enormous
contribution to Golden’s economy, our culinary
options, our social gathering places, and our
sense of community.
I congratulate Brandon and Noah for receiv-
ing this well-deserved honor by Mayor Mar-
jorie Sloan. I thank them for their contributions
to our community.
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. JARED HUFFMAN
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, October 31, 2019
Mr. HUFFMAN. Madam Speaker, I regret
that due to a crisis of ongoing power outages
and wildfires in California’s 2nd District, I was
unable to cast the following votes. Had I been
present, I would have voted YEA on Roll Call
585, YEA on Roll Call 586, YEA on Roll Call
587, YEA on Roll Call 588, YEA on Roll Call
589, YEA on Roll Call 590, YEA on Roll Call
591, and YEA on Roll Call 592.
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. JERRY McNERNEY
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, October 31, 2019
Mr. MCNERNEY. Madam Speaker, had I
been present, I would have voted YEA on Roll
Call No. 440.
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. TIM RYAN
OF OHIO
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, October 31, 2019
Mr. RYAN. Madam Speaker, on June 18,
2019, I was unable to attend the vote on the
Lesko Amendment to the House Appropria-
tions Package. Had I been present for the
vote, I would have voted NO on this vote (Roll
Call No. 324).
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:21 Nov 01, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K31OC8.001 E31OCPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E1382 October 31, 2019
HONORING SERGEANT DAVID
CHAMBERS AS SOLDIER OF THE
YEAR
HON. ROGER WILLIAMS
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, October 31, 2019
Mr. WILLIAMS. Madam Speaker, I would
like to take this time to congratulate Sergeant
David Chambers from Troop C, 1st Squadron,
3rd Calvary Regiment on being named 2019
Soldier of the Year in the Army’s Best Warrior
Competition.
The annual competition tests soldiers phys-
ically and mentally, as they compete in urban
warfare simulations, fitness challenges, warrior
tasks, written exams and formal board inter-
views.
Sergeant Chambers represented the Brave
Rifles, Fort Hood, III Corps and United States
Army Forces Command with the highest honor
and integrity.
He also represents the very best of Amer-
ica, and we should all look to his example of
patriotism, selflessness and dedication.
Fort Hood, or ‘The Great Place,’ is one of
the largest military installations in the world,
where soldiers like Sergeant Chambers rep-
resent the gold standard for the United States
Army.
The men and women who are stationed
there truly remind us of what it means to be
an American.
Madam Speaker, on behalf of the 25th Dis-
trict of Texas, I want to thank Sergeant Cham-
bers for his service, and congratulate him on
receiving this prestigious award.
May God bless the United States of Amer-
ica, and those who fight for our freedom.
f
HONORING THE LIFE OF JANE
DUNDAS SMITH
HON. RAUL RUIZ
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, October 31, 2019
Mr. RUIZ. Madam Speaker, I rise to recog-
nize the life and legacy of my constituent,
Jane Dundas Smith—a dedicated educator
who uplifted and inspired her students. Jane
was an extraordinary leader both inside and
outside the classroom who sought to better
the lives of students in our communities and
across the country.
After graduating from the University of Cali-
fornia Davis, Jane began her career as a
ninth-grade English teacher at Vallejo Unified
School District. From there, she launched a
more than 30-year career in education—even-
tually supporting educational programs for the
largest county in the nation in the San
Bernardino County Superintendent of Schools
office.
Jane’s passion for improving the lives of
others through education extended beyond the
classroom. As a consultant and education
specialist, she worked with school districts
across the country, designing programs to
support underserved schools and commu-
nities.
Even after her retirement, Jane continued to
shape the lives of students in our commu-
nities, serving on the Board of Education in
the Yucaipa-Calimesa School District and on
the Nominating Committee for the California
School Boards Education Association.
Jane’s devotion to her students and edu-
cation was unshakable. On behalf of Califor-
nia’s 36th Congressional District, we join to-
gether with her loved ones to grieve her loss.
Jane’s valuable contributions will be felt for
generations to come, and her memory will live
on in the hearts of the countless lives she
touched.
f
CELEBRATING THE 50TH ANNIVER-
SARY OF ALTAMED HEALTH
SERVICES CORPORATION
HON. LUCILLE ROYBAL-ALLARD
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, October 31, 2019
Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD. Madam Speaker, I
rise today to congratulate AltaMed Health
Services Corporation on its 50th anniversary.
Over the past half-century, AltaMed has be-
come a leader in delivering quality health care
and empowering communities, and stands
today as one of America’s largest independent
federally qualified health centers.
When AltaMed was founded in 1969 as the
East LA Barrio Free Clinic, it relied entirely on
grants and donations. The clinic provided criti-
cally needed care to predominantly Latino and
underserved individuals and families who had
little to no access to medical services.
Today, AltaMed is California’s premier com-
munity health network, encompassing more
than 50 service delivery sites throughout Los
Angeles and Orange Counties, and staffed by
a culturally and linguistically competent work-
force of more than 3,000 employees. It pro-
vides care to more than 300,000 individuals
and families in one million annual patient en-
counters. In addition, AltaMed has expanded
beyond primary care to deliver a full con-
tinuum of care that includes pediatrics, dental
care, women’s health, senior services, youth
services, and HIV/ AIDS services. To this day,
AltaMed is committed to providing quality care
without exception and working to address
health disparities in our communities.
In 1982, AltaMed began offering senior
services by opening its first Adult Day Health
Care Center in East Los Angeles, providing
medical and rehabilitative care to older adults.
In 1996, AltaMed made the transition to PACE
(Program of All-Inclusive Care for the Elderly),
a world-class managed-care program that
uses a unique team-based approach to pro-
vide frail older adults with medical, social, nu-
tritional, and rehabilitation services. This pro-
gram makes it possible for those who meet
nursing home eligibility requirements to remain
at home, enjoying the comfort and reassur-
ance of familiar surroundings while receiving
the care they need. AltaMed currently serves
nearly 2,700 older adults at eight PACE loca-
tions in Los Angeles County.
With the passing of the Affordable Care Act
in 2010, more than 20 million uninsured Amer-
icans gained access to comprehensive health
coverage. AltaMed led widespread efforts
through its service delivery sites to enroll and
provide resources to newly eligible individuals,
becoming Covered California’s top certified
enrollment entity for several years in a row,
and earning a grant through the state’s Navi-
gator Program.
In addition to its role as a leading health
care provider, AltaMed leads advocacy efforts
to protect critical safety net programs and ex-
pand access to services in order to grow
healthier communities. This is made possible
through strong partnerships with elected offi-
cials and community organizations. AltaMed’s
advocacy includes championing California’s
historic Health for All Kids Act (SB 4) which
granted an estimated 170,000 undocumented
children access to health care coverage under
Medi-Cal. AltaMed has also advocated to pro-
tect vital federal funding for community health
centers.
With a commitment to social justice and the
understanding that health centers play a sig-
nificant role in helping to achieve health eq-
uity, AltaMed launched the AltaMed Institute
for Health Equity in 2017. Through innovation,
education, research, and community engage-
ment, the institute works to inform and support
the elimination of health disparities that dis-
proportionately affect racial and ethnic minori-
ties.
In 2018, AltaMed launched a first-of-its-kind
effort to mobilize low-propensity voters to
make their voices heard at the ballot box in
the brand-new ‘‘My Vote, My Health’’ cam-
paign. Drawing on best practices from Get Out
The Vote research, and leveraging organiza-
tion and community assets, AltaMed worked to
inform, motivate, and mobilize patients and
employees to protect access to their
healthcare services through the power of their
vote. AltaMed’s effort resulted in increases in
voter participation of as much as 432 percent
in some of the hardest-to-reach voter pre-
cincts.
On November 8, 2019, AltaMed will com-
memorate its 50th anniversary. Madam
Speaker, I ask my colleagues to please join
me in congratulating AltaMed on achieving this
historic milestone as an exceptional health
care leader, advancing quality care for Latino,
multi-ethnic, and underserved communities in
Los Angeles and Orange Counties.
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. ANNA G. ESHOO
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, October 31, 2019
Ms. ESHOO. Madam Speaker, I was unable
to be present during roll call vote number 596
due to a meeting with constituents. I would
like the record to reflect how I would have
voted: on roll call vote number 596, I would
have voted NO.
f
CONGRATULATING HENRY
DESROSIERS ON HIS RETIREMENT
HON. DANIEL MEUSER
OF PENNSYLVANIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, October 31, 2019
Mr. MEUSER. Madam Speaker, it is with
great respect and honor that I rise today to
recognize the retirement of Henry Desrosiers
after many years of service to our nation and
community.
Mr. Desrosiers has been a leader in the Jim
Thorpe community and has a long history of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:21 Nov 01, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A31OC8.004 E31OCPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E1383
October 31, 2019
service to our Commonwealth and nation. Mr.
Desrosiers was born in Naugatuck, Con-
necticut and enlisted in the U.S. Air Force
shortly after graduating from high school. Dur-
ing his four years of service, Mr. Desrosiers
served as a law enforcement specialist in
countries around the world, including in Japan
and the Philippines, earning both the Good
Conduct Medal and the National Defense
Service Medal.
After serving our country, Mr. Desrosiers re-
turned home to serve and protect his commu-
nity as a police officer for over 25 years, being
promoted to sergeant before his retirement in
2003. Furthering his dedication to serve, Mr.
Desrosiers joined Carbon County as the Direc-
tor of Veterans’ Affairs in 2008. Following a
decade of dutiful service to Carbon County’s
veterans, Mr. Desrosiers will retire later this
year.
On behalf of the U.S. House of Representa-
tives and the citizens of Pennsylvania’s Ninth
Congressional District, I ask my colleagues to
join me in congratulating Mr. Desrosiers on his
retirement and thank him for his many years
of brave and honorable service.
f
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE OF DRUG
DISCOUNTS AND REAL-TIME
BENEFICIARY DRUG COST ACT
SPEECH OF
HON. SHEILA JACKSON LEE
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, October 28, 2019
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Madam Speaker, I rise
in strong support of H.R. 2115, the ‘‘Public
Disclosure of Drug Discounts Act.’’
H.R. 2115 requires the Centers for Medicare
& Medicaid Services (CMS) to publish certain
payment information regarding pharmacy ben-
efit managers (PBMs) and prescription drugs.
Specifically, the CMS must publish certain
information, as reported by PBMs, relating to
generic dispensing rates, drug discounts and
rebates, and payments between PBMs, health
plans, and pharmacies, in accordance with
specified confidentiality requirements.
Commercially available drug pricing com-
parison platforms can, at no cost, help pa-
tients find the lowest price for their medica-
tions at their local pharmacy.
Such platforms should be integrated, to the
maximum extent possible, in the health care
delivery ecosystem, while also protecting pa-
tient privacy.
The Health Insurance Portability and Ac-
countability Act of 1996 provides data privacy
and security provisions for safeguarding sen-
sitive health care information.
H.R. 2115 will provide patients with access
to drug prices information while also protecting
patient health privacy.
Pharmacy benefit managers should work to
disclose generic and brand name drug prices
to such platforms to ensure that patients can
benefit from the lowest possible price available
to them; and overall drug prices can be re-
duced as more educated purchasing decisions
are made based on price transparency.
Diabetes is a life-threatening disease that
disproportionately affects communities of
color.
Diabetes is associated with serious health
problems, including heart disease and stroke,
kidney failure, and blindness.
In 2017, diabetes contributed to the death of
277,000 Americans—and was the primary
death for 85,000 of those individuals.
That same year diagnosed diabetes cost the
United States an estimated $327 billion—in-
cluding $237 billion in direct medical costs and
$90 billion in productivity losses.
Diabetes drugs, including insulin and oral
medications that regulate blood sugar levels,
play a critical role in helping people with dia-
betes manage their condition and reduce the
risk of diabetes-related health complications.
After the Democrats took control of the
House in January we got to work on a report
on the high cost of insulin and we determined
that the Americans’ with diabetes are in crisis.
Even though analog insulin has been on the
market for nearly 30 years, it has no meaning-
ful generic competition.
Over the past two decades, manufacturers
have systematically and dramatically raised
the prices of their insulin products by more
than tenfold—often in lockstep.
These prices dwarf manufacturing costs.
One study found manufacturers could
charge as little as $7 to $11 per month for in-
sulin and still make a profit.
In recent years, the high prices of diabetes
drugs have placed a tremendous strain on dia-
betes patients as well as the federal govern-
ment, which provides diabetes medications to
more than 43 million Medicare beneficiaries.
These high prices lead many people to ra-
tion or stop taking their medications, which
can result in serious health complications and
even death, as the Energy and Commerce
Committee heard in direct testimony earlier
this year.
The prices of diabetes medications—and in-
sulin in particular—are far higher in the United
States than they are overseas, in part be-
cause certain federal programs lack the au-
thority to negotiate directly with drug manufac-
turers.
Madam Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
join me in supporting H.R. 2115 to require the
Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services to
publish necessary payment information re-
garding pharmacy benefit managers and pre-
scription drugs.
f
FIGHTING HUNGER AT MINES
HON. ED PERLMUTTER
OF COLORADO
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, October 31, 2019
Mr. PERLMUTTER. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to recognize and applaud Fighting Hun-
ger at Mines for receiving the Golden Mayor’s
Gold Mine Award for Excellence.
Fighting Hunger at Mines is a unique cam-
pus group that is dedicated to improving the
physical and mental health of students at
Mines and the Golden community. Their pro-
gramming addresses food insecurity that’s
pervasive on college campuses, while raising
awareness to local food resources and edu-
cating students on healthy eating habits. By
working with the Golden Backpack Program,
GoFarm and other partners, Fighting Hunger
at Mines distributes healthy food to nearly 150
students each week and has made a substan-
tial difference on campus and in Golden.
I congratulate Fighting Hunger at Mines for
receiving this well-deserved honor by Mayor
Marjorie Sloan. I thank them for their contribu-
tions to our community.
f
IN HONOR OF FRANCIS W.
O’BRIEN, ON THE OCCASION OF
HIS 90TH BIRTHDAY
HON. STEPHEN F. LYNCH
OF MASSACHUSETTS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, October 31, 2019
Mr. LYNCH. Madam Speaker, I rise today in
honor of Norfolk County Commissioner
Francis W. O’Brien, in recognition of his over
sixty-five years of dedicated public service, on
behalf of the Town of Dedham and Norfolk
County.
The son of Annie and John O’Brien, Fran is
the youngest of seven children. A true son of
East Dedham, Fran was born in 1929 and
spent his entire childhood and young adult life
at 236 Bussey Street in East Dedham. Fran
attended the Avery Elementary School and
graduated from Dedham High School in 1949.
While in high school, Fran excelled in football,
baseball and was the captain of the hockey
team. He went on to play semi-pro football for
the Canton Town Club and St. Mary’s of
Brookline. In 1951, Fran enlisted in the United
States Navy during the Korean War era and
served honorably until he was discharged in
1953.
On January 20, 1951, Fran had the tremen-
dous good fortune to marry his longtime high
school sweetheart and classmate, Nancy Ken-
nedy, at St. Mary’s Church in Dedham. They
were blessed with four children, Francis M.,
Marlene, Jacqueline, and Cynthia as well as
seven grandchildren: David, William, Jeffrey,
Gregory, Amanda, and twins Patrick and
Sean. He is also the proud greatgrandfather to
Annabelle, Sophia, Evan and Aiden.
Fran began his career in public service at
the Norfolk County Registry of Deeds in
Dedham as a photostat operator, soon after
being discharged from the Navy. From 1953 to
1958, he was employed by Whiting’s Milk
Company as a milkman. Fran served his com-
munity as a Dedham firefighter, joining the de-
partment in 1958. During this time, Fran also
owned and operated O’Bie’s Variety store in
East Dedham. Always one to help those in
need, there were countless times Fran allowed
customers to purchase necessary items such
as bread or milk on credit, knowing full well
they would be unable to pay him back.
Madam Speaker, Fran ran for public office
becoming the first firefighter in the Town of
Dedham to serve on its Board of Selectman.
Fran proudly served as a Selectman from
1962 to 1976; he also served the Town of
Dedham as a Town Meeting member, a mem-
ber of the Board of Recreation and a member
of the Board of Assessors. He instantly con-
nected with the citizens of Dedham and con-
tinued to serve as Selectman for more than
twelve years. Subsequently, he was hired at
the M.B.T.A. as Liaison of Governmental Af-
fairs. His compassion and understanding have
earned him the deep and abiding respect of
the residents in the cities and towns all over
the state.
Fran continued with the M.B.T.A. until his
retirement in 1993. In 2002, he was appointed,
then elected, as a Norfolk County Commis-
sioner, serving on a threeperson board. In
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:21 Nov 01, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A31OC8.008 E31OCPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E1384 October 31, 2019
subsequent years, he has been elected to
serve as Chairman by his fellow commis-
sioners. Through his friendship and profes-
sional relationships with judges, clerk mag-
istrates and clerks of court throughout Norfolk
County, Fran helped institute physical changes
and improvements to Norfolk County court
houses.
On February 16, 2017, Fran lost the love of
his life, Nancy, after a long battle with Parkin-
son’s disease and the onset of Alzheimer’s.
Tragically, 19 months later, he lost his beloved
daughter, Marlene, suddenly on September
15, 2018, after her longtime fight with multiple
infectious diseases.
As Fran reaches the proud age of 90 years
old, he remains living independently in
Dedham, with his son, daughters and grand-
children close by his side for support. Not sur-
prisingly, you’ll find him still helping people,
still caring for the town he loves, and still de-
voted and loyal to his family and friends.
Madam Speaker, Francis W. O’Brien epito-
mizes the definition of a truly dedicated public
servant. His life-long vocation of service to his
community is on constant display as he con-
tinues to honorably serve the Town of
Dedham. I urge my colleagues, and all who
know Fran, to wish him the best on his 90th
birthday.
f
EDUCATING MEDICAL PROFES-
SIONALS AND OPTIMIZING
WORKFORCE EFFICIENCY AND
READINESS FOR HEALTH ACT OF
2019
SPEECH OF
HON. JANICE D. SCHAKOWSKY
OF ILLINOIS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, October 28, 2019
Ms. SCHAKOWSKY. Madam Speaker, I am
grateful to Representatives GREGORIO KILILI
CAMACHO SABLAN, STEVE STIVERS, KENNY
MARCHANT, WILLIAM KEATING, ZOE LOFGREN,
and LAUREN UNDERWOOD for their support of
H.R. 2781, the Educating Medical Profes-
sionals and Optimizing Workforce Efficiency
and Readiness (EMPOWER) for Health Act.
They wanted to cosponsor this bill but were
unable to be added in time.
When H.R. 2781 passes the Senate and is
signed into law, we will increase the diversity
of our health care workforce, improve geri-
atrics education and training to address gaps
in caregiving and health care for older adults,
and grow the critical pediatric health care
workforce. I look forward to working with my
colleagues as we continue our efforts to make
sure health care is more equitable and acces-
sible for our constituents.
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. STEVEN M. PALAZZO
OF MISSISSIPPI
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, October 31, 2019
Mr. PALAZZO. Madam Speaker, on
Wednesday, October 30, 2019 due to a busi-
ness call I was unable to vote on H.R. 2181,
the Chaco Cultural Heritage Area Protection
Act.
Had I been present, I would have voted
NAY on Roll Call No. 597.
f
RECOGNIZING THE STRONG HIS-
TORY OF COLLEGE FOOTBALL IN
AMERICA
HON. RODNEY DAVIS
OF ILLINOIS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, October 31, 2019
Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois. Madam
Speaker, I rise today to commemorate the
150th anniversary of the first ever college foot-
ball game played between Rutgers and
Princeton in 1869. Just twenty-one years later,
the Big Ten university in my district, the Uni-
versity of Illinois, would field its first football
game in 1890.
Since those days, college football has be-
come one of our nation’s most beloved pas-
times. Today, it’s enjoyed by millions of Ameri-
cans and the sport has grown immensely with
nearly 80,000 student-athletes taking to the
field every fall.
In many ways, it is a game that embodies
the spirit of what makes us great as a country.
As Americans, we have a determination to
succeed; we believe in teamwork; we embrace
our individual roles as we work together to-
ward a common goal bigger than ourselves.
Over the last 150 years, we’ve seen college
football players become U.S. Presidents,
Rhodes Scholars, actors, activists, CEOs, suc-
cessful entrepreneurs, academics, and yes—
even elected officials.
So today we recognize the strong history of
college football in our nation: the games, the
teams, the rivalries, and the memories. My
family and I are longtime fans of college foot-
ball, and I am proud to celebrate 150 years of
its history today.
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. RICHARD HUDSON
OF NORTH CAROLINA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, October 31, 2019
Mr. HUDSON. Madam Speaker, I was un-
avoidably detained and missed a vote series.
Had I been present, I would have voted yea
on Roll Call No. 593; yea on Roll Call No.
594; yea on Roll Call No. 595; yea on Roll
Call No. 596; nay on Roll Call No. 597; yea on
Roll Call No. 598; yea on Roll Call No. 599;
yea on Roll Call No. 600; yea on Roll Call No.
601; and nay on Roll Call No. 602.
f
RECOGNIZING THE WORK OF DR.
VIVIANNE CISNEROS WERSEL
HON. BILLY LONG
OF MISSOURI
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, October 31, 2019
Mr. LONG. Madam Speaker, I rise today to
recognize the retirement of Dr. Vivianne
Cisneros Wersel.
Dr. Wersel has a long and storied career
caring for our nation’s veterans, and she
knows what it means to pay the ultimate sac-
rifice. She is the widow of Lieutenant Colonel
Richard Wersel, Jr. of the United States Ma-
rine Corps. Lieutenant Colonel Wersel served
two tours of duty in Operation Iraqi Freedom
and unfortunately died just one week after re-
turning home from Iraq. Dr. Wersel grew from
this tragedy and not only continued to help
veterans through her role at Walter Reed
Medical Center, but also as an advocate for
Gold Star Families.
Dr. Wersel holds a Doctorate of Audiology
from the School of Audiology-Salus University.
She is also a graduate of the Defense Lan-
guage Institute (DLI), Monterey, CA and holds
a language certificate in Spanish. She earned
a Masters and a Bachelor’s Degree in Com-
municative Disorders (Audiology) from San
Diego State University.
Dr. Wersel currently works full time as an
audiologist at Walter Reed National Military
Medical Center and is designated as a pres-
tigious Master Clinician. In addition to caring
for the active-duty military, retirees, and their
families, she provides hearing health care for
members of Congress, including myself.
Over the past 30 years as an audiologist
she provided hearing care support to service
members, retirees and their families at Camp
Pendleton, CA; Twentynine Palms, CA, Nellis
Air Force Base, Fort Brag NC, Camp Lejeune
NC, Fort Dietrick MD, Fort Belvoir VA, Walter
Reed National Military Medical Center Be-
thesda. But her service to our nation’s vet-
erans goes beyond her role as an audiologist.
Shortly after her husband’s passing in 2005,
Dr. Wersel discovered she was not eligible for
the newly enhanced survivor benefits. She
subsequently became instrumental in chang-
ing the Servicemembers’ Group Life Insurance
and Death Gratuity so that all active duty wid-
ows are now eligible for enhanced benefits.
Today, she is considered a subject matter ex-
pert on Military Survivor Benefits and has tes-
tified before this body twenty times on the
subject.
In addition to her work on survivor benefits,
she is a member of the Gold Star Wives of
America (GSW) Public Relations; past chair of
the GSW Government Relations Committee,
President and founder of Arlington Gold Star
Wives; military survivor advisor for the ‘‘Got
Your Back Network’’; is an active participant in
the VA/DoD Survivor Forum, and founder of,
and advisor to the Surviving Spouses Support
Group II MEF, Camp Lejeune, North Carolina.
She was a local representative for the Na-
tional Military Family Association and was a
volunteer for the Tragedy Assistance Program
for Survivors (TAPS) and Military Officers As-
sociation of America.
Dr. Wersel has devoted her career and her
life to caring for our nation’s veterans and ad-
vocating for Gold Star Families. In recognition
of her work and her much-deserved retire-
ment, I will be flying a flag over the United
States Capitol in her honor. Madam Speaker,
I ask that you and the rest of this chamber join
me in congratulating Dr. Wersel on a job well
done.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:21 Nov 01, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A31OC8.010 E31OCPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E1385
October 31, 2019
CONGRATULATING SERGEANT
CARL COATS ON HIS RETIRE-
MENT FROM THE POLICE DE-
PARTMENT OF GRAPEVINE,
TEXAS
HON. KENNY MARCHANT
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, October 31, 2019
Mr. MARCHANT. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to congratulate Sergeant Carl Coats on
his well-earned retirement from the Grapevine
Police Department. After twenty-five years of
dedicated service, Carl has distinguished him-
self as a respected member of the Grapevine
police force.
Beginning his career with the United States
Marine Corps, Carl attained the rank of Ser-
geant and served as a Marine Security Guard
at the American Embassies in Prague,
Czechoslovakia and Quito, Ecuador.
Transitioning to law enforcement in 1990, Carl
served four years as a correctional officer with
the Cooke County Sheriffs Department in
Gainesville, Texas. In addition to that experi-
ence, he graduated from the police academy
and subsequently became Deputy Sheriff.
In 1994, Carl joined the Grapevine Police
Department where he has devotedly served as
Patrol Officer, Detective, CID Sergeant and
Patrol Sergeant. As evidence of his dedication
to professional development, Carl is a grad-
uate of the School of Police Supervision
through the Institute for Law Enforcement.
Through rigorous instruction, Carl has also ob-
tained his Master Peace Officer’s License- the
highest level of its kind.
Carl’s colleagues, supervisors and commu-
nity members have expressed their deepest
appreciation for his accomplished service.
Specializing in child protection and physical
abuse investigation, Carl has earned twenty-
four commendations to date. In 1999, Carl re-
ceived the Life Saving Award for his rescue of
a five-year-old autistic child from a swimming
pool. The following year, he developed a mul-
tidisciplinary team approach to investigate
shaken baby syndrome. Carl also received the
2002 Advocate of the Year Award from the
Tarrant County Crime Prevention Resource
Center, honoring his efforts in promoting safe-
ty for women and children in the community.
Madam Speaker, it is an honor to recognize
the excellence of Carl’s work which has re-
peatedly been commended as an invaluable
asset to both the City and the Grapevine Po-
lice Department. His legacy will leave a lasting
mark. I ask all my distinguished colleagues to
join me in recognizing Sergeant Carl Coats for
his numerous years of service.
f
THE GOLDEN LIONS CLUB
HON. ED PERLMUTTER
OF COLORADO
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, October 31, 2019
Mr. PERLMUTTER. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to recognize and applaud the Golden
Lions Club for receiving the Golden Mayor’s
Award for Excellence.
The Golden Lions Club has been serving
the Golden community since 1942. Standing
behind the International Lions Club motto of
‘‘We Serve’’, the Lions Club offers their serv-
ices to anyone that needs help with a project.
With over 8,000 hours of volunteer service in
2019, the Golden Lions continue to make a
positive impact within the community. From
constructing public bathrooms and pavilions to
providing eyeglasses and scholarships to
school children; where there’s a need, there’s
a Lion. Through funding efforts, engaging vol-
unteers in community projects, and supporting
local schools and students, the Lions Club has
committed to making the City of Golden a bet-
ter place to live, work, and play.
I congratulate the Golden Lions Club for re-
ceiving this well-deserved honor by Mayor
Marjorie Sloan. I thank them for their contribu-
tions to our community.
f
COMMENDING PRIME MINISTER
NARENDRA MODI AND THE IN-
DIAN PARLIAMENT FOR PRO-
MOTING STABILITY IN JAMMU
AND KASHMIR
HON. GEORGE HOLDING
OF NORTH CAROLINA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, October 31, 2019
Mr. HOLDING. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to discuss the situation in Jammu and Kash-
mir.
As we all have seen, the Indian parliament
passed legislation last month changing the
status of the state of Jammu and Kashmir.
They modified provisions that were an obsta-
cle to economic development and promoted a
sense of separatism.
Up until recently, Kashmir had been gov-
erned by Article 370, which was an outdated
provision of law that the Indian constitution
recognized as ‘‘temporary.’’
Article 370 might have worked well for those
with political connections, but it denied eco-
nomic opportunities for the people.
I also created a polarizing environment that
was exploited politically. During the past dec-
ades, thousands of people lost their lives due
to terrorist attacks. Several groups based in
Pakistan were able to conduct cross-border
terrorism that wreaked havoc on individuals
and families, and led to a morbid economy.
The Modi government had to make a deci-
sion on whether to continue with the old policy
or to pursue progress by changing the region’s
legal status.
Madam Speaker, the people of Jammu and
Kashmir deserve better and Prime Minister
Modi was right to take bold steps to address
this situation. Changes to the status of Jammu
and Kashmir passed Parliament by a two-
thirds majority, which highlights the consensus
on the need for this reform.
Even with these changes, those seeking to
cause disruption have continued to promote
violence.
Pakistan-based terror groups have recently
floated posters warning common citizens
against venturing out, going to work, and vis-
iting public places. The groups have continued
to engage in cross-border terrorism and have
attacked civilians and children. These militant
groups have also attacked migrant workers
and those who are involved in the apple busi-
ness, which is the chief crop of Kashmir.
Madam Speaker, in order for Jammu and
Kashmir to flourish, there must be peace and
stability. Individuals and families need to feel
safe when they leave their homes and go to
work.
The steps that Prime Minister Modi and the
Parliament have taken are needed, they’re
good for the long-term stability of the region,
and they should be applauded.
f
FULL UTILIZATION OF THE HARBOR
MAINTENANCE TRUST FUND ACT
SPEECH OF
HON. SHEILA JACKSON LEE
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, October 28, 2019
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today in strong support of H.R. 2440 the ‘‘The
Full Utilization of the Harbor Maintenance
Trust Fund Act.’’
In 1986, Congress enacted the Harbor
Maintenance Tax to recover the operation and
maintenance dredging costs for federally-au-
thorized ports from maritime shippers.
This is a direct levy on importers and do-
mestic shippers using coastal or inland ports
and is typically passed along to U.S. tax-
payers on the purchase of imported goods.
These revenues are deposited in the Harbor
Maintenance Trust Fund within the Treasury
Department, from which Congress appro-
priates funds to the U.S. Army Corps of Engi-
neers for harbor maintenance dredging.
According to the Army Corps of Engineers,
navigation channels at our nation’s 59 busiest
ports are available less than 35 percent of the
time.
The American Society of Civil Engineers es-
timates that our nation’s ports and harbors will
need additional investment of $15.8 billion be-
tween now and 2020 just to meet the de-
mands of larger and heavier ships that will use
the Panama Canal.
H.R. 2440 ensures that the Harbor Mainte-
nance Trust Fund is used for its intended pur-
pose—the maintenance of federally-authorized
harbors.
This will enable the Army Corps of Engi-
neers to dredge all federal harbors to ensure
that they are to their constructed widths and
depths.
The act also provides critical federal fund-
ing—$34 billion—for infrastructure investment
for our coastal and inland harbors over the
next decade.
The bill achieves this task without raising
taxes.
This bill also authorizes the expenditure of
the expected $25.5 billion in new revenue over
the next decade, for our critical port harbor
needs.
And, the bill authorizes the appropriation of
additional funds for harbor maintenance
needs.
As is clear, the need to ensure that this
port, and similar such ports, stay open and op-
erating as much as practical is vital.
The failure to do so can impact employ-
ment, the economy, and the livelihoods of
countless individuals and businesses.
Ports are uniquely vulnerable to any number
of disturbances, including those produced by
weather, abuses by those who utilize the
ports, and naturally-occurring wear-and-tear to
the ports.
One such example of this naturally-occur-
ring phenomena which requires remedial ef-
forts is dredging.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:21 Nov 01, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A31OC8.016 E31OCPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E1386 October 31, 2019
According to the National Oceanic and At-
mospheric Administration, dredging is the act
of removing silt and other material from the
bottom of bodies of water.
NOAA goes further to explain that dredging
is a routine necessity in waterways around the
world because sedimentation gradually fills
channels and harbors.
In the aggregate, this filling of channels and
harbors can prevent the movement of vessels.
Dredging increases the depth of navigation
channels, and thus plays a vital role in the na-
tion’s economy.
The Port of Houston is one of the largest in
the world.
The Houston region is the country’s top
area for exports and the area surrounding the
Port of Houston is home to the largest petro-
chemical manufacturing complex in the West-
ern Hemisphere.
Due to its strategically advantageous loca-
tion, the ingenuity of the 200 private compa-
nies that constitute the Greater Port of Hous-
ton, the Port of Houston is the number one
port in foreignwaterborne tonnage.
And the most recent available statistics sup-
port the primacy of the Port of Houston.
The Greater Port of Houston complex is
ranked sixth among U.S. container ports by
size, and is the largest gulf coast container
port—handling 69 percent of U.S. Gulf Coast
container traffic—and is the largest Texas
port, with 45 percent market share by ton-
nage, and 96 percent market share in con-
tainers.
To wit, more than 200 million short tons of
international cargo were handled in 2018
alone.
As such, this redounds to the benefit of the
economy.
Nationally, the greater port supports 3.2 mil-
lion jobs, boasts more than $801.9 billion in
economic value and produces $38.1 billion in
tax revenue.
As a Senior Member of the House Home-
land Security Committee, with a significant
global port near my congressional district, I
will work tirelessly towards enactment of this
legislation.
That is why I urge all Members to join me
in voting for H.R. 2440.
f
RECOGNIZING PHYLLIS GREEN
FOR HER RETIREMENT AS SU-
PERINTENDENT OF ISLE ROYALE
NATIONAL PARK
HON. JACK BERGMAN
OF MICHIGAN
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, October 31, 2019
Mr. BERGMAN. Madam Speaker, it’s my
honor to recognize Phyllis Green for her retire-
ment as Superintendent of Isle Royale Na-
tional Park. Through her decades of leader-
ship and commitment to our natural heritage,
Phyllis has become an indispensable part of
Michigan’s First District.
A U.P. native, Phyllis grew up surrounded
by some of the most pristine natural land-
scapes our country has to offer. It should
therefore not be surprising that she found her
calling for conservation work at a young age.
In high school, she led multiple clubs dedi-
cated to environmental conservation before at-
tending Michigan Technological University and
earning an undergraduate degree in forestry.
Her 41-year professional career saw her serve
in a variety of conservation and land manage-
ment roles, including as supervisor of Ottawa
National Forest.
As Superintendent of Isle Royale, Phyllis
oversaw significant improvements to the oper-
ations and management of the park, including
the implementation of a solar power system,
invasive species control, and most recently,
the reintroduction of the Gray Wolf to the is-
land. This endeavor has required intensive ec-
ological work and cooperation between the
National Parks Service, Michigan Department
of Natural Resources, USDA, and the State
University of New York. Thanks in part to her
leadership, the species introduction is well on
its way to long-term success, with 17 wolves
currently calling the island home.
Madam Speaker, it’s my honor to congratu-
late Phyllis Green for her decades of service
and her retirement as Superintendent of Isle
Royale National Park. Michiganders can take
great pride in knowing the First District is
home to such a dedicated individual. On be-
half of my constituents, I wish Phyllis all the
best in her future endeavors.
f
IN RECOGNITION OF HERBIE
FLORES
HON. RICHARD E. NEAL
OF MASSACHUSETTS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, October 31, 2019
Mr. NEAL. Madam Speaker, I would like to
take this opportunity to recognize Mr.
Heriberto ‘‘Herbie’’ Flores, my constituent from
western Massachusetts, who recently received
the prestigious Pynchon Award. The Pynchon
Award, which is named after the founder of
Springfield, Massachusetts is given to those
individuals who have made exceptional con-
tributions to their community. This award is a
testament to Herbie’s hard work, dedication,
and exemplary character.
Originally from Puerto Rico, Herbie grew up
harvesting tobacco for a $1.25 an hour. After
leaving the island, Herbie proudly served our
country with distinction in the United States
Army during the war in Vietnam. Through this
experience he learned firsthand of the plight
and hardship of poverty and decided to dedi-
cate his life to helping those less fortunate in
our community.
Herbie is very well known for his many lead-
ership roles and non-profit work in Springfield
and throughout New England. He is the found-
er of the New England Farm Worker’s Council,
a nonprofit human services agency dedicated
to improving the quality of life for low-income
workers through education, job training, and
living assistance. In addition, Herbie also
served as the President of Brightwood Devel-
opment Corporation which provides housing
and development opportunities to Springfield’s
North End. Also, Herbie has served as the
Chairman of Partners for Community, which
works around New England to provide em-
ployment and other social services to popu-
lations with special needs.
Once again, Madam Speaker, I am proud of
Herbie for receiving the Pynchon Award and
for being an exemplary pillar of our commu-
nity. I have had the pleasure of knowing and
working alongside Herbie as Mayor and as a
Member of Congress and I am proud to call
him a friend. I cannot think of anyone that
brings a stronger personal commitment to
those in our society that have been over-
looked. To Herbie and his wife Grace Taylor,
I want to wish them all the best in their future
endeavors and say thank you on behalf of the
United States of America.
f
GOLDEN UNITED
HON. ED PERLMUTTER
OF COLORADO
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, October 31, 2019
Mr. PERLMUTTER. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to recognize and applaud the Golden
United for receiving the Golden Mayor’s Award
for Excellence.
Golden United is a non-partisan, resident-
driven effort to engage Golden area commu-
nity members across all walks of life to find
common ground and act with respect and dig-
nity in strengthening the community. Golden
United launched in 2017, gathering residents
of different backgrounds and asking them to
identify shared values and initial actions. Their
mission continued through community forums,
rallies, annual events, task forces, supporting
other community events, and most recently,
hosting a Candidate Forum for the upcoming
election. This organization is an example of
democracy in action ‘‘of the people, and for
the people.’’
I congratulate Golden United for receiving
this well-deserved honor by Mayor Marjorie
Sloan. I thank them for their contributions to
our community.
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. JODY B. HICE
OF GEORGIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, October 31, 2019
Mr. HICE of Georgia. Madam Speaker, I
was not present for the following votes due to
the passing of my father.
Had I been present, I would have voted
NAY on Roll Call No. 585; YEA on Roll Call
No. 586; NAY on Roll Call No. 587; NAY on
Roll Call No. 588; NAY on Roll Call No. 589;
NAY on Roll Call No. 590; YEA on Roll Call
No. 591; YEA on Roll Call No. 592; YEA on
Roll Call No. 593; YEA on Roll Call No. 594;
YEA on Roll Call No. 595; YEA on Roll Call
No. 596; NAY on Roll Call No. 597; YEA on
Roll Call No. 598; YEA on Roll Call No. 599;
YEA on Roll Call No. 600; YEA on Roll Call
No. 601; and NAY on Roll Call No. 602.
f
IN RECOGNITION OF COMMANDER
JUSTIN GOSS
HON. ROBERT J. WITTMAN
OF VIRGINIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, October 31, 2019
Mr. WITTMAN. Madam Speaker, I rise in
recognition of Commander Justin D. Goss,
United States Navy. After 20 years of dedi-
cated service to our great nation, today marks
his retirement from active duty.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:21 Nov 01, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A31OC8.018 E31OCPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E1387
October 31, 2019
Commander Goss grew up in Fairfax, VA,
and graduated from the College of William and
Mary in Williamsburg, VA. He earned his com-
mission from Officer Candidate School in
2000. As a Surface Warfare Officer, he served
on USS The Sullivans (DDG–68), USS Zephyr
(PC–8), USS Stout (DDG–55), and in Riverine
Squadron ONE. He was also assigned as an
exchange officer with the Royal Navy where
he served aboard HMS Marlborough (F233)
and HMS York (D98).
Following his lateral transfer into the Foreign
Area Officer community, Goss was assigned
as the Chief, Office of Security Cooperation, at
the United States Embassy in Dakar, Senegal.
Additionally, he served on staff positions at
U.S. Africa Command and the Navy’s Military
Personnel, Plans, and Policy Directorate.
Commander Goss’ final tour of duty was
serving as the Deputy Director of the Navy’s
House of Representatives Liaison Office (LA–
4) where he was instrumental in developing
and fostering key relationships between De-
partment of the Navy officials, members of
Congress and their personal and professional
staffs.
Madam Speaker, I ask you to join me in
thanking Commander Goss, his wife Suzanne
and his children Thomas, Orla, Arthur, Wilfred,
and Agnes for their incredible sacrifices, devo-
tion, and service to our nation; words cannot
express our gratitude. We wish them well as
they embark on a new adventure together.
f
HONORING VIETNAM VETERANS
HON. ANN M. KUSTER
OF NEW HAMPSHIRE
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, October 31, 2019
Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire. Madam
Speaker, I rise today to honor the brave Amer-
icans who served our country during the Viet-
nam Era. The courage, patriotism, and her-
oism that our servicemembers displayed when
faced with the danger of serving in the Viet-
nam War speaks to the character and strength
of these individuals and our nation.
I am honored to be a part of the Vietnam
War Commemorative Committee. The brave
men and women who served our nation during
the Vietnam War set aside their ambitions, left
their families, and risked their lives for our
country. This project is a token of our gratitude
for their selfless service and steadfast, unwav-
ering devotion to our nation and the American
people. The legacy of all those who served
during the conflict remains an inspiration to
our nation. To the families of our
servicemembers who stood by faithfully as
your loved ones departed to defend our free-
doms overseas, I offer my sincere gratitude for
your shared commitment to duty and service.
I will continue to work each day to serve all
those who have served us so valiantly. Our
veterans have made incredible sacrifices in
honor of our nation. It is a debt we can never
repay, and one we can never forget. It is es-
sential that we provide all our veterans with
the care and support they so richly deserve.
As the Representative for New Hampshire’s
Second Congressional District, I will continue
to work on behalf of our courageous Vietnam
veterans, servicemembers, and military fami-
lies who have given so much for our country.
May we honor and celebrate all our soldiers,
and may God bless the United States of
America.
f
MARJORIE SLOAN
HON. ED PERLMUTTER
OF COLORADO
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, October 31, 2019
Mr. PERLMUTTER. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to recognize and applaud Mayor Mar-
jorie Sloan for her many years of service to
the City of Golden.
Marjorie Sloan has dutifully served as the
37th Mayor for the City of Golden for eight
years, and as the first female mayor elected
by the citizens since Golden became a Home
Rule City.
Before she was elected as mayor, Marjorie
represented Golden’s District One as a city
councilor for four years. Marjorie, her husband
Dendy, and their children have lived in Golden
for decades. In addition to her roles on City
Council, Marjorie also served as Planning
Commission chair, Foothills Art Center board
president, Golden Urban Renewal Authority
board member, volunteer, parent, neighbor,
and all-around general Golden Ambassador.
Mayor Marjorie Sloan’s legacy of leadership,
vision, and trailblazing on behalf of the city will
not soon be forgotten. I extend my deepest
thanks and appreciation to Mayor Sloan for
her service and commitment to our community
and her service to the people of Golden, Colo-
rado.
f
RECOGNIZING THE 18TH PRESI-
DENT OF SAINT VINCENT COL-
LEGE, FATHER PAUL TAYLOR
HON. GUY RESCHENTHALER
OF PENNSYLVANIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, October 31, 2019
Mr. RESCHENTHALER. Madam Speaker, it
is a great honor to congratulate Father Paul
Taylor upon his inauguration as the 18th
President of St. Vincent College in Latrobe,
Pennsylvania.
Father Taylor graduated from St. Vincent
College in 1987 with a Bachelor of Arts de-
gree in mathematics. He went on to earn a
Master of Divinity degree from Saint Vincent
Seminary in 1993 and a Master of Arts degree
in Mathematics from Duke University in 1993.
Father Taylor attended Boston College for his
Ph.D. in Higher Education Administration,
graduating in 1998 after presenting his dis-
sertation ‘‘Boniface Wimmer and the Begin-
ning of American Benedictine Education.’’
Father Taylor returned to St. Vincent Col-
lege in 1987 in order to dedicate his life to
Benedictine education. He made his simple
profession of monastic vows in 1988 and his
solemn profession of vows in 1991. Father
Taylor was ordained as a priest on June 6,
1992 in Saint Vincent’s Archabbey Basilica.
In 1996, Father Paul entered the Office of
Admission and Financial Aid, eventually rising
to the position of dean. It was in this role that
he developed a strong commitment to helping
students obtain financial aid. Under Father
Taylor’s leadership as Executive Vice Presi-
dent, St. Vincent College launched the For-
ward, Always Forward campaign. This $100
million-dollar campaign seeks to strengthen
the endowment, as well as expand financial
aid opportunities and enrich academic pro-
grams. On July 1, 2019, Father Taylor be-
came President of St. Vincent, and I know that
under his leadership, the college will continue
to excel in providing American students with
an education that sets them up for future suc-
cess.
Madam Speaker, throughout his career, Fa-
ther Taylor has demonstrated a remarkable
commitment to education, his Catholic faith,
and St. Vincent College. Please join me in
recognizing and congratulating the 18th Presi-
dent of Saint Vincent College, Father Paul
Taylor.
f
CELEBRATING THE 75TH ANNIVER-
SARY OF THE LEELANAU CON-
SERVATION DISTRICT
HON. JACK BERGMAN
OF MICHIGAN
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, October 31, 2019
Mr. BERGMAN. Madam Speaker, it’s my
honor to recognize the Leelanau Conservation
District as they celebrate their 75th Anniver-
sary. Through its dedication to responsible
natural resources management, land con-
servation, and a healthy environment, the
Leelanau Conservation District has become an
indispensable part of Michigan’s First District.
As an avid outdoorsman, I recognize the im-
portance protecting our wildlife and natural re-
sources through effective conservation. In that
endeavor, the Leelanau Conservation District
has been invaluable to Northern Michigan.
First organized in 1943, the District works to
promote the wise use of our natural resources
through information and technical assistance
to those throughout Leelanau County. From
promoting healthy forests and responsible
hunting, to fighting invasive species and pre-
venting soil erosion, their work has been crit-
ical for the people of Michigan’s First District.
Our region is home to some of the most pris-
tine natural landscapes in the country. I’m
grateful for the Leelanau Conservation Dis-
trict’s efforts to ensure that future generations
can enjoy the same natural beauty we so
deeply treasure.
Madam Speaker, it’s my honor to congratu-
late the Leelanau Conservation District for 75
years of service. Michiganders can take im-
mense pride in knowing that the First District
is home to such a trusted organization working
to promote environmental and ecological
health. On behalf of my constituents, I wish
the Leelanau Conservation District all the best
in its future endeavors.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:21 Nov 01, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A31OC8.022 E31OCPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E1388 October 31, 2019
IN REMEMBRANCE OF JOHN CON-
YERS, TIRELESS FIGHTER FOR
JUSTICE AND EQUALITY, CHAIR-
MAN OF HOUSE COMMITTEES ON
OVERSIGHT AND ON THE JUDICI-
ARY, FOUNDING MEMBER OF
CONGRESSIONAL BLACK CAUCUS,
MEMBER OF CONGRESS FROM
MICHIGAN FOR 53 YEARS, MEN-
TOR, BELOVED COLLEAGUE, AND
DEAR FRIEND
HON. SHEILA JACKSON LEE
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, October 31, 2019
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Madam Speaker, I rise
in remembrance of Chairman John Conyers,
Jr., the tireless Fighter for Justice and Equal-
ity, Chairman of House Committees on Over-
sight and on the Judiciary, Founding Member
of Congressional Black Caucus, Member of
Congress From Michigan For 53 years, my
mentor, a beloved colleague, and dear friend
who died on Sunday, October 27, 2019, at his
home in Detroit, Michigan at the age of 90.
Madam Speaker, John Conyers, Jr. was a
statesman and strong supporter of equality,
economic and social justice, civil rights, and
human dignity for all.
John Conyers, Jr. was born May 16, 1929
in Highland Park, Michigan to Lucille Janice
and John Conyers, Sr., a union organizer in
the automotive industry and an international
representative with the United Auto Workers.
After graduation from Northwestern High
School, John Conyers dutifully served his
country in the Michigan National Guard from
1948 to 1950, the U.S. Army from 1950 to
1954, and the U.S. Army Reserves from 1954
to 1957, serving during the Korean War and
as an officer in the U.S. Army Corps of Engi-
neers where he was awarded combat and
merit citations.
Following his military service, John Conyers
earned his Bachelor of Arts and Juris Doctor
from Wayne State University and was admit-
ted to the Michigan State Bar.
Chairman Conyers began his legislative ca-
reer on the staff of the late Congressman
John Dingell and during this time he also
served as counsel to several Detroit-area
labor unions and was referee for Michigan’s
workmen’s compensation department.
In 1964, John Conyers was first elected to
represent the First Congressional District of
Michigan and was reelected to the succeeding
90th Congress and the following 15 Con-
gresses until he retired on December 5, 2017.
On the retirement of Congressman John
Dingell at the end of the 113th Congress in
December 2015, John Conyers became the
longest-serving member of the United States
Congress, serving as Dean of the House from
January 3, 2015 until December 2017.
Madam Speaker, John Conyers was also
the third longest-serving member of the House
in history and the sixth longest-serving mem-
ber of Congress in history; the second-longest
serving member of either the House or Senate
in Michigan history, trailing only his former
boss, Congressman Dingell; and was the last
member of the large Democratic freshman
class of 1964 to serve in the House of Rep-
resentatives.
In the more than half century he served in
Congress, John Conyers was at the forefront
of most of the seminal moments in American
political history, such as working to enact into
law this partial list of landmark legislation:
Voting Rights of 1965
Title XVIII of the Social Security Act (Medi-
care)
Fair Housing Act of 1968
Clean Air Act
Clean Water Act
Help America Vote Act
Affordable Care Act
Dodd-Frank Act
American Act With Disabilities Act
Assault Weapons Ban
Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1982
Drug Kingpins Act
Fair Chance Act
Elementary and Secondary Education Act
Social Security Amendments of 1965 (in-
cluding Medicaid and Medicare)
Voting Rights Act of 1965
Housing and Urban Development Act of
1965
National Foundation on the Arts and the Hu-
manities Act
Immigration and Nationality Act of 1965
Heart Disease, Cancer, and Stroke Amend-
ments
Freedom of Information Act
Child Nutrition Act
National Historic Preservation Act
National Wildlife Refuge System Administra-
tion Act
Foreign Gifts and Decorations Act
Cuban Adjustment Act
Public Broadcasting Act of 1967
Age Discrimination in Employment Act of
1967
Bilingual Education Act
Civil Rights Act of 1968
Consumer Credit Protection Act
National Trails System Act
Gun Control Act of 1968
National Environmental Policy Act
Organized Crime Control Act, including the
Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organiza-
tions Act (‘‘RICO’’)
Urban Mass Transportation Act of 1970
National Cancer Act
Federal Election Campaign Act
Equal Employment Opportunity Act
War Powers Resolution
Emergency Petroleum Allocation Act
District of Columbia Home Rule Act
Endangered Species Act
Congressional Budget and Impoundment
Control Act of 1974
Legal Services Corporation Act
Employee Retirement Income Security Act
(ERISA)
Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Preven-
tion Act of 1974
Energy Reorganization Act of 1974
National Mass Transportation Assistance
Act
Safe Drinking Water Act
Privacy Act of 1974
Individuals with Disabilities Education Act
Copyright Act of 1976
Federal Land Policy and Management Act
Resource Conservation and Recovery Act
Water Resources Development Act of 1976
National Forest Management Act
The proposal to expand Medicare to all, a
political idea gaining increasing popularity
daily, was first introduced by John Conyers in
2003 as the United States National Health In-
surance Act.
John Conyers served on the Judiciary Com-
mittee that investigated Watergate and voted
articles of impeachment against President
Richard Nixon in August 1974.
John Conyers marched in the historic March
from Selma to Montgomery, Alabama, with Dr.
Martin Luther King, Jr., and later employed
civil rights legend Rosa Parks in his congres-
sional office until her retirement in 1988.
John Conyers was loved by his constituents,
regularly winning reelection with 80 percent of
the vote or more.
John Conyers is one of the 13 founding
members of the Congressional Black Caucus
in 1971, which has worked diligently to
strengthen African-American lawmakers’ ability
to address the legislative concerns of African
American and minority citizens and has now
increased to 55 members in the House and
Senate, including myself.
While in Congress, John Conyers chaired
the prestigious House Judiciary Committee
from 1989 to 1995 and Oversight from 2007 to
2011, the first African American to hold these
coveted positions.
Throughout his career, John Conyers used
his influence to push civil rights; in 1968, only
days after the assassination of the Rev. Dr.
Martin Luther King, Jr., Chairman Conyers
began a long and ultimately successful effort
to make Dr. King’s birthday a national holiday,
which was enacted in 1983.
John Conyers also cosponsored and worked
tirelessly to pass the Anti-Apartheid Act of
1986, which help topple South Africa’s system
of apartheid and free Nelson Mandela from
prison.
In the 101st Congress, John Conyers intro-
duced legislation to study the issue of repara-
tions for slavery and was the original sponsor
of H.R. 40, the Commission to Study and De-
velop Reparation Proposals for African-Ameri-
cans Act.
I am proud to have assumed principal spon-
sorship of this piece of landmark legislative
proposal and continuing the fight for justice.
John Conyers was dedicated to justice for
all, he supported legislation to generate the
Justice Department’s national study on police
brutality.
John Conyers was opposed to the imposi-
tion of the death penalty and began a series
of hearings on police brutality.
As Judiciary Committee Chairman, John
Conyers also worked to create and enlarge
federal death benefits for police officers and
firefighters who died in the line of duty.
Madam Speaker, John Conyers dedicated
his life to serving his constituents and the citi-
zens of the United States; his persistence for
justice and his fight for equal rights is a testa-
ment to his character.
Chairman John Conyers will live forever in
the hearts of the people of Detroit, his state of
Michigan, and the United States.
John Conyers was a legislative lion whose
presence will forever be missed, and we all
mourn his loss and extend our deepest sym-
pathies to his wife Monica, his children, and
family and friends who loved him so dearly,
my deepest sympathies go out to and I hope
you find consolation in the certain knowledge
that John is now resting peacefully.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:21 Nov 01, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A31OC8.026 E31OCPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E1389
October 31, 2019
OUTSTANDING SERVICE OF MS.
BRENDA JONES
HON. JOHN LEWIS
OF GEORGIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, October 31, 2019
Mr. LEWIS. Madam Speaker, I rise today to
recognize Ms. Brenda Jones, who served as
my communications director for over 15 years.
Ms. Jones came with a strong recommenda-
tion from my special assistant and had a re-
sume and perspective that was unique to the
United States House of Representatives. From
the very first moment we met, I realized how
fortunate I was to find Brenda.
Brenda Jones is a proud, native Washing-
tonian with a passion for social justice, history,
and the arts. She studied the Civil Rights
Movement, understood the challenges we
faced, and dedicated her life to the work that
remains. This vantage point provided a unique
perspective and comprehension of the com-
plicated matters facing my congressional dis-
trict in Metro Atlanta and my work here in the
United States Congress.
Before coming to Capitol Hill, Ms. Jones
worked in media as a researcher for ABC
News’ Washington, D.C. Bureau, a writer and
assistant editor at WTOP-AM News Radio,
and a radio specialist of international activities
for the Corporation for Public Broadcasting.
She later transitioned to public relations where
she honed her skills in developing media strat-
egies, coordinating national book tours for civil
and women rights luminaries, and launching
public education campaigns.
One of the things that I most appreciate
about Brenda is her constant commitment to
education—whether in life or academia. I be-
lieve that her centenarian father, Mr. Robert L.
Davis and her late mother, Mrs. Myrtle Mac
(Bowers) Davis, planted these seeds of excel-
lence, and in Brenda they bloomed. As a
graduate of National Cathedral School, Indi-
ana University Bloomington, and Columbia
University’s Graduate School of Journalism,
Brenda returned to Harvard University to earn
another master’s degree in Public Administra-
tion, where she received the Gertrude Manley
Fellowship in recognition of her outstanding
leadership skills.
Ms. Jones invested her astute expertise and
intellectualism in the United States House of
Representatives. She brought life to her vision
and took the role of communications director
to new heights as she funneled depth and dig-
nity into her work. Those, who know me, un-
derstand that I have a clear style—make it
simple, make it plain. When Brenda joined my
office, she made my words sing—in press re-
leases, interviews, on the House Floor, in
book forwards, in op-eds, and in speeches
across the country and around the world.
Madam Speaker, Brenda quickly became
the conscience of my office. For 15 years, she
humbly and selflessly worked day in and day
out to channel every ounce of her knowledge
and experience into creating new methods of
communicating and mastering unchartered ter-
ritory. Ms. Jones created a national and inter-
national strategy to tell the story of my work in
the Civil Rights Movement, as a Member of
Congress, as a representative of Georgia’s
Fifth Congressional District, and as a legis-
lator, who found a way to get in the way—and
get things done.
Since she consistently refuses to step into
the limelight, I was particularly proud when the
public, her peers, and colleagues began to
pay tribute to this dynamic woman. In 2010,
Brenda earned the prestigious Theodore C.
Sorenson Speechwriting Award. In 2012, we
worked together on a book, Across that
Bridge: Life Lessons and a Vision for Change,
and we won the NAACP Image Award for Out-
standing Literary Work/Biography for her work
in translating the philosophy and doctrines that
inspired the foot soldiers of the Civil Rights
Movement into advice for a new generation. A
few years later, the National Journal honored
Ms. Jones as one of the 20 Most Powerful
Women on Capitol Hill in 2015, and the Sten-
nis Center for Public Leadership selected her
as a senior fellow in the 114th, Congress.
Somehow Brenda always found time to
mentor aspiring professionals and build net-
works of kindred souls. In 2013, she founded
the Capitol Hill Writers Workshop to develop
the skills and art of professionals in a com-
munal space. Brenda also served her commu-
nities—whether as a commissioner on the Hu-
manities Council of Washington, D.C., in advi-
sory capacities for the Sustained Dialogue,
Inc. and the John C. Stennis Center for Public
Service, or on the Committee of Visitors for
Harvard University’s Kennedy School of Gov-
ernment. She also shared her expertise with
the Democratic National Committee for na-
tional conventions and our former colleague’s,
Rep. John Barrow, inaugural campaign. For
years, this steady stream of colleagues,
mentees, and people with whom she con-
nected across the country and around the
world became a permanent part of Brenda’s
extended circle.
In this day and time when Congress can
feel more transactional than communal, Bren-
da was the nucleus of the Team Lewis family.
Shortly before joining my office, Brenda lost
her beloved husband Dr. Martin Wilson Jones,
M.D., and I often felt that she took care of us
with the selfless passion and dedication that
he showed her. If you were feeling down and
out, we could always trust that Brenda has
natural teas, organic tips, and an astrological
analysis to soothe your mind, body, and soul.
She was often a comfort and confidante dur-
ing our darkest days and hours.
For 15 years, Ms. Jones fiercely and un-
equivocally advocated for me, my constituents,
and my work in Congress. It was an honor to
know that I had this trusted senior advisor and
seasoned communications professional in my
corner. Although I will miss having Ms. Brenda
Jones by my side, I wish her happiness as
she transitions to exciting new opportunities
and inevitable success.
f
IN HONOR OF MATTHEW
BRADFORD
HON. ANDY BARR
OF KENTUCKY
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, October 31, 2019
Mr. BARR. Madam Speaker, I rise today to
honor the life of a unique and special man,
Corporal (Ret.) Matthew Bradford. Matthew is
stepping down as Veterans Outreach Coordi-
nator in my District office.
Matthew enlisted in the United States Ma-
rine Corps when he graduated from high
school and was assigned to the 2nd Battalion,
3rd Marines, Echo Company, 2nd Platoon. He
was deployed to Iraq in 2006, and on January
18, 2007 he was injured by an Improvised Ex-
plosive Device. His severe injuries left him a
blind double amputee. Matthew persevered
and learned to overcome and adapt from his
injuries. Matthew became the first blind ampu-
tee in history to re-enlist in the Marine Corps
in 2010. On behalf of a grateful nation, I thank
him for his service, his sacrifice, and his patri-
otism.
Matthew Bradford is a very determined indi-
vidual. After his service with the Marine Corps
ended, he married his ‘‘Warrior Princess’’
Amanda. Together they have three children.
Through hard work and determination, Mat-
thew graduated from the University of Ken-
tucky. Matthew has found his purpose in moti-
vating and encouraging others to overcome
difficult obstacles. He spends a great deal of
time speaking to groups and individuals and
participating in challenging athletic events
such as marathons, skydiving, surfing, hunt-
ing, and climbing 7000 feet up Mt. Rainier.
Matthew came to work in the Sixth Congres-
sional District office in the spring of 2017,
serving first as a college intern, then as a Na-
tional Security Fellow, and lastly as the Vet-
erans Outreach Coordinator. In his work in the
district office, Matthew has been a strong ad-
vocate for veterans. He worked with our Vet-
erans Coalition and it has grown tremendously
under his leadership. Matthew has worked on
many outreach initiatives, including a
Facebook page, and has worked diligently to
improve the lives of America’s veterans. His
work with veterans has made quite a dif-
ference. His passion, his humor, and his de-
termination will be greatly missed.
Matthew has earned many honors, including
the Purple Heart Medal, the George Van
Cleve Military Leadership Award, the Gary
Sinise Hope for the Warriors Award, and in-
duction into the Kentucky Veterans Hall of
Fame. He was also invited by President
Trump to attend the 2018 State of the Union
Address. In his position in the Sixth District of-
fice, he has earned the respect of all his co-
workers and of all the constituents with whom
he interacted. He leaves a lasting legacy as a
servant leader.
I am honored to call Matthew a loyal and
trusted friend. I wish him all the best as he
moves on to other interests. I thank Corporal
Bradford for his friendship, his tireless work on
behalf of the people of the Sixth District, and
his outstanding service to our country.
f
CHAD WACHS
HON. ED PERLMUTTER
OF COLORADO
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, October 31, 2019
Mr. PERLMUTTER. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to recognize and applaud Chad Wachs
for receiving the Golden Mayor’s Award for
Excellence.
Chad Wachs launched AU Wireless in 2015
with a handful of neighbors to see if he could
create a low-cost community broadband sys-
tem. Their proof-of-concept has since grown
into a full-fledged co-op with more than 300
members using the service all over town. AU
Wireless works with community partners like
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:21 Nov 01, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A31OC8.027 E31OCPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E1390 October 31, 2019
the American Mountaineering Center and they
are helping to bring broadband into lower-in-
come households in Golden. Because there
are no shareholders, subscriber fees go back
into the network. Chad, along with the board
of directors, one employee, and three contrac-
tors, has accomplished all of this while serving
as a full-time firefighter in another jurisdiction
and as a volunteer with the Golden Fire De-
partment.
I congratulate Chad Wachs for receiving this
well-deserved honor by Mayor Marjorie Sloan.
I thank him for his contributions to our commu-
nity. Madam Speaker, I rise today to recognize
and applaud Fighting Hunger at Mines for re-
ceiving the Golden Mayor’s Gold Mine Award
for Excellence.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:21 Nov 01, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00010 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\K31OC8.009 E31OCPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
REMARKS
D1191
Thursday, October 31, 2019
Daily Digest
HIGHLIGHTS
Senate passed H.R. 3055, Commerce, Justice, Science, Agriculture, Rural
Development, Food and Drug Administration, Interior, Environment,
Transportation, and Housing and Urban Development Appropriations
Act, as amended.
Senate
Chamber Action
Routine Proceedings, pages S6309–S6362
Measures Introduced: Fourteen bills and fifteen
resolutions were introduced, as follows: S.
2756–2769, and S. Res. 391–405. Pages S6333–34
Measures Passed:
Commerce, Justice, Science, Agriculture, Rural
Development, Food and Drug Administration, In-
terior, Environment, Transportation, and Housing
and Urban Development Appropriations Act: By
84 yeas to 9 nays (Vote No. 341), Senate passed
H.R. 3055, making appropriations for the Depart-
ments of Commerce and Justice, Science, and Re-
lated Agencies for the fiscal year ending September
30, 2020, by the order of the Senate of Wednesday,
October 30, 2019, 60 Senators having voted in the
affirmative, after taking action on the following
amendments proposed thereto: Pages S6311–22
Adopted:
McConnell (for Tester) Amendment No. 953 (to
Amendment No. 948), to provide for the availability
of funds for Agricultural Research Service research
facilities to provide public access. Pages S6311–15
McConnell (for Smith) Amendment No. 1023 (to
Amendment No. 948), to amend provisions relating
to the rental assistance program of the Rural Hous-
ing Service. Pages S6311–15
McConnell (for Hirono) Amendment No. 1037 (to
Amendment No. 948), to require a study on the
economic and environmental impacts of importing
orchids in growing media. Pages S6311–15
McConnell (for Brown/Jones) Modified Amend-
ment No. 1088 (to Amendment No. 948), to pro-
vide appropriations for centers of excellence at 1890
Institutions, with an offset. Pages S6311–15
McConnell (for Baldwin) Amendment No. 1099
(to Amendment No. 948), to increase the appropria-
tion for the Farm and Ranch Stress Assistance Net-
work, with an offset. Pages S6311–15
McConnell (for Whitehouse) Amendment No.
1121 (to Amendment No. 948), to set aside funding
for the ocean agriculture working group.
Pages S6311–15
McConnell (for Thune/Hoeven) Amendment No.
1133 (to Amendment No. 948), to provide funding
for the new beginning for Tribal students program,
with an offset. Pages S6311–15
McConnell (for Jones) Amendment No. 1143 (to
Amendment No. 948), to increase the appropriation
for rural decentralized water systems. Pages S6311–15
McConnell (for Smith) Amendment No. 1149 (to
Amendment No. 948), to require the Secretary of
Agriculture to prioritize maintenance and staff needs
relating to assistance provided by the Rural Housing
Service. Pages S6311–15
McConnell (for Rosen/Fischer) Amendment No.
1161 (to Amendment No. 948), to increase the ap-
propriation for the distance learning and telemedi-
cine program, with an offset. Pages S6311–15
McConnell (for McSally/Gillibrand) Amendment
No. 1163 (to Amendment No. 948), to provide
funding for the emergency and transitional pet shel-
ter and housing assistance grant program, with an
offset. Pages S6311–15
McConnell (for Reed) Amendment No. 1217 (to
Amendment No. 948), to provide funding for States
impacted by Eastern equine encephalitis, with an off-
set. Pages S6311–15
McConnell (for Stabenow) Amendment No. 1223
(to Amendment No. 948), to provide funding for
the Office of Urban Agriculture and Innovative Pro-
duction, with an offset. Pages S6311–15
McConnell (for Cornyn/Booker) Amendment No.
1224 (to Amendment No. 948), to provide funding
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:37 Nov 01, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D31OC9.REC D31OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D1192 October 31, 2019
for pilot projects to address food insecurity, with an
offset. Pages S6311–15
McConnell (for Warner) Amendment No. 951 (to
Amendment No. 948), to require the Attorney Gen-
eral to report to Congress on, and establish a dead-
line for, the implementation of the Ashanti Alert
Act of 2018. Pages S6311–15
McConnell (for Capito/Schatz) Amendment No.
1077 (to Amendment No. 948), to make
$10,000,000 available for the SelectUSA program.
Pages S6311–15
McConnell (for Cantwell) Amendment No. 1094
(to Amendment No. 948), to require the Adminis-
trator of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Ad-
ministration submit to Congress a report on existing
supercomputing capacity and needs of the Adminis-
tration. Pages S6311–15
McConnell (for Toomey) Amendment No. 1129
(to Amendment No. 948), to require that the Sec-
retary of Commerce use amounts appropriated or
otherwise made available for the Bureau of Industry
and Security for operations and administration to
publish and submit to Congress a report on the find-
ings of the investigation into the effect on national
security of imports of automobiles and automotive
parts. Pages S6311–15
McConnell (for Durbin/Kennedy) Amendment
No. 1146 (to Amendment No. 948), to require the
Drug Enforcement Administration to continue to es-
tablish and utilize data collection and sharing agree-
ments in order to properly estimate rates of overdose
deaths and overall public health impact related to
certain controlled substances, for the purpose of de-
termining diversion and establishing annual opioid
production quotas. Pages S6311–15
McConnell (for Gardner) Amendment No. 1150
(to Amendment No. 948), to increase funding for
the COPS Office Anti-Methamphetamine Task
Forces grant program. Pages S6311–15
McConnell (for McSally) Amendment No. 1234
(to Amendment No. 948), to require the Attorney
General to submit a report on the enforcement of
animal welfare laws. Pages S6311–15
McConnell (for Sinema) Amendment No. 1025 (to
Amendment No. 948), to require a Bureau of Indian
Affairs report analyzing the facilities investments re-
quired to improve direct service and tribally oper-
ated detention and public safety facilities in Indian
Country. Pages S6311–15
McConnell (for Ernst) Amendment No. 1079 (to
Amendment No. 948), to prohibit bogus payments
to contractors. Pages S6311–15
McConnell (for Ernst) Amendment No. 1081 (to
Amendment No. 948), to require the Director of the
Office of Management and Budget to submit to
Congress a report on projects that are over budget
and behind schedule. Pages S6311–15
McConnell (for Cornyn/Sinema) Amendment No.
1151 (to Amendment No. 948), to increase funding
for the construction of high priority water and
wastewater facilities on the United States-Mexico
Border, with an offset. Pages S6311–15
McConnell (for Cardin) Amendment No. 1159 (to
Amendment No. 948), to provide for a report on
certain programs of the United States Holocaust Me-
morial Museum. Pages S6311–15
McConnell (for Rosen) Amendment No. 1160 (to
Amendment No. 948), to set aside funds for certain
Lake Tahoe restoration activities. Pages S6311–15
McConnell (for Thune/Udall) Amendment No.
1162 (to Amendment No. 948), to require a study
of law enforcement staffing needs of Indian Tribes.
Pages S6311–15
McConnell (for Peters/Portman) Amendment No.
1182 (to Amendment No. 948), to increase money
appropriated for Geographic Programs, with an off-
set. Pages S6311–15
McConnell (for Cornyn) Amendment No. 1193
(to Amendment No. 948), to make available funds
for the Smithsonian Latino Center. Pages S6311–15
McConnell (for Menendez) Amendment No. 1199
(to Amendment No. 948), to set aside funds for the
Partnership Wild and Scenic Rivers program.
Pages S6311–15
McConnell (for Blunt/Kaine) Amendment No.
1211 (to Amendment No. 948), to set aside funds
for the 400 Years of African-American History Com-
mission. Pages S6311–15
McConnell (for McSally/Sinema) Amendment No.
1215 (to Amendment No. 948), to require a report
on the status of the Four Forest Restoration Initia-
tive. Pages S6311–15
McConnell (for Collins/Feinstein) Amendment No.
1220 (to Amendment No. 948), to make available
funds for the Women’s History Initiative.
Pages S6311–15
McConnell (for Schumer/Bennet) Amendment No.
1227 (to Amendment No. 948), to provide for a
Government Accountability Office study on outdoor
recreation. Pages S6311–15
McConnell (for Hassan/Van Hollen) Amendment
No. 956 (to Amendment No. 948), to require the
Secretary of Housing and Urban Development to
provide Congress with recommendations and associ-
ated costs for future research on rental payment in-
surance. Pages S6311–15
McConnell (for Collins/Reed) Amendment No.
1002 (to Amendment No. 948), to make a technical
correction. Pages S6311–15
McConnell (for Shaheen) Amendment No. 1005
(to Amendment No. 948), to express the sense of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:37 Nov 01, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D31OC9.REC D31OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D1193
October 31, 2019
Congress relating to the Federal Aviation Adminis-
tration and regulations regarding the emergency
medical equipment carried by passenger airlines.
Pages S6311–15
McConnell (for Kaine) Amendment No. 1010 (to
Amendment No. 948), to ensure funding for the
FAA remote tower pilot program. Pages S6311–15
McConnell (for Cortez Masto) Amendment No.
1061 (to Amendment No. 948), to require a report
on engagement with local interests relating to intel-
ligent transportation systems technologies and smart
cities solutions. Pages S6311–15
McConnell (for Cortez Masto) Amendment No.
1062 (to Amendment No. 948), to prohibit the use
of funds to terminate the ITS program advisory com-
mittee. Pages S6311–15
McConnell (for Heinrich) Amendment No. 1114
(to Amendment No. 948), relating to funding for
the Tribal HUD–VASH program. Pages S6311–15
McConnell (for Shaheen) Amendment No. 1130
(to Amendment No. 948), to provide a sense of Con-
gress relating to preserving manufactured home com-
munities. Pages S6311–15
McConnell (for Hoeven/Baldwin) Amendment No.
1214 (to Amendment No. 948), to provide for a vet-
erans pilot training competitive grant program.
Pages S6311–15
McConnell (for Portman) Amendment No. 1235
(to Amendment No. 948), to provide additional
funding for the family unification program of the
Department of Housing and Urban Development.
Pages S6311–15
By 82 yeas to 11 nays (Vote No. 340), Jones/
McSally Modified Amendment No. 1141 (to
Amendment No. 948), to prohibit the implementa-
tion of the ‘‘Rostenkowski Test’’ with respect to the
Mass Transit Account of the Highway Trust Fund.
Pages S6316, S6321
Shelby Amendment No. 948, in the nature of a
substitute. Pages S6311–22
Rejected:
By 29 yeas to 64 nays (Vote No. 339), Lee
Amendment No. 1209 (to Amendment No. 948), to
prohibit the expenditure of certain amounts from the
Land and Water Conservation Fund for land acquisi-
tion. Page S6321
Withdrawn:
McConnell (for Shelby) Amendment No. 950, to
make a technical correction. Pages S6311, S6322
During consideration of this measure today, Senate
also took the following action:
Pursuant to the order of Wednesday, October 30,
2019, the motion to invoke cloture on the bill was
withdrawn. Page S6322
Honoring the Members of the Military and In-
telligence Community: Senate agreed to S. Res. 394,
honoring the members of the military and intel-
ligence community who carried out the mission that
killed Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi. Pages S6346–47
National Bison Day: Senate agreed to S. Res.
399, designating November 2, 2019, as ‘‘National
Bison Day’’. Page S6357
National Women’s Small Business Month: Sen-
ate agreed to S. Res. 400, recognizing October 2019
as ‘‘National Women’s Small Business Month’’.
Page S6357
Filipino American History Month: Senate agreed
to S. Res. 401, recognizing the month of October
2019 as Filipino American History Month and cele-
brating the history and culture of Filipino Americans
and their immense contributions to the United
States. Page S6357
Honoring the Life of Toni Morrison: Senate
agreed to S. Res. 402, honoring the life, work, and
legacy of Toni Morrison. Page S6357
National Farm to School Month: Senate agreed to
S. Res. 403, designating October 2019 as ‘‘National
Farm to School Month’’. Pages S6357–58
Women’s Suffrage Centennial Commemorative
Coin Act: Senate passed H.R. 2423, to require the
Secretary of the Treasury to mint coins in com-
memoration of ratification of the 19th Amendment
to the Constitution of the United States, giving
women in the United States the right to vote.
Page S6358
National Cybersecurity Awareness Month: Com-
mittee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation
was discharged from further consideration of S. Res.
345, supporting the goals and ideals of National Cy-
bersecurity Awareness Month to raise awareness
about, and enhance the state of, cybersecurity in the
United States, and the resolution was then agreed to.
Page S6358
Measures Considered:
Labor, Health and Human Services, Education,
Defense, State, Foreign Operations, and Energy
and Water Development Appropriations Act:
Senate resumed consideration of the motion to pro-
ceed to consideration of H.R. 2740, making appro-
priations for the Departments of Labor, Health and
Human Services, and Education, and related agencies
for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2020.
Pages S6323–26
During consideration of this measure today, Senate
also took the following action:
By 51 yeas to 41 nays (Vote No. 342), three-fifths
of those Senators duly chosen and sworn, not having
voted in the affirmative, Senate rejected the motion
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:37 Nov 01, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D31OC9.REC D31OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D1194 October 31, 2019
to close further debate on the motion to proceed to
consideration of the bill. Page S6326
Subsequently, Senator McConnell entered a mo-
tion to reconsider the vote by which cloture was not
invoked on the motion to proceed to consideration
of the bill. Page S6326
Messages from the President: Senate received the
following messages from the President of the United
States:
Transmitting, pursuant to law, a report relative to
the continuation of the national emergency with re-
spect to Sudan as declared in Executive Order 13067
of November 3, 1997; which was referred to the
Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs.
(PM–34) Pages S6331–32
Transmitting, pursuant to law, notification of the
President’s intent to terminate the designation of the
Republic of Cameroon as a beneficiary sub-Saharan
African country under the African Growth and Op-
portunity Act (AGOA); which was referred to the
Committee on Finance. (PM–35) Page S6332
Tapp Nomination—Cloture: Senate began consid-
eration of the nomination of David Austin Tapp, of
Kentucky, to be a Judge of the United States Court
of Federal Claims. Page S6326
A motion was entered to close further debate on
the nomination, and, in accordance with the provi-
sions of Rule XXII of the Standing Rules of the
Senate, and pursuant to the unanimous-consent
agreement of Thursday, October 31, 2019, a vote on
cloture will occur at 2:15 p.m. on Tuesday, Novem-
ber 5, 2019. Page S6326
Prior to the consideration of this nomination, Sen-
ate took the following action:
Senate agreed to the motion to proceed to Execu-
tive Session to consider the nomination. Page S6326
A unanimous-consent agreement was reached pro-
viding that Senate resume consideration of the nomi-
nation at approximately 10 a.m., on Tuesday, No-
vember 5, 2019; and that notwithstanding the pro-
visions of Rule XXII, the cloture motions filed dur-
ing the session of Thursday, October 31, 2019 ripen
at 2:15 p.m., on Tuesday, November 5, 2019.
Page S6358
Hunsaker Nomination—Cloture: Senate began
consideration of the nomination of Danielle J.
Hunsaker, of Oregon, to be United States Circuit
Judge for the Ninth Circuit. Page S6326
A motion was entered to close further debate on
the nomination, and, in accordance with the provi-
sions of Rule XXII of the Standing Rules of the
Senate, a vote on cloture will occur upon disposition
of the nomination of David Austin Tapp, of Ken-
tucky, to be a Judge of the United States Court of
Federal Claims. Pages S6326–27
Prior to the consideration of this nomination, Sen-
ate took the following action:
Senate agreed to the motion to proceed to Legisla-
tive Session. Page S6326
Senate agreed to the motion to proceed to Execu-
tive Session to consider the nomination. Page S6326
Nardini Nomination—Cloture: Senate began con-
sideration of the nomination of William Joseph
Nardini, of Connecticut, to be United States Circuit
Judge for the Second Circuit. Page S6327
A motion was entered to close further debate on
the nomination, and, in accordance with the provi-
sions of Rule XXII of the Standing Rules of the
Senate, a vote on cloture will occur upon disposition
of the nomination of Danielle J. Hunsaker, of Or-
egon, to be United States Circuit Judge for the
Ninth Circuit. Page S6327
Prior to the consideration of this nomination, Sen-
ate took the following action:
Senate agreed to the motion to proceed to Legisla-
tive Session. Page S6327
Senate agreed to the motion to proceed to Execu-
tive Session to consider the nomination. Page S6327
Rudofsky Nomination—Cloture: Senate began
consideration of the nomination of Lee Philip
Rudofsky, to be United States District Judge for the
Eastern District of Arkansas. Page S6327
A motion was entered to close further debate on
the nomination, and, in accordance with the provi-
sions of Rule XXII of the Standing Rules of the
Senate, a vote on cloture will occur upon disposition
of the nomination of William Joseph Nardini, of
Connecticut, to be United States Circuit Judge for
the Second Circuit. Page S6237
Prior to the consideration of this nomination, Sen-
ate took the following action:
Senate agreed to the motion to proceed to Legisla-
tive Session. Page S6327
Senate agreed to the motion to proceed to Execu-
tive Session to consider the nomination. Page S6327
Wilson Nomination—Cloture: Senate began
consideration of the nomination of Jennifer Philpott
Wilson, to be United States District Judge for the
Middle District of Pennsylvania. Page S6327
A motion was entered to close further debate on
the nomination, and, in accordance with the provi-
sions of Rule XXII of the Standing Rules of the
Senate, a vote on cloture will occur upon disposition
of the nomination of Lee Philip Rudofsky, to be
United States District Judge for the Eastern District
of Arkansas. Page S6327
Prior to the consideration of this nomination, Sen-
ate took the following action:
Senate agreed to the motion to proceed to Legisla-
tive Session. Page S6327
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:37 Nov 01, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D31OC9.REC D31OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D1195
October 31, 2019
Senate agreed to the motion to proceed to Execu-
tive Session to consider the nomination. Page S6327
Nominations Confirmed: Senate confirmed the fol-
lowing nominations:
1 Air Force nomination in the rank of general.
6 Army nominations in the rank of general.
3 Navy nominations in the rank of admiral.
Routine lists in the Air Force, Army, Marine
Corps, and Navy. Pages S6355–57, S6361–62
Nomination Received: Senate received the fol-
lowing nomination:
Stephen E. Biegun, of Michigan, to be Deputy
Secretary of State. Page S6361
Messages from the House: Page S6332
Measures Referred: Page S6332
Measures Placed on the Calendar: Page S6332
Executive Communications: Pages S6332–33
Executive Reports of Committees: Page S6333
Additional Cosponsors: Pages S6334–36
Statements on Introduced Bills/Resolutions:
Pages S6336–46
Additional Statements: Pages S6330–31
Authorities for Committees to Meet: Page S6346
Privileges of the Floor: Page S6346
Record Votes: Four record votes were taken today.
(Total—342) Pages S6321, S6326
Adjournment: Senate convened at 10 a.m. and ad-
journed at 5:48 p.m., until 1 p.m. on Monday, No-
vember 4, 2019. (For Senate’s program, see the re-
marks of the Majority Leader in today’s Record on
page S6358.)
Committee Meetings
(Committees not listed did not meet)
OUTDOOR RECREATION LEGISLATION
Committee on Energy and Natural Resources: Committee
concluded a hearing to examine S. 1665, to modify
the procedures for issuing special recreation permits
for certain public land units, S. 1723, to amend the
Omnibus Parks and Public Lands Management Act
of 1996 to provide for the establishment of a Ski
Area Fee Retention Account, and S. 1967, to pro-
mote innovative approaches to outdoor recreation on
Federal land and to increase opportunities for col-
laboration with non-Federal partners, after receiving
testimony from Chris French, Deputy Chief, Na-
tional Forest System, Forest Service, Department of
Agriculture; Nikki Haskett, Acting Assistant Direc-
tor for National Conservation Lands and Community
Partnerships, Bureau of Land Management, Depart-
ment of the Interior; Aaron Bannon, National Out-
door Leadership School, Lander, Wyoming; Lee
Davis, Oregon State University, Portland, on behalf
of the Outdoor Recreation Economy Initiative; and
Brendan McGuire, Vail Resorts, Broomfield, Colo-
rado, on behalf of the National Ski Areas Associa-
tion.
NOMINATIONS
Committee on Foreign Relations: Committee concluded
a hearing to examine the nominations of Andeliz N.
Castillo, of New York, to be United States Alternate
Executive Director of the Inter-American Develop-
ment Bank, Alma L. Golden, of Texas, to be an As-
sistant Administrator of the United States Agency
for International Development, and Peter M.
Haymond, of Virginia, to be Ambassador to the Lao
People’s Democratic Republic, Alina L.
Romanowski, of Illinois, to be Ambassador to the
State of Kuwait, and Leslie Meredith Tsou, of Vir-
ginia, to be Ambassador to the Sultanate of Oman,
all of the Department of State, after the nominees
testified and answered questions in their own behalf.
5G
Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Af-
fairs: Committee concluded a hearing to examine
supply chain security, global competitiveness, and
5G, after receiving testimony from Christopher
Krebs, Director, Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Se-
curity Agency, Department of Homeland Security;
Diane Rinaldo, Acting Assistant Secretary for Com-
munications and Information, National Tele-
communications and Information Administration,
Department of Commerce; Robert L. Strayer, Deputy
Assistant Secretary of State for Cyber and Inter-
national Communications and Information Policy;
and Jessica Rosenworcel, Commissioner, Federal
Communications Commission.
BUSINESS MEETING
Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions:
Committee ordered favorably reported the following
business items:
S. 1657, to provide assistance to combat the esca-
lating burden of Lyme disease and other tick and
vector-borne diseases and disorders, with an amend-
ment in the nature of a substitute;
S. 2619, to amend the Public Health Service Act
to reauthorize the Healthy Start program, with an
amendment in the nature of a substitute;
S. 1399, to amend title VIII of the Public Health
Services Act to revise and extend nursing workforce
development programs, with an amendment in the
nature of a substitute;
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:37 Nov 01, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D31OC9.REC D31OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D1196 October 31, 2019
S. 995, to amend title XXIX of the Public Health
Service Act to reauthorize the program under such
title relating to lifespan respite care, with an amend-
ment in the nature of a substitute;
S. 1130, to amend the Public Health Service Act
to improve the health of children and help better
understand and enhance awareness about unexpected
sudden death in early life, with an amendment in
the nature of a substitute;
S. 1608, to provide for the publication by the Sec-
retary of Health and Human Services of physical ac-
tivity recommendations for Americans, with an
amendment in the nature of a substitute;
S. 2629, to amend the Public Health Service Act
with respect to the Public Health Service Corps,
with an amendment in the nature of a substitute;
and
S. 2740, to amend the Federal Food, Drug, and
Cosmetic Act to clarify the regulatory framework
with respect to certain nonprescription drugs that
are marketed without an approved new drug applica-
tion.
BUSINESS MEETING
Committee on the Judiciary: Committee ordered favor-
ably reported the following business items:
S. 2511, to amend title 40, United States Code,
to provide the Marshal of the Supreme Court of the
United States and Supreme Court Police with the
authority to protect the Chief Justice of the United
States, any Associate Justice of the Supreme Court,
and other individuals in any location, with an
amendment in the nature of a substitute; and
The nominations of Jodi W. Dishman, to be
United States District Judge for the Western Dis-
trict of Oklahoma, Richard Earnest Myers II, to be
United States District Judge for the Eastern District
of North Carolina, Sarah E. Pitlyk, to be United
States District Judge for the Eastern District of Mis-
souri, and Daniel Mack Traynor, to be United States
District Judge for the District of North Dakota.
INTELLIGENCE
Select Committee on Intelligence: Committee met in
closed session to receive a briefing on certain intel-
ligence matters from officials of the intelligence
community.
h
House of Representatives
Chamber Action
Public Bills and Resolutions Introduced: 36 pub-
lic bills, H.R. 4936–4971; 1 private bill, H.R.
4972; and 10 resolutions, H. Con. Res. 70–71; and
H. Res. 668–675, were introduced. Pages H8717–19
Additional Cosponsors: Pages H8720–21
Report Filed: A report was filed today as follows:
H.R. 35, to amend section 249 of title 18, United
States Code, to specify lynching as a hate crime act
(H. Rept. 116–267). Page H8717
Speaker: Read a letter from the Speaker wherein she
appointed Representative Tonko to act as Speaker
pro tempore for today. Page H8681
Directing certain committees to continue their
ongoing investigations as part of the existing
House of Representatives inquiry into whether
sufficient grounds exist for the House of Rep-
resentatives to exercise its Constitutional power
to impeach Donald John Trump, President of
the United States of America: The House agreed
to H. Res. 660, directing certain committees to con-
tinue their ongoing investigations as part of the ex-
isting House of Representatives inquiry into whether
sufficient grounds exist for the House of Representa-
tives to exercise its Constitutional power to impeach
Donald John Trump, President of the United States
of America, by a yea-and-nay vote of 232 yeas to
196 nays, Roll No. 604, after the previous question
was ordered by a yea-and-nay vote of 231 yeas to
196 nays, Roll No. 603. Pages H8683–98
Colorado Outdoor Recreation and Economy Act:
The House passed H.R. 823, to provide for the des-
ignation of certain wilderness areas, recreation man-
agement areas, and conservation areas in the State of
Colorado, by a recorded vote of 227 ayes to 182
noes, Roll No. 609. Consideration began yesterday,
Octobe 30th. Pages H8698–H8704
Rejected the Tipton motion to recommit the bill
to the Committee on Natural Resources with in-
structions to report the same back to the House
forthwith with an amendment, by a recorded vote of
199 ayes to 210 noes, Roll No. 608. Pages H8701–03
Agreed to:
Crow amendment (No. 6 printed in part B of H.
Rept. 116–264) that was debated on October 30th
that reaffirms the critical importance of Federal pub-
lic lands to the Colorado High-Altitude Army Na-
tional Guard Aviation Training Site (‘‘HAATS’’) (by
a recorded vote of 410 ayes to 6 noes, Roll No.
607). Page H8700
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:37 Nov 01, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 5627 E:\CR\FM\D31OC9.REC D31OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D1197
October 31, 2019
Rejected:
Curtis amendment (No. 1 printed in part B of H.
Rept. 116–264) that was debated on October 30th
that sought to state that this bill shall not apply to
any lands or waters within the Third Congressional
District of Colorado (by a recorded vote of 180 ayes
to 240 noes, Roll No. 605); and Pages H8698–99
Tipton amendment (No. 5 printed in part B of H.
Rept. 116–264) that was debated on October 30th
that sought to limit lands being transferred from
Forest Service to National Park Service based on
management under a current memorandum of under-
standing (by a recorded vote of 185 ayes to 231
noes, Roll No. 606). Pages H8699–H8700
H. Res. 656, the rule providing for consideration
of the bills (H.R. 823), (H.R. 1373), and (H.R.
2181) was agreed to Tuesday, October 29th.
Meeting Hour: Agreed by unanimous consent that
when the House adjourns today, it adjourn to meet
at 1 p.m. tomorrow, November 1st.
Presidential Messages: Read a message from the
President wherein he notified Congress of the termi-
nation of the designation of the Republic of Cam-
eroon as a beneficiary sub-Saharan African country
under the African Growth and Opportunity Act—re-
ferred to the Committee on Ways and Means and or-
dered to be printed (H. Doc. 116–77).
Pages H8708–09
Read a message from the President wherein he no-
tified Congress that the national emergency declared
with respect to Sudan is to continue in effect beyond
November 3, 2019—referred to the Committee on
Foreign Affairs and ordered to be printed (H. Doc.
116–78). Page H8709
Senate Referral: S. 1678 was referred to the Com-
mittee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on
Ways and Means. Pages H8715–16
Senate Message: Message received from the Senate
by the Clerk and subsequently presented to the
House today appears on page H8704.
Quorum Calls—Votes: Two yea-and-nay votes and
five recorded votes developed during the proceedings
of today and appear on pages H8697, H8697–98,
H8698–99, H8699–H8700, H8700, H8702–03,
and H8703. There were no quorum calls.
Adjournment: The House met at 9 a.m. and ad-
journed at 2:10 p.m.
Committee Meetings
MISCELLANEOUS MEASURE
Committee on Education and Labor: Full Committee
concluded a markup on H.R. 4674, the ‘‘College Af-
fordability Act’’. H.R. 4674 was ordered reported, as
amended.
MISCELLANEOUS MEASURES
Committee on Financial Services: Full Committee con-
cluded a markup on H.R. 4458, the ‘‘Cybersecurity
and Financial System Resilience Act’’; H.R. 4634,
the ‘‘Terrorism Risk Insurance Program Reauthoriza-
tion Act of 2019’’; H.R. 4841, the ‘‘Prudential Reg-
ulator Oversight Act’’; H.R. 4863, the ‘‘United
States Export Finance Agency Act of 2019’’; a reso-
lution electing minority members to the taskforces
on the Committee on Financial Services; and a reso-
lution electing minority members to the subcommit-
tees of the Committee on Financial Services. Resolu-
tions electing minority members to the taskforces
and subcommittees were agreed to. H.R. 4458, H.R.
4634, H.R. 4841, and H.R. 4863 were ordered re-
ported, as amended.
MEMBERS’ DAY
Committee on Homeland Security: Full Committee held
a hearing entitled ‘‘Members’ Day’’.
CONGRESS AND THE FRANK: BRINGING
CONGRESSIONAL MAILING STANDARDS
INTO THE 21ST CENTURY
Select Committee on the Modernization of Congress: Full
Committee held a hearing entitled ‘‘Congress and
the Frank: Bringing Congressional Mailing Standards
into the 21st Century’’. Testimony was heard from
Representatives Davis of California and Rodney
Davis of Illinois; and public witnesses.
Joint Meetings
TURKEY’S POLICY AT HOME AND ABROAD
Commission on Security and Cooperation in Europe: Com-
mission concluded a hearing to examine the human
toll of Turkey’s policy at home and abroad, after re-
ceiving testimony from Henri J. Barkey, Lehigh
University, Bethlehem, Pennsylvania; Eric Schwartz,
Refugees International, Merve Tahiroglu, Project on
Middle East Democracy, and Gonul Tol, Middle
East Institute, all of Washington, D.C.; and Talip
Kucukcan, Marmara University, Istanbul, Turkey
f
COMMITTEE MEETINGS FOR FRIDAY,
NOVEMBER 1, 2019
(Committee meetings are open unless otherwise indicated)
Senate
No meetings/hearings scheduled.
House
No hearings are scheduled.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:37 Nov 01, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 5627 E:\CR\FM\D31OC9.REC D31OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
Congressional Record The Congressional Record (USPS 087–390). The Periodicals postage
is paid at Washington, D.C. The public proceedings of each House
of Congress, as reported by the Official Reporters thereof, are
printed pursuant to directions of the Joint Committee on Printing as authorized by appropriate provisions of Title 44, United
States Code, and published for each day that one or both Houses are in session, excepting very infrequent instances when
two or more unusually small consecutive issues are printed one time. ¶ Public access to the Congressional Record is available online through
the U.S. Government Publishing Office, at www.govinfo.gov, free of charge to the user. The information is updated online each day the
Congressional Record is published. For more information, contact the GPO Customer Contact Center, U.S. Government Publishing Office.
Phone 202–512–1800, or 866–512–1800 (toll-free). E-Mail, contactcenter@gpo.gov. ¶ To place an order for any of these products, visit the U.S.
Government Online Bookstore at: bookstore.gpo.gov. Mail orders to: Superintendent of Documents, P.O. Box 979050, St. Louis, MO
63197–9000, or phone orders to 866–512–1800 (toll-free), 202–512–1800 (D.C. area), or fax to 202–512–2104. Remit check or money order, made
payable to the Superintendent of Documents, or use VISA, MasterCard, Discover, American Express, or GPO Deposit Account. ¶ Following
each session of Congress, the daily Congressional Record is revised, printed, permanently bound and sold by the Superintendent of Documents
in individual parts or by sets. ¶ With the exception of copyrighted articles, there are no restrictions on the republication of material from
the Congressional Record.
POSTMASTER: Send address changes to the Superintendent of Documents, Congressional Record, U.S. Government Publishing Office,
Washington, D.C. 20402, along with the entire mailing label from the last issue received.
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
D1198 October 31, 2019
Next Meeting of the SENATE
1 p.m., Monday, November 4
Senate Chamber
Program for Monday: Senate will meet in a pro forma
session.
Next Meeting of the HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
1 p.m., Friday, November 1
House Chamber
Program for Friday: House will meet in Pro Forma ses-
sion at 1 p.m.
Extensions of Remarks, as inserted in this issue
HOUSE
Barr, Andy, Ky., E1389
Bergman, Jack, Mich., E1386, E1387
Davis, Rodney, Ill., E1384
Eshoo, Anna G., Calif., E1382
Foxx, Virginia, N.C., E1381
Hice, Jody B., Ga., E1386
Holding, George, N.C., E1385
Hudson, Richard, N.C., E1384
Huffman, Jared, Calif., E1381
Jackson Lee, Sheila, Tex., E1383, E1385, E1388
Jordan, Jim, Ohio, E1381
Kuster, Ann M., N.H., E1387
Lewis, John, Ga., E1389
Long, Billy, Mo., E1384
Lynch, Stephen F., Mass., E1383
Marchant, Kenny, Tex., E1385
McNerney, Jerry, Calif., E1381
Meuser, Daniel, Pa., E1382
Neal, Richard E., Mass., E1386
Palazzo, Steven M., Miss., E1384
Perlmutter, Ed, Colo., E1381, E1383, E1385, E1386,
E1387, E1389
Reschenthaler, Guy, Pa., E1387
Rose, John W., Tenn., E1381
Roybal-Allard, Lucille, Calif., E1382
Ruiz, Raul, Calif., E1382
Ryan, Tim, Ohio, E1381
Schakowsky, Janice D., Ill., E1384
Williams, Roger, Tex., E1382
Wittman, Robert J., Va., E1386
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:37 Nov 01, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 0664 Sfmt 0664 E:\CR\FM\D31OC9.REC D31OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
DIGEST
