Congressional Record
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
United States
of America PROCEEDINGS AND DEBATES OF THE 116th
CONGRESS, FIRST SESSION
b This symbol represents the time of day during the House proceedings, e.g., b 1407 is 2:07 p.m.
Matter set in this typeface indicates words inserted or appended, rather than spoken, by a Member of the House on the floor.
.
H8543
Vol. 165 WASHINGTON, TUESDAY, OCTOBER 29, 2019 No. 171
House of Representatives
The House met at 10 a.m. and was
called to order by the Speaker pro tem-
pore (Mr. POCAN).
f
DESIGNATION OF SPEAKER PRO
TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore laid be-
fore the House the following commu-
nication from the Speaker:
WASHINGTON, DC,
October 29, 2019.
I hereby appoint the Honorable MARK
POCAN to act as Speaker pro tempore on this
day.
NANCY PELOSI,
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
f
MORNING-HOUR DEBATE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the order of the House of Janu-
ary 3, 2019, the Chair will now recog-
nize Members from lists submitted by
the majority and minority leaders for
morning-hour debate.
The Chair will alternate recognition
between the parties. All time shall be
equally allocated between the parties,
and in no event shall debate continue
beyond 11:50 a.m. Each Member, other
than the majority and minority leaders
and the minority whip, shall be limited
to 5 minutes.
f
THE SPOTTED LANTERNFLY
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Pennsylvania (Mr. THOMPSON) for 5
minutes.
Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today to draw at-
tention to an invasive pest that is
wreaking havoc on farms and forests
nationwide and is giving Pennsylvania
agricultural producers a major head-
ache. I am talking about the spotted
lanternfly. This native Asian insect
has been found in at least 14 different
counties in Pennsylvania and has
spread to our neighbors in Maryland
and New Jersey as well.
The spotted lanternfly feeds on sap,
leaving all the plants that it touches
weakened. The residue that the spotted
lanternflies leave behind promotes
mold growth which destroys many
plants and crops. The spotted
lanternfly has a diverse appetite, feed-
ing on more than 70 different kinds of
plants. From fruit trees to hardwoods
and nursery industries, so many of the
sectors of Pennsylvania’s agricultural
industry are subject to these pests.
In Pennsylvania alone, it is esti-
mated $18 billion in agriculture is at
risk. The Pennsylvania Department of
Agriculture has issued a checklist that
all residents should consult to check
for spotted lanternfly egg masses.
These things include camping equip-
ment, firewood, outdoor children’s
toys, like playscapes and sandboxes,
and more. By the end of the year, most
adult spotted lanternflies will be dead.
However, residents are encouraged to
rid their property of any egg masses
that they find by dowsing them in alco-
hol.
Thankfully, research is being done to
look into the best ways to combat this
pest and eradicate it from the Com-
monwealth of Pennsylvania. The U.S.
Department of Agriculture’s National
Institute of Food and Agriculture re-
cently awarded the Pennsylvania State
University a $7.3 million grant to sup-
port a team of researchers from a vari-
ety of disciplines. It is a good invest-
ment if we can save $18 billion worth of
agriculture damage.
These funds will be combined with an
additional $5 million in investments
from growers and landowners—private
citizens who agreed to work with re-
searchers on this project. Researchers
and extension educators from Penn
State will be joined by additional ex-
perts from the USDA Agricultural Re-
search Service, the USDA Animal and
Plant Health Inspection Service, Vir-
ginia Tech, University of Delaware, the
Universities of Rhode Island, Temple,
Rutgers, Cornell, and the Northeastern
IPM Center.
With continued education and re-
search into this invasive pest, we can
get closer to finding a solution to deal-
ing with the spotted lanternfly and al-
leviating Pennsylvania’s agricultural
producers of this threat.
f
USMCA
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
North Carolina (Mr. BUDD) for 5 min-
utes.
Mr. BUDD. Mr. Speaker, I rise today
to urge my Democratic colleagues
across the aisle to end their partisan
impeachment inquiry and instead focus
on an issue that will actually improve
the lives of our constituents and super-
charge the already roaring American
economy; that is, bringing the United
States-Mexico-Canada Agreement, the
USMCA, to this floor for a vote.
Mr. Speaker, ratifying this landmark
trade deal would generate a whole host
of benefits, including growing the econ-
omy by tens of billions of dollars and
supporting hundreds of thousands of
American jobs and giving farmers more
access to sell their products beyond our
borders.
According to a recent report from the
International Trade Commission, the
USMCA would raise the United States’
GDP by more than $68 billion and cre-
ate nearly 200,000 new jobs. The study
also found that the USMCA would have
a positive impact on trade by increas-
ing U.S. exports and imports to Canada
and Mexico by billions of dollars.
The benefits don’t stop there. The
agreement would benefit farmers
across the country and in my district
in North Carolina. Under the USMCA,
U.S. dairy farmers would be able to
more than triple their access to the Ca-
nadian dairy market. This would be a
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:40 Oct 30, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A29OC7.000 H29OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8544 October 29, 2019
huge win for Iredell County, the top
dairy producing county in North Caro-
lina, as our dairy producers will gain
wider access to a bigger marketplace.
Along with dairy, the USMCA would
boost North Carolina’s poultry pro-
ducers—a $37 billion industry that sup-
ports nearly 150,000 jobs in my State.
Early estimates show that poultry ex-
ports to Canada will grow astronomi-
cally because the agreement increases
tariff rate quotas for U.S. poultry and
egg exports to Canada. The agreement
also eliminates barriers facing U.S.
dairy and poultry exports to Canada
which will further unleash economic
growth.
Mr. Speaker, there is a reason the
USMCA enjoys broad support from
Mexico, Canada, and the U.S. stake-
holders, as well as a majority of this
House on both sides of the aisle: Be-
cause the upside for our country is un-
disputed.
Ratifying this agreement would be a
historic victory for our economy, for
our workers, and for our farmers.
The President and his team should be
commended for a job well done, and
now it is time for this House to quit
stalling and to act. The window to pass
the USMCA is closing, and I stand
ready to vote for this deal and to get it
across the finish line.
I ask my Democratic colleagues to
suspend their blind hatred of this
President and bring the USMCA to the
floor for a simple up-or-down vote. We
need to stop thinking about this in
terms of giving President Trump a po-
litical victory and start thinking about
giving the American people an eco-
nomic victory. That is why we all were
sent here in the first place.
Mr. Speaker, let’s pass the USMCA
now.
f
MAKING COLLEGE MORE
AFFORDABLE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Maryland (Mr. TRONE) for 5 minutes.
Mr. TRONE. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today in support of the College Afford-
ability Act, a comprehensive overhaul
of our higher education system that
will lower the cost of college and im-
prove higher education for students of
all backgrounds, because right now
students are paying increasingly more
for an education that is giving them
less.
I know that because I have heard it.
I have heard from constituents in my
district that we need to do better when
it comes to the rising cost of tuition
and the overall quality of higher edu-
cation.
That is why I am taking action.
Since coming to Congress, I have
worked closely with my colleagues on
the Education and Labor Committee to
lead four pieces of legislation that will
be included in this act.
The legislation will expand edu-
cational opportunities for all individ-
uals impacted by the criminal justice
system, dedicate more resources for
prevention and treatment of alcohol
and substance abuse on college cam-
puses, strengthen grants for teachers
and school leaders around recruitment
and retention, and establish a commis-
sion to study mental health issues fac-
ing college students.
These measures as well as others are
what make the College Affordability
Act a down payment on our higher edu-
cation system that just makes sense.
I urge swift passage for my col-
leagues in the committee today, and I
hope we can move this bill to the floor
and the President’s desk even faster.
As my good friend, Chairman Elijah
Cummings, said: Our children are mes-
sengers we send to the future we will
never see.
It is time to invest in their future
and give all Americans the good, qual-
ity higher education that they deserve.
f
A LASTING LEGACY FOR
ZIMMERMAN
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Minnesota (Mr. EMMER) for 5 minutes.
Mr. EMMER. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to congratulate Zimmerman
City Administrator Randy Piasecki
who recently celebrated his 25th anni-
versary with the city.
Wherever you are in Zimmerman,
you can see Randy’s work. Randy had a
major hand in improvements and de-
velopment of the city. From Zimmer-
man Middle High School to the latest
apartment complex in downtown Zim-
merman, Randy has facilitated its con-
struction and completion. In his office,
Randy proudly displays an article
boasting Zimmerman as one of the 10
fastest growing cities in Minnesota, in
major part thanks to him.
The legacy of his work proves how
much Randy loves Zimmerman. We
hope he continues for many years to
grow the city with the thoughtfulness
and care he has shown for nearly three
decades.
Congratulations, Randy, and thank
you for your 25 years of service to the
people and city of Zimmerman.
HOMETOWN HOCKEY PLAYER SUCCEEDS IN THE
NHL
Mr. EMMER. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to recognize and celebrate a
graduate of Blaine High School in my
district, St. Cloud Husky Jonny
Brodzinski, for signing a contract with
the NHL San Jose Sharks.
Following Jonny’s successful career
at Blaine High School, he went on to
play for St. Cloud State University,
which is also in Minnesota’s Sixth Con-
gressional District. He skated there for
three seasons with the great Huskies.
His hometown watched and cheered
him on as he advanced to the American
Hockey League to play for the Ontario
Reign and celebrated when he was
signed by the Los Angeles Kings, offi-
cially making him an NHL hockey
player. As he joins the San Jose
Sharks, we will be there to show our
support.
Congratulations, Jonny. We are
proud you call Minnesota’s Sixth Dis-
trict and the State of Minnesota your
home. We will continue to cheer you on
as you play the game we all love.
ON BEHALF OF MINNESOTA’S AGRICULTURE
INDUSTRY, THANK YOU ASHLEY KOHLS
Mr. EMMER. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to thank Ashley Kohls from the
Minnesota State Cattlemen’s Associa-
tion for her commitment and service to
our State’s agriculture community and
to congratulate her on her new role as
Director of Government Affairs for the
Nebraska Cattlemen’s Association.
During her time as the executive di-
rector of the Minnesota State Cattle-
men’s Association and a member of our
Agriculture Advisory Committee, Ash-
ley has worked closely with our office,
educating members and our staff about
agriculture and cattle farming, in par-
ticular. As a cattle farmer herself, Ash-
ley and her husband, Craig, run a
fourth-generation family farm with
their children, Avery and Bennet.
Ashley is a strong leader and an ex-
ample to young women who are inter-
ested in the agricultural industry. As
an example, she participated as a pan-
elist at our annual Young Women
Leadership Program where she shared
with the high school-aged women what
it is like to run a farm, be a mother,
and run a large-scale advocacy associa-
tion. It was an honor to have her par-
ticipation.
Ashley, Nebraska is going to be
lucky to have you. We wish you and
your family the best.
THE HONORABLE MAYOR TOM RYAN: A TRUE
PUBLIC SERVANT
Mr. EMMER. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to recognize and congratulate
Mayor Tom Ryan, a great public serv-
ant for the city of Blaine in Min-
nesota’s Sixth Congressional District.
Mayor Ryan’s life is the definition of
public service.
Mayor Ryan grew up in St. Paul. He
was drafted and served in the U.S.
Army in South Korea. He was honor-
ably discharged in 1966 and returned
home to Minnesota where he settled in
what is now the city of Blaine. For dec-
ades he has served the city as a coun-
cilman and now mayor. He also serves
as co-leader of Blaine’s Beyond the
Yellow Ribbon program which provides
community support to our servicemem-
bers and their families.
Recently, Mayor Ryan received the
Seven Seals Award from the Employer
Support of the Guard and Reserve. This
award recognizes his commitment to
help servicemembers find work upon
their return home.
Mr. Speaker, I thank Mayor Ryan,
for the city of Blaine, and for our serv-
icemembers, and congratulations him
on his Seven Seals Award.
RECOGNIZING PRESIDENTIAL EXCELLENCE
AWARD WINNER PROFESSOR EUGENIA PAULUS
Mr. EMMER. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to recognize Professor Eugenia
Paulus for her Presidential Award for
Excellence in Science, Mathematics
and Engineering Mentoring. Professor
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:40 Oct 30, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K29OC7.003 H29OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8545
October 29, 2019
Paulus teaches chemistry at North
Hennepin Community College in Min-
nesota’s Sixth Congressional District.
Professor Paulus has been mentoring
students at North Hennepin Commu-
nity College and participating as a
science fair judge for local high schools
through the North Hennepin mentoring
program for approximately 15 years.
During this time, Professor Paulus has
mentored about 100 students with
amazing results. Students partici-
pating in her mentoring program are 40
percent more likely to graduate than
the Minnesota average.
This Presidential Award is not the
first time Professor Paulus has been
recognized for her success with stu-
dents. In fact, she was previously
awarded for extraordinary under-
graduate teaching from the Carnegie
Foundation for the Advancement of
Teaching. She has also received the an-
nual Student Life Faculty Excellence
Award which she received from North
Hennepin Community College.
Mr. Speaker, I congratulate Pro-
fessor Paulus on receiving the Presi-
dential Award. She deserves it.
f
b 1015
RECOGNIZING VINCE HOLLAND,
MATT BOYD, MATT CONNOLLY,
BILLY DONAHUE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
South Carolina (Mr. NORMAN) for 5
minutes.
Mr. NORMAN. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to say that September 10, 2019,
was a very special day for an infant
child who had been severely neglected
by her mother. And had it not been for
the quick action by members of the
Tega Cay Police Department located in
South Carolina, the abuse would have
continued.
Four officers—Sergeant Vince Hol-
land, Officer Matt Boyd, Officer Matt
Connolly, and Officer Billy Donahue—
responded to a call at 6 p.m. from em-
ployees of the Tega Cay Walmart who
were concerned about a mother who
was with an infant who, in the words of
the officers, was ‘‘filthy’’ and in dire
need of help.
The officers immediately reacted to
the situation by cleaning the infant
and giving food, diapers, and other aid
to the child. The officers stayed with
the child while the South Carolina De-
partment of Social Services was noti-
fied and the child was taken into emer-
gency custody by the agency, along
with two other children who were re-
moved from the home.
The mother was charged with three
felony drug charges, shoplifting, and
cruelty to a child. In the words of Chief
Steve Parker, ‘‘That little baby did
nothing wrong.’’
Because of the action of these brave
officers who showed compassion and
empathy, three children are now out of
danger and living in a safe environ-
ment.
The four officers of the Tega Cay Po-
lice Department lived out the words of
Winston Churchill, who said, there are
times when doing your best is not good
enough; we must do what is required.
Sergeant Vince Holland, Officer Matt
Boyd, Officer Matt Connolly, and Offi-
cer Billy Donahue are shining examples
of the saying, ‘‘to live is to serve.’’
f
HONORING STEVE TAMAYO FOR
LIFETIME CONTRIBUTION TO NA-
TIVE AMERICAN CULTURE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Nebraska (Mr. BACON) for 5 minutes.
Mr. BACON. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to honor Mr. Steve Tamayo in
recognition of Native American Herit-
age Month for his lifetime contribu-
tions in the arts and the preservation
of Native American culture.
Steve’s passion has been fueled by
the desire to restore what was taken
away from the indigenous people of
this land. For centuries, cultural
teachings have been passed down
through art. Symbols, colors, patterns,
and construction techniques are nar-
ratives that reflect values and beliefs
of traditional Native American life.
American history is bound in the an-
tiquity of its Native people.
We are proud of the role Mr. Tamayo
has played in ensuring that we can all
learn and appreciate this rich heritage.
Steve Tamayo was one of four chil-
dren raised by loving parents
Fortunato and Beulah Tamayo. As a
migrant worker, Fortunato grew up
working the fields from Texas to Mon-
tana. Notwithstanding this lack of
schooling, he was successful in obtain-
ing a job and taking care of his family.
Steve describes his mother as a kind
and compassionate woman despite her
difficult childhood as a survivor of the
American Indian boarding school trag-
edy. Steve’s parents encouraged their
children to have a strong work ethic,
to focus on getting an education, and
to pursue the opportunities they were
not afforded.
After graduating from Thomas Jef-
ferson High School in May 1984, Steve
enlisted in the U.S. Army, serving with
the 101st Airborne Division. After re-
turning to Omaha, he sought out Na-
tive elders to guide him in his pursuit
of cultural knowledge.
In 1988, his first teacher was Cleo
Frazier from Yankton Sioux Reserva-
tion of South Dakota. She resided in
the Omaha area and took time to teach
Steve and his older brother about in-
digenous life. This relationship fos-
tered Steve’s quest to learn as much as
possible about the history and stories
of indigenous people.
This led him to an elder named How-
ard Wolf, a World War II veteran from
the Umo N Ho N Nation of Nebraska.
Under elder Wolf’s guidance, Steve
learned about art and regalia, includ-
ing the traditional materials, construc-
tion, and the history surrounding Na-
tive American artifacts.
In 2000, he moved to the Rosebud Res-
ervation, where he was able to gain a
deeper understanding of the art of the
Northern Plains Tribes. Because of the
unique skills and specific knowledge
gained, Steve was hired as faculty in
the Lakota Studies Department of
Sinte Gleska, where he taught college
students for 12 years.
In 2005, he became the cultural spe-
cialist for the Native American Advo-
cacy Program on the Rosebud Reserva-
tion in South Dakota. This was a spe-
cial time for Steve because he was in a
place that was the ancestral homeland
of his mother’s family.
That same year was an important
point in his professional life. A group
of conservators from the Smithsonian
Institution stumbled upon him while
tanning a buffalo hide in his front
yard. Six months later, he was headed
for Washington, D.C., for a 6-month in-
ternship.
Since that time, Steve has been one
of the main consultants from the
Plains Tribes for the National Museum
of the American Indian. He has been
part of numerous exhibitions, including
an exhibit scheduled to run for 15 years
called ‘‘As We Grow,’’ featuring his-
toric games and toys of the Plains Indi-
ans.
In 2015, Steve traveled to Wash-
ington, D.C., to erect a teepee that he
painted on The Mall and presented to
President Obama, which is now part of
the Smithsonian’s collection.
He had the opportunity to paint two
buffalo robes for Willie Nelson and Neil
Young at the ‘‘Harvest the Hope’’ con-
cert in Neligh, Nebraska, to honor
them for their work in preserving our
Nebraska land.
Steve’s work has helped to educate
our country about our history, the cul-
ture, and the struggles of Native Amer-
ican people.
Today, Steve leads study groups on
all four reservations in Nebraska and
nine reservations in South Dakota. He
travels to schools and museums
throughout the country to help train
students, docents, conservators, and
curators on the significance of tradi-
tional Native arts, as well as the dan-
gers of cultural appropriation.
Steve is on the Artists in Schools and
Communities roster for the Nebraska
Arts Council. He serves as the cultural
consultant for the Omaha Public
Schools’ Native Indigenous Centered
Education program. He works as the
cultural specialist for the Nebraska
Urban Indian Health Coalition. Steve
has also been an adjunct instructor for
the University of Nebraska Omaha and
Metropolitan Community College.
In 2014, he was honored by Nebraska
Governor Dave Heineman at the Ne-
braska Arts Council’s Governor’s Arts
Awards when he was presented the Her-
itage Art Award. His proudest moment
was when his mother saw him receive
that award.
Steve has also become a source of
pride and empowerment for his chil-
dren. Of his six children, his eldest
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:40 Oct 30, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K29OC7.004 H29OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8546 October 29, 2019
daughters, twins Nicole and Rebecca,
work in the field of Native American
advocacy, health, and education. Steve
and his wife, Susan, love their children
and their numerous grandchildren.
Mr. Speaker, I thank Steve for all of
his contributions. Because of his work,
generations to come will learn about
the culture and contributions of the in-
digenous people.
f
REMEMBERING THE HONORABLE
JOHN CONYERS, JR.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentlewoman from
Texas (Ms. JACKSON LEE) for 5 minutes.
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker,
yesterday evening, I joined Ambas-
sador Etienne at the French Embassy
to acknowledge the DC JazzFest. But I
also was there, more importantly, to
pay tribute to the Honorable John Con-
yers.
Yesterday, I took a minute on the
floor to indicate that I would be speak-
ing about him over a period of days and
weeks because his 53 years as a mentor
and beloved colleague deserve that
tribute. But yesterday, I was probably
at a place John Conyers enjoyed the
most. Many people may not know that
he was a jazz enthusiast and maybe
prepared to become a jazz musician in
his early years as a young, young man.
His father, a strong union organizer, a
UAW worker, thought that might not
be the best approach for his young son,
I believe the oldest of their four chil-
dren.
John, being a dutiful son, went on to
Wayne State and graduated from its
law school as well. That was our gift to
the American people.
I want to take a moment to be able
to highlight the very undercore, if you
will, the underpinnings of the leader-
ship of John Conyers, a progressive be-
fore the term could even be defined.
I don’t believe that he looked at him-
self in that way, but I think he looked
at himself as one who would break
through doors that others could not.
Of course, he was one of the original
cofounders of the Congressional Black
Caucus. But he rose to be chairman of
two committees, the Committee on
Oversight and Reform and the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary, and he became
the dean of this House, this entire
House of Representatives.
I don’t think that would be what his
own desire of tribute would be. I use
the terminology that he not only spoke
for the voiceless, but he spoke for per-
sons who were actually silenced. That
means that they tried to speak, but
they were silenced. They were rejected.
They were pushed back. They had not
the power to be heard.
How amazing it is to have found
someone of the African American her-
itage and tradition who had gone
through life in a segregated America to
be able to speak for voices that were
varied and different, who needed to
hear that someone cared about them,
from Native Americans to Latinos, to
the disabled, to those in the LGBTQ
community and beyond.
He was a champion of the Voting
Rights Act of 1965. He got into Con-
gress in 1964. He understood the value
of giving people, no matter who you
were, the right to vote. I will talk
about that more extensively in the
days to come, but I remember when we
sat and reauthorized that legislation
with a Republican President, what a
wonderful experience of coming to-
gether around voting as we wrote legis-
lation that George W. Bush signed en-
thusiastically, with an overwhelming
vote in the House and an overwhelming
vote in the Senate.
We even honored many different peo-
ple from around the Nation, including
naming it after the Honorable Barbara
Jordan and many others in that time-
frame to reinforce the value of voting.
John did that in a bipartisan manner, a
lesson that we can learn even today. He
never compromised his principles, but
he stood for the idea of bipartisanship
for justice.
He was here for the Legal Services
Corporation Act. Can you imagine that
if you were poor 50 years ago, you
wouldn’t have any representation, not
in the criminal system or sense, but in
the civil system—being evicted, having
problems with healthcare and dealing
with your health insurance, or having
a matter that required legal represen-
tation so that you could have justice.
The Legal Services Corporation was
something very near and dear to John
Conyers.
Let me move quickly to talk about
his work dealing with the PATRIOT
Act after 9/11. Yes, we wanted to be
protecting ourselves against terrorists,
but John Conyers was a voice that said
that civil liberties of the American
people are crucial, and we will not
trample in this committee, the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary, on their
rights of privacy and their rights of lib-
erty. He believed in that.
Let me also say that in the bank-
ruptcy bill, when so many people were
pushing to get a bill done that would
leave out women and children, divor-
cees, leave out the poor who also need-
ed to have some way of organizing
their debt, in fact, he was a champion
for that.
Finally, Mr. Speaker, a champion for
the reparations bill that most people
don’t understand, an idea they would
understand later, he was our champion.
He spoke for those who were silenced.
f
CELEBRATING LIBERTY DAY
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentlewoman from
the Virgin Islands (Ms. PLASKETT) for 5
minutes.
Ms. PLASKETT. Mr. Speaker, this
week, the Virgin Islands celebrates
Liberty Day and honors David Ham-
ilton Jackson and his relentless pur-
suit of free press for the people of the
Virgin Islands.
From the 1700s until the 1950s, the
Virgin Islands was owned by Denmark,
which maintained censorship over the
press. D. Hamilton Jackson knew that
in order for a people to truly have free-
dom, the press must also be free.
Traveling to Denmark to advocate on
behalf of the workers of the Virgin Is-
lands, he took it upon himself to also
fight for the emancipation of the press.
His passionate advocacy was fruitful,
and upon his return to the territory, he
published the first newspaper in the
Virgin Islands not controlled by the
government.
This act empowered the people of the
Virgin Islands and opened the door for
generations of Virgin Islanders to
allow their voices to be heard in the
formal medium of press.
D. Hamilton Jackson challenged the
status quo and the prevailing laws of
his time to secure a future for the is-
lands he loved.
D. Hamilton Jackson used his new-
found right for the free press to create
The Herald. As editor, he used that
publication to uncover corruption and
educate the working class. Frustrated
with neglect from the Danish Govern-
ment, Jackson used The Herald to
build support for the transfer of the
Virgin Islands from Denmark to the
United States.
The American flag that flies over the
Virgin Islands today is a fruit of the
seed that D. Hamilton Jackson sowed
on his quest for liberty and greater op-
portunity for Virgin Islanders.
b 1030
The Virgin Islands continue to em-
body the spirit of D. Hamilton Jackson
and his work.
Rena Brodhurst has spent her life
walking the path of Jackson as a
champion of Virgin Islands Free Press
as the owner and editor of the St. Croix
Avis. Educated on St. Croix and then
attending college, she followed her
family’s tradition of fighting to defend
a free press.
Her father, Mr. Brodhurst, was once
convicted of contempt of court after
publishing an unsigned letter critical
of a court decision and social condi-
tions of his time. However, the right to
free press prevailed with the U.S. Third
Circuit making clear that the constitu-
tional right to freedom of speech in the
press was not one that would be in-
fringed upon in the United States.
Rena, herself, has sued the govern-
ment to protect the right to publish
freely without retribution. A strong
woman, mother, and friend, she acts as
a true Virgin Islands queen, unbroken
and a fierce defender of free press.
Today, a new generation steps up to
carry the torch of D. Hamilton Jack-
son. State of the Territory founder
Amaziah George, a Marine Corps vet-
eran, brings Virgin Islands press to the
world through his online social media
paper.
His passion for making the voice and
concerns of millennial Virgin Islanders
heard make him a trailblazer of his
generation. With his willingness to
speak truth, the secret stories that
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:40 Oct 30, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K29OC7.006 H29OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8547
October 29, 2019
others are unwilling to discuss, this
veteran is really a fighter and a soldier
of truth.
These individuals have dedicated
themselves to truthfully informing the
people of the Virgin Islands about their
community and the world outside of
our small corner of it. They are truly
legacies of D. Hamilton Jackson.
We must continue this work, as Vir-
gin Islanders still have limited con-
stitutional rights as determined by the
Insular Cases of the early 1900s. Those
Supreme Court decisions relegate peo-
ple living within the territories to a
separate and unequal status.
The cases posture that people living
in territories are inferior races that
cannot understand Anglo-Saxon prin-
ciples of law. It keeps American citi-
zens living in places like the Virgin Is-
lands, Guam, and Puerto Rico as disen-
franchised from the full American ex-
perience.
As a young constituent of mine re-
cently wrote in an essay outlining the
importance of free press, ‘‘only a free
press can ensure the people’s access to
information and build a well-informed,
transparent, and accountable society,’’
and that ‘‘we, the people, owe it to our
country to demand and defend the free-
dom of such a priceless heritage.’’
What a wonderful sentiment from a
young person.
Free press, we must cherish and pro-
tect it as a most American of values
and as one of the most fragile pillars of
democracy here and around the world.
In the words of D. Hamilton Jackson,
I challenge us to walk in his spirit and
challenge the status quo for the better-
ment of our people and our Nation. Let
us all embody the motto of his news-
paper, The Herald: ‘‘Liberty, equality,
fraternity.’’
f
RECOGNIZING THE ARMENIAN
GENOCIDE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
California (Mr. SHERMAN) for 5 min-
utes.
Mr. SHERMAN. Mr. Speaker, today
is a great day because, after decades of
struggle, this House will recognize the
Armenian genocide, just in time to be
viewed by the last survivors of the first
genocide of the 20th century.
Two weeks ago, I came to this floor
and I said now is the time, finally, to
recognize the Armenian genocide be-
cause it was no longer the time to kow-
tow to Turkey. Since then, many of us
have approached the Speaker and urged
her to put this bill on the floor.
But this great day belongs to NANCY
PELOSI, our Speaker, who made the de-
cision to bring it to the floor, where we
will pass this resolution, H. Res. 296,
which I and so many others introduced
to this House in April of this year. And,
of course, I have cosponsored and been
an original cosponsor of every Arme-
nian genocide resolution since 1997.
We always should have recognized
the Armenian genocide, but we were
told again and again that we wouldn’t
do it because we have this great alli-
ance with Turkey.
Earlier this month, Turkish forces
shelled to the left and then to the right
of an American base. It seemed clear to
many that they were ready to kill
Americans. America withdrew. And
this was not some well-planned, care-
ful, deliberate withdrawal. We left be-
cause of the Turkish shelling and the
Turkish threats.
Great alliance? It has been a great al-
liance for Turkey. We defended them
from communism. We defended them
from the Soviet Union. We provided
them $23 billion in aid. And we are the
reason why there is not an independent
Kurdistan in northern Iraq.
They shelled to the left; they shelled
to the right of an American military
outpost.
From 1915 to 1923, the Ottoman Em-
pire massacred 1.5 million Armenians,
the first genocide of the 20th century.
There is no doubt that this occurred.
Even the administration testified be-
fore our committee last week.
The massacre of 1.5 million Arme-
nians in 1915, et cetera, was one of the
greatest crimes of the 20th century,
and this is not in dispute. There is no
dispute that that mass death con-
stituted a genocide because Raphael
Lemkin, who invented the word ‘‘geno-
cide,’’ said the Armenian genocide was
an example—the first example, per-
haps—of what he was talking about.
It is time that we recognize the geno-
cide because genocide denial is the last
act of the genocide. First, you oblit-
erate a people; then, you seek to oblit-
erate their memory; and, finally, you
seek to obliterate the memory of the
obliteration.
But genocide denial is also the first
step in the next genocide. When Hit-
ler’s cadres wondered whether they
could get away with the Holocaust, he
assured them: Who today speaks of the
annihilation of the Armenians?
And it is time to recognize this geno-
cide to remove a stain on America’s
honor because, up until now, we have
hidden and refused to acknowledge the
truth. We have been silent, all in an ef-
fort to appease Turkey.
Turkey committed a genocide in
World War I and denies it to this day.
Germany committed a genocide during
World War II and has acknowledged it
from the 1940s.
Germany has moved on to be a pros-
perous and strong democracy. Turkey
continues to deny the genocide, then
passes law prohibiting the discussion of
the genocide; and that leads to censor-
ship, authoritarianism, undercuts the
rule of law, leads to corruption and a
country that has great problems.
Where would Germany be if it denied
the Holocaust to this day? Where
would we be if we denied the genocide
of so many Native American Tribes?
Turkey will be a great ally of the
United States only when it recognizes
the first genocide of the 20th century,
only when it allows free discussion of
its own history by its own people.
So, today is the right day to recog-
nize the first genocide of the 20th cen-
tury. We should have done it earlier.
We should do it every year on the anni-
versary in April. But it starts here and
now, and, finally, America can stand
up along with so many other countries
that have recognized that genocide.
f
BILLS ADDRESSING GUN
VIOLENCE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Illinois (Mr. RUSH) for 5 minutes.
Mr. RUSH. Mr. Speaker, I rise today
to address two critical bills that would
mandate studies to examine, one,
whether tasers are a safer alternative
to firearms and, two, how innovative
technology can enhance the safety of
firearms.
My bill, H.R. 4740, the TASER Access,
Safety, and Effectiveness Review Study
Act, or TASERS Act, will direct the
Consumer Product Safety Commission
to coordinate a multiagency study
comparing the effectiveness and the
safety of firearms and of tasers. By
studying tasers, Mr. Speaker, we can
determine whether they can be a safe,
effective, and, most importantly, non-
lethal weapon of self-defense.
Mr. Speaker, H.R. 4784 would direct
the National Institute of Justice to up-
date its 2013 study on gun safety tech-
nologies. The 2013 NIJ study noted that
several innovative gun-locking tech-
nologies were close to coming onto the
market in our Nation.
Newer gun-locking or smart-gun
technologies require fingerprints or
other advanced mechanisms to unlock
the firearms. Unfortunately, Mr.
Speaker, vehement protests and inac-
curate information about drastic cost
increases from the gun lobby have pre-
vented this technology from becoming
widely available.
Mr. Speaker, smart-gun technology
has the potential to stop firearms from
being used by those who shouldn’t pos-
sess them. A 2019 Department of Jus-
tice survey found that 56 percent of
prisoners who possessed a firearm dur-
ing their offense obtained it through il-
licit channels. Additionally, Mr.
Speaker, a study in the American Jour-
nal of Public Health concluded that
over 1,500 stolen guns were recovered in
connection with violent crimes be-
tween 2010 and 2016.
Updating the Department of Justice’s
2013 study would be a critical step for-
ward into determining how smart-gun
technology can be incorporated into
the multifaceted approach needed to
reduce gun violence.
Congress must always seek to har-
ness the power of innovation and inno-
vative technology to make Americans
safer. The studies these bills would
mandate are a critical first step in
evaluating how we can use technology
and innovation to prevent gun vio-
lence.
Mr. Speaker, I am proud to sponsor
both of these measures and encourage
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:40 Oct 30, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K29OC7.008 H29OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8548 October 29, 2019
my colleagues to join me in supporting
them.
f
EMERGENCE OF AMERICAN
HEROES
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Tennessee (Mr. COHEN) for 5 minutes.
Mr. COHEN. Mr. Speaker, we are in
interesting times. I think it was Confu-
cius who said to live in interesting
times is a great opportunity. It is.
Unfortunately, the rule of law and
democracy are at stake. And as they
are and as the Intel Committee, the
Foreign Affairs Committee, and the
Oversight and Reform Committee have
hearings—and later, there will be pub-
lic hearings—we are seeing American
heroes emerge.
Today, an American hero, a lieuten-
ant colonel who earned a Purple Heart,
will be testifying. Colonel Vindman lis-
tened to the conversation between
President Zelensky and President
Trump, and he will testify as to what
happened. It won’t be a memorandum;
it will be what really took place on
that call and why it alarmed him so
much.
The administration doesn’t want
Colonel Vindman to testify, but he is
testifying because he is a patriot, be-
cause it is his duty, and because he
knows what is at stake.
What is at stake is democracy. What
is at stake is our Constitution. What is
at stake is our Republic.
b 1045
We have had other people testify, the
Ambassador who was removed 2
months early because she refused to go
along with what was taking place, and
Ms. Fiona Hill. These are heroes. These
are patriots.
Unfortunately, on some news net-
works that are mouthpieces for the ad-
ministration, they have had their pa-
triotism questioned, and they have
been vilified.
This is the beginning of despotism.
When heroes who come forth with
proud careers of service in the State
Department or the military, without a
blemish on their record, and without
trying to benefit financially from any-
body at all, except doing their job for
the United States of America, are ques-
tioned because they come forth to tes-
tify as to information that threatens
our Constitution, that shows abuse of
power and an effort to not comply with
our Constitution and carrying out con-
gressionally-mandated spending to pro-
tect a country fighting Russian aggres-
sion in their own territory.
These are not people like Manafort,
and Flynn, and Carter Page, who want-
ed and got money from Ukrainians, and
Turks, and Russians, and others to ben-
efit themselves from countries that do
not have our interests at heart.
So, as we live through these inter-
esting times, let us appreciate the he-
roes that are emerging, giving testi-
mony, and putting their jobs and their
future security and their reputations
at risk because, unfortunately, rather
than being hailed as the heroes that
they truly are, they are being vilified;
and that is dangerous, and it is con-
cerning to me.
Some of the people that vilify them
praise people like Flynn and Manafort,
who sold our country out for their own
personal advancement and riches.
America, beware, and honor those
who stand up for you.
f
RECESS
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 12(a) of rule I, the Chair
declares the House in recess until noon
today.
Accordingly (at 10 o’clock and 47
minutes a.m.), the House stood in re-
cess.
f
b 1200
AFTER RECESS
The recess having expired, the House
was called to order by the Speaker at
noon.
f
PRAYER
Rabbi Evan Hoffman, Congregation
Anshe Sholom, New Rochelle, New
York, offered the following prayer:
Almighty God, bless the work of the
United States House of Representa-
tives. Fortify our legislators’ constitu-
tional commitments and grant them
the wisdom to draft laws that best
serve the interests of the American
people. O Lord, in a time of polariza-
tion and rancorous dispute, we beseech
Thee to help our elected officials main-
tain decorum, civility, commonality of
purpose, and a sense of shared Amer-
ican destiny.
Heavenly Father, guide our Rep-
resentatives so that they might serve,
in the eyes of the citizenry, as role
models of reconciliation and coopera-
tion. We pray that in a future time the
prophet’s words might be said in ref-
erence to this Congress: ‘‘Restore your
judges as in days of old, your coun-
selors as at the beginning.’’
Bless our Nation with peace and pros-
perity, our citizens with health and
happiness, and our national institu-
tions with strength and stability. May
this be Your will, and let us say: amen.
f
THE JOURNAL
The SPEAKER. The Chair has exam-
ined the Journal of the last day’s pro-
ceedings and announces to the House
her approval thereof.
Pursuant to clause 1, rule I, the Jour-
nal stands approved.
f
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
The SPEAKER. Will the gentleman
from North Carolina (Mr. BUDD) come
forward and lead the House in the
Pledge of Allegiance.
Mr. BUDD led the Pledge of Alle-
giance as follows:
I pledge allegiance to the Flag of the
United States of America, and to the Repub-
lic for which it stands, one nation under God,
indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
f
WELCOMING RABBI EVAN
HOFFMAN
The SPEAKER. Without objection,
the gentleman from New York (Mr.
ENGEL) is recognized for 1 minute.
There was no objection.
Mr. ENGEL. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to thank my dear friend and con-
stituent, Rabbi Evan Hoffman, for giv-
ing the opening prayer today.
Rabbi Hoffman has led Congregation
Anshe Sholom in New Rochelle, New
York, since 2012. He graduated Yeshiva
College summa cum laude, where he re-
ceived ordination from Rabbi Isaac
Elchanan’s Theological Seminary.
Rabbi Hoffman is an accomplished
author, writing the weekly essay series
titled ‘‘Thoughts on the Parashah,’’ as
well as the editor of English language
publications for Talmud Israeli.
Rabbi Hoffman was raised in Great
Neck, New York, and is an avid New
York Mets fan. Rabbi Hoffman and his
wife, Sari, are the proud parents of two
wonderful children, Eliyahu and Elana.
Madam Speaker, I thank my friend
for the wonderful prayer this morning.
f
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER
PRO TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr.
PAYNE). The Chair will entertain up to
15 further requests for 1-minute speech-
es on each side of the aisle.
f
HOUSE APPROVAL OF VETERAN
TREATMENT COURT COORDINA-
TION ACT
(Mr. HIGGINS of New York asked and
was given permission to address the
House for 1 minute.)
Mr. HIGGINS of New York. Mr.
Speaker, I rise today to applaud the
House approval of the Veteran Treat-
ment Court Coordination Act legisla-
tion led by Chairman CHARLIE CRIST, of
which I am a proud cosponsor, direct-
ing grants, training, and assistance for
communities to establish and operate
veteran treatment courts.
In 2008, Buffalo City Court Judge
Robert Russell established the very
first veteran treatment court in the
Nation. Today, there are over 400 such
courts. These specialized courts pro-
vide veterans, many battling substance
abuse or post-traumatic stress dis-
order, with a tactical path to avoid jail
and take command of their future.
At their side are fellow veterans, also
known as battle buddies, who serve as
volunteer mentors, as well as judges
and professional staff who can connect
these warriors with VA benefits. Sup-
port for veteran treatment courts al-
lows the Nation to give veterans what
they have given us: freedom and peace.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:40 Oct 30, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K29OC7.009 H29OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8549
October 29, 2019
PRESIDENT TRUMP RECEIVES
BIPARTISAN JUSTICE AWARD
(Mr. WILSON of South Carolina
asked and was given permission to ad-
dress the House for 1 minute and to re-
vise and extend his remarks.)
MR. WILSON of South Carolina. Mr.
Speaker, congratulations to President
Donald Trump for receiving the Bipar-
tisan Justice Award for his historic
success on criminal justice reform at
Columbia’s Benedict College.
This is another example of President
Trump’s ‘‘promises made, promises
kept,’’ accomplishing what former ad-
ministrations have failed to achieve,
also proving the importance of doing
what is right and focusing on issues
truly affecting the American people.
It is always exciting for South Caro-
linians when President Trump visits.
My wife, Roxanne, and I were grateful
to welcome President Trump at the Co-
lumbia Metropolitan Airport at Spring-
dale with Governor Henry McMaster
and First Lady Peggy McMaster; Lieu-
tenant Governor Pamela Evette and
her husband, David; and Senator TIM
SCOTT. The President was warmly wel-
comed.
I am grateful to Benedict College
President Roslyn Clark Artis for her
dedicated service.
In conclusion, God bless our troops,
and we will never forget September the
11th in the global war on terrorism.
f
FUND THE NEXT GENERATION OF
SKILLED WORKERS
(Mr. LANGEVIN asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. LANGEVIN. Mr. Speaker, in
Rhode Island and across the country,
the manufacturing industry employs
Americans in high-paying, high-skilled
jobs while driving innovation and bol-
stering our national defense.
Unfortunately, manufacturers in my
home State have informed me that
they can’t find enough qualified can-
didates to fill job openings, and their
current workforce is aging. This is
something that is facing manufactur-
ers, I know, across the country.
To address this challenge, I have
been a strong advocate for career and
technical education, and yesterday, I
introduced the Retain Innovation and
Manufacturing Excellence Act.
This bill, which is a companion to my
good friend Senator SHELDON WHITE-
HOUSE’s bill in the Senate, will help
manufacturers train new workers by
providing funds to retain retiring em-
ployees long enough to train their re-
placements.
Our Nation’s manufacturers are a
cornerstone of our economy, and I am
proud to introduce this bill during
Manufacturing Month to build the next
generation of skilled workers.
RECOGNIZING MENINAK CLUB OF
JACKSONVILLE, FLORIDA
(Mr. RUTHERFORD asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute.)
Mr. RUTHERFORD. Mr. Speaker, I
recognize the Meninak Club of Jack-
sonville, Florida, which is celebrating
100 years of service and camaraderie
within our northeast Florida commu-
nity.
Meninak members are often leaders
of business, military, and civic organi-
zations who join together to make a
positive impact on others. For a cen-
tury, they have made a difference in
the lives of many through their annual
charity project and numerous scholar-
ships for students, including $25,000 in
Youth Leadership Grants each year.
Since 1933, Meninak has also spon-
sored the Ocean Marathon Swim, a 3.5-
mile swim competition for members of
the American Red Cross Volunteer Life
Saving Corps at Jacksonville Beach.
Their many charitable works include
building affordable homes for those in
need, working with the Salvation
Army during Christmastime, and men-
toring local disadvantaged folks in
Jacksonville.
I congratulate the Meninak Club for
100 years of ‘‘lending help where none
is available.’’
f
MAKING HIGHER EDUCATION AC-
CESSIBLE AND AFFORDABLE
FOR ALL STUDENTS
(Mr. MORELLE asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. MORELLE. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to highlight a critical piece of
legislation that my colleagues and I in
the Committee on Education and Labor
are currently marking up next door,
the College Affordability Act.
For too many students across our Na-
tion, the dream of pursuing higher edu-
cation remains out of reach. Rising tui-
tion costs and financially debilitating
loans prevent young people from reach-
ing their full potential, and that is
simply unacceptable.
That is why we are working to pro-
vide relief for students through the
College Affordability Act. This reau-
thorization of the Higher Education
Act restores Federal investments in
public colleges, increases the value of
grant opportunities, and makes stu-
dent loans easier to pay off.
Nothing should stand in the way of
the success of our children’s edu-
cational opportunities, especially not
the fear of crippling long-term debt.
Mr. Speaker, I am on my way back to
the committee room to continue our
work to make higher education acces-
sible and affordable for all students.
CONGRATULATIONS TO SARAH
DAVIS, YELLOWSTONE NATIONAL
PARK’S FIRST FEMALE CHIEF
RANGER
(Mr. BUDD asked and was given per-
mission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. BUDD. Mr. Speaker, I rise today
to recognize Lexington, North Caro-
lina, native Sarah Davis for recently
becoming Yellowstone National Park’s
first female chief ranger. This is a huge
milestone, and our Davidson County
community could not be more proud of
her.
Over the past two decades, Sarah has
held various leadership roles, including
at North Carolina’s own Guilford
Courthouse National Military Parks
and also Blue Ridge Parkways. Sarah
is well suited for this position as she
becomes the 18th chief ranger in more
than 100 years of Yellowstone National
Park.
When asked to describe her leader-
ship qualities, the superintendent said:
‘‘She is an outstanding leader, with a
track record of high performance, stra-
tegic thinking, and collaboration.’’
Mr. Speaker, please join me in con-
gratulating Sarah Davis of Lexington,
North Carolina, on her new position at
Yellowstone National Park. We wish
her the best of luck.
f
SUPPORT ARMENIAN GENOCIDE
RESOLUTION
(Ms. CLARK of Massachusetts asked
and was given permission to address
the House for 1 minute.)
Ms. CLARK of Massachusetts. Mr.
Speaker, I rise today in strong support
of H. Res. 296 that commemorates the
Armenian genocide through official
recognition and remembrance.
More than 100 years ago, an esti-
mated 1.5 million Armenians were mas-
sacred by the Ottoman Empire. There
is no argument that this undeniable
crime against humanity occurred. It is
not an opinion or an interpretation of
events. It is fact.
Yet, despite the overwhelming con-
sensus of historians and scholars, there
are those who would deny the awful
truth that this was a genocide. To
those, I would say if you do not recog-
nize the darkest pages of history, you
will never fully learn the lessons they
hold.
Today, I stand with my constituents
from across my district, but particu-
larly from Watertown, Massachusetts,
home to a thriving Armenian diaspora
community, to urge this House to pass
H. Res. 296 and recognize this crime
against humanity for what it was, a
genocide.
f
RECOGNIZE OCTOBER AS GERMAN-
AMERICAN HERITAGE MONTH
(Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania
asked and was given permission to ad-
dress the House for 1 minute and to re-
vise and extend his remarks.)
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:40 Oct 30, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K29OC7.012 H29OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8550 October 29, 2019
Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize
October as German-American Heritage
Month. I am proud to co-chair the Con-
gressional German-American Caucus
with my good friend and colleague Con-
gressman BILL KEATING. The mission of
the caucus focuses on highlighting Ger-
man contributions to our country.
This past summer, Congressman
KEATING and I introduced H. Res. 446, a
bipartisan resolution recognizing the
importance of the alliance between the
United States and Germany and to un-
derscore our shared commitment to de-
mocracy. The resolution reaffirms our
support of the Wunderbar Together ini-
tiative, which brings together more
than 250 partners nationwide for more
than 1,000 different events to celebrate
German American contributions to cul-
ture, science, arts, business, and more.
Today, there are more than 50 mil-
lion Americans of German descent liv-
ing in the United States. Our relation-
ship is one of common values, shared
interest, and rich history.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
join Congressman KEATING and I in
supporting H. Res. 446 and celebrating
our longstanding relationship with
Germany as friends and allies.
f
b 1215
PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION
OF H.R. 823, COLORADO OUTDOOR
RECREATION AND ECONOMY
ACT; PROVIDING FOR CONSIDER-
ATION OF H.R. 1373, GRAND CAN-
YON CENTENNIAL PROTECTION
ACT; PROVIDING FOR CONSIDER-
ATION OF H.R. 2181, CHACO CUL-
TURAL HERITAGE AREA PRO-
TECTION ACT OF 2019; AND PRO-
VIDING FOR PROCEEDINGS DUR-
ING THE PERIOD FROM NOVEM-
BER 1, 2019, THROUGH NOVEMBER
11, 2019
Ms. SHALALA. Mr. Speaker, by di-
rection of the Committee on Rules, I
call up House Resolution 656 and ask
for its immediate consideration.
The Clerk read the resolution, as fol-
lows:
H. RES. 656
Resolved, That at any time after adoption
of this resolution the Speaker may, pursuant
to clause 2(b) of rule XVIII, declare the
House resolved into the Committee of the
Whole House on the state of the Union for
consideration of the bill (H.R. 823) to provide
for the designation of certain wilderness
areas, recreation management areas, and
conservation areas in the State of Colorado,
and for other purposes. The first reading of
the bill shall be dispensed with. All points of
order against consideration of the bill are
waived. General debate shall be confined to
the bill and amendments specified in this
section and shall not exceed one hour equal-
ly divided and controlled by the chair and
ranking minority member of the Committee
on Natural Resources. After general debate
the bill shall be considered for amendment
under the five-minute rule. The amendment
in the nature of a substitute recommended
by the Committee on Natural Resources now
printed in the bill, modified by the amend-
ment printed in part A of the report of the
Committee on Rules accompanying this res-
olution, shall be considered as adopted in the
House and in the Committee of the Whole.
The bill, as amended, shall be considered as
the original bill for the purpose of further
amendment under the five-minute rule and
shall be considered as read. All points of
order against provisions in the bill, as
amended, are waived. No further amendment
to the bill, as amended, shall be in order ex-
cept those printed in part B of the report of
the Committee on Rules. Each such further
amendment may be offered only in the order
printed in the report, may be offered only by
a Member designated in the report, shall be
considered as read, shall be debatable for the
time specified in the report equally divided
and controlled by the proponent and an op-
ponent, shall not be subject to amendment,
and shall not be subject to a demand for divi-
sion of the question in the House or in the
Committee of the Whole. All points of order
against such further amendments are
waived. At the conclusion of consideration of
the bill for amendment the Committee shall
rise and report the bill, as amended, to the
House with such further amendments as may
have been adopted. The previous question
shall be considered as ordered on the bill, as
amended, and on any further amendment
thereto to final passage without intervening
motion except one motion to recommit with
or without instructions.
SEC. 2. At any time after adoption of this
resolution the Speaker may, pursuant to
clause 2(b) of rule XVIII, declare the House
resolved into the Committee of the Whole
House on the state of the Union for consider-
ation of the bill (H.R. 1373) to protect, for
current and future generations, the water-
shed, ecosystem, and cultural heritage of the
Grand Canyon region in the State of Ari-
zona, and for other purposes. The first read-
ing of the bill shall be dispensed with. All
points of order against consideration of the
bill are waived. General debate shall be con-
fined to the bill and shall not exceed one
hour equally divided and controlled by the
chair and ranking minority member of the
Committee on Natural Resources. After gen-
eral debate the bill shall be considered for
amendment under the five-minute rule. It
shall be in order to consider as an original
bill for the purpose of amendment under the
five-minute rule the amendment in the na-
ture of a substitute recommended by the
Committee on Natural Resources now print-
ed in the bill. The committee amendment in
the nature of a substitute shall be considered
as read. All points of order against the com-
mittee amendment in the nature of a sub-
stitute are waived. No amendment to the
committee amendment in the nature of a
substitute shall be in order except those
printed in part C of the report of the Com-
mittee on Rules accompanying this resolu-
tion. Each such amendment may be offered
only in the order printed in the report, may
be offered only by a Member designated in
the report, shall be considered as read, shall
be debatable for the time specified in the re-
port equally divided and controlled by the
proponent and an opponent, shall not be sub-
ject to amendment, and shall not be subject
to a demand for division of the question in
the House or in the Committee of the Whole.
All points of order against such amendments
are waived. At the conclusion of consider-
ation of the bill for amendment the Com-
mittee shall rise and report the bill to the
House with such amendments as may have
been adopted. Any Member may demand a
separate vote in the House on any amend-
ment adopted in the Committee of the Whole
to the bill or to the committee amendment
in the nature of a substitute. The previous
question shall be considered as ordered on
the bill and amendments thereto to final
passage without intervening motion except
one motion to recommit with or without in-
structions.
SEC. 3. At any time after adoption of this
resolution the Speaker may, pursuant to
clause 2(b) of rule XVIII, declare the House
resolved into the Committee of the Whole
House on the state of the Union for consider-
ation of the bill (H.R. 2181) to provide for the
withdrawal and protection of certain Federal
land in the State of New Mexico. The first
reading of the bill shall be dispensed with.
All points of order against consideration of
the bill are waived. General debate shall be
confined to the bill and amendments speci-
fied in this section and shall not exceed one
hour equally divided and controlled by the
chair and ranking minority member of the
Committee on Natural Resources. After gen-
eral debate the bill shall be considered for
amendment under the five-minute rule. The
amendment printed in part D of the report of
the Committee on Rules accompanying this
resolution shall be considered as adopted in
the House and in the Committee of the
Whole. The bill, as amended, shall be consid-
ered as read. All points of order against pro-
visions in the bill, as amended, are waived.
No further amendment to the bill, as amend-
ed, shall be in order except those printed in
part E of the report of the Committee on
Rules. Each such further amendment may be
offered only in the order printed in the re-
port, may be offered only by a Member des-
ignated in the report, shall be considered as
read, shall be debatable for the time speci-
fied in the report equally divided and con-
trolled by the proponent and an opponent,
shall not be subject to amendment, and shall
not be subject to a demand for division of the
question in the House or in the Committee of
the Whole. All points of order against such
further amendments are waived. At the con-
clusion of consideration of the bill for
amendment the Committee shall rise and re-
port the bill, as amended, to the House with
such further amendments as may have been
adopted. The previous question shall be con-
sidered as ordered on the bill, as amended,
and on any further amendment thereto to
final passage without intervening motion ex-
cept one motion to recommit with or with-
out instructions.
SEC. 4. On any legislative day during the
period from November 1, 2019, through No-
vember 11, 2019—
(a) the Journal of the proceedings of the
previous day shall be considered as approved;
and
(b) the Chair may at any time declare the
House adjourned to meet at a date and time,
within the limits of clause 4, section 5, arti-
cle I of the Constitution, to be announced by
the Chair in declaring the adjournment.
SEC. 5. The Speaker may appoint Members
to perform the duties of the Chair for the du-
ration of the period addressed by section 4 of
this resolution as though under clause 8(a) of
rule I.
SEC. 6. Each day during the period ad-
dressed by section 4 of this resolution shall
not constitute a calendar or legislative day
for purposes of clause 7(c)(1) of rule XXII.
SEC. 7. Each day during the period ad-
dressed by section 4 of this resolution shall
not constitute a legislative day for purposes
of clause 7 of rule XV.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tlewoman from Florida is recognized
for 1 hour.
Ms. SHALALA. Mr. Speaker, for the
purpose of debate only, I yield the cus-
tomary 30 minutes to the gentlewoman
from Arizona (Mrs. LESKO), pending
which I yield myself such time as I
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:40 Oct 30, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K29OC7.014 H29OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8551
October 29, 2019
may consume. During consideration of
this resolution, all time yielded is for
the purpose of debate only.
GENERAL LEAVE
Ms. SHALALA. Mr. Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that all Members
may have 5 legislative days in which to
revise and extend their remarks.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gentle-
woman from Florida?
There was no objection.
Ms. SHALALA. Mr. Speaker, the
Rules Committee met last night and
reported House Resolution 656, pro-
viding for consideration of H.R. 823, the
Colorado Outdoor Recreation and
Economy Act; H.R. 1373, the Grand
Canyon Centennial Protection Act; and
H.R. 2181, the Chaco Cultural Heritage
Protection Act, each under a struc-
tured rule.
The rule provides each bill with 1
hour of general debate equally divided
and controlled by the chair and the
ranking member of the Committee on
Natural Resources. The rule makes in
order 13 amendments total: 10 Repub-
lican amendments and 3 Democratic
amendments. The rule also provides
each bill with a motion to recommit.
Finally, the rule provides recess in-
structions from November 1 through
November 11.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support
of the bills in this rule: H.R. 823, H.R.
1373, and H.R. 2181. These important
bills recognize the need to protect
unique and irreplaceable American
landscapes—public lands that belong to
all of us, not to the highest bidder and
not to any individual Representative or
party.
President Theodore Roosevelt once
said: ‘‘Of all the questions which can
come before this Nation . . . there is
none which compares in importance
with the great central task of leaving
this land even a better land for our de-
scendants than it is for us.’’
And that is what these three bills at-
tempt to do. They represent the cul-
mination of years of locally driven ef-
forts. These bills protect some of our
most iconic lands and resources.
H.R. 823 is the result of collaborative
efforts among a diverse set of local
stakeholders with a shared interest in
providing long-term protections for
public lands in Colorado. The bill
builds on earlier proposals to protect
roughly 400,000 acres of public lands for
the benefit of the people of Colorado
and all Americans.
H.R. 2181 would withdraw lands with-
in a longstanding, 10-mile buffer zone
around the Chaco Culture National
Historical Park. This withdrawal
would protect an ancestral site for the
Puebloan and Tribal communities. It
would prevent damage to previously
undiscovered cultural resources. Chaco
Culture National Historical Park, a
UNESCO World Heritage Site, was the
hub of trade and culture for thousands
of ancestral Puebloans from 1850 to 1250
A.D.
Lastly, H.R. 1373 would permanently
prohibit new mining claims on approxi-
mately 1 million acres of public land
surrounding Grand Canyon National
Park, the crown jewel of our National
Park System—of course, not counting
Everglades National Park or Biscayne
National Park in south Florida.
In south Florida, we are all too fa-
miliar with what can happen if we fail
to protect our most vulnerable and
most unique lands and waters. Whether
the Everglades, Big Cypress, and the
Miami River or the Grand Canyon,
Chaco Culture National Historical
Park, and public lands in Colorado, we
have a deep obligation to conserve and
restore these lands. And science tells
us, as the climate crisis intensifies,
these efforts have never been more ur-
gent.
Mr. Speaker, I proudly support these
historic steps forward. Let us pass
these bills.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mrs. LESKO. Mr. Speaker, I thank
Representative SHALALA for yielding
me the customary 30 minutes, and I
yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
Mr. Speaker, energy and mining are
critical drivers of the American econ-
omy and quality of life. These indus-
tries create thousands of well-paying
jobs.
The United States cannot reach or
sustain our potential without devel-
oping our natural resources. But,
today, we are debating three bills that
put American energy, American qual-
ity of life, and American national secu-
rity at risk.
It seems just yesterday that I was
here at this very same podium speak-
ing much of these same words. In fact,
it was just last month. At that time, I
spoke out against bills banning off-
shore drilling.
Now this majority wants to pass
sweeping bans on even more domestic
natural resources. This time they want
to ban American energy from Colorado,
New Mexico, and my home State of Ar-
izona.
As I said last month, they want to
ban it all; and American families, in-
cluding Arizona families, will pay the
price.
b 1230
H.R. 823 withdraws areas in Colorado
from mineral development. This bill
particularly impacts its Third Congres-
sional District, represented by Con-
gressman SCOTT TIPTON. Sixty-five per-
cent of the lands affected by this bill
are in his district, yet, this bill does
not have his support, nor the support of
any of the Republican members of the
Colorado delegation.
Similarly, H.R. 2181 withdraws Fed-
eral lands in New Mexico from resource
development. It also terminates all
non-producing oil and gas leases on
those lands.
Finally, H.R. 1373, I believe, is a
misleadingly-titled land grab that
deals with land far outside the Grand
Canyon. I believe it is deeply mis-
guided.
Arizona currently produces $6.6 bil-
lion in nonfuel minerals, which makes
it the second largest State in the pro-
duction of minerals in the United
States. Yet, this bill would perma-
nently lock up about 1 million acres of
public lands in Arizona, hampering the
economic potential of my State.
The area impacted by this bill also
contains the largest tract of uranium
deposits in the country. Restricting ac-
cess to these deposits puts our national
security at risk because we have to
rely on foreign countries to provide us
uranium.
It is also important to note that
much of the lands affected by this bill
are in Arizona’s Fourth Congressional
District, represented by my good
friend, Congressman GOSAR. Yet, Mr.
GOSAR has expressed very clear opposi-
tion to this bill.
These three bills ignore the economic
benefits of domestic energy production.
Energy development brings high-pay-
ing jobs, facilitates manufacturing and
investment, and provides government
revenues. Energy development in the
United States also makes energy more
affordable for everyone.
The average salary paid in the nat-
ural gas and oil development fields is
$113,000 a year; and the energy industry
supports 300,000 jobs.
Domestic oil production has allowed
Americans to spend 28 percent less in
fuel, resulting in nearly $1,000 in sav-
ings per family in 2017 alone. To my
constituents, that is a lot of money.
I believe in an all-of-the-above en-
ergy approach. In my home State of
Arizona, this is a reality and a neces-
sity. We have to rely on multiple and
diverse energy sources to ensure afford-
able and reliable energy.
I support nuclear, hydroelectric,
coal, sun, wind, and other alternative
sources, and I also support domestic oil
and natural gas production.
An all-of-the-above approach, like
that in Arizona, would benefit Amer-
ican families and their quality of life.
In contrast, the bans that the Demo-
crats propose would harm the U.S.
economy, threaten our national secu-
rity, and increase energy prices and
rates on consumers.
I urge opposition to the rule, and I
reserve the balance of my time.
Ms. SHALALA. Mr. Speaker, I have
no further speakers. I am prepared to
close.
I reserve the balance of my time.
Mrs. LESKO. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
If we defeat the previous question, I
will offer an amendment to the rule to
make in order a resolution to prevent
any moratorium on the use of hydrau-
lic fracking on Federal lands unless au-
thorized by Congress.
Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous con-
sent to insert into the RECORD the text
of my amendment, along with extra-
neous material, immediately prior to
the vote on the previous question.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gentle-
woman from Arizona?
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:40 Oct 30, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K29OC7.016 H29OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8552 October 29, 2019
There was no objection.
Mrs. LESKO. Mr. Speaker, this reso-
lution would affirm that States should
maintain primacy for the regulation of
hydraulic fracturing and prevent any
President from imposing a ban on hy-
draulic fracturing.
In recent weeks, many of the Demo-
cratic candidates for President have
pledged to ban hydraulic fracturing in
the United States, a campaign promise
straight out of the ‘‘keep it in the
ground’’ playbook.
While this widely-used practice is
often vilified by extreme environ-
mentalists and proponents of the Green
New Deal, in fact, hydraulic fracturing
is heavily regulated by the States and
governed by stringent industry stand-
ards throughout the country.
American households and businesses
have benefited significantly from the
shale gas revolution. After the intro-
duction of hydraulic fracturing tech-
niques, U.S. gas bills fell by $13 billion
collectively every year from 2007–2013.
All the while, natural gas production
using fracking is driving emissions re-
ductions, resulting in the lowest emis-
sion levels in a generation. In fact,
methane emissions have decreased 15
percent since 1990 as natural gas pro-
duction increased over 50 percent.
Thanks to hydraulic fracturing, the
U.S. is leading the way in emissions re-
ductions through innovation in the en-
ergy sector. In 2017, U.S. carbon emis-
sions reached the lowest level since
1992, and per capita emissions reached
the lowest level since 1950.
Also, banning domestic oil and gas
production will return the U.S. to a
time when we relied on foreign coun-
tries for oil and gas. Remember the
1970s? We do not want to put our coun-
try in a national security risk.
Mr. Speaker, in closing, the bills be-
fore us today are harmful to American
jobs, American quality of life, and
American security. The message under-
lying these bills is the false notion that
domestic energy production is harmful.
I cannot disagree more. Domestic en-
ergy production creates hundreds of
thousands of well-paying jobs, lowers
electricity bills, and prevents us from
being dependent on foreign actors.
Utilizing America’s natural resources
is a commonsense step for America’s
energy future. America must be able to
utilize its natural resources for our
economy and for our national security.
We should encourage an expansion of
domestic energy production, but, in-
stead, my Democrat colleagues in the
majority seek to limit them.
Mr. Speaker, I urge ‘‘no’’ on the pre-
vious question, ‘‘no’’ on the underlying
measure, and I yield back the balance
of my time.
Ms. SHALALA. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself the balance of my time.
Mr. Speaker, with all due respect to
my distinguished colleague and friend
from Arizona, these bills recognize that
some places, lands that belong to Colo-
radans, to Arizonans, to the ancestral
Pueblo peoples, belong to all Ameri-
cans, and they are just too precious to
exploit.
I would like to close, once again, by
quoting our conservation President,
Teddy Roosevelt. ‘‘We have fallen heirs
to the most glorious heritage a people
ever received, and each one must do his
part if we wish to show that the Nation
is worthy of this good fortune.’’
Mr. Speaker, today we are doing our
part.
Mr. Speaker, I urge a ‘‘yes’’ vote on
the rule and the previous question.
The material previously referred to
by Mrs. LESKO is as follows:
AMENDMENT TO HOUSE RESOLUTION 656
At the end of the resolution, add the fol-
lowing:
SEC. 8. That immediately upon adoption of
this resolution, the House shall resolve into
the Committee of the Whole House on the
state of the Union for consideration of the
resolution (H. Res. 659) affirming that States
should maintain primacy for the regulation
of hydraulic fracturing for oil and natural
gas production on State and private lands
and that the President should not declare a
moratorium on the use of hydraulic frac-
turing on Federal lands (including the Outer
Continental Shelf), State lands, private
lands, or lands held in trust for an Indian
Tribe unless such moratorium is authorized
by an Act of Congress. The first reading of
the resolution shall be dispensed with. All
points of order against consideration of the
resolution are waived. General debate shall
be confined to the resolution and shall not
exceed one hour equally divided and con-
trolled by the chair and ranking minority
member of the Committee on Natural Re-
sources. After general debate the resolution
shall be considered for amendment under the
five-minute rule. All points of order against
provisions in the resolution are waived.
When the committee rises and reports the
resolution back to the House with a rec-
ommendation that the resolution be adopted,
the previous question shall be considered as
ordered on the resolution and amendments
thereto to adoption without intervening mo-
tion. If the Committee of the Whole rises and
reports that it has come to no resolution on
the resolution, then on the next legislative
day the House shall, immediately after the
third daily order of business under clause 1
of rule XIV, resolve into the Committee of
the Whole for further consideration of the
resolution.
SEC. 9. Clause 1(c) of rule XIX shall not
apply to the consideration of H. Res. 659.
Ms. SHALALA. Mr. Speaker, I yield
back the balance of my time, and I
move the previous question on the res-
olution.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on ordering the previous
question.
The question was taken; and the
Speaker pro tempore announced that
the ayes appeared to have it.
Mrs. LESKO. Mr. Speaker, on that I
demand the yeas and nays.
The yeas and nays were ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, further pro-
ceedings on this question will be post-
poned.
PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION
OF H. RES. 296, AFFIRMING THE
UNITED STATES RECORD ON THE
ARMENIAN GENOCIDE
Mr. MCGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, by di-
rection of the Committee on Rules, I
call up House Resolution 655 and ask
for its immediate consideration.
The Clerk read the resolution, as fol-
lows:
H. RES. 655
Resolved, That upon adoption of this reso-
lution it shall be in order without interven-
tion of any point of order to consider in the
House the resolution (H. Res. 296) affirming
the United States record on the Armenian
Genocide. The resolution shall be considered
as read. The previous question shall be con-
sidered as ordered on the resolution and pre-
amble to adoption without intervening mo-
tion or demand for division of the question
except one hour of debate equally divided
and controlled by the chair and ranking mi-
nority member of the Committee on Foreign
Affairs.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tleman from Massachusetts is recog-
nized for 1 hour.
Mr. MCGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, for
the purpose of debate only, I yield the
customary 30 minutes to the gen-
tleman from Texas (Mr. BURGESS),
pending which I yield myself such time
as I may consume. During consider-
ation of this resolution, all time yield-
ed is for the purpose of debate only.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. MCGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that all Members
be given 5 legislative days to revise and
extend their remarks.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from Massachusetts?
There was no objection.
Mr. MCGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, on
Monday, the Rules Committee met and
reported a rule, House Resolution 655,
providing for consideration of H. Res.
296 under a closed rule.
This resolution also provides 1 hour
of general debate controlled by the
Chair and ranking minority member of
the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
Mr. Speaker, this rule is about U.S.
leadership, standing for human rights,
and whether we are going to turn a
blind eye to atrocities, even if they
took place 100 years ago.
H. Res. 296 is a resolution formally
recognizing and memorializing the Ar-
menian genocide. And let me say, it is
about time. 1.5 million Armenians died
at the hands of the Ottoman Empire in
the emerging Nation of Turkey over a
century ago. Tens of thousands of Ar-
menians were violently expelled from
their ancestral homelands.
These truths are important. Ac-
knowledging them is important. Yet,
the United States has only tinkered
around the edges of recognizing this re-
ality. Some of our Nation’s closest al-
lies already have—31 nations, in fact—
countries like Canada, Italy, France,
Poland, Sweden, Germany, even Russia
have recognized this genocide.
Mr. Speaker, here is a map of those
nations, and you can tell that the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:40 Oct 30, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00010 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K29OC7.017 H29OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8553
October 29, 2019
United States stands out; and I say
that with great sadness.
White House statements and Con-
gressional resolutions over the years
have referred to mass atrocities and
other euphemisms; but nothing in re-
cent times has fully recognized it by
calling it what it actually was, a geno-
cide.
Mr. Speaker, we need to speak the
truth. Forty-nine of our 50 States have
formally recognized the Armenian
genocide, but the Federal Government
has not.
This is a dark stain on our human
rights record. The United States should
stand foursquare for human rights.
Anything short of that sends exactly
the wrong message to abusers around
the globe.
Mr. Speaker, I represent a congres-
sional district in central Massachu-
setts. It is home to the oldest Arme-
nian community in America. The first
Armenian orthodox church in America
was built in Worcester, Massachusetts,
my hometown. People still worship in
it today.
When I was first elected in 1996, we
had rows and rows of pews filled with
survivors of the Armenian genocide sit-
ting at the front of the church during
our annual April remembrance of the
Armenian genocide. Sadly, almost 2
years ago, the last of our survivors,
Rose, passed away.
I have learned so much from this
community. And to those who insist
that now is not the time for us to rec-
ognize the Armenian genocide; I have
to ask in return, when will it be the
right time? When the very last sur-
vivor of the genocide has passed away?
Those who want the world to forget,
those who want to deny genocide, they
believe that history will be erased with
the last eyewitness to genocide.
Mr. Speaker, I must be honest. As
many political leaders have proclaimed
‘‘never again’’ over the years, the Ar-
menian American community has been
left to wonder when ‘‘never again’’
would finally become ‘‘enough is
enough.’’
b 1245
With this resolution, the United
States will join the ranks of the many
nations, parliaments, and institutions
that have fully recognized and com-
memorated the Armenian genocide. We
will speak out clearly in favor of
human rights. Finally, we will say loud
and clear that enough is enough.
Mr. Speaker, as we acknowledge this
genocide from 100 years ago, I am glad
this House is separately considering
H.R. 4695 on suspension this week. This
bill recognizes the blood that is being
spilled today in northern Syria. Be-
cause of Turkey’s ruthless aggression,
hundreds of civilians have been killed.
Thousands more have been displaced.
Erdogan’s government has targeted
the Kurds, one of our strongest and
most courageous allies in the fight
against ISIS. What is going on there
can only be described as ethnic cleans-
ing.
Instead of standing up for the people
who have fought alongside U.S. troops
in Syria, President Trump gave Turkey
the green light to try and wipe the
Kurds off the map. The President even
complimented President Erdogan, call-
ing him a friend, a tough man, a hell of
a leader.
Just last week, 9 days after the
President first announced sanctions
against Turkey, he unilaterally lifted
all the sanctions against Turkey—9
days. Are you kidding me?
Never in my life did I think I would
see the day when a President of the
United States would pave the way for a
nation to systematically slaughter our
allies, remove sanctions from a coun-
try engaging in ethnic cleansing with-
out holding anyone to account, or put
U.S. troops stationed abroad in harm’s
way all while giving Russia not only a
PR victory but control over territory
that just days before had been safe, se-
cure, and free from the control of ISIS
terrorists and Assad’s murderous re-
gime.
Standing up for human rights is not
a Democratic or Republican issue; it is
an American issue. Even in an age of
heightened partisanship, this Congress
must still be capable of speaking with
one voice against genocide and crimes
against humanity, no matter when
they took place. I urge all of my col-
leagues to support this rule and the un-
derlying resolution so we can show the
world that we still are.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. BURGESS. Mr. Speaker, I thank
Mr. MCGOVERN for yielding me the cus-
tomary 30 minutes, and I yield myself
such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, today, we consider a
resolution to once again assert the po-
sition of the House of Representatives
with respect to the Armenian genocide
that occurred between 1915 and 1923.
This resolution cites previous United
States recognition of the killing of Ar-
menians, including in 1951, 1975, 1981,
and 1984.
Numerous resolutions have been in-
troduced in the House and Senate that
did not pass both Chambers. In addi-
tion, Congress has twice designated
April 24 as a National Day of Remem-
brance of Man’s Inhumanity to Man,
specifically referencing Armenia. The
United States has clearly indicated its
support to the Armenians.
While there is historic precedent for
recognizing the Armenian genocide,
passing such a resolution today could
complicate the situation with a NATO
ally. Previously, this has resulted in
protests at and around the Incirlik Air
Base that have affected our men and
women in uniform who were stationed
there.
While the desire to recognize the Ar-
menian genocide is laudable, these
events took place over 100 years ago. It
remains unclear why we are urgently
considering this resolution. The Com-
mittee on Foreign Affairs did not con-
duct a hearing or hold a markup before
we voted last night in the Rules Com-
mittee to bring this to the floor today.
Representative SCHIFF introduced this
resolution on April 8 of this year, 2019,
so we are left to wonder why we wait
until there are 11 legislative days until
expiration of the continuing resolution
to fund the entirety of the Government
of the United States on the discre-
tionary side, why we are willing to sus-
pend that to consider a nonbinding res-
olution.
Democrats continue to bring to the
floor legislation that is either not ur-
gent or has no chance of passing the
Senate and becoming law. There are bi-
partisan policy areas in which Repub-
licans stand ready to work with Demo-
crats for the benefit of the American
people. The most pressing issue, of
course, is the continuing resolution ex-
piration.
While the House did pass 10 of the 12
appropriations bills, they were con-
structed largely without Republican
input on the Appropriations Com-
mittee, resulting in highly partisan
provisions that actually prevented any
Republicans from being able to support
these bills when they came to the floor.
One of the most important appropria-
tions bills providing funding for the
Department of Homeland Security has
not received consideration by the full
House. We are facing a humanitarian
and security crisis at our southern bor-
der. That is real. That is right now.
This situation got so bad in early sum-
mer that Congress had to pass a supple-
mental appropriations bill to last
year’s appropriation just to provide the
basic necessities for those in the Cus-
toms and Border Protection custody.
While this temporary funding influx
helped alleviate a number of people in
our border facilities and the Office of
Refugee Resettlement shelters, it did
not make any policy changes that
would actually address the root cause
of this crisis.
If Democrats are unwilling to provide
funding to secure our border, we should
consider disincentivizing people from
making the dangerous journey in the
first place. There are people who die
along the way. Others are seriously in-
jured or become ill. Still others become
victims of human trafficking.
Additionally, the cartels are prof-
iting big time off of these vulnerable
individuals, taking a cut from two-
thirds of southern border flows. The
penalty for not paying off the cartel is
death. Rather than incentivize this
type of activity, could we not focus our
efforts on combating the drivers of ir-
regular migration from El Salvador,
Guatemala, and Honduras? We can also
send a message that if you come to the
United States without legal docu-
mentation, you will not be permitted
to remain herein definitely.
To change this, Congress could pass a
bill to reform our asylum laws and pro-
vide more resources to clear the back-
log of immigration cases, a backlog
that is approaching 1 million cases.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:40 Oct 30, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00011 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K29OC7.021 H29OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8554 October 29, 2019
Another area where Congress could
be spending our valuable time is dis-
cussing solutions for the cost of pre-
scriptions and pharmaceuticals. There
is bipartisan consensus that we could
cap out-of-pocket costs for our seniors
in Medicare part D. This is a policy
that we can and should draft together.
In fact, we had a bipartisan Committee
on Energy and Commerce and Com-
mittee on Ways and Means request for
information on the topic of restruc-
turing part D last May.
If we work together in a thoughtful,
bipartisan, bicameral manner on re-
structuring the part D benefit, the
President would sign that legislation.
He has even said that is a top priority.
And our constituents would see lower
out-of-pocket drug costs.
But what do we get? We get H.R. 3,
Speaker PELOSI’s partisan drug pricing
bill, which sidelines achievable drug
pricing policies that were in the works
prior to the release of H.R. 3.
Additionally, last week marked the
1-year anniversary of President
Trump’s signing the SUPPORT Act
into law. This legislation provides real-
istic solutions that span the breadth of
the opiate crisis, from prevention and
treatment to education and enforce-
ment. This legislation will improve
treatment for those with substance use
disorders, fight deadly fentanyl, bolster
the efforts of our agents at the inter-
national mail facilities, and provide
vital resources for new and innovative
alternatives for the treatment of pain.
In a time when our country seems so
divided, Congress was able to put polit-
ical differences aside and put patients
first to find solutions to address this
crisis.
As it stands now, the SUPPORT Act
is another tool in the toolbox for com-
munities and Federal agencies to suc-
cessfully combat the opioid epidemic.
We could be having discussions on how
to build on that success and ensure
timely and effective implementation of
the SUPPORT Act so we could con-
tinue to help those affected by the
more than 130 American overdose
deaths each and every day. Instead, we
are spending our time considering a
nonurgent, nonbinding resolution.
American consumers are concerned
about their online privacy. The passage
of California’s Consumer Privacy Act
has led to a patchwork of State privacy
laws that do not reflect the reality
that the internet doesn’t know State
lines.
We need one national standard, per-
haps consider Federal preemption, and
promote a cross-border data flow as
American businesses seek to do busi-
ness at home and abroad. You could
even argue that e-commerce is the rea-
son that the Founders drafted the Com-
merce Clause in the first place.
Again, Republicans stand ready to
work with Democrats, but we have not
been invited to engage in any sub-
stantive discussions.
Congress also could pass and, in fact,
must pass the United States-Mexico-
Canada Agreement on trade, the
USMCA. This was negotiated to replace
the North American Free Trade Agree-
ment. This agreement is possibly the
most impactful policy that Congress
could pass this year.
The administration has negotiated
with Canada and Mexico over the past
2 years to produce the best trade deal
possible. The USMCA increases market
access for American exports. It levels
the playing field for the American
worker and brings important intellec-
tual property protections into the 21st
century.
Millions of jobs and billions of dol-
lars’ worth of trade are waiting on the
passage of this bill. If Speaker PELOSI
brought the USMCA to the floor today,
it would pass before the week was out.
Unfortunately, the Democratic major-
ity is slow-walking this USMCA and
doing harm to our Nation’s farmers,
workers, and small businesses. There is
no reason to continue to delay a vote
on this agreement.
In addition, securing the USMCA
would give the United States addi-
tional authority with the ongoing ne-
gotiations with China.
Providing full appropriations for the
Federal Government, addressing the
humanitarian and security crisis at our
southern border, working to lower pre-
scription drug prices and provide con-
tinued support to combat the opioid
epidemic, negotiating a strong Federal
privacy law, and passing the USMCA
are all urgent policy priorities that
could receive bipartisan support. And
yet, we are delaying action on these
necessary measures to consider a non-
urgent, nonbinding resolution that
simply reaffirms what has remained
clear United States policy regarding
Armenia.
I hope my fellow Democrats on the
Rules Committee and in the House of
Representatives will soon prioritize
legislation that will help the American
people. I urge opposition to the rule,
and I reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. MCGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
My colleague from Texas talked
about a lot of different subjects in his
opening remarks. I have to say that I
am a little bit disappointed—well,
more than a little bit. I am dis-
appointed and somewhat offended at
the implication that this is not an im-
portant matter.
Let me remind him that 1.5 million
Armenians died at the hands of the
Ottoman Empire and the emerging na-
tion of Turkey. Let me remind him of
the countless hundreds of thousands of
people who had to flee because of that
oppression. Let me also remind him
that it is not the official policy of the
United States Government. If it were,
that map that I showed you would have
included us as a nation formally recog-
nizing the Armenian genocide.
My friend may not think it is impor-
tant, but as somebody who cares deeply
about human rights, it is important
that we respect historical accuracy and
that we respect the truth.
I don’t know if the gentleman was in
the Rules Committee last night when
our colleague from California, ANNA
ESHOO, movingly and tearfully talked
about her family’s experiences during
that time, when she lost ancestors and
her parents came to the United States
to try to have a better life. But I don’t
know how we can just kind of brush
this off as not a big deal.
It is a big deal. It is a big deal to Ar-
menian Americans, and it is a big deal
to anybody who cares about human
rights in this country.
Mr. Speaker, I yield 1 minute to the
gentlewoman from Florida (Ms.
SHALALA), a distinguished member of
the Rules Committee.
b 1300
Ms. SHALALA. Mr. Speaker, I thank
the gentleman for yielding.
Mr. Speaker, I rise to support the
resolution affirming the United States’
record on the Armenian genocide. This
resolution is long overdue on the geno-
cide of 1.5 million Armenians and thou-
sands of Maronites, Chaldeans, Ama-
lekites, Assyrians, and others who were
part of the Ottoman Empire.
Mr. Speaker, my grandparents left
the Ottoman Empire to escape that
genocide just ahead, but their relatives
were not as lucky. My grandparents
were Maronites.
I remember my grandmother’s tears
as she spoke of their Armenian friends
and the many Maronites and Amalek-
ites who were slaughtered by the Otto-
man Empire.
As a child, I remember the tears and
the suffering of our Armenian neigh-
bors and the many members of the
other communities whose tears I could
not erase.
As a child, I could not erase those
tears, but for them, I proudly support
this resolution.
Mr. BURGESS. Mr. Speaker, I re-
serve the balance of my time.
Mr. MCGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, I yield
3 minutes to the gentleman from Cali-
fornia (Mr. SHERMAN), who has been a
leader on this issue for many years.
Mr. SHERMAN. Mr. Speaker, after
decades of struggle, this House will rec-
ognize the Armenian genocide just in
time for it to be seen by the last few
survivors of the first genocide of the
20th century.
We should have recognized that geno-
cide again and again long ago, but we
didn’t because we were told that we
had a great alliance with Turkey.
Earlier this month, Turkish forces
shelled near and deliberately bracketed
American bases. Americans fled in un-
seemly haste. Great ally.
It has been a great alliance for Tur-
key. We defended them from com-
munism in the 1940s, defended them
from the Soviet Union for decades, and
provided them with $23 billion in aid.
It is critical that we counteract Tur-
key’s genocide denial, because genocide
denial is the last act of a genocide—
first you obliterate a people, then you
seek to obliterate their memory, and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:40 Oct 30, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00012 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K29OC7.023 H29OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8555
October 29, 2019
finally you seek to obliterate the mem-
ory of the obliteration—and because
genocide denial is also the first step in
the next genocide.
When Hitler’s cadres wondered if
they could get away with the Holo-
caust, he was able to assure them:
Who, after all, speaks today of the an-
nihilation of the Armenians?
We must recognize this genocide to
remove the stain on America’s honor
because, up until now, we have refused
to acknowledge truth and we have been
silent, all in an effort at appeasement.
The fact is that many other coun-
tries have recognized the genocide, in-
cluding Belgium, Canada, Greece,
Italy, Argentina, and Germany. And
when France had the courage to pass a
genocide recognition resolution, they
were threatened with a boycott of all
their exports. In fact, what happened
was a fourfold increase in French ex-
ports to Turkey.
The only thing worse than unneces-
sary appeasement is appeasing a power
that will not actually respond.
Today, Germany is a great and pros-
perous democracy, a great ally of the
United States. Where would Germany
be if, to this day, they denied the Holo-
caust?
Turkey will be a great ally of the
United States and a prosperous and
modern nation only when Turkey rec-
ognizes the first genocide of the 20th
century.
Mr. Speaker, I commend the gen-
tleman for bringing up this rule and for
answering the question why this is so
important to do this today.
Mr. BURGESS. Mr. Speaker, I re-
serve the balance of my time.
Mr. MCGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, I yield
1 minute to the gentlewoman from
California (Ms. JUDY CHU).
Ms. JUDY CHU of California. Mr.
Speaker, I have just returned from Ar-
menia, where I went to the Armenian
Genocide Museum. I cannot get the pic-
tures that I saw out of my mind: Arme-
nian women and children murdered in
mass graves, Armenian leaders hung as
examples to others, Armenians forced
onto long death marches without food
or water.
There were 1.5 million Armenians
killed in this genocide in 1915. I saw the
documents of the many who had wit-
nessed it, including U.S. diplomat
Henry Morgenthau, and yet over 100
years later, the U.S. has never offi-
cially acknowledged it.
This vote to finally acknowledge the
Armenian genocide should have come
sooner, because of people in my district
like Joseph ‘‘Bebo’’ Manjikian. When I
met him, he was 104, but from his
wheelchair, he told me about the many
family members he lost in the geno-
cide. Bebo passed away before he could
see this day. He didn’t forget them, and
neither can we.
Mr. Speaker, for the sake of Bebo and
so many others, I urge my colleagues
to vote ‘‘yes’’ on this resolution.
Mr. BURGESS. Mr. Speaker, I re-
serve the balance of my time.
Mr. MCGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, I yield
3 minutes to the gentleman from New
Jersey (Mr. PALLONE), the co-chair of
the Congressional Caucus on Armenian
Issues.
Mr. PALLONE. Mr. Speaker, I thank
Mr. MCGOVERN for bringing this rule up
today, and I rise in support of the rule
to bring up the Armenian genocide res-
olution.
As JUDY CHU said—and I just came
back from Armenia at the same time—
we were at the genocide memorial in
Yerevan. I was actually there a few
years ago, on the 100th anniversary of
the genocide, with our two Armenian
Members of Congress, ANNA ESHOO and
JACKIE SPEIER.
I have to say, it was unfortunate for
us. We were proud to be there for the
100th commemoration, but we still
were very upset over the fact that the
United States had not recognized the
Armenian genocide in recent years.
And, of course, this has been a goal of
the Armenia caucus and the Armenia
diaspora for over 30 years that this day,
this historic day, would finally occur.
Mr. Speaker, I want to thank the
Speaker of the House of Representa-
tives, NANCY PELOSI, who has made this
day possible.
This resolution is important. It com-
memorates the victims of the Arme-
nian genocide at the hands of the Otto-
man Turks over 104 years after it took
place.
For too long, Congress has failed to
recognize the indisputable fact that the
Ottoman Turks perpetrated the first
genocide of the 20th century. This
crime against humanity would serve as
the blueprint for other genocides in the
Nazi concentration camps and mas-
sacres in Poland, Germany, and eastern
Europe and, more recently, in Bosnia
and Rwanda.
Today, we will finally acknowledge
what historians have documented with
clear evidence: that the Turkish cam-
paign of slaughter and forced displace-
ment of millions of Armenians, Greeks,
Assyrians, and other religious minori-
ties was, in fact, a genocide.
The passage of this resolution is an
important step in raising awareness
and showing the world that we have a
commitment to human rights and the
dignity of every human life.
In the words of George Santayana:
‘‘Those who cannot remember the past
are condemned to repeat it.’’
We stand today to show that the
House of Representatives will not be
complicit in covering up past atrocities
in the 20th century nor turn our back
when ethnic or religious minorities are
threatened in the 21st century.
We must also urge Turkey to come to
terms with its own history and look be-
yond the thinly veiled facade of denial
that covered up one of the most hor-
rific crimes in world history.
We must urge Turkey to join the rest
of the world in recognizing the sanctity
of human life, even if it is someone who
doesn’t look like you, speaks a dif-
ferent language, or attends a different
house of worship.
Turkey has a long history of repress-
ing ethnic minorities, including the
Kurds, whom they are killing as we
speak. And it doesn’t matter whether
they are Christians or Muslims; many
of the Kurds are their Muslim breth-
ren.
I am also a strong supporter of the
bipartisan Turkey sanctions bill that
will also be considered this week.
It is unfortunate that it took the
abandonment of our allies in northern
Syria to get to this point, but I am
pleased to see that we are working
across the aisle to finally push back
against the bully that is President
Erdogan.
We cannot trust the Turkish, Rus-
sian, or Syrian Governments to uphold
peace and protect innocent lives in the
region. We must stand up to authori-
tarian leaders like Erdogan, Putin, and
Assad to defend our regional partners
and innocent lives.
Again, Mr. Speaker, I want to thank
the chairman for bringing up this rule.
I want to thank Chairman SCHIFF, the
sponsor of this resolution; Chairman
ENGEL; the House leadership; and other
members of the congressional caucus
for their support of strong American
leadership and for their work to finally
get this passed.
Mr. BURGESS. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, if we defeat the pre-
vious question, Republicans will amend
the rule to suspend the ongoing im-
peachment inquiry until we achieve
operational control of our southern
border.
As I previously stated, we are experi-
encing a humanitarian and security
crisis on the southern border. In Au-
gust, Customs and Border Protection
apprehended over 64,000 individuals
who lacked legal documentation to
enter this country. Apprehensions are
on track to reach over 1 million indi-
viduals attempting to cross into the
United States along our southern bor-
der this fiscal year.
The House should prioritize securing
our southern border and stemming the
flow of irregular migration over a po-
litically motivated impeachment in-
quiry. Until operation of the border
control is achieved, the House should
suspend the impeachment inquiry.
Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous con-
sent to insert the text of my amend-
ment in the RECORD, along with extra-
neous material, immediately prior to
the vote on the previous question.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from Texas?
There was no objection.
Mr. BURGESS. Mr. Speaker, I re-
serve the balance of my time.
Mr. MCGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I have to say to the
gentleman from Texas (Mr. BURGESS)
that, again, it is frustrating to hear his
comments. I mean, we are talking
about a resolution recognizing the Ar-
menian genocide; 1.5 million people
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:40 Oct 30, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00013 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K29OC7.037 H29OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8556 October 29, 2019
were murdered. I think it is generally a
bipartisan resolution.
Mr. Speaker, I want to commend not
only Chairman ENGEL and Chairman
SMITH, who is a Republican, for their
testimony before the Rules Committee;
I want to thank Congressman SCHIFF,
who is the main author of this; but our
colleague in the Rules Committee,
Congresswoman LESKO, came out very
strongly in favor of this resolution.
It would be nice if there were a cou-
ple of moments here that didn’t always
have to be politicized, and I think this
resolution should be one of those mo-
ments.
This is important; this is serious; and
we shouldn’t bring politics into a reso-
lution dealing with the recognition of a
genocide. So I obviously have a dif-
ferent opinion on how people should
vote on the previous question.
Mr. Speaker, I yield 11⁄2 minutes to
the gentlewoman from California (Ms.
SÁNCHEZ).
Ms. SÁNCHEZ. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today in strong support of this resolu-
tion to recognize the Armenian geno-
cide.
This tragedy is one of the most pain-
ful moments in our world’s history. We
owe it to the more than 2 million vic-
tims and their decendents never to for-
get.
It is heartbreaking that some choose
to deny our past rather than to learn
from this painful moment in history. It
is an insult to millions who died and
the millions who risked their lives to
escape violence.
Denial is all too easy. It is harder to
face the truth, and facing the truth is
the right thing to do.
When we rewrite the darkest chap-
ters of our history, we open the door to
them happening again. The United
States cannot be complicit in that de-
nial.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
send a resounding message to the world
that we stand with the Armenian com-
munity: We will not forget; we will not
obscure.
Mr. BURGESS. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself 1 minute.
Mr. Speaker, I would just point out
that this Congress has acted on this in
the past. H.J. Res. 148 passed in the
94th Congress. A joint resolution to
designate April 24, 1975, as a National
Day of Remembrance of Man’s Inhu-
manity to Man passed the House April
8, 1975.
And then again, H.J. Res. 247 from
the 98th Congress, a joint resolution to
designate April 24 as a National Day of
Remembrance of Man’s Inhumanity to
Man, passed the House 10 September
1984.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. MCGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, again, it really is frus-
trating to hear my colleague try and
dismiss this. There has not been a reso-
lution calling this a genocide and out-
lining all the facts before.
Mr. Speaker, I would again urge my
colleagues, in a bipartisan way, to sup-
port the underlying bill and to reject
any attempts to try to politicize this
process.
And, again, we do this out of respect
for those victims of the genocide, for
its survivors, for the Armenian Amer-
ican community, for the Armenian
community all over the world, and we
do it because the United States of
America is supposed to be committed
to a very high standard of human
rights.
b 1315
If we stand for anything, we need to
stand out loud and four square for
human rights.
To not appropriately acknowledge a
genocide only paves the way for future
thugs, dictators, and authoritarians to
commit similar atrocities, believing
that somehow the United States, the
most powerful country in the world,
will just look the other way.
I hope that we have strong, bipar-
tisan support on this resolution.
Mr. Speaker, I am happy to yield 11⁄2
minutes to the gentleman from Oregon
(Mr. BLUMENAUER).
Mr. BLUMENAUER. Mr. Speaker, I
appreciate the gentleman’s courtesy,
and I appreciate his words.
Mr. Speaker, for years, we have
danced around this. It is complex with
the Turks, in terms of the relationship
that we have tried to deal with. But de-
nying genocide has not helped resolve
those issues. It hasn’t changed the be-
havior of the Turks.
Look at what is happening with the
Kurds today. Failure to acknowledge
this horrific episode is a burden for us
all—standing up for human rights, ac-
knowledging the truth, giving a sense
of closure and solace to the people who
endured this horrific activity, and
making sure that we are united in our
opposition to those genocidal activi-
ties.
Sadly, unless and until the Turks
own their history, acknowledge it, they
are not going to be able to move past
it. This is a chapter that needs a spot-
light shone on it.
I appreciate this formal acknowledg-
ment by the House of Representatives.
I think it is a first step toward healing,
and it is an important step toward pre-
venting tragedies like this in the fu-
ture.
Mr. Speaker, I am proud to support
it, and I look forward to its passage on
the floor of the House.
Mr. BURGESS. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself the balance of my time.
Mr. Speaker, I also would like to
point out that the gentleman had said
that he did not want to see this issue
politicized. I would just simply note
that this resolution could have been
brought to the floor under suspension
of the rules and likely passed with a
large bipartisan majority under sus-
pension of the rules.
The difficulty that I have today is
that we are spending the time on a rule
bill for this bill that would have passed
under suspension when we, in fact,
have some pretty important things out
there hanging over us.
One of those things, of course, is
funding the entire Federal Government
so we don’t end up in another govern-
ment shutdown, and the other is to
somehow resolve this question of im-
peachment that has bogged down this
body for months, if not years.
Mr. Speaker, as I previously outlined,
there are other important, time-sen-
sitive priorities. Once again, we have 11
legislative days remaining before the
continuing resolution expires. In place
of a nonurgent, nonbinding resolution,
we could be finding a way to ensure
that our government remains open and
that Americans continue to receive the
Federal benefits, services, and pay-
checks on which they depend.
I ask my fellow Democrats to
prioritize the needs of the American
people, and I urge a ‘‘no’’ vote on the
previous question and ‘‘no’’ on the rule.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
Mr. MCGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
The gentleman wonders why we
didn’t bring this legislation up under
suspension of the rules. To be honest
with you, I think there was a concern
by Democrats and Republicans on the
Foreign Affairs Committee that we
might not have all the votes that we
needed to pass them under suspension
of the rules.
Mr. Speaker, the Government of Tur-
key employs very well-paid lobbyists
here in Washington, and they have
been working quite diligently trying to
defeat this. So I hope we have a vote
that is overwhelming, but we don’t
know.
Secondly, I don’t know why the gen-
tleman would object to bringing this
up under a rule. It gives more time for
Members on both sides of the aisle to
be able to speak on this, and a lot of
Members do. We had a lot of Democrats
on our side who wanted to speak. We
have others who are going to speak
when the underlying bill comes up. So
I don’t quite get it.
Let me say, again, for the RECORD,
this is not the official policy of the
United States. If it was, President
Trump would publicly acknowledge the
Armenian genocide.
By the way, I am not picking on
President Trump. The same could be
said for President Obama. I can go
right down the list of Presidents.
The deal is, this is not the official
policy. If it was, we wouldn’t be here.
It really is somewhat disappointing
that the gentleman doesn’t quite ap-
preciate how impactful this is and how
important it is.
Mr. Speaker, the horrors of human
rights abuses can be mind-numbing,
whether they occurred 100 years ago,
like the Armenian genocide, or are
happening today in Syria at the hands
of Erdogan’s government.
I get it. It is easier to turn away than
to see the impact of brutality, the loss
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:40 Oct 30, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00014 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K29OC7.026 H29OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8557
October 29, 2019
of life, the maiming of civilians, in-
cluding children, in the devastated
communities. It can turn your stomach
and break your heart, but we must not
lose our capacity for outrage. That 1.5
million Armenians died at the hands of
the Ottoman Empire in the emerging
nation of Turkey should outrage all of
us.
Formally recognizing this genocide is
the right thing to do. I wish we took
this step long ago, but it is always the
right time to do the right thing.
I urge my colleagues: Let’s speak
with one voice. Let’s join some of our
closest allies in recognizing the Arme-
nian genocide. Let’s finally remove
this dark stain on the record of the
United States of America.
I say this all the time: The core of
our being as a nation should be uphold-
ing a high standard of human rights.
We should always be counted on to
speak out when people’s human rights
are being denied. We certainly should
be counted on to adhere to historical
accuracy.
This happened, and it is time that it
become the official policy of the United
States of America to recognize that it
did happen and call it for what it was,
and it was a genocide.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
vote ‘‘yes’’ on the previous question,
vote ‘‘yes’’ on the rule, and vote ‘‘yes’’
on the underlying bill.
The material previously referred to
by Mr. BURGESS is as follows:
AMENDMENT TO HOUSE RESOLUTION 655
At the end of the resolution, add the fol-
lowing:
SEC. 2. Upon adoption of this resolution,
the Committees on the Judiciary, Ways and
Means, Financial Services, Oversight and
Reform, and Foreign Affairs and the Perma-
nent Select Committee on Intelligence shall
suspend pursuing matters referred to by the
Speaker in her announcement of September
24, 2019, until such time as the United States
achieves operational control of the southern
border.
Mr. MCGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, I yield
back the balance of my time, and I
move the previous question on the res-
olution.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on ordering the previous
question.
The question was taken; and the
Speaker pro tempore announced that
the ayes appeared to have it.
Mr. BURGESS. Mr. Speaker, on that
I demand the yeas and nays.
The yeas and nays were ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 9 of rule XX, this 15-
minute vote on ordering the previous
question on House Resolution 655 will
be followed by 5-minute votes on:
Adoption of House Resolution 655, if
ordered;
Ordering the previous question on
House Resolution 656; and
Adoption of House Resolution 656, if
ordered.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—yeas 224, nays
189, not voting 18, as follows:
[Roll No. 587]
YEAS—224
Adams
Aguilar
Allred
Amash
Axne
Barragán
Bera
Beyer
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brindisi
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Bustos
Butterfield
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Clyburn
Cohen
Connolly
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cunningham
Davids (KS)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Evans
Finkenauer
Fletcher
Foster
Frankel
Fudge
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (TX)
Gottheimer
Green, Al (TX)
Grijalva
Haaland
Harder (CA)
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Higgins (NY)
Himes
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (TX)
Kaptur
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Lamb
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Lowenthal
Lowey
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCollum
McGovern
McNerney
Meeks
Meng
Moore
Morelle
Mucarsel-Powell
Murphy (FL)
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Norcross
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Perlmutter
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Porter
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Rice (NY)
Richmond
Rose (NY)
Rouda
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (WA)
Soto
Spanberger
Speier
Stanton
Stevens
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Thompson (MS)
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Underwood
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watson Coleman
Welch
Wexton
Wild
Wilson (FL)
Yarmuth
NAYS—189
Abraham
Aderholt
Allen
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Bergman
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (NC)
Bishop (UT)
Bost
Brady
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Byrne
Calvert
Carter (GA)
Chabot
Cheney
Cline
Cloud
Cole
Collins (GA)
Comer
Conaway
Cook
Crawford
Crenshaw
Curtis
Davidson (OH)
DesJarlais
Diaz-Balart
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Estes
Ferguson
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Flores
Fortenberry
Foxx (NC)
Fulcher
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Gonzalez (OH)
Gooden
Gosar
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Griffith
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Hagedorn
Harris
Hartzler
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Higgins (LA)
Hill (AR)
Holding
Hollingsworth
Hudson
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Katko
Keller
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamborn
Latta
Lesko
Loudermilk
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Marshall
Massie
Mast
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McHenry
McKinley
Meadows
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Mullin
Murphy (NC)
Newhouse
Norman
Nunes
Olson
Palazzo
Palmer
Pence
Perry
Posey
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (SC)
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rooney (FL)
Rose, John W.
Rouzer
Roy
Rutherford
Scalise
Schweikert
Scott, Austin
Sensenbrenner
Shimkus
Simpson
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smucker
Spano
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stewart
Stivers
Taylor
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Tipton
Turner
Upton
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Watkins
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Wenstrup
Westerman
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Yoho
Young
Zeldin
NOT VOTING—18
Bass
Beatty
Carter (TX)
Cartwright
Davis, Rodney
Gabbard
Hice (GA)
Hill (CA)
Huffman
Long
Marchant
McEachin
Moulton
Ryan
Thompson (CA)
Timmons
Williams
Wright
b 1352
So the previous question was ordered.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the resolution.
The question was taken; and the
Speaker pro tempore announced that
the ayes appeared to have it.
Mr. BURGESS. Mr. Speaker, on that
I demand the yeas and nays.
The yeas and nays were ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. This is a
5-minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—yeas 223, nays
191, not voting 17, as follows:
[Roll No. 588]
YEAS—223
Adams
Aguilar
Allred
Amash
Axne
Barragán
Bera
Beyer
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brindisi
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Bustos
Butterfield
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Clyburn
Cohen
Connolly
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cunningham
Davids (KS)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:40 Oct 30, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00015 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K29OC7.028 H29OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8558 October 29, 2019
Deutch
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Evans
Finkenauer
Fletcher
Foster
Frankel
Fudge
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (TX)
Gottheimer
Green, Al (TX)
Grijalva
Haaland
Harder (CA)
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Higgins (NY)
Himes
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (TX)
Kaptur
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Lamb
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Lowenthal
Lowey
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCollum
McGovern
McNerney
Meeks
Meng
Moore
Morelle
Mucarsel-Powell
Murphy (FL)
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Norcross
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Payne
Perlmutter
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Porter
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Rice (NY)
Richmond
Rose (NY)
Rouda
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (WA)
Soto
Spanberger
Speier
Stanton
Stevens
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Thompson (MS)
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Underwood
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watson Coleman
Welch
Wexton
Wild
Wilson (FL)
Yarmuth
NAYS—191
Abraham
Aderholt
Allen
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Bergman
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (NC)
Bishop (UT)
Bost
Brady
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Byrne
Calvert
Carter (GA)
Chabot
Cheney
Cline
Cloud
Cole
Collins (GA)
Comer
Conaway
Cook
Crawford
Crenshaw
Curtis
Davidson (OH)
DesJarlais
Diaz-Balart
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Estes
Ferguson
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Flores
Fortenberry
Foxx (NC)
Fulcher
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Gonzalez (OH)
Gooden
Gosar
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Griffith
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Hagedorn
Harris
Hartzler
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Higgins (LA)
Hill (AR)
Holding
Hollingsworth
Hudson
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Katko
Keller
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamborn
Latta
Lesko
Long
Loudermilk
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Marshall
Massie
Mast
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McHenry
McKinley
Meadows
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Mullin
Murphy (NC)
Newhouse
Norman
Nunes
Olson
Palazzo
Palmer
Pascrell
Pence
Perry
Posey
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (SC)
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rooney (FL)
Rose, John W.
Rouzer
Roy
Rutherford
Scalise
Schweikert
Scott, Austin
Sensenbrenner
Shimkus
Simpson
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smucker
Spano
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stewart
Stivers
Taylor
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Tipton
Turner
Upton
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Watkins
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Wenstrup
Westerman
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Yoho
Young
Zeldin
NOT VOTING—17
Bass
Beatty
Carter (TX)
Cartwright
Davis, Rodney
Gabbard
Hice (GA)
Hill (CA)
Huffman
Marchant
McEachin
Moulton
Ryan
Thompson (CA)
Timmons
Williams
Wright
b 1401
So the resolution was agreed to.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION
OF H.R. 823, COLORADO OUTDOOR
RECREATION AND ECONOMY
ACT; PROVIDING FOR CONSIDER-
ATION OF H.R. 1373, GRAND CAN-
YON CENTENNIAL PROTECTION
ACT; PROVIDING FOR CONSIDER-
ATION OF H.R. 2181, CHACO CUL-
TURAL HERITAGE AREA PRO-
TECTION ACT OF 2019; AND PRO-
VIDING FOR PROCEEDINGS DUR-
ING THE PERIOD FROM NOVEM-
BER 1, 2019, THROUGH NOVEMBER
11, 2019
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, the unfin-
ished business is the vote on ordering
the previous question on the resolution
(H. Res. 656) providing for consider-
ation of the bill (H.R. 823) to provide
for the designation of certain wilder-
ness areas, recreation management
areas, and conservation areas in the
State of Colorado, and for other pur-
poses; providing for consideration of
the bill (H.R. 1373) to protect, for cur-
rent and future generations, the water-
shed, ecosystem, and cultural heritage
of the Grand Canyon region in the
State of Arizona, and for other pur-
poses; providing for consideration of
the bill (H.R. 2181) to provide for the
withdrawal and protection of certain
Federal land in the State of New Mex-
ico; and providing for proceedings dur-
ing the period from November 1, 2019,
through November 11, 2019, on which
the yeas and nays were ordered.
The Clerk read the title of the resolu-
tion.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on ordering the previous
question.
This is a 5-minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—yeas 222, nays
191, not voting 18, as follows:
[Roll No. 589]
YEAS—222
Adams
Aguilar
Allred
Axne
Barragán
Bera
Beyer
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brindisi
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Bustos
Butterfield
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Clyburn
Cohen
Connolly
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cunningham
Davids (KS)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Evans
Finkenauer
Fletcher
Foster
Frankel
Fudge
Gaetz
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (TX)
Gottheimer
Green, Al (TX)
Grijalva
Haaland
Harder (CA)
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Higgins (NY)
Himes
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (TX)
Kaptur
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Lamb
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Lowenthal
Lowey
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCollum
McGovern
McNerney
Meeks
Meng
Moore
Morelle
Mucarsel-Powell
Murphy (FL)
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Norcross
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Perlmutter
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Porter
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Rice (NY)
Richmond
Rose (NY)
Rouda
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (WA)
Soto
Spanberger
Speier
Stanton
Stevens
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Thompson (MS)
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Trahan
Trone
Underwood
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watson Coleman
Welch
Wexton
Wild
Wilson (FL)
Yarmuth
NAYS—191
Abraham
Aderholt
Allen
Amash
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Bergman
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (NC)
Bishop (UT)
Bost
Brady
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Byrne
Calvert
Carter (GA)
Chabot
Cheney
Cline
Cloud
Cole
Collins (GA)
Comer
Conaway
Cook
Crawford
Crenshaw
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:40 Oct 30, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00016 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A29OC7.009 H29OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8559
October 29, 2019
Curtis
Davidson (OH)
Davis, Rodney
DesJarlais
Diaz-Balart
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Estes
Ferguson
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Flores
Fortenberry
Foxx (NC)
Fulcher
Gallagher
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Gonzalez (OH)
Gooden
Gosar
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Griffith
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Hagedorn
Harris
Hartzler
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Higgins (LA)
Hill (AR)
Holding
Hollingsworth
Horn, Kendra S.
Hudson
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Katko
Keller
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamborn
Latta
Lesko
Long
Loudermilk
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Marshall
Massie
Mast
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McHenry
McKinley
Meadows
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Mullin
Murphy (NC)
Newhouse
Norman
Nunes
Olson
Palazzo
Palmer
Pence
Perry
Posey
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (SC)
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rooney (FL)
Rose, John W.
Rouzer
Roy
Rutherford
Scalise
Schweikert
Scott, Austin
Sensenbrenner
Shimkus
Simpson
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smucker
Spano
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stewart
Stivers
Taylor
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Tipton
Torres Small
(NM)
Turner
Upton
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Watkins
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Wenstrup
Westerman
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Yoho
Young
Zeldin
NOT VOTING—18
Bass
Beatty
Carter (TX)
Cartwright
Gabbard
Hice (GA)
Hill (CA)
Huffman
Jordan
Marchant
McEachin
Moulton
Ratcliffe
Ryan
Thompson (CA)
Timmons
Williams
Wright
b 1409
So the previous question was ordered.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr.
CUELLAR). The question is on the reso-
lution.
The question was taken; and the
Speaker pro tempore announced that
the ayes appeared to have it.
Mrs. LESKO. Mr. Speaker, on that I
demand the yeas and nays.
The yeas and nays were ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. This is a
5-minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—yeas 221, nays
187, not voting 23, as follows:
[Roll No. 590]
YEAS—221
Adams
Aguilar
Allred
Axne
Barragán
Bera
Beyer
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brindisi
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Bustos
Butterfield
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Clyburn
Cohen
Connolly
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cunningham
Davids (KS)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Evans
Finkenauer
Fletcher
Foster
Fudge
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (TX)
Gottheimer
Green, Al (TX)
Grijalva
Haaland
Harder (CA)
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Higgins (NY)
Himes
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (TX)
Kaptur
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Lamb
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Lowenthal
Lowey
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCollum
McGovern
McNerney
Meeks
Meng
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Murphy (FL)
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Norcross
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Perlmutter
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Porter
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Rice (NY)
Richmond
Rose (NY)
Rouda
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (WA)
Soto
Spanberger
Speier
Stanton
Stevens
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Thompson (MS)
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Underwood
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Waters
Watson Coleman
Welch
Wexton
Wild
Wilson (FL)
Yarmuth
NAYS—187
Abraham
Aderholt
Allen
Amash
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Bergman
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (NC)
Bishop (UT)
Bost
Brady
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Byrne
Calvert
Carter (GA)
Chabot
Cheney
Cline
Cloud
Cole
Collins (GA)
Comer
Conaway
Cook
Crawford
Crenshaw
Curtis
Davidson (OH)
Davis, Rodney
DesJarlais
Diaz-Balart
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Estes
Ferguson
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Flores
Fortenberry
Foxx (NC)
Fulcher
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Gonzalez (OH)
Gooden
Gosar
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Griffith
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Hagedorn
Harris
Hartzler
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Higgins (LA)
Hill (AR)
Holding
Hollingsworth
Hudson
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Katko
Keller
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamborn
Latta
Lesko
Long
Loudermilk
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Marshall
Massie
Mast
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McHenry
McKinley
Meadows
Meuser
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Mullin
Murphy (NC)
Newhouse
Norman
Nunes
Olson
Palazzo
Palmer
Pence
Perry
Posey
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (SC)
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rooney (FL)
Rose, John W.
Rouzer
Roy
Rutherford
Scalise
Schweikert
Scott, Austin
Sensenbrenner
Shimkus
Simpson
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smucker
Spano
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stewart
Taylor
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Tipton
Turner
Upton
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Watkins
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Wenstrup
Westerman
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Yoho
Young
Zeldin
NOT VOTING—23
Bass
Beatty
Burgess
Carter (TX)
Cartwright
Frankel
Gabbard
Hice (GA)
Hill (CA)
Huffman
Jordan
Marchant
McEachin
Miller
Ratcliffe
Ryan
Scanlon
Stivers
Thompson (CA)
Timmons
Wasserman
Schultz
Williams
Wright
b 1416
So the resolution was agreed to.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
COMMUNICATION FROM THE
CLERK OF THE HOUSE
The SPEAKER pro tempore laid be-
fore the House the following commu-
nication from the Clerk of the House of
Representatives:
OFFICE OF THE CLERK,
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
Washington, DC, October 29, 2019.
Hon. NANCY PELOSI,
The Speaker, House of Representatives,
Washington, DC.
DEAR MADAM SPEAKER: Pursuant to the
permission granted in Clause 2(h) of Rule II
of the Rules of the U.S. House of Representa-
tives, the Clerk received the following mes-
sage from the Secretary of the Senate on Oc-
tober 29, 2019, at 10:58 a.m.:
That the Senate passed S. 134.
With best wishes, I am,
Sincerely,
CHERYL L. JOHNSON.
f
AFFIRMING THE UNITED STATES
RECORD ON THE ARMENIAN
GENOCIDE
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, pursuant
to House Resolution 655, I call up the
resolution (H. Res. 296) affirming the
United States record on the Armenian
Genocide and ask for its immediate
consideration in the House.
The Clerk read the title of the resolu-
tion.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to House Resolution 655, the resolu-
tion is considered read.
The text of the resolution is as fol-
lows:
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:40 Oct 30, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00017 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A29OC7.008 H29OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8560 October 29, 2019
H. RES. 296
Whereas the United States has a proud his-
tory of recognizing and condemning the Ar-
menian Genocide, the killing of 1.5 million
Armenians by the Ottoman Empire from 1915
to 1923, and providing relief to the survivors
of the campaign of genocide against Arme-
nians, Greeks, Assyrians, Chaldeans,
Syriacs, Arameans, Maronites, and other
Christians;
Whereas the Honorable Henry Morgenthau,
United States Ambassador to the Ottoman
Empire from 1913 to 1916, organized and led
protests by officials of many countries
against what he described as the empire’s
‘‘campaign of race extermination’’, and was
instructed on July 16, 1915, by United States
Secretary of State Robert Lansing that the
‘‘Department approves your procedure . . .
to stop Armenian persecution’’;
Whereas President Woodrow Wilson en-
couraged the formation of the Near East Re-
lief, chartered by an Act of Congress, which
raised $116,000,000 (over $2,500,000,000 in 2019
dollars) between 1915 and 1930, and the Sen-
ate adopted resolutions condemning these
massacres;
Whereas Raphael Lemkin, who coined the
term ‘‘genocide’’ in 1944, and who was the
earliest proponent of the United Nations
Convention on the Prevention and Punish-
ment of Genocide, invoked the Armenian
case as a definitive example of genocide in
the 20th century;
Whereas, as displayed in the United States
Holocaust Memorial Museum, Adolf Hitler,
on ordering his military commanders to at-
tack Poland without provocation in 1939, dis-
missed objections by saying ‘‘[w]ho, after all,
speaks today of the annihilation of the Ar-
menians?’’, setting the stage for the Holo-
caust;
Whereas the United States has officially
recognized the Armenian Genocide, through
the United States Government’s May 28, 1951,
written statement to the International
Court of Justice regarding the Convention on
the Prevention and Punishment of the Crime
of Genocide, through President Ronald Rea-
gan’s Proclamation No. 4838 on April 22, 1981,
and by House Joint Resolution 148, adopted
on April 8, 1975, and House Joint Resolution
247, adopted on September 10, 1984; and
Whereas the Elie Wiesel Genocide and
Atrocities Prevention Act of 2018 (Public
Law 115–441) establishes that atrocities pre-
vention represents a United States national
interest, and affirms that it is the policy of
the United States to pursue a United States
Government-wide strategy to identify, pre-
vent, and respond to the risk of atrocities by
‘‘strengthening diplomatic response and the
effective use of foreign assistance to support
appropriate transitional justice measures,
including criminal accountability, for past
atrocities’’: Now, therefore, be it
Resolved, That it is the sense of the House
of Representatives that it is the policy of the
United States to—
(1) commemorate the Armenian Genocide
through official recognition and remem-
brance;
(2) reject efforts to enlist, engage, or other-
wise associate the United States Govern-
ment with denial of the Armenian Genocide
or any other genocide; and
(3) encourage education and public under-
standing of the facts of the Armenian Geno-
cide, including the United States role in the
humanitarian relief effort, and the relevance
of the Armenian Genocide to modern-day
crimes against humanity.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The res-
olution shall be debatable for 1 hour,
equally divided and controlled by the
chair and ranking minority member of
the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
The gentleman from New York (Mr.
ENGEL) and the gentleman from New
Jersey (Mr. SMITH) each will control 30
minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from New York.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I ask unan-
imous consent that all Members may
have 5 legislative days in which to re-
vise and extend their remarks and to
insert extraneous material on H. Res.
296.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from New York?
There was no objection.
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, the resolution before us
is an important measure to set the
record straight on the atrocities suf-
fered by the Armenian people at the
hands the Ottoman Empire in the early
20th century.
We know what happened in this dark
period of history. Between 1915 and
1923, 1.5 million Armenians were mur-
dered. This was a genocide, and it is
important that we call this crime what
it was.
Many American politicians, dip-
lomats, and institutions have rightly
recognized these atrocities as a geno-
cide, including America’s Ambassador
to the Ottoman Empire at the time,
Henry Morgenthau, and later, Presi-
dent Ronald Reagan.
It is time that we set the record
straight. Only by shining a light on the
darkest parts of our history can we
learn to not repeat them. And properly
acknowledging what has occurred is a
necessary step in achieving some meas-
ure of justice for the victims.
H. Res. 296 sticks to the historical
facts. It is a good, commonsense meas-
ure with broad bipartisan support.
I want to thank Mr. SCHIFF, the reso-
lution’s author, as well as Ms. ESHOO,
Ms. SPEIER, Ms. SHALALA, Mr. MCGOV-
ERN, Mr. PALLONE, Mr. BILIRAKIS, Mr.
SMITH, and the many other bipartisan
champions of this issue for their per-
sistent, steadfast pursuit of recogni-
tion for the suffering the Armenian
people endured.
I strongly support this measure, and
I urge all my colleagues to do the
same. With its passage, we put Con-
gress on the right side of history, prop-
erly acknowledging and condemning
this horrific genocide.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. SMITH of New Jersey. Mr.
Speaker, I yield myself such time as I
may consume.
Mr. Speaker, when the term ‘‘geno-
cide’’ was created in 1944 to describe
the systematic destruction of an entire
people. Its author, Raphael Lemkin,
explained the term by saying: ‘‘It’s the
sort of thing Hitler did to the Jews and
the Turks did to the Armenians.’’
When he ordered the invasion of Po-
land in 1939, Adolf Hitler said: ‘‘Who,
after all, speaks today of the annihila-
tion of the Armenians?’’
Mr. Speaker, in the year 2000, and
again in the year 2015, I chaired two
congressional hearings on the Arme-
nian genocide. In 2000, the House was
moving to pass a bipartisan resolution
by Congressmen Radanovich and
Bonior, H. Res. 398.
After hearing fact-based, eloquent
testimony from Congressmen James
Rogan and David Bonior, followed by
the State Department, history profes-
sors, and then witnesses from both the
Armenian and the Turkish side, my
subcommittee successfully marked up
H. Res. 398 for consideration by the full
committee.
Ambassador Marc Grossman, how-
ever, testified at the hearing that
President Bill Clinton was against the
Armenian genocide resolution. That
opposition proved to be very signifi-
cant, and as we were moving with the
highest expectations toward passage,
President Clinton’s National Security
Advisor, Sandy Berger, took the ex-
traordinary step of admonishing
Speaker Hastert not to bring it to the
floor. And he caved. The resolution
never even got a vote.
In 2007, Chairman Tom Lantos, like
Chairman Henry Hyde before him, re-
ported the resolution out of com-
mittee, sponsored by Congressmen
SCHIFF and Radanovich; although it
never got out of the committee in 2000,
but he wanted it to. That was H. Res.
106. That too never made to the floor.
Mr. Speaker, that changes today. The
Affirming the United States RECORD on
the Armenian Genocide, H. Res. 296, is
a sense of Congress resolution that
commemorates the Armenian genocide
through official recognition and re-
membrance.
The resolution wisely notes that the
United States has officially recognized
the Armenian genocide through the
U.S. Government’s May 1951 written
statement to the International Court
of Justice regarding the Convention on
the Prevention and Punishment of the
Crime of Genocide through President
Ronald Reagan’s proclamation, Num-
ber 4838, on April 22, 1981, and by H.J.
Res. 148, adopted in 1975, and H.J. Res.
247, adopted in September of 1984.
The resolution also points out that
the U.S. played a major role in the hu-
manitarian relief efforts and, of course,
the Near East Relief agency saved tens
of thousands of Armenians and others.
As a matter of fact, the historian, How-
ard Sachar, noted it ‘‘quite literally
kept an entire nation alive,’’ and that
is reflected in the resolution.
Yet, today, the Armenian genocide is
the only genocide of the 20th century
where survivors, family, and all those
who care about this important issue,
have been subjected to the ongoing
outrage of a massive, well-funded, ag-
gressive campaign of genocide denial,
openly sustained and lavishly funded
by the State authority, in this case,
the Government of Turkey.
The Turkish Government under-
writes a disgraceful disinformation
campaign to confuse the historical
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:40 Oct 30, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00018 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A29OC7.011 H29OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8561
October 29, 2019
record. It often employs lobbyists in
this town to carry that message for-
ward.
Mr. Speaker, my 2015 hearing marked
the 100th year since the beginning of
the genocide; and I appropriately enti-
tled it: A Century of Denial: The Arme-
nian Genocide and the Ongoing Quest
For Justice.
As Pope Francis said at his Mass
marking the 100th year of genocide:
‘‘Concealing or denying evil is like al-
lowing a wound to keep bleeding with-
out bandaging it.’’
Mr. Speaker, the facts of the geno-
cide were reported throughout the
world as they were happening, corrobo-
rated immediately afterward by sur-
vivors and even some of the perpetra-
tors, and have been amply documented
by the historians, and in one particular
book that I have read, by Ambassador
Morgenthau, who was our U.S. Ambas-
sador contemporaneously, at the time,
to the Ottoman Empire.
In 1915, as we know, there were about
2 million Armenians living in what was
then the Ottoman Empire, now Tur-
key. They were living in the region
that they had inhabited for 2,500 years
or more.
By 1923, however, over 90 percent of
these Armenians had disappeared. Most
of them, an estimated 1.5 million, were
slaughtered. Most of them were death-
marched into the desert, or shot, and
many of the women were raped. The re-
mainder, the remnant was forced into
exile.
U.S. Ambassador Morgenthau wrote:
‘‘When the Turkish authorities gave
the orders for these deportations, they
were merely giving the death warrant
to a whole race; they understood this
well, and, in their conversations with
me, they made no particular attempt
to conceal the fact.’’
The Encyclopedia for the Armenian
Genocide states: ‘‘During the march,
many Armenians were killed indis-
criminately by Ottoman forces, which
left a trail of corpses along the route of
the march. To break the will of the
marchers, the killings were performed
with swords, resulting in great blood-
shed.’’ And as they continued the
march, they were marched into the
Syrian desert where they died from
starvation.
At the Center for Holocaust, Human
Rights & Genocide Education exhibit
at Brookdale Community College,
which my good friend and colleague
from New Jersey, Mr. PALLONE, knows
so well as well, they have many re-
membrances of people in our State and
elsewhere who were survivors.
Well, one of those survivors put it
this way, and I quote her: ‘‘Life was a
matter of trying to survive. Every
morning a cart would come around and
take away the sick and the dead to be
dumped into a common grave. They
had taken my brother because he was a
little sick. My crying and weeping were
of no avail, especially because I was
sick and petrified of being put on the
cart.’’
She was one of the lucky ones who
survived.
Let me remind my colleagues that
the Genocide Convention of 1950, which
the Turkish Government has ratified,
makes clear—here is what the Geno-
cide Convention says, and the Arme-
nian genocide fits this to a T.
The definition says this: ‘‘Genocide
means any of the following acts com-
mitted with intent to destroy, in whole
or in part, a national, ethnical, racial,
or religious group, as such:
Killing members of the group;
Causing serious bodily or mental
harm to members of that group;
Deliberately inflicting on the group
conditions of life calculated to bring
about its physical destruction in whole
or in part. . . . ‘’
b 1430
In the case of the Armenians, it
wasn’t in part. It was in whole. They
wanted the Armenians eviscerated
from the face of the Earth.
Let me just point out to my col-
leagues, despite Turkish Government
threats—and they do make threats. At
my hearing, the Ambassador made
threats in the year 2000. Frank remem-
bers that. It was outrageous.
Well, 28 countries and 49 U.S. States,
including my own State of New Jersey,
have passed a law, resolution, or dec-
laration recognizing the Armenian
genocide.
I ask Members to support this resolu-
tion. It is bipartisan, and it needs to be
done.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I yield 1
minute to the gentleman from Mary-
land (Mr. HOYER), the majority leader.
(Mr. HOYER asked and was given
permission to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. HOYER. Mr. Speaker, I thank
the gentleman from New York (Mr.
ENGEL), the chairman of the com-
mittee, for yielding. I thank Mr. SMITH
for his career-long advocacy of human
rights and protecting the most vulner-
able, not only in this country but
throughout the world.
Mr. SMITH and I had the opportunity
to travel behind the Iron Curtain when
it existed, talking about human rights,
talking about the right to immigrate,
the right to worship, the right to free-
dom of speech. We talked about the
Helsinki Final Act. He and I were both
members of the Helsinki Commission
for a couple of decades together. He
and I visited Turkey together, talking
about particularly the freedom of the
press and how many members and how
many journalists were imprisoned.
Mr. SMITH, Mr. ENGEL, and I, and cer-
tainly Mr. SCHIFF, and so many others
have been supporters of this resolution
for a very long time. It has not come to
the floor. One of my duties as the ma-
jority leader is to bring bills to the
floor, and I am proud, along with the
chairman and the ranking member, to
bring this bill to the floor.
This resolution, Mr. Speaker, recog-
nizes the horrific and systematic ef-
forts to commit genocide against the
Armenian people a century ago. There
can be no denial of the Armenian geno-
cide, which is evidenced by historical
documentation and the emotional scars
still borne by the descendants of its
survivors. It was a campaign of ethnic
cleansing committed by the Ottoman
Empire during and after the First
World War, and it led to the deaths of
1.5 million Armenians alongside other
targeted groups.
Mr. Speaker, Mr. SMITH referenced
Ambassador Morgenthau, who was our
Ambassador at this period of time. He
said this: ‘‘When the Turkish authori-
ties gave the orders for these deporta-
tions, they were merely giving the
death warrant to a whole race; they un-
derstood this well, and in their con-
versations with me, they made no par-
ticular attempt to conceal the fact.’’
He went on to say: ‘‘I am confident
that the whole history of the human
race contains no such horrible episode
as this.’’ Of course, we were, tragically,
to see an even greater Holocaust, in
terms of numbers of lives lost, just
some 30 years later.
In addition, Mr. Speaker, the British
Ambassador to the United States, in an
October 1915 speech, said this: ‘‘The
massacres are the result of a policy
which, as far as can be ascertained, has
been entertained for some considerable
time’’—I want to read this language—
‘‘considered for some considerable time
by the gang of unscrupulous adven-
turers who are now in possession of the
Government of the Turkish Empire.
They hesitated to put it in practice
until they thought the favorable mo-
ment had come, and that moment
seems to have arrived about the month
of April.’’
The reason I bring that up is this res-
olution is not anti the present Turkish
Government. The sanctions bill will
stand for that. This is about something
that happened historically, that if not
recognized may well happen again.
When you say, ‘‘Never again,’’ you
must recognize what the ‘‘never again’’
is.
I have talked to Turkish Ambas-
sadors and others for over a quarter of
a century as a Member of the Congress
of the United States and said to them
this is not about your government; this
is about, as the British Ambassador
says, a gang of thugs who took over
your government over 100 years ago.
I regret that our Turkish friends
have not recognized this as our German
friends have recognized their genocide
and said this was wrong because if they
tell their people this is wrong, it is
more likely that it will not be re-
peated.
Mr. Speaker, as the House joins in
condemnation of that genocide and me-
morializes its victims, let us also keep
our attention focused on populations
today that are being subjected to eth-
nic cleansing and forced relocation.
From the Rohingya to the Uighurs,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:40 Oct 30, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00019 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K29OC7.043 H29OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8562 October 29, 2019
from the people in Darfur to the Kurd-
ish population being forced from their
homes in Syria as we speak, we must
declare, loudly and clearly: Never
again. Never again. Sadly, ‘‘never’’ is
now.
In particular, our Kurdish allies, who
fought so courageously to help us de-
feat ISIS, are being forced to leave
their homes by Turkey’s campaign to
seize control of northern Syria. Let to-
day’s action in this House be a re-
minder, Mr. Speaker, to President
Erdogan and his government: The
United States is watching. The Amer-
ican people will not turn our eyes
away. Neither will we turn our eyes
away from the millions of others in
Syria who have been displaced and the
hundreds of thousands who have been
killed, who have been bombed, gassed,
and brutalized by the Assad regime and
its enablers.
That is why it is important to recog-
nize the genocide perpetrated against
the Armenian people so that we will
recognize other such actions, which be-
cause of their race or their color or
their ethnicity or some other distinc-
tion subject them to mass murder.
Mr. Speaker, we need to let the
American people’s Representatives
give a clear message to our Armenian
brothers and sisters, to our Kurdish
brothers and sisters: We see you. We
will not abandon you. Never again.
Mr. SMITH of New Jersey. Mr.
Speaker, I yield myself 1 minute.
I thank my colleague and good
friend, Mr. HOYER, for his comments.
We did travel so many times to the So-
viet Union, to the Eastern Bloc coun-
tries, and to Turkey. We raised issues
methodically, persistently. But this
issue has always been one of those un-
resolved, festering sores that if we
could get it right—and this House
going on record I think is the begin-
ning of that process. So I thank him
for his leadership over these years, for
his friendship, and, above all, for that
very eloquent statement.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I yield 5
minutes to the gentleman from Cali-
fornia (Mr. SCHIFF), the author of this
important resolution, the vice chair of
the Congressional Armenian Caucus,
and the chair of the Permanent Select
Committee on Intelligence.
Mr. SCHIFF. Mr. Speaker, I thank
the gentleman for yielding.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support
of H. Res. 296, which I introduced along
with Representative BILIRAKIS to rec-
ognize and commemorate the Arme-
nian genocide.
This is a vote that I have fought for
19 years to cast. My wonderful col-
leagues, ANNA ESHOO and JACKIE
SPEIER, have fought far longer than I
have. It is one that tens of thousands of
my constituents, my Armenian Amer-
ican constituents, have waited decades
to see. It is a moment that so many
have worked and struggled and prayed
for, a moment when the House of Rep-
resentatives refused to be enlisted in
the cause of genocide denial.
This April would have marked the
104th anniversary of the Armenian
genocide, the systematic murder of 1.5
million Armenians, and the displace-
ment of millions more by the Ottoman
Empire from 1915 to 1923. Many other
religious and ethnic minorities in the
Ottoman Empire met similar fates,
among them the Greeks, Assyrians,
Chaldeans, and others.
More than a century later, it is our
solemn responsibility to remember
those who were lost, to seek justice
and restitution, and to educate Ameri-
cans and those around the world about
the crime of genocide.
The facts of the genocide are horrific
and undisputed by historians. They
were recorded by American diplomats
serving in the Ottoman Empire at the
time who bore witness in official cables
to the annihilation of the Armenian
population in the Ottoman Empire, a
crime that at the time had no name.
Though it lacked a name, there was
no doubt in the observers of the time
that they were witnessing a crime on a
massive and industrial scale. The U.S.
Ambassador to the Ottoman Empire,
Henry Morgenthau, would recall later:
‘‘I am confident that the whole history
of the human race contains no such
horrible episode as this. The great mas-
sacres and persecutions of the past
seem almost insignificant when com-
pared with the sufferings of the Arme-
nian race in 1915.’’
It was only decades later that Raph-
ael Lemkin, a Holocaust survivor,
coined the term ‘‘genocide’’ to describe
the atrocities that have been visited
upon the Jews as well as the Arme-
nians.
I have sat with survivors of the geno-
cide, men and women, their numbers
dwindling year after year, and heard
them recall the destruction of their
lives and the loss of all they had
known. As children, they were forced
from their homes and saw their fami-
lies beaten, raped, and murdered. They
fled across continents and oceans to
build lives in this Nation, in Armenia,
and around the world.
For them and for their descendants,
the word ‘‘genocide’’ is sacred because
it means that the world has not and
will not forget. To deny genocide, on
the other hand, is profane. It is, in the
words of Elie Wiesel, ‘‘a double kill-
ing.’’
Mr. Speaker, it is always the right
time to recognize genocide, but it is
particularly so today. For when we see
the images of terrified Kurdish families
in northern Syria, loading their posses-
sions into cars or carts and fleeing
their homes headed to nowhere except
from Turkish bombs and marauding
militias, how can we truly say the
crimes of a century ago are in the past?
We cannot. We cannot pick and
choose which crimes against humanity
are convenient to speak about. We can-
not cloak our support of human rights
in euphemisms. We cannot be cowed
into silence by a foreign power.
What we can do, what we must do,
Mr. Speaker, is state the facts. We can
say that the Ottoman Empire com-
mitted this grotesque crime against
the Armenians, but their campaign of
extermination failed, and that, above
all, we will never forget and will never
again be silenced.
I am grateful for the leadership of
Mr. ENGEL, Mr. MCCAUL, the gentleman
from Florida (Mr. BILIRAKIS), and the
gentleman from New Jersey (Mr.
SMITH), and so many Members on both
sides of the aisle who have fought for
recognition for decades. I urge every
Member of the House to join today in
supporting H. Res. 296.
Mr. SMITH of New Jersey. Mr.
Speaker, I reserve the balance of my
time.
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I yield 3
minutes to the gentlewoman from Cali-
fornia (Ms. ESHOO), an important lead-
er on these issues for many years.
b 1445
Ms. ESHOO. Mr. Speaker, first I
would like to pay tribute to the chair-
man of the Foreign Affairs Committee,
Mr. ENGEL, for helping to bring this to
the floor; to everyone that is part of,
from both sides of the aisle, the Arme-
nian caucus in the House; and to my
sister, friend, Congresswoman JACKIE
SPEIER, who shares this heritage with
me.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support
of this resolution, H. Res. 296, which af-
firms the Armenian genocide.
This is a historic day in the House of
Representatives, and it is one that I
have been waiting for for 27 years.
Between 1915 and 1923, 1.5 million Ar-
menians—and this is a historical fact
that many people are not aware of,
that there were hundreds of thousands
of Assyrians, Greeks, Arameans,
Maronites, and other Christians who
were systematically slaughtered by the
Ottoman Empire.
This is deeply personal for me. I am
the only Member of Congress of Arme-
nian Assyrian decent and one of only
three of Armenian heritage in the
House of Representatives—I think in
the entire Congress, Senate and House.
Some of you know that I had mem-
bers of my own family who were among
those that perished, and my parents
fled with theirs to America. As my fa-
ther said: The best idea that was ever
born was America.
What all of those who were per-
secuted have in common was that they
were Christians, and that is why they
were hunted down and slaughtered.
This resolution not only honors my
ancestors, but all of those who perished
in the first genocide of the 20th cen-
tury.
The United States has been missing
in action on the honor roll of over two
dozen countries, 14 of which are NATO
allies, and 49 States in our country
that have formally recognized the Ar-
menian genocide. Today, we can end
over 100 years of silence by passing this
resolution.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:40 Oct 30, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00020 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K29OC7.044 H29OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8563
October 29, 2019
Mr. Speaker, there is also a historic
parallel as we are considering this reso-
lution, and that is that Turkey is pur-
suing the ethnic cleansing of Kurds in
Syria, as we meet today.
As Pope Francis declared when he
visited the Armenian genocide memo-
rial in Yerevan in 2016: ‘‘Memories
should not be watered down or forgot-
ten; memory is a source of peace and of
the future.’’
So today we remember and we say to
all those who perished: We remember.
We love you.
Mr. Speaker, we set an example for
the young people of our country that
the moral authority of the United
States is well and alive as we pass this
resolution.
Mr. SMITH of New Jersey. Mr.
Speaker, I yield myself 30 seconds.
Mr. Speaker, first of all, I want to
thank ANNA ESHOO for her leadership
throughout many decades on this issue.
It was her idea to bring it up on the
floor today. I want to thank her for
that. Of course she had to work within
the leadership to get it done, but I
thank her for recommending that.
Mr. Speaker, I want to remind Mem-
bers that, in 2018, ANNA ESHOO and I
wrote the Iraq and Syria Genocide Re-
lief and Accountability Act. It was
signed by President Trump into law.
That provided two things: humani-
tarian relief for the tens of thousands
of Christians and Yazidis fleeing from
ISIS; it also provided an accountability
piece to collect for, hopefully, utiliza-
tion in future court cases against the
perpetrators of these heinous crimes.
So, Mr. Speaker, I want to thank the
gentlewoman for that work that we did
together and, again, for her leadership
on this issue.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I yield 1
minute to the gentlewoman from New
York (Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY), the
acting chairwoman of the Committee
on Oversight and Reform.
Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of New
York. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gen-
tleman for yielding and for his leader-
ship on the committee and for this res-
olution, and also ANNA ESHOO and
Chairman SCHIFF and so many of my
friends and colleagues for their long ef-
forts to pass it on both sides of the
aisle.
As a member of the Congressional
Caucus on Armenian Issues and the
Representative of a large and vibrant
Armenian community in New York
City, I strongly support H. Res. 296, af-
firming the United States’ record on
the Armenian genocide.
104 years ago, 1.5 million Armenians
were murdered by the Ottoman Empire
in the first genocide of the 20th cen-
tury. Ever since, Armenian commu-
nities from across the world, including
those in my district, have been forced
to fight for recognition and justice for
Turkey’s denial in so many ways, from
the illegal invasion of Cypress by Tur-
key to the vicious attacks on Kurds
within and without the borders of Tur-
key.
With our vote today, the United
States takes a long long overdue step
to stop Turkey from hiding the truth
of its actions. The Armenian genocide
must be acknowledged by all, and in
doing so, we can hope to prevent the
next genocide.
Mr. SMITH of New Jersey. Mr.
Speaker, I reserve the balance of my
time.
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I yield 3
minutes to the gentlewoman from Cali-
fornia (Ms. SPEIER), co-chair of the
Congressional Caucus on Armenian
Issues.
Ms. SPEIER. Mr. Speaker, I thank
Chairman ENGEL, Chairman MCCAUL,
and Mr. SMITH, and have a deep sense
of gratitude to Congressman SCHIFF for
introducing H. Res. 296; and to my sis-
ter, my Armenian sister, Congress-
woman ESHOO, for helping us plot this
strategy to get this bill to the floor.
April 24, 1915, is a day that lives in
infamy in the hearts and minds of mil-
lions of Armenians worldwide. It is a
day that I grew up understanding from
my Armenian mother to be one of the
darkest in history. It is the day that
the Ottoman Government embarked on
a systematic slaughter of 1.5 million
Armenians, two-thirds of the Armenian
population.
This genocide is recognized in coun-
tries around the world, including Can-
ada, France, and Germany. It is recog-
nized in 49 States in our Union as the
first genocide of the 20th century, yet
the House of Representatives hasn’t
recognized both that the genocide oc-
curred and that the Ottoman Empire
perpetrated it.
Elie Weisel once called denying geno-
cide—and in particular, the Armenian
genocide—a double killing, because it
not only exterminates a group of peo-
ple, it murders the memory of that
crime. Congress must ensure that
memory is not destroyed and those
lives are honored.
As a child, I listened to my mom
speak of the atrocity with pain and
fear. She is gone now, but her pain
lives on in me to this very day.
By righting this terrible wrong, one
that has festered for far too long, we
are alleviating that pain and sending a
message that history can’t be rewrit-
ten. We are stating, in no uncertain
terms, that America will no longer
abandon Armenians with feeble excuses
made for a so-called ally. We are af-
firming that truth is truth.
Thousands of documents totaling
37,000 pages in the National Archives
support the truth: Armenians were
exterminated by Ottoman forces and
Turkish sympathizers.
In 1918, former President Theodore
Roosevelt sent a letter saying:
Because the Armenian massacre was the
greatest crime of the war, failure to act
against Turkey is to condone it and means
that all talk of guaranteeing future peace is
nonsense.
Usually, these words serve as a gen-
eral warning, but today they apply to
specific ongoing atrocities. We must
not stand silent as Turkey attempts
the ethnic cleansing of the Kurds in
Syria.
Even Russia’s President Putin had
said the Armenian people ‘‘went
through one of the greatest tragedies
in human history.’’
Iran’s former Vice President stated:
‘‘The Ottoman Turkey Government
perpetrated genocide in 1915.’’
If our rivals can talk about this, if
they can take a stand, certainly we
can.
Armenian genocide, we must say it
here: It happened, and it will never
happen again. We must make that com-
mitment.
Mr. SMITH of New Jersey. Mr.
Speaker, I yield such time as he may
consume to the gentleman from Flor-
ida (Mr. BILIRAKIS), the cosponsor of
the resolution.
Mr. BILIRAKIS. Mr. Speaker, it has
been more than 100 years since the
atrocities committed against innocent
Armenians and other ethnic and reli-
gious minorities at the hands of the
Ottoman Empire.
The Ottoman Empire genocidal cam-
paign from 1915 to 1923 killed 1.5 mil-
lion Armenians, men and women and
children, as well as Greeks, Assyrians,
Chaldeans, and Syriacs throughout a
series of executions and death marches.
Finally, today, we are entering into
the United States RECORD the Arme-
nian genocide and the historical fact.
Today, we end a century of inter-
national silence. There will not be an-
other period of indifference or inter-
national ignorance to the lives lost to
systematic murder.
Genocides, wherever and whenever
they occur, cannot be ignored, whether
they took place in the 20th century by
the Ottoman Turks or mid-20th cen-
tury by the Third Reich and in Darfur.
Genocide must be acknowledged for
what it is: a scourge on the human
race.
Genocide is genocide, Mr. Speaker,
even if our so-called strategic allies
perpetrated it.
President Ronald Reagan explicitly
referred to the Ottoman Empire’s ac-
tions as the genocide of the Armenians
in a 1981 Holocaust Remembrance Day
speech.
Over 30 nations have formally recog-
nized the genocide, including France,
Germany, and even Russia. Today, Mr.
Speaker, the United States is going to
acknowledge it as well.
I found Pope Francis’ words and ex-
plicit use of the term ‘‘genocide’’ to be
another wake-up call for the world. We
must acknowledge the atrocities of the
past so that we might, hopefully, pre-
vent them in the future.
Our darkest moments as a human
race have come during times when
those who knew better stood silently,
making excuses for passivity and al-
lowing injustice and persecution to
reign.
Turkey’s current actions in northern
Syria against our Kurdish allies is ex-
tremely concerning, and we cannot
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:40 Oct 30, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00021 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K29OC7.046 H29OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8564 October 29, 2019
stand by and let egregious human
rights violations happen. Turkey’s of-
fensive into Syria is unacceptable be-
havior from a U.S. ally and so-called
secular democracy, as well as a NATO
member. It is simply deplorable, Mr.
Speaker.
We also need to make sure that other
genocidal campaigns being waged in
the Middle East are also properly rec-
ognized. ISIS is a perpetrator of geno-
cide. Christians and other minorities
are being killed solely because of their
religion, and no modern society should
sit silently in the face of such barbaric
brutality.
Again, I am thankful that we are fi-
nally recognizing these atrocities and
these acts against the Armenian peo-
ple. Like the earliest Christians, the
Armenians proved themselves not only
survivors of persecution, but also mas-
ters of their destinies.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
support this bill.
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I yield 2
minutes to the gentleman from Cali-
fornia (Mr. SHERMAN), the chairman of
the Subcommittee on Asia, the Pacific,
and Nonproliferation on our Foreign
Affairs Committee. He has been a lead-
er on this issue for years.
b 1500
Mr. SHERMAN. American honor de-
mands that we end our complicity in
genocide denial.
Four arguments are made against
this resolution:
The first is that it is not true. No one
can even make that argument any-
more. 1.5 million Armenians and count-
less Syrians, Greeks, and others mas-
sacred by the Ottoman Government.
Second, they argue that Turkey is
such a great ally that we should turn a
blind eye to what happened last cen-
tury. Earlier this month, Turkish
forces shelled both to the left and to
the right of American military bases.
American soldiers fled in unseemly
haste. What a great ally Turkey is.
Then we were told: Well, the Foreign
Affairs Committee hasn’t had hearings.
We have had countless hearings on this
for decades, including, also, a 4-hour
markup where we passed it through the
committee, and the only argument
made on the other side there was Tur-
key was such a great ally. Well, last
week, we had hearings in our com-
mittee that demonstrate that Turkey
is not such a great ally of the United
States.
And, finally, we were told—and this
is insulting, I think—during the rules
debate by someone arguing against the
rule that it is not worth our time: 1.5
million dead.
The fact is that genocide denial is
the last act of a genocide. First, you
obliterate a people; then you obliterate
their memory; and, finally, you seek to
obliterate the memory of the oblitera-
tion.
And, also, genocide denial is the first
step in the next genocide. When Hit-
ler’s cadres wondered whether they
could get away with the Holocaust, he
was able to reassure them by saying:
Who today speaks of the annihilation
of the Armenians?
Denying genocide in the past will
lead to more genocides in the future.
Today, Germany is a great and pros-
perous democracy because it has come
to grips with its own past. Where would
Germany be today if it denied the Hol-
ocaust?
Turkey will become a prosperous and
a modern nation only when it recog-
nizes the first genocide of the 20th cen-
tury. The best thing we could do for
Turkey is to acknowledge the genocide
and urge them to do likewise.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
time of the gentleman has expired.
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I reserve
the balance of my time.
Mr. SMITH of New Jersey. Mr.
Speaker, I yield 11⁄2 minutes to the gen-
tleman from California (Mr. SHERMAN).
Mr. SHERMAN. Mr. Speaker, I thank
the gentleman for yielding, and this is,
indeed, a bipartisan speech.
The fact is that many other coun-
tries have recognized this genocide,
and they have done so under tremen-
dous Turkish pressure. For example,
France was told that they would not be
able to export to Turkey if they recog-
nized the genocide. They did, and, in
the subsequent 6 years, French exports
to Turkey quadrupled.
This genocide has been recognized by
Argentina, Germany, Italy, Belgium,
and the list goes on and on. It is time
for America to also recognize the
truth.
I look forward to the day, which is
not true today, when scholars and indi-
viduals in Turkey can talk about the
genocide and can come to grips with
their own past instead of being threat-
ened with incarceration for even men-
tioning this debate, because Turkey
will not have the rule of law and de-
mocracy until you are free to discuss
the first genocide of the 20th century
on Turkish soil.
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I yield 1
minute to the gentleman from Rhode
Island (Mr. CICILLINE), a valued mem-
ber of the Foreign Affairs Committee.
Mr. CICILLINE. Mr. Speaker, I rise
in support of H. Res. 296, a resolution
introduced by my friend Mr. SCHIFF to
recognize the horror of the genocide
perpetuated against the Armenian peo-
ple by the Ottoman Empire between
1913 and 1925, killing 1.5 million mar-
tyrs.
There is no question that the Otto-
man Empire carried out a systemic
campaign of persecution, forced re-
moval, starvation, and murder against
Armenians, along with other Christian
minorities living under Ottoman rule.
This campaign was documented in
realtime by American diplomats and
has been acknowledged in various
forms by previous administrations and
Congresses, the last in 1984.
In order to prevent future genocides
and mass atrocities, it is vital that we
never forget those that have already
occurred. For too long, we have al-
lowed foreign interests to lobby the
United States in favor of turning the
other way and not wholly recognizing
the truth of the Armenian genocide.
That ends today.
In Rhode Island, we have a very
proud Armenian community that has
demonstrated extraordinary resilience.
They deserve for Congress to acknowl-
edge the history of their people and the
truth of the Armenian genocide. That
will happen today.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
support this resolution.
Mr. SMITH of New Jersey. Mr.
Speaker, I reserve the balance of my
time.
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I yield 1
minute to the gentleman from Cali-
fornia (Mr. COSTA), another wonderful
member of the Foreign Affairs Com-
mittee.
Mr. COSTA. Mr. Speaker, I am proud
to support H. Res. 296, which would es-
tablish permanent United States rec-
ognition and the ongoing remembrance
of the Armenian genocide.
I thank Chairman ENGEL, Ranking
Member MCCAUL, Mr. SMITH, and all of
the supporters of this resolution.
In 1915, the Ottoman Empire, as we
all know, embarked upon the system-
atic deportation and murder of 1.5 mil-
lion Armenians. These innocent men,
women, and children became the first
genocide, as we know, in the 20th cen-
tury.
Many of these survivors settled in
my district in the San Joaquin Valley,
where they lived and their children
have enjoyed the blessings of liberty
and lived the American Dream. This in-
credible, diverse valley that I have the
honor to represent we sometimes refer
to as the Land of William Saroyan, a
noted Armenian author. And Fresno
State University is the only university
in the United States that has a memo-
rial dedicated to the Armenian geno-
cide, a very moving memorial to their
ancestors.
Yet, this brutal atrocity has not re-
ceived the official recognition it de-
serves. So, today, it is proper and fit-
ting that we do so.
This is a moral issue. I call upon my
colleagues to join me and more than
110 cosponsors in supporting this long
overdue passage by the United States
House of Representatives.
Mr. Speaker, the horrors of the Ar-
menian genocide can never, ever, ever
be undone. Yet, by acknowledging the
suffering of the victims through offi-
cial recognition of the Armenian geno-
cide, we can ensure that at least future
generations will never forget.
Mr. SMITH of New Jersey. Mr.
Speaker, I continue to reserve the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, it is now
my pleasure to yield 1 minute to the
gentleman from California (Mr. TED
LIEU), another respected member of the
Foreign Affairs Committee.
Mr. TED LIEU of California. Mr.
Speaker, I thank Chairman ENGEL and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:40 Oct 30, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00022 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K29OC7.047 H29OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8565
October 29, 2019
Congressman SMITH for their leader-
ship.
The United States of America should
never be afraid to tell the truth, and
yet, for too long, we did not recognize
the Armenian genocide. That ends
today. The House of Representatives is
going to formally recognize the Arme-
nian genocide.
Over a century ago, the Ottoman Em-
pire began a plan to systematically ex-
terminate Armenians from their land.
1.5 million Armenians were killed
across the Turkish countryside. No
amount of revisionist history or lob-
bying can change those facts.
Today is a historic today. Today, we
tell the truth and we honor the Arme-
nian genocide.
Mr. SMITH of New Jersey. Mr.
Speaker, I continue to reserve the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, it is now
my honor to yield 1 minute to the gen-
tlewoman from California (Ms. PELOSI),
the Speaker of the House.
Ms. PELOSI. Mr. Speaker, I thank
the gentleman for yielding, and, more
importantly, I thank him for bringing
this very important legislation to the
floor today.
I thank Mr. SMITH for his ongoing
commitment to justice in the world in
terms of respecting the dignity and
worth of people and not ignoring atroc-
ities when they happen, now and a long
time ago. It is a pleasure to work with
him always.
Mr. Speaker, we have tried this bill
out of committee more than one time,
and now it has come to the floor. It is
an honor to speak on it, and it is a
great day for the Congress that we
have that privilege.
Mr. Speaker, I rise to join my col-
leagues in solemn remembrance of one
of the great atrocities of the 20th cen-
tury, the systematic murder of more
than 1.5 million Armenian men,
women, and children by the Ottoman
Empire.
Too often, tragically, the truth of
this staggering crime has been denied.
Today, let us clearly state the facts on
the floor of this House to be etched for-
ever into the CONGRESSIONAL RECORD:
The barbarism committed against the
Armenian people was a genocide.
As international observers wrote at
the time, it was a ‘‘campaign of race
extermination,’’ one that we as Mem-
bers of Congress and as freedom-loving
people have a moral obligation to
never forget.
If we ignore history, then we are des-
tined to witness the mistakes of the
past be repeated. The recent attacks by
the Turkish military against the Kurd-
ish people are a stark and brutal re-
minder of the danger in our own time.
That is why it is critical, year in and
year out, to reaffirm our dedication to
recognizing the Armenian genocide and
to placing the U.S. Congress firmly on
the side of honesty in our history.
For that, I thank Chairman SCHIFF,
Chairman ENGEL, Congresswoman
ESHOO, Armenian Caucus Co-chairs
PALLONE and SPEIER, and all who have
worked relentlessly on this critical res-
olution, which states that Democrats
and Republicans join to:
‘‘Commemorate the Armenian geno-
cide through official recognition and
remembrance;
‘‘Reject efforts to enlist, engage, or
otherwise associate the United States
Government with denial of the Arme-
nian genocide or any other genocide;
and
‘‘Encourage education and public un-
derstanding of the facts of the Arme-
nian genocide, including the United
States role in the humanitarian relief
effort, and the relevance of the Arme-
nian genocide to modern-day crimes
against humanity.’’
To honor the memory of those lost
and the suffering of those who sur-
vived, we firmly and unequivocally de-
nounce all attempts to devalue or min-
imize these heinous crimes.
Mr. Speaker, I urge a strong vote for
this resolution, which is a statement to
America’s commitment to human
rights and to the truth.
We are blessed in our country with a
large Armenian American population,
some serving—Congresswoman SPEIER,
Congresswoman ESHOO, and others—in
this House. Every year, we come to-
gether to observe the sadness of the
genocide, but today, Mr. Speaker, we
have the opportunity. And may we
have the strength and courage to al-
ways denounce hate, violence, and big-
otry; to right the wrongs of history;
and to build a future of hope, peace,
and freedom for all mankind. That is
who we are as Americans.
Mr. Speaker, I thank the chairman
and others for giving us the oppor-
tunity to state our values.
Mr. SMITH of New Jersey. Mr.
Speaker, I continue to reserve the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I yield 2
minutes to the gentleman from New
Jersey (Mr. PALLONE), the co-chair of
the congressional Armenian caucus,
who has, for many, many years, been at
the forefront of championing this very
important resolution.
Mr. PALLONE. Mr. Speaker, I thank
Mr. ENGEL for all of his work on this,
and I, of course, thank all of the mem-
bers of the Armenian caucus. One of
the reasons that we founded the Arme-
nian caucus was the recognition of the
Armenian genocide.
But I also have to mention that, I
think, as everyone knows, without
Speaker PELOSI, this would never have
come to the floor today. It is, ulti-
mately, her decision to bring it to the
floor, and I want to thank her im-
mensely.
Official recognition of the Armenian
genocide is a powerful reminder that
we will not turn away when we know
full well that crimes against humanity
have been perpetrated. We stand here
today to pay tribute to the victims of
this horrific chapter of history, to the
perseverance of those who survived,
and to the Americans of Armenian de-
scent who continue to strengthen our
country.
b 1515
It is our duty to honor that history
with an honest, factual statement rec-
ognizing the massacre of 1.5 million Ar-
menians as the 20th century’s first
genocide. This resolution cannot undo
the horrors that the victims endured or
the pain that their descendants carry
with them, but we have an obligation
to speak candidly about the past. That
is directly tied to our moral respon-
sibilities of the present.
The United States must never accept
crimes against humanity, and we must
do everything in our power to prevent
and stop atrocities unfolding in real
time.
What is currently taking place in
Syria—the killing of the Kurds at the
hands of the Turkish President
Erdogan—is unacceptable, and it is far
past time for the Turkish Government
to accept its responsibility for the sys-
tematic extermination of Armenians in
the past century and to commit to pro-
tect the dignity of every human life in
this century.
I encourage my colleagues to join in
supporting this long overdue recogni-
tion of the Armenian genocide. Mr.
Speaker, your vote is not only for the
Armenians but to prevent genocide in
the future.
Let us note that the Ottoman Turks
did not succeed. The Armenians are
still here in the United States, in the
Republic of Armenia, in Artsakh, and
the American people and their Rep-
resentatives will continue to be with
you.
Mr. SMITH of New Jersey. Mr.
Speaker, I reserve the balance of my
time.
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I yield 1
minute to the gentlemen from Mary-
land (Mr. SARBANES).
Mr. SARBANES. Mr. Speaker, I
thank the gentleman for yielding.
Today the House of Representatives
will affirm, finally, that we recognize
the horrors of the Armenian genocide
and are committed to remembering the
victims of this crime against human-
ity.
Our moral standing in the world re-
quires us to acknowledge the truth of
the Armenian genocide. For too long,
we have acquiesced in Turkey’s policy
of genocide denial, unwilling to risk
the ire of our so-called ally.
However, Turkey’s actions against
the Kurds in Syria have reinforced
what many of us have long known:
Erdogan’s Turkey does not stand for
human rights or religious freedom, but
instead spreads authoritarianism wher-
ever it goes. Erdogan’s disdain for de-
mocracy and contempt for an ally was
on display 2 years ago when his body-
guards attacked peaceful demonstra-
tors right here in our Nation’s Capital.
I am pleased that later today the
House will vote to impose sanctions on
Turkey for its actions in Syria. This
resolution and that bill are tied to-
gether. They are both powerful state-
ments that we respect fundamental
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:40 Oct 30, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00023 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K29OC7.049 H29OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8566 October 29, 2019
human rights and that we desire to
stand on the right side of history.
Mr. SMITH of New Jersey. Mr.
Speaker, I reserve the balance of my
time.
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I yield 1
minute to the gentlewoman from
Michigan (Mrs. LAWRENCE).
Mrs. LAWRENCE. Mr. Speaker,
today, finally, a congressional resolu-
tion that will pay tribute to the Arme-
nian, the Syrian, the Greek, the
Chaldean, and other lives lost, and the
determination of those who survive.
To many Americans of Armenian de-
scent who continue to strengthen our
country today, we honor those con-
tributions with an honest statement of
history, recognizing the massacre of 1.5
Armenians as the 20th century’s first
genocide.
In the spirit of honoring these vic-
tims, I am proud to cosponsor H. Res.
296, an official recognition of the Arme-
nian genocide.
Mr. SMITH of New Jersey. Mr.
Speaker, I reserve the balance of my
time.
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I yield 1
minute to the gentlewoman from Texas
(Ms. JACKSON LEE).
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker, I
thank the gentleman and acknowledge
Mr. SCHIFF and my dear friend, ANNA
ESHOO, and all of those, Mr. PALLONE,
and of all the Members who have stood
tall and strong, Mr. SMITH and Mr.
ENGEL, for this very important state-
ment.
Let me, as a member of the Arme-
nian Caucus, indicate that I rise with a
heavy heart, but I rise with an appre-
ciation and an excitement that we have
come to this point.
It is important to acknowledge that
as this was occurring, the United
States’ record on the Armenian geno-
cide goes back more than a century, in
fact, to July 16, 1915, when Henry Mor-
genthau, United States Ambassador to
the Ottoman Empire from 1913 to 1916,
organized and led protests by officials
of many countries against what he de-
scribed as the empire’s campaign of
race extermination. He was instructed
on July 16, 1915, by United States Sec-
retary of State Robert Lansing that
the ‘‘department approves your proce-
dure . . . to stop Armenian persecu-
tion.’’
I rise in support of finally having this
Nation take this stand. Bloodshed and
genocide should not be tolerated no
matter how long we have come to that.
And so I stand with the words that we
now, therefore, will commemorate as
the United States of America the Ar-
menian genocide through official rec-
ognition and remembrance. We will re-
ject efforts to enlist, engage, or other-
wise associate the United States Gov-
ernment with the denial of the Arme-
nian genocide or any other genocide.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
time of the gentlewoman has expired.
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I yield the
gentlewoman from Texas an additional
30 seconds.
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker, I
am reminded of the time both Mr.
ENGEL, Mr. SMITH, and I traveled to the
Sudanese Embassy to protest the geno-
cide in Darfur. We can do no less.
It is not just 10 years ago, it is more
than 100 years ago, at least, that we
saw this genocide. There is no embassy
that maybe will arrest us now, but I
say to Turkey: It is finally time for
you to acknowledge this genocide.
Tragically, you have restarted and re-
ignited the dastardly acts of genocide
against the Kurds.
I am glad today on this day that we
are acknowledging that one genocide
can be no worse than another genocide.
Silence on one genocide is silence on
all genocides.
Mr. Speaker, I stand here today to
support H. Res. 296 to acknowledge the
Armenian genocide by the United
States of America.
Mr. Speaker, as a senior member of the
Committees on the Judiciary and on Home-
land Security, and as a sponsor of the legisla-
tion, I rise in strong support of H. Res. 296, a
resolution ‘‘Affirminq the United States Record
on the Armenian Genocide,’’ and I thank Mr.
SCHIFF, the gentleman from California and the
Chairman of the House Permanent Select
Committee on Intelligence, and Mr. ENGEL, the
Chairman of the House Committee on Foreign
Affairs for their collaboration and hard work in
bringing this important legislation to the floor.
Mr. Speaker, the United States record on
the Armenian Genocide goes back more than
a century, in fact to July 16, 1915, when
Henry Morgenthau, United States Ambassador
to the Ottoman Empire from 1913 to 1916, or-
ganized and led protests by officials of many
countries against what he described as the
empire’s ‘‘campaign of race extermination’’,
and was instructed on July 16, 1915, by
United States Secretary of State Robert Lan-
sing that the ‘‘Department approves your pro-
cedure . . . to stop Armenian persecution.’’
The United States has a proud history of
recognizing and condemning the Armenian
Genocide, the killing of 1.5 million Armenians
by the Ottoman Empire from 1915 to 1923
and providing relief to the survivors of the
campaign of genocide against Armenians,
Greeks, Assyrians, Chaldeans, Syriacs,
Arameans, Maronites, and other Christians.
Mr. Speaker, the Armenian Genocide rep-
resents the first genocide of the 20th Century,
where Ottoman Turkish authorities ordered the
systematic annihilation of more than 1.5 mil-
lion Armenians, and which Turkey carried out
from 1915 to 1923 through massacres, depor-
tations, and death marches where hundreds of
thousands were herded into the Syrian Desert
to die of thirst and starvation.
Sadly, to this day this chapter of history has
yet to be admitted by the Government of Tur-
key.
Many international observers, including then
Ambassador and later U.S. Treasury Sec-
retary Henry Morgenthau, witnessed the night-
mare firsthand and reported detailed accounts
of the atrocities to their governments.
Respected organizations and eminent schol-
ars and historians agree and recognize the Ar-
menian Genocide, including the Elie Wiesel
Foundation for Humanity and the renowned
International Association of Genocide Schol-
ars.
Their judgments are supported by 53 Nobel
laureates who signed an open letter to the
Government of Turkey on April 9, 2007.
Mr. Speaker, the historical record is clear,
and the Armenian Genocide is a tragic fact.
It must be acknowledged and remembered
so that it will never be repeated.
As a member of the Congressional Caucus
on Armenian Issues, I know that the refusal of
modern-day Turkey to acknowledge one of the
worst examples of man’s inhumanity in the
20th Century haunts survivors of the Armenian
Genocide, as well as their families.
As a Member of Congress, I believe this is
not only an affront to the memory of the vic-
tims and to their descendants, but it does a
disservice to the United States as it seeks to
stand up for the victims of violence today.
The issue of recognizing the Armenian
genocide and helping the Armenian people is
neither a partisan nor geopolitical Issue.
Rather, it is a question of giving the Arme-
nian people the justice they deserve.
In doing so, we affirm the dignity of human-
kind everywhere.
It has been said that ‘‘all it takes for evil to
triumph, is for good men to do nothing.’’
This is one of the reasons I am proud to
have joined with so many of my colleagues in
cosponsoring the resolution affirming the oc-
currence of the Armenian genocide throughout
my career in Congress and I will continue to
do for as long as it takes.
In recognizing the Armenian Genocide, we
do not seek to persecute any person or state;
we seek to build a path that will lead to rec-
onciliation between Armenians and Turks.
In doing so, we will remain true to our na-
tion’s highest aspirations for justice and
peace.
It was President Lincoln who called upon
the ‘‘better angels of our nature’’ when he said
in his Second Inaugural Address that all Amer-
icans should ‘‘do all which may achieve and
cherish a just and lasting peace among our-
selves and with all nations.’’
Mr. Speaker, the Armenian Genocide has
been officially recognized by 42 states, which
have gone on public record rejecting any claim
or assertion that denies the occurrence of one
of history’s worst crimes against humanity.
I believe it is time for us to join these na-
tions in that endeavor by passing H. Res. 296,
the ‘‘Affirmation of the United States Record
on the Armenian Genocide Resolution.’’
Mr. Speaker, I ask for a moment of silence
in memory of the millions of silenced voices
and interrupted lives of those Armenians who
perished between 1915 and 1923 in the geno-
cide committed by the Ottoman Empire.
I urge all Members to join me in voting for
this critically important resolution, H. Res. 296.
Mr. SMITH of New Jersey. Mr.
Speaker, it is my understanding that
there are no further speakers other
than the chairman, and I would like to
close.
Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time
as I may consume.
As I mentioned earlier, the Encyclo-
pedia of the Armenian Genocide states:
During the march many Armenians were
killed indiscriminately by the Ottoman
forces, which left a trail of corpses along the
route of the march. To break the will of the
marchers, they used swords, resulting in
great bloodshed. Marchers who survived
these attacks faced starvation, as no provi-
sions whatsoever were made. Many elderly
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:40 Oct 30, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00024 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K29OC7.051 H29OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8567
October 29, 2019
and infirm marchers died in this way during
the march. This significantly reduced num-
bers of marchers who, upon finally making it
into the Syrian desert, were put into con-
centration camps and then released into the
scorching desert with no food or water and to
a certain death.
Mr. Speaker, despite having ratified
the Genocide Convention back in 1950,
the Turkish Government has waged an
amazingly deceitful campaign of denial
and has done so over the course of dec-
ades using a variety of means to bully,
intimidate, and punish Turkish citi-
zens who dare to acknowledge the
genocide committed by the Ottoman
Empire beginning in 1915.
Ankara also seeks to intimidate na-
tions. Many nations have refused to be
intimidated and to be bullied: Poland,
Germany, the Holy See, Italy, Russia,
France, Holland, Portugal, the Czech
Republic, Denmark, Paraguay, Bolivia,
Brazil, Austria, Bulgaria, the European
Parliament, Luxembourg, Sweden,
Chile, Argentina, Lithuania, Ven-
ezuela, Slovakia, Canada, Uruguay,
Switzerland, Lebanon, Belgium,
Greece, and Cyprus all have come out
strongly and acknowledged the Arme-
nian genocide. We need to do the same
today.
Over the years, several U.S. Presi-
dents have acknowledged the cruelty
and the carnage. But it was Ronald
Reagan who called it an Armenian
genocide. He said: ‘‘Like the genocide
of the Armenians before it, and the
genocide of the Cambodians, which fol-
lowed it—and like too many other per-
secutions of too many other people—
the lessons of the Holocaust must
never be forgotten.’’
To be sure, Presidents Carter, Bush,
Clinton, and Bush, said strong words.
They had strong words to describe it.
President Bush called it the ‘‘forced
exile and the annihilation’’ of 1.5 mil-
lion Armenians.
President Obama had promised to
recognize the genocide but didn’t. A
Los Angeles Times story on April 21,
2015, says it all: ‘‘Armenian hopes
crushed as Obama decides not to use
the word ‘genocide’.’’
It does matter, Mr. Speaker. Geno-
cide is a very precise term. It has real
meaning in international law because
of the Genocide Convention, and all
Presidents and Members of Congress, I
hope, will stand up and say that word.
Let me remind my colleagues, be-
cause it is referenced again in the reso-
lution, that back in 1984 we passed a
joint resolution to designate April 24,
1985—it didn’t pass in the Senate, but it
did pass here—and it said in part that
April 24, 1985, is designated as ‘‘Na-
tional Day of Remembrance of Man’s
Inhumanity to Man’’ and authorized
the President to observe the day of re-
membrance for all the victims of geno-
cide, and especially for the 1.5 million
people of Armenian ancestry who were
the victims of genocide perpetrated in
Turkey between 1915 and 1923.
So I say to my colleagues who are
watching, we have gone on record be-
fore. Let’s not be intimidated by Tur-
key, Erdogan, and others.
I would like to say a special thanks
to the tenacious leaders of the Arme-
nian National Committee of America,
the Armenian Assembly and the Arme-
nian diaspora for persistently encour-
aging Congress to step up and pass this
kind of resolution. After a century of
denial, obfuscation, and lies by Turkey,
it is time to affirm and reiterate the
truth of the Armenian genocide and
honor the victims, the survivors, and
their families.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self the balance of my time for the pur-
pose of closing.
Mr. Speaker, the resolution before us
is an important measure for Congress
to set the record straight and to call
out the atrocities suffered by the Ar-
menian people at the hands of the
Ottoman Empire in the early 20th cen-
tury as a genocide.
I, again, want to thank the author of
this measure, Mr. SCHIFF, along with
the many champions for the Armenian
people in the House. I want to con-
gratulate the Armenian American com-
munity which has worked for so many
years to try to get this resolution to
the House floor and then get it passed.
We are really making history today,
and I thank my colleagues on both
sides of the aisle: Mr. SMITH, and all
the others who spoke. I think this is
very important, and I think we will be
sending a very, very strong message all
around the world.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
vote ‘‘yes’’ on this important resolu-
tion, and I yield back the balance of
my time.
Ms. JOHNSON of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to express my concerns with House
Resolution 296, which will be debated on the
House floor today.
This counterproductive resolution does not
tell the full story of the region during World
War I and reopens a wound between Greeks,
Turks, Armenians, Kurds, and other ethnic
groups in the region. Favoring the preferred
storyline of one of these groups without con-
sidering information provided by other ethnic
groups in the region would serve as a failure
on our part to do our due diligence and hear
out all sides on this matter of historic signifi-
cance. No hearings have been held on this
resolution and it has come to the floor without
being marked up by the House Committee on
Foreign Affairs.
Looking into the future, this resolution fails
to help improve relations between the states
of Turkey and Armenia. Last year, the Arme-
nian government annulled normalization proto-
cols that were signed by the two governments
on October 10, 2009. It is in our best national
security interests that we work with both gov-
ernments to help facilitate the revival of the
normalization of relations between the two na-
tions in order to keep the region at peace
without any escalation towards conflict.
Lastly, the passage of this resolution will
only drive our NATO ally, Turkey, into the
open arms of Vladimir Putin and Russia. Al-
ready, the Turkish government has purchased
and taken delivery of the Russian developed
S–400 anti-aircraft weapons system. The inte-
gration of this military system undermines the
commitments made by all NATO allies to
move away from Russian military systems.
Passing this resolution for the sole purpose of
poking Turkey in the eye will only serve as an-
other reason for Turkey to pursue a separation
from NATO.
Mr. Speaker, I will be voting present on
House Resolution 296 as I believe we have
failed to do our due diligence in investigating
this matter and exploring the possible unin-
tended consequences that may arise upon
passage of this resolution.
Mrs. NAPOLITANO. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today in strong support of H. Res. 296, Affirm-
ing the United States record on the Armenian
Genocide. I am honored to have supported
this resolution my entire tenure in Congress.
Although it should not have taken this long,
today is a historic day in that the House is fi-
nally acknowledging the Armenian Genocide,
recognizing the heroic efforts of many in our
government to help the Armenian people, and
honoring the victims of this tragedy.
H. Res. 296 acknowledges the systematic
and deliberate annihilation of millions of Arme-
nians by the Ottoman Empire. The resolution
recognizes the courage and leadership shown
at the time by our ambassador Henry Morgen-
thau, our government, and the American peo-
ple who provided relief and shelter to the vic-
tims of the genocide. Thousands of victims,
mostly women and children, were saved by
the people of our nation who gave humani-
tarian assistance to the refugees.
Many of the Armenians who fled this crisis
immigrated to the United States where they
found the freedom and prosperity that our na-
tion provides. The descendants of these geno-
cide survivors have created the strong, vi-
brant, and patriotic Armenian-American com-
munity that our nation is blessed with today.
We must honor the sacrifice of their fore-
fathers and reaffirm the U.S. record on the Ar-
menian Genocide.
I would like to thank the many advocates in
and outside of Congress who have played an
integral role in ths legislation. Our colleagues
Congressman ADAM SCHIFF and Congressman
FRANK PALLONE have been tireless advocates
for this resolution and should be applauded for
their work in getting us here today. The Arme-
nian-American community has stayed com-
mitted to recognizing the incredible injustice
their ancestors suffered even while many chal-
lenged their bearing witness to the truth.
Armenian-Americans have sought formal
recognition of this genocide, not only to help
heal their own community, but to ensure geno-
cide never happens again. The Armenian-
American community is always first to speak
out regarding modern-day crimes against hu-
manity, such as in Rwanda and Darfur.
Mr. Speaker, like Armenian-Americans I ask
my colleagues to support this resolution, not
only to recognize the genocides of the past,
but to prevent genocide in the future.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. All time
for debate has expired.
Pursuant to House Resolution 655,
the previous question is ordered on the
resolution and the preamble.
The question is on the adoption of
the resolution.
The question was taken; and the
Speaker pro tempore announced that
the ayes appeared to have it.
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, on that I
demand the yeas and nays.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:40 Oct 30, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00025 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K29OC7.052 H29OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8568 October 29, 2019
The yeas and nays were ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, further pro-
ceedings on this question will be post-
poned.
f
b 1530
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER
PRO TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, the Chair
will postpone further proceedings
today on the motions to suspend the
rules on which a recorded vote or the
yeas and nays are ordered, or votes ob-
jected to under clause 6 of rule XX.
The House will resume proceedings
on postponed questions at a later time.
f
PROTECT AGAINST CONFLICT BY
TURKEY ACT
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I move to
suspend the rules and pass the bill
(H.R. 4695) to impose sanctions with re-
spect to Turkey, and for other pur-
poses, as amended.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 4695
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Protect
Against Conflict by Turkey Act’’ or the
‘‘PACT Act’’.
SEC. 2. SENSE OF CONGRESS.
It is the sense of Congress that—
(1) the United States and Turkey have been
treaty allies since 1952, when Turkey became
a member of the North Atlantic Treaty Or-
ganization (NATO);
(2) being a NATO member means that Tur-
key is treaty bound to safeguard the prin-
ciples of democracy, individual liberty, and
the rule of law and, importantly, should be
united with other NATO allies in efforts for
collective defense and the preservation of
peace and security;
(3) Turkey’s military invasion of northern
Syria on October 9, 2019, is an unacceptable
and unnecessary escalation of tensions with
the potential to cause a severe humanitarian
crisis and undo the collective gains made in
the fight against the Islamic State of Iraq
and Syria (ISIS) by the United States and
the 81 countries and organizations of the
Global Coalition to Defeat ISIS, including
NATO and the European Union (EU);
(4) Turkey should immediately cease at-
tacks against the Syrian Democratic Forces
(SDF), Kurdish and Arab civilians, and other
religious and ethnic minority communities
in northern Syria and recall its forces back
to Turkey;
(5) targeted sanctions against Turkey are
an appropriate response in order for Turkey
to be held accountable for its military inva-
sion of northern Syria;
(6) Turkey’s military invasion of northern
Syria is the latest example of the weakening
and problematic United States-Turkey bilat-
eral relationship and undermines the secu-
rity of the United States and its NATO al-
lies, including that of Turkey;
(7) the SDF have been critical partners to
United States and allied counter-ISIS and
broader counterterrorism efforts in Syria,
and the United States should continue this
partnership with the SDF;
(8) the United States Government should
utilize diplomatic and military tools to en-
sure the enduring defeat of ISIS;
(9) the United States should stand by crit-
ical allies and partners;
(10) Russian and Iranian political and mili-
tary influence in Syria present a threat to
United States national security interests;
and
(11) the United States Government, in con-
cert with the international community,
should hold accountable members of the Syr-
ian regime and the Governments of the Rus-
sian Federation and Iran for atrocities
against the Syrian people.
SEC. 3. SANCTIONS AGAINST SENIOR TURKISH
OFFICIALS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 15 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the President shall impose the sanctions de-
scribed in section 14 with respect to the fol-
lowing foreign persons in connection with
Turkey’s military invasion of northern Syria
on October 9, 2019:
(1) The Minister of National Defense of
Turkey.
(2) The Chief of the General Staff of the
Turkish Armed Forces.
(3) The Commander of the 2nd Army of the
Turkish Armed Forces.
(4) The Minister of Treasury and Finance
of Turkey.
(b) ADDITIONAL SANCTIONS.—
(1) LIST.—Not later than 30 days after the
date of the enactment of this Act, the Sec-
retary of State, in consultation with the
Secretary of Defense and the Director of Na-
tional Intelligence, shall submit to the
President and appropriate congressional
committees a list of the following foreign
persons in connection with Turkey’s mili-
tary invasion of northern Syria on October 9,
2019:
(A) Senior Turkish defense officials in-
volved in the decision to invade northern
Syria.
(B) Senior Turkish military officials lead-
ing attacks against the Syrian Democratic
Forces (SDF), Kurdish and Arab civilians, or
other religious or ethnic minority commu-
nities in northern Syria.
(C) Turkish officials significantly facili-
tating Turkey’s military invasion of north-
ern Syria.
(D) Any Turkish official or member of the
Turkish Armed Forces who is responsible
for, complicit in, or has directly or indi-
rectly engaged, or has attempted to engage,
in any of the following relating to Turkey’s
military invasion of northern Syria:
(i) A violation of the law of armed conflict.
(ii) A gross violation of internationally
recognized human rights.
(2) UPDATES.—The list required under para-
graph (1) shall be updated every 60 days,
until the sanctions under this section are
terminated in accordance with section 7.
(3) IMPOSITION OF SANCTIONS.—Not later
than 15 days after submission of the list re-
quired under paragraph (1) and each update
relating thereto in accordance with para-
graph (2), the President shall impose the
sanctions described in section 14 with respect
to foreign persons identified in such list and
related updates.
(c) WAIVER.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The President may waive,
on a case-by-case basis and for a period of
not more than 90 days, the imposition of
sanctions under this section with respect to
a foreign person if the President—
(A) determines that—
(i) it is vital to the national security inter-
ests of the United States to do so; and
(ii) Turkey—
(I) has halted attacks against the SDF,
Kurdish and Arab civilians, and other reli-
gious and ethnic minority communities in
northern Syria; and
(II) is not hindering counter-terrorism op-
erations against ISIS; and
(B) not later than 15 days before issuing
such a waiver, submits to the appropriate
congressional committees a justification re-
lating to such determination.
(2) RENEWAL OF WAIVERS.—The President
may, on a case-by-case basis, renew a waiver
under paragraph (1) for an additional period
of not more than 90 days if, not later than 15
days before such a waiver expires, the Presi-
dent determines it is vital to the national se-
curity interests of the United States to do so
and submits to the appropriate congressional
committees a justification relating to such
determination.
SEC. 4. PROHIBITION ON ARMS TRANSFERS TO
TURKISH MILITARY UNITS IN SYRIA.
(a) PROHIBITION.—No United States defense
articles, defense services, or technology
under the Arms Export Control Act (22
U.S.C. 2751 et seq.) may be transferred to the
Government of Turkey if such articles, serv-
ices, or technology could be used in oper-
ations by the Turkish Armed Forces in
northern Syria.
(b) EXCEPTION.—The prohibition under sub-
section (a) shall not apply to transfers for ul-
timate end use by the United States military
or for use in military operations approved by
the North Atlantic Treaty Organization.
(c) NO USE OF EMERGENCY AUTHORITY.—The
authority of the President to waive statu-
tory congressional review periods under the
Arms Export Control Act in cases in which
an emergency exists shall not apply to the
transfer of defense articles, defense services,
or technology to the Government of Turkey.
SEC. 5. SANCTIONS AGAINST FOREIGN PERSONS
PROVIDING ARMS TO TURKISH
ARMED FORCES IN SYRIA.
(a) REPORT.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 30 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Secretary of State, in consultation with
the Secretary of Defense and the Director of
National Intelligence, shall submit to the
President and appropriate congressional
committees a list of any foreign persons de-
termined to knowingly have provided, on or
after such date of enactment, defense arti-
cles, defense services, or technology (as such
terms are defined and described in the Arms
Export Control Act) to the Government of
Turkey if such articles, services, or tech-
nology could be used in operations by the
Turkish Armed Forces in northern Syria.
(2) UPDATES.—The list required under para-
graph (1) shall be updated every 60 days or as
new information becomes available, until
the sanctions under this section are termi-
nated in accordance with section 7.
(b) IMPOSITION OF SANCTIONS.—The Presi-
dent shall impose the sanctions described in
section 14 with respect to any foreign per-
sons identified on the list and related up-
dates required under subsection (a).
(c) EXCEPTION.—The sanctions imposed
pursuant to this section shall not apply to
transfers for ultimate end use by the United
States military or for use in military oper-
ations approved by the North Atlantic Trea-
ty Organization.
(d) WAIVER.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The President may waive,
on a case-by-case basis and for a period of
not more than 90 days, the imposition of
sanctions under this section with respect to
a foreign person if the President determines
it is important to the national security in-
terests of the United States to do so and, not
later than 15 days before issuing such a waiv-
er, submits to the appropriate congressional
committees a justification relating to such
determination.
(2) RENEWAL OF WAIVERS.—The President
may, on a case-by-case basis, renew a waiver
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:40 Oct 30, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00026 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K29OC7.053 H29OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8569
October 29, 2019
under paragraph (1) for an additional period
of not more than 90 days if, not later than 15
days before such a waiver expires, the Presi-
dent determines it is important to the na-
tional security interests of the United States
to do so and submits to the appropriate con-
gressional committees a justification relat-
ing to such determination.
SEC. 6. TARGETED FOREIGN FINANCIAL SANC-
TIONS.
(a) HALK BANKASI OR HALKBANK.—Not later
than 15 days after the date of enactment of
this Act, the President shall impose the
sanctions described in section 14(1) with re-
spect to Halk Bankas( or Halkbank or any
successor entity thereof.
(b) FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—If the Secretary of State,
in consultation with the Secretary of De-
fense, Secretary of Treasury, and Director of
National Intelligence, determines that any
foreign financial institution, in addition to
the foreign financial institutions specified in
subsection (a), has knowingly facilitated sig-
nificant transactions for the Turkish Armed
Forces or defense industry relating to Tur-
key’s military invasion of northern Syria on
October 9, 2019, the President shall, not later
than 60 days after any such determination,
impose the sanctions described in section
14(1) with respect to any such foreign finan-
cial institution.
(2) WAIVER.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The President may waive,
on a case-by-case basis and for a period of
not more than 90 days, the imposition of
sanctions under this subsection if the Presi-
dent—
(i) determines that—
(I) it is vital to the national security inter-
ests of the United States to do so; and
(II) Turkey—
(aa) has halted attacks against the Syrian
Democratic Forces, Kurdish and Arab civil-
ians, and other religious and ethnic minority
communities in northern Syria; and
(bb) is not hindering counter-terrorism op-
erations against ISIS; and
(ii) not later than 15 days before issuing
such a waiver, submits to the appropriate
congressional committees a justification re-
lating to such determination.
(B) RENEWAL OF WAIVERS.—The President
may, on a case-by-case basis, renew a waiver
under subparagraph (A) for an additional pe-
riod of not more than 90 days if, not later
than 15 days before such a waiver expires,
the President determines it is vital to the
national security interests of the United
States to do so and submits to the appro-
priate congressional committees a justifica-
tion relating to such determination.
SEC. 7. TERMINATION AUTHORITY.
(a) SECTIONS 3, 4, AND 5.—The authority to
impose sanctions under sections 3 and 5 (and
the sanctions imposed pursuant to such sec-
tions) and the prohibitions under section 4
shall terminate if the President determines
and submits to the appropriate congressional
committees a finding that—
(1) Turkey has halted attacks against the
Syrian Democratic Forces, Kurdish and Arab
civilians, and other religious and ethnic mi-
nority communities in northern Syria;
(2) Turkish forces not involved in coordi-
nated operations with NATO allies or the
Global Coalition to Defeat ISIS have with-
drawn from northern Syria; and
(3) Turkey is not hindering counter-ter-
rorism operations against ISIS.
(b) SECTION 6.—The authority to impose fi-
nancial sanctions under section 6 (and the
sanctions imposed pursuant to such section)
shall terminate if the President determines
and submits to the appropriate congressional
committees the finding described in sub-
section (a)(1).
SEC. 8. IMPOSITION OF CERTAIN SANCTIONS
UNDER COUNTERING AMERICA’S AD-
VERSARIES THROUGH SANCTIONS
ACT AGAINST TURKEY.
(a) DETERMINATION.—For the purposes of
section 231 of the Countering America’s Ad-
versaries Through Sanctions Act (22 U.S.C.
9525), Turkey’s acquisition of the Russian S-
400 air and missile defense system beginning
July 12, 2019, shall be considered to be a sig-
nificant transaction described in such sec-
tion.
(b) SANCTIONS.—Not later than 30 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the President shall impose five or more of
the sanctions described in section 235 of the
Countering America’s Adversaries Through
Sanctions Act (22 U.S.C. 9529) with respect to
the Government of Turkey.
SEC. 9. PLANS AND REPORTS TO ADDRESS NA-
TIONAL SECURITY THREATS CAUSED
BY TURKEY’S MILITARY INVASION
OF NORTHERN SYRIA.
Not later than 60 days after the date of the
enactment of this Act—
(1) the Secretary of Defense shall submit to
the appropriate congressional committees—
(A) a plan to ensure that ISIS detainees
and families held in Syria remain under
proper custody, in accordance with inter-
nationally recognized human rights require-
ments, and in a manner that does not threat-
en United States security interests; and
(B) a report on the impact that Turkey’s
military invasion of northern Syria is having
on counterterrorism operations in Syria; and
(2) the Secretary of State shall submit to
the appropriate congressional committees a
plan for how the United States will assist
the Syrian Democratic Forces, Kurdish and
Arab civilians, and other religious and eth-
nic minority communities affected by Tur-
key’s military invasion of northern Syria on
October 9, 2019.
SEC. 10. REPORT ON NET WORTH OF TURKISH
PRESIDENT RECEP TAYYIP
ERDOGAN.
Not later than 120 days after the date of
the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of
State, in consultation with the Secretary of
the Treasury and the Director of National
Intelligence, shall submit to the appropriate
congressional committees a report on the es-
timated net worth and known sources of in-
come of Turkish President Recep Tayyip
Erdoğan and his family members (including
spouse, children, parents, and siblings), in-
cluding assets, investments, other business
interests, and relevant beneficial ownership
information.
SEC. 11. REPORT ON TURKEY’S MILITARY INVA-
SION OF NORTHERN SYRIA.
(a) SENSE OF CONGRESS.—It is the sense of
Congress that—
(1) the Russian Federation and Iran con-
tinue to—
(A) exploit a security vacuum in Syria; and
(B) pose a threat to vital United States na-
tional security interests; and
(2) continued Turkish military activity in-
side Syria will negatively impact the na-
tional security interest and regional sta-
bility of the United States.
(b) REPORT REQUIRED.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 30 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Secretary of State, in consultation with
the Secretary of Defense, the Administrator
of the United States Agency for Inter-
national Development, and the heads of
other appropriate Federal agencies, shall
submit to the appropriate congressional
committees a report on Turkey’s military
invasion of northern Syria on October 9, 2019,
including the impact of the withdrawal of
United States troops from northern Syria.
The Secretary of State shall provide an up-
dated report or briefing to the appropriate
congressional committees as circumstances
warrant.
(2) ELEMENTS OF THE REPORT.—The report,
and any update thereto, required under para-
graph (1) shall include the following ele-
ments:
(A) A description of the impact of Turkey’s
military invasion of northern Syria on the
ability of ISIS to reconstitute a physical ca-
liphate.
(B) A description of the impact of the inva-
sion on the Russian Federation’s military
and political influence in Syria.
(C) A description of the impact of the inva-
sion on Iran’s ability to increase its military
and political influence in Syria.
(D) A comprehensive assessment of the
United States Government’s activities to
counter Iranian and Russian Federation in-
fluence in Syria.
(E) An outline of planned joint actions by
the Department of State and the Department
of Defense, in consultation with the heads of
the other appropriate Federal agencies, re-
garding all stabilization funds or activities
for Syria, and an explanation of how such
funds and activities can contribute to sta-
bilization in the current environment and
without limited United States troop pres-
ence in northern Syria.
(F) The creation and use by the Govern-
ment of Turkey of ‘‘safe zones’’ to justify the
involuntary or uninformed return of Syrian
refugees from Turkey to Syrian territory, to
justify the forced displacement of Syrians
inside Syria, or to prevent Syrians from
seeking international protections.
(G) The role of the Government of Turkey
and Turkish-backed forces in facilitating hu-
manitarian actors, including international
nongovernmental organizations (INGOs), for
cross-border work from Turkey and in ensur-
ing efficient, open supply lines for humani-
tarian assistance and personnel through bor-
der crossing points on the Turkey-Syria and
Iraq-Syria borders, and facilitating safe pas-
sage of humanitarian assistance to Syrians
inside Syria based on need.
(H) The actions of the Government of Tur-
key and Turkish-backed forces in the oper-
ation of all camps for families displaced by
conflict as civilian facilities, and ensuring
that camp residents, in particular women
and children, are treated as civilian victims
of conflict in accordance with international
law and standards.
(I) The actions of the Government of Tur-
key and Turkish-backed forces in taking ef-
fective measures to protect civilians and ci-
vilian infrastructure, including health facili-
ties, water pumping stations, and restricting
use of explosive weapons in populated areas.
SEC. 12. STRATEGY TO PREVENT THE RESUR-
GENCE OF THE ISLAMIC STATE OF
IRAQ AND SYRIA (ISIS) AND ITS AF-
FILIATES.
(a) STRATEGY REQUIRED.—Not later than 60
days after the date of the enactment of this
Act, the Secretary of State, in consultation
with the Secretary of Defense, the Adminis-
trator of the United States Agency for Inter-
national Development, and the heads of
other appropriate Federal agencies, shall
jointly submit to the appropriate congres-
sional committees a strategy to prevent the
resurgence of Islamic State of Iraq and Syria
(ISIS) in Iraq and Syria.
(b) ELEMENTS OF THE STRATEGY.—The
strategy required under subsection (a) shall
include the following elements:
(1) A summary of the United States na-
tional security interests in Iraq and Syria
and the impact a resurgence of ISIS would
have on such interests.
(2) A assessment of current training and
support programs by Federal agency or de-
partment, specifically focused on countering
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:40 Oct 30, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00027 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A29OC7.015 H29OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8570 October 29, 2019
ISIS and other terrorist organizations, in-
cluding non-lethal assistance, training, and
organizational capacity for the Syrian
Democratic Forces, the Iraqi Security
Forces, the Kurdish Peshmerga, and others
to counter gains by ISIS and its affiliates.
(3) A description of United States Govern-
ment efforts to support, develop, and expand
local governance structures in areas in Syria
previously liberated from ISIS control.
(4) An estimate of the number of current,
active ISIS members in Iraq and Syria, in-
cluding an assessment of those being held in
detainee camps or prisons.
(5) A comprehensive plan to address ISIS
detainees currently being held in Syria and
Iraq, including the following elements:
(A) The designation of an existing official
within the Department of State to serve as a
senior-level coordinator to coordinate, in
conjunction with the lead and other relevant
agencies, all matters for the United States
Government relating to the long-term dis-
position of ISIS foreign terrorist fighter de-
tainees, including all matters in connection
with—
(i) repatriation, transfer, prosecution, and
intelligence-gathering;
(ii) coordinating a whole-of-government
approach with other countries and inter-
national organizations, including
INTERPOL, to ensure secure chains of cus-
tody and locations of ISIS foreign terrorist
fighter detainees;
(iii) coordinating technical and evidentiary
assistance to foreign countries to aid in the
successful prosecution of ISIS foreign ter-
rorist fighter detainees; and
(iv) all multilateral and international en-
gagements led by the Department of State
and other agencies that are related to the
current and future handling, detention, and
prosecution of ISIS foreign terrorist fighter
detainees.
(B) A description, which may be in classi-
fied form, of ISIS senior leadership and in-
frastructure and efforts to target leadership
figures.
(C) A comprehensive description of United
States activities utilizing social media and
other communication technologies to
counter ISIS’s propaganda, influence, and
ability to recruit fighters domestically and
internationally, including with private tech-
nology companies, and how such activities
are being coordinated across the United
States Government.
(D) A description of the efforts of the
United States Government, including eco-
nomic sanctions, to deny financial resources,
including revenues from natural resources
extraction, sale of antiquities, kidnapping,
extortion, taxation, smuggling, access to
cash storage sites, and access to inter-
national financial networks, to ISIS and its
affiliates, in conjunction with international
partners and financial institutions.
(E) A description of United States Govern-
ment efforts to support credible war crimes
prosecutions against ISIS fighters.
(F) A plan to ensure the delivery of human-
itarian assistance.
SEC. 13. REPORT ON ACCOUNTABILITY FOR VIO-
LATIONS OF INTERNATIONAL LAW,
INCLUDING THE LAW OF ARMED
CONFLICT, AND OTHER HARM TO CI-
VILIANS IN SYRIA DURING TURKEY’S
MILITARY INVASION.
(a) SENSE OF CONGRESS.—It is the sense of
Congress that—
(1) Turkish and pro-Turkish forces should
end all practices involving arbitrary arrests,
enforced disappearances, torture, arbitrary
executions, and other unlawful treatment;
and
(2) all stakeholders in Turkey’s military
invasion of northern Syria should reveal the
fate or the location of all persons who have
been subjected to enforced disappearance by
such stakeholders.
(b) REPORT.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 180 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Secretary of State shall submit to the
appropriate congressional committees a re-
port that describes the causes and con-
sequences of civilian harm occurring during
Turkey’s military invasion of northern
Syria, including violations of the law of
armed conflict and gross violations of inter-
nationally recognized human rights, as a re-
sult of the actions of all parties to the con-
flict.
(2) ELEMENTS.—The report required under
paragraph (1) shall include the following ele-
ments:
(A) A description of civilian harm occur-
ring in the context of Turkey’s military in-
vasion, including—
(i) mass casualty incidents; and
(ii) damage to, and destruction of, civilian
infrastructure and services, including—
(I) hospitals and other medical facilities;
(II) electrical grids;
(III) water systems; and
(IV) other critical infrastructure.
(B) A description of violations of the law of
armed conflict committed during Turkey’s
military invasion by all forces involved in
the Turkish-led coalition and all forces
fighting on its behalf and by any other com-
batants in the conflict, including—
(i) alleged violations of the law of armed
conflict;
(ii) specific instances of failure by the par-
ties to the conflict to exercise distinction,
proportionality, and precaution in the use
force in accordance with the law of armed
conflict;
(iii) arbitrary denials of humanitarian ac-
cess and the resulting impact on the allevi-
ation of human suffering;
(iv) extra-judicial executions and deten-
tion-related abuses; and
(v) other acts that may constitute viola-
tions of the law of armed conflict.
(C) Recommendations for establishing ac-
countability mechanisms for civilian harm,
violations of the law of armed conflict, and
gross violations of internationally recog-
nized human rights perpetrated by Turkish
and pro-Turkish forces in Syria, including
the potential for prosecuting individuals per-
petrating, organizing, directing, or ordering
such violations.
SEC. 14. SANCTIONS DESCRIBED.
The sanctions described in this section are
the following:
(1) ASSET BLOCKING.—The President shall
exercise all of the powers granted by the
International Emergency Economic Powers
Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.) (except that the
requirements of section 202 of such Act (50
U.S.C. 1701) shall not apply) to the extent
necessary to block and prohibit all trans-
actions in all property and interests in prop-
erty of a person if such property and inter-
ests in property are in the United States,
come within the United States, or are or
come within the possession or control of a
United States person.
(2) ALIENS INADMISSIBLE FOR VISAS, ADMIS-
SION, OR PAROLE.—
(A) VISAS, ADMISSION, OR PAROLE.—A for-
eign person is—
(i) inadmissible to the United States;
(ii) ineligible to receive a visa or other doc-
umentation to enter the United States; and
(iii) otherwise ineligible to be admitted or
paroled into the United States or to receive
any other benefit under the Immigration and
Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1101 et seq.).
(B) CURRENT VISAS REVOKED.—The visa or
other entry documentation of a foreign per-
son shall be revoked, regardless of when such
visa or other entry documentation is or was
issued. A revocation under this subparagraph
shall take effect immediately and automati-
cally cancel any other valid visa or entry
documentation that is in the foreign person’s
possession.
(C) EXCEPTION TO COMPLY WITH UNITED NA-
TIONS HEADQUARTERS AGREEMENT.—Sanctions
under this paragraph shall not apply to an
individual if admitting such individual into
the United States is necessary to permit the
United States to comply with the Agreement
regarding the Headquarters of the United
Nations, signed at Lake Success June 26,
1947, and entered into force November 21,
1947, between the United Nations and the
United States, or other applicable inter-
national obligations of the United States.
SEC. 15. IMPLEMENTATION.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The President—
(1) may exercise all authorities provided to
the President under sections 203 and 205 of
the International Emergency Economic Pow-
ers Act (50 U.S.C. 1702 and 1704) to carry out
this Act; and
(2) shall issue such regulations, licenses,
and orders as are necessary to carry out this
Act.
(b) PENALTIES.—The penalties provided for
in subsections (b) and (c) of section 206 of the
International Emergency Economic Powers
Act (50 U.S.C. 1705) shall apply to any person
who violates, attempts to violate, conspires
to violate, or causes a violation of any prohi-
bition of this Act, or an order or regulation
prescribed under this Act, to the same extent
that such penalties apply to a person that
commits an unlawful act described in sub-
section (a) of that section.
SEC. 16. EXCEPTION RELATING TO IMPORTATION
OF GOODS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The authorities and re-
quirements to impose sanctions under this
Act or any amendments made by this Act
shall not include the authority or require-
ment to impose sanctions on the importation
of goods.
(b) GOOD DEFINED.—In this section, the
term ‘‘good’’ means any article, natural or
man-made substance, material, supply or
manufactured product, including inspection
and test equipment and excluding technical
data.
SEC. 17. HUMANITARIAN WAIVER.
The President may waive the application
of any provision of this Act (other than sec-
tion 16) for the purpose of providing humani-
tarian assistance if the President certifies to
the appropriate congressional committees
that such a waiver is important to address a
humanitarian need and consistent with the
national security interests of the United
States, not later than 15 days before issuing
such a waiver, the President submits to such
committees a justification relating to such
determination.
SEC. 18. UNITED STATES REFUGEE PROGRAM
PRIORITIES.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary of State,
in consultation with the Secretary of Home-
land Security shall designate, as Priority 2
refugees of special humanitarian concern—
(1) Syrian Kurds, stateless persons who ha-
bitually resided in Syria, and other Syrians,
who partnered with, or worked for or di-
rectly with, the United States Government
in Syria for an aggregate period of not less
than 1 year;
(2) Syrian Kurds, stateless persons who ha-
bitually resided in Syria, and other Syrians,
who were employed in Syria, for an aggre-
gate period of not less than 1 year, by—
(A) a media or nongovernmental organiza-
tion based in the United States;
(B) an organization or entity that has re-
ceived a grant from, or entered into a coop-
erative agreement or contract with, the
United States Government; or
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:40 Oct 30, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00028 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A29OC7.015 H29OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8571
October 29, 2019
(C) an organization that—
(i) was continuously physically present in
Northeast Syria between 2011 and the date of
the enactment of this Act; and
(ii) has partnered with an organization de-
scribed in subparagraph (A) or (B);
(3) the spouses, children, sons, daughters,
siblings, and parents of aliens described in
paragraph (1); or
(4) Syrian Kurds, stateless persons who ha-
bitually resided in Syria, and other Syrians,
who have an immediate relative (as defined
in section 201(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Immigration
and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1151(b)(2)(A)(i))
or a family member described in section
203(a) of such Act (8 U.S.C. 203(a)) who is
physically present in the United States.
(b) ELIGIBILITY FOR ADMISSION AS A REF-
UGEE.—An alien may not be denied the op-
portunity to apply for admission as a refugee
under this section solely because such alien
qualifies as an immediate relative of a na-
tional of the United States or is eligible for
admission to the United States under any
other immigrant classification.
(c) MEMBERSHIP IN CERTAIN SYRIAN ORGANI-
ZATIONS.—An applicant for admission to the
United States under this section may not be
deemed inadmissible solely because the ap-
plicant was a member of, or provided support
to, the Syrian Democratic Forces.
(d) EXCLUSION FROM NUMERICAL LIMITA-
TIONS.—Aliens provided refugee status under
this section shall not be counted against any
numerical limitation under section 201, 202,
203, or 207 of the Immigration and Nation-
ality Act (8 U.S.C. 1151, 1152, 1153, and 1157).
(e) IDENTIFICATION OF OTHER PERSECUTED
GROUPS.—The Secretary of State, or the des-
ignee of the Secretary, is authorized to clas-
sify other groups of Syrians, including vul-
nerable populations, as Priority 2 refugees of
special humanitarian concern.
(f) SATISFACTION OF OTHER REQUIRE-
MENTS.—Aliens designated as Priority 2 refu-
gees of special humanitarian concern under
this section shall be deemed to satisfy the
requirements under section 207 of the Immi-
gration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1157)
for admission to the United States.
SEC. 19. DEFINITIONS.
In this Act:
(1) ADMISSION; ADMITTED; ALIEN.—The
terms ‘‘admission’’, ‘‘admitted’’, and ‘‘alien’’
have the meanings given such terms in sec-
tion 101 of the Immigration and Nationality
Act (8 U.S.C. 1101).
(2) APPROPRIATE CONGRESSIONAL COMMIT-
TEES.—The term ‘‘appropriate congressional
committees’’ means—
(A) the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the
Committee on Armed Services, and the Com-
mittee on Financial Services of the House of
Representatives; and
(B) the Committee on Foreign Relations,
the Committee on Armed Services, and the
Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban
Affairs of the Senate.
(3) FOREIGN PERSON.—The term ‘‘foreign
person’’ means an individual or entity that
is not a United States person.
(4) GROSS VIOLATIONS OF INTERNATIONALLY
RECOGNIZED HUMAN RIGHTS.—The term ‘‘gross
violations of internationally recognized
human rights’’ has the meaning given such
term in section 502B(d)(1) of the Foreign As-
sistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2304(d)(1)).
(5) KNOWINGLY.—The term ‘‘knowingly’’
with respect to conduct, a circumstance, or a
result, means that a person has actual
knowledge, or should have known, of the
conduct, the circumstance, or the result.
(6) UNITED STATES PERSON.—The term
‘‘United States person’’ means—
(A) a United States citizen or an alien law-
fully admitted for permanent residence to
the United States; or
(B) an entity organized under the laws of
the United States or any jurisdiction within
the United States, including a foreign branch
of such an entity.
SEC. 20. SUNSET.
This Act shall terminate on the date that
is three years after the date on which sanc-
tions imposed pursuant to this Act have ter-
minated.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentleman from
New York (Mr. ENGEL) and the gen-
tleman from Texas (Mr. MCCAUL) each
will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from New York.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I ask unan-
imous consent that all Members have 5
legislative days in which to revise and
extend their remarks and include ex-
traneous material on H.R. 4695.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from New York?
There was no objection.
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I have described the ad-
ministration’s approach to inter-
national affairs as ‘‘fly by the seat of
your pants’’ foreign policy, but over
time, we have seen a pattern emerge.
The President of the United States
stokes a crisis and then steps in with
some sort of half measure in a failed
attempt to look like a great deal is
happening.
You can’t be the arsonist and the
fireman at the same time. And the sit-
uation in Syria right now may be the
clearest example of this and the most
disastrous.
Around 2 weeks ago, President
Trump gave Turkey’s President
Erdogan the green light to launch a
military invasion of northern Syria,
and that is precisely what Turkey did.
What followed was a gruesome cam-
paign slaughtering our Syrian Kurdish
partners who fought alongside the
United States against ISIS. Already
nearly 200,000 people, including women,
children, and families, have been dis-
placed, driven from their ancestral
homes—ethnic cleansing at its worst.
The deal we signed with Erdogan has
led directly to this ethnic cleansing in
northern Syria’s indigenous Kurdish
region. It is really a disgrace. These
people fought with us. These people
took bullets for us. These people were
our loyal and faithful allies. For the
United States to turn our backs on
them, or to start a chain of events that
would hurt them, really is a very dark
day in our country’s history.
As the Kurds fight to survive this on-
slaught, they have been forced to aban-
don their watch over the prisons hold-
ing thousands of ISIS fighters. Over 100
of these terrorists have reportedly es-
caped. Now, the situation in northeast
Syria is a humanitarian and national
security crisis.
In a region already rife with conflict,
Turkey’s military operation is wreak-
ing even more havoc. And rather than
hold Turkey accountable for how they
have conducted this bloody campaign,
President Trump has given them a free
pass. When the head of ISIS was finally
killed, President Trump, unfortu-
nately, thanked the Turks, thanked
the Turkish Government. That doesn’t
sit right with me.
First, the administration arranged a
sham cease-fire that gave Erdogan all
he could have wanted. Then, Turkey
entered into an agreement with Vladi-
mir Putin that ceded America’s influ-
ence in the region to Russia. And then,
President Trump lifted sanctions on
Turkey once the Kurds fled.
President Trump has let Erdogan off
scot-free for a heinous assault that is
destabilizing the region and threat-
ening international security. President
Trump and President Erdogan are re-
sponsible for the catastrophe in north-
east Syria. They both must be held ac-
countable.
On October 16, the House passed a
measure rebuking President Trump for
this disastrous policy—passed, I will
note, with overwhelming bipartisan
support.
Now, the United States needs to
make sure that Turkish President
Erdogan faces consequences for his be-
havior. Because President Trump has
failed to demonstrate American leader-
ship in this regard, it is now on Con-
gress to step up and impose con-
sequences on Turkey.
The PACT Act, which is this act, un-
derscores the devastating consequences
of Turkey’s invasion and President
Trump’s decision to step back and let
it happen. It employs targeted smart
sanctions to incentivize Erdogan to
stop his military offensive, cease vio-
lence against Syrian Kurdish commu-
nities, and withdraw from Syria.
These sanctions are specifically de-
signed to target the Turkish officials
and institutions responsible for the
bloodshed in Syria without senselessly
hurting the Turkish people. After all,
it is Erdogan, not the Turkish people,
who is responsible for this horror.
Erdogan is an authoritarian thug. His
rule has left a glaring black mark on
Turkey’s historic secular, democratic
traditions. We need to pressure him
while ramping up diplomacy in the
hopes of getting Turkey back on the
right track as a NATO ally. That is one
of the goals of this measure.
This bipartisan legislation also re-
quires the Trump administration to de-
velop concrete strategies for com-
bating ISIS, protecting Syrian Kurdish
communities, and ensuring Syrians
who partnered with American forces,
as well as NGOs and humanitarian or-
ganizations, can be safely resettled in
the United States.
This is a smart response to address
the calamity caused by Turkish forces
in Syria. It is up to Congress to act to
make it clear where the American Gov-
ernment stands.
I want to thank my friend Ranking
Member MCCAUL for working with me
to introduce this legislation, and I
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:40 Oct 30, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00029 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A29OC7.015 H29OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8572 October 29, 2019
hope all of our colleagues will join us
in supporting it.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
COMMITTEE ON FOREIGN AFFAIRS,
Washington, DC, October 28, 2019.
Hon. RICHARD E. NEAL,
Committee on Ways and Means,
House of Representatives, Washington, DC.
DEAR CHAIRMAN NEAL: I am writing to you
concerning H.R. 4695, the Protect Against
Conflict by Turkey Act. I appreciate your
willingness to work cooperatively on this
legislation.
I acknowledge that provisions of the bill
fall within the jurisdiction of the Committee
on Ways and Means under House Rule X, and
that your Committee will forgo action on
H.R. 4695 to expedite floor consideration. I
further acknowledge that the inaction of
your Committee with respect to the bill does
not waive any future jurisdictional claim
over the matters contained in the bill that
fall within your jurisdiction. I will also sup-
port the appointment of Committee on Ways
and Means conferees during any House-Sen-
ate conference convened on this legislation.
Lastly, I will ensure that our exchange of
letters is included in the Congressional
Record during floor consideration of the bill.
Thank you again for your cooperation re-
garding the legislation. I look forward to
continuing to work with you as the measure
moves through the legislative process.
Sincerely,
ELIOT L. ENGEL,
Chairman.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
COMMITTEE ON WAYS AND MEANS,
Washington, DC, October 29, 2019.
Hon. ELIOT L. ENGEL,
Chairman, Committee on Foreign Affairs,
Washington, DC.
DEAR CHAIRMAN ENGEL: In recognition of
the desire to expedite consideration of H.R.
4695, the Protect Against Conflict by Turkey
(PACT) Act, the Committee on Ways and
Means agrees to waive formal consideration
of the bill as to provisions that fall within
the rule X jurisdiction of the Committee on
Ways and Means.
The Committee on Ways and Means takes
this action with the mutual understanding
that we do not waive any jurisdiction over
the subject matter contained in this or simi-
lar legislation, and the Committee will be
appropriately consulted and involved as the
bill or similar legislation moves forward so
that we may address any remaining issues
within our jurisdiction. The Committee also
reserves the right to seek appointment of an
appropriate number of conferees to any
House-Senate conference involving this or
similar legislation.
Finally, I would appreciate your response
to this letter confirming this understanding
and would ask that a copy of our exchange of
letter on this matter be included in the Con-
gressional Record during floor consideration
of H.R. 4695.
Sincerely,
RICHARD E. NEAL,
Chairman.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
COMMITTEE ON FOREIGN AFFAIRS,
Washington, DC, October 28, 2019.
Hon. MAXINE WATERS,
Committee on Financial Services, House of Rep-
resentatives, Washington, DC.
DEAR CHAIRWOMAN WATERS: I am writing
to you concerning H.R. 4695 the Protect
Against Conflict by Turkey Act. I appreciate
your willingness to work cooperatively on
this legislation.
I acknowledge that provisions of the bill
fall within the jurisdiction of the Committee
on Financial Services under House Rule X,
and that your Committee will forgo action
on H.R. 4695 to expedite floor consideration.
I further acknowledge that the inaction of
your Committee with respect to the bill does
not waive any future jurisdictional claim
over the matters contained in the bill that
fall within your jurisdiction. I also acknowl-
edge that your Committee will be appro-
priately consulted and involved as this or
similar legislation moves forward, and will
support the appointment of Committee on
Financial Services conferees during any
House-Senate conference convened on this
legislation.
Lastly, I will ensure that our exchange of
letters is included in the Congressional
Record during floor consideration of the bill.
Thank you again for your cooperation re-
garding the legislation. I look forward to
continuing to work with you as the measure
moves through the legislative process.
Sincerely,
ELIOT L. ENGEL,
Chairman.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
COMMITTEE ON FINANCIAL SERVICES,
Washington, DC, October 29, 2019.
Hon. ELLIOT ENGEL,
Chairman, Committee on Foreign Affairs, House
of Representatives, Washington, DC.
DEAR MR. CHAIRMAN: I am writing con-
cerning H.R. 4695, the ‘‘Protect Against Con-
flict by Turkey Act’’ or the ‘‘PACT Act’. In
order to permit the H.R. 4695 to proceed ex-
peditiously to the House Floor, I agree to
forgo formal consideration of the bill.
The Committee on Financial Services
takes this action to forego formal consider-
ation of H.R. 4695 with our mutual under-
standing that, by foregoing formal consider-
ation of H.R. 4695 at this time, we do not
waive any jurisdiction over the subject mat-
ter contained in this or similar legislation,
and that our Committee will be appro-
priately consulted and involved as this or
similar legislation moves forward with re-
gard to any matters in the Committee’s ju-
risdiction. The Committee also reserves the
right to seek appointment of an appropriate
number of conferees to any House-Senate
conference involving this or similar legisla-
tion that involves the Committee’s jurisdic-
tion and request your support for any such
request.
Finally, I would appreciate your response
to this letter confirming this understanding,
and I would ask that a copy of our exchange
of letters on this matter be included in the
Congressional Record during Floor consider-
ation of H.R. 4695.
Sincerely,
MAXINE WATERS,
Chairwoman.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
COMMITTEE ON FOREIGN RELATIONS,
Washington, DC, October 28, 2019.
Hon. JERROLD NADLER,
Committee on the Judiciary, House of Rep-
resentatives, Washington, DC.
DEAR CHAIRMAN NADLER: I am writing to
you concerning H.R. 4695, the Protect
Against Conflict by Turkey Act. I appreciate
your willingness to work cooperatively on
this legislation.
I acknowledge that provisions of the bill
fall within the jurisdiction of the Committee
on the Judiciary under House Rule X, and
that your Committee will forgo action on
H.R. 4695 to expedite floor consideration. I
further acknowledge that the inaction of
your Committee with respect to the bill does
not waive any future jurisdictional claim
over the matters contained in the bill that
fall within your jurisdiction. I will also sup-
port the appointment of Committee on the
Judiciary conferees during any House-Senate
conference convened on this legislation.
Lastly, I will ensure that our exchange of
letters is included in the Congressional
Record during floor consideration of the bill.
Thank you again for your cooperation re-
garding the legislation. I look forward to
continuing to work with you as the measure
moves through the legislative process.
Sincerely,
ELIOT L. ENGEL,
Chairman.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
COMMITTEE ON THE JUDICIARY,
Washington, DC, October 28, 2019.
Hon. ELIOT L. ENGEL,
Chairman, Committee on Foreign Affairs,
House of Representatives, Washington, DC.
DEAR CHAIRMAN ENGEL: This is to advise
you that the Committee on the Judiciary
has now had an opportunity to review the
provisions in H.R. 4695, the ‘‘Protect Against
Conflict by Turkey Act’’ that fall within our
Rule X jurisdiction. I appreciate your con-
sulting with us on those provisions. The Ju-
diciary Committee has no objection to your
including them in the bill for consideration
on the House floor, and to expedite that con-
sideration is willing to forgo action on H.R.
4695, with the understanding that we do not
thereby waive any future jurisdictional
claim over those provisions or their subject
matters.
In the event a House-Senate conference on
this or similar legislation is convened, the
Judiciary Committee reserves the right to
request an appropriate number of conferees
to address any concerns with these or simi-
lar provisions that may arise in conference.
Please place this letter into the Congres-
sional Record during consideration of the
measure on the House floor. Thank you for
the cooperative spirit in which you have
worked regarding this matter and others be-
tween our committees.
Sincerely,
JERROLD NADLER,
Chairman.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
COMMITTEE ON FOREIGN AFFAIRS,
Washington, DC, October 28, 2019.
Hon. CAROLYN B. MALONEY,
Acting Chairwoman, Committee on Oversight
and Reform, House of Representatives,
Washington, DC.
DEAR CHAIRWOMAN MALONEY: I am writing
to you concerning H.R. 4695, the PACT Act.
I appreciate your willingness to work coop-
eratively on this legislation.
I acknowledge that provisions of the bill
fall within the jurisdiction of the Committee
on Oversight and Reform under House Rule
X, and that your Committee will forgo ac-
tion on H.R. 4695 to expedite floor consider-
ation. I further acknowledge that the inac-
tion of your Committee with respect to the
bill does not waive any future jurisdictional
claim over the matters contained in the bill
that fall within your jurisdiction. I will also
support the appointment of Committee on
Oversight and Reform conferees during any
House-Senate conference convened on this
legislation.
Lastly, I will ensure that our exchange of
letters is included in the Congressional Record
during floor consideration of the bill. Thank
you again for your cooperation regarding the
legislation. I look forward to continuing to
work with you as the measure moves
through the legislative process.
Sincerely,
ELIOT L. ENGEL,
Chairman.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:40 Oct 30, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00030 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K29OC7.055 H29OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8573
October 29, 2019
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
COMMITTEE ON OVERSIGHT AND REFORM,
Washington, DC, October 28, 2019.
Hon. ELIOT ENGEL,
Chairman, Committee on Foreign Affairs,
House of Representatives, Washington, DC.
DEAR MR. CHAIRMAN: I am writing to you
concerning H.R. 4605, the Protect Against
Conflict by Turkey (PACT) Act. There are
certain provisions in the legislation which
fall within the Rule X jurisdiction of the
Committee on Oversight and Reform.
In the interest of permitting your Com-
mittee to proceed expeditiously on this bill,
I am willing to waive this Committee’s right
to sequential referral. I do so with the under-
standing that by waiving consideration of
the bill, the Committee on Oversight and Re-
form does not waive any future jurisdic-
tional claim over the subject matters con-
tained in the bill which fall within its Rule
X jurisdiction. I request that you urge the
Speaker to name Members of this Committee
to any conference committee which is named
to consider such provisions.
Please place this letter into the Congres-
sional Record during consideration of the
measure on the House floor. Thank you for
the cooperative spirit in which you have
worked regarding this matter and others be-
tween our respective Committees.
Sincerely,
CAROLYN B. MALONEY,
Acting Chairwoman.
Mr. MCCAUL. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R.
4695, the Protect Against Conflict by
Turkey Act.
The death of Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi
this past weekend is a major win in our
counter-ISIS campaign, and I con-
gratulate our brave special operators
for a job well done, the men and women
of our intelligence community, and our
President for a bold decision.
The world is better off without this
sick and deranged leader of the so-
called caliphate. Baghdadi still has
thousands of followers committed to
terrorism. While their leader’s death is
a huge blow, we must stay vigilant to
keep them from reconstituting or car-
rying out attacks in the West and to
our homeland.
With that, we cannot allow Turkey’s
invasion to hinder, in any way, our
counter-ISIS campaign.
My friend, Chairman ELIOT ENGEL,
and I coauthored this legislation to
give the White House additional con-
gressional support to sanction Turkey
for its recent actions and the leverage
to ensure Turkey upholds the vital
cease-fire negotiated by Vice President
PENCE.
In the President’s own words:
‘‘Should Turkey fail to honor its obli-
gations, including the protection of re-
ligious and ethnic minorities . . . we
reserve the right to reimpose crippling
sanctions.’’
In addition, our bill ensures there are
Presidential waivers to provide flexi-
bility for the administration on how al-
most all the sanctions are adminis-
tered.
This bill incentivizes Turkey to com-
ply with the cease-fire. If they do not,
there will be consequences in the form
of crippling sanctions.
Turkey is also a vital NATO partner,
and I am hopeful they will cease their
destabilizing actions and act as a re-
sponsible partner.
With that in mind, let’s recap how we
got here today.
On October 9, Erdogan’s forces
charged across the border, unleashing a
potential humanitarian crisis for the
people in northern Syria. The assault
has expanded Assad and Putin’s grip on
Syrian territory.
As I said 2 weeks ago, I am concerned
this incursion will damage U.S. inter-
ests in the Middle East and the Syrian
people, including the Kurds, our ally.
The only beneficiaries of more violence
and more chaos in Syria are America’s
adversaries, and that is Vladimir
Putin, Bashar al-Assad, Iran, and ter-
ror groups like ISIS.
On October 17, the administration
brokered a cease-fire with Turkey,
which has held to date. This has helped
to stabilize the situation and prevent a
worst-case scenario from taking place.
I applaud the Vice President and Sec-
retary Pompeo for that delicate nego-
tiation with President Erdogan, and I
believe that our bipartisan resolution,
which disapproved of the Turkish in-
cursion last week, I believe, helped in
these negotiations.
Our bill today—my bill with Mr.
ENGEL—codifies the administration’s
agreement in Ankara and will help to
strengthen the President’s hand in en-
suring that Turkey upholds its com-
mitments.
Our bill imposes penalties on Turkey
if it continues its offensive in northern
Syria. Specifically, it sanctions Turk-
ish officials involved in the military
operation in Syria. It blocks U.S. weap-
ons sales to Turkey that could be used
in Syria and sanctions foreign entities
selling such weapons to Turkey. It
sanctions banks supporting Turkey’s
defense sector in the Syria campaign.
Our bill also requires the administra-
tion to develop plans to adjust our
counterterrorism strategy to respond
to the changing situation on the
ground.
I am pleased that the administration
heard our call for a residual force in
Syria. I can think of nothing more dan-
gerous than withdrawing all of our
troops in Syria, as we saw when we
withdrew, under the previous adminis-
tration, from Iraq to 10,000 forces. That
is when we saw the rise of ISIS and the
so-called caliphate.
We will have a residual force in Syria
working with the SDF and the Kurds to
help defeat and make sure ISIS is never
again a threat to the homeland.
Finally, it identifies Turkey’s pur-
chase of the Russian S–400 system as a
transaction subject to sanctions under
the Countering America’s Adversaries
Through Sanctions Act, or CAATSA.
That is very important. How can you
be a NATO ally and purchase Russian
military equipment?
We let Turkey into NATO to protect
them from the Soviet Union, and now
our NATO ally is buying Russian mili-
tary equipment and, through its inva-
sion into Syria, threatening our allies.
For these reasons, I urge support of
this bill and thank Chairman ENGEL
for, once again, coming to a bipartisan
resolution. When, once again, they said
it couldn’t be done, we got it done, and
I thank him for that.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I thank
the ranking member for his kind
words.
Mr. Speaker, I yield 3 minutes to the
gentlewoman from Texas (Ms. JACKSON
LEE).
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker, I
again rise with appreciation for the
chairman of this committee and the
ranking member of this committee and
echo the importance of this bipartisan
resolution.
I would like us to go down memory
lane, for those of us who have had the
privilege of being here, including Mr.
ENGEL.
We are reminded of a secular Turkey,
a Turkey where all were welcomed. We
remember visiting some of the beau-
tiful and wonderful treasures of Tur-
key, as we met with government offi-
cials and heard them reinforce their
commitment to democracy, to the idea
of freedom of religion, and that is ap-
propriate for a 70-year member of
NATO.
We are very grateful for their com-
mitment to NATO. There are many
who continue to advocate for Turkey’s
presence in NATO so that NATO could
be comprehensive and unique. But we
find ourselves now in the grips of a sin-
gle-minded individual who does not see
the beauty of democracy, does not see
the beauty of diversity and the wel-
coming of those from many places to
Turkey, or the orderly process and the
strong role they can play in the Mid-
east.
Yet, on a midnight call or a late-
night call on a Sunday night, speaking
to this administration, the Turkish
President didn’t consult or maybe offer
options. What we have gleaned from
the media is that they said: We are
coming into Syria.
In the midst of them coming into
Syria, they created a humanitarian cri-
sis with fleeing women and children,
destroying homes, taking people away
from their homeland, and just doing
havoc.
There must be order in the world, re-
spect and dignity, and a respect for the
sanctity of life.
I am glad to rise in support of this
legislation, to target Turkey for sanc-
tions that will not be lifted until Tur-
key withdraws from northern Syria.
The bill requires concrete strategies
from the administration for combating
ISIS and protecting Syrian Kurdish
communities and an analysis of human
rights violations committed by Turk-
ish forces, as well as a refugee pro-
gram.
It goes with my earlier designation
that this is a humanitarian crisis in re-
sponse to the needs of the people.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:40 Oct 30, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00031 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A29OC7.016 H29OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8574 October 29, 2019
b 1545
This is not an act of war. This is to
seek peace. This bill freezes assets and
imposes a mandatory visa ban against
senior officials of Turkey, including
the Minister of National Defense, who
apparently would not listen.
Additionally, the PACT Act prohibits
all arms transfers that Turkey could
use in Syria—bloodshed against the
people, not peace.
Finally, the PACT Act imposed tar-
geted sanctions on Halkbank, a Turk-
ish bank with ties to President
Erdogan.
We would have wished to be around
the diplomatic table to resolve the
issues in Syria. We might have been on
the verge of doing that. There was a
calmness on the border, the northern
border. We had a certain number of
troops.
Great opportunities remained before
Turkey, but unwise and unilateral de-
cisions were made. Part of that was the
withdrawing of our Armed Forces from
northern Syria.
But I think it is clear to those of us
who do want peace that there was a
way of doing it. These sanctions should
send a very strong message to Syria
that we are, one, recognizing the
Kurds.
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr.
CROW). The time of the gentlewoman
has expired.
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I yield the
gentlewoman from Texas an additional
30 seconds.
Ms. JACKSON LEE. These sanctions
should send a strong message to Syria
that, one, we in the United States take
seriously the intrusion of Turkey into
the Kurdish area.
It should send a strong message to
President Erdogan to recognize that he
cannot bully his way through in the re-
gion.
It should also send a strong message
to Iran and Russia and to our ISIS foes
that America is serious about peace,
but doing it in a manner that provides
as safe a pathway for peace as possible.
I would hope and would have wanted
the decision that the President made
on the phone call never to have oc-
curred. It did occur.
Unfortunately, President Erdogan
was a partner in this, and we must
make a very strong statement that the
United States will not stand for this
kind of bullying and that we will en-
sure that we will find peace, but in the
right way.
Mr. Speaker, with that, I support
H.R. 4695.
Mr. Speaker, as a senior member of the
Committees on the Judiciary and on Home-
land Security, and as a sponsor of the legisla-
tion, I rise in strong support of H.R. 4695, the
‘‘Protect Against Conflict By Turkey’’ or PACT
Act, and I thank the Chairman and Ranking
Member of the House Committee on Foreign
Affairs for their bipartisan collaboration and
hard work in bringing this important legislation
to the floor.
I strongly support the PACT Act because it
holds Turkey accountable for its brutal inva-
sion of northern Syria and imposes against it
tough, targeted sanctions and highlights the
negative consequences of Turkey’s invasion
and the President’s acquiescence to this act of
aggression.
Under the legislation, most of the sanctions
will not be lifted until Turkey withdraws from
northern Syria and the bill requires concrete
strategies from the Administration for combat-
ting ISIS, protecting Syrian Kurdish commu-
nities, an analysis of human rights violations
committed by Turkish forces as well as a ref-
ugee program designation for Syrians who
partnered with or worked directly for the U.S.
in Syria.
Specifically, the PACT Act freezes assets
freezes and imposes a mandatory visa ban
against senior officials of Turkey, including the
Minister of National Defense, the Chief of
General Staff of Turkish military, the Com-
mander of Turkish 2nd Army, which has led
the Syrian incursion; the Minister of Treasury
and Finance, who by the way is Turkey Presi-
dent Erdogan’s son-in-law); and additional
senior Turkish defense officials involved in the
invasion of Syria and anyone committing
human rights abuses.
Additionally, the PACT Act prohibits all arms
transfers that Turkey could use in Syria and
makes unavailable the use of the emergency
provision of Arms Export Control Act (AECA)
that the President might otherwise have used
to get around congressional holds on arms
sales to Turkey.
Finally, the PACT Act imposed targeted
sanctions on Halkbank, a Turkish bank with
ties to President Erdogan, and additional Turk-
ish banks facilitating transactions for the Turk-
ish military’s operations in Syria.
Mr. Speaker, I have devoted my congres-
sional career working to advance initiatives
that will bring peace to troubled regions of the
globe.
For example, I strongly supported the two-
state solution to bring peace between Pal-
estinians and Israelis.
Similarly, I worked with my colleagues and
the executive branch to end the genocide and
bloodshed in Darfur and for peace, stability,
and reconciliation in Afghanistan.
About this time two years ago, I had just re-
turned from important meetings in the Middle
East where I was part of an eight-member
congressional delegation to the United Arab
Emirates and Egypt.
Mr. Speaker, the unwise and unilateral deci-
sion to withdraw U.S. armed forces from
Northern Syria and abandon the Kurds, per-
haps our most indispensable ally in the region
is a mistake of incalculable damage.
Instead of furthering United States interests,
the decision to withdraw American troops from
Northern Syria undermines them and
emboldens Russia, Iran, Syria, and ISIS, all
implacable foes of the United States.
At the same time the decision squanders
the progress made to date by the United
States, working with the Kurds, to defeat ISIS
and destroy its caliphate and props up the
bloody Assad regime in Syria and puts at risk
thousands of innocent men, women, and chil-
dren.
Mr. Speaker, the President’s decision weak-
ens the United States because trusted allies
will no longer rely upon the commitment of our
country to defend freedom or keep its word,
and worst of all, it consigns the Kurds, our de-
voted and dedicated friends, to certain death
and carnage at the hands of the Turkish mili-
tary under the leadership of autocrat President
Recep Erdogan.
I urge the President, as Commander-in-
Chief, to reinstate and resume the tried and
true practice of orderly and systematic con-
sultation with national security professionals,
specifically the Secretary of State, the Sec-
retary of Defense, the Chairman of the Joint
Chiefs of Staff, the intelligence community, our
key allies and foreign policy experts.
For nearly 75 years, since the end of World
War II, the United States has been the indis-
pensable nation in the world and because of
the leadership asserted by the United States,
international peace has been preserved and
global conflagration avoided.
This task has never been easy or inexpen-
sive, except when compared to the alternative
of violence, bloodshed, and chaos.
President Kennedy recognized this and ob-
served in his 1961 Inaugural Address that ‘‘In
the long history of the world, only a few gen-
erations have been granted the role of defend-
ing freedom in its hour of maximum danger. I
do not shrink from this responsibility—I wel-
come it.’’
I urge all Members to join me in voting for
this critically important bipartisan legislation,
vote to pass the PACT Act.
Mr. MCCAUL. Mr. Speaker, I yield 2
minutes to the gentleman from Florida
(Mr. BILIRAKIS).
Mr. BILIRAKIS. Mr. Speaker, I offer
congratulations again to Chairman
ENGEL and Ranking Member MCCAUL
for this very important Turkey sanc-
tions bill.
Mr. Speaker, for nearly 13 years, I
have felt like I have been one of the
lone voices in the wilderness decrying
the actions of Turkey as it systemati-
cally denies its citizens basic human
rights by invading and occupying an
EU country, the Republic of Cyprus;
stripping religious minorities of their
religious freedom; persecuting journal-
ists and academics for writing about
the Armenian genocide; and invading
and provoking hostilities on a daily
basis in the Eastern Mediterranean.
As co-chair of the International Reli-
gious Freedom Caucus, I am especially
grateful for this PACT Act calling for
the administration to outline how it
will assist religious and ethnic minori-
ties affected by war crimes perpetrated
by Prime Minister Erdogan.
Additionally, in my role as co-chair
of the Hellenic Caucus, I have called
for the administration to halt the de-
livery of F–35s to Turkey, given its
purchase of Russia’s S–400 missile de-
fense system.
I am pleased this bill goes further
and imposes 231 sanctions for Turkey’s
intransigence.
I urge support of this legislation so
that we can send a unified, bipartisan
message to Turkey that, if you want to
be considered a strategic ally of the
United States, a true ally, you have to
act like one.
Mr. Speaker, I want to again thank
the chairman, the ranking member,
and the entire Foreign Affairs Com-
mittee for bringing up this very impor-
tant bill.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:40 Oct 30, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00032 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K29OC7.058 H29OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8575
October 29, 2019
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I reserve
the balance of my time.
Mr. MCCAUL. Mr. Speaker, I yield 3
minutes to the gentleman from Texas
(Mr. HURD).
Mr. HURD of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I
thank my friend from Texas for yield-
ing, and I am proud to rise today in
support of the bipartisan PACT Act to
hold Turkey accountable for its desta-
bilizing and dangerous decision to in-
vade northern Syria and attack Amer-
ica’s Kurdish allies.
After years of fighting side by side
with American forces against ISIS,
Syrian Kurds are now under siege and
fleeing their homes. According to the
United Nations, over 180,000 people
have been displaced, including 80,000
children. Many are fleeing to the
Kurdistan region of Iraq, which already
hosts over 200,000 refugees from the
Syrian civil war.
Turkey’s reckless actions have cre-
ated a humanitarian crisis that will
strain our partners in the region and
provide ISIS with an opportunity to re-
emerge as a threat to the United
States.
The international community must
come together to provide assistance to
Kurds and refugees in both Syria and
Iraq.
The U.S. Special Envoy for Syria also
told Congress last week that there
have been several incidents of poten-
tial war crimes committed by Turkey
or its proxies, including the use of
white phosphorus, which can be used as
a chemical weapon on civilians and in
extrajudicial killings.
We cannot stand idly by while Tur-
key undermines the fight against ISIS,
attacks our Kurdish allies, and puts
hundreds of thousands of innocent ci-
vilians in harm’s way.
These sanctions are an appropriate
response that holds Turkey responsible
for its actions and provides incentives
for President Erdogan to change
course.
One thing I learned during my time
as an undercover officer in the CIA is
that America only succeeds when our
enemies fear us and our allies trust us.
As members of NATO, both the U.S.
and Turkey have committed to unite
their efforts for collective defense and
for preservation of peace and security.
I hope our Turkish counterparts will
recommit to these principles and work
with us to address shared security con-
cerns and protect the successes of joint
U.S.-Kurdish efforts to drive ISIS out
of Syria.
Mr. Speaker, I thank my friends, the
gentleman from New York and the gen-
tleman from Texas, for their work and
their commitment on this important,
bipartisan bill, and I urge my col-
leagues to support it.
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I continue
to reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. MCCAUL. Mr. Speaker, I yield 2
minutes to the gentleman from Illinois
(Mr. KINZINGER), a member of the For-
eign Affairs Committee.
Mr. KINZINGER. Mr. Speaker, I
thank the ranking member for yield-
ing.
It is sad that we are here. As a mili-
tary member, I spent some time at the
Incirlik Air Base in Turkey in ‘06, or
maybe a little before in ‘05. I think we
all, as Members of this body, have
probably been there in our travels and
see some amazing potential for a coun-
try that really straddles two con-
tinents and plays such an important
role in the future. But it is sad to see
what has happened.
So, I reluctantly have to rise today
in support of H.R. 4695, the Protect
Against Conflict by Turkey Act, also
known as the PACT Act.
I cosponsored this because I am wor-
ried about the direction of President
Erdogan and the direction he is taking
the Republic of Turkey.
The leader of a country with so much
to offer the world should not be
cozying up to the likes of Vladimir
Putin and Bashar al-Assad—Vladimir
Putin, who oversees a failing nation,
quite honestly, and is not the future.
Yet that is exactly what Erdogan is
doing when he decided to invade Syria.
Far too many men, women, and chil-
dren have died at the hands of Assad,
Putin, and Khamenei.
It is unthinkable that a leader of a
NATO nation will be joining the list of
murderous thugs; but, given the latest
developments in Syria, many of our
Kurdish partners will likely die be-
cause of Erdogan’s offensive.
These are the same Kurdish fighters
who, while we lost less than 20 soldiers
in the fight against ISIS from combat,
lost over 10,000 of their own men and
women.
These are the same Kurdish fighters
who spent the past 5 years hunting
ISIS leader Abu al-Baghdadi alongside
our men and women in uniform, and we
saw that come to fruition in a great
way this weekend.
Without their constant pressure on
the ISIS networks, our operators may
have never had the chance to bring him
to justice—not to mention the fact
that Turkey, inevitably, threatened to
attack our troops in northern Syria.
That is why I am proud to cosponsor
this. By applying targeted sanctions
against those directly responsible for
the operations, we are sending a mes-
sage to the Erdogan government that
the U.S. will hold them liable for their
actions. If he does not want to act like
a NATO nation, then his government
will feel the repercussions of such deci-
sions.
I thank Chairman ENGEL and Rank-
ing Member MCCAUL for their steadfast
leadership of the Foreign Affairs Com-
mittee, and I commend them for their
ability to work in a bipartisan manner
to advance measures in America’s in-
terest.
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I yield 1
minute to the gentlewoman from Cali-
fornia (Ms. PELOSI), our Speaker of the
House.
Ms. PELOSI. Mr. Speaker, I thank
the gentleman for yielding, and I thank
Mr. ENGEL, distinguished chairman of
the Foreign Affairs Committee, and the
distinguished ranking member of the
committee, Mr. MCCAUL, for their lead-
ership in bringing this important, bi-
partisan bill to the floor.
Mr. Speaker, as we all know, 3 weeks
ago the President unleashed an esca-
lation of chaos and insecurity in Syria
when he gave Turkey the green light to
attack our Kurdish partners, threat-
ening lives, risking regional security,
and undermining America’s credibility
as a trustworthy ally.
And then, instead of holding Turkey
accountable for its aggression, the
President reversed his sanctions in ex-
change for a so-called cease-fire, which
the Turks clearly stated was not a
cease-fire.
Today, Democrats and Republicans
come together to demonstrate the
strong, smart leadership that has sore-
ly been lacking from the White House,
as the House passed this tough, tar-
geted sanctions bill to hold the Turks
accountable for their attacks on our
Kurdish partners.
We salute Chairman ENGEL and
Ranking Member MCCAUL once again
for their leadership on this PACT Act
and on the resolution opposing Presi-
dent Trump’s decision on Syria, includ-
ing H.J. Res. 77, a bipartisan, bi-
cameral resolution which passed the
House on a 354–60 vote.
Here are the facts:
Our Kurdish partners freed millions
of people and tens of thousands of
square miles from the grip of ISIS.
Throughout the fight, they sustained
nearly 11,000 casualties.
Until recently, our Kurdish partners
protected America’s security and the
security of the region as more than
10,000 ISIS fighters and tens of thou-
sands of ISIS family members were
under their control.
Yet, in a matter of weeks, the Presi-
dent has put our progress at risk. Even
with the death of al-Baghdadi, ISIS re-
mains a serious and resurgent threat.
The death of a top ISIS leader does not
mean the death of ISIS.
Scores of fighters remain under un-
certain conditions in Syrian prisons
and at risk of a jailbreak. Nearly 800
ISIS supporters and family members
have reportedly escaped. To say that
Turkey and Syria still adequately
guard the prisoners is outrageous and
dangerous.
At the same time, more than 250,000
Kurdish civilians have fled their homes
because of Turkish attacks. Dozens of
civilians, in addition to possibly hun-
dreds of brave Kurdish fighters, have
been killed.
The only winners from the Presi-
dent’s disastrous decision in Syria are
ISIS, the Syrian Government, Iran, and
Russia.
With these targeted, strong sanc-
tions, America is holding accountable
top Turkish officials responsible for
human rights abuses, including attack-
ing our Kurdish partners.
We are penalizing Turkish financial
institutions that perpetuate President
Erdogan’s corruption and abuses, and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:40 Oct 30, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00033 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K29OC7.059 H29OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8576 October 29, 2019
are preventing the sale of arms to Tur-
key for use in Syria.
As the House passes this legislation,
we again call upon the President to
support the Kurdish communities and
work to ensure that the Turkish mili-
tary acts with restraint, and we require
the Trump administration to finally
present a clear strategy to defeat ISIS.
Mr. Speaker, I know we have bipar-
tisan support for this legislation.
Again, I salute Ranking Member
MCCAUL and Chairman ENGEL for
bringing this legislation to the floor,
which is a vote to support the sacrifice
of our military and our allies and a
vote to restore strength, strategy, and
sanity to our national security policy.
I think that a very strong, bipartisan
vote in the House, similar to the one
we had on H.J. Res. 77, will send a very
clear message that we can come to-
gether—and we will come together—in
the interest of our national security; in
the interest of Americans’ values,
which are part of our strength; and,
again, to fight terrorism wherever it
exists so that it does not reach our
shores.
b 1600
Mr. MCCAUL. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
I want to echo Madam Speaker’s
comments. When we stand united on
the floor of the Congress, as Ameri-
cans, that is when we send the strong-
est message overseas to adversaries.
I want to thank Mr. ENGEL for his
strong work in working with me to get
to a positive place where we can actu-
ally get to a solution to what has been
a challenging and very fluid situation.
It is always an honor to work with the
gentleman on the Foreign Affairs Com-
mittee.
In these times of crises we are, I be-
lieve, strongest on the world stage
when the executive and legislative
branch speak in one voice.
In his testimony before our com-
mittee, Ambassador Jeffrey, the Spe-
cial Envoy to Syria said:
I saw firsthand the effect of congressional
sanctions when we visited with the Turkish
negotiating team; that these sanctions have
been helpful in getting the Turks to agree to
the cease–fire.
And I believe the resolution that we
passed helped get Turkey to the cease–
fire as well.
Finally, I want to thank our partners
in the Syrian Democratic Forces for
their ongoing dedication to countering
ISIS. And I want to say to the SDF,
from the Nation’s Capitol, on the
House floor, that the American people
are grateful for everything you have
done for us, for everything you have
worked for, and everything you have
sacrificed to keep the world safer.
Mr. Speaker, I urge all Members to
support this important legislation, and
I yield back the balance of my time.
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self as much time as I may consume for
the purpose of closing.
I would like to again thank Ranking
Member MCCAUL for his partnership in
writing this important bipartisan bill.
And it is even more than just a part-
nership. It is working together on both
sides of the aisle to do good for the
American people. That is really what
this should all be about, particularly
when we are talking about foreign af-
fairs. So I want to thank Mr. MCCAUL
for working closely with me and for
really making this a real collaborative
bill.
The measure before us represents
what the Foreign Affairs Committee
does best, bipartisan, commonsense
legislation that advances American in-
terests and American values on the
global stage.
The PACT Act holds Turkey account-
able for its bloodshed in Syria. It calls
on Erdogan to immediately stop his
campaign of ethnic cleansing to expel
Syrian Kurds and other minority
groups from their homeland, and to
start living up to the democratic val-
ues that we expect from a NATO ally,
values that, right now, are under con-
stant attack in Turkey.
Mr. Speaker, it is a sad coincidence.
Today is the 96th anniversary of the
founding of the Republic of Turkey.
For nearly a century, the Turkish peo-
ple have fought hard to grow and pre-
serve democracy in their country, and
Erdogan has done such incredible dam-
age to that legacy.
I call on all my colleagues to join me
and Mr. MCCAUL in supporting this leg-
islation and sending a strong message
that the United States Congress will
not condone Turkey’s horrific atroc-
ities against the Kurds. Not only will
we not condone it, we oppose it; we will
speak out about it; and we will try in
every way we can to stop it.
I urge my colleagues to support this
very important measure, and I yield
back the balance of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentleman from New York (Mr.
ENGEL) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, H.R. 4695, as
amended.
The question was taken.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. In the
opinion of the Chair, two-thirds being
in the affirmative, the ayes have it.
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, on that I
demand the yeas and nays.
The yeas and nays were ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, further pro-
ceedings on this motion will be post-
poned.
f
HELP AMERICA RUN ACT
Ms. LOFGREN. Mr. Speaker, I move
to suspend the rules and pass the bill
(H.R. 1623) to amend the Federal Elec-
tion Campaign Act of 1971 to provide
for the treatment of payments for child
care and other personal use services as
an authorized campaign expenditure,
and for other purposes, as amended.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 1623
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; FINDINGS; PURPOSE.
(a) SHORT TITLE.—This Act may be cited as
the ‘‘Help America Run Act’’.
(b) FINDINGS.—Congress finds the fol-
lowing:
(1) Everyday Americans experience bar-
riers to entry before they can consider run-
ning for office to serve their communities.
(2) Current law states that campaign funds
cannot be spent on everyday expenses that
would exist whether or not a candidate were
running for office, like rent and food. While
the law seems neutral, its actual effect is to
privilege the independently wealthy who
want to run, because given the demands of
running for office, candidates who must
work to pay for childcare or to afford health
insurance are effectively being left out of the
process, even if they have sufficient support
to mount a viable campaign.
(3) Thus current practice favors those pro-
spective candidates who do not need to rely
on a regular paycheck to make ends meet.
The consequence is that everyday Americans
who have firsthand knowledge of the impor-
tance of stable childcare, a safety net, or
great public schools are less likely to get a
seat at the table. This governance by the few
is antithetical to the democratic experi-
ment, but most importantly, when law-
makers do not share the concerns of every-
day Americans, their policies reflect that.
(4) These circumstances have contributed
to a Congress that does not always reflect
everyday Americans. The New York Times
reported in 2019 that fewer than 5 percent of
representatives cite blue-collar or service
jobs in their biographies. A 2015 survey by
the Center for Responsive Politics showed
that the median net worth of lawmakers was
just over $1 million in 2013, or 18 times the
wealth of the typical American household.
(5) These circumstances have also contrib-
uted to a governing body that does not re-
flect the nation it serves. For instance,
women are 51% of the American population.
Yet even with a record number of women
serving in the One Hundred Sixteenth Con-
gress, the Pew Research Center notes that
more than three out of four Members of this
Congress are male. The Center for American
Women And Politics found that one third of
women legislators surveyed had been ac-
tively discouraged from running for office,
often by political professionals. This type of
discouragement, combined with the prohibi-
tions on using campaign funds for domestic
needs like childcare, burdens that still fall
disproportionately on American women, par-
ticularly disadvantages working mothers.
These barriers may explain why only 10
women in history have given birth while
serving in Congress, in spite of the preva-
lence of working parents in other profes-
sions. Yet working mothers and fathers are
best positioned to create policy that reflects
the lived experience of most Americans.
(6) Working mothers, those caring for their
elderly parents, and young professionals who
rely on their jobs for health insurance should
have the freedom to run to serve the people
of the United States. Their networks and net
worth are simply not the best indicators of
their strength as prospective public servants.
In fact, helping ordinary Americans to run
may create better policy for all Americans.
(c) PURPOSE.—It is the purpose of this Act
to ensure that all Americans who are other-
wise qualified to serve this Nation are able
to run for office, regardless of their eco-
nomic status. By expanding permissible uses
of campaign funds and providing modest as-
surance that testing a run for office will not
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:40 Oct 30, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00034 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K29OC7.060 H29OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8577
October 29, 2019
cost one’s livelihood, the Help America Run
Act will facilitate the candidacy of rep-
resentatives who more accurately reflect the
experiences, challenges, and ideals of every-
day Americans.
SEC. 2. TREATMENT OF PAYMENTS FOR CHILD
CARE AND OTHER PERSONAL USE
SERVICES AS AUTHORIZED CAM-
PAIGN EXPENDITURE.
(a) PERSONAL USE SERVICES AS AUTHORIZED
CAMPAIGN EXPENDITURE.—Section 313 of the
Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971 (52
U.S.C. 30114) is amended by adding at the end
the following new subsection:
‘‘(d) TREATMENT OF PAYMENTS FOR CHILD
CARE AND OTHER PERSONAL USE SERVICES AS
AUTHORIZED CAMPAIGN EXPENDITURE.—
‘‘(1) AUTHORIZED EXPENDITURES.—For pur-
poses of subsection (a), the payment by an
authorized committee of a candidate for any
of the personal use services described in
paragraph (3) shall be treated as an author-
ized expenditure if the services are necessary
to enable the participation of the candidate
in campaign-connected activities.
‘‘(2) LIMITATIONS.—
‘‘(A) LIMIT ON TOTAL AMOUNT OF PAY-
MENTS.—The total amount of payments made
by an authorized committee of a candidate
for personal use services described in para-
graph (3) may not exceed the limit which is
applicable under any law, rule, or regulation
on the amount of payments which may be
made by the committee for the salary of the
candidate (without regard to whether or not
the committee makes payments to the can-
didate for that purpose).
‘‘(B) CORRESPONDING REDUCTION IN AMOUNT
OF SALARY PAID TO CANDIDATE.—To the ex-
tent that an authorized committee of a can-
didate makes payments for the salary of the
candidate, any limit on the amount of such
payments which is applicable under any law,
rule, or regulation shall be reduced by the
amount of any payments made to or on be-
half of the candidate for personal use serv-
ices described in paragraph (3), other than
personal use services described in subpara-
graph (D) of such paragraph.
‘‘(C) EXCLUSION OF CANDIDATES WHO ARE OF-
FICEHOLDERS.—Paragraph (1) does not apply
with respect to an authorized committee of a
candidate who is a holder of Federal office.
‘‘(3) PERSONAL USE SERVICES DESCRIBED.—
The personal use services described in this
paragraph are as follows:
‘‘(A) Child care services.
‘‘(B) Elder care services.
‘‘(C) Services similar to the services de-
scribed in subparagraph (A) or subparagraph
(B) which are provided on behalf of any de-
pendent who is a qualifying relative under
section 152 of the Internal Revenue Code of
1986.
‘‘(D) Health insurance premiums.’’.
(b) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments
made by this section shall take effect on the
date of the enactment of this Act.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentlewoman from
California (Ms. LOFGREN) and the gen-
tleman from Illinois (Mr. RODNEY
DAVIS) each will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from California.
GENERAL LEAVE
Ms. LOFGREN. Mr. Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that all Members
may have 5 legislative days in which to
revise and extend their remarks and in-
clude extraneous material on the meas-
ure under consideration.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gentle-
woman from California?
There was no objection.
Ms. LOFGREN. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
I rise in support of H.R. 1623. This
measure is important. The Help Amer-
ica Run Act will amend the Federal
Election Campaign Act with common-
sense reforms to help everyday Ameri-
cans run for office.
Current law does not directly address
whether people who choose to run for
office can use their campaign funds to
cover the cost of childcare. This has led
several individuals to have to appeal to
the Federal Election Commission for
evaluations on a case-by-case basis and
creates a burden for candidates with
school-aged children.
This bill addresses that barrier and
other family-related barriers for can-
didates who have experiences like most
everyday Americans.
The Help American Run Act makes
running for office easier for working
mothers and fathers who need sitters
for their small kids. It would support
established professionals caring for an
aging parent and help cover children’s
health insurance on the campaign
trail.
I know it would help moms like
KATIE PORTER, the sponsor of this bill.
She is championing this cause today as
the very first single mother of young
children ever to serve in the U.S. Con-
gress.
These Americans caring for their
kids and their parents intimately know
the dread of opening those envelopes
full of prescription drug bills. They
know what it is like to weigh the risk
of running for office to serve the Na-
tion against the risk of losing their
children’s health insurance coverage.
It is precisely those everyday Ameri-
cans that I want to see join us at the
decisionmaking table. Those who have
firsthand knowledge of what it means
to have stable childcare, good schools,
and secure healthcare are exactly the
people I want making decisions on both
sides of this aisle. It makes our coun-
try profoundly richer to have those
with the diversity of economic experi-
ences in these Chambers. I know that
firsthand.
As the daughter of a truck driver and
a cafeteria cook, I worked on the night
shift at the Eastman Kodak plant in
Palo Alto to get ready for college.
Those experiences shaped me into the
person and Member I am today, and I
believe coming from a family like mine
shouldn’t disqualify you. In fact, it
makes you a better policy maker who
understands what our constituents are
really facing.
The fact is that diversity of experi-
ence leads to better policy. In 2019, the
New York Times reported that fewer
than 5 percent of Representatives cite
blue-collar or service jobs in their biog-
raphies.
A 2015 survey by the Center for Re-
sponsive Politics showed that the me-
dian net worth for lawmakers was just
over $1 million in 2013, or 18 times the
wealth of the typical American house-
hold. One could see how Americans feel
Congress might be out of touch.
This bill is a step to building trust in
Congress as by and for the people. The
bill would help advance economic di-
versity and other types of diversity,
too.
Even with the record number of
women serving in the 116th Congress,
only 1 in 4 Congresspeople are women.
This isn’t because women don’t want to
run.
The Center for American Women and
Politics found that one-third of women
legislators surveyed had been actively
discouraged from running for office,
often by political professionals. This
type of discouragement, combined with
the existing prohibitions on using cam-
paign funds for domestic needs like
childcare, burdens that still fall dis-
proportionately on American women,
particularly disadvantages working
parents.
Running for office should not be lim-
ited to the wealthy or those who have
no familial responsibilities. That is
anathema to the democratic experi-
ment, and it makes for bad policy.
This bill is a simple, cost-free, com-
monsense measure to make America’s
representatives look more like the ev-
eryday Americans we are here to rep-
resent. For that reason, I am proud to
support it.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois. Mr.
Speaker, I yield myself such time as I
may consume.
I, too, rise in support of H.R. 1623, the
Help America Run Act, a bill drafted
by my colleague across the aisle,
newly-elected Congresswoman from the
great State of California, Ms. KATIE
PORTER.
I want to commend Ms. PORTER for
this important legislation that I be-
lieve will allow, as Chairperson LOF-
GREN said, more people of all socio-
economic strata, to be able to run for
office.
Strong candidates should not be lim-
ited by their circumstances to the
point that it prevents them from rep-
resenting their communities in Con-
gress. Representatives of this body
should and do come from all back-
grounds to allow for equal representa-
tion of all who make up this institu-
tion and this great Nation.
I believe this bill will make that hap-
pen by allowing the candidate who is
not currently a Member of Congress to
pay for specific necessary services like
childcare and dependent care, that will
enable a congressional candidate to
participate in all campaign-connected
activities.
This is a decision between the can-
didates and the donors that give to
their campaign. All we are asking to do
with this piece of legislation is to allow
candidates to publicly disclose
childcare expenses on their FEC re-
ports. Everyone is going to know what
they paid. Everyone is going to know
what it went for, and that is an issue
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:40 Oct 30, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00035 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A29OC7.022 H29OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8578 October 29, 2019
they can discuss with the people who
are funding their campaigns.
What this bill does not do—let me re-
peat, Mr. Speaker. What this bill does
not do is put more money in the pock-
ets of current Members of Congress. In-
stead, it allows for an equal oppor-
tunity for new representation, pro-
viding more Americans who aspire to
represent their communities in Con-
gress the chance to do just that.
This is not a radical idea. We should
absolutely want to give everyone an
equal opportunity to run, to be able to
serve, if elected, in this great institu-
tion; including single parents who want
to run for Federal office but cannot af-
ford the necessary childcare for the
grueling campaign schedules that ev-
eryone in this institution knows exists.
Again, I want to thank Congress-
woman PORTER for her hard work on
this legislation. I look forward to see-
ing it implemented, and I reserve the
balance of my time.
Ms. LOFGREN. Mr. Speaker, I yield 3
minutes to the gentlewoman from Cali-
fornia (Ms. PORTER), the author of this
bill.
Ms. PORTER. Mr. Speaker, I am a
single mom. When I ran for Congress
last year, I spent thousands and thou-
sands of dollars on childcare.
Running for Federal office requires
50, 60, 70, 80, 90, 100-hour workweeks,
and I worked nearly every single day,
including every single weekend. I also
worked challenging hours, often start-
ing at 5:30 a.m. and ending with cam-
paign events stretching late into the
evening. I juggled more than a dozen
childcare providers for nearly 2 years,
without whom I would have never
made it to Congress.
I have three children. When I started
my campaign, Betsy was 6, Paul was 9,
and Luke was 11. Leaving them alone
was not an option; and bringing them
on the campaign trail was impossible
or inappropriate.
For the past two centuries, Congress
has written many, many laws about
what women may or may not do. But
until this year, women’s representation
in Congress was less than 20 percent.
With the election of the historic class
of 2018, we hit 23.4 percent, 102 women,
and that number is still egregiously
low.
b 1615
There are even fewer moms in Con-
gress and even fewer moms of young
kids and even fewer single moms of
young kids, as in just me.
A major barrier to women running
for elected office is their inability to
afford the amount or type of childcare
needed in a campaign. That is why I in-
troduced the Help America Run Act,
which will explicitly allow candidates
for Federal office to use campaign con-
tributions to pay for childcare as well
as other types of dependent care, such
as eldercare.
Right now, candidates can use cam-
paign funds for a whole gamut of ex-
penses, from pizza for exhausted staff
to cybersecurity for digital devices.
But the law does not make it clear that
childcare is among those allowed ex-
penses.
Like so many laws, there is an as-
sumption of a female caregiver behind
every male elected official. In part be-
cause of that, moms who continue to
shoulder the majority of childcare re-
sponsibilities also struggle to run for
Congress.
Until women are fully and equally
present in Congress, women’s perspec-
tives will continue to be underrep-
resented. The result is a weaker democ-
racy for the people.
I am proud that this bill previously
passed the House as part of H.R. 1, the
For the People Act. Now, with the sup-
port of my congressional colleagues on
both sides of the aisle, the House is
taking this additional step to support
women and candidates with families by
passing the Help America Run Act.
Access to childcare services was a
problem I faced like so many other sin-
gle parents long before I decided to run
for office. Every parent, not just those
running for Congress, deserves to have
access to quality, affordable childcare.
The Help America Run Act should be
only the beginning.
Today isn’t just about passing legis-
lation to open up the Halls of Congress
for single moms or single dads. It is
about creating pathways for every par-
ent and every American, regardless of
socioeconomic status, to be able to
achieve their goals. We all deserve a
Congress that reflects the diversity of
families and households in our country.
This bill will help America run and,
in the process, will help America’s Con-
gress run better.
Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois. Mr.
Speaker, I yield myself such time as I
may consume.
What an impassioned speech by our
colleague.
This isn’t just a problem for one gen-
der running for Congress. It is a prob-
lem for all families. It is a problem
that I faced when my kids were young-
er when I first ran for office a little
over 61⁄2 years ago. It is what to do with
young children who can’t go anywhere
on their own at that time.
With twin boys aged 12, I don’t nec-
essarily know that I trusted them
going somewhere on their own. I don’t
know if I trusted them at home alone,
at the same time. It is, what do you do
to make sure your family gets the su-
pervision and the supervisory opportu-
nities that you need?
This is an opportunity for us to show
anybody who wants to follow in what
our forefathers of this great Nation put
forth in our Constitution creating the
House of Representatives to be able to
be a House for the people and by the
people to represent this great United
States. This is going to be an oppor-
tunity for anyone, no matter what
their path is in life, if they have chil-
dren at home, if they are a single mom,
if they are a single dad, if they are a
family with kids, if they are wondering
how they take on this challenge, how
they get a chance to serve this great
country, how they get a chance to join
us, this is going to be their opportunity
to say: I am going to go out and spend
a lot of time raising money because
many of these campaigns—I can tell
you how much mine cost. It cost mil-
lions upon millions of dollars and a lot
of time. When you are gone, you are
raising more money to run because
campaigns are too expensive. We un-
derstand that. We get that. We agree
on that.
This is a chance to say: I am going to
get out there and get on the dance
floor and take that chance. Too many
people who may want to run for office
won’t do it because they are afraid to
lose. I think everyone has to have the
chance to take away any excuse to be
able to step out and put their name on
the ballot to have a chance to do what
we do.
If I, the son of a high school dropout
and a guy who graduated high school
who walked into a fast-food restaurant
in 1959 and had a dream to own his own
one day, if I, who had no family ever in
politics or government, can come and
stand on this floor and work with col-
leagues like Chairperson LOFGREN and
Congresswoman PORTER to help put
good legislation like this through, any-
body in this great country can do it.
It is a great opportunity to show the
next generation that we care enough
about them to be able to show them
how to do exactly what we do.
Let’s all come together. Let’s make
this happen today. It is a great oppor-
tunity for us to stand here on the floor
and show the American people the Re-
publicans and Democrats do agree on
issues, and we do work together. I
mean, maybe the news will cover it,
maybe they won’t. We might be able to
debate Nickelback or something and
get them to cover it today.
But do you know what? We know
what happens here. We know we have
opportunities. We know that we are
able to put good policies like this to-
gether. We know that friendships do
exist on both sides of the aisle in this
institution.
This is a great bill. This is an oppor-
tunity. I thank all of my colleagues
who are supporting this.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Ms. LOFGREN. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Listening to my colleague, the rank-
ing member, reminded me of when I
ran for Congress the very first time.
My children were in elementary school.
Really, the high point of every day was
going to the elementary school, Horace
Mann Elementary in downtown San
Jose, and standing with the other
mothers while we said the Pledge of Al-
legiance, the flag outside.
I think, for parents, being a parent
gives you a viewpoint that is helpful
when you come to the Congress of the
United States. You don’t forget what
regular people are going through at
home when you are a parent.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:40 Oct 30, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00036 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K29OC7.064 H29OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8579
October 29, 2019
I also remember my first day in Con-
gress. My mother had passed away sev-
eral years before, but my dad was still
alive, a retired beer truck driver. He
had never been on an airplane in his
life. We got him on a plane, and we had
a friend sit next to him. He was sitting
in that gallery, watching his daughter
become a Member of the United States
Congress.
I think for those of us who came from
humble roots, we never forget where we
came from, and it informs our perspec-
tive on where the country should go.
I yield such time as she may consume
to the gentlewoman from California
(Ms. PORTER), the author of the bill.
Ms. PORTER. Mr. Speaker, I thank
the ranking member for his bipartisan-
ship and his cooperation on this be-
cause democracy is not a partisan
value. Democracy is about letting
every voice in this country be heard.
Those voices should reflect the diver-
sity of this country, both
socioeconomically and geographically,
but also in terms of family status.
I think everyone in America should
be grateful that my children were well
supervised during the campaign, and I
am grateful that I was able to piece to-
gether the childcare that I needed to
run. But this bill is not about any one
of us. It is about the benefits that
every one of us here and every Amer-
ican will get from having a more di-
verse Congress, from having voices
heard that sometimes are not heard.
There are millions and millions and
millions of single parents, men and
women, in this country, and there is
one in the United States Congress.
Whether that will change next year or
in 10 years, I don’t know, but I want
every American who wants to serve in
this body, who wants to come together
to work for the good of the American
people, to have the opportunity to
make that happen and not to have to
choose between being a parent and
being a good parent and caring about
your kids, and being a good American
and being a good Congress Member.
Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois. Will
the gentlewoman yield?
Ms. PORTER. I yield to the gen-
tleman from Illinois.
Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois. Mr.
Speaker, I ask Ms. PORTER this: Your
legislation doesn’t tell candidates they
have to spend money on this, right?
Ms. PORTER. Mr. Speaker, the legis-
lation provides an opportunity and a
choice for each candidate to decide, in
their own campaign and from their own
donors, whether or not they want to
use these funds for childcare.
Many people will choose not to, just
like many of us choose as candidates
not to seek reimbursement for pizza or
not to seek reimbursement for any
number of allowable FEC expenses. But
this bill is also going to stop the FEC
from having to again and again and
again—every time a parent of young
children wants to run, from having to
make that expensive and time-con-
suming appeal to the FEC and waste
its resources when this simply should
be a clear, straightforward policy.
Ms. LOFGREN. Mr. Speaker, re-
claiming my time, I yield myself such
time as I may consume.
I think the gentlewoman has made a
very good point that this is discre-
tionary on the part of the candidate,
but it is a point that we also need to
make: This has nothing to do with tax-
payers funds. This is no money from
the government, no money from the
taxpayers. This is a candidate, where a
candidate has raised funds and how
they spend their campaign funds.
I know that there had been some con-
fusion among some earlier in the day
that was unfortunate and has now been
corrected. This is only a matter of a
campaign expenditure. Really,
childcare has to be as important as
pizza, to me, at least more important,
but that is up for a candidate to decide.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois. Mr.
Speaker, can I inquire how much time
we have remaining on debate?
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tleman from Illinois has 14 minutes re-
maining. The gentlewoman from Cali-
fornia has 81⁄2 minutes remaining.
Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois. Mr.
Speaker, I yield myself such time as I
may consume.
I love debate like this. It is an oppor-
tunity for us, again, to show how we
can work together, both sides of the
aisle, and put good policies forward
that are going to affect the ability for
people to serve in this institution.
Hearing the talk about kids when
running for Congress, it actually takes
me back. Many folks may see me walk-
ing around the Capitol tunnels with
earbuds in, in the early mornings about
5:30 our time, 4:30 back home, because
my wife is a nurse. They work on a dif-
ferent schedule. That is my time that I
get to talk to her. She was a nurse and
left for work very early in the morning
when our kids were growing up. And
my job as a congressional staffer, I had
a great boss who made sure that he
told me every day to put my kids first.
I cannot thank our colleague JOHN
SHIMKUS, who I worked for, for 16
years, enough for telling me to put my
family first. It is a guy like that who
not only makes me a better Member of
Congress being around him, but he
helped me learn how to be a better dad.
Until I got elected, my job each day
was to get my kids ready, sometimes a
little more labor intensive when they
were a little bit younger than they
were when they were older. Although it
was kind of easier when I was holding
twin boys in seats rather than chasing
them, but dropping them off at
childcare, before we dropped them off
at school. During the summer, if we
didn’t have childcare opportunities, if I
didn’t have the opportunity to take
them and drop them off, neither my
wife nor I could have gotten to the jobs
that we enjoyed pursuing so much.
In today’s day and age, with so many
two-parent working families, this is
only a commonsense provision that is
going to be a choice, a choice for can-
didates to use if they choose. That is
something that we ought to all come
together and make happen.
Look, there are great people on both
sides of the aisle in this institution. I
want more of them. I want more people
who want to be able to do what we do.
This is going to be an opportunity to
show them, too, that this institution
isn’t nearly as dysfunctional as the
news media says it is. Most of what we
do here is actually done on a pretty bi-
partisan basis, but it doesn’t make the
news.
Hopefully, today, maybe one of the
folks covering us is going to talk about
what we did together, maybe. I am
going to cross my fingers. Maybe they
will understand that this is what we
need to highlight instead of the non-
sense that happens when the two par-
ties and the extremes scream at each
other.
A good bill, again, from Congress-
woman PORTER, and it is great to work
with her, and a great bill from Chair-
person LOFGREN. I appreciate the op-
portunity to serve with each and every
one of my colleagues.
I will ask, again, for every Member to
support this today loudly on the floor,
and I yield back the balance of my
time.
Ms. LOFGREN. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, one thing that we ne-
glected to point out is that, in addition
to a childcare option, if a candidate,
and it is generally a female candidate,
is caring for elderly parents, this could
also be used for eldercare while going
to a campaign event. That is also both
son’s and daughter’s care for aging par-
ents, but, oftentimes, it is the daugh-
ters who end up providing the
eldercare.
If someone is running for Congress
and is providing for that eldercare,
they obviously can’t go to the cam-
paign event with someone who is bed-
ridden or in need of constant attention.
This would allow for that very impor-
tant possibility, just as childcare is.
Unless the author wishes a further
comment, I would urge adoption of this
amendment with bipartisan support,
and I yield back the balance of my
time.
b 1630
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentlewoman from California (Ms.
LOFGREN) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, H.R. 1623, as
amended.
The question was taken; and (two-
thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the bill, as
amended, was passed.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:40 Oct 30, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00037 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K29OC7.066 H29OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8580 October 29, 2019
SFC SEAN COOLEY AND SPC
CHRISTOPHER HORTON CON-
GRESSIONAL GOLD STAR FAM-
ILY FELLOWSHIP PROGRAM ACT
Ms. LOFGREN. Mr. Speaker, I move
to suspend the rules and agree to the
resolution (H. Res. 107) establishing the
Congressional Gold Star Family Fel-
lowship Program for the placement in
offices of Members of the House of Rep-
resentatives of children, spouses, and
siblings of members of the Armed
Forces who are hostile casualties or
who have died from a training-related
injury, as amended.
The Clerk read the title of the resolu-
tion.
The text of the resolution is as fol-
lows:
H. RES. 107
Resolved,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This resolution may be cited as the ‘‘SFC
Sean Cooley and SPC Christopher Horton
Congressional Gold Star Family Fellowship
Program Act’’.
SEC. 2. CONGRESSIONAL GOLD STAR FELLOW-
SHIP PROGRAM.
(a) ESTABLISHMENT.—There is established
in the House of Representatives the Congres-
sional Gold Star Family Fellowship Program
(hereafter in this resolution referred to as
the ‘‘Program’’) under which, under the di-
rection of the Chief Administrative Officer of
the House of Representatives, an eligible in-
dividual may serve a 12-month fellowship in
the office of a Member of the House of Rep-
resentatives (including a Delegate or Resi-
dent Commissioner to the Congress).
(b) EXCLUSION OF APPOINTEES FOR PUR-
POSES OF LIMIT ON NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES IN
MEMBER OFFICES.—Any individual serving a
fellowship under the Program in the office of
a Member shall not be included in the deter-
mination of the number of employees em-
ployed by the Member under section 104(a) of
the House of Representatives Administrative
Reform Technical Corrections Act (2 U.S.C.
5321(a)).
(c) PLACEMENT IN MEMBER OFFICES IN DIS-
TRICT OF COLUMBIA OR CONGRESSIONAL DIS-
TRICT OF MEMBER.—An individual may serve
a fellowship under the Program at the Mem-
ber’s office in the District of Columbia or the
Member’s office in the congressional district
the Member represents.
(d) ELIGIBLE INDIVIDUAL DEFINED.—In this
section, the term ‘‘eligible individual’’
means the child (including a stepchild),
spouse, or sibling of—
(1) a person who dies in the line of duty
while serving as a member of the Armed
Forces (including the reserve components
and the National Guard), regardless of the
duty status of the member while serving, un-
less such death was the result of the willful
misconduct of the member; or
(2) a veteran who dies from a service-con-
nected disability (as defined in section 101 of
title 38, United States Code) during the 4-
year period beginning on the date of the last
discharge or release of the veteran from the
Armed Forces.
(e) REGULATIONS.—The Program shall be
carried out in accordance with regulations
promulgated by the Committee on House Ad-
ministration.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentlewoman from
California (Ms. LOFGREN) and the gen-
tleman from Illinois (Mr. RODNEY
DAVIS) each will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from California.
GENERAL LEAVE
Ms. LOFGREN. Mr. Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that all Members
may have 5 legislative days in which to
revise and extend their remarks and in-
clude extraneous material on the meas-
ure under consideration.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gentle-
woman from California?
There was no objection.
Ms. LOFGREN. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
This resolution establishes the Con-
gressional Gold Star Family Fellow-
ship Program, which will provide fel-
lowships in congressional offices for
immediate family members of the
Armed Forces who have given their
lives in service to this country.
Members of the Armed Forces do not
serve by themselves. They are sup-
ported by children, spouses, siblings,
and others who often go months or
longer without seeing their loved one
while that loved one is deployed.
It is incumbent on all Americans, but
particularly those of us who have the
privilege of serving in Congress, to sup-
port military families, and none more
so than our Gold Star families.
Gold Star families have experienced
the worst type of heartbreak, sacrifice,
and loss, and they deserve our unwav-
ering recognition, compassion, and sup-
port. The Congressional Gold Star
Family Fellowship Program is one
small way for us in Congress to provide
that support.
This program will offer an oppor-
tunity for members of Gold Star fami-
lies to gain firsthand experience in
Congress through a yearlong fellowship
in a congressional office. These fellow-
ships can take place either here in
Washington or back home in a district
office and will allow Gold Star families
to both participate in and learn about
the democracy their loved one gave the
ultimate sacrifice to protect.
Nothing can ever fill the void left by
the loss of a loved one who was killed
serving the Nation, but we in Congress
should be doing everything we can to
help lift up those who have suffered
this unfathomable loss.
Mr. Speaker, I am proud to support
the establishment of this program. I
urge my colleagues to support this res-
olution, and I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois. Mr.
Speaker, I yield myself such time as I
may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I want to thank Chair-
person LOFGREN for, again, working
with me on this issue—it is such a very
important piece of legislation—because
I am proud to rise with her today in
support of H. Res. 107, the SFC Sean
Cooley and SPC Christopher Horton
Congressional Gold Star Family Fel-
lowship Program Act.
Since being elected to Congress in
2013, my team has worked over 1,000
cases on behalf of veteran constituents
in central-southwestern Illinois, in-
cluding when the USS John McCain
collided with a merchant ship off the
coast of Singapore in 2017, killing 10
sailors, including Petty Officer Logan
Palmer from my district. My office was
able to help this Gold Star family navi-
gate the confusing Department of De-
fense policies relating to next-of-kin
travel for noncombat-related deaths
and other important procedures that
follow a tragedy like this.
Over the years since that tragedy, I
have become friends with Petty Officer
Palmer’s parents, Theresa and Sid, and
deeply value our friendship, which is
one of the reasons why I am so honored
to be on the floor advocating for the
passage of this bill.
I have also worked to change the
next-of-kin family travel policies at
the DOD and am currently working in
a bipartisan way with Members across
the aisle to codify those changes that
are already in existence. Let’s codify
them into law so they don’t change
again when administrations change.
I will continue to use my office to as-
sist those who have given so much.
That is why I believe in this program
that will allow Gold Star spouses, chil-
dren, and siblings the opportunity to
work for a congressional office in D.C.
or a district office.
We already have a model for success
in Congress to shape this program
after. It is the Wounded Warrior Fel-
lowship Program that lies within the
Office of the Chief Administrative Offi-
cer and has provided many opportuni-
ties over the years for veterans to
serve in the House of Representatives.
Currently, there is a Wounded War-
rior fellow who works in my Maryville,
Illinois, office, Peter Arsenault. He is
doing a great job. Peter helps veterans
in my district every day and under-
stands the assistance and the help that
they need to navigate the bureaucracy
within the Federal Government.
Mr. Speaker, I do want to give a spe-
cial thank-you and a shout-out to our
colleague and my very good close
friend, TRENT KELLY, the gentleman
from Mississippi, for his work on tak-
ing this fellowship program from an
idea into a reality. TRENT did every-
thing to make sure that this became
law, that this bill passed the House and
made it on its way to become law.
Mr. Speaker, I also want to thank
the Gold Star families for their partici-
pation in making this process a reality,
too, and for those family members who
could be here in the gallery to see this
important program come to fruition.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Ms. LOFGREN. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I am glad that the
ranking member has mentioned the
Wounded Warrior Program that, I be-
lieve, has been enormously successful.
Practically every week, I am signing
little termination letters. And why?
Because these wounded warriors have
gotten jobs, promotions, permanent po-
sitions, exactly what we wanted.
So not only will this help the fami-
lies, Gold Star families, gain insight
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:40 Oct 30, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00038 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K29OC7.068 H29OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8581
October 29, 2019
into the workings of the United States
Congress, but it will also be a platform
for them to, if they wish, expand their
employment opportunities, just as our
Wounded Warrior Program has done so.
Mr. Speaker, I thank the author of
the bill. I thank the ranking member
for moving this forward. I am glad that
this is bipartisan, as well the prior bill.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois. Mr.
Speaker, I am happy to take this op-
portunity to offer one of our great col-
leagues from the great State of Ne-
braska the opportunity to speak in
favor—like TRENT KELLY from Mis-
sissippi—one of the former generals, or
current generals, who serves in our Na-
tion’s military, but whom we also have
the great privilege of serving with here
in this institution, General DON BACON.
Mr. Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the
gentleman from Nebraska (Mr. BACON).
Mr. BACON. Mr. Speaker, I want to
take the time to thank Ms. LOFGREN
and Mr. DAVIS for guiding this discus-
sion, this debate today, and TRENT
KELLY for submitting a great bill.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of this
resolution which honors the memory of
two great American warriors: Army
Sergeant First Class Sean Cooley and
Army Specialist Chris Horton. These
heroes rest in honored glory, servants
to our great Republic, who answered
the call and gave their lives fighting
for our freedoms and to give hope to
others fighting for a better future in
Iraq and Afghanistan.
We could never repay the debt we
owe, but we can honor them by caring
for their families. This is why this res-
olution to establish the Gold Star
Family Fellowship Program in the
House is so important and has my full
support.
Since becoming a Member of the
House, I have made it my mission to
work across the aisle to ensure Con-
gress does its part to honor our heroes
and care for the families who bear the
daily burden of their loss.
To our Gold Star and surviving fami-
lies, I recall President Lincoln’s words
to a grieving mother who lost five sons
in the Civil War: ‘‘I pray that the Heav-
enly Father may assuage the anguish
of your bereavement, and leave you
only the cherished memory of the loved
and lost, and the solemn pride that
must be yours to have laid so costly a
sacrifice upon the altar of freedom.’’
As we approach Veterans Day, this
action is timely and sends an impor-
tant message of support to our mili-
tary families and to the American peo-
ple.
The daring raid this weekend which
ended the life of the world’s most want-
ed terrorist is a reminder of how much
we—indeed, the entire free world—owe
to our military, our military service-
members and their families.
Mr. Speaker, I wish to personally
thank my good friend and wingman on
the Armed Services Committee, Mr.
KELLY, for introducing this measure.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
support this resolution.
Ms. LOFGREN. Mr. Speaker, I re-
serve the balance of my time.
Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois. Mr.
Speaker, may I inquire as to how much
time remains. I am sure I talked longer
than I thought.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tleman from Illinois has 141⁄2 minutes
remaining.
Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois. Mr.
Speaker, I yield 4 minutes to the gen-
tleman from Georgia (Mr.
LOUDERMILK), my good friend, another
veteran who serves in this great insti-
tution with us. I am honored to be able
to serve with him on the House Admin-
istration Committee.
Mr. LOUDERMILK. Mr. Speaker, I
thank the gentleman, my friend and
colleague, the ranking member, for
yielding this time.
This is one of those pieces of legisla-
tion that really touches your heart.
As a veteran, I have had the oppor-
tunity to serve with some of America’s
finest, and I have also experienced the
loss and the families that have lost
loved ones in defense of this Nation.
But my story with the Gold Star goes
back to even when I was a child. You
see, my dad was a veteran. He was a
medic in World War II. He was involved
in the D-Day invasion. He went all the
way through from Normandy, through
France, into Belgium, and then on into
Germany.
I remember when I was young, I was
going through this photo album that
my mom had, and as I was flipping
through seeing the pictures that my
dad brought back from World War II,
there was this interesting picture of a
banner hanging inside of a church.
And I remember when I asked her
about this, because my children re-
cently, just a few years ago, were going
through the album not long before my
mom and my dad passed away. They
saw that same picture and they asked
the same question I asked: What is
this? This banner had names, various
names of people, and next to the names
was a silver star or a gold star.
I remember when my children asked
the question: ‘‘What does this mean?’’
My mom, who was a teenager at the
time, said: ‘‘This banner was in the en-
trance of our church, and the names on
it were all the boys from our church
that were serving in the European or
the Pacific theater. And the silver star
at the time indicated that they were
deployed into the combat area.’’
But then she kind of got teary-eyed,
and she said: ‘‘But when it was a gold
star, it meant that they had been
killed in action.’’
I remember her telling about the D-
Day invasion, because they knew that
something was going to happen. They
knew we were going to invade, but they
didn’t know exactly when. And the
night of the invasion, when President
Roosevelt took to the airwaves and led
the Nation in a prayer for the invasion,
her father told her to go throughout
the town of Waha, South Carolina, and
gather everyone to come to the church
and pray.
She said they stayed and they prayed
in the church all night long. But she
said a couple of days later, when they
went back to the church, she looked,
and several of those names now had
gold stars, including the pastor, the
pastor’s son. I remember her telling
the impact that it had upon those fam-
ilies.
Many of these families are dev-
astated, not only at the loss of their
loved one who gave their life for our
freedom, but at the life they will have
to endure, the responsibilities that
they will take on solely for that fam-
ily.
b 1645
I got to know a family when I was in
the State legislature whose son was
killed in Iraq during the war on terror.
I was able to name an intersection
after Justin Johnson. His story went
on because his family were such patri-
ots, even though his mom was a Gold
Star Mother at that point.
His father wanted to complete the
mission for which his son started and
reenlisted back into the National
Guard. Unfortunately, his unit was not
going to be deployed, so he asked to be
actually transferred to a unit that was
going to deploy, which the Army did.
He went and fulfilled the mission that
his son wasn’t able to complete.
I have seen and I have worked with
these families and know the tragic sit-
uations they are in. And, as others
have, there is actually a wounded war-
rior on our staff, Chase Sanger, an
Army airborne veteran, who is one of
the finest that our Nation has pro-
duced.
To be able to extend this on to the
families of those heroes, I think is not
only admirable, but it is something
that we should have done a long time
ago. I salute my colleague, General
Kelly, for bringing this forward. I give
it my utmost support, and I think this
is well overdue.
Ms. LOFGREN. Mr. Speaker, I re-
serve the balance of my time.
Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois. Mr.
Speaker, I yield myself such time as I
may consume.
Mr. Speaker, again, this is one of
those rare opportunities where we get
to talk about our heroes.
The worst vote I think any of us
would ever have to take is a vote to au-
thorize to send young men and women
off to war, off to battle, to protect the
freedoms and the liberties that many
of us in this country take for granted
every single day. We expect freedom
and liberty to exist in the United
States of America, but it doesn’t hap-
pen without the courage and the sac-
rifice of so many families throughout
our Nation’s history. I cannot imagine.
I have never had the chance to take
that vote in 61⁄2 years, and I hope and
pray every day that I don’t personally
ever have to take it. But many in this
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:40 Oct 30, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00039 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K29OC7.069 H29OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8582 October 29, 2019
institution, who have been here and
have served here, have had to make
that vote.
I could not imagine what our Gold
Star families go through when they get
that knock on the door. But to know
that the legacy of their young sons and
daughters is going to live on in a fel-
lowship program here in the United
States House of Representatives—be-
cause General TRENT KELLY and his
team and an idea from his constituents
is now moving forward in the next step
to become law—that is one thing that
we can do here in the House of Rep-
resentatives to honor those families
who have sacrificed so much.
We often imagine the future of what
would have happened if these young
men and women would have been able
to come back home, families torn apart
by tragedy at a time when their sac-
rifice gave us the freedoms and lib-
erties that we enjoy being able to serve
here.
We have an opportunity today to say
thank you again. This is our oppor-
tunity to show those families that
their sons and daughters perishing dur-
ing battle, or noncombat-related
deaths, like Petty Officer Logan Palm-
er from Harristown, Illinois, in my dis-
trict, let’s say thank you to them.
Let’s let their memory go on.
Let’s let the next generation of peo-
ple who, like Chairperson LOFGREN and
I, we started out as congressional staff-
ers. Do you know what, I think both of
us are here because of that experience.
And to have this program, this Gold
Star Fellowship Program, allow young
men and women, who have been af-
fected by so much, come into our insti-
tution, who knows, maybe they will be
the next chairperson and ranking mem-
ber of the House Administration Com-
mittee, and maybe their constituents,
like General KELLY’s constituents, will
give them a great idea like this, and
maybe they will be able to move it on
the next step in becoming law.
Mr. Speaker, I thank Chairperson
LOFGREN again for allowing us the op-
portunity, and I reserve the balance of
my time.
Ms. LOFGREN. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, like Mr. DAVIS, I do be-
lieve that this fellowship will provide a
rewarding experience for the families
who decide to participate, whether it is
in Washington, to participate and ob-
serve in the making of legislation, or
whether it is in our district offices,
going to bat for veterans, standing up
for people who need help from a con-
gressional office. It is very rewarding,
but also very educational. And I know
that it will be a rewarding experience
for those families who participate.
I thank the author of the bill, Mr.
KELLY, for his persistence in getting
this done and making adjustments as
input came in so that we can have con-
sensus and proceed on this.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois. Mr.
Speaker, may I inquire as to how much
time remains?
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tleman from Illinois has 7 minutes re-
maining.
Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois. Mr.
Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the gen-
tleman from Indiana (Mr. BAIRD), my
colleague and wounded warrior, a hero.
I am glad I get the opportunity to
serve with heroes like the gentleman
from Indiana.
Mr. BAIRD. Mr. Speaker, I rise today
in strong support of the Congressional
Gold Star Family Fellowship Program
Act sponsored by my colleague, Mr.
KELLY.
Mr. Speaker, our men and women in
uniform are part of a long line of patri-
ots whose unwavering commitment to
our Nation has preserved the rich leg-
acy of freedom that we each enjoy
every day.
Our military families are the forces
behind our Armed Forces, and it is our
duty to also support and care for them,
especially when their loved one pays
the ultimate sacrifice in service to our
Nation.
I am proud to support this legisla-
tion, named after two fallen American
soldiers, Sergeant First Class Sean
Cooley and Specialist Christopher Hor-
ton. This resolution will provide fel-
lowships in congressional offices to
Gold Star family members, giving
them the opportunity to drive policy
change here in Washington and serve
our country in their own way.
Our fallen men and women in uni-
form stepped forward and answered the
call to serve. It is our turn to do our
part to honor their legacy of service
and sacrifice by keeping the ones that
we leave behind in the forefront of our
minds as we make decisions in this
body.
With passage of this legislation, we
will send a message to our Gold Star
families that they are not forgotten,
and the American people stand behind
them and support them.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
support this resolution.
Ms. LOFGREN. Mr. Speaker, I con-
tinue to reserve the balance of my
time.
Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois. Mr.
Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the gen-
tleman from Georgia (Mr.
LOUDERMILK), my good friend.
Mr. LOUDERMILK. Mr. Speaker, I
thank my colleagues on both sides of
the aisle for bringing this measure for-
ward and giving us an opportunity to
do something so important for these
families.
I am sure many of you, as you watch
the television, see the different organi-
zations that have evolved over the past
several years to provide assistance to
those families. One particular organi-
zation provides assistance in paying off
the mortgages for these families.
I bring that up just as an illustration
to the aspects of what these Gold Star
families go through at the loss of their
loved one. Sometimes it is the primary
income earner from the family be-
cause, quite often, the spouse is at
home taking care of the children and,
all of a sudden, they are the primary
breadwinner, their loved one is gone.
They are left with these bills. They are
left with, a lot of times, situations be-
yond just the grief of what they are
feeling at the loss of their family mem-
ber, they have to deal with these un-
bearable situations.
Providing them with an opportunity
for the spouse or their children to find
employment in something that they
feel is also meaningful, because many
of them have such a patriotic heart,
they want to continue to serve.
One of the things that I have often
said to many of my veterans and
friends who have served is that when
we take that oath of office, there are a
lot of things that we swear to, to up-
hold and defend the Constitution of the
United States, up to and including giv-
ing our own lives, if necessary. But one
thing that is not in that oath of office
is an expiration date.
Many veterans and their families,
even at the end of their regular service,
still feel that need and that desire to
serve. This will give an opportunity for
those family members to continue to
serve their country in a meaningful
way.
Ms. LOFGREN. Mr. Speaker, I con-
tinue to reserve the balance of my
time.
Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois. Mr.
Speaker, I yield such time as he may
consume to the gentleman from Mis-
sissippi (Mr. KELLY), and I can’t tell
you how proud I am to yield to the
sponsor of this legislation, somebody
who deserves a lot of thanks for mov-
ing this bill forward.
Mr. KELLY of Mississippi. Mr.
Speaker, this is one of my most mo-
mentous occasions here in the House of
Representatives. We are recognizing
the men and women who died in service
of this great Nation and understanding
that when they left here, they left fam-
ilies behind.
These are two—Sean Cooley and
Chris Horton—who died in service of
this great Nation. I have got their pic-
tures up here to show what warriors
they were. But they left families be-
hind.
We are establishing this Gold Star
Fellowship Program to honor these
men, and many other men and women
like them, who have given their all to
defend this Nation.
Ronald Reagan used the words of
Thomas Jefferson when he said, the
blood of patriots is needed from time to
time to refresh the tree of liberty—
something to that effect. We have to
make sure that we always honor those
who give the ultimate sacrifice for this
great Nation.
We have many Gold Star families
here today. My friend Jane Horton
came up with the idea for this bill.
This is her husband who is pictured in
this bill. Thank God that we have men
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:40 Oct 30, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00040 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K29OC7.071 H29OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8583
October 29, 2019
and women who not only serve this Na-
tion, but families who serve this Na-
tion by allowing their family member
to serve. Such bravery and such patri-
ots. As long as we have them, this Na-
tion will always sustain.
When we lose these types of patriots
who are willing to give everything to
this beautiful, wonderful Nation, then
we no longer will have a Nation. Free-
dom is not free. But the least we can do
is allow their family members to learn
how to get engaged in the congres-
sional process on a national and stra-
tegic level and to influence our deci-
sion so that we take care of those great
patriots who left this country behind.
We will never forget, and we will
never leave behind a fallen comrade or
their survivor. So for our Gold Star
families, thank you and God bless you.
Their sacrifice was not in vain.
Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois. Mr.
Speaker, I yield back the balance of
my time.
b 1700
Ms. LOFGREN. Mr. Speaker, I think
this has been an excellent debate high-
lighting the bipartisan support for this
fellowship, a bipartisan gratitude to
those who served and those who gave
their lives for this country and for the
families they left behind. There is no
honor big enough that we could pos-
sibly give to them, but this fellowship
is a token. It is a token that is impor-
tant, and it is something that we have
done in a bipartisan way.
Mr. Speaker, I hope that every Mem-
ber of this body will be supportive of it,
and I yield back the balance of my
time.
Mr. HUDSON. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in
support of H. Res. 107—the SFC Sean
Cooley and SPC Christopher Horton Congres-
sional Gold Star Family Fellowship Program
Act.
As the Representative of Fort Bragg, NC,
the epicenter of the universe, and one of the
fastest growing veteran populations in the
country, I am all too familiar with what it
means to be a ‘‘Gold Star Family’’. Our com-
munity has many of these families who have
lost a loved one in the line of duty while serv-
ing our country and we remember them each
and every day.
This resolution before us today would give a
renewed sense of optimism to some of these
family members by providing them the unique
opportunity to take part in a 12-month con-
gressional fellowship in a Congressional office.
This fellowship would be modeled after other
successful programs to include the wounded
warrior fellowship that already exists.
Many of our offices have benefited by add-
ing various types of fellows to our staff and I’m
sure we would all stand to benefit from having
a gold star family member as well. Nothing will
ever be able to replace the loss of a loved
one, but today we have the opportunity to pro-
vide an opportunity to those who have already
sacrificed so much. I would ask all of my col-
leagues to support this resolution and look for-
ward to its passage and having a gold star
family fellow in my office soon.
Mr. KELLY of Mississippi. Mr. Speaker, I’d
like to thank the Chairwoman from California,
my esteemed colleague from Illinois, and their
staffs for helping us get this bill to the floor.
From the immortal words of Thomas Jeffer-
son and Ronald Reagan, ‘‘The tree of liberty
must be refreshed from time to time with the
blood of patriots and tyrants.’’
H. Res. 107, The Sergeant First Class Sean
Cooley and Specialist Christopher Horton
Congressional Gold Star Family Fellowship
Program Act takes a monumental and vitally
important step toward educating the members
of this chamber on the true costs of armed
conflict.
Named after two warriors who lost their lives
fighting America’s enemies, this program pro-
vides the spouses, the children, and the sib-
lings of those who gave their lives in service
to our great nation in armed conflict or com-
bat-related training, a paid fellowship with the
Congressperson of their choice, here in Wash-
ington, or in their home district.
When our servicemembers make the ulti-
mate sacrifice, there is no award, no amount
of money or no program that can ever make
their families whole again. But what this pro-
gram does do, is it gives the families left be-
hind a chance to participate in our great
democratic process at the national level.
Their experiences, their trials, and their
tribulations will now have a voice in these hal-
lowed halls. A voice that will serve as a con-
stant reminder that it is the military family that
is the backbone of this great Republic and
when we make the decision to send our na-
tion’s best to war, we must always be pre-
pared to take care of those left behind.
General George Patton once said that ‘‘it is
foolish and wrong to mourn the men who died.
Rather we should thank God that such men
lived.’’
I stand here today Mister Speaker and truly
thank God for our men and women in uniform
who are willing to sacrifice their lives for this
great nation.
I would like to especially thank Mrs. Jane
Horton for her tireless effort and dedication to
the families of the fallen and all the Gold Star
families in the Gallery this afternoon.
Your service and your sacrifice are a true
inspiration to us all.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentlewoman from California (Ms.
LOFGREN) that the House suspend the
rules and agree to the resolution, H.
Res. 107, as amended.
The question was taken.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. In the
opinion of the Chair, two-thirds being
in the affirmative, the ayes have it.
Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois. Mr.
Speaker, I object to the vote on the
ground that a quorum is not present
and make the point of order that a
quorum is not present.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, further pro-
ceedings on this motion will be post-
poned.
The point of no quorum is considered
withdrawn.
f
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER
PRO TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pro-
ceedings will resume on questions pre-
viously postponed.
Votes will be taken in the following
order:
Agreeing to House Resolution 296;
and
Motions to suspend the rules and
pass:
H.R. 4695; and
Agree to H. Res. 107, if ordered.
The first electronic vote will be con-
ducted as a 15-minute vote. Pursuant
to clause 9 of rule XX, remaining elec-
tronic votes will be conducted as 5-
minute votes.
f
AFFIRMING THE UNITED STATES
RECORD ON THE ARMENIAN
GENOCIDE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, the unfin-
ished business is the vote on adoption
of the resolution (H. Res. 296) affirming
the United States record on the Arme-
nian Genocide, on which the yeas and
nays were ordered.
The Clerk read the title of the resolu-
tion.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on agreeing to the resolu-
tion.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—yeas 405, nays 11,
answered ‘‘present’’ 3, not voting 13, as
follows:
[Roll No. 591]
YEAS—405
Abraham
Adams
Aderholt
Aguilar
Allen
Allred
Amash
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Axne
Babin
Bacon
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Barragán
Bass
Bera
Bergman
Beyer
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (GA)
Bishop (NC)
Bishop (UT)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Bost
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brindisi
Brooks (AL)
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Buchanan
Buck
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Bustos
Butterfield
Byrne
Calvert
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Carter (GA)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Cline
Cloud
Clyburn
Cohen
Collins (GA)
Comer
Conaway
Connolly
Cook
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crawford
Crenshaw
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cunningham
Curtis
Davids (KS)
Davidson (OH)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Davis, Rodney
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
DesJarlais
Deutch
Diaz-Balart
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Estes
Evans
Ferguson
Finkenauer
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Fletcher
Flores
Fortenberry
Foster
Frankel
Fudge
Fulcher
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (OH)
Gonzalez (TX)
Gooden
Gottheimer
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Green, Al (TX)
Griffith
Grijalva
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Haaland
Hagedorn
Harder (CA)
Hartzler
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:40 Oct 30, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00041 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K29OC7.072 H29OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8584 October 29, 2019
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Higgins (LA)
Higgins (NY)
Hill (AR)
Himes
Holding
Hollingsworth
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Hudson
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Kaptur
Katko
Keating
Keller
Kelly (IL)
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamb
Lamborn
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Latta
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Lesko
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Long
Loudermilk
Lowenthal
Lowey
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Marchant
Marshall
Massie
Mast
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McCollum
McGovern
McHenry
McKinley
McNerney
Meeks
Meng
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Mullin
Murphy (FL)
Murphy (NC)
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Newhouse
Norcross
Norman
Nunes
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Olson
Palazzo
Pallone
Palmer
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Pelosi
Perlmutter
Perry
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Porter
Posey
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (NY)
Rice (SC)
Richmond
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (KY)
Rooney (FL)
Rose (NY)
Rose, John W.
Rouda
Rouzer
Roy
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Rutherford
Ryan
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scalise
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Schweikert
Scott (VA)
Scott, Austin
Scott, David
Sensenbrenner
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Shimkus
Simpson
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smith (WA)
Smucker
Soto
Spanberger
Spano
Speier
Stanton
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stevens
Stewart
Stivers
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Taylor
Thompson (MS)
Thompson (PA)
Tipton
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Turner
Underwood
Upton
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watkins
Watson Coleman
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Welch
Wenstrup
Westerman
Wexton
Wild
Wilson (FL)
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Yarmuth
Yoho
Young
NAYS—11
Baird
Brady
Brooks (IN)
Bucshon
Cole
Foxx (NC)
Harris
Meadows
Pence
Rogers (AL)
Thornberry
ANSWERED ‘‘PRESENT’’—3
Gosar Johnson (TX) Omar
NOT VOTING—13
Beatty
Carter (TX)
Gabbard
Hice (GA)
Hill (CA)
Huffman
McEachin
Ratcliffe
Thompson (CA)
Timmons
Williams
Wright
Zeldin
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER PRO TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore (during
the vote). The Chair will remind all
persons in the gallery that they are
here as guests of the House and that
any manifestation of approval or dis-
approval of proceedings is in violation
of the rules of the House.
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER PRO TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore (during
the vote). The Chair will remind all
persons in the gallery that they are
here as guests of the House and that
any manifestation of approval or dis-
approval of proceedings is in violation
of the rules of the House.
b 1726
Mr. MEADOWS changed his vote
from ‘‘yea’’ to ‘‘nay.’’
Mrs. MURPHY of Florida and Mr.
SMITH of Missouri changed their vote
from ‘‘nay’’ to ‘‘yea.’’
So the resolution was agreed to.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER
PRO TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair will remind all persons in the
gallery that they are here as guests of
the House and that any manifestation
of approval or disapproval of pro-
ceedings is in violation of the rules of
the House.
f
PROTECT AGAINST CONFLICT BY
TURKEY ACT
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, the unfin-
ished business is the vote on the mo-
tion to suspend the rules and pass the
bill (H.R. 4695) to impose sanctions
with respect to Turkey, and for other
purposes, as amended, on which the
yeas and nays were ordered.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentleman from New York (Mr.
ENGEL) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, as amended.
This is a 5-minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—yeas 403, nays 16,
not voting 12, as follows:
[Roll No. 592]
YEAS—403
Adams
Aderholt
Aguilar
Allred
Amash
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Axne
Babin
Bacon
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Barragán
Bass
Bera
Bergman
Beyer
Bilirakis
Bishop (GA)
Bishop (NC)
Bishop (UT)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Bost
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brady
Brindisi
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Bustos
Butterfield
Byrne
Calvert
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Carter (GA)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Cline
Cloud
Clyburn
Cohen
Collins (GA)
Comer
Conaway
Connolly
Cook
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crawford
Crenshaw
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cunningham
Curtis
Davids (KS)
Davidson (OH)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Davis, Rodney
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
DesJarlais
Deutch
Diaz-Balart
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Dunn
Emmer
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Estes
Evans
Finkenauer
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Fletcher
Flores
Fortenberry
Foster
Foxx (NC)
Frankel
Fudge
Fulcher
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (OH)
Gonzalez (TX)
Gooden
Gottheimer
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Green, Al (TX)
Griffith
Grijalva
Grothman
Guthrie
Haaland
Hagedorn
Harder (CA)
Harris
Hartzler
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Higgins (LA)
Higgins (NY)
Hill (AR)
Himes
Holding
Hollingsworth
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Hudson
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Johnson (TX)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Kaptur
Katko
Keating
Keller
Kelly (IL)
Kelly (PA)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
Lamb
Lamborn
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Latta
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Lesko
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Long
Lowenthal
Lowey
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Marchant
Marshall
Mast
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McCollum
McGovern
McHenry
McKinley
McNerney
Meadows
Meeks
Meng
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Mullin
Murphy (FL)
Murphy (NC)
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Newhouse
Norcross
Nunes
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Olson
Palazzo
Pallone
Palmer
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Perlmutter
Perry
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Porter
Posey
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (NY)
Rice (SC)
Richmond
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rooney (FL)
Rose (NY)
Rose, John W.
Rouda
Rouzer
Roy
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Rutherford
Ryan
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scalise
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Schweikert
Scott (VA)
Scott, Austin
Scott, David
Sensenbrenner
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Shimkus
Simpson
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:40 Oct 30, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00042 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A29OC7.029 H29OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8585
October 29, 2019
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smith (WA)
Smucker
Soto
Spanberger
Spano
Speier
Stanton
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stevens
Stewart
Stivers
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Taylor
Thompson (MS)
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Tipton
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Turner
Underwood
Upton
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watkins
Watson Coleman
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Welch
Wenstrup
Westerman
Wexton
Wild
Wilson (FL)
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Yarmuth
Yoho
Young
NAYS—16
Abraham
Allen
Baird
Biggs
Cole
Duncan
Ferguson
Gosar
Guest
Kelly (MS)
LaMalfa
Loudermilk
Massie
Norman
Omar
Pence
NOT VOTING—12
Beatty
Carter (TX)
Gabbard
Hice (GA)
Hill (CA)
Huffman
McEachin
Thompson (CA)
Timmons
Williams
Wright
Zeldin
b 1736
So (two-thirds being in the affirma-
tive) the rules were suspended and the
bill, as amended, was passed.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
SFC SEAN COOLEY AND SPC
CHRISTOPHER HORTON CON-
GRESSIONAL GOLD STAR FAM-
ILY FELLOWSHIP PROGRAM ACT
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The un-
finished business is the question on
suspending the rules and agreeing to
the resolution (H. Res. 107) establishing
the Congressional Gold Star Family
Fellowship Program for the placement
in offices of Members of the House of
Representatives of children, spouses,
and siblings of members of the Armed
Forces who are hostile casualties or
who have died from a training-related
injury, as amended.
The Clerk read the title of the resolu-
tion.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentlewoman from California (Ms.
LOFGREN) that the House suspend the
rules and agree to the resolution, as
amended.
The question was taken; and (two-
thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the resolu-
tion, as amended, was agreed to.
The title of the resolution was
amended so as to read: ‘‘Resolution es-
tablishing the Congressional Gold Star
Family Fellowship Program for the
placement in offices of Members of the
House of Representatives of children,
spouses, and siblings of members of the
Armed Forces who die in the line of
duty or certain veterans who die from
service-connected disabilities.’’.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
MOMENT OF SILENCE IN REMEM-
BRANCE OF THE HONORABLE
JOHN CONYERS, JR.
(Mrs. LAWRENCE asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute.)
Mrs. LAWRENCE. Mr. Speaker, I
stand here today with the Michigan
delegation and my beloved members of
the Congressional Black Caucus to pay
honor and tribute to the life of John
Conyers. He passed away this past
weekend.
As we know, John Conyers was the
dean of this Congress. He served 53
years. He served as chairman of the
Committee on Oversight and Govern-
ment Reform as well as the Judiciary.
We stand here today to recognize his
fight for civil rights, his fight to have
the Martin Luther King birthday cele-
bration, his fight against apartheid, his
fight to ensure that we in this country
never lost sight of our criminal justice
that is not equal, and his fight for jus-
tice for all.
We often remember him walking
around with his kind manner in this
House, and I ask at this time if we
could have a moment of silence.
Would everyone please stand.
f
b 1745
EXPOSITIONS PROVIDE
OPPORTUNITIES ACT OF 2019
Mr. PHILLIPS. Madam Speaker, I
move to suspend the rules and pass the
bill (H.R. 4842) to authorize the Sec-
retary of State to provide funds for a
United States pavilion at Expo 2020
Dubai, and for other purposes, as
amended.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 4842
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Expositions
Provide Opportunities Act of 2019’’ or ‘‘EXPO
Act of 2019’’.
SEC. 2. STATE DEPARTMENT AUTHORIZATION
FOR PAVILION AT EXPO 2020 DUBAI.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Notwithstanding section
204 of the Admiral James W. Nance and Meg
Donovan Foreign Relations Authorization
Act, Fiscal Years 2000 and 2001 (22 U.S.C.
2452b), there is authorized to be appropriated
for each of fiscal years 2020 and 2021 funds for
a United States pavilion at Expo 2020 Dubai,
subject to subsections (b) and (c).
(b) COST-SHARE REQUIREMENT.—Funds
made available pursuant to subsection (a) to
the Department of State for a United States
pavilion at Expo 2020 Dubai shall be made
available on a cost-matching basis, to the
maximum extent practicable, from sources
other than the United States Government.
(c) NOTIFICATION.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Funds made available pur-
suant to subsection (a) to the Department of
State for a United States pavilion at Expo
2020 Dubai may be obligated only after the
appropriate congressional committees are
notified not less than 15 days prior to such
obligation.
(2) MATTERS TO BE INCLUDED.—Such notifi-
cation shall include the following:
(A) A description of the source of such
funds, including any funds reprogrammed or
transferred by the Department of State to be
made available for such pavilion.
(B) An estimate of the amount of invest-
ment such pavilion could bring to the United
States.
(C) A description of the strategy of the De-
partment to identify and obtain such match-
ing funds from sources other than the United
States Government, in accordance with sub-
section (b).
(D) An analysis of the human rights record
of the United Arab Emirates.
(E) A certification that each entity receiv-
ing amounts for a contract, grant, or other
agreement to construct, maintain, or other-
wise service such pavilion—
(i) is not in violation of the labor laws of
the United Arab Emirates, the Foreign Cor-
rupt Practices Act of 1977 (Public Law 95–
213), and any other applicable anti-corrup-
tion laws; and
(ii) does not employ, or otherwise utilize, a
victim of trafficking (as defined in section
103 of the Trafficking Victims Protection
Act of 2000 (22 U.S.C. 7102)).
(d) FINAL REPORT.—Not later than 180 days
after the date on which a United States pa-
vilion at Expo 2020 Dubai is opened, the Sec-
retary of State shall submit to the appro-
priate congressional committees a report
that includes—
(1) the number of United States businesses
that participated in such pavilion; and
(2) the dollar amount and source of any
matching funds obtained by the Department.
(e) APPROPRIATE CONGRESSIONAL COMMIT-
TEES DEFINED.—In this section, the term
‘‘appropriate congressional committees’’
means the following:
(1) The Committee on Foreign Affairs and
the Committee on Appropriations of the
House of Representatives.
(2) The Committee on Foreign Relations
and the Committee on Appropriations of the
Senate.
(f) SUNSET.—This section ceases to be effec-
tive on September 30, 2021.
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Ms.
SCANLON). Pursuant to the rule, the
gentleman from Minnesota (Mr. PHIL-
LIPS) and the gentleman from Florida
(Mr. YOHO) each will control 20 min-
utes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from Minnesota.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. PHILLIPS. Madam Speaker, I
ask unanimous consent that all Mem-
bers have 5 legislative days in which to
revise and extend their remarks and in-
clude extraneous material on H.R. 4842.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from Minnesota?
There was no objection.
Mr. PHILLIPS. Madam Speaker, I
yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
Madam Speaker, I rise today to sup-
port the Expositions Provide Opportu-
nities Act, or the EXPO Act of 2019.
When I took the oath of office on
January 3 of this year, my extraor-
dinary team and I set an ambitious
goal: To visit every city and town in
Minnesota’s Third Congressional Dis-
trict within the first 6 months of my
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:40 Oct 30, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00043 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A29OC7.031 H29OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8586 October 29, 2019
service; and to listen and learn from
the local leaders who know our com-
munities best, and bring their voices to
Washington, because representation be-
gins with listening.
In Bloomington, Minnesota, we heard
something unexpected, and I knew we
had to help. The city of Bloomington is
determined to bring the eyes of the
world to Minnesota by bidding for host
city of the 2027 World Expo.
For generations, the United States
has showcased our leadership, innova-
tion, and industrial advancement
through brilliant displays called pavil-
ions at world expos around the world.
But for the past 3 decades, the U.S. has
fallen short of its historic leadership
role and fundraising for 7 of the last 10
American pavilions has been paltry.
In fact, the United States is the only
G7 country that relies on private dona-
tions to guarantee its presence at
world expos, and the only country that
relies entirely on private funding for
the creation of its pavilion.
Madam Speaker, that has left a vacu-
um, which our strategic competitors,
like Russia and China, have been all
too happy to fill.
As a result, American cities like
Bloomington, Minnesota, and Houston,
Texas, have been overlooked for
hosting rights; missing important op-
portunities to build strong inter-
national relationships, showcase the
strength of American ingenuity, and
boost local economies.
A critical component in competing
for host city status is a country’s pa-
vilion at the current world expo. In
this case, the next opportunity to
make the case for an American host
city is the Dubai 2020 World Expo, hap-
pening next October.
That is why I am honored to stand
with the city of Bloomington, Global
Minnesota, the entire Minnesota House
delegation, and a group of like-minded
colleagues from both sides of the aisle,
like Ranking Member MCCAUL, and
Representatives PETE OLSON, LIZZIE
FLETCHER, and my colleague, TED YOHO
to change all of that with the Expo-
sitions Provide Opportunities Act, the
EXPO Act of 2019.
Our bill does three things. First, it
provides authorization for the State
Department to use funds to build a pa-
vilion for the 2020 Dubai World Expo, so
that cities in the U.S., like Bloom-
ington and Houston, can compete to be
the host city at the 2027 World Expo.
Next, it requires the State Depart-
ment to seek out matching funds from
the private sector in order to alleviate
the cost burden.
Finally, it requires a series of reports
from the State Department which shall
contain the following items:
One, an estimate of the investment a
pavilion could bring to the United
States;
Two, a report on the human rights
record of the United Arab Emirates;
and
Three, ensures that all applicable
labor laws in the UAE are followed dur-
ing construction of our pavilion.
Madam Speaker, we could not have
brought this bill to the floor without
help. I would like to thank Speaker
PELOSI, Leader HOYER, and Leader
MCCARTHY for their support and their
staffs’ work on this important bill.
I would also like to thank Ranking
Member MCCAUL for his support and
his staff’s expertise in crafting the bill.
And thanks also to Chairman ENGEL
and his staff, especially Janice
Kaguyutan, who was instrumental in
helping us get to the finish line.
The root of this effort started in Min-
nesota with former Minnesota Sec-
retary of State and now Global Min-
nesota President, Mark Ritchie. He was
and will always be steadfast in his ad-
vocacy on behalf of Minnesota.
Most of all, I am grateful to the city
of Bloomington, Minnesota, especially
Mayor Gene Winstead and City Man-
ager Jamie Verbrugge, for their coun-
sel and advocacy on behalf of all Min-
nesotans.
Madam Speaker, this is how democ-
racy should work; Democrats and Re-
publicans in Congress, working with
stakeholders, constituents, and a gov-
ernment agency to craft legislation
which will benefit both localities and
the Nation as a whole.
So I urge my colleagues to support
this important, bipartisan measure,
and I reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. YOHO. Madam Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Madam Speaker, I rise today to dis-
cuss the importance of strong U.S. dip-
lomatic engagement to counter aggres-
sion from our adversaries.
The World Expo is the largest diplo-
matic exhibition and an invaluable op-
portunity to demonstrate American
leadership to an audience of over 25
million visitors. The United States has
proudly participated in the World Expo
since 1851 and has hosted 11 expos.
Over a 6-month period, the United
States will showcase our values and
our commitment to rule of law. With-
out the United States’ attendance at
important international forums like
the World Expo, we risk losing out to
countries like China and Russia.
In fact, China has committed over
$100 million for their participation in
the 2020 World Expo with the goal of
promoting their Belt and Road Initia-
tive. And get this: Huawei 5G tech-
nology is the provider for the whole
World Expo. They have also signaled
interest in competing to host a future
expo.
China is at the forefront of our stra-
tegic long-range diplomatic, security,
and economic policies here in Wash-
ington. We must stop Communist
China from achieving global domi-
nance. Make no mistake. This is their
goal.
Under Xi Jinping’s leadership, the
Chinese Communist Party is chal-
lenging America’s leadership like never
before; stepping up territorial aggres-
sion against our partners and allies,
openly engaging in unfair and illegal
business practices, and exporting au-
thoritarian ideologies across the globe.
Xi Jinping’s Belt and Road Initiative
and associated debt traps have set the
stage for economic and diplomatic co-
ercion and military expansion. That is
one of the reasons I introduced the
BUILD Act last Congress—and through
bipartisan support it got passed and
was signed into law—that creates the
United States International Develop-
ment Finance Corporation.
If we, the American government, are
not there, how can we compete against
China’s Belt and Road Initiative?
As part of this program, China has
tried to build military bases in the
South Pacific to cut us off from part-
ners like Australia and New Zealand,
and they are going to continue this ex-
pansion.
In Africa, they have a military base
next to ours in Djibouti. China has
even made major roads in the Western
Hemisphere, controlling both sides of
Teddy Roosevelt’s Panama Canal.
I was down in the countries of Chile
and Argentina not too long ago, and
China is looking and trying to push
really hard to bring 5G cable from
China to South America. This is some-
thing that American leadership can-
not—we cannot stand by idly. And if we
are not there at the World Expo to pro-
mote our U.S. International Develop-
ment Finance Corporation, how else
are we going to get this word out? This
is something that is a national secu-
rity interest.
In addition, China has also cornered
the market on rare earth minerals.
They control over 85 percent of the
API, which is the active pharma-
ceutical ingredients, in all the vita-
mins, antibiotics, and drugs that we
take. They have 100 percent of the vita-
mins and minerals used in our live-
stock feed. China, when they ship that
product back, it is impure. It doesn’t
meet FDA standards.
China has been at the forefront of 5G
technology, as I mentioned. In fact,
Huawei, which the U.S. has deemed a
national security threat, has received
the contract for this expo.
As we work to combat this continued
and ever-increasing aggression, we
must ensure that our partners know
the United States intends to remain
present.
The United States’ absence at impor-
tant international forums like the
World Expo only gives China the oppor-
tunities to spread their ideals; ones
they claim are merely ‘‘socialism with
Chinese characteristics.’’ But make no
mistake, it is communism through and
through.
We cannot let China fill a void left by
the United States. The stakes are too
high.
And understand this: If the United
States doesn’t show up—there are only
two countries that don’t show up. One
is the United States and the other is
Syria. I don’t want to be in that cat-
egory.
This is a bill that we ask everybody
to support. It is good for America. It is
good for American business, and it is
great for national security.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:40 Oct 30, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00044 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K29OC7.080 H29OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8587
October 29, 2019
Madam Speaker, in closing, I urge
my colleagues to support this bill.
I yield back the balance of my time.
Mr. PHILLIPS. Madam Speaker, I
yield myself as much time as I may
consume for the purpose of closing.
I thank the gentleman from Florida
(Mr. YOHO), my good friend, for his re-
marks as well.
Madam Speaker, I urge my col-
leagues to support this very important
and bipartisan bill which allows Amer-
ica to compete on the world stage.
As I said before, representation
starts with listening and if we pass this
bill, we will have shown the American
people that Democrats and Republicans
can put their differences aside, listen
to their constituents, and get some-
thing done.
Madam Speaker, I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentleman from Minnesota (Mr.
PHILLIPS) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, H.R. 4842, as
amended.
The question was taken; and (two-
thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the bill, as
amended, was passed.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
THE TIMING OF SECRETARY RICK
PERRY’S RESIGNATION
(Ms. KAPTUR asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Ms. KAPTUR. Madam Speaker, I rise
to express deep concern about the tim-
ing of Secretary Rick Perry’s resigna-
tion, and his simultaneous refusal to
provide key information on his many
trips to Ukraine, more than any other
Cabinet member. He has played a cen-
tral role in U.S.-Ukraine relations
throughout the Trump Presidency.
Thus far, Secretary Perry has refused
to cooperate with lawful subpoenas
issued to him by the Intelligence Com-
mittee and other committees of this
Congress. As chair of the Energy and
Water Development, and Related Agen-
cies Subcommittee of the Committee
on Appropriations, while I have had a
productive relationship with Secretary
Perry in the past, from strengthening
our National Laboratories, to sup-
porting the growing range of energy so-
lutions, I feel his recent behavior raises
serious questions.
Madam Speaker, American taxpayers
have a right to know what Secretary
Perry was doing on his frequent travel
to Ukraine as a public servant be-
holden to the public trust. Americans
have a right to know what he observed,
who he was meeting with, and who was
benefiting from the contacts and deals
he was making.
The Constitution entrusts the House
of Representatives with holding the ex-
ecutive branch accountable. That is
what we must do.
As U.S. foreign policy in Ukraine has
been sidelined in favor of President
Trump’s personal and political agenda
and abuse of power, Secretary Perry
should do what is right, and imme-
diately comply with the House’s inves-
tigation. America deserves nothing
less.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Mem-
bers are reminded to refrain from en-
gaging in personalities toward the
President.
f
b 1800
HONORING EDWARD POE BOSTIC
(Mr. BURCHETT asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. BURCHETT. Madam Speaker, I
rise today to honor Edward Poe Bostic,
an American hero and Korean war com-
bat veteran who passed away in August
of this year at 87 years of age.
Mr. Bostic joined the Marine Corps at
the age of 16 during the Korean war. He
fought at the amphibious invasions and
battles at Inchon and Seoul. He also
participated in the Blockade of
Wonsan, the longest naval blockade in
modern history, and the Battle of
Chosin Reservoir, known as the Frozen
Chosin due to the harsh winter weather
conditions.
Mr. Bostic was proud to serve his
country and proud to be a marine.
Mr. Bostic retired from Y–12 Martin
Marietta in Oak Ridge, Tennessee,
after a 40-year career. He was an active
member of the Campbell County Honor
Guard; commander of the Disabled
American, Veterans Appalachian Chap-
ter 105; and commander of the Camp-
bell County Young Marines.
There are real heroes in this world,
Madam Speaker, and they aren’t music
stars, famous athletes, or Hollywood
actors. Our country’s heroes are the
men and women of our Armed Forces
like Mr. Bostic, who served and sac-
rificed for our freedom.
It is my honor to recognize Edward
Poe Bostic as the Tennessee Second
District’s October 2019 Veteran of the
Month.
f
CELEBRATING KINDNESS MONTH
(Ms. SCANLON asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Ms. SCANLON. Mr. Speaker, last
week, we celebrated the life of service
of our colleague Elijah Cummings. He
always said our children are the living
messengers we send to a future we will
never see. Nothing could be truer.
In addition, students and young ad-
vocates inspire me every single day, so
I want to share with all of you an ini-
tiative that students in my district
launched this month. Students at the
Interboro School District are wrapping
up their celebration of Kindness
Month, a program inspired by Sandy
Hook Promise in an effort to reduce
bullying and reduce school violence.
Since the beginning of October,
Interboro students have been encour-
aged to say a simple ‘‘hello’’ to stu-
dents they might see every day but not
usually speak to or to hold the door for
someone they don’t know.
In honor of Kindness Month, I, too,
have committed to reaching across the
aisle to say hello and strike up con-
versations with colleagues I may not
know that well.
We all have something to learn from
the Interboro students as we work to-
gether to create a world that is more
respectful, fair, and kind for this gen-
eration and the next.
f
RECOGNIZING THE RETIREMENT
OF MAJOR GENERAL JEFFERSON
S. BURTON
(Mr. BISHOP of Utah asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute.)
Mr. BISHOP of Utah. Mr. Speaker, on
November 7, Utah will honor a soldier’s
soldier.
For the past 7 years, the men and
women of the Utah National Guard
have been inspired by Major General
Jefferson S. Burton. General Burton
was chosen for his battle-tested grit
and resolve.
In 2003, this fourth-generation Utahn
led the 14–57th Engineer Battalion into
Iraq. Living under constant threat of
IEDs and ambush, General Burton was
even tasked with luring the hyenas,
bears, and lions of the Baghdad Zoo
back into their enclosures after the
Iraqi Republican Guard released them
into the streets.
His troops tell me that General Bur-
ton is a leader who takes the time to
teach and mentor others, helping them
recognize their own potential.
General Burton is highly educated.
He is kind. He is deeply spiritual. But
what he values most is his wife, Charn,
whose support has allowed him to
serve.
General Burton often tells his sol-
diers: ‘‘I am asking a lot, but we will
accomplish the mission.’’
After 37 years of service, we say to
General Burton: Mission accomplished.
f
PRAISING THE HONORABLE
ELIJAH EUGENE CUMMINGS
(Mr. PAYNE asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. PAYNE. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to honor Congressman Elijah Eu-
gene Cummings after his sudden pass-
ing on October 17.
Much has been said about his legacy
and dedication to the people of Mary-
land’s Seventh District, but I rise to
honor his humility and incredible love
for our country.
Not knowing that he was near the
end of his life, I was honored to have
several very personal conversations
with Congressman Cummings. He was
struggling with health issues and knew
I could relate. But he was concerned
with more than just his health at that
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:40 Oct 30, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00045 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K29OC7.081 H29OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8588 October 29, 2019
moment. He was concerned about our
country.
America has come a long way during
his lifetime, but he knew it would not
take much to undo the progress that
we have made, and he was worried
about it. It was an honor to have such
a conversation with an American icon,
civil rights legend, and my father on
the floor of Congress. It is a moment I
will treasure forever.
f
HONORING HEAD START
AWARENESS MONTH
(Mr. COX of California asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute.)
Mr. COX of California. Madam
Speaker, I rise today in honor of Head
Start Awareness Month.
Since 1965, Head Start has been one
of our best tools in the war on poverty,
helping over 35 million children from
ages 0 to 5 reach their full potential
through high-quality early education.
This month, as we paid tribute to the
game-changing program, I rise to
honor Head Start programs in Califor-
nia’s 21st Congressional District and
the vital work they do to support Cen-
tral Valley communities.
This summer, I brought my esteemed
colleague Congresswoman BARBARA
LEE to the Rosa Parks Learning Center
in Hanford, a top-tier Head Start cen-
ter operated by the Kings Community
Action Organization. It was truly an
honor to see talented Central Valley
educators at work and to join them in
the classroom. We even got to read a
couple of books to the classes, as well.
We all know that even part-time
early childhood education has a lasting
impact on young kids, helping them de-
velop reading, writing, math, and even
social skills on an accelerated
timeline.
I am also proud to support legislation
like the Community Services Block
Grant Act so we can keep providing
quality education to all of our kids re-
gardless of ZIP Code.
f
SALUTING LIEUTENANT COLONEL
ALEXANDER VINDMAN
(Ms. JACKSON LEE asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute and to revise and extend
her remarks.)
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Madam Speaker,
the State of Texas has a large number
of Active-Duty men and women and
veterans. I rise today to salute Lieu-
tenant Colonel Alexander Vindman,
who appeared in uniform today to the
United States Congress to tell the
truth.
Unfortunately, there were those who
wanted to analyze Lieutenant Colonel
Vindman’s early beginnings. As a 3-
year-old, he came from another coun-
try. But I think it is important to say
what he is: a patriot.
I read his testimony. It was straight-
forward, detailed. It certainly was
without exaggeration. You could clear-
ly see that this man cared about his
Nation.
We should respect the men and
women of the United States military,
particularly a Purple Heart recipient, a
wounded warrior who fought for his
country and was wounded.
I thank him for coming forward as a
patriot, as a man in the United States
military, as one who has no issue with
any person. He simply wants to tell the
truth.
Since we need just a little bit of ex-
pression here today, I conclude my re-
marks by saying: Go Astros. I wish
them well. That is what America is
about.
f
STAND AGAINST INVIDIOUS
DISCRIMINATION
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Ms.
SCANLON). Under the Speaker’s an-
nounced policy of January 3, 2019, the
gentleman from Texas (Mr. GREEN) is
recognized for 60 minutes as the des-
ignee of the majority leader.
Mr. GREEN of Texas. Madam Speak-
er, and still I rise because I love my
country.
And I rise tonight also because we
had a hearing today in the Committee
on Financial Services. We had the
hearing today because of words that
Dr. King called to our attention. He re-
minded us that, in a real sense, all of
life is related. He said that life is an in-
escapable network of mutuality tied to
a single garment of destiny. What im-
pacts one directly impacts all indi-
rectly.
He went on to say that I can never be
all that I ought to be until you are all
that you ought to be, and you can
never be all that you ought to be until
I am all that I ought to be.
This hearing was held because we
wanted to highlight and recognize the
fact that invidious discrimination ex-
ists for persons who are members of the
LGBTQ community. Tonight, I want to
talk about this invidious discrimina-
tion not only as it relates to the
LGBTQ community, but also as it re-
lates to other communities within our
country. In fact, all of these commu-
nities are a part of humanity.
With reference to the LGBTQ com-
munity, we had empirical evidence
that proved beyond reasonable doubt
that members of this community are
being discriminated against when they
apply for loans. They are being charged
higher interest rates and a greater per-
centage than persons who are not
members of the LGBTQ-plus commu-
nity. They are being discriminated
against on their jobs. They are being
discriminated against when they apply
for jobs if it is known or suspected that
they are members of the LGBTQ-plus
community, discriminated against in
being promoted, in pay raises.
The LGBTQ-plus community is being
discriminated against, and it does not
make good sense to do this. It is irra-
tional. But it also does not make good
dollars and cents to do this because we
are talking about millions of people.
The estimates are as high as 16 million.
Some say more, some say less. We are
talking about a $1 trillion economy
within the community.
It just makes good sense for us not to
discriminate against people who want
to put their money into the economy,
who want to put their work product
into the economy, who want to help
America succeed. It does not make
good sense for this level of discrimina-
tion to exist, but it does.
One of the salient messages that we
wanted to impart at this hearing today
was the message that you are not
alone. There are persons who are allies
of the LGBTQ community who are
going to stand with you, who are going
to stand for you, and who are going to
stand against the invidious discrimina-
tion being perpetrated upon you.
Life is an inescapable network of mu-
tuality tied to a single garment of des-
tiny.
The Muslim community is being, has
been, and most likely will continue to
be discriminated against until there is
some change in this country. We have
had from the highest office in the land
an indication that Muslims should be
banned from the country. An attempt
was made to perfect such a ban of Mus-
lim persons from the country.
Life is an inescapable network of mu-
tuality. If you can ban one religion,
you can ban another. Muslims today—
only fate knows which it will be tomor-
row. We must protect every religion if
we want our religion to be protected.
This is the way life works, the mutu-
ality. What impacts one directly im-
pacts all indirectly.
b 1815
People of color are being discrimi-
nated against in an invidious way. In
the Latinx community, the family sep-
aration that took place at the border
was unconscionable.
It is hard to believe that this country
that holds out the welcome torch, the
Statue of Liberty, this country that
has brought in immigrants from across
the globe would turn away children
who are fleeing harm’s way in the way
that we did it; this country that has a
history rooted in immigration would
do such a thing, babies crying for their
mothers as they are being torn out of
their arms.
It is a sad thing when you con-
template it. It is a very sad thing when
you see it perfected.
We cannot allow this to happen to
children who are coming here trying to
flee harm’s way, because the truth be
known, but for the grace of God, there
go I and possibly you. We all can have
dates with destiny that we cannot con-
template in the present.
So we ought to protect the rights of
people who are fleeing harm’s way, who
are only asking for what the law pro-
vides in this country. And the law in
this country does provide for people
who are fleeing harm’s way to come
and say, ‘‘I am here. I am here because
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:40 Oct 30, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00046 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K29OC7.084 H29OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8589
October 29, 2019
I need help. Will you help me? Will you
give me the opportunity to dem-
onstrate that I qualify for the oppor-
tunity to become a part of this coun-
try?’’ rather than summarily turn peo-
ple away or send out a clarion message,
‘‘We have no more room. Don’t come.
Go back.’’
This is not the country that does
this.
To borrow a phrase from a great and
noble American who has made his tran-
sition, the Honorable Elijah Cum-
mings: We are better than this. This
country understands that we must con-
tinue to be the light for the world when
it comes to righteousness.
When it comes to African Americans,
we have a history, a long history of in-
vidious discrimination, a very long his-
tory. A Civil War was fought because of
the invidious discrimination being per-
petrated, the hate, if you will, that was
being perpetrated upon African Ameri-
cans.
And today, within the last several
months, perhaps a year or so, we have
had the Chief Executive Officer pro-
claim that we have some s-hole coun-
tries, countries that are predominated
by persons from Africa, where Africans
are the indigenous population.
But persons in this country, persons
of color, of African ancestry, are being
discriminated against as I speak, as is
the case with the others that I have
mentioned earlier, I might add, also
being discriminated against.
And there are people who say, when
we talk to people about the issues that
are of concern to them, we ought to
talk about kitchen table issues. Well, I
can tell you without question, reserva-
tion, hesitation, or equivocation, when
African Americans talk about kitchen
table issues, they talk about invidious
discrimination. They may not use this
terminology, but the import of what
they say is the same.
They say: I am being discriminated
against on the job.
They say: I have suffered discrimina-
tion when I have tried to apply for a
loan.
They say: I have suffered discrimina-
tion when I have sought to get a pro-
motion.
They talk about discrimination. It is
a kitchen table issue. But there are
those who don’t see it as such, or if
they do, they don’t talk about it as
such. It is a kitchen table issue: invid-
ious discrimination in the African
American community.
There is invidious discrimination in
the Asian community. We have been
working to try as best as we can to
deal with the question of linguistics.
We have seen this happen in the
Latinx community, the Latino commu-
nity, as well. People will advertise in
one language, and when you come into
the place of business, they will conduct
business in another language.
So you are induced to come in and
transact business, let’s just use this as
an example, in Spanish, induced to
come in and transact business in Span-
ish, but once you arrive, the contract
is in English.
There are many who would say, well,
what is wrong with that?
Well, here is what is wrong with that.
If you know that you are going to com-
municate in English when you bind the
person with the contract, why would
you entice the person to come in in
Spanish? If you know that you have no
intentions of conducting your business
in Spanish, why would you entice the
person to come in with Spanish?
This is a form of perfidy. It is ill will.
It is not the way people of good will
treat other members of society. We re-
spect people to the extent that we want
them to understand what they are
doing.
In the area of housing, we have tried,
on a contract, to have language that
simply says: What language would you
prefer to do business in? We indicate
that you do not have to complete this
portion of this document if you choose
not to—this is a person who is apply-
ing—and we also indicate that this is
not going to be binding upon the per-
son who has presented the contract. We
are trying to get some sense of the lin-
guistic needs that are prevalent in our
society, just trying to get some sense.
However, that language that we had
worked and toiled to put in place has
been rejected. It has been rejected, and
we are trying to protect it.
I have traveled to many places in my
lifetime. I have had the good fortune to
travel to many other continents and
many countries, and in so doing, I have
always appreciated the fact that people
would try to communicate with me in
English. In each and every country,
there were people who would assist me
in English. There may have been some
exceptions, but generally speaking,
English.
People moving through airports in
distant places can have the announce-
ments made in English.
I have gone to hotels where the per-
sons who were working in the hotels in
foreign countries could speak multiple
languages. One of them would be
English.
People have catered to us across the
globe. We have had the welcome mat
extended to us because we are Ameri-
cans and we speak English and they
want to do business with us. They want
to roll out the welcome mat. Unfortu-
nately, we have not shown a similar
characteristic.
It is my belief that we ought to show
a level of respect to other people who
come to this country. Many of them
are here to do business. Many of them
are here as immigrants. Many of them
are here for lawful purposes, yet we do
not concern ourselves with the linguis-
tics.
We have had difficulty putting up
street signs in communities that are in
multiple languages. There are many
people who oppose this.
When I have traveled through air-
ports and through other countries, I
have seen the signs in multiple lan-
guages, including English.
Life is an inescapable network of mu-
tuality tied to a single garment of des-
tiny; what impacts one directly im-
pacts all indirectly.
This discrimination must end be-
cause it not only impacts the persons
who are being discriminated against—
the LGBTQ, the Muslims, the people of
color, the African Americans, the
Latinx, the Asians—it not only im-
pacts these people directly, it impacts
all of us indirectly, because Dr. King
was right then and his words of profun-
dity still ring with truth today:
I can never be all that I ought to be until
you are all that you ought to be, and you can
never be all that you ought to be until I am
all that I ought to be.
All of this has been called to the at-
tention of Members of this House be-
cause I believe that there is still work
to do with reference to the question of
impeachment.
I have said on this floor before when
I spoke here last, and I say again, we
cannot allow invidious discrimination
to be weaponized so that people suffer
to the extent that the weaponization is
creating the suffering.
And it starts at the top. And because
it starts at the top, this House has a
duty to start at the top. And if we do
our duty and start at the top, we will
understand that just as we can im-
peach a President for issues related to
national security, we can impeach a
President for issues related to invid-
ious discrimination.
The Republicans did it in 1868—Re-
publicans. Some things bear repeating:
Republicans impeached a President in
1868 based upon issues rooted in invid-
ious discrimination.
We had just fought a Civil War, and
those who were called freedmen—freed
persons, if you will—were working with
a Freedmen’s Bureau to try to acquire
the same rights as others. But there
was a President, Andrew Johnson, who
was of the opinion that they did not
merit the same rights, and he fought
against the Freedmen’s Bureau. He
fought to maintain white supremacy.
But radical Republicans, radical Re-
publicans, radical Republicans, radical
Republicans stood up to him. They im-
peached him, and President Johnson
changed his tune, to borrow a phrase.
Oh, he was still the bigoted racist of
his time, but he did tone down. And he
did not get reelected, by the way.
He was a successor to Abraham Lin-
coln, but he did not get elected—I
should not say, ‘‘reelected.’’ He was
Vice President, and he did not get
elected President.
The point is this: Radical Repub-
licans cared enough for newly freed
people—radical Republicans. They
cared about invidious discrimination.
We had just fought a war. They stood
up.
By the way, I have an opinion that I
will share with you.
I believe that the Republicans in this
House right now would do a similar
thing if a Democrat happened to oc-
cupy the White House and behaved the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:40 Oct 30, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00047 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K29OC7.086 H29OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8590 October 29, 2019
way the current occupant behaves. I
believe that Republicans of this time
would respond the same way the Re-
publicans of that time, in 1868, re-
sponded.
I believe that if any person in the
White House who was there with the
title of Democrat behaved the way the
current occupant behaves, that person
would be impeached, and Republicans
would lead the charge.
b 1830
Life is an inescapable network of mu-
tuality tied to a single garment of des-
tiny; what impacts one directly im-
pacts all indirectly.
The inaction that we take today will
produce an action in our future. Our
failure to act today is going to say to
the next occupant: You cannot con-
clude that this is the last person who
will disregard all the protocols and
rules. You cannot assume this. You can
only assume that we have this one, and
you can hope that there will not be an-
other, but there can be.
If we show that there are no guard-
rails, if we demonstrate that we don’t
have the courage to do what Article II,
Section 4, of the Constitution man-
dates, in my opinion, our inaction
today will result in future actions that
would be harmful to this Nation.
This is our calling. Only we can bring
justice to all of these that I have called
to your attention tonight who are
being discriminated against. We can’t
bring the kind of justice that is needed
by ignoring the harmful discrimination
that is taking place.
More than 50 percent of Americans,
according to a Quinnipiac poll of just a
couple of months ago, I believe, maybe
3 or 4, indicated that more than 50 per-
cent of the people in this country be-
lieve that the President is a racist. We
ignore it because it is uncomfortable.
It is easier for us to take on the chal-
lenge of national security.
Well, invidious discrimination that
causes white supremacists to march up
and down the street screaming ‘‘blood
and soil,’’ invidious discrimination
that allows persons to traverse the
country so that they can murder peo-
ple of a certain hue from a certain
place, that is harmful to this country.
This level of invidious discrimination
should not be tolerated by this Nation.
We have a responsibility to stand up
for those who are not in this Chamber
to stand up for themselves. This is our
calling. I am here tonight on behalf of
all of these who I have called to your
attention. I stand for them.
I may stand alone, but it is better to
stand alone than not stand at all. I
stand for them because I know the
harm that they can and have suffered.
And I believe that we ought to have at
least one Article of Impeachment that
deals with invidious discrimination. I
believe it; I encourage it; and I support
it.
I understand that we want to get
back to bigotry as usual. I understand
that, to a limited extent, I stand in the
way of getting back to bigotry as
usual, back to bigotry as usual when it
is a talking point, not an action item,
when you don’t have to vote on Arti-
cles of Impeachment that deal with
bigotry. That is too hard.
I understand that we want to get
back to bigotry as usual, when we can
say that we are for principles above
politics, when we can proclaim that we
do not put party above country. I un-
derstand. I want to get back to bigotry
as usual. I am sorry that I am one of
the impediments. But I assure you, my
dear friends, I can’t let it go. I can’t. I
know what the suffering is like.
I suppose it is my destiny to be here
to call these things to our attention.
We can ignore them. We can tolerate
this bigotry. But remember this: Those
who tolerate bigotry perpetuate it.
There are people and organizations
that have built their reputations fight-
ing bigotry. Yet, when there was an op-
portunity to vote to deal with bigotry
at the highest office in the land, well,
the argument was the Senate won’t
convict so why would we do it.
Well, it is the same argument for dis-
crimination as it relates to national se-
curity, as it relates to abuse of power.
The same argument, but we now put
principle above politics—the same ar-
gument.
There are those who said that: Well,
you know what will happen if you re-
move the current occupant.
Well, the same argument could be
made now. But it is because we have a
different issue, it is not invidious dis-
crimination.
We now can put principle above poli-
tics. We now are not concerned with
who the next occupant might be. We
now say that the Senate has to just do
its job and that we are going to do our
job.
Things have changed, and thank God
they have. I am appreciative that they
have changed. I really am. This is why
I am calling to our attention the neces-
sity to have an Article of Impeachment
related to invidious discrimination.
There are those who believe that, in
this country, invidious discrimination
has become a tool, a tool to be used by
political parties, a tool to be used to
rally the vote, to get out the vote, to
create a constituency to vote, just a
tool to be used. And that tool is being
managed so that the political parties
can continue to play their games—a
tool.
I don’t want to manage; I want to
end. I do not want to see us manage in-
vidious discrimination. I want to see us
end it.
That is why I stand here tonight. Life
is an inescapable network of mutuality
tied to a single garment of destiny.
What impacts one directly impacts all
indirectly.
Dr. King’s probably most famous
words were: ‘‘Injustice anywhere is a
threat to justice everywhere.’’ Injus-
tice in any community in this country
is a threat to justice in every commu-
nity in this country.
I love my country; I didn’t come to
Congress to make this speech. I love
my country; I didn’t come to Congress
to impeach a President. But because I
love my country, I am making this
speech. And because I love my country,
I have brought Articles of Impeach-
ment.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Mem-
bers are reminded to refrain from en-
gaging in personalities toward the
President.
f
BUILD ROBUST ECONOMY TO KEEP
PROMISES
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under
the Speaker’s announced policy of Jan-
uary 3, 2019, the Chair recognizes the
gentleman from Arizona (Mr.
SCHWEIKERT) for 30 minutes.
Mr. SCHWEIKERT. Madam Speaker,
this is one of those moments where, in
listening to my friend, Mr. GREEN, we
are friends. We, I think, always voted
against each other on most everything,
but we were always civil to each other.
That is sometimes hard to commu-
nicate with a lot of our brothers and
sisters, our folks at home, that you can
sometimes have very contentious
issues that we absolutely disagree on,
but it doesn’t mean that we have to be
jerks to each other.
We have a family motto—I don’t
know if it works for someone on the
left—‘‘conservative but not a jerk
about it.’’ And we try very hard.
Let’s see if we can actually do some-
thing that actually is interesting and
real on the math. Because our other
saying is: It is about the math, and the
math always, ultimately, wins.
The reason we often start these pres-
entations with this board up is if you
look at our future, instead of the chaos
that this place seems to be bathing in
so far this year, and care about what is
happening to the country, care about
people like my little 4-year-old daugh-
ter, who turned 4 last week, best little
girl ever—what is her future going to
be like?
When you look at the CBO data,
there are some really important data
points that are not Republican, not
Democratic. They are math.
In the next 5 years, just the growth
of Social Security, Medicare, and
healthcare entitlements, just the
growth, every 5 years, equals the De-
fense Department spending. That
means, every 10 years, two full Defense
Departments is just the spending
growth.
We expect, over the next 10 years, 91
percent of the spending growth for
your Federal Government will be So-
cial Security, Medicare, and healthcare
entitlements.
Over the next 30 years, if you remove
Social Security and Medicare, we have
$23 trillion in the bank. If you roll So-
cial Security and Medicare back in, we
are $83 trillion in debt. That is not in-
flation-adjusted. If you inflation adjust
it, it is somewhere in the 50s.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:40 Oct 30, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00048 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K29OC7.087 H29OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8591
October 29, 2019
The point I am making is: Could this
body ever engage, in this environment,
on the real headwind that is up against
our society and against all of us? We
have a moral obligation to keep our
commitments on those earned benefits,
those earned entitlements, whatever
you want to call it. But how do you
build a robust enough economy, a vi-
brant enough economy, to keep our
promises?
That is why we put up this slide. We
have been working on this for years.
We try to make an argument that if
you do certain economic policies—tax
policies, trade policies, immigration
policies, regulatory policies—the adop-
tion of fairly aggressive changes in
technology to crash the price of
healthcare—incentives for labor force
participation, incentives for someone
who is older—if they are healthy and
choose to stay in the labor force, there
are all sorts of things to do here, even
down to being honest about the demo-
graphics of the country on how fast we
are getting older, the fact our birth-
rates have, in many ways, collapsed.
Now you have incentives for family
formation and population stability. It
is complex. It seems to offend everyone
when you start saying: ‘‘We have a
complex problem.’’ Guess what? There
is not a simple, trite solution. It is
complex.
Let’s talk a little bit about the good
news, the proof that tax policy, par-
ticularly, can have pretty substantial
effects on the society.
Last Friday, the Treasury posted up
its numbers. You don’t call them reve-
nues; you call them receipts. I was cor-
rected on my first day on the Ways and
Means Committee.
Guess what happened post-tax re-
form? Do you remember the apocalypse
that was coming? Right here, at this
microphone over here, we were told of
the apocalypse that was going to hap-
pen financially to the country with the
tax reform. The highest revenues in
U.S. history, we had 4 percent growth
in true revenues, true receipts. Infla-
tion-adjusted, it is the second highest
in U.S. history.
We had a really interesting year in
2015. There was a number of anomalies,
but a very high spike in revenues. It is
the second highest, inflation-adjusted,
in U.S. history, 4 percent growth in re-
ceipts.
The problem is that we had about a 7-
plus percent growth in spending, and
you do that gap year after year after
year. Now, to be honest, of that growth
in spending, I believe over half of it
was on autopilot. It was the population
growth of our brothers and sisters who
are baby boomers, the 74 million of us
who started to move into our benefit
years.
Back to my first comments, it is hap-
pening. It is just demographics.
The other part was spending deci-
sions here where one side wanted to fix
underinvestment in the military. Well,
for every dollar there, you had to do
certain types of social entitlement
spending.
But what is interesting is if you look
at the growth of the economy, particu-
larly in 2018, almost every social pro-
gram, whether it be Social Security
disability, which has some other com-
plications, and there were some policy
changes, to TANF, food stamps, they
are all down, which should be almost
joyous.
b 1845
But, once again, the chart I am show-
ing here, I don’t know why there is not
more talking about this because just a
couple years ago when we did tax re-
form, we were told this couldn’t hap-
pen. We had lots of experts come and
testify, lots of folks writing apoca-
lyptic articles, and lots of testimony
and debate here on the floor.
So for those of us who took a beating
over our math—which turned out to be
right—do we ever get an apology?
Or is it just another occasion where
the lunacy is allowed to engage in the
rage machine and yet when we actually
see the math, feelings are more valu-
able than the truth?
It breaks my heart, because how do
you do good things for society if you
are not allowed to have honest con-
versation about the math?
So, once again, let’s go back to the
basics.
Do you see the red?
The first pie chart is 1960, and you
see about 34 percent of our spending is
what you would call being on auto-
pilot. Today, actually now, over 70 per-
cent of our spending is functionally
formulaic. So we come to the floor, and
we vote on appropriations bills. But we
actually don’t vote on that red, be-
cause those are benefits you get,
Madam Speaker, when you turn a cer-
tain age, when you fall under a certain
income, things that are automated.
But yet look at what is happening.
Take a look. If you remove Defense,
think about that, so if you remove the
15 percent that is Defense, and you
start to realize that mandatory spend-
ing, the 15 percent of the budget is De-
fense, there is only another 15 percent
that is all the rest of government:
health research, the FBI, the CIA, the
agencies, the Forest Service, and ev-
erything else, are actually only about
15 percent of our spending. Your gov-
ernment is functionally an insurance
company with an army. I know that
sounds a little trite, but it is sort of a
little bit funny and actually quite true.
So how do you deal with the reality?
Well, the reality of it is back to that
very first board. There is a path. It will
require Democrats and Republicans to
actually understand a calculator, un-
derstand the benefits of growth, and
growth being moral, but growth also
doing stunningly good things for Amer-
icans, and also that growth gives us a
fighting chance not to break the 95 per-
cent debt-to-GDP ratio that we are
heading towards very, very soon, so un-
derstanding where this debt is coming
from.
Now, why this is important is, all day
long Members of Congress come behind
these microphones, and we talk about
all the things we want to do.
But what happens when you can’t do
the things because the current prom-
ises are consuming everything?
So remember our earlier comment, if
you remove Social Security, remove
Medicare, and look at the 30-year win-
dow, you will have about $23 trillion in
the bank. When you move Social Secu-
rity and Medicare back in, then you
start to see where we are at, Madam
Speaker.
The goal here is to keep our prom-
ises, produce enough economic expan-
sion, and engage in a number of tech-
nology and healthcare disruptions to
make the math work.
Is that Republican or Democrat? It is
neither. It is actually what is really
good for our society. But it is the re-
ality.
So let’s actually touch on just a cou-
ple of these things. I am sorry, this is
the best slide I have on this subject
area. It is a little noisy, but a Demo-
crat Member and I have been working
on this, trying to actually promote
continued investment in things like di-
abetes. It turns out that if you can fol-
low this noisy chart, we are modeling
that the projected costs of Medicare,
about 30 percent of it is diabetes.
What would happen if we could actu-
ally have either a technology break-
through on everything, helping our
brothers and sisters with obesity issues
to being able to grow pancreatic cells
and reactivate somebody’s pancreas so
it is producing insulin?
Those investments are worthwhile
because they have such a dramatic
multiplier effect. We are actually right
now in our office trying to do the re-
search of Alzheimer’s.
What would happen if we had a suc-
cessful treatment for even some of the
categories of dementia or even the
postponement of Alzheimer’s and what
it actually means?
So these are occasions where trying
to build a formula, saying, okay, we al-
ready know tax policy is working in ex-
panding the economy—and at the end
we are going to talk about all the good
things happening there—we already
know that these trade deals, like
USMCA, our model right now says it is
half a point of GDP growth. You would
think this body would just be giddy to
get that passed, because growth is
moral, Madam Speaker. It also really
helps us have the resources to keep our
promises.
How about many of the other things
we work on, where if you are going to
build an immigration system, do you
design an immigration system that
maximizes economic expansion for our
society?
That is why there are so many eco-
nomic modelers who are talking about
moving, like the rest of the world is,
toward talent-based immigration sys-
tems. The beauty of it is, obviously,
you don’t care about somebody’s reli-
gion or color or whom they cuddle with
or all these other things, you care
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:40 Oct 30, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00049 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K29OC7.089 H29OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8592 October 29, 2019
about the talents they bring to our so-
ciety to help us grow, because we have
trillions and trillions and trillions of
dollars of promises. We need the eco-
nomic expansion to keep our promises.
Do you see, Madam Speaker, it is a
broken record that needs to play over
and over, because we live in a world of
distractions and almost rage around
here right now, and yet these are the
types of issues that are critical. These
are the types of issues we should all
run on. So that is an example there.
So let’s actually talk about a little
bit of creativity. Last week we had
something called H.R. 3 in the Ways
and Means Committee. It is referred to
by some people in the vernacular as
reference pricing. Take a handful of
European countries, find their statis-
tical mean, give it a variance of from
100 to 130, and you have to price within
there. If you price outside that range,
then you get a 95 percent tax, if you
are the pharmaceutical manufacturer
or seller.
Okay, Madam Speaker, except within
just a couple moments, a number of
smart people in the room were laying
out saying, okay, you could scam it
this way, you could actually do a re-
bate over here, you could actually
backdoor—so raise the price on these
pharmaceuticals, lower the price on
these, so the country of France, when
they are buying, their mean cost is the
same. And there was no willingness in
the room by the majority Democrats to
have a conversation of, this doesn’t ac-
tually accomplish what you want, and
CBO has already come and modeled to
us that there will be a substantial fall-
off in new drugs that are the disruption
that we are trying to get.
Madam Speaker, do you remember
how in the previous slide we were just
talking about the miracle, if you had a
cure for diabetes? What would happen
if you had Alzheimer’s?
What about some of the ones we
know are here already? There is the
single-shot cure that cures hemophilia,
one of the most expensive for an indi-
vidual medical condition in our soci-
ety. It can be up to around $600,000 a
year, a single-shot cure is here.
We should actually have been having
a discussion of how you finance it, so
every one of the 8,600—that is the best
number I have right now—of our broth-
ers and sisters who have hemophilia A,
we can cure them, not over years, but
over months.
It turns out for our brothers and sis-
ters who are in the chronic popu-
lation—5 percent of the population is
the majority of our healthcare spend-
ing.
So what about the concept of a dis-
ruption like we were talking, a
healthcare disruption, where you start
curing individuals who have these
chronic conditions and they are no
longer part of the chronic population
that is the majority of our healthcare
spending?
Instead of having the absurd debate
we have had in this body for 10 years,
the Democrats’ version, the ACA, on
who should get subsidized and who
should have to pay. And then, of
course, the Republican alternative,
which was not on who gets subsidized
and who should have to pay, but who
should pay and who should get sub-
sidized.
We have been debating the financing
of healthcare, not the disruption of
things we can do technology-wise and
incentive-wise to crash the price. You
have already seen the charts. Medicare
is three-quarters of the unfunded liabil-
ities. I just showed you that almost 30
percent of it is just diabetes coverage.
How do you get this body to focus on
the reality of the math and move to-
ward solutions that actually solve
these problems?
So if you are going to try to be cre-
ative around here, what you find out is
by the time you make your first sen-
tence of: Here is an idea, you already
have folks on the other side shutting it
down saying: I am not comfortable
with that.
So I am just going to put up another
board, just as a simple thought experi-
ment. So work with me here.
Fifty percent of the pharmaceuticals
that will be picked up at pharmacies
today, the experts tell us, will not be
used or will not be used properly.
One more time. Half the pharma-
ceuticals that will be picked up today
will not be used or will not be used
properly. Think of that. If we could ac-
tually have some impact on that, if
you want to do something on drug
prices, Madam Speaker, that is one.
Do we argue about that?
We don’t argue on that fact. It just
doesn’t fit into the narrative. So we
have the technology today where we
know when the pill bottle is opened.
We actually have the machines that if
your mom or your grandmom needs
this pill at 8 a.m. and this pill at 12
noon, there is a little machine that
does, not only dispense it, but will talk
to her and actually also do a cellphone
notification, and if the little cup hold-
ing the pill isn’t moved, it will actually
even send you a text message as a fam-
ily member.
Think about that. That is a tech-
nology over here that has almost noth-
ing to do with actually being part of
pharma, but actually would help us on
that portion of that 50 percent that is
not being used properly.
How about the other portion of that
50 percent that just isn’t used at all?
We have actually been trying to do
the math, saying: How about for high-
value pharmaceuticals, put them in
sterile packaging. Put them in single-
use packaging and let them be return-
able for the high-value ones. Because
on one hand, we will get testimony of
folks who are outraged that these
small molecule pharmaceuticals are
ending up in the water supply and in
other places being flushed down the
toilets. Just this weekend we had pre-
scription drug take-back day in so
many of our communities.
But the fact of the matter is, how
many pharmaceuticals that are per-
fectly good, that if they had been pack-
aged properly, could have been re-
turned?
So as a body we support recycling for
everything else, but I had a Democrat
Member come up to me and say: Oh, I
am just not comfortable with that.
How about if it had a genuine, sub-
stantial price index?
How about if it became a way to help
our brothers and sisters who don’t have
access to some of these pharma-
ceuticals, a price-efficient way to get
them?
How about if it was just good for the
environment?
It turns out the technology exists.
There are a number of organizations
out there that are already experi-
menting with cartridges that stay ab-
solutely sterile, so that those that are
unused are returnable. It is a type of
multilayer blister pack that stays ab-
solutely sterile that makes them re-
turnable; liquid type of pharma-
ceuticals that are in single-shot doses,
meaning, the other ones are return-
able. It is a thought experiment.
But because it didn’t fit the nar-
rative of let’s beat the crap out of the
pharmaceutical companies—and, look,
I am not saying they are saints—but it
didn’t fit the narrative to have some-
thing that was creative. It was like
talking to a blank wall. That is a prob-
lem around here. I am willing to listen.
b 1900
Can I get my brothers and sisters
who claim we want to do good things
for society? ‘‘We want to lower phar-
maceutical prices. We are going to put
every creative idea on the table, except
for the ones that aren’t theirs.’’ It
doesn’t work that way.
So last bit, in the previous couple of
weeks, we have come to the floor
here—and we chose not to bring all the
boards—but it is something that I per-
sonally struggle with. If I had come to
this body a couple of years ago and
said—and I hate this term, but it is the
proper term—our brothers and sisters
in the quartiles where they didn’t fin-
ish high school, or a single individual
without a college education, we would
have meetings in the Joint Economic
Committee where they were doing
modeling, and we were functionally
writing them off in society, saying
these populations are going to be part
of—I don’t have a better term—the per-
manent underclass.
What has happened the last 2 years?
It turns out those lowest quartiles,
those three or four lowest quartiles,
are the fastest-rising incomes in our
society—single women, no partner at
home, 2018, a 7.6 percent growth in in-
come.
If I had stood behind this microphone
a couple of years ago and said this is
what is going to be happening in our
society, I would have gotten crazy calls
saying I had lost my mind. But it hap-
pened.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:40 Oct 30, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00050 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K29OC7.090 H29OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8593
October 29, 2019
For those who live in Arizona, I be-
lieve, in the last five quarters, we have
had a couple of quarters where we have
had the fastest-growing income in the
entire country, and it is not the folks
at the top.
What happens when you have a coun-
try that has more jobs than available
workers? For those who follow num-
bers, if I had come to this room a cou-
ple of years ago and said we are going
to blast beyond 63 percent labor force
participation when all the models said
we would be a couple of points below
that and continue to fall—there are
amazing things happening out there.
You would think there would be a lit-
tle joy for a body that claims we care
about working men and women, for a
body that claims we care about those
who have had a really rough previous
decade. You would think there would
be joy in this body.
Look at the math. Look at the fas-
cinating things when—okay, we will
get the unemployment numbers—
what?—this coming Friday. Look at
something that is called the U–6 data,
and then start to see these fascinating
numbers out there, when you get some
of the really broad data on how many
of our friends and neighbors who have
developmental issues, handicaps that
have been barriers for them to partici-
pate in the workforce. They are moving
into the workforce because businesses
are so desperate for workers that they
are making accommodations. You
would think that creates a little bit of
joy.
Is that Republican or Democratic? It
is American. We should be joyful.
When we see the numbers of His-
panics, African Americans, women,
these other populations, all of these
subgroups that we love to break up our
math into, all of them are record highs,
tied for record highs. Why isn’t there
joy?
When you look at what has happened
to wages, why isn’t there joy?
The reality is that the economic ex-
pansion that is helping so many of the
working men and women in this coun-
try also means your government has
had the highest receipts—income—in
U.S. history, blowing the wheels off of
all the predictions, proving the sort of
Malthusian, malcontents were wrong.
Something is working out there.
Why isn’t this body fixated on fig-
uring out what is working and doing
more of it? Instead, Congress has now
become a place where we do public pol-
icy by feelings instead of a calculator.
As my father used to say—and I am
terrified I am quoting my father—my
father used to say, ‘‘The math always
wins.’’ Madam Speaker, the math al-
ways wins.
Madam Speaker, I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
f
SENATE BILL REFERRED
A bill of the Senate of the following
title was taken from the Speaker’s
table and, under the rule, referred as
follows:
S. 134. An act to amend title 18, United
States Code, with regard to stalking; to the
Committee on the Judiciary.
f
ENROLLED BILL SIGNED
Cheryl L. Johnson, Clerk of the
House, reported and found truly en-
rolled a bill of the House of the fol-
lowing title, which was thereupon
signed by the Speaker:
H.R. 1396. An act to award Congressional
Gold Medals to Katherine Johnson and Dr.
Christine Darden, to posthumously award
Congressional Gold Medals to Dorothy
Vaughan and Mary Jackson, and to award a
Congressional Gold Medal to honor all of the
women who contributed to the success of the
National Aeronautics and Space Administra-
tion during the Space Race.
f
SENATE ENROLLED BILL SIGNED
The Speaker announced her signa-
ture to an enrolled bill of the Senate of
the following title:
S. 693.—An act to amend title 36, United
States Code, to require that the POW/MIA
flag be displayed on all days that the flag of
the United States is displayed on certain
Federal property.
f
ADJOURNMENT
Mr. SCHWEIKERT. Madam Speaker,
I move that the House do now adjourn.
The motion was agreed to; accord-
ingly (at 7 o’clock and 4 minutes p.m.),
under its previous order, the House ad-
journed until tomorrow, Wednesday,
October 30, 2019, at 10 a.m. for morning-
hour debate.
f
EXECUTIVE COMMUNICATIONS,
ETC.
Under clause 2 of rule XIV, executive
communications were taken from the
Speaker’s table and referred as follows:
2774. A letter from the Director, Regu-
latory Management Division, Environmental
Protection Agency, transmitting the Agen-
cy’s final rule — Significant New Use Rules
on Certain Chemical Substances (17-4) [EPA-
HQ-OPPT-2017-0560; FRL-10000-69] (RIN: 2070-
AB27) received October 25, 2019, pursuant to 5
U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec.
251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on En-
ergy and Commerce.
2775. A letter from the Director, Regu-
latory Management Division, Environmental
Protection Agency, transmitting the Agen-
cy’s final rule — Sulfoxaflor; Pesticide Tol-
erances [EPA-HQ-OPP-2018-0599; FRL-9998-88]
received October 25, 2019, pursuant to 5
U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec.
251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on En-
ergy and Commerce.
2776. A letter from the Director, Regu-
latory Management Division, Environmental
Protection Agency, transmitting the Agen-
cy’s final rule — Isotianil; Pesticide Toler-
ances [EPA-HQ-OPP-2018-0047; FRL-10000-79]
received October 25, 2019, pursuant to 5
U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec.
251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on En-
ergy and Commerce.
2777. A letter from the Director, Regu-
latory Management Division, Environmental
Protection Agency, transmitting the Agen-
cy’s final rule — Mandipropamid; Pesticide
Tolerances [EPA-HQ-OPP-2019-0062; FRL-
9999-56] received October 25, 2019, pursuant to
5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec.
251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on En-
ergy and Commerce.
2778. A letter from the Director, Regu-
latory Management Division, Environmental
Protection Agency, transmitting the Agen-
cy’s direct final rule — New Hampshire:
Final Approval of State Underground Stor-
age Tank Program Revisions, Codification,
and Incorporation by Reference [EPA-R01-
UST-2019-0421; FRL-10001-60-Region 1] re-
ceived October 25, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Energy and
Commerce.
2779. A letter from the Director, Regu-
latory Management Division, Environmental
Protection Agency, transmitting the Agen-
cy’s final rule — Pendimethalin; Pesticide
Tolerances [EPA-HQ-OPP-2018-0619; FRL-
10000-06] received October 25, 2019, pursuant
to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121,
Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on
Energy and Commerce.
2780. A letter from the Director, Regu-
latory Management Division, Environmental
Protection Agency, transmitting the Agen-
cy’s final rule — Air Plan Approval; Cali-
fornia; Ventura County Air Pollution Con-
trol District [EPA-R09-OAR-2019-0422; FRL-
10000-88-Region 9] received October 25, 2019,
pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law
104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Com-
mittee on Energy and Commerce.
2781. A letter from the Director, Regu-
latory Management Division, Environmental
Protection Agency, transmitting the Agen-
cy’s final rule — Air Plan Approval; Massa-
chusetts; Transport State Implementation
Plans for the 1997 and 2008 Ozone Standards
[EPA-R01-OAR-2008-0108; FRL-10001-37-RE-
gion 1] received October 25, 2019, pursuant to
5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec.
251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on En-
ergy and Commerce.
2782. A letter from the Director, Regu-
latory Management Division, Environmental
Protection Agency, transmitting the Agen-
cy’s final rule — Air Plan Approval; OR: 2018
Permitting Rule Revisions [EPA-R10-OAR-
2019-0269; FRL-10001-52-Region 10] received
October 25, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Energy and
Commerce.
2783. A letter from the Director, Regu-
latory Management Division, Environmental
Protection Agency, transmitting the Agen-
cy’s final rule — Fenbuconazole; Pesticide
Tolerances [EPA-HQ-OPP-2018-0300; FRL-
9999-58] received October 25, 2019, pursuant to
5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec.
251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on En-
ergy and Commerce.
2784. A letter from the Director, Regu-
latory Management Division, Environmental
Protection Agency, transmitting the Agen-
cy’s final rule — Air Plan Approval: Lane
County, Oregon; 2019 Permitting Rule Revi-
sions [EPA-R10-OAR-2019-0426; FRL-10001-56-
Region 10] received October 25, 2019, pursuant
to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121,
Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on
Energy and Commerce.
2785. A letter from the Director, Regu-
latory Management Division, Environmental
Protection Agency, transmitting the Agen-
cy’s final rule — Air Plan Approval; Cali-
fornia; Calaveras County Air Pollution Con-
trol District [EPA-R09-OAR-2019-0147; FRL-
10001-32-Region 9] received October 25, 2019,
pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law
104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Com-
mittee on Energy and Commerce.
2786. A letter from the Director, Regu-
latory Management Division, Environmental
Protection Agency, transmitting the Agen-
cy’s final rule — Air plan Approval; Georgia;
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:40 Oct 30, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00051 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K29OC7.092 H29OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8594 October 29, 2019
Revisions to Sulfur Dioxide Ambient Air
Quality Standards [EPA-R04-OAR-2018-0819;
FRL-10001-49-Region 4] received October 25,
2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public
Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the
Committee on Energy and Commerce.
2787. A letter from the Director, Regu-
latory Management Division, Environmental
Protection Agency, transmitting the Agen-
cy’s final rule — Air Plan Approval and Des-
ignation of Areas; FL; Redesignation of the
Hillsborough County 2010 1-Hour Sulfur Di-
oxide Nonattainment Area to Attainment
[EPA-R04-OAR-2018-0522; FRL-10001-35-Re-
gion 4] received October 25, 2019, pursuant to
5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec.
251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on En-
ergy and Commerce.
f
REPORTS OF COMMITTEES ON
PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS
Under clause 2 of rule XIII, reports of
committees were delivered to the Clerk
for printing and reference to the proper
calendar, as follows:
[Omitted from the Record of October 28, 2019]
Ms. WATERS: Committee on Financial
Services. H.R. 3111. A bill to make adminis-
trative reforms to the National Flood Insur-
ance Program to increase fairness and accu-
racy and protect the taxpayer from program
fraud and abuse, and for other purposes; with
an amendment (Rept. 116–261). Referred to
the Committee of the Whole House on the
State of the Union.
Ms. WATERS: Committee on Financial
Services. H.R. 3167. A bill to reform and re-
authorize the National Flood Insurance Pro-
gram, and for other purposes; with an
amendment (Rept. 116–262, Pt. 1). Referred to
the Committee of the Whole House on the
State of the Union.
[Submitted October 29, 2019]
Mr. NEAL: Committee on Ways and Means.
H.R. 3398. A bill to provide low-income indi-
viduals with opportunities to enter and fol-
low a career pathway in the health profes-
sions, to extend and expand demonstration
projects, and for other purposes; with an
amendment (Rept. 116–265). Referred to the
Committee of the Whole House on the State
of the Union.
DISCHARGE OF COMMITTEE
[Omitted from the Record of October 28, 2019]
Pursuant to clause 2 of rule XIII, the
Committee on Transportation and In-
frastructure discharged from further
consideration. H.R. 3167 referred to the
Committee of the Whole House on the
State of the Union.
f
PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS
Under clause 2 of rule XII, public
bills and resolutions of the following
titles were introduced and severally re-
ferred, as follows:
By Mr. QUIGLEY (for himself and Mr.
COLLINS of Georgia):
H.R. 4894. A bill to amend the Federal
Funding Accountability and Transparency
Act of 2006, to require the budget justifica-
tions and appropriation requests of agencies
be made publicly available; to the Com-
mittee on Oversight and Reform, and in addi-
tion to the Committee on the Budget, for a
period to be subsequently determined by the
Speaker, in each case for consideration of
such provisions as fall within the jurisdic-
tion of the committee concerned.
By Mr. PETERSON (for himself, Mr.
CONAWAY, Mr. DAVID SCOTT of Geor-
gia, and Mr. AUSTIN SCOTT of Geor-
gia):
H.R. 4895. A bill to reauthorize the Com-
modity Futures Trading Commission; to the
Committee on Agriculture.
By Mr. MOONEY of West Virginia (for
himself, Mr. TRONE, Mrs. MILLER, and
Mr. MCKINLEY):
H.R. 4896. A bill to amend title 23, United
States Code, to establish a program to im-
prove infrastructure development in Appa-
lachia, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Transportation and Infrastruc-
ture.
By Mr. LIPINSKI:
H.R. 4897. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to increase the amount ex-
cluded from gross income by reason of dis-
tributions from governmental retirement
plans for health and long-term care insur-
ance for public safety officers; to the Com-
mittee on Ways and Means.
By Mr. KUSTOFF of Tennessee (for
himself, Mr. DAVID P. ROE of Ten-
nessee, and Ms. KUSTER of New
Hampshire):
H.R. 4898. A bill to amend the Public
Health Service Act to establish a rural
health center innovation awards program
and a rural health department enhancement
program, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Energy and Commerce.
By Mr. DAVID P. ROE of Tennessee
(for himself, Mrs. BUSTOS, and Mr.
KUSTOFF of Tennessee):
H.R. 4899. A bill to amend the Public
Health Service Act to establish the National
Health Service Corps Rural Provider Loan
Repayment Program, and for other purposes;
to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
By Mr. DAVID P. ROE of Tennessee
(for himself and Mr. KUSTOFF of Ten-
nessee):
H.R. 4900. A bill to amend the Public
Health Service Act to establish a national
telehealth program, and for other purposes;
to the Committee on Energy and Commerce,
and in addition to the Committee on Ways
and Means, for a period to be subsequently
determined by the Speaker, in each case for
consideration of such provisions as fall with-
in the jurisdiction of the committee con-
cerned.
By Mr. SERRANO (for himself, Miss
GONZÁLEZ-COLÓN of Puerto Rico, Mr.
YOUNG, Mr. BISHOP of Utah, Mr. SOTO,
Mrs. MURPHY of Florida, Mr.
GALLEGO, Mr. WALTZ, Ms. PLASKETT,
Mr. DIAZ-BALART, Ms. STEFANIK, Mr.
CRIST, Mr. KING of New York, Ms.
SHALALA, Mr. BACON, Ms. WASSERMAN
SCHULTZ, Mr. FITZPATRICK, Mrs.
RADEWAGEN, Mr. SWALWELL of Cali-
fornia, Mr. HUFFMAN, Mr. POSEY, Mr.
CICILLINE, Mr. LOWENTHAL, Mr.
VARGAS, Mrs. KIRKPATRICK, Mr.
KATKO, Mr. BANKS, Mrs. BEATTY, Mr.
SABLAN, Mr. BROWN of Maryland, Mr.
LEWIS, Mr. LAMALFA, Mrs. DEMINGS,
Mr. WILSON of South Carolina, Mr.
SAN NICOLAS, Mr. BISHOP of Georgia,
Mr. CARBAJAL, Ms. BROWNLEY of Cali-
fornia, Mr. FOSTER, Mr. BEYER, Mr.
RASKIN, Mr. HASTINGS, Ms. WILD, Mr.
PETERSON, and Mr. SPANO):
H.R. 4901. A bill to enable the admission of
Puerto Rico as a State of the Union, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Natural
Resources.
By Mrs. AXNE:
H.R. 4902. A bill to amend the Department
of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 to
establish the Advanced Research Projects
Agency-Terra, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Agriculture.
By Mr. ESTES (for himself, Mr. ABRA-
HAM, Mr. ADERHOLT, Mr. ALLEN, Mr.
BABIN, Mr. BANKS, Mr. BRADY, Mr.
FLEISCHMANN, Mr. GAETZ, Mr.
GIANFORTE, Mr. HARRIS, Mr. KEVIN
HERN of Oklahoma, Mr. KING of Iowa,
Mr. LAMBORN, Mr. LATTA, Mr.
MARCHANT, Mr. MARSHALL, Mr.
MEADOWS, Mr. MOONEY of West Vir-
ginia, Mr. NORMAN, Mr. ROY, Mr.
SMITH of New Jersey, Mr. STAUBER,
Mr. WATKINS, Mr. WEBER of Texas,
Mr. WESTERMAN, Mr. WILLIAMS, Mr.
SHIMKUS, Mr. HICE of Georgia, Mr.
CLINE, Mr. LUETKEMEYER, Mr.
CRAWFORD, and Mr. JOHNSON of Lou-
isiana):
H.R. 4903. A bill to amend title 18, United
States Code, to prohibit discrimination by
abortion against an unborn child on the
basis of Down syndrome; to the Committee
on the Judiciary.
By Mr. BLUMENAUER (for himself,
Ms. SCHAKOWSKY, Ms. NORTON, Mr.
HUFFMAN, Ms. LEE of California, Mr.
MCGOVERN, Mr. POCAN, Mr. DEFAZIO,
and Ms. BONAMICI):
H.R. 4904. A bill to reduce spending on nu-
clear weapons and related defense spending
and to prohibit the procurement and deploy-
ment of low-yield nuclear warheads, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Armed
Services.
By Mrs. BUSTOS:
H.R. 4905. A bill to direct the Secretary of
Transportation to carry out a program to
provide secured loans to private entities to
carry out projects for the transportation of
anthropogenic carbon dioxide, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Transpor-
tation and Infrastructure.
By Ms. DEGETTE (for herself and Mr.
REED):
H.R. 4906. A bill to provide patient protec-
tions with respect to the cost of insulin; to
the Committee on Energy and Commerce,
and in addition to the Committee on Ways
and Means, for a period to be subsequently
determined by the Speaker, in each case for
consideration of such provisions as fall with-
in the jurisdiction of the committee con-
cerned.
By Mr. GALLAGHER (for himself, Mr.
MCADAMS, Mr. TIMMONS, Mr. CASE,
and Mr. PETERS):
H.R. 4907. A bill to save and strengthen
critical social contract programs of the Fed-
eral Government; to the Committee on Over-
sight and Reform, and in addition to the
Committees on Rules, and the Budget, for a
period to be subsequently determined by the
Speaker, in each case for consideration of
such provisions as fall within the jurisdic-
tion of the committee concerned.
By Mr. GALLEGO (for himself, Mr.
COOK, Ms. HAALAND, Mr. COLE, Mr.
KHANNA, and Mr. GRIJALVA):
H.R. 4908. A bill to amend title 38, United
States Code, to prohibit the collection of a
health care copayment by the Secretary of
Veterans Affairs from a veteran who is a
member of an Indian tribe; to the Committee
on Veterans’ Affairs.
By Mr. JOHNSON of South Dakota:
H.R. 4909. A bill to expand the scope of the
matters required to be evaluated by the
Commodity Futures Trading Commission in
considering the costs and benefits of its pro-
posed regulations and orders, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Agriculture.
By Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire (for
herself, Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN, Mr.
MALINOWSKI, Mr. QUIGLEY, and Mr.
HUFFMAN):
H.R. 4910. A bill to prohibit the use of emi-
nent domain for the construction or expan-
sion of a natural gas pipe line through land
conserved by certain land trusts and local
governments, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Energy and Commerce.
By Mr. SCHWEIKERT (for himself and
Ms. SÁNCHEZ):
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:40 Oct 30, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00052 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\L29OC7.000 H29OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8595
October 29, 2019
H.R. 4911. A bill to amend title IV of the
Social Security Act to allow the Secretary of
Health and Human Services to award com-
petitive grants to enhance collaboration be-
tween State child welfare and juvenile jus-
tice systems; to the Committee on Ways and
Means.
By Mr. VAN DREW:
H.R. 4912. A bill to prohibit the
recoupment of Federal disaster and emer-
gency assistance from individuals and house-
holds, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Transportation and Infrastruc-
ture.
By Mr. BISHOP of Utah:
H. Res. 659. A resolution affirming that
States should maintain primacy for the reg-
ulation of hydraulic fracturing for oil and
natural gas production on State and private
lands and that the President should not de-
clare a moratorium on the use of hydraulic
fracturing on Federal lands (including the
Outer Continental Shelf), State lands, pri-
vate lands, or lands held in trust for an In-
dian Tribe unless such moratorium is au-
thorized by an Act of Congress; to the Com-
mittee on Natural Resources, and in addition
to the Committee on Energy and Commerce,
for a period to be subsequently determined
by the Speaker, in each case for consider-
ation of such provisions as fall within the ju-
risdiction of the committee concerned.
By Mr. MCGOVERN (for himself, Mr.
HASTINGS, Mrs. TORRES of California,
Mr. PERLMUTTER, Mr. RASKIN, Ms.
SCANLON, Mr. MORELLE, Ms. SHALALA,
and Mr. DESAULNIER):
H. Res. 660. A resolution directing certain
committees to continue their ongoing inves-
tigations as part of the existing House of
Representatives inquiry into whether suffi-
cient grounds exist for the House of Rep-
resentatives to exercise its Constitutional
power to impeach Donald John Trump,
President of the United States of America,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Rules.
By Mrs. DAVIS of California:
H. Res. 661. A resolution authorizing the
Office of General Counsel of the House of
Representatives to retain private counsel, ei-
ther for pay or pro bono, in support of the
ongoing inquiry into whether sufficient
grounds exist for the House of Representa-
tives to exercise its Constitutional power to
impeach President Donald John Trump; to
the Committee on House Administration.
By Ms. GABBARD:
H. Res. 662. A resolution urging the release
of information regarding the September 11,
2001, terrorist attacks upon the United
States; to the Committee on Oversight and
Reform.
f
CONSTITUTIONAL AUTHORITY
STATEMENT
Pursuant to clause 7 of rule XII of
the Rules of the House of Representa-
tives, the following statements are sub-
mitted regarding the specific powers
granted to Congress in the Constitu-
tion to enact the accompanying bill or
joint resolution.
By Mr. QUIGLEY:
H.R. 4894.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 3 of the U.S.
Constitution
By Mr. PETERSON:
H.R. 4895.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
The ability to regulate interstate com-
merce and with foreign nations pursuant to
Article 1, Section 8, clause 3 of The U.S. Con-
stitution.
By Mr. MOONEY of West Virginia:
H.R. 4896.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 3
By Mr. LIPINSKI:
H.R. 4897.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1 Section 8
By Mr. KUSTOFF of Tennessee:
H.R. 4898.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Under Article I, Section 8, the Necessary
and Proper Clause. Congress shall have
power to make all laws which shall be nec-
essary and proper for carrying into Execu-
tion the foregoing Powers and all Powers
vested by this Constitution in the Govern-
ment of the United States, or any Depart-
ment or Officer thereof.
By Mr. DAVID P. ROE of Tennessee:
H.R. 4899.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 1, with respect
to the power to ‘‘lay and collect Taxes, Du-
ties, Imposts, and Excises,’’ and to provide
for the ‘‘general Welfare of the United
States.’’
By Mr. DAVID P. ROE of Tennessee:
H.R. 4900.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 1, with respect
to the power to ‘‘lay and collect Taxes, Du-
ties, Imposts, and Excises,’’ and to provide
for the ‘‘general Welfare of the United
States.’’
By Mr. SERRANO:
H.R. 4901.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
The Congress has the power to enact this
legislation pursuant to Article IV, Section 3,
of the U.S. Constitution, which provide as
follows:
New States may be admitted by the Con-
gress into this Union; . . . The Congress
shall have Power to dispose of and make all
needful Rules and Regulations respecting the
Territory or other Property belonging to the
United States
By Mrs. AXNE:
H.R. 4902.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8 of the US Constitution
By Mr. ESTES:
H.R. 4903.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Section 8 of Article I to make all laws nec-
essary and proper for carrying into execution
the powers vested by the Constitution
Section 5 of the 14th Amendment
By Mr. BLUMENAUER:
H.R. 4904.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8
By Mrs. BUSTOS:
H.R. 4905.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
This bill is enacted pursuant to the power
granted to Congress under Article I, Section
8, Clause 18 of the United States Constitu-
tion.
By Ms. DEGETTE:
H.R. 4906.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 3
By Mr. GALLAGHER:
H.R. 4907.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, section 8 of the Constitution of
the United States
By Mr. GALLEGO:
H.R. 4908.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Sect 8, Clause 18
By Mr. JOHNSON of South Dakota:
H.R. 4909.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
(Article I, Section 8, Clause 3)
By Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire:
H.R. 4910.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8: That Congress has the
Power . . . To make all Laws which shall be
necessary and proper for carrying into Exe-
cution the foregoing Powers, and all other
Powers vested by this Constitution in the
Government of the United States, or in any
Department or Officer thereof.
By Mr. SCHWEIKERT:
H.R. 4911.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 1 of the United States
Constitution, providing—‘‘All legislative
Powers herein granted shall be vested in a
Congress of the United States, which shall
consist of a Senate and House of Representa-
tives.’’
By Mr. VAN DREW:
H.R. 4912.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8
f
ADDITIONAL SPONSORS
Under clause 7 of rule XII, sponsors
were added to public bills and resolu-
tions, as follows:
H.R. 3: Mr. MEEKS, Mr. ESPAILLAT, and Mr.
LYNCH.
H.R. 35: Ms. BLUNT ROCHESTER.
H.R. 38: Mr. STAUBER.
H.R. 141: Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of New
York.
H.R. 333: Mr. SUOZZI.
H.R. 372: Mr. TED LIEU of California.
H.R. 388: Mr. BUCSHON.
H.R. 451: Mr. ESPAILLAT.
H.R. 541: Mr. CLEAVER.
H.R. 554: Mr. SHERMAN and Mr. MEEKS.
H.R. 587: Mr. KELLER and Mr. BABIN.
H.R. 616: Mrs. RODGERS of Washington and
Mr. DESJARLAIS.
H.R. 649: Mr. CRAWFORD and Mr. BERA.
H.R. 737: Ms. DAVIDS of Kansas.
H.R. 763: Mr. YARMUTH.
H.R. 836: Mrs. ROBY and Mr. SENSEN-
BRENNER.
H.R. 837: Mr. KIND and Mr. GOTTHEIMER.
H.R. 912: Mr. QUIGLEY, Mr. SWALWELL of
California, Mr. MOOLENAAR, Ms. KUSTER of
New Hampshire, Mr. RASKIN, and Ms. CASTOR
of Florida.
H.R. 945: Ms. KELLY of Illinois.
H.R. 961: Mr. STANTON.
H.R. 1042: Mrs. LURIA.
H.R. 1043: Ms. DELAURO.
H.R. 1110: Mr. OLSON.
H.R. 1119: Mr. TED LIEU of California.
H.R. 1120: Mr. TED LIEU of California.
H.R. 1140: Ms. DEAN, Ms. WILSON of Florida,
Mr. SARBANES, Mr. CUNNINGHAM, Mr. GREEN
of Texas, Mr. ALLRED, Mr. PASCRELL, Mrs.
DINGELL, Mr. BUTTERFIELD, Mr. SEAN PAT-
RICK MALONEY of New York, and Mr. YOUNG.
H.R. 1153: Mr. LUJÁN.
H.R. 1154: Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia.
H.R. 1161: Mr. PENCE.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:40 Oct 30, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00053 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\L29OC7.100 H29OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8596 October 29, 2019
H.R. 1166: Mr. PHILLIPS and Mr. LIPINSKI.
H.R. 1329: Ms. UNDERWOOD.
H.R. 1349: Mr. MCGOVERN.
H.R. 1374: Mr. RESCHENTHALER and Mr.
DAVID SCOTT of Georgia.
H.R. 1379: Mr. TAKANO, Mr. JOYCE of Ohio,
Mr. SMUCKER, Mr. CASTRO of Texas, and Mr.
KATKO.
H.R. 1380: Ms. DAVIDS of Kansas.
H.R. 1424: Mr. ALLRED.
H.R. 1434: Mr. ABRAHAM.
H.R. 1530: Mrs. LEE of Nevada.
H.R. 1533: Mr. CASE.
H.R. 1550: Mr. ABRAHAM.
H.R. 1572: Ms. MUCARSEL-POWELL.
H.R. 1601: Mr. COMER.
H.R. 1647: Mr. TED LIEU of California.
H.R. 1695: Ms. DELAURO.
H.R. 1713: Mr. AGUILAR and Ms.
SPANBERGER.
H.R. 1762: Mr. PASCRELL.
H.R. 1763: Mr. RUTHERFORD, Mr. DIAZ-
BALART, Mrs. DEMINGS, Mr. VAN DREW, and
Mr. LUCAS.
H.R. 1771: Mr. CICILLINE.
H.R. 1780: Mr. GOTTHEIMER.
H.R. 1814: Mr. BLUMENAUER and Mr. MAR-
SHALL.
H.R. 1816: Mr. KRISHNAMOORTHI and Mr.
TONKO.
H.R. 1819: Mrs. RODGERS of Washington,
Mr. CICILLINE, Mr. MALINOWSKI, and Mr.
SHERMAN.
H.R. 1840: Mr. COHEN and Mr. LOEBSACK.
H.R. 1854: Mr. MASSIE and Mr. GRIFFITH.
H.R. 1897: Mr. FOSTER.
H.R. 1903: Ms. ADAMS and Ms. KAPTUR.
H.R. 1953: Mr. HASTINGS.
H.R. 1961: Mr. TED LIEU of California.
H.R. 2093: Mr. POCAN.
H.R. 2117: Mr. MCGOVERN.
H.R. 2137: Mr. LOEBSACK.
H.R. 2146: Mr. THOMPSON of California, Mr.
SWALWELL of California, Ms. WASSERMAN
SCHULTZ, Mr. KHANNA, and Ms. Barragán.
H.R. 2148: Ms. WATERS and Mr. BISHOP of
Georgia.
H.R. 2153: Mr. MICHAEL F. DOYLE of Penn-
sylvania, Mr. NADLER, Mrs. NAPOLITANO, Mr.
SMITH of Washington, Mrs. WATSON COLE-
MAN, Mr. MCGOVERN, Mr. COSTA, Mr.
DESAULNIER, Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire,
Mr. COHEN, Mr. BRINDISI, Ms. MENG, Mr.
VARGAS, Ms. BROWNLEY of California, Mr.
SEAN PATRICK MALONEY of New York, Mr.
SWALWELL of California, Mr. CARTWRIGHT,
Mr. PALLONE, Mr. COOPER, Ms. ESCOBAR, Mr.
PERLMUTTER, Ms. SCHAKOWSKY, Ms.
SPANBERGER, Mr. LARSON of Connecticut,
Mrs. LURIA, Mrs. DAVIS of California, Mr.
DEFAZIO, Mr. SCHIFF, Mr. SHERMAN, Mr.
HARDER of California, Ms. SLOTKIN, Mr.
CLAY, Mr. KENNEDY, Mr. BEYER, Mrs.
FLETCHER, Ms. DEGETTE, Mr. TRONE, Ms.
HAALAND, Mr. GRIJALVA, Mr. PRICE of North
Carolina, Mr. CASTEN of Illinois, Ms. LOF-
GREN, Mr. MEEKS, Mr. POCAN, Mr. CARSON of
Indiana, Ms. GARCIA of Texas, and Mr.
CICILLINE.
H.R. 2166: Ms. TITUS.
H.R. 2258: Mr. KHANNA.
H.R. 2322: Mr. PETERS.
H.R. 2382: Mr. YOHO.
H.R. 2404: Mr. POCAN.
H.R. 2412: Mr. DUNCAN.
H.R. 2434: Ms. SCHAKOWSKY, Ms. DEGETTE,
Ms. SEWELL of Alabama, Mrs. DINGELL, and
Mr. CARSON of Indiana.
H.R. 2435: Mr. PASCRELL, Mrs. BEATTY, and
Mr. RUTHERFORD.
H.R. 2478: Mr. KEATING.
H.R. 2482: Mr. CASE.
H.R. 2491: Mr. SERRANO.
H.R. 2501: Mr. SIMPSON.
H.R. 2529: Mr. PAPPAS.
H.R. 2573: Mr. LUCAS, Mr. ROONEY of Flor-
ida, Mr. MCKINLEY, Mr. SOTO, Mr. ADERHOLT,
Ms. KENDRA S. HORN of Oklahoma, and Mr.
CROW.
H.R. 2594: Ms. SEWELL of Alabama and Mr.
YOUNG.
H.R. 2602: Mr. DESAULNIER.
H.R. 2620: Ms. SEWELL of Alabama.
H.R. 2662: Mr. DOGGETT.
H.R. 2683: Ms. TITUS.
H.R. 2689: Mr. YOUNG.
H.R. 2693: Mr. GALLEGO, Mr. COLE, Mr.
DELGADO, Ms. LEE of California, Mrs. MIL-
LER, Mrs. NAPOLITANO, Mr. SOTO, Mr.
BUCSHON, Mr. PERLMUTTER, Mr. GIANFORTE,
Ms. HERRERA BEUTLER, Mr. BUTTERFIELD,
Mr. HOLLINGSWORTH, and Mr. FERGUSON.
H.R. 2694: Mr. DANNY K. DAVIS of Illinois
and Mr. KHANNA.
H.R. 2700: Mrs. WAGNER.
H.R. 2771: Mr. HUIZENGA.
H.R. 2775: Ms. WATERS.
H.R. 2788: Mr. CASE.
H.R. 2808: Mr. CARTWRIGHT.
H.R. 2812: Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire.
H.R. 2881: Mr. SHERMAN, Mr. CICILLINE, and
Mr. ALLRED.
H.R. 2896: Mr. BERA and Mr. CARBAJAL.
H.R. 2903: Mr. ABRAHAM.
H.R. 2970: Mr. RASKIN.
H.R. 2985: Mr. MARSHALL, Ms. BLUNT ROCH-
ESTER, Mr. STEUBE, and Ms. KUSTER of New
Hampshire.
H.R. 3077: Ms. DEAN, Mr. TONKO, Mr.
MORELLE, Mr. LAMB, Mr. SIRES, Mr. FOSTER,
Mr. LYNCH, Mr. TRONE, Ms. ESHOO, Mr.
CISNEROS, Ms. MUCARSEL-POWELL, Mr.
LAMALFA, Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania, Mr.
MEEKS, and Mr. VISCLOSKY.
H.R. 3082: Mr. DESAULNIER.
H.R. 3103: Mr. OLSON and Ms. HERRERA
BEUTLER.
H.R. 3107: Mr. PALAZZO, Mr. LONG, Ms.
SPANBERGER, and Mr. HECK.
H.R. 3114: Ms. WATERS.
H.R. 3128: Mr. GROTHMAN and Mr. HIMES.
H.R. 3162: Mr. COLLINS of Georgia.
H.R. 3180: Mr. LUJÁN.
H.R. 3182: Mr. CASE, Mr. YOUNG, and Mrs.
KIRKPATRICK.
H.R. 3224: Mr. CISNEROS.
H.R. 3250: Mr. SCOTT of Virginia.
H.R. 3287: Mr. KEVIN HERN of Oklahoma.
H.R. 3373: Mr. JEFFRIES.
H.R. 3414: Mrs. AXNE.
H.R. 3425: Mrs. AXNE.
H.R. 3460: Ms. LEE of California.
H.R. 3463: Mr. ROUDA, Ms. FRANKEL, Mr.
BISHOP of Georgia, Mr. LARSON of Con-
necticut, and Mr. RICHMOND.
H.R. 3495: Mr. VARGAS, Mr. SMITH of Mis-
souri, Mr. CLINE, and Mr. FITZPATRICK.
H.R. 3529: Mrs. LURIA.
H.R. 3559: Mr. KATKO and Mr. DIAZ-BALART.
H.R. 3598: Mr. PAPPAS.
H.R. 3654: Ms. CRAIG.
H.R. 3657: Mr. CASE and Mr. WATKINS.
H.R. 3712: Ms. JAYAPAL.
H.R. 3742: Mr. SMITH of New Jersey and Mr.
MEEKS.
H.R. 3763: Mr. SHERMAN, Mr. YOHO, and Mr.
RESCHENTHALER.
H.R. 3797: Mr. WALDEN.
H.R. 3824: Mr. FOSTER, Mr. DANNY K. DAVIS
of Illinois, and Mr. COLE.
H.R. 3851: Mrs. AXNE, Mrs. TRAHAN, Mr.
TURNER, Mr. LATTA, and Ms. SCHAKOWSKY.
H.R. 3896: Mr. GALLEGO and Ms. CRAIG.
H.R. 3910: Ms. UNDERWOOD.
H.R. 3911: Mr. FORTENBERRY and Ms. JACK-
SON LEE.
H.R. 3956: Mr. QUIGLEY.
H.R. 3957: Ms. CASTOR of Florida.
H.R. 3975: Mr. KINZINGER.
H.R. 4038: Mr. JOHNSON of Ohio.
H.R. 4056: Mr. LIPINSKI, Mr. BUTTERFIELD,
and Ms. STEVENS.
H.R. 4141: Ms. BONAMICI.
H.R. 4144: Mr. SOTO.
H.R. 4183: Mr. SHERMAN.
H.R. 4194: Mr. KILMER and Mrs. BROOKS of
Indiana.
H.R. 4203: Mr. SCHWEIKERT.
H.R. 4219: Mr. BURCHETT.
H.R. 4228: Mr. HARDER of California and Mr.
WELCH.
H.R. 4230: Mr. PAPPAS and Ms. STEVENS.
H.R. 4248: Ms. WILD.
H.R. 4249: Mrs. BUSTOS.
H.R. 4304: Mr. RUTHERFORD and Mr. COOK.
H.R. 4307: Mr. CISNEROS.
H.R. 4331: Mrs. RODGERS of Washington,
Mr. PAPPAS, Mr. RYAN, and Mrs. WAGNER.
H.R. 4350: Mr. POSEY and Mr. WESTERMAN.
H.R. 4399: Mr. GONZALEZ of Ohio and Mr.
BUDD.
H.R. 4436: Ms. HAALAND.
H.R. 4458: Mr. HUIZENGA, Mr. EMMER, Mr.
BUDD, Mr. GONZALEZ of Ohio, Mr. STEIL, and
Mr. RIGGLEMAN.
H.R. 4492: Mrs. BEATTY.
H.R. 4506: Mr. FITZPATRICK and Ms.
BARRAGÁN.
H.R. 4508: Mrs. RODGERS of Washington and
Ms. TITUS.
H.R. 4527: Ms. HOULAHAN.
H.R. 4580: Mrs. HARTZLER.
H.R. 4581: Mrs. HARTZLER.
H.R. 4636: Mr. MAST, Mr. CURTIS, Mr. ROO-
NEY of Florida, Mr. YOHO, Mr. FITZPATRICK,
Mrs. WAGNER, Mr. CICILLINE, Mr. PHILLIPS,
Mr. CASTRO of Texas, Mr. GONZALEZ of Texas,
Mr. SHERMAN, Mr. SCHWEIKERT, and Mr.
CUELLAR.
H.R. 4646: Mr. FITZPATRICK and Ms.
BARRAGÁN.
H.R. 4650: Mr. PAYNE.
H.R. 4686: Mr. HAGEDORN.
H.R. 4692: Mr. ROGERS of Kentucky.
H.R. 4694: Mr. HECK.
H.R. 4695: Mr. ROGERS of Kentucky, Ms.
CRAIG, Mr. CICILLINE, Ms. FOXX of North
Carolina, and Mr. VAN DREW.
H.R. 4713: Mr. TAYLOR.
H.R. 4719: Mr. PAPPAS.
H.R. 4736: Mrs. RODGERS of Washington.
H.R. 4738: Mrs. BROOKS of Indiana.
H.R. 4753: Mr. MULLIN.
H.R. 4754: Mr. HURD of Texas, Mr. GALLEGO,
Mrs. HARTZLER, Mr. SHERMAN, Mr. CICILLINE,
Mr. PERRY, Mr. ROONEY of Florida, Mr.
KEATING, and Mr. HILL of Arkansas.
H.R. 4767: Mr. HILL of Arkansas.
H.R. 4779: Mr. GIANFORTE.
H.R. 4782: Mr. TAYLOR.
H.R. 4788: Mrs. AXNE.
H.R. 4794: Mr. BRINDISI and Mr. DELGADO.
H.R. 4801: Mr. CUELLAR and Mr.
RESCHENTHALER.
H.R. 4802: Mr. SHERMAN.
H.R. 4820: Ms. MENG and Mr. VAN DREW.
H.R. 4862: Mrs. LOWEY, Mr. ROGERS of Ken-
tucky, Mr. ALLRED, and Mr. FITZPATRICk.
H. J. Res. 2: Ms. DELBENE and Mr. TAKANO.
H. Con. Res. 10: Mr. SIRES, Mr. BURGESS,
and Mr. BIGGS.
H. Con. Res. 20: Mr. KELLER.
H. Con. Res. 37: Mr. GRAVES of Louisiana,
Mr. BUDD, Mr. WILLIAMS, Mrs. AXNE, Mr.
ESPAILLAT, Mr. CARBAJAL, Mr. CISNEROS, Mr.
MARSHALL, Mrs. NAPOLITANO, and Mr. CAR-
SON of Indiana.
H. Con. Res. 65: Ms. DELBENE.
H. Con. Res. 68: Mr. GONZALEZ of Ohio and
Mr. WALKER.
H. Res. 17: Mr. SWALWELL of California, Mr.
RASKIN, and Mr. BERA.
H. Res. 23: Ms. WILSON of Florida.
H. Res. 107: Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois
and Ms. SPANBERGER.
H. Res. 189: Ms. TITUS, Mr. SHERMAN, and
Mr. LEVIN of Michigan.
H. Res. 230: Mr. CICILLINE.
H. Res. 255: Ms. CHENEY.
H. Res. 269: Ms. FRANKEL.
H. Res. 296: Mrs. RODGERS of Washington,
Mr. STANTON, Mr. SOTO, and Mr. BABIN.
H. Res. 349: Mr. HECK and Mr. MOULTON.
H. Res. 374: Mr. CORREA, Mr. PHILLIPS, Ms.
CHENEY, Mr. WESTERMAN, Mr. DUNN, and Mr.
BISHOP of Georgia.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:40 Oct 30, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00054 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A29OC7.032 H29OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8597
October 29, 2019
H. Res. 517: Mr. RYAN and Ms. KELLY of Illi-
nois.
H. Res. 546: Mrs. LURIA, Mr. SHERMAN, and
Mr. PHILLIPS.
H. Res. 585: Mr. LEVIN of Michigan.
H. Res. 631: Mrs. WALORSKI.
H. Res. 633: Mr. GOODEN.
H. Res. 642: Mr. SCHRADER, Ms. BONAMICI,
and Mr. HUFFMAN.
H. Res. 649: Ms. CLARKE of New York, Mr.
GONZALEZ of Texas, Mr. ESPAILLAT, Ms.
WASSERMAN SCHULTZ, Ms. SHALALA, Ms.
MUCARSEL-POWELL, Mr. CÁRDENAS, Mr.
DEUTCH, Mr. RUPPERSBERGER, Mr.
FITZPATRICK, Mr. DIAZ-BALART, Mrs. TORRES
of California, Mr. MEEKS, Mr. HURD of Texas,
Mr. POCAN, Mr. MCGOVERN, Mr. SHERMAN,
Mr. PHILLIPS, and Mr. CASTRO of Texas.
f
CONGRESSIONAL EARMARKS, LIM-
ITED TAX BENEFITS, OR LIM-
ITED TARIFF BENEFITS
Under clause 9 of rule XXI, lists or
statements on congressional earmarks,
limited tax benefits, or limited tariff
benefits were submitted as follows:
The amendment to be offered by Rep-
resentative CURTIS, or a designee, to H.R.
823, the Colorado Outdoor Recreation and
Economy (CORE) Act, does not contain any
congressional earmarks, limited tax bene-
fits, or limited tariff benefits as defined in
clause 9 of rule XXI.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:40 Oct 30, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00055 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A29OC7.037 H29OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
Congressional Record
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
United States
of America PROCEEDINGS AND DEBATES OF THE 116th
CONGRESS, FIRST SESSION
∑ This ‘‘bullet’’ symbol identifies statements or insertions which are not spoken by a Member of the Senate on the floor.
.
S6205
Vol. 165 WASHINGTON, TUESDAY, OCTOBER 29, 2019 No. 171
Senate
The Senate met at 10 a.m. and was
called to order by the President pro
tempore (Mr. GRASSLEY).
f
PRAYER
The Chaplain, Dr. Barry C. Black, of-
fered the following prayer:
Let us pray.
Eternal God, from the rising of the
sun until its setting, You remain the
same. We find solace in your change-
less faithfulness. Your mercies sustain
us each hour.
Lord, do not keep silent as our law-
makers grapple with the great issues of
our time. Reveal Your purposes to
them, guiding them on the paths of
courage and obedience. Lord, remind
them that You appointed them to their
work, and they are accountable to You.
May they not forget that You are the
Supreme Judge of the Universe, in
whose presence humanity must one day
stand.
We pray in Your Holy Name. Amen.
f
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
The President pro tempore led the
Pledge of Allegiance, as follows:
I pledge allegiance to the Flag of the
United States of America, and to the Repub-
lic for which it stands, one nation under God,
indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mrs.
HYDE-SMITH). The Senator from Iowa.
Mr. GRASSLEY. Madam President, I
ask unanimous consent to speak as in
morning business for 1 minute.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
PRESCRIPTION DRUG COSTS
Mr. GRASSLEY. Madam President,
as Democrats in the House of Rep-
resentatives work to pass Speaker
PELOSI’s prescription drug bill, I re-
mind my colleagues that for any bill to
become law, it must be bipartisan and
President Trump must be able to sign
it.
Unlike current House efforts, the
Grassley-Wyden Prescription Drug
Pricing Reduction Act fits the bill. It
is bipartisan, and President Trump has
endorsed it. My Republican colleagues
in the House recently pointed to it—in
other words, the Grassley-Wyden bill—
during an Energy and Commerce Com-
mittee hearing as the only path for-
ward to lower prescription drug prices.
I welcome this support from Repub-
licans in the House of Representatives.
I yield the floor.
f
RECOGNITION OF THE MAJORITY
LEADER
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The ma-
jority leader is recognized.
f
APPROPRIATIONS
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
this week will provide an opportunity
for our Democratic colleagues to prove
that their longstanding goal of im-
peaching the President is not—not—
getting in the way of their ability to
legislate. The Speaker of the House and
the Democratic leader have taken
pains to insist that their party’s im-
peachment obsession will not block im-
portant business for the American peo-
ple.
Well, we are going to find out. As
soon as the Senate completes the do-
mestic funding legislation we are cur-
rently considering, we will turn back
toward national defense and give Sen-
ate Democrats another chance to ad-
vance the funding for our Armed
Forces, which they chose to filibuster
just last month.
In other words, this week will bring a
litmus test. Are Washington Demo-
crats so consumed by impeachment
that they cannot even fund our men
and women in uniform? Do our service-
members really need to be pawns in the
Democrats’ fight with the White
House?
It is hard to imagine a more basic
legislative responsibility than funding
the Department of Defense. We need to
fund the tools and training that our
men and women in uniform need to
carry out their missions. We need to
give our military commanders the re-
sources to keep pace with major com-
petitors like China, which has nearly
doubled its military spending over the
past decade.
In recent days, our Democratic col-
leagues have been publicly railing
against the administration’s approach
to Syria and the Middle East, without,
I would note, offering much of a strat-
egy of their own. But if they vote to
block defense funding later this week,
they will literally be obstructing the
very funding to carry out the missions
they say are so important.
The last few days have shown us es-
pecially clearly that American forces
remain in harm’s way every day, and
their missions do not pause just be-
cause some politicians don’t find it
convenient to fund them. We owe the
Pentagon the budgetary certainty it
needs to maintain the readiness of our
military forces and to invest in the ca-
pabilities needed to sustain our mili-
tary edge into the future.
We also need to be good, reliable
partners to our friends and allies.
Get this. This appropriations bill
would fund $250 million in military as-
sistance for Ukraine under the Ukraine
Security Assistance Initiative. If that
sounds familiar, that would be the
exact same program that Democrats
are currently trying to impeach the
President for allegedly slow-walking.
So welcome to Washington, where
Democrats try to impeach President
Trump for supposedly slow-walking aid
for Ukraine and simultaneously fili-
buster the funding for the exact same
Ukraine program in the Senate. Wel-
come to Washington.
I think it is safe to say that would
elevate irony to a whole new art form.
I hope it doesn’t come to that. I hope,
instead, that our colleagues on the
other side of the aisle will land on the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 23:41 Oct 29, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A29OC6.000 S29OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6206 October 29, 2019
same side when it comes to support for
the men and women who keep us safe
and for our vulnerable international
partners who look to us for leadership.
f
HEALTHCARE
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
on another matter, this week, we will
vote on another effort by our Demo-
cratic colleagues to undo successful
Trump administration policy. In recent
days, our colleagues across the aisle
have forced two failed votes on similar
resolutions. One would have cut taxes
for the wealthiest residents in blue
States at the expense of working fami-
lies everywhere else. The other would
have resurrected an Obama-era pro-
posal to bury American energy under
redtape.
Both of those efforts failed, but our
Democratic colleagues are back at it—
back at it—with another bad policy.
This time, they would like to reverse
Trump administration guidance that
has reduced healthcare premiums for
American families and reaffirmed pro-
tections for those with preexisting con-
ditions.
Section 1332 of ObamaCare gives
States the opportunity to escape some
of that law’s worst burdens. States
have the opportunity to apply for waiv-
ers that allow for more types of health
insurance plans and more options for
consumers.
More than a dozen States have al-
ready had these waivers approved, not
just red States. Democratic Governors
in places like Colorado, Delaware, and
Rhode Island have applied for and re-
ceived these waivers. Where Governors
of both parties are embracing this op-
portunity, good things are happening.
According to one analysis, in the seven
States where new waivers were imple-
mented during the Trump administra-
tion, it seems that premiums de-
clined—declined—by 7.5 percent.
The Trump administration guidance
continues this success and gives States
even more of what they asked for—
even more flexibility to escape
ObamaCare’s burdens and more choices
for consumers and lower premiums.
But, apparently, our Democratic col-
leagues are not terribly fond of letting
States shake off the unhelpful stric-
tures of ObamaCare. Perhaps, it makes
their signature law look bad that Gov-
ernors of both parties are so eager to
escape it.
That can’t be their public argument.
In their effort to reduce this flexi-
bility, some Democrats are rehashing
tired, old claims about a conspiracy to
hurt Americans with preexisting condi-
tions. Republicans have been clear, and
we have been consistent. We support
protections for Americans with pre-
existing conditions.
The CMS Administrator, Seema
Verma, has specifically stated that ‘‘a
section 1332 waiver cannot undermine
coverage for people with pre-existing
conditions.’’ That is the head of CMS.
In fact, it is this Trump administra-
tion’s policy that will help American
families, including those with pre-
existing conditions, by helping to bring
down the soaring premiums and restore
the dwindling options that
ObamaCare’s failures have brought
about.
I urge the Senate to reject this mis-
guided resolution. We don’t need
healthcare policy from the supporters
of ‘‘Medicare for None,’’ Democrats’
grand scheme to take away the health
insurance plans of 180 million Ameri-
cans and replace it with a one-size-fits-
all government plan. Americans de-
serve more say, not less.
f
HEMP
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
on one final matter, when I joined
President Trump last year as he signed
the farm bill, we marked a new chapter
for an historic American crop. In a vic-
tory for growers, processors, and manu-
facturers across the country, especially
in my home State of Kentucky, my ini-
tiative for full hemp legalization be-
came law.
This morning, the U.S. Department
of Agriculture plans to take the impor-
tant next step. Secretary Perdue will
release a new USDA regulation to im-
plement my initiative and move hemp
closer to being treated just like every
other commodity. This new policy will
help farmers around the country con-
tinue pioneering this crop into the 21st
century.
I am proud to say that Kentucky is
prepared to take the lead. For genera-
tions, our growers and producers have
made the Bluegrass State an agricul-
tural powerhouse, well-positioned at
the forefront of hemp’s resurgence.
Following the downturn in tobacco, it
was my tobacco buyout legislation
that helped farmers transition toward
new opportunities, and a growing num-
ber are looking to this past crop—one
grown by Washington, Jefferson, and
Henry Clay—as they plan for the fu-
ture.
As the buyout payments came to an
end, I secured the creation of hemp
pilot programs in the 2014 farm bill,
empowering farmers and researchers to
begin a multiyear experiment with
hemp’s capabilities.
Thanks to leaders like Agriculture
Commissioner Ryan Quarles and his
predecessor, now-Congressman JAMES
COMER, Kentucky was leading the
charge. The results were clear. The
pilot program was working. So we
knew the 2018 farm bill had to take the
next step.
I am grateful to Agriculture Com-
mittee Chairman PAT ROBERTS, who in-
cluded my hemp initiative in the bill
that is now law. I would also like to
thank the many Members on both sides
of the aisle, including Senator RON
WYDEN, who have helped in this effort
as well.
My hemp provisions in the farm bill
directed USDA to craft a new regu-
latory framework so hemp could be
cultivated nationwide, with each State
given the opportunity to develop its
own plan for hemp oversight.
I am grateful that Secretary Perdue
accepted my invitation for a Kentucky
hemp tour so he could see our progress
up close and learn from Kentucky
hemp farmers and regulators as USDA
developed its policies.
This year alone, hemp is growing on
more than 26,000 acres in Kentucky,
across 101 of our 120 counties. It sup-
ports hundreds of jobs and tens of mil-
lions in sales.
I impressed upon USDA the need to
finalize this new framework before the
2020 growing season. I would like to
thank Secretary Perdue and the USDA
for fulfilling this commitment with the
announcement we are expecting later
this morning. I look forward to review-
ing USDA’s guidelines and hearing
from hemp stakeholders around Ken-
tucky.
Our work to support the future of
hemp is hardly over. There are ongoing
conversations with the FDA on CBD
products and ongoing work to help
growers and retailers to access credit
and financial products. There will in-
evitably be ups and downs as this new
industry develops, but today’s an-
nouncement is another crucial step. It
is a privilege for me to stand with Ken-
tucky farmers every step of the way.
Together, we will continue charting
hemp’s course well into the future.
f
RESERVATION OF LEADER TIME
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the leadership time
is reserved.
f
CONCLUSION OF MORNING
BUSINESS
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Morning
business is closed.
f
COMMERCE, JUSTICE, SCIENCE,
AGRICULTURE, RURAL DEVELOP-
MENT, FOOD AND DRUG ADMIN-
ISTRATION, INTERIOR, ENVIRON-
MENT, MILITARY CONSTRUC-
TION, VETERANS AFFAIRS,
TRANSPORTATION, AND HOUSING
AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT AP-
PROPRIATIONS ACT, 2020
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the Senate will re-
sume consideration of H.R. 3055, which
the clerk will report.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
A bill (H.R. 3055) making appropriations
for the Departments of Commerce and Jus-
tice, Science, and Related Agencies for the
fiscal year ending September 30, 2020, and for
other purposes.
Pending:
Shelby amendment No. 948, in the nature
of a substitute.
McConnell (for Shelby) amendment No.
950, to make a technical correction.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Illinois.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 23:41 Oct 29, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G29OC6.001 S29OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6207
October 29, 2019
VENEZUELA
Mr. DURBIN. Madam President, I
want to comment on an incident that
occurred late last week on the floor of
the Senate regarding temporary pro-
tected status, known as TPS, for peo-
ple from the country of Venezuela.
TPS can be provided by the President
to nationals of a country when that
country is experiencing violence or a
catastrophe that makes returning to
the country unsafe. This is a protec-
tion offered by America under many
different administrations to help those
who might be in the United States
when a calamity occurs in their home
countries. It has often been granted for
countries suffering outbreaks of war or
natural disaster, which leads me to the
issue of Venezuela.
Currently, the United States is work-
ing with regional partners to foster an
end to a disastrous dictatorial regime
still claiming power in Venezuela.
I was there last year, and I saw what
was heartbreaking, considering that
this was once a proud Latin American
democracy.
People are literally starving in Ven-
ezuela. They faint in the workplace
from lack of nutrition. Hospitals don’t
have electric power or the most basic
medicines. I visited a children’s hos-
pital in Caracas, and they told me they
didn’t have any antibiotics or the basic
cancer drugs necessary for the children
who came to their hospital.
Millions are fleeing Venezuela as ref-
ugees into neighboring countries.
There is brutal political repression. Op-
posing the dictator, Maduro, is a vir-
tual guarantee of house arrest or
worse. Staggering government corrup-
tion and a systematic dismantling of
that country’s democracy are taking
place on a regular basis and resulted in
election results which were incredible
and not believed by anyone in the re-
gion when they were announced a few
months back.
I have been supportive of this admin-
istration’s efforts to work with other
nations to support the interim Presi-
dency of Juan Guaido and provide as-
sistance to millions of fleeing Ven-
ezuelans.
While I fear this issue has escaped
President Trump’s attention, one sim-
ple step he can take is to grant tem-
porary protected status to Venezuelans
currently in the United States. Some
are here as students and others are
here on work visas, but they are on
temporary status. What I am asking
the President to do is to give them
temporary protected status so they
will not have to return to Venezuela
while the danger still lurks.
Despite repeated requests by myself
and many of my colleagues on both
sides of the aisle, President Trump has
repeatedly refused. He goes to audi-
ences in Florida and talks about con-
fronting the Venezuelan dictatorship,
then he turns around and refuses to
give protection to the Venezuelans in
the United States who need this pro-
tection.
Ironically, while the President’s De-
partment of State has issued travel
warnings advising Americans not to
visit Venezuela because of the danger,
this President still will not protect
Venezuelans within the United States
who are afraid to return.
I have met many such Venezuelans in
my home State of Illinois, and I can
tell you they are desperately worried
about returning to the chaos, violence,
and hopelessness of the current Ven-
ezuela.
Since the White House refuses to act,
the House of Representatives passed a
bipartisan bill granting temporary pro-
tected status to Venezuelans this last
July by a 272-to-158 margin. Senator
BOB MENENDEZ of New Jersey, MARCO
RUBIO of Florida, and I have introduced
a similar Senate bill, but the majority
leader, Senator MCCONNELL, refuses to
bring up any bill that might not meet
the approval of President Donald
Trump, even a bill offered by leaders in
his own political party.
Senator MENENDEZ and I have tried
to call up the House bill for passage
only to face objection repeatedly from
Senate Republicans.
Last week, to deflect blame from
President Trump and the Senate Re-
publicans who object to our bill, the
junior Senator from Florida came to
the floor with his own approach. He
blocked the bipartisan House Ven-
ezuela TPS bill from passing and of-
fered a dubious amendment, under-
mining TPS for others as the price for
helping the Venezuelans. In other
words, he said: Well, perhaps we can
help Venezuelans as long as it is at the
expense of others who are in similar
status from other countries.
His proposal would in fact signifi-
cantly weaken the entire temporary
protected status. For example, his pro-
posal would require congressional ap-
proval of any extension of TPS beyond
the original period, and it would limit
such extension to an arbitrary 18-
month period.
Ultimately, the proposal from the
junior Senator from Florida is using
the plight of Venezuelans to basically
gut the existing Temporary Protected
Status Program.
We have seen folks on the other side
of the aisle resort to this when it came
to DACA—Republicans in the Senate
trying to use a vulnerable population,
such as the young people who were
raised in the United States and want a
chance to work their way to citizen-
ship, as bargaining chips for an anti-
immigrant agenda. Once again, these
Members are simply refusing to stand
up to the President when he fails on
these issues.
The solution, indeed, is simple. This
administration should grant temporary
protected status on its own to the Ven-
ezuelans, but it refuses. Senate Repub-
licans could pass the bipartisan House
bill to grant Venezuelans temporary
protected status, but the Senate Re-
publicans refuse.
Let everyone be clear where the real
failure to help Venezuelans actually
rests.
ORDER OF BUSINESS
Madam President, at the request of
the Republicans on the Senate side,
later today, I will be making a unani-
mous consent request relative to the
healthcare issue, which was raised by
Senator MCCONNELL earlier. I am told
they are not quite ready this morning,
so I am going to defer that offer until
later in the day when they will be
ready, and we can have a colloquy on
the floor of the U.S. Senate.
I yield the floor.
RECOGNITION OF THE MINORITY LEADER
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
Democratic leader is recognized.
APPROPRIATIONS
Mr. SCHUMER. Madam President,
even as the Senate works through a
grouping of appropriations bills on the
floor this week, the Republican leader
has been falsely accusing Democrats of
delaying the overall process. He just
seems to be in a box and pulls things
out of thin air.
The crux of the issue, as everybody
knows, is that the Republican leader-
ship in the Senate and on the Appro-
priations Committee has refused to sit
down and negotiate with Democrats on
bipartisan allocations to the various
agencies. This has always been how we
have done the appropriations bill when
we have succeeded—Democrats and Re-
publicans sitting down together and
negotiating the 302(a)s and (b)s, but,
here, the Republicans, without con-
sultation of the Democrats, just unilat-
erally proposed taking over $12 billion
from critical health programs and mili-
tary families to pay for the President’s
border wall—a wall President Trump
promised Mexico would pay for.
Democrats, of course, are not going
to proceed to a defense bill that steals
from our troops to pay for a border
wall the American people don’t want
and aren’t supposed to pay for, but in
this Republican hall of mirrors, that
means Democrats are ‘‘delaying a pay
raise for our troops,’’ as the leader
charged yesterday, even though that is
not true, and I believe he knows very
well that the pay raise is strongly bi-
partisan.
The truth is simple. As the leader
knows, the annual pay raise will go
into effect regardless of whether we
pass Defense appropriations or the
NDAA.
In fact, the Department of Defense
just confirmed to the Senate Demo-
cratic appropriators yesterday that the
pay raise for our troops will take effect
on January 1, without requiring any
further legislation. The troops and
their families will see a 3.1-percent pay
raise in January. I know the President
ties the majority leader in a box, in a
knot, and he sort of flails around and
doesn’t know how to get out of it be-
cause he is afraid to tell President
Trump what he is doing will not pass,
but instead he blames Democrats—that
VerDate Sep 11 2014 23:41 Oct 29, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G29OC6.003 S29OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6208 October 29, 2019
seems to be his wont these days—but it
is just totally false. It is not according
to just me but according to the Depart-
ment of Defense.
He even went a step further. In the
Republican hall of mirrors, Democrats
might even be ‘‘delaying military as-
sistance for Ukraine.’’ Can you believe
the majority leader would say some-
thing like this? The comments are
laughable. It was the Trump adminis-
tration that delayed hundreds of mil-
lions of dollars’ worth of already appro-
priated, urgently needed military as-
sistance to Ukraine earlier this year—
a fact now being investigated by the
House impeachment inquiry.
The fact is, the only purported delay
in the appropriations process is Repub-
licans insisting on taking money from
our military to spend on a border
wall—something Democrats will not
countenance. That is it.
If the Republican appropriators
dropped that request and sat down with
Democrats, the negotiated bipartisan
way forward—which is the only way
appropriations can proceed—I am sure
we could line up the rest of the bills for
the year. So let’s cut the nonsense.
Leader MCCONNELL, have the honor
and decency and courage to tell Presi-
dent Trump that he is going to bolix up
the whole process again, just as he did
the last time. We can roll up our
sleeves and get to work if he would do
just that.
We are already working on the non-
controversial bills, and we could do it
for the rest, if and when our Repub-
lican friends decide to meet us halfway.
HEALTHCARE
Mr. President, tomorrow, Senate
Democrats will use a provision of the
Congressional Review Act to force a
vote on one of the most crucial policy
questions we have faced all session—
the future of healthcare protections for
Americans with preexisting conditions.
The Trump administration has tried
several different ways to undermine
these protections and sabotage our
healthcare system.
One of the most damaging efforts is
this rule that gives the States the
green light to use taxpayer dollars to
push junk health insurance plans.
These plans are hardly worth the paper
they are printed on. Many don’t cover
maternity care, prescription drugs,
mental health, or preventive services.
Many could offer insurance companies
a way around the requirement to pay
for your treatment if you develop a
preexisting condition.
Just imagine signing up for one of
these plans and then you discover that
your child’s heart condition or cancer
or lifesaving prescriptions drugs were
not covered when you need it most?
That shouldn’t be allowed to happen.
Republicans and this administration
are trying to allow it to happen.
As you can imagine, many insurance
companies love the idea. Data from the
National Association of Insurance
Commissioners shows that the top
three companies that issue these junk
plans spend barely 40 percent of pre-
miums on healthcare—just 40 percent.
Just think about that. Republicans
want to use taxpayer dollars to fund
these junk plans. Is that money going
toward paying for people’s healthcare?
No. It is going to pad insurance com-
pany profits.
Tomorrow, the Senate will face a
simple choice on whether or not to de-
fend protections for Americans with
preexisting conditions. My Republican
friends can either stand with the
Trump administration and use tax-
payer dollars to pad profits for insur-
ance companies or stand up for Amer-
ican families who struggle to afford
healthcare.
CLIMATE CHANGE
Mr. President, finally, on climate,
last week, I announced a bold new plan
to rapidly phase out gas-powered vehi-
cles for clean vehicles. We need a plan
of this scale and ambition to reduce
one of the largest drivers of carbon
emissions—transportation—while at
the same time creating tens of thou-
sands of new jobs and reinvigorating
American auto manufacturing.
Predictably, the deep-pocketed spe-
cial interests in Big Oil and Gas are al-
ready lining up to oppose this plan.
Over the years, Big Oil and Gas have
spent millions of dollars in lobbying to
kill climate-friendly legislation and
protect their bottom lines. A headline
ran yesterday announcing: ‘‘Big Oil
gears up to fight Schumer electric ve-
hicle plan.’’
Well, I have three words for Big Oil:
Bring it on. Bring it on, because this
fight is too important. Climate change
is happening right now, and it is result-
ing in more severe weather, sea-level
rise, and drastic changes to our agri-
culture.
As we speak, California is suffering
from some of the worst wildfires it has
ever seen. Scientists tell us that if we
do not take drastic action to alter our
current path, we will not be able to
avoid the most damaging consequences
of climate change.
Bring it on, because this plan is sup-
ported not only by the environmental
community and climate action groups
but by labor unions like the UAW, the
IBEW, the AFL–CIO, and by large auto-
makers like Ford and GM. They all
know that the future is moving toward
clean cars, and we ought to get there
before China and create tens of thou-
sands of new good-paying jobs right
here in the United States.
Bring it on. If the special interests of
Big Oil and Gas want to oppose thou-
sands of good-paying jobs for American
workers, if they want to oppose Amer-
ica’s leading the world in the indus-
tries of the future, if they want to op-
pose protecting our planet for our chil-
dren and grandchildren, then, they are
on the wrong side of history, and we
will fight them every single step of the
way.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Ms. COLLINS. Madam President, I
ask unanimous consent that the order
for the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
H.R. 3055
Ms. COLLINS. Madam President, I
am delighted that the Senate is taking
up four very important appropriations
bills, one of them I discussed at length
last week; that is, the Transportation-
HUD appropriations bill, which I au-
thored along with my ranking member,
Senator JACK REED of Rhode Island. In
forging that bill, we gathered informa-
tion from 75 of our fellow Senators,
who had 950 requests. We went through
each of the requests very carefully, and
we have built a bill that is truly bipar-
tisan, that reflects the priorities of
this body, and that I trust will be ap-
proved as part of this package later
this week.
I also want to take the opportunity
today, as I am managing the four bills
in the unavoidable absence of the full
committee chairman, Senator SHELBY,
to talk about some of the other appro-
priations bills that have been brought
before us.
As the Presiding Officer is well
aware, the Appropriations Committee
is a committee that makes a real effort
to work together to put aside petty
partisanship and, instead, listen to one
another and work for the common
good. We make an extraordinary effort
to find common ground. How I wish
that could be done throughout Wash-
ington today. But the Appropriations
Committee remains a bastion of com-
mon sense, of collegiality, and of work-
ing together to seek common ground.
That is why we have had such success
in reporting so many of the appropria-
tions bills, and I am very proud that
the T-HUD bill, as we call the transpor-
tation and housing bill, was one of
those that was reported unanimously
by a vote of 31 to 0.
For the next few moments, I would
like to talk about another bill that had
unanimous support on the committee,
and that is the CJS appropriations
bill—Commerce, Justice, and Science.
Let me begin by acknowledging the
hard work of the chairman, Senator
MORAN, and the ranking member, Sen-
ator SHAHEEN, for their work in bal-
ancing the many priorities that are in-
cluded in this bill. Once again, we saw
the chairman and the ranking member
working together as a team in a bipar-
tisan—indeed, a nonpartisan—way in
order to find common ground.
I would like to comment on a few of
the provisions of the bill that I think
are particularly important. First, I am
encouraged that the bill continues to
provide strong support for the National
Sea Grant College Program, despite the
administration’s desire to eliminate
this program. The committee actually
provided an increase of $7 million over
last year’s funding level. The Univer-
sity of Maine Sea Grant Program is a
VerDate Sep 11 2014 23:41 Oct 29, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G29OC6.004 S29OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6209
October 29, 2019
national leader in ocean research and,
as you know, is very important to the
Presiding Officer from Florida as well.
(Mr. SCOTT of Florida assumed the
Chair.)
Within the sea grant program, there
is $2 million for critical lobster re-
search, building on the $2 million that
was included last year. The sea grant
program recently announced seven re-
search awards supported by this fund-
ing, four of which were awarded to
Maine entities in recognition of their
extraordinary expertise and research.
These investments will help us to bet-
ter understand how the lobster stock is
reacting to changing environmental
conditions and ensure that this iconic
industry—indeed, one of the very sym-
bols of the State of Maine—continues
to thrive.
The problem is that we are seeing in-
creasing warming of the Gulf of Maine.
In fact, it is warming the second fast-
est of any body of water in the world.
That has brought new kinds of sea life;
for example, there is an invasive green
crab that has never existed in Maine
waters. So we are watching the impact
very carefully, particularly on our lob-
ster industry.
I am also glad that the bill
prioritizes the development of tech-
nologies to better track the right
whale population. The number of right
whales is problematic. While it is not
as low as it was a few years ago, it is
still troublesome that the population
continues to be under stress.
NOAA Fisheries has targeted the
Maine lobster industry with poten-
tially very onerous right whale regula-
tions, despite the government’s inabil-
ity to adequately monitor the move-
ment of these right whales.
We must better understand where the
right whales are and where they are
not. This, too, is important in terms of
our warming waters. The major food
supply for the right whales has moved
to the north toward Canada, and that
is why the entanglements we have
seen—which we all deplore—have in-
volved Canadian gear. I think that is
very important to recognize.
There have also been some Canadian
ship strikes. Our lobster men and
women have been such careful stewards
of the resource, and that has been true
for generations. Lobstering is often a
family business, passed on from genera-
tion to generation. The lobster men
and women of Maine care deeply about
our lobster stocks and about ensuring
that lobsters are there for generations
to come. They have been extraordinary
conservationists. They invented the V-
notching of lobsters, the sizing to
make sure that lobsters that are big
and breeders are tossed overboard or
those that are too small are returned
to the water. Unfortunately, our Cana-
dian counterparts often do not follow
those same cooperative conservation
measures, and there is an area off the
coast of Maine that is known as the
gray zone, where it is in dispute whose
waters—whether it is the United States
or Canada’s—the gray zone is.
We will find American and Canadian
lobstermen, both in that area or close
by, with our lobster men and women
following strict conservation methods,
such as throwing back the lobsters that
are too small or the big breeder lob-
sters, only to see their Canadian coun-
terparts keep those lobsters and, in
some cases, they are undoubtedly the
very lobsters that have been thrown
back into the sea by our lobster men
and women. So those conflicting con-
servation measures between American
and Canadian fisheries have caused
Mainers to grow increasingly con-
cerned that their Canadian counter-
parts are threatening the sustain-
ability of critical fishing stocks, as
well as that fragile right whale popu-
lation.
The bill that has been reported by
the Appropriations Committee encour-
ages NOAA to work cooperatively with
State, national, and Canadian fishery
officials on these important issues.
I also want to express my thanks to
the subcommittee for rejecting the
President’s proposed elimination of the
Economic Development Administra-
tion, known as the EDA, and instead
providing a reasonable increase. The
investments made through the EDA
provide vital financial support for rural
Mainers to boost economic growth and
create more jobs. It has been an essen-
tial partner with States, with local
governments, and with the private sec-
tor in boosting areas of Maine’s econ-
omy.
The bill also focuses attention on an
issue that I know the Presiding Officer
is very aware of because of his member-
ship on the Aging Committee, which I
am privileged to chair, and that is the
serious problem of financial fraud di-
rected at our seniors. The GAO, a few
years ago, estimated that our seniors
lose nearly $3 billion a year to finan-
cial fraud. I think that is just the tip of
the iceberg because many seniors are
too embarrassed to report the fraud
they have suffered. It is important. It
is vital that the Justice Department
continue to fight financial fraud.
I am delighted that the former Attor-
ney General, Jeff Sessions, imple-
mented my recommendation that every
U.S. attorney’s office should have des-
ignated a financial fraud attorney who
can bring cases and help to protect our
seniors. We need to aggressively pros-
ecute illegal robocallers and increase
efforts to collect unpaid fines and pen-
alties imposed on them by Federal
agencies. It is only our national efforts
that can go after a call center that is
located in India, for example, as some
of them have been. While to the Justice
Department, the individual amounts
may seem small, they are devastating
to a senior who has worked hard to
save money for their retirement years.
In addition, when you aggregate all
those losses, they result in literally
billions of dollars.
The bill also provides increased in-
vestments to law enforcement at all
levels—partnerships that are especially
critical to preventing the heroin and
opioid epidemic that plagues my State
of Maine and many others. Naming just
a few, the Comprehensive Opioid Abuse
Program and the Drug and Veterans
Treatment Courts are essential to the
multifaceted approach it will take to
stem this epidemic.
I appreciate that the subcommittee
has once again rejected cuts to the
COPS Anti-Heroin Task Force, a pro-
gram that has helped Maine’s Drug En-
forcement Agency target illegal opioid
sales.
I want to finally highlight the in-
creased funding for the Byrne-JAG and
COPS hiring programs, and for the Re-
gional Information Sharing Systems
known as RISS. Many of Maine sheriffs
have come and talked to me about the
importance of the RISS Program. It
supports a cooperative effort of infor-
mation sharing to fight crimes at all
levels and has been particularly useful
to Maine’s rural counties. There are
also important investments supporting
the FIRST STEP Act, which we passed
late last year. It will help implement
the goals of the new law, particularly
with respect to rehabilitative programs
at the Bureau of Prisons. We need to
make sure those who are being released
from our jails and prisons have the
skills and tools they need to pursue a
lawful life and not resort to their pre-
vious habits that landed them in jail.
That is why the educational and job
training programs we have in Maine
and elsewhere are so important and
will be expanded by this bill.
Those are just a few of the terrific
provisions that are in the CJS appro-
priations bill. Again, I commend the
chairman, the ranking member, and
the entire Appropriations Committee
for their hard work.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. I recog-
nize the majority whip.
REMEMBERING KAY HAGAN
Mr. THUNE. Mr. President, before I
begin, I want to say I was sad to hear
of the death of former Senator Kay
Hagan yesterday. Kay represented the
State of North Carolina in the Senate.
She was a very dedicated public serv-
ant. I think she was someone whom all
of us who were here at the time en-
joyed working with and always was a
very bright presence. As I said, she was
tremendously dedicated to the people
she represented and the issues she
cared so deeply about. Our thoughts
and prayers are with her and her fam-
ily today. I ask all Members to con-
tinue to lift her family up.
H.R. 3055
Mr. President, I also congratulate
the Senator from Maine on the work
she is doing on the appropriations proc-
ess as it is moving forward. She chairs
a very important subcommittee on the
Appropriations Committee and also is
involved in so many other issues.
One thing she was speaking about
that I certainly wanted to mention was
the work she does to protect seniors
across this country. It is a very vulner-
able population—vulnerable to the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 23:41 Oct 29, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G29OC6.006 S29OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6210 October 29, 2019
fraud attempts made by bad actors out
there. She mentioned robocalls. She
has been a leader on the legislation to
try and ban the types of robocalls that
prey on our senior citizens and lead to
all that fraud that happens—the bil-
lions of dollars she referenced every
single year. It is important because
there are so many perpetrators of
schemes out there that are designed to
prey on and take advantage of those
populations in our country, particu-
larly our elderly who are susceptible to
that. I thank her for her leadership on
that, as well as many other issues that
are involved in the appropriations bill
she mentioned earlier.
HEALTH INSURANCE PLANS
Mr. President, later this week, we are
going to vote on a Democratic resolu-
tion to repeal guidance the President
issued to give States more flexibility
to design insurance plans that meet
the needs of their residents. Democrats
have tried to portray this resolution as
a move to protect people with pre-
existing conditions. That is just a
smokescreen. Democrats know very
well that Republicans are committed
to protecting those with preexisting
conditions.
In reality, this is just another polit-
ical messaging bill. It is also another
attempt by Democrats to maximize
Washington control of American’s
healthcare. In keeping with their push
toward socialism, Democrats want to
make very sure the States don’t have
the chance to escape from any of
ObamaCare’s bureaucracy.
Let me back up a minute and talk
about the waiver and guidance from
the President the Democrats are at-
tacking. Section 1332 of the Affordable
Care Act—the law the Democrats en-
acted on a completely partisan basis—
allows States to apply for waivers from
certain ObamaCare requirements. The
requirements that can and cannot be
waived are the same today as they
were the day ObamaCare passed. Let
me repeat that. The ObamaCare re-
quirements that can or cannot be
waived are the same today as they
were the day ObamaCare passed.
The 2018 guidance from the White
House did not change anything about
what requirements can and cannot be
waived under section 1332. Let me be
very clear, 1332 waivers do not allow
States to waive ObamaCare’s pre-
existing condition protections; they do
not allow health plans to utilize pre-
existing condition coverage exclusions;
they do not allow health plans to
refuse coverage for people with pre-
existing conditions; and they do not
allow plans to charge individuals more
based on a preexisting health condi-
tion.
So what do 1332 waivers do? The
waivers give States the opportunity to
take action to stabilize insurance mar-
kets and try out new ways of providing
coverage to individuals who might not
otherwise be able to afford insurance.
My colleagues across the aisle would
have the American public believe these
waivers will ‘‘allow States to
greenlight substandard, junk insurance
plans.’’ Well, let me remind my col-
leagues that these plans that they de-
ride as ‘‘junk plans’’ are the very same
short-term, limited-duration plans that
were permitted in 7 out of the 8 years
of the Obama administration.
Another refrain that we will hear
from my Democratic colleagues is that
the administration’s guidance will per-
mit States to waive certain health ben-
efits, or what we call EHBs. I remind
them that the Affordable Care Act
itself permits the waiving of EHBs by
States. The Trump administration
guidance does not change this. Again,
while the Democrats would have people
believe the Republicans are destroying
essential health benefits, States can al-
ready choose to waive them but, to
date, have not.
Most of the States that have applied
for waivers have wanted to use them
for reinsurance programs in order to
drive down premiums. Again, waivers
give States some relief from
ObamaCare’s one-size-fits-all require-
ments, which allows them to try out
new ways to drive down prices and help
individuals afford care. It is about
choice. It is about empowering Ameri-
cans to decide what type of coverage
meets their needs.
We might not be having this con-
versation today if ObamaCare had lived
up to the rosy promises that were made
when it was passed. Yet I don’t have to
tell anyone that it didn’t come any-
where close to living up to those prom-
ises. ObamaCare was supposed to give
Americans without health insurance
access to affordable care while it pre-
served the health insurance of the mil-
lions of Americans who were satisfied
with the plans they already had. As ev-
eryone knows, what actually happened
was quite different.
Millions of Americans lost their
plans. Health insurance premiums went
up, not down. Also, premiums and out-
of-pocket costs on the exchanges were
unaffordable for many people from the
very first day. The average monthly
premium for a family plan on the ex-
changes has increased by $742 over the
past 4 years. That is close to the aver-
age mortgage payment in my home
State of South Dakota. So it is not sur-
prising that States would be looking
for ways to help families afford care
through these 1332 waivers.
Waivers are, in fact, helping to lower
premiums. Seven States that received
waivers saw the average premiums for
a benchmark silver plan drop by 71⁄2
percent from 2018 to 2019. States are
using these 1332 waivers to make
healthcare more affordable and
ObamaCare premiums less burdensome.
They are not using the waivers to do
anything to undermine protections for
people with preexisting conditions,
which is something, as I said earlier,
they cannot legally do anyway.
It is worth noting that more than one
State with a Democratic Governor—
not a Republican Governor but a
Democratic Governor—has applied for
a 1332 waiver this year. So are Demo-
cratic Senators here suggesting that
these Governors want to undermine the
protections for people with preexisting
conditions? I don’t think so.
Numerous Americans are struggling
to afford their ObamaCare premiums,
and many others have been priced out
of the ObamaCare market altogether.
It only makes sense to give States as
much flexibility as possible to address
ObamaCare’s problems and expand in-
surance access for their residents. Yet
the Democrats are so set on maxi-
mizing Washington’s control of Ameri-
can’s healthcare that they are deter-
mined to oppose any ObamaCare flexi-
bility even if that flexibility results in
there being lower premiums for the
American people.
Today’s resolution is just another ex-
ample of the Democrats’ prioritizing
their political ideology over the wel-
fare of the American people, and I hope
it will be defeated.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Ohio.
Mr. PORTMAN. Mr. President, I ap-
preciate my colleague from South Da-
kota’s talking about this issue before
us this week, which is these 1332 waiv-
ers, and he is absolutely right. Millions
of Americans are getting less expensive
healthcare. Isn’t that the whole idea
here, that healthcare needs to be af-
fordable and that we need to have good,
quality healthcare?
There is nothing in these waivers—by
the way, many of which are going to
States that have Democratic Gov-
ernors—that prohibits people from get-
ting coverage for preexisting condi-
tions. In fact, that is the law of the
land, so that these 1332 waivers cannot
take away people’s rights to healthcare
should they have preexisting condi-
tions.
I think this is the sort of thing we
ought to be supporting in this Cham-
ber, there being more affordable
healthcare and healthcare for people
who otherwise couldn’t afford it.
APPROPRIATIONS
Mr. President, my colleague from
Maine, Senator COLLINS, is on the
floor. We discussed earlier that we are
actually legislating today. I think that
it is great because we are passing
spending bills. The Senate will pass
four different spending bills, and she
will manage all four of them. These are
bipartisan bills that will end up getting
passed here in this Chamber this week
that will then go over to the House
where they will be conferenced with
the five bills they have passed. The
bills aren’t that far apart in terms of
the total amount of money each bill
has in the so-called 302(b) category, but
there are some differences. We will
work those out, and we will, hopefully,
get those to the President for his sig-
nature. That is how this place should
operate.
H.R. 3055
Mr. President, Senator COLLINS’ bill
is the transportation bill. This one is
VerDate Sep 11 2014 23:41 Oct 29, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G29OC6.008 S29OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6211
October 29, 2019
particularly important to my State of
Ohio and to other States around the
country that are desperate for some
more funding for infrastructure.
Specifically, in her transportation
bill, she deals with these bridges that
need to be replaced that are obsolete,
and many are dangerous. We have one
in Ohio, called the Brent Spence
Bridge, which is not only obsolete but
has no shoulder anymore because it
keeps having to be widened to accom-
modate the traffic. So it makes it very
dangerous. We have been trying for
years to get the funding for that. This
bill has some funding that will help
with regard to these kinds of bridges
that have heavy traffic but are unsafe.
This is what we ought to be doing
around here. Let’s get this done. It is
infrastructure. It is something we
should be able to agree on as Repub-
licans and Democrats because it is
good for the people we represent. So I
thank the Senator from Maine for her
work on that.
WORKFORCE DEVELOPMENT
Mr. President, I am here to talk
about the historic workforce needs we
have in this country and, if we do the
right things to respond to it, the his-
toric opportunity we have to bring peo-
ple out of the shadows and into work
by providing them with the skills they
need to be able to access the jobs that
are out there.
Pro-growth Federal policies, includ-
ing the tax reform we passed here, the
tax cuts, the regulatory relief, and
some of the things we have done with
regard to opening up more energy re-
sources, are helping to boost job cre-
ation, increase wages, and grow our
economy. As an example, the most re-
cent data from the Commerce Depart-
ment shows that the economy grew by
a healthy 2.6 percent in the first half of
this year and that official unemploy-
ment is now down to 3.5 percent. That
is the lowest it has been in 50 years. So
the economy is moving.
To me, what is most exciting is that
we are seeing solid wage growth for the
first time in years. In just over the
past couple of years, nonsupervisory
employees, including blue-collar work-
ers, have seen about a 6-percent in-
crease in their wages. That is about
$1.30 per hour. Think about that. After
a decade—really, a decade and a half—
in my home State of flat wages, which
are wages that haven’t keep up with in-
flation, we now see real wage growth.
Now, over 2 years, 6 percent at $1.30 an
hour means something to the people I
represent, but it will also be com-
pounded year after year if we continue
this.
This is all great news for the people
I represent. They have been frustrated.
They work hard, play by the rules, do
the right thing, and then they can’t get
ahead. Now they are starting to get
ahead, and that is good. I hear from
small business owners in Ohio who
have been able to do a lot with the tax
cuts and tax reform by creating new
jobs and making new investments. Ev-
eryone has. I have literally met with
dozens of small businesses around our
State and have had roundtable discus-
sions.
I have asked them specifically: What
happened with regard to the tax relief?
Where is it going? It is going toward
better equipment and better tech-
nology. Therefore, there is better pro-
ductivity from workers. It is going to
higher wages, and it is going to better
benefits for workers.
For the past 18 months, we have seen
more job openings in America than
there have been people who have been
looking for work. Think about that.
Consistently, every month for the past
18 months, we have had more job open-
ings out there than there have been
people who have been looking for work.
At no time in this century has that
happened. This is precedent-setting,
and it is a good thing. It is all good
news, but it is not the whole story.
Part of the story is that we are still
seeing a lot of individuals who are
missing the benefits of this economic
expansion. Why? In part, they don’t
have the skills that are needed to take
advantage of this economic growth.
You have more jobs out there than you
have people who are looking. Yet you
have this skills gap that keeps us from
being able to have the right people in
the right place for the right jobs.
I hear from a lot of employers who
say they cannot continue to grow if
they cannot find these workers. Some
companies even say they are going to
have to leave Ohio or leave the United
States if they don’t have the
workforces because a workforce, like
other inputs, is very important to our
having a competitive economy. So we
have to solve this problem.
In Ohio and elsewhere, there are now
thousands of job openings for positions
for welders and machinists in factories,
for medical technicians in hospitals,
and for computer programmers and
coders in almost every sector of our
economy. This morning, if you go to
ohiomeansjobs.com, you will see some
of these jobs advertised. There are
about 150,000 jobs out there. These jobs
that you will see are what economists
call middle-skills jobs. They don’t re-
quire one to have a college degree, but
they do require one to have some train-
ing and expertise after high school.
What we have to do is to close that
skills gap by providing more of this
training and education for these work-
ers. The supply of skilled workers in
this category—students who pursue
post-high school certificates—falls way
short of the demand that is out there,
and it is holding back our economy
from fulfilling its potential.
In the most recent skills gap study
from 2018, Deloitte and the Manufac-
turing Institute highlighted this wid-
ening problem. As of August, there
were roughly 484,000 unfilled manufac-
turing jobs across America. Yet the
study found that the skills gap may
leave an estimated 2.4 million manu-
facturing jobs unfilled between 2018 and
10 years from now, 2028, with there
being a potential negative impact of
$2.5 trillion.
So the skills gap is already there,
but, unfortunately, it is widening. If we
don’t do something about it, we are
going to have a lot more unfilled man-
ufacturing jobs—good jobs with good
pay.
The best known early training for
these kinds of jobs is called career and
technical education, or CTE. Some of
you might remember it as being called
vocational education. I will say that
today’s vocational education is not
yesterday’s. It is high technology. It is
great equipment. It is providing the
level of skills that young people actu-
ally need to understand what is out
there in the real world and to get a job.
This is a very important part of what
we are doing as a country, and I see it
all over Ohio.
Recently, I toured the Vantage Ca-
reer Center in Van Wert, OH, where
juniors and seniors in high school from
more than a dozen school districts
study things like carpentry, like auto-
motive technology, like welding, like
criminal justice.
A few weeks ago, I was able to speak
to over 1,000 impressive CTE students
here in Washington, DC, who were ad-
vocating for their program. In fact,
they talked to a lot of the Representa-
tives here in the Senate. The group is
called SkillsUSA, and their rally every
year is really inspiring.
These young people are eager to get
this training. They want to get the
training in order to get the jobs that
are out there. We need to get more
young people engaged in that, more
parents signing off on that, and more
high school counselors signing off on
that.
I cofounded and cochair what is
called the CTE Caucus here in the Con-
gress. It is focused on holding up and
lifting career and technical education.
We have gone from two Senators to
now 29 Senators in our CTE Caucus.
Our goal is to increase the awareness of
CTE programs generally and make sure
people know this is a good education
option for them, to get more students
interested in career training, and to
provide the resources and the opportu-
nities to connect these young people
with skilled jobs that offer good pay
and benefits. We have passed some good
legislation to do that.
Last year, the President signed into
law my Educating Tomorrow’s Work-
force Act. That bill and the Perkins
grants in the States that are currently
providing $1.3 billion in funding every
year for ambitious, federally funded
high schools help to encourage high
quality. They make sure that the CTE
programs are high-performing. Yet ca-
reer and technical education goes well
beyond these great high school pro-
grams.
Certificate-granting, workforce-
training programs post-high school are
another key way to close that skills
VerDate Sep 11 2014 23:41 Oct 29, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G29OC6.009 S29OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6212 October 29, 2019
gap. In fact, it is probably the most im-
portant way because you can get an in-
dustry-recognized certificate that can
lead directly to a job. Think of the
many workforce training programs
that are being offered at your local
community college or at your local
technical or trade school.
For these post-high school training
opportunities, we have a problem, and
we have a solution. The problem is that
they are expensive, and a lot of young
people can’t afford them. The oppor-
tunity is to allow Pell grants to be
used for these kinds of training pro-
grams. Currently, we use the Pell
grants to help expand access to college-
level education here in America. For
low-income families, their kids can go
to college on Pell grants. Unfortu-
nately, they can’t use the Pell grants
to take this short-term, 15-week train-
ing program and see the light at the
end of the tunnel in order to get the
good-paying jobs at the end of it and
have no debt.
The bipartisan JOBS Act, which I
have cosponsored with Senator TIM
KAINE, of Virginia, will allow us to do
just that. It will allow us to do the
same thing we do with college with
these shorter term training programs
that will give you a high-quality, in-
dustry-recognized credential. Under
current law, low-income students are
eligible for Federal Pell grants if they
attend college for an associate’s degree
or a bachelor’s degree but not if they
choose to enroll in an accredited skills
training program for under 15 weeks. In
this economy and in this day and age,
that doesn’t make sense at all.
I am supportive of Pell grants for col-
lege. You should know that more than
half the young people who take out
Pell grants for college don’t end up get-
ting the college degrees or the certifi-
cates or anything that helps them to
get those jobs. Whereas, in these short-
term training programs, it is highly
likely, based on the experience we have
looked at, that they will get those cer-
tificates, and they will get those jobs.
The JOBS Act is needed right now to
meet the needs out there. These kinds
of workforce training programs provide
students with the academic and tech-
nical skills, knowledge, and training
necessary to succeed in their future ca-
reers. They encompass the kinds of
high-quality, rigorous job training pro-
grams that are easily transferable to
those jobs that are in demand right
now, whether it is learning how to con-
duct HVAC installation, how to oper-
ate a factory machine—which includes,
by the way, being able to program a
computer that helps run that ma-
chine—or how to program computers
generally, how to be a coder, how to
ensure you have the skills to be in one
of our great healthcare tech jobs that
are open right now.
These programs teach students the
practical, transferable skills that keep
our economy moving. I hear about this
every time I am home in Ohio. During
the recent work period that just
wrapped up, I held two separate
roundtables—one at Brainerd Indus-
tries in Dayton, OH, and one at Talon
Products in Cleveland, OH—talking
about this issue with business owners,
with administrators from our commu-
nity colleges, with students them-
selves, with workers who are on the
job. Guess what. All of these groups
agree that the JOBS Act is a great idea
whose time has come. They all agree
that the skills training programs cre-
ate a path to good-paying jobs, and
they want the help.
What is more, we know that a lot of
business owners will help these em-
ployees, once they get that job, to be
able to go back to school if they want
to, maybe to get a 2-year or a 4-year
degree, maybe even to get a master’s
degree, say, in engineering, to take
their education to the next level.
The fact that you do a short-term
training program to get a job doesn’t
mean you are not going to go back to
college, and that might be appropriate,
in some companies, for many individ-
uals. In fact, a representative from
Clark State Community College, Crys-
tal Jones, who was in attendance in
Dayton, OH, said that she specifically
believes a lack of Pell grant assistance
for young people looking to get train-
ing certificates is a significant barrier.
She said it makes it more difficult in
their efforts to ensure that employers
get the skilled workers they need. She
said the JOBS Act will help.
Crystal is right. The JOBS Act has
been endorsed by the National Skills
Coalition, the Association for Career
and Technical Education, the Business
Roundtable, and so many other groups.
We are told that it is the No. 1 priority
of the Association of Community Col-
lege Trustees and of the American As-
sociation of Community Colleges.
A lot of us here in this Chamber sup-
port our community colleges. They do
an awesome job. Well, this is their top
priority, so we should listen to them.
I am also pleased that the JOBS Act
was included in President Trump’s fis-
cal year 2020 budget proposal. I thank
the President for that, and I thank the
administration for supporting it, as I
thank so many other outside stake-
holders who are promoting this idea.
Let’s allow Pell to be used for short-
term training programs that we need.
The reason this JOBS Act has such
strong support is that it is the best
proposal out there right now to help
fill this skills gap that we have. It will
cover programs that, at a minimum,
require 150 hours and 8 weeks to com-
plete. Alternative proposals are out
there, but they severely limit the pro-
grams by requiring many more hours—
320 hours, as an example, in one pro-
gram.
Our community colleges in Ohio tell
me that none of their short-term train-
ing programs—none of them—would
qualify for that number of hours—pro-
grams like welding, precision machin-
ing, CDL programs for truck drivers,
electrical trades. They all need the
JOBS Act, and they need it now.
As we work to reauthorize the Higher
Education Act this year, passing the
JOBS Act is the top priority for Sen-
ator KAINE and me. It is also supported
by Chairman ALEXANDER and Ranking
Member MURRAY of the Health, Edu-
cation, Labor, and Pensions Com-
mittee, and we strongly appreciate
their support.
I hope colleagues on both sides of the
aisle will join us to get this legislation
enacted. It just makes too much sense
not to do it.
If we make career and technical edu-
cation a priority and if we enact the
JOBS Act, as I have discussed today,
we are going to address the No. 1 issue
we are now hearing from employers all
around the country, and we are going
to help so many thousands of Ameri-
cans have a better opportunity going
forward.
We are going to help our economy at
a time when we need to have this work-
force there in order to have the econ-
omy continue to grow.
There is momentum in Ohio today,
with businesses expanding and seeking
skilled workers, but the skills gap is an
impediment. We need to seize this op-
portunity, keep our economy moving
in the right direction, and help Ohioans
develop the skills to grow in the career
of their choice and to fulfill their po-
tential in life.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Minnesota.
AMENDMENT NO. 1044
Ms. SMITH. Mr. President, I thank
my colleague from Ohio for raising
these issues about the skills gap. This
is something that is very important in
Minnesota, as well, and I agree with
him. I think this should be a place
where we could find some bipartisan
agreement. So I thank him for his
words today.
Mr. President, today I rise to talk
about another gap that I would like to
ask my colleagues for help in filling.
For many Americans, the 35-day gov-
ernment shutdown during the last holi-
day season is a distant memory. The
national parks have reopened with
their usual programming; airports are
running normally; and Federal employ-
ees are back on the job with the back-
pay they had lost through no fault of
their own because of the Federal Gov-
ernment shutdown.
But for one group of workers, things
are not back to normal. These are the
low-wage workers employed by Federal
contractors serving in cafeterias, pro-
viding building security, and keeping
Federal buildings clean. These Federal
contractors work shoulder to shoulder
with Federal employees, and though
they are often invisible, they play a
crucial role in keeping the Federal
Government working for Americans.
Thousands—potentially hundreds of
thousands—of these workers at Federal
facilities all across the country were
not allowed to work during the Federal
Government shutdown. They went
without paychecks during the height of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 23:41 Oct 29, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G29OC6.010 S29OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6213
October 29, 2019
the holiday season. They skipped
Christmas gifts. They missed tuition
payments. And they even, in some
cases, were unable to afford the insulin
they need to stay alive if they live with
diabetes.
Unlike Federal employees, these em-
ployees of Federal contractors didn’t
get backpay when the government re-
opened. They were ready and willing to
work every single day of those 35 days
of the shutdown, but they couldn’t,
through no fault of their own, and they
paid the price. That is just not right.
Making ends meet in a low-wage job
is hard enough, and making ends meet
when you miss two paychecks—when
those paychecks are taken away from
you—is nearly impossible. Families
who didn’t get the income they were
expecting were forced to borrow from
friends. They were forced to rely on the
help of others. They had to make dif-
ficult choices, and many of them are
still in a financial hole that was not
created by them and that they can’t
dig themselves out of.
So, colleagues, I rise today to ask
you to help me in righting this injus-
tice, and I am glad to be joined on the
Senate floor by several of my col-
leagues who also have been strong ad-
vocates for these workers. Senator
BROWN from Ohio, Senator VAN HOLLEN
from Maryland, Senator KAINE from
Virginia, along with many of my col-
leagues, have helped to try to right
this wrong. In this way, we have intro-
duced bipartisan legislation to provide
modest backpay to these workers.
The House included our backpay lan-
guage in the appropriations package
that is on the Senate floor today. It is
in the bill that the House passed. Un-
fortunately, Senator MCCONNELL’s sub-
stitute amendment strips out this crit-
ical provision that would provide back-
pay to these Federal contract workers.
Today, what I am proposing is that
we come together in a bipartisan way
and that we add back the backpay lan-
guage—put it back in the legislation—
and I have filed an amendment that
would accomplish this.
I have talked with many of my col-
leagues on both sides of the aisle here
in the Senate Chamber, and I have to
tell you, I have not found a single per-
son who was willing to say—who even
wants to say—that these Federal con-
tractors don’t deserve backpay. In fact,
more often than not, when I talk to my
colleagues, they will say: Didn’t we
take care of that?
Well, colleagues, we didn’t take care
of that, and now we have an oppor-
tunity to fix this gap. We have an op-
portunity to do something for these
Federal contract workers who are
proud Federal Government employees
in almost every sense of the word.
Our proposal would allow contractors
to fund backpay for their employees
through a well-known and often-used
contracting process known as equitable
adjustment.
Often people will say: Oh, TINA, this
is a good idea, but it would be so dif-
ficult to accomplish this.
Well, actually, there is an existing
mechanism for accomplishing exactly
what we need to do here, and it is
called equitable adjustment.
I have also made clear to my col-
leagues who have asked questions
about this that I am happy to work
with anyone who has suggestions for
what we can do to further improve this
proposal. But we have been told across
the board that this is a good way of ac-
complishing this—an equitable way, a
way that would have good account-
ability—and that it would work.
Over the last 10 months, I have been
proud to stand with Federal contract
employees who have been fighting for
this amendment and to stand with so
many others around the country.
Tragically, in July, one of our
strongest voices for these workers,
SEIU 32BJ President Hector Figueroa,
passed away unexpectedly at age 57.
Hector was an amazing advocate for
workers all over this country. He knew
how important it is to solve this Fed-
eral contractor backpay problem, and
he understood viscerally exactly what
difference it would make in the lives of
people who lost that income. It should
not be lost forever.
Hector led 170,000 janitors, food serv-
ice workers, and others in their efforts
to secure decent wages and better
working conditions, and he played a
crucial role in making sure that these
workers’ voices were heard on Capitol
Hill and in State legislatures. Hector
was a source of inspiration for both
workers and public officials, and I miss
him as a partner in this effort.
Colleagues, recently we also lost an-
other partner in this fight. Chairman
Elijah Cummings from Maryland was a
longtime champion for Baltimore
workers, and he was the leader of the
primary House committee on Federal
workplace issues.
In March, Chair Cummings led a let-
ter with 48 House Members saying that
‘‘we must act to ensure . . . federal
contractor employees are made whole.’’
So I rise today to urge my colleagues
that Federal contract workers should
be made whole, as Chair Cummings
worked so hard to accomplish.
Let’s not forget Chair Cummings’
message. Let’s not forget the passion
and the work of Hector Figueroa. Let’s
not forget about these workers. Let’s
follow on the advocacy of these people
and so many others to pass backpay for
Federal contract workers and make
sure that these hard-working Ameri-
cans get the backpay they deserve.
I am so grateful to be joined on the
floor today by several of my col-
leagues, including Senator CHRIS VAN
HOLLEN, who has been such a strong ad-
vocate for Federal Government con-
tract workers in making sure that they
do not have to pay the price for this
shutdown, which happened through no
fault of their own. I am very glad to be
here with Senator VAN HOLLEN today.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Maryland.
TRUMP ADMINISTRATION
Mr. VAN HOLLEN. Mr. President, I
want to start by thanking our col-
league, the Senator from Minnesota,
Ms. SMITH, for her steadfast support for
this group of Federal contract employ-
ees who were left behind, and I plan to
address my remarks to that subject in
one moment.
Before I do that, I just want to call
on every Senator to stand up against
the vicious character assassination
that is taking place against patriotic
Americans testifying under oath in the
House.
Today we are hearing, in the House,
the testimony of Lieutenant Colonel
Vindman. Here is an individual who
served as an officer in the U.S. Army,
an infantry officer overseas, including
in South Korea and Germany and a de-
ployment to Iraq for combat oper-
ations, where he was wounded in an
IED attack and awarded a Purple
Heart.
Just a little while ago, the House
heard sworn testimony from Ambas-
sador William Taylor, who is currently
our Acting Ambassador to Ukraine. He
also served in the U.S. Army. He served
in Vietnam; he served in Germany.
Later, in a different capacity, he served
in Baghdad as the director of the Iraq
Reconstruction Management Office. He
served in Kabul, Afghanistan, coordi-
nating international assistance. He was
selected by Secretary Pompeo to be our
Acting Ambassador in Ukraine.
So we can disagree on a whole lot of
things. We can also reach different con-
clusions based on the facts. But I hope
every Member, including, importantly,
our Republican Senate colleagues, will
stand up against the character assas-
sination being launched at these wit-
nesses who are giving testimony under
oath and under penalty of perjury.
It is absolutely disgraceful—this kind
of character assassination, impugning
people’s motives. These are patriotic
Americans.
At the very least, we should agree on
that.
AMENDMENT NO. 1044
Mr. President, I also believe we
should agree on this important initia-
tive that has been brought before this
body by Senator SMITH to do justice
and be fair to contract workers who
perform a lot of thankless and often
unnoticed tasks for the Federal Gov-
ernment but who are essential to its
workings. These are cafeteria workers.
These are janitors. These are folks who
work in Federal offices not just in
Washington, DC, but all over the coun-
try.
When we had that unnecessary and
shameful 35-day government shutdown,
we not only locked out a lot of Federal
workers from doing their jobs, not only
did the Small Business Administration
freeze approvals of small business
loans, which were important to many
businesses around the country, not
only did the Department of Agriculture
shutter the farm service centers in
rural communities, not only did thou-
sands of homeowners face long delays
VerDate Sep 11 2014 23:41 Oct 29, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G29OC6.012 S29OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6214 October 29, 2019
in loan processing approvals from the
FHA, but these Federal contract work-
ers who, in many cases, are living pay-
check to paycheck, went without pay
for 35 days, and they never recouped
that pay.
We did the right thing in this body
for Federal Government employees. We
recognized that the government was
shut down through no fault of their
own. There was nothing Federal work-
ers did to cause the government shut-
down. They wanted to be at work doing
their jobs for the American people, and
we recognized that. We recognized that
they should not be penalized for some-
thing they had nothing to do with. We
should do the same thing now for Fed-
eral contract workers. That is exactly
what this measure will do.
These contract workers typically
make between $450 to $650 a week.
These are not people living high on the
hog. These are people getting by day to
day.
One of them is Ms. Lila Johnson. She
is from Hagerstown, MD. She worked
as a cleaning services contractor for
the Department of Agriculture for over
20 years. She is the primary bread-
winner for her family and is helping
raise two grandchildren. During the
shutdown, she struggled with her rent,
her car payments, and her life insur-
ance payments on top of keeping food
on the table. She lost $1,600. That may
not sound like a lot to some Senators,
but I can tell you it is a lot of money
for someone living paycheck to pay-
check, trying to meet the bills, and
who is the family’s primary bread-
winner.
What this bill is about is making
sure Lila Johnson, and others like her,
are not penalized for something they
had nothing to do with, harmed by
something that was totally beyond
their control.
I thank Senator SMITH. I thank our
colleague Senator BROWN and my col-
league from Maryland Senator CARDIN.
I also want to remember, as my col-
league from Minnesota did, Elijah
Cummings, who passed away recently—
a great Marylander. I knew Elijah for
over 20 years. He committed himself to
many causes important to social jus-
tice, both for Marylanders and for
every American, and this was one of
them. This is one of the things that he
just recognized was fundamentally un-
fair—people who were scraping to get
by paycheck to paycheck being pun-
ished for something they had nothing
to do with—wanting to show up for
work, wanting to show up for work
every day but being shut out and then
denied their paycheck. Let’s remedy
this wrong, and let’s make sure we
adopt this measure.
Thank you.
I thank the Senator from Minnesota.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. I recog-
nize the Senator from Virginia.
Mr. KAINE. Mr. President, I thank
my colleagues for their eloquent words
on behalf of the Federal contractors.
If you are a Virginia Senator, and if
you are a Maryland Senator, you meet
Federal contractors on any occasion all
around the State. We often think of the
Federal contractors as significantly lo-
cated in the DC-Metro area or in
Hampton Roads, but some of the small-
est counties in Virginia have signifi-
cant Federal contractors. So I am very
happy to join my colleagues and ap-
plaud Senator SMITH’s efforts in this
regard.
All Americans were affected by the
unnecessary shutdown at the end of
last year—people trying to go to parks
to enjoy time with their families or
visiting other Federal installations
that were down. We saw the lines of
Federal employees waiting outside of
Jose Andres’s DC Central Kitchen in
cold January weather. Federal employ-
ees, many in uniform, were trying to
get free meals.
Some of the most affected, as my col-
leagues have explained, were workers
who were suddenly without paychecks
through no fault of their own. These
workers—800,000 of them—worked di-
rectly for the Federal Government. We
were able to secure backpay for those
workers and in a very positive way.
This is something that the body did to-
gether, which I think is important. We
not only got a backpay bill for Federal
workers for those affected by the last
shutdown, but we put in a guarantee
that in any future shutdown they
would get their pay. Once you have
done that as a guarantee, why have a
shutdown? If you have guaranteed that
people will be paid, why would you lock
them out of their office and deprive
them of the ability to serve their fel-
low Americans?
Hundreds of thousands of contract
workers were not included in that
backpay bill, and thus they have been
left behind. Many of these Americans
are paid on an hourly basis. They are
not annual salary employees, and they
do live paycheck to paycheck. When
the shutdown hit, they went home
without pay for weeks—5 weeks—and
no word on when or whether their job
would start back up again.
The people I meet who are in this
category are very hard-working. They
are security guards; they are cafeteria
workers; they are cleaning staff; they
are IT workers—people whose diligent
functioning in their jobs sort of keep
the lights on and the enterprise going.
Missing a whole month’s pay is not a
trivial thing for most American fami-
lies, and many of the families had to
borrow, rely on friends and families to
get by, and used the services of soup
kitchens or clothes closets. Many like-
ly are still carrying debt incurred be-
cause of the shutdown. Some had to
make withdrawals from their Federal
Thrift Savings Plans, with penalty and
interest because of that.
The individuals were affected, but it
is also, bluntly, their families, and
even the communities and local busi-
nesses in and around where there are
these contracting employees.
During the shutdown, I asked Vir-
ginians to share stories with me, and
many did. These are Federal employees
who were affected by the shutdown, but
it was not just the employees who
shared it, it was also these contractors.
Of course, I did hear a number of sto-
ries of Virginians coming together. I
had a chance to go work as a volunteer
at the DC Central Kitchen, and what
struck me is how many of the volun-
teers were people who had been fur-
loughed. They weren’t being paid, and
they wanted to serve their fellow
Americans, but because they were
being locked out of their office, they
decided to go to the Central Kitchen
and work serving meals to their Fed-
eral colleagues.
Alongside some of the stories that
were coming together, I did hear tough
stories about people who ended up for-
going necessary expenses. I will just
read a couple to you. These are all
from Virginians who are Federal con-
tractors.
Michael, from Herndon said:
Like many of your constituents, I work as
a government contractor for a small busi-
ness. My entire household income depends on
serving government clients, which I am un-
able to do in light of the government shut-
down. My company is losing revenue every
day and has arrived at the point where we
must force employees to use vacation, take
leave without pay, or be furloughed. Unlike
federal employees who will almost certainly
receive back pay once the shutdown is re-
solved, my employees and I have no such re-
course. I’ve lived in the Washington DC area
for almost 25 years and worked exclusively
in serving the government industry, and this
is the first time I’ve been compelled to con-
tact my elected officials.
Bottom line: I’m struggling. My employees
are struggling. Our families are struggling.
Small business[es] are the engine of eco-
nomic growth and stability in our region and
the shutdown is destroying us. Please work
with all parties to reopen the government as
soon as possible.
Sukumar, from Great Falls said:
I am the CEO of a small business in Vir-
ginia which is 100% focused on federal con-
tracts. After two weeks of shutdown and no
end in sight, we are nearing a point where
were are losing revenue (because our people
can’t work), invoices are not getting paid by
the Government and we are facing a dire
cash flow situation. This will affect our abil-
ity to make payroll needing to borrow mon-
ies at higher interest rates and increase the
perils of shutting down our business. Many
of our furloughed employees are having a
tough time paying bills and making ends
meet. Some of them are contemplating a pri-
vate sector career, leading to the loss of val-
uable talent to serve the government.
Virginia, from McLean said:
I am a federal contractor working in Wash-
ington D.C. and a lifelong Virginia resident.
I have been furloughed due to the govern-
ment shutdown, and because of my status as
a contractor will not be receiving compensa-
tion after this is over. . . . This is not a va-
cation for me, nor is it a vacation for any
federal worker. . . . It’s impossible to plan
for lost pay when you are unsure how much
pay you might be losing, and it’s impossible
to amend deadlines when you aren’t sure
how many projects are going to go unat-
tended to and for how long. Many argue that
federal workers should have savings to pre-
pare themselves for the shutdown but I am a
young person, this is my first job.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 23:41 Oct 29, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00010 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G29OC6.013 S29OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6215
October 29, 2019
A Washington Post article from Jan-
uary detailed the struggles of many
low-wage workers, including one who
lives in the District, Julia, a con-
tracted janitor for the last 27 years,
most recently at the Department of
Agriculture, who cares for her elderly
mother with dementia. She has had to
use the last of her sick days to keep
money coming in. All told, she lost
$1,000 in savings, went into debt, and
relied on the charity of churches for
free meals.
Again, these are people who make
the life choice—they could have made
other choices, but they make the life
choice to serve our government, mean-
ing serving by, of, and for the people.
They did that not for grand fame or
glory or riches, but they do have an ex-
pectation that they will not be gratu-
itously kicked around—maybe a thank-
you or maybe just being treated fairly.
I think we did take a step forward
when we passed the backpay bill to
guarantee that Federal workers would
be treated fairly. I think Senator
SMITH’s amendment, which I am proud
to be an original cosponsor of, that I
hope we will have a chance to take up,
would remedy the situation with re-
spect to these workers. This is not for
every contractor. This is the Fair Com-
pensation for Low-Wage Workers Act,
so it is specifically focused on com-
pensation for the contractors who re-
ceive low wages, those who are most
vulnerable and were most affected by
losing salary for 5 weeks.
Here is the good news: The House in-
cluded this provision in its appropria-
tions bill this past summer. It is not in
the appropriations bill we are now con-
sidering in the Senate.
I implore the majority leader and all
of my colleagues to do for these low-
wage Federal contractors what we did
for Federal employees: recognize the
hardships the shutdown caused these
workers and their families and add
backpay for Federal contractors, which
is the bill we are getting ready to vote
on.
This would be a little step forward
and a precedent. We haven’t nec-
essarily done this in the past, but just
as the guarantee of backpay for Fed-
eral employees, I believe, starts to
build in a little bit of firewall against
a shutdown, I actually think having a
rule, a norm, that we would provide
backpay for low-wage Federal contrac-
tors also starts to provide a little bit of
a firewall against a shutdown.
I think we should all be anti-shut-
down, and having mechanisms that
make it harder to shut the government
down, or less likely that we would shut
it down, is something we should all
support.
Without us intervening and doing
right by these workers, many of them
will take years to recover from the fi-
nancial hole the shutdown put them in.
I ask my colleagues to join together
and support Senator SMITH and her
amendment.
With that, I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Ohio.
Mr. BROWN. Mr. President, I thank
Senator KAINE for his work on this and
speaking out on it. It is an issue of jus-
tice, an issue of fairness, and an issue
that—I mean, how can you be against
this? I don’t even pretend to under-
stand it.
Senator SMITH, who is still relatively
new to this body, has taken a leader-
ship role on an issue that is as impor-
tant in terms of human rights as any I
can imagine this body has taken up,
this fight for Federal contract workers
who suffered because of President
Trump’s disastrous shutdown earlier
this year.
When you think about this, these are
workers making $8, $10, and $12—I
know most of my colleagues don’t
know anybody—well, actually, they
know people who make $8, $10, and $12
an hour, they have just never actually
asked them their names and talked to
them about their lives to find that out.
We dress well. We have great
healthcare benefits. We have good
wages here, and most of the people who
serve us: the cafeteria workers here,
the people who come in at night when
we leave and clean our offices—in this
case, many of them are Federal em-
ployees, but some of them are contract
employees. That simply means—go to
the Cleveland airport and talk to the
people who drive the carts taking peo-
ple to and from their planes or talk to
the people who push the wheelchairs of
people who have a little trouble getting
on and off the planes. Those people
don’t work for United Airlines. They
don’t work for Cleveland Hopkins air-
port or Dulles or National or the air-
port in whatever it is called—sorry,
Senator SMITH—in Minneapolis-Saint
Paul. They work for contractors so
often, and those are the people we are
talking about. Those are the people
who are ignored. They are making $8,
$10, $12 an hour. We don’t pay attention
to them in this body. We don’t know
their names. We don’t speak for them
too often. Senator SMITH, Senator
KAINE, and I are speaking for them be-
cause we know what happened to them.
I think Americans don’t realize that
thousands of janitors and cafeteria
workers and security guards spent
weeks out of work because of Trump’s
disastrous shutdown. They are em-
ployed by private contractors, not the
government, and they are paid too lit-
tle to begin with, and they have no way
of making up those lost hours and lost
wages.
Missing a paycheck—you know, a lot
of people in this country can absorb
missing a paycheck if they are in the 1
percent or the 2 percent or the 5 per-
cent or the 10 percent wealthiest peo-
ple, certainly the billionaire President
and his multimillionaire—except for
those Cabinet members who are bil-
lionaires—Cabinet with their massive
investment portfolios. But for most
Americans—most Americans—missing
a paycheck is a big deal.
The President doesn’t understand
and doesn’t seem to care to understand
that working people couldn’t just send
a letter to creditors, saying: Please ex-
cuse me this month, Mr. Landlord or
Ms. Landlord, from paying rent or pay-
ing my mortgage or paying for my
medications at the local CVS. They
take money out of their savings, if
they have any savings. It is awfully
hard to have savings at $10, $12, and $14
an hour. They take money out of those
savings. Or, more likely, in the case of
these contractors who earn $10, $12 and
$14 an hour, they turn to family mem-
bers; they run up their credit cards;
they go to payday lenders; and they
never get out from under that, as you
know.
Some of them—many, many of
them—are still dealing with the debt. I
remember talking to cafeteria workers
in Senator KAINE’s State in Arlington.
Federal contractor workers who serve
food in our Smithsonian museums are
not Federal workers. Most people who
go to the Smithsonian figure people
who are serving the food and cleaning
the place or cleaning the offices and
exhibits are probably government em-
ployees, but they are not.
One worker told me: I have to pay
rent, and I have other bills. I have a
college student in his second semester,
and he needs help with his books.
The president of one SEIU local,
which represents janitors and security
officers, said that those workers and
their families ‘‘will continue to relive
the trauma on a daily basis until they
are compensated for 35 days of in-
come’’—35 days of income they went
without. They are already living on the
edge, and this body, because of its inac-
tion, because of its head in the sand,
because of its—pardon my language—
boneheadedness, simply ignores them
and just washes their hands. They say,
‘‘I don’t know who they are, and I don’t
know their names, so we are not going
to do anything to help them,’’ even
though it was the Trump shutdown
that betrayed these workers.
The same President betrays workers
by denying the overtime pay they have
earned. The same President puts people
in the Supreme Court who put their
thumb on the scale of justice always to
support corporations over workers, al-
ways to support Wall Street over con-
sumers, and always to support health
insurance companies over patients. Put
on top of that the Trump tax cuts—a
massive giveaway to the wealthiest 1
percent.
I spoke to a group of union members
today. They want a transportation bill.
They want an infrastructure bill. They
know what the bridge looks like con-
necting my State in Cincinnati over
the Ohio River with that of the Repub-
lican leader down the hall—Senator
MCCONNELL’s State. They know the
needs there. I have to say, we got no
money because of this tax cut that my
friends over here voted for, most of
which went to the wealthiest 1 percent.
Because of the Trump shutdown,
these workers we are talking about
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:41 Oct 30, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00011 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G29OC6.014 S29OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6216 October 29, 2019
went without paychecks. He has done
nothing to fix it. It comes back to the
dignity of work. All work has dignity.
Dr. King said that no job is menial if it
pays an adequate wage, but it also
means getting to go to work every day
and earning that pay.
For these contract workers, their
work has dignity. If the President un-
derstood that, he would make sure
they would get their paychecks. The
House already passed backpay for con-
tractors 4 months ago.
I ask my colleagues to join us on
Senator SMITH’s amendment because if
you love this country, you fight for the
people who make it work.
(Mr. CRUZ assumed the Chair).
AMENDMENT 1088
Mr. BROWN. Mr. President, I rise to
speak about Amendment 1088, which I
introduced with Senator JONES. The
amendment is straightforward. It pro-
vides $5 million to fund Centers of Ex-
cellence at 1890 land-grant universities.
This amendment—I want to underscore
this—includes an offset.
Let me tell you why I introduced
this. The authorization for these Cen-
ters of Excellence was included in the
2018 farm bill. I offered it as an amend-
ment in the Senate Agriculture Com-
mittee. It could be critical for schools
like Central State, west of Columbus,
in Ohio. The chairman and the ranking
member of the Ag Committee sup-
ported it. The Senate majority leader
supported it, as did the chair of the Ag
Appropriations Subcommittee. The en-
tire committee supported it. It passed
by a voice vote.
Then we passed the farm bill and sent
it to the President. We got 87 votes
from this body for the farm bill. That
is more than ever, I believe, any farm
bill has ever passed the Senate. These
centers will focus on important chal-
lenges facing the agriculture sector
and its workforce.
I ask unanimous consent that the
letter of support from Dr. Kent Smith,
president of Langston University in
Oklahoma on behalf of the Council of
1890 University Presidents, be printed
in the RECORD.
There being no objection, the mate-
rial was ordered to be printed in the
RECORD, as follows:
ASSOCIATION OF PUBLIC &
LAND-GRANT UNIVERSITIES,
Washington, DC, October 29, 2019.
Hon. RICHARD SHELBY,
Chairman, U.S. Senate Committee on Appro-
priations, Washington, DC.
Hon. PATRICK LEAHY,
Vice Chairman, U.S. Senate Committee on Ap-
propriations, Washington, DC.
Hon. JOHN HOEVEN,
Chairman, Senate Agriculture Appropriations
Subcommittee, Washington, DC.
Hon. JEFF MERKLEY,
Ranking Member, Senate Agriculture Appro-
priations Subcommittee, Washington, DC.
DEAR CHAIRMAN SHELBY; VICE CHAIRMAN
LEAHY; CHAIRMAN HOEVEN; AND RANKING
MEMBER MERKLEY: On behalf of the Council
of 1890 Presidents, I am writing to express
our support for Senator BROWN and Senator
JONES’ amendment to the FY 2020 Agri-
culture Appropriations bill to fund the newly
created Centers of Excellence. As you know,
these new Centers were authorized and cre-
ated in the 2018 Farm Bill. The work of these
Centers is a critical part of the future re-
search in several strategic areas that our
Universities will do on behalf of the country.
I understand that the amendment being
considered by the Senate would provide half
of the authorized annual funding for the new
Centers. While we certainly appreciate that
effort, we strongly encourage the Congress
to fully fund the Centers to their authorized
level. These Centers were promised to our
Universities almost 30 years ago and while
we are pleased that they are close to being a
functioning reality, without this initial
funding they will not get off-the-ground.
Again, we strongly support Senator BROWN
and Senator JONES’ efforts and look forward
to working with you to have this amendment
included in the final version of the FY 2020
Agriculture Appropriations Bill.
Sincerely,
KENT J. SMITH, Jr., Ph.D.,
Chair, Council of 1890
University Presi-
dents, President,
Langston Univer-
sity.
Mr. BROWN. Dr. Smith notes that
they have been promised these Centers
of Excellence for 30 years. The Senate
needs to act, and it needs to include
my amendment to right this wrong.
I remind my colleagues that the 1890
land grants were created because many
States, rather than allowing African-
American students to attend the 1862
land-grant universities, decided to set
up, in the name of segregation in those
States, a separate system of colleges
and universities.
The 1890s schools, as my colleagues
know, despite providing a pathway to
the middle class for generations of
mostly African-American students,
have been ignored or, at best, under-
funded since their creation.
I have tried to figure out why my
amendment is not just automatically
set. Again, it was authorized by the Ag-
riculture Committee; it passed the
Senate unanimously; it was signed by
the President. Why isn’t this amend-
ment acceptable? The majority can’t
be opposed because the House funded
this program; the majority has cleared
amendments that duplicate House
money. It can’t be because my amend-
ment is too expensive, as the majority,
I am told, is willing to clear a Thune-
Hoeven amendment that funds Tribal
colleges—which is a good thing—at the
same level as my amendment.
I have worked with the committee to
find an offset for my amendment, and
even though the authorization is for
$10 million a year, at the committee’s
urging, I have reduced it to $5 million,
and still, for whatever reason, they
can’t see clear to support this.
I know if this came up for a floor
vote, we would pass it overwhelmingly.
I don’t know why we need to do that
rather than just accept this.
I urge my colleagues to include this
commonsense, fully paid-for amend-
ment in the appropriations bill.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Texas.
Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, this
isn’t part of the remarks I had planned
for, but let me just surprise the Sen-
ator from Ohio and say I agree with
him. We need to pass a transportation
bill.
He mentioned some of the union
workers he was talking to this morn-
ing, and they want Congress to func-
tion as it should, which means we
should pass our appropriations bills,
the Transportation, Housing and Urban
Development bill that the Senator
from Maine is the bill manager on. We
ought to do all of our appropriations
bills, including keeping our commit-
ment to our men and women in the
military by passing the Defense appro-
priations bill.
Unfortunately, we know that politics
has overwhelmed our ability to func-
tion here in Congress, and the Demo-
crats, for some reason, decided to fili-
buster the Defense appropriations bill
just recently.
What I worry about is this obsession
with politics and dividing the Nation 12
months before the next general elec-
tion, when everybody who is a reg-
istered voter will have a chance to vote
on the next President of the United
States. We are going to let that domi-
nate our discussions to the failure of
our ability to actually pass appropria-
tions bills, fund the military, and fund
a highway bill, which would provide
much needed infrastructure develop-
ment all across our country, including
the fast-growing States like those the
Presiding Officer and I happen to come
from.
So I hope that the growing sense I
have that we are simply going to quit
functioning a year out before the elec-
tion, because of the obsession over poli-
tics and impeachment mania, does not
prove to be true. But the storm clouds
are on the horizon, and I am becoming
increasingly convinced that, unfortu-
nately, that is the only thing Speaker
PELOSI and the House Democrats care
about, and our ability to actually get
our work done is going to be tragically
squandered.
DEATH OF ABU BAKR AL-BAGHDADI
Mr. President, let me talk about
some good news. Of course, this week-
end, the world celebrated as the hunt
for the leader of ISIS—the latest ter-
rorist organization that has dominated
the news—finally came to an end, and
President Trump announced the suc-
cessful raid by U.S. troops that led to
the death of Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi, the
world’s No. 1 terrorist. This, of course,
is reminiscent of that effort under the
Obama administration to take out
Osama Bin Laden years after he led the
effort to kill 3,000 Americans on 9/11 in
New York and here in Washington at
the Pentagon.
With the elimination of the ISIS ca-
liphate earlier this year, it was only a
matter of time before al-Baghdadi
would run out of places to hide. I want
to say how much I admire and appre-
ciate the courage and the dedication of
the men and women who contributed to
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:41 Oct 30, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00012 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G29OC6.015 S29OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6217
October 29, 2019
this raid and who actually made it hap-
pen. This is an amazing combination of
talent, training, intelligence, and co-
operation with our partners in the Mid-
dle East that led to this incredible and
successful effort. I am grateful to our
military leaders, our intelligence pro-
fessionals, our servicemembers, and
our allies who have been tirelessly
working for this goal for years.
I applaud President Trump for mak-
ing the difficult decision to put Amer-
ican troops in harm’s way. Fortu-
nately, it did not result in any loss of
life or injuries, I am told, for the
troops who actually executed the raid,
but let’s give credit where credit is
due. Just as President Obama deserved
credit for making the difficult decision
to take out Obama Bin Laden, Presi-
dent Trump should be entitled to credit
for making the difficult but important
and correct decision to take out ISIS’s
leader.
Because of the decisive action and
flawless execution of troops on the
ground, it was a great day for freedom-
loving people and for all Americans
that the world’s No. 1 most wanted
man was brought to justice.
Coincidentally, yesterday, I was in
Austin speaking to the Mortgage Bank-
ers Association, and Admiral McRaven
came on right after me. It was an
amazing coincidence and a real treat
for the mortgage bankers who, after I
got through talking to them, got to
hear from the man who led the raid
that brought down Osama bin Laden in
2011. It was a remarkable moment to
reflect on our Nation’s ongoing fight to
eradicate terrorism and the great lead-
ers and the great professionals who
have contributed to our efforts to keep
America safe.
It is important that we all remember
that the fight is not yet won and that
it actually may never be finally con-
cluded. We must remain committed to
working with our allies in the region
and around the world to continue to
eliminate terrorism wherever we can
and prevent its resurgence.
As I indicated earlier, later this
week, the Senate will begin voting on
spending bills to fund the Department
of Defense so that they can continue
this fight, and it would be ironic, in-
deed, if our Democratic colleagues
thwarted our efforts to fund the De-
partment of Defense once again in the
wake of this incredible accomplish-
ment by those professionals.
Last month, Democrats blocked us
from even considering the defense
spending bill. They decided their seem-
ingly never-ending disputes with Presi-
dent Trump transcend national secu-
rity.
I hope this weekend’s announcement
has brought this decision into some
perspective. We need to quickly pass
the defense spending bill to ensure that
our military will not be impacted by
these political games.
HEALTHCARE
Mr. President, on another matter, I
continue to hear from my constituents
back home about the number of Texans
who are struggling to cover the cost of
their prescription medication. We
know that deductibles, particularly
under the Affordable Care Act, have
gotten to be very high.
As a matter of fact, it is not uncom-
mon to hear people say that they have
a deductible of $5,000 or more. The
copays they have to pay for prescrip-
tion drugs, strangely enough, in their
deductible—the $5,000 you would have
to pay under your Affordable Care Act
policy—they get none of the benefit of
the negotiated discount or rebates that
the drug companies get with prescrip-
tion pharmacy benefit managers. That
does not flow to the consumer. Actu-
ally, consumers are being treated much
worse than the insurance companies
and the pharmaceutical companies are
and deriving virtually no benefit.
I have heard stories. We had one par-
ticularly profound story about a
woman whose son is diabetic. He be-
came an adult, and she described how
purchasing his insulin affected many of
his decisions, such as moving out of the
house, getting a job, whether or not to
marry, basically because he had to
manage the high cost of the copay for
the insulin that was necessary to pre-
serve his life.
Unfortunately, as in many cases, peo-
ple end up self-rationing their drugs to
make them last longer, and that is at
a great health risk to them, to skip
doses or to take less or to otherwise
not follow their doctor’s orders.
People are frustrated and confused.
They are increasingly worried about
how they and their loved ones are
going to continue to cover these rising
costs, and they want to know what
Congress intends to do about it. I fre-
quently tell the folks back home that
the most frustrating moments in Wash-
ington, DC, are when the White House
and Congress agree and when Repub-
licans and Democrats agree that some-
thing is a problem and needs to be
done, but nothing gets done. That is a
hard one to explain. Everybody says
yes, we need to deal with high prescrip-
tion drug costs, but we don’t seem to
be capable of getting things done.
I am always happy to share updates
about the progress we make within our
committees, such as the Finance and
Judiciary Committees I serve on. Un-
fortunately, when it comes to getting a
bill across the floor of the U.S. Senate,
it has proved to be an insurmountable
challenge.
We have spent a lot of time hearing
from patients, healthcare providers,
drugmakers, and other experts about
prescription drug costs, and it is ad-
mittedly a very complex topic, but I
think a lot of the folks involved in the
business sort of enjoy that black box
they operate in and they are afraid of
the transparency that would actually
reveal who is getting the money and
why it is that the savings don’t flow to
consumers.
We have been looking at every stop a
drug takes in route, from research and
development to the shelf of your medi-
cine cabinet. We have seen some things
that are pretty alarming. There are
pharmaceutical CEOs earning big bo-
nuses, of course, as sales go up. I am
not opposed to CEOs getting paid well
for new lifesaving and innovative
drugs, but I am if they do it at the ex-
pense of consumers. We have seen phar-
macy benefit managers who negotiate
backdoor rebates and drive up out-of-
pocket costs. Of course, there are also
pharmaceutical companies that game
the patent system to stave off competi-
tion as long as possible.
In one of our Finance Committee
hearings, I was able to ask the CEO of
AbbVie about their product HUMIRA,
which is the most commonly prescribed
drug in America today, I believe. It is
the poster child for the kind of games-
manship that I think ought to infu-
riate all of us.
HUMIRA is a wonderful drug. It is
used to treat arthritis and a number of
other conditions, and it has been avail-
able for about 15 years. One might
think that would be sufficient time to
cover the patent period and that a
more generic or biosimilar alternative
might be available, which would be
cheaper, much to the benefit of con-
sumers. You would be wrong.
AbbVie currently has 136 patents and
247 applications on HUMIRA. In fact,
the maze of patents on HUMIRA is so
complex that there is no biosimilar
available in America. This jumbled
network of patents makes it nearly im-
possible for a competitor to come into
the market. To date, there are five
competitors to HUMIRA in Europe—
five—but not in America, not to the
benefit of American consumers. All of
these five competitors that sell a bio-
similar alternative to HUMIRA in Eu-
rope are blocked from selling it in the
United States until 2023. That is not an
accident.
Again, I don’t begrudge companies
that discover lifesaving and innovative
drugs getting the coverage of a patent
for the appropriate period of time be-
cause that is where they recoup their
research and development costs, and
unfortunately not all of these drug dis-
coveries turn out with a good story.
But this strikes me as gamesmanship
and an abuse of the system. Patents
were intended to guard intellectual
property and encourage researchers to
pour time and resources into devel-
oping these new drugs. These
drugmakers aren’t just using the pat-
ent system to protect their intellectual
property; they are abusing it, to the
detriment of consumers, to increase
their bottom line.
Earlier this year, I introduced a bill
with our colleague from Connecticut,
Senator BLUMENTHAL, to take aim at
this practice. The Affordable Prescrip-
tions for Patients Act disarms the so-
called patent thickets to enable com-
petitors to come to market sooner.
This bill streamlines the litigation
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:41 Oct 30, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00013 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G29OC6.016 S29OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6218 October 29, 2019
process by limiting the number of pat-
ents these companies can use so com-
panies can spend less time in the court-
room. Competitors would be able to re-
solve patent issues faster and bring
their drugs to market sooner. Better
competition, I am convinced, means
better prices for patients.
Our country is a leader in pharma-
ceutical innovation, partly because we
offer robust protection for intellectual
property. And that is a good thing, but
we have to do more to stop the bad ac-
tors taking advantage of those innova-
tion protections in order to maintain
their monopoly at the expense of the
American people. That is exactly what
the legislation I have introduced with
Senator BLUMENTHAL would do. By the
way, it passed unanimously out of the
Senate Judiciary Committee.
The Affordable Prescriptions for Pa-
tients Act doesn’t stifle innovation, it
doesn’t limit patent rights, and it
doesn’t cost taxpayers a dime. In fact,
just the opposite is true. The Congres-
sional Budget Office released a cost es-
timate for this bill and found that it
would lower spending by more than
half a billion dollars over 10 years. And
that is just savings to the Federal Gov-
ernment for Medicare and Medicaid;
there undoubtedly would be additional
savings for consumers in their private
health insurance.
Despite the fact that this legislation
received the unanimous support of the
Judiciary Committee in June, it has
yet to make it to the Senate floor for
a vote. As it turns out, I am informed
that the minority leader, the Senator
from New York, Mr. SCHUMER, is lead-
ing the charge in blocking the Senate’s
ability to consider that bill.
Our colleague the minority leader
loves to say that the Senate is a legis-
lative graveyard because we haven’t
voted on a number of ultrapartisan
bills passed by the House, but when it
comes to passing the bills that actually
have bipartisan support—bills that
could actually pass both Chambers and
become law—it looks as though the mi-
nority leader has become the grave-
digger-in-chief. Why he would refuse to
allow a vote on a bill cosponsored by
one of his own Members that would
lower drug costs for patients across the
country and save more than half a bil-
lion dollars over 10 years for taxpayers
is beyond me. It seems like a no-
brainer. Again, I am afraid that poli-
tics may have once again interfered
with our Democratic colleague’s inter-
est in making sound public policy.
While our Democratic colleagues
continue their crusade to remove the
President from office, the American
people’s lives aren’t getting any easier.
Their lives aren’t on hold such that
they could just simply wait out the
politics that seems to crowd out good
public policy in Washington, DC. We
know for sure that their prescription
medications aren’t getting any cheap-
er. So I would urge our colleague, the
Senate minority leader, to quit block-
ing the bipartisan bill I have discussed
today so that our constituents—all of
our constituents—in Texas, New York,
Maine, and all over the country can
begin to enjoy some relief from their
mounting out-of-pocket drug costs.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Maine.
UNANIMOUS CONSENT AGREEMENT
Ms. COLLINS. Mr. President, I would
ask unanimous consent that rather
than recessing at 12:30 p.m., we recess
at 12:35 p.m.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
Ms. COLLINS. Mr. President, I want
to associate myself with the comments
that were just made by the Senator
from Texas on the important issue of
lowering the cost of prescription drugs.
Not only the Finance Committee and
the Judiciary Committee but also the
Senate Health, Education, Labor, and
Pensions Committee have all reported
good bills that would help provide re-
lief from the ever-escalating costs of
prescription drugs.
Like the Senator from Texas, I, too,
have introduced a bipartisan bill with
Senator TIM KAINE to prevent the gam-
ing of the patent system in which a
brand-name pharmaceutical company
will wait until the last moment and
then erect a thicket of new patents
precisely to prevent a lower cost ge-
neric or biosimilar from coming to the
market.
It is a shame that apparently the mi-
nority leader is blocking bills from
coming to the floor in this area despite
their widespread bipartisan support,
according to what the Senator from
Texas has just said. This is an issue we
should address. Ninety percent of our
seniors take at least 1 prescription
drug, and 36 percent of them take 4 or
more in a month’s time, and they are
particularly burdened by the high cost
of prescription drugs.
I, too, have looked at the manufac-
ture of HUMIRA, the best-selling drug
in the world—a drug that brings some
$18 billion in profit to AbbVie, the
manufacturer. That is fine that AbbVie
has been able to recoup the consider-
able R&D that went into what truly is
a miraculous drug for people with rheu-
matoid arthritis, psoriasis, and some
inflammatory bowel diseases, but when
the patent period has expired, they
should not be allowed to block a lower
cost generic or in this case biosimilar
from coming to the market. Yet that is
exactly what has happened.
AVIATION SAFETY
Mr. President, let me turn to speak
on another important issue that is ad-
dressed in the Transportation appro-
priations bill that is on the Senate
floor right now, and that is aviation
safety. I know the Presiding Officer has
done a great deal in this area, and the
CEO of Boeing is testifying on Capitol
Hill today.
The importance of aviation safety in
light of the crashes of the two Boeing
737 MAX aircraft cannot be overstated.
Last October, Lion Airlines Flight 610
crashed shortly after takeoff in Indo-
nesia, killing all 189 passengers and
crew on board. Just 5 months later, in
March of this year, an Ethiopian Air-
lines flight crashed and killed 157 pas-
sengers and crew. It is simply unac-
ceptable that both of these crashes in-
volved the same aircraft, the Boeing
737 MAX, and were likely caused be-
cause of the new system known as
MCAS, as well as the pilots’ unfamil-
iarity with the system and a lack of
training. More egregious was the fact
that the changes that were made to
MCAS sectors certification for this sys-
tem had already been delegated by the
FAA to Boeing. It is clear that Boeing
did everything it could to avoid having
to provide additional training or make
pilots even aware of the MCAS system.
Like the Presiding Officer, I have
met with some of the families of the
victims of these crashes, and their pain
and grief are truly heartbreaking. I am
committed to ensuring that we never
experience anything like this ever
again.
As chairman of the T-HUD Sub-
committee, I have been working with
my ranking member, Senator JACK
REED, to do our part in improving avia-
tion safety. We need to hold account-
able not only Boeing but also the FAA
and any other entities that may have
played a role in these crashes.
In July, our T-HUD Subcommittee
held an oversight hearing of the FAA
where we questioned the Acting Dep-
uty Administrator and the Associate
Administrator for Aviation Safety on
the agency’s review of the MAX air-
craft, as well as the agency’s aircraft
certification processes. Since that
time, numerous recommendations have
been issued by the National Transpor-
tation Safety Board and the Joint Au-
thorities Technical Review, which con-
sisted of technical experts from leading
international aviation regulators.
First and foremost, it is imperative
that both Boeing and the FAA admit
the mistakes made with the MAX air-
craft and remedy those serious errors
in order to gain the public’s trust in
the aircraft again. Just today, Boeing’s
CEO testified before Congress and ad-
mitted that Boeing ‘‘made mistakes
and got some things wrong.’’ However,
we have yet to hear what specific
changes the FAA will require from
Boeing prior to bringing the MAX back
into service and what long-term
changes they will make to their avia-
tion and aircraft certification process.
Ranking Member JACK REED and I
continue to send letters and inquiries
to the FAA for additional information
regarding the agency’s Organization
Designation Authorization Program, or
the ODA Program, as well as state-
ments made by FAA officials at our
July hearing, which appeared to be in-
complete at best and possibly outright
wrong.
We need to make sure the FAA is a
check on the delegation process—a true
check—and is not captured by the in-
dustry that it regulates. Safety has to
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:41 Oct 30, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00014 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G29OC6.017 S29OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6219
October 29, 2019
be the No. 1 priority for FAA—way
ahead of making sure that manufactur-
ers can meet their deadlines for air-
craft delivery. Safety has to come first.
As a result of the work we conducted
on our T-HUD Subcommittee and our
oversight hearing, Ranking Member
REED and I have provided increased
funding for aviation safety and aircraft
certification activities. The need for
additional staffing has been confirmed
by the Joint Authorities Technical Re-
view report, which determined that
FAA’s certification office for Boeing
had inadequate staff involved in the
MAX certification program.
In addition, the Joint Authorities
found that FAA needs to expand its
staffing for human factors and human
system integration work as it relates
to aircraft certification. In other
words, if there is a new system, we can-
not allow training on that system to be
bypassed and mention of that system
to not be included in the manuals that
accompany the aircraft. Pilots have to
know, going into that cockpit, exactly
what could happen, and they need
training on simulators.
Clearly, a lot of work needs to be
done on this issue. I believe we have
taken some important first steps in the
T-HUD bill that is before us.
I yield the floor.
f
RECESS
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the Senate stands
in recess until 2:15 p.m.
Thereupon, the Senate, at 12:35 p.m.,
recessed until 2:15 p.m. and assembled
when called to order by the Presiding
Officer (Mrs. CAPITO).
f
COMMERCE, JUSTICE, SCIENCE,
AGRICULTURE, RURAL DEVELOP-
MENT, FOOD AND DRUG ADMIN-
ISTRATION, INTERIOR, ENVIRON-
MENT, MILITARY CONSTRUC-
TION, VETERANS AFFAIRS,
TRANSPORTATION, AND HOUSING
AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT AP-
PROPRIATIONS ACT, 2020—Contin-
ued
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Louisiana.
RADIO WAVES
Mr. KENNEDY. Madam President, I
want to talk for a few minutes about
money, 5G, and radio waves.
A radio wave is nothing more than
electromagnetic radiation that moves
through the air. That is all a radio
wave is. Imagine a pond, and think of a
radio wave as a ripple, or wave, in that
pond. The wave kind of goes like this.
It has a peak and a valley and then a
peak and a valley. Eventually, it gets
shorter and shorter. That is what a
radio wave is. There are different kinds
of radio waves. I don’t know how many,
but there are a bunch, and they are dif-
ferentiated by the lengths of the peaks
and the valleys.
Remember? The radio wave is doing
this. As it goes to the top and comes to
the bottom, that is called a cycle.
Frequency—you have heard that
term before—is nothing more than how
many cycles a radio wave goes through
in one second. So we have out there—
we can’t see them, for they are invis-
ible—thousands, millions of these radio
waves that are, once again, going like
this.
Now, what does that have to do with
5G? So 5G is nothing more than a cer-
tain type of radio wave. I will come
back and talk a little bit about the 5G
in a second.
When I make a cell phone call to the
Presiding Officer, my voice is being
converted into an electrical signal, as
she knows. It is being sent to her phone
through a radio wave. Once it gets my
signal carried by the radio wave, her
telephone converts it back into my
voice. That is all a cell phone is.
I say: Hello, Madam President.
My voice is then converted into an
electrical signal that is sent by a radio
wave to her telephone. That is how a
cell phone works.
What is 5G? ‘‘5G’’ stands for ‘‘fifth-
generation wireless technology.’’
The very simple answer to ‘‘What is
5G?’’ is that it is an incredibly fast
radio wave that can carry a huge
amount of data. I mean, it is lightning
fast. Even if you have fourth genera-
tion, it is 10-times faster than anything
we have right now. Fifth generation’s
waves are going to be 10-times faster
and will carry way more data, way
more information. It is going to change
the world, not just the United States of
America. It is going to change the
world. It is going to change space.
You have heard about the Internet of
Things. 5G is going to be able to hook
up all kinds of devices that will be able
to talk to each other simultaneously.
Once we get 5G in America, I will be
able to open my garage door from a
half a mile away. The Presiding Officer
will be able to set the timer on her cof-
fee pot from here in the Senate if she
wants to. Surgeons will be able to con-
duct surgery thousands of miles away
from each other through the internet.
We will have driverless cars. Do any of
you ever get money out of an ATM?
They are going to be gone. We will not
need ATMs anymore. You will be able
to get the money through a
smartphone. Through 5G technology,
farmers will be informed well in ad-
vance of when there are diseases en-
croaching upon their crops. We will not
have to sign our names anymore. 5G
will make possible what are called per-
sonal heat signatures. It is going to
change the world.
Remember, 5G is just a radio wave.
Who owns that radio wave and the air
that it goes through? The people of
America do. Every country owns its
own radio waves. If there is any doubt,
the Communications Act of 1934 says
that the United States of America—
you and I—own that radio wave and the
ability to send that radio wave from
my cell phone to the Presiding Offi-
cer’s cell phone.
You will not be surprised to learn
that not all radio waves—I told you
there were millions of them, billions of
them—are made in the same way.
There is a special kind of radio wave
that is just perfect for fifth-generation
wireless technology. This is called the
C band. The C band is between 3.7
gigahertz and 4.2 gigahertz. That is the
frequency. I think of it as being a cer-
tain type of radio wave that is perfect
for C band that can be sent through the
air to effectuate 5G. That certain radio
wave and the air and the right to exe-
cute that service belongs to the Amer-
ican people, and the FCC is in charge of
it.
The FCC auctions these radio waves
all the time. When those at a radio
company or a television company or an
internet company say, ‘‘I need to use
some of those radio waves,’’ they go to
the FCC. The FCC says: OK, we are
going to auction that radio wave off be-
cause we believe in competition and be-
cause these radio waves belong to the
American people, and so we want to get
the best price.
In the last 25 years, the FCC has con-
ducted over 100 auctions of radio
waves. The FCC doesn’t call them radio
waves. It calls them spectrum. You
have heard the term ‘‘spectrum auc-
tion.’’ The FCC has done a public auc-
tion—over 100 of them—of these var-
ious radio waves, or bands of spectrum,
and has brought in $123 billion for the
American people. It has done an incred-
ible job.
Now we are about to assign the spe-
cial radio waves for 5G. I don’t blame
them for trying. Yet there are three
foreign-owned satellite companies, two
foreign companies from Luxembourg—I
love Luxembourg; it is a great coun-
try—and one foreign corporation from
Canada—I love Canada—that have gone
to the FCC and said they can do an
auction faster than the FCC can.
We need to get these 5G radio waves
out to the wireless companies really
fast. These three foreign satellite com-
panies have said: If you will just give
us those radio waves, we will auction
them off for you, and we will do it a lot
faster than you can.
When I first read about this, I said:
Am I reading this right? The FCC has
held over 100 auctions. They have
brought in $123 billion. We have these
radio waves for 5G that the experts say
are worth $60 billion, and instead of
auctioning them off and letting every-
body fairly compete, these three for-
eign corporations want the FCC to give
them the airwaves and let them auc-
tion them off, and the foreign compa-
nies get to keep the money. I am as-
tounded. I said: Gosh, I couldn’t ask for
something like that with a straight
face.
But do you know what is even more
incredible? The FCC is thinking about
doing it. They are thinking about
doing it. They are thinking about tak-
ing $60 billion that belongs to the
American people and just giving it to
this alliance of companies—two from
Luxembourg and one from Canada—and
saying ‘‘Here. It is yours. Go auction it
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:41 Oct 30, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00015 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G29OC6.019 S29OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6220 October 29, 2019
off’’ even though they have never con-
ducted a spectrum auction in their
lives. Do you know how much $60 bil-
lion is? I did the math. And our FCC is
thinking about doing it.
What I find really incredible is that
the President just issued this Execu-
tive order—well, he did it a little while
ago—buy American and hire American.
I was so proud when I saw this Execu-
tive order—buy American and hire
American. It doesn’t mean we don’t
love our world’s neighbors, but Amer-
ica first. And what is our FCC thinking
about doing? They are thinking about
giving our spectrum to three foreign
companies and letting them keep the
$60 billion. Talk about swampy.
These are also foreign companies.
Now, I don’t mean that in a pejorative
sense, and I love Luxembourg, and I
love Canada. They had a French com-
pany in here too. The French company
has bowed out, at least for a while. But
our job is not to maximize profits for
foreign corporations; our job is to help
our people.
This 5G has national security impli-
cations. Before we give away these 5G
airwaves to a foreign corporation, we
need to know whom they are going to
give it to. What if they give it to
China? What if they say ‘‘Well, we will
conduct our own auction’’ and they
give it to Huawei?
There is another reason that this
whole approach is foolhardy. 5G is
going to be great for the cities. That is
where it is going first. But what about
the people who don’t live in the city?
What I would like to see us do and I am
encouraging the FCC to do is to hold a
public auction, take some of that $60
billion they are going to get, and use it
for rural broadband to make sure the
people who live in rural areas get
taken care of as well as the people who
live in the cities because our wireless
technology companies are going to
have to be encouraged. They make a
whole lot more money selling in a city
than they do out in the rural areas.
Remember, this foreign corporation
group says they can do an auction fast-
er, even though they have never done
an auction in their lives. They say: We
can do it faster, and we have to beat
China. So give us the radio waves. We
will do a quick auction. We get to keep
the $60 billion, but we will get it out
there.
There is just one problem: All those
wireless technology companies that
didn’t get to bid—every single one of
them is going to file suit if we don’t do
a public auction. So we are going to
have this tied up in court for 20 years.
We are going to be so far behind China.
China is going to have lapped us sev-
eral times. We are going to think we
are in first place, but we are really
going to be in last place.
I have held hearings—not because of
anything that I did or any competence
on my part. I am chairman of the Fi-
nancial Services and General Govern-
ment Subcommittee of the Appropria-
tions Committee, and the only reason I
got the job is seniority, OK? Nonethe-
less, I got it, and the FCC is under my
jurisdiction. I have been holding hear-
ings, and I am going to hold more hear-
ings.
So far, the only reason that anybody
can give me to take these 5G airwaves
and give them to a foreign corporation
is that they think they can do it faster,
despite the fact that we will have liti-
gation and despite the fact that they
have never done an auction before.
The best way to resist temptation, in
my opinion, is a proper upbringing, a
strong set of values, and witnesses. We
need to have a public auction of this
internet, of the 5G radio waves. Every-
body needs to compete. If we don’t
want a foreign company to get control
of it—and I don’t—we can put it in the
bid specs. Huawei need not apply. Not
personal, but as long as you spy for
China, you can’t work here.
We need a level playing field. We
need to have competition. Competition
is a moral good. Everybody needs to
get an equal bite at the apple. This
doesn’t need to be done in a backroom,
swampy deal. I am not saying that
anybody’s brother-in-law is going to
get taken care of here. I am not saying
that, but it sure looks swampy. And we
need to do it exactly like we have done
for the 100 past broadband spectrum
auctions.
I am saying that not only to our Sen-
ate colleagues here, but I hope I am
speaking clearly enough to the FCC.
Do the right thing. Don’t give away $60
billion that belongs to the people of
America to two companies in Luxem-
bourg and one other one in Canada. It
is wrong.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Mr. WARNER. Madam President, I
ask unanimous consent that the order
for the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
Mr. WARNER. Madam President, I
am going to speak on another matter
in just a moment, but I want to thank
my friend the Senator from Louisiana.
There are a number of subjects that
are debated on this floor that I may
know a little bit about, may not know
much at all about, but on the subject
he was just addressing, the question of
spectrum and the challenges and the
threats around 5G—I can still claim
this—I am proud of the fact that I
spent a longer time in business than I
have in politics. My whole career was
spent in the business of mobile commu-
nications, wireless communications. I
spent the last 3 or 4 years on the Intel-
ligence Committee in a bipartisan way
looking at both the challenge and the
opportunity in 5G, and let me assure
you that some of the items the Senator
from Louisiana has raised in terms of
the security threats that will be posed
if we end up with the wrong vendor in
5G are an enormous problem.
I don’t always agree with this Presi-
dent. On this item, he is right. My hope
is that he will stick to his guns and not
trade that away in a trade negotiation
with China.
I also know that getting spectrum
aligned the right way has been one of
our challenges because other nations
have been able to, frankly, in Asia and
elsewhere, align spectrum better, so
the underpinnings are better positioned
than we are. So how we do this is 100
percent right.
Let me also say that whether it is
Louisiana or Virginia, one of the issues
I hear the most—I am not talking far
world; I am talking small towns and
midsize cities in Virginia, and I am
sure the same is the case in Lou-
isiana—the issue is—Democrat, Repub-
lican, and Independent—when am I
going to get broadband in an accessible
way?
If we don’t make sure that we think
this through on spectrum and recog-
nize the national security implications
and also recognize that if we roll out
5G and leave, in my State, 18 percent of
the population behind who doesn’t even
have broadband, their ability to com-
pete in the 21st century is going to be
dramatically undermined.
So I hope I will have a chance to visit
with my friend the Senator from Lou-
isiana and see if we might be able to
work together on some of these issues.
For a while, at least before the FCC
auctioned off that spectrum, it was left
in other hands, and suffice it to say
that I know how much that spectrum is
worth.
I thank my friend the Senator from
Louisiana for his comments.
f
PROVIDING FOR CONGRESSIONAL
DISAPPROVAL UNDER CHAPTER
8 OF TITLE 5, UNITED STATES
CODE, OF THE RULE SUBMITTED
BY THE SECRETARY OF THE
TREASURY AND THE SECRETARY
OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERV-
ICES RELATING TO ‘‘STATE RE-
LIEF AND EMPOWERMENT WAIV-
ERS’’
Mr. WARNER. Madam President, I
will turn to a different matter.
I move to proceed to Calendar No.
278, S.J. Res. 52.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the motion.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
Motion to proceed to Calendar No. 278, S.J.
Res. 52, a joint resolution providing for con-
gressional disapproval under chapter 8 of
title 5, United States Code, of the rule sub-
mitted by the Secretary of the Treasury and
the Secretary of Health and Human Services
relating to ‘‘State Relief and Empowerment
Waivers’’.
Mr. WARNER. Madam President, I
know of no further debate.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
further debate on the motion?
The motion was agreed to.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the joint resolution.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:41 Oct 30, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00016 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G29OC6.021 S29OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6221
October 29, 2019
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
A joint resolution (S.J. Res. 52) providing
for congressional disapproval under chapter 8
of title 5, United States Code, of the rule
submitted by the Secretary of the Treasury
and the Secretary of Health and Human
Services relating to ‘‘State Relief and Em-
powerment Waivers’’.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. There
will now be up to 10 hours of debate
equally divided between the proponents
and opponents.
Mr. WARNER. I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Oklahoma.
(The remarks of Mr. INHOFE per-
taining to the introduction of [S. 2731]
are printed in today’s RECORD under
‘‘Statements on Introduced Bills and
Joint Resolutions.’’)
Mr. INHOFE. With that, I yield the
floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from West Virginia.
AMERICAN MINERS ACT
Mr. MANCHIN. Madam President, I
want to first say thank you to my col-
leagues Senator WARNER and Senator
CASEY for joining me on the floor today
and also to Senator JONES, Senator
BROWN, Senator KAINE, and the Pre-
siding Officer for standing with all of
us to protect the coal miners.
When coal companies go bankrupt,
coal miners’ benefits are the bottom of
the priority list, which is why we are
here today to introduce the American
Miners Act amendment to the appro-
priations minibus to protect coal min-
ers’ pensions and healthcare.
At this time, I yield my time to my
good friend from Virginia, Senator
WARNER, and I will come back later.
Senator WARNER.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Virginia.
Mr. WARNER. Madam President,
first of all, I have done this a number
of times. I know you care. I know my
colleague from Pennsylvania cares, but
nobody has kept this issue alive more
often and more consistently than JOE
MANCHIN from West Virginia.
I am only going to take a minute or
two, then I have to step off. I appre-
ciate our leader on this issue giving me
a little time.
In a few minutes, he will point out
that last night, we had another coal
company go bankrupt, Murray Energy.
That potentially leaves 70,000 folks
without a pension.
In Virginia, we have about 7,000 min-
ers who are dependent upon UMWA
funds for their healthcare retirements.
Another company, Westmoreland Coal,
has already gone bankrupt as well,
where literally folks are weeks away
from losing their benefits.
The truth is, this issue may not af-
fect everybody across the country, but
the people it does affect, it affects in a
way that oftentimes undermines wid-
ows and pensioners—their very ability
to maintain their livelihoods.
Our country made a commitment
back in 1947 to honor miners, and we
would stand by that work. We are now
going to be put to the test. My hope
would be that this Miners’ Act amend-
ment would be included in the appro-
priations bill. I will do everything I can
in my power to urge my colleagues to
consider it.
Again, I thank the Senator from
West Virginia. I will turn it back to
the Senator from West Virginia, but I
also want to again acknowledge the
Senator from Pennsylvania, who has
also been a leader on this. Let’s make
sure we commit to get this done.
Thank you.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from West Virginia.
Mr. MANCHIN. Madam President, I
thank Senator WARNER. I appreciate
very much the hard fight to get in the
middle of this with me and everybody
else that is in this room right now that
is in this fight because we have a lot of
people’s lives at stake.
I came to the floor and warned that,
without passing this bill, the American
Miners Act, the UMWA pension fund
would be insolvent by 2022, and that
timeline could be accelerated to within
a year if one of the major coal compa-
nies declared bankruptcy. Last night,
that happened.
Murray Energy, the largest coal com-
pany in the United States, filed for
bankruptcy, making it the eighth coal
company in the past 12 months to do
so. Murray Energy has contributed 97
percent of the money going into the
UMWA pension fund annually. With
Murray’s bankruptcy filing, the UMWA
pension fund will become insolvent
even faster. They are telling me, by
this time next year, there will have to
be drastic cuts into people’s pension
checks and, if not, eliminated.
Most of those checks, I would remind
everybody watching and listening, are
$600 or less, and most of them are for
widows from their husbands that have
passed away. They still depend on them
for their basic necessities of life.
Once the United Mine Workers Pen-
sion fund becomes insolvent, this is
going to start the snowballing effect.
The crisis will truly go into a snowball
effect and impact every other multiem-
ployer and pension fund for America.
To say that this does not affect all of
America is wrong because anybody
that goes to work and pays into a ben-
efit package, with their employer
matching it, is in this same condition
and in this same vulnerability. That is
going to be another day that I am
going to be speaking about this and
what we can do to prohibit that from
happening also.
That is why it is essential that we
protect the coal miners’ pensions
now—not next year, not the year after,
but now—and the reason for that is it
is going to be too late if we do it any
later than now.
The only problem is that we have a
little bit of a stumbling block with the
majority leader, Senator MCCONNELL. I
know he is concerned about other pen-
sions. We are all concerned about other
pensions, but this is on the front burn-
er now. When this happens, everything
else will tumble and snowball with it.
The American Miners Act would
amend the current Surface Mining Con-
trol and Reclamation Act of 1977 to
transfer the funds. These are funds
that are in excess of the amounts need-
ed to meet the existing obligations
under the Abandoned Mine Land fund.
So you know what AML is—the
Abandoned Mine Land fund—for every
ton of coal that is mined, there is a
certain percentage of that put aside to
take care of the reclamation that is
going to be done if it is abandoned so
we don’t leave the environment in a
horrible shape, and that is what we
work towards.
This fund has some excess funds. We
are still meeting those obligations. We
are using those excess funds to try to
prevent this insolvency. It also raises
the cap on these fund transfers from
$490 million a year to $750 million to
make sure that the pension plan has
sufficient future funding also. The
funding for coal miners’ pensions is al-
ready there. It is already there. This is
the product that they have worked and
developed and basically extracted. So
we are working in the same realm of
what their livelihood has been—and it
is exactly what our amendment will
do—it will reallocate those funds that
they worked for.
Everybody that receives a paycheck,
which is over 10.6 million hard-working
men and women, they take home less
wages and instead invest their pen-
sions. As I was telling you, they invest
into these multiemployer pension
funds, and they take money out, and
they expect it to be there.
When it is not and the bankruptcy
courts allow them to walk away, the
miners and the workers are put on the
back burner, and that has got to
change. When workers expect the
wages that they have contributed to be
there when they retire as they were
promised and it evaporates, there is no
answer. It is all in bankruptcy. Be-
cause of the bankruptcy, they are told
that they are sorry they lost all the
money they have invested. It is not
their fault. They gave the company ev-
erything they had.
Under the current law, workers’ pen-
sions are not protected, and executive
and investment firms exploit the code
to benefit from filing for bankruptcy.
If you have never read anything about
bankruptcy, read one case, Sears &
Roebuck. If you want to find out the
unraveling of America and what hap-
pens to 250,000 workers that gave their
life to this company and how basically
investors came in and raiders came in
and took advantage of every person’s
pension plan, that is the one case you
want to read, Sears & Roebuck.
That is why I am here today to intro-
duce the American Miners Act as an
amendment to the appropriations
minibus the Senate is voting on this
week because it is imperative that we
do it now. We cannot wait.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:41 Oct 30, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00017 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G29OC6.022 S29OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6222 October 29, 2019
Since the majority leader won’t
allow the American Miners Act to
come to the floor for a vote, which is
his prerogative, my colleagues and I
are here today to introduce the Amer-
ican Miners Act as an amendment to
the appropriations minibus that the
Senate is planning to pass this week.
If we include the American Miners
Act in the minibus, we would protect
coal miners’ pensions now before it is
too late, and we will protect other pen-
sions from starting to unravel and the
snowball effect. We will also protect
the PBGC, which is a guarantee from
the Federal Government. If not, all of
this is going to come into fruition,
which will be horrible for the workers
of America, the most important of the
economy in this country, and a lot of
people will be hurt by that.
These coal miners and their families
deserve peace of mind knowing that
the pension they paid into paycheck
after paycheck is secure. There are so
many. Less than $600 is the average
check of a miner’s retirement. Most of
that is retired miners’ widows. They
have passed on from the hard work
they did. The widows are still there
trying to manage what they have,
which is very small at times. This is
just a stifling of what they need, and to
take this away will be very detri-
mental to their lives, the quality of
their lives, and the family.
We can give them that peace of mind
today if we can agree, in a bipartisan
way, to do the right thing for the peo-
ple that made America, the working
men and women, and especially the
coal miners. They get up every day,
they go to work, and they produce the
energy.
And I will say this: When you think
about a coal miner and what they have
given and the families that committed
and dedicated to live their lives in
these coal communities, they basically
never complained. They have done the
heavy lifting. They mined the coal.
They made these buildings and built
the guns and ships. They built the fac-
tories that built the middle class. They
have been there every step of the way
from this great country of the United
States of America to become the super
power of the world, and we owe them at
least to give them the money back
they paid into it.
It is not your taxpayer money but
the money they paid into it. Don’t let
somebody steal it. Wall Street doesn’t
have a right to that money, but they
have taken it as if it was their own lit-
tle treasure chest. It is just wrong.
We are introducing this amendment,
and we hope that we have bipartisan
support. I would appreciate it very
much. I appreciate my dear friend from
Pennsylvania, who has the same hard-
working people.
It doesn’t matter where your State
is. If you have good, hard-working coal
miners and they and their families
have sacrificed for this country, they
need a Senator such as Senator CASEY.
With that, I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mrs.
BLACKBURN). The Senator from Penn-
sylvania.
Mr. CASEY. Madam President, I
commend and salute the work of Sen-
ator MANCHIN, the senior Senator from
West Virginia, for his work on behalf of
American workers generally, but, in
particular, his passionate advocacy and
his hard work to make sure that we, in
this body, the United States Senate,
that we do everything we can to keep
our promise.
I pick up from where he left off. As
he has so often said when he came to
this floor, as he did today, to talk
about the people whose retirement se-
curity is on the line, this debate ap-
plies to a whole range of workers, but
when you consider just coal miners and
their families, who have given the
country so much, I am reminded of a
story from my home area, northeastern
Pennsylvania.
We produce, in a few counties in
northeastern Pennsylvania, the hard
coal, anthracite coal. The great novel
of Stephen Crane came to that region
in the 1890s. He would go on to become
famous for writing the novel, ‘‘The Red
Badge of Courage.’’ But Stephen Crane,
when he was a young man—and he
never made it to his 30th birthday, so
he was an accomplished writer even as
a young man—he wrote an essay about
a coal mine in Scranton, my hometown
in Lackawanna County.
In that essay, he described going into
a coal mine and what he saw. At one
point in the essay, he said that the
mine was a place of inscrutable dark-
ness, a soundless place of tangible lone-
liness. Then he went on to describe
what the coal miners did—what really
the children were doing, little boys in
the mine and men in the mine. Then,
at the end of the essay, he listed all the
ways a miner could die in those mines
in the 1890s.
Now, I know we made progress over
the generations and over the decades,
but even in modern times, coal mining
has been very dangerous and very dif-
ficult work, work that I can’t even
begin to imagine. I never had to do it,
but my ancestors did. These miners not
only worked in those dangerous condi-
tions and not only put their lives on
the line to do that work, but they also
did it with a sense of keeping their
promise.
They made a promise to their em-
ployer that they would work hard
every day, and they kept that promise.
They made a promise to their families
that they would work hard to provide a
living for their families—in some cases,
provide a living for several generations
of their families—and they kept that
promise. Some of them even made a
promise to their country to serve in
war all the way from World War I and
all the way to our most recent con-
flicts. A lot of them died in Vietnam. A
lot of them died in battlefields all over
the world, in World War II and other
conflicts.
They kept their promise to their
country. They kept their promise to
their family and to their employer. All
they have asked of us is to keep our
promise. It is not hard to do it either.
All you have got to do is put your hand
up and say, ‘‘I support that bill,’’ or ‘‘I
support that amendment.’’ It is not
hard to do. It doesn’t take a lot of floor
time either to have these matters con-
sidered.
Now, what are we facing today? The
bankruptcy filing of Murray Energy,
which stems largely from competition
from cheaper alternatives like natural
gas and decline in exports. This could
bring the pension and healthcare cov-
erage for our coal miners to the very
brink and to result in us not keeping
our promise. Failure to act could result
in devastating consequences for these
coal miners in communities across
Pennsylvania and West Virginia. We
heard from the senior Senator from
Virginia, Senator WARNER, and indeed
all across the country.
Now, there is another bill that deals
with pensions more generally, the
Butch Lewis Act. Now, the House
passed the Butch Lewis Pension Act—I
am adding the word ‘‘Pension’’ into it.
It is called the Butch Lewis Act. The
House passed that 3 months ago, and
the majority leader, Senator MCCON-
NELL, has chosen not to have a vote on
that bill. I don’t understand that. I am
not sure that there are many people
that do, but I would hope—I would
hope—that he would reconsider and
have a vote on the Butch Lewis Act.
We should also have a vote on the
American Miners Act, the legislation
that Senator MANCHIN has worked so
hard on. We know that in the House, as
well, a bipartisan effort led by Chair-
man GRIJALVA and Chairman SCOTT, we
know that the Health Benefits for Min-
ers Act of 2019 and the Miners Pension
Protection Act were voted out of the
Natural Resources Committee last
week by a voice vote.
So, in the House, they are doing
voice votes to advance legislation to
help these workers, to help miners, and
here, there is not even a vote—voice
vote, rollcall vote, any kind of vote. We
are not asking for days of floor time.
All we are asking for is a short time for
debate, but mostly, we are just asking
for a vote. That vote is real simple:
Keep your promise. Keep our promise
and the promise our country made to
these miners and the promise that our
employers make to workers every day
of the week. There is still a lot of work
to do on pensions generally, as outlined
by some of these bills, but they have
kept their promise over and over again.
It is about time we kept our promise.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from West Virginia.
Mr. MANCHIN. Madam President,
first of all, I thank Senator CASEY be-
cause he comes from the same coal
mining regions that I come from and
the hard-working families and commu-
nities they have there. It is unbeliev-
able the commitment and dedication
these people have had their entire life
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:41 Oct 30, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00018 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G29OC6.028 S29OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6223
October 29, 2019
and the patriotism they have. Most of
them have served. Most of them have
been there. Most of them will always
be there.
In 1946, this promise was con-
summated by Congress and the Presi-
dent of the United States, and all they
have said, up until that time there—
my grandfather and all my family
members working the mines—they had
nothing. So if you ever heard that
song, ‘‘I owe my soul to the company
store,’’ they really did. There was
never any money that transferred.
They had scrip, and by the time they
buy everything from the company
store, their pay basically was eaten up.
There was nothing left.
In 1946, they said there has got to be
more, and that is when it came in. Tru-
man was determined not to let this
country fall into a recession or a de-
pression after the war by keeping the
mines working because we needed the
energy for that. They have produced
this energy in a patriotic way every
time. If we can’t even keep our promise
to them through an act of Congress,
then God help us all. That is what we
are here to ask for.
We implore all of our friends—the
Senator from Wyoming is here now,
and he comes from a coal mining re-
gion. We are asking everyone just to
help us do the right thing for the work-
ing people who built this country. That
is what our request is, and it has to be
done this week; if not, I guarantee you
this problem is going to grow much
larger much quicker and more than
anybody wants to bite off and chew. I
ask all my colleagues to please help us
get this miners act to the floor. We can
take care of this pension and keep
other pensions from tumbling behind.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Wyoming.
S.J. RES. 52
Mr. BARRASSO. Madam President, I
come to the floor today to once again
discuss healthcare in America and, spe-
cifically, to oppose S.J. Res. 52, which
is the latest congressional disapproval
resolution.
What is happening here is that the
Democrats are trying to block the ef-
forts Republicans are making to actu-
ally lower the cost of health insurance.
We are working on ways to lower the
cost of health insurance for American
families, and the Democrats are trying
to block it.
Let me explain. People certainly un-
derstand that after the Obama
healthcare law was passed, healthcare
insurance premiums all across the
country went way up. I strongly oppose
the passage of this resolution, and I
strongly opposed the passage of this
law, which many of the Democrats run-
ning for President are now willing to
admit has failed.
It is interesting that the Democrats
now just say: Scrap the whole thing,
and go with a one-size-fits-all, govern-
ment-run healthcare program in which
people will pay more to wait longer for
worse care.
Ironically, it is the Republicans who,
today, are delivering on so many of the
Democrats’ empty promises about
ObamaCare because Republicans are
actually doing things to lower the cost
of care and the cost of health insurance
for American families.
I like to think of Republicans as
EMTs arriving on the scene of the
ObamaCare train wreck. We didn’t
cause the accident. We are trying to
help the victims, and the victims live
in States all across this country. For
nearly 3 years, Republicans have tried
to treat the victims of ObamaCare and
tried to help people who have been hit
by skyrocketing health insurance pre-
miums.
Last week we saw a major break-
through. For the second year in a row,
on average, we saw insurance pre-
miums on the ObamaCare exchanges
actually come down. They have actu-
ally come down. Well, it is very wel-
come news for people who have to pay
these premiums. Yet, what we see is
that the 2020 Democratic candidates,
when you listen to them, don’t seem to
be concerned about lowering the costs.
They are too busy pushing this astro-
nomically expensive $34 trillion Medi-
care for All health insurance
healthcare scheme—one that by Repub-
licans and Democrats alike has been
called a pipe dream.
To put the cost into perspective, this
total dollar figure has been estimated
by people on the Republican side of the
aisle, the Democratic side of the aisle,
folks who looked at what promises are
being made, and all have come to the
conclusion that the cost will be greater
than what we spend right now in this
country on Medicare, Medicaid, and
Social Security combined. Add it all
up, and it does not even reach the point
of what the Bernie Sanders-Elizabeth
Warren Medicare for All plan would
cost.
Interestingly, when taking a look at
the proposal, they actually want to
take away from the American people—
the 180 million people who have earned
health insurance through work—they
want to take that away from 180 mil-
lion Americans and put them all on a
one-size-fits-all, government-run pro-
gram. Even union workers, who, as
part of their contract negotiations, ne-
gotiated the health insurance they
want, would lose their hard-fought
healthcare benefits if it were ever to
become law.
We see Democrats backing what I be-
lieve is a very foolish resolution of dis-
approval. They are attacking part of
President Obama’s healthcare law. We
are talking about ObamaCare section
1332. This section of the law helps give
States more flexibility. The Presiding
Officer’s State and mine like to have
flexibility to provide better coverage
and to bring premium costs down.
We need to set the record straight on
one key point. Section 1332 never can
be used to waive protections for the
American people, such as for people
with preexisting conditions. They can
never waive those. It is not happening.
My wife is a breast cancer survivor.
She has had three operations, chemo-
therapy twice, and dozens of radiation
treatments. I know, as a doctor and as
a husband, how important it is for pa-
tients to have protections of their pre-
existing conditions. Republicans re-
main 100 percent committed to pro-
tecting people with preexisting condi-
tions. We will protect them today, to-
morrow, and always.
The House Energy and Commerce
Committee Chairman, GREG WALDEN,
asked the Centers for Medicare and
Medicaid Services for clarification re-
garding this section 1332. Adminis-
trator Seema Verma responded: ‘‘To be
very clear, the 2018 guidance does noth-
ing to erode the [healthcare law’s] pre-
existing condition provisions, which
cannot be waived under section 1332.’’
Madam President, I ask unanimous
consent that the full text of the CMS
Administrator’s letter be printed in the
RECORD.
There being no objection, the mate-
rial was ordered to be printed in the
RECORD, as follows:
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH & HUMAN
SERVICES, CENTERS FOR MEDICARE
& MEDICAID SERVICES
Hon. GREG WALDEN,
Ranking Member, Committee on Energy and
Commerce, House of Representatives, Wash-
ington, DC.
DEAR REPRESENTATIVE WALDEN: Thank you
for your continued interest in new state
flexibility available under guidance recently
issued interpreting section 1332 of the Pa-
tient Protection and Affordable Care Act
(PPACA) (the 2018 guidance). Working within
the limitations of the PPACA, this 2018 guid-
ance is an important element of the Admin-
istration’s actions to expand options and
lower costs for patients around the country.
I wanted to take this opportunity to set the
record straight and reaffirm this Adminis-
tration’s commitment to lowering
healthcare costs, increasing consumer
choices, and protecting our most vulnerable
citizens. including those who have pre-exist-
ing conditions.
To be very clear, the 2018 guidance does
nothing to erode the PPACA ’s pre-existing
condition provisions, which cannot be waived
under section 1332. Section 1332 does not per-
mit states to waive Public Health Service
Act requirements such as guaranteed avail-
ability and renewability of health insurance,
the prohibition on using health status to
vary premiums, and the prohibition on pre-
existing conditions exclusions. Furthermore.
a section 1332 waiver cannot be approved
that might otherwise undermine these re-
quirements. This Administration stands
committed to protecting people with pre-ex-
isting conditions.
Under the PPACA, we have seen dramati-
cally higher premiums and decreased options
for millions of consumers, in large part due
to the law’s overly prescriptive mandates
and excessive Federal government takeover
of areas traditionally under state oversight.
In 2019, the average monthly premium for a
benchmark plan for a family of four on
HealthCare.gov is now over $1,500, which can
easily exceed a family’s mortgage. There are
many areas of the country with far higher
monthly premiums. For example, a 60-year-
old couple living in Grand Island, Nebraska,
making $70.000 a year, will need to pay over
$3,000 per month for the lowest cost silver
plan available. That’s almost $38.000 per year
for a plan with an 11,100 deductible. That’s
over half their income.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:41 Oct 30, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00019 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G29OC6.029 S29OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6224 October 29, 2019
For millions of Americans, coverage this
expensive is not a realistic option, and many
choose to go without coverage at all. In fact,
after average premiums rose by 21 percent,
1.3 million unsubsidized people walked away
from the market in 2017 last year the prior
administration oversaw open enrollment.
While these higher premiums force some peo-
ple to go uninsured, coverage is generally
not optional for people with a pre-existing
condition and so, without a subsidy, someone
with a pre-existing condition must face the
full burden of the PPACA’s skyhigh pre-
miums. This Administration has not forgot-
ten the people facing this hardship.
Section 1332 of the PPACA provides the
discretion to approve a section 1332 state
waiver plan if the following four statutory
guardrails are met: affordability, com-
prehensiveness, coverage, and federal deficit
neutrality. Section 1332 allows states to de-
velop new healthcare programs and solutions
that would be not permissible without a sec-
tion 1332 waiver.
Unfortunately, guidance issued under the
prior Administration in December 2015 (the
2015 guidance) regarding section 1332 waivers
had the effect of significantly restricting the
innovation states could pursue. The prior
Administration imposed a one-size-fits-all
approach to these waivers, making it dif-
ficult for states to address the specific needs
of their residents.
In October, the Administration issued
guidance under section 1332 of the PPACA to
provide states with significant opportunities
to chart a different course for their markets
through expanded flexibility. Section 1332
and the 2018 guidance ensure that consumers
who wish to retain coverage similar to that
provided under the PPACA can do so, but
they empower states to take steps to sta-
bilize their markets and allow more afford-
able coverage options that may be more at-
tractive to individuals and families priced
out of the current market, including people
with pre-existing conditions.
Over the past two years, this Administra-
tion has approved seven section 1332 waivers
authorizing reinsurance programs to help
fund claims for people with high healthcare
costs. These reinsurance programs provide
much needed premium relief for people in
the market and, in particular, for people
with pre-existing conditions without other
coverage options. These section 1332 waivers
were all approved under the prior, more re-
strictive 2015 guidance. I believe, given the
expanded flexibility discussed in the 2018
guidance, states will be able to develop addi-
tional healthcare programs and solutions
that work for their residents.
As you know, some have criticized the
state flexibility offered under the 2018 guid-
ance, claiming that states will pursue sec-
tion 1332 waivers that undermine their own
individual market risk pools and make cov-
erage more expensive for their own residents
with pre-existing conditions. Again, I want
to make clear that a section 1332 waiver can-
not undermine coverage for people with pre-
existing conditions. Moreover, any section
1332 waiver will need to carefully account for
any impact on the individual market risk
pool and guarantee that access to coverage is
at least as comprehensive and affordable as
would exist without the waiver.
So, if a state seeks to pursue the use of
more affordable options, such as cata-
strophic plans or short-term limited dura-
tion plans, under a section 1332 state waiver
plan, the state must ensure access to cov-
erage that is overall as affordable and com-
prehensive for people who remain in the indi-
vidual market risk pool.
Thank you again for your shared interest
in bringing down healthcare costs and pro-
tecting our fellow Americans with pre-exist-
ing conditions. We remain focused on im-
proving our nation’s health care system by
empowering states to innovate and develop
new solutions to expand access to affordable
and high value coverage options, and we look
forward to working with you to achieve
these goals. Should you have questions,
please contact the CMS Office of Legislation.
Sincerely,
SEEMA VERMA.
Mr. BARRASSO. Madam President,
the letter proves that all patients will
be protected. Section 1332 simply gives
States some leeway—a little wiggle
room for following the law and how to
use and apply the law best in their own
States.
All State waivers must meet the fol-
lowing conditions: They must provide
coverage at least as broad as is cur-
rently offered under the healthcare
law; they must provide coverage and
cost-sharing at least as affordable as
under the healthcare law; they must
provide coverage to at least as many
people as under the healthcare law; and
they must not increase the Federal def-
icit.
The section 1332 waivers leave protec-
tions for preexisting conditions
unharmed. They are not just popular
with Republican Governors. It is inter-
esting that the people applying for
these 1332 waivers are Democratic Gov-
ernors from around the country. They
are at odds with what the Democrats in
the Senate are trying to do. They are
pursuing waivers. They are asking the
Trump administration for waivers for
their States as well. Why would these
Democratic Governors come to the
Trump administration and ask for
waivers? It is because they work. The
reason the Democratic Governors are
coming to the Trump administration
asking for waivers is that they work.
In fact, a number of States are using
these waivers today to help lower the
cost of health insurance.
Let’s look at the States whose sec-
tion 1332 waivers have been approved
since the Trump administration guid-
ance was issued. Let’s look at just the
States that have applied for waivers
since the new Trump administration
guidance was issued. Again, these waiv-
ers were approved using the very same
guidance that the Democrats in the
Senate now want to have repealed.
It is astonishing. The States with
1332 waivers since the Trump adminis-
tration came out with its guidance are
Colorado, Delaware, Montana, North
Dakota, and Rhode Island. Nearly all
have Democratic Governors—four out
of the five do—and have Democratic
Senators in many cases or they have
both.
Take a look at what has happened for
the proposed premiums for 2020—what
they are expected to be in States under
the leadership of Democratic Gov-
ernors who have asked for and have
been granted waivers from the Trump
administration and what the impact is
on insurance premiums in these States.
In Colorado, with a Democratic Gov-
ernor and one Democratic Senator, the
rates are going to fall this next year by
about 16 percent. In Delaware, with a
Democratic Governor and two Demo-
cratic Senators, the rates will fall
about 13 percent. In Montana, with one
Democratic Governor and one Demo-
cratic Senator, one Republican Sen-
ator, rates will fall by 8 percent. In
Rhode Island, with a Democratic Gov-
ernor and two Democratic Senators,
rates will fall by about 6 percent.
So in State after State where Demo-
cratic Governors applied for and were
granted a waiver, they have seen rates
go down. Yet Democratic Senators on
the other side of the aisle are offering
a resolution to remove these waivers,
to remove the guidance from the
Trump administration that is resulting
in rates of insurance and the costs
going down.
Of course we need to fix healthcare in
this country, but we need to take a
scalpel to our healthcare problems, not
a meat cleaver, which is what we see
the Democrats doing.
The Obama healthcare law was a
train wreck. Republicans opposed it all
the way. We are still treating the vic-
tims of this wreck, and we want to help
them for years into the future by
changing and coming out with guid-
ance that will make it easier and give
flexibility to the States, whether their
legislature is Republican or Demo-
cratic, to help lower the high cost of
ObamaCare insurance.
I find it outrageous that Senate
Democrats are wasting precious
healthcare debate time. They should be
working with us to find solutions to
lower the cost of care, to lower the cost
of prescription drugs, to provide more
accountability and more transparency
so that patients can make more in-
formed decisions.
Even as we address this issue and
vote on this joint resolution tomorrow,
it is time to really take a look at what
the Democrats are saying in the Senate
as opposed to what the Democrats who
are in the statehouses are doing across
the country.
I say, let’s make sure the States can
keep the relief they are asking for and
are getting by rejecting what the
Democrats in the Senate are proposing.
Let’s keep working to give patients
what they need, which is the care they
need from a doctor they choose at
lower costs.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Arizona is recognized.
Ms. SINEMA. Madam President, I
rise today to address one of the biggest
concerns facing everyday families in
Arizona: making healthcare more af-
fordable and maintaining critical
healthcare protections.
Sometimes the issues discussed on
the Senate floor appear far removed
from the concerns of everyday Ameri-
cans, but not today. Today’s debate fo-
cuses the Senate’s attention on the
most important issue for many Arizo-
nans and offers elected officials the op-
portunity to reject partisan political
games in favor of commonsense solu-
tions.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:41 Oct 30, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00020 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A29OC6.003 S29OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6225
October 29, 2019
Not long ago, insurance companies
were allowed to deny care or over-
charge Americans based on the fact
that those Americans had been sick be-
fore or had been born with a chronic
condition.
Arizonans who had been previously
treated for skin cancer or diabetes
were told that no insurance company
would cover them or that the insurance
plans they purchased would not cover
their preexisting conditions, despite
promises of comprehensive coverage.
Beyond major illnesses, Arizonans with
even common conditions, such as high
blood pressure, high cholesterol, asth-
ma, and even acne, were denied the
coverage they needed. Until recently,
insurance companies had also been al-
lowed to charge consumers high prices
for insurance plans only to leave out
coverage for essential health benefits
that virtually all Americans eventu-
ally need, such as prescription drug
costs, ambulance costs, and hospital
stays—critical needs that consumers
rightly expect will be covered.
Insurance is supposed to be there
when people need it. Hard-working
Americans who play by the rules and
pay their monthly premiums shouldn’t
have the rug pulled out from under
them at the very moment they need
healthcare. That is why such discrimi-
nation against people with preexisting
health conditions is now banned and
why health insurance plans are now re-
quired to cover essential health bene-
fits. That is why it is so disturbing
that the administration and some
Members of Congress have begun mov-
ing backward, allowing insurance com-
panies to again sell plans to Americans
that lack the very health protections
consumers need.
Congress has a lot of work to do to
make healthcare affordable and protect
access for American families and busi-
nesses, from lowering premiums to
stopping surprise medical billing, but
partisan approaches will not solve
these challenges. We can and must
work across the aisle to pass bipartisan
solutions, such as increasing the num-
ber of doctors to address provider
shortages, lowering costs for home
health services, expanding mental
healthcare, and eliminating the health
insurance tax.
I have partnered with colleagues on
both sides of the aisle to sponsor legis-
lation that achieves these goals, but al-
lowing insurance companies to return
to their old practices will only hurt ev-
eryday Arizona families. These health
plans lack key protections. They are
often called junk plans and for good
reason. Junk plans mislead Arizo-
nans—selling something billed as
health insurance when, in fact, it is
better described as a bill of goods.
When Arizonans who are sold these
plans need to actually use the coverage
they paid for, the rug gets pulled out
from under them yet again.
I hear from hard-working Arizonans
on a daily basis who deserve access to
critical health protections; Arizonans
like Chantal, who has a preexisting
autoimmune disease that without
treatment would cause her to become
blind; Arizonans like Corrine from
Phoenix, whose daughter was born with
a congenital heart condition—before
the law protected people with pre-
existing conditions, Corrine’s family
was unable to find an insurer who
would cover their family—and Arizo-
nans like John from Casa Grande, who
signed up for a plan that he was told
covered preexisting conditions only to
find out after he paid his first month’s
premium, that his particular pre-
existing condition wouldn’t qualify for
coverage.
There are 2.8 million Arizonans under
the age of 65 just like Chantal, Corrine,
and John who live with preexisting
health conditions. That is half of all
nonelderly Arizonans whose healthcare
is at risk. These Arizonans remind us
exactly what is at stake and exactly
what is wrong with partisan politics in
Washington today. For too long, too
many elected officials here have fo-
cused on how they can score political
points to help them win the next elec-
tion, all at the expense of the health
and security of everyday families.
Arizonans are rightly worried that
the dysfunction and chaos they see
coming from Washington could threat-
en their family’s coverage, and that is
unacceptable.
It is time to get partisan politics out
of Arizonans’ healthcare. I call on both
parties to quit the partisan games,
come together, and stop the sale of
junk plans that fail to protect people
with preexisting conditions. We must
protect access to healthcare for these
millions of Arizonans and tens of mil-
lions of Americans, and we must make
healthcare more affordable for every-
day families.
I urge my colleagues to vote yes on
S.J. Res. 52.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Delaware.
IMPEACHMENT
Mr. COONS. Madam President, I
come to the floor as a proud Member of
this Chamber of the Senate and as
someone who believes earnestly in our
role in our country’s constitutional
order. I am on the floor because a real
and significant challenge to this body
and each of our Members is potentially
in the very near future.
Right now, the House of Representa-
tives is holding an impeachment in-
quiry, focused on grave and significant
charges against our President related
to the very threats to our democracy of
foreign interference that our Founders
feared the most. I am not here to argue
over whether President Trump’s ac-
tions deserve impeachment or perhaps
even removal from office. It is, I think,
inappropriate to reach that point. In-
stead, I am here today, as the inquiry
proceeds in the House, to urge my col-
leagues in the Senate—Republicans,
Independents, and Democrats—to take
seriously the moment we are in and the
tests we may have soon ahead as a Sen-
ate when we will need to uphold and
defend the role of this institution.
I am on the floor to issue a challenge
to all of my colleagues. If an impeach-
ment trial does take place in the Sen-
ate, all of us must decide to approach
it as Americans—less as people rep-
resenting any parochial or partisan or
particular interest, less as Democrats
or Republicans or Independents, and in-
stead as Senators. If we are called to
serve as jurors in an impeachment
trial, all of us must show our Nation
and the world that this body—that this
institution—has not been completely
overtaken by the divisive political era
in which we live. Nothing less than the
Senate’s very legitimacy will be at
stake.
Our Founders warned about the chal-
lenge of this moment. They warned
specifically that foreign powers im-
properly influencing our American
Government were, in the words of Alex-
ander Hamilton, ‘‘the most deadly ad-
versaries of republican government.’’
This is why our Constitution entrusts
Congress with the enormous power of
potential removal through impeach-
ment.
James Madison called impeachment
‘‘indispensable . . . for defending the
Community [against] the incapacity,
negligence or perfidy of the chief Mag-
istrate’’—a reference to the President.
Alexander Hamilton argued that the
Senate was the proper body to hold an
impeachment trial. The Founders en-
trusted us to protect our country from
‘‘the misconduct of public men’’ and
‘‘the abuse or violation of some public
trust.’’
George Mason put forward the pre-
cise language that appears in our Con-
stitution, the language of ‘‘high crimes
and misdemeanors’’ and urged that im-
peachment must be a remedy to re-
move even a President, asking: ‘‘Shall
any man be above Justice?’’ Our
Founders insisted that no one—no
one—in our Nation, in our constitu-
tional order, not even our President, is
above the law. This fundamental prin-
ciple remains the very linchpin of our
government.
Based on what we know today from
press reports about the President’s ac-
tions and from notes of a conversation,
I believe it is critical that the House
conduct a thorough impeachment in-
quiry. If the House does vote impeach-
ment articles, Members of the Senate
will have to live up to the responsibil-
ities which the Framers of our Nation
entrusted to us. The eyes of history
will be upon us.
Let me be clear. I am not saying that
if the House should vote articles of im-
peachment, it will be the Senate’s duty
to vote to remove him. It will be, in-
stead, the responsibility of every single
Senator to carry out their duty to
serve as impartial jurors with their
principle focus—their oath—to uphold
and defend the Constitution and noth-
ing else informing our decisions.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:41 Oct 30, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00021 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G29OC6.031 S29OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6226 October 29, 2019
This is a challenge to all of my col-
leagues. Both Republicans and Demo-
crats must appreciate the gravity of
this process as we call on our col-
leagues to do the same. Democrats,
equally with Republicans, must not
allow our vigorous disagreements with
this President and our colleagues to in-
fluence our judgment and cloud it. We
have to understand that this process—
this likely future moment—is far more
important than our own individual po-
litical fortunes. An impeachment trial
of a President would be a true test of
the integrity and capabilities of the
Senate—our commitment to follow the
facts, to consider the evidence, and to
apply the rule of law. It will be a test
that we, as a body, cannot afford to
fail.
It is important to begin the process
of establishing what that process
might look like as soon as there are
impeachment articles, if that is the di-
rection the House takes. The basic
rules are clear as stated in the Con-
stitution: The House is given the ‘‘sole
power of impeachment,’’ and the Sen-
ate ‘‘the sole power to try,’’ as jury,
‘‘all impeachments.’’ If the House votes
to impeach, the Senate must conduct a
trial and either convict by two-thirds
or acquit on whatever counts are pre-
sented.
At that trial, the Chief Justice of the
U.S. Supreme Court will preside; the
House managers will present the case;
the President’s counsel presents his de-
fense; and the Senators serve as the
jury. The manner in which our leaders,
Leader MCCONNELL and Leader SCHU-
MER, direct the Senate in the event of
a trial will be the most important test
in a generation of whether our Senate
remains capable of enforcing the law,
living up to the Constitution, and up-
holding the responsibilities our Found-
ers bestowed upon us.
I will remind you of the opening vote
in the Senate of the impeachment trial
for President Clinton. The vote that
set the rules under which that trial
would proceed was unanimous. It was
100 to 0. An impeachment trial, should
it come in the near future here, must
not be gamed or politicized or sub-
jected to brinksmanship, and any trial
should be governed by rules that are
passed on a broad and bipartisan basis,
animated by justice over partisanship.
In many ways, an impeachment trial
would mean that our institution of the
Senate would itself also be on trial. We
as a body need to show the American
people and the world that we are more
than just 100 elected politicians who
have been brought here by partisan
whim or by a bare majority of our
States but, instead, by a body whose
sum is much more than its individual
parts. We must act as stewards to-
gether for our democracy. History is
watching us, all of us—Democrats,
Independents, Republicans. How we re-
spond will shape and impact our Senate
and our Nation for years to come.
In the days, weeks, or months to
come, I hope my colleagues will rise to
the challenges we face, deliberate with
an eye toward history, an ear toward
our constituents, and a heart focused
on our Constitution, and prove that, in
this body, we answer to the Constitu-
tion, not to any particular or partisan
loyalty to our President or to any
other elected official. The health of our
very institutions and of democracy
itself is at stake.
REMEMBERING SONIA SCHORR SLOAN
Madam President, in my home State
of Delaware, we have just lost a dear
friend and a remarkable leader.
Sonia Schorr Sloan was a force of na-
ture. ‘‘Sonny,’’ as we affectionately
called her, dedicated her life to con-
fronting social injustices, and her ac-
tivism, her philanthropy, her
mentorship, and her public service
made my home State of Delaware a
better place for everyone. So I rise to
celebrate and honor her work, her spir-
it, and her impact on so many of us.
Her story began on April 1, 1928. She
was born in Wilmington, DE, to par-
ents Sigmund and Rosalia Schorr. Sig-
mund Schorr was a well-known
Wilmingtonian haberdasher, who was
elected to the Delaware General As-
sembly and later served for many years
as president of the New Castle County
Board of Elections. Rosalia, her moth-
er, worked as a public schoolteacher
and was very active with community
and civic groups, like the Young Wom-
en’s Hebrew Association and the Gar-
deners Guild of the Arden Club. Sonny
credited her parents for raising her in
an atmosphere of active community in-
volvement.
Throughout her life, she was excep-
tionally bright and gifted. As an hon-
ors graduate of Wilmington High
School, she pursued a bachelor’s degree
in bacteriology and graduated magna
cum laude from Syracuse University in
1949. She was accepted to Jefferson
Medical College in Philadelphia, where
she earned her master’s degree in
microbiology. She was the very first
woman to graduate from Jefferson in
its 125-year history and was the first
student to complete graduate work
there. After teaching several years at
Temple University School of Medicine,
she became the very first woman hired
by DuPont to work in the prestigious
central research department in Wil-
mington, which is where many great
inventions were made.
While at DuPont, she got involved
with the Young Democrats and met fel-
low scientist Gilbert Jacob Sloan of
nearby Fairfax. Sonny and Gil, who
were, frankly, inseparable for the rest
of their lives, fell in love. A few years
later, they were married at Temple
Beth Emeth on Memorial Day of 1957.
Together, they raised two wonderful
sons, Victor and Jonathan.
During this period, Sonny became
more and more involved with local
community groups and political orga-
nizations. Sonny’s commitment to pub-
lic service was a hallmark of her life.
She was a skilled and forceful advo-
cate, a tireless campaign organizer,
and a relentless fundraiser for commu-
nity groups and campaigns alike.
Whether it seemed doable or not, when
she saw a need, she would fill it.
When people felt like Delaware need-
ed a more active advocacy organization
or they were concerned about civil lib-
erties and civil justice and civil rights,
Sonny and others founded and
launched the Delaware Chapter of the
ACLU. When she became increasingly
concerned about the restrictions on ac-
cess to reproductive rights, she
launched and ran a capital campaign to
build a brandnew facility for Planned
Parenthood of Delaware. She was in-
volved in the creation and launch of an
AmeriCorps program, Public Allies of
Delaware, and the Cancer Support
Community of Delaware. She was in-
volved in so many different civic and
community organizations and in so
many campaigns that they are more
than I could relate in my time on the
floor.
Her legacy of service to our State,
which began more than 60 years ago,
steadily grew over the next 50, 60 years.
She eventually formed her own fund-
raising firm, and according to Sonny,
it raised over $100 million for various
nonprofits and agencies. She was able
to pick and choose the causes she
championed and didn’t do anything for
which she lacked passion. Her work
touched our whole community, from
the Food Bank of Delaware and the
West End Neighborhood House to the
YWCA of Delaware and the Delaware
College of Art and Design.
Besides supporting these many
causes, Sonny invested in the people in
whom she believed. She was a mentor
from the very first days of when a
young, then-29-year-old Joe Biden
launched his campaign first for county
council and then for the U.S. Senate,
and she played a central role in Joe
Biden’s first election in 1972 to this
body. Sonia Sloan mentored countless
other people and dozens of other elect-
ed officials, not just my predecessor
and the Vice President. She was a men-
tor to this young candidate as well
when I first ran for office.
Equally, if not more importantly, she
was a tireless and engaged mentor for
folks no one has heard of—folks not
elected but folks in need. She was a
mentor for a young man who had just
been released from our local juvenile
detention center. Sonny helped him get
a State identification card, helped him
get a new job, and helped him get a
new bicycle—a reliable means of trans-
portation. She helped him, mentored
him, and supported him until he was
able to get back on his feet.
She recorded books for the blind. At
one point, she even agreed to put up
the deed of her own home to bail out a
Vietnam war protester from jail. These
were the sorts of things Sonny did that
many have never heard of.
She won too many awards in our
State to name, but she was inducted
into the Hall of Fame of Delaware
Women. Yet she wasn’t the sort of per-
son to hold up these accomplishments.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:41 Oct 30, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00022 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G29OC6.032 S29OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6227
October 29, 2019
Aside from her civic engagements, she
loved to run and was often seen jogging
around Rockford Park, which is near
my home. She adored cooking for her
family; she collected stamps; she could
play the flute and piano; and she loved
to read.
Upon learning that Sonny had passed
away at age 91, one friend remarked
that Sonny still had so many stories to
share and so much energy and passion
to give.
Another friend called her a beacon of
light and a pillar of courage whose
light will shine for many years to
come.
She never stopped taking a chance on
young candidates and on first-time
candidates.
A friend of mine, recently elected
State Senator Laura Sturgeon, said:
Sonny Sloan took a chance on me, even
though I had no political experience,
name recognition, or resources. Once
people heard she was in my corner, en-
dorsements and support poured in. I am
who I am because of my parents, but I
am where I am, representing the
Fourth District in the State Senate,
because of Sonia Sloan.
It is clear that she accomplished
many firsts, broke many barriers, and
paved endless paths for many people.
She had strong and passionate feelings
about countless issues, but the em-
powerment of women, the election of
women to office, and the advancement
of women in our society was absolutely
at the forefront.
As she so often said, ‘‘Women’s issues
are not just women’s issues; they are
everybody’s issues.’’
One of the last times I got to see
Sonny was at a dinner in her honor in
March of this year. It was there that I
joined hundreds of friends and neigh-
bors to recognize her legacy of service,
from her efforts to end the Vietnam
war to her advocacy for women’s
rights. She lived her life committed to
a deep belief she shared with many of
us—to focus on what you can do to
change just one life for the better be-
cause, as the Talmud teaches, when
you change one life, you can change
the world. Sonny did that thousands of
times.
She was tough and determined, funny
and smart. She never hesitated to offer
very direct input to those of us she
knew needed correction or direction,
but she could equally offer compelling
and comforting advice. She has been
and will continue to be that voice of
conscience inside my head, challenging
me not to settle for the easy but to
push for what seems difficult or even
impossible.
Her dedication for fighting for justice
was rivaled only by her tireless love for
Gil, Victor, Jonathan, her five grand-
daughters, and five great-grand-
children. She was the best of what we
are as Delawareans. Her sharp intel-
ligence, her fierce resolve, and her un-
wavering dedication to people and
causes will be impossible to replace.
So, to Sonny, I wish to say: We will
all miss you—family, friends, neigh-
bors, and the thousands whose lives
you have touched. You have affected
the lives of countless Delawareans. I
am truly grateful to have known you
and to have been a part of your work to
make our State and our world a better
place. You will forever have my deep-
est thanks.
Back in October of 1969, in con-
cluding an anti-war rally, Sonia read a
Jewish prayer with some touching and,
I think, fitting final words:
Bless our country, that it may always be a
stronghold of peace, and its advocate among
the nations. May contentment reign within
its border, health and happiness within its
homes. Strengthen the bonds of friendship
among the inhabitants of all lands, and may
the love of Your name hallow every home
and every heart.
These are touching and fitting words.
Sonny, bless you and thank you.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Colorado.
H.R. 3055
Mr. GARDNER. Madam President, I
come to the floor to talk about several
amendments I am working on in rela-
tion to the Commerce, Justice,
Science, and Related Agencies; the Ag-
riculture; the Interior and Environ-
ment, and Related Agencies; and the
Transportation, Housing and Urban De-
velopment, and Related Agencies ap-
propriations bills that this body will be
working on shortly.
The first amendment I am offering to
the legislation addresses a very serious
issue; that being the rising scourge of
methamphetamine around the country.
Methamphetamine—meth—use is
something we talked a lot about a dec-
ade ago. Conversations turned to opioid
abuse in this country—and rightfully
so—and focused on opioids, but unfor-
tunately meth use is now increasing
dramatically in States like Colorado as
we continue to address the opioid epi-
demic.
When I traveled across Colorado over
the summer and last week and through
the August work period, I heard from
rural sheriffs across the State who
were especially concerned about the se-
vere impact that meth was having on
our small communities. Headlines this
summer and as recently as this week
talked about the increase in meth use
across Colorado and the country.
From 2011 to 2018, treatment admis-
sions for meth across Colorado in-
creased by nearly 40 percent. In 2018,
318 people died in Colorado from meth
overdoses. That is a 750-percent in-
crease over 10 years. From 1999 to 2018,
there has been a 1,450-percent increase
in meth deaths in Denver alone. In
2018, which was just last year, the Den-
ver Police made nearly 1,500 meth-re-
lated arrests. Indeed, there were more
meth arrests in Denver than there were
arrests for heroin and cocaine com-
bined.
Meth causes property damage. It
damages our families. It can cause, cer-
tainly, permanent damage to the indi-
vidual who is using meth, and it causes
tremendous harm to families. In Utah,
just in August, nearly $2.2 million
worth of methamphetamine was con-
fiscated—seized—in the State of Utah
that was heading to Colorado. That $2.2
million was enough meth to provide 1.1
million individual doses in Colorado. It
was on its way, and it would have done
great harm.
I have introduced an amendment
that would add $1 million to the COPS
Anti-Methamphetamine Program. This
$1 million increase would allow one
more fully funded grant to go to an
area, to a State, to a drug program to
help reduce and to break up this cycle
of meth.
We have heard from the people in
Colorado. We have heard from the sher-
iffs. We have heard from our commu-
nities to do more. I believe this amend-
ment does more to help to address the
epidemic of meth and the lives it is
shattering in Colorado, and I hope my
colleagues will be able to support this
issue.
In particular, I thank Senator
DAINES, Senator TESTER, Senator
GILLIBRAND, Senator BALDWIN, and
Senator JONES, who have all joined me
in adding $1 million, fully paid for and
offset within the bill, in order to help
combat this epidemic of meth in our
country and certainly in our States
like Colorado.
Another amendment I have been
working on is the bulletproof vest
amendment. We have seen far too
many attacks on our law enforcement
over the past several years. This legis-
lation would provide a $1.1 billion fund
for our Nation’s law enforcement offi-
cers with type 3 bulletproof vests.
These vests are capable of stopping
more powerful rifle ballistics and,
therefore, would allow more officers to
come home at the end of the day from
their service. That is what we need to
be focusing on—how to protect the men
and women in blue in our communities.
I am proud to have joined legislation
earlier this year that has been signed
into law that permanently reauthorizes
the Bulletproof Vest Partnership Grant
Program, and I hope we continue to
build and offer our support to those
who defend that thin blue line.
The crown jewel of our conservation
programs, the Land and Water Con-
servation Fund, has benefited Colorado
and this country so significantly over
the past several decades. It is some-
thing that has affected every State in
the country in our being able to pre-
serve and protect some of our most
pristine environments across this great
land. Last spring, we were able to work
together in a bipartisan effort to per-
manently authorize the Land and
Water Conservation Fund.
This legislation, which is the amend-
ment I will be offering to the bill,
would fully fund the Land and Water
Conservation Fund. So, while we have
done a great thing in permanently au-
thorizing the Land and Water Con-
servation Fund, we need to fully fund
the Land and Water Conservation
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:41 Oct 30, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00023 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G29OC6.036 S29OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6228 October 29, 2019
Fund. This amendment would do just
that and fully fund the Land and Water
Conservation Fund.
Why is this important?
The outdoor economy, that of pro-
tecting our public lands, is so critical
to the State of Colorado. The outdoor
economy alone in Colorado generates
$28 billion in consumer spending and $2
billion in State and local tax revenue.
It employs close to 230,000 people just
in Colorado alone, which makes Colo-
rado the year-round destination for
visitors. If you are interested in skiing,
there are already 40 inches of snow in
Summit County, and several ski re-
sorts have opened up already. It is
snowing right now in Colorado, so this
amendment is all the more important
as people look to our State for the con-
tinued enjoyment of the great out-
doors.
I have a bipartisan amendment with
seven of my colleagues—Senators BEN-
NET, DAINES, TESTER, BURR, HEINRICH,
COLLINS, and SHAHEEN—that will fully
fund the Land and Water Conservation
Fund for fiscal year 2020, and I hope
this Chamber will support the legisla-
tion.
I am also working on an amendment
that will address the ski area fees that
our ski resorts pay to the Federal Gov-
ernment in order to operate on public
lands and have their ski runs on public
lands. Many times, the ski resorts, the
ski areas, are the largest employers in
our mountain communities and con-
tribute significantly to the economy
and to the health and stability of our
local communities.
There are 122 of our ski areas that
operate on National Forest System
lands. They generate, roughly, $37 mil-
lion in rental fees for the Treasury. Yet
staffing levels for those very recreation
programs are 40-percent lower than
they were in the year 2000. Just as
more and more people are enjoying our
public lands, we see fewer and fewer
people who are employed by the Fed-
eral Government to deal with those
public lands, to process the permitting
needs, and to address the needs of our
public lands.
Fire borrowing has been an issue that
has gobbled up some of the funding
that has helped manage our forests. We
have put a bipartisan fix in place that
will no longer allow that money to be
gobbled up, but we need to find a solu-
tion as to the ski area fee retention as
well so we can allow that money to
stay within the forest in which it is
generated.
Now that we have the fire borrowing
fix, we can put the ski area fee bill in
place and have even more dollars re-
turned to the forest from which those
fees are generated so we can address
the staffing issues and other complex
issues we face in our national forests.
This bill alone would allow a portion of
that $37 million to be returned to the
forests from which they were gen-
erated. That means more timely per-
mit application processing at the For-
est Service and better customer service
from those in the ski areas that are
trying to accommodate even more and
more people who visit our great ski
areas.
I am also working on an amendment
to the legislation that deals with RTD,
which is our public transit system in
Denver, and the Front Range.
Years ago, the Department of Trans-
portation was working on an effort
that refunded some programs in Colo-
rado. The RTD, more than 20 years
early, had basically paid off the loan on
one of these projects. The RTD was
told it would be reimbursed by the De-
partment of Transportation if it paid
this off. Unfortunately, even though it
has paid it off early, it has not been re-
imbursed.
If you look at the effort and the
project it accomplished with this loan,
the Denver Union Station project is
one of the highlights of urban renewal
in the country. The RTD got the loan
successfully paid off early—a great suc-
cess. Now it needs that money back in
order to continue investing in Colo-
rado. I am working with Senator BEN-
NET to make sure this money gets back
to Colorado, which is one of the amend-
ments we have filed.
Mr. GARDNER. The National Insti-
tute of Standards and Technology is
one of the Nation’s premier research
agencies in the Federal Government.
Colorado is lucky to house the second-
largest contingent of NIST staff in
Boulder, where they work on issues
like telecommunications, biosciences,
forensics, and quantum information
science and technology.
NIST’s Boulder campus, and their af-
filiated NIST/JILA partnership, has
won three Nobel Prizes and three Na-
tional Medals of Science. These pre-
eminent experts were charged with
continuing to build on the successes in
the National Quantum Initiative Act,
which passed into law just this last
Congress.
But in order to remain competitive
globally, competing against countries
like China, the United States has to
continue its robust investments in
science and research and development,
and that is going to require investing
in our science facilities as well.
When I was able to travel to the
NIST facilities in Boulder, I witnessed
a trash can and giant trash bag used to
collect rainwater from a leaky roof.
Nobel scientists—prize-winning sci-
entists working there. It is harmful to
think that it is okay for this great
country to have Nobel Prize-winning
scientists working in a facility that
can’t even keep them dry because the
roof leaks.
While I am grateful to the Appropria-
tion Committee’s attention to increas-
ing the construction and facilities
budget for NIST in recent years, we
have a lot more work to do. That is
why, in light of the National Quantum
Initiative, I introduced an amendment
to the Appropriations bill to provide an
additional $161 million for construction
and renovation costs for NIST projects.
In partnering with universities, like
the University of Colorado at Boulder,
NIST can continue to expand their
work on issues like quantum in ren-
ovated and new state-of-the-art re-
search facilities. That benefits the
United States and will retain and grow
our competitive advantage around the
globe.
Another issue that I continue to hear
about in Colorado, that we were able to
address through the appropriations
package before us, is affordable hous-
ing. It is an urban issue; it is some-
thing that you face in Boulder or Den-
ver or Colorado Springs. But it is an
issue that I hear in some of the small-
est communities, as well as the biggest
communities.
So Senator YOUNG and I have been
working on an amendment that deals
with affordable housing. We know we
have a relationship between the lack of
affordable housing and issues relating
to health, education, nutrition, and job
outcomes. And those issues, combined
with homelessness and lack of afford-
able housing, combine with other
issues to create strains on government
and other social services.
The amendment we have offered will
help us better understand those chal-
lenges and the root causes of and lack
of affordable housing, and help us un-
derstand the effects of the affordable
housing crisis on health and education
and employment as well.
It will help us to understand what
work we need to do to solve the prob-
lem or whether there are smaller pro-
grams that are already working to ex-
pand, to help, do even more good.
These are a number of bills related to
the great State of Colorado, and in this
country and I think will do a lot of
good, and as we process these appro-
priations bills in a bipartisan fashion,
we will be able to improve and help in
addressing some major issues.
With that, Madam President, I yield
the floor.
HEALTH INSURANCE PLANS
Mr. CARDIN. Madam President,
today I wish to discuss this administra-
tion’s perpetual actions to weaken pro-
tections for people with preexisting
conditions.
Last fall, the administration issued
guidance for the Patient Protection
and Affordable Care Act—ACA—that
would loosen the statutory guardrails
for 1332 State waivers. The guidance
encourages states to increase access to
ACA non-compliant coverage.
The actions of the administration
cannot make this message any clearer:
President Trump does not support pro-
tections for people with pre-existing
conditions.
Because of the ACA, health insurance
companies cannot refuse to cover
someone or charge someone more just
because they have a prexisting condi-
tion. Among the most common pre-ex-
isting conditions are high blood pres-
sure, behavioral health disorders, high
cholesterol, asthma/chronic lung dis-
ease, heart conditions, diabetes, and
cancer.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:41 Oct 30, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00024 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G29OC6.037 S29OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6229
October 29, 2019
In 2017, HHS released a report stating
that as many as 133 million non-elderly
Americans have a preexisting condi-
tion. The Maryland Health Benefit Ex-
change estimates that there are ap-
proximately 2.5 million nonelderly
Marylanders with a preexisting condi-
tion, 320,000 of which are children.
Unfortunately, the Trump adminis-
tration is taking actions that directly
threaten these 133 million Americans,
actions, which can lead to them being
denied access to healthcare.
The Trump administration’s updated
guidance on section 1332 waivers skirts
the intention of the law. Originally
section 1332 of the ACA provided States
with the flexibility to test new health
coverage programs, as long as innova-
tion waivers met certain criteria.
States applying for 1332 waivers had to
show that their proposal provided resi-
dents with health coverage with at
least the same level of protections
guaranteed by the ACA, that was at
least as affordable, and covered at least
a comparable number of State resi-
dents as currently covered under the
ACA.
For example, Maryland was able to
use a 1332 waiver to establish a State
reinsurance program, which lowered in-
surance premiums by as much as 22
percent from 2018 premiums.
However, the Trump administration
has issued guidance that redefines the
guardrails of section 1332 and will now
allow States to include plans that do
not comply with the ACA’s consumer
protections. The guidance also encour-
ages states to allow premium tax cred-
its for non-ACA compliant plans, plans
that don’t offer essential health bene-
fits or protect those with preexisting
conditions.
The updated 1332 guidance allows
State waiver applications to ignore
statutory guardrails to ensure that
coverage is not less affordable under a
waiver, especially for those with high
healthcare spending. This new guid-
ance also sets a dangerous precedent,
where a State waiver could skew num-
bers to disproportionately count junk
plans in a State’s total number of lives
covered.
The updated 1332 guidance again
makes it very clear that President
Trump and this administration do not
support affordable insurance for those
with preexisting conditions. I was
proud to join Senator WARNER in intro-
ducing a Congressional Review Act res-
olution to overturn the administra-
tion’s 1332 waiver guidance to ensure
protections for individuals with pre-
existing conditions.
The harm done by this administra-
tion towards individuals with pre-
existing conditions will lead to higher
costs of care for the millions of Ameri-
cans. This resolution is a clear oppor-
tunity to show our opposition to the
actions of the Trump administration to
deny coverage for individuals with pre-
existing conditions.
My Democratic colleagues and I are
calling attention to ACA, which has
worked and is working, and how the
Trump administration’s actions seek
to overturn the progress we have made
to strip consumer protections like pro-
tections for preexisting conditions
away from patients. We can’t afford as
a country to go back to the days before
the ACA. Nearly 130 million non-elder-
ly Americans relay on the protections
provided by the ACA to guarantee that
no insurer could deny them coverage.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Rhode Island.
Mr. REED. Madam President, today I
would like to address my colleagues to
discuss one of the latest attempts from
the Trump administration to under-
mine and sabotage the Affordable Care
Act. This week, the Senate will vote on
a Congressional Resolution of Dis-
approval—CRA—on a Trump adminis-
tration final rule that gives States
broad latitude to ignore the consumer
protections of the Affordable Care Act.
The rule essentially gives patients in
those States the choice between health
insurance that doesn’t provide cov-
erage when it is needed the most—so-
called junk plans—or being priced out
of the health insurance market en-
tirely.
As we have already seen, Republican
lawmakers in some States are more
than eager to dismantle the protec-
tions of the Affordable Care Act and
bring back the days of insurance com-
panies being in charge, putting profits
above the health of consumers in those
States.
In fact, about 20 such States have
gone a step further by moving forward
a lawsuit seeking to invalidate the
ACA in its entirety. This is not a theo-
retical threat to our healthcare sys-
tem. Over the next year, we will see a
final ruling on this lawsuit, and a rul-
ing in favor of these States will be
nothing short of catastrophic.
Not only will this upend the
healthcare system as we know it in
those States, this ruling would apply
to every State, even those like my
home State of Rhode Island, which has
done an outstanding job of imple-
menting the ACA, expanding coverage,
and making healthcare more affordable
for all.
The Affordable Care Act has given in-
dividuals and families more choice,
more affordable options, and more con-
trol over their healthcare. With these
new options for health coverage, the
uninsured rate in Rhode Island has
reached historic lows, hovering around
4 percent.
Today, because the ACA is the law of
the land, insurance companies can no
longer deny you coverage for pre-
existing conditions or put an annual
lifetime cap on how much they will pay
for your care. Because of the ACA,
young adults can stay on their parents’
plans until they turn 26 years of age,
and women cannot be charged more
based on their gender. Also, under the
ACA, basic healthcare services like
maternity care and behavioral and
mental healthcare must be covered.
The ACA has helped keep costs down
by requiring insurance companies to
provide preventive care at no charge so
that the small things do not turn into
bigger, expensive medical problems,
like surgery.
Yet President Trump continues to
put all of this progress at risk. The
rule that we are voting to invalidate
this week is just one such example. In
his first year in office, President
Trump failed to pass his bill to repeal
the ACA when he had Republican ma-
jorities in both the House and the Sen-
ate.
Despite widespread opposition to
these efforts, the administration has
since moved forward with its sabotage
strategy in the absence of a legislative
win. President Trump ended Federal
funding for a key ACA program which
helps keep plans more affordable for
those in the private market by cov-
ering some costs for patients with the
most expensive medical conditions.
Next, the administration put forth
new rules which allowed more junk
plans, plans which can charge more for
preexisting conditions and that can
refuse to cover needed health services.
Now, the rule subject to this week’s
vote goes one step further in allowing
States to expand these partisan at-
tempts to weaken the ACA, increase
costs on consumers, and increase the
uninsured rate. If this was not enough,
a single court case, championed by par-
tisans looking for a political win, could
overturn ACA as soon as next year.
If President Trump’s strategy suc-
ceeds, many Americans will suffer.
Preexisting condition protections will
go away, and over 50 million Americans
with preexisting medical conditions
will go back to being priced out of cov-
erage.
The Medicaid expansion that helps
States cover more than 12 million
Americans will also go away. Young
adults will be kicked off their parents’
insurance. Women could be charged
more, as would older Americans. Peo-
ple will lose access to mental
healthcare, and prescription drug costs
for seniors will go up.
In Rhode Island, it is estimated that
approximately 100,000 people could lose
coverage if President Trump’s lawyers
convince the courts to cut down the
ACA. The State will lose hundreds of
millions of dollars in Federal funding
for healthcare, all to satisfy President
Trump’s and congressional Repub-
licans’ desire for a political win at the
expense of the American people.
We cannot afford to go back to the
days when insurance companies were in
control. We cannot wait until the
Trump administration and Congres-
sional Republicans come up with a
plan.
The ACA was signed into law almost
10 years ago and still its opponents
have no alternatives.
Americans with preexisting condi-
tions, those who are fighting illnesses,
parents with children with complex
medical needs, young people who need
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:41 Oct 30, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00025 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A29OC6.002 S29OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6230 October 29, 2019
coverage while they explore new career
opportunities, these people—our con-
stituents, our neighbors, our families—
do not have the time to wait for Repub-
licans to come up with a solution for a
problem they, themselves, are creating.
We should instead be spending our
time working on solutions to today’s
problems. There are pressing issues
that Congress should be spending time
addressing to improve health in this
country.
Prescription drug costs continue to
skyrocket. In fact, addressing prescrip-
tion drug costs alone would go a long
way towards bringing down healthcare
costs overall; yet, if the ACA goes
away, this will be for naught. It won’t
matter if the drug companies are re-
quired to negotiate fair prices for drugs
and are prevented from gouging cus-
tomers. Without affordable health in-
surance, consumers will continue to be
priced out of lifesaving drugs and
treatment.
Further, without the ACA, require-
ments that plans must cover prescrip-
tion drugs would go away. Indeed, be-
fore the ACA, many plans did not cover
needed prescription drugs, leaving pa-
tients to pay entirely out of pocket for
lifesaving treatments and interven-
tions that prevent more expensive con-
ditions down the road.
Congress has made significant bipar-
tisan progress over the last couple of
years on the opioid epidemic, providing
considerable funding to States to help
people access treatment to get on the
path to recovery.
However, one of most effective inter-
ventions in the epidemic has been the
ACA’s Medicaid expansion, helping
those with substance abuse disorders
get treatment and get back on their
feet.
Without the ACA, the bipartisan laws
Congress has passed in response to the
opioid epidemic will be nowhere near
enough in both effort and funding to
successfully combat this crisis.
We have also seen new data from the
Centers for Disease Control and Pre-
vention showing growing rates of sui-
cide in this country, especially among
young people—nothing short of an epi-
demic. I have been working with my
colleagues across the aisle, such as
Senator KENNEDY from Louisiana, to
increase funding for the National Sui-
cide Prevention Lifeline, and with Sen-
ator GARDNER to make the Lifeline
more accessible. This is important
work. We need to ensure that, when
someone courageously reaches out to
get help in a time of crisis, that we are
able to connect them with affordable
mental healthcare for the long term.
Without the ACA, that care may be out
of reach.
There is certainly more we can be
doing to increase access to healthcare,
and I have been working with my col-
leagues to do just that. However, al-
lowing the administration to continue
its efforts to destroy the ACA not only
undermines healthcare for the most
vulnerable Americans, but also all of
our bipartisan work on critical
healthcare issues such as lowering drug
costs. The American people—my con-
stituents and yours—expect better.
I implore my colleagues on the other
side of the aisle to stand up to this ad-
ministration’s reckless plans to upend
our healthcare system and work with
us to improve our healthcare system
instead.
Madam President, before I conclude
my remarks, I would like to make
some comments on the death of my
dear colleague Senator Kay Hagan, and
I would ask unanimous consent that
these remarks be placed in the appro-
priate section of the CONGRESSIONAL
RECORD in which other tributes of Sen-
ator Hagan are placed.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
REMEMBERING KAY HAGAN
Mr. REED. Madam President, Kay
Hagan was an extraordinary individual,
a great Senator from the State of
North Carolina, and a great person.
I had the opportunity to express my
thoughts to her husband Chip, whom I
talked with yesterday. We will all miss
her advocacy, her spirit, her support of
military families, small businesses,
students, and Americans everywhere,
particularly in her home State of
North Carolina.
I had the pleasure of serving with her
in this body and the Armed Services
and Banking, Housing, and Urban Af-
fairs Committees, and we traveled to-
gether to Iraq, Afghanistan, and Paki-
stan in 2010.
All of us here in the Senate are sad-
dened by this loss, and we send all of
our thoughts to Chip and her family.
I must share a vivid memory. Sen-
ator Hagan and I were in Afghanistan,
and, again, this dauntless, courageous
Senator—we were together on a
moonrise infantry patrol, moving from
a forward operating base far away from
Kabul, far away from the center of our
activities in a remote corner of Af-
ghanistan. We were moving from the
base to a meeting with local Afghan
fighters.
As we rolled down this dusty road, I
looked over and pointed and said,
‘‘Kay, see all those beautiful red flow-
ers?’’ She said, ‘‘Yes, they are very at-
tractive. What are they?’’ I said, ‘‘Well,
they are opium poppies.’’
You see, we were in the middle of a
battle in which we had to support our
Afghan allies but at the same time not
alienate the Afghan population. It was
one of the complex issues involved in
that struggle. She understood that. But
she understood also the sacrifice and
service of the men and women who
were there that day with us in the mid-
dle of a combat zone, and she fought
for them relentlessly.
Many of them were constituents from
Fort Bragg, NC, from Camp Lejeune,
from other places around that State.
She had a deep and abiding influence in
that, and she was not afraid to go forth
to dangerous places to see what they
were sharing in terms of danger and
deprivation.
She was an extraordinary woman—
such decency, such care, such compas-
sion, such humanity. I deeply, deeply
mourn her passing.
To Chip and all of her family, my sin-
cerest condolences on the passing of an
extraordinary woman who graced this
Chamber with decency and dignity, and
I know—I know—her example of cour-
age, strength, and love will continue to
sustain and inspire her family and
those of us who were privileged enough
to serve with her.
May she rest in peace.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Oklahoma.
UNITED STATES-MEXICO-CANADA TRADE
AGREEMENT
Mr. LANKFORD. Madam President, a
couple of weeks ago, I had the privilege
to stand at Iron Horse Industrial Park.
It is a brand-new industrial park just
outside of Shawnee, OK. It is run by
the Citizen Potawatomi Nation, and for
almost 10 years, they have had the
dream of opening up a location in Okla-
homa, where there could be foreign
trade; different countries could come
in to do manufacturing there, and they
would be able to work through raw ma-
terials and products and sales. It has
been a remarkable dream for them.
I stood on a platform with the leader-
ship of the Citizen Potawatomi Nation,
members of the Shawnee community,
sitting right next to folks from the Ca-
nadian Consulate and a Canadian busi-
ness owner who is opening up a manu-
facturing plant in just a couple of
months, right there on that spot, to be
the first company in that location to
start doing international trade in that
part of Oklahoma.
That location of Pro-Pipe will start
manufacturing pipe that they will send
all over the place. It is a Canadian
company, but it will have about 40 or
45 jobs that are Oklahoma jobs that are
there.
Now, why do I mention that? I men-
tion that because it was a reminder—
again, as I sat on that platform next to
Canadians, the Japanese delegation
that was there, the Taiwanese delega-
tion that was there, and others from
multiple other countries—about how
integrated we really are.
If I took you to Shawnee, OK, there
are some great people—and it is a fan-
tastic community—the first thing you
would think of probably wouldn’t be
international trade, but it should be
now.
In Oklahoma, our top two trading
partners are Canada and Mexico. We
have an overwhelming amount of trade
just with those two countries. In fact,
we exported $2.4 billion worth of goods
just to Canada and Mexico last year.
We are a very connected economy,
and working through the trade issues
is incredibly important to us. That is
why this new trade agreement that re-
places NAFTA, which is now decades
old and needs a revision, is so impor-
tant, because our Oklahoma economy
depends a lot on how we trade. A lot of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:41 Oct 30, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00026 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G29OC6.038 S29OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6231
October 29, 2019
our jobs are connected through agri-
culture, manufacturing, digital sales,
other financial services that are con-
nected through trade to Canada and
Mexico. They cooperate with us; we co-
operate with them.
So a new trade agreement started in
the negotiation process. It started in
August of 2017. The Trump administra-
tion, the administration in Mexico and
in Canada all sat down and decided to
reopen NAFTA after the Trump admin-
istration put tremendous pressure on
Canada and Mexico to update this
agreement.
Initially, everyone said they didn’t
want to change a thing, and from Au-
gust 2017 until September of 2018, our
three countries negotiated a new trade
agreement that all three countries now
have come back in their leadership and
said: That is a better deal than what
NAFTA was. That works better for ev-
eryone. It provides new elements on
things like digital trade that wasn’t an
issue in the 1990s. E-commerce wasn’t a
thing at the time; now, it is. So there
are digital trade updates.
There are also areas about innova-
tion and intellectual property that
help protect inventors in all three
countries to protect what they have in-
vented and to make sure the benefits
come back to those inventors and back
to those countries.
There are also new protections for
labor. There have been longstanding
issues in labor practices in Mexico.
This addresses some of those things
and some basic human rights elements
for Mexico.
It also adds new environmental re-
quirements so that we would take on
as a whole of North America in the way
we do manufacturing, the way we do
fishing, the way that we handle marine
litter, the way that we handle sustain-
able forest management, all of those
things would be addressed in this trade
agreement.
It is a very comprehensive agree-
ment—the USMCA agreement—and it
is very important that we actually get
it passed. I hope you didn’t miss the
timeline that I laid out. The negotia-
tion started in August of 2017. The ne-
gotiation finished in September of 2018.
Since October of 2018, that agreement
has been waiting on a vote in the
House of Representatives.
Mexico has already long since passed
it. They have not only passed the
agreement, they have passed the laws
doing the implementing language.
They have long since passed it. Every-
one is waiting for the United States to
pass this trade agreement that will
help us in labor issues, help us in man-
ufacturing, help us in ag exports, help
us in our digital trade, help us in envi-
ronmental policy. We are all waiting
on the House of Representatives to
take it up.
We are now past a year that the
House has had this. It has to start, con-
stitutionally, in the House, and I can-
not say strongly enough how important
this is to be able to maintain our mo-
mentum in trade with Canada and Mex-
ico that we should not have to wait.
Now, some in the House say this is
about not giving President Trump a
win, so they don’t want to vote on it
because it will give President Trump a
win. This is not about the President of
a country. In fact, Mexico has already
changed Presidents since the time of
this agreement. This is about giving
the American people a win. This is,
quite frankly, to be selfish, about the
people of Oklahoma getting a win. It is
additional jobs, it is additional protec-
tions, it is additional opportunities to
do investment that we would like to be
able to see for my State and for the
people of my State, so I can’t encour-
age enough the House to take this up.
I do want to also compliment the ad-
ministration for taking this agreement
on. Three years ago, no one thought
this agreement could be done nor
should be done, and now, when it is in
the process of being finalized, everyone
seems to be nodding their head, saying:
That is better. Let’s keep going.
The administration has also recently
struck a deal with Japan. Japan is a
trade partner already, just like Canada
and Mexico, but we have had some
problems with Japan. The United
States exported $14 billion in food and
agricultural products to Japan just in
2018—$14 billion. But out of that $14 bil-
lion, right at half, $7.2 billion of those
had a need to address some of the
issues about tariffs and about some ad-
ditional protections. So this new trade
agreement that the administration just
struck with Japan is exceptionally
helpful to us. It takes out half of the
tariffs—either reduces them or elimi-
nates them entirely—of our ag trade
back and forth with Japan.
Why is that a big deal for Oklahoma?
You may say Oklahoma is a long way
from Japan. It is, except we ship a lot
of beef that way, and we could ship a
lot more.
This agreement specifically deals
with things like beef, pork, poultry,
sorghum, wheat. Those are products
that are all coming right out of my
State, and it is exceptionally impor-
tant that this agreement has been
done.
Now, this agreement doesn’t have to
come through Congress. It is an execu-
tive agreement. It is not like the
USMCA. It is done. So we have already
seen a gain in Oklahoma based on that
trade agreement in Japan. The encour-
agement I can make to the administra-
tion is: Keep doing this.
We have further negotiations we need
to have completed in the Pacific. While
they have done step one with Japan,
there is more to be done with Japan on
lowering other tariffs, but we would
also like to see a trade agreement with
New Zealand. We would also like to see
a trade agreement with other partners
in the Pacific where we still need trade
deals done. Keep going, and keep ex-
panding markets.
The big issue right now is with
China. Our trade issues with China
have been significant. They have been
significant for decades. The last five
Presidents have all tried to deal with
some of the problems with China and
trade, their theft of intellectual prop-
erty, their violations of basic dignity
for their workers. The environmental
policies they have in China has been
deplorable.
We should address the issues of trade
with China, and we should address how
we can further not only cooperate but
deal with some of the inequities of
workers and deal with some of the in-
equities of environmental policy and
certainly deal with the theft of intel-
lectual property.
As China is one of the worst human
rights violators in the world, in our
trade negotiations, we should talk
about things like free press, freedom of
religion, and opportunities for the
Uighurs, who are literally bound up in
concentration camps being reeducated
to be more Chinese rather than being
able to live out their faith as Muslims
there in China.
There are many issues we need to
deal with that go beyond just dollars.
It is how we actually interact with
each other. So for the administration,
as they are finalizing the final mo-
ments of how they are going to deal
with a trade deal with China, I con-
tinue to encourage them to keep doing
the work. The last five Presidents have
all tried to resolve issues with China.
Keep going. We have to be able to get
this done, but hold China to account on
human rights issues, while we are also
dealing with economic issues. This is
our moment to address those critical
needs.
With that, I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. CAS-
SIDY). The Senator from Washington.
HEALTHCARE
Mrs. MURRAY. Mr. President, this
afternoon, I join with a number of my
colleagues to put Republicans on no-
tice that their healthcare charade is
coming to an end.
Tomorrow, the Senate will go on the
record and make clear, once and for all,
whether they stand with patients and
families who are counting on them or
with President Trump and big insur-
ance companies.
Tomorrow, Democrats will force the
Senate to vote on our bill to reverse
President Trump’s rule that under-
mines protections for people with pre-
existing conditions and promotes junk
health plans and higher costs for fami-
lies.
For too long, Republicans have been
making empty promises on healthcare,
while taking harmful steps that make
things worse for patients and families.
Time after time, Democrats have
asked Republicans to work with us to
actually make healthcare work better
for patients and families, but, time
after time, Senate Republicans have
said no. In fact, there has been no
greater cheerleader for President
Trump’s relentless attacks on families’
healthcare and no greater obstacle to
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:41 Oct 30, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00027 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G29OC6.039 S29OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6232 October 29, 2019
passing solutions to repair the damage
than Senate Republicans.
This isn’t just a hypothetical con-
versation. Any day now—any day
now—we could get a ruling on the par-
tisan lawsuit brought by President
Trump that would undermine
healthcare for over 100 million people
by ending protections for people with
preexisting conditions, stripping away
coverage families got through the ex-
changes and Medicaid expansion and
letting young adults get kicked off of
their parents’ insurance before they
turn 26.
A Republican win on this could abso-
lutely drive up costs by scrapping the
caps on patients’ out-of-pocket costs,
while bringing back lifetime and an-
nual caps on their benefits—even for
those insured through their employer—
and ending essential health benefits
that require insurers to cover prescrip-
tion drugs, maternity care, mental
healthcare, emergency care, and more.
When Senate Democrats took a stand
against this dangerous lawsuit and in-
troduced this legislation to fight for
patients and protect their care, Senate
Republicans ducked for cover and did
not bring it to a vote, just like they
have done with Senate Democrats’ ef-
forts to bring down drug prices through
impactful steps like Medicare negotia-
tion, or to restore funding to help peo-
ple find the care that is right for them
when open enrollment starts this week,
or make coverage more affordable for
working families.
Democrats in the House have already
made progress on some of these steps,
from successfully joining the lawsuit
to fight for patients to passing legisla-
tion that would restore navigator fund-
ing, reverse President Trump’s harmful
junk insurance rule, and more.
Republicans in the Senate have bla-
tantly failed to live up to their promise
to fight for families’ healthcare instead
of working with us on these steps to
help our families and protect patients
with preexisting conditions—to do
what families sent us here for. They
have buried each of these solutions in
their legislative graveyard so that they
don’t even have to admit on the record
that they aren’t doing anything to help
protect families’ care—well, not tomor-
row. Tomorrow, Democrats are going
to bring forward a bill to ensure pro-
tections for preexisting conditions that
Leader MCCONNELL cannot bury and
Republicans can’t hide from.
Tomorrow, every single one of us is
going to have to go on the record about
where we really stand on families’
healthcare and protections for pre-
existing conditions. Tomorrow, we will
be voting on Democrats’ legislation to
reverse a step President Trump took to
work a tool that was meant to encour-
age innovation into one that encour-
ages States to eliminate protections
for patients with preexisting condi-
tions, increases costs, undermines es-
sential health benefits, and promotes
harmful junk insurance plans that can
charge vulnerable patients more and
cover less.
Letting President Trump’s rule stand
could leave millions of patients with
higher premiums, higher out-of-pocket
costs, and no affordable options to get
the healthcare they need.
Our vote tomorrow to reverse this
rule that takes protections away from
patients and gives power back to insur-
ance companies offers a very clear test
about who Senators are actually fight-
ing for. People across the country are
going to be watching tomorrow and
taking note of who is pushing for solu-
tions to protect their care and who is
blocking them, who is trying to repair
the damage President Trump has
caused and who is trying to cause even
more harm, who is fighting for their
healthcare and who is fighting against
it.
I hope each and every one of my Re-
publican colleagues think long and
hard about the promises they have
made to their constituents and how
they are going to look them in the eye
after the vote tomorrow. I hope each of
them finally decides to do the right
thing and stand up for families’
healthcare, even if it means being a Re-
publican who stands up against Presi-
dent Trump.
I believe issues as important as fami-
lies’ healthcare should come before
party, and I hope we will see tomorrow
that Republicans agree.
Thank you.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from New Hampshire.
Ms. HASSAN. Mr. President, first, I
thank my colleague, the distinguished
Senator from Washington, for her lead-
ership on the issue of providing
healthcare to all Americans. In a de-
mocracy where everyone counts, every-
one should have access to high quality,
affordable care.
I rise today to discuss the Trump ad-
ministration’s efforts to undermine our
health insurance system and scam
healthcare consumers by allowing
harmful health plans to be sold to
unsuspecting, vulnerable Americans.
Since the President’s first day in of-
fice, his administration has taken
measure after measure that makes it
harder for patients to access necessary
care, weakens our healthcare system,
and increases costs.
This latest effort to expand access to
what are appropriately referred to as
‘‘junk’’ health insurance plans would
allow insurance companies to discrimi-
nate against Americans who experience
preexisting conditions and would also
leave patients with higher healthcare
costs and worse insurance coverage.
Junk plans don’t cover even basic
benefits, such as prescription drugs,
substance use disorder treatment, or
maternity care. People often don’t re-
alize how inadequate these plans are
until they are in the middle of a med-
ical crisis.
Unless you can guarantee that you
will never get sick, never break a limb,
or never get into an accident, these
plans are a bad deal for you. We all
know that life doesn’t come with those
guarantees, and when the worse does
happen, when illness or injury strikes,
these plans are, more often than not,
barely worth the paper they are writ-
ten on.
This can lead to two very bad out-
comes. The first is that the patient
chooses to receive the critical care
they need, but, because the short-term
junk plan doesn’t cover the care, the
patient ends up being stuck with an in-
credibly high out-of-pocket medical
bill, or the patient, upon learning that
the junk plan doesn’t cover critical
care, chooses not to get the care they
need, which leads to adverse outcomes
or an unplanned trip to the emergency
room, the cost of which may be footed
by the taxpayer.
If you are someone with a preexisting
condition, such as asthma, diabetes, or
cancer, you could be charged more,
sometimes truly astronomical
amounts, for insurance that will not
even cover many of your most basic
benefits or you can be denied certain
benefits altogether.
If that sounds familiar, it is because
it is the same situation people with
preexisting conditions were in before
the passage of the Affordable Care Act.
That is why I am calling on all of my
colleagues on both sides of the aisle to
vote to repeal the Trump administra-
tion’s rule that authorizes these junk
plans, threatening protections for mil-
lions of Americans with preexisting
conditions and increasing healthcare
costs all across the board.
If there is one thing that Republicans
and Democrats should all agree on, it
is that we must ensure that people
with preexisting conditions are pro-
tected and that they can be covered—
people like Bernadette Clark of Man-
chester, whose youngest son is living
with cerebral palsy, a complex medical
condition, and would not have access
to the type of health insurance that
she and her family need if not for the
protections that the Affordable Care
Act afforded to people with preexisting
conditions.
Doctors, nurses, hospitals, and pa-
tients universally oppose these junk
plans because they know how dan-
gerous these plans are for the health
and well-being of our people.
I urge every Senator to stand with
Granite Staters and all Americans in
opposing the Trump administration’s
latest attack on our healthcare sys-
tem.
Thank you.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Vermont is recognized.
Mr. LEAHY. Mr. President, as the
Senator knows, Senator SHELBY and I
have been working very hard on the ap-
propriations bills. I commend his staff
and my staff for all the work they have
done. It is not just the bill’s first page
and the number at the end that counts.
There is a whole lot that goes in in be-
tween.
There are a number of policy consid-
erations that are in there. There are
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:41 Oct 30, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00028 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G29OC6.040 S29OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6233
October 29, 2019
things that Senators from both parties
want that make a great deal of sense
and both parties are for it, and we are
putting those together. I would hope,
having done all that, it means that
within the next day or so we can get at
least four of these appropriations bills
passed.
I remind everybody that the last
time Senator SHELBY and I went
through this exercise, we passed most
of the bills, if not unanimously, vir-
tually unanimously. I think it helps
the Senate. It shows that we are doing
our work and that we can set aside par-
tisan differences and do what is best
for the country.
The other body has been working
very hard in the House of Representa-
tives on their appropriations bills.
Their Appropriations Committee is led
by two of the finest members I have
served with: NITA LOWEY, the chair
from New York, and KAY GRANGER, the
ranking member from Texas—one a
Democrat and one a Republican—both
of whom believe in the Congress and
have our support, and they worked
hard. I say that just because I have had
so many Members ask me how it is
going. I think it is going better than
anybody thought it might at this point
earlier. We will get it done.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Mrs. SHAHEEN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
S.J. RES. 52
Mrs. SHAHEEN. Mr. President, since
President Trump was sworn in, he has
made it his mission to dismantle the
Affordable Care Act. Last Congress,
time and again, we saw the House and
Senate majorities try—and fail—to re-
peal the law of the land, the Affordable
Care Act.
After their attempt to repeal the Af-
fordable Care Act failed in the Senate,
the Trump administration made it
abundantly clear that they would do
everything possible to sabotage the act
through regulations and administra-
tive action. Through this sabotage, the
administration has undermined the
critical protections healthcare pro-
vides for people with preexisting condi-
tions.
I just want to reiterate my support
for the Congressional Review Act dis-
approval resolution that I worked on
with Senator WARNER, and I congratu-
late him for his leadership. What that
resolution points out is that pre-
existing conditions and short-term in-
surance plans, also known as junk
plans, are inconsistent. I am proud to
support the disapproval resolution that
we will vote on this week that would
reverse this administration’s so-called
1332 waiver rules.
Those rules allow for the use of tax-
payer dollars to subsidize junk insur-
ance plans. These waiver rules are part
of the Trump administration’s ongoing
attempt to make an end run around
Congress and dismantle the Affordable
Care Act through the regulatory proc-
ess.
I think it is important to understand
the shortcomings of these junk plans
that the administration is promoting.
These plans are allowed to deny cov-
erage to someone who has a preexisting
condition. They also allow insurance
companies to charge higher premiums
if somebody has a preexisting condi-
tion. They are not required to cover
the Affordable Care Act’s essential ben-
efits, such as maternity care, sub-
stance use disorder treatment, or pre-
scription drugs. In New Hampshire,
where we have a real challenge with
the opioid epidemic, without coverage
for substance use disorders, we have
thousands of people who would not be
able to get treatment for their sub-
stance use disorders.
These plans are allowed to place arbi-
trary limits on the dollar value of serv-
ices that will be covered annually, and
they also don’t have to comply with
the Affordable Care Act’s caps on how
much insurers can require that pa-
tients pay out of pocket. In short,
these junk plan policies are often not
worth the paper they are written on,
but for some reason, these are plans
that are favored by this administra-
tion.
The administration’s 1332 waiver
rules effectively rewrite the law to
allow the Affordable Care Act premium
tax credits to be used to purchase junk
plan coverage. So rather than help sub-
sidize comprehensive healthcare cov-
erage as was intended in the act—cov-
erage that will actually allow people to
get the healthcare services they need—
what the Trump administration waiver
does is have those taxpayer subsidies
cover junk plans that generally do not
provide the care that people need.
Allowing taxpayer dollars to sub-
sidize junk plan coverage is not only
dangerous for consumers, who can be
duped into purchasing junk plans, but
it also poses a threat to the stability of
the insurance market. By aggressively
pushing enrollment in junk plans, this
administration is seeking to split the
insurance market into two: one market
for younger and healthier individuals
and a second, much more expensive
market for older individuals and people
with chronic health conditions. This is
not the outcome that people in New
Hampshire and patients across this
country want or deserve.
That is why I intend to vote in favor
of the Congressional Review Act reso-
lution, which will overturn these rules
that are sabotaging the Affordable
Care Act.
Unfortunately, the waiver rules are
not the only grave threat that this ad-
ministration is posing to access to
healthcare coverage and protections
for people with preexisting conditions.
In addition to the sabotage of the ACA
that is going on, the Department of
Justice—our Nation’s highest law en-
forcement authority—continues to
refuse to defend the law of the land,
the Affordable Care Act, in Federal
court. Instead, the Justice Department
has argued that the Affordable Care
Act should be struck down, resulting in
the loss of coverage for millions of
Americans. The estimate is that if the
Affordable Care Act is struck down, 20
million Americans will lose their
healthcare.
In New Hampshire, approximately
90,000 Granite Staters have obtained
health insurance coverage through ei-
ther the Affordable Care Act or Med-
icaid expansion. Across the country,
more than 17 million Medicaid expan-
sion enrollees and 11 million people in
the marketplace health plan depend on
the ACA for their coverage. So these
families can see their coverage ripped
away if the Department of Justice gets
its way in the courtroom.
If the Department is victorious in its
litigation, they will also take away the
best tool we have for combating the
opioid epidemic—the Medicaid expan-
sion. In New Hampshire, more than
11,000 people have substance use treat-
ment thanks to Medicaid expansion.
Access to those services will be gone
without the Affordable Care Act. At a
time when so many families are strug-
gling with sky-high prescription drug
prices, a victory by the Department of
Justice in this case would increase pre-
scription drug costs for Granite State
seniors, who currently save an average
of $1,100 a year thanks to the ACA’s
Medicare Part D drug discount pro-
gram.
That is not all. If the courts strike
down the Affordable Care Act, insurers
would once again be able to exclude
coverage for prescription drugs, and
the FDA’s approval pathway for less
expensive biosimilar medication would
be invalidated.
I have been watching these ads on be-
half of President Trump and the ad-
ministration that talk about his com-
mitment to lowering prescription drug
prices and the importance of the path-
way for biosimilar medications that
are basically generic drugs for bio-
logics. Yet this pathway to approve
those less costly biosimilar medica-
tions would be invalidated if the Af-
fordable Care Act gets struck down.
The stakes are really just too high
for us to continue the partisan bick-
ering around the Affordable Care Act.
We should be coming together to tell
the Justice Department to defend the
law of the land. That is why I filed an
amendment to the Commerce, Justice,
Science appropriations bill that would
prohibit the Justice Department from
using Federal funds to argue against
the Affordable Care Act in court. That
is why we need to support the Congres-
sional Review Act vote that we will
have this week, which would ensure
that people with preexisting conditions
are not going to be cut off of their
health insurance when they are tricked
into buying junk plans through this ad-
ministration’s deceptive advertising.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:41 Oct 30, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00029 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G29OC6.042 S29OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6234 October 29, 2019
This Friday is the start of the 2020
open enrollment season for the Health
Insurance Marketplace coverage under
the Affordable Care Act. At this impor-
tant juncture, we should be sending a
very clear message that the Depart-
ment of Justice should defend the law
of the land and that the administra-
tion’s promotion of junk plans should
not continue. If we fail to do so, we are
going to be endangering vital access to
care for millions—tens of millions—of
Americans.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Illinois.
UNANIMOUS CONSENT REQUEST—S. 916
Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, it is my
honor to come to the floor to speak on
an issue that is important for so many
Americans.
Let me start at the outset—before I
move to unanimous consent on a spe-
cific piece of legislation—by saying
that I believe that the change in the
Affordable Care Act, which prohibited
discrimination against people because
of preexisting conditions, is one of the
most fundamental changes in health
insurance in America. Who among us
doesn’t have a member of their family
or a friend with a preexisting condi-
tion?
There was a time, of course, when be-
cause of that, people were denied any
coverage or charged exorbitant
amounts of money. Overwhelmingly,
we understand that if we are going to
have a health insurance system that
really serves the entire Nation, we can-
not allow health insurance companies
to pick and choose.
Prior to the Affordable Care Act’s
passage in 2010, health insurers used to
charge people with preexisting condi-
tions higher monthly premiums or sim-
ply deny them coverage all together.
Health insurance companies used to
impose annual lifetime caps on what
they could pay for. These arbitrary
limits disproportionately hurt people
with preexisting conditions who often
needed ongoing intensive medical care,
and insurance companies before the Af-
fordable Care Act used to refuse cov-
erage for certain healthcare services
that people with preexisting conditions
needed—prescription drugs, hospital
visits, mental health and substance
abuse treatment, maternity and new-
born care.
The Affordable Care Act changed all
of that. There are no more denials or
higher premiums for preexisting condi-
tions, which is an amazing break-
through. There are no more annual or
lifetime caps on benefits and no more
refusals to cover maternity benefits or
doctors’ visits.
Ten years ago, every single Demo-
crat—I was one of them—voted in favor
of the Affordable Care Act, and I would
do it again today. It was a law that en-
sured these protections for people with
preexisting conditions really meant
something and were enforceable.
Ten years ago, every single Senate
Republican voted against the Afford-
able Care Act. Since it has been signed
into law, House and Senate Repub-
licans have voted more than 100 times
to repeal the Affordable Care Act.
Their efforts have failed. There was one
most dramatic effort, which many of us
can recall happened just a couple of
years ago, right here in the well of the
Senate when the late Senator John
McCain, Republican of Arizona, came
to the floor in the middle of the night
and cast a ‘‘no’’ vote. He believed, and
I think he was right—I am sure he was
right when he said: You can’t be just
against something; you have to be for
something. The Republican side of the
aisle has no alternative to the Afford-
able Care Act. They are just against it.
They don’t like it. They don’t like the
name of it. They don’t like ObamaCare.
They don’t like Obama’s administra-
tion. They just vote no over and over
again.
Right now, there is a pending lawsuit
that even would try to eliminate the
entire Affordable Care Act, including
the protection for people with pre-
existing conditions. Eighteen Repub-
lican-led States, including the State of
Texas, brought the suit after congres-
sional Republicans eliminated the
CRA’s individual mandate. President
Trump’s Department of Justice sup-
ports this bill to eliminate the Afford-
able Care Act. If this lawsuit is suc-
cessful, nearly 20 million Americans—
600,000 of them living in Illinois—could
lose their health insurance, and nearly
133 million Americans with preexisting
conditions—3 million in Illinois—could
once again be at risk of discrimination
by health insurance companies. As if
that weren’t bad enough, President
Trump has also proposed new rules
that would allow States to discrimi-
nate against Americans with pre-
existing conditions.
This week, the Senate will be voting
on a Congressional Review Act resolu-
tion to overturn the Trump adminis-
tration’s latest assault on Americans
with preexisting conditions. Senator
WARNER of Virginia has offered a reso-
lution of disapproval, cosponsored by
every single Senate Democrat. If any
Senator on the Republican side really
wants to help people with preexisting
conditions, join us. Make this a bipar-
tisan effort to tell President Trump
and his administration it is wrong. We
should not discriminate against people
with preexisting conditions.
I hope that Senate Republicans will
consider supporting a piece of legisla-
tion known as the MOMMA’s Act. I am
cosponsoring it; in fact, I am the lead
sponsor in the Senate. The House spon-
sor is Congresswoman ROBIN KELLY of
Illinois. It would ensure that all preg-
nant women get the care they need.
Why is this important to raise in a
modern country like America, with our
great natural and medical resources?
Because the United States is 1 of only
13 countries in the world where mater-
nal mortality rates are worse now than
they were 25 years ago. I want to re-
peat that because it is an incredible
statement, though true. The United
States is 1 of only 13 countries in the
world where maternal death rates are
worse now than they were 25 years ago.
Fortuitously, the Presiding Officer is
a medical doctor. I know he has de-
voted a good part of his professional
career to serving people of low income,
limited means.
You think when you hear that num-
ber about maternal mortality in the
United States, it cleverly must be asso-
ciated with economic levels, income
levels, wealth levels, education levels.
It turns out it is not. Nationwide, more
than 700 women die every year as a re-
sult of pregnancy, and more than 70,000
suffer near-fatal complications. More
than 60 percent of maternal deaths are
preventable.
Sadly, the tragedy of maternal mor-
tality is even more pronounced when it
comes to mothers of color. In the
United States, women of color are
three to four times more likely than
White women to die as a result of preg-
nancy. In Illinois, they are six times
more likely than White women to die.
When I researched this, I went to the
University of Chicago and asked the
OB/GYNs there to look into the stats,
look into the studies, and tell me what
is behind this. They said: Senator,
there is no correlation among income,
education attainment, and this death
rate among women. It is only a ques-
tion of color. We are losing new moms,
and, sadly, we are losing babies as well.
Every year, more than 23,000 infants
die in the United States, largely due to
factors that could be prevented. Black
infants are twice as likely to die as
White infants—a disparity that is
greater than it was in the year 1850 in
this country.
That is why Representative KELLY,
my colleague Senator DUCKWORTH, and
I introduced the MOMMA’s Act. First
and foremost, our bill would expand
the length of time that a new mom can
keep her Medicaid healthcare coverage.
Currently, Medicaid has to cover
women only for 2 months postpartum—
after the baby is born. Our bill would
expand that to a full year.
Next, the MOMMA’s Act would im-
prove access to doulas, as well as im-
prove implicit bias and cultural com-
petency training among healthcare
providers. Too often, Black women are
just not listened to or taken seriously
by healthcare providers. Doulas can
provide education, advocacy, and sup-
port for women whose voices are being
ignored.
Lastly, our bill would improve hos-
pital coordination reporting on mater-
nal healthcare outcomes.
Leader MCCONNELL has made it clear
that he has no intention of allowing
the Senate to debate and pass legisla-
tion, instead, rendering the Senate to
what has been characterized as a ‘‘leg-
islative graveyard.’’ Senator MCCON-
NELL says with pride that he will be the
Grim Reaper—his words—the Grim
Reaper. Nothing will pass in the Sen-
ate.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:41 Oct 30, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00030 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G29OC6.044 S29OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6235
October 29, 2019
But I hope he will make an exception
for the MOMMA’s Act, which is cur-
rently moving through the House of
Representatives. Whether you are pro-
choice or whether you are right to life,
shouldn’t we all stand together—Demo-
crats, Republicans, and Independents—
and say: Let’s do something to elimi-
nate this unacceptable level of mater-
nal mortality in the United States.
Let’s do something to save these ba-
bies. Let’s agree on that part if we
can’t agree on anything else.
Mr. President, I ask unanimous con-
sent that the Finance Committee be
discharged from further consideration
of S. 960 and the Senate proceed to the
immediate consideration; that the bill
be considered read a third time and
passed; and that the motion to recon-
sider be considered made and laid upon
the table with no intervening action or
debate.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
objection?
The Senator from Iowa.
Mr. GRASSLEY. Reserving the right
to object, this bill is in the jurisdiction
of a committee that I am chairman of,
the Senate Finance Committee. I think
the Senate Finance Committee has a
reputation for doing things in a very
bipartisan way and moving a lot of im-
portant legislation. For example, we
moved a bill out of committee to, hope-
fully, get consideration on the floor. It
is a very bipartisan bill that reduces
the cost of prescription drugs. We did
that on a 19-to-9 vote.
There are a lot of other things we are
working on, including some trade legis-
lation. We want to consider, hopefully,
in a bipartisan way the U.S.-Mexico
agreement. We also have an agreement
out on encouraged savings and things
of that nature.
I want to respond to my friend by re-
minding him how our committee
works. Last night was the first time
that I heard there was an interest in
moving Senator DURBIN’s bill. The bill
has not been through the committee
process, and, therefore, there has been
no opportunity to weigh in with what
we know and to determine what we
need.
There are a number of programs fo-
cused on reducing maternal mortality,
and it is unclear how this bill coordi-
nates with those efforts. This bill
makes a number of long-term changes
to Medicaid, and the policy and budg-
etary impacts are unknown.
I am offering a counterproposal in
the Medicaid Program to address ma-
ternal health and identify underserved
areas. Additional funding is provided
for existing Maternal and Child Health
Services Block Grants. This focus is
fully offset by a policy that saves
money by focusing our limited re-
sources on moms and babies, rather
than spending on prisoners at a higher
percentage in our most vulnerable pop-
ulations.
I am going to offer Senator DURBIN
this proposal that I just described. I
ask the Senator to modify his request
to include my amendment, which is at
the desk.
I ask unanimous consent that the
amendment be considered and agreed
to; that the bill, as amended, be consid-
ered read a third time and passed; and
that the motion to reconsider be con-
sidered made and laid upon the table.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Will the
Senator so modify his request?
Mr. DURBIN. Reserving the right to
object, the Senator from Iowa is my
friend. We throw that word around here
on the Senate floor, and it usually
doesn’t mean much, but it is true. We
are friends. I respect him very much. I
think he is a good father, good grand-
father, and I think the time will
come—and I hope soon—when we can
sit down and take his proposal and my
proposal and put them together and
make a bill we will both be proud of.
We have done that before, even to the
point of getting the President to sign
the bill into law.
For the time being and because his
proposal cuts some Medicaid benefits
that are a great concern to me, I am
going to object in the hope that we can
use this opportunity and this moment
as a basis for sitting down and finding
a bill we can agree on.
I object.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Objec-
tion is heard on the modification.
Is there objection to the original re-
quest?
Mr. GRASSLEY. I object.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Objec-
tion is heard.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Ms.
MCSALLY). The Senator from Ken-
tucky.
TRIBUTE TO JIM MILLIMAN
Mr. PAUL. Mr. President, I rise to
honor and pay tribute to one of the
most tenacious and dedicated Kentuck-
ians I have had the pleasure of know-
ing, Mr. Jim Milliman.
Jim began his career in 1964 after
graduating from the University of
Notre Dame. He subsequently grad-
uated magna cum laude from the Uni-
versity of Louisville School of Law in
1970. He married Nan Milliman, and
they made their home in Louisville,
KY. They have been married for 48
years.
When I first met Jim, I knew him as
one of Kentucky’s finest attorneys,
who represented Brown & Williamson
during the tobacco litigation and the
State Republicans in election law mat-
ters. I knew him as an accomplished
managing partner of the Louisville-
based law firm, Middleton Reutlinger. I
also knew him as the fiery conserv-
ative cohost who often sat opposite
Congressman JOHN YARMUTH on WAVE
3 TV’s political show ‘‘Hot Button.’’ He
was known for his spirited debate and
for not backing down.
After having over 40 successful years
in commercial litigation and receiving
numerous awards from his peers, such
as being named one of the top 50 attor-
neys in Kentucky, Jim decided to re-
tire—from the law, at least. In 2010,
right after I was elected to the Senate,
I convinced Jim to come out of retire-
ment and be my State director for Ken-
tucky. I am truly grateful that he said
yes because, for nearly a decade, Jim
has served in that role and has been
one of my most trusted advisers.
Anyone who knows Jim knows that
he is a force to be reckoned with. He is
fiercely loyal, a real problem solver,
and a highly accomplished legal mind.
Moreover, he is an incredibly kind per-
son who cares deeply about his friends
and colleagues. When I ran for Presi-
dent, Jim spearheaded the approval of
a caucus for Kentucky so I would not
be kept from the ballot for President
and the U.S. Senate.
Recently, Jim has decided to transi-
tion from the daily State director du-
ties into more of an advisory role. Con-
sidering he tried to retire over 10 years
ago, I think it is well-deserved. No
matter in what capacity, I will always
be thankful to have Jim as a part of
my team as an ally and an adviser.
He has dedicated so much of his time
to the pursuit of liberty and freedom,
to defending the principles that made
this Nation great, and to supporting a
pro-Kentucky policy agenda.
Thank you, Jim, for your service to
Kentucky and to this country.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The ma-
jority leader.
ORDER OF BUSINESS
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
I ask unanimous consent that debate
time for S.J. Res. 52 expire at 12:15 p.m.
on Wednesday, October 30, and that
notwithstanding rule XXII, the cloture
motions filed during yesterday’s ses-
sion of the Senate ripen following the
disposition of S.J. Res. 52.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
objection?
Without objection, it is so ordered.
f
MORNING BUSINESS
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
I ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate be in a period of morning business,
with Senators permitted to speak
therein for up to 10 minutes each.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
ORDERS FOR WEDNESDAY,
OCTOBER 30, 2019
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
I ask unanimous consent that when the
Senate completes its business today, it
adjourn until 10 a.m., Wednesday, Octo-
ber 30; further, that following the pray-
er and pledge, the morning hour be
deemed expired, the Journal of pro-
ceedings be approved to date, the time
for the two leaders be reserved for their
use later in the day, morning business
be closed, and the Senate resume con-
sideration of S.J. Res. 52, under the
previous order.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
objection?
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:36 Oct 30, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00031 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G29OC6.045 S29OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6236 October 29, 2019
Without objection, it is so ordered.
f
ORDER FOR ADJOURNMENT
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
if there is no further business to come
before the Senate, I ask unanimous
consent that it stand adjourned under
the previous order, following the re-
marks of Senators PERDUE, CASSIDY,
and CASEY.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The Senator from Georgia.
f
SCHOOL SAFETY
Mr. PERDUE. Madam President, Nel-
son Mandela once said: ‘‘Education is
the best weapon with which to change
the world.’’
Today, this morning, 51 million stu-
dents woke up and went to a public
school in the United States. Each stu-
dent carried a spark with which to
light up the world in their futures. Un-
fortunately, today, given the realities
that we have seen over the last few
years, some of these students are at
risk.
Last week was designated as Amer-
ica’s Safe Schools Week. It was meant
as a time to reflect on the steps we are
taking to protect our children every
day. Upon reflection, however, one
thing has become very clear: In many
cases, considering the current realities,
our public schools have not been de-
signed physically to deal with the stu-
dent safety issue.
The consequences of this are heart-
breaking. We have heard this story too
many times: Parkland, FL, 17 lives;
Newtown, CT, 27 lives; Columbine, CO,
13 lives. These were some of the dark-
est days in our country’s history. None
of us will ever forget the terror, the
tears, and the devastation that these
and other communities have felt. For
the parents and the relatives of those
affected, it is a nightmare from which
many will never wake up.
This can’t be allowed to continue.
There is an implicit agreement that
when we drop our children off at a
school, we know they are going to be
kept safe. In many cases today, we are
not fulfilling that agreement. There
are a lot of steps we must take in order
to face this crisis. I am confident that
if we come together in a bipartisan
fashion and focus on doing what actu-
ally works, we can make our schools
safer.
The U.S. Senate has a chance to get
this started right now. Last month, in
a bipartisan effort, Senators DOUG
JONES, THOM TILLIS, and SHELLEY
MOORE CAPITO joined me in sponsoring
the School Safety Clearinghouse Act.
This bipartisan bill is a critical first
step that will help to protect students
and faculty in our public schools in
America.
The School Safety Clearinghouse Act
will codify a recommendation from
President Trump’s Federal Commission
on School Safety to create a Federal
clearinghouse containing all of the best
practices for designing safer schools.
The techniques contained in the school
safety clearinghouse will come from
the brightest engineers, architects, re-
searchers, and educators in the coun-
try. It will be like a library that
schools can trust when making critical
decisions and when talking about phys-
ical upgrades in their environment. It
is imperative that schools have the
best design information because design
flaws in school buildings are placing
our students and faculty at risk every
day.
When drafting this bill, our office
met with Max Schachter, whose son,
Alex, was tragically killed in the
Stoneman Douglas High School mas-
sacre in Parkland, FL, not that long
ago. On that awful day, the murderer
fired through the window in Alex’s
classroom door and murdered Alex and
two of his classmates. Senselessness.
Had the glass been stronger or had the
window been designed with an ob-
structed view, Alex might be alive
today.
Madam President, fixing design flaws
like these are simple matters that we
need to take a step toward today to
make our schools safer. Most schools
understand this, and they are doing ev-
erything they can to close the security
lapse.
In August, I saw this firsthand when
I toured Mashburn Elementary School
in Forsyth County—with Georgia’s
First Lady Marty Kemp—which has
taken incredible steps with grants from
the State, that the Governor made
available, to enhance their safety
measures.
Using this grant money made avail-
able by Governor Brian Kemp,
Mashburn has restructured all their
entryways, reinforced the doors to
every classroom, and launched new
emergency readiness protocols. As a re-
sult, Mashburn is better able to pre-
vent tragedy from occurring.
And the best thing, it has in recent
years actually developed a very close
relationship with the local police force
and sheriff’s department. At Mashburn,
they have a sheriff’s deputy in school
every day.
Every school in the country wants to
upgrade their safety. The problem is
that many schools don’t simply have
the information they need to make the
best choices. The School Safety Clear-
inghouse Act will close this informa-
tion gap once and for all.
This is not a top-down government
program by the way. The School Safety
Clearinghouse Act will never have an
unfunded mandate or make any rec-
ommendations or force any school to
take any action it doesn’t want. Rath-
er, the School Safety Clearinghouse
Act will empower them to make the de-
cisions for themselves.
Here in America, it doesn’t matter if
you have big dreams or humble ones;
this is the land of opportunity. Every-
one has the right to pursue their own
happiness. A good education, as we
know, is the best way to start that.
I learned that from my parents, both
of whom were public school teachers. I
see it happening today through my
three grandkids. In this country, we
promise all of our kids a good edu-
cation. We now need to promise a safe
education as well.
The School Safety Clearinghouse Act
is a step that we can take right now,
right here in this body, to fulfill that
responsibility. We have no time to
waste. Every day, students across the
country attend schools to learn, grow
up, and build their lives. The longer we
wait to secure our schools, the higher
the chance that some of those students
will not come home.
This is not all we need to do; this is
just a first start, Madam President. If
this bill helps to make one school safer
or saves one life, it will be worth it.
Let’s get it done. Thank you.
I yield back.
Mr. CASSIDY. Madam President was
presiding before and I heard several
speeches by my colleagues on the
Democratic side of the aisle speaking
about the 1332 waiver process that the
Trump administration is using to lower
insurance premiums, and the kind of
common refrain is: This is a terrible
thing. We are eroding protections in
the Affordable Care Act, and we should
preserve the Affordable Care Act as it
is. This is so ironic because the people
who want to get rid of Obamacare right
now are running for President on the
Democratic side of the ticket.
If you ask BERNIE SANDERS if he
wants to get replace Obamacare, he
raises his hand. If you ask ELIZABETH
WARREN if she wants to replace
Obamacare and force people to give up
their employer-provided insurance, she
raises her hand.
Now, why do the Presidential can-
didates—Democratic Presidential can-
didates sit there and say: Hey, let’s get
rid of Obamacare? And when the ad-
ministration does something to lower
premiums, my Democratic colleagues
stand up and decry this kind of assault
upon whatever value they are speaking
to.
What I think is the Democratic can-
didates running for President are so
aware that healthcare costs under
Obama have skyrocketed. Let me see if
I can find my figures here, but it’s
quite remarkable.
Let’s just speak a little bit about
what has happened. Since 2013, the de-
ductible for someone with single cov-
erage has increased by 53 percent. And
despite deductibles going up, say,
$10,000, premiums have increased 20
percent. So the patient’s out-of-pocket
exposure is increasing both in the de-
ductible and with their premium. For a
family of four in Louisiana—we looked
on healthcare.gov just walking here—
$25,000 for the policy with an over
$10,000 deductible.
Now, this is not affordable. So clear-
ly there is a concern about afford-
ability. That is what the Trump admin-
istration has been trying to address.
And frankly, that is what BERNIE
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:36 Oct 30, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00032 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G29OC6.046 S29OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6237
October 29, 2019
SANDERS and ELIZABETH WARREN wish
to have Americans sacrifice their em-
ployer-sponsored insurance to address.
But my Democratic Senate col-
leagues don’t want to do this. They
would rather have all the protections
of Obamacare, even if you cannot af-
ford the policy. And truly, that is what
we are doing now. And now, we get to
speaking about the waivers that the
Trump administration is giving, some-
how they are saying these are terrible
things.
Let me point out that, in the seven
States with 1332 waivers granted under
the Trump administration, health in-
surance premiums have decreased by
7.5 percent. Some States have had a
double-digit reduction. Maryland, for
example—and I will come back to
Maryland—has had a 30-percent reduc-
tion in their health insurance pre-
miums under the 1332 waiver given by
the Trump administration. North Da-
kota had a 20-percent reduction.
And what about if you didn’t get a
waiver? In my State, which didn’t
apply for a waiver, premiums are ex-
pected to rise 10 percent this coming
year—10 percent. So the family of four
paying $25,000 a year with a $10,000 de-
ductible will pay $27,500 next year, with
a $12,500 deductible, meaning they will
be out almost $40,000—$40,000 for their
health insurance.
I suspect there is a lot of families in
my State that wouldn’t have minded if
we applied for a waiver if we could just
lower premiums, instead of seeing out-
of-pocket expense continue to rise.
Now, there is a little bit of an irony
here. Maryland has a legislature domi-
nated by Democrats, and they actually
got a 1332 waiver. So my Democratic
colleagues who are speaking about how
terrible these waivers are, they should
look back to States which Democrats
control who are applying for these
waivers.
I am told that Montana has a waiver,
Montana with a Democratic Governor
who is running for President on the
Democratic side of the ticket. Appar-
ently, that person felt it was some-
thing that he would sign into law and
otherwise approve because it would be
beneficial to the people in the State.
I don’t know why, in the Senate, my
Democratic Senate colleagues want
Americans to pay more for insurance.
Why do they insist on continuing to
advocate for policies which make
healthcare, health insurance, so
unaffordable?
This is personal for me. Besides being
an American wanting all to have cov-
erage, for 25 years, I worked in a hos-
pital for the working poor, for the un-
insured, trying to bring healthcare to
those who could not otherwise afford
it. It has been my life mission, if you
will, as a physician, to try and get
healthcare to those who cannot have
it.
And so when folks want to give them
this great policy, but you can’t afford
it, but don’t worry, it is a great policy
if you can afford it, I have to smile.
Like the Greek myth Tantalus—where
we get the word ‘‘tantalize’’ from—
where the prize is always just beyond
the reach, just beyond the reach, al-
ways there to tempt, but you can never
have.
So you have a family making $120,000
a year having to pay $25,000 for insur-
ance, with a $10,000 deductible. They
are sacrificing so many things. It is
tantalizing, but we are sure this is a
better state of affairs.
Now, what the administration has
done, they have given States flexibility
to craft affordable options for families
that do not have subsidies. It respects
the fact that some States are different
than other States. Imagine that.
Alaska is different than Rhode Is-
land—Alaska, if you laid it across a
map of the lower 48, would stretch from
Georgia to California, but has fewer
people than Rhode Island, and Rhode
Island, which is a postage stamp com-
pared to Alaska. Those States are dif-
ferent, so allow them to have different
healthcare systems.
By the way, when we do this, we are
assured by the administration that
they continue to enforce protections
for those with preexisting conditions
and all other things that we as Ameri-
cans, that we as Republicans, that I as
a physician who have spent my life car-
ing for the uninsured, value—so that, if
healthcare is not affordable, it is not
available. And what we have seen by
the folks on the left who are concerned
about healthcare costs is a doubling
down on government control.
They want to go for Medicare for All.
They want to take away your em-
ployer-sponsored insurance. But at
least they acknowledge that cost is a
problem. What my Senate colleagues
are not doing, the ones who are speak-
ing today, is acknowledging that cost
is a problem, and you can have the
greatest plan in the world and, if it is
unaffordable, then that greatness is
ironic. It is on a piece of paper, but it
is not real in someone’s life.
What we have seen is that States,
when they come to the Federal Govern-
ment requesting permission to put in a
program which is specific to the cir-
cumstances in their State, they are not
only covering the citizens in their
State, continuing to have protections
for those with preexisting conditions,
but they are also lowering premiums
by as much as 30 percent. And that is a
good thing, and I have no clue why my
Democratic colleagues do not want to
see premiums lowered by 30 percent.
Madam President, thank you, and I
yield the floor.
(At the request of Mr. SCHUMER, the
following statement was ordered to be
printed in the RECORD.)
f
REMEMBERING ELIJAH CUMMINGS
∑ Ms. HARRIS. Madam President, our
Nation mourns the loss of one of the
country’s greatest leaders, Representa-
tive Elijah Eugene Cummings, whose
life’s work as a fervent champion for
civil rights and his beloved community
in Baltimore, MD left an indelible
mark on our Nation. Congressman
Cummings died on October 17, 2019 in
Baltimore, MD. He was 68 years old.
Representative Cummings was born
on January 18, 1951, in Baltimore, MD.
He was the third of seven children born
to sharecroppers, Robert Cummings
and Ruth Elma Cummings, who moved
north from South Carolina in search of
better opportunities for their family.
Representative Cummings graduated
from Baltimore City College High
School and went on to earn a bach-
elor’s degree in political science from
Howard University in Washington, DC,
where he served as student government
president and graduated Phi Beta
Kappa. Representative Cummings ob-
tained a juris doctorate from the Uni-
versity of Maryland School of Law in
1975. Throughout his career, he re-
ceived 13 honorary doctoral degrees
from universities throughout the coun-
try.
Representative Cummings’ career in
public service began in 1983 when we
was elected to the Maryland House of
Delegates. Representative Cummings
proudly served in this role for 14 years,
eventually becoming the State legisla-
ture’s first African-American speaker
pro tempore. In 1996, he was elected to
represent Maryland’s 7th District in
the House of Representatives as a
member of the 104th Congress. Rep-
resentative Cummings focused on legis-
lative priorities that promoted equal-
ity and economic development, includ-
ing: criminal justice reform, lowering
prescription drug prices, and combat-
ting the opioid epidemic, among oth-
ers. As a respected Congressman, he be-
came a ranking member of the Com-
mittee on Transportation and Infra-
structure and the chairman of the
House Committee on Oversight and Re-
form.
As the chairman of the House Com-
mittee on Oversight and Reform, Rep-
resentative Cummings was a powerful
voice who achieved a reputation as a
skilled consensus builder. He under-
stood accountability and protecting
those who courageously spoke the
truth to protect our Nation. He fought
daily to ensure our democracy was not
only intact but striving to live up to
its promise. At the foundation of his
fight was advocacy for justice and
equal opportunity for all.
Representative Cummings made it
his personal responsibility to champion
civil rights issues, particularly voting
rights. His fierce advocacy was fueled,
in part, by the words of his mother who
on her death bed, implored him to en-
sure the right to vote was preserved.
He would heed her words by delivering
his own stirring calls to action. He un-
derstood the significance of the right
to vote in our democracy and worked
tirelessly to oppose voter suppression,
condemn discriminatory anti-voting
tactics, and launch critical investiga-
tions when voters—particularly people
of color—faced discriminatory voting
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:36 Oct 30, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00033 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G29OC6.047 S29OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6238 October 29, 2019
challenges. Representative Cummings’
visionary leadership and service has
and will continue to strengthen our de-
mocracy for generations to come.
Representative Elijah Cummings’
steadfast dedication to the city of Bal-
timore, the State of Maryland, and our
entire country will continue to inspire
others for generations to come. An im-
passioned speaker, he was truly a voice
for the voiceless. As a mentor, he
helped so many young people live in
their purpose and make the world a
better place. He fought for the soul of
Nation and selflessly dedicated his life
to empowering and uplifting his con-
stituents.
Representative Cummings is survived
by his wife, Dr. Maya Rockeymoore
Cummings, his children, and a host of
family and friends. It was a great
honor to attend his powerful funeral
and memorial service with many of my
colleagues and friends.
Representative Cummings often said
that ‘‘children are the living messages
that we send to a future we will never
see.’’ A light is gone from our world,
but Representative Cummings’ legacy
will shine bright through all the indi-
viduals he touched and all the move-
ments he helped build.∑
f
CENTENNIAL ANNIVERSARY OF
THE WYOMING FARM BUREAU
FEDERATION
Mr. BARRASSO. Madam President,
in just a few weeks, the Wyoming Farm
Bureau Federation will hold their an-
nual meeting in Laramie, WY. This
year is unique, as the organization
marks their 100th meeting and cele-
brates ten decades of service to farmers
and ranchers across the State. Without
question, the agriculture industry in
the State, and in the region, has seen
immense benefit from the important
work the Federation employees do
every day.
Today, the Wyoming Farm Bureau is
integral in gathering public opinion
and disseminating information to
farmers and ranchers across the state.
Officially, their mission identifies
‘‘The primary goal of WYFB is to take
appropriate actions to protect private
property rights and help members
achieve an equitable return on their in-
vestment.’’ Just as they did in 1920, the
organization brings individuals to-
gether to identify common threats to
their way of life. Wyoming Farm Bu-
reau worked closely with the national
organization during the 2015 waters of
the United States rulemaking process
to effectively communicate the nega-
tive impacts the rule would have on
those who are the primary caretakers
of our Nation’s natural resources.
As chairman of the Environment and
Public Works Committee, I invited the
Wyoming Farm Bureau Federation
president, Todd Fornstrom, to share
his story. Todd emphasized the need to
protect clean, plentiful water sources
while providing predictability for
States, counties, and communities.
Through his testimony, Todd skillfully
shared the undeniable link between ag-
ricultural production and the Wyoming
way of life and Wyoming’s commit-
ment to protecting our precious re-
sources.
I believe you can tell the strength of
an organization by the dedication
shown by its members and staff. Todd
Fornstrom is serving his third elected
term as president. Executive Vice
President Ken Hamilton recently cele-
brated his 36th anniversary with the
organization, Media and Member Rela-
tions Director Kerin Clark just passed
25 years, and Brett Moline has served
Farm Bureau for 13 years. Every one of
the 23 counties in Wyoming has a local
Farm Bureau organization to build pol-
icy and address local issues. The coun-
ty committees are key parts of the
communities they serve.
Without question, farmers and ranch-
ers faced many challenges when the
Wyoming Farm Bureau Federation was
founded in 1920. Just as they did 100
years ago, farmers and ranchers con-
tinue to work together today to
produce abundant, high-quality food
and fiber for their neighbors and com-
munities around the world. I can only
imagine the challenging discussions
that prompted the first meeting in
1920, but I am certain early members
left that meeting with the same con-
fidence they will leave the 100th meet-
ing.
Working in agriculture is not simply
a job. It is a calling, and sometimes, a
challenging way of life. I rise today
with great appreciation for the work
Wyoming farmers and ranchers have
done, and continue to do, for our great
State. My wife, Bobbi, joins me in con-
gratulating each member of the Wyo-
ming Farm Bureau Federation on their
100th anniversary.
f
ANNIVERSARY OF THE WYOMING
WEED AND PEST COUNCIL
Mr. BARRASSO. Madam President, I
rise today to recognize a significant
anniversary for the Wyoming Weed and
Pest Council. When they meet in a few
short weeks, the council will celebrate
75 years of service to Wyoming eco-
systems and communities. While the
council is partially funded by the State
of Wyoming, the council’s success lies
in dedication of staff, volunteers, sea-
sonal employees, and partners who
dedicate themselves to eradicating
invasive species and noxious weeds.
Invasive species threaten the delicate
balance in nearly every ecosystem.
Around the world, invasive species
cause billions of dollars in damage to
the environment and to economies
each year. They threaten watersheds,
forests, and grasslands. They crowd out
important native species, increase the
risk of catastrophic wildfires, intro-
duce disease, and fundamentally under-
mine the natural cycle of life. Dedi-
cated experts work each day to stem
the tide of new introductions.
Each of the 23 counties in Wyoming
has a Weed and Pest District, run by
staff and an elected board. The dis-
tricts set policy, monitor existing in-
festations, work with the public to de-
velop a comprehensive list of risks, and
act quickly when new species are de-
tected. Often, Weed and Pest super-
visors wear many hats; depending on
the hour, they are grant writers, weed
sprayers, staff managers, and policy ex-
perts.
Wyoming Weed and Pest coordinator,
Slade Franklin, detailed the important
work of the council when I invited him
to testify before the Environment and
Public Works Committee earlier this
year. In his testimony, Slade shared
the coordination that is required to en-
sure invasive species are not able to
gain an advantage in States where
lands are managed by multiple juris-
dictions. Slade knows that invasive
species do not respect fence lines, and
during his decade-long leadership of
the Wyoming Weed and Pest Council,
he has forged important relationships
with local, State, and Federal agencies.
His leadership has been integral in
many of the State’s successes.
It is without hesitation that I say
Wyoming’s forests and plains would
look much different today if the Wyo-
ming Weed and Pest Council had not
unified in 1973. While the State has
struggled with cheatgrass and Russian
olive, they have been hugely successful
in preventing new infestations of
invasive mussels and limiting spread of
other grasses, like ventenata. Each
municipal water manager, rancher,
hiker, forester, hunter, and miner owes
a debt of gratitude for the good work of
the Wyoming Weed and Pest Council.
Whether they work from horseback,
ATV, the air, or a desk, I rise today to
honor the dedicated professionals to
work to keep our ecosystems healthy.
My wife, Bobbi, joins me in thanking
them and wishing the Wyoming Weed
and Pest Council another 75 years of
success.
f
REMEMBERING MORRIS ANDREWS
Ms. BALDWIN. Madam President, I
rise today to honor the life and legacy
of Morris Andrews, a revered champion
of teachers, children, and public edu-
cation in Wisconsin.
Morris Andrews was born in Big Rap-
ids, MI, on November 26, 1935. As a tal-
ented student athlete, Andrews grad-
uated from Big Rapids High School and
went on to play football at Central
Michigan University, graduating with
a bachelor’s degree in secondary edu-
cation. He earned his master’s degree
from Indiana University in physical
education.
Morris taught high school govern-
ment, coached football, and organized
teachers throughout the country. He
came to Wisconsin to lead the Wis-
consin Education Association Council,
WEAC, in 1972, initiating a trans-
formation in the way teachers were
valued in the State. Morris brought
pride, power, and respectable wages to
the teaching profession.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:36 Oct 30, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00034 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A29OC6.005 S29OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6239
October 29, 2019
After the protracted and bitter
Hortonville teachers strike in 1974,
Morris helped craft a mediation/arbi-
tration law that replaced the right to
strike with collective bargaining. This
new way of settling public sector labor
disputes ushered in decades of labor
peace.
Under his leadership, WEAC set the
standard for recognizing the impor-
tance of teachers in shaping the future
for generations of students. As teach-
ers’ rights increased, so did graduation
rates and test scores. Wisconsin ACT
scores rose to the top of the national
charts for decades. Morris also initi-
ated advancements in education that
are now taken for granted, including
uniform graduation requirements, gen-
der equity in school athletics, uni-
versal special education programs,
school nursing services, and remedial
reading programs for underachieving
students.
Morris never shied away from a fight
worth winning. One never had to guess
whose side he was on. He knew what
was best for teachers, students, and
education, and he knew how to get it
for them. By organizing and empow-
ering teachers, he shifted the balance
of political power in Wisconsin away
from well-heeled corporate interests
toward K–12 students, their parents,
and the dedicated educators who teach
them.
When Morris began his tenure in 1972,
WEAC had 40,000 members and little in-
volvement in State politics or edu-
cation policy. When he retired 20 years
later, he left a 62,000-member power-
house with a $10 million budget and a
staff of 175 that was a major player in
the State legislature and at the ballot
box.
Morris didn’t rest after his retire-
ment from WEAC in 1992. He remained
committed to his passions of orga-
nizing and advocacy, providing sage ad-
vice to candidates of both parties run-
ning for office and speaking assertively
for those without a voice. Morris also
left an indelible mark on the State
through his work on behalf of the
Urban League of Greater Madison, Fair
Wisconsin, and the campaign to build
the Monona Terrace Convention Cen-
ter.
There is only one endeavor that sur-
passed his commitment to teachers,
children, and public schools: his dedi-
cation to Kris, his wife of 25 years, and
his siblings, children, and grand-
children. Beneath his gruff exterior
lived a man with a gentle heart who
cared deeply about his family, friends,
and colleagues.
Morris Andrews believed in his heart
and soul that a solid education system
was the very foundation of a strong de-
mocracy. He dedicated his life to en-
suring both education and democracy
thrived in Wisconsin. His legacy lives
on in the successes of generations of
leaders educated in Wisconsin public
schools. He can rest in peace knowing
he indeed made a significant difference.
TRIBUTE TO TONY EARL
Ms. BALDWIN. Madam President, I
rise today to recognize former Wis-
consin Governor Tony Earl on the oc-
casion of the 50th anniversary of his
election to the Wisconsin State Assem-
bly and the beginning of a remarkable
career of public service. Governor Earl
is a progressive champion in Wisconsin
politics and government. He success-
fully fought to clean up our polluted
waters and protect our environment.
He is passionate about building a soci-
ety where no one is left behind, and he
listens to and fights for those whose
voices are too often not heard.
Anthony Scully Earl was born in St.
Ignace, MI, and enjoyed his childhood
on Michigan’s Upper Peninsula. As the
son of a grocery store owner, Tony was
influenced by his father’s strong work
ethic. He took this work ethic with
him to Michigan State, where he grad-
uated in 1958. After earning his law de-
gree at the University of Chicago, Tony
served our country in the U.S. Navy for
4 years.
Following his military service, he
moved to Wausau, WI, in 1965 and im-
mediately became an integral part of
the community. He served as an assist-
ant district attorney of Marathon
County for a year before becoming the
first full-time city attorney for Wausau
from 1966 to 1969. Following the nomi-
nation of Wisconsin Congressman Mel-
vin Laird to serve as Secretary of De-
fense and the special election of Dave
Obey to succeed Laird in Congress,
Tony himself was elected to fill Dave
Obey’s seat in the Wisconsin State As-
sembly. Tony was so respected by his
colleagues that he was elected major-
ity leader after only 1 year in the as-
sembly.
He was later tapped by Governor Pat-
rick Lucey to serve as Secretary of the
Department of Administration, fol-
lowed by service as Secretary of the
Department of Natural Resources. He
chaired the Center for Clean Air Policy
and directed the Great Lakes Protec-
tion Fund. In recognition of his pas-
sionate stewardship of Wisconsin’s nat-
ural beauty and his commitment to en-
vironmental protection, the State of
Wisconsin recently renamed the
Peshtigo State Forest in his honor.
In 1982, Tony Earl was elected Gov-
ernor of Wisconsin. As Governor, Tony
was principled, courageous, and bold.
He was a passionate advocate for equal-
ity, and his leadership had a profound
impact, particularly on women. Recog-
nizing that people working in female-
dominated fields were often paid less
than workers in comparable male-
dominated jobs, Tony established a
commission to conduct a comprehen-
sive study of the comparable worth of
State government jobs and then used
that data to establish pay equity for
State employees. He led by example
and his work informed decisions by
other governmental entities and the
private sector.
Early in my career, I had the privi-
lege of interning in Governor Earl’s of-
fice, working with his advisor on wom-
en’s issues, Roberta Gassman. It was an
extraordinary opportunity that in-
spired me to pursue a career in public
service. In addition to his advocacy for
women, Tony was a trailblazer in the
fight for LGBT equality. He was among
the first Governors to appoint a liaison
to the LGBT community he established
the first Governor’s Council on Lesbian
and Gay issues, which provided much
needed oversight of anti-discrimination
laws that had been recently adopted in
Wisconsin. Working for Governor Earl
taught me the importance of doing
what is right, regardless of political
popularity. Tony personifies our strong
Wisconsin values of kindness, deter-
mination and hard work.
I am grateful to Tony Earl for all of
his contributions to the State of Wis-
consin. I am pleased to join thousands
of people across our State in recog-
nizing Tony’s dedication to public serv-
ice and achievements over the past 50
years.
f
ADDITIONAL STATEMENTS
TRIBUTE TO SEAMAN 2ND CLASS
MARTIN ROY
∑ Ms. HASSAN. Madam President,
today I would like to recognize the
birthday of U.S. Navy Seaman 2nd
Class Martin Roy of Manchester NH.
Mr. Roy was born on November 11, 1914,
in Armagh, Canada, a day that would
become Armistice Day in 1918 and was
later renamed to Veterans Day in 1954.
Mr. Roy moved to the United States as
a teenager and worked in the mills in
Lowell, MS as a mechanical repairman.
In 1943, Mr. Roy enlisted in the U.S.
Navy and served during World War II.
He was onboard the USS Franklin, also
known as Big Ben, on March 19, 1945,
when a Japanese pilot dropped two
bombs on the ship. The bombs caused
explosions and fires that triggered am-
munition, bombs, and rockets. Along
with 700 surviving crewmembers, Mr.
Roy helped throw the remaining explo-
sives overboard and saved the ship.
When he was honorably discharged in
1945, Mr. Roy received a letter of
thanks signed by James Forrestal,
then Secretary of the Navy who would
later become the first Secretary of De-
fense.
On February 22, 1946, Mr. Roy mar-
ried Louise Boutin, whom he had met
while working in the mills. They had
two children, Paul and Cecile, and
moved to Suncook, NH in the early
1950s.
Mr. Roy took a job at the Suncook
Mills and, using his mechanical skills,
he, along with a friend developed a pat-
ent to repair looms in the mill. In addi-
tion, for many years Mr. Roy owned
and operated two convenience stores,
one in Lowell and another Suncook. A
man of many interests, Mr. Roy also
trained thoroughbred horses over a
nearly 20-year period and traveled the
New England circuit, owning eight
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:01 Oct 30, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00035 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A29OC6.010 S29OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6240 October 29, 2019
horses at one time. Upon his so-called
retirement, Mr. Roy worked part time
as a janitor and repairman in the local
bank, never ceasing to work hard and
give back to his community.
Mr. President, I hope you will join
me in wishing a dedicated, patriotic,
and multi-talented Granite Stater,
Martin Roy, a very Happy 105th birth-
day.∑
f
MESSAGES FROM THE HOUSE
At 12:01 p.m., a message from the
House of Representatives, delivered by
Mr. Novotny, one of its reading clerks,
announced that the House has passed
the following bills, in which it requests
the concurrence of the Senate:
H.R. 647. An act to amend the Public
Health Service Act to increase the number of
permanent faculty in palliative care at ac-
credited allopathic and osteopathic medical
schools, nursing schools, social work schools,
and other programs, including physician as-
sistant education programs, to promote edu-
cation and research in palliative care and
hospice, and to support the development of
faculty careers in academic palliative medi-
cine.
H.R. 728. An act to amend title VIII of the
Public Health Service Act to extend ad-
vanced education nursing grants to support
clinical nurse specialist programs, and for
other purposes.
H.R. 886. An act to direct the Attorney
General to establish and carry out a Veteran
Treatment Court Program.
H.R. 1306. An act to amend the Disaster Re-
covery Reform Act of 2018 to develop a study
regarding streamlining and consolidating in-
formation collection and preliminary dam-
age assessments, and for other purposes.
H.R. 1775. An act to establish a task force
on NOTAM improvements, and for other pur-
poses.
H.R. 1781. An act to amend titles XVIII and
XIX of the Social Security Act to provide
the Medicare Payment Advisory Commission
and the Medicaid and CHIP Payment and Ac-
cess Commission with access to certain drug
payment information, including certain re-
bate information.
H.R. 1865. An act to require the Secretary
of the Treasury to mint a coin in commemo-
ration of the opening of the National Law
Enforcement Museum in the District of Co-
lumbia, and for other purposes.
H.R. 2115. An act to amend titles XI and
XVIII of the Social Security Act to provide
greater transparency for discounts provided
by manufacturers, to include realtime ben-
efit information as part of a prescription
drug plan’s electronic prescription program
under the Medicare program, and for other
purposes.
H.R. 2423. An act to require the Secretary
of the Treasury to mint coins in commemo-
ration of ratification of the 19th Amendment
to the Constitution of the United States, giv-
ing women in the United States the right to
vote.
H.R. 2440. An act to provide for the use of
funds in the Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund
for the purposes for which the funds were
collected and to ensure that funds credited
to the Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund are
used to support navigation, and for other
purposes.
H.R. 2502. An act to amend title 40, United
States Code, to require certain prospectuses
for public buildings to be made publicly
available, and for other purposes.
H.R. 2514. An act to make reforms to the
Federal Bank Secrecy Act and antimoney
laundering laws, and for other purposes.
H.R. 2781. An act to amend title VII of the
Public Health Service Act to reauthorize
certain programs relating to the health pro-
fessions workforce, and for other purposes.
H.R. 3942. An act to apply requirements re-
lating to delivery sales of cigarettes to
deliverv sales of electronic nicotine delivery
systems, and for other purposes.
H.R. 4067. An act to amend the Consumer
Financial Protection Act of 2010 to direct the
Office of Community Affairs to identify
causes leading to, and solutions for, under-
banked, un-banked, and underserved con-
sumers, and for other purposes.
H.R. 4334. An act to amend the Older Amer-
icans Act of 1965 to authorize appropriations
for fiscal years 2020 through 2024, and for
other purposes.
H.R. 4860. An act to amend the Securities
Act of 1933 to subject crowdfunding vehicles
to the jurisdiction of the Securities and Ex-
change Commission, and for other purposes.
ENROLLED BILLS SIGNED
At 2:24 p.m., a message from the
House of Representatives, delivered by
Mrs. Cole, one of its reading clerks, an-
nounced that the Speaker has signed
the following enrolled bills:
S. 693. An act to amend title 36, United
States Code, to require that the POW/MIA
flag be displayed on all days that the flag of
the United States is displayed on certain
Federal property.
H.R. 1396. An act to award Congressional
Gold Medals to Katherine Johnson and Dr.
Christine Darden, to posthumously award
Congressional Gold Medals to Dorothy
Vaughan and Mary Jackson, and to award a
Congressional Gold Medal to honor all of the
women who contributed to the success of the
National Aeronautics and Space Administra-
tion during the Space Race.
The enrolled bills were subsequently
signed the President pro tempore (Mr.
GRASSLEY).
f
MEASURES REFERRED
The following bills were read the first
and the second times by unanimous
consent, and referred as indicated:
H.R. 647. An act to amend the Public
Health Service Act to increase the number of
permanent faculty in palliative care at ac-
credited allopathic and osteopathic medical
schools, nursing schools, social work schools,
and other programs, including physician as-
sistant education programs, to promote edu-
cation and research in palliative care and
hospice, and to support the development of
faculty careers in academic palliative medi-
cine; to the Committee on Health, Edu-
cation, Labor, and Pensions.
H.R. 728. An act to amend title VIII of the
Public Health Service Act to extend ad-
vanced education nursing grants to support
clinical nurse specialist programs, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Health,
Education, Labor, and Pensions.
H.R. 886. An act to direct the Attorney
General to establish and carry out a Veteran
Treatment Court Program; to the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary.
H.R. 1306. An act to amend the Disaster Re-
covery Reform Act of 2018 to develop a study
regarding streamlining and consolidating in-
formation collection and preliminary dam-
age assessments, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Homeland Security and
Governmental Affairs.
H.R. 1775. An act to establish a task force
on NOTAM improvements, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation.
H.R. 1781. An act to amend titles XVIII and
XIX of the Social Security Act to provide
the Medicare Payment Advisory Commission
and the Medicaid and CHIP Payment and Ac-
cess Commission with access to certain drug
payment information, including certain re-
bate information; to the Committee on Fi-
nance.
H.R. 2115. An act to amend titles XI and
XVIII of the Social Security Act to provide
greater transparency for discounts provided
by manufacturers, to include real-time ben-
efit information as part of a prescription
drug plan’s electronic prescription program
under the Medicare program, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Finance.
H.R. 2440. An act to provide for the use of
funds in the Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund
for the purposes for which the funds were
collected and to ensure that funds credited
to the Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund are
used to support navigation, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on the Budget.
H.R. 2502. An act to amend title 40, United
States Code, to require certain prospectuses
for public buildings to be made publicly
available, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Environment and Public
Works.
H.R. 2514. An act to make reforms to the
Federal Bank Secrecy Act and anti-money
laundering laws, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Banking, Housing, and
Urban Affairs.
H.R. 2781. An act to amend title VII of the
Public Health Service Act to reauthorize
certain programs relating to the health pro-
fessions workforce, and for other purposes;
to the Committee on Health, Education,
Labor, and Pensions.
H.R. 4067. An act to amend the Consumer
Financial Protection Act of 2010 to direct the
Office of Community Affairs to identify
causes leading to, and solutions for, under-
banked, un-banked, and underserved con-
sumers, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Af-
fairs.
H.R. 4860. An act to amend the Securities
Act of 1933 to subject crowdfunding vehicles
to the jurisdiction of the Securities and Ex-
change Commission, and for other purposes;
to the Committee on Banking, Housing, and
Urban Affairs.
f
MEASURES DISCHARGED
The following joint resolution was
discharged from the Committee on Fi-
nance by petition, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
802(c), and placed on the calendar:
S.J. Res. 52. Joint resolution providing for
congressional disapproval under chapter 8 of
title 5, United States Code, of the rule sub-
mitted by the Secretary of the Treasury and
the Secretary of Health and Human Services
relating to ‘‘State Relief and Empowerment
Waivers’’.
f
MEASURES READ THE FIRST TIME
The following bill was read the first
time:
H.R. 4334. An act to amend the Older Amer-
icans Act of 1965 to authorize appropriations
for fiscal years 2020 through 2024, and for
other purposes.
f
ENROLLED BILL PRESENTED
The Secretary of the Senate reported
that on today, October 29, 2019, she had
presented to the President of the
United States the following enrolled
bill:
S. 693. An act to amend title 36, United
States Code, to require that the POW/MIA
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:01 Oct 30, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00036 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A29OC6.009 S29OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6241
October 29, 2019
flag be displayed on all days that the flag of
the United States is displayed on certain
Federal property.
f
EXECUTIVE AND OTHER
COMMUNICATIONS
The following communications were
laid before the Senate, together with
accompanying papers, reports, and doc-
uments, and were referred as indicated:
EC–3028. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Fenbuconazole; Pesticide Toler-
ances’’ (FRL No. 9999–58) received during ad-
journment of the Senate in the Office of the
President of the Senate on October 25, 2019;
to the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition,
and Forestry.
EC–3029. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Isotianil; Pesticide Tolerances’’ (FRL
No. 10000–79) received during adjournment of
the Senate in the Office of the President of
the Senate on October 25, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and For-
estry.
EC–3030. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Mandipropamid; Pesticide Toler-
ances’’ (FRL No. 9999–56) received during ad-
journment of the Senate in the Office of the
President of the Senate on October 25, 2019;
to the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition,
and Forestry.
EC–3031. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Pendimethalin; Pesticide Toler-
ances’’ (FRL No. 10000–06) received during ad-
journment of the Senate in the Office of the
President of the Senate on October 25, 2019;
to the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition,
and Forestry.
EC–3032. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Sulfoxaflor; Pesticide Tolerances’’
(FRL No. 9998–88) received during adjourn-
ment of the Senate in the Office of the Presi-
dent of the Senate on October 25, 2019; to the
Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and
Forestry.
EC–3033. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Air Plan Approval and Designation of
Areas; FL; Redesignation of the Hillsborough
County 2010 1-Hour Sulfur Dioxide Non-
attainment Area to Attainment’’ (FRL No.
10001–35–Region 4) received during adjourn-
ment of the Senate in the Office of the Presi-
dent of the Senate on October 25, 2019; to the
Committee on Environment and Public
Works.
EC–3034. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Air Plan Approval: Lane County, Or-
egon; 2019 Permitting Rule Revisions’’ (FRL
No. 10001–56–Region 10) received during ad-
journment of the Senate in the Office of the
President of the Senate on October 25, 2019;
to the Committee on Environment and Pub-
lic Works.
EC–3035. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Air Plan Approval; California;
Calaveras County Air Pollution Control Dis-
trict’’ (FRL No. 10001–32–Region 9) received
during adjournment of the Senate in the Of-
fice of the President of the Senate on Octo-
ber 25, 2019; to the Committee on Environ-
ment and Public Works.
EC–3036. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Air Plan Approval; California; Ven-
tura County Air Pollution Control District’’
(FRL No. 10000–88–Region 9) received during
adjournment of the Senate in the Office of
the President of the Senate on October 25,
2019; to the Committee on Environment and
Public Works.
EC–3037. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Air Plan Approval; Georgia; Revi-
sions to Sulfur Dioxide Ambient Air Quality
Standards’’ (FRL No. 10001–49–Region 4) re-
ceived during adjournment of the Senate in
the Office of the President of the Senate on
October 25, 2019; to the Committee on Envi-
ronment and Public Works.
EC–3038. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Air Plan Approval; Massachusetts;
Transport State Implementation Plans for
the 1997 and 2008 Ozone Standards’’ (FRL No.
10001–37–Region 1) received during adjourn-
ment of the Senate in the Office of the Presi-
dent of the Senate on October 25, 2019; to the
Committee on Environment and Public
Works.
EC–3039. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Air Plan Approval; OR: 2018 Permit-
ting Rule Revisions’’ (FRL No. 10001–52–Re-
gion 10) received during adjournment of the
Senate in the Office of the President of the
Senate on October 25, 2019; to the Committee
on Environment and Public Works.
EC–3040. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘New Hampshire: Final Approval of
State Underground Storage Tank Program
Revisions, Codification, and Incorporation
by Reference’’ (FRL No. 10001–60–Region 1)
received during adjournment of the Senate
in the Office of the President of the Senate
on October 25, 2019; to the Committee on En-
vironment and Public Works.
EC–3041. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Significant New Use Rules on Certain
Chemical Substances (17–4)’’ ((RIN2070–AB27)
(FRL No. 10000–69)) received during adjourn-
ment of the Senate in the Office of the Presi-
dent of the Senate on October 25, 2019; to the
Committee on Environment and Public
Works.
EC–3042. A communication from the Acting
Secretary of Labor, transmitting, pursuant
to law, a report entitled ‘‘The Department of
Labor’s 2018 Findings on the Worst Forms of
Child Labor’’; to the Committee on Finance.
EC–3043. A communication from the Dep-
uty General Counsel for Ethics, Office of
Postsecondary Education, Department of
Education, transmitting, pursuant to law,
the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Student Assist-
ance General Provisions, The Secretary’s
Recognition of Accrediting Agencies, The
Secretary’s Recognition Procedures for
State Agencies’’ (RIN1840–AD36 and RIN1840–
AD37) received in the Office of the President
of the Senate on October 24, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Health, Education, Labor, and
Pensions.
EC–3044. A communication from the Acting
Assistant Administrator of the Diversion
Control Division, Drug Enforcement Admin-
istration, Department of Justice, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘New Single-Sheet Format for U.S. Of-
ficial Order Form for Schedule I and II Con-
trolled Substances (DEA Form 222)’’
((RIN1117–AB44) (Docket No. DEA–453)) re-
ceived in the Office of the President of the
Senate on October 21, 2019; to the Committee
on the Judiciary.
EC–3045. A communication from the Asso-
ciate Director for Legislative Affairs, Office
of Legislative and Intergovernmental Af-
fairs, Department of Commerce transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, a report entitled
‘‘FY2018 Annual Report on Small Entity
Compliance Guides’’; to the Committee on
Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
f
REPORTS OF COMMITTEES
The following reports of committees
were submitted:
By Ms. MURKOWSKI, from the Committee
on Energy and Natural Resources, with an
amendment in the nature of a substitute:
S. 1570. A bill to provide flexibility to allow
greater aquifer recharge, and for other pur-
poses (Rept. No. 116–155).
S. 2044. A bill to amend the Omnibus Pub-
lic Land Management Act of 2009 to establish
an Aging Infrastructure Account, to amend
the Reclamation Safety of Dams Act of 1978
to provide additional funds under that Act,
to establish a review of flood control rule
curves pilot project within the Bureau of
Reclamation, and for other purposes (Rept.
No. 116–156).
By Mr. INHOFE, from the Committee on
Armed Services, without amendment:
S. 2731. An original bill to authorize appro-
priations for fiscal year 2020 for military ac-
tivities of the Department of Defense, for
military construction, and for defense activi-
ties of the Department of Energy, and for
other purposes.
f
EXECUTIVE REPORTS OF
COMMITTEE
The following executive reports of
nominations were submitted:
By Mr. INHOFE for the Committee on
Armed Services.
Army nomination of Col. Andrew C.
Hilmes, to be Brigadier General.
Air Force nomination of Maj. Gen. James
B. Hecker, to be Lieutenant General.
Navy nomination of Capt. Gregory C.
Huffman, to be Rear Admiral (lower half).
Navy nomination of Rear Adm. Bruce L.
Gillingham, to be Rear Admiral.
Army nomination of Maj. Gen. Mark C.
Schwartz, to be Lieutenant General.
Army nomination of Col. Karl Konzelman,
to be Brigadier General.
Army nomination of Maj. Gen. Randy A.
George, to be Lieutenant General.
Army nomination of Maj. Gen. Edwin J.
Deedrick, Jr., to be Lieutenant General.
Army nomination of Lt. Gen. James E.
Rainey, to be Lieutenant General.
Navy nomination of Vice Adm. Charles A.
Richard, to be Admiral.
Mr. INHOFE. Mr. President, for the
Committee on Armed Services I report
favorably the following nomination
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:36 Oct 30, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00037 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A29OC6.016 S29OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6242 October 29, 2019
lists which were printed in the
RECORDS on the dates indicated, and
ask unanimous consent, to save the ex-
pense of reprinting on the Executive
Calendar that these nominations lie at
the Secretary’s desk for the informa-
tion of Senators.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
Air Force nomination of David B. Martin,
to be Lieutenant Colonel.
Air Force nominations beginning with
Matthew W. Styles and ending with Lindsey
P. Davis, which nominations were received
by the Senate and appeared in the Congres-
sional Record on September 19, 2019.
Air Force nomination of Shayla A. Canty-
Smith, to be Lieutenant Colonel.
Air Force nominations beginning with
Travis M. Allen and ending with Christopher
D. Underwood II, which nominations were re-
ceived by the Senate and appeared in the
Congressional Record on September 19, 2019.
Air Force nomination of Brandon R. Bur-
den, to be Major.
Air Force nominations beginning with Ste-
ven D. Gresswell and ending with Tessa L.
Winterton, which nominations were received
by the Senate and appeared in the Congres-
sional Record on October 15, 2019.
Air Force nomination of Jason M. Zhao, to
be Major.
Air Force nomination of Samuel H.
Bridges, to be Lieutenant Colonel.
Air Force nominations beginning with
Timothy J. Curry and ending with Ryan J.
Garlow, which nominations were received by
the Senate and appeared in the Congres-
sional Record on October 15, 2019.
Air Force nominations beginning with
Brian P. Berlakovich and ending with Scott
J. Rumisek, which nominations were re-
ceived by the Senate and appeared in the
Congressional Record on October 15, 2019.
Army nomination of Timothy M. Donelson,
to be Major.
Army nomination of Cesar A. Patino, to be
Major.
Army nomination of John J. Vogel, to be
Colonel.
Army nomination of Lance A. Brown, to be
Colonel.
Army nomination of Gregory J. Hirschey,
to be Colonel.
Army nomination of Michael C. Haith, to
be Lieutenant Colonel.
Army nomination of Christopher O. Dor-
sey, to be Major.
Army nomination of Galen Cipperly, to be
Major.
Army nomination of Wayne J. Harsha, to
be Colonel.
Army nominations beginning with Paula
A. Boice and ending with Chunae Zoh, which
nominations were received by the Senate and
appeared in the Congressional Record on
September 19, 2019.
Army nomination of Brian E. Burk, to be
Colonel.
Army nomination of Rhianna K. Riggs, to
be Major.
Army nomination of Fatima H. Khan, to be
Major.
Army nomination of Demetrius E. Walton,
to be Major.
Army nominations beginning with Gregory
B. Batdorff and ending with Eric W. Widmar,
which nominations were received by the Sen-
ate and appeared in the Congressional
Record on October 15, 2019.
Army nominations beginning with Joseph
A. Burton and ending with Ronald C. Vicars,
which nominations were received by the Sen-
ate and appeared in the Congressional
Record on October 15, 2019.
Army nomination of Eric L. Rahman, to be
Colonel.
Army nomination of Guadalupe Resendez,
Jr., to be Lieutenant Colonel.
Army nomination of Katrina A. Parlow, to
be Lieutenant Colonel.
Army nominations beginning with Leslie
E. Akins and ending with D014484, which
nominations were received by the Senate and
appeared in the Congressional Record on Oc-
tober 15, 2019.
Army nominations beginning with Mat-
thew W. Caspari and ending with Glen E.
Templeton, which nominations were received
by the Senate and appeared in the Congres-
sional Record on October 15, 2019.
Army nomination of Kenneth J. Biskner,
to be Colonel.
Army nominations beginning with Nayari
N. Cameron and ending with Juan A.
Villatoro, which nominations were received
by the Senate and appeared in the Congres-
sional Record on October 15, 2019.
Army nomination of Deleno M. Harper, Jr.,
to be Major.
Army nomination of James M. McCandless,
to be Colonel.
Army nomination of Jens K. Pederson, to
be Colonel.
Army nominations beginning with Greco
E. Carreras and ending with Paul E.
Gebhardt, which nominations were received
by the Senate and appeared in the Congres-
sional Record on October 15, 2019.
Army nomination of James H. Feaster, to
be Colonel.
Army nomination of Christa M. Chewar, to
be Colonel.
Army nomination of Erik A. Ernest, to be
Major.
Army nomination of Joshua D. Helsel, to
be Major.
Army nomination of Scott T. McCartney,
to be Major.
Army nomination of Broderick L. Gardner,
to be Major.
Army nomination of Kara S. Krulewicz, to
be Major.
Army nomination of Tatchie O. Manso, to
be Major.
Army nomination of Eduardo Olvera, to be
Major.
Army nomination of Francisco Rincon, to
be Major.
Army nomination of Wallace W. Rollins, to
be Major.
Army nomination of Taylor S. Schenck, to
be Major.
Army nomination of William D. Swenson,
to be Lieutenant Colonel.
Marine Corps nomination of James M. Ste-
phens, to be Major.
Marine Corps nomination of Carlos T.
Jackson, to be Colonel.
Navy nomination of Michael J. Tagaloa, to
be Commander.
Navy nomination of Patcho N. Santiago, to
be Captain.
Navy nomination of Bryan A. Boldon, to be
Lieutenant Commander.
Navy nomination of Michael D. Cribbs, to
be Lieutenant Commander.
Navy nomination of Brackery L. Battle, to
be Lieutenant Commander.
Navy nomination of Joel D. Myers, to be
Lieutenant Commander.
Navy nominations beginning with Bryan
M. Allred and ending with Kendra M. Yates,
which nominations were received by the Sen-
ate and appeared in the Congressional
Record on September 19, 2019.
Navy nominations beginning with Mario D.
Adame and ending with Anthony M. Young,
which nominations were received by the Sen-
ate and appeared in the Congressional
Record on September 19, 2019.
Navy nominations beginning with William
H. Abbitt and ending with Ruben B. Zweiban,
which nominations were received by the Sen-
ate and appeared in the Congressional
Record on September 19, 2019.
Navy nominations beginning with Kelly W.
Agha and ending with Amy L. Younger,
which nominations were received by the Sen-
ate and appeared in the Congressional
Record on September 19, 2019.
Navy nominations beginning with Kwadwo
S. Agyepong and ending with Shaun E. Wil-
liams, which nominations were received by
the Senate and appeared in the Congres-
sional Record on September 19, 2019.
Navy nominations beginning with Bradley
E. Cherry and ending with Neil W. Whitesell,
which nominations were received by the Sen-
ate and appeared in the Congressional
Record on September 19, 2019.
Navy nominations beginning with Hernan
R. Borja and ending with Brian E. Yee, which
nominations were received by the Senate and
appeared in the Congressional Record on
September 19, 2019.
Navy nominations beginning with Ben-
jamin T. Anderson and ending with Matthew
A. Stroup, which nominations were received
by the Senate and appeared in the Congres-
sional Record on September 19, 2019.
Navy nominations beginning with Nick
Avila and ending with Athanasios R.
Varvoutis, which nominations were received
by the Senate and appeared in the Congres-
sional Record on September 19, 2019.
Navy nominations beginning with Michael
Adamski, Jr. and ending with Austin C.
West, which nominations were received by
the Senate and appeared in the Congres-
sional Record on September 19, 2019.
Navy nominations beginning with Jason C.
Abell and ending with James M. Zweifel,
which nominations were received by the Sen-
ate and appeared in the Congressional
Record on September 19, 2019.
Navy nominations beginning with Garrett
L. Adams and ending with Iris P. Wood,
which nominations were received by the Sen-
ate and appeared in the Congressional
Record on September 19, 2019.
Navy nomination of Joseph L. Coffey, to be
Captain.
(Nominations without an asterisk
were reported with the recommenda-
tion that they be confirmed.)
f
INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND
JOINT RESOLUTIONS
The following bills and joint resolu-
tions were introduced, read the first
and second times by unanimous con-
sent, and referred as indicated:
By Ms. ERNST (for herself and Mr.
PAUL):
S. 2722. A bill to prohibit agencies from
using Federal funds for publicity or propa-
ganda purposes, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Homeland Security and
Governmental Affairs.
By Ms. COLLINS (for herself and Ms.
SMITH):
S. 2723. A bill to amend the Federal Food,
Drug, and Cosmetic Act to reduce drug stor-
ages, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Health, Education, Labor, and
Pensions.
By Mr. COTTON (for himself, Ms.
SINEMA, Mr. TILLIS, and Mr. JONES):
S. 2724. A bill to amend the Sarbanes-Oxley
Act of 2002 to exclude the audits of privately
held, non-custody brokers and dealers that
are in good standing from certain require-
ments under title I of that Act, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Banking,
Housing, and Urban Affairs.
By Mr. ROUNDS (for himself, Ms.
SMITH, Mr. THUNE, Mr. TESTER, Ms.
MCSALLY, and Ms. CORTEZ MASTO):
S. 2725. A bill to modify the procedures for
loan guarantees provided for Indian housing,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:01 Oct 30, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00038 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A29OC6.023 S29OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6243
October 29, 2019
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs.
By Ms. KLOBUCHAR (for herself and
Mr. WYDEN):
S. 2726. A bill to amend the Federal Elec-
tion Campaign Act of 1971 to provide for the
treatment of payments for child care and
other personal use services as an authorized
campaign expenditure, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Rules and Ad-
ministration.
By Mr. MARKEY (for himself and Mr.
SANDERS):
S. 2727. A bill to reduce spending on nu-
clear weapons and related defense spending
and to prohibit the procurement and deploy-
ment of low-yield nuclear warheads, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Armed
Services.
By Mr. HAWLEY:
S. 2728. A bill to establish a Department of
Homeland Security counterintelligence vet-
ting task force, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Homeland Security and
Governmental Affairs.
By Ms. DUCKWORTH (for herself and
Mr. RISCH):
S. 2729. A bill to require Federal agencies
to report to Congress on non-compliance
with the requirements applicable to the Of-
fice of Small Business and Disadvantaged
Business Utilization of the Federal agency,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Small Business and Entrepreneurship.
By Mr. PETERS:
S. 2730. A bill to establish and ensure an in-
clusive transparent Drone Advisory Com-
mittee; to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation.
By Mr. INHOFE:
S. 2731. An original bill to authorize appro-
priations for fiscal year 2020 for military ac-
tivities of the Department of Defense, for
military construction, and for defense activi-
ties of the Department of Energy, and for
other purposes; from the Committee on
Armed Services; placed on the calendar.
By Mr. BENNET:
S. 2732. A bill to amend the Department of
Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 to es-
tablish the Advanced Research Projects
Agency-Terra, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and
Forestry.
By Mr. ROMNEY (for himself, Mr.
MANCHIN, Mr. YOUNG, Mr. JONES, and
Ms. SINEMA):
S. 2733. A bill to save and strengthen crit-
ical social contract programs of the Federal
Government; to the Committee on Homeland
Security and Governmental Affairs.
By Mrs. GILLIBRAND (for herself and
Mr. SCHUMER):
S. 2734. A bill to provide a duplication of
benefits fix for Sandy CDBG–DR recipients,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs.
f
ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS
S. 117
At the request of Mr. SCHUMER, the
name of the Senator from Rhode Island
(Mr. WHITEHOUSE) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 117, a bill to prohibit dis-
crimination against individuals with
disabilities who need long-term serv-
ices and supports, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 133
At the request of Ms. MURKOWSKI, the
name of the Senator from Montana
(Mr. TESTER) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 133, a bill to award a Congres-
sional Gold Medal, collectively, to the
United States merchant mariners of
World War II, in recognition of their
dedicated and vital service during
World War II.
S. 206
At the request of Mr. TESTER, the
names of the Senator from Tennessee
(Mr. ALEXANDER) and the Senator from
Alaska (Ms. MURKOWSKI) were added as
cosponsors of S. 206, a bill to award a
Congressional Gold Medal to the fe-
male telephone operators of the Army
Signal Corps, known as the ‘‘Hello
Girls’’.
S. 285
At the request of Ms. ERNST, the
name of the Senator from Texas (Mr.
CORNYN) was added as a cosponsor of S.
285, a bill to require U.S. Immigration
and Customs Enforcement to take into
custody certain aliens who have been
charged in the United States with a
crime that resulted in the death or se-
rious bodily injury of another person,
and for other purposes.
S. 479
At the request of Mr. TOOMEY, the
names of the Senator from Ohio (Mr.
BROWN) and the Senator from Kansas
(Mr. ROBERTS) were added as cospon-
sors of S. 479, a bill to revise section 48
of title 18, United States Code, and for
other purposes.
S. 521
At the request of Mr. BROWN, the
name of the Senator from Nevada (Ms.
ROSEN) was added as a cosponsor of S.
521, a bill to amend title II of the So-
cial Security Act to repeal the Govern-
ment pension offset and windfall elimi-
nation provisions.
S. 636
At the request of Mr. MENENDEZ, the
name of the Senator from New York
(Mr. SCHUMER) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 636, a bill to designate Ven-
ezuela under section 244 of the Immi-
gration and Nationality Act to permit
nationals of Venezuela to be eligible
for temporary protected status under
such section.
S. 642
At the request of Mr. ALEXANDER, the
name of the Senator from Montana
(Mr. TESTER) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 642, a bill to award a Congres-
sional Gold Medal to Master Sergeant
Rodrick ‘‘Roddie’’ Edmonds in recogni-
tion of his heroic actions during World
War II.
S. 652
At the request of Mr. PORTMAN, the
name of the Senator from New Hamp-
shire (Mrs. SHAHEEN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 652, a bill to require the
United States Postal Service to con-
tinue selling the Multinational Species
Conservation Funds Semipostal Stamp
until all remaining stamps are sold,
and for other purposes.
S. 670
At the request of Mr. RUBIO, the
name of the Senator from Tennessee
(Mr. ALEXANDER) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 670, a bill to make day-
light savings time permanent, and for
other purposes.
S. 696
At the request of Mr. MERKLEY, the
name of the Senator from Maine (Mr.
KING) was added as a cosponsor of S.
696, a bill to designate the same indi-
vidual serving as the Chief Nurse Offi-
cer of the Public Health Service as the
National Nurse for Public Health.
S. 890
At the request of Mr. WYDEN, the
name of the Senator from New York
(Mrs. GILLIBRAND) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 890, a bill to authorize the
Sergeant at Arms to protect the per-
sonal technology devices and accounts
of Senators and covered employees
from cyber attacks and hostile infor-
mation collection activities, and for
other purposes.
S. 948
At the request of Ms. KLOBUCHAR, the
names of the Senator from Oregon (Mr.
WYDEN) and the Senator from South
Dakota (Mr. THUNE) were added as co-
sponsors of S. 948, a bill to provide in-
centives to physicians to practice in
rural and medically underserved com-
munities, and for other purposes.
S. 1007
At the request of Mr. WARNER, the
names of the Senator from New Mexico
(Mr. HEINRICH) and the Senator from Il-
linois (Mr. DURBIN) were added as co-
sponsors of S. 1007, a bill to amend the
Horse Protection Act to designate ad-
ditional unlawful acts under the Act,
strengthen penalties for violations of
the Act, improve Department of Agri-
culture enforcement of the Act, and for
other purposes.
S. 1032
At the request of Mr. PORTMAN, the
names of the Senator from North Caro-
lina (Mr. BURR) and the Senator from
Arkansas (Mr. COTTON) were added as
cosponsors of S. 1032, a bill to amend
the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to
modify the definition of income for
purposes of determining the tax-ex-
empt status of certain corporations.
S. 1119
At the request of Mr. UDALL, the
name of the Senator from Maine (Mr.
KING) was added as a cosponsor of S.
1119, a bill to amend the Richard B.
Russell National School Lunch Act to
prohibit the stigmatization of children
who are unable to pay for meals.
S. 1438
At the request of Mrs. FEINSTEIN, the
name of the Senator from Arizona (Ms.
MCSALLY) was added as a cosponsor of
S. 1438, a bill to amend title 39, United
States Code, to extend the authority of
the United States Postal Service to
issue a semipostal to raise funds for
breast cancer research.
S. 1703
At the request of Ms. CANTWELL, the
names of the Senator from Arizona
(Ms. SINEMA), the Senator from Mary-
land (Mr. VAN HOLLEN), the Senator
from Virginia (Mr. KAINE), the Senator
from Minnesota (Ms. KLOBUCHAR), the
Senator from Minnesota (Ms. SMITH)
and the Senator from New Hampshire
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:36 Oct 30, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00039 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A29OC6.035 S29OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6244 October 29, 2019
(Mrs. SHAHEEN) were added as cospon-
sors of S. 1703, a bill to amend the In-
ternal Revenue Code of 1986 to reform
the low-income housing credit, and for
other purposes.
S. 1723
At the request of Mr. GARDNER, the
name of the Senator from California
(Mrs. FEINSTEIN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 1723, a bill to amend the
Omnibus Parks and Public Lands Man-
agement Act of 1996 to provide for the
establishment of a Ski Area Fee Reten-
tion Account.
S. 1757
At the request of Ms. ERNST, the
names of the Senator from Arkansas
(Mr. COTTON) and the Senator from
Wisconsin (Ms. BALDWIN) were added as
cosponsors of S. 1757, a bill to award a
Congressional Gold Medal, collectively,
to the United States Army Rangers
Veterans of World War II in recogni-
tion of their extraordinary service dur-
ing World War II.
S. 1781
At the request of Mr. RUBIO, the
names of the Senator from New York
(Mrs. GILLIBRAND) and the Senator
from Arkansas (Mr. BOOZMAN) were
added as cosponsors of S. 1781, a bill to
authorize appropriations for the De-
partment of State for fiscal years 2020
through 2022 to provide assistance to El
Salvador, Guatemala, and Honduras
through bilateral compacts to increase
protection of women and children in
their homes and communities and re-
duce female homicides, domestic vio-
lence, and sexual assault.
S. 1817
At the request of Mr. BROWN, the
name of the Senator from Montana
(Mr. TESTER) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 1817, a bill to amend the Richard
B. Russell National School Lunch Act
to improve nutritional and other pro-
gram requirements relating to pur-
chases of locally produced food.
S. 1908
At the request of Mrs. GILLIBRAND,
the name of the Senator from Maine
(Mr. KING) was added as a cosponsor of
S. 1908, a bill to amend the Richard B.
Russell National School Lunch Act to
improve the efficiency of summer
meals.
S. 1941
At the request of Mrs. MURRAY, the
name of the Senator from Oregon (Mr.
MERKLEY) was added as a cosponsor of
S. 1941, a bill to amend the Richard B.
Russell National School Lunch Act to
establish a permanent, nationwide
summer electronic benefits transfer for
children program.
S. 1970
At the request of Ms. HIRONO, the
name of the Senator from New Mexico
(Mr. HEINRICH) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 1970, a bill to secure the rights
of public employees to organize, act
concertedly, and bargain collectively,
which safeguard the public interest and
promote the free and unobstructed flow
of commerce, and for other purposes.
S. 2003
At the request of Mr. MANCHIN, the
name of the Senator from Alabama
(Mr. JONES) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 2003, a bill to require the Federal
Communications Commission to des-
ignate a 3-digit dialing code for vet-
erans in crisis.
S. 2103
At the request of Mr. DURBIN, the
name of the Senator from North Da-
kota (Mr. HOEVEN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 2103, a bill to improve ac-
cess to affordable insulin.
S. 2166
At the request of Mr. WICKER, the
name of the Senator from Oregon (Mr.
MERKLEY) was added as a cosponsor of
S. 2166, a bill to designate Regional
Ocean Partnerships of the National
Oceanic and Atmospheric Administra-
tion, and for other purposes.
S. 2216
At the request of Mr. PETERS, the
names of the Senator from Arizona
(Ms. SINEMA) and the Senator from
Alaska (Ms. MURKOWSKI) were added as
cosponsors of S. 2216, a bill to require
the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to
formally recognize caregivers of vet-
erans, notify veterans and caregivers of
clinical determinations relating to eli-
gibility for caregiver programs, and
temporarily extend benefits for vet-
erans who are determined ineligible for
the family caregiver program, and for
other purposes.
S. 2446
At the request of Ms. SINEMA, her
name was added as a cosponsor of S.
2446, a bill to provide certain coverage
of audiologist services under the Medi-
care program, and for other purposes.
S. 2561
At the request of Mr. BLUMENTHAL,
the name of the Senator from Delaware
(Mr. CARPER) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 2561, a bill to amend the Lacey
Act Amendments of 1981 to clarify pro-
visions enacted by the Captive Wildlife
Safety Act, to further the conservation
of certain wildlife species, and for
other purposes.
S. 2565
At the request of Mr. MARKEY, the
name of the Senator from Vermont
(Mr. SANDERS) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 2565, a bill to establish a Glob-
al Climate Change Resilience Strategy,
to authorize the admission of climate-
displaced persons, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 2570
At the request of Ms. SINEMA, the
names of the Senator from New Mexico
(Mr. UDALL) and the Senator from
Georgia (Mr. ISAKSON) were added as
cosponsors of S. 2570, a bill to award a
Congressional Gold Medal to Greg
LeMond in recognition of his service to
the United States as an athlete, activ-
ist, role model, and community leader.
S. 2599
At the request of Mr. TESTER, the
name of the Senator from Minnesota
(Ms. SMITH) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 2599, a bill to amend the Depart-
ment of Agriculture Reorganization
Act of 1994 to provide assistance to
manage farmer and rancher stress and
for the mental health of individuals in
rural areas, and for other purposes.
S. 2603
At the request of Mr. DURBIN, the
name of the Senator from Washington
(Mrs. MURRAY) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 2603, a bill to amend the Immi-
gration and Nationality Act to end the
immigrant visa backlog, and for other
purposes.
S. 2641
At the request of Mr. MENENDEZ, the
name of the Senator from Rhode Island
(Mr. WHITEHOUSE) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 2641, a bill to promote
United States national security and
prevent the resurgence of ISIS, and for
other purposes.
S. 2663
At the request of Mr. MORAN, the
name of the Senator from Arizona (Ms.
MCSALLY) was added as a cosponsor of
S. 2663, a bill to amend title 49, United
States Code, with respect to apportion-
ments to small transit intensive cities,
and for other purposes.
S. 2671
At the request of Mrs. GILLIBRAND,
her name was added as a cosponsor of
S. 2671, a bill to build safer, thriving
communities, and save lives by invest-
ing in effective violence reduction ini-
tiatives.
S. 2680
At the request of Mr. RUBIO, the
names of the Senator from Maine (Ms.
COLLINS) and the Senator from Arizona
(Ms. MCSALLY) were added as cospon-
sors of S. 2680, a bill to impose sanc-
tions with respect to foreign support
for Palestinian terrorism, and for other
purposes.
S. 2691
At the request of Mr. UDALL, the
name of the Senator from New York
(Mrs. GILLIBRAND) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 2691, a bill to establish
the position of Ombudsman for Border
and Immigration Enforcement Related
Concerns in the Department of Home-
land Security.
S.J. RES. 59
At the request of Mr. MCCONNELL,
the name of the Senator from Ten-
nessee (Mr. ALEXANDER) was added as a
cosponsor of S.J. Res. 59, a joint resolu-
tion expressing the sense of Congress
on the precipitous withdrawal of
United States Armed Forces from
Syria and Afghanistan, and Turkey’s
unprovoked incursion into Syria.
S. RES. 73
At the request of Mr. RUBIO, the
name of the Senator from Connecticut
(Mr. BLUMENTHAL) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. Res. 73, a resolution call-
ing on the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia to
immediately release Saudi Women’s
Rights activists and respect the funda-
mental rights of all Saudi citizens.
AMENDMENT NO. 994
At the request of Mr. MERKLEY, the
name of the Senator from California
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:36 Oct 30, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00040 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A29OC6.029 S29OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6245
October 29, 2019
(Mrs. FEINSTEIN) was added as a co-
sponsor of amendment No. 994 intended
to be proposed to H.R. 3055, a bill mak-
ing appropriations for the Departments
of Commerce and Justice, Science, and
Related Agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2020, and for
other purposes.
AMENDMENT NO. 1003
At the request of Ms. CANTWELL, the
name of the Senator from Vermont
(Mr. SANDERS) was added as a cospon-
sor of amendment No. 1003 intended to
be proposed to H.R. 3055, a bill making
appropriations for the Departments of
Commerce and Justice, Science, and
Related Agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2020, and for
other purposes.
AMENDMENT NO. 1044
At the request of Ms. SMITH, the
names of the Senator from Pennsyl-
vania (Mr. CASEY), the Senator from
New Jersey (Mr. MENENDEZ), the Sen-
ator from California (Mrs. FEINSTEIN),
the Senator from Vermont (Mr. SAND-
ERS) and the Senator from Michigan
(Mr. PETERS) were added as cosponsors
of amendment No. 1044 intended to be
proposed to H.R. 3055, a bill making ap-
propriations for the Departments of
Commerce and Justice, Science, and
Related Agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2020, and for
other purposes.
AMENDMENT NO. 1113
At the request of Mrs. SHAHEEN, the
name of the Senator from Vermont
(Mr. SANDERS) was added as a cospon-
sor of amendment No. 1113 intended to
be proposed to H.R. 3055, a bill making
appropriations for the Departments of
Commerce and Justice, Science, and
Related Agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2020, and for
other purposes.
AMENDMENT NO. 1122
At the request of Mr. HEINRICH, the
name of the Senator from North Da-
kota (Mr. CRAMER) was added as a co-
sponsor of amendment No. 1122 in-
tended to be proposed to H.R. 3055, a
bill making appropriations for the De-
partments of Commerce and Justice,
Science, and Related Agencies for the
fiscal year ending September 30, 2020,
and for other purposes.
AMENDMENT NO. 1128
At the request of Mr. CARDIN, the
name of the Senator from Maryland
(Mr. VAN HOLLEN) was added as a co-
sponsor of amendment No. 1128 in-
tended to be proposed to H.R. 3055, a
bill making appropriations for the De-
partments of Commerce and Justice,
Science, and Related Agencies for the
fiscal year ending September 30, 2020,
and for other purposes.
AMENDMENT NO. 1129
At the request of Mr. TOOMEY, the
name of the Senator from Tennessee
(Mr. ALEXANDER) was added as a co-
sponsor of amendment No. 1129 in-
tended to be proposed to H.R. 3055, a
bill making appropriations for the De-
partments of Commerce and Justice,
Science, and Related Agencies for the
fiscal year ending September 30, 2020,
and for other purposes.
AMENDMENT NO. 1133
At the request of Mr. THUNE, the
names of the Senator from Maine (Ms.
COLLINS) and the Senator from Maine
(Mr. KING) were added as cosponsors of
amendment No. 1133 intended to be pro-
posed to H.R. 3055, a bill making appro-
priations for the Departments of Com-
merce and Justice, Science, and Re-
lated Agencies for the fiscal year end-
ing September 30, 2020, and for other
purposes.
AMENDMENT NO. 1151
At the request of Mrs. FEINSTEIN, her
name was added as a cosponsor of
amendment No. 1151 intended to be pro-
posed to H.R. 3055, a bill making appro-
priations for the Departments of Com-
merce and Justice, Science, and Re-
lated Agencies for the fiscal year end-
ing September 30, 2020, and for other
purposes.
AMENDMENT NO. 1164
At the request of Mr. SCOTT of South
Carolina, the names of the Senator
from Maine (Ms. COLLINS), the Senator
from Alabama (Mr. JONES), the Senator
from North Dakota (Mr. CRAMER), the
Senator from Georgia (Mr. PERDUE),
the Senator from Nevada (Ms. CORTEZ
MASTO) and the Senator from North
Carolina (Mr. TILLIS) were added as co-
sponsors of amendment No. 1164 in-
tended to be proposed to H.R. 3055, a
bill making appropriations for the De-
partments of Commerce and Justice,
Science, and Related Agencies for the
fiscal year ending September 30, 2020,
and for other purposes.
AMENDMENT NO. 1182
At the request of Mr. PETERS, the
name of the Senator from Michigan
(Ms. STABENOW) was added as a cospon-
sor of amendment No. 1182 intended to
be proposed to H.R. 3055, a bill making
appropriations for the Departments of
Commerce and Justice, Science, and
Related Agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2020, and for
other purposes.
AMENDMENT NO. 1184
At the request of Mr. KAINE, the
name of the Senator from Maryland
(Mr. VAN HOLLEN) was added as a co-
sponsor of amendment No. 1184 in-
tended to be proposed to H.R. 3055, a
bill making appropriations for the De-
partments of Commerce and Justice,
Science, and Related Agencies for the
fiscal year ending September 30, 2020,
and for other purposes.
AMENDMENT NO. 1199
At the request of Mr. MENENDEZ, the
name of the Senator from Massachu-
setts (Ms. WARREN) was added as a co-
sponsor of amendment No. 1199 in-
tended to be proposed to H.R. 3055, a
bill making appropriations for the De-
partments of Commerce and Justice,
Science, and Related Agencies for the
fiscal year ending September 30, 2020,
and for other purposes.
STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED
BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS
By Ms. COLLINS (for herself and
Ms. SMITH):
S. 2723. A bill to amend the Federal
Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act to re-
duce drug storages, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Health,
Education, Labor, and Pensions.
Ms. COLLINS. Mr. President, I rise
today to introduce legislation with my
colleague from Minnesota, Senator
TINA SMITH, to help prevent drug short-
ages. Our legislation has the support of
the American Hospital Association, the
American Society of Anesthesiologists,
the American Society of Clinical On-
cology, the American Society of
Health-Systems Pharmacists, Premier,
and the Institute for Safe Medication
Practices.
I often hear from patients, phar-
macists, and physicians who find them-
selves caught in the middle of a drug
shortage, with very little certainty of
when the problem might be resolved.
For example, Wayne is a kidney and
bladder cancer patient who called my
Portland office about a shortage of
BCG. Wayne received several treat-
ments, went into remission, and then
was declined additional preventive
treatments that his doctor rec-
ommended due to this shortage. Wayne
sees his physician every 90 days, but he
lives with the constant fear that his
bladder cancer could return, and the
time and uncertainty between his ap-
pointments weigh heavily on him.
I have also heard from patients living
with a rare immunological disorder
called Mast Cell Activation Syndrome
who were affected by an IV Benadryl—
diphenhydramine—shortage, as well as
an Epi-pen shortage. One of these pa-
tients, a former nurse, spoke about the
helplessness her family felt in trying to
manage the shortage and was incred-
ulous that shortages like these could
be happening in a country like ours.
She said, ‘‘I am an in-charge kind of
person, but I cannot fix this.’’
Physicians and hospitals try their
best to manage these shortages behind
the scenes but are understandably frus-
trated. Drug shortages add $230 million
a year to U.S. drug costs and $216 mil-
lion a year in increased labor costs.
One of Maine’s largest health systems
reports that they address approxi-
mately two new impactful shortages a
week and have had to commit 3.5
unbudgeted full time employees to ad-
dress them.
Another health system was experi-
encing 11 critical shortages and 30 less
critical, ongoing shortages. For one
drug, the hospital pharmacist was able
to procure a supply of the drug in
shortage but had to switch to a more
expensive product at ten times the
cost.
Our legislation, the Mitigating Emer-
gency Drug Shortages Act of 2019,
takes several steps to help FDA man-
age drug shortages. In the event of a
likely drug shortage, our legislation
gives FDA the authority to prioritize
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:01 Oct 30, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00041 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A29OC6.031 S29OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6246 October 29, 2019
review of abbreviated new drug appli-
cations and manufacturing inspections.
It also improves the timely and effec-
tive coordination between those con-
ducting manufacturing inspections and
the FDA Office of Drug Shortages.
Our bill strengthens reporting re-
quirements for pharmaceutical compa-
nies to disclose the root causes and ex-
pected duration of shortages. It also re-
quires manufacturers to have contin-
gency and redundancy plans to ensure
the ongoing supply of essential medica-
tions. This is critical as we learn the
lessons from Hurricane Maria in 2017 in
Puerto Rico. Approximately 10 percent
of drugs prescribed in the United
States are manufactured in Puerto
Rico.
Our bill also requires the Depart-
ments of Health and Human Services
and the Department of Homeland Secu-
rity to conduct a risk assessment of
national security threats associated
with the lack of adequate domestic ca-
pacity and capability for the manufac-
turing and distribution of certain crit-
ical drugs, their active pharmaceutical
ingredients—APIs—and associated
medical devices used for preparation or
administration. Today, China and India
are the world’s largest suppliers of ac-
tive pharmaceutical ingredients.
Finally, our legislation requires the
Secretary to develop recommendations
to incentivize manufacturers to enter
the market for shortages as well as im-
prove consumer notification of drug
shortages.
I thank Senator SMITH for joining me
in this effort to help combat this stub-
born and persistent problem for pa-
tients and physicians. I encourage my
colleagues to support its adoption.
Thank you,
By Mr. INHOFE:
S. 2731. An original bill to authorize
appropriations for fiscal year 2020 for
military activities of the Department
of Defense, for military construction,
and for defense activities of the De-
partment of Energy, and for other pur-
poses; from the Committee on Armed
Services; placed on the calendar.
Mr. INHOFE. Mr. President, for 58
years, the Congress has passed the Na-
tional Defense Authorization Act with
large bipartisan margins, and I believe
we are going to do so again this year.
In fact, we must. If it were up to me, it
would have already been done by now.
People have to realize that this is the
most important bill of the year. It is
one that we have to do. We have to do
it by the end of the year—and that is
the end of December—or we are not
going to fund our military. I mean,
that is how serious it is.
I will keep working with my col-
leagues in the House and the Senate to
get this done. I am going to say that
again because there is an ugly rumor
out there to the contrary. We are still
working to get a comprehensive bill
done. We are going to keep working on
it.
It is even more important because of
what happened over the weekend. Our
brave Special Operations forces suc-
cessfully executed a dangerous mission
to get ISIS leader al-Baghdadi, and it
was successful. It was the right call by
President Trump to bring down one of
the most dangerous terrorists the
world has ever seen, and it was success-
ful.
It also underscored the importance of
the annual Defense authorization bill.
There is no better time to pass an
NDAA—that is the national defense au-
thorization bill—that puts our service-
members and their families first than
after a perilous operation dem-
onstrating the bravery, service, and
sacrifice of our troops, because it took
a lot of people to pull this off. But to
ensure that we give the men and
women in the Armed Forces the tools
they need to fight and win no matter
what, we are filing a ‘‘skinny bill’’
today. Let me explain what that is.
We have to have a defense authoriza-
tion. It has to happen. It is one that
has happened for 58 years in a row. It
has to happen. It has happened for 58
years in a row. If it has happened for 58
years in a row, it is going to continue
to happen. We all know that.
The problem with that is, everybody
knows it is going to pass. Con-
sequently, people put more and more
things on the bill, and many of the
things have nothing to do with the
military because they know the bill is
going to pass. What happens is, then
they decide to get everything in there,
and consequently there are so many
people lined up with different things
they want to put on the Defense au-
thorization bill that we have not been
able to come to an agreement.
This has happened in the past. What
happens is, in the event of the Defense
authorization bill—this would be the
largest bill of the year, the most sig-
nificant bill of the year—if, for some
reason, we are not able to pass it, mili-
tary operations will stop.
A skinny bill is simple. It extends
necessary authorities for military op-
erations, takes care of servicemembers
and their families, and authorizes es-
sential military construction and ac-
quisition programs. That is it. That is
one paragraph. That is all it does. That
part has to pass. At the end of the day,
that is what we have to do by the end
of this year, by the end of December.
There is this old document that no-
body reads anymore; it is called the
Constitution. If you read that, it says
what we are really supposed to be
doing, what is really important.
I say to my friend from West Vir-
ginia, out of all the things we do, some-
times they are not all that significant.
This is that significant. That is why
this is important. It is going to pass.
We ought to make sure it passes.
By introducing this as a skinny bill,
it takes out everything that has noth-
ing to do with the military, and we just
pass the bill to take care of our troops.
Here on Capitol Hill, the NDAA—Na-
tional Defense Authorization Act—is
an institution itself, the last bill of its
kind, an authorization bill that passes
every year.
We always have disagreements with-
in and between parties on the future of
national security, but we have always
managed to overcome those divisions
to support our military. This year is
not going to be any different.
Earlier this year, I worked with my
Democratic colleague Senator JACK
REED to produce a bipartisan NDAA in
the Senate. We did a great job. We
spent hours on it, but we ultimately
passed it out of committee almost
unanimously—Democrats and Repub-
licans alike. We brought it to the floor,
and we passed it.
It is not the bill where JACK REED
and JIM INHOFE would necessarily agree
on every aspect, but these are tough
decisions, and we had to make deci-
sions, so we made decisions. Con-
sequently, when it came up to the
floor, it passed by 86 to 6. Only six peo-
ple opposed it in this entire body.
The same has to be true with any
kind of agreement on fiscal year 2020
NDAA. That bill would require 60 votes
in the Senate. It will require Repub-
lican votes in the House. The bill that
came out of the House, from the House
committee on the Defense authoriza-
tion bill, didn’t have one Republican
voting for it. Obviously, it has to have
Republicans in the House vote for it. It
has to pass by a 60-percent margin.
There is no other way it can be done.
We continue making progress. We
know we can’t pass a bill with as many
partisan provisions as we saw in the
House bill—things like unprecedented
restrictions on the President’s ability
to defend America, defend the Nation,
and putting social agenda above the
needs of our troops. Unfortunately, the
same problem that is slowing progress
on the NDAA is also stalling the appro-
priations process.
When I supported the Bipartisan
Budget Act of 2019, I argued that a
lower topline was acceptable if it got
us on-time passage of the NDAA and
the defense funding, but now we are
facing a delayed NDAA and the real
possibility of a full-year continuing
resolution. This is unacceptable.
The Department of Defense has never
operated under a full-year CR. A CR is
a continuing resolution. A CR would
simply be disastrous. What it says is,
we are going to do the same thing for
the military and the rest of the govern-
ment as we did last year. Well, the
needs have changed. We have new pro-
grams that have to be authorized and
have to be voted on. It would be a huge
waste of taxpayers’ money if we were
unable to get this thing done.
We know a full-year CR would press
pause on hundreds of new weapons pro-
grams and leave tens of billions of dol-
lars in the wrong places.
We had a meeting where we had Gen-
eral Martin testify. He is the Vice
Chief of Staff of the Army. For the
Army alone, he said we would be look-
ing at delays to new-start programs
and increased costs of 37 programs, to-
taling $7 billion. That is according to
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:01 Oct 30, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00042 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A29OC6.022 S29OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6247
October 29, 2019
the Vice Chief of Staff of the Army.
That is the Army alone. The total fail-
ure is going to be somewhere around
$22 billion that would be lost.
All said, this would put work rebuild-
ing our military even further behind
and waste enormous amounts of tax-
payer dollars.
The national defense strategy—that
is this book. This is kind of interesting
because this book was put together by
Democrats and Republicans, all with
expertise and a background in the mili-
tary, equal number of Democrats and
Republicans, and they all agreed that
this was going to be our defense strat-
egy. They have a National Defense
Strategy Committee. That national de-
fense strategy provided a clear vision
of the serious challenges it faces and
the necessity of ‘‘urgent change at sig-
nificant scale.’’ That is what Secretary
Mattis stated.
Failure to pass an NDAA and accept-
ing a full-year CR would stop our Na-
tion’s defense strategy in its tracks. It
would undo all the good work we have
done with Secretary Esper, the Presi-
dent of the United States, the Pen-
tagon, as well as our partners, to fol-
low the recommendations of the NDS
Commission report.
This is not just inside-the-beltway
gridlock. The world is watching. Our
allies and our enemies are watching.
They want to know if America is seri-
ous about its role in the world and its
own national defense.
Failure to pass basic legislation on a
timely basis to support our military
sends a terrible signal that undermines
our national security. Think of the sig-
nal that sends to our troops who are
out there risking their lives to defend
us here at home.
Caring for our troops is about the
only thing anyone in this town agrees
on. If we lose that bipartisan support,
it will be hard to get it back, and we
need it now more than ever.
China and Russia. This is interesting
because we didn’t used to be that con-
cerned about them. I would say that
during the Obama administration, his
priorities were not the same. He was
very honest about it. He had other pri-
orities. So we didn’t do the job we
should have done at that time for our
military. China and Russia are not
waiting around for us to end our dis-
agreements with each other.
During the last administration,
under Obama, our military funding de-
creased by 25 percent. Between the
years of 2010 and 2015, we decreased the
amount of funding for our military in
that administration by 25 percent.
Meanwhile, China had increased spend-
ing by 83 percent over the last decade.
Think about it. China increased its
spending by 83 percent, and we reduced
ours by 25 percent.
They are continuing a campaign of
aggression, building islands in the
South China Sea. Our allies over in the
South China Sea are watching what
China is doing there and around the
world and what we are not doing. They
have come to the conclusion that a
third world war may be imminent, and
they are not sure whose side they want
to be on.
This chart I am showing right here is
a picture of hypersonic weapons. These
are state-of-the-art weapons. These are
missiles that travel at five times the
speed of sound. This is something we
were ahead on during the beginning of
the previous administration, and we
are now behind. Right now, China is
parading dozens of massive hypersonic
missiles, and we have haven’t even
built one yet.
There they are. That is a picture I
haven’t seen until today. Those are
hypersonic weapons, and they were on
Tiananmen Square on October 1, 2019.
A lot of people didn’t know that they
are—they have not just caught up with
us; they have passed us. We haven’t
built one yet, and there they are.
People don’t realize where China and
Russia are. That is China, but Russia
continues to develop new and dan-
gerous nuclear weapons, while it ex-
pands its influence in the Middle East
and elsewhere.
I have no doubt that a united Amer-
ica can face these challenges. I fear
that a divided America—a country that
allows defending America to be a par-
tisan issue—cannot.
The path to a final defense bill is, as
it always has been, bipartisan. The De-
fense authorization bill has histori-
cally enjoyed broad bipartisan support,
and that is not an accident. Both par-
ties have compromised to get a bill
worthy of our troops and worthy of our
troops’ sacrifices.
I hope we get to a place where we can
find common ground to give our troops
and military a comprehensive bill.
That is what we want to continue to
do.
We have been working on this bill for
a long period of time. Normally, it
doesn’t take this long. We have gotten
it down to what they call the four lead-
ers. I am one of those four leaders who
have been trying to put this together,
but we have not been able to get it
done.
What we are doing with this bill is we
are putting the bill up. We are going to
get it on the floor so we can be ready.
Here is the problem: If we don’t do it,
we can sit around and do nothing
through the month of November, and
when December gets here, all of a sud-
den, we are going to be faced with the
fact that we are going to have some
bill that takes care of just the mili-
tary, not all the other stuff that is on
the bill. To do this, you have to pass it
out of committee. You have to take it
to the floor of the Senate. You have to
pass it out. Then, if you get that far,
the House has to do the same thing.
Then we go into conference, and we
confer on this thing.
Obviously, that is going to take not
just days but weeks. So to prepare for
the unlikely possibility that we don’t
get together, we do have the skeleton
bill that we are going to introduce. I
am going to introduce it an hour from
now. It is the only thing we can do
right now to make sure we can take
care of our troops if we are not able to
get the comprehensive bill completed.
That is the reason for it. I will be in-
troducing it.
Every provision in that bill is a pro-
vision to enhance our military efforts,
to pay our troops, and to take care of
our country the way we have been able
to do in the past.
f
AMENDMENTS SUBMITTED AND
PROPOSED
SA 1213. Mr. BLUNT (for himself, Ms. KLO-
BUCHAR, Mr. GARDNER, and Ms. CORTEZ
MASTO) submitted an amendment intended
to be proposed to amendment SA 948 pro-
posed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055,
making appropriations for the Departments
of Commerce and Justice, Science, and Re-
lated Agencies for the fiscal year ending Sep-
tember 30, 2020, and for other purposes; which
was ordered to lie on the table.
SA 1214. Mr. HOEVEN (for himself and Ms.
BALDWIN) submitted an amendment intended
to be proposed to amendment SA 948 pro-
posed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055,
supra; which was ordered to lie on the table.
SA 1215. Ms. MCSALLY (for herself and Ms.
SINEMA) submitted an amendment intended
to be proposed to amendment SA 948 pro-
posed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055,
supra; which was ordered to lie on the table.
SA 1216. Ms. CORTEZ MASTO (for herself
and Mr. PORTMAN) submitted an amendment
intended to be proposed to amendment SA
948 proposed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill H.R.
3055, supra; which was ordered to lie on the
table.
SA 1217. Mr. REED submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed to amendment
SA 948 proposed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill
H.R. 3055, supra; which was ordered to lie on
the table.
SA 1218. Mr. TILLIS (for himself and Mr.
BURR) submitted an amendment intended to
be proposed to amendment SA 948 proposed
by Mr. SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055, supra;
which was ordered to lie on the table.
SA 1219. Mr. CORNYN submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr. SHELBY
to the bill H.R. 3055, supra; which was or-
dered to lie on the table.
SA 1220. Ms. COLLINS (for herself and Mrs.
FEINSTEIN) submitted an amendment in-
tended to be proposed to amendment SA 948
proposed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055,
supra; which was ordered to lie on the table.
SA 1221. Mr. LEE submitted an amendment
intended to be proposed to amendment SA
948 proposed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill H.R.
3055, supra; which was ordered to lie on the
table.
SA 1222. Mr. LEE submitted an amendment
intended to be proposed to amendment SA
948 proposed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill H.R.
3055, supra; which was ordered to lie on the
table.
SA 1223. Ms. STABENOW (for herself, Ms.
SMITH, Mr. CASEY, Mr. DURBIN, Mr. MENEN-
DEZ, Mr. BOOKER, Mrs. MURRAY, Mr. WYDEN,
Mr. BROWN, Ms. DUCKWORTH, Ms. HIRONO, Ms.
BALDWIN, Mr. VAN HOLLEN, and Mr. CASSIDY)
submitted an amendment intended to be pro-
posed to amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055, supra; which
was ordered to lie on the table.
SA 1224. Mr. CORNYN (for himself and Mr.
BOOKER) submitted an amendment intended
to be proposed to amendment SA 948 pro-
posed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055,
supra; which was ordered to lie on the table.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:36 Oct 30, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00043 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G29OC6.024 S29OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6248 October 29, 2019
SA 1225. Mr. PORTMAN submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr. SHELBY
to the bill H.R. 3055, supra; which was or-
dered to lie on the table.
SA 1226. Mr. MARKEY (for himself, Mr.
BLUMENTHAL, Mr. BOOKER, Mrs. FEINSTEIN,
and Ms. HARRIS) submitted an amendment
intended to be proposed to amendment SA
948 proposed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill H.R.
3055, supra; which was ordered to lie on the
table.
SA 1227. Mr. SCHUMER (for himself and
Mr. BENNET) submitted an amendment in-
tended to be proposed to amendment SA 948
proposed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055,
supra; which was ordered to lie on the table.
SA 1228. Mr. SCHUMER (for himself, Mr.
BROWN, Mr. CASEY, Mrs. GILLIBRAND, Mr.
BLUMENTHAL, Ms. WARREN, and Mr. MARKEY)
submitted an amendment intended to be pro-
posed to amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055, supra; which
was ordered to lie on the table.
SA 1229. Mr. PETERS (for himself, Ms.
STABENOW, Mr. JONES, and Mr. TESTER) sub-
mitted an amendment intended to be pro-
posed to amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055, supra; which
was ordered to lie on the table.
SA 1230. Ms. SMITH submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed to amendment
SA 948 proposed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill
H.R. 3055, supra; which was ordered to lie on
the table.
SA 1231. Mr. LEE submitted an amendment
intended to be proposed to amendment SA
948 proposed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill H.R.
3055, supra; which was ordered to lie on the
table.
SA 1232. Mr. INHOFE (for himself and Ms.
DUCKWORTH) submitted an amendment in-
tended to be proposed to amendment SA 948
proposed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055,
supra; which was ordered to lie on the table.
SA 1233. Mr. INHOFE (for himself and Mr.
BROWN) submitted an amendment intended
to be proposed to amendment SA 948 pro-
posed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055,
supra; which was ordered to lie on the table.
SA 1234. Ms. McSALLY (for herself and Mr.
BOOKER) submitted an amendment intended
to be proposed to amendment SA 948 pro-
posed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055,
supra; which was ordered to lie on the table.
SA 1235. Mr. PORTMAN submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr. SHELBY
to the bill H.R. 3055, supra; which was or-
dered to lie on the table.
SA 1236. Mr. TILLIS (for himself, Mr.
GARDNER, and Mr. GRAHAM) submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr. SHELBY
to the bill H.R. 3055, supra; which was or-
dered to lie on the table.
SA 1237. Mr. BRAUN submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed to amendment
SA 948 proposed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill
H.R. 3055, supra; which was ordered to lie on
the table.
SA 1238. Mr. MANCHIN (for himself, Mr.
CASEY, Mr. KAINE, Mr. JONES, Mr. WARNER,
Ms. SINEMA, Mr. SANDERS, Mr. VAN HOLLEN,
Ms. DUCKWORTH, Mr. BROWN, Mr. DURBIN, and
Ms. HARRIS) submitted an amendment in-
tended to be proposed to amendment SA 948
proposed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055,
supra; which was ordered to lie on the table.
SA 1239. Mr. ROMNEY submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr. SHELBY
to the bill H.R. 3055, supra; which was or-
dered to lie on the table.
SA 1240. Mr. GRASSLEY submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed by him
to the bill S. 916, to improve Federal efforts
with respect to the prevention of maternal
mortality, and for other purposes; which was
referred to the Committee on Finance.
f
TEXT OF AMENDMENTS
SA 1213. Mr. BLUNT (for himself, Ms.
KLOBUCHAR, Mr. GARDNER, and Ms.
CORTEZ MASTO) submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055, making
appropriations for the Departments of
Commerce and Justice, Science, and
Related Agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2020, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
At the appropriate place, insert the fol-
lowing:
TITLE ll—TRAVEL PROMOTION
SEC. ll01. SHORT TITLE.
This title may be cited as the ‘‘Brand USA
Extension Act’’.
SEC. ll02. THE CORPORATION FOR TRAVEL
PROMOTION.
Subsection (b) of the Travel Promotion Act
of 2009 (22 U.S.C. 2131(b)) is amended—
(1) in paragraph (2)(A)—
(A) in clause (ii), by inserting ‘‘or
foodservice’’ after ‘‘restaurant’’;
(B) in clause (v), by inserting ‘‘, such as
outdoor recreation or theme parks’’ before
the semicolon at the end; and
(C) in clause (viii), by inserting ‘‘commer-
cial or private’’ before ‘‘passenger air sec-
tor’’;
(2) in paragraph (5)(A)—
(A) in clause (iii), by inserting ‘‘speaking
conventions, sales missions,’’ after ‘‘trade
shows,’’;
(B) in clause (iv), by striking ‘‘and’’ at the
end;
(C) in clause (v), by striking the period at
the end and inserting ‘‘; and’’; and
(D) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(vi) to promote tourism to the United
States through digital media, online plat-
forms, and other appropriate medium.’’; and
(3) in paragraph (7)(C), by striking ‘‘3 days’’
and inserting ‘‘5 days’’.
SEC. ll03. ACCOUNTABILITY MEASURES.
Subsection (c) of the Travel Promotion Act
of 2009 (22 U.S.C. 2131(c)) is amended—
(1) in paragraph (2), by striking ‘‘$500,000’’
and inserting ‘‘$450,000’’; and
(2) in paragraph (3)—
(A) by redesignating subparagraph (I) as
subparagraph (K);
(B) in subparagraph (H)(iii), by striking
‘‘and’’ at the end; and
(C) by inserting after subparagraph (H)(iii)
the following:
‘‘(I) a list of countries the Corporation
identifies as emerging markets for tourism
to the United States;
‘‘(J) a description of the efforts the Cor-
poration has made to promote tourism to
rural areas of the United States; and’’.
SEC. ll04. EXTENSION OF FUNDING FOR BRAND
USA.
Subsection (d) of the Travel Promotion Act
of 2009 (22 U.S.C. 2131(d)) is amended—
(1) in paragraph (2)(B), by striking ‘‘2020’’
and inserting ‘‘2027’’;
(2) in paragraph (3)(B)(ii), by striking ‘‘70
percent’’ and inserting ‘‘50 percent’’; and
(3) in paragraph (4)(B), by striking ‘‘2020’’
and inserting ‘‘2027’’.
SEC. ll05. PERFORMANCE PLAN.
Not later than 90 days after the date of the
enactment of this Act, the Corporation for
Travel Promotion shall make the perform-
ance metrics established pursuant to sub-
section (f)(1)(A) of the Travel Promotion Act
of 2009 (22 U.S.C. 2131(f)(1)(A)) publicly avail-
able on the website of the Corporation.
SEC. ll06. ELECTRONIC SYSTEM FOR TRAVEL
AUTHORIZATION FEE INCREASE.
Section 217(h)(3)(B)(i)(I) of the Immigra-
tion and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C.
1187(h)(3)(B)(i)(I)) is amended by striking
‘‘$10’’ and inserting ‘‘$17’’.
SA 1214. Mr. HOEVEN (for himself
and Ms. BALDWIN) submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055, making
appropriations for the Departments of
Commerce and Justice, Science, and
Related Agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2020, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
At the appropriate place under the heading
‘‘OPERATIONS’’ under the heading ‘‘FEDERAL
AVIATION ADMINISTRATION’’ in title I of divi-
sion D, insert the following: ‘‘Provided fur-
ther, That of the funds appropriated under
this heading, not less than $5,000,000 shall be
used for a veterans pilot training competi-
tive grant program.’’.
SA 1215. Ms. McSALLY (for herself
and Ms. SINEMA) submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055, making
appropriations for the Departments of
Commerce and Justice, Science, and
Related Agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2020, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
On page 311, line 2, insert ‘‘Provided further,
That not later than 90 days after the date of
enactment of this Act, the Chief of the For-
est Service shall submit to the Committees
on Appropriations and Natural Resources of
the House of Representatives and the Com-
mittees on Appropriations and Energy and
Natural Resources of the Senate a report de-
tailing the status of efforts to accelerate for-
est ecosystem restoration under the Four
Forest Restoration Initiative:’’ after
‘‘7303(f):’’.
SA 1216. Ms. CORTEZ MASTO (for
herself and Mr. PORTMAN) submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055, making
appropriations for the Departments of
Commerce and Justice, Science, and
Related Agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2020, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
At the appropriate place in title VII of di-
vision B, insert the following:
SEC. 7ll. (a) There is appropriated
$600,000 to carry out section 6306 of the Agri-
culture Improvement Act of 2018 (7 U.S.C.
2204b–3).
(b) Notwithstanding any other provision of
this Act, the amount appropriated under this
Act to the Department of Agriculture under
the heading ‘‘OFFICE OF THE CHIEF FINANCIAL
OFFICER’’ shall be reduced by $600,000.
SA 1217. Mr. REED submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055, making
appropriations for the Departments of
Commerce and Justice, Science, and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:36 Oct 30, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00044 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A29OC6.033 S29OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6249
October 29, 2019
Related Agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2020, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
At the appropriate place in title VII of di-
vision B, insert the following:
SEC. 7ll. (a) Notwithstanding any other
provision of this Act, the amount appro-
priated under the heading ‘‘SALARIES AND EX-
PENSES’’ under the heading ‘‘ANIMAL AND
PLANT HEALTH INSPECTION SERVICE’’ in title
I shall be increased by $1,000,000, to remain
available until expended, which shall be for
surveillance, testing, prevention, and re-
search relating to Eastern equine encepha-
litis in impacted States.
(b) Notwithstanding any other provision of
this Act, the amount appropriated under this
Act to the Department of Agriculture under
the heading ‘‘OFFICE OF THE CHIEF FINANCIAL
OFFICER’’ shall be reduced by $1,000,000.
SA 1218. Mr. TILLIS (for himself and
Mr. BURR) submitted an amendment in-
tended to be proposed to amendment
SA 948 proposed by Mr. SHELBY to the
bill H.R. 3055, making appropriations
for the Departments of Commerce and
Justice, Science, and Related Agencies
for the fiscal year ending September 30,
2020, and for other purposes; which was
ordered to lie on the table; as follows:
On page 223, between lines 13 and 14, insert
the following:
SEC. 7ll. Notwithstanding subsections (d)
and (e) of section 5 of the Commodity Credit
Corporation Charter Act (15 U.S.C. 714c) or
any other provision of law, beginning in crop
year 2020, tobacco shall be an eligible agri-
cultural commodity under the Market Fa-
cilitation Program conducted pursuant to
that section.
SA 1219. Mr. CORNYN submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055, making
appropriations for the Departments of
Commerce and Justice, Science, and
Related Agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2020, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
On page 237, line 7, insert ‘‘: Provided fur-
ther, That the Service shall issue guidance to
field offices for streamlining consultations
under section 7(a)(2) of the Endangered Spe-
cies Act of 1973 (16 U.S.C. 1536(a)(2)) relating
to Federal actions that authorize, fund, or
carry out an activity that is covered by an
approved Habitat Conservation Plan, is per-
mitted under section 10(a)(1)(B) of that Act
(16 U.S.C. 1539(a)(1)(B)), and affects a species
that is listed as a threatened or endangered
species under that Act (16 U.S.C. 1531 et seq.)
and covered by the approved Habitat Con-
servation Plan’’ before the period at the end.
SA 1220. Ms. COLLINS (for herself
and Mrs. FEINSTEIN) submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055, making
appropriations for the Departments of
Commerce and Justice, Science, and
Related Agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2020, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
On page 338, line 22, at the appropriate
place insert the following: ‘‘Provided further,
That of the funds appropriated herein, not
less than $3,700,000 shall be made available
for the Women’s History Initiative.’’.
SA 1221. Mr. LEE submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055, making
appropriations for the Departments of
Commerce and Justice, Science, and
Related Agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2020, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
At the appropriate place under the heading
‘‘OPERATIONS’’ under the heading ‘‘FEDERAL
AVIATION ADMINISTRATION’’ in title I of divi-
sion D, insert the following: ‘‘Provided fur-
ther, That the Administrator of the Federal
Aviation Administration shall use funds ap-
propriated under this heading to publish
guidance describing how a pilot may share
flight expenses with passengers in a manner
consistent with Federal law, including regu-
lations, as required under section 515 of Pub-
lic Law 115–254.’’.
SA 1222. Mr. LEE submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055, making
appropriations for the Departments of
Commerce and Justice, Science, and
Related Agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2020, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
At the appropriate place under the heading
‘‘OPERATIONS’’ under the heading ‘‘FEDERAL
AVIATION ADMINISTRATION’’ in title I of divi-
sion D, insert the following: ‘‘Provided fur-
ther, That the amount herein appropriated
shall be reduced by $100,000 for each day after
December 31, 2019, that the guidance describ-
ing how a pilot may share flight expenses
with passengers in a manner consistent with
Federal law, including regulations, is not
published as required under section 515 of
Public Law 115–254.’’.
SA 1223. Ms. STABENOW (for herself,
Ms. SMITH, Mr. CASEY, Mr. DURBIN, Mr.
MENENDEZ, Mr. BOOKER, Mrs. MURRAY,
Mr. WYDEN, Mr. BROWN, Ms.
DUCKWORTH, Ms. HIRONO, Ms. BALDWIN,
Mr. VAN HOLLEN, and Mr. CASSIDY) sub-
mitted an amendment intended to be
proposed to amendment SA 948 pro-
posed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill H.R.
3055, making appropriations for the De-
partments of Commerce and Justice,
Science, and Related Agencies for the
fiscal year ending September 30, 2020,
and for other purposes; which was or-
dered to lie on the table; as follows:
At the appropriate place in title VII of di-
vision B, insert the following:
SEC. 7ll. (a) There is appropriated
$5,000,000 to carry out section 222 of the De-
partment of Agriculture Reorganization Act
of 1994 (7 U.S.C. 6923).
(b) Notwithstanding any other provision of
this Act, the amount provided under the
heading ‘‘AGRICULTURE BUILDINGS AND FA-
CILITIES’’ under the heading ‘‘AGRICUL-
TURAL PROGRAMS’’ in title I shall be re-
duced by $6,000,000.
SA 1224. Mr. CORNYN (for himself
and Mr. BOOKER) submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055, making
appropriations for the Departments of
Commerce and Justice, Science, and
Related Agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2020, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
On page 223, between lines 13 and 14, insert
the following:
SEC. 7ll. (a) There is appropriated
$2,000,000 to carry out section 30 of the Food
and Nutrition Act of 2008 (7 U.S.C. 2036d).
(b) Notwithstanding any other provision of
this Act, the amount provided under the
heading ‘‘AGRICULTURE BUILDINGS AND FA-
CILITIES’’ under the heading ‘‘AGRICUL-
TURAL PROGRAMS’’ in title I shall be re-
duced by $2,000,000.
SA 1225. Mr. PORTMAN submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055, making
appropriations for the Departments of
Commerce and Justice, Science, and
Related Agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2020, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
On page 458, line 18, insert ‘‘the family uni-
fication program under section 8(x) of the
Act,’’ after ‘‘the Act,’’.
SA 1226. Mr. MARKEY (for himself,
Mr. BLUMENTHAL, Mr. BOOKER, Mrs.
FEINSTEIN, and Ms. HARRIS) submitted
an amendment intended to be proposed
to amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055, making
appropriations for the Departments of
Commerce and Justice, Science, and
Related Agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2020, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
At the appropriate place in title I of divi-
sion C, insert the following:
OIL AND GAS PROGRAM LEASE SALE
REQUIREMENT
SEC. 1ll.
None of the funds made available to the
Secretary of the Interior by this or any
other Act may be used to conduct a lease
sale pursuant to section 20001(c)(1) of Public
Law 115–97 (16 U.S.C. 3143 note) that does not
contain a national minimum acceptable bid
amount sufficient to produce Federal re-
ceipts to the Treasury, net of any State
share, of not less than an amount equal to 50
percent of the amount required by section
2001(b) of H. Con. Res. 71, the concurrent res-
olution on the budget for fiscal year 2018, as
agreed to on October 26, 2017.
SA 1227. Mr. SCHUMER (for himself
and Mr. BENNET) submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055, making
appropriations for the Departments of
Commerce and Justice, Science, and
Related Agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2020, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
At the appropriate place in title I of divi-
sion C, insert the following:
SEC. 1lll. GAO STUDY ON OUTDOOR RECRE-
ATION.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) COVERED AGENCY.—The term ‘‘covered
agency’’ means—
(A) the Department of Agriculture;
(B) the Department of the Interior;
(C) the Corps of Engineers;
(D) the National Marine Fisheries Service;
and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:36 Oct 30, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00045 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A29OC6.026 S29OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6250 October 29, 2019
(E) the Office of National Marine Sanc-
tuaries of the National Oceanic and Atmos-
pheric Administration.
(2) OUTDOOR RECREATION.—The term ‘‘out-
door recreation’’ means all recreational ac-
tivities undertaken for pleasure that—
(A) generally involve some level of inten-
tional physical exertion; and
(B) occur in nature-based environments
outdoors.
(b) STUDY REQUIRED.—The Comptroller
General of the United States shall conduct a
study that—
(1) identifies each program carried out by a
covered agency that directly impacts the
outdoor recreation sector, including each
program that affects the management and
conservation of, and access to, the land,
waters, and natural resources of the Unites
States; and
(2) describes, for each program identified
under paragraph (1), the spending level for
that program during each of the 20 fiscal
years preceding the year in which the report
is submitted.
(c) REQUIRED COORDINATION.—In conducting
the study under subsection (b), the Comp-
troller General of the United States shall co-
ordinate with the outdoor recreation indus-
try, nongovernmental organizations, the Bu-
reau of Economic Analysis of the Depart-
ment of Commerce, and other interested
stakeholders.
(d) REPORT.—Not later 240 days after the
date of enactment of this Act, the Comp-
troller General of the United States shall
submit to the appropriate committees of
Congress a report that describes the results
of the study conducted under subsection (b).
SA 1228. Mr. SCHUMER (for himself,
Mr. BROWN, Mr. CASEY, Mrs. GILLI-
BRAND, Mr. BLUMENTHAL, Ms. WARREN,
and Mr. MARKEY) submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055, making
appropriations for the Departments of
Commerce and Justice, Science, and
Related Agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2020, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
At the appropriate place in title IV of divi-
sion C, insert the following:
NATIONAL HERITAGE AREAS AND NATIONAL
HERITAGE CORRIDORS
SEC. 4ll. (a) Section 512 of Title V of Di-
vision J of P.L. 108–447 is amended by strik-
ing ‘‘on the date that is 15 years after the
date that funds are first made available for
this title.’’ and inserting ‘‘after September
30, 2022.’’
(b) Section 608 of Title VI of Division J of
P.L. 108–447 is amended by striking ‘‘the ex-
piration of the 15-year period beginning on
the date that funds are first made available
for this title.’’ and inserting ‘‘September 30,
2022.’’
(c) Section 109 of Title I of Public Law 103–
449, as amended by Public Law 111–11, title
VIII section 8201(c), is further amended by
striking ‘‘$15,000,000’’ and inserting
‘‘$17,000,000’’.
(d) Section 810(a)(1) of Title VIII of Divi-
sion B of Appendix D of Public Law 106–554,
as amended by Public Law 115–31, Division G,
Title I section 115(b), is further amended by
striking ‘‘$12,000,000’’ and inserting
‘‘$14,000,000’’.
SA 1229. Mr. PETERS (for himself,
Ms. STABENOW, Mr. JONES, and Mr.
TESTER) submitted an amendment in-
tended to be proposed to amendment
SA 948 proposed by Mr. SHELBY to the
bill H.R. 3055, making appropriations
for the Departments of Commerce and
Justice, Science, and Related Agencies
for the fiscal year ending September 30,
2020, and for other purposes; which was
ordered to lie on the table; as follows:
At the appropriate place in title VII of di-
vision B, insert the following:
SEC. 7ll. (a) Notwithstanding any other
provision of law, of the funds of the Com-
modity Credit Corporation, the Secretary of
Agriculture (referred to in this section as the
‘‘Secretary’’) may use for the cost of loan
guarantees not more than $30,000,000 to carry
out the interest rate reduction program es-
tablished under section 351 of the Consoli-
dated Farm and Rural Development Act (7
U.S.C. 1999).
(b)(1) Not later than 90 days after the date
of enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall
advertise to current borrowers the process
and opportunity by which a borrower may,
pursuant to section 331A(a) of the Consoli-
dated Farm and Rural Development Act (7
U.S.C. 1981a(a)), request deferral of principal
and interest in order to forgo foreclosure.
(2) The Secretary shall submit a quarterly
report describing the number of requests
under paragraph (1) submitted, approved, and
denied to—
(A) the Committee on Agriculture, Nutri-
tion, and Forestry of the Senate;
(B) the Committee on Agriculture of the
House of Representatives;
(C) the Committee on Appropriations of
the Senate; and
(D) the Committee on Appropriations of
the House of Representatives.
(c) For purposes of providing equitable re-
lief under section 366 of the Consolidated
Farm and Rural Development Act (7 U.S.C.
2008a), the Secretary may consider a good
faith claim of a borrower of misunder-
standing due to ambiguous or unclear guid-
ance or a change in normal procedure to be
reliance on the advice of the Secretary under
subsection (b)(2) of that section.
(d) The amounts made available under this
section are designated by Congress as being
for emergency requirements pursuant to sec-
tion 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 (2
U.S.C. 901(b)(2)(A)(i)).
SA 1230. Ms. SMITH submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055, making
appropriations for the Departments of
Commerce and Justice, Science, and
Related Agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2020, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
At the end, add the following:
DIVISION E—FAIR COMPENSATION FOR
LOW-WAGE CONTRACTOR EMPLOYEES
ACT OF 2019
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This division may be cited as the ‘‘Fair
Compensation for Low-Wage Contractor Em-
ployees Act of 2019’’.
SEC. 2. APPROPRIATION.
There is hereby appropriated, out of any
money in the Treasury not otherwise appro-
priated, such sums as may be necessary, to
remain available until expended, for each
Federal agency subject to the lapse in appro-
priations that began on or about December
22, 2018, for adjustments in the price of con-
tracts of such agency under section 3.
SEC. 3. BACK COMPENSATION FOR LOW-WAGE
EMPLOYEES OF GOVERNMENT CON-
TRACTORS IN CONNECTION WITH
THE LAPSE IN APPROPRIATIONS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Each Federal agency sub-
ject to the lapse in appropriations that
began on or about December 22, 2018, shall
adjust the price of any contract of such
agency for which the contractor was ordered
to suspend, delay, or interrupt all or part of
the work of such contract, or stop all or any
part of the work called for in such contract,
as a result of the lapse in appropriations to
compensate the contractor for reasonable
costs incurred—
(1) to provide compensation, at an employ-
ee’s standard rate of compensation, to any
employee who was furloughed or laid off, or
who was not working, who experienced a re-
duction of hours, or who experienced a reduc-
tion in compensation, as a result of the lapse
in appropriations (for the period of the
lapse); or
(2) to restore paid leave taken by any em-
ployee during the lapse in appropriations, if
the contractor required employees to use
paid leave as a result of the lapse in appro-
priations.
(b) LIMITATION ON AMOUNT OF WEEKLY COM-
PENSATION COVERED BY ADJUSTMENT.—The
maximum amount of weekly compensation
of an employee for which an adjustment may
be made under subsection (a) may not exceed
the lesser of—
(1) the employee’s actual weekly com-
pensation; or
(2) $965.
(c) TIMING OF ADJUSTMENTS.—The adjust-
ments required by subsection (a) shall be
made as soon as practicable after the enact-
ment of this Act.
(d) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) The term ‘‘compensation’’ has the
meaning given that term in section 6701 of
title 41, United States Code.
(2) The term ‘‘employee’’ means the fol-
lowing:
(A) A ‘‘service employee’’ as that term is
defined in section 6701(3) of title 41, United
States Code, except that the term also in-
cludes service employees described in sub-
paragraph (C) of that section notwith-
standing that subparagraph.
(B) A ‘‘laborer or mechanic’’ covered by
section 3142 of title 40, United States Code.
SEC. 4. EFFECTIVE DATE.
This division shall take effect upon the
date of enactment of this Act.
SEC. 5. BUDGETARY EFFECTS.
(a) CLASSIFICATION OF BUDGETARY EF-
FECTS.—Notwithstanding Rule 3 of the Budg-
et Scorekeeping Guidelines set forth in the
joint explanatory statement of the com-
mittee of conference accompanying Con-
ference Report 105–217 and section 250(c)(8) of
the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit
Control Act of 1985, the budgetary effects of
this division shall not be estimated—
(1) for purposes of section 251 of such Act;
and
(2) for purposes of paragraph (4)(C) of sec-
tion 3 of the Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Act
of 2010 as being included in an appropriation
Act.
(b) DETERMINATION OF BUDGETARY EF-
FECTS.—The budgetary effects of this divi-
sion, for the purpose of complying with the
Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010, shall
be determined by reference to the latest
statement titled ‘‘Budgetary Effects of
PAYGO Legislation’’ for this division, sub-
mitted for printing in the Congressional
Record by the Chairman of the House Budget
Committee, provided that such statement
has been submitted prior to the vote on pas-
sage.
SA 1231. Mr. LEE submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:36 Oct 30, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00046 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A29OC6.039 S29OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6251
October 29, 2019
amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055, making
appropriations for the Departments of
Commerce and Justice, Science, and
Related Agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2020, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
At the appropriate place in title IV of divi-
sion C, insert the following:
PROHIBITION ON USE OF FUNDS TO PROHIBIT THE
USE OF UNMANNED AERIAL VEHICLES FOR
MANAGING TELECOMMUNICATIONS INFRA-
STRUCTURE ON FEDERAL LAND
SEC. 4ll. None of the funds made avail-
able by this Act may be used to prohibit a
telecommunications provider from using an
unmanned aerial vehicle for surveying,
maintaining, or managing telecommuni-
cations infrastructure on Federal land.
SA 1232. Mr. INHOFE (for himself
and Ms. DUCKWORTH) submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055, making
appropriations for the Departments of
Commerce and Justice, Science, and
Related Agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2020, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
At the appropriate place in title I of divi-
sion D, insert the following:
SEC. ll. (a) IN GENERAL.—Section 625(c)(1)
of the FAA Reauthorization Act of 2018 (Pub-
lic Law 115–254) is amended—
(1) in subparagraph (C), by striking ‘‘or’’
after the semicolon;
(2) in subparagraph (D), by striking the pe-
riod and inserting ‘‘; or’’; and
(3) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(E) an organization representing aircraft
users, aircraft owners, or aircraft pilots.’’.
(b) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments
made by subsection (a) shall take effect as if
included in the enactment of the FAA Reau-
thorization Act of 2018 (Public Law 115–254).
SA 1233. Mr. INHOFE (for himself
and Mr. BROWN) submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055, making
appropriations for the Departments of
Commerce and Justice, Science, and
Related Agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2020, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
On page 53, line 12, strike ‘‘initiatives;’’
and insert ‘‘initiatives: Provided, That not
more than 2 percent of any grant awarded
using funds made available under this para-
graph may be used by a State administrative
agency for administrative costs;’’.
SA 1234. Ms. MCSALLY (for herself
and Mr. BOOKER) submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055, making
appropriations for the Departments of
Commerce and Justice, Science, and
Related Agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2020, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
At the appropriate place in title II of divi-
sion A, insert the following:
SEC. 2ll. Not later than 90 days after the
date of enactment of this Act, the Attorney
General shall submit a report to the Com-
mittee on Appropriations and the Committee
on the Judiciary of the Senate detailing the
efforts of the Department of Justice to com-
bat and enforce animal fighting and animal
welfare statutes, which shall include—
(1) a break down of the number of per-
sonnel dedicated to animal welfare crimes on
a full-time basis, including their respective
departmental component;
(2) a list of all cases involving animal wel-
fare crimes that the Department of Justice
has prosecuted since 2014;
(3) a list of investigations that were re-
ferred to the Department of Justice that
have been delayed or declined to be pros-
ecuted by the Department of Justice and the
reason for any deferral or declination; and
(4) a qualitative description of how the De-
partment of Justice coordinates the efforts
of the Department with other governmental
partners to ensure proper enforcement of
animal welfare laws.
SA 1235. Mr. PORTMAN submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055, making
appropriations for the Departments of
Commerce and Justice, Science, and
Related Agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2020, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
At the appropriate place in paragraph (2)
under the heading ‘‘TENANT-BASED RENTAL
ASSISTANCE’’ under the heading ‘‘PUBLIC AND
INDIAN HOUSING’’ in title II of division D, in-
sert the following: ‘‘the family unification
program under section 8(x) of the Act,’’.
SA 1236. Mr. TILLIS (for himself, Mr.
GARDNER, and Mr. GRAHAM) submitted
an amendment intended to be proposed
to amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055, making
appropriations for the Departments of
Commerce and Justice, Science, and
Related Agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2020, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
At the appropriate place in title I of divi-
sion A, insert the following:
SEC. lll. None of the funds appropriated
by this Act may be used to enforce the safe-
guard measure imposed under section 203 of
the Trade Act of 1974 (19 U.S.C. 2253) with re-
spect to bifacial solar modules pursuant to
Presidential Proclamation 9693, issued on
January 23, 2018 (83 Federal Register 3541).
SA 1237. Mr. BRAUN submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055, making
appropriations for the Departments of
Commerce and Justice, Science, and
Related Agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2020, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
At the appropriate place, add the fol-
lowing:
SEC. 90ll. REPORT ON MAINTAINING FEDERAL
LAND HOLDINGS.
Not later than 120 days after the date on
which the President submits to Congress the
budget of the United States for fiscal year
2020, the President shall submit to Congress
a report that describes—
(1) all Federal land holdings; and
(2) the total cost of maintaining the Fed-
eral land holdings described under paragraph
(1) for each of fiscal years 2017 through 2019,
including an accounting of holdings and ex-
penditures by each Federal agency with re-
spect to the land holdings.
SA 1238. Mr. MANCHIN (for himself,
Mr. CASEY, Mr. KAINE, Mr. JONES, Mr.
WARNER, Ms. SINEMA, Mr. SANDERS, Mr.
VAN HOLLEN, Ms. DUCKWORTH, Mr.
BROWN, Mr. DURBIN, and Ms. HARRIS)
submitted an amendment intended to
be proposed to amendment SA 948 pro-
posed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill H.R.
3055, making appropriations for the De-
partments of Commerce and Justice,
Science, and Related Agencies for the
fiscal year ending September 30, 2020,
and for other purposes; which was or-
dered to lie on the table; as follows:
At the appropriate place, insert the fol-
lowing:
SEC. llll. AMERICAN MINERS ACT OF 2019.
(a) TRANSFERS TO 1974 UMWA PENSION
PLAN.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Subsection (i) of section
402 of the Surface Mining Control and Rec-
lamation Act of 1977 (30 U.S.C. 1232) is
amended—
(A) in paragraph (3)(A), by striking
‘‘$490,000,000’’ and inserting ‘‘$750,000,000’’;
(B) by redesignating paragraph (4) as para-
graph (5); and
(C) by inserting after paragraph (3) the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(4) ADDITIONAL AMOUNTS.—
‘‘(A) CALCULATION.—If the dollar limitation
specified in paragraph (3)(A) exceeds the ag-
gregate amount required to be transferred
under paragraphs (1) and (2) for a fiscal year,
the Secretary of the Treasury shall transfer
an additional amount equal to the difference
between such dollar limitation and such ag-
gregate amount to the trustees of the 1974
UMWA Pension Plan to pay benefits required
under that plan.
‘‘(B) CESSATION OF TRANSFERS.—The trans-
fers described in subparagraph (A) shall
cease as of the first fiscal year beginning
after the first plan year for which the funded
percentage (as defined in section 432(j)(2) of
the Internal Revenue Code of 1986) of the 1974
UMWA Pension Plan is at least 100 percent.
‘‘(C) PROHIBITION ON BENEFIT INCREASES,
ETC.—During a fiscal year in which the 1974
UMWA Pension Plan is receiving transfers
under subparagraph (A), no amendment of
such plan which increases the liabilities of
the plan by reason of any increase in bene-
fits, any change in the accrual of benefits, or
any change in the rate at which benefits be-
come nonforfeitable under the plan may be
adopted unless the amendment is required as
a condition of qualification under part I of
subchapter D of chapter 1 of the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986.
‘‘(D) TREATMENT OF TRANSFERS FOR PUR-
POSES OF WITHDRAWAL LIABILITY UNDER
ERISA.—The amount of any transfer made
under subparagraph (A) (and any earnings
attributable thereto) shall be disregarded in
determining the unfunded vested benefits of
the 1974 UMWA Pension Plan and the alloca-
tion of such unfunded vested benefits to an
employer for purposes of determining the
employer’s withdrawal liability under sec-
tion 4201 of the Employee Retirement In-
come Security Act of 1974.
‘‘(E) REQUIREMENT TO MAINTAIN CONTRIBU-
TION RATE.—A transfer under subparagraph
(A) shall not be made for a fiscal year unless
the persons that are obligated to contribute
to the 1974 UMWA Pension Plan on the date
of the transfer are obligated to make the
contributions at rates that are no less than
those in effect on the date which is 30 days
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:36 Oct 30, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00047 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A29OC6.039 S29OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6252 October 29, 2019
before the date of enactment of the Com-
merce, Justice, Science, Agriculture, Rural
Development, Food and Drug Administra-
tion, Interior, Environment, Military Con-
struction, Veterans Affairs, Transportation,
and Housing and Urban Development Appro-
priations Act, 2020.
‘‘(F) ENHANCED ANNUAL REPORTING.—
‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—Not later than the 90th
day of each plan year beginning after the
date of enactment of the Commerce, Justice,
Science, Agriculture, Rural Development,
Food and Drug Administration, Interior, En-
vironment, Military Construction, Veterans
Affairs, Transportation, and Housing and
Urban Development Appropriations Act,
2020, the trustees of the 1974 UMWA Pension
Plan shall file with the Secretary of the
Treasury or the Secretary’s delegate and the
Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation a re-
port (including appropriate documentation
and actuarial certifications from the plan
actuary, as required by the Secretary of the
Treasury or the Secretary’s delegate) that
contains—
‘‘(I) whether the plan is in endangered or
critical status under section 305 of the Em-
ployee Retirement Income Security Act of
1974 and section 432 of the Internal Revenue
Code of 1986 as of the first day of such plan
year;
‘‘(II) the funded percentage (as defined in
section 432(j)(2) of such Code) as of the first
day of such plan year, and the underlying ac-
tuarial value of assets and liabilities taken
into account in determining such percent-
age;
‘‘(III) the market value of the assets of the
plan as of the last day of the plan year pre-
ceding such plan year;
‘‘(IV) the total value of all contributions
made during the plan year preceding such
plan year;
‘‘(V) the total value of all benefits paid
during the plan year preceding such plan
year;
‘‘(VI) cash flow projections for such plan
year and either the 6 or 10 succeeding plan
years, at the election of the trustees, and the
assumptions relied upon in making such pro-
jections;
‘‘(VII) funding standard account projec-
tions for such plan year and the 9 succeeding
plan years, and the assumptions relied upon
in making such projections;
‘‘(VIII) the total value of all investment
gains or losses during the plan year pre-
ceding such plan year;
‘‘(IX) any significant reduction in the num-
ber of active participants during the plan
year preceding such plan year, and the rea-
son for such reduction;
‘‘(X) a list of employers that withdrew
from the plan in the plan year preceding
such plan year, and the resulting reduction
in contributions;
‘‘(XI) a list of employers that paid with-
drawal liability to the plan during the plan
year preceding such plan year and, for each
employer, a total assessment of the with-
drawal liability paid, the annual payment
amount, and the number of years remaining
in the payment schedule with respect to such
withdrawal liability;
‘‘(XII) any material changes to benefits,
accrual rates, or contribution rates during
the plan year preceding such plan year;
‘‘(XIII) any scheduled benefit increase or
decrease in the plan year preceding such plan
year having a material effect on liabilities of
the plan;
‘‘(XIV) details regarding any funding im-
provement plan or rehabilitation plan and
updates to such plan;
‘‘(XV) the number of participants and
beneficiaries during the plan year preceding
such plan year who are active participants,
the number of participants and beneficiaries
in pay status, and the number of terminated
vested participants and beneficiaries;
‘‘(XVI) the information contained on the
most recent annual funding notice submitted
by the plan under section 101(f) of the Em-
ployee Retirement Income Security Act of
1974;
‘‘(XVII) the information contained on the
most recent Department of Labor Form 5500
of the plan; and
‘‘(XVIII) copies of the plan document and
amendments, other retirement benefit or an-
cillary benefit plans relating to the plan and
contribution obligations under such plans, a
breakdown of administrative expenses of the
plan, participant census data and distribu-
tion of benefits, the most recent actuarial
valuation report as of the plan year, copies
of collective bargaining agreements, and fi-
nancial reports, and such other information
as the Secretary of the Treasury or the Sec-
retary’s delegate, in consultation with the
Secretary of Labor and the Director of the
Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation, may
require.
‘‘(ii) ELECTRONIC SUBMISSION.—The report
required under clause (i) shall be submitted
electronically.
‘‘(iii) INFORMATION SHARING.—The Sec-
retary of the Treasury or the Secretary’s
delegate shall share the information in the
report under clause (i) with the Secretary of
Labor.
‘‘(iv) PENALTY.—Any failure to file the re-
port required under clause (i) on or before
the date described in such clause shall be
treated as a failure to file a report required
to be filed under section 6058(a) of the Inter-
nal Revenue Code of 1986, except that section
6652(e) of such Code shall be applied with re-
spect to any such failure by substituting
‘$100’ for ‘$25’. The preceding sentence shall
not apply if the Secretary of the Treasury or
the Secretary’s delegate determines that
reasonable diligence has been exercised by
the trustees of such plan in attempting to
timely file such report.
‘‘(G) 1974 UMWA PENSION PLAN DEFINED.—
For purposes of this paragraph, the term
‘1974 UMWA Pension Plan’ has the meaning
given the term in section 9701(a)(3) of the In-
ternal Revenue Code of 1986, but without re-
gard to the limitation on participation to in-
dividuals who retired in 1976 and there-
after.’’.
(2) EFFECTIVE DATES.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The amendments made
by this subsection shall apply to fiscal years
beginning after September 30, 2016.
(B) REPORTING REQUIREMENTS.—Section
402(i)(4)(F) of the Surface Mining Control and
Reclamation Act of 1977 (30 U.S.C.
1232(i)(4)(F)), as added by this subsection,
shall apply to plan years beginning after the
date of the enactment of this Act.
(b) INCLUSION IN MULTIEMPLOYER HEALTH
BENEFIT PLAN.—Section 402(h)(2)(C) of the
Surface Mining Control and Reclamation
Act of 1977 (30 U.S.C. 1232(h)(2)(C)) is amend-
ed—
(1) by striking ‘‘the Health Benefits for
Miners Act of 2017’’ both places it appears in
clause (ii) and inserting ‘‘the Commerce,
Justice, Science, Agriculture, Rural Devel-
opment, Food and Drug Administration, In-
terior, Environment, Military Construction,
Veterans Affairs, Transportation, and Hous-
ing and Urban Development Appropriations
Act, 2020’’;
(2) by striking ‘‘, would be denied or re-
duced as a result of a bankruptcy proceeding
commenced in 2012 or 2015’’ in clause (ii)(II)
and inserting ‘‘or a related coal wage agree-
ment, would be denied or reduced as a result
of a bankruptcy proceeding commenced in
2012, 2015, 2018, or 2019’’;
(3) by striking ‘‘the date of the enactment
of the Health Benefits for Miners Act of
2017’’ each place it appears in clause (ii) and
inserting ‘‘the date of the enactment of the
Commerce, Justice, Science, Agriculture,
Rural Development, Food and Drug Adminis-
tration, Interior, Environment, Military
Construction, Veterans Affairs, Transpor-
tation, and Housing and Urban Development
Appropriations Act, 2020’’,
(4) by striking ‘‘January 1, 2017’’ in clause
(ii) and inserting ‘‘January 1, 2019’’; and
(5) by adding at the end the following new
clause:
‘‘(vi) RELATED COAL WAGE AGREEMENT.—For
purposes of clause (ii), the term ‘related coal
wage agreement’ means an agreement be-
tween the United Mine Workers of America
and an employer in the bituminous coal in-
dustry that—
‘‘(I) is a signatory operator; or
‘‘(II) is or was a debtor in a bankruptcy
proceeding that was consolidated, adminis-
tratively or otherwise, with the bankruptcy
proceeding of a signatory operator or a re-
lated person to a signatory operator (as
those terms are defined in section 9701(c) of
the Internal Revenue Code of 1986).’’.
(c) REDUCTION IN MINIMUM AGE FOR ALLOW-
ABLE IN-SERVICE DISTRIBUTIONS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Section 401(a)(36) of the
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by
striking ‘‘age 62’’ and inserting ‘‘age 591⁄2’’.
(2) APPLICATION TO GOVERNMENTAL SECTION
457(b) PLANS.—Clause (i) of section
457(d)(1)(A) of the Internal Revenue Code of
1986 is amended by inserting ‘‘(in the case of
a plan maintained by an employer described
in subsection (e)(1)(A), age 591⁄2)’’ before the
comma at the end.
(3) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments
made by this subsection shall apply to plan
years beginning after December 31, 2019.
(d) BLACK LUNG LIABILITY TRUST FUND EX-
CISE TAX.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Section 4121(e) of the In-
ternal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended—
(A) by striking ‘‘after the temporary in-
crease termination date’’ in paragraph (1)
and inserting ‘‘during any temporary in-
crease inapplicable period’’, and
(B) by amending paragraph (2) to read as
follows:
‘‘(2) TEMPORARY INCREASE INAPPLICABLE PE-
RIOD.—For purposes of paragraph (1), the
term ‘temporary increase inapplicable pe-
riod’ means—
‘‘(A) the period beginning on January 1,
2019, and ending on December 31, 2019, and
‘‘(B) the period beginning on the earlier
of—
‘‘(i) January 1, 2029, or
‘‘(ii) the first January 1 after 2007 as of
which there is-
‘‘(I) no balance of repayable advances made
to the Black Lung Disability Trust Fund,
and
‘‘(II) no unpaid interest on such ad-
vances.’’.
(2) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendment
made by this subsection shall apply to sales
after December 31, 2019.
SA 1239. Mr. ROMNEY submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055, making
appropriations for the Departments of
Commerce and Justice, Science, and
Related Agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2020, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
At the appropriate place in title VII of di-
vision B, insert the following:
SEC. ll. (a) Section 907(a) of the Federal
Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C.
387g(a)) is amended—
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:36 Oct 30, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00048 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A29OC6.038 S29OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6253
October 29, 2019
(1) in paragraph (1), by adding at the end
the following:
‘‘(C) SPECIAL RULE FOR ELECTRONIC NICO-
TINE DELIVERY SYSTEMS.—Beginning 90 days
after the date of enactment of the Com-
merce, Justice, Science, Agriculture, Rural
Development, Food and Drug Administra-
tion, Interior, Environment, Military Con-
struction, Veterans Affairs, Transportation,
and Housing and Urban Development Appro-
priations Act, 2020, an electronic nicotine de-
livery system or any of its components or
parts (including e-liquid) shall not contain,
as a constituent (including a smoke con-
stituent) or additive, an artificial or natural
flavor (other than tobacco) or an herb or
spice, including strawberry, grape, orange,
clove, cinnamon, pineapple, vanilla, coconut,
licorice, cocoa, chocolate, cherry, coffee,
menthol, or mint that is a characterizing fla-
vor of the electronic nicotine delivery sys-
tem or e-liquid. Nothing in this subpara-
graph shall be construed to limit the Sec-
retary’s authority to take action under this
section or other sections of this Act applica-
ble to any artificial or natural flavor, herb,
or spice not specified in this subparagraph.’’;
and
(2) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(7) ELECTRONIC NICOTINE DELIVERY SYSTEM
STANDARDS.—Not later than 1 year after the
date of enactment of the Commerce, Justice,
Science, Agriculture, Rural Development,
Food and Drug Administration, Interior, En-
vironment, Military Construction, Veterans
Affairs, Transportation, and Housing and
Urban Development Appropriations Act,
2020, the Secretary shall promulgate regula-
tions setting forth standards on the permis-
sible design of electronic nicotine delivery
systems, and issue guidance for manufactur-
ers to implement such standards. Such
standards, at a minimum, shall—
‘‘(A) prohibit refillable components or
parts;
‘‘(B) prohibit any electronic nicotine deliv-
ery system designed to look like combustible
cigarettes or commonplace, nonmedical de-
vices, such as pens or USB flash drives; and
‘‘(C) require each electronic nicotine deliv-
ery system and its components and parts to
be tamper-proof.’’.
(b)(1) Section 900 of the Federal Food,
Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 387) is
amended—
(A) by redesignating paragraphs (8)
through (22) as paragraphs (10) through (24);
and
(B) by inserting after paragraph (7) the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(8) ELECTRONIC NICOTINE DELIVERY SYS-
TEM.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—The term ‘electronic
nicotine delivery system’—
‘‘(i) means noncombustible tobacco prod-
ucts, including vapes, vaporizers, vape pens,
hookah pens, electronic cigarettes (also
known as ‘e-cigarettes’ or ‘e-cigs’), and e-
pipes that deliver an aerosolized e-liquid
that may contain nicotine, as well as vary-
ing compositions of flavorings, propylene
glycol, vegetable glycerin, and other ingredi-
ents; and
‘‘(ii) includes components and parts, such
as e-liquids, tanks, cartridges, pods, wicks,
and atomizers.
‘‘(B) COMPONENTS AND PARTS.—The term
‘components and parts’, with respect to an
electronic nicotine delivery system, means
the objects intended or reasonably expected
to be used with, or for, the human consump-
tion of a tobacco product that are not acces-
sories.
‘‘(9) E-LIQUID.—The term ‘e-liquid’ means
liquid nicotine, nicotine containing liquids
(including liquid nicotine combined with
colorings, flavorings, or other ingredients),
and liquids that do not contain nicotine or
other material made or derived from to-
bacco, but that are intended or reasonably
expected to be used with or for the human
consumption of a tobacco product.’’.
(2) Section 9(1) of the Comprehensive
Smokeless Tobacco Health Education Act of
1986 (15 U.S.C. 4408(1)) is amended by striking
‘‘section 900(18)’’ and inserting ‘‘section
900(20)’’.
SEC. ll. (a) Not later than 1 year after
the date of enactment of this Act and annu-
ally thereafter, the Secretary of Health and
Human Services (referred to in this section
as the ‘‘Secretary’’), in consultation with the
Director of the National Institutes of Health,
the Commissioner of Food and Drugs, the Di-
rector of the Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention, and other heads of appropriate
agencies, as the Secretary of Health and
Human Services determines appropriate,
shall submit to the Committee on Health,
Education, Labor, and Pensions and the
Committee on Appropriations of the Senate
and the Committee on Energy and Commerce
and the Committee on Appropriations of the
House of Representatives, and publicly post
on an internet website, a report on the pub-
lic health risks of tobacco use that in-
cludes—
(1) the public health implications of the
use of tobacco products, with a focus on elec-
tronic nicotine delivery systems and other
alternative tobacco products;
(2) emerging trends in tobacco use, includ-
ing the use of tobacco flavors and new to-
bacco products;
(3) updates on the public health awareness
campaign authorized by subsection (b); and
(4) recommendations for Congress.
(b) The Secretary shall conduct a public
awareness campaign to educate the public
about the public health implications of using
electronic nicotine delivery systems (as de-
fined in section 900 of the Federal Food,
Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 387)).
(c) To carry out subsection (b), for each of
fiscal years 2021 through 2024, there shall be
transferred to the Secretary, from the Gen-
eral Fund of the Treasury, the lesser of—
(1) the amount equal to the amount col-
lected under 5701(h) of the Internal Revenue
Code of 1986 during the previous fiscal year;
or
(2) $115,000,000.
SEC. ll. (a) Section 5701 of the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986 is amended—
(1) by redesignating subsection (h) as sub-
section (i), and
(2) by inserting after subsection (g) the fol-
lowing new subsection:
‘‘(h) ELECTRONIC NICOTINE DELIVERY.—
‘‘(1) ELECTRONIC NICOTINE DELIVERY SYS-
TEMS.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—On electronic nicotine
delivery systems (as defined in section 900(8)
of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act
(21 U.S.C. 387(8))), manufactured in or im-
ported into the United States, there shall be
imposed a tax equal to $1.01 per electronic
nicotine delivery system.
‘‘(B) EXCEPTION.—This paragraph shall not
apply to any single-use electronic nicotine
delivery system.
‘‘(2) E-LIQUID.—On e-liquids (as defined in
section 900(9) of such Act) or single-use elec-
tronic nicotine delivery systems, manufac-
tured in or imported into the United States,
there shall be imposed a tax equal to—
‘‘(A) in the case of a product which con-
tains less than 5 percent nicotine by volume,
$1.01, and
‘‘(B) in the case of the product which con-
tains a percentage of nicotine by volume
which is equal to or greater than 5 percent,
an amount equal to the sum of—
‘‘(i) $1.01, plus,
‘‘(ii) for each percentage point of nicotine
by volume contained in such product which
is in excess of 5 percent, 20.2 cents (and a
proportionate amount at the like rate on
any such percentage which is not a whole
number).’’.
(b) Section 5702 of the Internal Revenue
Code of 1986 is amended—
(1) in subsection (c), by striking ‘‘and roll-
your-own tobacco’’ and inserting ‘‘roll-your-
own tobacco, electronic nicotine delivery
systems, and e-liquids’’, and
(2) in subsection (d), by striking ‘‘or roll-
your-own tobacco’’ each place it appears and
inserting ‘‘roll-your-own tobacco, electronic
nicotine delivery systems, and e-liquids’’.
(c) The amendments made by this section
shall apply to articles removed after the date
which is 90 days after the date of enactment
of this Act.
SEC. ll. (a) Any person who—
(1) on the date of the enactment of this
Act, is engaged in business as a manufac-
turer of electronic nicotine delivery systems
or e-liquids, and
(2) before the applicable date, submits an
application under subchapter B of chapter 52
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to en-
gage in such business,
may, notwithstanding such subchapter B,
continue to engage in such business pending
final action on such application. Pending
such final action, all provisions of chapter 52
of such Code shall apply to such applicant in
the same manner and to the same extent as
if such applicant were a holder of a permit to
manufacture electronic nicotine delivery
systems or e-liquids under such chapter 52.
(b)(1) On electronic nicotine delivery sys-
tems or e-liquids manufactured in or im-
ported into the United States which are re-
moved before the applicable date and held on
such date for sale by any person, there is
hereby imposed a tax in an amount equal to
the tax which would be imposed under sec-
tion 5701 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986
on the article if the article had been removed
on such applicable date.
(2)(A) A person holding electronic nicotine
delivery systems or e-liquids on the applica-
ble date to which any tax imposed by para-
graph (1) applies shall be liable for such tax.
(B) The tax imposed by paragraph (1) shall
be paid in such manner as the Secretary
shall prescribe by regulations.
(C) The tax imposed by paragraph (1) shall
be paid on or before the date that is 120 days
after the applicable date.
(3) Notwithstanding the Act of June 18,
1934 (commonly known as the Foreign Trade
Zone Act, 48 Stat. 998, 19 U.S.C. 81a et seq.),
or any other provision of law, any article
which is located in a foreign trade zone on
any tax increase date shall be subject to the
tax imposed by paragraph (1) if—
(A) internal revenue taxes have been deter-
mined, or customs duties liquidated, with re-
spect to such article before such date pursu-
ant to a request made under the 1st proviso
of section 3(a) of such Act, or
(B) such article is held on such date under
the supervision of an officer of the United
States Customs and Border Protection of the
Department of Homeland Security pursuant
to the 2d proviso of such section 3(a).
(4) Rules similar to the rules of section
5061(e)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of
1986 shall apply for purposes of this sub-
section.
(5) All provisions of law, including pen-
alties, applicable with respect to the taxes
imposed by section 5701 of the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 shall, insofar as applicable
and not inconsistent with the provisions of
this subsection, apply to the floor stocks
taxes imposed by paragraph (1), to the same
extent as if such taxes were imposed by such
section 5701. The Secretary may treat any
person who bore the ultimate burden of the
tax imposed by paragraph (1) as the person
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:36 Oct 30, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00049 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A29OC6.040 S29OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6254 October 29, 2019
to whom a credit or refund under such provi-
sions may be allowed or made.
(c) For purposes of this section—
(1) Any term used in this section which is
also used in section 5701 or 5702 of the Inter-
nal Revenue Code of 1986 shall have the same
meaning as such term has in such section.
(2) The term ‘‘applicable date’’ means the
day after the date which is 90 days after the
date of enactment of this Act.
(3) The term ‘‘Secretary’’ means the Sec-
retary of the Treasury or the Secretary’s
delegate.
SA 1240. Mr. GRASSLEY submitted
an amendment intended to be proposed
by him to the bill S. 916, to improve
Federal efforts with respect to the pre-
vention of maternal mortality, and for
other purposes; which was referred to
the Committee on Finance; as follows:
Strike all after the enacting clause and in-
sert the following:
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Healthy Ma-
ternal Opportunities Matter Act of 2019’’ or
the ‘‘Healthy MOM Act’’.
SEC. 2. ADDITIONAL FUNDING FOR MATERNAL
AND CHILD HEALTH PROJECTS.
Section 501 of the Social Security Act (42
U.S.C. 701) is amended by adding at the end
the following new subsection:
‘‘(d) In addition to the amounts appro-
priated under subsection (a) and retained
under section 502(b)(1)(A), out of any money
in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated,
there is appropriated to the Secretary
$200,000,000 for the period of fiscal years 2020
through 2024, to support increased efforts to
improve maternal and child health in ac-
cordance with the projects described in sub-
paragraphs (A) through (E) of section
501(a)(3).’’.
SEC. 3. MEDICAID DEMONSTRATION PROGRAM
TO INCREASE ACCESS TO MATERNAL
HEALTH CARE IN UNDERSERVED
AREAS.
Section 1903 of the Social Security Act (42
U.S.C. 1396b) is amended by adding at the end
the following new subsection:
‘‘(bb) DEMONSTRATION PROJECT TO INCREASE
ACCESS TO MATERNAL HEALTH CARE IN UN-
DERSERVED AREAS.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—In addition to the pay-
ments provided under subsection (a), the
Secretary shall provide for payments to
States for State activities to improve access
to maternal health care and prevent mater-
nal mortality in underserved areas (includ-
ing rural areas) in the manner described in
paragraph (5).
‘‘(2) PERMISSIBLE USE OF FUNDS.—The fol-
lowing are examples of State activities for
which funds provided under this subsection
may be used:
‘‘(A) Developing and implementing innova-
tive reimbursement models for providers of
maternal health care services.
‘‘(B) Increasing maternal health profes-
sional recruitment efforts.
‘‘(C) Expanding access to telemedicine for
women with high-risk pregnancies.
‘‘(3) APPLICATION; TERMS AND CONDITIONS.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—No payments shall be
made to a State under this subsection unless
the State applies to the Secretary for such
payments in a form, manner, and time speci-
fied by the Secretary.
‘‘(B) TERMS AND CONDITIONS.—Such pay-
ments are made under such terms and condi-
tions consistent with this subsection as the
Secretary prescribes.
‘‘(C) ANNUAL REPORT.—Payment to a State
under this subsection is conditioned on the
State submitting to the Secretary an annual
report on the activities supported by such
payment. Such report shall include informa-
tion on—
‘‘(i) the specific uses of such payment;
‘‘(ii) an assessment of quality improve-
ments and clinical outcomes resulting from
such activities; and
‘‘(iii) estimates of cost savings resulting
from such activities.
‘‘(4) DURATION.—No payment shall be made
under this subsection after fiscal year 2024.
‘‘(5) FUNDING.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—Subject to subparagraph
(B), State expenditures on activities under
this subsection shall be treated as medical
assistance for purposes of subsection (a).
‘‘(B) LIMITATION ON FUNDS.—The total
amount of payments made under this sub-
section shall not exceed $2,500,000,000 for fis-
cal years 2020 through 2024. This subsection
constitutes budget authority in advance of
appropriations Acts and represents the obli-
gation of the Secretary to provide for the
payment of amounts provided under this sub-
section.’’.
SEC. 4. REGULAR FMAP APPLIED IN CASE OF
CERTAIN MEDICAID EXPANSION IN-
DIVIDUALS.
Section 1905(y) of the Social Security Act
(42 U.S.C. 1396d(y)) is amended—
(1) in paragraph (1), by inserting ‘‘subject
to paragraph (3),’’ after ‘‘Notwithstanding
subsection (b),’’; and
(2) by adding at the end the following new
paragraph:
‘‘(3) EXCEPTION.—With respect to amounts
expended by a State described in paragraph
(1) for medical assistance for items and serv-
ices furnished on or after January 1, 2020, to
a newly eligible individual described in sub-
clause (VIII) of section 1902(a)(10)(A)(i) who
is an inmate in a public institution and is a
patient in a medical institution, paragraph
(1) shall not apply with respect to such
amounts expended for such items and serv-
ices and the Federal medical assistance per-
centage for such State under subsection (b)
shall apply with respect to such amounts ex-
pended for such items and services.’’.
f
AUTHORITY FOR COMMITTEES TO
MEET
Mr. INHOFE. Mr. President, I have
four requests for committees to meet
during today’s session of the Senate.
They have the approval of the Majority
and Minority leaders.
Pursuant to rule XXVI, paragraph
5(a), of the Standing Rules of the Sen-
ate, the following committees are au-
thorized to meet during today’s session
of the Senate:
COMMITTEE ON ARMED SERVICES
The Committee on Armed Services is
authorized to meet during the session
of the Senate on Tuesday, October 29,
2019, at 9:30 a.m., in open session to
consider the nominations of Ms. Lisa
W. Hershman to be Chief Management
Officer of the Department of Defense;
Mr. Dana S. Deasy to be Chief Informa-
tion Officer of the Department of De-
fense; and Mr. Robert J. Sander to be
General Counsel of the Department of
the Navy.
COMMITTEE ON COMMERCE, SCIENCE, AND
TRANSPORTATION
The Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation is author-
ized to hold a meeting during the ses-
sion of the Senate on Tuesday, October
29, 2019, at 10 a.m., in room 216 of the
Hart Senate Office Building. The Com-
mittee will hold a Full Committee
Hearing titled ‘‘Aviation Safety and
the Future of Boeing’s 737 MAX.’’
COMMITTEE ON FOREIGN RELATIONS
The Committee on Foreign Relations
is authorized to meet during the ses-
sion of the Senate on Tuesday, October
29, 2019 at 2:30 p.m. to hold a hearing on
nominations.
SELECT COMMITTEE ON INTELLIGENCE
The Senate Select Committee on In-
telligence is authorized to meet during
the session of the 116th Congress of the
U.S. Senate on Tuesday, October 29,
2019, from 4:00 p.m.–6:00 p.m., in room
SH–219 in the Senate Hart Office Build-
ing to hold a closed roundtable.
f
PRIVILEGES OF THE FLOOR
Mr. WARNER. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that Craig Rad-
cliffe, counsel on my staff, be per-
mitted floor privileges for the remain-
der of the day.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
Mr. PAUL. Mr. President, I ask unan-
imous consent for floor privileges for a
member of my staff, Rob Givens.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
CONDEMNING THE HORRIFIC AT-
TACK IN DAYTON, OHIO, AND EX-
PRESSING SUPPORT AND PRAY-
ERS FOR ALL THOSE IMPACTED
BY THAT TRAGEDY
Mr. CASSIDY. Madam President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Judi-
ciary Committee be discharged from
further consideration and the Senate
now proceed to S. Res. 367.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The clerk will report the resolution
by title.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
A resolution (S. Res. 367) condemning the
horrific attack in Dayton, Ohio, and express-
ing support and prayers for all those im-
pacted by that tragedy.
There being no objection, the com-
mittee was discharged, and the Senate
proceeded to consider the resolution.
Mr. CASSIDY. Madam President, I
ask unanimous consent that the reso-
lution be agreed to, the preamble be
agreed to, and that the motions to re-
consider be considered made and laid
upon the table.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The resolution (S. Res. 367) was
agreed to.
The preamble was agreed to.
(The resolution, with its preamble, is
printed in the RECORD of October 21,
2019, under ‘‘Submitted Resolutions.’’)
f
TAIWAN ALLIES INTERNATIONAL
PROTECTION AND ENHANCE-
MENT INITIATIVE ACT OF 2019
Mr. CASSIDY. Madam President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate proceed to the immediate consider-
ation of Calendar No. 237, S. 1678.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:36 Oct 30, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00050 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A29OC6.040 S29OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6255
October 29, 2019
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The clerk will report the bill by title.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
A bill (S. 1678) to express United States
support for Taiwan’s diplomatic alliances
around the world.
There being no objection, the Senate
proceeded to consider the bill, which
had been reported from the Committee
on Foreign Relations, with an amend-
ment to strike all after the enacting
clause and insert in lieu thereof the
following:
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Taiwan Allies
International Protection and Enhancement Ini-
tiative (TAIPEI) Act of 2019’’.
SEC. 2. DIPLOMATIC RELATIONS WITH TAIWAN.
(a) FINDINGS.—Congress makes the following
findings:
(1) The Taiwan Relations Act of 1979 (Public
Law 96–8) states that it is the policy of the
United States ‘‘to preserve and promote exten-
sive, close, and friendly commercial, cultural,
and other relations between the people of the
United States and the people on Taiwan’’.
(2) The Taiwan Relations Act of 1979 states
that it is the policy of the United States ‘‘to
maintain the capacity of the United States to re-
sist any resort to force or other forms of coercion
that would jeopardize the security, or the social
or economic system, of the people on Taiwan’’.
(3) Taiwan is a free, democratic, and pros-
perous nation of 23,000,000 people and an impor-
tant contributor to peace and stability around
the world.
(4) Since the election of President Tsai Ing-
wen as President of Taiwan in 2016, the Govern-
ment of the People’s Republic of China has in-
tensified its efforts to pressure Taiwan.
(5) Since 2016, the Gambia, Sao Tome and
Principe, Panama, the Dominican Republic,
Burkina Faso, El Salvador, the Solomon Is-
lands, and Kiribati have severed diplomatic re-
lations with Taiwan in favor of diplomatic rela-
tions with China.
(6) Taiwan currently maintains full diplo-
matic relations with 15 nations around the
world.
(7) Taiwan’s unofficial relations with the
United States, Australia, India, Japan, and
other countries are of significant benefit in
strengthening Taiwan’s economy and preserving
its international space.
(8) According to President Tsai Ing-wen, the
severance of diplomatic ties with Taiwan in
favor of diplomatic relations with China is
‘‘part of a series of diplomatic and military acts
of coercion’’ by China.
(9) The Asia Reassurance Initiative Act of
2018 (Public Law 115–409) states that—
(A) it is United States policy ‘‘to support the
close economic, political, and security relation-
ship between Taiwan and the United States’’;
and
(B) the President should—
(i) ‘‘conduct regular transfers of defense arti-
cles to Taiwan that are tailored to meet the ex-
isting and likely future threats from the Peo-
ple’s Republic of China, including supporting
the efforts of Taiwan to develop and integrate
asymmetric capabilities, as appropriate, includ-
ing mobile, survivable, and cost-effective capa-
bilities, into its military forces’’; and
(ii) ‘‘encourage the travel of high-level United
States officials to Taiwan, in accordance with
the Taiwan Travel Act’’.
SEC. 3. STRENGTHENING OF OFFICIAL OR UNOF-
FICIAL TIES WITH TAIWAN.
(a) SENSE OF CONGRESS.—It is the sense of
Congress that the United States Government
should—
(1) support Taiwan in strengthening its offi-
cial diplomatic relationships as well as unoffi-
cial partnerships with countries in the Indo-Pa-
cific region and around the world;
(2) consider, in certain cases as appropriate
and in alignment with United States interests,
increasing its economic, security, and diplomatic
engagement with nations that have demon-
strably strengthened, enhanced, or upgraded re-
lations with Taiwan; and
(3) consider, in certain cases as appropriate
and in alignment with United States interests,
reducing its economic, security, and diplomatic
engagement with nations that take serious or
significant actions to undermine Taiwan.
(b) CONSULTATION.—Not less than 30 days be-
fore increasing or decreasing the United States
Government’s economic, security, or diplomatic
engagement with another nation as a result of
an action taken by that nation to either
strengthen or undermine ties with Taiwan, the
Secretary of State shall consult with the appro-
priate congressional committees with respect to
the proposed United States action or actions.
(c) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.—Nothing in this
Act shall be construed to supersede or otherwise
alter obligations to comply with the notification
procedures applicable to reprogramming pursu-
ant to section 634A of the Foreign Assistance
Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2394–1).
SEC. 4. POLICY OF THE UNITED STATES WITH RE-
GARD TO TAIWAN’S PARTICIPATION
IN INTERNATIONAL ORGANIZA-
TIONS.
It should be the policy of the United States—
(1) to advocate, as appropriate—
(A) for Taiwan’s membership in all inter-
national organizations in which statehood is
not a requirement and in which the United
States is also a participant; and
(B) for Taiwan to be granted observer status
in other appropriate international organiza-
tions;
(2) to instruct, as appropriate, representatives
of the United States Government in all organi-
zations described in paragraph (1) to use the
voice, vote, and influence of the United States
to advocate for Taiwan’s membership or ob-
server status in such organizations; and
(3) for the President or the President’s des-
ignees to advocate, as appropriate, for Taiwan’s
membership or observer status in all organiza-
tions described in paragraph (1) as part of any
relevant bilateral engagements between the
United States and the People’s Republic of
China, including leader summits and the U.S.-
China Comprehensive Economic Dialogue.
SEC. 5. SENSE OF CONGRESS ON TRADE NEGO-
TIATIONS WITH TAIWAN.
It is the sense of Congress that the United
States should engage in bilateral trade negotia-
tions with Taiwan, with the goal of entering
into a free trade agreement that is of mutual
economic benefit and that protects United States
workers and benefits United States exporters.
SEC. 6. APPROPRIATE CONGRESSIONAL COMMIT-
TEES DEFINED.
In this Act, the term ‘‘appropriate congres-
sional committees’’ means—
(1) the Committee on Foreign Relations and
the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate;
and
(2) the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the
Committee on Appropriations of the House of
Representatives.
Mr. CASSIDY. Madam President, I
ask unanimous consent that the com-
mittee-reported substitute amendment
be agreed to, the bill, as amended, be
considered read a third time and
passed, and that the motion to recon-
sider be considered made and laid upon
the table.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The committee-reported amendment
in the nature of a substitute was
agreed to.
The bill (S. 1678), as amended, was or-
dered to be engrossed for a third read-
ing, was read the third time, and
passed.
f
REAFFIRMING THE VITAL ROLE
OF THE UNITED STATES-JAPAN
ALLIANCE IN PROMOTING
PEACE, STABILITY, AND PROS-
PERITY IN THE INDO-PACIFIC
REGION AND BEYOND, AND FOR
OTHER PURPOSES.
Mr. CASSIDY. Madam President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate proceed to the consideration of Cal-
endar No. 233, S. Res. 183.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The clerk will report the resolution
by title.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
A resolution (S. Res. 183) reaffirming the
vital role of the United States-Japan alli-
ance in promoting peace, stability, and pros-
perity in the Indo-Pacific region and beyond,
and for other purposes.
There being no objection, the Senate
proceeded to consider the resolution,
which had been reported from the Com-
mittee on Foreign Relations, without
amendment and with an amendment to
strike the preamble, and insert the
part printed in italic, as follows:
Whereas the United States and Japan granted
each other formal recognition on March 31, 1854,
with the signing of the Treaty of Peace and
Amity, and established full diplomatic relations
in 1858;
Whereas, for the past 70 years, the alliance
between the United States and Japan has
played a vital role in ensuring peace, stability,
and economic development in Asia and beyond;
Whereas the United States and Japan are
deeply committed to the common values of free-
dom, democracy, rule of law, and free market
economics;
Whereas the United States-Japan alliance,
forged nearly six decades ago with the signing
of the Treaty of Mutual Cooperation and Secu-
rity, is the cornerstone for advancing a free and
open Indo-Pacific region, and contributes inter-
nationally to peace and stability;
Whereas the United States and Japan are in-
dispensable partners in combating the prolifera-
tion of weapons of mass destruction, improving
global health, countering human trafficking
and promoting human rights, assisting the vic-
tims of conflict and disaster worldwide, and
contributing to global economic development;
Whereas the alliance is a testament to the
ability of great nations to overcome the past and
jointly work to create a more secure and pros-
perous future;
Whereas our two countries, coming from dif-
ferent cultural backgrounds, have created an
active and dynamic relationship beneficial to
both peoples; and
Whereas cultural and people-to-people ties be-
tween the United States and Japan are long-
standing and deep, as exemplified by the 1912
gift from the People of Japan to the People of
the United States of the beautiful cherry trees
that grace our Nation’s capital, signifying the
unbreakable bond between the two nations:
Now, therefore be it
Resolved, That the Senate—
(1) reaffirms the endorsement of long-
standing United States policy to pursue
close and cooperative ties with Japan in the
Asia Reassurance Initiative Act of 2018 (Pub-
lic Law 115–409), signed into law on December
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:36 Oct 30, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00051 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G29OC6.048 S29OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6256 October 29, 2019
31, 2018, and the vital role of the United
States-Japan alliance in promoting peace,
stability, and prosperity in the Indo-Pacific
region and beyond;
(2) underscores the importance of the close
people-to-people and cultural ties between
our two nations;
(3) calls for the strengthening and broad-
ening of diplomatic, economic, and security
ties between the United States and Japan;
and
(4) further calls for the continued coopera-
tion between the Governments of the United
States and Japan in addressing global chal-
lenges that threaten the security of people
everywhere in the new Reiwa era of ‘‘beau-
tiful harmony’’.
Mr. CASSIDY. Madam President, I
ask unanimous consent the resolution
be agreed to, the committee-reported
amendment to the preamble be agreed
to, the preamble, as amended, be
agreed to, and that the motions to re-
consider be considered made and laid
upon the table.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The resolution (S. Res. 183) was
agreed to.
The committee-reported amendment
to the preamble was agreed to.
The preamble as amended was agreed
to.
(The resolution, with its preamble, is
printed in the RECORD of May 2, 2019,
under ‘‘Submitted Resolutions.’’)
f
REAFFIRMING THE STRONG PART-
NERSHIP BETWEEN TUNISIA AND
THE UNITED STATES AND SUP-
PORTING THE PEOPLE OF TUNI-
SIA IN THEIR CONTINUED PUR-
SUIT OF DEMOCRATIC REFORMS
Mr. CASSIDY. Madam President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate proceed to the consideration of Cal-
endar No. 234, S. Res. 236.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the resolution by
title.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
A resolution (S. Res. 236) reaffirming the
strong partnership between Tunisia and the
United States and supporting the people of
Tunisia in their continued pursuit of demo-
cratic reforms.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
objection to proceeding to the meas-
ure?
There being no objection, the Senate
proceeded to consider the resolution.
Mr. CASSIDY. I know of no further
debate on the measure.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
further debate?
The question is on agreeing to the
resolution.
The resolution (S. Res. 236) was
agreed to.
Mr. CASSIDY. I ask unanimous con-
sent that the preamble be agreed to
and that the motions to reconsider be
considered made and laid upon the
table with no intervening action or de-
bate.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The preamble was agreed to.
(The resolution, with its preamble, is
printed in the RECORD of June 5, 2019,
under ‘‘Submitted Resolutions.’’)
f
REMEMBERING THE 25TH ANNI-
VERSARY OF THE BOMBING OF
THE ARGENTINE ISRAELITE MU-
TUAL ASSOCIATION (AMIA) JEW-
ISH COMMUNITY CENTER IN
BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINA,
AND RECOMMITTING TO EF-
FORTS TO UPHOLD JUSTICE FOR
THE 85 VICTIMS OF THE AT-
TACKS
Mr. CASSIDY. Madam President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate proceed to the consideration of Cal-
endar No. 235, S. Res. 277.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the resolution by
title.
The bill clerk read as follows:
A resolution (S. Res. 277) remembering the
25th Anniversary of the bombing of the Ar-
gentine Israelite Mutual Association (AMIA)
Jewish Community Center in Buenos Aires,
Argentina, and recommitting to efforts to
uphold justice for the 85 victims of the at-
tacks.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
objection to proceeding to the meas-
ure?
There being no objection, the Senate
proceeded to consider the resolution.
Mr. CASSIDY. I ask unanimous con-
sent that the resolution be agreed to,
the preamble be agreed to, and the mo-
tions to reconsider be considered made
and laid upon the table.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The resolution (S. Res. 277) was
agreed to.
The preamble was agreed to.
(The resolution, with its preamble, is
printed in the RECORD of July 17, 2019,
under ‘‘Submitted Resolutions.’’)
f
MEASURE READ THE FIRST
TIME—H.R. 4334
Mr. CASSIDY. Madam President, I
understand there is a bill at the desk,
and I ask for its first reading.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will read the title of the bill for
the first time.
The bill clerk read as follows:
A bill (H.R. 4334) to amend the Older Amer-
icans Act of 1965 to authorize appropriations
for fiscal years 2020 through 2024, and for
other purposes.
Mr. CASSIDY. I now ask for a second
reading, and in order to place the bill
on the calendar under the provisions of
rule XIV, I object to my own request.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Objec-
tion is heard.
The bill will receive the second read-
ing on the next legislative day.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Pennsylvania.
HEALTHCARE
Mr. CASEY. Madam President, I rise
tonight to talk about healthcare,
which is an issue that obviously com-
mands a lot of attention, but lately,
frankly, not enough attention here in
the Senate. I will focus, in particular,
on one report that we are issuing today
that will talk about one aspect of some
of the problems we are having in our
healthcare system right now that a lot
of Americans might not be aware of.
They probably will be more aware
when they hear more about the report
that I have.
I think we should start from the
basic premise that we have made tre-
mendous progress in the last number of
years in access to healthcare, in
healthcare coverage. We know, for ex-
ample, that between the years 2010, the
year that the Patient Protection and
Affordable Care Act was passed, and
the end of 2016—so, basically, just a
matter of 6 years—something on the
order of 20-plus million Americans
gained health insurance coverage. We
went from roughly the number of unin-
sured in the country being a little
more than 47 million in 2010 to a little
more than 27 million in 2016.
Over the course of just 6 to 7 years, 20
million fewer people were uninsured.
That is a great measure of progress on
an issue where most people said there
was no way you could get 20 million
more people insured. Very few Ameri-
cans thought that was possible until it
actually happened.
Unfortunately, that progress—the
progress being the diminution or the
reduction of the uninsured popu-
lation—is, unfortunately, not just flat-
tening out, but it is actually getting
worse. The number of uninsured Ameri-
cans is actually going up now. That is
a giant step backward in a country
that not only reduced the uninsured
number by 20-plus million but pro-
vided, in the same bill, the Patient
Protection and Affordable Care Act.
The patient protection part of that
ushered in all kinds of reforms for
those with insurance—those who had
insurance before 2010 and those who
were paying their premiums but had
their lives and their coverage in the
hands of insurance companies that had
power over their lives, to the extent
that an individual with a preexisting
condition would not be treated and
would not be covered because of that
preexisting condition. The Patient Pro-
tection and Affordable Care Act
changed that for tens and tens and tens
of millions of Americans, in addition to
the coverage gains that I just men-
tioned.
Just for a point of reference, I will
mention the recent numbers. The Cen-
sus Bureau, back in just September of
this year, said—and I am quoting from
a report from Kaiser Health News, by
Mr. Phil Galewitz, who is talking about
the census report. He said the fol-
lowing:
For the first time in a decade, the numbers
of Americans without health insurance has
risen—by about 2 million people in 2018—ac-
cording to the annual U.S. Census Bureau re-
port released Tuesday.
This ‘‘Tuesday’’ means a day in Sep-
tember.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:36 Oct 30, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00052 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A29OC6.007 S29OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6257
October 29, 2019
The Census found that 8.5 percent of the
U.S. population went without medical insur-
ance for all of 2018, up from 7.9 percent in
2017.
What he was referring to is that the
Census Bureau had said that the num-
ber of uninsured went up by 1.9 million
people. That didn’t happen just by acci-
dent. It happened because of some of
the steps taken by the administration
and by those that support the adminis-
tration.
We have to be focused on reversing
that decline, getting the number of un-
insured down, getting more Americans
covered, and making sure that more
Americans have basic protections.
What is particularly egregious and
disturbing about this trend is that
those suffering the most tend to be
children. For example, in another anal-
ysis by Georgetown University, it says
that ‘‘4.3 million kids were uninsured
in 2018—a statistically significant in-
crease of 425,000.’’
What Georgetown was telling us in
that analysis is that that diminution
of those who were insured or who have
insurance is rising by more than 400,000
among children. So the United States
of America made great strides in the
mid-1960s, when the Medicaid Program
was enacted into law, which helped to
reduce the number of children who
were uninsured and helped to reduce
the number of children who did not
have access to quality healthcare and
ushered in a brand-new healthcare pro-
gram for children and people with dis-
abilities and seniors needing long-term
care. That is the Medicaid Program.
You could call it the ‘‘Kids, Seniors,
and Disability Program for
Healthcare.’’ The same country, the
United States of America, then made
greater progress decades later when the
Children’s Health Insurance Program
came into effect. It was voted on here
in the 1990s with bipartisan support,
sustained over time by bipartisan sup-
port, and sustained in many States by
Republican and Democratic Governors.
But despite the Medicaid Program and
the advances for children, despite the
Children’s Health Insurance Program
and the advances for children, and de-
spite the advances brought about by
the Patient Protection and Affordable
Care Act and the advances for children
in that, now we are seeing a reversal.
Are we going to be satisfied? Are we
going to say that we are the country
that we want to be and that we claim
to be if now we are moving backward
on children’s health insurance, and
425,000 fewer children have healthcare
in 2018, and that that is what we are
going to settle for in the United States
of America?
That is an abomination. That is a
stain on our country. Anyone who is
not in the business of reversing that
and getting that number up—covering
more children and making sure that
children have healthcare coverage—
shouldn’t be involved in any govern-
ment and shouldn’t run for public of-
fice if that is what your attitude is. Ei-
ther you don’t care about that or you
think that is actually a measure of
progress.
We have some work to do in the U.S.
Senate and the U.S. House of Rep-
resentatives and in the administration
to make sure that when they measure
this again later in 2019 or in 2020, that
number is coming down, that we are re-
ducing the uninsured, and that we are
reducing the number of children who
are uninsured.
It is going to be difficult to do that
and to make progress on that when you
consider what the administration, sup-
ported by Republicans in the House and
the Senate, have done lately. They
have done three things that are setting
us backward.
One is supporting a lawsuit in the
Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals, which
will destroy the Affordable Care Act. It
will destroy it. We should be arguing
against that lawsuit. It is highly like-
ly, or at least likely, I will say—I don’t
want to be that pessimistic—that that
lawsuit will prevail and the Affordable
Care Act will be wiped away and de-
clared unconstitutional by the circuit
court or maybe by the Supreme Court
down the road if the Supreme Court
were to take that case up on appeal.
That is not good for America for lots
of reasons. All those Americans—more
than 130 million—who have a pre-
existing condition will be out of luck if
that lawsuit prevails. The protections
for preexisting conditions will be taken
away after having been granted for the
first time, basically, a decade ago, to
tens and tens of millions of Americans.
A lot of other adverse consequences
come from that lawsuit succeeding, so
every Member of the Senate should be
against that lawsuit.
Now, some say: Well, we have a bet-
ter idea. Well, come forward with your
better idea and figure out a way, if you
can, to provide coverage for 20 million
people, to provide protections for those
who have a preexisting condition—pro-
vide the same protections in a different
way, if you can, but don’t say to the
country that we are supporting a law-
suit that will take all those protec-
tions away when you don’t have any-
thing to replace it with, you have noth-
ing that has been enacted into law or
nothing that has been proposed that
will be commensurate with the cov-
erage gains and protections of the Pa-
tient Protection and Affordable Care
Act. We can be weeks away from that
lawsuit succeeding. That is problem
No. 1—threat No. 1, I call it.
Threat No. 2 are the proposed cuts to
Medicare and Medicaid. The adminis-
tration proposed cutting the Medicaid
program that I just referred to a couple
of minutes ago, the children’s dis-
ability and long-term nursing home
care program—that is what Medicaid
does, helps people get into nursing
homes. It helps a lot of middle-class
families afford long-term nursing care.
It helps about 40 percent of American
children with healthcare and helps a
lot of children, especially children with
disabilities, have the therapies, treat-
ments, and the protections they need
because they have a disability or some-
times more than one disability. That is
the Medicaid program.
What does the administration want
to do? They want to cut it by $1.5 tril-
lion. No one here should support that
kind of a cut, but not only do some
people here support it by their silence,
by their assent, many here are cham-
pions of that, strongly advocating for
that kind of a cut, so we have to fight
against that, too—the cuts to Medicare
and Medicaid.
Then there is threat No. 3—No. 1
being the threat of the lawsuit, No. 2
being the threat of the cuts to Medi-
care and Medicaid—the third threat is
the sabotage that has been undertaken
from day one of the administration. On
the Republican side, I would hope that
someone would speak up against this. I
haven’t heard much. I have been listen-
ing. I haven’t heard much about those
who might claim to not be in favor of
sabotage.
Here is one example of sabotage in
the report I referred to earlier. We just
issued this report today: ‘‘HEALTH
CARE SABOTAGE ONLINE: A WARN-
ING TO CONSUMERS.’’ Here is what
we did: We started calling all over
Pennsylvania and doing research on
what was advertised for these short-
term duration healthcare plans known
in the vernacular here in Washington
by the phrase ‘‘junk plans.’’ Why do we
say they are junk? Well, we say that
because these plans were only allowed
to be in place for 3 months, but the ad-
ministration changed that rule. Now,
these plans are available. You can pur-
chase a plan like this for 1 year, and
then you can renew it for up to 3 years.
What happens? Well, often, people are
deceived into signing up for plans that
don’t have the protections that they
thought they would have. They don’t
have the protections that I think most
Americans have come to expect.
Here is the first finding in the report:
‘‘When searching online for health in-
surance plans, it is difficult to differen-
tiate between paid advertisements and
search results.’’
Now, we just had an example today of
a man in Pennsylvania who told us
that, when he went online and did some
investigation and then was talking to
someone on the phone who was selling
him insurance, they said: ‘‘It’s got all
the protections of the Affordable Care
Act.’’ But, of course, it didn’t, and he
was deceived.
There are a lot of stories of people
being deceived by false advertising and
by misleading advertising. Even if
going to a page after having done a
search and on that page it might say
‘‘healthcare.gov,’’ which is the right
place to go if you want to enroll, but
sometimes, healthcare.gov has nothing
to do with it. It is advertised as what
healthcare.gov offers, but it doesn’t
offer that. It offers a junk plan, and
people are in real trouble when they
sign up for the wrong plan.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:36 Oct 30, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00053 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G29OC6.052 S29OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6258 October 29, 2019
So the first thing folks should do is
make sure that they carefully examine
these paid advertisements so they
don’t get into a plan that is going to
prevent them from getting the cov-
erage they need.
The second finding that we concluded
is: ‘‘Paid advertisements for health in-
surance are often misleading and fail
to fully disclose very important infor-
mation.’’
The third and final finding is the fol-
lowing: ‘‘Advertisements often use
‘HealthCare.Gov’ in the website title
and descriptions despite having no af-
filiation with HealthCare.Gov.’’
So people see that on the top of the
page, and it is not designated in the
correct way so that you can actually
get to the correct site. You are sent to
some other site, and before you know
it, you are clicking on to plans that
don’t give you the coverage you think
you are getting.
So there is a lot of misinformation.
There is a lot of scam artistry or a lot
of other ways to describe it because
they have more time to do it. They
used to only have a 3-month time pe-
riod. It wasn’t really a good business
model to try to mislead people into
your junk plan if you only have 3
months. Now, they have 1 year or they
may have more than 1 year if the indi-
vidual were to reenroll for a total of 3
years. So instead of having 3 months
for this short-term insurance, which
was never meant to be permanent,
which was only meant to be an interim
policy, now these scam artists, these
purveyors of fraud in many instances,
have a lot more time to rip you off and
get you on to a plan that doesn’t pro-
vide the kind of protection that you
and your family need.
So what are we going to do about it?
We should do a couple of things. We,
first and foremost, should remind peo-
ple that this is the time, starting this
Friday, November 1, for open enroll-
ment. Folks will have 6 weeks in that
open enrollment period. That is good,
and we should make sure people are
aware when that open enrollment
starts; but while they are searching
and making this very consequential de-
cision for themselves or their family,
they should be warned about and be
educated about what can happen to
them if they are on a site that will not
provide the care and the coverage that
they need.
There is an old expression: ‘‘Fore-
warned is forearmed.’’ We want to fore-
warn people so they are ready and they
will be vigilant.
Here are a couple of things that we
can do. We provide a couple of tips to
avoid enrolling in one of these junk
plans. No. 1: ‘‘To get help picking the
health insurance coverage that fits
your needs, visit HealthCare.Gov.’’
In fact, when you type in to do a
search, you should type
www.HealthCare.Gov. That is the best
way to get to the right site. So just
make sure you are on HealthCare.Gov
and not something that looks like
HealthCare.Gov. Some will go on a
site, and some people don’t realize they
are not on HealthCare.Gov. They are
on healthcare.org. That is an old way
of referring to the site. HealthCare.Gov
is the correct one. That is tip No. 1. Be
careful of that.
No. 2: ‘‘Be aware of how the search
engine designates advertisements.’’ Be
aware that something that looks offi-
cial is just an advertisement. Be care-
ful about that.
No. 3: ‘‘Always look at the website
address, typically displayed in green
font, before clicking on a link.’’ So be
careful about the website address.
No. 4: ‘‘Pay attention to the words
used in the website title and descrip-
tion.’’ Title and description. For exam-
ple, the difference between
HealthCare.Gov and healthcare.org.
So folks can take a look at these tips
and be ready to enroll through
HealthCare.Gov in a way that will give
them the coverage they want when
they are making that basic choice.
This is what sabotage looks like.
When you change a rule from one ad-
ministration to the other, instead of
having a 3-month rule giving these in-
terim plans a chance to operate in a
shorter timeframe and you enlarge
that to a year, you are sabotaging the
system when you do that. You are not
providing people a chance for better
healthcare, you are making it much
more likely that folks will be deceived
because those who are trying to make
money here saw this opportunity. As
soon as they saw that 3 months going
to 1 year, they saw a golden oppor-
tunity to make money and rip people
off, and it is working. A lot of people
are becoming victims of it. So that is
sabotage.
The other sabotage is limiting the
enrollment period. I just mentioned
that open enrollment period starts on
Friday, but it is 6 weeks. It used to be
longer than 6 weeks. So you are lim-
iting the time within which someone
can avail themselves to get healthcare,
the opportunity to change a plan or do
anything like that.
Another way that sabotage has
played out is a limitation on the adver-
tising. Guess what, if you limit the ad-
vertising by cutting the advertising
budget—at one point, it was cut by 90
percent—guess what, fewer people
know about their opportunities to en-
roll by way of HealthCare.Gov or to
have the opportunity not just for cov-
erage but often to have a subsidy that
will help you pay for the coverage. So
that is another way that the adminis-
tration is engaged in sabotage, and it is
working because, as I mentioned, 1.9
million Americans or fewer Americans
are insured today than 2 years ago, so
it is working, unfortunately.
I mention the coverage loss that is
hitting children. There is a New York
Times story dated October 22, just last
week. The headline is: ‘‘Medicaid Cov-
ers a Million Fewer Children. Baby Eli-
jah was one of them.’’
The subheadline says ‘‘Officials point
to rising unemployment, but the unin-
sured rate is climbing as families run
afoul of new paperwork and as fear
rises among immigrants.’’
So a series of steps taken by the ad-
ministration has caused the number of
children who are uninsured to go up.
That is and should be unacceptable to
any American.
Finally, I want to conclude with one
thought about preexisting conditions.
When we vote this week, we will have
an opportunity to push back against
some of the sabotage, to make it less
likely that people will be misled, to
make it less likely that people will be
enrolled in some junk insurance plan.
One of the adverse consequences of
being in the wrong plan, getting the
wrong information, and being misled,
being deceived, is a lack of coverage for
a preexisting condition. So if you have
asthma or diabetes or arthritis or high
blood pressure under the old rules,
under the old law, you could be dis-
criminated against because you had a
preexisting condition. So an insurance
company can legally discriminate
against you.
The law changed in 2010, fortunately,
so that discrimination was pushed back
against, and we finally had a cir-
cumstance for families who didn’t have
to worry about preexisting condi-
tions—or at least didn’t have to worry
about coverage for treatment for a pre-
existing condition.
Lo and behold, you find examples in
your home States. A couple of months
ago, I was with one of my constituents,
Rev. Shirley Cornell. She told me
about how the Affordable Care Act had
completely changed her husband’s life.
She told me that her husband’s $8,000
deductible dropped by about one-third
after enrolling in insurance under the
Affordable Care Act. She said: ‘‘We
were one experience away from chaos
and possibly bankruptcy.’’ Because of
the protections in place for a pre-
existing condition, Reverend Cornell
doesn’t have to worry about that. She
may have to worry about a lot of other
things, but that is one thing she
doesn’t have to worry about.
Unfortunately, if this sabotage keeps
marching forward, she may have to
worry. A worry that was lifted from so
many families just less than a decade
ago now may burden them once again.
There is no reason why we have to go
back to those days when an insurance
company could deny a child coverage
because that child had a preexisting
condition or could deny an adult treat-
ment or coverage because they had a
preexisting condition. There is no rea-
son why we have to go back to those
days; yet some around here seem to
want to go back to those days.
The best way to make sure that we
don’t is to fight against what the ad-
ministration has been doing, to fight
against the lawsuit, to fight against
the sabotage, and to fight against the
budget cuts. I know some don’t want to
do that. They seem to want to continue
to support what the administration is
doing.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:36 Oct 30, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00054 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G29OC6.053 S29OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6259
October 29, 2019
I hope that folks will take advantage
of this opportunity in the next 6 weeks,
starting on Friday, November 1, and
use the open enrollment period and ex-
amine these issues with an eye towards
not being deceived, not being brought
down a road where you won’t get the
coverage you need. Maybe we can have
some success in putting the junk plan
artists out of business so that they
can’t deceive people into getting insur-
ance that they expect would provide
them more coverage.
I yield the floor.
ADJOURNMENT UNTIL 10 A.M.
TOMORROW
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the Senate stands
adjourned until 10 a.m. tomorrow.
Thereupon, the Senate, at 6:41 p.m.,
adjourned until Wednesday, October 30,
2019, at 10 a.m.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:36 Oct 30, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00055 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G29OC6.054 S29OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
EXTENSIONS OF REMARKS
∑ This ‘‘bullet’’ symbol identifies statements or insertions which are not spoken by a Member of the Senate on the floor.
Matter set in this typeface indicates words inserted or appended, rather than spoken, by a Member of the House on the floor.
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E1357
October 29, 2019
IMPEACHMENT INQUIRY PROCE-
DURES IN THE COMMITTEE ON
THE JUDICIARY
HON. JAMES P. McGOVERN
OF MASSACHUSETTS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, October 29, 2019
Mr. MCGOVERN. Madam Speaker, pursu-
ant to Section 4(a) of House Resolution 660,
116th Congress, I hereby submit the following
impeachment inquiry procedures in the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary for printing in the CON-
GRESSIONAL RECORD.
IMPEACHMENT INQUIRY PROCEDURES IN THE
COMMITTEE ON THE JUDICIARY PURSUANT TO
H. RES. 660
A. INITIAL PRESENTATIONS
1. The Committee on the Judiciary (‘‘Com-
mittee’’) may receive at a hearing presen-
tation(s) from counsel(s) designated by the
chairs and ranking minority members for
the majority and minority of a committee
which provides a report, records or other ma-
terials to the Committee under section 2 or
3 of H. Res. 660.
2. In addition, the Committee may receive
from Committee counsel for the majority
and minority at a hearing a presentation
consisting of (i) a written statement detail-
ing, in paragraph form, information believed
by the counsel to be pertinent to the inquiry,
(ii) a general description of the scope and
manner of the presentation of evidence, and/
or (iii) a detailed presentation of the evi-
dentiary material, other than the testimony
of witnesses.
3. The President’s counsel shall be fur-
nished a copy of the report(s), record(s) or
other materials referenced in section 2(5) and
(6) or section 3 of H. Res. 660, and any mate-
rial furnished to the Committee pursuant to
this section. The President and his counsel
shall be invited to attend and observe the
initial presentations, and the President’s
counsel may ask questions, subject to in-
structions from the chair or presiding mem-
ber respecting the time, scope and duration
of the examination.
B. ADDITIONAL EVIDENCE
1. Any Committee member may bring addi-
tional evidence in writing to the Commit-
tee’s attention.
2. The President’s counsel shall be invited
to respond, orally or in writing as shall be
determined by the chair, in consultation
with the ranking minority member.
3. Should the President’s counsel wish the
Committee to receive additional testimony
or other evidence, he or she shall be invited
to submit written requests and precise sum-
maries of what he or she would propose to
show, and in the case of a witness precisely
and in detail what it is expected the testi-
mony of the witness would be, if called. On
the basis of such requests and summaries
and of the record then before it, the Com-
mittee shall determine whether the sug-
gested evidence is necessary or desirable to a
full and fair record in the inquiry, and, if so,
whether the summaries shall be accepted as
part of the record or additional testimony or
evidence in some other form shall be re-
ceived, subject to instructions from the chair
or presiding member respecting the time,
scope and duration of any examination or
presentation. In making such determination,
notwithstanding Rule II of the Committee on
the Judiciary Rules of Procedure, the chair
may schedule a Committee meeting subject
to the notice procedures for a Committee
meeting under clause 2(g)(3)(A) and (B) of
House rule XI.
C. WITNESSES
If and when witnesses are to be called, the
following additional procedures shall be ap-
plicable to hearings held for that purpose:
1. The President and his counsel shall be
invited to attend all hearings, including any
held in executive session.
2. Objections relating to the examination
of witnesses or to the admissibility of testi-
mony and evidence may be raised only by a
witness or his counsel, a member of the Com-
mittee, Committee counsel or the Presi-
dent’s counsel and shall be ruled upon by the
chair or presiding member. Such rulings
shall be final, unless overruled by a vote of
a majority of the members present. In the
case of a tie vote, the ruling of the chair
shall prevail.
3. At the discretion of the chair, in con-
sultation with the ranking minority mem-
ber, notwithstanding clause 2(j)(2) of rule XI,
upon recognition by the chair for such pur-
pose under this section during any hearing
designated pursuant to H. Res. 660 and these
procedures, the chair and ranking minority
member shall be permitted to question wit-
nesses for equal specified periods of longer
than 5 minutes, as determined by the chair.
The time available for each period of ques-
tioning under this section shall be equal for
the chair and the ranking minority member.
The chair may confer recognition for mul-
tiple periods of such questioning, but each
period of questioning shall not exceed 90
minutes in the aggregate. Only the chair and
ranking minority member, or Committee
counsel yielded to by the chair or ranking
minority member, may question witnesses
during such periods of questioning. At the
conclusion of questioning pursuant to this
section, the Committee shall proceed with
questioning under the 5-minute rule pursu-
ant to clause 2(j)(2)(A) of rule XI.
4. The President’s counsel may question
any witness called before the Committee,
subject to instructions from the chair or pre-
siding member respecting the time, scope
and duration of the examination.
D. At the discretion of the chair, in con-
sultation with the ranking minority mem-
ber, the Committee may receive a con-
cluding presentation from the President’s
counsel and Committee counsel for the ma-
jority and minority.
E. The chair, in consultation with the
ranking minority member, shall make a pub-
lic announcement of the date, time, place
and subject matter of any Committee hear-
ing or meeting to consider matters set forth
in these procedures as soon as practicable
and in no event less than twenty-four hours
before the commencement of the hearing or
meeting, except as specified in paragraph
B(3) and notwithstanding Rule II of the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary Rules of Procedure.
F. Should the President unlawfully refuse
to make witnesses available for testimony
to, or to produce documents requested by,
the investigative committees listed in the
first section of H. Res. 660 in furtherance of
the investigations described in the first sec-
tion of H. Res. 660, the chair shall have the
discretion to impose appropriate remedies,
including by denying specific requests by the
President or his counsel under these proce-
dures to call or question witnesses.
G. These procedures supersede paragraphs
(1), (2), and (4) of the investigative proce-
dures adopted by the Committee on Sep-
tember 12, 2019.
H. For purposes of these procedures, Com-
mittee counsel shall include consultants re-
tained by the Committee.
f
IN RECOGNITION OF NATIONAL CY-
BERSECURITY CAREER AWARE-
NESS WEEK
HON. BILL POSEY
OF FLORIDA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, October 29, 2019
Mr. POSEY. Madam Speaker, November
11th marks the start of National Cybersecurity
Career Awareness Week. This week-long
campaign focuses on the local, regional and
national interest to engage the community on
not only the importance of cybersecurity but
career opportunities in the field.
Cybersecurity IT workers play a vital role in
upkeeping the integrity of our systems, net-
works, and programs as well as pioneering
new ways to promote system strength against
unforeseen threats. In a highly interconnected
and increasingly globalized world, there has
never been a more important time than now to
raise awareness.
Unfortunately, America is facing a critical
shortage of people trained in cybersecurity.
There are currently over 300,000 jobs nation-
ally that need to be filled in the cybersecurity
workforce and globally, an expected shortfall
of 1.8 million cybersecurity professionals by
2022. This deficit can easily be filled by Amer-
ican talent and continued commitment to mak-
ing educational resources available early.
In my own district, we are doing our part by
educating the public about what role cyberse-
curity plays in their everyday lives and how
impactful a career in cybersecurity can be. To
raise the awareness of the importance of pur-
suing a career in cybersecurity, several of our
local colleges along with the Brevard School
District, EDC Space Coast and Florida Tech
Corridor to name a few, will come together to
discuss the role of cybersecurity in our econ-
omy, in enhancing public safety and national
security.
I ask my colleagues to join me in recog-
nizing National Cybersecurity Career Aware-
ness Week.
f
HONORING WILLIAM CARL
LAUBSCHER
HON. SAM GRAVES
OF MISSOURI
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, October 29, 2019
Mr. GRAVES of Missouri. Madam Speaker,
I proudly pause to recognize William Carl
VerDate Sep 11 2014 21:45 Oct 30, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\RECORD19\OCTOBER\E29OC9.REC E29OC9
CORRECTION
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E1358 October 29, 2019
Laubscher. William is a very special young
man who has exemplified the finest qualities
of citizenship and leadership by taking an ac-
tive part in the Boy Scouts of America, Troop
1376, and earning the most prestigious award
of Eagle Scout.
William has been very active with his troop,
participating in many scout activities. Over the
many years William has been involved with
scouting, he has not only earned numerous
merit badges, but also the respect of his fam-
ily, peers, and community. Most notably, Wil-
liam has led his troop as an Assistant Senior
Patrol Leader, become an Ordeal member of
the Order of the Arrow, and holds the rank of
Warrior in the Tribe of Mic-O-Say. William has
also contributed to his community through his
Eagle Scout project. William funded and
mentored a First Lego League Robotics team
at Crossroads Academy, a charter school in
Kansas City, Missouri, building the competition
practice table for student’s school and the
travel table for the competitions.
Madam Speaker, I proudly ask you to join
me in commending William Carl Laubscher for
his accomplishments with the Boy Scouts of
America and for his efforts put forth in achiev-
ing the highest distinction of Eagle Scout.
f
HONORING EDWARD J. MOSES,
ESQ.
HON. JOHN KATKO
OF NEW YORK
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, October 29, 2019
Mr. KATKO. Madam Speaker, I rise today to
honor Edward J. Moses, Esq., who was re-
cently named the ‘‘2019 Distinguished Law-
yer’’ by the Onondaga County Bar Associa-
tion.
In his career extending over 50 years as an
attorney, Edward Moses has been known for
his uncompromising ethic, client-focused ap-
proach, and loyalty to his firm Mackenzie
Hughes, LLP, where he has spent his entire
legal career. Across the legal profession, Ed-
ward Moses has garnered admiration from his
peers, competing lawyers, and respected
judges. For this reason, in 2016 and 2018, Ed-
ward Moses received the distinction of ‘‘Syra-
cuse Lawyer of the Year’’ in corporate law.
In 1968, Edward Moses began his career in
law with Mackenzie Hughes, LLP, immediately
following his graduation from Syracuse Univer-
sity College of Law. However, within only two
weeks of his start date, Edward Moses put his
career on hold to fulfill the commitment he
made to the United States Coast Guard. For
ten weeks, he attended boot camp at Cape
May, New Jersey, before returning home to
Central New York in 1969.
Edward Moses and his wife, Elana, have
five sons and reside in Otisco, New York. He
is known for his commitment to his family—
and while he frequently works six days a
week, he never misses a family dinner or
sporting event for his sons.
Devoted to his faith, Edward Moses is active
in St. Patrick’s Church in Otisco. Additionally,
he is a deeply involved alumni of Christian
Brothers Academy and Georgetown Univer-
sity, where he received his undergraduate de-
gree and played football, lacrosse, and base-
ball. For nearly 40 years, Edward Moses has
served with distinction on the Christian Broth-
ers Academy Board of Trustees. In this role,
he notably oversaw improvements to its cam-
pus and played an instrumental role in trans-
forming the school into a coed institution.
Madam Speaker, I ask that my colleagues
in the House join me in honoring Edward J.
Moses, Esq. A devoted family-man, and highly
respected figure in our Central New York com-
munity, Edward Moses has served with great
distinction in the legal profession and is highly
deserving of this honor.
f
WOMEN’S SUFFRAGE CENTENNIAL
COMMEMORATIVE COIN ACT
SPEECH OF
HON. SHEILA JACKSON LEE
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, October 28, 2019
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Madam Speaker, I rise
in strong support of H.R. 2423, the ‘‘Women’s
Suffrage Centennial Commemorative Coin Act,
as amended.’’
H.R. 2423 directs the Department of the
Treasury to mint and issue up to 400,000 $1
silver coins that are emblematic of the women
who played a vital role in rallying support for
the 19th Amendment to the U.S. Constitution.
Elizabeth Cady Stanton and Lucretia Mott
organized the first Women’s Rights Conven-
tion in Seneca Falls, New York.
Sixty-eight women and 32 men signed the
Declaration of Sentiments at the Convention in
July 1848.
The Declaration of Sentiments was modeled
after the Declaration of Independence and de-
clared that ‘‘all men and women are created
equal’’, linking women’s rights directly to the
founding ideals of the United States.
On August 18, 1920, Tennessee became
the 36th and final State needed to pass the
19th Amendment, ensuring its ratification pur-
suant to Article V of the Constitution of the
United States.
The 19th Amendment was ratified on Au-
gust 26, 1920, when Secretary of State Bain-
bridge Colby issued a proclamation announc-
ing it has become part of the Constitution of
the United States.
The ratification of the 19th Amendment
marked the single largest extension of voting
rights in United States history, enfranchising
27,000,000 American women in the United
States.
This act is a way to honor and commemo-
rate the work of women’s suffrage activists in
the late 19th and early 20th centuries.
It will increase public awareness and appre-
ciation for the history of the women’s suffrage
movement.
Ultimately, it will encourage all women in the
United States to exercise their hard-won fran-
chise and to become involved in civic life, if
they so chose.
Without these pioneers for social change
and justice, women like me and my fellow col-
leagues would not have gotten to where we
are today.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to join
me in supporting H.R. 2423 to require the
Secretary of the Treasury to mint coins in 19th
commemoration of ratification of the Amend-
ment to the Constitution of the United States,
giving women in the United States the right to
vote.
IN RECOGNITION OF DENTON
COUNTY TRANSPORTATION AU-
THORITY RENAMING OLD TOWN
STATION IN HONOR OF CHARLES
EMERY AND HIS RETIREMENT
HON. MICHAEL C. BURGESS
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, October 29, 2019
Mr. BURGESS. Madam Speaker, I rise
today in tribute to Mr. F. Charles Emery II of
Lewisville, Texas on the event of his retire-
ment as Chairman of the Board of the Denton
County Transportation Authority.
Charles and his wife Elaine, both of whom
I have considered friends for decades, have
served Denton County in a variety of ways
and left an indelible mark on our community.
In addition to a successful career in real es-
tate development, Charles was a member of
the Lewisville City Council, an active member
of the Lewisville and Dallas Chambers of
Commerce, and a member of a variety of
boards and commissions that touched almost
every facet of our region.
A man of great faith, Charles has been a
dedicated member of the Denton Bible
Church, where he and Elaine are long-time
supporters of its choir program. Charles is
also a proud veteran, having served our coun-
try in the United States Air Force and Air Na-
tional Guard. And I know Charles would not let
me forget his dedication to his beloved alma
mater, Texas A&M University.
However, in a life that includes many
achievements, Charles’ most lasting contribu-
tion to our region may be his role as the father
and chief architect of the Denton County
Transportation Authority, which provides vital
public transportation services throughout North
Texas.
Charles worked tirelessly with state law-
makers to fine-tune the legislation signed by
then-Governor Rick Perry in 2001 that created
Denton County Transportation Authority as an
entity. He then spent the next year going door-
to-door in every corner of Denton County in
support of a local ballot measure to confirm
creation of the agency. It was approved with
a 73 percent majority. I remember early in my
Congressional career, Charles did not hesitate
to lend his expertise on local transportation
issues.
Once Denton County Transportation Author-
ity was formed, Charles agreed to serve as
Chairman of the Board of Directors and for the
next 17 years, he proceeded to lead the agen-
cy down a path of providing quality services to
a transit-dependent constituency in a finan-
cially sustainable manner. After concentrating
on bus service for the first 10 years of exist-
ence, Charles and his colleagues at Denton
County Transportation Authority expanded the
agency’s footprint to include commuter rail
with the 2011 opening of the 21-mile A-Train,
which connects Denton County to the Dallas
Area Rapid Transit Light rail system in
Carrollton.
Charles quickly became a staple in the
North Texas transportation community and of-
fered his insights and service to a number of
entities, including the Dallas Regional Mobility
Coalition, the Regional Transportation Council
of the North Central Texas Council of Govern-
ments, and the Tarrant Regional Transpor-
tation Coalition.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:59 Oct 30, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\K29OC8.001 E29OCPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E1359
October 29, 2019
For his efforts, Charles was recognized with
the ‘‘Outstanding Public Transportation Board
Member Award’’ in 2007 by the American
Public Transportation Association, the premier
association representing the interests of the
public transportation industry in North Amer-
ica.
It is a privilege to recognize my friend
Charles Emery for his dedication and commit-
ment to his fellow North Texans, and I con-
gratulate him on this well-earned honor.
f
RECOGNIZING BIANCA MADERAL
HON. DONNA E. SHALALA
OF FLORIDA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, October 29, 2019
Ms. SHALALA. Madam Speaker, I rise in
honor of Bianca Maderal. A young adult un-
dergoing cancer treatment, Bianca founded
Fight Like a Kid, a nonprofit organization dedi-
cated to supporting children with cancer.
Bianca was diagnosed with a brain tumor in
2016 when she was a senior in high school.
Since then, she has been a constant source of
inspiration and support for other children bat-
tling cancer. She continues to receive treat-
ment at the Nicklaus Children’s Hospital in
Miami. Between chemotherapy sessions, she
can be found putting together care packages
for pediatric cancer centers across the coun-
try, donating funds to pediatric cancer re-
search, and helping other children with their
diagnoses.
As Fight Like a Kid puts it, sometimes real
superheroes live in the hearts of small children
fighting big battles. Bianca has become a
superhero not only to the other children at
Nicklaus Children’s Hospital but also to their
families and to cancer patients across the
country.
Fight Like a Kid is an incredible organization
created by a truly inspirational young woman.
It really is cancer’s turn to be afraid.
f
HONORING BRANDON JACOB
HON. SAM GRAVES
OF MISSOURI
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, October 29, 2019
Mr. GRAVES of Missouri. Madam Speaker,
I proudly pause to recognize Brandon Jacob.
Brandon is a very special young man who has
exemplified the finest qualities of citizenship
and leadership by taking an active part in the
Boy Scouts of America, Troop 1376, and earn-
ing the most prestigious award of Eagle Scout.
Brandon has been very active with his
troop, participating in many scout activities.
Over the many years Brandon has been in-
volved with scouting, he has not only earned
numerous merit badges, but also the respect
of his family, peers, and community. Most no-
tably, Brandon has led his troop as the Assist-
ant Senior Patrol Leader, become an Ordeal
member of the Order of the Arrow, and holds
the rank of Warrior in the Tribe of Mic-O–Say.
Brandon has also contributed to his commu-
nity through his Eagle Scout project. Brandon
built storage shelving for the KC Pet Project
animal shelter in Kansas City, Missouri.
Madam Speaker, I proudly ask you to join
me in commending Brandon Jacob for his ac-
complishments with the Boy Scouts of Amer-
ica and for his efforts put forth in achieving the
highest distinction of Eagle Scout.
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. A. DONALD McEACHIN
OF VIRGINIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, October 29, 2019
Mr. MCEACHIN. Madam Speaker, I was un-
avoidably detained on October 22, 2019 dur-
ing roll call no. 571, On Ordering the Previous
Question, H. Res. 646, Providing for consider-
ation of the bill (H.R. 2513) Corporate Trans-
parency Act. Had I been present, I would have
voted ‘‘yea.’’ I was also unavoidably detained
during roll call no. 572, On Agreeing to the
Resolution, H. Res. 646, Providing for consid-
eration of the bill (H.R. 2513) Corporate
Transparency Act. Had I been present, I would
have voted ‘‘yea.’’ I was also unavoidably de-
tained during roll call no. 573, On Agreeing to
the Amendment, H.R. 2513, Burgess of Texas
Part B Amendment No. 1. Had I been present,
I would have voted ‘‘aye.’’ I was also unavoid-
ably detained during roll call no. 574, On
Agreeing to the Amendment, H.R. 2513, Caro-
lyn B. Maloney of New York Part B Amend-
ment No. 4. Had I been present, I would have
voted ‘‘aye.’’ I was also unavoidably detained
during roll call no. 575, On Agree to the
Amendment, H.R. 2513, Davidson of Ohio
Part B Amendment No. 5. Had I been present,
I would have voted ‘‘no.’’ I was also unavoid-
ably detained during roll call no. 576, On Mo-
tion to Recommit with Instructions, H.R. 2513,
Corporate Transparency Act. Had I been
present, I would have voted ‘‘no.’’ I was also
unavoidably detained during roll call no. 577,
On Passage, H.R. 2513, Corporate Trans-
parency Act. Had I been present, I would have
voted ‘‘yea.’’ I was also unavoidably detained
during roll call no. 578, On Motion to Suspend
the Rules and Pass, as Amended, H.R. 2426,
Copyright Alternative in Small-Claims Enforce-
ment Act of 2019. Had I been present, I would
have voted ‘‘yea.’’
f
RECOGNIZING MR. JAMES LESLEY
WALTERS
HON. ROBERT B. ADERHOLT
OF ALABAMA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, October 29, 2019
Mr. ADERHOLT. I would like to recognize
the retirement of someone who has spent his
career bringing news and information to thou-
sands of people.
Mr. James Lesley (Les) Walters was born to
James and Lottie Walters in April of 1956 in
Andalusia, Alabama. He was the valedictorian
of his 1974 graduating class at Red Level
High School. After high school, Waters went
on to attend college at Troy state University.
Upon graduation in 1978, he was named the
Hall School of Journalism and Communica-
tion’s Outstanding Graduate of the Year.
In 1979, the Itawamba County Times in Ful-
ton, Mississippi hired Walters as a news writ-
er. Later that same year, he accepted a job in
Hamilton, Alabama at a brand newspaper
called the Hamilton Progress.
In 1987, Walters left the Hamilton Progress
for the position of managing editor of the Jour-
nal Record newspaper, also in Hamilton. He
has held this position for the past 32 years.
During his more than three decades at the
Journal Record, his leadership has helped
steer the paper and the community during
much change, progress and even tragedy.
From the completion of interstate 1–22
through Marion County, the 2011 tornado out-
break that left several dozen people in the
county dead, to the 2016 Hamilton office
shootings, Walters has been there to help the
paper and his staff write the first draft of Mar-
ion County history.
As an editor, Walters has been a vocal ad-
vocate of Alabama’s open records and open
meetings act and has kept county and munic-
ipal governments accountable to adhere by
them. Walters also cultivated a higher stand-
ard of journalism in Marion County. Under his
leadership, the paper moved from submission-
based coverage to having reporters prioritize
county commission meetings and city and
town council meetings, bringing local news
and issues to print for the public’s awareness.
Walters has received numerous media
awards from the Alabama Press Association,
including his most-prized award, the APA Fea-
ture Story of the Year, which he was honored
with for his article ‘‘Dr. Charlie Pyle’s Hamilton
Hillbillies Semi-Pro Baseball Team.’’
Walters has also been named Kiwanis Cit-
izen of the Year and has served as the Ham-
ilton CJ’s president, where he was a longtime
member and helped organize numerous fund
raisers, such as wrestling nights and air shows
at the Marion County Rankin-Fite Airport.
Walters married his wife of 39 years, Sheri
Gilliland, on July 19, 1980. They have two
sons: Sloan, 34, of Murfreesboro, Tenn. Sloan
and his wife Erin have two sons, Thad, 5,
Crosby, 2, and another child expected in Feb-
ruary 2020; his youngest son, Chance, 33,
lives in Birmingham. The Walters family are
members of the First Baptist Church of Ham-
ilton, where Les Walters has taught Sunday
school for youth and college-aged adults. He
also serves on the church’s publicity com-
mittee.
As a member of Congress, representing
Marion County and northwest Alabama, I want
to acknowledge and honor Mr. Walters and his
years of service to his community, his state
and our First Amendment. I wish Les Walters
all the best in his well-earned retirement.
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. RODNEY DAVIS
OF ILLINOIS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, October 29, 2019
Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois. Madam
Speaker, I was with Land of Lincoln Honor
Flight at Arlington. Had I been present, I would
have voted NAY on Roll Call No. 587, and
NAY on Roll Call No. 588.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:59 Oct 30, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A29OC8.005 E29OCPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E1360 October 29, 2019
CELEBRATING THE 150TH ANNI-
VERSARY OF COLLEGE FOOT-
BALL
HON. CHARLIE CRIST
OF FLORIDA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, October 29, 2019
Mr. CRIST. Madam Speaker, I rise today to
celebrate the 150th anniversary of college
football in the United States. For fans, college
football is a coming together to honor
athleticism, hard work, and your favorite team.
For players, it’s an irreplaceable opportunity to
hone work ethic, gain leadership skills, be-
come part of a close-knit team, and play for
your school. As a former college quarterback,
I’m thankful for the opportunities playing this
amazing sport provided, and as a Floridian I’m
thrilled when Florida’s teams win. From storied
institutions to rising stars, Florida’s collegiate
football programs are unmatched, as is their
fans love for the game. Madam Speaker, may
college football continue to thrive for another
150 years.
f
HONORING JEFFREY KINNEER
LAUBSCHER
HON. SAM GRAVES
OF MISSOURI
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, October 29, 2019
Mr. GRAVES of Missouri. Madam Speaker,
I proudly pause to recognize Jeffrey Kinneer
Laubscher. Jeffrey is a very special young
man who has exemplified the finest qualities
of citizenship and leadership by taking an ac-
tive part in the Boy Scouts of America, Troop
1376, and earning the most prestigious award
of Eagle Scout.
Jeffrey has been very active with his troop,
participating in many scout activities. Over the
many years Jeffrey has been involved with
scouting, he has not only earned numerous
merit badges, but also the respect of his fam-
ily, peers, and community. Most notably, Jef-
frey has led his troop as the Senior Patrol
Leader, become a Brotherhood member of the
Order of the Arrow, and holds the rank of
Warrior in the Tribe of Mic-O–Say. Jeffrey has
also contributed to his community through his
Eagle Scout project. Jeffrey built and installed
privacy screens for the portable restrooms for
the NKCA Baseball Association at the A.J.
Wilson Sports Complex in Kansas City, Mis-
souri.
Madam Speaker, I proudly ask you to join
me in commending Jeffrey Kinneer Laubscher
for his accomplishments with the Boy Scouts
of America and for his efforts put forth in
achieving the highest distinction of Eagle
Scout.
f
HONORING VIETNAM VETERANS
HON. ANN M. KUSTER
OF NEW HAMPSHIRE
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, October 29, 2019
Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire. Madam
Speaker, I rise today to honor the brave Amer-
icans who served our country during the Viet-
nam Era. The courage, patriotism, and her-
oism that our servicemembers displayed when
faced with the danger of serving in the Viet-
nam War speaks to the character and strength
of these individuals and our nation.
I am honored to be a part of the Vietnam
War Commemorative Committee. The brave
men and women who served our nation during
the Vietnam War set aside their ambitions, left
their families, and risked their lives for our
country. This project is a token of our gratitude
for their selfless service and steadfast, unwav-
ering devotion to our nation and the American
people. The legacy of all those who served
during the conflict remains an inspiration to
our nation. To the families of our
servicemembers who stood by faithfully as
your loved ones departed to defend our free-
doms overseas, I offer my sincere gratitude for
your shared commitment to duty and service.
I will continue to work each day to serve all
those who have served us so valiantly. Our
veterans have made incredible sacrifices in
honor of our nation. It is a debt we can never
repay, and one we can never forget. It is es-
sential that we provide all our veterans with
the care and support they so richly deserve.
As the Representative for New Hampshire’s
Second Congressional District, I will continue
to work on behalf of our courageous Vietnam
veterans, servicemembers, and military fami-
lies who have given so much for our country.
May we honor and celebrate all our soldiers,
and may God bless the United States of
America. As of November 1st, 2019, I was
honored to present Vietnam Commemorative
Pins to the following constituents:
Michael H. Eastman, Richard C. Dellerba,
Richard Kimball Smith, David Paquette, Wil-
liam Allan Stashluk, Paul B. Dullea, Ronald
Stephen Clark, William Warren Walker, Robert
E. Thebodo, Robert Arnold Edstrom.
James William Dryer, George A. Travers,
Charles Machado, Carl Daniel Fredrickson,
Jr., Ronald J. Cote, Michael L. Gray, David
Lawrence Nelson, Jr., Robert Francis Stanley,
Rodney A. Stanley, William Joseph Brodeur.
David Eugene Norton, Raymond Paul
Boudreau, Guy A. Tremblay, William F. Chap-
man, Charles Michael Sirosky, Steven F.
Cady, Eric Frederick Parthum, Lowell Bohnert,
James E. Neister, John Vincent Madden.
Louis Maurice Belanger, Joseph Vincent
Cannava, Norman Wayne Blake, Andrew J.
LaCourse, John Francis DiBernardo, John Jo-
hansen, Thomas R. Sawyer, Lawrence Wayne
Barchard, Harold Francis Shea, Jr., Richard L.
Lavoie.
Alfred Anthony Monterio, Joseph Frank
Cannata, Donald J. Burns, George R. Hall,
Roger John Hubert, Phillip J. Miller, Richard
Stewart Tatem, Lloyd H. Hamilton, Clyde
Francis Bubar, Walter Gerald Cibulski, Jr.
Michael Joseph Golden, William Thomas
McClellan III, Edmund J. Gleason, Louis R.
Hagan, Ronald Paul Morrissey, Joseph K. Ire-
land, Gerald Joseph Bushway, Henry Stephen
Masciocchi, Robert A. Duncan, Sr., Kathleen
McLeod Duncan.
Thomas W.R. Thibault, Sr., James Edward
Miles, Arthur John Demeis, Bruce Edward
Richardson, Francis Joseph Cuddy, Jr., Susan
Ann Cuddy, Robert William Perry, Sr., Wilfred
Clinton Gonyo, Margaret Lee Clarke, Edward
E. Rochford.
DIGNITY IN AGING ACT OF 2019
SPEECH OF
HON. SHEILA JACKSON LEE
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, October 28, 2019
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker, I rise in
strong support of H.R. 4334, the ‘‘Dignity in
Aging Act of 2019.’’
H.R. 4334 reauthorizes the Older Americans
Act (OAA), which authorizes funds to state
and local programs to ensure aging seniors
have access to food, transportation, and other
basic services they need to live independently
and with dignity.
The number of Americans over age 65 is
expected to reach 70 million by 2030, rep-
resenting a 71 percent increase from today’s
41 million older adults.
Elder and long-term care is rapidly becom-
ing one of the most daunting healthcare chal-
lenges of our day.
By 2050, the global population of people
older than 60 is expected to jump to two bil-
lion.
In the United States, the number of Ameri-
cans over the age of 65 is expected to double
from roughly 50 million today to nearly 100
million by 2060.
While the United States is currently ranked
among the top countries in the world for the
elderly, there are significant variations across
the country in access to healthcare and quality
of life.
On average, the older adult population
spends $18,424 annually per person, with
more than one-third of those expenditures oc-
curring after the age of 85.
The Medicaid program accounted for more
that 40 percent of overall U.S. nursing home
costs in 2012, and 65 percent of these costs
in graying states like Pennsylvania.
Together with Medicare, these programs
comprise more that 31 percent of all U.S.
health expenditures.
An aging America will experience increas-
ingly severe and complex health conditions.
Almost half of the U.S. population is ex-
pected to have at least one chronic disease by
2020.
The number of aging individuals with three
or more chronic conditions has also increased
significantly within the last ten years, and this
is expected to grow to 40 percent among the
65 and over population by 2030.
By 2050, the number of Americans needing
long-term services and supports (LTSS) will
more than double to 27 million.
Our approach to caring for the aging is fis-
cally unsustainable for taxpayers and con-
sumers alike.
Absent changes to a fragmented system of
care delivery which rewards high-cost rather
than high-quality care, the burden of
healthcare spending for the aging population
will soon become unsustainable for taxpayer-
funded programs like Medicare and Medicaid,
as well as individual consumers paying out-of-
pocket.
Between 2015 and 2025, annual Medicare
spending is projected to double to $1.2 trillion
dollars.
The median annual out-of-pocket costs for
Americans age 65 will rise to $6,200, nearly
double what it was in 2010.
Unless policymakers act now, aging Ameri-
cans and their loved ones will soon experi-
ence unsustainably high costs for healthcare
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:59 Oct 30, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A29OC8.010 E29OCPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E1361
October 29, 2019
coverage as well as significant declines in the
access to and quality of care.
As Medicare and the Older Americans Act
reach their fiftieth anniversaries continue to
improve aging America’s access to affordable,
high-quality care, it will be necessary to iden-
tify, evaluate, and scaleup policy interventions
that work.
Today’s health care workforce is inadequate
to meet the needs of older Americans, many
of whom have multiple chronic physical and
mental health conditions and cognitive impair-
ments.
10 percent of Harris Counties population is
65 years and older.
It is critical for the United States Congress
to stand with aging seniors who need access
to food, transportation, and other basic serv-
ices.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to join
me in supporting H.R. 4334 to help older en-
sure that aging seniors are provided with es-
sential services they need to live independ-
ently.
f
REVEREND SUAREZ
HON. FRANCIS ROONEY
OF FLORIDA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, October 29, 2019
Mr. ROONEY of Florida. Madam Speaker, I
rise today to honor Reverend Israel Suarez for
his over 40 years of community service to
Southwest Florida. Reverend Suarez is the
founder and CEO of Nations Association
Charities. Reverend Suarez and Nations Asso-
ciation have given four decades helping dis-
advantaged residents and youth in Southwest
Florida by providing food for struggling fami-
lies, scholarships assistance for college-bound
youths, job counseling and placement help,
and drug prevention programs, all impacting
thousands of lives over the years.
In 2019, Reverend Suarez’s focus has been
to serve primarily at-risk youth through men-
toring, drug and suicide prevention, academic
assistance, leadership development, commu-
nity service, and financial literacy. In 1990,
President George H.W. Bush awarded Rev-
erend Suarez with a Points of Light Award and
in 1994 the News-Press named Reverend
Suarez and his wife Ruth, the ‘People of the
Year’.
Every year, Reverend Suarez and Nations
Association Charities provide an annual
Thanksgiving meal distribution event, Christ-
mas Celebration, and a ‘‘Back to Basics
Health Fair’’ that provides free medical
screenings to hundreds of families in our com-
munity.
I thank Reverend Suarez for his years of
service to our community.
f
HONORING THE SERVICE OF COL.
ANTHONY POLASHEK
HON. COLLIN C. PETERSON
OF MINNESOTA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, October 29, 2019
Mr. PETERSON. Madam Speaker, on No-
vember 2, Colonel Anthony G. Polashek is re-
tiring from the 934th Airlift Wing at the Min-
neapolis-St. Paul International Airport Air Re-
serve Station in Minnesota after serving in the
Air Force for 32 years. As Commander, he led
the 1,500-member wing and supported our
Armed Forces for resupply missions in forward
areas and aeromedical and refugee evacu-
ations. His command and leadership was crit-
ical in the defense of our country.
Col. Polashek graduated from Coe College
in Cedar Rapids, Iowa before commissioning
into the Air Force as a graduate of Officer
Training School in Lackland Air Force Base,
Texas. Col. Polashek served and was de-
ployed to support operations including Oper-
ation Desert Shield/Storm and Operation Iraqi
Freedom/Enduring Freedom. As a command
pilot, he logged more than 5,800 flight hours
including over 500 combat hours. He has re-
ceived several prestigious awards for his serv-
ice, including the Meritorious Service Medal
and Aerial Achievement Medal.
Today, I urge lawmakers to join me in
thanking Col. Polashek for his 32 years of
service in the United States Air Force and
wish him well in future endeavors.
f
HONORING COLTEN MICHAEL
PICKERAL
HON. SAM GRAVES
OF MISSOURI
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, October 29, 2019
Mr. GRAVES of Missouri. Madam Speaker,
I proudly pause to recognize Colten Michael
Pickeral. Colten is a very special young man
who has exemplified the finest qualities of citi-
zenship and leadership by taking an active
part in the Boy Scouts of America, Troop 87,
and earning the most prestigious award of
Eagle Scout.
Colten has been very active with his troop,
participating in many scout activities. Over the
many years Colten has been involved with
scouting, he has not only earned numerous
merit badges, but also the respect of his fam-
ily, peers, and community. Most notably,
Colten has contributed to his community
through his Eagle Scout project. Colten in-
spected and restrung three swimming lane
lines at the Cameron Aquatic Center in Cam-
eron, Missouri.
Madam Speaker, I proudly ask you to join
me in commending Colten Michael Pickeral for
his accomplishments with the Boy Scouts of
America and for his efforts put forth in achiev-
ing the highest distinction of Eagle Scout.
f
HONORING THE 25TH ANNIVER-
SARY OF CHRIST CATHEDRAL
BAPTIST CHURCH
HON. RASHIDA TLAIB
OF MICHIGAN
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, October 29, 2019
Ms. TLAIB. Madam Speaker, I rise today in
tribute to Christ Cathedral Baptist Church, a
house of worship located in Detroit, Michigan,
on the occasion of its twenty-fifth anniversary.
The members of Christ Cathedral Baptist
Church first came together to worship in 1994.
The congregation grew so quickly in its first
year that they were forced to find a new wor-
ship space before settling at its current ad-
dress on Hartford Street. No matter what loca-
tion, the congregation was home wherever
they could gather together for worship. It is
evident in their mutual support for one another
and commitment to serving the community’s
most vulnerable that the flock at Christ Cathe-
dral Baptist Church is a family. For more than
twenty years, the church has given back to the
community by hosting meal services for those
in need and ministering to people struggling
with substance abuse. In short, the flock at
Christ Cathedral has drawn strength from
each other as they have come together to
worship and celebrate, and they have used
their strength in service to others.
Please join me in recognizing Christ Cathe-
dral Baptist Church on this milestone as we
wish them many more years of service to
come.
f
PAYING TRIBUTE TO THE
HONORABLE JOHN CONYERS
SPEECH OF
HON. KAREN BASS
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, October 28, 2019
Ms. BASS. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to pay
a special tribute to Congressman John Con-
yers. He was one of the 13 founding members
of the Congressional Black Caucus (CBC). He
served for 53 years in the U.S. House of Rep-
resentatives—making him one of the longest-
serving House members in U.S. history and
the first African American to hold the title of
dean.
Congressman John Conyers, Jr., was born
in Detroit, Michigan, on May 16, 1929, the eld-
est of four sons of John and Lucille (Simpson)
Conyers. Congressman Conyers attended De-
troit public schools and graduated from North-
western High School in 1947. After graduating
from high school, Mr. Conyers served in the
National Guard from (1948 to 1950) and then
joined the U.S. Army for four years.
Congressman Conyers later attended officer
candidate school and was commissioned as a
second lieutenant. During his time in the
Army, he served in Korea for a year. He was
honorably discharged in 1954 and served
three more years in the Army Reserves.
He was inspired by his friend Dr. Martin Lu-
ther King, Jr., to run for office and was elected
to the House of Representatives in 1964. His
first hire was civil rights hero Rosa Parks. She
served as an aide to Mr. Conyers for 22 years
from 1964 until she retired in 1988. During his
time in Congress, Representative Conyers
chaired the Government Oversight and Re-
form Committee (formerly the Government Op-
erations Committee) and was the first African
American to serve on the House Judiciary
Committee and to become its chair.
As a human rights and civil rights champion,
Mr. Conyers opposed the death penalty and
fought for police brutality oversight. He was a
lead co-sponsor of the Voting Rights Act of
1965. Mr. Conyers also assisted in passing
the Help America Vote Act (2002), the Vio-
lence Against Women Act (1994), the Motor
Voter Bill (1993), the Jazz Preservation Act
(1987), and the Martin Luther King, Jr., Holi-
day Act (1983).
His legislative record extends to introducing
the Medicare For All Act, legislation to estab-
lish a government-sponsored, single-payer
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:59 Oct 30, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A29OC8.012 E29OCPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E1362 October 29, 2019
healthcare option to control costs. Additionally,
Representative Conyers also championed the
issue of reparations by introducing a bill to es-
tablish a commission to study the effect of
slavery and race relations in America, which
he fought for consideration every year.
His fight for justice also extended to inter-
national issues, as well. Mr. Conyers was an
early leader in the anti-Vietnam War move-
ment, in addition to the anti-Iraq War move-
ment. He was also a vocal opponent of South
Africa’s apartheid policies. Congressman Con-
yers joined Congressman Ron Dellums and
other CBC Members in confronting President
Nixon about imposing sanctions against South
Africa. When it became clear he would not
act, Congressman Conyers joined Congress-
man Dellums in introducing legislation to that
end and was even arrested at a protest in
front of the South African embassy.
He impacted so many people in his district
and throughout the country. America is a bet-
ter country today because of the legislative
and advocacy work of Representative John
Conyers, Jr.
f
CONGRATULATING THE BREESE
MATER DEI HIGH SCHOOL BOYS’
GOLF TEAM
HON. JOHN SHIMKUS
OF ILLINOIS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, October 29, 2019
Mr. SHIMKUS. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to recognize the achievements ofthe Breese
Mater Dei High School boys’ golf team, which
recently brought home the Illinois Class 1A
state championship.
It was a very closely contested tournament
October 19 to 20 at Prairie Vista Golf Course
in Bloomington. At the end of the first round,
the Mater Dei Knights found themselves trail-
ing Carmi-White County’s 320 score at the top
ofthe leaderboard by a single stroke, with
Belleville Althoff Catholic one shot behind
them in third place.
In the second—and final—round, Mater Dei
and Althoff both shot 322, while Carmi-White
County carded a 347 total to fall out of conten-
tion. The Knights’ 643 gave them a one-stroke
victory over their rivals from Althoff and the
school’s second state golf title. Long-time
Coach Dennis Trame also led Mater Dei to the
Class A championship in 1993.
My hearty congratulations go to Coach
Trame and team members Carter Goebel,
Grant Goebel, Nathan Rivera, Ian Berndsen,
Blake Kloeckner, and Tanner Gerdes, as well
as to Athletic Director Ron Schadegg and
Principal Dennis Litteken.
Madam Speaker, these student-athletes
have represented themselves, their school,
and their community in the best tradition of
high school athletics. I wish them all continued
success.
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. A. DONALD McEACHIN
OF VIRGINIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, October 29, 2019
Mr. MCEACHIN. Madam Speaker, I was un-
avoidably detained on October 23, 2019 dur-
ing roll call no. 579, On Ordering the Previous
Question, H. Res. 650, Providing for consider-
ation of H.R. 4617, the Stopping Harmful Inter-
ference in Elections for a Lasting Democracy
Act. Had I been present, I would have voted
‘‘yea.’’ I was also unavoidably detained during
roll call no. 580, On Agreeing to the Resolu-
tion, H. Res. 650, Providing for consideration
of H.R. 4617, the Stopping Harmful Inter-
ference in Elections for a Lasting Democracy
Act. Had I been present, I would have voted
‘‘yea.’’ I was also unavoidably detained during
roll call no. 581 , On Agreeing to the Amend-
ment, H.R. 4617, Lesko of Arizona Part B
Amendment No. 2. Had I been present, I
would have voted ‘‘no.’’ I was also unavoid-
ably detained during roll call no. 582, On Mo-
tion to Recommit with Instructions, H.R. 4617,
SHIELD Act. Had I been present, I would have
voted ‘‘no.’’ I was also unavoidably detained
during roll call no. 583, On Passage, H.R.
4617, SHIELD Act. Had I been present, I
would have voted ‘‘aye.’’ I was also unavoid-
ably detained during roll call no. 584, On Mo-
tion to Suspend the Rules and Pass, as
Amended, H.R. 777, Debbie Smith Reauthor-
ization Act of 2019. Had I been present, I
would have voted ‘‘yea.’’
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. WILLIAM R. TIMMONS, IV
OF SOUTH CAROLINA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, October 29, 2019
Mr. TIMMONS. Madam Speaker, I missed
votes last week (10/21 to 10/23) due to full-
time military duties with the South Carolina Air
National Guard. Had I been present, I would
have voted: NAY on Roll Call No. 568; YEA
on Roll Call No. 569; YEA on Roll Call No.
570; NAY on Roll Call No. 571; NAY on Roll
Call No. 572; YEA on Roll Call No. 573; NAY
on Roll Call No. 574; YEA on Roll Call No.
575; YEA on Roll Call No. 576; NAY on Roll
Call No. 577; YEA on Roll Call No. 578; NAY
on Roll Call No. 579; NAY on Roll Call No.
580; YEA on Roll Call No. 581; YEA on Roll
Call No. 582; NAY on Roll Call No. 583; and
YEA on Roll Call No. 584.
f
CELEBRATING THE OPENING OF
MINOCK-WHITLOCK PARK
HON. RASHIDA TLAIB
OF MICHIGAN
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, October 29, 2019
Ms. TLAIB. Madam Speaker, I rise today to
recognize the Minock-Whitlock Park as the
residents of Detroit celebrate its opening.
The residents of Detroit’s Warrendale neigh-
borhood have worked tirelessly to open a
community park. We owe special thanks to the
Matney family for their leadership in this
project. The goal of creating a community
gathering space that can be enjoyed by all
community members has been realized.
Minock-Whitlock Park will be an asset to the
neighborhood and the community at-large,
emphasizing the importance of coming to-
gether as a community.
Please join me in tribute to the Detroit resi-
dents who made this park possible in honor of
the grand opening of Minock-Whitlock Park.
FEDERAL DISASTER ASSISTANCE
COORDINATION ACT
SPEECH OF
HON. SHEILA JACKSON LEE
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, October 28, 2019
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker, I rise in
strong support of H.R. 1306, the ‘‘Federal Dis-
aster Assistance Coordination Act.’’
H.R. 1306 amends the Disaster Recovery
Reform Act to help federal agencies stream-
line and consolidate information collection and
Preliminary Damage Assessments following
disasters.
H.R. 1306 also establishes a federal work-
ing group to identify areas of overlap in per-
forming the assessments used to administer
disaster assistance for individuals, house-
holds, states, tribes, and territories.
It is critical for the United States Congress
to stand with the women and men who have
been affected by disasters across the United
States.
In 2017, Hurricane Harvey dumped a record
275 trillion pounds of rain on the Houston
area.
An estimated 13 million people were af-
fected, nearly 135,000 homes damaged or de-
stroyed in the historic flooding, and up to a
million cars were wrecked.
This year, Tropical Storm Imelda has
dumped 10 inches of rain in Houston, and at
least 40 inches of rain in other parts of south-
east Texas, making it one of the wettest
storms in history.
These natural disasters represent the impor-
tance of H.R. 1306 to properly mitigate dis-
aster relief services and provide appropriate
assistance to impacted communities.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to join
me in supporting H.R. 1306 to help federal
agencies streamline information collection and
damage assessments following disasters.
f
HUNTERDON HELPLINE’S 50TH
ANNIVERSARY
HON. TOM MALINOWSKI
OF NEW JERSEY
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, October 29, 2019
Mr. MALINOWSKI. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to recognize Hunterdon Helpline’s 50th
Anniversary, a valuable and important organi-
zation serving Hunterdon County, Somerset
County and beyond.
Hunterdon Helpline offers a wide array of
services, including Literacy Services for adult
learners, Workconnectivity to connect employ-
ees to employers, senior and disability pro-
grams for socialization and well-being, the
Community Translation Center to assist those
whose first language is other than English, 24-
Hour Homeless Response in Hunterdon and
Somerset Counties; compassionate listening;
suicide prevention; and First Assist, a com-
prehensive information and referral service of-
fered 24–7, 365 days of the year.
Special commendations are extended to a
host of volunteers who continue to give gener-
ously of their time, energy and resources to
Hunterdon Helpline through their invaluable ef-
forts as members of the Board of Trustees,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:59 Oct 30, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A29OC8.015 E29OCPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E1363
October 29, 2019
fundraisers, senior callers and visitors, literacy
instructors, office assistance, and as outreach
speakers and presenters.
I am proud of the tireless work Hunterdon
Helpline does for the people of New Jersey’s
7th Congressional District.
f
CELEBRATING THE 50TH ANNIVER-
SARY OF THE FIRST INTERNET
MESSAGE
HON. TED LIEU
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, October 29, 2019
Mr. TED LIEU of California. Madam Speak-
er, today I rise to mark the 50th anniversary
of the first message sent over the early inter-
net and the important role played by the Uni-
versity of California, Los Angeles.
On this day in 1969, the team working on
the Advanced Research Projects Agency Net-
work, or ARPANET, led by Professor Leonard
Kleinrock, attempted to send a login command
to the Stanford Research Institute in Menlo
Park, California. After sending and confirming
receipt of the first two letters, ‘‘l’’ and ‘‘o’’, the
attempt to send a ‘‘g’’ crashed Stanford’s com-
puter.
And so, the first message sent over a com-
puter network turned out to be unintentionally
meaningful: ‘‘LO’’ as in ‘‘Lo and behold.’’ As
Kleinrock said, ‘‘We didn’t plan it, but we
couldn’t have come up with a better message:
short and prophetic.’’
Kleinrock developed the mathematical the-
ory that would facilitate packet switching as a
graduate student at the Massachusetts Insti-
tute of Technology. The ability of a network to
transmit signals in discrete bundles of informa-
tion instead of through a single burst under-
pinned much of the way the world commu-
nicates today. One erratic connection from
one end of California to the other gave way to
trillions of bytes of data flowing around the
world every second.
As one of four Members of Congress who
majored in computer science, I would like to
recognize the contributions of Dr. Kleinrock
and the UCLA Samueli School of Engineering
for laying the foundations for information shar-
ing and communication in the 21st century
and the years to come.
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. JIM COSTA
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, October 29, 2019
Mr. COSTA. Madam Speaker, regrettably, I
was unable to attend the vote series for Octo-
ber 28, 2019. Had I been present, I would
have voted YEA on Roll Call No. 585, H.R.
2440 Full Utilization of the Harbor Mainte-
nance Trust Fund Act, and YEA on Roll Call
No. 586, H.R. 2115 Public Disclosure of Drug
Discounts Act.
HONORING THE 140TH ANNIVER-
SARY OF SAINT JOHN EVAN-
GELICAL LUTHERAN CHURCH
HON. RASHIDA TLAIB
OF MICHIGAN
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, October 29, 2019
Ms. TLAIB. Madam Speaker, I rise today in
tribute to Saint John Evangelical Lutheran
Church, a house of worship in Detroit, Michi-
gan, as its members celebrate the church’s
one hundred fortieth anniversary, as well as
Pastor Reverend Richard E. Robinson’s twen-
ty-five years in ministry.
Saint John Evangelical Lutheran Church
was founded in 1879 under the leadership of
Dr. Theol Emil Hardrat. The church and con-
gregation quickly turned their focus to pro-
viding schooling for children. Throughout
changes in leadership and building changes,
the church and its school have persevered.
Saint John Evangelical Lutheran Church has
created a lasting legacy of prayer, praise, fel-
lowship, and mutual aid that continues today
under the leadership of pastor Reverend Rich-
ard E. Robinson. His twenty-five year career in
ministry brought him to serve the Saint John
congregation, where he has touched the lives
of many. Whether praying for a good harvest,
celebrating love in marriage, or marking the
passing of a dear friend and loved one from
this world, the members of Saint John Evan-
gelical Lutheran Church have drawn strength
from each other.
Please join me in tribute to Reverend Rich-
ard E. Robinson and the members of Saint
John Evangelical Lutheran Church on this im-
portant milestone.
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. RON KIND
OF WISCONSIN
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, October 29, 2019
Mr. KIND. Madam Speaker, I was unable to
have my votes recorded on the House floor on
Wednesday, October 23, 2019 due to a family
matter. Had I been present, I would have
voted in favor of H.R. 4617. As a cosponsor
of this legislation, I believe it would create crit-
ical safeguards to protect our elections. I
would also have voted in favor of H.R. 777,
which would reauthorize a key DNA backlog
grant program.
f
RECOGNIZING COLONEL DANE W.
POWELL
HON. TRENT KELLY
OF MISSISSIPPI
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, October 29, 2019
Mr. KELLY of Mississippi. Madam Speaker,
today I recognize Colonel Dane W. Powell of
the Mississippi Army National Guard for his
extraordinary dedication and service to our
Nation. Colonel Powell will soon retire from an
impressive 33-year career.
Colonel Powell, a lifelong Mississippian,
joined the Mississippi Army National Guard in
1986 after his graduation from the University
of Southern Mississippi in Hattiesburg, Mis-
sissippi. He is currently serving as the State
Army Aviation Officer at Joint Force Head-
quarters for the Mississippi Army National
Guard. His military service took him all around
the world to areas including South Korea,
Japan, St. Croix, Columbia, Barbados, and
Uzbekistan. He was deployed to Iraq in 2004
to serve in Operation Iraqi Freedom II. During
his career, Colonel Powell received many ac-
colades for his outstanding service, including
the Bronze Star Medal and the Meritorious
Service Medal.
After retirement, Colonel Powell will con-
tinue his passion for flying as a pilot for PHI
Air Medical and will fly for AirCare through the
University of Mississippi Medical Center in
Jackson. He will wed his fiancée Lea Pente-
cost and looks forward to spending time with
his children, London Addison Powell, Dane
Whitney Powell II, Douglas Alexander Pente-
cost, and Carson Reese Pentecost.
On behalf of a grateful Nation, it is my
honor to recognize the selfless service and
sacrifice of a fellow Mississippian, Colonel
Dane W. Powell. I wish him the best in his
well-deserved retirement.
f
HONORING MR. EGON J. SALMON
HON. MAX ROSE
OF NEW YORK
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, October 29, 2019
Mr. ROSE of New York. Madam Speaker, I
rise today to ask all of my colleagues to join
me in honoring the extraordinary courage and
sacrifice of Egon J. Salmon, a veteran of
World War II, on the 80th anniversary of his
first attempt to flee Nazi Germany to the
United States.
Egon J. Salmon was born on June 4, 1924,
in Rheydt, Germany, near the borders of Hol-
land and Belgium. When Egon was nine years
old, Adolf Hitler became Chancellor of Ger-
many, leading Egon to face mounting anti-
Semitism throughout his schooling, particularly
with the passage of the 1935 Nuremberg
Laws. On Nov. 9, 1938, Egon was an eye-
witness to Kristallnacht, the night of broken
glass, when more than 250 synagogues in
Germany were destroyed.
Egon’s father Paul, who fought in the cav-
alry for the Kaiser in World War I and owned
a major textile firm, was rounded up and ar-
rested along with 30,000 Jewish men. He was
taken by the Nazi SS to Dachau, the first Nazi
concentration camp, and was released four
weeks later on the condition that he imme-
diately leave Germany. Paul entered the
United States on a visitor’s visa but was
placed on a waiting list for a permanent visa.
He then left for Cuba to await the arrival of his
wife and two children in hopes of returning to
the United States.
While Paul waited in Cuba for the family’s
U.S. quota number to be called, Egon, his
mother Erna and 9-year-old sister, Edith,
booked passage on the SS St. Louis to Ha-
vana on May 13, 1939. They were not per-
mitted to disembark and on June 4th, Egon
spent his 15th birthday watching the lights of
Miami while the ship was sent back to Nazi
Germany. No country, including the United
States, would accept the Jewish refugees.
They were finally given haven in Brussels,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 20:34 Jan 09, 2020 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 U:\E29OC9.REC E29OC9
sradovich
on
DSKJLST7X2PROD
with
CONG-REC-ONLINE
CORRECTION
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E1364 October 29, 2019
Belgium, until a U.S. visa arrived in March of
1940. The family left for the United States just
before the Nazis invaded Belgium. With much
persistence and against all odds, the Salmon
family joined a small group of German Jewish
refugees on Staten Island. To support his fam-
ily Paul became a door-to-door salesman and
went into the import-export business.
Egon attended New Dorp High School on
Staten Island and was drafted into the U.S.
Army upon graduating. He trained for combat
duty in South Carolina and was granted U.S.
citizenship before being sent overseas to
North Africa and then to Naples, Italy, in 1943.
Egon served in the U.S. Army in the Italian
Campaign until 1945, overcoming great preju-
dices against Germans and Jews in his unit.
He was placed in a unit that occupied Austria
for nine months, using his ability to speak Ger-
man to benefit his new country. He was
awarded the combat infantry badge and three
battle stars for his service.
After he returned to Staten Island, Egon
joined his father’s business and then estab-
lished Salmon Real Estate in 1956, which con-
tinues to operate to this day. Egon served as
president of the Staten Island Board of Real-
tors and was a New York City Tax Commis-
sioner. With his wife Marie, a native Staten Is-
lander, Egon took an active role in the Jewish
Community Center of Staten Island. In 2016,
Egon and Marie established the Egon J. Salm-
on and Family Commemoration of
Kristallnacht and the St. Louis at Wagner Col-
lege in New York to strengthen Staten Island’s
first Holocaust Center and to remind those of
all faiths in his beloved borough to ‘‘Never
Forget.’’
The story of Egon Salmon and his family is
the epitome of the American dream. He fled
persecution in search of a better life and sac-
rificed for his new home in the United States
Army. He gave back to his community by
starting a business and creating jobs, and his
family continues to serve our community to
this day. So Madam Speaker, today I ask my
colleagues in the House to join me in com-
mending Egon Salmon and his family and
thank them for their heroism and service to
the United States.
f
CONGRATULATING INDIANA’S
FIRST CONGRESSIONAL DIS-
TRICT’S NEWEST CITIZENS
HON. PETER J. VISCLOSKY
OF INDIANA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, October 29, 2019
Mr. VISCLOSKY. Madam Speaker, it is with
great pleasure and sincerity that I take this
time to congratulate twenty-five individuals
who will take their oaths of citizenship on No-
vember 1, 2019. This memorable occasion will
be held at the United States Courthouse and
Federal Building in Hammond, Indiana.
America is a country founded by immi-
grants. From its beginning, settlers have come
from countries around the world to the United
States in search of better lives for their fami-
lies. Oath ceremonies are a shining example
of what is so great about the United States of
America—that people from all over the world
can come together and unite as members of
a free, democratic nation. These individuals
realize that nowhere else in the world offers a
better opportunity for success than here in
America.
On November 1, 2019, the following people,
representing many nations throughout the
world, will take their oaths of citizenship in
Hammond, Indiana: Vilma Aguilar, Ekaterina
Shouldice, Ana Maria Bowie, Rosa Martha
Perez Elizalde, Meguila Sesante Alvarez,
Damilare Mustapha Jimoh, Felipe Briseno,
Ivonett Alejandra Suarez, Alfredo H. Luna,
Zarish Raza, Elena Alexandrovna Burtseva,
Ivonne Cecilia Rocha, Connor MacDonald
McCoy, Elena Ancevski, Francine Ingabire,
Ahmad Haisam Zarzour, Alexander Donghui
Lee, Maria Asuncion Mansilla, Nyamar Chan
Nhial, Arnulfo Loera, Vincent Balinda, Zulema
Lissette Lee, Paul Edward Nyongani,
Robenson Petit Bien, and Payal Dilipbhai
Patel.
Although each individual has sought to be-
come a citizen of the United States for his or
her own reasons, be it for education, occupa-
tion, or to offer their loved ones better lives,
each is inspired by the fact that the United
States of America is, as Abraham Lincoln de-
scribed it, a country ‘‘. . . of the people, by
the people, and for the people.’’ They realize
that the United States is truly a free nation. By
seeking American citizenship, they have made
the decision that they want to live in a place
where, as guaranteed by the First Amendment
of the Constitution, they can practice religion
as they choose, speak their minds without fear
of punishment, and assemble in peaceful pro-
test should they choose to do so.
Madam Speaker, I respectfully ask you and
my other distinguished colleagues to join me
in congratulating these individuals who will be-
come citizens of the United States of America
on November 1, 2019. They, too, will be
American citizens, guaranteed the inalienable
rights to life, liberty, and the pursuit of happi-
ness. We, as a free and democratic nation,
congratulate them and welcome them.
f
CONGRATULATING THE CHAMBER
HON. JOHN JOYCE
OF PENNSYLVANIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, October 29, 2019
Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania. Madam Speak-
er, it is with great pride that I congratulate the
Gettysburg Chamber of Commerce of Gettys-
burg, Pennsylvania on the occasion of its
100th annual meeting.
In September of 1918, Gettysburg business-
man Roy Funkhouser organized a group of
local businessmen to support economic devel-
opment in Gettysburg, commencing the serv-
ice of the Chamber of Commerce. In the past
century, the chamber has expanded its reach
to serve the entirety of Adams County.
Throughout its history, the Gettysburg
Chamber of Commerce has led and supported
important projects. From helping to establish a
county library in 1931 to supporting the victims
of Hurricane Andrew and commencing Adams
County’s Small Business Appreciation week
tradition, the membership of the chamber has
made a lasting legacy in our region.
With more than 600 members, the Gettys-
burg Chamber of Commerce is a strong advo-
cate for entrepreneurs and the workforce of
Adams County. It is my privilege to represent
the chamber in the U.S. House of Representa-
tives, and I congratulate the leaders and mem-
bers of the chamber upon this outstanding
achievement.
f
EDUCATING MEDICAL PROFES-
SIONALS AND OPTIMIZING
WORKFORCE EFFICIENCY AND
READINESS FOR HEALTH ACT OF
2019
SPEECH OF
HON. SHEILA JACKSON LEE
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, October 28, 2019
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Madam Speaker, I rise
in strong support of H.R. 2781, the ‘‘EM-
POWER for Health Act of 2019.’’
H.R. 2781 reauthorizes funding at the
Health Resources and Services Administration
(HRSA) for health professions workforce, edu-
cation, and training programs.
This legislation expands efforts to increase
diversity, improve geriatrics education and
training, and grow the pediatric health care
workforce.
The legislation also creates a new author-
ization of $5 million to increase workforce di-
versity in the professions of physical therapy,
occupational therapy, audiology, and speech-
language pathology.
By 2032, the United States may face a
shortage of over 100,000 physicians; If health
care access were equitable across race,
health insurance coverage, and geographic lo-
cation, we would require almost 100,000 more
physicians today.
Groups such as the National Black Nurses
Association have been advocating for a more
diverse workforce to ensure access to the
highest quality of healthcare for persons of
color.
The Kinder Institute at Rice University in
Houston has determined that the greater
Houston area is becoming increasingly di-
verse.
The Kinder Institute noted that in 2010, the
Houston metropolitan area became the na-
tion’s most racially/ethnically diverse large
metropolitan area in the nation.
While the largest growth has been among
Latinos, other racial/ethnic groups in the met-
ropolitan region have also either increased or
remained the same.
This growth and expanding racial/ethnic di-
versity can bring social, economic and health
system challenges that exacerbate disparities.
Efforts to increase diversity in the work force
will lead to more respect and understanding,
more creativity and innovation, less of a lan-
guage barrier and social challenges, and an
overall better patient outcome and satisfaction.
This act will ensure that patients in Harris
County and around the country have access
to skilled physicians and medical profes-
sionals—regardless of where they live.
By reauthorizing key Title VII funding, it will
increase access to physicians and other pro-
viders in underserved areas, and promote
training opportunities for physicians to main-
tain and improve their skills.
I applaud Rep. SCHAKOWSKY for introducing
this legislation to help to better support the
health of the citizens of the United States.
Madam Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
join me in supporting H.R. 2781 to amend title
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:59 Oct 30, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\K29OC8.010 E29OCPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E1365
October 29, 2019
VII of the Public Health Service Act to reau-
thorize certain programs relating to the health
professions workforce, and for other purposes.
f
RECOGNIZING DR. MATTHEW C.
WINKLEMAN OF HARRISBURG, IL
HON. JOHN SHIMKUS
OF ILLINOIS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, October 29, 2019
Mr. SHIMKUS. Madam Speaker, I rise to
recognize Dr. Matthew C. Winkleman of Har-
risburg, Illinois for having been honored with
the Distinguished Service Award by the Illinois
Academy of Family Physicians.
Dr. Winkelman received this prestigious
award because of his long-standing dedication
to providing outstanding primary care. Dr.
Winkleman’s focus on expanding access to
health care to Southern Illinois over the past
decades has ensured that quality care has al-
ways been available to those in need. Estab-
lished by Dr. Winkleman, the Primary Care
Group of Harrisburg, which has since evolved
to become SIH Medical Primary Care Group
Harrisburg, is among his many initiatives de-
signed to ensure high-quality primary care. Es-
pecially important to this goal has been the
successful recruitment of other dedicated phy-
sicians to the clinic.
Dr. Winkleman’s focus on primary care has
led him to host medical students from South-
ern Illinois University School of Medicine to
expose them to the need and opportunity
which family medicine offers. Several students
have followed Dr. Winkleman’s example and
themselves gone into rural family medicine.
Madam Speaker, it is with great pleasure I
stand to recognize Dr. Winkleman for his lead-
ership in health care in Southern Illinois. His
dedication to this cause has benefited thou-
sands, and I am pleased that he has been se-
lected by the Illinois Academy of Family Physi-
cians to receive their 2019 Distinguished Serv-
ice Award.
f
IN HONOR OF ARMY SPECIALIST
JOHN W. ODIERNO OF FARMING-
DALE
HON. LEE M. ZELDIN
OF NEW YORK
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, October 29, 2019
Mr. ZELDIN. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to honor Army Specialist 4th Class John W.
Odierno of Farmingdale, New York. Even at a
young age, Specialist Odierno was compelled
to defend others, protecting his family, friends
and even his little brother in the school yard.
However, when Specialist Odierno was drafted
during the Vietnam War, his call to defend oth-
ers transitioned from the schoolyard to the
battlefield.
On March 21 , 1967, while serving as squad
leader during a search and destroy mission in
the central highlands of Kon Tum Province,
Specialist Odierno and his company were met
with intense machine gun and rifle fire from an
entrenched North Vietnamese battalion. Spe-
cialist Odierno and his company found them-
selves trapped and outnumbered.
Despite being wounded, Specialist Odierno
defended his position for twenty minutes, al-
lowing his fellow soldiers to reload their weap-
ons. While this action saved the lives of many
soldiers, it cost Specialist Odierno his own.
At only twenty years old; Specialist Odierno
made the ultimate sacrifice in defense of his
fellow soldiers and our great nation, but his
spirit and grit did not fall on the battlefield that
day. The men who witnessed his heroic ac-
tions continue to tell the story of selflessness
and bravery, including Lieutenant Toby Alvaro,
who believes Specialist Odierno should not
only have received the Silver Star, but the
Medal of Honor for his actions.
Today, I ask my colleagues to join me in
honoring Specialist Odierno’s service and sac-
rifice, ensuring that when a servicemember
falls in defense of our great country, our entire
nation stands in honor.
f
HONORING GARY BATTON, CHIEF
OF THE CHOCTAW NATION OF
OKLAHOMA, FOR RECEIVING THE
GLOBAL CITIZEN AWARD FROM
HAPPY WORLD FOUNDATION
HON. TOM COLE
OF OKLAHOMA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, October 29, 2019
Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, I rise today to
honor a fellow Oklahoman and Native Amer-
ican, Gary Batton, for receiving the Global Cit-
izen Award from the Happy World Foundation.
After receiving a bachelor’s degree from
Southeastern Oklahoma State University in
1989, he accepted the position of Deputy Di-
rector of the Choctaw Nation Housing Author-
ity. He then went on to serve his tribe as Ex-
ecutive Director of health and later appointed
Assistant Chief in 2007. On April 28, 2014,
Gary Batton became the 47th Chief of the
Choctaw Nation of Oklahoma. Through his ca-
reer, Chief Batton has represented the Choc-
taw Nation and the State of Oklahoma through
numerous national boards and committees.
Currently, he serves on the Oklahoma Hall of
Fame Board, the State Chamber of Oklahoma
Board, the Texoma Medical Center Board of
Directors, among other roles.
As a proud Oklahoman and member of the
Chickasaw Nation, I have always been pas-
sionate about advocating on behalf of Native
Americans here in Washington, D.C. There-
fore, I am very grateful that there are Oklaho-
mans like Gary Batton who have committed
themselves to promoting Native American her-
itage. He has rightfully earned recognition for
his role as an ambassador for Native Ameri-
cans, and I hope that he continues his great
work in the years to come.
I urge my colleagues to join me in honoring
Dennis Gary Batton and his lifelong work to
promote and preserve Native American cul-
ture.
f
IN HONOR OF KAYLA MUELLER
HON. PAUL A. GOSAR
OF ARIZONA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, October 29, 2019
Mr. GOSAR. Madam Speaker, today I would
like to recognize Kayla Mueller, a courageous,
selfless individual who died at the hands of
the ISIS leader Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi. Just re-
cently, the United States government con-
ducted a secret mission that led to the ISIS
leader’s demise. Fittingly, the mission was
named after Kayla to let the world know, she
did not die in vain.
Kayla was a brave missionary and activist
hailing from my district, specifically Prescott,
Arizona. She was dedicated to serving others
through her humanitarian work, regardless of
the danger. Her humanitarian work allowed
her to provide medical assistance to individ-
uals in Turkey which then led her to Aleppo,
Syria. This is a region where most humani-
tarian workers would not go but Kayla was not
like most people. En route to Aleppo, she was
abducted, held captive, tortured, and eventu-
ally perished at the hands of al-Baghdadi. The
mission that killed the ISIS leader was a his-
torically destabilizing moment for ISIS. Abu
Bakr al-Baghdadi died a coward while Kayla
Mueller died because of her courage and
dedication to others. No one will forget her
selflessness and her desire to positively im-
pact the lives of many.
I congratulate the special forces unit that
took down the depraved Abu Bakr al-
Baghdadi. It is my hope that Kayla’s family
finds comfort and peace knowing that justice
has been served and that Kayla’s memory will
live in the hearts of Americans for years to
come. We cannot take back what happened to
Kayla. We can only hope that this mission and
its righteous results honor her life and mem-
ory.
f
RECOGNIZING WINTERSET MIDDLE
SCHOOL FOR 2019 NATIONAL
BLUE RIBBON SCHOOL AWARD
HON. CYNTHIA AXNE
OF IOWA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, October 29, 2019
Mrs. AXNE. Madam Speaker, I rise today to
ask the House of Representatives to join me
in recognizing Winterset Middle School in
Winterset, Iowa for receiving a 2019 National
Blue Ribbon School Award.
The National Blue Ribbon School Award
recognizes outstanding schools based on their
educational environment, academic success,
and closure of achievement gaps between stu-
dent populations. Only four Iowa schools were
chosen this year. Winterset Middle School
serves just over 400 students in 4th through
6th grades. Under Principle Wendy Sawyer,
the school was nominated for and won the
National Blue Ribbon Schools Program as an
Exemplary High Performing School.
Winterset Middle School prides themselves
on their caring and supportive culture focused
on student growth and development. Nine
years ago when they first opened, Winterset
Middle School was a ‘‘School in Need of As-
sistance’’. Just shy of a decade later, they’ve
shown what hard work and dedication can do
by winning this award and making us proud.
The faculty ’s dedication to their profession
and students has made them the exemplary
school they are today. I am proud to be able
to represent these teachers, educators, admin-
istrators, parents, and students in Iowa’s 3rd
District. The school attributes this hard-won
victory to their close-knit community, research-
based teaching strategies, and treating every
child as their own—and I couldn’t agree more.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:59 Oct 30, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A29OC8.024 E29OCPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E1366 October 29, 2019
It is an honor to commemorate the out-
standing achievement of Winterset Middle
School. I have great respect and admiration
for our educators and am particularly thankful
for the strong foundation they are giving our
kids. As the mother of two boys, I know that
a quality education is crucial to success. I
hope the well-rounded training and techniques
they found successful in the classroom be-
come a model for the district and the country.
I applaud Winterset Middle School for their
hard work and dedication, and I congratulate
them on their success.
f
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE OF DRUG
DISCOUNTS AND REAL-TIME
BENEFICIARY DRUG COST ACT
SPEECH OF
HON. SHEILA JACKSON LEE
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, October 28, 2019
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Madam Speaker, I rise
today in strong support of H.R. 2115, the
‘‘Public Disclosure of Drug Discounts Act.’’
H.R. 2115 will require the Centers for Medi-
care & Medicaid Services (CMS) to publish
certain payment information regarding phar-
macy benefit managers (PBMs) and prescrip-
tion drugs.
H.R. 2115 also requires the CMS to publish
certain information, as reported by PBMs, re-
lating to generic dispensing rates, drug dis-
counts and rebates, and payments between
PBMs, health plans, and pharmacies, in ac-
cordance with specified confidentiality require-
ments.
In Harris County, 17.7 percent of the popu-
lation is on Medicaid and 7.5 percent of the
population is on Medicare.
H.R. 2115 will increase transparency within
the aggregate rebates, discounts, and price
concessions that pharmacy benefit managers
(PBMs) negotiate with drug manufacturers.
This bill will also implement an electronic,
real-time benefit tool that can integrate with at
least one prescriber’s electronic prescribing
system or electronic record so beneficiaries
can have better information about their drug
plan at the point of prescribing.
Madam Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
join me in support of H.R. 2115 to help federal
agencies streamline information collection to
beneficiaries of Medicare and Medicaid.
f
HONORING INDIANA FARM BU-
REAU DISTRICT 4 DIRECTOR
STEVE MAPLE
HON. JACKIE WALORSKI
OF INDIANA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, October 29, 2019
Mrs. WALORSKI. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to congratulate Steve Maple on his 12-
year career as Indiana Farm Bureau District 4
Director.
For many years, Steve has been dedicated
to serving Hoosier family farmers, but his pas-
sion for agriculture began long before his time
at the Farm Bureau. He has contributed a
great deal to the strength of the Hoosier farm-
ing community, and his invaluable perspective
and leadership skills have helped farmers in
north central Indiana build an incredible foun-
dation for growth and innovation. His spirit,
commitment, and expertise will be greatly
missed, but his legacy will surely be carried
on.
Steve has been an excellent educator, ad-
vocate, mentor, and leader. With his term as
District 4 Director coming to an end, I want to
thank him for all he has done to make sure
our farmers have what they need to thrive. He
is an inspiration to us all and an outstanding
role model to future generations.
Farmers are the backbone of our economy,
and having people like Steve in these leader-
ship roles truly puts Indiana in a strong posi-
tion to continue leading the nation in agricul-
tural innovation and production and feeding
the world.
Madam Speaker, I ask my colleagues to join
me in wishing Steve the best as he embarks
on this next chapter in life.
f
RECOGNIZING THE 150TH ANNIVER-
SARY OF COLLEGE FOOTBALL
HON. JOHN SHIMKUS
OF ILLINOIS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, October 29, 2019
Mr. SHIMKUS. Madam Speaker, I rise to
commemorate and recognize the 150th Anni-
versary of the first college football game and
the importance of college football to our coun-
try.
That first game, played on November 6,
1869, featured Rutgers College (now Rutgers
University) defeating the College of New Jer-
sey (now Princeton University) by a score of
6–4. Since then, more than five million Ameri-
cans have participated in college football, a
game that is now woven into the very fabric of
our country. American Football has become
the most popular sport in our great nation, and
without the developmental landscape provided
by the college competitive format, that would
never have been possible.
Thanks to the influence of U.S. President
Theodore Roosevelt, the college game insti-
tuted the single most influential rule change in
the history of American Football: the introduc-
tion of the forward pass. Notre Dame players
Gus Dorais and Knute Rockne perfected the
forward pass from a gimmick into a unique
and defining feature of the game. On Novem-
ber 1, 1913, in a game against Army, the
Notre Dame Fighting Irish unleashed one of
the first sophisticated passing attacks to win in
an upset by a score of 35–13. Later, in 1914,
legendary University of Illinois Head Coach
Robert Zuppke used an early version of the ‘‘T
formation’’, which became the blueprint for
modem college and professional football of-
fenses.
Since then, college football has grown in
scope and spectacle over the years. It has
served as a proving ground for innovation in
the game and on the field, and has produced
U.S. Presidents, Rhodes Scholars, actors,
chief executives of businesses, entrepreneurs,
academics, and elected officials off the field.
Watching or playing college football allows
us—even if just for the span of a few short
hours—to put our differences aside and cele-
brate a game that in many ways embodies the
spirit of what makes us great as a country. As
Americans we believe in having the will to
succeed; we believe in teamwork; we value
grit and determination; we embrace our indi-
vidual roles as we work to advance an idea,
concept, or organization bigger than our-
selves. College football has drawn participants
from every corner of America, and we see the
diversity of our nation in the faces of the play-
ers and coaches on the field every Saturday.
Madam Speaker, I would like to congratu-
late the schools, teams, coaches, players, and
fans who participate in college football on the
celebration of this incredible milestone. I hope
that the next 150 years of college football
bring all of us just as much passion, joy, and
fulfillment as the last 150 years have.
f
CONGRATULATING THE
WAYNESBORO LIONS CLUB
HON. JOHN JOYCE
OF PENNSYLVANIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, October 29, 2019
Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania. Madam Speak-
er, it is with great pride that I congratulate the
Waynesboro Lions Club of Waynesboro,
Pennsylvania on its 90th anniversary.
Chartered on November 6, 1929, the
Waynesboro Lions Club has faithfully exe-
cuted its mission to serve the residents of the
Waynesboro community by providing support
to charitable organizations such as the
Waynesboro Fire Department, the Alexander
Hamilton Free Library, Boy Scouts of America,
Girl Scouts of America, and the YMCA.
In addition to serving its local community,
Waynesboro Lions Club has supported the
Lion Club network in neighboring communities
by sponsoring the Chambersburg Evening
Lions Club, Penn National Lions Club,
Waynesboro Area Lioness Lions Club, and
Waynesboro Area Middle School LEO Club.
Please join me in congratulating the
Waynesboro Lions Club as it celebrates nine
decades of dedication to our region.
f
RECOGNIZING THE INVESTITURE
OF GEORGIA SOUTHERN UNIVER-
SITY PRESIDENT, DR. KYLE
MARRERO
HON. RICK W. ALLEN
OF GEORGIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, October 29, 2019
Mr. ALLEN. Madam Speaker, I rise today to
acknowledge the investiture of Georgia South-
ern University’s 14th President, Dr. Kyle
Marrero.
I am grateful for Dr. Marrero’s commitment
to higher education, and specifically to Geor-
gia’s students. With Georgia Southern offering
141 degree programs to 26,400 students
across three campuses, serving at the helm is
no easy task—but Dr. Marrero is certainly up
to the challenge.
Prior to serving Georgia Southern, Dr.
Marrero served other academic institutions in-
cluding the University of West Georgia and the
University of West Florida. His track record for
innovation and building data-informed strategic
plans will benefit our community for years to
come.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:59 Oct 30, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00010 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A29OC8.029 E29OCPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E1367
October 29, 2019
As a member of the House Education and
Labor Committee, I am particularly excited
about Dr. Marrero’s previous partnerships be-
tween local educators and community leaders
to establish a common vision for PreK–16 stu-
dent success.
Dr. Marrero’s past successes building uni-
versity-wide efforts to create a collaborative
culture of high performance, evidence-based
leadership, and employee engagement will
keep Georgia Southern at the forefront of
higher education.
On behalf of Georgia’s 12th Congressional
District, I want to thank Dr. Marrero for his
leadership and congratulate him on his inves-
titure.
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. STEVE SCALISE
OF LOUISIANA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, October 29, 2019
Mr. SCALISE. Madam Speaker, I rise today
regarding my absence from the House on
Monday, October 21, 2019. Had I been
present for Roll Call No. 568, I would have
voted ‘‘nay’’ on the motion to table consider-
ation of H. Res. 647, a resolution to condemn
and censure Congressman ADAM SCHIFF for
making false statements at the House Intel-
ligence Committee hearing on September 26,
2019.
As a co-sponsor of the censuring resolution,
I strongly support efforts to bring it to a vote
on the House floor. Unfortunately, as my col-
leagues across the aisle continue to conduct
an impeachment inquiry in secret, this is yet
another example of their refusal to be trans-
parent with the American people. Just as they
have refused to go on record and vote on im-
peachment, my colleagues across the aisle
are refusing to hold one of our colleagues ac-
countable for making false and disparaging
representations of the President of the United
States. Congress has a Constitutional respon-
sibility to be fair and transparent, and refusing
to do so has very grave consequences for the
future of our country.
We were all elected to the people’s house
to work on behalf of the American people. Re-
fusing to have a fair and open debate, as well
as a recorded vote on H. Res. 647, is a se-
vere disservice to the American people, and
an affront to the democracy upon which our
country was founded.
f
FULL UTILIZATION OF THE HAR-
BOR MAINTENANCE TRUST FUND
ACT
SPEECH OF
HON. SHEILA JACKSON LEE
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, October 28, 2019
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Madam Speaker, I rise
in strong support of H.R. 2440, the ‘‘Full Utili-
zation of the Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund
Act.’’
H.R. 2440 creates a discretionary spending
limit adjustment for full utilization of the Harbor
Maintenance Trust Fund to ensure that funds
are used to support navigation and maintain
federally authorized harbors.
This bill makes certain amounts in the trust
fund available, without appropriation, to pay
100 percent of the eligible operations and
maintenance costs of specified portions of the
Saint Lawrence Seaway and up to 100% of
the eligible operations and maintenance costs
assigned to commercial navigation of all U.S.
harbors and inland harbors.
The Harbor Maintenance Tax and the Har-
bor Maintenance Trust Fund were established
in 1986 to fund the operation and mainte-
nance of Federal ports and harbors.
The Harbor Maintenance Tax is charged
against the value of imports and domestic
cargo arriving at U.S. ports that have feder-
ally-maintained harbors and channels and de-
posited into the Harbor Maintenance Trust
Fund.
Appropriations from the Harbor Maintenance
Trust Fund are primarily used for maintenance
dredging, dredged material disposal areas, jet-
ties, and breakwaters.
Since 2002, there has been a growing gap
between the annual amount of Harbor Mainte-
nance Tax collected and the annual amount of
appropriations from the Harbor Maintenance
Trust Fund.
According to the Department of Commerce
in 2012, Texas exports totaled $265 billion.
In Houston, one of the greatest engines the
local and national economy is the port.
The Port of Houston is a 25-mile-long com-
plex of diversified public and private facilities
located just a few hours’ sailing time from the
Gulf of Mexico.
As a senior member of the Homeland Secu-
rity Committee, and the former chair of the
Transportation Security Subcommittee, I un-
derstand that the challenge of protecting our
nation’s vital assets such as transportation in-
frastructure requires the finest technology and
the highest levels of intelligence.
With the nation’s largest petrochemical com-
plex supplying over 40 percent of the nation’s
base petrochemical manufacturing capacity,
what happens at the Port of Houston affects
the entire nation.
The Port Commissioners and the Port Au-
thority staff are keenly aware of their role in
ensuring that this investment in human inge-
nuity and economic power receives the protec-
tion it needs.
We have the best emergency response ves-
sel available to Houston to protect this na-
tional asset and treasure.
While the Port of Houston generates be-
tween $70–$100 million per year in HMT reve-
nues and needs $50–$60 million for mainte-
nance dredging per year, the Army Corps of
Engineers (ACOE) is typically allocated only
$30 million for dredging in the Houston Ship
Channel, causing severe draft restrictions
which greatly effects ship traffic negatively in
the Ship Channel.
It is critical for the United States Congress
to address this issue and ensure that funds
are spent to support navigation and maintain
federally authorized harbors.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to join
me in supporting H.R. 2440 to ensure that
monies collected into the Harbor Maintenance
Trust Fund are able to be spent for our critical
port and harbor needs.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:59 Oct 30, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00011 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A29OC8.034 E29OCPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
REMARKS
D1174
Tuesday, October 29, 2019
Daily Digest
Senate
Chamber Action
Routine Proceedings, pages S6205–S6259
Measures Introduced: Thirteen bills were intro-
duced, as follows: S. 2722–2734. Pages S6242–43
Measures Reported:
S. 1570, to provide flexibility to allow greater aq-
uifer recharge, with an amendment in the nature of
a substitute. (S. Rept. No. 116–155)
S. 2044, to amend the Omnibus Public Land
Management Act of 2009 to establish an Aging In-
frastructure Account, to amend the Reclamation
Safety of Dams Act of 1978 to provide additional
funds under that Act, to establish a review of flood
control rule curves pilot project within the Bureau
of Reclamation, with an amendment in the nature of
a substitute. (S. Rept. No. 116–156)
S. 2731, to authorize appropriations for fiscal year
2020 for military activities of the Department of
Defense, for military construction, and for defense
activities of the Department of Energy. Page S6241
Measures Passed:
Condemning the Horrific Attack in Dayton,
Ohio: Committee on the Judiciary was discharged
from further consideration of S. Res. 367, con-
demning the horrific attack in Dayton, Ohio, and
expressing support and prayers for all those impacted
by that tragedy, and the resolution was then agreed
to. Page S6254
Taiwan Allies International Protection and En-
hancement Initiative (TAIPEI) Act: Senate passed
S. 1678, to express United States support for Tai-
wan’s diplomatic alliances around the world, after
agreeing to the committee amendment in the nature
of a substitute. Pages S6254–55
United States-Japan Alliance: Senate agreed to
S. Res. 183, reaffirming the vital role of the United
States-Japan alliance in promoting peace, stability,
and prosperity in the Indo-Pacific region and be-
yond. Pages S6255–56
United States-Tunisia Partnership: Senate
agreed to S. Res. 236, reaffirming the strong part-
nership between Tunisia and the United States and
supporting the people of Tunisia in their continued
pursuit of democratic reforms. Page S6256
Argentine Israelite Mutual Association Jewish
Community Center Attack: Senate agreed to S. Res.
277, remembering the 25th Anniversary of the
bombing of the Argentine Israelite Mutual Associa-
tion (AMIA) Jewish Community Center in Buenos
Aires, Argentina, and recommitting to efforts to up-
hold justice for the 85 victims of the attack.
Page S6256
Measures Considered:
Commerce, Justice, Science, and Related Agen-
cies Appropriations Act: Senate continued consid-
eration of H.R. 3055, making appropriations for the
Departments of Commerce and Justice, Science, and
Related Agencies for the fiscal year ending Sep-
tember 30, 2020, taking action on the following
amendments proposed thereto: Pages S6206–20
Pending:
Shelby Amendment No. 948, in the nature of a
substitute. Page S6206
McConnell (for Shelby) Amendment No. 950, to
make a technical correction. Page S6206
State Relief and Empowerment Waivers—Agree-
ment: Senate began consideration of S.J. Res. 52,
providing for congressional disapproval under chap-
ter 8 of title 5, United States Code, of the rule sub-
mitted by the Secretary of the Treasury and the Sec-
retary of Health and Human Services relating to
‘‘State Relief and Empowerment Waivers’’, after
agreeing to the motion to proceed. Pages S6220–35
A unanimous-consent agreement was reached pro-
viding that debate time for the joint resolution ex-
pire at 12:15 p.m., on Wednesday, October 30,
2019, and that notwithstanding Rule XXII, the mo-
tions to invoke cloture filed during the session of
Monday, October 28, 2019, ripen following disposi-
tion of the joint resolution. Page S6235
A unanimous-consent agreement was reached pro-
viding for further consideration of the joint resolu-
tion at approximately 10 a.m., on Wednesday, Octo-
ber 30, 2019. Page S6235
Messages from the House: Page S6240
Measures Referred: Page S6240
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:24 Oct 30, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D29OC9.REC D29OCPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D1175
October 29, 2019
Measures Read the First Time: Page S6240
Enrolled Bills Presented: Pages S6240–41
Executive Communications: Page S6241
Executive Reports of Committees: Pages S6241–42
Additional Cosponsors: Pages S6243–45
Statements on Introduced Bills/Resolutions:
Pages S6245–47
Additional Statements: Pages S6239–40
Amendments Submitted: Pages S6247–54
Authorities for Committees to Meet: Page S6254
Privileges of the Floor: Page S6254
Adjournment: Senate convened at 10 a.m. and ad-
journed at 6:41 p.m., until 10 a.m. on Wednesday,
October 30, 2019. (For Senate’s program, see the re-
marks of the Majority Leader in today’s Record on
page S6235.)
Committee Meetings
(Committees not listed did not meet)
NOMINATIONS
Committee on Armed Services: Committee concluded a
hearing to examine the nominations of Lisa W.
Hershman, of Indiana, to be Chief Management Of-
ficer, who was introduced by Senator Young, Dana
S. Deasy, of Virginia, to be Chief Information Offi-
cer, and Robert John Sander, of Virginia, to be Gen-
eral Counsel of the Department of the Navy, all of
the Department of Defense, after the nominees testi-
fied and answered questions in their own behalf.
BUSINESS MEETING
Committee on Armed Services: Committee ordered favor-
ably reported 1,780 nominations in the Army, Air
Force, Navy, and Marine Corps.
BOEING 737 MAX
Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation:
Committee concluded a hearing to examine aviation
safety and the future of Boeing’s 737 MAX, after re-
ceiving testimony from Robert L. Sumwalt, III,
Chairman, National Transportation Safety Board;
Christopher A. Hart, Chairman, Joint Authorities
Technical Review; and Dennis Muilenburg, The
Boeing Company, Chicago, Illinois.
NOMINATIONS
Committee on Foreign Relations: Committee concluded
a hearing to examine the nominations of Roxanne
Cabral, of Virginia, to be Ambassador to the Repub-
lic of the Marshall Islands, Kelly C. Degnan, of Cali-
fornia, to be Ambassador to Georgia, Robert S. Gil-
christ, of Florida, to be Ambassador to the Republic
of Lithuania, and Yuri Kim, of Guam, to be Ambas-
sador to the Republic of Albania, all of the Depart-
ment of State, after the nominees testified and an-
swered questions in their own behalf.
INTELLIGENCE
Select Committee on Intelligence: Committee held closed
hearings on intelligence matters, receiving testimony
from officials of the intelligence community.
Committee recessed subject to the call.
h
House of Representatives
Chamber Action
Public Bills and Resolutions Introduced: 19 pub-
lic bills, H.R. 4894–4912; and 4 resolutions, H.
Res. 659–662, were introduced. Pages H8594–95
Additional Cosponsors: Pages H8595–97
Report Filed: A report was filed today as follows:
H.R. 3398, to provide low-income individuals
with opportunities to enter and follow a career path-
way in the health professions, to extend and expand
demonstration projects, and for other purposes, with
an amendment (H. Rept. 116–265). Page H8594
Speaker: Read a letter from the Speaker wherein she
appointed Representative Pocan to act as Speaker pro
tempore for today. Page H8543
Recess: The House recessed at 10:47 a.m. and re-
convened at 12 noon. Page H8548
Guest Chaplain: The prayer was offered by the
Guest Chaplain, Rabbi Evan Hoffman, Congregation
Anshe Sholom, New Rochelle, New York.
Page H8548
Colorado Outdoor Recreation and Economy Act,
Grand Canyon Centennial Protection Act, and
Chaco Cultural Heritage Area Protection Act of
2019—Rule for Consideration: The House agreed
to H. Res. 656, providing for consideration of the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:24 Oct 30, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D29OC9.REC D29OCPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D1176 October 29, 2019
bill (H.R. 823) to provide for the designation of cer-
tain wilderness areas, recreation management areas,
and conservation areas in the State of Colorado; pro-
viding for consideration of the bill (H.R. 1373) to
protect, for current and future generations, the wa-
tershed, ecosystem, and cultural heritage of the
Grand Canyon region in the State of Arizona; and
providing for consideration of the bill (H.R. 2181)
to provide for the withdrawal and protection of cer-
tain Federal land in the State of New Mexico, by a
yea-and-nay vote of 221 yeas to 187 nays, Roll No.
590, after the previous question was ordered by a
yea-and-nay vote of 222 yeas to 191 nays, Roll No.
589. Pages H8550–52, H8558–59
Affirming the United States record on the Ar-
menian Genocide: The House agreed to H. Res.
296, affirming the United States record on the Ar-
menian Genocide, by a yea-and-nay vote of 405 yeas
to 11 nays with 3 answering ‘‘present’’, Roll No.
591. Pages H8559–68, H8583–84
H. Res. 655, the rule providing for consideration
of the resolution (H. Res. 296) was agreed to by a
yea-and-nay vote of 223 yeas to 191 nays, Roll No.
588, after the previous question was ordered by a
yea-and-nay vote of 224 yeas to 189 nays, Roll No.
587. Pages H8552–58
Suspensions: The House agreed to suspend the
rules and pass the following measures:
Protect Against Conflict by Turkey Act: H.R.
4695, amended, to impose sanctions with respect to
Turkey, by a 2/3 yea-and-nay vote of 403 yeas to 16
nays, Roll No. 592; Pages H8568–76, H8584–85
Help America Run Act: H.R. 1623, amended, to
amend the Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971
to provide for the treatment of payments for child
care and other personal use services as an authorized
campaign expenditure; Pages H8576–79
SFC Sean Cooley and SPC Christopher Horton
Congressional Gold Star Family Fellowship Pro-
gram Act: H. Res. 107, amended, establishing the
Congressional Gold Star Family Fellowship Program
for the placement in offices of Members of the
House of Representatives of children, spouses, and
siblings of members of the Armed Forces who are
hostile casualties or who have died from a training-
related injury; Pages H8580–83, H8585
Agreed to amend the title so as to read: ‘‘Estab-
lishing the Congressional Gold Star Family Fellow-
ship Program for the placement in offices of Mem-
bers of the House of Representatives of children,
spouses, and siblings of members of the Armed
Forces who die in the line of duty or certain veterans
who die from service-connected disabilities.’’; and
Page H8585
Expositions Provide Opportunities Act of 2019:
H.R. 4842, amended, to authorize the Secretary of
State to provide funds for a United States pavilion
at Expo 2020 Dubai. Pages H8585–87
Senate Referral: S. 134 was referred to the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary. Page H8593
Senate Message: Message received from the Senate
by the Clerk and subsequently presented to the
House today appears on page H8559.
Quorum Calls—Votes: Six yea-and-nay votes devel-
oped during the proceedings of today and appear on
pages H8557, H8557–58, H8558–59, H8559,
H8583–84, and H8584–85. There were no quorum
calls.
Adjournment: The House met at 10 a.m. and ad-
journed at 7:04 p.m.
Committee Meetings
FUTURE OF DEFENSE TASK FORCE
HEARING: THEORIES OF VICTORY
Committee on Armed Services: Full Committee held a
hearing entitled ‘‘Future of Defense Task Force
Hearing: Theories of Victory’’. Testimony was heard
from public witnesses.
MISCELLANEOUS MEASURE
Committee on Education and Labor: Full Committee
began a markup on H.R. 4674, the ‘‘College Afford-
ability Act’’.
REPURPOSING THE C-BAND TO BENEFIT
ALL AMERICANS
Committee on Energy and Commerce: Subcommittee on
Communications and Technology held a hearing en-
titled ‘‘Repurposing the C-Band to Benefit all Amer-
icans’’. Testimony was heard from public witnesses.
PROTECTING THE RFS: THE TRUMP
ADMINISTRATION’S ABUSE OF SECRET
WAIVERS
Committee on Energy and Commerce: Subcommittee on
Environment and Climate Change held a hearing en-
titled ‘‘Protecting the RFS: The Trump Administra-
tion’s Abuse of Secret Waivers’’. Testimony was
heard from public witnesses.
REAUTHORIZATION BRAND USA AND
THE U.S. SAFE WEB ACT
Committee on Energy and Commerce: Subcommittee on
Consumer Protection and Commerce held a hearing
entitled ‘‘Reauthorization Brand USA and the U.S.
SAFE WEB Act’’. Testimony was heard from public
witnesses.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:24 Oct 30, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D29OC9.REC D29OCPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D1177
October 29, 2019
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND THE LGBTQ+
COMMUNITY: A REVIEW OF
DISCRIMINATION IN LENDING AND
HOUSING
Committee on Financial Services: Subcommittee on
Oversight and Investigations held a hearing entitled
‘‘Financial Services and the LGBTQ+ Community: A
Review of Discrimination in Lending and Housing’’.
Testimony was heard from public witnesses.
MISCELLANEOUS MEASURES
Committee on Financial Services: Full Committee began
a markup on H.R. 4458, the ‘‘Cybersecurity and Fi-
nancial System Resilience Act’’; H.R. 4634, the
‘‘Terrorism Risk Insurance Program Reauthorization
Act of 2019’’; H.R. 4841, the ‘‘Prudential Regulator
Oversight Act’’; and H.R. 4863, the ‘‘United States
Export Finance Agency Act of 2019’’.
THE FY20 BUDGET: EXAMINING THE
ADMINISTRATION’S POLICY OBJECTIVES
FOR A TURBULENT MIDDLE EAST
Committee on Foreign Affairs: Subcommittee on the
Middle East, North Africa, and International Ter-
rorism held a hearing entitled ‘‘The FY20 Budget:
Examining the Administration’s Policy Objectives
for a Turbulent Middle East’’. Testimony was heard
from David Schenker, Assistant Secretary, Bureau of
Near Eastern Affairs, Department of State; and Mi-
chael T. Harvey, Assistant Administrator, Bureau for
the Middle East, U.S. Agency for International De-
velopment.
ONE YEAR LATER: IMPLEMENTATION OF
THE TSA MODERNIZATION ACT
Committee on Homeland Security: Subcommittee on
Transportation and Maritime Security held a hearing
entitled ‘‘One Year Later: Implementation of the
TSA Modernization Act’’. Testimony was heard from
Patricia F.S. Cogswell, Acting Deputy Adminis-
trator, Transportation Security Administration, De-
partment of Homeland Security; and William Rus-
sell, Director, Homeland Security and Justice, Gov-
ernment Accountability Office.
ANTITRUST AND ECONOMIC
OPPORTUNITY: COMPETITION IN LABOR
MARKETS
Committee on the Judiciary: Subcommittee on Anti-
trust, Commercial, and Administrative Law held a
hearing entitled ‘‘Antitrust and Economic Oppor-
tunity: Competition in Labor Markets’’. Testimony
was heard from Noah Phillips, Commissioner, Fed-
eral Trade Commission; Doha Mekki, Counsel to the
Assistant Attorney General, Department of Justice;
Rahul Rao, Assistant Attorney General, Washington
State Office of the Attorney General; and public wit-
nesses.
BUSINESS MEETING
Committee on the Judiciary: Subcommittee on Immi-
gration and Citizenship held a business meeting on
the Request for a Department of Homeland Security
Departmental Report on the Beneficiaries of H.R.
631. The Request for a Department of Homeland
Security Departmental Report on the Beneficiaries of
H.R. 631 was agreed to.
THE IMPACT OF CURRENT IMMIGRATION
POLICIES ON SERVICE MEMBERS AND
VETERANS, AND THEIR FAMILIES
Committee on the Judiciary: Subcommittee on Immi-
gration and Citizenship held a hearing entitled ‘‘The
Impact of Current Immigration Policies on Service
Members and Veterans, and their Families’’. Testi-
mony was heard from public witnesses.
LEGISLATIVE MEASURES
Committee on Natural Resources: Subcommittee on Na-
tional Parks, Forests, and Public Lands held a hear-
ing on H.R. 139, the ‘‘Springfield Race Riot Na-
tional Historic Monument Act’’; H.R. 486, the
‘‘Chicano Park Preservation Act’’; H.R. 3250, the
‘‘Julius Rosenwald and the Rosenwald Schools Act of
2019’’; H.R. 3824, the ‘‘Cahokia Mounds Mississip-
pian Culture National Historical Park Act’’; and
H.R. 4139, to provide for the boundary of the Palo
Alto Battlefield National Historic Park to be ad-
justed, to authorize the donation of land to the
United States for addition to that historic park, and
for other purposes. Testimony was heard from Rep-
resentatives Rodney Davis of Illinois, Vargas, Danny
K. Davis of Illinois, Vela, and Bost; R. David Vela,
Deputy Director, National Park Service, Department
of the Interior; Juan Mendez III, Mayor, Brownsville,
Texas; and public witnesses.
A SEA OF PROBLEMS: IMPACTS OF PLASTIC
POLLUTION ON OCEANS AND WILDLIFE
Committee on Natural Resources: Subcommittee on
Water, Oceans, and Wildlife held a hearing entitled
‘‘A Sea of Problems: Impacts of Plastic Pollution on
Oceans and Wildlife’’. Testimony was heard from
public witnesses.
TRUMP’S WRONG TURN ON CLEAN CARS:
THE EFFECTS OF FUEL EFFICIENCY
ROLLBACKS ON THE CLIMATE, CAR
COMPANIES AND CALIFORNIA
Committee on Oversight and Reform: Subcommittee on
Environment held a hearing entitled ‘‘Trump’s
Wrong Turn on Clean Cars: The Effects of Fuel Effi-
ciency Rollbacks on the Climate, Car Companies and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 16:42 Jan 08, 2020 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\RECORD19\OCTOBER\D29OC9.REC D29OC9
sradovich
on
DSKJLST7X2PROD
with
CONG-REC-ONLINE
CORRECTION
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D1178 October 29, 2019
California’’. Testimony was heard from Senator
Whitehouse; Samuel Liccardo, Mayor, San José, Cali-
fornia; and public witnesses.
CREATING THE CLEAN ENERGY
WORKFORCE
Committee on Small Business: Subcommittee on Innova-
tion and Workforce Development held a hearing en-
titled ‘‘Creating the Clean Energy Workforce’’. Tes-
timony was heard from public witnesses.
MISCELLANEOUS MEASURES
Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure: Full
Committee held a markup on H.R. 1497, the
‘‘Water Quality Protection and Job Creation Act of
2019’’; H.R. 4719, the ‘‘FISH SAFE Act’’; and H.
Con. Res. 37, expressing support for designation of
October 28 as ‘‘Honoring the Nation’s First Re-
sponders Day’’. H.R. 1497 and H.R. 4719 were or-
dered reported, as amended. H. Con. Res. 37 was or-
dered reported, without amendment.
MISCELLANEOUS MEASURES
Committee on Veterans’ Affairs: Full Committee held a
markup on H.R. 4852, the ‘‘GIVE Act’’; H.R. 4356,
the ‘‘Protecting Families of Fallen Servicemembers
Act’’; H.R. 4183, the ‘‘Identifying Barriers and Best
Practices Study Act’’; H.R. 4360, the ‘‘VA Overpay-
ment Accountability Act’’; H.R. 3996, the ‘‘VA De-
sign-Build Construction Enhancement Act of 2019’’;
H.R. 1424, the ‘‘Fallen Warrior Battlefield Cross
Memorial Act’’; H.R. 3224, the ‘‘Deborah Sampson
Act’’; H.R. 4771, to permit appellants to appear in
disability compensation cases before the Board of
Veterans Appeals by picture and voice transmission
from locations other than VA facilities; H.R. 2227,
the ‘‘Gold Star Spouses and Spouses of Injured
Servicemembers Leasing Relief Expansion Act of
2019’’; and H.R. 3530, the ‘‘Improving Confidence
in Veterans Care Act’’. H.R. 4771, H.R. 2227, H.R.
4183, H.R. 3530, and H.R. 3224 were ordered re-
ported, as amended. H.R. 4852, H.R. 4356, H.R.
4360, H.R. 3996, H.R. 1424, were ordered re-
ported, without amendment.
PROTECTING WHISTLEBLOWERS AND
PROMOTING ACCOUNTABILITY: IS VA
DOING ITS JOB?
Committee on Veterans’ Affairs: Subcommittee on Over-
sight and Investigations held a hearing entitled
‘‘Protecting Whistleblowers and Promoting Account-
ability: Is VA Doing Its Job?’’. Testimony was heard
from Tamara Bonzanto, Assistant Secretary for Ac-
countability and Whistleblower Protection, Depart-
ment of Veterans Affairs; and Michael Missal, In-
spector General, Department of Veterans Affairs.
Joint Meetings
No joint committee meetings were held.
f
COMMITTEE MEETINGS FOR WEDNESDAY,
OCTOBER 30, 2019
(Committee meetings are open unless otherwise indicated)
Senate
Committee on the Budget: to hold hearings to examine the
Chief Financial Officers Act of 1990, 2 p.m., SD–608.
Committee on Energy and Natural Resources: Subcommittee
on Water and Power, to hold hearings to examine the use
of technology and innovation to increase water security
and enable economic development in the West, 10 a.m.,
SD–366.
Committee on Environment and Public Works: to hold hear-
ings to examine the nomination of Sean O’Donnell, of
Maryland, to be Inspector General, Environmental Protec-
tion Agency, 10 a.m., SD–406.
Committee on Finance: Subcommittee on Health Care, to
hold hearings to examine Medicaid, focusing on compli-
ance with eligibility requirements, 2 p.m., SD–215.
Committee on Foreign Relations: to hold hearings to exam-
ine the nomination of John Joseph Sullivan, of Maryland,
to be Ambassador to the Russian Federation, Department
of State, 10 a.m., SD–419.
Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs:
Subcommittee on Federal Spending Oversight and Emer-
gency Management, to hold hearings to examine the un-
authorized and unaccountable government, 1:45 p.m.,
SD–342.
Committee on the Judiciary: to hold hearings to examine
the nominations of Patrick J. Bumatay, of California, and
Lawrence VanDyke, of Nevada, both to be a United
States Circuit Judge for the Ninth Circuit, Philip M.
Halpern, to be United States District Judge for the
Southern District of New York, and Barbara Bailey
Jongbloed, to be United States District Judge for the
District of Connecticut, 10 a.m., SD–226.
Subcommittee on Intellectual Property, to hold hear-
ings to examine promoting the useful arts, focusing on
how Congress can prevent the issuance of poor quality
patents, 2 p.m., SD–226.
House
Committee on Agriculture, Full Committee, markup on
H.R. 4895, to reauthorize the Commodity Futures Trad-
ing Commission, 9:30 a.m., 1300 Longworth.
Subcommittee on Biotechnology, Horticulture, and Re-
search, hearing entitled ‘‘Reviewing the State of Organic
Agriculture—Producer Perspectives’’, 10 a.m., 1300
Longworth.
Committee on Education and Labor, Full Committee, con-
tinue markup on H.R. 4674, the ‘‘College Affordability
Act’’, 10:15 a.m., 2175 Rayburn.
Committee on Energy and Commerce, Subcommittee on
Health, hearing entitled ‘‘Safeguarding Pharmaceutical
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:24 Oct 30, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D29OC9.REC D29OCPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D1179
October 29, 2019
Supply Chains in a Global Economy’’, 10 a.m., 2123
Rayburn.
Subcommittee on Energy, hearing entitled ‘‘Building a
100 Percent Clean Economy: Solutions for the U.S. Power
Sector’’, 10:30 a.m., 2322 Rayburn.
Committee on Financial Services:, Full Committee, con-
tinue markup on H.R. 4458, the ‘‘Cybersecurity and Fi-
nancial System Resilience Act’’; H.R. 4634, the ‘‘Ter-
rorism Risk Insurance Program Reauthorization Act of
2019’’; H.R. 4841, the ‘‘Prudential Regulator Oversight
Act’’; and H.R. 4863, the ‘‘United States Export Finance
Agency Act of 2019’’, Time TBA, 2128 Rayburn.
Committee on Foreign Affairs, Full Committee, markup
on H.R. 2153, the ‘‘Keeping Girls in School Act’’; H.
Res. 189, recognizing the importance of sustained United
States leadership to accelerating global progress against
maternal and child malnutrition and supporting United
States Agency for International Development’s commit-
ment to global nutrition through its multi-sectoral nutri-
tion strategy; H. Res. 230, expressing the sense of the
House of Representatives that the United States con-
demns all forms of violence against children globally and
recognizes the harmful impacts of violence against chil-
dren; H.R. 1771, the ‘‘Divided Families Reunification
Act’’; H. Res. 410, encouraging reunions of divided Ko-
rean-American families; H. Res. 349, reaffirming the
vital role of the United States-Japan alliance in pro-
moting peace, stability, and prosperity in the Indo-Pacific
region and beyond; H.R. 4754, the ‘‘Taiwan Allies Inter-
national Protection and Enhancement Initiative (TAIPEI)
Act of 2019’’; S. 178, the ‘‘Uyghur Human Rights Policy
Act of 2019’’; H. Res. 585, reaffirming support for the
Good Friday Agreement and other agreements to ensure
a lasting peace in Northern Ireland; H.R. 554, the ‘‘Saudi
Educational Transparency and Reform Act of 2019’’;
H.R. 2881, the ‘‘Secure 5G and Beyond Act of 2019’’;
H.R. 3763, the ‘‘Promoting United States International
Leadership in 5G Act of 2019’’; H. Res. 446, reaffirming
German-American friendship and cooperation under the
Wunderbar Together-Germany and the U.S. initiative;
H.R. 1819, the ‘‘War Crimes Rewards Expansion Act’’;
H.R. 4802, to amend the State Department Basic Au-
thorities Act of 1956 to authorize rewards under the De-
partment of State’s reward program relating to informa-
tion regarding individuals or entities engaged in activities
in contravention of United States or United Nations sanc-
tions, and for other purposes; H.R. 4862, the ‘‘United
States-Jordan Defense Cooperation Extension Act’’; H.
Res. 649, expressing the support of the United States for
the grassroots development programs the Inter-American
Foundation has undertaken for the past 50 years; and H.
Res. 546, disapproving the Russian Federation’s inclusion
in future Group of Seven summits until it respects the
territorial integrity of its neighbors and adheres to the
standards of democratic societies, 10 a.m., 2172 Rayburn.
Committee on Homeland Security, Full Committee, hearing
entitled ‘‘Global Terrorism: Threats to the Homeland,
Part II’’, 10 a.m., 310 Cannon.
Committee on Natural Resources, Subcommittee on Over-
sight and Investigations, hearing entitled ‘‘Sexual Harass-
ment at the Department of the Interior’’, 10 a.m., 1324
Longworth.
Full Committee, hearing entitled ‘‘Discussion Draft
Bill, Amendments to PROMESA Act of 2019—Day
Two’’, 2 p.m., 1324 Longworth.
Committee on Oversight and Reform, Subcommittee on
Civil Rights and Civil Liberties, hearing entitled ‘‘The
Administration’s Decision to Deport Critically Ill Chil-
dren and Their Families’’, 10 a.m., 2154 Rayburn.
Committee on Rules, Full Committee, hearing on H. Res.
660, directing certain committees to continue their ongo-
ing investigations as part of the existing House of Rep-
resentatives inquiry into whether sufficient grounds exist
for the House of Representatives to exercise its Constitu-
tional power to impeach Donald John Trump, President
of the United States of America, and for other purposes
[Original Jurisdiction Markup], 3 p.m., H–313 Capitol.
Committee on Small Business, Full Committee, hearing
entitled ‘‘Force of Nature: The Power of Small Businesses
in America’s Recreational Infrastructure’’, 11:30 a.m.,
2360 Rayburn.
Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, Full Com-
mittee, hearing entitled ‘‘The Boeing 737 MAX: Exam-
ining the Design, Development, and Marketing of the
Aircraft’’, 10 a.m., 2167 Rayburn.
Committee on Veterans’ Affairs, Subcommittee on Health,
hearing entitled ‘‘Native Veterans’ Access to Healthcare’’,
10 a.m., HVC–210.
Subcommittee on Disability Assistance and Memorial
Affairs, hearing entitled ‘‘Preparing for Blue Water
Claims—VA Status Update on Implementation’’, 2 p.m.,
HVC–210.
Select Committee on the Climate Crisis, Full Committee,
hearing entitled ‘‘Solving the Climate Crisis: Opportuni-
ties in Agriculture’’, 2:30 p.m., 210 Cannon.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:24 Oct 30, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D29OC9.REC D29OCPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
Congressional Record The Congressional Record (USPS 087–390). The Periodicals postage
is paid at Washington, D.C. The public proceedings of each House
of Congress, as reported by the Official Reporters thereof, are
printed pursuant to directions of the Joint Committee on Printing as authorized by appropriate provisions of Title 44, United
States Code, and published for each day that one or both Houses are in session, excepting very infrequent instances when
two or more unusually small consecutive issues are printed one time. ¶ Public access to the Congressional Record is available online through
the U.S. Government Publishing Office, at www.govinfo.gov, free of charge to the user. The information is updated online each day the
Congressional Record is published. For more information, contact the GPO Customer Contact Center, U.S. Government Publishing Office.
Phone 202–512–1800, or 866–512–1800 (toll-free). E-Mail, contactcenter@gpo.gov. ¶ To place an order for any of these products, visit the U.S.
Government Online Bookstore at: bookstore.gpo.gov. Mail orders to: Superintendent of Documents, P.O. Box 979050, St. Louis, MO
63197–9000, or phone orders to 866–512–1800 (toll-free), 202–512–1800 (D.C. area), or fax to 202–512–2104. Remit check or money order, made
payable to the Superintendent of Documents, or use VISA, MasterCard, Discover, American Express, or GPO Deposit Account. ¶ Following
each session of Congress, the daily Congressional Record is revised, printed, permanently bound and sold by the Superintendent of Documents
in individual parts or by sets. ¶ With the exception of copyrighted articles, there are no restrictions on the republication of material from
the Congressional Record.
POSTMASTER: Send address changes to the Superintendent of Documents, Congressional Record, U.S. Government Publishing Office,
Washington, D.C. 20402, along with the entire mailing label from the last issue received.
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
D1180 October 29, 2019
Next Meeting of the SENATE
10 a.m., Wednesday, October 30
Senate Chamber
Program for Wednesday: Senate will continue consider-
ation of S.J. Res. 52, State Relief and Empowerment
Waivers, and vote on the joint resolution at 12:15 p.m.
Following disposition of S.J. Res. 52, Senate will vote
on the motion to invoke cloture on Shelby Amendment
No. 948, to H.R. 3055, Commerce, Justice, Science, and
Related Agencies Appropriations Act.
Next Meeting of the HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
10 a.m., Wednesday, October 30
House Chamber
Program for Wednesday: Consideration of H.R.
1373—Grand Canyon Centennial Protection Act. Consid-
eration of H.R. 2181—Chaco Cultural Heritage Area
Protection Act of 2019. Consideration of H.R. 823—Col-
orado Outdoor Recreation and Economy Act.
Extensions of Remarks, as inserted in this issue
HOUSE
Aderholt, Robert B., Ala., E1359
Allen, Rick W., Ga., E1366
Axne, Cynthia, Iowa, E1365
Bass, Karen, Calif., E1361
Burgess, Michael C., Tex., E1358
Cole, Tom, Okla., E1365
Costa, Jim, Calif., E1363
Crist, Charlie, Fla., E1360
Davis, Rodney, Ill., E1359
Gosar, Paul, Ariz., E1365
Graves, Sam, Mo., E1357, E1359, E1360, E1361
Jackson Lee, Sheila, Tex., E1358, E1360, E1362, E1364,
E1366, E1367
Joyce, John, Pa., E1364, E1366
Katko, John, N.Y., E1358
Kelly, Trent, Miss., E1363
Kind, Ron, Wisc., E1363
Kuster, Ann M., N.H., E1360
Lieu, Ted, Calif., E1363
Malinoowski, Tom, N.J., E1362
McEachin, A. Donald, Va., E1359, E1362
McGovern, James P., Mass., E1357
Peterson, Collin C., Minn., E1361
Posey, Bill, Fla., E1357
Rooney, Francis, Fla., E1361
Rose, Max, N.Y., E1363
Scalise, Steve, La., E1367
Shalala, Donna E., Fla., E1359
Shimkus, John, Ill., E1362, E1365, E1366
Timmons, William R., IV, S.C., E1362
Tlaib, Rashida, Mich., E1361, E1362, E1363
Visclosky, Peter J., Ind., E1364
Walorski, Jackie, Ind., E1366
Zeldin, Lee M., N.Y., E1365
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:24 Oct 30, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 0664 Sfmt 0664 E:\CR\FM\D29OC9.REC D29OCPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
DIGEST
