Congressional Record
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
United States
of America PROCEEDINGS AND DEBATES OF THE 116th
CONGRESS, FIRST SESSION
b This symbol represents the time of day during the House proceedings, e.g., b 1407 is 2:07 p.m.
Matter set in this typeface indicates words inserted or appended, rather than spoken, by a Member of the House on the floor.
.
H8263
Vol. 165 WASHINGTON, MONDAY, OCTOBER 21, 2019 No. 166
House of Representatives
The House met at noon and was
called to order by the Speaker pro tem-
pore (Mr. GOMEZ).
f
DESIGNATION OF SPEAKER PRO
TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore laid be-
fore the House the following commu-
nication from the Speaker:
WASHINGTON, DC,
October 21, 2019.
I hereby appoint the Honorable JIMMY
GOMEZ to act as Speaker pro tempore on this
day.
NANCY PELOSI,
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
f
MORNING-HOUR DEBATE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the order of the House of Janu-
ary 3, 2019, the Chair will now recog-
nize Members from lists submitted by
the majority and minority leaders for
morning-hour debate.
The Chair will alternate recognition
between the parties. All time shall be
equally allocated between the parties,
and in no event shall debate continue
beyond 1:50 p.m. Each Member, other
than the majority and minority leaders
and the minority whip, shall be limited
to 5 minutes.
f
CONSEQUENCES OF ABANDONING
OUR KURDISH ALLIES
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Illinois (Mr. SCHNEIDER) for 5 minutes.
Mr. SCHNEIDER. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today in great sadness and profound
concern over President Trump’s inex-
plicable abandonment of our Kurdish
allies in Syria who sacrificed more
than 11,000 of their sons and daughters
in our joint fight against ISIS.
The President’s impulsive and abrupt
decision not only betrays our allies,
but it betrays our values. It imme-
diately compromises our national secu-
rity, dramatically undermines Amer-
ican credibility, and will have negative
strategic implications for generations
to come.
It is not just me saying this. These
are the words of Senate Majority Lead-
er MITCH MCCONNELL: ‘‘Withdrawing
U.S. forces from Syria is a grave stra-
tegic mistake. It will leave the Amer-
ican people and homeland less safe, em-
bolden our enemies, and weaken impor-
tant alliances.’’
While we should all welcome the an-
nounced 5-day pause in the Turkish as-
sault, we should not be celebrating.
Turkey has not recognized the cease-
fire but, rather, just a pause in fight-
ing. Reports from the area indicate
that Turkish-affiliated forces are still
attacking, and the pause is scheduled
to end tomorrow. We can likely expect
the carnage to then resume with a new
ferocity.
Regarding the deal with Turkey, The
Wall Street Journal this morning
notes: ‘‘Critics have said the agreement
was a wholesale concession to Ankara,
giving it control of an area in Syria it
has coveted for years and freeing it
from U.S. sanctions in return for paus-
ing an offensive it had no international
backing for. While President Trump
hailed the pact as a diplomatic victory,
U.S.-allied Kurds have likened it to a
surrender on their part.’’
Unsurprisingly, our Kurdish allies
have now aligned their forces with
Assad’s army. Assad has, thus, in-
stantly made significant territorial
gains in just a few days, effectively
controlling lands that the U.S. and al-
lied forces have spent years seeking to
defend.
So, let’s review.
In the weeks following the Presi-
dent’s decision to walk away from our
allies, Turkish forces and allied fight-
ers, many of which are Islamic extrem-
ists, have crossed the border into
Syria.
U.S. forces have abandoned forward
operating bases and then sent U.S.
planes to destroy those bases. But be-
fore those bases could be destroyed,
celebrating Russian troops posted
selfies in some of these former Amer-
ican strongholds.
Turkey is not just targeting Kurdish
forces, they are attacking entire
towns, and civilians are literally being
murdered in the streets.
The expansion of control by Russian
and Syrian forces is not just a win for
those countries in Syria but also
threatens our allies in the region—in
particular, Israel.
Iran’s sense of emboldenment will
likely lead it to expand programs to de-
liver advanced weapons to Hezbollah,
increasing the already significant
threat to Israel—only now from Syria
as well as Lebanon.
As already noted, Assad has consoli-
dated his power over virtually all of
Syria at no political or military cost.
Finally, many ISIS prisoners have es-
caped to join the fight, and thousands
more are at risk of release, giving ISIS
a greater ability to reorganize.
One more thing: Today, there are re-
ports that President Erdogan now
wants Turkey to acquire nuclear weap-
ons. The last thing this region needs is
a nuclear arms race.
Here is the bottom line. Last Thurs-
day, the American Vice President and
Secretary of State stood at a podium
and announced the administration’s ef-
fective capitulation and surrender.
Turkey will complete its ethnic cleans-
ing, and the U.S. will lift all sanctions.
Assad has full control in Syria, under
the tutelage of his Russian and Iranian
masters.
Turkey, Syria, Russia, and Iran are
the winners. The Kurds are, once more,
on the losing end.
The United States, under President
Trump, is sadly diminished—so much
so that Syrians are throwing rotten
food at retreating U.S. troops.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:21 Oct 22, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A21OC7.000 H21OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8264 October 21, 2019
The administration’s policies are
tragic for reasons beyond the human
suffering it has unleashed. They weak-
en our national security, undermine
our fight against terrorism, and dimin-
ish American credibility.
We are so much better than this.
I call on my colleagues on both sides
of the aisle to speak out and condemn
the actions of this administration.
Congress must pass sanctions on Tur-
key and seek to compel Erdogan to
stop Turkey’s assault on the Kurds. We
must compel this administration to
live up to our Nation’s values, to stand
by our allies, and to confront our en-
emies.
f
HONORING THE LIFE OF JOHN
MCARTHUR
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
California (Mr. LAMALFA) for 5 min-
utes.
Mr. LAMALFA. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to honor the life of a great con-
stituent and also a great friend. His
name is John McArthur. He passed
away recently at the age of 96.
John was just 21 years old in 1944
when his father died, tragically, of a
heart attack, meaning John was tasked
to take over the family farming and
ranching business. In fact, if the name
‘‘McArthur’’ sounds familiar to those
of us from northern California, that is
because his family founded the town of
McArthur, California, where he lived
much of his life.
In the years since, John has helped
establish many important staples of
his community, including the
McArthur Volunteer Fire Department,
the McArthur Firemen’s Carnival, the
Fall River-Big Valley Cattlemen’s As-
sociation, and the Junior Livestock
Sale. He and Shirley were very in-
volved in the fair each year and the
events that went on there.
John actually introduced new crops
to the Fall River Valley by providing
the first 10 acres for growing straw-
berries in McArthur. Lassen Canyon
Nursery, among others, remains a
thriving business operation more than
60 years later.
John and his business partners also
tried their hand at planting and grow-
ing potatoes. I am a rice grower in real
life, so we had a little bit of a rivalry
for the starches that go on your plate
and a little fun with that.
While they were successful, they ran
into trouble when it actually came to
harvesting the crop. Through that
failed endeavor, he established that the
land was right for growing potatoes
and was soon able to lease it to suc-
cessful potato growers for many years
thereafter.
On a personal level, John and his
wife, Shirley, were known for their
welcoming nature. Their home was al-
ways open, hosting friends and neigh-
bors for cocktail hours or just hanging
out at the McArthur residence over-
looking the valley. They have an amaz-
ing view off their back deck, looking
over the valley there.
The events became so frequent that
John and Shirley thought that maybe
it would be better to cut down on the
Old Crow a little bit and slip some iced
tea in there. But John and Shirley,
they are those type of people. People
just wanted to be around them.
On my trips up to the McArthur area,
whether it was for the fair or just pass-
ing through, I frequently liked to stop
in and visit with them. John always
had a smile, a laugh, a good story, and
a very welcoming nature about him. It
is one of the fortunate parts of being
able to serve in an elected capacity
these years I have at the State level
and now here in the Congress.
His life spanned nearly a century. He
outlived most of his childhood friends,
but his personality, coupled with his
generosity, kindness, and involvement
in his community, ensured that he had
no shortage of new friends.
During his time on this Earth, he has
been a witness to a lot of change. He
watched as California’s population
grew from 4 million to over 40 million
today. He was always fighting for agri-
culture, adding to our water supply,
and sticking up for rural values.
Ask anyone in McArthur, John was
clearly a pillar of the community that
bears his last name. He helped to estab-
lish it early on and continued to help
grow it through the years until his last
days.
As a friend, I will miss him. I know
he is sorely missed up there. Blessings
to Shirley and blessings to all of the
McArthur family in that great commu-
nity, one that I am always proud to
represent and very happy when I get a
chance to visit and hang out with
folks.
Indeed, he is a pillar, and they don’t
make them like John McArthur any-
more. Let’s hope his legacy helps
spawn new generations of people with
that same attitude, that same
strength, that same can-do that has
made America strong, made his com-
munity strong, and made the fiber of
northern California the great place it
is.
f
RECESS
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 12(a) of rule I, the Chair
declares the House in recess until 2
p.m. today.
Accordingly (at 12 o’clock and 10
minutes p.m.), the House stood in re-
cess.
f
b 1400
AFTER RECESS
The recess having expired, the House
was called to order by the Speaker pro
tempore (Ms. GARCIA of Texas) at 2
p.m.
f
PRAYER
The Chaplain, the Reverend Patrick
J. Conroy, offered the following prayer:
Lord, we give You thanks for giving
us another day.
At the beginning of a new workweek,
we ask Your blessing on the Members
of this people’s House.
May they be led by Your spirit in the
discernment they undertake amid the
pressures of contentious deliberations.
All through the week, may they do
their best to find solutions to pressing
issues facing our Nation. Please hasten
the day when justice and love shall
dwell in the hearts of all peoples and
rule the affairs of the nations of Earth.
May all that is done this day be for
Your greater honor and glory.
Amen.
f
THE JOURNAL
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair has examined the Journal of the
last day’s proceedings and announces
to the House her approval thereof.
Pursuant to clause 1, rule I, the Jour-
nal stands approved.
f
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Will the
gentleman from Tennessee (Mr. COHEN)
come forward and lead the House in the
Pledge of Allegiance.
Mr. COHEN led the Pledge of Alle-
giance as follows:
I pledge allegiance to the Flag of the
United States of America, and to the Repub-
lic for which it stands, one nation under God,
indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
f
EMOLUMENTS CLAUSE IS NOT
PHONY
(Mr. COHEN asked and was given per-
mission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Mr. COHEN. Madam Speaker, today,
President Trump held a press con-
ference and referred to the Emolu-
ments Clause in the Constitution as
the ‘‘phony Emoluments Clause.’’
I take an oath to support the Con-
stitution, as does he, as do all 435 of us.
I am also the chairman of the Constitu-
tion, Civil Rights and Civil Liberties
Subcommittee of the Judiciary Com-
mittee.
I take umbrage at his remarks. The
Emoluments Clause was first put in the
Articles of Confederation, and before
that, 100 years earlier, the Dutch put it
in their documents to protect from for-
eign influence.
It was said at the Constitutional
Convention that a violation of the
Emoluments Clause could result in im-
peachment.
No wonder President Trump thinks it
is phony.
There is nothing phony about the
Emoluments Clause, the impeachment
clause, Article I, Congress’ powers, or
separation of the three branches of
government.
Madam Speaker, I respect the Con-
stitution, and I wish the President
would as well.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Mem-
bers are reminded to refrain from en-
gaging in personalities toward the
President.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:12 Oct 22, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K21OC7.002 H21OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8265
October 21, 2019
USMCA IS A WIN FOR ALL
AMERICANS
(Mrs. HARTZLER asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute.)
Mrs. HARTZLER. Madam Speaker,
this month marks 1 year since the
Trump administration negotiated the
U.S.-Mexico-Canada Agreement.
USMCA is undoubtedly a win for Mis-
sourians and for all Americans. The
agreement will bring 176,000 new jobs
and will spur $63 billion in new eco-
nomic activity.
Benefits of USMCA will be felt across
diverse industries, including many of
our manufacturing industries, agri-
culture, and small businesses, while
also supporting technology and innova-
tion.
But month after month, this Con-
gress has been subject to missed oppor-
tunities for our producers and con-
sumers as we have been refused the
chance to vote on the USMCA. This
needs to change.
Instead of House leaders squandering
precious legislative time bringing up
impeachment inquiries, they should be
bringing up USMCA for a vote.
Let us hope that we get this oppor-
tunity soon. That would be a positive
win for all Americans.
f
BRING USMCA TO A VOTE
(Mr. STEIL asked and was given per-
mission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. STEIL. Madam Speaker, I look
forward to welcoming Vice President
MIKE PENCE to Pleasant Prairie, Wis-
consin, on Wednesday.
Agriculture and manufacturing are
vital to Wisconsin and our Nation.
However, unfair trade practices are
hindering our manufacturers’ ability to
create jobs.
USMCA is an important and im-
proved trade deal between Canada,
Mexico, and the United States. That is
why passing USMCA is important.
USMCA helps small family farms.
USMCA supports American workers.
USMCA is a win for Wisconsin.
Vice President MIKE PENCE and I will
be in Pleasant Prairie to push USMCA
across the finish line. The Trump ad-
ministration has done a great job nego-
tiating this trade deal. It is now up to
Congress to pass USMCA. Let’s get this
done.
Madam Speaker, bring USMCA to a
vote. Wisconsin workers and farmers
are depending on it.
f
HONORING THE LIFE OF IAN
COCHRAN
(Mr. GUEST asked and was given per-
mission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. GUEST. Madam Speaker, on Oc-
tober 3, Ian Alan Cochran, a talented
young man from Brandon, Mississippi,
joined our Heavenly Father after a cou-
rageous fight with a rare form of brain
cancer.
Ian graduated as an A student from
Brandon High School in 2018, where he
also excelled in extracurricular activi-
ties. He was a member of the tech club,
served as president of the chess club,
and was a talented soccer player.
Ian was well liked for his humor, tal-
ent, and high-spirited attitude. Every-
one who knew Ian remembers his light-
hearted and friendly approach to life.
As members of their Brandon Baptist
Church family, my family and I joined
Ian’s parents, Joel and Kim; his sisters,
Hope and Kayla; his grandparents; and
his extended family and friends in re-
membering and celebrating his life and
the positive mark he left on all of us
who knew him.
Madam Speaker, I now ask this body
to join me in a moment of silence to
remember Ian Cochran and to thank
our Heavenly Father for the joy of
Ian’s life.
f
ALLOW ALL MEMBERS ACCESS TO
IMPEACHMENT PROCEEDINGS
(Mr. LAMALFA asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. LAMALFA. Madam Speaker, I
rise today to highlight the failure of
House Democrats to run a fair and
transparent process, ostensibly toward
an impeachment.
We have yet to hold a vote on wheth-
er or not to actually open up a true im-
peachment inquiry. Instead, Demo-
cratic leaders have simply decided it
for themselves. That goes against all
precedent established in this Chamber
and under the Constitution.
Last week, I attempted to attend one
of their closed-door impeachment hear-
ings, or to simply view testimony tran-
scripts, but was promptly asked to
leave.
This is exactly what a partisan, se-
cretive, and unfair process looks like.
Why would Members not have access to
an unclassified hearing and not be able
to view materials that should be pub-
lic, as they normally would? What is
there to hide?
Last week, the Republican whip,
STEVE SCALISE, filed a rule change to
allow all Members of Congress access
to documents related to this impeach-
ment show and the documents associ-
ated with it.
I am fully supportive of this rule
change. We will vote on this measure
soon, and now my colleagues from the
other side of the aisle must show the
American people whether or not they
support giving them the transparency
they deserve in this process.
f
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER
PRO TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 4 of rule I, the following
enrolled bill was signed by Speaker pro
tempore RASKIN on Friday, October 18,
2019:
S. 1196, to designate the facility of
the United States Postal Service lo-
cated at 1715 Linnerud Drive in Sun
Prairie, Wisconsin, as the ‘‘Fire Cap-
tain Cory Barr Post Office Building’’.
f
COMMUNICATION FROM THE
CLERK OF THE HOUSE
The SPEAKER pro tempore laid be-
fore the House the following commu-
nication from the Clerk of the House of
Representatives:
OFFICE OF THE CLERK,
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
Washington, DC, October 21, 2019.
Hon. NANCY PELOSI,
The Speaker, House of Representatives,
Washington, DC.
DEAR MADAM SPEAKER: Pursuant to the
permission granted in Clause 2(h) of Rule II
of the Rules of the U.S. House of Representa-
tives, the Clerk received the following mes-
sage from the Secretary of the Senate on Oc-
tober 21, 2019, at 10:19 a.m.:
That the Senate passed S. 2258.
That the Senate passed S. 2635.
That the Senate passed without amend-
ment H.R. 1396.
With best wishes, I am,
Sincerely,
CHERYL L. JOHNSON.
f
COMMUNICATION FROM THE
CLERK OF THE HOUSE
The SPEAKER pro tempore laid be-
fore the House the following commu-
nication from the Clerk of the House of
Representatives:
OFFICE OF THE CLERK,
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
Washington, DC, October 18, 2019.
Hon. NANCY PELOSI,
Speaker, House of Representatives,
Washington, DC.
DEAR MADAM SPEAKER: Pursuant to section
1(k) of House Resolution 895, One Hundred
Tenth Congress, and section 104(c) of House
Resolution 6, One Hundred Sixteenth Con-
gress, I transmit to you notification that the
following individuals each have signed an
agreement not to be a candidate for the of-
fice of Senator or Representative in, or Dele-
gate or Resident Commissioner to, the Con-
gress for purposes of the Federal Election
Campaign Act of 1971 until at least 3 years
after they are no longer a member of the
board or staff of the Office of Congressional
Ethics:
David Skaggs; Allison Hayward; Belinda
Pinckney; Karan English; James Eagen; Mi-
chael Barnes; Paul Vinovich; Lynn West-
moreland; Omar Ashmawy; Jeffrey Brown;
William Cable; Annie Cho; Helen Eisner;
Mary Flanagan; Samuel McHale; Gabrielle
Piper; Sean Quinn; Jeremy Ritter-Wiseman;
Paul Solis.
Copies of the signed agreements will be re-
tained by the Office of the Clerk as part of
the records of the House.
With best wishes, I am,
Sincerely,
CHERYL L. JOHNSON.
f
RECESS
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 12(a) of rule I, the Chair
declares the House in recess until ap-
proximately 3:30 p.m. today.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:21 Oct 22, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K21OC7.005 H21OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8266 October 21, 2019
Accordingly (at 2 o’clock and 11 min-
utes p.m.), the House stood in recess.
f
b 1529
AFTER RECESS
The recess having expired, the House
was called to order by the Speaker pro
tempore (Mr. CUELLAR) at 3 o’clock and
29 minutes p.m.
f
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER
PRO TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, the Chair
will postpone further proceedings
today on motions to suspend the rules
on which a recorded vote or the yeas
and nays are ordered, or votes objected
to under clause 6 of rule XX.
The House will resume proceedings
on postponed questions at a later time.
f
SMALL BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT
CENTERS IMPROVEMENT ACT OF
2019
Ms. VELÁZQUEZ. Mr. Speaker, I
move to suspend the rules and pass the
bill (H.R. 4406) to amend the Small
Business Act to improve the small
business development centers program,
and for other purposes, as amended.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 4406
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Small Busi-
ness Development Centers Improvement Act
of 2019’’.
SEC. 2. USE OF AUTHORIZED ENTREPRENEURIAL
DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS.
The Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 631 et
seq.) is amended—
(1) by redesignating section 49 as section
50; and
(2) by inserting after section 48 the fol-
lowing new section:
‘‘SEC. 49. USE OF AUTHORIZED ENTREPRE-
NEURIAL DEVELOPMENT PRO-
GRAMS.
‘‘(a) EXPANDED SUPPORT FOR ENTRE-
PRENEURS.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Notwithstanding any
other provision of law, the Administrator
shall only deliver entrepreneurial develop-
ment services, entrepreneurial education,
and support for the development and mainte-
nance of the Regional Innovation Clusters
Program (or similar business training serv-
ices) through a program authorized under—
‘‘(A) section 7(j), 7(m), 8(a), 8(b)(1), 21, 22,
29, or 32 of this Act; or
‘‘(B) sections 358 or 389 of the Small Busi-
ness Investment Act of 1958.
‘‘(2) EXCEPTION.—This section shall not
apply to services provided to assist small
business concerns owned by an Indian tribe
(as such term is defined in section 8(a)(13)).
‘‘(b) ANNUAL REPORT.—Beginning on the
first December 1 after the date of the enact-
ment of this section, the Administrator shall
annually submit to the Committee on Small
Business of the House of Representatives and
the Committee on Small Business and Entre-
preneurship of the Senate a report on the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(1) All entrepreneurial development ac-
tivities undertaken during the fiscal year
preceding the date of the report through a
program described in subsection (a), includ-
ing—
‘‘(A) a description and operating details for
each program and the activities performed
under each program;
‘‘(B) operating circulars, manuals, and
standard operating procedures for each pro-
gram;
‘‘(C) a description of the process used to
award grants under such programs;
‘‘(D) a list of all recipients of awards under
a program described in subsection (a), con-
tractors, and vendors (including organization
name and location) and the amount of
awards provided during the fiscal year pre-
ceding the date of the report for such pro-
grams and activities performed under such
programs;
‘‘(E) the total amount of funding obligated
for such programs and activities for the fis-
cal year preceding the date of the report; and
‘‘(F) the names and titles of the individuals
responsible for such programs.
‘‘(2) For entrepreneurial development ac-
tivities undertaken during the fiscal year
preceding the date of the report through the
Small Business Development Center Pro-
gram (in this section referred to as the ‘Pro-
gram’)—
‘‘(A) the number of individuals counseled
or trained through the Program;
‘‘(B) the total number of hours of coun-
seling and training services provided through
the Program;
‘‘(C) the demographics of participants in
the Program, which shall include the gender,
race, and age of each such participant;
‘‘(D) the number of participants in the Pro-
gram who are veterans;
‘‘(E) the number of new businesses started
by participants in the Program;
‘‘(F) to the extent practicable, the number
of jobs supported, created, or retained with
assistance from small business development
centers;
‘‘(G) the amount of capital secured by par-
ticipants in the Program, including through
loans and equity investment;
‘‘(H) the number of participants in the Pro-
gram receiving financial assistance, includ-
ing the type and dollar amount, under the
loan programs of the Administration;
‘‘(I) an estimate of gross receipts, includ-
ing (to the extent practicable) a description
of any change in revenue, of small business
concerns assisted through the Program;
‘‘(J) the number of referrals to other re-
sources and programs of the Administration;
‘‘(K) the results of satisfaction surveys of
participants in the Program, including a
summary of any comments received from
such participants; and
‘‘(L) any recommendations by the Admin-
istrator to improve the delivery of services
by the Program.’’.
SEC. 3. MARKETING OF SERVICES.
Section 21 of the Small Business Act (15
U.S.C. 648) is amended by adding at the end
the following:
‘‘(o) NO PROHIBITION OF MARKETING OF
SERVICES.—An applicant receiving a grant
under this section may market and advertise
the services of such applicant to individuals
and small business concerns.’’.
SEC. 4. DATA COLLECTION BY THE SMALL BUSI-
NESS DEVELOPMENT CENTER ASSO-
CIATION.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 21(a)(3)(A) of the
Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 648(a)(3)(A)) is
amended—
(1) by striking ‘‘as provided in this section
and’’ and inserting ‘‘as provided in this sec-
tion,’’; and
(2) by inserting before the period at the end
the following: ‘‘, and (iv) governing data col-
lection activities related to applicants re-
ceiving grants under this section’’.
(b) ANNUAL REPORT ON DATA COLLECTION.—
Section 21 of the Small Business Act (15
U.S.C. 648), as amended by section 3 of this
Act, is further amended by adding at the end
the following:
‘‘(p) ANNUAL REPORT ON DATA COLLEC-
TION.—The Administrator shall annually
submit to the Committee on Small Business
of the House of Representatives and the
Committee on Small Business and Entrepre-
neurship of the Senate a report on any data
collection activities related to the Small
Business Development Center Program.’’.
(c) WORKING GROUP TO IMPROVE DATA COL-
LECTION.—
(1) ESTABLISHMENT AND STUDY.—The Ad-
ministrator of the Small Business Adminis-
tration shall establish a group to be known
as the ‘‘Data Collection Working Group’’
consisting of entrepreneurial development
grant recipients, the associations and orga-
nizations representing such recipients, and
officials from the Small Business Adminis-
tration, to carry out a study to determine
the best methods for conducting data collec-
tion activities and create or revise existing
systems dedicated to data collection.
(2) REPORT.—Not later than the end of the
180-day period beginning on the date of the
enactment of this Act, the Data Collection
Working Group shall issue a report to the
Committee on Small Business of the House
of Representatives and the Committee on
Small Business and Entrepreneurship of the
Senate containing the findings and deter-
minations made in carrying out the study re-
quired under paragraph (1), including—
(A) recommendations for revising existing
data collection practices for the Small Busi-
ness Development Center Program; and
(B) a proposed plan for the Administrator
of the Small Business Administration to im-
plement such recommendations.
SEC. 5. FEES FROM PRIVATE PARTNERSHIPS AND
COSPONSORSHIPS.
Section 21(a)(3) of the Small Business Act
(15 U.S.C. 648(a)(3)) is amended by adding at
the end the following:
‘‘(D) FEES FROM PRIVATE PARTNERSHIPS
AND COSPONSORSHIPS.—A small business de-
velopment center that participates in a pri-
vate partnership or cosponsorship, in which
the Administrator or designee of the Admin-
istrator also participates, may collect fees or
other income related to the operation of
such private partnership or cosponsorship.’’.
SEC. 6. EQUITY FOR SMALL BUSINESS DEVELOP-
MENT CENTERS.
Subclause (I) of section 21(a)(4)(C)(v) of the
Small Business Act (15 U.S.C.
648(a)(4)(C)(v)(I)) is amended to read as fol-
lows:
‘‘(I) IN GENERAL.—Of the amounts made
available in any fiscal year to carry out this
section, not more than $600,000 may be used
by the Administration to pay expenses enu-
merated in subparagraphs (B) through (D) of
section 20(a)(1).’’.
SEC. 7. CONFIDENTIALITY REQUIREMENTS.
Section 21(a)(7)(A) of the Small Business
Act (15 U.S.C. 648(a)(7)(A)) is amended—
(1) by striking ‘‘or telephone number’’ and
inserting ‘‘, telephone number, or email ad-
dress’’; and
(2) by inserting ‘‘, or the nature or content
of such assistance, to any State, local, or
Federal agency, or to any third party’’ after
‘‘receiving assistance under this section’’.
SEC. 8. LIMITATION ON AWARD OF GRANTS TO
SMALL BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT
CENTERS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 21 of the Small
Business Act (15 U.S.C. 648), as amended by
section 4, is further amended—
(1) in subsection (a)(1)—
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:21 Oct 22, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K21OC7.008 H21OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8267
October 21, 2019
(A) by striking ‘‘any women’s business cen-
ter operating pursuant to section 29,’’;
(B) by striking ‘‘or a women’s business cen-
ter operating pursuant to section 29’’; and
(C) by striking ‘‘and women’s business cen-
ters operating pursuant to section 29’’; and
(2) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(q) LIMITATION ON AWARD OF GRANTS.—Ex-
cept for not-for-profit institutions of higher
education, and notwithstanding any other
provision of law, the Administrator may not
award a grant or contract to, or enter into a
cooperative agreement with, an entity under
this section unless that entity—
‘‘(1) received a grant or contract from, or
entered into a cooperative agreement with,
the Administrator under this section before
the date of the enactment of this subsection;
and
‘‘(2) seeks to renew such a grant, contract,
or cooperative agreement after such date.’’.
(b) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.—The amend-
ments made by this section may not be con-
strued as prohibiting a women’s business
center (as described under section 29 of the
Small Business Act) from receiving a
subgrant from an entity receiving a grant
under section 21 of the Small Business Act.
SEC. 9. MANAGEMENT OF PROGRAM ACTIVITIES.
Section 21(a)(3) of the Small Business Act
(15 U.S.C. 648(a)(3)), as amended by section 4,
is further amended—
(1) in the matter preceding subparagraph
(A), by striking ‘‘upon, with full participa-
tion of both parties,’’ and inserting ‘‘upon
with the full participation of all parties (in-
cluding the association authorized in sub-
paragraph (A)), and carried out’’;
(2) in subparagraph (A), by striking ‘‘and
develop’’ and inserting ‘‘and negotiate the
development of’’; and
(3) in subparagraph (C)—
(A) by striking ‘‘Whereas’’;
(B) by inserting ‘‘Program’’ after ‘‘Cen-
ter’’;
(C) by striking ‘‘National’’ and inserting
‘‘national’’; and
(D) by moving such subparagraph two ems
to the left.
SEC. 10. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
Section 21(a)(4)(C) of the Small Business
Act (15 U.S.C. 648(a)(4)(C)) is amended—
(1) in clause (vii), by striking ‘‘subpara-
graph’’ and all that follows through the pe-
riod at the end and inserting ‘‘subparagraph
$175,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2020
through 2023.’’; and
(2) in clause (viii), by striking ‘‘shall re-
serve not less than $1,000,000’’ and inserting
‘‘shall reserve not more than $2,000,000’’.
SEC. 11. DETERMINATION OF BUDGETARY EF-
FECTS.
The budgetary effects of this Act, for the
purpose of complying with the Statutory
Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010, shall be deter-
mined by reference to the latest statement
titled ‘‘Budgetary Effects of PAYGO Legisla-
tion’’ for this Act, submitted for printing in
the Congressional Record by the Chairman of
the House Budget Committee, provided that
such statement has been submitted prior to
the vote on passage.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentlewoman from
New York (Ms. VELÁZQUEZ) and the
gentleman from Ohio (Mr. CHABOT)
each will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from New York.
GENERAL LEAVE
Ms. VELÁZQUEZ. Mr. Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that all Members
may have 5 legislative days in which to
revise and extend their remarks and in-
clude extraneous material on the meas-
ure under consideration.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gentle-
woman from New York?
There was no objection.
Ms. VELÁZQUEZ. Mr. Speaker, I
yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support
of H.R. 4406, the Small Business Devel-
opment Centers Improvement Act of
2019.
Mr. Speaker, as always, before we ad-
dress the many benefits of the bill, I
just want to thank the ranking mem-
ber and his staff for all of their collabo-
ration and hard work to bring this bi-
partisan package of bills to the floor.
Our committee prides itself on our
ability to put the noise aside and get
meaningful work accomplished.
These bills are especially critical be-
cause they strengthen the entrepre-
neurial network of small businesses
contributing to our country every day.
It is once again a reminder of the im-
portance of working across the aisle
and getting things done for America’s
30 million small businesses.
H.R. 4406 bolsters the Small Business
Development Center, or SBDC, Net-
work, which is the Small Business Ad-
ministration’s largest entrepreneurial
resource partner.
The network delivers free face-to-
face counseling and at-cost training in
all aspects of business management to
new and existing small firms. The serv-
ices include, but are in no way limited
to, assisting small businesses with de-
veloping a business plan, accessing cap-
ital, marketing, regulatory compli-
ance, technology development, and
international trade.
The benefits of the program are tan-
gible to businessowners and the Fed-
eral taxpayer. For every Federal dollar
spent on SBDCs, $2 is returned to the
U.S. Treasury, nearly $3 to the States,
and approximately $48 in new capital is
generated.
Unfortunately, over the years, Con-
gress has asked them to take on addi-
tional responsibilities, ranging from
cybersecurity to export promotion. In-
creasing the authorization level to $175
million each year, just as this bill does,
will allow the program to grow and
reach more American entrepreneurs.
H.R. 4406 also requires regular report-
ing to Congress on new metrics to help
us better assess the program and how
improvements can be made in the fu-
ture.
Starting a business is not for the
faint of heart, and strengthening the
network will enable SBDCs to continue
providing the in-depth business train-
ing for aspiring entrepreneurs and
small business owners.
Mr. Speaker, I thank Mr. GOLDEN and
Vice Ranking Member RADEWAGEN for
leading this effort to improve the pro-
gram, measure its success, and increase
awareness of the SBDC program and its
many valuable services.
Mr. Speaker, I urge Members to sup-
port this bipartisan piece of legisla-
tion, and I reserve the balance of my
time.
Mr. CHABOT. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R.
4406, the Small Business Development
Centers Improvement Act of 2019.
Mr. Speaker, before I speak on the
bill, I would like to thank Chairwoman
VELÁZQUEZ for working with us in such
a bipartisan manner. It is surely re-
freshing in this age of intense partisan-
ship to work together the way that we
do, and have for many years now, to
improve the programs offered by the
SBA. So I want to thank the chair-
woman again for her leadership on the
committee.
The Small Business Development
Center program, or SBDC, is the larg-
est of the SBA’s entrepreneurial devel-
opment programs, with locations in all
50 States and also in all four terri-
tories.
In fiscal year 2019, more than 250,000
clients received low-cost training, and
nearly 200,000 clients received no-cost
business consulting.
H.R. 4406, this bill, includes several
updates based on feedback from H.R.
1702, the Small Business Development
Centers Improvement Act of last year,
2018, which passed the House in May of
2018.
Over 99 percent of all businesses in
our Nation are small, and those busi-
nesses employ nearly 60 million Ameri-
cans. The U.S. economy depends on the
success of small businesses. Providing
support to entrepreneurs and small
business owners must be a priority for
this Congress. SBDCs offer that sup-
port. They offer minimal or no-cost
business counseling and training to
would-be entrepreneurs and existing
small business owners, alike.
The support offered at these centers
ranges from creating the business plans
to commercial promotion and branding
and navigating the international trade
market. The importance of the assist-
ance offered SBDCs cannot really be
overstated.
It is not just the single entrepreneur
who benefits; our Nation benefits as
well. For every Federal dollar appro-
priated in the SBDC program, $43.50 in
new capital is generated. The legisla-
tion we are considering today will only
serve to increase the positive impact of
SBDCs to our entrepreneurs and na-
tional economy.
Mr. Speaker, I want to thank the
gentleman from Maine (Mr. GOLDEN)
and the gentlewoman from American
Samoa (Mrs. RADEWAGEN) for their
hard work on this legislation.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
support the bill, and I reserve the bal-
ance of my time.
Ms. VELÁZQUEZ. Mr. Speaker, I
yield as much time as he may consume
to the gentleman from Maine (Mr.
GOLDEN), the sponsor of the bill and
chair of the Subcommittee on Con-
tracting and Infrastructure.
Mr. GOLDEN. Mr. Speaker, I thank
Chairwoman VELÁZQUEZ for yielding
me the time.
Since coming to Congress 10 months
ago, I have been focused on protecting
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:32 Oct 22, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A21OC7.002 H21OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8268 October 21, 2019
jobs in the State of Maine, and that
means helping small businesses suc-
ceed.
Thousands of small businesses in my
State have launched or grown with
help from small business development
centers, or, as you heard them referred
to, SBDCs.
Just last year, SBDCs served over
1,500 small businesses in my State,
helped to start 136 new businesses, and
worked to protect or create more than
800 jobs. Here are just a few of the
small businesses that I have heard
from directly in my district about this
program:
SBDCs helped The Maine Meal in
Skowhegan purchase a building in
order to launch their new business;
The Milk House in Monmouth re-
ceived the accounting and tax advice
that they needed to help grow their
business from an SBDC adviser, an im-
portant farming and dairy industry
right there;
SBDCs helped Lost Valley Ski Area
in Auburn, just across the river from
my hometown, to develop a business
plan so that they could secure the fi-
nancing they needed to acquire and
continue the Lost Valley Ski Area,
which is very important to our commu-
nity, particularly during the winter
months.
I have visited each of these busi-
nesses and seen their work firsthand.
These are just a few of the thousands of
SBDC success stories in the State of
Maine.
Given that small business develop-
ment centers are the largest resource
partner to SBA, it is particularly im-
portant for Congress to keep the pro-
gram up to date and performing at a
high level for small businesses
throughout the country.
In Maine, the State’s lead SBDC runs
11 outreach locations in my congres-
sional district alone, in partnership
with regional economic development
entities, enabling small businesses in
Maine’s rural communities to access
valuable assistance.
While the centers have had many
successes, we have also learned lessons
about ways to improve the programs in
the year since it was last reauthorized.
That is why I am excited to lead this
bill, alongside Vice Ranking Member
RADEWAGEN, to reauthorize the pro-
gram. Mr. Speaker, I want to thank her
for her support of the bill. It has been
a pleasure to work with her.
The Small Business Development
Centers Improvement Act of 2019 will
make a number of positive changes to
improve oversight, better enable
SBDCs to partner with other organiza-
tions, bolster the center accreditation
process, and improve the voice of
SBDCs in setting the program’s direc-
tion.
I am particularly glad that the bill
will help broaden rural small business
access to this assistance by clarifying
that centers are allowed to market and
advertise their services. Rural access
to SBA resources is key for States like
Maine and many rural communities all
over the country.
Finally, the bill will reauthorize ap-
propriations at the level of $175 million
for fiscal years 2020 through 2023, re-
affirming Congress’ commitment to
the program.
Mr. Speaker, in closing, I would like
to thank the chairwoman and the
ranking member and, in particular,
their staffs for forging a bipartisan
path forward on the reauthorization of
this program.
I would also like to thank Vice Rank-
ing Member RADEWAGEN for coleading
this bill with me, as well as Mr.
HAGEDORN, Mr. EVANS, and Mr.
FITZPATRICK for joining me as cospon-
sors.
Mr. Speaker, I would encourage all of
my colleagues to support this bill to
keep the SBDC program up to date for
the good of America’s small businesses.
Mr. CHABOT. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself the balance of my time. We
have no further Members to speak on
the bill, and I will be very brief.
The SBDC program positively affects
hundreds of thousands of entrepreneurs
each year and offers a significant re-
turn on investment for American tax-
payers.
Mr. Speaker, this is a good, bipar-
tisan bill, and I urge my colleagues to
support it.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
Ms. VELÁZQUEZ. Mr. Speaker, I
yield myself the balance of my time.
America’s 30 million small businesses
account for more than 56 million jobs
and create two out of three private-sec-
tor jobs in the United States. The SBA
offers a wide range of free or low-cost
counseling and training services
through its entrepreneurial ecosystem
to help entrepreneurs launch and grow
their businesses.
H.R. 4406 makes a number of im-
provements to the SBDC program. It
will enable more collaboration between
the centers and SBA, improve the abil-
ity of this committee to oversee its
performance, while also clarifying
other rules, such as confidentiality re-
quirements.
Most importantly, this legislation is
a much-needed reauthorization of the
program for 4 years at greater author-
ization levels.
It is time for Congress to prove its
commitment to entrepreneurs all over
the country by strengthening one of
the greatest resources, the SBA SBDC
program. It is a commonsense move
and one supported by the Association
of Small Business Development Cen-
ters.
Mr. Speaker, again, I thank the rank-
ing member for his support, and I urge
my colleagues to support the bill.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentlewoman from New York (Ms.
VELÁZQUEZ) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, H.R. 4406, as
amended.
The question was taken.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. In the
opinion of the Chair, two-thirds being
in the affirmative, the ayes have it.
Ms. VELÁZQUEZ. Mr. Speaker, on
that I demand the yeas and nays.
The yeas and nays were ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, further pro-
ceedings on this motion will be post-
poned.
f
WOMEN’S BUSINESS CENTERS
IMPROVEMENTS ACT OF 2019
Ms. VELÁZQUEZ. Mr. Speaker, I
move to suspend the rules and pass the
bill (H.R. 4405) to amend the Small
Business Act to improve the women’s
business center program, and for other
purposes.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 4405
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Women’s
Business Centers Improvements Act of 2019’’.
SEC. 2. AMENDMENTS TO WOMEN’S BUSINESS
CENTER PROGRAM.
Section 29 of the Small Business Act (15
U.S.C. 656) is amended to read as follows:
‘‘SEC. 29. WOMEN’S BUSINESS CENTER PROGRAM.
‘‘(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
‘‘(1) ASSISTANT ADMINISTRATOR.—The term
‘Assistant Administrator’ means the Assist-
ant Administrator of the Office of Women’s
Business Ownership established under sub-
section (k).
‘‘(2) ELIGIBLE ENTITY.—The term ‘eligible
entity’ means—
‘‘(A) an organization described in section
501(c) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986
and exempt from taxation under section
501(a) of such Code;
‘‘(B) a State, regional, or local economic
development organization, so long as the or-
ganization certifies that grant funds received
under this section will not be commingled
with other funds;
‘‘(C) an institution of higher education (as
defined in section 101 of the Higher Edu-
cation Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1001)), unless
such institution is currently receiving a
grant under section 21;
‘‘(D) a development, credit, or finance cor-
poration chartered by a State, so long as the
corporation certifies that grant funds re-
ceived under this section will not be com-
mingled with other funds; or
‘‘(E) any combination of entities listed in
subparagraphs (A) through (D).
‘‘(3) SMALL BUSINESS CONCERN OWNED AND
CONTROLLED BY WOMEN.—The term ‘small
business concern owned and controlled by
women’ has the meaning given under section
3(n).
‘‘(4) WOMEN’S BUSINESS CENTER.—The term
‘women’s business center’ means the loca-
tion at which counseling and training on the
management, operations (including manu-
facturing, services, and retail), access to cap-
ital, international trade, Government pro-
curement opportunities, and any other mat-
ter that is needed to start, maintain, or ex-
pand a small business concern owned and
controlled by women.
‘‘(5) WOMEN’S BUSINESS CENTER ASSOCIA-
TION.—The term ‘Women’s Business Center
Association’ means a membership organiza-
tion formed by women’s business centers to
pursue matters of common concern.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:32 Oct 22, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K21OC7.011 H21OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8269
October 21, 2019
‘‘(b) AUTHORITY.—
‘‘(1) ESTABLISHMENT.—There is established
a Women’s Business Center Program under
which the Administrator may provide a
grant to any eligible entity to operate one or
more women’s business centers for the ben-
efit of small business concerns owned and
controlled by women.
‘‘(2) USE OF FUNDS.—The women’s business
centers shall be designed to provide coun-
seling and training that meets the needs of
the small business concerns owned and con-
trolled by women, especially socially or eco-
nomically disadvantaged women, and shall
provide—
‘‘(A) financial assistance, including train-
ing and counseling in how to apply for and
secure business credit and investment cap-
ital, preparing and presenting financial
statements, and managing cash flow and
other financial operations of a small busi-
ness concern;
‘‘(B) management assistance, including
training and counseling in how to plan, orga-
nize, staff, direct, and control each major ac-
tivity and function of a small business con-
cern; and
‘‘(C) marketing assistance, including train-
ing and counseling in identifying and seg-
menting domestic and international market
opportunities, preparing and executing mar-
keting plans, developing pricing strategies,
locating contract opportunities, negotiating
contracts, and utilizing varying public rela-
tions and advertising techniques.
‘‘(3) TYPES OF GRANTS.—
‘‘(A) INITIAL GRANT.—The amount of an ini-
tial grant, which shall be for a 5-year term,
provided under this subsection to an eligible
entity shall be not more than $300,000 annu-
ally (as such amount is annually adjusted by
the Administrator to reflect the change in
inflation).
‘‘(B) CONTINUATION GRANTS.—The Adminis-
trator may award a continuation grant,
which shall be for a 5-year term, of not more
than $300,000 annually (as such amount is an-
nually adjusted by the Administrator to re-
flect the change in inflation) to an eligible
entity that received an initial grant under
subparagraph (A). There shall be no limita-
tion on the number of continuation grants
an eligible entity may receive under this sec-
tion.
‘‘(c) APPLICATION.—
‘‘(1) INITIAL GRANTS AND CONTINUATION
GRANTS.—To receive an initial grant or con-
tinuation grant under this section, an eligi-
ble entity shall submit an application to the
Administrator in such form, in such manner,
and containing such information as the Ad-
ministrator may require, including—
‘‘(A) a certification that the eligible enti-
ty—
‘‘(i) has designated an executive director or
program manager, who may be compensated
using grant funds awarded under this section
or other sources, to manage the women’s
business center for which a grant under sub-
section (b) is sought; and
‘‘(ii) meets accounting and reporting re-
quirements established by the Director of
the Office of Management and Budget;
‘‘(B) information demonstrating the expe-
rience and effectiveness of the eligible entity
in—
‘‘(i) providing counseling and training de-
scribed under subsection (b)(2);
‘‘(ii) providing training and services to a
representative number of women who are so-
cially or economically disadvantaged; and
‘‘(iii) working with resource partners of
the Administration and other entities; and
‘‘(C) a 5-year plan that—
‘‘(i) includes information relating to the
assistance to be provided by the women’s
business center in the area in which the
women’s business center is located;
‘‘(ii) describes the ability of the eligible en-
tity to meet the needs of the market to be
served by the women’s business center, in-
cluding the ability to obtain the matching
funds required under subsection (e); and
‘‘(iii) describes the ability of the eligible
entity to provide counseling and training de-
scribed under subsection (b)(2), including to
a representative number of women who are
socially or economically disadvantaged.
‘‘(2) RECORD RETENTION.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—The Administrator shall
maintain a copy of each application sub-
mitted under this subsection for not less
than 5 years.
‘‘(B) PAPERWORK REDUCTION.—The Adminis-
trator shall take steps to reduce, to the max-
imum extent practicable, the paperwork bur-
den associated with carrying out subpara-
graph (A).
‘‘(d) SELECTION OF ELIGIBLE ENTITIES.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—In selecting recipients of
initial grants, the Administrator shall con-
sider—
‘‘(A) the experience of the applicant in pro-
viding entrepreneurial training;
‘‘(B) the amount of time needed for the ap-
plicant to commence operation of a women’s
business center;
‘‘(C) in consultation with a Women’s Busi-
ness Center Association, the capacity of the
applicant to meet the accreditation stand-
ards established under subsection (k)(4) in a
timely manner;
‘‘(D) the ability of the applicant to sustain
operations, including the applicant’s ability
to obtain sufficient non-Federal funds, for a
5-year period;
‘‘(E) the proposed location of a women’s
business center to be operated by the appli-
cant and the location’s proximity to Veteran
Business Outreach Centers and to recipients
of grants under section 8(b)(1) or 21;
‘‘(F) the population density of the area to
be served by the women’s business center op-
erated by the applicant; and
‘‘(G) the advice and counsel of a Women’s
Business Center Association to determine
areas with unmet needs and the likelihood
that the recipient will become accredited.
‘‘(2) SELECTION CRITERIA.—
‘‘(A) RULEMAKING.—The Administrator
shall issue regulations to specify the criteria
for review and selection of applicants under
this subsection.
‘‘(B) MODIFICATIONS PROHIBITED AFTER AN-
NOUNCEMENT.—With respect to a public an-
nouncement of any opportunity to be award-
ed a grant under this section made by the
Administrator pursuant to subsection (l)(1),
the Administrator may not modify regula-
tions issued pursuant to subparagraph (A)
with respect to such opportunity unless re-
quired to do so by an Act of Congress or an
order of a Federal court.
‘‘(C) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.—Nothing in
this paragraph may be construed as prohib-
iting the Administrator from modifying the
regulations issued pursuant to subparagraph
(A) (after providing an opportunity for no-
tice and comment) as such regulations apply
to an opportunity to be awarded a grant
under this section that the Administrator
has not yet publicly announced pursuant to
subsection (l)(1).
‘‘(e) MATCHING REQUIREMENTS.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Subject to paragraph (5),
upon approval of an application submitted
under subsection (c), the eligible entity shall
agree to obtain contributions from non-Fed-
eral sources—
‘‘(A) in the first and second year of the
term of an initial grant, if applicable, 1 non-
Federal dollar for each 2 Federal dollars; and
‘‘(B) in each subsequent year of the term of
an initial grant, if applicable, or for the term
of a continuation grant, 1 non-Federal dollar
for each Federal dollar.
‘‘(2) FORM OF MATCHING FUNDS.—Not more
than one-half of non-Federal matching funds
described under paragraph (1) may be in the
form of in-kind contributions that are budg-
et line items only, including office equip-
ment and office space.
‘‘(3) SOLICITATION.—Notwithstanding any
other provision of law, an eligible entity
may—
‘‘(A) solicit cash and in-kind contributions
from private individuals and entities to be
used to operate a women’s business center;
and
‘‘(B) use amounts made available by the
Administrator under this section for the cost
of such solicitation and management of the
contributions received.
‘‘(4) DISBURSEMENT OF FUNDS.—The Admin-
istrator may disburse an amount not greater
than 25 percent of the total amount of a
grant awarded to an eligible entity before
such eligible entity obtains the non-Federal
matching funds described under paragraph
(1).
‘‘(5) FAILURE TO OBTAIN MATCHING FUNDS.—
If an eligible entity fails to obtain the re-
quired matching funds described under para-
graph (1), the eligible entity may not be eli-
gible to receive advance disbursements pur-
suant to paragraph (4) during the remainder
of the term, if applicable, of an initial grant
awarded under this section. Before approving
such eligible entity for a continuation grant
under this section, the Administrator shall
make a written determination, including the
reasons for such determination, of whether
the Administrator believes that the eligible
entity will be able to obtain the requisite
funding under paragraph (1) for such con-
tinuation grant.
‘‘(6) WAIVER OF NON-FEDERAL SHARE.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—Upon request by an eli-
gible entity, and in accordance with this
paragraph, the Administrator may waive, in
whole or in part, the requirement to obtain
non-Federal matching funds for a grant
awarded under this section for the eligible
entity for a one-year term of the grant. The
Administrator may not issue such a waiver
for more than a total of 2 consecutive one-
year terms.
‘‘(B) CONSIDERATIONS.—In determining
whether to issue a waiver under this para-
graph, the Administrator shall consider—
‘‘(i) the economic conditions affecting the
eligible entity;
‘‘(ii) the demonstrated ability of the eligi-
ble entity to raise non-Federal funds; and
‘‘(iii) the performance of the eligible entity
under the initial grant.
‘‘(C) LIMITATION.—The Administrator may
not issue a waiver under this paragraph if
the Administrator determines that granting
the waiver would undermine the credibility
of the Women’s Business Center Program.
‘‘(7) EXCESS NON-FEDERAL DOLLARS.—The
amount of non-Federal dollars obtained by
an eligible entity that is above the amount
that is required to be obtained by the eligi-
ble entity under this subsection shall not be
subject to the requirements of part 200 of
title 2, Code of Federal Regulations, or any
successor thereto, if such amount of non-
Federal dollars—
‘‘(A) is not used as matching funds for pur-
poses of implementing the Women’s Business
Center Program; and
‘‘(B) was not obtained using funds from the
Women’s Business Center Program.
‘‘(8) CARRYOVER.—Excess non-Federal dol-
lars described in paragraph (7) may be used
to satisfy the matching funds requirement
under paragraph (1) for the subsequent one-
year grant term, if applicable, except that
such amounts shall be subject to the require-
ments of part 200 of title 2, Code of Federal
Regulations, or any successor thereto.
‘‘(f) OTHER REQUIREMENTS.—
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:32 Oct 22, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A21OC7.004 H21OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8270 October 21, 2019
‘‘(1) SEPARATION OF FUNDS.—An eligible en-
tity shall—
‘‘(A) operate a women’s business center
under this section separately from other
projects, if any, of the eligible entity; and
‘‘(B) separately maintain and account for
any grants received under this section.
‘‘(2) EXAMINATION OF ELIGIBLE ENTITIES.—
‘‘(A) REQUIRED SITE VISIT.—Before receiv-
ing an initial grant under this section, each
applicant shall have a site visit by an em-
ployee of the Administration, in order to en-
sure that the applicant has sufficient re-
sources to provide the services for which the
grant is being provided.
‘‘(B) ANNUAL REVIEW.—An employee of the
Administration shall—
‘‘(i) conduct an annual programmatic and
financial examination of each eligible entity,
as described in subsection (g); and
‘‘(ii) provide the results of such examina-
tion to the eligible entity.
‘‘(3) REMEDIATION OF PROBLEMS.—
‘‘(A) PLAN OF ACTION.—If an examination of
an eligible entity conducted under paragraph
(2)(B) identifies any problems, the eligible
entity shall, within 45 calendar days of re-
ceiving a copy of the results of such exam-
ination, provide the Assistant Administrator
with a plan of action, including specific
milestones, for correcting such problems.
‘‘(B) PLAN OF ACTION REVIEW BY THE ASSIST-
ANT ADMINISTRATOR.—The Assistant Admin-
istrator shall review each plan of action sub-
mitted under subparagraph (A) within 30 cal-
endar days of receiving such plan. If the As-
sistant Administrator determines that such
plan—
‘‘(i) will bring the eligible entity into com-
pliance with all the terms of the grant agree-
ment, the Assistant Administrator shall ap-
prove such plan; or
‘‘(ii) is inadequate to remedy the problems
identified in the annual examination to
which the plan of action relates, the Assist-
ant Administrator shall set forth such rea-
sons in writing and provide such determina-
tion to the eligible entity within 15 calendar
days of such determination.
‘‘(C) AMENDMENT TO PLAN OF ACTION.—An
eligible entity receiving a determination
under subparagraph (B)(ii) shall have 30 cal-
endar days from the receipt of the deter-
mination to amend the plan of action to sat-
isfy the problems identified by the Assistant
Administrator and resubmit such plan to the
Assistant Administrator.
‘‘(D) AMENDED PLAN REVIEW BY THE ASSIST-
ANT ADMINISTRATOR.—Within 15 calendar
days of the receipt of an amended plan of ac-
tion under subparagraph (C), the Assistant
Administrator shall either approve or reject
such plan and provide such approval or rejec-
tion in writing to the eligible entity.
‘‘(E) APPEAL OF ASSISTANT ADMINISTRATOR
DETERMINATION.—
‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—If the Assistant Adminis-
trator rejects an amended plan under sub-
paragraph (D), the eligible entity shall have
the opportunity to appeal such decision to
the Administrator, who may delegate such
appeal to an appropriate officer of the Ad-
ministration.
‘‘(ii) OPPORTUNITY FOR EXPLANATION.—Any
appeal described under clause (i) shall pro-
vide an opportunity for the eligible entity to
provide, in writing, an explanation of why
the eligible entity’s amended plan remedies
the problems identified in the annual exam-
ination conducted under paragraph (2)(B).
‘‘(iii) NOTICE OF DETERMINATION.—The Ad-
ministrator shall provide to the eligible enti-
ty a determination of the appeal, in writing,
not later than 15 calendar days after the eli-
gible entity files an appeal under this sub-
paragraph.
‘‘(iv) EFFECT OF FAILURE TO ACT.—If the Ad-
ministrator fails to act on an appeal made
under this subparagraph within the 15-day
period specified under clause (iii), the eligi-
ble entity’s amended plan of action sub-
mitted under subparagraph (C) shall be
deemed to be approved.
‘‘(4) TERMINATION OF GRANT.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—The Administrator shall
terminate a grant to an eligible entity under
this section if the eligible entity fails to
comply with—
‘‘(i) a plan of action approved by the As-
sistant Administrator under paragraph
(3)(B)(i); or
‘‘(ii) an amended plan of action approved
by the Assistant Administrator under para-
graph (3)(D) or approved on appeal under
paragraph (3)(E).
‘‘(B) APPEAL OF TERMINATION.—An eligible
entity shall have the opportunity to chal-
lenge the termination of a grant under sub-
paragraph (A) on the record and after an op-
portunity for a hearing.
‘‘(C) FINAL AGENCY ACTION.—A determina-
tion made pursuant to subparagraph (B)
shall be considered final agency action for
the purposes of chapter 7 of title 5, United
States Code.
‘‘(5) CONSULTATION WITH MAJORITY WOMEN’S
BUSINESS CENTER ASSOCIATION.—If a majority
of women’s business centers that are oper-
ating pursuant to agreements with the Ad-
ministration are members of an individual
Women’s Business Center Association, the
Administrator shall—
‘‘(A) recognize the existence and activities
of such Association; and
‘‘(B) consult with the Association on, and
negotiate with the Association in the devel-
opment of documents with respect to—
‘‘(i) announcing the annual scope of activi-
ties pursuant to this section;
‘‘(ii) requesting proposals to deliver assist-
ance as provided in this section; and
‘‘(iii) governing the general operations and
administration of women’s business centers,
specifically including the development of
regulations and a uniform negotiated cooper-
ative agreement for use on an annual basis
when entering into individual negotiated
agreements with women’s business centers.
‘‘(g) PROGRAM EXAMINATION.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The Administration
shall—
‘‘(A) develop and implement an annual pro-
grammatic and financial examination of
each eligible entity receiving a grant under
this section, under which each such eligible
entity shall provide to the Administration—
‘‘(i) an itemized cost breakdown of actual
expenditures for costs incurred during the
preceding year; and
‘‘(ii) documentation regarding the amount
of matching assistance from non-Federal
sources obtained and expended by the eligi-
ble entity during the preceding year in order
to meet the requirements of subsection (e)
and, with respect to any in-kind contribu-
tions described in subsection (e)(2) that were
used to satisfy the requirements of sub-
section (e), verification of the existence and
valuation of those contributions; and
‘‘(B) analyze the results of each such exam-
ination and, based on that analysis, make a
determination regarding the programmatic
and financial viability of each women’s busi-
ness center operated by the eligible entity.
‘‘(2) CONDITIONS FOR CONTINUED FUNDING.—
In determining whether to award a continu-
ation grant to an eligible entity, the Admin-
istrator—
‘‘(A) shall consider the results of the most
recent examination of the eligible entity
under paragraph (1);
‘‘(B) shall determine if—
‘‘(i) the eligible entity has failed to pro-
vide, or provided inadequate, information
under paragraph (1)(A); or
‘‘(ii) the eligible entity has failed to pro-
vide any information required to be provided
by the women’s business center for purposes
of the management report under subsection
(m)(1), or the information provided by the
center is inadequate; and
‘‘(C) shall consider the accreditation status
as described in subsection (k)(4).
‘‘(h) NOTICE AND COMMENT REQUIRED.—The
Administrator may only make a change to
the standards by which an eligible entity ob-
tains or maintains grants under this section,
the standards for accreditation, or any other
requirement for the operation of a women’s
business center if the Administrator first
provides notice and the opportunity for pub-
lic comment, as set forth in section 553(b) of
title 5, United States Code, without regard
to any exceptions provided for under such
section.
‘‘(i) CONTRACT AUTHORITY.—
‘‘(1) ELIGIBLE ENTITY.—An eligible entity
that receives a grant under this section may
enter into a contract with a Federal depart-
ment or agency to provide specific assistance
to small business concerns owned and con-
trolled by women and other underserved
small business concerns, if performance of
such a contract does not hinder the ability of
the eligible entity to carry out the terms of
a grant received under this section.
‘‘(2) ADMINISTRATOR.—The authority of the
Administrator to enter into contracts shall
be in effect for each fiscal year only to the
extent and in the amounts as are provided in
advance in appropriations Acts. After the
Administrator has entered into a contract,
either as a grant or a cooperative agreement,
with any applicant under this section, the
Administrator shall not suspend, terminate,
or fail to renew or extend any such contract
unless the Administrator provides the appli-
cant with written notification setting forth
the reasons therefore and affords the appli-
cant an opportunity for a hearing, appeal, or
other administrative proceeding under chap-
ter 5 of title 5, United States Code.
‘‘(j) PRIVACY REQUIREMENTS.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—A women’s business cen-
ter may not disclose the name, address, or
telephone number of any individual or small
business concern receiving assistance under
this section without the consent of such in-
dividual or small business concern, unless—
‘‘(A) the Administrator orders such disclo-
sure after the Administrator is ordered to
make such a disclosure by a court in any
civil or criminal enforcement action initi-
ated by a Federal or State agency; or
‘‘(B) the Administrator considers such a
disclosure to be necessary for the purpose of
conducting a financial audit of a women’s
business center, except that such a disclo-
sure shall be limited to the information nec-
essary for such audit.
‘‘(2) ADMINISTRATION USE OF INFORMATION.—
This subsection shall not—
‘‘(A) restrict Administration access to
women’s business center data; or
‘‘(B) prevent the Administration from
using information about individuals who use
women’s business centers to conduct surveys
of such individuals.
‘‘(3) REGULATIONS.—The Administrator
shall issue regulations to establish standards
for disclosures for purposes of a financial
audit described under paragraph (1)(B).
‘‘(k) OFFICE OF WOMEN’S BUSINESS OWNER-
SHIP.—
‘‘(1) ESTABLISHMENT.—There is established
within the Administration an Office of Wom-
en’s Business Ownership, which shall be re-
sponsible for the administration of the Ad-
ministration’s programs for the development
of women’s business enterprises (as defined
in section 408 of the Women’s Business Own-
ership Act of 1988). The Office of Women’s
Business Ownership shall be administered by
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:32 Oct 22, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A21OC7.004 H21OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8271
October 21, 2019
an Assistant Administrator, who shall be ap-
pointed by the Administrator.
‘‘(2) ASSISTANT ADMINISTRATOR OF THE OF-
FICE OF WOMEN’S BUSINESS OWNERSHIP.—
‘‘(A) QUALIFICATION.—The position of As-
sistant Administrator shall be a Senior Ex-
ecutive Service position under section
3132(a)(2) of title 5, United States Code. The
Assistant Administrator shall serve as a
noncareer appointee (as defined in section
3132(a)(7) of that title).
‘‘(B) DUTIES.—The Assistant Administrator
shall administer the programs and services
of the Office of Women’s Business Ownership
and perform the following functions:
‘‘(i) Recommend the annual administrative
and program budgets of the Office and eligi-
ble entities receiving a grant under the
Women’s Business Center Program.
‘‘(ii) Review the annual budgets submitted
by each eligible entity receiving a grant
under the Women’s Business Center Pro-
gram.
‘‘(iii) Collaborate with other Federal de-
partments and agencies, State and local gov-
ernments, not-for-profit organizations, and
for-profit organizations to maximize utiliza-
tion of taxpayer dollars and reduce (or elimi-
nate) any duplication among the programs
overseen by the Office of Women’s Business
Ownership and those of other entities that
provide similar services to women entre-
preneurs.
‘‘(iv) Maintain a clearinghouse to provide
for the dissemination and exchange of infor-
mation between women’s business centers.
‘‘(v) Serve as the vice chairperson of the
Interagency Committee on Women’s Busi-
ness Enterprise and as the liaison for the Na-
tional Women’s Business Council.
‘‘(3) MISSION.—The mission of the Office of
Women’s Business Ownership shall be to as-
sist women entrepreneurs to start, grow, and
compete in global markets by providing
quality support with access to capital, access
to markets, job creation, growth, and coun-
seling by—
‘‘(A) fostering participation of women en-
trepreneurs in the economy by overseeing a
network of women’s business centers
throughout States and territories;
‘‘(B) creating public-private partnerships
to support women entrepreneurs and conduct
outreach and education to small business
concerns owned and controlled by women;
and
‘‘(C) working with other programs of the
Administrator to—
‘‘(i) ensure women are well-represented in
those programs and being served by those
programs; and
‘‘(ii) identify gaps where participation by
women in those programs could be increased.
‘‘(4) ACCREDITATION PROGRAM.—
‘‘(A) ESTABLISHMENT.—Not later than 270
days after the date of enactment of this
paragraph, the Administrator shall publish
standards for a program to accredit eligible
entities that receive a grant under this sec-
tion.
‘‘(B) PUBLIC COMMENT; TRANSITION.—Before
publishing the standards under subparagraph
(A), the Administrator—
‘‘(i) shall provide a period of not less than
60 days for public comment on such stand-
ards; and
‘‘(ii) may not terminate a grant under this
section absent evidence of fraud or other
criminal misconduct by the recipient.
‘‘(C) CONTRACTING AUTHORITY.—The Admin-
istrator may provide financial support, by
contract or otherwise, to a Women’s Busi-
ness Center Association to provide assist-
ance in establishing the standards required
under subparagraph (A) or for carrying out
an accreditation program pursuant to such
standards.
‘‘(5) CONTINUATION GRANT CONSIDER-
ATIONS.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—In determining whether
to award a continuation grant under this
section, the Administrator shall consider the
results of the annual programmatic and fi-
nancial examination conducted under sub-
section (g) and the accreditation program.
‘‘(B) ACCREDITATION REQUIREMENT.—After
the end of the 2-year period beginning on the
date of enactment of this subsection, the Ad-
ministration may not award a continuation
grant under this section unless the applica-
ble eligible entity has been approved under
the accreditation program conducted pursu-
ant to this subsection, except that the As-
sistant Administrator for the Office of Wom-
en’s Business Ownership may waive such ac-
creditation requirement, in the discretion of
the Assistant Administrator, upon a showing
that the eligible entity is making a good
faith effort to obtain accreditation.
‘‘(6) ANNUAL CONFERENCE.—Each women’s
business center shall participate in annual
professional development at an annual con-
ference facilitated by a Women’s Business
Center Association.
‘‘(l) NOTIFICATION REQUIREMENTS UNDER
THE WOMEN’S BUSINESS CENTER PROGRAM.—
The Administrator shall provide the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(1) A public announcement of any oppor-
tunity to be awarded grants under this sec-
tion, to include the selection criteria under
subsection (d) and any applicable regula-
tions.
‘‘(2) To any applicant for a grant under this
section that failed to obtain such a grant, an
opportunity to debrief with the Adminis-
trator to review the reasons for the appli-
cant’s failure.
‘‘(3) To an eligible entity that receives an
initial grant under this section, if a site visit
or review of the eligible entity is carried out
by an officer or employee of the Administra-
tion (other than the Inspector General), a
copy of the site visit report or evaluation, as
applicable, within 30 calendar days of the
completion of such visit or evaluation.
‘‘(m) ANNUAL MANAGEMENT REPORT.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The Administrator shall
prepare and submit to the Committee on
Small Business of the House of Representa-
tives and the Committee on Small Business
and Entrepreneurship of the Senate an an-
nual report on the effectiveness of women’s
business centers operated through a grant
awarded under this section.
‘‘(2) CONTENTS.—Each report submitted
under paragraph (1) shall include—
‘‘(A) information concerning, with respect
to each women’s business center established
pursuant to a grant awarded under this sec-
tion, the most recent analysis of the annual
programmatic and financial examination of
the applicable eligible entity, as required
under subsection (g)(1)(B), and the subse-
quent determination made by the Adminis-
tration under that subsection;
‘‘(B) the number of persons advised and
trained through the Women’s Business Cen-
ter Program;
‘‘(C) the total number of hours of advising
and training through the Program;
‘‘(D) the demographics of Program partici-
pants to include gender, race, and age of
each such participant;
‘‘(E) the number of Program participants
who are veterans;
‘‘(F) the number of new businesses started
by participants in the Program;
‘‘(G) to the extent practicable, the number
of jobs supported, created or retained with
assistance from women’s business centers;
‘‘(H) the amount of capital secured by par-
ticipants in the Program, including through
loans and equity investment;
‘‘(I) the number of participants in the Pro-
gram receiving financial assistance, includ-
ing the type and dollar amount, under the
loan programs of the Administration;
‘‘(J) an estimate of gross receipts, includ-
ing to the extent practicable a description of
any change in revenue of small business con-
cerns assisted through the Program;
‘‘(K) to the maximum extent practicable,
increases or decreases in revenues for the as-
sisted small business concerns;
‘‘(L) the number of referrals made to other
resources and programs of the Administra-
tion;
‘‘(M) the results of satisfaction surveys of
participants, including a summary of any
comments received from such participants;
and
‘‘(N) any recommendations by the Admin-
istrator to improve the delivery of services
by women’s business centers.
‘‘(n) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—There are authorized to
be appropriated to the Administration to
carry out this section, to remain available
until expended, $31,500,000 for each of fiscal
years 2020 through 2023.
‘‘(2) USE OF AMOUNTS.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in
subparagraph (B), amounts made available
under this subsection for fiscal year 2020, and
each fiscal year thereafter, may only be used
for grant awards and may not be used for
costs incurred by the Administration in con-
nection with the management and adminis-
tration of the program under this section.
‘‘(B) EXCEPTIONS.—Of the amount made
available under this subsection for a fiscal
year, the following amounts shall be avail-
able for costs incurred by the Administra-
tion in connection with the management and
administration of the program under this
section:
‘‘(i) For the first fiscal year beginning
after the date of the enactment of this sub-
paragraph, 2.65 percent.
‘‘(ii) For the second fiscal year beginning
after the date of the enactment of this sub-
paragraph and each fiscal year thereafter
through fiscal year 2023, 2.5 percent.
‘‘(3) EXPEDITED ACQUISITION.—Notwith-
standing any other provision of law, the Ad-
ministrator may use such expedited acquisi-
tion methods as the Administrator deter-
mines to be appropriate to carry out this
section, except that the Administrator shall
ensure that all small business sources are
provided a reasonable opportunity to submit
proposals.
‘‘(4) ACCREDITATION AND ANNUAL CON-
FERENCE.—Not less than $500,000 of the
amounts appropriated pursuant to paragraph
(1) for a fiscal year shall be available for pur-
poses of carrying out subsection (k), of which
no less than $50,000 shall be available to sup-
port an annual conference described under
subsection (k)(6).’’.
SEC. 3. EFFECT ON EXISTING GRANTS.
(a) TERMS AND CONDITIONS.—A nonprofit
organization receiving a grant under section
29(m) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C.
656(m)), as in effect on the day before the
date of enactment of this Act, shall continue
to receive the grant under the terms and
conditions in effect for the grant on the day
before the date of enactment of this Act, ex-
cept that the nonprofit organization may not
apply for a continuation of the grant under
section 29(m)(5) of the Small Business Act (15
U.S.C. 656(m)(5)), as in effect on the day be-
fore the date of enactment of this Act.
(b) LENGTH OF CONTINUATION GRANT.—The
Administrator of the Small Business Admin-
istration may award a grant under section 29
of the Small Business Act, as amended by
this Act, to a nonprofit organization receiv-
ing a grant under section 29(m) of the Small
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:32 Oct 22, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A21OC7.004 H21OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8272 October 21, 2019
Business Act (15 U.S.C. 656(m)), as in effect
on the day before the date of enactment of
this Act, for the period—
(1) beginning on the day after the last day
of the grant agreement under such section
29(m); and
(2) ending at the end of the third fiscal
year beginning after the date of enactment
of this Act.
SEC. 4. REGULATIONS.
Not later than 270 days after the date of
the enactment of this Act, the Adminis-
trator of Small Business Administration
shall issue such rules as are necessary to
carry out section 29 of the Small Business
Act (15 U.S.C. 656), as amended by this Act,
and ensure that a period of public comment
for such rules is not less than 60 days.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentlewoman from
New York (Ms. VELÁZQUEZ) and the
gentleman from Ohio (Mr. CHABOT)
each will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from New York.
GENERAL LEAVE
Ms. VELÁZQUEZ. Mr. Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that all Members
may have 5 legislative days in which to
revise and extend their remarks and in-
clude extraneous material on the meas-
ure under consideration
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gentle-
woman from New York?
There was no objection.
Ms. VELÁZQUEZ. Mr. Speaker, I
yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of the
bill before us today, H.R. 4405, the
Women’s Business Centers Improve-
ments Act.
Women’s Business Centers, or WBCs,
are a critical component of SBA’s en-
trepreneurial ecosystem. WBCs were
created to assist small businesses pri-
marily owned by women, many of
whom are socially and economically
disadvantaged.
b 1545
The WBC program funds more than
100 centers nationwide and offers a full
range of counseling and training serv-
ices for all stages of business develop-
ment. Many of the WBCs provide mul-
tilingual services, maintain evening
and weekend hours to accommodate
clients who work full time, and allow
children to attend training sessions
with their mothers.
In fiscal year 2018, the WBC program
trained and advised more than 150,000
clients and created nearly 12,000 small
businesses. It has also proven to be a
great return on investment, just like
the SBDCs. For every dollar invested
in WBCs, $46 is returned to the econ-
omy. And, with women making up the
fastest growing sector of entre-
preneurs, it is imperative to invest in
modernizing and adequately funding
the program.
The Women’s Business Centers Im-
provements Act increases the author-
ization level to $31.5 million each year
and lifts the cap on individual center
grants to $300,000, allowing more estab-
lished centers to expand their reach to
greater numbers of women entre-
preneurs, particularly those of whom
are socially and economically dis-
advantaged.
Additionally, this legislation makes
key changes to the program, enabling
the WBCs to serve more of America’s
nearly 30 million women-owned small
businesses. By eliminating unnecessary
reporting requirements and creating a
transparent and consultative process
between SBA and the Association of
Women’s Business Centers, the bill
guarantees WBCs can meet the growing
demand for their services.
I want to thank Representative DA-
VIDS and Representative HAGEDORN for
their diligence in working to get this
bill right and ensuring that women en-
trepreneurs across the country have
continued access to vital counseling
and training.
Mr. Speaker, I urge Members to sup-
port this bipartisan bill, and I reserve
the balance of my time.
Mr. CHABOT. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R.
4405, the Women’s Business Centers Im-
provements Act of 2019. I commend and
thank the two lead sponsors of this leg-
islation, Ms. DAVIDS of Kansas and Mr.
HAGEDORN of Minnesota, for their lead-
ership. This makes key updates to the
SBA’s Office of Women’s Business Own-
ership and the Women’s Business Cen-
ter program, or WBC.
The WBC program funds more than
100 nonprofit organizations that pro-
vide training, counseling, and technical
assistance specifically tailored to meet
the needs of women entrepreneurs.
Many WBCs offer training at night or
in multiple languages to ensure that
women entrepreneurs have the tools
and support they need when creating or
sustaining a business.
Last year, WBCs trained over 114,000
clients and advised over 26,000 individ-
uals. This training and counseling con-
tributed to the creation of more than
17,000 new small businesses in the
United States. The Women’s Business
Center program has a profound impact
not only in our local communities, but
also on our Nation’s economy overall.
H.R. 4405, the Women’s Business Cen-
ters Improvements Act of 2019, builds
on H.R. 1680, the Women’s Business
Centers Improvements Act of 2018,
which passed the House back in May of
2018.
This bill raises the initial 5-year
grant amount and indexes it for infla-
tion. This minor increase provides new
and existing women’s business centers
with the support they need to provide
an effective course curriculum to small
business clients.
Additionally, H.R. 4405 requires the
SBA to establish a WBC accreditation
program. This program, similar to the
successful Small Business Development
Center accreditation program, will en-
sure programmatic consistency among
WBC locations and guarantee that each
center is providing women entre-
preneurs with effective training oppor-
tunities.
These updates will ensure that the
funds supporting the WBC program are
used efficiently to foster economic
growth.
Mr. Speaker, it is a good bill, and I
urge my colleagues to support it. I,
again, want to commend the two lead-
ers on this important legislation, and I
reserve the balance of my time.
Ms. VELÁZQUEZ. Mr. Speaker, I
yield such time as she may consume to
the gentlewoman from Kansas (Ms. DA-
VIDS), sponsor of the bill.
Ms. DAVIDS of Kansas. Mr. Speaker,
I urge my colleagues to vote yes on
H.R. 4405, the Women’s Business Cen-
ters Improvements Act of 2019, which
would increase access to vital re-
sources and opportunities for female
entrepreneurs in Kansas and across the
country.
I thank Ranking Member CHABOT and
Chairwoman VELÁZQUEZ for their com-
mitment to small businesses in our
country.
I thank my fellow Small Business
Committee member, Representative
HAGEDORN, for cosponsoring and co-
leading this bipartisan piece of legisla-
tion with me.
This bill helps to strengthen the
Women’s Business Center program,
which funds more than 100 women’s
business centers, also known as WBCs,
across the country and in the district I
represent in Kansas.
These centers provide small business
owners, many of whom are socially and
economically disadvantaged, with crit-
ical counseling and training at all
stages of their business development.
Many WBCs provide multilingual
services, maintain evening and week-
end hours to accommodate clients who
work full time, and allow children to
attend sessions with their mothers.
The value of WBCs cannot be over-
stated. Women are the fastest growing
sector of entrepreneurs in our country.
We often forget that up until 1988,
women would have a hard time apply-
ing for a business loan without a male
relative to cosign it.
Now, more than 11.6 million busi-
nesses in the United States are owned
by women, and more than 5.4 million
businesses are majority owned by
women of color.
But even though we have made great
progress, many unique challenges still
exist for women, particularly women of
color, to start and grow a business.
These include things like limited ac-
cess to funding resources and the sup-
port system needed to get a business
off the ground and maintain its suc-
cess.
I see this firsthand when I am doing
a ‘‘Sharice’s Shift’’ in my district. It is
our outreach program where I work at
a local business and spend time with
that business owner in my community.
WBCs are critical in addressing a
whole range of women’s entrepre-
neurial needs. They provide training,
mentoring, business development, and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:32 Oct 22, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00010 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A21OC7.004 H21OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8273
October 21, 2019
financing opportunities for 145,000
women entrepreneurs each year.
The Kansas City Women’s Business
Center, located in Fairway, Kansas—
which I proudly represent—serves over
600 clients annually in both Kansas and
Missouri through business trainings,
workshops, counseling, and access to
capital programs.
That is why it is so important to sup-
port the WBC program. Despite the tre-
mendous growth of the program since
its creation in 1988, its resources have
not kept up with the even greater
growth of women entrepreneurs.
My bill would authorize funding for
the WBC program for 4 years at $31.5
million. It is currently at $18 million.
This increase ensures the program can
reach even more women.
It would also increase the cap on in-
dividual center grants to $300,000 and
index for inflation for the first time
since the program’s creation.
According to a survey conducted by
the Association of Women Business
Centers, 70 percent of the centers could
match at least $300,000. And it would
establish an accreditation program to
strengthen WBCs and raise the stand-
ards of excellence for training and
counseling women entrepreneurs.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
support the Women’s Business Centers
Improvements Act and help ensure
that we can create a level playing field
for female entrepreneurs that sets
them up for success.
Mr. CHABOT. Mr. Speaker, I yield
such time as he may consume to the
gentleman from Minnesota (Mr.
HAGEDORN), the principal sponsor on
the legislation on the Republican side.
Mr. HAGEDORN. Mr. Speaker, I
thank Ranking Member CHABOT for
yielding the time.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support
of H.R. 4405, the Women’s Business
Centers Improvements Act.
Mr. Speaker, I thank my colleague,
Representative DAVIDS, for sponsoring
this bill, introducing it, and inviting
me to co-author it. I appreciate her
leadership on this.
This bipartisan legislation works to
support women entrepreneurs nation-
wide by modernizing and strengthening
the Women’s Business Centers pro-
gram. Our bill will increase access to
training, counseling, assistance pro-
grams, capital, and workforce invest-
ment. All these measures are essential
to create new businesses, expand enter-
prises, and grow our United States
economy.
Millions of women own small busi-
nesses in the United States, and that is
a wonderful thing. Entrepreneurship
and the Women’s Business Center pro-
gram are essential for empowering
women to become business owners. By
enhancing these services, we increase
the ability to inspire and foster new
generations of business leaders.
Small business is the job-producing
backbone of our American economy.
Whether you are in southern Min-
nesota, eastern Kansas, or commu-
nities across our Nation, it is critical
that we foster an environment of
growth where entrepreneurs of all
stripes have access to the resources
they need to succeed and are not sty-
mied by excessive regulations, taxes,
and other antibusiness burdens.
According to the National Associa-
tion of Women Business Owners, as of
2017, more than 11.6 million firms are
owned and operated by women. These
firms employ almost 9 million people
and generate $1.7 trillion in revenue.
To keep our economy growing, we
must embrace, encourage, and promote
emerging enterprises, including those
owned by folks who do not fit the tra-
ditional mode of business owners to get
started.
One of the great success stories that
we have in women entrepreneurship is
that of Christine Lantinen and her
candy company in Minnesota’s First
District out of Le Center, Minnesota.
The company is called Maud Borup.
In May I had the opportunity to tour
the 112-year-old wholesale confections
company that specializes in gourmet
candy, baking kits, food kits, and lots
of other things, including gummy
bears, the best I have ever enjoyed, to
be honest with you.
Maud Borup started as a woman-
owned, brick-and-mortar candy shop in
St. Paul, even before women had the
right to vote. Today, it is a wholesale
company, continuing to offer opportu-
nities for women. Ninety-six percent of
its more than 100 employees are
women.
Christine, an Army veteran, no less,
bought the company in 2005 and has ex-
panded the company’s employment by
2,000 percent and sales by 2,500 percent.
To put that into perspective, sales have
gone from $500,000 all the way to $20
million in just 10 years. And for good
reason. She was named the Small Busi-
ness Person of the Year in Minnesota
for 2019.
She served her country and now she
is serving her community by expanding
jobs and economic opportunity for
folks in southern Minnesota. This is
one of the types of success stories that
we are trying to emulate and replicate
all across the country with our legisla-
tion, the Women’s Business Centers
Improvements Act.
Our legislation will fund more than
100 nonprofit organizations that pro-
vide training, counseling, and technical
assistance, specifically for women en-
trepreneurs.
Our bill, as the ranking member said,
expands upon the success of H.R. 1680,
which was passed by the House in May
of 2018, but didn’t quite make it into
law. Our legislation will make key im-
provements for the Small Business Ad-
ministration’s Office of Women’s Busi-
ness Ownership and the Women’s Busi-
ness Center program by raising the ini-
tial grant amount to $300,000 and in-
creasing the authorization level to
$31.5 million for fiscal years 2020
through 2023.
This legislation establishes an ac-
creditation program to strengthen
Women’s Business Centers by increas-
ing accountability and raising the
standards of excellence for training and
counseling of women entrepreneurs and
will also create a transparent and con-
sultative process for the selection of
new center locations, while also requir-
ing an annual report to ensure trans-
parency and measure the effectiveness
of the overall program.
Most importantly, the bill will help
facilitate small business creation, pro-
vide much-needed reforms that will be
a helping hand to women business own-
ers, free aspiring entrepreneurs of
undue burdens and barriers to entry,
further economic expansion, and help
hardworking Americans achieve their
dreams.
I am incredibly proud of the bipar-
tisan nature of this bill. I thank, again,
Congresswoman DAVIDS for introducing
and managing the bill. I am proud to
stand with her to champion women-
owned enterprises. And a special
thanks to the Committee on Small
Business, of course our chair, Chair-
woman VELÁZQUEZ and Ranking Mem-
ber CHABOT for the bipartisan support
that they have offered.
Mr. Speaker, I ask my colleagues to
join me in supporting H.R. 4405.
b 1600
Ms. VELÁZQUEZ. Mr. Speaker, I
have no further speakers, so I am pre-
pared to close if the gentleman doesn’t
have any other speakers.
I reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. CHABOT. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
In closing, although a little less than
40 percent of all firms in the United
States are women owned, that number
has increased by 114 percent over the
last 10 years. With women-owned firms
growing more than 2.5 times faster
than other businesses, it is important
to recognize women entrepreneurs as a
driving force in today’s economy.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
support this bipartisan legislation, and
I yield back the balance of my time.
Ms. VELÁZQUEZ. Mr. Speaker, I
yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
Mr. Speaker, the United States has
nearly 30 million women-owned firms,
more than one-third of all firms. Our
economy relies heavily on women-
owned small businesses, as they gen-
erate over $1.9 trillion in revenues and
employ 9.4 million workers.
H.R. 4405 ensures that they have ac-
cess to the tools they need to succeed.
The good news is, women-owned
small businesses are growing two times
faster, on average, than all businesses
nationwide, and women of color are
launching businesses 4.5 times faster
than all businesses.
The discouraging news is that half of
aspiring women business owners report
a lack of available mentors. We must
take action to break down the barriers
hindering their success. That is why it
is imperative for us to pass this legisla-
tion today, ensuring access to
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:32 Oct 22, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00011 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K21OC7.015 H21OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8274 October 21, 2019
mentorship and professional guidance
to the fastest growing group of entre-
preneurs.
The Women’s Business Centers Im-
provements Act builds on their success
by creating uniformity through accred-
itation for WBCs and increasing max-
imum grant levels to ensure they have
the resources to meet demands for
their services.
We all agree that women business
owners offer invaluable contributions
to our economy. By passing this bill,
we are standing with women.
Mr. Speaker, I urge Members to sup-
port this bill, and I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentlewoman from New York (Ms.
VELÁZQUEZ) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, H.R. 4405.
The question was taken; and (two-
thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the bill was
passed.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
SCORE FOR SMALL BUSINESS ACT
OF 2019
Ms. VELÁZQUEZ. Mr. Speaker, I
move to suspend the rules and pass the
bill (H.R. 4407) to amend the Small
Business Act to reauthorize the SCORE
program, and for other purposes.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 4407
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This title may be cited as the ‘‘SCORE for
Small Business Act of 2019’’.
SEC. 2. SCORE PROGRAM PROVISIONS AND RE-
QUIREMENTS.
Section 8 of the Small Business Act (15
U.S.C. 637) is amended—
(1) in subsection (b)(1)(B)—
(A) by striking ‘‘a Service Corps of Retired
Executives (SCORE)’’ and inserting ‘‘the
SCORE program described in subsection (c)’’;
and
(B) by striking ‘‘SCORE may’’ and insert-
ing ‘‘the SCORE Association (as defined in
subsection (c)) may’’; and
(2) by striking subsection (c) and inserting
the following:
‘‘(c) SCORE PROGRAM.—
‘‘(1) DEFINITIONS.—In this subsection:
‘‘(A) SCORE ASSOCIATION.—The term
‘SCORE Association’ means the Service
Corps of Retired Executives Association or
any successor or other organization that en-
ters into a cooperative agreement (as de-
scribed under paragraph (2)) with the Admin-
istrator to operate the SCORE program.
‘‘(B) SCORE FOUNDATION.—The term
‘SCORE Foundation’ means an organization
with a mission to support the SCORE Asso-
ciation and volunteers of the SCORE pro-
gram.
‘‘(C) SCORE PROGRAM.—The term ‘SCORE
program’ means the SCORE program author-
ized by subsection (b)(1)(B).
‘‘(2) COOPERATIVE AGREEMENT.—The Ad-
ministrator shall enter into a cooperative
agreement with the SCORE Association to
carry out the SCORE program, which shall
include the following requirements:
‘‘(A) ADMINISTRATOR DUTIES.—The Admin-
istrator shall—
‘‘(i) conduct an annual financial examina-
tion of the SCORE Association to ensure
that any costs paid for with Federal funds
are allowable, allocable, and reasonable;
‘‘(ii) for contracts entered into by the
SCORE Association to provide goods or serv-
ices for the SCORE program of a value great-
er than an amount determined by the Ad-
ministrator, review and approve such con-
tracts;
‘‘(iii) establish a system through which the
SCORE Association can provide documenta-
tion relating to such contracts; and
‘‘(iv) within 30 days of the receipt of a
quarterly report on the achievements of the
SCORE program submitted by the SCORE
Association, reconcile and differences be-
tween such report and the performance re-
sults of the SCORE program reported in a
management information system of the Of-
fice of Entrepreneurial Development.
‘‘(B) SCORE ASSOCIATION DUTIES.—The
SCORE Association shall—
‘‘(i) manage nationwide chapters of the
SCORE program;
‘‘(ii) develop guidance and provide annual
training to employees of the SCORE Associa-
tion on generating and using program in-
come from the SCORE program;
‘‘(iii) submit documentation to the Admin-
istrator verifying such annual training is
completed;
‘‘(iv) separate funds donated to the SCORE
Association from program income and funds
received pursuant to a cooperative agree-
ment; and
‘‘(v) establish requirements for volunteers
participating in the SCORE program, includ-
ing requirements that each such volunteer
shall—
‘‘(I) based on the business experience and
knowledge of the volunteer—
‘‘(aa) provide personal counseling, men-
toring, and coaching on the process of start-
ing, expanding, managing, buying, and sell-
ing a business at no cost to individuals who
own, or aspire to own, small business con-
cerns; and
‘‘(bb) facilitate free or low-cost education
workshops for individuals who own, or aspire
to own, small business concerns; and
‘‘(II) as appropriate, use tools, resources,
and expertise of other organizations to carry
out the SCORE program.
‘‘(C) JOINT DUTIES.—The Administrator, in
consultation with the SCORE Association,
shall ensure that the SCORE program and
each chapter of the SCORE program—
‘‘(i) develop and implement plans and goals
to more effectively and efficiently provide
services to individuals in rural areas, eco-
nomically disadvantaged communities, or
other traditionally underserved commu-
nities, including plans for electronic initia-
tives, web-based initiatives, chapter expan-
sion, partnerships, and the development of
new skills by volunteers participating in the
SCORE program; and
‘‘(ii) reinforce an inclusive culture by re-
cruiting diverse volunteers for the chapters
of the SCORE program.
‘‘(3) ONLINE COMPONENT.—In carrying out
this subsection, the SCORE Association shall
make use of online counseling, including by
developing and implementing webinars and
an electronic mentoring platform to expand
access to services provided under this sub-
section and to further support entrepreneurs.
‘‘(4) ACCOUNTING.—Not later than 6 months
after the date of the enactment of this sub-
section, the SCORE Association shall—
‘‘(A) centralize all accounting and finance
systems of each chapter of the SCORE pro-
gram and develop a uniform policy and pro-
cedures to manage Federal funds; and
‘‘(B) designate an employee of the SCORE
Association to serve as a compliance officer
to ensure expenditures of the SCORE pro-
gram are fully compliant with any law, regu-
lation, or cooperative agreement relating to
the SCORE program.
‘‘(5) COMPENSATION.—
‘‘(A) SALARIES.—The salary of an employee
of the SCORE Association may not exceed
the equivalent of the maximum rate of pay
allowable for an individual in the career Sen-
ior Executive Service employed at the Small
Business Administration.
‘‘(B) PERFORMANCE AWARDS.—The SCORE
Association may spend up to 1.5 percent of
the aggregate salaries of employees of the
SCORE Association on individual perform-
ance awards to employees of the SCORE As-
sociation, to be disbursed before the last day
of the fiscal year, if not later than 60 days
before disbursement the SCORE Association
submits to the Administrator a report on the
number and amount of such awards to be dis-
bursed.
‘‘(C) SCORE FOUNDATION.—A member of
the Board of Directors of the SCORE Asso-
ciation or an employee of the SCORE Asso-
ciation may not simultaneously serve on the
Board of Directors of, or receive compensa-
tion from, the SCORE Foundation without
written approval from the Administrator.
‘‘(6) WHISTLEBLOWER PROTECTION REQUIRE-
MENTS.—The SCORE Association shall—
‘‘(A) annually update all manuals or other
documents applicable to employees and vol-
unteers of the SCORE Association or the
SCORE program to include requirements re-
lating to reporting procedures and protectors
for whistleblowers; and
‘‘(B) conduct an annual training for em-
ployees and volunteers of the SCORE Asso-
ciation or the SCORE program on the re-
quirements described in paragraph (1) and
emphasize the use of the hotline established
by the Office of the Inspector General of the
Small Business Administration to submit
whistleblower reports.
‘‘(7) PUBLISHED MATERIALS.—The SCORE
Association shall ensure all published mate-
rials include written acknowledgment of
Small Business Administration support of
the SCORE program if such materials are
paid for in whole or in part by Federal funds.
‘‘(8) PRIVACY REQUIREMENTS.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—Neither the Adminis-
trator nor the SCORE Association may dis-
close the name, address, or telephone num-
ber of any individual or small business con-
cern receiving assistance from the SCORE
Association without the consent of such in-
dividual or small business concern, unless—
‘‘(i) the Administrator is ordered to make
such a disclosure by a court in any civil or
criminal enforcement action initiated by a
Federal or State agency; or
‘‘(ii) the Administrator determines such a
disclosure to be necessary for the purpose of
conducting a financial audit of the SCORE
program, in which case disclosure shall be
limited to the information necessary for the
audit.
‘‘(B) ADMINISTRATOR USE OF INFORMATION.—
This paragraph shall not—
‘‘(i) restrict the access of the Adminis-
trator to SCORE program activity data; or
‘‘(ii) prevent the Administrator from using
SCORE program client information to con-
duct client surveys.
‘‘(C) STANDARDS.—
‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—The Administrator shall,
after the opportunity for notice and com-
ment, establish standards for—
‘‘(I) disclosures with respect to financial
audits under subparagraph (A)(ii); and
‘‘(II) conducting client surveys, including
standards for oversight of the surveys and
for dissemination and use of client informa-
tion.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:32 Oct 22, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00012 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K21OC7.017 H21OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8275
October 21, 2019
‘‘(ii) MAXIMUM PRIVACY PROTECTION.—The
standards issued under this subparagraph
shall, to the extent practicable, provide for
the maximum amount of privacy protection.
‘‘(9) ANNUAL REPORT.—Not later than 180
days after the date of the enactment of this
subsection and annually thereafter, the Ad-
ministrator shall submit to the Committee
on Small Business and Entrepreneurship of
the Senate and the Committee on Small
Business of the House of Representatives a
report on the performance and effectiveness
of the SCORE program, which may be in-
cluded as part of another report submitted to
such Committees by the Administrator, and
which shall include—
‘‘(A) the number of individuals counseled
or trained under the SCORE program;
‘‘(B) the number of hours of counseling
provided under the SCORE program;
‘‘(C) the number of local workshops;
‘‘(D) the number of clients attending on-
line and local workshops;
‘‘(E) the number of unique clients served;
‘‘(F) to the extent practicable, the demo-
graphics of SCORE program participants and
volunteers, which shall include the gender,
race, and age of each such participant or vol-
unteer;
‘‘(G) the cost to create a job, the cost to
create a business, and return on investment;
‘‘(H) the number of referrals to other re-
sources and programs of the Administration;
‘‘(I) the number of participants in the
SCORE program receiving financial assist-
ance, including the type and dollar amount,
under loan programs of the Administration;
‘‘(J) the results of SCORE program partici-
pant satisfactory surveys, including a sum-
mary of any comments received from such
participants;
‘‘(K) the number of new businesses started
up by SCORE program participants;
‘‘(L) the number of such new businesses re-
alizing revenue growth;
‘‘(M) to the extent practicable, the number
of jobs created with assistance from the
SCORE program;
‘‘(N) the total cost of the SCORE program;
‘‘(O) any recommendations of the Adminis-
trator to improve the SCORE program; and
‘‘(P) an explanation of how the SCORE pro-
gram has been integrated with other re-
source partners and related resources of the
Administration.’’.
SEC. 3. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS
FOR THE SCORE PROGRAM.
Section 20 of the Small Business Act (15
U.S.C. 631 note) is amended by adding at the
end the following new subsection:
‘‘(h) SCORE PROGRAM.—There are author-
ized to be appropriated to the Administrator
to carry out the SCORE program authorized
by section 8(b)(1) such sums as are necessary
for the Administrator to make grants or
enter into cooperative agreements in a total
amount that does not exceed $11,700,000 in
each of fiscal years 2020, 2021, and 2022.’’.
SEC. 4. REPORTING REQUIREMENTS.
(a) STUDY AND REPORT ON THE FUTURE ROLE
OF THE SCORE PROGRAM.—
(1) STUDY.—The SCORE Association shall
carry out a study on the future role of the
SCORE program and develop a strategic plan
for how the SCORE program will meet the
needs of small business concerns during the
5-year period beginning on the date of the
enactment of this Act, with specific objec-
tives for the first, third, and fifth years of
the 5-year period.
(2) REPORT.—Not later than the end of the
6-month period beginning on the date of the
enactment of this Act, the SCORE Associa-
tion shall submit to the Committee on Small
Business of the House of Representatives and
the Committee on Small Business and Entre-
preneurship of the Senate a report con-
taining—
(A) all findings and determination made in
carrying out the study required under para-
graph (1);
(B) the strategic plan developed under
paragraph (1); and
(C) an explanation of how the SCORE Asso-
ciation plans to achieve the strategic plan,
assuming both stagnant and increased fund-
ing levels.
(b) ADMINISTRATOR REPORT ON LEASED
SPACE.—The Administrator of the Small
Business Administration shall submit to the
Committee on Small Business of the House
of Representatives and the Committee on
Small Business and Entrepreneurship of the
Senate a report containing an assessment of
the cost of leased space that is donated to
the SCORE Association.
(c) ONLINE COMPONENT REPORT.—Before the
last day of fiscal year 2020, the SCORE Asso-
ciation shall submit to the Committee on
Small Business of the House of Representa-
tives and the Committee on Small Business
and Entrepreneurship of the Senate a report
on the effectiveness of the online counseling
and webinars required under paragraph (3) of
section 8(c) of the Small Business Act, as
added by section 2 of this Act, including a
description of—
(1) how the SCORE Association determines
electronic mentoring and webinar needs, de-
velops training for electronic mentoring, es-
tablishes webinar criteria curricula, and
evaluates webinar and electronic mentoring
results;
(2) the internal controls that are used and
a summary of the topics covered by the
webinars; and
(3) performance metrics, including the
number of small business concerns counseled
by, the number of small business concerns
created by, the number of jobs created and
retained by, and the funding amounts di-
rected towards such online counseling and
webinars.
SEC. 5. TECHNICAL AND CONFORMING AMEND-
MENTS.
(a) SMALL BUSINESS ACT.—The Small Busi-
ness Act (15 U.S.C. 631 et seq.) is amended—
(1) in section 7 (15 U.S.C. 636)—
(A) in subsection (b)(12)—
(i) in the paragraph heading, by inserting
‘‘PROGRAM’’ after ‘‘SCORE’’; and
(ii) in subparagraph (A), by striking ‘‘Serv-
ice Corps of Retired Executives’’ and insert-
ing ‘‘SCORE program’’; and
(B) in subsection (m)(3)(A)(i)(VIII), by
striking ‘‘Service Corps of Retired Execu-
tives’’ and inserting ‘‘SCORE program’’; and
(2) in section 22 (15 U.S.C. 649)—
(A) in subsection (b)—
(i) in paragraph (1), by striking ‘‘Service
Corps of Retired Executives’’ and inserting
‘‘SCORE program’’; and
(ii) in paragraph (3), by striking ‘‘Service
Corps of Retired Executives’’ and inserting
‘‘SCORE program’’; and
(B) in subsection (c)(12), by striking ‘‘Serv-
ice Corps of Retired Executives’’ and insert-
ing ‘‘SCORE program’’.
(b) OTHER LAWS.—
(1) SMALL BUSINESS REAUTHORIZATION ACT
OF 1997.—Section 707 of the Small Business
Reauthorization Act of 1997 (15 U.S.C. 631
note) is amended by striking ‘‘Service Corps
of Retired Executives (SCORE) program’’
and inserting ‘‘SCORE program (as defined
in section 8(c)(1) of the Small Business
Act)’’.
(2) VETERANS ENTREPRENEURSHIP AND
SMALL BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT ACT OF 1999.—
Section 301 of the Veterans Entrepreneurship
and Small Business Development Act of 1999
(15 U.S.C. 657b note) is amended by striking
‘‘Service Core of Retired Executives’’ and in-
serting ‘‘SCORE program’’.
(3) MILITARY RESERVIST AND VETERAN
SMALL BUSINESS REAUTHORIZATION AND OPPOR-
TUNITY ACT OF 2008.—Section 3(5) of the Mili-
tary Reservist and Veteran Small Business
Reauthorization and Opportunity Act of 2008
(15 U.S.C. 636 note) is amended by striking
‘‘the Service Corps of Retired Executives’’
and inserting ‘‘the SCORE program’’.
(4) CHILDREN’S HEALTH INSURANCE PROGRAM
REAUTHORIZATION ACT OF 2009.—Section 621 of
the Children’s Health Insurance Program Re-
authorization Act of 2009 (15 U.S.C. 657p) is
amended—
(A) in subsection (a), by striking paragraph
(4) and inserting the following:
‘‘(4) the term ‘SCORE program’ means the
SCORE program authorized by section
8(b)(1)(B) of the Small Business Act (15
U.S.C. 637(b)(1)(B));’’; and
(B) in subsection (b)(4)(A)(iv), by striking
‘‘Service Corps of Retired Executives’’ and
inserting ‘‘SCORE program’’.
(5) ENERGY POLICY AND CONSERVATION
ACT.—Section 337(d)(2)(A) of the Energy Pol-
icy and Conservation Act (42 U.S.C.
6307(d)(2)(A)) is amended by striking ‘‘Serv-
ice Corps of Retired Executives (SCORE)’’
and inserting ‘‘SCORE program’’.
SEC. 6. DEFINITIONS.
In this Act:
(1) ADMINISTRATION; ADMINISTRATOR.—The
terms ‘‘Administration’’ and ‘‘Adminis-
trator’’ mean, respectively, the Small Busi-
ness Administration and the Administrator
thereof.
(2) SCORE ASSOCIATION; SCORE PROGRAM.—
The terms ‘‘SCORE Association’’ and
‘‘SCORE program’’ have the meaning given
those terms, respectively, under section
8(c)(1) of the Small Business Act, as added by
section 2 of this Act.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentlewoman from
New York (Ms. VELÁZQUEZ) and the
gentleman from Ohio (Mr. CHABOT)
each will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from New York.
GENERAL LEAVE
Ms. VELÁZQUEZ. Mr. Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that all Members
have 5 legislative days in which to re-
vise and extend their remarks and in-
clude extraneous material on the meas-
ure under consideration.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gentle-
woman from New York?
There was no objection.
Ms. VELÁZQUEZ. Mr. Speaker, I
yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support
of the bill before us, H.R. 4407, the
SCORE for Small Business Act.
There are nearly 30 million small
businesses in the United States, rep-
resenting more than 99 percent of all
businesses. These small firms employ
nearly 50 percent of all private-sector
employees in the U.S.
The SBA administers a portfolio of
entrepreneurial development programs,
which includes the SCORE program.
Since its inception, the SBA has under-
taken efforts to connect new entre-
preneurs and small business owners
with more experienced businessmen
and -women. This expansive network
consists of entrepreneurs, business
leaders, and executives who volunteer
as mentors to small firms, both in per-
son and online.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:32 Oct 22, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00013 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A21OC7.006 H21OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8276 October 21, 2019
SCORE has grown to become one of
the Federal Government’s largest vol-
unteer business adviser and mentoring
programs. Yet, the SBA OIG found that
improvements are needed to ensure
SCORE minimizes risk of fraud or mis-
use of program funds and to strengthen
SBA’s oversight and the committee’s
ability to review the effectiveness of
the program.
On July 11, 2019, our Subcommittee
on Investigations, Oversight and Regu-
lations held a hearing to examine the
agency’s oversight of the SCORE pro-
gram. This bill is a direct result of that
hearing and much stakeholder engage-
ment.
H.R. 4407 not only reauthorizes this
essential program, but it also takes
steps to restore integrity, accounting,
and performance to the program. Doing
so ensures the program will continue
to have the ability to meet the needs of
entrepreneurs.
With technology enhancements and
streamlined service processes, SCORE
mentoring will now be accessible to
business owners no matter their loca-
tion.
I commend Congressman HERN and
Congresswoman CRAIG for working to-
gether to make sure that the coun-
seling and training programs are oper-
ating effectively, as well as holding
SBA accountable as a good steward of
taxpayer dollars.
Mr. Speaker, I urge Members to sup-
port this legislation, and I reserve the
balance of my time.
Mr. CHABOT. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R.
4407, the SCORE for Small Business
Act of 2019.
This legislation will allow the
SCORE program to continue to offer
business mentoring and training to
thousands of entrepreneurs and small
business owners each year.
The SCORE program currently in-
cludes over 11,000 volunteer mentors
with expertise across 62 industries that
collectively provide more than a mil-
lion hours of business counseling each
year.
When an entrepreneur seeks a
SCORE mentor, they are purposefully
paired with a business professional
with knowledge in a specific field or
experience facing specific challenges.
This process ensures that the goals of
the entrepreneur are met by the volun-
teer mentor.
In addition to SCORE’s mentorship
services, the program also offers in-
person business training classes at its
350 chapter locations nationwide.
Entrepreneurs can also utilize the ex-
tensive online training opportunities
and free business tools available on
SCORE’s national website.
Over the last 50 years, SCORE has be-
come the Federal Government’s largest
business mentoring program with over
800 locations nationally and over 11,000
volunteers. Last year, SCORE mentors
provided personalized guidance to near-
ly 140,000 clients. More than 400,000 cli-
ents attended online and local SCORE
workshops.
This legislation will allow SCORE to
continue to provide these important
services. H.R. 4407, the SCORE for
Small Business Act of 2019, adds strict
safeguards to core provisions of the
SCORE bill passed last year in May.
This legislation, offered by the gen-
tleman from Oklahoma (Mr. KEVIN
HERN) and the gentlewoman from Min-
nesota (Ms. CRAIG), also establishes
strict new compliance and oversight re-
quirements to protect taxpayer dollars
and sets new outcome-based perform-
ance goals to ensure the program
meets the SBA’s standards and con-
gressional intent.
These provisions will significantly
increase congressional oversight of the
program and provide future Congresses
with additional information about the
health of the program.
I thank the gentleman from Okla-
homa (Mr. KEVIN HERN) and the gentle-
woman from Minnesota (Ms. CRAIG) for
their leadership on this and also for
their very thoughtful approach to the
passage of this legislation.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
support the bill, and I reserve the bal-
ance of my time.
Ms. VELÁZQUEZ. Mr. Speaker, I
continue to reserve the balance of my
time.
Mr. CHABOT. Mr. Speaker, I yield
such time as he may consume to the
gentleman from Oklahoma (Mr. KEVIN
HERN), who is the lead Republican
sponsor of this legislation.
Mr. KEVIN HERN of Oklahoma. Mr.
Speaker, I thank the ranking member
for yielding.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R.
4407.
The Service Corps of Retired Execu-
tives, better known as SCORE, has
helped more than 11 million entre-
preneurs over the last 50 years. SCORE
is a nonprofit organization made up of
active and retired business executives
who act as mentors for entrepreneurs.
These volunteers provide face-to-face
counseling on business issues ranging
from planning to budgeting, mar-
keting, and financing, all of this at no
charge to the entrepreneur.
As a small business owner myself, I
can attest to the importance of
mentorship programs like this for first-
time entrepreneurs. In a country like
ours, where a good idea and hard work
can put you on the path to the Amer-
ican Dream, the mentorship of an expe-
rienced business owner can be a huge
asset to a startup.
Today, there are more than 300
SCORE chapters across the country,
totaling more than 11,000 volunteers.
This includes a chapter in my home-
town of Tulsa, which has over 40 volun-
teers.
H.R. 4407 will continue the success of
the SCORE program by reauthorizing
the funds while safeguarding the pro-
gram for the future by modernizing
data standards, closing loopholes for
fraud, and adding important oversight
to the use of funds. These provisions
will only increase the integrity of
SCORE and help the program to assist
even more small businesses and entre-
preneurs.
All the reforms made in this bill are
supported by SCORE. This bipartisan
effort to invest in our small business
owners and encourage more Americans
to follow their dreams is a big step for-
ward in support of the things that
make our country so special.
I thank my colleague Ms. CRAIG from
Minnesota for being an original cospon-
sor of this legislation and supporting
its progress through the committee
and now here on the House floor.
The passage of this bill will not only
be an important moment for our coun-
try’s future business owners, but it is
also my first piece of legislation to
pass the House. Focusing on the busi-
nesses that drive our local economies
and encouraging the growth of entre-
preneurship across our country has
been my top priority in Congress.
Reauthorizing and strengthening
SCORE is a necessary step to help grow
our economy and invest in our commu-
nities, and I urge my colleagues to vote
‘‘yes’’ on this bill today.
Mr. Speaker, before I close today, I
want to say that I really appreciate the
leadership and the bipartisanship of
Chairwoman VELÁZQUEZ and Ranking
Member CHABOT. They do a great job
with bipartisanship in their leadership.
It is a great example for the people’s
House. I encourage all of our Members
to come sit in on a meeting sometime.
It might be something that they would
like to see.
Ms. VELÁZQUEZ. Mr. Speaker, I
have no further speakers if the gen-
tleman is ready to close. I reserve the
balance of my time.
Mr. CHABOT. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
The simple improvements in this bill
will allow the SCORE program to con-
tinue its mission helping entrepreneurs
to start and grow their businesses.
With the vast majority of all busi-
nesses in the United States classified
as small, it is vital that these business
owners have access to effective entre-
preneurial resources. H.R. 4407 would
ensure that, regardless of location, a
small business owner can access
SCORE mentoring and training.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
support this legislation, and I yield
back the balance of my time.
Ms. VELÁZQUEZ. Mr. Speaker, I
yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
There is no question that we need to
support our small businesses across the
country, no matter their location, in-
dustry, or expertise level.
H.R. 4407 does exactly that by reau-
thorizing a major component of SBA’s
entrepreneurial programs and clari-
fying the utilization of the volunteer
base. This bill is reflective of the
growth of the SCORE program, which
actively engages business owners, as
well as retired executives, to mentor
the next generation of job makers.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:32 Oct 22, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00014 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K21OC7.019 H21OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8277
October 21, 2019
Most importantly, it responds to the
findings of the IG and makes strides to
hold the agency and SCORE mentors
accountable.
Mr. Speaker, I urge Members to sup-
port this bill, and I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentlewoman from New York (Ms.
VELÁZQUEZ) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, H.R. 4407.
The question was taken.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. In the
opinion of the Chair, two-thirds being
in the affirmative, the ayes have it.
Ms. VELÁZQUEZ. Mr. Speaker, on
that I demand the yeas and nays.
The yeas and nays were ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, further pro-
ceedings on this motion will be post-
poned.
f
MESSAGE FROM THE SENATE
A message from the Senate by Ms.
Byrd, one of its clerks, announced that
the Senate has agreed to a concurrent
resolution of the following title in
which the concurrence of the House is
requested:
S. Con. Res. 27. Concurrent Resolution pro-
viding for the use of the catafalque situated
in the Exhibition Hall of the Capitol Visitor
Center in connection with memorial services
to be conducted in the House wing of the
Capitol for the Honorable Elijah E. Cum-
mings, late a Representative from the State
of Maryland.
f
b 1615
ESTABLISHING A GROWTH ACCEL-
ERATOR FUND COMPETITION
Ms. VELÁZQUEZ. Mr. Speaker, I
move to suspend the rules and pass the
bill (H.R. 4387) to establish Growth Ac-
celerator Fund Competition within the
Small Business Administration, and for
other purposes.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 4387
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. GROWTH ACCELERATOR FUND COM-
PETITION.
(a) IN GENERAL.—There is established a
program within the Small Business Adminis-
tration to be known as the ‘‘Growth Accel-
erator Fund Competition’’ under which the
Administrator of the Small Business Admin-
istration shall award prizes on a competitive
basis to covered entities that—
(1) assist small business concerns with ac-
cessing capital and finding mentors and net-
working opportunities; and
(2) advise small business concerns, includ-
ing advising on market analysis, company
strategy, revenue growth, and securing fund-
ing.
(b) REQUIREMENTS.—Except as otherwise
provided in this section, the Administrator
shall carry out the program established
under this section in accordance with the re-
quirements of section 24 of the Stevenson-
Wydler Technology Innovation Act of 1980 (15
U.S.C. 3719).
(c) APPLICATION.—A prize only may be
awarded to a covered entity that submits to
the Administrator an application at such
time, in such manner, and containing such
information as the Administrator may re-
quire.
(d) ELIGIBILITY.—To be eligible to apply for
a prize under this section, a covered entity—
(1) may not have an outstanding, unre-
solved financial obligation to the Federal
Government; and
(2) may not be currently suspended or
debarred as specified under subpart 9.4 of
title 48, Code of Federal Regulations (or any
successor regulation).
(e) SELECTION OF COVERED ENTITIES.—From
applications submitted under subsection (c),
the Administrator shall select covered enti-
ties that will provide to small business con-
cerns—
(1) regular networking opportunities, in-
cluding introductions to customers, part-
ners, suppliers, advisory boards, and other
persons;
(2) mentorship opportunities, including ad-
vice on strategy, technology, finances, and
commercialization assistance;
(3) shared working environments focused
on building a strong community amongst
other similar small business concerns;
(4) resources and co-working arrange-
ments;
(5) opportunities to pitch ideas to investors
and other capital formation opportunities;
(6) small amounts of angel money, seed
capital, or structured loans; and
(7) where appropriate, assistance in secur-
ing funding under the SBIR program or the
STTR program established under section 9 of
the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 638).
(f) PRIORITY.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Administrator, in ap-
proving applications under this section, shall
give priority to applications that include
methods to provide assistance and advice to
small business concerns located in under-
served communities, including—
(A) small business concerns owned and con-
trolled by women;
(B) small business concerns owned and con-
trolled by veterans; and
(C) small business concerns owned and con-
trolled by socially and economically dis-
advantaged individuals (as defined in section
8(d)(3)(C) of the Small Business Act (15
U.S.C. 637(d)(3)(C))).
(2) ALLOCATION.—Of prizes awarded to cov-
ered entities under this section in a fiscal
year, the Administrator shall ensure that—
(A) not less than 20 percent of such covered
entities will assist and advise small business
concerns owned and controlled by women;
and
(B) not less than 20 percent of such covered
entities will assist and advise small business
concerns owned and controlled by socially
and economically disadvantaged individuals.
(g) SELECTION OF SMALL BUSINESS CON-
CERNS.—A covered entity that receives a
prize under the Growth Accelerator Fund
Competition shall use a selective process to
identify small business concerns to provide
assistance and advice described under sub-
section (a).
(h) DEVELOPMENT OF METRICS.—The Ad-
ministrator shall develop metrics to evalu-
ate the effectiveness and the benefit to the
people of the United States of the Growth
Accelerator Fund Competition that—
(1) are science-based and statistically driv-
en;
(2) reflect the mission of the Small Busi-
ness Administration; and
(3) include factors relating to the economic
impact of the Growth Accelerator Fund
Competition.
(i) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) ADMINISTRATOR.—The term ‘‘Adminis-
trator’’ means the Administrator of the
Small Business Administration.
(2) COVERED ENTITY.—The term ‘‘covered
entity’’ means a private entity that is incor-
porated in and maintains a primary place of
business in the United States.
(3) SMALL BUSINESS ACT DEFINITIONS.—The
terms ‘‘small business concern’’, ‘‘small busi-
ness concern owned and controlled by
women’’, ‘‘small business concern owned and
controlled by veterans’’ have the meanings
given such terms, respectively, in section 3
of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 632).
(j) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—
There are authorized to be appropriated to
the Administrator $2,000,000 for each of fiscal
years 2020, 2021, 2022, and 2023 to carry out
the Growth Accelerator Fund Competition.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentlewoman from
New York (Ms. VELÁZQUEZ) and the
gentleman from Ohio (Mr. CHABOT)
each will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from New York.
GENERAL LEAVE
Ms. VELÁZQUEZ. Mr. Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that all Members
may have 5 legislative days in which to
revise and extend their remarks and in-
clude extraneous material on the meas-
ure under consideration.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gentle-
woman from New York?
There was no objection.
Ms. VELÁZQUEZ. Mr. Speaker, I
yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of the
bill before us today, H.R. 4387, which
establishes the Growth Accelerator
Fund Competition within SBA.
Accelerator programs provide found-
ers of early-stage companies with edu-
cation, mentorship, financing, cohort-
based training, and technical assist-
ance. There are many accelerator suc-
cess stories. Among them are well-
known companies like Airbnb,
Dropbox, and Stripe.
The SBA funds the Growth Accel-
erator Fund Competition for the Na-
tion’s most innovative, diverse, and
promising small business accelerators
and incubators. It was created in 2014
to support small business job creation
by giving early-stage entrepreneurs op-
portunities to immerse themselves in
an intense learning environment.
Monetary prizes of $50,000 to each of
the winners go a long way towards sup-
porting the development of accelera-
tors and incubators.
Not only does the Growth Accel-
erator Fund Competition spur eco-
nomic development and create jobs,
but most importantly, it supports in-
novation in economic areas that are
outside of what we have come to think
of as traditional coastal tech hubs.
It supports places like the industrial
heartland, where barriers to capital ac-
cess have hindered entrepreneurs. The
program also has a proven track record
of investing in women and minority en-
trepreneurs.
The legislation will authorize $2 mil-
lion in funds, annually, for 4 years, to
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:53 Oct 22, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00015 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K21OC7.020 H21OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8278 October 21, 2019
carry out the Growth Accelerator Fund
Competition. H.R. 4387 continues our
commitment of investment in the next
generation of American entrepreneurs
by promoting innovation and growing
jobs.
Mr. Speaker, I urge Members to sup-
port this legislation, and I reserve the
balance of my time.
Mr. CHABOT. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R.
4387. This bipartisan legislation codi-
fies the SBA’s Growth Accelerator
Fund Competition.
Since 2014, the SBA’s Office of Invest-
ment and Innovation has run a yearly
competition to identify the Nation’s
best small business accelerators and in-
cubators. The competition has proven
successful over the past 5 years, and I
expect that will continue to be success-
ful during the authorization period.
The accelerators that win these
awards represent a broad set of indus-
tries and sectors, from manufacturing
to tech startups, to farming with a di-
versified range of demographic groups.
The winners are selected through a
two-tier review panel process and are
evaluated by experts in entrepreneur-
ship, investing, and business plans,
both inside and outside Federal Gov-
ernment. The expert judges review ap-
plications and pitch videos submitted
by the finalists.
I am proud to say that three Cin-
cinnati organizations have won an
award prize since the initiative’s incep-
tion: The Brandery, First Batch, and
Mortar. These award dollars have been
reinvested in small business clients in
Cincinnati communities.
As an authorized program rather
than an SBA Administrator initiative,
the competition will now be subject to
greater congressional oversight.
I want to thank the gentleman from
New York (Mr. ESPAILLAT) and my fel-
low Ohioan, Mr. BALDERSON, for their
leadership on this bill. Their hard work
on this bill has been informed by over-
sight findings, program feedback, and
agency transparency.
Mr. Speaker, this legislation has my
full support. I urge its adoption, and I
reserve the balance of my time.
Ms. VELÁZQUEZ. Mr. Speaker, I just
want to take this opportunity also to
congratulate Congressman ADRIANO
ESPAILLAT from New York and Mr.
BALDERSON for their hard work and the
contributions that they are making
with this bill.
Mr. Speaker, I yield such time as he
may consume to the gentleman from
New York (Mr. ESPAILLAT), who is the
sponsor of the bill.
Mr. ESPAILLAT. Mr. Speaker, I
thank Chairwoman VELÁZQUEZ and also
Ranking Member CHABOT for their
leadership. I would also like to thank
my colleague, Congressman
BALDERSON, for working with me on
this bipartisan legislation.
One of the most widely successful
tools the Small Business Administra-
tion utilizes to grow and support small
businesses is the Growth Accelerator
Fund Competition. Since this program
began in 2014, the Growth Accelerator
Fund Competition has small businesses
and entrepreneurs in almost 40 States.
This competitive program provides
some of the most innovative and prom-
ising small businesses in high-growth
sectors with early-stage education, fi-
nancing, mentorship, cohort-based
training, and technical assistance. Im-
portantly, these entrepreneurial devel-
opment models create a pipeline of tal-
ented entrepreneurs—especially women
and minorities—to grow and succeed.
According to the Small Business Ad-
ministration, since this Growth Accel-
erator Fund Competition began in 2014,
the first 50 awardees have led directly
to almost 1,500 companies across the
country.
Codifying this program and author-
izing $2 million for 4 additional years is
a commitment to American innova-
tion. The legislation reflects our bipar-
tisan support and priority investment
in the growth, development, and expan-
sion of small businesses.
I am proud to support this program,
and I am glad to work with colleagues
on both sides of the aisle on this mean-
ingful and important legislation.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
support this bill.
Mr. CHABOT. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself the balance of my time to close.
The Growth Accelerator Fund Com-
petition at the SBA draws attention
and funding to parts of the country
where there are gaps in the entrepre-
neurial ecosystem. This bipartisan bill,
while congressionally authorizing an
already successful program, will pro-
vide for increased reporting and better
metrics to gauge program outcomes
and will provide budding entrepreneurs
with greater resources to build our
communities.
This bill is a product of our bipar-
tisan work at the Small Business Com-
mittee, and I want to thank all of our
members, both Democratic and Repub-
lican, for their excellent work on this
legislative package, as well as our
chairwoman, Ms. VELÁZQUEZ, and her
staff for working with our staff in a
very cooperative, bipartisan way.
It would be great if the rest of the
House worked as well as this com-
mittee does. I think it is the best com-
mittee in Congress. I am on Judiciary
and Foreign Affairs, too, so they may
not like that, but this is a really bipar-
tisan committee, and it is a real joy to
be on it.
Mr. Speaker, I urge this bill’s adop-
tion, and I yield back the balance of
my time.
Ms. VELÁZQUEZ. Mr. Speaker, I
yield myself the balance of my time.
Business accelerators help high-
growth startup enterprises develop
their products, identify promising cus-
tomer segments, and secure resources,
including vital capital and potential
employees. It is clear that they serve
an important role in innovation, and
H.R. 4387 enhances the ability of the
SBA’s Growth Accelerator Fund Com-
petition so it can continue to assist en-
trepreneurs.
By opening the funding network for
companies that may not otherwise
have gained such exposure, the growth
accelerator fund helps boost small
business innovation and grow the econ-
omy.
The SBA growth accelerator program
supports underserved business owners
and fills critical gaps in capital access.
In 2019, 60 percent of the winners were
either women owned, socially or eco-
nomically disadvantaged, or located in
areas with a lower number of SBIR and
STTR awards. This bill reinforces our
committee’s pledge to entrepreneur-
ship and job creation.
Finally, I want to thank Mr.
ESPAILLAT and Mr. BALDERSON for their
diligence on this bill, and I also want
to take the opportunity to thank the
ranking member, Mr. CHABOT, his staff,
and my staff.
What we are showing today is that
there is not a Republican or Demo-
cratic approach when it comes to small
businesses. This is the way that we do
right by the American people.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentlewoman from New York (Ms.
VELÁZQUEZ) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, H.R. 4387.
The question was taken; and (two-
thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the bill was
passed.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
RECESS
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 12(a) of rule I, the Chair
declares the House in recess subject to
the call of the Chair.
Accordingly (at 4 o’clock and 26 min-
utes p.m.), the House stood in recess.
f
b 1822
AFTER RECESS
The recess having expired, the House
was called to order by the Speaker pro
tempore (Ms. TITUS) at 6 o’clock and 22
minutes p.m.
f
REPORT ON RESOLUTION PRO-
VIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF
H.R. 2513, CORPORATE TRANS-
PARENCY ACT OF 2019
Mr. PERLMUTTER, from the Com-
mittee on Rules, submitted a privi-
leged report (Rept. No. 116–247) on the
resolution (H. Res. 646) providing for
consideration of the bill (H.R. 2513) to
ensure that persons who form corpora-
tions or limited liability companies in
the United States disclose the bene-
ficial owners of those corporations or
limited liability companies, in order to
prevent wrongdoers from exploiting
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:53 Oct 22, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00016 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K21OC7.023 H21OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8279
October 21, 2019
United States corporations and limited
liability companies for criminal gain,
to assist law enforcement in detecting,
preventing, and punishing terrorism,
money laundering, and other mis-
conduct involving United States cor-
porations and limited liability compa-
nies, and for other purposes, which was
referred to the House Calendar and or-
dered to be printed.
f
RAISING A QUESTION OF THE
PRIVILEGES OF THE HOUSE
Mr. BIGGS. Madam Speaker, pursu-
ant to clause 2(a)(1) of rule IX, I rise to
give notice of my intention to raise a
question of the privileges of the House.
The form of the resolution is as fol-
lows:
Whereas President Trump released
the transcript of a call between him
and the President of Ukraine;
Whereas President Trump subse-
quently released the whistleblower
complaint of August 12, 2019;
Whereas, in a September 26, 2019,
hearing on the whistleblower com-
plaint, House Intelligence Committee
Chairman ADAM SCHIFF purported to
relay the content of the phone call to
the American people;
Whereas, instead of quoting directly
from the available transcript, Chair-
man SCHIFF manufactured a false re-
telling of the conversation between
President Trump and President
Zelensky;
Whereas this egregiously false and
fabricated retelling had no relationship
to the call itself;
Whereas these actions of Chairman
SCHIFF misled the American people,
bring disrepute upon the House of Rep-
resentatives, and make a mockery of
the impeachment process, one of this
Chamber’s most solemn constitutional
duties;
Whereas, for more than 2 years,
Chairman SCHIFF has spread false accu-
sations that the Trump campaign
colluded with Russia;
Whereas, on March 20, 2017, then-
Ranking Member SCHIFF read out false
allegations from the Steele dossier ac-
cusing numerous Trump associates of
colluding with Russia;
Whereas then-Ranking Member
SCHIFF falsely claimed in a March 2017
interview to have ‘‘more than cir-
cumstantial evidence’’ of collusion
with Russia;
Whereas then-Ranking Member
SCHIFF negotiated with Russian come-
dians whom he believed to be Ukrain-
ian officials to obtain materials to
damage the President of the United
States politically;
Whereas, according to a New York
Times article on October 2, 2019, Chair-
man SCHIFF’s committee staff met with
the whistleblower prior to the filing of
his complaint, and staff members com-
municated the content of the com-
plaint to Chairman SCHIFF;
Whereas Chairman SCHIFF concealed
his dealings with the whistleblower
from the rest of the Intelligence Com-
mittee, and when asked directly in a
television interview whether he had
any contact with the whistleblower, he
lied to the American people and said,
‘‘We have not spoken directly with the
whistleblower.’’;
Whereas members of the Intelligence
Committee have lost faith in his objec-
tivity and capabilities as chairman,
with every Republican member on the
committee having signed a letter call-
ing for his immediate resignation as
chairman; and
Whereas Chairman SCHIFF has hin-
dered the ability of the Intelligence
Committee to fulfill its oversight re-
sponsibilities of the intelligence com-
munity, an indispensable pillar of our
national security: Now, therefore, be it
Resolved, That—
(1) the House of Representatives cen-
sures and condemns Representative
ADAM SCHIFF for conduct that misleads
the American people in a way that is
not befitting an elected Member of the
House of Representatives;
(2) Representative ADAM SCHIFF will
forthwith present himself in the well of
the House for the pronouncement of
censure; and
(3) Representative ADAM SCHIFF will
be censured with the public reading of
this resolution by the Speaker.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair would now recognize the gen-
tleman from Arizona to offer the reso-
lution just noticed.
Does the gentleman offer the resolu-
tion?
Mr. BIGGS. Yes.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Clerk will report the resolution.
The Clerk read the resolution as fol-
lows:
Whereas President Trump released the
transcript of a call between him and the
President of Ukraine;
Whereas President Trump subsequently re-
leased the whistleblower complaint of Au-
gust 12, 2019;
Whereas, in a September 26, 2019, hearing
on the whistleblower complaint, House Intel-
ligence Committee Chairman Adam Schiff
purported to relay the content of the phone
call to the American people;
Whereas, instead of quoting directly from
the available transcript, Chairman Schiff
manufactured a false retelling of the con-
versation between President Trump and
President Zelensky;
Whereas this egregiously false and fab-
ricated retelling had no relationship to the
call itself;
Whereas these actions of Chairman Schiff
misled the American people, bring disrepute
upon the House of Representatives, and
make a mockery of the impeachment proc-
ess, one of this chamber’s most solemn con-
stitutional duties;
Whereas, for more than 2 years, Chairman
Schiff has spread false accusations that the
Trump campaign colluded with Russia;
Whereas, on March 20, 2017, then-Ranking
Member Schiff read out false allegations
from the Steele dossier accusing numerous
Trump associates of colluding with Russia;
Whereas then-Ranking Member Schiff
falsely claimed in a March 2017 interview to
have ‘‘more than circumstantial evidence’’
of collusion with Russia;
Whereas then-Ranking Member Schiff ne-
gotiated with Russian comedians whom he
believed to be Ukrainian officials to obtain
materials to damage the President of the
United States politically;
Whereas, according to a New York Times
article on October 2, 2019, Chairman Schiff’s
committee staff met with the whistleblower
prior to the filing of his complaint, and staff
members communicated the content of the
complaint to Chairman Schiff;
Whereas Chairman Schiff concealed his
dealings with the whistleblower from the
rest of the Intelligence Committee, and when
asked directly in a television interview
whether he had any contact with the whis-
tleblower, he lied to the American people
and said, ‘‘We have not spoken directly with
the whistleblower.’’;
Whereas members of the Intelligence Com-
mittee have lost faith in his objectivity and
capabilities as Chairman, with every Repub-
lican member on the Committee having
signed a letter calling for his immediate res-
ignation as Chairman; and
Whereas Chairman Schiff has hindered the
ability of the Intelligence Committee to ful-
fill its oversight responsibilities of the Intel-
ligence Community, an indispensable pillar
of our national security: Now, therefore, be
it
Resolved, That—
(1) the House of Representatives censures
and condemns Representative Adam Schiff
for conduct that misleads the American peo-
ple in a way that is not befitting an elected
Member of the House of Representatives;
(2) Representative Adam Schiff will forth-
with present himself in the well of the House
for the pronouncement of censure; and
(3) Representative Adam Schiff will be cen-
sured with the public reading of this resolu-
tion by the Speaker.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The res-
olution qualifies.
MOTION TO TABLE
Mr. HOYER. Madam Speaker, I have
a motion at the desk.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Clerk will report the motion.
The Clerk read as follows:
Mr. Hoyer moves that the resolution be
laid on the table.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion to table of-
fered by the gentleman from Maryland.
The question was taken; and the
Speaker pro tempore announced that
the ayes appeared to have it.
Mr. BIGGS. Madam Speaker, on that
I demand the yeas and nays.
The yeas and nays were ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 9 of rule XX, this 15-
minute vote on the motion to table
will be followed by 5-minute votes on
motions to suspend the rules and pass:
H.R. 4406; and
H.R. 4407.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—yeas 218, nays
185, not voting 28, as follows:
[Roll No. 568]
YEAS—218
Adams
Aguilar
Amash
Axne
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Beyer
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brindisi
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Bustos
Butterfield
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:35 Oct 29, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00017 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\RECORD19\OCTOBER\H21OC9.REC H21OC9
abonner
on
DSK9F5VC42PROD
with
CONG-REC-ONLINE
CORRECTION
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8280 October 21, 2019
Clay
Cleaver
Clyburn
Cohen
Connolly
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cunningham
Davids (KS)
Davis (CA)
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Evans
Finkenauer
Fletcher
Foster
Frankel
Fudge
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (TX)
Gottheimer
Green, Al (TX)
Harder (CA)
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Higgins (NY)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Huffman
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (TX)
Kaptur
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Lamb
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lofgren
Lowenthal
Lowey
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCollum
McGovern
McNerney
Meeks
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Murphy (FL)
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Norcross
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Perlmutter
Peterson
Phillips
Pocan
Porter
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Rice (NY)
Rose (NY)
Rouda
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Ryan
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Slotkin
Smith (WA)
Soto
Spanberger
Speier
Stanton
Stevens
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Underwood
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watson Coleman
Welch
Wexton
Wild
Wilson (FL)
Yarmuth
NAYS—185
Abraham
Aderholt
Allen
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Bergman
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (UT)
Bost
Brady
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Byrne
Calvert
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Cline
Cloud
Cole
Comer
Conaway
Cook
Crawford
Crenshaw
Davidson (OH)
Davis, Rodney
DesJarlais
Diaz-Balart
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Estes
Ferguson
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Flores
Fortenberry
Foxx (NC)
Fulcher
Gallagher
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Gonzalez (OH)
Gosar
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Griffith
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Hagedorn
Harris
Hartzler
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Hill (AR)
Holding
Hollingsworth
Hudson
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Katko
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamborn
Latta
Lesko
Long
Loudermilk
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Marchant
Marshall
Massie
Mast
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McHenry
McKinley
Meadows
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Mullin
Murphy (NC)
Newhouse
Norman
Nunes
Olson
Palazzo
Palmer
Pence
Perry
Posey
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (SC)
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rose, John W.
Rouzer
Roy
Rutherford
Schweikert
Scott, Austin
Sensenbrenner
Shimkus
Simpson
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smucker
Spano
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stivers
Taylor
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Tipton
Turner
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Watkins
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Wenstrup
Westerman
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yoho
Young
Zeldin
NOT VOTING—28
Allred
Bishop (NC)
Collins (GA)
Curtis
Davis, Danny K.
Dingell
Gabbard
Gaetz
Gooden
Grijalva
Haaland
Keller
Kennedy
Lipinski
Loebsack
McEachin
Meng
Meuser
Peters
Pingree
Richmond
Rooney (FL)
Scalise
Sires
Stewart
Takano
Timmons
Upton
b 1857
Messrs. ROUZER and LOUDERMILK
changed their vote from ‘‘yea’’ to
‘‘nay.’’
Mr. CROW, Ms. TLAIB, Mr. LARSON
of Connecticut, Mses. WASSERMAN
SCHULTZ and CLARKE of New York
changed their vote from ‘‘nay’’ to
‘‘yea.’’
So the motion to table was agreed to.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
SMALL BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT
CENTERS IMPROVEMENT ACT OF
2019
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, the unfin-
ished business is the vote on the mo-
tion to suspend the rules and pass the
bill (H.R. 4406) to amend the Small
Business Act to improve the small
business development centers program,
and for other purposes, as amended, on
which the yeas and nays were ordered.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentlewoman from New York (Ms.
VELÁZQUEZ) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, as amended.
This is a 5-minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—yeas 375, nays 25,
not voting 31, as follows:
[Roll No. 569]
YEAS—375
Abraham
Adams
Aderholt
Aguilar
Allen
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Axne
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Bergman
Beyer
Bilirakis
Bishop (GA)
Bishop (UT)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Bost
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brady
Brindisi
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Buchanan
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Bustos
Butterfield
Byrne
Calvert
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Cloud
Clyburn
Cohen
Cole
Comer
Conaway
Connolly
Cook
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crawford
Crenshaw
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cunningham
Davids (KS)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Rodney
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
DesJarlais
Deutch
Diaz-Balart
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Estes
Evans
Finkenauer
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Fletcher
Flores
Fortenberry
Foster
Foxx (NC)
Frankel
Fudge
Fulcher
Gallagher
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Gianforte
Gibbs
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (OH)
Gonzalez (TX)
Gottheimer
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green, Al (TX)
Griffith
Guest
Guthrie
Hagedorn
Harder (CA)
Hartzler
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Higgins (LA)
Higgins (NY)
Hill (AR)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Holding
Hollingsworth
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Hudson
Huffman
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Johnson (TX)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Kaptur
Katko
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamb
Lamborn
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Latta
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lofgren
Long
Loudermilk
Lowenthal
Lowey
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Marchant
Marshall
Mast
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCarthy
McCaul
McCollum
McGovern
McHenry
McKinley
McNerney
Meeks
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Mullin
Murphy (FL)
Murphy (NC)
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Newhouse
Norcross
Norman
Nunes
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Olson
Omar
Palazzo
Pallone
Palmer
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Pence
Perlmutter
Peterson
Phillips
Pocan
Porter
Posey
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (NY)
Rice (SC)
Richmond
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rose (NY)
Rose, John W.
Rouda
Rouzer
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Rutherford
Ryan
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Schweikert
Scott (VA)
Scott, Austin
Scott, David
Sensenbrenner
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:53 Oct 22, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00018 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A21OC7.010 H21OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8281
October 21, 2019
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Shimkus
Simpson
Slotkin
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smith (WA)
Smucker
Soto
Spanberger
Spano
Speier
Stanton
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Stevens
Stivers
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Tipton
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Turner
Underwood
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watkins
Watson Coleman
Welch
Wenstrup
Westerman
Wexton
Wild
Williams
Wilson (FL)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Yarmuth
Young
Zeldin
NAYS—25
Amash
Biggs
Buck
Burgess
Cline
Davidson (OH)
Ferguson
Gohmert
Gosar
Green (TN)
Grothman
Harris
Hice (GA)
Johnson (LA)
King (IA)
Lesko
Massie
McClintock
Perry
Roy
Steube
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Wright
Yoho
NOT VOTING—31
Allred
Babin
Bishop (NC)
Collins (GA)
Curtis
Davis, Danny K.
Dingell
Gabbard
Gaetz
Gooden
Grijalva
Haaland
Keller
Kennedy
Lipinski
Loebsack
McEachin
Meadows
Meng
Meuser
Peters
Pingree
Rooney (FL)
Scalise
Sires
Stewart
Takano
Taylor
Timmons
Upton
Wilson (SC)
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER PRO TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore (during
the vote). There are 2 minutes remain-
ing.
b 1905
So (two-thirds being in the affirma-
tive) the rules were suspended and the
bill, as amended, was passed.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
Stated against:
Mr. TAYLOR. Madam Speaker, had I been
present, I would have voted ‘‘nay’’ on rollcall
No. 569.
f
SCORE FOR SMALL BUSINESS ACT
OF 2019
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, the unfin-
ished business is the vote on the mo-
tion to suspend the rules and pass the
bill (H.R. 4407) to amend the Small
Business Act to reauthorize the SCORE
program, and for other purposes, on
which the yeas and nays were ordered.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentlewoman from New York (Ms.
VELÁZQUEZ) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill.
This is a 5-minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—yeas 389, nays 8,
not voting 34, as follows:
[Roll No. 570]
YEAS—389
Abraham
Adams
Aderholt
Aguilar
Allen
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Axne
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Bergman
Beyer
Bilirakis
Bishop (GA)
Bishop (UT)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Bost
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brady
Brindisi
Brooks (IN)
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Buchanan
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Bustos
Butterfield
Byrne
Calvert
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Cline
Cloud
Clyburn
Cohen
Comer
Conaway
Connolly
Cook
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crawford
Crenshaw
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cunningham
Davids (KS)
Davidson (OH)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Rodney
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
DesJarlais
Deutch
Diaz-Balart
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Estes
Evans
Ferguson
Finkenauer
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Fletcher
Flores
Fortenberry
Foster
Foxx (NC)
Frankel
Fudge
Fulcher
Gallagher
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (OH)
Gonzalez (TX)
Gottheimer
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Green, Al (TX)
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Hagedorn
Harder (CA)
Harris
Hartzler
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Higgins (NY)
Hill (AR)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Holding
Hollingsworth
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Hudson
Huffman
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Johnson (TX)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Kaptur
Katko
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamb
Lamborn
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Latta
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Lesko
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lofgren
Long
Loudermilk
Lowenthal
Lowey
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Marchant
Marshall
Mast
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McCollum
McGovern
McHenry
McKinley
McNerney
Meeks
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Mullin
Murphy (FL)
Murphy (NC)
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Newhouse
Norcross
Norman
Nunes
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Olson
Omar
Palazzo
Pallone
Palmer
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Pence
Perlmutter
Perry
Peterson
Phillips
Pocan
Porter
Posey
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (NY)
Rice (SC)
Richmond
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rose (NY)
Rose, John W.
Rouda
Rouzer
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Ryan
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Schweikert
Scott (VA)
Scott, Austin
Scott, David
Sensenbrenner
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Shimkus
Simpson
Slotkin
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smith (WA)
Smucker
Soto
Spanberger
Spano
Speier
Stanton
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stevens
Stivers
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Taylor
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Tipton
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Turner
Underwood
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watkins
Watson Coleman
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Welch
Westerman
Wexton
Wild
Williams
Wilson (FL)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yarmuth
Yoho
Young
Zeldin
NAYS—8
Amash
Biggs
Brooks (AL)
Buck
Gosar
Griffith
Massie
Roy
NOT VOTING—34
Allred
Bishop (NC)
Cole
Collins (GA)
Curtis
Davis, Danny K.
Dingell
Gabbard
Gaetz
Gooden
Grijalva
Haaland
Keller
Kennedy
Lipinski
Loebsack
McEachin
Meadows
Meng
Meuser
Peters
Pingree
Rooney (FL)
Rutherford
Scalise
Sires
Stewart
Takano
Timmons
Upton
Wagner
Walberg
Wenstrup
Wilson (SC)
b 1914
So (two-thirds being in the affirma-
tive) the rules were suspended and the
bill was passed.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
Mr. TAKANO. Madam Speaker, please ac-
cept the following vote recommendations in
my absence as I represent the United States
at the formal ascension of the Emperor in
Japan. Had I been present, I would have
voted: ‘‘yea’’ on rollcall No. 568, ‘‘yea’’ on roll-
call No. 569, and ‘‘yea’’ on rollcall No. 570.
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
Mr. ALLRED. Madam Speaker, as I am
back home in Dallas, Texas in light of the tor-
nado and storm, I submit the following vote
explanation. Had I been present, I would have
voted ‘‘yea’’ on rollcall No. 568, ‘‘yea’’ on roll-
call No. 569, and ‘‘yea’’ on rollcall No. 570.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:53 Oct 22, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00019 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A21OC7.012 H21OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8282 October 21, 2019
PROVIDING FOR THE USE OF THE
CATAFALQUE SITUATED IN THE
EXHIBITION HALL OF THE CAP-
ITOL VISITOR CENTER IN CON-
NECTION WITH MEMORIAL SERV-
ICES TO BE CONDUCTED IN THE
HOUSE WING OF THE CAPITOL
FOR THE HONORABLE ELIJAH E.
CUMMINGS, LATE A REPRESENT-
ATIVE FROM THE STATE OF
MARYLAND
Mr. HOYER. Madam Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent to take from the
Speaker’s table the concurrent resolu-
tion (S. Con. Res. 27) providing for the
use of the catafalque situated in the
Exhibition Hall of the Capitol Visitor
Center in connection with memorial
services to be conducted in the House
wing of the Capitol for the Honorable
Elijah E. Cummings, late a Representa-
tive from the State of Maryland, and
ask for its immediate consideration in
the House.
The Clerk read the title of the con-
current resolution.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from Maryland?
There was no objection.
The text of the concurrent resolution
is as follows:
S. CON. RES. 27
Resolved by the Senate (the House of Rep-
resentatives concurring), That the Architect of
the Capitol is authorized and directed to
transfer the catafalque which is situated in
the Exhibition Hall of the Capitol Visitor
Center to the House wing of the Capitol so
that such catafalque may be used in connec-
tion with services to be conducted there for
the Honorable Elijah E. Cummings, late a
Representative from the State of Maryland.
The concurrent resolution was con-
curred in.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
MOMENT OF SILENCE REMEM-
BERING CONGRESSMAN JACK
EDWARDS
(Mr. BYRNE asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Mr. BYRNE. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to join my Alabama colleagues
in remembering the extraordinary life
of Alabama’s great public servant, the
late Congressman Jack Edwards.
Jack served Alabama’s First Con-
gressional District in Washington for
20 years. He was a great friend and
mentor to me and countless others, and
he was a true leader here in Congress
where he led the rebuilding of our mili-
tary under President Reagan.
Jack’s service continued after Con-
gress. He was chair of the Mobile
Chamber of Commerce during a period
of remarkable renaissance. He also
served as chair of the board of trustees
for the University of Alabama.
Jack was a born leader who loved his
country and never failed to answer the
call of service. Jack helped create the
America we know today, and we owe
him a great debt of gratitude. In re-
membering Jack Edwards, we all
should emulate his example and the
principles he stood for: unquestioned
integrity, commitment to others, and
respect for all.
Madam Speaker, I ask that all Mem-
bers and guests of the gallery rise for a
moment of silence in honor of the late
Jack Edwards.
f
HONORING CONGRESSMAN ELIJAH
CUMMINGS
(Mr. RUPPERSBERGER asked and
was given permission to address the
House for 1 minute.)
Mr. RUPPERSBERGER. Madam
Speaker, I rise today in honor of a good
friend, patriot, and one of the most
principled, passionate men I have ever
known; that is Elijah Cummings.
Elijah Cummings was an individual
who has done so much for his commu-
nity, has done so much for his country
and his state. I had the honor of serv-
ing with Elijah Cummings for over 25
years. We also went to the same high
school, City College.
Congressman Cummings received at-
tention on the national stage as chair-
man of the House Committee on Over-
sight and Reform, and as such he was
fighting for our democracy every single
day, signing subpoenas in the hours be-
fore his death. He spoke truth to power
and was taking on what many of us see
as dangerous threats to our system of
government, divided by our forefathers
into three equal branches.
But even as he commanded a gavel as
chairman, he never stopped fighting for
Baltimore and the little guy. Chairman
Cummings can rest easy knowing that
he did everything he could in his time
to restore the principles of our democ-
racy and equality.
His passing is a tremendous loss to
me personally, the city of Baltimore,
our State, and our country. My heart
goes out to his family and friends and
staff during this time of grief.
f
RECOGNIZING MAJOR GENERAL
HERBERT LLOYD WILKERSON ON
HIS 100TH BIRTHDAY
(Mr. WALKER asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Mr. WALKER. Madam Speaker, the
United States Marine Corps is charac-
terized by their values of honor, cour-
age, and commitment—as Marines
would say, ‘‘Semper Fi.’’
Madam Speaker, I rise today to rec-
ognize Major General Herbert Lloyd
Wilkerson on his 100th birthday, a
decorated veteran who truly personi-
fies these values of the United States
Marine Corps.
Major General Wilkerson first felt
the call to serve following the attacks
on Pearl Harbor in December of 1941.
Still three hours short of graduation,
he courageously enlisted as a private.
Major General Wilkerson would go on
to serve our country in World War II,
the Korean war, and Vietnam, soon be-
coming chief of staff and base com-
mander for Camp Lejeune. General
Wilkerson’s unrelenting commitment
to serve the United States of America
will inspire generations to come just as
it inspired his own son, Major General
Tom Wilkerson.
Please join me in celebrating Major
General Wilkerson’s 100 years of being
always faithful to our country, serving
with relentless patriotism and valor.
f
HONORING CONGRESSMAN ELIJAH
CUMMINGS
(Ms. JOHNSON of Texas asked and
was given permission to address the
House for 1 minute and to revise and
extend her remarks.)
Ms. JOHNSON of Texas. Madam
Speaker, I rise today to memorialize
the life of our honorable statesman and
dear friend, Congressman Elijah Cum-
mings. During his tenure in the House
of Representatives, Congressman Cum-
mings championed issues, including
civil rights, access to affordable
healthcare, transportation, and con-
gressional oversight.
Representative Cummings was irri-
tated when I pushed him to take an of-
fice in the Congressional Black Caucus
until he went home that weekend and
he came back with a big smile and said
that the people at home had noticed it.
He also succeeded me as chair of the
Congressional Black Caucus.
Madam Speaker, I join Members of
Congress in extending our sympathies
to Congressman Cummings’ wife, Maya
Rockeymoore Cummings, his family,
and to all who had the great pleasure
of knowing him. The legacy of Con-
gressman Cummings will endure in this
great institution as those that live in
the hearts of others never truly perish.
f
RECOGNIZING GOLD STAR
MOTHER’S DAY
(Mr. CARTER of Georgia asked and
was given permission to address the
House for 1 minute and to revise and
extend his remarks.)
Mr. CARTER of Georgia. Madam
Speaker, I rise today to recognize this
past September 29 as Gold Star Moth-
er’s Day. Originally dedicated in 1936,
the last Sunday in September each
year honors mothers who have lost a
son or daughter while serving in the
United States Armed Forces.
Service and sacrifice for our Nation
is not only a personal commitment,
but one that involves the sacrifice of
entire families and even whole commu-
nities. In Gold Star Mothers we can see
one of the most important reminders of
this sacrifice.
Thank you to the Gold Star Mothers
for your own service to our Nation. I
understand that a day of recognition
will not bring back the lives of your
children, but you continue to be an in-
spiration to us all. With national con-
ventions, fundraising events, and Fed-
eral advocacy, you continue to move
forward and make our world a better
place to live.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:53 Oct 22, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00020 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K21OC7.034 H21OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8283
October 21, 2019
RECOGNIZING NATIONAL DIS-
ABILITY EMPLOYMENT AWARE-
NESS MONTH
(Mr. LEVIN of Michigan asked and
was given permission to address the
House for 1 minute and to revise and
extend his remarks.)
Mr. LEVIN of Michigan. Madam
Speaker, I rise today to recognize Na-
tional Disability Employment Aware-
ness Month and to celebrate the enor-
mous contributions people with disabil-
ities have made and will continue to
make throughout the American work-
force.
I especially want to highlight the
work being done in Michigan’s Ninth
District by the Commission on Disabil-
ities to promote inclusion in Warren,
Michigan. On October 23 the commis-
sion is cohosting a Disability Aware-
ness Fair to commemorate this month
and connect workers with disabilities
to important resources.
America is strongest when we har-
ness the talents and creativity of all of
our people. I ask my colleagues to join
me in celebrating National Disability
Employment Awareness Month and the
indisputable contributions of Amer-
ica’s workers with disabilities.
f
RECOGNIZING THE VETERANS
HISTORY PROJECT
(Mr. DAVID P. ROE of Tennessee
asked and was given permission to ad-
dress the House for 1 minute.)
Mr. DAVID P. ROE of Tennessee.
Madam Speaker, I rise today to bring
attention to an important veterans’
initiative that I am proud to lead with
Chairman TAKANO. It is essential that
we recognize and commend the selfless
sacrifice veterans have made to protect
our most precious freedoms.
That is why Chairman TAKANO and I
have challenged all Members of Con-
gress to participate in the Library of
Congress’ Veterans History Project by
submitting at least one of their vet-
eran constituents’ stories to the
project prior to Veteran’s Day.
The Veterans History Project gives
our Nation’s heroes a platform to share
and preserve their personal stories
about their time in uniform to help
Americans understand military service
and its importance to our country’s
history. We can think of no better way
to honor the men and women who
fought for our freedoms in the weeks
leading up to Veteran’s Day than by
ensuring that their unique stories of
service are forever memorialized for fu-
ture generations of Americans.
Madam Speaker, I would also like to
associate my remarks with those about
Elijah Cummings and wish his family
God’s blessings.
f
HONORING CONGRESSMAN ELIJAH
CUMMINGS
(Mr. CARSON of Indiana asked and
was given permission to address the
House for 1 minute.)
Mr. CARSON of Indiana. Mr. Speak-
er, I rise to commemorate the extraor-
dinary life of Congressman Elijah Cum-
mings. He was a trailblazer for civil
rights, a fierce advocate for equal jus-
tice, a defender of good government,
and a friend and mentor to countless
people, especially to members of the
Congressional Black Caucus.
Congressman Cummings was born the
son of sharecroppers and rose to incred-
ible heights, but he never forgot his
roots. Elijah Cummings never stopped
striving to ensure every American
could reach his or her potential the
way he did. He understood that we are
all in this together, that as a Nation
we rise and fall as one.
I will never forget those values which
he taught and lived through his own
example each and every day. We will
always treasure the time we spent to-
gether and the lessons he taught all of
us. When Congressman Cummings
spoke, we listened. He helped so many
of us. But Congressman Cummings’
work is far from done. It is up to us to
keep marching on his behalf and carry
on the iconic legacy he has entrusted
in us to carry us forward.
f
RECOGNIZING DOMESTIC
VIOLENCE AWARENESS MONTH
(Mr. SPANO asked and was given per-
mission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Mr. SPANO. Mr. Speaker, I rise to
bring attention to October being Do-
mestic Violence Awareness Month. Do-
mestic violence is a terrible reality for
far too many women, men, and chil-
dren. By the time I finish this speech,
roughly 20 people will fall victim to
abuse at the hands of an intimate part-
ner.
This is Ashley Hall, a mother of two
young girls from my district. She was
a dance instructor, a teacher’s aide,
and she had a heart for those who
struggled. Ashley was also a victim of
domestic violence. She lost her life at
the hands of her husband, a tragedy
that will impact her daughters for the
rest of their lives.
This month let the stories like Ash-
ley’s be shared as a way to help others.
Take time to reach out to those you
think may be in need. Get involved by
supporting local shelters and speak out
against this tragic issue. Resources are
available for those in need. The Na-
tional Domestic Violence Hotline can
be reached at 1–800–799–7233.
f
HONORING CODY STASHAK
(Mr. VAN DREW asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. VAN DREW. Mr. Speaker, Cody
Stashak grew up in Mays Landing in
south Jersey. He graduated from
Oakcrest High School in 2012 where he
played baseball for the Falcons and
went on to attend Cumberland County
College for 2 years where he played
baseball, as well.
Cody moved on from our south Jer-
sey district to St. John’s University in
New York where he continued to excel
in his sport. Now Cody has moved to
the major leagues. Cody was drafted to
the Minnesota Twins in 2015 where he
was mainly used as a relief pitcher.
This year Cody made his major
league debut in a recent game against
the New York Yankees where he al-
lowed only four hits and he struck out
three. Cody, your talent and dedication
are admirable, and we are so impressed
with how far you have come.
Cody might be in Minnesota now, but
we know that he is south Jersey
through and through and his south Jer-
sey community is rooting for him. I am
happy to say that I have known Cody’s
father and his grandfather through the
years, and I know how proud they are
and how proud south Jersey is of its
star.
f
CONGRATULATING JILL STAFFORD
(Mr. TAYLOR asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. TAYLOR. Mr. Speaker, today I
rise to congratulate Principal Jill Staf-
ford for being named the Principal of
the Year for Region 10 by the Texas As-
sociation of Secondary School Prin-
cipals.
Having dedicated 27 years of her pro-
fessional career to her students, Ms.
Stafford has displayed her passion for
education and commitment to her
community. For the last 7 years Ms.
Stafford has served as the principal of
Lowery Freshman Center in Allen,
Texas.
Ms. Stafford goes above and beyond
each and every day for both her stu-
dents and her colleagues. As students
face the daunting transition into high
school, it is critical that they have the
unmatched support of strong leaders
like Principal Stafford to keep them
motivated and on track. I ask my col-
leagues and the House of Representa-
tives to join me in thanking Principal
Jill Stafford for her hard work and con-
gratulate her on this well-earned rec-
ognition.
f
b 1930
HONORING CONGRESSMAN ELIJAH
CUMMINGS
(Mr. SARBANES asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. SARBANES. Mr. Speaker, I rise
to remember a great American patriot,
Elijah Cummings.
On behalf of the people of Baltimore,
I want to thank him for his incredible
leadership, for his friendship to so
many, for his mentorship of so many in
the community and to me.
I had the privilege for almost 12
years, the last 12 years of Elijah’s life,
to sit a few feet away from him in the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:53 Oct 22, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00021 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K21OC7.036 H21OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8284 October 21, 2019
Oversight and Reform Committee and
to see what a national leader he was,
how he fought for the left out and the
locked out.
I also had the opportunity to be with
him on many occasions in Baltimore,
to see how people responded to him,
how they invested in his leadership. We
will miss that dearly.
I was thinking today as I drove from
Baltimore through West Baltimore, the
community he loved, about his fight
for the soul of our democracy, and I
had anxiety about if we can continue
that fight without him. But it occurred
to me that Elijah would not have left
us when he did if he didn’t believe that
we had it within ourselves to finish
that fight.
Mr. Speaker, I thank Elijah for his
inspiration. May his memory be eter-
nal.
f
RECOGNIZING THE STUDENTS OF
CENTRAL PENNSYLVANIA INSTI-
TUTE OF SCIENCE AND TECH-
NOLOGY
(Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania
asked and was given permission to ad-
dress the House for 1 minute and to re-
vise and extend his remarks.)
Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize
the students of the Central Pennsyl-
vania Institute of Science and Tech-
nology in Pleasant Gap, Pennsylvania.
Recently, I had the pleasure of join-
ing several students back in Centre
County for a very special project that
they are working on. It is called
Heroscaping.
The students are building a memorial
at the Centre County Public Safety
Training Center to honor first respond-
ers, particularly those who answered
the call to serve when the World Trade
Center was attacked on 9/11.
The project was recently finished,
and it was an honor to join them when
I was back in my district to help lay
pavers and meet many of the students
involved. One of the students was just
3 months old when the planes crashed
into the Twin Towers. The others had
not been born yet.
That is why projects like these are so
important—to honor the men and
women who rose to the occasion to pro-
tect our Nation and to ensure that the
younger generations never forget their
sacrifices.
f
INVESTIGATING PRESIDENT
TRUMP AND UKRAINE
(Ms. KAPTUR asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Ms. KAPTUR. Mr. Speaker, earlier
this month, three of the House com-
mittees investigating President
Trump’s dealings with Ukraine subpoe-
naed administration officials. They
seek answers as to why President
Trump would purposely withhold crit-
ical military assistance from Ukraine.
Such a request is well within the
committee’s constitutional legislative
powers. It is also central to estab-
lishing whether President Trump
knowingly withheld military assist-
ance to coerce Ukrainian Government
officials into creating a false narrative
on his political rival, Vice President
Joe Biden.
On October 15, the committees re-
ceived a letter from the Vice President,
the Office of Management and Budget,
and the Department of Defense reject-
ing the House subpoena. One letter
even indicated the administration was
‘‘unable to comply with your request
for documents at this time.’’
Mr. Speaker, this is unconscionable.
As co-chair of the bipartisan Congres-
sional Ukraine Caucus and a senior
member on the House Defense Appro-
priations Subcommittee, I am greatly
disheartened that U.S.-Ukraine rela-
tions could be put at risk just to ad-
vance and cover up President Trump’s
malfeasance.
America deserves transparency and
truth, and the Trump administration
must work with Congress or face con-
stitutional justice.
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr.
LEVIN of Michigan). Members are re-
minded to refrain from engaging in
personalities toward the President.
f
HONORING BILL WINKKY
(Mr. REED asked and was given per-
mission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. REED. Mr. Speaker, today, I rise
to honor Bill Winkky, who recently
celebrated his 80th birthday.
Bill Winkky, son of Mary Emma and
Robert Winkky, was born in Kingston,
New York, on September 29, 1939. In his
80 years of life, he has been a mentor,
a friend, a father, a husband, and an
all-around good man who deserves to
be recognized.
In 1963, Bill married Charlotte
Sommerfield and has remained by her
side for the past 56 years. Bill has such
dedication to his wife and his family
that it is heartwarming to see. Yet his
family is not the only thing he has
been dedicated to over the years.
He was a teacher, dedicating 321⁄2
years to educating and enriching the
lives of the youth he taught. He also
coached several sports, including foot-
ball, wrestling, swimming, and track.
The hours he spent dedicated to young
people were well spent, and he had a
profound impact on his students.
Bill also dedicated time to serving
the people as the town of Veteran su-
pervisor for 10 years, and he continues
to hold this role now.
It is not often you have the pleasure
of meeting a man as dedicated to help-
ing others as Bill Winkky. He is a pil-
lar in the community who has given so
much of himself to our youth through
his coaching and teaching tenure. He
continues to do a great deal as the
town of Veteran supervisor.
I am honored to know him, and I am
equally honored to celebrate his
achievements and his legacy of hard
work, compassion, and community-
mindedness here today.
Mr. Speaker, given the above, I ask
this legislative body to pause in its de-
liberations and join me to honor Bill
Winkky on his 80th birthday.
Godspeed, Bill, and God bless.
f
WEST MICHIGAN BLUE RIBBON
AWARD
(Mr. HUIZENGA asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. HUIZENGA. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to celebrate three west Michigan
schools that have recently been recog-
nized for their academic excellence and
high student achievement.
It is an honor to represent Lakewood
Elementary School and Eagle Crest
Charter Academy in Holland, Michi-
gan, and Peach Plains Elementary
School in Grand Haven, which were
each awarded the prestigious Blue Rib-
bon Award by the Department of Edu-
cation.
Each year, this esteemed recognition
is presented to K–12 schools across the
Nation that show outstanding gains in
student achievement or demonstrate
academic excellence that goes above
and beyond.
In west Michigan, we have a legacy of
offering our children excellent edu-
cational opportunities. These three
schools in Ottawa County join a won-
derful group of west Michigan schools
that have already earned this distinc-
tion in the past.
This award affirms the hard work of
students, educators, families, and en-
tire communities that have dedicated
themselves to creating a learning envi-
ronment where students can thrive and
achieve academic success.
Congratulations to the Eagle Crest
Charter Academy, Lakewood Elemen-
tary School, and Peach Plains Elemen-
tary, and the students, parents, and
staff for their hard work, dedication,
and commitment to improving edu-
cational outcomes in our communities.
f
CONGRATULATING ELIZABETH
BROWN
(Mr. SMUCKER asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Mr. SMUCKER. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to congratulate and thank an ed-
ucator from my district who recently
received a Presidential Award for Ex-
cellence in Mathematics and Science
Teaching from the National Science
Foundation.
Mr. Speaker, Elizabeth Brown of
Brogue in southern York County was a
chemistry, physics, and forensic
science teacher at North Harford High
School in Maryland. As a teacher, Beth
started a Women in Science luncheon
to support young women interested in
careers in science.
Beth currently has left teaching but
is working to help other science, tech-
nology, engineering, and math, or
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:53 Oct 22, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00022 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K21OC7.038 H21OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8285
October 21, 2019
STEM, teachers by writing Next Gen-
eration Science Standards curriculum.
Mr. Speaker, I am incredibly thank-
ful for the passion that Beth shared
with her students, instilling in them an
appetite for learning that they will
carry for the rest of their lives.
Congratulations to Ms. Brown on re-
ceiving the Presidential award.
Mr. Speaker, I thank Elizabeth
Brown for her hard work, and I thank
all the teachers across southern York
and Lancaster Counties who do great
work educating our students every day.
f
RECOGNIZING DYSLEXIA
AWARENESS MONTH
(Mr. WESTERMAN asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute and to revise and extend
his remarks.)
Mr. WESTERMAN. Mr. Speaker, I
rise today to bring awareness to dys-
lexia, a learning disability that affects
as many as one in five people.
October is Dyslexia Awareness
Month, which is why I will be intro-
ducing a resolution this week calling
on Congress to formally recognize it.
Those who have dyslexia struggle
with language skills, making reading
significantly more difficult.
While this is a serious problem, it is
a solvable one. If educators identify
dyslexia early on and teach children
proper techniques, students can use
these tools to succeed. Reading is
foundational to education, as we first
learn to read and then read to learn.
Dyslexia affects students equally re-
gardless of intelligence, socioeconomic
status, or gender. Many famous people,
including Albert Einstein, Steve Jobs,
and George Washington, had dyslexia.
They were able to achieve incredible
things despite their learning disabil-
ities.
However, 74 percent of children who
are poor readers in third grade remain
poor readers by the time they reach
ninth grade. This is why, as co-chair of
the bipartisan House Dyslexia Caucus,
I am working to increase awareness. I
encourage my colleagues to join the
House Dyslexia Caucus so we can en-
sure children with dyslexia have every
opportunity to succeed.
f
PAYING TRIBUTE TO CONGRESS-
MAN ELIJAH E. CUMMINGS
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under
the Speaker’s announced policy of Jan-
uary 3, 2019, the gentleman from Ne-
vada (Mr. HORSFORD) is recognized for
60 minutes as the designee of the ma-
jority leader.
Mr. HORSFORD. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to anchor this Congressional
Black Caucus Special Order hour, and I
thank our CBC chair, Congresswoman
KAREN BASS, for her leadership in orga-
nizing this effort.
For the next 60 minutes, we want to
pay a special tribute to Congressman
Elijah E. Cummings.
The Congressional Black Caucus, the
entire country, and this institution
suffered a great loss. As a lifelong ad-
vocate for justice, equality, and the
truth, Congressman Cummings was the
true definition of a leader and public
servant.
To many, Chairman Cummings was a
friend and a mentor, but to the mem-
bers of the Congressional Black Cau-
cus, Chairman Cummings was family.
Last week, Congress lost a fierce
leader, a tireless champion of the peo-
ple, and my friend, Chairman Elijah
Cummings. It is a sad time for Con-
gress, for Maryland, and, in fact, for
the entire country.
b 1945
For the next 60 minutes we will hear
from members of the Congressional
Black Caucus and other colleagues as
we pay tribute to a great man.
Mr. Speaker, I yield, first and fore-
most, to the gentlewoman from Cali-
fornia (Ms. BASS), chair of the Congres-
sional Black Caucus.
Ms. BASS. Mr. Speaker, I rise today
to pay special tribute to Congressman
Elijah E. Cummings, a man of great
honor and a giant within the House of
Representatives.
Congressman Cummings was born in
Baltimore on January 18, 1951. He was
one of seven children of Robert and
Ruth Cummings. Although his family
struggled financially, they always
found a way to help others in their
community.
Representative Cummings and his
family, like thousands of other African
Americans, had to face the brutal expe-
rience of the Jim Crow period. When
Representative Cummings was a child,
at 11, he was attacked while trying to
swim in the neighborhood swimming
pool. Racist adults threw rocks and
bottles that resulted in injuries but
left him with a determination to study
law and to become the fighter for so-
cial justice that characterized his life.
He would go on to receive his bach-
elor’s degree in political science from
Howard University, and, while at How-
ard, he served as student government
president. After graduating Phi Beta
Kappa from Howard University, he ob-
tained his law degree from the Univer-
sity of Maryland School of Law.
Congressman Cummings practiced
law in Baltimore, and, at the age of 31,
he was elected to the Maryland House
of Delegates, where he served for 14
years and ascended to become the first
African American speaker pro tempore.
In 1996, Congressman Cummings won
a special election to Congress. He im-
mediately demonstrated his leadership
talent and won the respect of his col-
leagues.
In 2003, he was elected as chair of the
Congressional Black Caucus, where he
served with distinction.
In 2011, he was elected by the Demo-
cratic Caucus as the ranking member
of the Committee on Oversight and Re-
form; and, in January of this year, he
became the chair of the committee.
At this difficult time in the history
of our country, we were so fortunate to
have had Representative Cummings in
the leadership of such an important
and contentious committee. He fought
passionately for the rights of children
separated from their families; he
fought for everyone to have healthcare
and medications that are affordable;
and he fought for everyone to have ac-
cess and the right to vote.
Anyone who attended a committee
hearing could feel his passion. Even if
they disagreed with him, they knew his
passion was based on his belief and a
commitment to fight for justice. The
respect he afforded his opponents dem-
onstrated for everyone to see how to
lead with integrity and humility.
Chairman Cummings once said: ‘‘I’m
not trying to do anything extraor-
dinary. I’m trying to do what the Con-
stitution says I’m supposed to do.’’
Representative Cummings’ passing is
a loss to the entire Nation, especially
at this moment in history where he
provided for us all an example of true
leadership—leadership for the people,
not leadership for self-advancement.
He provided an example for us all to
emulate.
His memory will forever be in our
hearts and his legacy is secured in his-
tory because, in spite of his word, he
was, in fact, extraordinary.
Mr. HORSFORD. Mr. Speaker, I
thank the chair for her timely remarks
and for her leadership and compassion
for our entire Congressional Black Cau-
cus membership during this very dif-
ficult time.
Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gentleman
from South Carolina (Mr. CLYBURN),
the majority whip.
Mr. CLYBURN. Mr. Speaker, I thank
the gentleman for leading this Special
Order.
Mr. Speaker, I thank the chairwoman
of our caucus for giving us somewhat of
a resume of the life of Elijah Cum-
mings.
Most people know that Elijah Cum-
mings’ roots were deep in South Caro-
lina soil. I happen to represent the
county in which his parents were born.
They came north to Baltimore, seeking
a better life for their children. They
were sharecroppers in the county that
gave birth to Brown v. Board of Edu-
cation of Topeka, Kansas.
The interesting thing about the peo-
ple of that community who formed the
movement that spurred a national and,
I dare say, international movement
was the simplicity of their lives and
their aspirations. The Brown case was
not about integrating schools; it was
about getting a schoolbus for their
children.
The people who came together were
people of modest means. The case got
the name of Briggs v. Elliott. Harry
Briggs was an ordinary man working at
a filling station making $23 a week; his
wife, Eliza, making $18 a week as a
chambermaid in a motel. That is the
community that Elijah Cummings’
family left.
He came back to that community
often, and we would talk about it: the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:08 Oct 22, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00023 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K21OC7.040 H21OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8286 October 21, 2019
dreams and aspirations of his parents
and what they instilled in him. They
were both evangelicals.
Elijah took on the mantle of an evan-
gelist. He didn’t work to prepare people
for the hereafter. He worked to prepare
people for the here and now.
I have been approached by various
media sources with the question: What
is the legacy of ELIJAH CUMMINGS? It is
a simple legacy that I hope all of us
will remember.
First of all, it matters not where you
come from. What really matters is how
far you go.
He came to this body knowing full
well that he was coming into a body
where people stood on the shoulders of
giants. He didn’t set out to be a giant,
but he became one. And we, today, are
much better off because of ELIJAH CUM-
MINGS.
I often think about a long conversa-
tion Elijah and I had over near the
wall. He told me, one day, about being
placed in special education as a child.
He told me what it was like when a
teacher saw him and decided that the
only thing special about Elijah Cum-
mings was his inquisitiveness. He was
inquisitive, a little bit too much for
some people, and they thought, to get
rid of him, they would put him in spe-
cial education.
This teacher took him out of that
class, and Elijah Cummings went on to
graduate college Phi Beta Kappa, to
finish law school, to become the first
African American to head a position in
the House of Delegates of Maryland,
and to come here to this body and to
chair a committee, a committee that
he chaired with distinction and rev-
erence.
We are going to miss Elijah Cum-
mings. All of us in this body will stand
upon his strong shoulders.
Thank you, Elijah. Thank you.
Mr. HORSFORD. Mr. Speaker, I
thank the majority whip for his heart-
felt remarks and for sharing his per-
sonal reflections on his friendship and
service with Chairman Cummings.
Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gentleman
from Georgia (Mr. LEWIS), a civil rights
icon and a man whom I am very hon-
ored to serve with in this body each
and every day.
Mr. LEWIS. Mr. Speaker, I rise to
pay tribute to a close, dear, and be-
loved friend, almost like a brother,
Congressman Elijah Cummings.
This great man, this brother, spent 36
years in public service to his people,
his home State, and to our country. He
was a leader who loved this Nation, all
of its people, and fought until his very
last breath for those who had been left
out and left behind.
He dedicated every single moment of
his life to strengthening and preserving
our Union. He spent every waking mo-
ment thinking of those who were hurt-
ing and suffering. He focused all of his
energy into this Congress and the peo-
ple we represent.
Mr. Speaker, it was an honor to know
and to love him. It was an honor to
serve with him. It was a great honor to
consider him my brother and my
friend.
Sometimes people would confuse us
and say: ‘‘Hello, Elijah,’’ or, ‘‘Hello,
JOHN LEWIS’’ to him, and we would joke
about it. We would laugh about it.
Mr. Speaker, I say to the people in
Maryland and people around our Na-
tion and people around the world: We
have lost a warrior. I don’t think we
will be so lucky or so blessed to see the
likeness of this man again.
As a nation and as a people, we owe
Chairman Cummings a debt of grati-
tude. There are no words to describe
the loss of our brother, our friend, and
our colleague who lived up to this
great and powerful name. It hurts so
deeply that all I can do is keep his
wife, his family, and all who knew and
loved him in my constant prayers.
Elijah, we hope to see you again one
day. Blessed be your name.
Mr. HORSFORD. Mr. Speaker, we as
a body extend our sincerest condo-
lences to Chairman Cummings’ wife,
Dr. Maya Rockeymoore; their children,
grandchildren, friends, staff, and all
those whom he positively impacted in
his life and work.
Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gentle-
woman from the District of Columbia
(Ms. NORTON).
b 2000
Ms. NORTON. Mr. Speaker, I thank
my good friend for yielding.
At times like these, my good friend
who chaired the Oversight and Reform
Committee, on which I also serve, was
compelled to be a strong leader, but
that is who Elijah was anyway.
Elijah Cummings was known for call-
ing out his Republican colleagues on
countless issues, from the Census to
the treatment of children coming
across the border.
Yet, Chairman Cummings always
took a principled stand whenever he
saw the strong against the weak. Eli-
jah Cummings’ strong sense of prin-
ciple was reinforced by his com-
manding presence, booming voice, and
convincing sense of rectitude.
Yet, the presence of the passing of
Chairman Cummings drew widespread
sympathy and comment from the very
Republicans in this House he most op-
posed. It is Republicans who give the
best witness to Chairman Cummings’
resolute fairness. Even as he held the
gavel, he always let his adversaries
have their say. Afterward, of course, he
took them all to the cleaners.
Tragically, we have lost Elijah Cum-
mings when this House perhaps most
needed his principled leadership.
Our Committee on Oversight and Re-
form, which he chaired, is one of the
committees deeply involved in the im-
peachment inquiry. Almost every day,
Republicans and Democrats are sitting
in to hear testimony and ask questions
of witnesses during this investigation
stage of the impeachment inquiry.
Elijah Cummings’ legendary
evenhandedness will be most missed
and sought after by all who are looking
for a role model and for best practices
for the rare impeachment inquiry and,
for that matter, hereafter.
Let us always remember our good
friend, Elijah Cummings.
Mr. HORSFORD. Mr. Speaker, I
thank the gentlewoman for sharing her
remarks and reflections on his leader-
ship.
He definitely had a presence as a dig-
nified leader and chairman, and he per-
sonified what it really means to over-
see his committee with civility and re-
spect for each Member. I had the honor
of serving on that committee during
my first tenure in Congress, and I
learned a lot and will continue to carry
out that leadership.
I yield to the gentleman from Geor-
gia (Mr. BISHOP).
Mr. BISHOP of Georgia. Mr. Speaker,
I thank the gentleman for yielding.
Truly, this is the day that the Lord
has made. In spite of the fact that our
hearts are heavy, we must rejoice and
be glad in it because we have the op-
portunity to celebrate the life of our
longtime friend and our colleague, Con-
gressman Elijah Cummings.
As you have heard, Elijah rose from
modest beginnings to become one of
the greatest public servants that our
country has seen. Elijah always did
what he believed was right, which
earned him respect and friendship on
both sides of the aisle. His courage, his
passion, and his integrity were undeni-
able to anyone who crossed his path.
Elijah inspired us regularly as one of
the greatest orators in this House. He
came to my district in Georgia as a
guest speaker, and when he finished,
everyone was in awe. Elijah’s powerful
voice made everyone take notice, lis-
ten intently, and then act.
America has lost a fierce warrior who
was committed to doing the right
thing, regardless of politics. We will
truly feel his absence in this House,
where he spoke truth to power and pas-
sionately advocated for justice and
equality for all.
My wife, Vivian, and I send our pray-
ers and our deepest condolences to his
wife, Maya, his children, and his family
as we mourn this great man.
Winston Churchill once said: ‘‘We
make a living by what we get, but we
make a life by what we give.’’
Elijah Cummings gave so much to so
many for so long. He made his life, but
even greater, he made a life for his con-
stituents and for countless others all
across this Nation.
Truly, this world is a better place be-
cause of the life and legacy of Elijah
Cummings.
To God, be the glory for our friend,
our colleague, and the legacy of Elijah
E. Cummings.
Mr. HORSFORD. Mr. Speaker, I
thank the gentleman for again sharing
his very heartfelt remarks.
This body tonight, it is very hum-
bling to be here with each of the Mem-
bers who have joined us, each one great
in their own way.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:53 Oct 22, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00024 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K21OC7.041 H21OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8287
October 21, 2019
As one of the new Members here in
this body, it gives me great pride to be
a part of the Congressional Black Cau-
cus and to know that each and every
Member has made such significant con-
tributions, not just to their districts,
but to the entire country.
I yield to the gentleman from Illinois
(Mr. RUSH).
Mr. RUSH. Mr. Speaker, I thank the
gentleman for yielding.
The Word of the Lord says in Psalm
116:15: ‘‘Precious in the sight of the
Lord is the death of his saints.’’
With that in mind, the people of the
First Congressional District of Illinois
have sent me here to extend their col-
lective condolences to the family and
friends of Elijah Eugene Cummings and
to the citizens of the Seventh Congres-
sional District of Maryland.
Elijah loved the Lord because the
Lord first loved Elijah. How do I know
this? I know this from the many times
that we had discussions. Rarely in
those discussions did we talk about
anything other than the Gospel of
Jesus Christ and how good the Lord has
been to both Elijah and myself. I just
stopped by the well of the U.S. House
of Representatives this evening to tell
somebody, to tell everybody, that the
Lord is good and his mercy endures for-
ever.
Our Nation shall surely miss the
love, the compassion, the strength, the
brilliance, the tireless dedication, and
the amazing words of Elijah Eugene
Cummings.
The Lord proclaims now to all who
would hear his praise for Elijah and
Elijah’s work: Well done, my good and
faithful servant. Well done.
Mr. HORSFORD. Mr. Speaker, I
thank Congressman RUSH for his en-
couraging words, the Word that we
know we needed, not just the day that
we heard of the passing of Chairman
Cummings, but the Word that con-
tinues to sustain us each and every
day.
Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gentleman
from Virginia (Mr. SCOTT), chairman of
the Education and Labor Committee,
one of the big five, as we call them here
in the Congressional Black Caucus.
Mr. SCOTT of Virginia. Mr. Speaker,
I thank the gentleman for yielding.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today to join the
chorus of admirers of Elijah Cummings
and to mourn the passing of our distin-
guished colleague.
Congressman Cummings served with
passion for the rule of law, and always
governed in a respectful manner, even
when dealing with some of the most
critical and controversial issues facing
Congress today.
It is rightly noted that when Con-
gressman Cummings spoke, he spoke
with moral authority, frequently re-
minding us that ‘‘we are better than
that.’’
He was an invaluable leader for civil
rights, justice, and fundamental fair-
ness. He believed in the promise of
America and served as an example of it
every single day. We are better off be-
cause of his leadership in Congress and
the tremendous contributions he made
over his life of service.
Mr. Speaker, I send my deepest con-
dolences to Dr. Maya Rockeymoore
Cummings, his three children, and all
of his loved ones. I hope they will find
comfort in knowing that so many peo-
ple across the country are mourning
their loss with them.
Mr. HORSFORD. Mr. Speaker, I
thank the gentleman and chairman of
the Education and Labor Committee.
I yield to the gentleman from Mis-
sissippi (Mr. THOMPSON), the chairman
of the Homeland Security Committee,
another great chairman who governs
with a steady hand and another exam-
ple of the wonderful leadership that we
have in this body.
Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi. Mr.
Speaker, I thank the gentleman for
yielding. I am happy to join my col-
leagues in paying tribute to Elijah
Cummings.
We all have at least one Elijah Cum-
mings story. Some of us have a lot
more. But more importantly, it is how
Elijah lived that we have to pay trib-
ute to.
Elijah demonstrated every day not
only that he loved the people of Balti-
more, but he loved this great country.
If we can just pattern our lives after
Elijah Cummings’ past, we will be fine.
To a great warrior, a great patriot, a
great leader who, obviously, in a lot of
our minds, was taken too short, we say
God bless you. We understand that if
we had anything to do with it, we
would have kept you here. But it just
wasn’t in the plan.
So, departing, I say to you, as well as
my colleagues: Elijah, we appreciate
you. Your job here in this Congress
speaks volumes. God bless you.
Mr. HORSFORD. Mr. Speaker, I
thank the chairman for coming to the
floor and speaking on behalf of his ex-
perience and friendship with Chairman
Cummings.
As the gentleman said, he really
demonstrated a life worth living and an
example, an embodiment, definitely for
young people and young leaders of
what they should do to exemplify a
good role model.
I thank the gentleman for his re-
marks.
I yield to the gentlewoman from
Texas (Ms. JACKSON LEE).
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker, to
Elijah’s wonderful wife and my friend,
and to his children and family, we have
said over and over again how much we
will miss him, but we realize how much
you will miss him.
Elijah Cummings was my classmate.
He came in during a special election,
but we always viewed each other as
classmates coming in the mid-1990s.
His spirit was so strong that he was
able to provide his own internal
strength and also to provide strength
for others.
I think we knew about Elijah’s par-
ents more than anyone else. He talked
about Robert and Ruth Cummings not
only as sharecroppers but as preachers,
and he talked about how they poured
into his life.
Elijah was a successful man though
he started with a designation that he
was slow in school. He was a Phi Beta
Kappa, becoming Maryland’s first Afri-
can American speaker pro temp.
b 2015
But what I know most about him is
that Elijah would not want us to talk
about all of those successes. He prob-
ably wouldn’t even want us to talk
about his being the powerful chairman
of the Oversight and Reform Com-
mittee or talk about his work in crimi-
nal justice and ban the box that we
worked together on, or even when he
took a whole group of Members over to
Baltimore when he first got elected be-
cause of the scourge of HIV/AIDS. He
wanted us to see it; he wanted us to
stand with him; and he wanted to show
his community that he was going to
fight on their behalf.
What I love most about Elijah was
that he mentored people anywhere he
could find them on the floor of the
House. We joined each other in wanting
to mentor to young interns, and every
time the Congressional Black Caucus
Foundation called him to speak to the
interns—I remember a time when John,
Elijah, and I spoke to the class, and
Elijah lifted them beyond anyone’s ex-
pression or belief.
Elijah Cummings gave his maiden
speech, and I want to give his words
when he first came to the United
States Congress. When I saw these, I
said how powerful and potent.
Elijah Cummings said:
I only have a minute,
60 seconds in it.
Forced upon me, I did not choose it,
But I know that I must use it.
Give account if I abuse it,
Suffer, if I lose it.
Only a tiny little minute,
But eternity is in it.
So, as I close my remarks, being re-
minded that Elijah would not want us
to give his whole litany of success, I
began to think of the speech of Dr.
Martin Luther King on the night before
his death, when he reminded people
that he wanted to be known as some-
one who tried to help someone. He said
he feared no man.
When Elijah spoke and worked, and
when he worked with Republicans, he
did not fear them, but he brought them
to him. He made peace, while he also
fought for justice.
In the words of Dr. King in that last
speech, he said: ‘‘When people get
caught up with that which is right and
they are willing to sacrifice for it,
there is no stopping point short of vic-
tory.’’
I believe in this life our dear friend
secured real victory for his people and
his constituents, a victory for those
who believe in justice and equality, and
a victory for the people of the United
States of America.
So, Elijah, the minute you had, the
minute that was given to you, you did
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:08 Oct 22, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00025 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K21OC7.043 H21OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8288 October 21, 2019
not waste it, and you have gained eter-
nity. As Dr. King said, you were the or-
chestrator of letting justice roll down
like waters and righteousness like a
mighty stream. You were part of that
justice and part of that victory. You
didn’t stop short. You only had a
minute, but boy what you did do with
that.
May God bless your soul, may you be
in peace, may you R.I.P., and may we
love you until we meet again.
Mr. Speaker, I thank my colleague, Con-
gressman HORSFORD of Nevada for anchoring
this Special Order in remembrance of Chair-
man Elijah Cummings, the indefatigable cham-
pion of justice and equality, the Chairman of
the House Committee on Oversight, the Mem-
ber of Congress from the Seventh Congres-
sional District of Maryland since April 16,
1996, and above all, the devoted and beloved
son of Baltimore.
Chairman Elijah Cummings died Thursday,
October 17, 2019 at Johns Hopkins Hospital in
Baltimore, Maryland; he was 68 years old.
On behalf of my family and the constituents
of the 18th Congressional District of Texas, I
offer my deepest sympathy and prayers to his
family and friends. Mr. Speaker, our friend Eli-
jah Cummings was in every sense of the word
a statesman and a gentleman who believed in
bipartisanship and treated everyone equally
and respectfully.
Born January 18, 1951 in Baltimore, Mary-
land, to Robert and Ruth Cummings, South
Carolina, sharecroppers who followed the
Great Migration north to factory jobs in Balti-
more, Elijah Eugene Cummings was the third
of seven children.
After graduating from Baltimore City College
High School in 1969, Elijah Cummings at-
tended Howard University in Washington,
D.C., where he was elected President of the
student government and graduated in 1973
with a degree in political science, earning hon-
ors as Phi Beta Kappa.
Mr. Speaker, you may be interested to know
that Elijah Cummings went on to earn a law
degree from the University of Maryland School
of Law.
Elijah Cummings’ matriculation and gradua-
tion from the University of Maryland School of
Law was poetic justice because a generation
before it had denied admission to another son
of Baltimore, the legendary Thurgood Mar-
shall, who then went to the Howard University
School of Law and later became the greatest
social engineer and the architect and instru-
ment of the strategy that defeated Jim Crow
and toppled de jure segregation at the Univer-
sity of Maryland School of Law.
Elijah Cummings practiced law for 14 years
in Baltimore and in 1982 he was elected to the
House of Delegates of the Maryland General
Assembly where he served for 14 years.
In the Maryland General Assembly, he
served as Chairman of the Legislative Black
Caucus of Maryland and was the first African
American in Maryland history to be named
Speaker Pro Tempore, the second highest po-
sition in the House of Delegates, earning a
reputation as a champion of progressive and
liberal causes and constituencies and as a
skilled census-builder.
Mr. Speaker, in 1996 when Congressman
Kweisi Mfume resigned to assume the presi-
dency of the United Negro College Fund, Eli-
jah Cummings ran in and easily won the spe-
cial election created by the vacancy with 80
percent of the popular vote.
Elijah Cummings was re-elected to the
105th Congress and each of the succeeding
Congresses until his untimely death, never
winning with less than 70 percent of the vote.
In Elijah Cummings’ maiden address as a
member of Congress he vowed that he would
make use of his limited time in Congress:
I only have a minute.
Sixty seconds in it.
Forced upon me, I did not choose it,
But I know that I must use it.
Give account if I abuse it.
Suffer, if I lose it.
Only a tiny little minute,
But eternity is in it.
Mr. Speaker, Elijah Cummings made good
on that prophetic promise from the start.
As a Member of Congress, Elijah Cummings
served on the Committees on Transportation
and Infrastructure and on Oversight and Gov-
ernment Reform.
As a freshman member, Elijah Cummings
championed and supported health care and
labor legislation.
In 2003, Elijah Cummings was elected as
Chairman of the Congressional Black Caucus.
In the 112th Congress, Elijah Cummings
was elected by his colleagues to be Ranking
Member of what is now known as the Com-
mittee on Oversight and Reform and in the
115th Congress was appointed by the Demo-
cratic Leader NANCY PELOSI to the Benghazi
Committee.
One of my proudest moments was working
with Elijah Cummings to secure passage of
H.R. 1076, the Fair Chance Act, which would
‘‘ban the box’’ in federal hiring by restricting
federal employers and contractors from asking
about the criminal histories of applicants until
the conditional offer stage.
The Fair Chance Act would give formerly in-
carcerated people a fair chance at a job and
a piece of the American dream.
I was proud to have been able to work with
Chairman Elijah Cummings in support of this
legislation and other legislative goals of mutual
interest and concern like reducing gun vio-
lence and eliminating unfair policing in com-
munities of color.
Mr. Speaker, Elijah Cummings dedicated his
life to serving and uplifting others and empow-
ering the people he was sworn to represent;
he was a man for and of the people, going to
the streets and ensuring that their voices were
heard.
Elijah Cummings received national attention
in 2015 when he walked the streets of Balti-
more, his notable bullhorn in hand, and plead-
ed for calm after riots erupted in his neighbor-
hood after the funeral of Freddie Gray, a
young black man who died in police custody.
Elijah Cummings took the issues of his con-
stituents to heart; many of us recall how he
fought for meaning in the death of young
Deamonte Driver, a 12-year-old Maryland boy
who died from an untreated tooth infection.
Elijah Cummings often said that ‘‘our chil-
dren are the living messages that we send to
a future we will never see’’ and was com-
mitted to ensuring that the next generation
had access to quality healthcare and edu-
cation, clean air and water, and a strong econ-
omy defined by fiscal responsibility.
Elijah Cummings had a servant’s heart and
was imbued with an ethic of service and in-
spired countless numbers of persons fight for
their beliefs.
Unsurpassed was this native of Baltimore’s
love for his hometown.
That could also be seen by his response to
the current President’s belittling Baltimore and
his congressional district as a ‘‘disgusting, rat
and rodent infested mess’’ to which Elijah
Cummings invited the President to join him in
the important work of ensuring that all Ameri-
cans had accessible, affordable, high quality
health care.
Elijah Cummings’ passion was not reserved
for his district and the city of Baltimore; he
also deeply loved his country.
As Ranking Member and the Chairman of
the House Committee on Oversight and Re-
form, Elijah Cummings brought his intellect to
what he called ‘‘the fight for the soul of our de-
mocracy.’’
Elijah Cummings deeply believed in our
democratic system and values and worked
tirelessly to preserve them and exhorted ev-
eryone to the same:
‘‘When we’re dancing with the angels, the
question will be asked, in 2019, what did we
do to make sure we kept our democracy in-
tact? Did we stand on the sidelines and say
nothing?’’
In the words of his widow, Dr. Maya
Rockeymoore Cummings, Elijah Cummings
‘‘worked until his last breath because he be-
lieved our democracy was the highest and
best expression of our collective humanity and
that our nation’s diversity was our promise, not
our problem.’’
Mr. Speaker, the life of Elijah Cummings is
a testament to what a person of goodwill can
accomplish with a servant’s heart and the un-
derstanding that in the passion play of life you
only have a minute, but all eternity is in it.
Elijah Cummings did not waste his minute of
eternity.
Elijah Cummings will live forever in the
hearts of the people of his hometown Balti-
more, his state of Maryland, and the United
States.
To his widow Maya, his children, and family
and friends he loved and who loved him so
dearly, my deepest sympathies go out to and
I hope you find consolation in the certain
knowledge that our beloved Elijah is now
dancing with the angels.
Mr. HORSFORD. Mr. Speaker, I
thank the gentlewoman for her re-
marks.
Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gentle-
woman from California (Ms. LEE), who
is another great leader. She is one of
the co-chairs of the Steering and Pol-
icy Committee for the House Demo-
crats and a true champion on so many
issues, particularly for women, chil-
dren, and families.
Ms. LEE of California. First, Mr.
Speaker, I thank the gentleman for
yielding.
I also want to thank our chair, Con-
gresswoman KAREN BASS, and STACEY
PLASKETT for leading this beautiful
tribute tonight.
Mr. Speaker, I rise tonight in honor
of the life and legacy of Chairman Eli-
jah Cummings, who was a great states-
man and leader, but also a kind and
gentle human being who led with both
his head and his heart.
My heart is heavy tonight as I offer
my deepest condolences to my friends,
Dr. Maya Rockeymoore Cummings, the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:53 Oct 22, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00026 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K21OC7.045 H21OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8289
October 21, 2019
entire family, his staff, and the people
of Baltimore, whom he loved and
served with courage and boldness.
Yes, he was a person of deep faith,
which was that guiding light in every-
thing that he did. Elijah was the son of
two pastors, and he took care of his
mother and his father in their last
years on Earth.
Elijah had been a friend and adviser
to me since I first came to Congress.
When I was first elected, he gave me
much-needed encouragement, knowing
that I had come in a special election,
replacing my mentor and my friend,
the late great Congressman Ron Del-
lums, who had some big shoes to fill.
But Elijah told me early on, he said:
Hey, you have got to step out there,
carve out your own agenda, and get out
there and do your job, what you need
to do to serve the people of your dis-
trict.
He wanted to help me. We talked
about how he could do that. He was the
first Member of Congress—and he was
so eager to do this—to visit my district
early on in my tenure.
We had a town meeting on gun safe-
ty, mass incarceration, and criminal
justice reform. I have to tell you, Mr.
Speaker, my constituents were in awe.
They also send their condolences this
evening.
This was a defining moment for me
as he lifted me up as a new Member of
Congress in my district in a way that
no one had, and he continued to sup-
port me and advise me on many impor-
tant decisions.
Also, like Congresswoman JACKSON
LEE, I had the privilege to be with Con-
gressman Cummings in his district sev-
eral times. The first time was when he
invited CBC members to visit his HIV/
AIDS clinics and other community or-
ganizations. It was so remarkable to
see how people not only respected him
as a great Member of Congress, but
how they loved and connected with him
as their brother who never lost touch
with the people.
So Elijah will be remembered as a
man who pulled no punches, was au-
thentic to the core, and a champion for
our democracy. The greatest tribute to
his work will be for all of us to con-
tinue to stand and defend our democ-
racy with the same passion, vigor, and
determination that he had.
I will miss Elijah’s wise counsel, his
words of encouragement, his support,
and his leadership.
May his legacy live on, and may he
rest in peace and power.
I will miss you so much, Elijah. May
God bless.
Mr. HORSFORD. Mr. Speaker, I
thank the gentlewoman for her heart-
felt remarks.
Each one of us can tell our own story
of our experiences and opportunities
that we had to share with Chairman
Cummings, and that is really the op-
portunity that we have tonight during
this Special Order hour.
Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gentleman
from Missouri (Mr. CLAY), who is an-
other person with a great legacy, who
continues to serve his constituents
with dignity.
Mr. CLAY. Mr. Speaker, I thank my
friend from Nevada for yielding.
He was my chairman, my colleague,
and my friend: the late great Elijah
Cummings.
I not only had the good fortune of
serving with Chairman Cummings, I
also was blessed to get to know him
well over the years. He was a powerful
and passionate advocate for the city of
Baltimore, which he loved so dearly.
I want to say that thousands of my
constituents back in St. Louis have
posted messages of condolence for
Chairman Cummings’ family. One of
the most moving messages simply said
this:
One of the nicest things that can be
said about a man is that we believed
him.
And that is the truth. Chairman
Cummings fearlessly spoke truth to
power, not to defeat an opponent, but
to challenge us, to lift up this institu-
tion, and to give the American people a
government that is as good and decent
as they are.
I think the true measure of what Eli-
jah Cummings meant to us was that,
early last Thursday, when word of his
untimely death began to spread, there
were as many Republican tears as
Democratic tears mourning the passing
of this very good man in the spirit of
compassion and reconciliation the Lord
has endowed within each of us if we
have the wisdom to seek it.
I want to extend my deepest sym-
pathy to Chairman Cummings’ family,
and I want them to know that I share
their grief. I have lost a brother, an
American hero, and a true leader of
this House.
Mr. HORSFORD. Mr. Speaker, I
thank the Congressman for coming to
the floor to share his remarks.
Many experiences have been shared
from the Oversight and Reform Com-
mittee, from those who served on that
committee, those who worked with
Chairman Cummings on his staff. He
was known to have one of the best
staffs here in the House of Representa-
tives, and it is partly because they got
to work with such a great chairman.
Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gentleman
from North Carolina (Mr.
BUTTERFIELD), who is the former chair-
man of the Congressional Black Cau-
cus.
Mr. BUTTERFIELD. Mr. Speaker, let
me thank Congressman HORSFORD for
yielding this evening, and I thank him
for his extraordinary leadership.
Elijah Cummings was my friend.
Nearly every legislative day for the
past 15 years, we talked about every
subject you can imagine. Some of it
consisted of small talk, but very often
it consisted of serious conversations
about our families and about our com-
munities.
So, on behalf of my family and on be-
half of the 750,000 people of the First
Congressional District of North Caro-
lina, I extend condolences to the Cum-
mings family and to the good people of
Baltimore.
Mr. Speaker, several years ago, I
shared with Congressman Cummings a
very sad situation in my district in-
volving an African American attorney
who had suffered a debilitating stroke
and was having financial problems. Im-
mediately—immediately—Mr. Cum-
mings said: I have great affection for
Black lawyers who have served their
community, and I am going to send
him some money. And he did.
From time to time, I would see Mr.
Cummings on national television on
the talk shows. I would come back to
the floor on Monday night or Tuesday
night and I would sit next to him. I
would compliment Mr. Cummings
about his appearances on television
and how he handled himself. I recall
one day he told me that every minute
that he is on television, he spent 1 hour
preparing for that 1 minute. He was
one for preparation.
I sat next to Congressman Cummings
as he cast his last floor vote several
weeks ago. He didn’t know it was his
last, but it was. He was seated right
over where Ms. CLARKE is seated right
now. As his staff assisted in getting
him out of the chair, he looked at me
that day and said: ‘‘I’m so sick. I love
you, man.’’
I say to you tonight, Congressman
Cummings: I love you; we love you; and
America loves you.
Mr. Speaker, we celebrate a life well-
lived. Elijah Eugene Cummings belongs
to the ages.
Rest in peace, my brother, rest in
peace.
Mr. HORSFORD. Mr. Speaker, I
thank Congressman BUTTERFIELD again
for sharing his stories of friendship and
how Chairman Cummings really
touched his life as an example to so
many here in this body.
Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gentle-
woman from New York (Ms. CLARKE),
who is my good friend.
Ms. CLARKE of New York. Mr.
Speaker, I thank our colleague, Chair-
woman BASS, and our coleaders for this
evening’s Special Order hour, for pro-
viding this moment for us to reflect.
Let me start by saying, on behalf of
myself, the Clarke family, and the peo-
ple of the Ninth Congressional District
of New York, I rise today to reflect
upon the life and the legacy of the
great chairman of the House Oversight
and Reform Committee, Chairman Eli-
jah Cummings, and express my heart-
felt and deepest condolences to his
wife, Maya Rockeymoore, his family,
friends, constituents, and staff. Our
great Nation is mourning and is in
shock over the loss of a great man.
As one of seven children born to par-
ents who were sharecroppers and, just
as important, or maybe more impor-
tantly, pastors of the Gospel, it is safe
to say that Chairman Cummings em-
bodied the epitome of our ancestors’
wildest dreams and most fervent pray-
ers.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:08 Oct 22, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00027 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K21OC7.046 H21OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8290 October 21, 2019
b 2030
Chairman Cummings represented
Baltimore, Maryland, with devotion,
pride, dignity, and integrity, and dedi-
cated his career to ensuring that his
beloved community was never
marginalized.
As chairman of the House Committee
on Oversight and Reform, Mr. Cum-
mings used his voice to protect our de-
mocracy, to protect our civil liberties,
and indeed, our humanity and our Con-
stitution until his very last breath, and
we will forever be indebted to his life-
long dedication to public service.
He will be remembered as a steadfast,
former chairman of the Congressional
Black Caucus, an advocate of the Con-
gressional Black Caucus and black
communities across this Nation who
used his voice to elevate our colleagues
in leadership positions and to mentor
black staffers.
I recall when I was elected to the
House of Representatives in the year
2006, I heard from all of the members of
the New York Congressional Delega-
tion, but I got a call from this gen-
tleman from Baltimore, Maryland,
with a thundering voice over the
phone. That is when I knew I had made
it, because I received a call from Elijah
Cummings. And he offered his support,
his mentoring, and his encouragement,
and continued to do that every day
that we served in this body together.
Let us all take comfort in knowing
that Chairman Cummings’ legacy will
be forever ingrained in the halls of
Congress through the next generation
of leaders that his work impacted and
inspired, and all of us who are his leg-
acy keepers.
Chairman Cummings completed his
mission. He is now, as he has said,
dancing with the angels, and will go
down in American history as a pillar in
preserving our democracy and our core
American values.
Words cannot express the void and
loss that our collective community
feels during this time of bereavement,
but we must lift our heads and con-
tinue to walk in the light of Chairman
Cummings’ legacy. We are standing on
the shoulders of a giant, and we will
live out his mission of creating a better
America for all, one where we pass on
to our children and grandchildren a na-
tion far greater than the one that we
inherited.
May Chairman Elijah E. Cummings
rest in peace and rise in glory. We will
miss him dearly. I thank him.
Mr. HORSFORD. Mr. Speaker, I
thank the gentlewoman. It has been
my great honor to coanchor this Spe-
cial Order hour with my esteemed col-
league, Congresswoman STACEY
PLASKETT. And I want to, again, thank
our chairwoman, KAREN BASS, for her
effort in bringing forward this oppor-
tunity for us to all share our reflec-
tions.
And I just want to say, on my behalf,
that Chairman Cummings stood up for,
really, the most vulnerable in society,
and supported policies to ensure that
the next generation of Americans have
access to a clean environment, afford-
able housing, quality healthcare and
education, and financial empowerment.
Congressman Cummings was a firm
believer in the United States Constitu-
tion, who fought for equality for all
Americans. It is certain that Chairman
Cummings did everything in his power,
and then some, to defend our country
and its institutions, to keep our de-
mocracy alive and thriving, despite at-
tacks from within. His legacy of leader-
ship will continue to inspire us all, and
his presence in Congress will surely be
missed.
I hope now that he is resting in power
and dancing with the angels, happily,
with the knowledge that he set an ex-
ample of resistance and perseverance,
and that we will continue in his foot-
steps, we will carry on his spirit, and
we will carry on his legacy.
I now turn this over to the coanchor
for this Special Order, my colleague
and good friend, Congresswoman
STACEY PLASKETT from the U.S. Virgin
Islands, and I yield back the balance of
my time.
f
PAYING TRIBUTE TO CONGRESS-
MAN ELIJAH E. CUMMINGS
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under
the Speaker’s announced policy of Jan-
uary 3, 2019, the Chair recognizes the
gentlewoman from the Virgin Islands
(Ms. PLASKETT) for 30 minutes.
Ms. PLASKETT. Mr. Speaker, I
thank the gentleman from Nevada (Mr.
HORSFORD), my colleague, for his sup-
port of the Congressional Black Cau-
cus, and working with me in ensuring
that the voices of Black America are
heard here in the Congress.
At this time, I yield to the great gen-
tleman from Georgia (Mr. JOHNSON) for
his reflections of our colleague, Elijah
Cummings.
Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia. Mr. Speak-
er, I thank the gentlewoman from the
Virgin Islands (Ms. PLASKETT) and the
gentleman from Nevada (Mr.
HORSFORD) for coanchoring this hour.
Elijah Cummings epitomized the vir-
tues of honesty, dignity, decency,
grace, and responsibility. He was com-
mitted to his family, to whom I offer
my deepest condolences, and he was
committed to his community. And Eli-
jah was committed to being true to the
oath that he took to preserve, protect,
and defend the Constitution against all
enemies, foreign and domestic.
He did so as chair of the House Com-
mittee on Oversight and Reform where
he carried out the responsibilities of
that office with great ability. Elijah
Cummings wielded the gavel with the
ability of a giant, but he was a quiet,
unassuming, and a kindhearted man,
and unafraid to sometimes walk alone.
Walking alone, Elijah saw more than
many will ever see. That is why Elijah
will continue to be our North Star. His
light shines on in the dark night of his
passing; his spirit and his example will
live on in our hearts, to guide us as we
live, true to the oath we endeavor to
uphold.
Shine on, Elijah Cummings, shine on.
Ms. PLASKETT. Mr. Speaker, I
thank the gentleman from Georgia for
his reflections on our colleague, Elijah
Cummings.
Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gentleman
from Louisiana (Mr. RICHMOND), former
chairman of the Congressional Black
Caucus, a good friend and colleague.
Mr. RICHMOND. Mr. Speaker, I want
to thank the delegate from the Virgin
Islands for cohosting this Special Order
in honor of Elijah Cummings.
We all ask that question to the Lord:
‘‘What is required of thee?’’
And the answer is simple: Act justly,
love mercy, walk humbly with thy
God.
That is exactly what Chairman Eli-
jah Cummings did. He fought for jus-
tice every day, not just in the halls of
Congress, not just in courtrooms,
sometimes it was on the streets of Bal-
timore. When the community was pro-
testing, he was out there fighting for
justice.
He loved mercy. He fought for crimi-
nal justice reform every ounce and
minute of his life, because he knew
that we have to give people a second
chance and that, but for the grace of
God, who knows where anybody would
be.
And then last, it was to walk hum-
bly. Many people don’t know this, but
Elijah Cummings was one of the first
Members of Congress to endorse me,
because he was about lifting up the
next generation. He knew that you
don’t have to blow out somebody else’s
candle for yours to shine brighter. And
what he did all the time was light can-
dles in the next generation so that
they would assume the mantle of lead-
ership and so that they would find
their purpose in life.
So I would just end with this: Elijah
Cummings was a man of purpose. It
wasn’t about politics. It wasn’t about
partisanship. It certainly wasn’t about
profits. It was about purpose. And the
one thing that comforts me, and I am
sure the entire Black Caucus, is that
we know in our hearts that last Thurs-
day, at 2:30 a.m., we know that Elijah
Cummings heard these words: Well
done, my good and faithful servant.
Ms. PLASKETT. Mr. Speaker, I
thank the gentleman for those words.
Mr. RICHMOND, that happens to be my
life scripture—Micah 6:8. That, I be-
lieve, was the scripture that the Lord
gave me when I was in law school. I
recognize that I had the honor of being
a member of the committee in which
Elijah Cummings sat, was the chair,
and I was on that committee for 5
years now.
Mr. Cummings was a mentor to me.
And to those who had a chance to
interact with him and knew him more
than just as a Member of Congress, he
was a man of God. He lived and worked
in Congress on Christian values. I
think that scripture, Micah 6:8 exem-
plifies how he lived his life. It really
exemplifies his Christian walk.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:53 Oct 22, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00028 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K21OC7.048 H21OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8291
October 21, 2019
He was a man of great wisdom. And
although he needed little protection,
when I was on that committee, I
viewed my role as not only being a con-
summate prosecutor and counselor but
being on the front line. I remember I
called and told him, I was almost glee-
ful, that I was going to be sitting in
front of him, not because I thought
that the camera would be there, but
that I could watch his back from many
of those coming at him from the front.
He always shook his head at my
colorful language. Although, mind you,
he did chuckle quietly at a lot of the
things that I had to say. And he always
counseled me to take care of my chil-
dren first before any of this. ‘‘Take
care of your family,’’ he always said,
‘‘because at the end of the day, that is
who you are going to have, even when
you leave this job.’’ But he also coun-
seled me to go slow and steady, to
‘‘walk humbly,’’ as Micah 6:8 says.
Mr. Speaker, at this time, I yield to
the gentleman from New Jersey (Mr.
PAYNE), who sits with me on the Com-
mittee on Transportation and Infra-
structure. He represents his home of
Newark, New Jersey, and I would ask
him to reflect on the life and his times
with Congressman Elijah Cummings.
Mr. PAYNE. Mr. Speaker, let me
first thank the gentlewoman from the
Virgin Islands (Ms. PLASKETT), my
friend, for once again being here for
this Special Order hour.
I first want to offer my condolences
to Mrs. Maya Rockeymoore Cummings
and her family on this immense loss.
I rise to honor a true American hero,
Congressman Elijah Eugene Cummings,
a strong man, a serious man, a man
that was about the business of this Na-
tion. Irrespective of whether it was on
the streets of Baltimore or in the halls
of Congress, he never wavered in his
plight to make sure that the American
people had the opportunities that ev-
eryone—everyone—should be afforded
in this great Nation.
It is difficult to state just how im-
mense this loss is to the people of his
district, the State of Maryland, and the
entire Nation. Congressman Cummings
was a dedicated public servant who rep-
resented Maryland’s Seventh District
with honor and distinction for 23 years.
But he was so much more than that. He
was an icon, a leader, a statesman, a
patriot, and the embodiment of the
American Dream.
Yet, the real legacy of Congressman
Cummings was his connection to the
people of his district. It was quite com-
mon to find him at the corner grocery
store, neighborhood church, and any
other number of community functions.
It gave him a level of respect that
made him beloved in his district.
The esteemed congressman, JOHN
LEWIS, once said of Mr. Cummings:
‘‘There was no greater friend to the
poor, to the lost, to the left out and the
left behind than Representative Cum-
mings.’’ Never have truer words been
spoken about anyone. He was a great
man, congressman, and most of all, a
great American.
We had some of the same medical
issues, so we spent many evenings on
the phone talking him through what
the next step would be in the process.
And he said to me one day, he said,
‘‘Payne, I am scared.’’ But he wasn’t
just scared about his health issues, he
was scared about the direction that
this Nation was going in. And to his
very last existence, he was concerned
about the people in his district and this
country.
Mr. Speaker, I will miss him dearly.
This Nation will miss him.
Ms. PLASKETT. Mr. Speaker, I
thank the gentleman from New Jersey
(Mr. PAYNE).
Mr. Speaker, may I inquire how
much time I have remaining?
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tlewoman has 20 minutes remaining.
b 2045
Ms. PLASKETT. Mr. Speaker, I yield
to the gentlewoman from Ohio (Mrs.
BEATTY).
Mrs. BEATTY. Mr. Speaker, I have
met many people in my life, but Elijah
Cummings was steadfast and
unmovable in his quest to protect our
democracy.
He was my friend from day one. I was
a lost freshman, trying to find my way
to the Rayburn Building from Cannon.
Not only did Elijah teach me how to
read the numbers, but he walked me all
the way to the Rayburn Building. Then
he recommended a chief of staff to me,
Kimberly Ross, who is with me today.
He was a mentor to me and so many.
We texted often and talked about
healthcare challenges and the chal-
lenges of our communities and this
great Nation.
He cosponsored and saluted me for
my work putting Harriet Tubman on
the $20 bill.
Elijah would often say his life was
based on pain, passion, and purpose,
which propelled him forward.
A few months ago, he keynoted an
event in my district for his good friend,
the Reverend Dr. Charles Booth’s pro-
gram, Bridges to the Future, for its
25th anniversary, although he was not
feeling well himself. But Elijah was a
friend to the end.
His unmatched ability to tap into the
heart of the matter and find consensus
that mattered was Elijah.
So, Elijah, my brother, my friend,
my mentor, my colleague, I assure you,
when times get tough, I will borrow
your fighting spirit and harness the
power to stand firm in the face of in-
justice.
My heart and prayers are with his
wife and my friend, Maya; his children;
his family; his constituents; and his
staff.
Elijah, my friend, my colleague, rest
in peace. Rest in power, my friend. I
know you are dancing with the angels.
God bless you.
Ms. PLASKETT. Mr. Speaker, I
thank the gentlewoman for her words.
Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gentle-
woman from North Carolina (Ms.
ADAMS), who, like Elijah Cummings,
came to Congress first in a special elec-
tion. I am happy to call her my class-
mate.
Ms. ADAMS. Mr. Speaker, I thank
the gentlewoman from the Virgin Is-
lands and also the gentlewoman from
Nevada, Chairwoman BASS, and all who
participated in organizing this event.
I rise to join other Members tonight
to honor the life and career of one of
this body’s most effective lawmakers,
one of the most tireless champions of
the underprivileged, and a close and
dear friend to us all, representative
Elijah Cummings.
The 12th District of North Carolina
extends condolences to his wife, his
family, his extended family, and to the
members of his district.
Elijah was one of our best examples
of what it means to be a public servant.
In Baltimore, he was not only his com-
munity’s Member of Congress, but he
was its voice, a recognizable and fer-
vent product of the community that he
represented.
When West Baltimore was hurting
after the death of Freddie Gray, it was
Representative Cummings who spoke
the words of a grieving community.
When the President of the United
States insulted his city, it was Rep-
resentative Cummings who stood up
and offered to show the President what
Baltimore is really about.
This was the type of man and Mem-
ber that Elijah Cummings was, an ad-
vocate for what was right.
He was an advocate for our youth,
and he took a sincere interest in their
success. I remain personally grateful to
him for the support that he gave to my
youngest grandson as he explored en-
trance and application to Howard Uni-
versity.
Elijah Cummings was always an ad-
vocate for what was right, or, as Dr.
King would call it, he was indeed a
drum major for justice. He earned the
respect of men, women, and little chil-
dren, and he made this world much bet-
ter than he found it.
Ms. PLASKETT. Mr. Speaker, I yield
to the gentlewoman from Michigan
(Mrs. LAWRENCE), my very close class-
mate from the State of Michigan who
is herself a tireless fighter for the
rights of not only the people of Michi-
gan but of women and people who are
oppressed and who also sat and sit on
the Committee on Oversight and Re-
form under the tutelage of Elijah Cum-
mings.
Mrs. LAWRENCE. Mr. Speaker, I
thank my colleague, who has been a
very close colleague as we have sat
under the guidance and leadership of
Elijah Cummings.
I rise today, Mr. Speaker, to honor
my chairman, Elijah Cummings.
This is an extremely difficult time
for me because Chairman Cummings
was more than a colleague; he was my
mentor.
As a freshman, while serving on the
House Committee on Oversight and Re-
form with Chairman Cummings, I came
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:53 Oct 22, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00029 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K21OC7.049 H21OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8292 October 21, 2019
to him with a litany of questions. He
never turned me away. He was always
receptive and always considerate. He
would eventually explain to me how
much he appreciated that I had put
thought into the policies that I wanted
to implement while serving in Con-
gress.
It was then that this great man actu-
ally saw that I really cared for people,
and he instructed me to continue doing
the work because, when you really
care, your constituents will see it and
will appreciate it.
When I came to him during the Flint
water crisis and told him we needed to
look into this because people were
being hurt, and children were being
physically damaged, he was so deter-
mined to get to the truth.
I watched him serve in the majority
and in the minority, and there were
many times when this chairman, my
Chairman Cummings, became the voice
of reason within the Caucus and at the
helm of the Committee on Oversight
and Reform.
He was a consensus builder. He cut to
the chase. And he was the person who
worked across the aisle, never, ever
putting anyone before the American
people.
I will miss his bigger-than-life pres-
ence in our meetings. I will miss that
booming voice, heaving incredible
words of wisdom during our committee
hearings. I will miss the intelligent and
passionate questions and the astute ob-
servations that he would hurl at any of
the combative witnesses.
I will miss the man who believed in
the American experience, and he
fought for this democracy with his last
breath.
Most of all, I will miss the consid-
erate, giant gentleman who was my
mentor, Elijah Cummings.
This week, as we bid farewell to Bal-
timore’s native son, I know he will be
dancing with the angels, smiling down
on us, saying to continue the fight and
keep the faith because our democracy
is worth the fight.
Ms. PLASKETT. Mr. Speaker, I
thank the gentlewoman for those
words.
Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gentleman
from Pennsylvania (Mr. EVANS), rep-
resenting Philadelphia.
Mr. EVANS. Mr. Speaker, I thank
our colleagues and members of the
Congressional Black Caucus, under the
leadership of KAREN BASS and both co-
leaders here tonight, Congresswoman
STACEY PLASKETT and STEVE
HORSFORD, for their leadership.
Last week, I lost a friend and a col-
league, and Baltimore, Maryland, and
the United States lost a civil rights ac-
tivist, a tireless activist and leader.
I had the privilege of knowing the
chairman for many years, since we
both served our State legislatures be-
fore coming to Congress. We rep-
resented districts. I represented a dis-
trict in Philadelphia, and he rep-
resented a district in Baltimore. He got
elected about 1982. I got elected in 1981.
We both had similar challenges. He did
in Baltimore. I did in Philadelphia.
A few months ago, I saw the chair-
man here on the House floor, and I
complimented him for being relentless
in his commitment to civic participa-
tion.
I had the pleasure of sitting with him
on my very first State of the Union Ad-
dress. That day, we had the chance to
talk about discussions and challenges
that we both faced in major urban cit-
ies.
Today, I am glad I said something
when I had the chance. I told him that
I loved him. I told him that I loved him
for all the things he had been doing and
all the relentlessness he has shown.
Now, it is all up to us who are still in
this fight to carry on, to make a dif-
ference.
So, Mr. Chairman, rest in power. We
have to continue this fight.
Ms. PLASKETT. I thank Mr. EVANS,
as one gentleman from a great Amer-
ican city paying tribute to another
man from a great American city, as na-
tive sons. I thank him for those kind
words and for the fight that we are all
continuing to undertake on behalf of
the people whom we represent in this
great Nation.
Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gentle-
woman from Florida (Mrs. DEMINGS),
who had the honor of being on the
Oversight and Reform Committee with
Mr. Cummings, for her remarks about
that great American.
Mrs. DEMINGS. Dr. King once said
the true measure of a man is not how
he behaves in moments of comfort and
convenience, but how he stands in
times of challenge and controversy.
Last Congress, I had the honor of
serving with Chairman Cummings on
the Committee on Oversight and Re-
form, and he did not look for the easy
way out. He never ran from con-
troversy or challenge.
You see, Mr. Cummings was a true
leader. Life is all about choices, Mr.
Speaker, and true leaders have to make
a lot of them.
We can live in fear of what man will
say or do to us, or we can stand up and
speak out for what we know in our
hearts is right.
Elijah Cummings never failed to
stand up and speak out. You see, he
was a true leader.
We can follow the crowd no matter
how wrong the crowd may be, or we can
choose to be a drum major for justice.
Elijah Cummings chose to be a drum
major for justice.
Mr. Speaker, we can close our minds
and our hearts, mentor no one, and
share nothing with anyone. We can
make life’s journey all about us, or we
can mentor, impart knowledge and wis-
dom, and look out for someone else and
have their back.
Elijah Cummings was a mentor, a
role model. He cared about us. And
every day, we knew it.
Elijah Cummings had the Nation’s
back. For that, we are forever grateful
to Chairman Elijah Cummings for a
life well lived.
Ms. PLASKETT. I thank the gentle-
woman for those powerful words.
Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gentle-
woman from Georgia (Mrs. MCBATH)
for her tribute and words about Con-
gressman Elijah Cummings.
Mrs. MCBATH. Mr. Speaker, I thank
the gentlewoman for yielding.
I would like to begin by offering my
deepest prayers to Congressman Cum-
mings’ wife and family and the Balti-
more community. He was a solid voice
of conscience and always offered a
steady hand and sound wisdom.
He was one of the giants among us
here in Congress.
Congressman Cummings was born the
son of sharecroppers from Clarendon
County, South Carolina, a county
where children were forced to walk
miles to attend segregated schools. The
refusal of Clarendon County to provide
buses for the Black children in that
district became the court case Briggs
v. Elliott, one of the five cases that
would be decided under the shared des-
ignation of Brown v. Board of Edu-
cation.
Remarkably, Congressman Cum-
mings never forgot his roots. He spent
his entire life as a fierce champion for
justice and humanity. He boldly fought
for civil and human rights with the
strength given him by God.
His humility, his compassion, and his
commitment were nothing short of in-
spiring.
b 2100
I remember the times I would come
in here on the floor and I would sit
down next to him and he’d say: How
are you doing today, kid?
And I would say: Well, you know, it
is kind of rough being a freshman.
And he said: That is okay. Take care
of your family. Stay focused. Stay
clean. Do your work. Stay in the dis-
trict, and you will be just fine.
Representative Cummings once said:
When we are dancing with the angels,
the question will be asked, what did we
do to make sure that we kept our de-
mocracy intact?
Well, Representative Cummings, you
moved mountains for democracy.
And so, now, as he dances with the
angels in Heaven, we honor his lifelong
fight for our democracy, his towering
legacy, and his unwavering dedication
to the United States of America and to
the world. He will truly be missed.
Ms. PLASKETT. Mr. Speaker, I yield
to the gentlewoman from Massachu-
setts (Ms. PRESSLEY), who also sat on
the Oversight and Reform Committee
under Mr. Cummings.
Ms. PRESSLEY. Mr. Speaker, I
thank the gentlewoman from the Vir-
gin Islands and the gentleman from Ne-
vada and our chair, KAREN BASS, for or-
ganizing this Special Order.
What an honor and a privilege to
spend my early months as a freshman
Member of Congress in close proximity
to a titan for justice and a force for
good, someone who spent several dec-
ades as a truth-teller and a justice-
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:53 Oct 22, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00030 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K21OC7.051 H21OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8293
October 21, 2019
seeker, who, in his role as chair of the
Committee on Oversight and Reform,
knew that the best disinfectant is sun-
light, and he shone a light on every in-
justice.
He was a patriot, tireless in his ef-
forts to preserve our democracy, and a
statesman of unwavering conviction.
He challenged each of us to appeal to
our better angels, to be decent, to be
fair, to comport ourselves with the rev-
erence and dignity this institution de-
mands and our country deserves.
He was consistent and did that even
in the face of great physical fatigue
and, some days, perhaps, even a weary
spirit, in the face of injustice and in-
dignities. He often reminded us that it
was our charge on the Committee on
Oversight and Reform to be an efficient
and effective pursuit of the truth.
His body has transitioned, but his in-
structive words ring resoundingly and
true. He was a selfless servant and
leader until the end.
One of the final pursuits of justice we
took on together was to maintain ac-
cess to lifesaving healthcare for our
immigrant neighbors in the medical
deferred action program. His staffer,
Anthony, drove through the night to
Baltimore so the chairman could sign
subpoenas, advancing our fight to-
gether.
Truly, in life, all you have is your
name and your word, and when it
comes to Elijah Cummings, both were
good.
Until the very end, the chairman
would stop my staff and me in the hall-
ways, and he would say: Are you keep-
ing up the fight?
He knew the fight was greater than
one man or one mission or one legisla-
tive act. The pursuit of justice is not a
box you simply check. So we continue
in that pursuit, following in the foot-
steps of a giant.
No one can fill your shoes, but we
will pick up the torch and press for-
ward with your moral clarity as our
roadmap and your vision as our charge.
We will keep up the fight.
To my forever chairman, Elijah Cum-
mings, rest in power.
Ms. PLASKETT. Mr. Speaker, I just
want to close my portion of this by
stating that, when it came to a notion
of democracy, Chairman Cummings, in
his speeches, insistently invoked it,
and not in the inert way that elected
officials tend to do.
He spoke of democracy as something
vital and fragile and valuable, an in-
heritance that had to be safeguarded
for future generations. He said that to
all of us who sat under him in his
chairmanship and ensured that we
brought that passion and that desire to
do the best for this democracy that our
bodies could do.
So I thank him for that. I thank him
for everything that he has been to all
of us.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
PAYING TRIBUTE TO CONGRESS-
MAN ELIJAH E. CUMMINGS
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under
the Speaker’s announced policy of Jan-
uary 3, 2019, the Chair recognizes the
gentlewoman from New York (Ms.
CLARKE) for 30 minutes.
Ms. CLARKE of New York. Mr.
Speaker, it is my honor and my privi-
lege to continue the CBC’s Special
Order hour, and we are going to call
this portion CBC and friends.
It is my honor now to yield to the
gentleman from Texas (Mr. GREEN),
one who has served alongside the Hon-
orable Elijah E. Cummings throughout
his tenure here and I know would like
to bring forth his very special remarks
and reflections at this time.
Mr. GREEN of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I
rise, yes, to mourn his death, but I also
rise to celebrate his life, because it was
a life worthy of great celebration.
I rise understanding that, yes, he was
brilliant. He was a Phi Beta Kappa
with some 13 doctoral degrees, but he
did not allow his brilliance to outshine
his goodness.
His goodness was such that he was
one who cared for the least, the last,
and the lost. He was there for those
whom we consider the least among us,
those who were not born into plenty
but, rather, into poverty.
He was there for those who were the
last, the last hired and the first fired.
He fought for jobs for them.
He was there for those who are lost,
lost in poverty in the richest country
in the world, and he fought to elevate
their lives; those lost in chemical
abuse, he was there to help them ac-
quire healthcare.
He was truly a person who made a
difference in the lives of people whom
he never had the opportunity to meet
and greet.
So I mourn his passing, but I cele-
brate his living.
And while I am sure there are many
who will say that he left too soon, I
can only say this: We had him for 68
years, and I am grateful for that 68
years.
God bless you, dear brother. You
were a wise warrior and a seeker of
peace. And while you may not be with
us physically, your spirit will endure
forever.
Ms. CLARKE of New York. Mr.
Speaker, I thank the gentleman from
Houston for sharing those very inspir-
ing, uplifting comments about our
dear, beloved colleague at this time.
It is important for us, as we go
through the stages of mourning, to rec-
ognize, as he has stated, rightly stated,
that we were fortunate to have Elijah
Cummings with us for 68 years—his
family, his friends, even longer—and
during the 68 years, we were fortunate
to have him as part of our family here
in the Congressional Black Caucus and
in the Halls of Congress.
In that time, he was able to accom-
plish so much through his God-given
talents and abilities that he has be-
come well-known not only here in the
United States, but around the world.
I am hearing from members of the
Caribbean community who have read
about and heard about the passing of
Elijah Cummings, all of whom have
reached out to share with me their
comments and their condolences be-
cause they understand what Elijah has
meant not only to the United States
House of Representatives, United
States Congress, but, indeed, because
he was a world-class leader.
Mr. Speaker, I have some friends and
colleagues of the honorable chairman
of the Oversight and Reform Com-
mittee who would like to say a few
words, if you will, about our great col-
league.
It is my honor, at this time, to yield
to the gentleman from Tennessee (Mr.
COHEN), my classmate and colleague, a
member of the Oversight and Reform
Committee and the Judiciary Com-
mittee, to give his remarks.
Mr. COHEN. Mr. Speaker, I was just
walking back to my office and I saw on
the video this memorial service, this
celebration of life, and I wanted to
come listen. It has been inspiring for
me, so many appropriate remarks made
about this great man.
I feel privileged just to stand here at
the podium where he spoke and next to
his photograph just as I felt privileged
to know him and become a friend, and
where we spoke over here when he was
in the wheelchair and in the Speaker’s
lobby before votes and during votes.
When I was home this weekend, more
people came up to me in Memphis, and
people on social media, and expressed
their condolences, their appreciation of
his life and their knowledge that the
Congress had lost a person who was ir-
replaceable.
Elijah Cummings was one of the
great people that I have had the oppor-
tunity to interact with in my life, in
Congress, and in other places.
Truly, a giant has fallen. He had
grace. He had knowledge. He had judg-
ment. He had character.
It has been spoken, and I remember
seeing him on television walking in
Baltimore at some risk to himself, dur-
ing the riots, to help bring calm to Bal-
timore, leadership where he put his
community first and his safety second.
He talked about: We are better than
this. Well, we are better than this, and,
hopefully, one day, we will be as good
as him.
He knew that we were only here for a
minute and you should make that time
worthwhile, and he made it worth-
while.
Friday, a week ago, the last Friday
that Elijah was in our caucus, we had a
caucus conference call, and the discus-
sion toward the end was about the Con-
gress’ issuance of subpoenas and the at-
tempt to get them enforced through
the courts.
I believe Elijah was the last person to
speak on the call, and when he spoke,
it was like hearing the voice of God. He
said that these cases will go through
the courts, and they will be appealed,
and they will eventually be appealed to
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:53 Oct 22, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00031 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K21OC7.053 H21OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8294 October 21, 2019
the Supreme Court, and, at that point,
our democracy will be in the balance.
He was right, and those were his last
words to the caucus.
He cared about democracy. He cared
about this Congress. He cared about
the Constitution.
And even when President Trump de-
graded his city, he was gracious in his
response and never was in any way de-
fensive or attacking the President.
Elijah Cummings would stop you and
give you a word of encouragement to
keep going. He was one of the great
people to serve in the Congress. I am
just blessed to have my life interface
with his. I will miss him greatly.
I also extend my condolences to his
family, and I hope I get the chance to
serve along with his wife.
b 2115
Ms. CLARKE of New York. Mr.
Speaker, I thank the gentleman from
Tennessee for sharing his insight and
his own personal experiences with our
dear colleague, Elijah Cummings, who
touched so many lives, Members here
in Congress, the members of their fam-
ily, our own constituents.
Like Mr. COHEN, so many people in
my district were reaching out and ex-
pressing their condolences and sharing
their stories with me this past week. I
attended a church service where, again,
people talked about Elijah Cummings.
His influence has gone far and wide,
and I think that the values that he
held about our democracy are rever-
berating, and that should give us all
great heart to move forward and press
forward as we fight the battle to pre-
serve our democracy and lift up the
Constitution and rule of law.
Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gentleman
from Vermont (Mr. WELCH), another
colleague and also another classmate
of mine, who has joined us and would
like to share his sentiments, his in-
sights into the life of Elijah Cummings
and his interactions with our dear col-
league.
Mr. WELCH. Mr. Speaker, I thank
my classmate for yielding.
Mr. Speaker, it has been so wonderful
to be sitting here listening to members
of the Congressional Black Caucus talk
about their work, their friendship,
their respect for a giant who walked
among us, and of course, that is Elijah
Cummings.
The Congressional Black Caucus is
regarded by many, myself included, as
the conscience of this Congress. And
there was no better representative of
that conscience than Elijah Cummings,
who served for a couple of years as the
chair of the Black Caucus. All of us
who served with Elijah are better for it
and have fond memories and great ap-
preciation for our friendship and admi-
ration for him.
I was quite lucky because I have
served with Elijah on the Oversight
and Reform Committee for 13 years. So
in those committees, along with you
my friend, Representative CLARKE, we
really got to see Elijah face a lot of
very tough situations.
I am going to make it a little bit per-
sonal here about some of my vivid ex-
periences I have had with Elijah. Elijah
and I worked very hard on the drug bill
that is now going to be named in his
honor to provide the government with
the ability to negotiate lower prices so
that the people he represents, and we
all represent, can get the drugs they
need.
Shortly after President Trump was
elected, I think it was April of 2017, the
President invited Elijah to the White
House to talk about prescription drugs.
Since I had been working with Elijah
on this for years, Elijah invited me. I
kind of crashed the party.
Number one, how many of our col-
leagues would invite a junior Member
to a White House meeting just because
the two of us had been working on the
issue together? I would like to say all
of us would. Elijah did.
We went to the White House, and we
talked a lot with the President about
the prescription drug negotiation bill.
But in the course of the conversation,
the President expressed dismay about
where Elijah lived. This was before the
President was saying the horrible
things about that community with rats
and rodents and all the other things.
He was genuinely dismayed that a per-
son in Congress could live in a commu-
nity that the President just didn’t
think that he could ever live.
And I remember Elijah was dismayed
that anybody, including the President
of the United States, didn’t understand
how wonderful the people were in that
community, how dignified they were,
how they faced adversity every single
day, how they helped one another get
up when somebody fell down. Elijah
was astonished. He lived in the best
place in the world. That was what Eli-
jah conveyed to the President. And Eli-
jah conveyed that he represented the
best people in the world. That was Eli-
jah Cummings.
I remember the topic was prescrip-
tion drugs, and Elijah was quite dis-
ciplined. You know, the topic is the
topic, we will get to the business at
hand. But the question of voter fraud
came up, and in the way that only Eli-
jah can do, where he is not intimidated
but he is not showing off—and it is a
fine balance—he just said in his direct
way, we don’t have a problem with
voter fraud. We have a problem with
voter suppression.
And to be in the presence of this man
in the Oval Office where there was no
artifice to Elijah’s presence, there was
no sense from Elijah of disrespect for
the office, certainly, even though he
disagreed with the President on so
many things, but it was no different for
Elijah than if he was in a local diner in
Baltimore talking to the people he rep-
resented; he was direct, to the point,
and empathetic to the concerns of the
people that he represented.
So it was just a wonderful oppor-
tunity for me to see a great man in ac-
tion. It is how he lived. It wasn’t like
he had to think about it. It wasn’t like
he had to calculate anything. He was
present in that moment. He was
present in that moment as he was
present every moment of the day. It
was there for the people he rep-
resented. He conveyed the immense ap-
preciation and respect for the dignity
of the people he represented and the
humility that he felt that he had been
given this opportunity to be their
Member of Congress, a special man.
The memory of Elijah for all of us
will sustain us through difficult times,
and may his example be the one we as-
pire to follow.
I thank my colleagues in the Con-
gressional Black Caucus for this won-
derful tribute to a wonderful leader
from the ranks of the Congressional
Black Caucus.
Ms. CLARKE of New York. Mr.
Speaker, I thank the gentleman from
Vermont for sharing his insight as a
member of the committee led by the
Honorable Elijah E. Cummings.
As we wind down here this evening,
there are a couple of things that have
been a running theme among our col-
leagues this evening, and it is sort of
the quiet thunder, the strength, the
dignity, the integrity of the Honorable
Elijah E. Cummings. And I thought
about the fact that still waters run
deep. He wasn’t a boisterous person, a
showboater, but he knew how to com-
mand the moral authority that moves
a Nation. Whether it was voting rights
or civil rights, whether it was the chil-
dren of Flint or the children of the bor-
der, whether it was preserving this de-
mocracy and making sure that the rule
of law stands above all else in the Con-
stitution of the United States, we
could turn to our North Star, Elijah E.
Cummings to be a champion, to be a
voice, to be the compass that led this
Congress into the next level of integ-
rity that we need to move this Nation
forward.
And so, we are honored this evening
that so many colleagues have taken
the time to be here in tribute to the
Honorable Elijah E. Cummings. We
again want to, on behalf of the mem-
bers of the Congressional Black Caucus
and colleagues of the wider body, ex-
press our heartfelt condolences to
Maya Rockeymoore, the family, the
constituents of Maryland’s Seventh
District, as well as the very dedicated
staff of the Honorable Elijah E. Cum-
mings.
Congressman Cummings will never be
forgotten. As I stated in my comments,
we are legacy keepers, and so every-
thing that we have been taught and
learned from Elijah will be applied in
the days ahead as he would have us do.
GENERAL LEAVE
Ms. CLARKE of New York. Mr.
Speaker, I ask unanimous consent that
all Members may have 5 legislative
days in which to revise and extend
their remarks and include extraneous
materials on this Special Order.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gentle-
woman from New York?
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:53 Oct 22, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00032 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K21OC7.054 H21OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8295
October 21, 2019
There was no objection.
Ms. CLARKE of New York. Mr.
Speaker, I yield back the balance of
my time.
Ms. FUDGE. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to
honor the memory of a great leader, legislator
and servant of the people. A man of principle
and unyielding resolve to be the voice of the
people; Congressman Elijah Eugene Cum-
mings.
A native of Baltimore, Maryland, Congress-
man Cummings maintained an unbreakable
bond to the community that raised him, fight-
ing for the people he loved every day.
From his days as Speaker pro tempore of
the Maryland House of Delegates, to becom-
ing Chairman of the powerful House Com-
mittee on Oversight and Reform of the U.S.
Congress, Congressman Cummings defended
the less fortunate by ensuring federal govern-
ment programs were meeting the needs of the
people of his district and this country. He be-
came a powerful voice for equality and oppor-
tunity, a tireless advocate for affordable
healthcare, quality education, civil rights, and
criminal justice reform.
Congressman Cummings committed himself
to civil rights advocacy and social justice. He
was known as the gentleman who ‘‘will not
yield’’ when it comes to educating our chil-
dren, protecting communities of color, and mi-
grant families. As his colleague, it was no sur-
prise to see him take to the streets to extin-
guish the flames of outrage sparked by racism
and excessive violence by law enforcement in
his hometown. He will forever be remembered
as a calming spirit in a time of civil unrest in
the city of Baltimore.
Congressman Cummings’ lifetime of public
service was defined by compassion, integrity,
and a commitment to empowering the people
he was sworn to represent. His presence will
be sorely missed. His legacy of leadership will
continue to be an inspiration to us all. It was
an honor to know him, and call him friend.
Elijah was a man of great and unwavering
faith. I can imagine, as he was making his
transition early last Thursday morning, he
sang the words of the old hymn, ‘‘Oh, I want
to see Him, look upon His face; There to sing
forever of His saving grace; On the streets of
glory let me lift my voice; Cares all past, home
at last, ever to rejoice.’’
Farewell my friend. Another soldier gone
home.
Ms. PLASKETT. Mr. Speaker, last week, we
lost the earthly man Elijah Cummings. Most of
the country and many around the world knew
him as a member of Congress from the city of
Baltimore. He was a fierce fighter for the for-
gotten, a sworn opponent of hunger, poverty,
abuse and addiction and a relentless advocate
for civil rights. Chairman Cummings was a
driven man, a person who pushed for what
was right because he believed in the supreme
responsibility of elected officials to advocate
for those we represent.
I have the honor of being a member of the
Committee he chaired for 5 years. Congress-
man Cummings was a mentor to me. I and
those who had a chance to interact with him
knew him as more than a Member of Con-
gress. More importantly, he was a man of
God. He lived and worked in Congress on
Christian values.
He was a man of great wisdom and, al-
though he needed little protection, I viewed my
role on the Committee as not only being the
consummate prosecutor and counselor but as
a frontline and protector to this gentleman.
With a booming voice and speaking cadence
that hinted of the pulpit—his parents were
preachers—Chairman Cummings was a com-
pelling figure on Capitol Hill for more than two
decades, repeatedly re-elected by voters in
Maryland’s Seventh Congressional District,
which covers much of Baltimore, including a
section of the city with more than its share of
social problems. He campaigned tirelessly for
stricter gun control laws and was a consum-
mate voice for those addicted to drugs. He
was at times gruff, but always respected. But,
it was as Chairman of the House Committee
on Oversight and Reform—the panel charged
with maintaining integrity in government—that
Chairman Cummings may have left his most
legacy.
When it came to the notion of democracy,
Chairman Cummings, in his speeches—par-
ticularly those he gave in the past few years—
insistently invoked it, and not in the inert way
that elected officials tend to. He spoke of de-
mocracy as something vital and fragile and
valuable—an inheritance that had to be safe-
guarded for future generations. When he
spoke of HR–1, the exhaustive election-pro-
tection bill that the Democrats introduced in
January as their first piece of legislation of this
Congress, he mentioned his ninety-two-year-
old mother, who had died a year earlier. She
was a former sharecropper, who implored him,
‘‘Do not let them take our votes away from
us.’’ He viewed his Chairmanship of the
House Oversight and Reform Committee as
part of the battle to protect voting rights. What
remains clear is the void that Chairman
Cummings’s absence leaves in his district and
his country. This would have been the case at
nearly any point in his quarter century in Con-
gress. But it’s even more acute in this one. In
a fiery bit of oration delivered at the introduc-
tion of HR–1, he pledged to ‘‘fight to the
death’’ in defense of voting and, thereby, de-
mocracy. It was a promise that he made good
on.
Ms. JOHNSON of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to memorialize the life of an honorable
statesman and dear friend, Congressman Eli-
jah Cummings.
Congressman Cummings graduated from
Baltimore City College High School before at-
tending Howard University, where he earned a
Bachelor’s degree in Political Science. At
Howard, he served as the president of the stu-
dent government and was a member of Phi
Beta Kappa, the oldest academic honor soci-
ety in the United States. He continued his
studies at the University of Maryland School of
Law and went on to be admitted to the Mary-
land Bar Association.
Congressman Cummings was elected to the
Maryland House of Delegates in 1982, where
he served for 16 years. As a Member of the
House of Delegates, he was elected as the
first African American Speaker Pro Tempore in
the state’s history and was selected as Chair-
man of the Legislative Black Caucus. Fol-
lowing the conclusion of his service in the
state legislature, Congressman Cummings
was entrusted to represent the constituents of
the 7th District of Maryland in the United
States House of Representatives, where he
had served dutifully since.
During his tenure in the House of Rep-
resentatives, Congressman Cummings cham-
pioned issues including civil rights, access to
affordable healthcare, and congressional over-
sight, to name a few. He has served as Chair
of the Congressional Black Caucus in the
108th Congress and Ranking Member of the
House Committee on Oversight and Reform.
At the time of his passing, he was Chairman
of the House Committee on Oversight and Re-
form and a senior Member of the House Com-
mittee on Transportation and Infrastructure.
Congressman Cummings was a faithful
member of the Baltimore community above
everything else. He served on many local
boards, including the U.S. Naval Academy
Board of Visitors, the University of Maryland
Board of Advisors, and the SEED School of
Maryland Board of Directors. In addition, he
was an Honorary Board Member of KIPP Bal-
timore Schools and the Baltimore School for
the Arts.
Mr. Speaker, I join with Members of Con-
gress in extending our sympathies to Con-
gressman Cummings’ wife, Maya
Rockeymoore Cummings, his family, and to all
who had the great pleasure of knowing him.
The legacy of Congressman Cummings will
endure in this great institution, as those that
live in the hearts of others never truly perish.
May he rest in peace.
Ms. SEWELL of Alabama. Mr. Speaker, I
rise today to honor the life and legacy of Con-
gressman Elijah Cummings, a friend, mentor,
patriot and titan of the House of Representa-
tives.
Congressman Cummings was a giant
among us who led with his heart and gov-
erned with the love of his district and our
country. He worked until his very last breath
for the good of our nation because he be-
lieved in the power of the American people to
make our country a better place for our chil-
dren to live and prosper.
After all, Congressman Cummings knew
firsthand the power of the American dream.
The son of sharecroppers, he grew up to
graduate Phi Beta Kappa from Howard Univer-
sity, receive his law degree from the University
of Maryland and go on to serve his beloved
home of Baltimore in both the state legislature
and in Congress.
Day in and day out, Congressman Cum-
mings fought to ensure our government
worked for the people, providing the tools to
help Americans succeed and the opportunities
to make their dreams a reality. He understood
that patriotism is not looking at our nation’s
past through rosy glasses and a revisionist
history, but rather that it is having the courage
to examine more closely those areas that are
broken and believing in the power of our sys-
tem to fix them.
Social justice was in his blood—when he
was just 11 years old, he and his friends
worked to integrate a segregated swimming
pool in his native Baltimore. I was honored to
work with him closely to ensure every Amer-
ican is able to cast his or her ballot on election
day. And he fought passionately against
forces that undermine the integrity of our de-
mocracy and the principles upon which our
nation was founded.
Congressman Cummings will be forever
missed, but his legacy lives on and continues
to inspire us to live our lives for the benefit of
others—and the good of our nation.
f
LEAVE OF ABSENCE
By unanimous consent, leave of ab-
sence was granted to:
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:08 Oct 22, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00033 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K21OC7.056 H21OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8296 October 21, 2019
Mr. DANNY K. DAVIS of Illinois (at the
request of Mr. HOYER) for today.
Ms. HAALAND (at the request of Mr.
HOYER) for today on account of flight
canceled.
Mr. MCEACHIN (at the request of Mr.
HOYER) for September 9 until October
23.
f
EXPENDITURES BY THE OFFICE
OF GENERAL COUNSEL UNDER
HOUSE RESOLUTION 6, 116TH
CONGRESS
COMMITTEE ON HOUSE
ADMINISTRATION,
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
Washington, DC, October 21, 2019.
Hon. NANCY PELOSI,
Speaker, House of Representatives,
Washington, DC.
DEAR MADAM SPEAKER: Pursuant to section
302(c) of House Resolution 6 (116th Congress)
I hereby submit the attached statement
‘‘setting forth the aggregate amounts ex-
pended by the Office of General Counsel on
outside counsel and other experts pursuant
to this title on a quarterly basis’’ for the
quarter beginning on July 1, 2019 and ending
on September 30, 2019, for publication in the
Congressional Record.
Sincerely,
ZOE LOFGREN,
Chairperson.
AGGREGATE AMOUNT EXPENDED ON OUTSIDE COUNSEL
OR OTHER EXPERTS
[H. RES. 6]
January I–March 31, 2019 ...................................................... $0.00
April 1–June 30, 2019 ............................................................. 0.00
July 1–September 30, 2019 ..................................................... 0.00
Total ................................................................................ 0.00
f
SENATE BILL REFERRED
A bill of the Senate of the following
title was taken from the Speaker’s
table and, under the rule, referred as
follows:
S. 2635. An act to require the Director of
the Federal Bureau of Investigation to de-
classify any and all information relating to
whether the government of Saudi Arabia as-
sisted a citizen or national of Saudi Arabia
in departing the United States while the cit-
izen or national was awaiting trial or sen-
tencing for a criminal offense committed in
the United States, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on the Judiciary.
f
SENATE ENROLLED BILL SIGNED
The Speaker pro tempore, Mr.
RASKIN, on Friday, October 18, 2019, an-
nounced his signature to an enrolled
bill of the Senate of the following title:
S. 1196.—An Act to designate the facility of
the United States Postal Service located at
1715 Linnerud Drive in Sun Prairie, Wis-
consin, as the ‘‘Fire Captain Cory Barr Post
Office Building’’.
f
ADJOURNMENT
Ms. CLARKE of New York. Mr.
Speaker, I move that the House do now
adjourn.
The motion was agreed to; accord-
ingly (at 9 o’clock and 25 minutes
p.m.), under its previous order, the
House adjourned until tomorrow, Tues-
day, October 22, 2019, at 10 a.m. for
morning-hour debate.
f
BUDGETARY EFFECTS OF PAYGO
LEGISLATION
Pursuant to the Statutory Pay-As-
You-Go Act of 2010 (PAYGO), Mr. YAR-
MUTH hereby submits prior to the vote
on passage, for printing in the CON-
GRESSIONAL RECORD, that H.R. 4406, the
Small Business Development Centers
Improvement Act of 2019, as amended,
would have no significant effect on the
deficit, and therefore, the budgetary ef-
fects of such bill are estimated as zero.
f
EXECUTIVE COMMUNICATIONS,
ETC.
Under clause 2 of rule XIV, executive
communications were taken from the
Speaker’s table and referred as follows:
2680. A letter from the Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer, Farm Credit Administra-
tion, transmitting the Administration’s no-
tification of its 2019 compensation program
adjustments, pursuant to 12 U.S.C. 1833b(a);
Public Law 101-73, Sec. 1206(a); (103 Stat. 523);
to the Committee on Agriculture.
2681. A letter from the Director, Regula-
tions Management Team, Rural Develop-
ment, Rural Housing Service, Rural Utilities
Service, Department of Agriculture, trans-
mitting the Department’s Major notice —
Community Facilities Guaranteed Loan Pro-
gram Guarantee Fee Rate, Annual Renewal
Fee, Rural Area Definition, and Funding Pri-
ority for Fiscal Year 2020; and Water and
Waste Disposal Programs Guaranteed Rural
Area Definition and Funding Reservation for
Fiscal Year 2020 received October 10, 2019,
pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law
104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Com-
mittee on Financial Services.
2682. A letter from the Deputy General
Counsel, Office of Elementary and Secondary
Education, Department of Education, trans-
mitting the Department’s Major non-regu-
latory guidance — Title 1, Part A of the Ele-
mentary and Secondary Education Act of
1965, as Amended by the Every Student Suc-
ceeds Act: Providing Equitable Services to
Eligible Private School Children, Teachers,
and Families received October 17, 2109, pur-
suant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-
121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee
on Education and Labor.
2683. A letter from the Acting Assistant
Secretary for Legislation, Department of
Health and Human Services, transmitting a
report entitled, ‘‘Evaluation of the Medicaid
Emergency Psychiatric Demonstration
(MEPD): Report to Congress (RTC)’’, pursu-
ant to Public Law 114-255, Sec. 12004(b); (130
Stat. 1275); to the Committee on Energy and
Commerce.
2684. A letter from the Acting Assistant
Secretary for Legislation, Department of
Health and Human Services, transmitting a
report entitled ‘‘Harmonization of Dif-
ferences Between the Department of Health
and Human Services’ Human Subject Regula-
tions and the Food and Drug Administra-
tion’s Human Subject Regulations’’, pursu-
ant to 42 U.S.C. 289 note; Public Law 114-255,
Sec. 3023(e); (130 Stat. 1098); to the Com-
mittee on Energy and Commerce.
2685. A letter from the Director, Regu-
latory Management Division, Environmental
Protection Agency, transmitting the Agen-
cy’s final rule — Significant New Use Rules
on Certain Chemical Substances (17-5) [EPA-
HQ-OPPT-2018-0567; FRL-10000-42] (RIN: 2070-
AB27) received October 10, 2019, pursuant to 5
U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec.
251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on En-
ergy and Commerce.
2686. A letter from the Director, Regu-
latory Management Division, Environmental
Protection Agency, transmitting the Agen-
cy’s final authorization — North Carolina:
Final Authorization of State Hazardous
Waste Management Program Revisions
[EPA-R04-RCRA-2019-0425; FRL-10001-05-Re-
gion 4] received October 10, 2019, pursuant to
5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec.
251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on En-
ergy and Commerce.
2687. A letter from the Assistant Secretary,
Bureau of Legislative Affairs, Department of
State, transmitting the Department’s report
covering the period from May 11, 2019 to July
10, 2019, on the Authorization for Use of Mili-
tary Force Against Iraq Resolution, pursu-
ant to 50 U.S.C. 1541 note; Public Law 107-243,
Sec. 4(a); (116 Stat. 1501) and 50 U.S.C. 1541
note; Public Law 102-1, Sec. 3 (as amended by
Public Law 106-113, Sec. 1000(a)(7)); (113 Stat.
1501A-422); to the Committee on Foreign Af-
fairs.
2688. A letter from the Acting Director,
International Cooperation, Acquisition and
Sustainment, Department of Defense, trans-
mitting Transmittal No. 18-19, pursuant to
the reporting requirements of Section 27(f) of
the Arms Export Control Act and Executive
Order 13637; to the Committee on Foreign Af-
fairs.
2689. A letter from the Assistant Secretary,
Bureau of Legislative Affairs, Department of
State, transmitting Transmittal No. RSAT-
19-6937, pursuant to the reporting require-
ments of Section 3(d) of the Arms Export
Control Act, as amended; to the Committee
on Foreign Affairs.
2690. A letter from the Assistant Secretary,
Bureau of Legislative Affairs, Department of
State, transmitting Transmittal No. RSAT-
16-5363, pursuant to the reporting require-
ments of Section 3(d) of the Arms Export
Control Act, as amended; to the Committee
on Foreign Affairs.
2691. A letter from the Chairman, Defense
Nuclear Facilities Safety Board, transmit-
ting notification that the Annual Report on
Commercial Activities at the Defense Nu-
clear Facilities Safety Board for Fiscal Year
2017 has been posted on the Open Govern-
ment page of the Board’s public website, pur-
suant to 31 U.S.C. 501 note; Public Law 105-
270, Sec. 2(c)(1)(A); (112 Stat. 2382); to the
Committee on Oversight and Reform.
2692. A letter from the Associate Director
for Legislative Affairs, Office of Legislative
and Intergovernmental Affairs, Department
of Commerce, transmitting a copy of the re-
quest regarding the Department of Com-
merce’s report to Congress on Fiscal Year
2017, pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 501 note; Public
Law 105-270, Sec. 2(c)(1)(A); (112 Stat. 2382); to
the Committee on Oversight and Reform.
2693. A letter from the Director, OCFO-
Transparency and Accountability Division,
Department of Agriculture, transmitting the
Department’s final rule — Nonprocurement
Debarment and Suspension [0505-AA17] re-
ceived October 10, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Agriculture.
2694. A letter from the Deputy Assistant
Administrator for Regulatory Programs,
NMFS, Office of Sustainable Fisheries, Na-
tional Oceanic and Atmospheric Administra-
tion, transmitting the Administration’s final
rule — Fisheries of the Exclusive Economic
Zone Off Alaska; Gulf of Alaska; Final 2019
and 2020 Harvest Specifications for Ground-
fish; Correction [Docket No.: 180831813-9332-
03] (RIN: 0648-XG471) received October 10,
2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:08 Oct 22, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00034 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K21OC7.057 H21OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8297
October 21, 2019
Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the
Committee on Natural Resources.
2695. A letter from the Deputy Assistant
Administrator for Regulatory Programs,
NMFS, National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration, transmitting the Adminis-
tration’s interim final rule — International
Fisheries; Western and Central Pacific Fish-
eries for Highly Migratory Species; Fishing
Restrictions in Purse Seine Fisheries [Dock-
et No.: 190220141-9141-01] (RIN: 0648-BI78) re-
ceived October 10, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Natural Re-
sources.
2696. A letter from the Deputy Assistant
Administrator for Regulatory Programs,
NMFS, Office of Sustainable Fisheries, Na-
tional Oceanic and Atmospheric Administra-
tion, transmitting the Administration’s final
temporary rule — Temporary Rule To Estab-
lish Management Measures for Red Grouper
in the Gulf of Mexico [Docket No.: 190213109-
9385-02] (RIN: 0648-BI63) received October 10,
2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public
Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the
Committee on Natural Resources.
2697. A letter from the Deputy Assistant
Administrator for Regulatory Programs,
NMFS, Office of Sustainable Fisheries, Na-
tional Oceanic and Atmospheric Administra-
tion, transmitting the Administration’s tem-
porary final rule — Fisheries of the North-
eastern United States; Northeast Multispe-
cies Fishery; Adjustment of Georges Bank
and Southern New England/Mid-Atlantic
Yellowtail Flounder Annual Catch Limits
[Docket No.: 190220138-9138-01] (RIN: 0648-
XG833) received October 10, 2019, pursuant to
5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec.
251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on Nat-
ural Resources.
2698. A letter from the Deputy Assistant
Administrator for Regulatory Affairs,
NMFS, Office of Sustainable Fisheries, Na-
tional Oceanic and Atmospheric Administra-
tion, transmitting the Administration’s final
rule — Fisheries of the Caribbean, Gulf of
Mexico, and South Atlantic; Snapper-Group-
er Fishery of the South Atlantic Region; Ab-
breviated Framework Amendment 2 [Docket
No.: 181019966-9244-02] (RIN: 0648-BI56) re-
ceived October 10, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Natural Re-
sources.
2699. A letter from the Register of Copy-
rights and Director, U.S. Copyright Office,
transmitting a schedule and analysis of pro-
posed fees for Copyright Office Services, pur-
suant to 17 U.S.C. 708(b); Public Law 94-553,
Sec. 101(b) (as amended by Public Law 106-
379, Sec. 3(a)(3)); (114 Stat. 1445); to the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary.
2700. A letter from the Associate Director
for Legislative Affairs, Department of Com-
merce, transmitting the FY 2018 Annual Re-
port on Small Entity Compliance Guides; to
the Committee on Small Business.
2701. A letter from the Chief, Publications
and Regulations Branch, Internal Revenue
Service, transmitting the Service’s final reg-
ulations and removal of temporary regula-
tions — Liabilities Recognized as Recourse
Partnership Liabilities under Section 752
[TD 9877] (RIN: 1545-BM83) received October
10, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A);
Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to
the Committee on Ways and Means.
2702. A letter from the Chief, Publications
and Regulations Branch, Internal Revenue
Service, transmitting the Service’s final reg-
ulations and removal of temporary regula-
tions — Removal of Temporary Regulations
on a Partner’s Share of a Partnership Liabil-
ity for Disguised Sale Purposes [TD 9876]
(RIN: 1545-BO05) received October 10, 2019,
pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law
104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Com-
mittee on Ways and Means.
2703. A letter from the General Counsel, Of-
fice of Congressional Workplace Rights,
transmitting a Biennial Report — Americans
with Disabilities Act Public Services and Ac-
commodations Inspections — 114th Congress,
pursuant to 2 U.S.C. 1341(e)(2); Public Law
104-1, Sec. 215(e)(2) (as amended by Public
Law 108-271, Sec. 8(b)); (118 Stat. 814); jointly
to the Committees on House Administration
and Education and Labor.
f
REPORTS OF COMMITTEES ON
PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS
Under clause 2 of rule XIII, reports of
committees were delivered to the Clerk
for printing and reference to the proper
calendar, as follows:
Ms. WATERS: Committee on Financial
Services, H.R. 2514. A bill to make reforms to
the Federal Bank Secrecy Act and anti-
money laundering laws, and for other pur-
poses; with an amendment (Rept. 116–245, Pt.
1). Referred to the Committee of the Whole
House on the state of the Union.
Ms. LOFGREN: Committee on House Ad-
ministration H.R. 4617. A bill to amend the
Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971 to
clarify the obligation to report acts of for-
eign election influence and require imple-
mentation of compliance and reporting sys-
tems by Federal campaigns to detect and re-
port such acts, and for other purposes; with
an amendment (Rept. 116–246, Pt. 1). Referred
to the Committee of the Whole House on the
state of the Union.
Mr. PERLMUTTER: Committee on Rules.
H. Res. 646. A resolution providing for con-
sideration of the bill (H.R. 2513) to ensure
that persons who form corporations or lim-
ited liability companies in the United States
disclose the beneficial owners of those cor-
porations or limited liability companies, in
order to prevent wrongdoers from exploiting
United States corporations and limited li-
ability companies for criminal gain, to assist
law enforcement in detecting, preventing,
and punishing terrorism, money laundering,
and other misconduct involving United
States corporations and limited liability
companies, and for other purposes (Rept. 116–
247). Referred to the House Calendar.
DISCHARGE OF COMMITTEE
Pursuant to clause 2 of rule XIII,
Committee on Ways and Means dis-
charged from further consideration.
H.R. 2514 referred to the Committee of
the Whole House on the state of the
Union.
Pursuant to clause 2 of rule XIII, the
Committee on the Judiciary discharged
from further consideration. H.R. 4617
referred to the Committee of the Whole
House on the state of the Union.
f
PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS
Under clause 2 of rule XII, public
bills and resolutions of the following
titles were introduced and severally re-
ferred, as follows:
By Mr. MCHENRY:
H.R. 4767. A bill to promote innovation in
financial services, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Financial Services, and in
addition to the Committee on Agriculture,
for a period to be subsequently determined
by the Speaker, in each case for consider-
ation of such provisions as fall within the ju-
risdiction of the committee concerned.
By Mr. DANNY K. DAVIS of Illinois
(for himself, Mr. NEAL, Mr. DOGGETT,
Mr. BLUMENAUER, Ms. CASTOR of
Florida, Ms. JUDY CHU of California,
Ms. DEGETTE, Mr. EVANS, Mr. HIG-
GINS of New York, Mr. HORSFORD, Mr.
KILDEE, Mr. LARSON of Connecticut,
Mr. LEWIS, Ms. MOORE, Mr. PAS-
CRELL, Ms. SÁNCHEZ, Ms. SEWELL of
Alabama, and Mr. SUOZZI):
H.R. 4768. A bill to amend section 511 of the
Social Security Act to reduce maternal mor-
tality by continuing to invest in evidence-
based home visiting models that are address-
ing the social determinants of maternal
health and morbidity; to the Committee on
Ways and Means, and in addition to the Com-
mittee on Energy and Commerce, for a pe-
riod to be subsequently determined by the
Speaker, in each case for consideration of
such provisions as fall within the jurisdic-
tion of the committee concerned.
By Ms. SCHAKOWSKY:
H.R. 4769. A bill to amend part D of title
XVIII of the Social Security Act to deliver a
meaningful benefit and lower prescription
drug prices under the Medicare program; to
the Committee on Energy and Commerce,
and in addition to the Committee on Ways
and Means, for a period to be subsequently
determined by the Speaker, in each case for
consideration of such provisions as fall with-
in the jurisdiction of the committee con-
cerned.
By Mr. BAIRD (for himself and Mr.
HARDER of California):
H.R. 4770. A bill to revise and improve the
advisory committees of the Commodity Fu-
tures Trading Commission; to the Com-
mittee on Agriculture.
By Mr. CUNNINGHAM (for himself and
Mr. KATKO):
H.R. 4771. A bill to amend title 38, United
States Code, to permit appellants to appear
in disability compensation cases before the
Board of Veterans’ Appeals by picture and
voice transmission from locations other than
facilities of the Department of Veterans Af-
fairs; to the Committee on Veterans’ Affairs.
By Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois:
H.R. 4772. A bill to provide for the protec-
tion of proprietary information provided to
the Commodity Futures Trading Commis-
sion, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Agriculture.
By Mr. JOHNSON of South Dakota (for
himself, Mr. LUCAS, and Ms. CHENEY):
H.R. 4773. A bill to amend the Food, Agri-
culture, Conservation, and Trade Act of 1990
to direct the Secretary of Agriculture to
make grants for the purpose of improving
the farm management knowledge and skills
of livestock producers; to the Committee on
Agriculture.
By Mr. KHANNA:
H.R. 4774. A bill to amend section 3554(a)(4)
of title 44, United States Code, to direct the
head of each agency to ensure Federal em-
ployees are trained in cyber security, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Over-
sight and Reform.
By Mr. TED LIEU of California:
H.R. 4775. A bill to limit the amount of ex-
penditure on Presidential travel, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Over-
sight and Reform, and in addition to the
Committee on the Judiciary, for a period to
be subsequently determined by the Speaker,
in each case for consideration of such provi-
sions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned.
By Ms. NORTON (for herself and Mr.
EVANS):
H.R. 4776. A bill to direct the Secretary of
Education to establish a competitive grant
program to award grants to local edu-
cational agencies to address implicit bias in
elementary and secondary schools, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Edu-
cation and Labor.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:53 Oct 22, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00035 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\L21OC7.000 H21OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8298 October 21, 2019
By Mr. VAN DREW (for himself, Ms.
KENDRA S. HORN of Oklahoma, Mr.
FORTENBERRY, Mr. STEUBE, Ms.
SPANBERGER, Ms. TORRES SMALL of
New Mexico, Mr. YOUNG, and Mr.
CRENSHAW):
H.R. 4777. A bill to amend the Help Amer-
ica Vote Act of 2002 to require States to take
steps to ensure domestic ownership and con-
trol of election service providers, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on House
Administration.
By Mr. BIGGS:
H. Res. 647. A resolution raising a question
of the privileges of the House.
By Ms. NORTON:
H. Res. 648. A resolution honoring the
lives, work, and sacrifice of Joseph Curseen,
Jr., and Thomas Morris, Jr., the 2 United
States Postal Service employees who died as
a result of their contact with anthrax while
working at the United States Postal Facility
located at 900 Brentwood Road, NE, Wash-
ington, DC, during the anthrax attack in the
fall of 2001; United States Postal Service em-
ployees, who have continued to work dili-
gently in service to the people of the United
States notwithstanding the anthrax attack;
as well as the other 3 Americans who died
and the 17 who became ill in the attack; to
the Committee on Oversight and Reform.
By Mr. SMITH of New Jersey (for him-
self and Mr. SIRES):
H. Res. 649. A resolution expressing the
support of the United States for the grass-
roots development programs the Inter-Amer-
ican Foundation has undertaken for the past
50 years; to the Committee on Foreign Af-
fairs.
f
CONSTITUTIONAL AUTHORITY
STATEMENT
Pursuant to clause 7 of rule XII of
the Rules of the House of Representa-
tives, the following statements are sub-
mitted regarding the specific powers
granted to Congress in the Constitu-
tion to enact the accompanying bill or
joint resolution.
By Mr. MCHENRY:
H.R. 4767.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
The Congress shall have Power To lay and
collect Taxes, Duties, Imposts and Excises,
to pay the Debts and provide for the common
Defence . . . of the United States; but all Du-
ties, Imposts, Excises shall be uniform
throughout the United States.
By Mr. DANNY K. DAVIS of Illinois:
H.R. 4768.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Section 8, Article 1: to provide for the com-
mon Defence and general Welfare of the
United States.
By Ms. SCHAKOWSKY:
H.R. 4769.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
The Congress shall have Power . . . To reg-
ulate Commerce with foreign Nations, and
among the several States, and with the In-
dian Tribes.
By Mr. BAIRD:
H.R. 4770.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Pursuant to Article 1, Section 8, Clause 3,
Congress has the authority to regulate for-
eign and interstate commerce. In addition,
Congress has the power to make all Laws
necessary and proper to carry out all other
of its vested powers pursuant to Article 1,
Section 8, Clause 18.
By Mr. CUNNINGHAM:
H.R. 4771.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Art. 1, Sec. 8, Cl. 1 ‘‘The Congress shall
have Power To . . . provide for the common
Defense and general Welfare of the United
States;’’
Art. 1, Sec. 8, Cl. 18 ‘‘To make all Laws
which shall be necessary and proper for car-
rying into Execution the foregoing Powers,
and all other Powers vested by this Constitu-
tion in the Government of the United States
or in any Department or Officer thereof’’
By Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois:
H.R. 4772.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the United States
Constitution.
By Mr. JOHNSON of South Dakota:
H.R. 4773.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 3
By Mr. KHANNA:
H.R. 4774.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the U.S. Constitu-
tion.
By Mr. TED LIEU of California:
H.R. 4775.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I Section VIII
By Ms. NORTON:
H.R. 4776.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
clause 18 of section 8 of article I of the
Constitution.
By Mr. VAN DREW:
H.R. 4777.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1 Section 8 of the United States
Constitution
f
ADDITIONAL SPONSORS
Under clause 7 of rule XII, sponsors
were added to public bills and resolu-
tions, as follows:
H.R. 3: Mr. LOEBSACK, Mr. CRIST, Mrs.
BUSTOS, Ms. MUCARSEL-POWELL, Mr. CASTEN
of Illinois, Ms. SCHRIER, and Mr. CUELLAR.
H.R. 38: Mr. RICE of South Carolina.
H.R. 94: Mrs. KIRKPATRICK.
H.R. 141: Mr. ROSE of New York and Miss
GONZÁLEZ-COLÓN of Puerto Rico.
H.R. 435: Mr. EVANS and Ms. ROYBAL-
ALLARD.
H.R. 464: Mrs. BUSTOS.
H.R. 510: Mr. ADERHOLT, Mr. VARGAS, Mr.
AMODEI, Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi, Ms.
DEAN, Mr. VISCLOSKY, Mr. AUSTIN SCOTT of
Georgia, and Mr. CRENSHAW.
H.R. 553: Mr. DAVIDSON of Ohio.
H.R. 566: Mr. POCAN, Mr. BAIRD, and Mr.
KEATING.
H.R. 598: Mr. TAYLOR and Mr. PRICE of
North Carolina.
H.R. 616: Mr. MURPHY of North Carolina.
H.R. 647: Mr. POSEY.
H.R. 649: Mrs. DAVIS of California and Ms.
BROWNLEY of California.
H.R. 651: Mr. JOHNSON of Louisiana.
H.R. 655: Mrs. LURIA.
H.R. 663: Ms. SPANBERGER.
H.R. 724: Mr. ROONEY of Florida, Mr.
CLEAVER, Ms. WEXTON, Mr. RUIZ, and Mr.
TAYLOR.
H.R. 726: Mr. NEGUSE.
H.R. 737: Ms. TORRES SMALL of New Mexico
and Mr. LAMALFA.
H.R. 741: Mr. RICE of South Carolina.
H.R. 763: Ms. Sánchez.
H.R. 827: Mr. CASE.
H.R. 865: Mr. MICHAEL F. DOYLE of Pennsyl-
vania, Mr. CÁRDENAS, Mr. LEWIS, and Mr.
FOSTER.
H.R. 871: Mr. MORELLE.
H.R. 874: Mr. SIRES.
H.R. 879: Mr. CISNEROS.
H.R. 884: Mr. RUTHERFORD and Mr. LUJÁN.
H.R. 886: Mr. MORELLE.
H.R. 912: Mr. PRICE of North Carolina.
H.R. 935: Mr. SABLAN.
H.R. 945: Ms. TITUS.
H.R. 1030: Ms. UNDERWOOD.
H.R. 1034: Mr. VAN DREW.
H.R. 1042: Mr. PRICE of North Carolina, Mr.
YARMUTH, Ms. SÁNCHEZ, Mrs. MURPHY of
Florida, and Mr. CROW.
H.R. 1066: Mr. SOTO.
H.R. 1109: Mr. DEUTCH.
H.R. 1140: Mr. SCHNEIDER, Ms. HOULAHAN,
Mr. BISHOP of Georgia, Ms. SPEIER, Ms.
FUDGE, and Mr. STANTON.
H.R. 1153: Mr. BLUMENAUER.
H.R. 1154: Ms. ESHOO and Ms. SPANBERGER.
H.R. 1175: Mr. DEUTCH, Ms. SPANBERGER,
Mr. TAYLOR, Mr. HARRIS, Mrs. LAWRENCE,
Ms. ADAMS, Mr. ROONEY of Florida, Mr. HIG-
GINS of Louisiana, Mr. VELA, Ms. CLARK of
Massachusetts, and Ms. SCANLON.
H.R. 1220: Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi.
H.R. 1225: Mr. LEVIN of Michigan, Mrs.
MURPHY of Florida, and Mr. DAVID SCOTT of
Georgia.
H.R. 1228: Mr. GONZALEZ of Ohio and Mr.
SEAN PATRICK MALONEY of New York.
H.R. 1274: Mr. CISNEROS.
H.R. 1296: Ms. SEWELL of Alabama.
H.R. 1364: Mr. KEATING.
H.R. 1370: Ms. KENDRA S. HORN of Okla-
homa and Mrs. BROOKS of Indiana.
H.R. 1374: Mr. RICE of South Carolina, Mr.
UPTON, and Mr. KIND.
H.R. 1379: Ms. KENDRA S. HORN of Okla-
homa, Mr. SHIMKUS, Mr. RUTHERFORD, Mrs.
WALORSKI, and Mr. LAMB.
H.R. 1380: Ms. TORRES SMALL of New Mex-
ico, Mrs. DEMINGS, Ms. SPANBERGER, Ms.
HOULAHAN, Ms. PORTER, Mr. SCOTT of Vir-
ginia, Mr. ALLRED, Mr. LEWIS, Mr. COURTNEY,
Mr. CUNNINGHAM, Mr. LARSON of Connecticut,
Ms. PRESSLEY, and Ms. DEGETTE.
H.R. 1383: Ms. KENDRA S. HORN of Okla-
homa.
H.R. 1398: Mr. HIGGINS of Louisiana.
H.R. 1400: Mr. KEATING.
H.R. 1418: Mr. RASKIN.
H.R. 1450: Mr. VELA, Mrs. KIRKPATRICK, Mr.
GOMEZ, and Mrs. BUSTOS.
H.R. 1511: Mr. ESPAILLAT.
H.R. 1549: Mr. KILDEE and Ms. NORTON.
H.R. 1579: Mr. HARDER of California and Mr.
CICILLINE.
H.R. 1629: Mr. TIPTON.
H.R. 1643: Mr. MEEKS.
H.R. 1682: Ms. FRANKEL.
H.R. 1688: Ms. MCCOLLUM.
H.R. 1692: Mr. SUOZZI.
H.R. 1695: Mr. KIM.
H.R. 1721: Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire.
H.R. 1754: Mr. GREEN of Texas and Mrs.
MURPHY of Florida.
H.R. 1786: Mr. CORREA.
H.R. 1811: Mr. CRENSHAW.
H.R. 1855: Mr. RICE of South Carolina.
H.R. 1869: Mr. BYRNE, Mr. BUCK, and Mr.
FORTENBERRY.
H.R. 1873: Mr. BUDD and Mrs. LEE of Ne-
vada.
H.R. 1897: Ms. KENDRA S. HORN of Okla-
homa.
H.R. 1922: Mr. KELLY of Pennsylvania and
Mr. SMITH of Nebraska.
H.R. 1923: Mr. SOTO, Mr. SMITH of Wash-
ington, Ms. STEFANIK, and Mr. BERA.
H.R. 1948: Mr. GRAVES of Georgia, Ms.
FINKENAUER, Mr. KENNEDY, Mrs. MCBATH,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:53 Oct 22, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00036 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\L21OC7.100 H21OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8299
October 21, 2019
Mr. STANTON, Ms. CHENEY, Mr. WILLIAMS, Mr.
GOLDEN, and Mrs. TORRES of California.
H.R. 1959: Mr. POSEY.
H.R. 1981: Mrs. TRAHAN, Mr. TRONE, Mr.
GALLEGO, and Mr. GREEN of Texas.
H.R. 1987: Ms. DELBENE.
H.R. 1992: Mr. DELGADO.
H.R. 1998: Mr. VARGAS.
H.R. 2048: Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire.
H.R. 2096: Mr. DESAULNIER and Mr. LIPIN-
SKI.
H.R. 2137: Ms. SPANBERGER and Mr.
WALBERG.
H.R. 2146: Mr. GARAMENDI, Ms. JACKSON
LEE, and Ms. SÁNCHEZ.
H.R. 2150: Mr. SMITH of Washington.
H.R. 2153: Mr. COLE and Mrs. LAWRENCE.
H.R. 2166: Mr. DEUTCH.
H.R. 2191: Mr. LAMB.
H.R. 2195: Mr. BLUMENAUER and Ms. DEAN.
H.R. 2208: Mrs. DEMINGS.
H.R. 2213: Mr. PANETTA, Mr. RUSH, and Mr.
ALLRED.
H.R. 2214: Mr. LAWSON of Florida and Mr.
RUIZ.
H.R. 2245: Mr. YARMUTH and Mrs. LOWEY.
H.R. 2256: Mr. MEEKS and Ms. VELÁZQUEZ.
H.R. 2275: Mr. KATKO.
H.R. 2283: Mr. COLE, Mr. SIRES, and Mr.
KENNEDY.
H.R. 2311: Mr. SIMPSON, Mr. NADLER, and
Mr. BRINDISI.
H.R. 2315: Ms. CRAIG.
H.R. 2339: Ms. MATSUI, Mr. RUIZ, Mr.
HUFFMAN, Mrs. DEMINGS, and Mr. KILDEE.
H.R. 2344: Mr. GARAMENDI.
H.R. 2351: Ms. BASS.
H.R. 2382: Mr. MEUSER.
H.R. 2420: Mr. CROW.
H.R. 2423: Mr. KENNEDY, Mr. JEFFRIES, Mr.
KIM, Mr. PASCRELL, Mr. KRISHNAMOORTHI,
Ms. TORRES SMALL of New Mexico, and Ms.
CHENEY.
H.R. 2426: Ms. KENDRA S. HORN of Okla-
homa, Mr. MEEKS, Mrs. BUSTOS, Mr.
MALINOWSKI, Mr. POCAN, Ms. SPEIER, Mrs.
AXNE, Mr. SCHNEIDER, Ms. BARRAGÁN, Mr.
CISNEROS, Mr. BRENDAN F. BOYLE of Pennsyl-
vania, Mr. KEVIN HERN of Oklahoma, Mr.
CARBAJAL, Mr. SMITH of Washington, Ms.
BLUNT ROCHESTER, and Mr. ESTES.
H.R. 2435: Ms. DEGETTE and Mr. CISNEROS.
H.R. 2452: Mr. BEYER.
H.R. 2457: Mr. SWALWELL of California.
H.R. 2466: Mr. KIM.
H.R. 2482: Mrs. HARTZLER.
H.R. 2491: Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN and Mr.
PALLONE.
H.R. 2501: Ms. DEAN and Mrs. NAPOLITANO.
H.R. 2506: Mr. GAETZ.
H.R. 2508: Mr. LIPINSKI.
H.R. 2529: Mr. TRONE.
H.R. 2550: Mr. SOTO.
H.R. 2566: Mr. KILDEE.
H.R. 2585: Mr. KENNEDY.
H.R. 2639: Mr. CISNEROS.
H.R. 2645: Mrs. AXNE and Mr. CUELLAR.
H.R. 2653: Mr. SARBANES and Mr. SIRES.
H.R. 2679: Mr. SMITH of Washington.
H.R. 2681: Mr. HARDER of California.
H.R. 2683: Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi.
H.R. 2687: Mr. SIRES.
H.R. 2694: Ms. DEGETTE, Mr. LARSON of
Connecticut, Mr. SIRES, and Mr. THOMPSON of
Mississippi.
H.R. 2700: Mr. AMODEI.
H.R. 2702: Mr. CISNEROS.
H.R. 2711: Mr. PERLMUTTER.
H.R. 2748: Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi.
H.R. 2771: Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire.
H.R. 2836: Mrs. NAPOLITANO.
H.R. 2846: Mr. LAMB and Mr. CRENSHAW.
H.R. 2863: Ms. HAALAND.
H.R. 2867: Mrs. LAWRENCE.
H.R. 2887: Mr. LUCAS.
H.R. 2905: Mr. FITZPATRICK.
H.R. 2931: Mr. COSTA.
H.R. 2982: Mr. MOULTON, Mr. MAST, Mr.
CASE, and Mr. KILMER.
H.R. 2986: Ms. LEE of California and Ms.
SPANBERGER.
H.R. 3043: Ms. TORRES SMALL of New Mex-
ico.
H.R. 3062: Mr. FLORES.
H.R. 3077: Mr. MCHENRY, Mr. POSEY, and
Mr. WILLIAMS.
H.R. 3082: Mr. AGUILAR.
H.R. 3094: Mr. PAPPAS and Mr. POCAN.
H.R. 3098: Mr. SOTO.
H.R. 3121: Ms. KENDRA S. HORN of Okla-
homa.
H.R. 3162: Ms. SCHRIER.
H.R. 3180: Ms. KENDRA S. HORN of Okla-
homa.
H.R. 3182: Mr. GRAVES of Louisiana.
H.R. 3195: Mr. SCHNEIDER and Ms. FRANKEL.
H.R. 3197: Mr. SABLAN, Mr. VARGAS, and
Mr. KIM.
H.R. 3219: Mr. GALLEGO.
H.R. 3222: Mr. CASTEN of Illinois.
H.R. 3243: Mr. OLSON.
H.R. 3369: Ms. WILSON of Florida.
H.R. 3373: Ms. HAALAND.
H.R. 3378: Mrs. DINGELL and Mr. KHANNA.
H.R. 3398: Mr. RUSH.
H.R. 3447: Mr. BLUMENAUER.
H.R. 3461: Mr. KENNEDY.
H.R. 3463: Mr. HARDER of California.
H.R. 3473: Mr. MCGOVERN.
H.R. 3503: Mr. SOTO.
H.R. 3517: Ms. DEGETTE.
H.R. 3524: Mr. POCAN and Ms. JACKSON LEE.
H.R. 3598: Mr. WATKINS.
H.R. 3612: Mr. PAPPAS.
H.R. 3637: Ms. MUCARSEL-POWELL.
H.R. 3702: Ms. CRAIG.
H.R. 3706: Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire.
H.R. 3742: Mr. HORSFORD.
H.R. 3757: Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania.
H.R. 3778: Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia and Ms.
JACKSON LEE.
H.R. 3801: Mr. CARBAJAL.
H.R. 3835: Ms. NORTON.
H.R. 3956: Mr. BEYER and Ms. NORTON.
H.R. 3961: Mr. ROONEY of Florida, Mr.
MALINOWSKI, and Mr. ROUDA.
H.R. 3973: Ms. LOFGREN and Ms. BLUNT
ROCHESTER.
H.R. 3975: Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire
and Mr. COLE.
H.R. 4004: Mr. MOOLENAAR.
H.R. 4031: Ms. CRAIG.
H.R. 4035: Ms. DELBENE and Mr. KELLY of
Pennsylvania.
H.R. 4044: Mr. NADLER and Mr. SWALWELL
of California.
H.R. 4056: Mr. SOTO.
H.R. 4098: Mr. BUCK, Mr. KEVIN HERN of
Oklahoma, Mr. SMITH of Missouri, and Mr.
CLINE.
H.R. 4099: Mr. POSEY.
H.R. 4111: Mr. JOHNSON of Ohio.
H.R. 4132: Ms. ESHOO.
H.R. 4137: Mr. KILMER and Mr. STANTON.
H.R. 4162: Mr. CRENSHAW.
H.R. 4189: Mr. DAVIDSON of Ohio, Mr.
STEUBE, and Mr. BILIRAKIS.
H.R. 4193: Mr. CROW.
H.R. 4194: Mr. YARMUTH and Ms. SCHRIER.
H.R. 4206: Ms. SCHRIER, Ms. LEE of Cali-
fornia, Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD, and Ms. SCHA-
KOWSKY.
H.R. 4220: Mr. ROUDA.
H.R. 4228: Mr. POCAN, Mr. KING of New
York, and Ms. BLUNT ROCHESTER.
H.R. 4247: Mr. BAIRD.
H.R. 4248: Mr. LOWENTHAL.
H.R. 4263: Mrs. NAPOLITANO.
H.R. 4271: Mr. DESAULNIER.
H.R. 4283: Mr. LUCAS.
H.R. 4289: Mr. BACON.
H.R. 4296: Mrs. NAPOLITANO, Mr. RASKIN,
and Mr. BLUMENAUER.
H.R. 4297: Mr. COHEN, Mrs. WATSON COLE-
MAN, Mr. SMITH of Washington, and Ms.
JACKSON LEE.
H.R. 4305: Mr. LUETKEMEYER, Mr. GRAVES
of Georgia, Mr. HURD of Texas, Mr. UPTON,
Mr. ABRAHAM, Mr. HARRIS, Mr. HOLLINGS-
WORTH, Mr. KEVIN HERN of Oklahoma, Mr.
HUIZENGA, Mr. ROGERS of Alabama, Mr.
KINZINGER, Mr. CHABOT, Mr. SWALWELL of
California, Mr. MOONEY of West Virginia, Mr.
HASTINGS, Mr. PENCE, Mr. KATKO, Mr. PERL-
MUTTER, Mr. CLEAVER, and Mr. MEEKS.
H.R. 4309: Mr. HASTINGS.
H.R. 4331: Mr. LEVIN of Michigan, Mr.
MAST, Mr. RUTHERFORD, Ms. MCCOLLUM, Mr.
CICILLINE, Ms. PINGREE, and Ms. NORTON.
H.R. 4346: Mr. ROONEY of Florida.
H.R. 4348: Ms. SCHAKOWSKY, Mr. HIMES, Ms.
DELBENE, and Mr. MALINOWSKI.
H.R. 4355: Ms. SPANBERGER.
H.R. 4370: Mr. CRENSHAW.
H.R. 4371: Mrs. DINGELL.
H.R. 4372: Mr. SWALWELL of California.
H.R. 4373: Ms. KENDRA S. HORN of Okla-
homa and Mr. CASTEN of Illinois.
H.R. 4388: Mr. SPANO and Ms. BROWNLEY of
California.
H.R. 4391: Mr. VELA.
H.R. 4399: Mr. BAIRD and Mr. EMMER.
H.R. 4468: Mr. KIND.
H.R. 4478: Mr. SAN NICOLAS.
H.R. 4499: Ms. KELLY of Illinois.
H.R. 4502: Mr. SOTO.
H.R. 4508: Mr. MOOLENAAR and Mr. HURD of
Texas.
H.R. 4560: Mr. VELA and Mr. POCAN.
H.R. 4579: Ms. LEE of California, Ms.
CLARKE of New York, Ms. NORTON, Ms. JOHN-
SON of Texas, Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN, Ms.
FUDGE, Ms. PRESSLEY, Mr. LEWIS, Mr.
MEEKS, Mr. CLYBURN, Mr. DANNY K. DAVIS of
Illinois, Mr. PAYNE, Mr. CARSON of Indiana,
Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi, Mr. RICHMOND,
Mr. BISHOP of Georgia, Mr. HASTINGS, Mr.
BUTTERFIELD, Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia, Ms.
BASS, Mrs. BEATTY, Ms. JACKSON LEE, Mr.
EVANS, Ms. BLUNT ROCHESTER, Ms. KELLY of
Illinois, Mr. VEASEY, and Mr. MCEACHIN.
H.R. 4618: Mr. CUELLAR.
H.R. 4639: Ms. GARCIA of Texas, Ms.
PRESSLEY, and Mr. BERA.
H.R. 4640: Mr. KHANNA.
H.R. 4647: Ms. JAYAPAL.
H.R. 4650: Mr. BUTTERFIELD and Mr.
CUELLAR.
H.R. 4665: Ms. CASTOR of Florida and Ms.
NORTON.
H.R. 4671: Mr. CUELLAR.
H.R. 4673: Mr. DESAULNIER.
H.R. 4674: Mr. QUIGLEY, Mr. NEGUSE, Mr.
GARAMENDI, Mr. ESPAILLAT, Mr. MCGOVERN,
Ms. MENG, Mr. SCHIFF, Mr. SCHRADER, Mr.
KHANNA, Ms. BASS, Mr. THOMPSON of Cali-
fornia, Mr. MALINOWSKI, Mr. SAN NICOLAS,
Mr. DANNY K. DAVIS of Illinois, Ms. NORTON,
Ms. SEWELL of Alabama, Ms. LEE of Cali-
fornia, Mr. LANGEVIN, Mr. CARSON of Indiana,
Mrs. NAPOLITANO, Mr. CICILLINE, Ms. SCAN-
LON, Mr. PAYNE, and Mrs. BEATTY.
H.R. 4686: Mr. KING of New York, Mr.
BABIN, and Mr. PAYNE.
H.R. 4691: Mr. MORELLE.
H.R. 4692: Mr. PHILLIPS.
H.R. 4694: Mr. HAGEDORN, Mr. TIPTON, and
Mr. WEBER of Texas.
H.R. 4695: Ms. SPANBERGER, Mr. STEWART,
Mr. CROW, Mr. WEBER of Texas, Ms.
HOULAHAN, Ms. JACKSON LEE, Mr. TRONE, Mr.
SENSENBRENNER, Mr. STIVERS, Mr. MEADOWS,
Mr. RESCHENTHALER, Mr. COOPER, and Mr.
BILIRAKIS.
H.R. 4698: Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire.
H.R. 4705: Mr. OLSON.
H.R. 4708: Mr. SEAN PATRICK MALONEY of
New York.
H.R. 4709: Mr. SEAN PATRICK MALONEY of
New York.
H.R. 4716: Mr. FERGUSON and Mr. KELLY of
Pennsylvania.
H.R. 4729: Mr. MAST.
H.R. 4730: Mr. MORELLE.
H.R. 4732: Ms. SCHAKOWSKY.
H.R. 4736: Mrs. WAGNER.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:53 Oct 22, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00037 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A21OC7.022 H21OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8300 October 21, 2019
H.R. 4744: Ms. NORTON, Ms. SPEIER, Mr.
BRENDAN F. BOYLE of Pennsylvania, and Ms.
KAPTUR.
H.R. 4745: Mr. LONG.
H.R. 4751: Ms. NORTON.
H.J. Res. 2: Ms. TLAIB, Mr. BISHOP of Geor-
gia, Ms. MUCARSEL-POWELL, Mr. PETERSON,
and Ms. PINGREE.
H.J. Res. 76: Ms. CRAIG.
H. Con. Res. 32: Mr. KING of New York and
Mr. TAYLOR.
H. Con. Res. 50: Mr. MAST and Mr.
KINZINGER.
H. Res. 23: Ms. TORRES SMALL of New Mex-
ico.
H. Res. 54: Ms. TORRES SMALL of New Mex-
ico, Mr. MEUSER, and Mr. COLE.
H. Res. 138: Mr. SOTO.
H. Res. 230: Mr. FORTENBERRY.
H. Res. 310: Mr. CRENSHAW.
H. Res. 387: Ms. JACKSON LEE.
H. Res. 495: Ms. BONAMICI.
H. Res. 515: Mr. WALTZ.
H. Res. 517: Mr. ROGERS of Kentucky and
Ms. PORTER.
H. Res. 552: Ms. MUCARSEL-POWELL, Mr.
TAYLOR, and Mr. CRENSHAW.
H. Res. 585: Ms. BROWNLEY of California,
Mr. SHERMAN, Mr. SIRES, and Mr. GONZALEZ
of Texas.
H. Res. 594: Ms. JAYAPAL.
H. Res. 597: Mr. OLSON.
H. Res. 604: Mr. BARR, Mr. UPTON, and Mr.
GRAVES of Georgia.
H. Res. 630: Mr. GUTHRIE, Mrs. WALORSKI,
Mr. UPTON, Mrs. WAGNER, Mr. SMITH of New
Jersey, Mr. DIAZ-BALART, Mr. KING of New
York, Mr. CURTIS, Mr. TAYLOR, Mr. TURNER,
and Mr. WALDEN.
H. Res. 639: Mr. GAETZ, Mr. BIGGS, Mr.
DUNN, Mrs. WALORSKI, Ms. STEFANIK, Mr.
STEUBE, Mr. HICE of Georgia, Mr. STEIL, and
Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:53 Oct 22, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00038 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A21OC7.027 H21OCPT1
Congressional Record
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
United States
of America PROCEEDINGS AND DEBATES OF THE 116th
CONGRESS, FIRST SESSION
∑ This ‘‘bullet’’ symbol identifies statements or insertions which are not spoken by a Member of the Senate on the floor.
.
S5907
Vol. 165 WASHINGTON, MONDAY, OCTOBER 21, 2019 No. 166
Senate
The Senate met at 3 p.m. and was
called to order by the President pro
tempore (Mr. GRASSLEY).
f
PRAYER
The Chaplain, Dr. Barry C. Black, of-
fered the following prayer:
Let us pray.
Eternal Master, we find shelter in
Your shadow, for You are our refuge
and fortress.
Lord, we place our trust in You. Res-
cue our Senators from the forces that
seek to threaten freedom. Remind our
lawmakers that nothing is impossible
for You. Be with them this day as they
strive to serve You and country.
We call on You because You have
promised to answer us, so satisfy our
longings with Your saving power.
Lord, use us all to help heal the
wounds of a divided nation. We pray in
Your strong Name. Amen.
f
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
The President pro tempore led the
Pledge of Allegiance, as follows:
I pledge allegiance to the Flag of the
United States of America, and to the Repub-
lic for which it stands, one nation under God,
indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
HAWLEY). The Senator from Iowa.
Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent to speak as in
morning business for which time I
might consume, and my guess is it will
be about 15 minutes.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
TRUMP ADMINISTRATION
Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President, first
of all, my usual 1-minute speech after I
open the Senate.
Last week, I spoke about consistent
congressional oversight, the checks
and balances of government, Congress
is to make sure that the executive
branch of government faithfully exe-
cutes the laws under the Constitution.
In that speech, I talked about how
the Democrats have ignored their own
party’s use of Russian and Ukranian
Government connections to undermine
Trump. I noted how the Democrats’ ac-
tion literally fit their own definition of
collusion.
Congress ought to conduct aggressive
oversight. It is a constitutional de-
mand. However, if you want to be
taken seriously in this body and by the
American public, you have to be very
consistent. Of course, I am pointing
out some inconsistencies by the other
political party.
When Democrats ignore their own
leadership collusion with foreign gov-
ernments, yet investigate the Presi-
dent after alleging he did the same,
that is a lack of consistency and cre-
ates doubts about credibility.
f
WHISTLEBLOWER PROGRAMS
IMPROVEMENT ACT OF 2019
Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President, on
another subject, I recently introduced
the Whistleblower Programs Improve-
ment Act of 2019, a bipartisan bill, and
I have the support of the bipartisan
whistleblowers caucus.
This legislation strengthens whistle-
blower protection for whistleblowers
working in a variety of key sectors, in-
cluding our securities and commodities
industries and the foreign service.
There has been a lot of talk about
government whistleblowers lately that
is very appropriate. It is important to
remember that many of our whistle-
blower laws are there to protect just
ordinary average Americans who don’t
work in government at all. Many of the
groups helped by this bill work in pri-
vate industry. In some cases, they are
investors or businesspeople who have
been on the receiving end of financial
fraud.
In other cases, they are employees,
like stockbrokers, traders, investment
advisers, administrative professionals,
and other support staff, who see activi-
ties in the course of their work that
they know are outright wrong, and
these good people decide to speak out.
Speaking out, many times, causes you
to eventually seek whistleblower pro-
tection.
Among these brave whistleblowers
are people like the three employees at
Merrill Lynch who had evidence that
between 2009 and 2015 their company
was misusing customer cash. Now, just
think how lucky these savers were who
were helped by whistleblowers willing
to come out and say a wrong has been
committed.
They did it this way: The whistle-
blowers told the Security and Ex-
change Commission what they knew.
In doing so, they provided information
critical to an investigation of the com-
pany’s practices. That investigation
uncovered multiple violations of Fed-
eral rules.
Among other things, the Securities
and Exchange Commission found the
company was not depositing cash in re-
serve accounts as law required. In-
stead, the company was using tricky
accounting maneuvers to free up bil-
lions of dollars per week and then
using that money to finance its own
trading practices. In the process, it is
quite obvious the company was putting
its customers’ cash at risk.
The Securities and Exchange Com-
mission said: ‘‘Had Merrill Lynch
failed in the midst of these trades, the
firm’s customers would have been ex-
posed to a massive shortfall in the re-
serve account.’’
The information provided by whistle-
blowers led to a successful enforcement
action, which involved an admission of
wrongdoing by the company and a $415
million settlement.
Now, getting back to the importance
of whistleblowers. If these whistle-
blowers hadn’t stepped forward, then,
who knows, those shady accounting
practices might still be going on this
VerDate Sep 11 2014 23:45 Oct 21, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A21OC6.000 S21OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5908 October 21, 2019
very day instead of having been
stopped—stopped cold. Investors might
still be facing the same unnecessary
risks.
Now, there are plenty of examples
from the commodities industry as
well—people like Edward Siedle, a
whistleblower who informed the Com-
modity Futures Trading Commission
that JPMorgan Chase was failing to
disclose conflicts of interest with some
of its clients. Because Mr. Siedle de-
cided to speak out about what he knew,
the government collected hundreds of
millions of dollars in settlements.
Whistleblowers like Mr. Siedle and
the employees at Merrill Lynch de-
serve our gratitude, and they deserve
our support. They help the Security
and Exchange Commission and the
Commodity Futures Trading Commis-
sion to do their job, and they help to
promote transparency. With trans-
parency comes accountability—in this
case, for our financial system.
I will tell you something else they
deserve. They deserve assurance that
when they put their jobs and their rep-
utation on the line, they will not be
fired just for trying to do the right
thing.
They deserve to know that if the gov-
ernment recovers money because of
their disclosures, they will be able to
get a decision on their award applica-
tion in a timely fashion. Currently,
whistleblowers don’t have these assur-
ances.
Last year, despite strong objections
that I raised in a brief to the Supreme
Court in the case of Digital Realty v.
Somers, the Court ruled that a whistle-
blower who reports violations of our
Nation’s securities laws is protected
from retaliation not all the time but
only when he or she discloses the
wrongdoing directly to the SEC.
Because of this ruling, if a whistle-
blower in the securities industry re-
ports a concern to a supervisor at their
place of work without also going to the
SEC, they can be fired without any re-
course; in other words, fired for the so-
called crime they did, and what did
they do? They did nothing more than
what you might call the crime of com-
mitting truth. They have no legal pro-
tection or means of getting their job
back.
That is not what Congress intended
when it created the current Security
and Exchange Commission Whistle-
blower Program, and that was done
back in 2010. It is not what I intended
when I voted for that whistleblower
protection.
That law was supposed to protect
whistleblowers who report wrongdoing.
It was supposed to prevent them from
being fired without just cause.
This decision has far-reaching impli-
cations that potentially affect others
beyond those working in the securities
industry.
Because the commodities whistle-
blower program was established
through the same public law as the Se-
curity and Exchange Commission pro-
gram, that program incorporates many
of the same provisions, including simi-
lar language to that which the Su-
preme Court ruled on during the Dig-
ital Realty case.
That means whistleblowers in yet an-
other program face the prospects of
having anti-retaliation provisions Con-
gress put in place a decade ago sud-
denly yanked away from them. That is
unacceptable to me. It is a scenario
that should be unacceptable to every
Member of this body who cares about
keeping our financial system very
strong, protecting the investor.
My bill prevents the Supreme Court
ruling from becoming the status quo. It
makes it clear that whistleblowers who
report concerns about possible viola-
tions of our Federal securities and
commodities laws are fully protected,
whether they take their concerns to
the Security and Exchange Commis-
sion or to the Commodity Futures
Trading Commission, or to anyone else
in their company who they reasonably
believe has the ability to address their
concerns. That is what companies
should want. They should want it any-
way, to keep their public respect-
ability.
It is also a commonsense goal that
we ought to be seeking, and it is com-
mon sense.
When an employee tells his or her
company about a concern, it gives the
company a chance to investigate and
address the concerns, and, if necessary,
to self-report any problems to the Fed-
eral regulators.
Companies that come clean and self-
report almost always receive reduced
penalties. That is an outcome that is
better for the company, and it is obvi-
ously better for the investors.
On another matter, my bill addresses
concern for securities and commodities
whistleblowers. I said before that if the
government recovers money as a result
of a whistleblower’s disclosure, the
whistleblower deserves at least an ini-
tial decision concerning their award
application and to do it in a timely
fashion. Unfortunately, my office has
heard of far too many cases where
whistleblowers have had to wait years
to get a decision from the Securities
and Exchange Commission after they
apply for an award, and you apply for
the award after you make the case for
the government. Waiting that long is
unacceptable. A year should be more
than enough time for regulators to
reach an initial determination regard-
ing an award application.
My bill makes the 1-year standard
law for both the Securities and Ex-
change Commission and the Com-
modity Futures Trading Commission
whistleblowers. If the agency takes
longer than a year to reach an initial
decision, the whistleblower office must
notify the chairman and the whistle-
blower of the cause for the delay.
Recently, I had the chance to sit
down with Securities and Exchange
Commission Chairman Clayton to dis-
cuss these changes. My staff worked
closely with the Securities and Ex-
change Commission and the Com-
modity Futures Trading Commission
to craft the language. Now I urge all of
my colleagues to support change, as
well.
In addition to these changes, my bill
irons out other differences between the
Securities and Exchange Commission
and the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission whistleblower programs
and ensures that whistleblowers re-
porting to both of these bodies have ac-
cess to the same judicial remedies.
It also enables the Commodity Fu-
tures Trading Commission to hold
more in the consumer protection fund.
That is the fund used to pay out its
awards to the whistleblower, and it al-
lows the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission to use money from the
fund to teach stakeholders about the
opportunities that are available to
them through the whistleblower pro-
gram.
Finally, my bill addresses a critical
gap in protections provided to Foreign
Service employees through the Whis-
tleblower Protection Act. Due to a
drafting error in the law, the Office of
Special Counsel has stated that it
doesn’t have the authority to inves-
tigate instances of possible retaliation
against Foreign Service workers when
the retaliation comes in the form of a
poor performance evaluation. That is
an important task of the Office of Spe-
cial Counsel and an important protec-
tion that Congress has afforded to
other government whistleblowers. The
Foreign Service office’s people should
have that as well. My bill closes that
gap and makes it clear that Foreign
Service workers should receive those
same protections.
In closing, this bill contains com-
monsense changes. It reinforces and ex-
tends protections that Congress al-
ready granted in the past and ensures
that whistleblowers working in dif-
ferent industries who make similar
kinds of disclosures are equally treated
and equally protected under the law. It
also tells the Supreme Court of the
United States: You didn’t get it right.
That is something I am certain we can
all get behind—straightening out the
Supreme Court when they don’t follow
congressional intent.
The bipartisan coalition of support
for this bill is a strong testament to
that. I thank my original cosponsors,
Senators BALDWIN, DURBIN, and ERNST,
for their enthusiastic support of this
legislation. When it comes before the
Senate for a vote, I urge all of my col-
leagues to do the same.
I yield the floor.
f
RECOGNITION OF THE MAJORITY
LEADER
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The ma-
jority leader is recognized.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 23:45 Oct 21, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G21OC6.002 S21OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5909
October 21, 2019
PROVIDING FOR THE USE OF THE
CATAFALQUE SITUATED IN THE
EXHIBITION HALL OF THE CAP-
ITOL VISITOR CENTER IN CON-
NECTION WITH MEMORIAL SERV-
ICES TO BE CONDUCTED IN THE
HOUSE WING OF THE CAPITOL
FOR THE HONORABLE ELIJAH E.
CUMMINGS, LATE A REPRESENT-
ATIVE FROM THE STATE OF
MARYLAND
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate proceed to the immediate consider-
ation of S. Con. Res. 27.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the concurrent resolu-
tion by title.
The legislative clerk read as follows:
A concurrent resolution (S. Con. Res. 27),
providing for the use of the catafalque situ-
ated in the Exhibition Hall of the Capitol
Visitor Center in connection with memorial
services to be conducted in the House wing of
the Capitol for the Honorable Elijah E. Cum-
mings, late a Representative from the State
of Maryland.
There being no objection, the Senate
proceeded to consider the concurrent
resolution.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the con-
current resolution be agreed to and the
motion to reconsider be considered
made and laid upon the table with no
intervening action or debate.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The concurrent resolution (S. Con.
Res. 27) was agreed to.
(The concurrent resolution is printed
in today’s RECORD under ‘‘Submitted
Resolutions.’’)
f
BUSINESS BEFORE THE SENATE
AND APPROPRIATIONS
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, this
week the Senate has several opportuni-
ties to make headway on important
matters facing our country.
First, we will tend to a pending trea-
ty protocol on the accession of a new
member to NATO and reaffirm the im-
portance of the alliance to the security
of U.S. interests around the world.
Then, we will consider yet another of
the President’s well-qualified nominees
to the diplomatic corps. But while the
Senate can take care of some of these
matters on their own, much of the
pressing business of the American peo-
ple requires coordination with our col-
leagues across the Capitol.
Unfortunately, the only thing that
seems to really inspire House Demo-
crats these days is their obsession with
overturning the results of the 2016 elec-
tion.
In the weeks since the Speaker of the
House gave in to her far-left Members’
demands for an impeachment inquiry,
she and other prominent House Demo-
crats have insisted over and over and
over that impeachment will not stop
them from making real progress on leg-
islation.
They say their 3-year-old impeach-
ment parade doesn’t have to block traf-
fic and bring other important priorities
to a standstill. That is what they have
been saying, but actions speak louder
than words. We have yet to see any ac-
tual indication that House Democrats
intend to make good on that commit-
ment.
For months, we have heard the
Speaker claim that she would like to
get to yes on the USMCA. We have
heard that her caucus is ‘‘making
progress,’’ but nearly a year after this
landmark agreement with Mexico and
Canada was announced, the most sig-
nificant update to the North American
trade policy in a generation is still
waiting for the House to take action.
Billions of new dollars in economic
growth and 176,000 new American jobs
are still waiting on House Democrats.
And that is not all. So far, even
something as completely basic as fund-
ing our Armed Forces—funding our
men and women in uniform—has met
the same fate. Democrats have elected
to stall it and block it in order to pick
fights with the White House. Notwith-
standing our bipartisan, bicameral
agreement to wrap up the appropria-
tions process in good faith, Senate
Democrats voted a few weeks ago to
block funding for the Department of
Defense. No critical resources for U.S.
servicemembers, no predictable plan-
ning process for our commanders, no
pay raise for our all-volunteer Armed
Forces—none of that was allowed to
travel through the Senate because our
Democratic colleagues just don’t care
for the occupant of the White House.
Ironically, many of these same col-
leagues of ours have spent recent days
making loud pronouncements on U.S.
foreign policy. By the sound of their
comments, it almost sounds as if they
are coming around to Republicans’
long-held views on the necessity of
American leadership all around the
world. But, once again, actions speak
louder, and thus far our Democratic
colleagues have not even been willing
to get past partisanship for the sake of
job No. 1—funding our military.
So this week we will offer our Demo-
cratic colleagues a clear test. Are all
the declarations that they are willing
to work on important legislation just
empty talk or will Senate Democrats
finally do their part to move the appro-
priations process forward?
Soon we will vote on advancing a
package of domestic funding legisla-
tion. As I said last week, I am grateful
to Chairman SHELBY and Senator
LEAHY for their continued conversa-
tions and hopeful they can produce a
substitute amendment that will fund a
number of urgent domestic priorities.
Then, once we complete that work, we
will vote to move forward the funding
for our national defense—two big votes,
two big votes, two big opportunities for
our Democratic friends to show the
country whether their party’s impeach-
ment obsession leaves them any room
at all for the pressing business of the
American people.
MEASURE PLACED ON THE
CALENDAR—S. 2644
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
understand that there is a bill at the
desk due for a second reading.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The lead-
er is correct.
The clerk will read the title of the
bill for the second time.
The legislative clerk read as follows:
A bill (S. 2644) to impose sanctions with re-
spect to Turkey, and for other purposes.
Mr. MCCONNELL. In order to place
the bill on the calendar under the pro-
visions of rule XIV, I object to further
proceedings.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Objec-
tion having been heard, the bill will be
placed on the calendar.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk proceeded to
call the roll.
Mr. MURPHY. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
RESERVATION OF LEADER TIME
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the leadership time
is reserved.
f
CONCLUSION OF MORNING
BUSINESS
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Morning
business is closed.
f
EXECUTIVE SESSION
PROTOCOL TO THE NORTH ATLAN-
TIC TREATY OF 1949 ON THE AC-
CESSION OF THE REPUBLIC OF
NORTH MACEDONIA
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the Senate will pro-
ceed to executive session to resume
consideration of the following treaty,
which the clerk will state.
The legislative clerk read as follows:
Calendar No. 5, Treaty document No. 116–1,
Protocol to the North Atlantic Treaty of 1949
on the Accession of the Republic of North
Macedonia.
Pending:
McConnell amendment No. 946, to change
the enactment date.
McConnell amendment No. 947 (to amend-
ment No. 946), of a perfecting nature.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Connecticut.
HEALTHCARE
Mr. MURPHY. Mr. President, I want
to tell you a quick story about a
woman from Atlanta. Her name is
Dawn Jones. Dawn bought what is com-
monly referred to in the insurance in-
dustry as a short-term health insur-
ance plan. She brought it from the
Golden Rule Insurance Company,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:22 Oct 22, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G21OC6.003 S21OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5910 October 21, 2019
which is a unit of UnitedHealth, and
she needed it because she needed some
coverage in between jobs. She was then
diagnosed with breast cancer, and she
went through a heartbreaking experi-
ence, trying to get her insurance com-
pany to cover her for her $400,000 med-
ical bill.
In the end, she could not get her
short-term health insurance plan to
cover her breast cancer treatments,
and here is the reason why. The insurer
didn’t need to cover preexisting condi-
tions. Short-term plans do not need to
cover things we traditionally think of
as healthcare insurance today. The
protections of the Affordable Care Act
require that insurance cover you re-
gardless of whether you are diagnosed
with a serious disease, but short-term
plans don’t need to cover you for those
things.
This short-term plan didn’t cover her
breast cancer, despite the fact that she
wasn’t diagnosed with breast cancer
until after she signed up for the plan.
So you may ask: Why is that a pre-
existing condition if she wasn’t diag-
nosed with breast cancer until she was
on this short-term plan?
Well, the insurer in this case made a
very innovative argument. It said that
she actually had the cancer before she
signed up for insurance. So even
though she didn’t know she had cancer
and even though she hadn’t been diag-
nosed with cancer, because she tech-
nically had cancer before she got the
insurance plan, she had a preexisting
condition, and, thus, they would not
cover her.
This is a pretty typical story about
what happens on these short-term in-
surance plans in this country. They are
more commonly referred to these days
as junk insurance plans because, for
millions of Americans who sign up for
short-term insurance, they find out
that it really doesn’t cover much of
anything.
One Golden Rule plan excludes preg-
nancy and provides a lifetime max-
imum benefit of $250,000. That is, by
the way, an incredibly low amount of
lifetime coverage—$250,000. One hos-
pital stay for a serious illness can be
over $250,000. And the icing on the
cake—this particular junk plan from
Golden Rule doesn’t cover a hospital
room or nursing services for patients
admitted on a Friday or Saturday. So
good luck if you get sick on a Friday or
Saturday because you are not going to
get coverage on those 2 days of the
week. These are junk plans because
they don’t cover what you need, and
you, by and large, don’t find out about
that until you actually need the insur-
ance.
How about a gentleman from San An-
tonio who actually had his short-term
plan for about 6 years? He had been
paying it and paying it for 6 years. Be-
cause they are technically short-term
plans, he was renewing them over and
over and over again, and when he was
diagnosed with kidney disease, they
wouldn’t cover him because they went
back to his medical records and found
out that he had some blood work done
earlier that had shown the initial signs
of kidney disease, but he wasn’t diag-
nosed until later on.
What they said—just as they did for
the woman in Atlanta—was this: Be-
cause you had signs of kidney disease
when you were insured with us a year
ago, we are not going to cover you now
because, technically, you are on a new
plan.
He had been getting a plan every 6
months every year. He didn’t have any
gaps in insurance, but because he tech-
nically was signing up for short-term
plan after short-term plan, he didn’t
get covered for his kidney disease.
Over and over, we hear these stories
about individuals who go on these junk
plans and then find out that they can’t
get insured for anything—can’t get in-
sured for hospital stays on Fridays and
Saturdays, can’t get insured for mental
health treatment, no prescription drug
benefits, no coverage for maternity,
and all sorts of backbending activity to
try to stop people from getting cov-
erage for illnesses.
Yet these plans are becoming more
and more prolific. Why is that? The
reason is that the Trump administra-
tion is using an innovative method to
try to get more Americans to sign up
for these junk plans, and that is what
I wanted to come to the floor and talk
about today.
These junk plans are a nightmare for
people who get on them and then find
themselves on the outside of coverage.
When you sign up for health insurance,
you basically think it is going to cover
a set of things like hospital stays on
weekends and coverage for your cancer
diagnosis, but these junk plans don’t
cover those things.
The administration has decided to
use a section of the Affordable Care
Act that was designed to strengthen
our healthcare system and, instead, use
it to weaken the healthcare insurance
system by providing for more and more
of these junk plans.
Here is a little bit of legislative his-
tory. There is a section of the ACA
that was set up so that you could apply
to the State for a waiver to improve
coverage. The waiver says that you can
do some innovative things in the ACA
so long as you prove that whatever you
are going to do is going to provide
health coverage that is just as com-
prehensive as what is required under
the ACA, that you are not going to cost
consumers any more than what they
are paying under the ACA, that the
number of people who are insured
under the ACA in your State isn’t
going to down—it is going to stay sta-
ble or go up—and you are not going to
increase the Federal deficit.
Well, President Trump, in October of
2018, issued new guidance that essen-
tially guts all of those protections for
these waivers. President Trump basi-
cally says that these short-term insur-
ance plans can be approved, even if
they cost people more, even if they
don’t cover things like preexisting con-
ditions, and even if they result in fewer
people getting insurance.
This October 2018 guidance allowed
for these junk plans to be sold in more
States to more consumers. Even worse,
the 2018 guidance said that these junk
plans could be sold side by side with
the Affordable Care Act plans right on
the same web page, disguising the fact
that some plans would actually cover
you for your preexisting conditions and
others wouldn’t.
So, today, we have more and more of
these junk plans available to individ-
uals and more people who are vulner-
able to all of the old abuses that used
to happen left and right in the
healthcare insurance system, largely
to people who have pretty serious ill-
nesses.
Now, 130 million Americans have a
preexisting condition. In my State,
over a half million people have some
sort of preexisting condition. If they
sign up for one of these junk plans—ei-
ther because they were marketed the
plan under the belief that it would
cover them or by mistake because they
didn’t notice the difference between
the ACA-regulated plans and the junk
plans on the website that they went
to—they are at risk of not getting cov-
ered for their preexisting condition.
It gets even worse than that because
what economists tell us is that these
junk plans, which cover very little, are
admittedly going to be attractive to
some people who are presently pretty
healthy. Young people and people who
don’t have any preexisting conditions
may sign up for those junk plans be-
cause it doesn’t really matter to them
at the time that they don’t get cov-
erage for much at all; the junk plans
are going to have prices that are lower,
in most instances, than the plans that
cover basic healthcare services. In the
short term, that might be OK for the
people who are relatively healthy
until, of course, they get sick and find
out that their junk plan doesn’t cover
anything. But for the people who have
preexisting conditions, who can’t sign
up for the junk plans, and who need to
be on the plans that are regulated by
the Affordable Care Act, their pre-
miums are going to skyrocket.
This is health insurance 101. As more
healthy people go to the junk plans,
leaving behind on the Affordable Care
Act plans folks who have these pre-
existing conditions, their prices will go
up.
The Trump administration’s junk
plan rule is, frankly, bad news for a lot
of people who are on junk plans if and
when they actually need healthcare in-
surance, but it is also really terrible
news for the 130 million Americans who
have preexisting conditions, who are
likely going to see their insurance
rates skyrocket.
Next week we are going to have a
vote on the floor of the U.S. Senate, a
vote on a resolution of disapproval for
the administration’s junk plan guid-
ance. I have listened for a long time to
VerDate Sep 11 2014 23:45 Oct 21, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G21OC6.006 S21OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5911
October 21, 2019
Members of the Senate on both sides of
the aisle talk about how the one thing
we agree on is that we need to protect
people with preexisting conditions, and
though many of our Republican col-
leagues might not support the Afford-
able Care Act, they do agree that we
should support people with preexisting
conditions, which I generally read to
mean that we should make sure we
don’t pass legislation and we don’t let
the administration do anything that
will make it even harder than it al-
ready is to live with a cancer diagnosis
or a diagnosis of serious heart disease.
Yet it is completely clear that the
Trump administration’s guidance is
going to make life a lot worse for peo-
ple with preexisting conditions, for
those who go on the junk plans, and for
those who stay behind.
Here is a quote from an article in The
Atlantic magazine, which did a sum-
mary of these junk plans and what
they are like and, frankly, how impor-
tant they are to insurance companies.
The article says that these short-term
junk plans ‘‘make up a high-profit por-
tion’’ of the insurance industry’s busi-
ness.
They are largely designed to rake in pre-
miums, even as they offer little in return.
And even when they do pay for things, they
often provide confusing or conflicting proto-
cols for making claims. Collectively, short-
term plans can leave thousands of people
functionally uninsured or underinsured with-
out addressing or lowering real systemwide
costs.
That is the story of junk plans. They
are a pretty good deal for the insurance
industry, which is why they have been
pushing the Trump administration to
allow more of these junk plans to be
sold. They are a good deal for the in-
surance companies because ultimately
they don’t require the insurance com-
panies to pay out a lot in benefits, but
they ultimately make a ton for the in-
surance companies in the premiums
they collect.
It is time for everybody in this body
who has stood up and said that they
support individuals with preexisting
conditions to vote that way. Next
week, we will have an opportunity to
stop in its tracks the Trump adminis-
tration’s rule allowing for more of
these junk plans to be sold to con-
sumers. Because we know the House of
Representatives will join us, we now
have the chance to actually do some-
thing about it and stop this erosion of
healthcare for people with preexisting
conditions before it is too late.
I get that the country and this Con-
gress are rightly consumed with the
ongoing scandal surrounding the im-
peachment inquiry and the recent
heartbreaking, unconscionable events
in Syria, but that doesn’t mean folks
in our States are as concerned with
those headline-grabbing issues as we
are. They still have to make their
budgets balance every single month,
and they are deeply worried—at least
those families I talked to in Con-
necticut who are still struggling with
serious illnesses—about our ability to
make sure the protections for pre-
existing conditions, which were a life-
line for millions of Americans when we
passed the Affordable Care Act, are not
undermined by this President. We have
a chance to step up and do something
about it next week.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The bill clerk proceeded to call the
roll.
Mr. SCHUMER. Madam President, I
ask unanimous consent that the order
for the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Ms.
ERNST). Without objection, it is so or-
dered.
RECOGNITION OF THE MINORITY LEADER
The Democratic leader is recognized.
APPROPRIATIONS
Mr. SCHUMER. Madam President,
before I get into my main remarks on
Syria, I just heard the majority leader,
Leader MCCONNELL, say that he wants
to see if we can do appropriations bills,
that he will see if the Democrats want
to legislate. Give me a break. Since we
have started to legislate, we have been
waiting for 6 months, 9 months. It is
well-known in the country that the
Senate is the legislative graveyard,
that Leader MCCONNELL has not put on
the floor bill after bill on major issues
that affect the country and that de-
mand attention. Most everybody knows
that he is proud that he is the Grim
Reaper. So now, in his asking if the
Democrats want to legislate, it is all
up to Leader MCCONNELL.
On the appropriations bills, of course,
we want to legislate when it is being
done in a fair way. There are some bills
that came out of the Appropriations
Committee in a bipartisan way. I think
there are four of them that the leader
is thinking of putting on the floor, and
we would like to move forward on
those and have a vigorous process as
we go forward.
There are certain bills that were not
done with any consultation—the tak-
ing of money out of things like
MILCON and HHS and putting it for a
wall that he knows the Democrats will
not go for. Those kinds of things we
can’t legislate until they become bipar-
tisan, until we work together. There
are certain bills—HHS, Defense,
MILCON, DHS—that we can’t move
forward on until we have some bipar-
tisan agreement. Yet, on the bills on
which there is agreement, we would be
happy to move forward. Of course, that
doesn’t solve the problem.
After that happens, our House col-
leagues—Speaker PELOSI, Chair
LOWEY—have since suggested that
there be a 302(b) conference because
even the 302(b)s are different than
these bills, and that is the right place
to go once the Senate passes these less
controversial bills.
I hope we can move forward. I hope
we can. The first package of bills—four
of the five—is not controversial. The
fifth, they didn’t even bring to the
floor of the Committee on Appropria-
tions—MILCON. Yet, on those four,
moving forward would be a fine thing.
Hopefully, we could work out an
amendment process whereby Members
could offer amendments.
So we will finally legislate after 9
months, not just move judges and
other appointees, and that is a good
thing. I am glad that Leader MCCON-
NELL has finally, maybe, felt the pres-
sure and wants to legislate.
TURKEY AND SYRIA
Madam President, let’s go to Syria.
Saturday night, President Trump an-
nounced on Twitter that he was revers-
ing his decision to host next year’s G7
summit at his golf resort in Doral, FL.
The President’s original decision was
the textbook definition of self-deal-
ing—an outrageous move that pro-
voked immediate and rightful con-
demnations. Over the weekend, mul-
tiple outlets reported that the Presi-
dent decided to back down only after
hearing of intense opposition from
members of his own party, many of
whom told him privately they would
not defend him on the issue.
It is obvious to almost everyone in
America that you don’t suggest a re-
sort that you own as the place to have
a conference. It makes no sense. Is the
President so interested in making a
few extra dollars—reports are that he
brags what a multibillionaire he is—
that he would risk violating the rules
and laws of this country, the emolu-
ments clause? It makes no sense.
It is unfortunate that this wasn’t the
only decision that made no sense.
There is an obvious parallel between
the President’s decision about the G7
and his decision to precipitously with-
draw our forces from Syria. Both were
done in a sort of whimsical way where-
by, from all reports, the President
didn’t consult with the experts in this
latter case—with the military, the
State Department, and the CIA.
Both have resulted in condemnation
from across the political spectrum. In
fact, last week, over 120 House Repub-
licans voted in favor of the resolution
criticizing the President’s Syria policy.
Leaders MCCARTHY, SCALISE, and CHE-
NEY are hardly moderates, in the mid-
dle, who always seek compromise.
These are pretty hard-nosed people,
and they voted to condemn it, so it
must be pretty bad. Of course, it is.
Former military commanders and
some of the President’s staunchest al-
lies in the Senate have echoed those
sentiments.
Just like the President reversed
course on the G7 after a torrent of crit-
icism from his own party, President
Trump must dramatically and dras-
tically rethink his policy in Syria,
which is far more dangerous because of
one word above all else—‘‘ISIS.’’ By his
abruptly having pulled troops out of
northern Syria, the President has be-
trayed and deserted our partners and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 23:45 Oct 21, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G21OC6.007 S21OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5912 October 21, 2019
allies and has created a security vacu-
um that our longest standing adver-
saries—Iran, Putin, and Assad—are ex-
ploiting. He put American lives in dan-
ger by letting hardened ISIS fighters
escape captivity and regroup.
As American troops leave Kurdish
areas, videos show Kurdish locals hurl-
ing rotting vegetables and shouting
‘‘America lies.’’ That is painful. Do you
know to whom it is the most painful?
Our soldiers who fought alongside the
Kurds. The Kurds sacrificed some of
their own people so that Americans
wouldn’t have to die.
One leading Russian newspaper,
which is, no doubt, part of the Putin
propaganda machine, ran a column this
week that proclaimed Russia’s unex-
pected triumph in the Middle East and
that Putin won the lottery. Meanwhile,
public reports suggest that at least 200
people with suspected links to the Is-
lamic State have escaped the displace-
ment camp in northeast Syria as a re-
sult of the Turkish invasion, and we in
New York know better than anyone
what a small group of bad, bad terror-
ists—evil terrorists—can do in untold
damage to our homeland.
This policy is reckless, unthought
out, and dangerous. It has been 3 weeks
since the announcement of the Presi-
dent’s decision, and he has yet to ar-
ticulate any plan for what happens
next. As a 5-day pause on hostilities
comes quickly to an end tomorrow,
every Member of this Chamber ought
to be asking: What is President
Trump’s strategy to secure the endur-
ing defeat of ISIS? How does the Presi-
dent plan to find the escaped ISIS pris-
oners? How does he plan to fix this
mess? These ISIS people are dangerous
and can create a problem right here in
our homeland.
This morning, according to the New
York Times, the President is now con-
sidering leaving a small force in east-
ern Syria. We need to know if that is
true. If so, how many? What would be
the force’s mission and for how long?
Maybe the most pressing question is,
How would a deployment in eastern
Syria secure ISIS prisoners and help
track down those who have escaped?
This presents such a great danger to
our country.
The President is flitting from one
idea to the next and has no coherent,
apparent strategy. His own Cabinet of-
ficials have yet to even agree on a time
to brief the Senators on the adminis-
tration’s plan. We have been waiting,
and we want to hear from the top peo-
ple—Secretary Esper, Secretary
Pompeo, and CIA Director Haspel. This
is serious stuff. The Congress has to be
briefed. We are worried the reason we
are not being briefed is that there is no
strategy and that these three people
who are in charge of major portions of
the American Government—the mili-
tary, the CIA, the diplomatic corps—
don’t have any idea what the President
is up to.
The quickest, simplest, and most
powerful way to send that message to
the President would be for the Senate
to take up and pass the bipartisan
House resolution on Syria. Last week,
I asked for the Senate’s consent to
take it up, but unfortunately it was
blocked. We are going to keep going
back to it.
It makes a difference when my Re-
publican colleagues stand up to the
President. That can affect him more
than anything else, so they shouldn’t
duck it or be allowed to duck it. When
the Republicans pressure the Presi-
dent, as they did on the G7, he con-
siders changing course. So, when it
comes to our national security, vital
matters of foreign policy, and, yes, es-
pecially when it comes to the Constitu-
tion, the rule of law, or the integrity of
our democracy, the Republicans must
put the country over the party.
On Syria and the fight against ISIS,
that means Leader MCCONNELL and
Senate Republicans should let us vote
on the House resolution criticizing the
President’s withdrawal.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Mr. CASEY. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
BOOZMAN). Without objection, it is so
ordered.
Mr. CASEY. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent to speak as in
morning business.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
TRUMP ADMINISTRATION
Mr. CASEY. Mr. President, I rise this
afternoon to talk about the question of
impeachment, which, of course, is
being debated across the country.
Evidence continues to mount regard-
ing actions the President has taken. Of
course, this issue is not only worthy of
debate but also worthy of inquiry and
review and even debate and discussion
here in the Senate.
From the Mueller report to the re-
cent revelations regarding the Presi-
dent’s dealing with Ukraine and its
President, evidence indicates that the
President is not only willing to take
actions which, in my judgment,
amount to an abuse of power—in fact,
I think the behavior of the President
on the phone call with the Ukrainian
President was a textbook case of abuse
of power. Apparently, he wants to en-
list others to defend the indefensible—
this behavior—and has said other
things that are troubling to so many
Americans.
I think it is important to provide
some historical perspective on im-
peachment, and I will seek to do some
of that today. This is by no means a
full review of the history, but I think it
is important to talk about some of the
questions our Founders were wrestling
with.
Our Founders grappled with many
different questions as they debated the
Constitution itself, particularly the na-
ture and the power of the Office of the
President of the United States. As our
Founders debated how to hold the
President accountable during the 1787
Constitutional Convention in Philadel-
phia, Elbridge Gerry said as follows re-
garding the issue of impeachment: ‘‘A
good magistrate will not fear [im-
peachments]. A bad one ought to be
kept in fear of them.’’
Consistent with Gerry’s remarks, our
Constitution provides an impeachment
process for ‘‘Treason, Bribery, or other
high Crimes and Misdemeanors.’’ At
the time of the drafting, our Founders’
understanding of ‘‘high Crimes and
Misdemeanors’’ was informed by cen-
turies of English legal precedent.
We know, as Alexander Hamilton ex-
plained in Federalist No. 65, impeach-
ment should stem from ‘‘abuse or vio-
lation of some public trust.’’ I will say
it again: ‘‘abuse or violation of some
public trust.’’ Informed by this history,
Congress has consistently interpreted
the phrase broadly to mean ‘‘serious
violations of the public trust’’—that
was one understanding—and has ex-
plained that ‘‘the phrase refers to mis-
conduct that damages the state and
the operations of governmental institu-
tions, and is not limited to criminal
misconduct.’’ That is an important dis-
tinction—‘‘not limited to criminal mis-
conduct.’’
There is no requirement for a Presi-
dent to engage in a quid pro quo. Any
kind of quid pro quo arrangement is
not required for impeachment, al-
though it is certainly an impeachable
offense to engage in that kind of con-
duct. Rather, our Constitution merely
requires ‘‘abuse or violation of some
public trust,’’ as Hamilton spoke to.
Since Special Counsel Mueller issued
his report on Russian interference in
the 2016 election and, more recently, as
testimony has emerged about Presi-
dent Trump’s conduct toward Ukraine,
I have attempted to assess how Presi-
dent Trump’s actions fit in our histor-
ical and current understanding of what
‘‘high Crimes and Misdemeanors’’
means.
This is an undertaking that must be
done in a considered manner and after
reviewing all of the relevant informa-
tion that is available. But I am in-
creasingly convinced that Speaker
PELOSI was correct in calling for a for-
mal impeachment inquiry into Presi-
dent Trump’s conduct. A failure by
Congress to pursue impeachment in the
face of grave offenses by the President
would be insulting to our Constitution
and insulting to our values.
Let’s talk about the Ukraine example
for a moment. Over the past several
weeks, our Nation has been confronted
by credible and detailed press reports,
as well as exhaustive testimony, in
some cases lasting 8 hours, 9 hours, 10
hours at a time, just for one witness,
and this testimony has come from both
career diplomats and State Depart-
ment officials indicating that the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 23:45 Oct 21, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G21OC6.010 S21OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5913
October 21, 2019
President has been employing his per-
sonal attorney to manage a shadow di-
plomacy agenda focused on personal
vendettas and unfounded conspiracy
theories in Ukraine.
In a telephone call with President
Zelensky of Ukraine, President
Trump—immediately after the Ukrain-
ian President raised the issue of pur-
chasing Javelins to defend his country
from Russian aggression—asked the
Ukrainian President to ‘‘do us a favor
though’’ by working with his lawyer,
Rudy Giuliani, and launching an inves-
tigation into a discredited conspiracy
theory regarding a DNC server in
Ukraine. To say that theory is discred-
ited is an understatement. It has been
debunked, so said a former Homeland
Security Advisor to President Trump,
among others.
President Trump also asked Presi-
dent Zelensky ‘‘to look into’’ Joe
Biden’s son and explained that ‘‘a lot of
people want to find out’’ about Biden—
a political rival who, of course, is run-
ning for President.
After a memorandum of the phone
call was released to the public, the
House Intelligence Committee released
a text message from the top U.S. dip-
lomat in Ukraine, who indicated that
he thought it was ‘‘crazy [for the Presi-
dent] to withhold security assistance
for help with a political campaign.’’
Other officials have since come for-
ward, some even resigning because of
their serious concerns over the White
House’s handling of Ukraine policy. Mi-
chael McKinley, a former senior ad-
viser to the U.S. Secretary of State,
testified that he resigned for two rea-
sons: ‘‘the failure, in my view, of the
State Department to offer support to
Foreign Service employees caught up
in the impeachment inquiry on
Ukraine, and, second, by what appears
to be the utilization of our ambas-
sadors overseas to advance a domestic
political objective.’’ That is what Mr.
McKinley, who just left the State De-
partment, said.
Our Founders had the foresight to en-
sure that the power of the President
was not unlimited and that Congress
could, if necessary, hold the Executive
accountable for abuses of power
through the impeachment process.
Surely, not every instance of Presi-
dential wrongdoing merits impeach-
ment. Using the vast powers of im-
peachment in a cavalier fashion would
be an insult to our Constitution.
This inquiry is not simply about
President Trump’s abuse of power. This
inquiry is about our democracy and the
values that the Founders agreed should
guide our Nation.
Impeachment is not what anyone in
this town would prefer. It is what our
Constitution demands—demands—when
an Executive abuses his or her power in
a manner that ‘‘damages the state and
the operations of government institu-
tions.’’ That is from an earlier im-
peachment in the 1860s.
As Hamilton said so long ago—but so
prescient—when there is an ‘‘abuse or
violation of some public trust,’’ we are
summoned—summoned—by our con-
stitutional duty to act.
To fail to act would be a dereliction
of that duty, thereby inviting this ex-
ecutive and future executives to abuse
that public trust with impunity. We
should never do that.
H.R. 3055
Mr. CASEY. Mr. President, very
briefly, I wanted to highlight a story
that was in today’s Wall Street Jour-
nal, entitled ‘‘As Court Case Imperils
Affordable Care Act, Some States Pre-
pare Contingency Plans.’’ That is the
headline. The subheadline is this:
‘‘Lawmakers explore ways to preserve
coverage, benefits if the health law is
struck down.’’
This is the opening paragraph that I
will read—it is not very long, but I
want to read it—from the story today:
A federal appeals court decision that could
strike down the Affordable Care Act as soon
as this month has rattled officials in several
states who are pursuing legislation to pre-
serve some coverage in the absence of any
Trump administration contingency plan.
Lawmakers in states including Louisiana,
Nevada, New Mexico and California have
passed bills or are reviewing action aimed at
dealing with the fallout if the ACA is over-
turned.
That is from the very beginning of
the article. I will not go further, other
than to say that this is a grave matter.
If a Federal appeals court were to rule
in favor of the moving party on ap-
peal—or I should say the moving party
at the beginning of the suit—and af-
firm the district court, what would
happen if that were the case? The pa-
tient protection in the Affordable Care
Act would be wiped out, and it would
cause not just chaos but would take
away protections from people like
those who have protections for a pre-
existing condition and would also take
healthcare coverage away from mil-
lions, if not tens of millions.
This is a critically important matter,
and it deserves and warrants the atten-
tion of Members of the Senate and the
House as well.
With that, I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Kansas.
APPROPRIATIONS
Mr. MORAN. Mr. President, thank
you very much for the opportunity to
speak to my colleagues on the Senate
floor this evening.
I really come to talk about some-
thing that shouldn’t be momentous,
shouldn’t be unusual, and should be
routine around here. Unfortunately, as
you and I have experienced, it is not
routine. What is not routine is the U.S.
Senate, the U.S. Congress getting its
job done. Part of that job is the appro-
priations process, and it ought to be
something we do every year on a rou-
tine basis.
Every city council, every county
commission, and every school board in
the State of Kansas every year passes a
budget and determines the spending for
that school board or that city council
or for that county commission. Yet,
when we come to Washington, DC, over
the years, it has become problematic
and it has become difficult for us to do
one of the basic things of a functioning
government: to determine the amount
of money to be spent, in broad terms,
and then to fill in the spaces with what
we should do for individual Agencies
and Departments within that budget
agreement.
We are poised for a vote tomorrow, a
motion on cloture. What that means to
folks in Kansas is this: Should we begin
the process of debating, amending, and
passing appropriations bills? I am here
to urge my colleagues, both Repub-
licans and Democrats, to vote yes on
cloture, to bring us to the point in
which we can have the debate.
I wouldn’t have thought when I came
to the U.S. Senate that one of my pri-
mary tasks, at least as I saw it, would
be to try to help this place function
and have an appropriations process
that is thoughtful, that establishes pri-
orities, that allows every Member of
the Senate to have input. That is some-
thing we ought to be able to accom-
plish without a lot of work, and I hope
that we demonstrate that we can do
that in the vote tomorrow.
The appropriations process has in-
volved an Appropriations Committee of
which you, Mr. President, and I serve
on. Many of the bills have been consid-
ered and voted on. There will be four
bills as a package in this motion to in-
voke cloture that will be presented to
the full Senate tomorrow.
For the subcommittee that I chair—
Commerce, Justice, Science—that ap-
propriations bill will be a part of that
cloture package. Agriculture, some-
thing hugely important to my con-
stituents in Kansas and across the
country, Interior, Transportation,
Housing, and Urban Development—
those four bills have passed unani-
mously out of the Senate Appropria-
tions Committee in September. Every
Republican on the committee and
every Democrat on the committee
voted in favor of them.
I know in my own circumstances, on
the Commerce, Justice, Science bill, I
worked closely—perhaps a better way
to say it is that the ranking member of
our subcommittee, the Senator from
New Hampshire, Mrs. SHAHEEN, and I
worked closely together—to try to find
a path by which we could avoid those
issues that would prevent us from find-
ing an agreement that allowed our bill
to move forward. I am pretty certain
that occurred in the other three sub-
committees.
Presented tomorrow is an oppor-
tunity for the Senate to take up 4 ap-
propriations bills—4 out of 12—and
those 4 are ones that were unanimously
agreed to by the Appropriations Com-
mittee. I commend Chairman SHELBY
and Vice Chairman LEAHY for their ef-
forts in the full committee to bring us
together to get us in a position where
we have those four bills now, soon, I
hope, to be pending in front of the Sen-
ate.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 23:45 Oct 21, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G21OC6.012 S21OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5914 October 21, 2019
Why does this matter? There is a lot
of work that has gone into trying to
determine what those appropriations
bills should say and should contain.
Certainly, how much money we spend
is important, but if you sidetrack the
appropriations process, you eliminate
the prioritization. We need to make de-
cisions every year on behalf of the
American people. Is there something
that we should spend no money on?
Last year it received money but not
this year. It is not enough priority for
us to spend enough money on this year.
Are there things we are spending
money on today, this year, that are
about right, and are there a few things
we should spend more money on?
That is a process that involves hear-
ings. It involves witnesses. It involves
testimony. It involves other Members,
the U.S. Senators, and 100 of us have
the opportunity to provide input as to
how much money should be spent in
those various areas of the appropria-
tions bill. Are there things that are
higher priorities, programs that work
better than others?
We ought to care about this from a
fiscal point of view—how much money
we spend. Are we on a path to get us
toward greater fiscal sanity, getting
our books to balance? But at the same
time, in the process of doing that, are
we making decisions that determine
that something is more important than
something else because we know we
shouldn’t and can’t spend money on ev-
erything?
That is what the appropriations proc-
ess does. Maybe we didn’t get it exactly
right, but allowing the bills to come to
the Senate floor allows 99 of my col-
leagues to join me in the ability to
offer amendments to change those pri-
orities. So every Member of the Sen-
ate, on behalf of their constituents
back home in their home States, ought
to care about an appropriations bill
being on the Senate floor.
Perhaps, this is the point when I
should say that if we fail to do this,
what this normally will mean is that
we have what we call a CR, or a con-
tinuing resolution, meaning that we
are going to fund the Federal Govern-
ment next year at the same levels and
in the same way as we did this year.
That lacks any kind of common sense
or a basis for making a good decision.
Not everything is equal. Just because
we spent something last year in this
amount doesn’t mean it is the right
amount next year. If we have been
doing continuing resolutions one year
after another, what that means is deci-
sions we made about spending 3 or 4
years ago remain the priorities for next
year’s spending.
We ought to avoid the continuing
resolution. We ought to do our work.
Tomorrow’s vote puts us on a path to
do that. Again, we are only on that
path if the Members of the Senate de-
cide that this is something we are
going to proceed to accomplish.
Fiscal order, prioritization of spend-
ing—I also think that Congress over
the years has deferred too often to Fed-
eral Agencies and Departments. I tell
my constituents that I know the Amer-
ican people are not satisfied with the
nature of Congress as an institution
and perhaps not satisfied with even
their own Senator or U.S. Congressman
or Congresswoman, but we are the clos-
est thing that you have to the ability
to make your will known and cause
and effect in Washington, DC.
Someone can visit with me and some-
one can visit with every U.S. Senator
and have a consequence here. It is
through this process, if you allow us all
to participate in the legislative proc-
ess, that we can take our constituents’
will and bring it to Washington, DC, on
their behalf.
In the absence of that, it just means
the Departments, the Cabinets, the
Cabinet Secretaries, the Agency heads,
the Bureau chiefs, and the people who
work within the bureaucracy have
more say if we don’t do appropriations
bills than elected officials representing
Kansans and the people of 49 other
States.
This is a way we can bring the people
of the United States into decisions
made in Washington, DC. When we
defer, when we do a continuing resolu-
tion, it means it is more likely that no
person within the bureaucracy has any
reason to pay any attention to our in-
terests. A constituent brings me a
problem and says: Something is going
on at the Department of Interior, and
this is what we are seeing, and this is
how it affects us. Could you help solve
that problem? Can you get somebody’s
attention at the Department of Inte-
rior? Could you get somebody’s atten-
tion at the Department of Commerce?
If we don’t do appropriations bills,
our ability to influence people at the
Department of Commerce—the power
of the purse strings—disappears. It
means that we have less ability not
only to determine how money is to be
spent but to be able to tell an Agency
head or a Cabinet Secretary: This
makes no sense. What you are doing to
folks back home is very damaging to
them. Let us explain to you.
If human nature, being what it is,
says that if you are the person or if you
are the organization—in this case, the
U.S. Senate—that determines how
much money an Agency, Department,
or Cabinet Secretary gets within their
realm of authority, you are going to be
much more likely to listen to a Mem-
ber of Congress and help us solve prob-
lems on behalf of our constituents.
The appropriations process matters
greatly. I think we are poised for the
opportunity to demonstrate that this
place can work, it can represent the
American people, and we can allow all
of our colleagues to have input in the
appropriations process, which has been
ongoing since last year.
I hope the conclusion tomorrow by
my colleagues is that this is a worthy
endeavor. The U.S. Senate ought to re-
turn to the days in which we did 12 ap-
propriations bills on an annual basis
and allowed the American people their
input in the appropriations process.
f
PROTOCOL TO THE NORTH ATLAN-
TIC TREATY OF 1949 ON THE AC-
CESSION OF NORTH MACEDONIA
Mr. MENENDEZ. Mr. President, I
come to the floor to express my sup-
port for ratifying the Protocol to the
North Atlantic Treaty of 1949 on the
Accession of North Macedonia. In light
of the Kremlin’s ongoing aggression
against the United States, against
Ukraine, and against many of our
democratic allies, today’s vote sends
an important signal that we are serious
about standing up to Moscow. A strong
NATO is critical to the security of the
United States, and supporting NATO’s
expansion is one of the most important
things this body can do to protect our
Nation.
This historic vote would not be hap-
pening without the Prespa Agreement
between Greece and North Macedonia,
which resolved the two countries’ name
dispute and came into force in Feb-
ruary. I want to acknowledge the hard
work of these countries, as well as the
tireless efforts of American diplomats,
to make Prespa a reality.
North Macedonia has already made
notable contributions to the security
of the U.S. and of NATO. North Mac-
edonia has deployed more than 4,000
troops to Iraq in support of U.S. efforts
there, and in 2018, North Macedonia
boosted its contribution to Afghani-
stan by 20 percent.
It actively supports the international
counter-ISIS coalition and has also
supported missions in Kosovo. This his-
tory of partnership with the U.S. on
important security issues speaks
strongly in favor of North Macedonia’s
inclusion in the Alliance.
NATO is strongest when all of its
members contribute, and I am glad
that North Macedonia is committed to
hitting the target of spending 2 percent
of its GDP on defense by 2024. The gov-
ernment has already made great
progress towards that target, and we
must hold them to that promise.
I also want to stress the importance
of all NATO members spending 2 per-
cent of GDP on defense. Our allies have
increased their defense spending since
2014 in response to a clear and growing
threat from the Kremlin. We must
work to make sure that trend con-
tinues, and we must do it as partners,
not as bullies.
We must also remember that belong-
ing to NATO is about more than mili-
tary capabilities. NATO was estab-
lished as a club of democracies that
abide by a certain set of principles.
When the Clinton administration was
considering new members, former Sec-
retary of Defense William Perry laid
out some criteria for inclusion in this
group: individual liberty for citizens,
democratic elections, the rule of law,
economic and market-based reforms,
resolution of territorial disputes with
neighbors, and civilian control of the
military.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:28 Oct 22, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G21OC6.014 S21OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5915
October 21, 2019
North Macedonia has made progress
on rule of law and democracy, but more
work remains to perfect the system.
NATO member states should not con-
sider this process complete and must
continue supporting North Macedonia’s
work to fully implement its reform
commitments.
Finally, admitting North Macedonia
into NATO is an important step to-
wards fully integrating the Balkans
into the international institutions that
contribute to peace and stability in Eu-
rope. I hope that today’s vote will pro-
vide momentum for North Macedonia
to open EU accession talks as well.
There is unfinished work for peace in
the Balkans, and the United States
must remain committed to the region
to resolve these long-running chal-
lenges.
The Kremlin, of course, does not
want to see stability in the Balkans. It
does not want to see the spread of de-
mocracy and rule of law. It does not
want countries like North Macedonia
to experience the peace and prosperity
that integration with the West brings.
That is why Russia tried to stop the
Prespa Agreement with disinformation
and political manipulation, and why it
has vocally opposed North Macedonia’s
NATO accession.
With today’s vote, we can make clear
that no country outside the Alliance
gets a veto over who gets to join
NATO, especially not Russia. We can
show our support for a country that
has partnered with us on important se-
curity missions and is making tough
but necessary reforms. We can promote
stability in a critical region of the
world and reduce Kremlin influence
there. Most importantly, we can pro-
tect our homeland by expanding an al-
liance that has proven invaluable to
national security.
While it is a positive step that we are
voting to ratify North Macedonia’s
NATO accession protocol, it is also an
opportune moment to take a step back
and consider the Senate’s treaty power
more broadly.
Article 2 of the Constitution endows
the President and the Senate with
shared power over treaties. The Presi-
dent, it states, ‘‘shall have power, by
and with the advice and consent of the
Senate, to make treaties, provided two
thirds of the Senators present concur.’’
While the Constitution does not ex-
pressly dictate a procedure for termi-
nating treaty relationships, Senators
have long asserted that the shared
treaty power extends to withdrawal
and therefore also requires Senate ap-
proval.
Regardless of whether the executive
branch agrees with this position, what
is completely unacceptable is that Sen-
ators are first learning about treaty
withdrawals and threats to withdraw
online or in the newspaper instead of
through proactive outreach by and
meaningful dialogue with the executive
branch.
The stakes could not be higher.
Among the three treaties President
Trump has pulled out of just this year
is the Intermediate-Range Nuclear
Forces Treaty—INF Treaty—a corner-
stone of the nuclear nonproliferation
regime with Russia. The Senate ap-
proved this; treaty in 1988 by a vote of
93–5.
Now, there are rumors swirling that
the President will imminently pull out
of the Open Skies Treaty, a multilat-
eral arms control agreement that has
been a critical element of U.S. and Eu-
ropean security. The Senate approved
that treaty in 1993 without any re-
corded opposition.
As with so many aspects of President
Trump’s foreign policy, withdrawal
from Open Skies would be another gift
to Vladimir Putin. Just last year, the
United States conducted an extraor-
dinary flight authorized under Open
Skies and intended to reaffirm U.S.
commitment to Ukraine and other
partner nations. Further, when the
Ukraine crisis first emerged, the
United States used images collected by
U.S. surveillance missions under the
Open Skies Treaty to publically dem-
onstrate that Russian forces had in-
vaded Ukrainian territory. With-
drawing from the Open Skies Treaty
would be perceived as casting us fur-
ther doubt on the status of the U.S.
commitment to Ukraine’s security and
would advance the Russian narrative
that the United States is an unreliable
partner in the region.
These withdrawals not only dem-
onstrate a reckless approach to foreign
policy—an approach that gratifies the
Trump administration’s short-term
goals at the expense of our country’s
long-term interests—they also erode
the Senate’s prerogative on treaties.
Given the constitutional mandate of
shared responsibility for treaties be-
tween the Senate and President, along
with a heightened standard for Senate
advice and consent, it is inconceivable
to think that unilateral treaty termi-
nation, absent any engagement what-
soever with the Senate, could be con-
stitutionally sound, yet that is what
this President is doing and what this
Senate must reject.
It is in this context that we must
face an unfortunate truth relevant to
the continuing health of the NATO al-
liance, which is the constant threat
that President Trump may suddenly
pull the United States out of NATO al-
together. It is a dangerous option the
President has apparently raised with
subordinates. If recent history is any
guide, the fact that a U.S. withdrawal
would be reckless, dangerous, and, as
the former Supreme Allied Commander
of NATO has said, ‘‘a geopolitical mis-
take of epic proportion,’’ does not
mean that the President will not pur-
sue it.
With that in mind, it is unfortunate
that Senator MCCONNELL refused to
allow amendments to the North Mac-
edonia Protocol. Had he allowed a more
open process, I would have offered an
amendment that would have condi-
tioned Senate advice and consent on
the protocol to a requirement that the
President not withdraw from NATO
without Senate approval. While this
step may not have been necessary pre-
viously, we must regretfully move in
that direction to respond to President
Trump and to protect against his abil-
ity and willingness to jeopardize U.S.
national security through hasty and
unilateral treaty withdrawals.
So, while I strongly urge my col-
leagues to join me in voting to ratify
North Macedonia’s NATO accession
protocol, I must express my concern
that the Senate has not yet taken any
steps to prevent President Trump from
pulling the United States out of NATO
or other treaties absent any Senate
input or approval.
Mr. CASEY. I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Kentucky.
Mr. PAUL. Mr. President, I ask unan-
imous consent that the previously
scheduled vote commence now.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
CLOTURE MOTION
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Pursuant
to rule XXII, the Chair lays before the
Senate the pending cloture motion,
which the clerk will state.
The legislative clerk read as follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on treaties
Calendar No. 5, Treaty Document No. 116–1,
Protocol to the North Atlantic Treaty of 1949
on the Accession of the Republic of North
Macedonia.
Mitch McConnell, David Perdue, John
Cornyn, John Thune, John Hoeven,
John Boozman, Thom Tillis, Steve
Daines, Roger F. Wicker, Pat Roberts,
John Barrasso, Richard Burr, Shelley
Moore Capito, Roy Blunt, Mike
Rounds, Mike Crapo, James E. Risch.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
mandatory quorum call has been
waived.
The question is, Is it the sense of the
Senate that debate on the Protocol to
the North Atlantic Treaty of 1949 on
the Accession of the Republic of North
Macedonia shall be brought to a close?
The yeas and nays are mandatory
under the rule.
The clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk called the roll.
Mr. THUNE. The following Senators
are necessarily absent: the Senator
from Georgia (Mr. ISAKSON), the Sen-
ator from Louisiana (Mr. KENNEDY),
the Senator from Alaska (Ms. MUR-
KOWSKI), and the Senator from Penn-
sylvania (Mr. TOOMEY).
Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the
Senator from Colorado (Mr. BENNET),
the Senator from New Jersey (Mr.
BOOKER), the Senator from California
(Ms. HARRIS), the Senator from New
Hampshire (Ms. HASSAN), the Senator
from Minnesota (Ms. KLOBUCHAR), the
Senator from Vermont (Mr. SANDERS),
the Senator from Hawaii (Mr. SCHATZ),
the Senator from Michigan (Ms. STABE-
NOW), the Senator from Massachusetts
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:28 Oct 22, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A21OC6.001 S21OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5916 October 21, 2019
(Ms. WARREN), and the Senator from
Rhode Island (Mr. WHITEHOUSE) are
necessarily absent.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Are there
any other Senators in the Chamber de-
siring to vote?
The yeas and nays resulted—yeas 84,
nays 2, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 326 Ex.]
YEAS—84
Alexander
Baldwin
Barrasso
Blackburn
Blumenthal
Blunt
Boozman
Braun
Brown
Burr
Cantwell
Capito
Cardin
Carper
Casey
Cassidy
Collins
Coons
Cornyn
Cortez Masto
Cotton
Cramer
Crapo
Cruz
Daines
Duckworth
Durbin
Enzi
Ernst
Feinstein
Fischer
Gardner
Gillibrand
Graham
Grassley
Hawley
Heinrich
Hirono
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Inhofe
Johnson
Jones
Kaine
King
Lankford
Leahy
Manchin
Markey
McConnell
McSally
Menendez
Merkley
Moran
Murphy
Murray
Perdue
Peters
Portman
Reed
Risch
Roberts
Romney
Rosen
Rounds
Rubio
Sasse
Schumer
Scott (FL)
Scott (SC)
Shaheen
Shelby
Sinema
Smith
Sullivan
Tester
Thune
Tillis
Udall
Van Hollen
Warner
Wicker
Wyden
Young
NAYS—2
Lee Paul
NOT VOTING—14
Bennet
Booker
Harris
Hassan
Isakson
Kennedy
Klobuchar
Murkowski
Sanders
Schatz
Stabenow
Toomey
Warren
Whitehouse
The PRESIDING OFFICER. On this
vote, the yeas are 84, the nays are 2.
Three-fifths of the Senators duly cho-
sen and sworn having voted in the af-
firmative, the motion is agreed to.
The Senator from North Dakota.
ORDER OF BUSINESS
Mr. HOEVEN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that following lead-
er remarks, on Tuesday, October 22,
the time until 12 noon be equally di-
vided between the two leaders or their
designees. I further ask that all
postcloture time on Treaties Calendar
No. 5, Treaty Document No. 116–1, ex-
pire at 12 noon tomorrow and that the
Senate vote on the ratification of the
treaty.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
LEGISLATIVE SESSION
MORNING BUSINESS
Mr. HOEVEN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the Senate
proceed to legislative session and be in
a period of morning business, with Sen-
ators permitted to speak therein for up
to 10 minutes each.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
(At the request of Mr. SCHUMER, the
following statement was ordered to be
printed in the RECORD.)
VOTE EXPLANATION
∑ Ms. STABENOW. Mr. President, un-
fortunately I was unable to attend the
rollcall vote on the motion to invoke
cloture on the Protocol to the North
Atlantic Treaty of 1949 on the Acces-
sion of the Republic of North Mac-
edonia. Had I been able to attend, I
would have voted in support of clo-
ture.∑
f
OCEAN PLASTIC POLLUTION
Mr. LEAHY. Mr. President, oceans,
lakes, and rivers across our planet are
filled with debris that litters shorelines
and threatens public health, navigation
safety, wildlife, and the environment.
This debris causes serious damage to
the health of ocean ecosystems and
marine life and, due to ocean currents,
often travels great distances and poses
threats to nations that are not respon-
sible for the mismanagement of such
waste.
One of the most common forms of
marine debris is plastic, which is abun-
dant in our everyday lives, often in the
form of single-use packaging. Count-
less seabirds, sea turtles, seals, and
other marine animals are killed each
year after ingesting plastic or getting
entangled in it. And most commonly
used plastics never fully degrade but,
rather, break down into smaller and
smaller pieces, known as microplastics,
which pose unique problems of their
own.
The negative health, environmental,
and economic impacts of marine pollu-
tion, both to countries that discharge
waste and to those on whose shorelines
such waste washes up, are steadily
mounting. Billions of pounds of plastic
and other debris can be found in our
oceans and waterways.
In the Senate version of the fiscal
year 2020 Department of State and For-
eign Operations appropriations bill,
which was reported unanimously by
the Appropriations Committee on Sep-
tember 26, the committee rec-
ommended funding to respond to this
global threat. In this bill, the com-
mittee directs the Department of State
and the U.S. Agency for International
Development to redouble their diplo-
matic and programmatic support for
regional and global efforts to address
this urgent problem, including through
grants, technical assistance, and new
multilateral mechanisms, and provides
$10 million to support such efforts.
While the funding provided is minus-
cule compared to what is needed, the
committee’s intent is clear. The United
States must increase its leadership and
visibility on this issue and become
more engaged in efforts to prevent and
mitigate the impacts of marine debris.
The committee recognizes that the
United States cannot address this prob-
lem alone. Nothing connects countries
of the world more than oceans and wa-
terways, and strong international co-
operation is necessary to guarantee
their conservation for generations to
come. It is imperative that the United
States increases its engagement both
bilaterally and multilaterally to tackle
this challenge.
It is not an understatement to say
that what I am speaking about—the
protection of the oceans, lakes, and
rivers of our planet—is essential to our
existence. I hope other Senators will
join me, Senator WHITEHOUSE, and oth-
ers who have taken up this cause in
calling for additional resources to ad-
dress ocean plastic pollution.
f
ADDITIONAL STATEMENTS
RECOGNIZING AMELIA ISLAND
KAYAK EXCURSIONS
∑ Mr. RUBIO. Mr. President, as chair-
man of the Senate Committee on Small
Business and Entrepreneurship, each
week it is my honor to recognize a
small business that exemplifies family
values and dedication to its commu-
nity. I am proud to recognize Amelia
Island Kayak Excursions of Fernandina
Beach, FL, as the Senate Small Busi-
ness of the Week.
Established in 2013, Amelia Island
Kayak Excursions is the product of the
Bullington family’s love of kayaking in
the Amelia Island inlands. Six years
ago, Mark Bullington and his two chil-
dren, Amber and Aaron, decided to
turn their hobby into their livelihood.
Their love of Florida and commitment
to responsible stewardship of the Earth
led the Bullingtons to share their pas-
sion with visitors and their commu-
nity.
Showcasing Florida’s beauty, Amelia
Island Kayak Excursions offers both
kayak and boat expeditions throughout
wildlife-rich Egan’s Creek, Lofton’s
Creek, and more of Florida’s coastal
environment. Tours range from 2 to 5
hours, and overnight tours are offered
for experienced kayakers. Addition-
ally, Amelia Island Kayak Excursions
offers private boat tours for small
groups to observe the diverse local
wildlife.
Since its founding, the tour guides of
Amelia Island Kayak Excursions have
continued to learn more about Flor-
ida’s unique environment and commu-
nity. Over the span of his career, Mark
has logged more than 4,500 miles
kayaking and canoeing, gaining exten-
sive knowledge about the scenic eco-
system in the process. Amber not only
leads tours but is also involved with
the local business community through
the Nassau County Chamber of Com-
merce and, in 2018, was recognized as
the chamber’s Ambassador of the Year.
Aaron is certified through the Univer-
sity of Florida as a Florida Master Nat-
uralist, a certification which lends
itself easily to his role as tour guide.
As a well-established tour service,
Amelia Island Kayak Excursions has
become an essential part of the eco-
nomic framework of Fernandina Beach.
This business’s influential role has not
gone unnoticed. In 2017, Amelia Island
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:28 Oct 22, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00010 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A21OC6.003 S21OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5917
October 21, 2019
Kayak Excursions was recognized by
the Nassau County Chamber of Com-
merce as the Small Business of the
Year and received the Bold City Best
Water Sports Award. In addition to its
accomplishments, Amelia Island
Kayak Excursions is dedicated to giv-
ing back to the community through en-
gagement with local charities and cor-
responding fundraisers. To educate the
next generation about Florida’s wild-
life, the Bullingtons have partnered
with an after school program by gifting
students a free kayak trip if they meet
their academic goals.
Amelia Island Kayak Excursions is a
great example of a community-ori-
ented small business. I am proud to
honor and congratulate Amelia Island
Kayak Excursions for its hard work
and dedication to the Floridian land-
scape. I wish the entire team at Amelia
Island Kayak Excursions the best of
luck and success in all of their future
endeavors.∑
f
MESSAGE FROM THE HOUSE
RECEIVED DURING ADJOURNMENT
ENROLLED BILL SIGNED
Under the authority of the order of
the Senate of January 3, 2019, the Sec-
retary of the Senate, on October 18,
2019, during the adjournment of the
Senate, received a message from the
House of Representatives announcing
that the Speaker pro tempore (Mr.
RASKIN) had signed the following en-
rolled bill:
S. 1196. An act to designate the facility of
the United States Postal Service located at
1715 Linnerud Drive in Sun Prairie, Wis-
consin, as the ‘‘Fire Captain Cory Barr Post
Office Building’’.
Under the authority of the order of
the Senate of January 3, 2019, the en-
rolled bill was signed on October 18,
2019, during the adjournment of the
Senate, by the President pro tempore
(Mr. GRASSLEY).
f
MESSAGE FROM THE HOUSE
At 3:03 p.m., a message from the
House of Representatives, delivered by
Mr. Novotny, one of its reading clerks,
announced that the House has passed
the following bills, in which it requests
the concurrence of the Senate:
H.R. 1815. An act to require the Security
and Exchange Commission, when developing
rules and regulations about disclosures to re-
tail investors, to conduct investor testing,
including a survey and interviews of retail
investors, and for other purposes.
H.R. 3624. An act to amend the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 to require the disclo-
sure of the total number of domestic and for-
eign employees of certain public companies,
and for other purposes.
The message further announced that
the House has agreed to the following
resolution:
H. Res. 635. Resolution relative to the
death of the Honorable Elijah E. Cummings,
a Representative from the State of Mary-
land.
MEASURES REFERRED
The following bills were read the first
and the second times by unanimous
consent, and referred as indicated:
H.R. 1815. An act to require the Securities
and Exchange Commission, when developing
rules and regulations about disclosures to re-
tail investors, to conduct investor testing,
including a survey and interviews of retail
investors, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban
Affairs.
H.R. 3624. An act to amend the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 to require the disclo-
sure of the total number of domestic and for-
eign employees of certain public companies,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs.
f
MEASURES PLACED ON THE
CALENDAR
The following bill was read the sec-
ond time, and placed on the calendar:
S. 2644. A bill to impose sanctions with re-
spect to Turkey, and for other purposes.
f
EXECUTIVE AND OTHER
COMMUNICATIONS
The following communications were
laid before the Senate, together with
accompanying papers, reports, and doc-
uments, and were referred as indicated:
EC–2838. A communication from the Ad-
ministrator, Federal Emergency Manage-
ment Agency, Department of Homeland Se-
curity, transmitting, pursuant to law, a re-
port relative to the cost of response and re-
covery efforts for FEMA–3417–EM in the
Commonwealth of Puerto Rico having ex-
ceeded the $5,000,000 limit for a single emer-
gency declaration; to the Committee on
Homeland Security and Governmental Af-
fairs.
EC–2839. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Standard
Instrument Approach Procedures, and Take-
off Minimums and Obstacle Departure Proce-
dures; Miscellaneous Amendments; Amend-
ment No. 3870’’ (RIN2120–AA65) received dur-
ing adjournment of the Senate in the Office
of the President of the Senate on October 4,
2019; to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation.
EC–2840. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Standard
Instrument Approach Procedures, and Take-
off Minimums and Obstacle Departure Proce-
dures; Miscellaneous Amendments; Amend-
ment No. 3872’’ (RIN2120–AA65) received dur-
ing adjournment of the Senate in the Office
of the President of the Senate on October 4,
2019; to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation.
EC–2841. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Standard
Instrument Approach Procedures, and Take-
off Minimums and Obstacle Departure Proce-
dures; Miscellaneous Amendments; Amend-
ment No. 3871’’ (RIN2120–AA65) received dur-
ing adjournment of the Senate in the Office
of the President of the Senate on October 4,
2019; to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation.
EC–2842. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Standard
Instrument Approach Procedures, and Take-
off Minimums and Obstacle Departure Proce-
dures; Miscellaneous Amendments; Amend-
ment No. 3869’’ (RIN2120–AA65) received dur-
ing adjournment of the Senate in the Office
of the President of the Senate on October 4,
2019; to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation.
EC–2843. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Amend-
ment of Class E Airspace and Establishment
of Class E Airspace; Huntsville, AL’’
((RIN2120–AA66) (Docket No. FAA–2019–0530))
received in the Office of the President of the
Senate on September 19, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Commerce, Science, and Transpor-
tation.
EC–2844. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Amend-
ment of Class E Airspace; Haleyville, AL and
Hamilton, AL’’ ((RIN2120–AA66) (Docket No.
FAA–2019–0502)) received in the Office of the
President of the Senate on September 19,
2019; to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation.
EC–2845. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Amend-
ment of Class E Airspace; Fairmont, MN’’
((RIN2120–AA66) (Docket No. FAA–2019–0471))
received in the Office of the President of the
Senate on September 19, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Commerce, Science, and Transpor-
tation.
EC–2846. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Amend-
ment of Class E Airspace; Matoon/Charles-
ton, IL; and Revocation of Class E Airspace;
Monticello, IL’’ ((RIN2120–AA66) (Docket No.
FAA–2019–0529)) received in the Office of the
President of the Senate on September 19,
2019; to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation.
EC–2847. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Amend-
ment of Class C Airspace; Lafayette, LA’’
((RIN2120–AA66) (Docket No. FAA–2019–0676))
received during adjournment of the Senate
in the Office of the President of the Senate
on October 4, 2019; to the Committee on Com-
merce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–2848. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Amend-
ment of Area Navigation (RNAV) Routes Q–
121 and Q–156; Miles City, MT’’ ((RIN2120–
AA66) (Docket No. FAA–2019–0267)) received
during adjournment of the Senate in the Of-
fice of the President of the Senate on Octo-
ber 4, 2019; to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation.
EC–2849. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Airspace
Designations; Incorporation by Reference
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:28 Oct 22, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00011 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A21OC6.005 S21OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5918 October 21, 2019
Amendments’’ ((RIN2120–AA66) (Docket No.
FAA–2019–0627)) received during adjournment
of the Senate in the Office of the President
of the Senate on October 4, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Commerce, Science, and Transpor-
tation.
EC–2850. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Amend-
ment of Class E Airspace; Mount Pleasant,
IA’’ ((RIN2120–AA66) (Docket No. FAA–2019–
0472)) received during adjournment of the
Senate in the Office of the President of the
Senate on October 4, 2019; to the Committee
on Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–2851. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Amend-
ment of Class E Airspace; St. James, MN’’
((RIN2120–AA66) (Docket No. FAA–2019–0550))
received during adjournment of the Senate
in the Office of the President of the Senate
on October 4, 2019; to the Committee on Com-
merce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–2852. A communication from the Attor-
ney-Advisor, U.S. Coast Guard, Department
of Homeland Security, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Safety Zone; Lake of the Ozarks, Lake
Ozark, MO’’ ((RIN1625–AA00) (Docket No.
USCG–2019–0769)) received in the Office of the
President of the Senate on September 23,
2019; to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation.
EC–2853. A communication from the Attor-
ney-Advisor, U.S. Coast Guard, Department
of Homeland Security, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Safety Zone for Hurricane Dorian; Coast
Guard Maryland-National Capital Region
Captain of the Port Zone’’ ((RIN1625–AA00)
(Docket No. USCG–2019–0775)) received in the
Office of the President of the Senate on Sep-
tember 23, 2019; to the Committee on Com-
merce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–2854. A communication from the Attor-
ney-Advisor, U.S. Coast Guard, Department
of Homeland Security, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Safety Zone; Unionport (Bruckner Express-
way) Bridge, Westchester Creek, Bronx, NY’’
((RIN1625–AA00) (Docket No. USCG–2018–
1060)) received in the Office of the President
of the Senate on September 23, 2019; to the
Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation.
EC–2855. A communication from the Attor-
ney-Advisor, U.S. Coast Guard, Department
of Homeland Security, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Safety Zones; Sector Upper Mississippi
River Annual and Recurring Safety Zones
Update’’ ((RIN1625–AA00) (Docket No. USCG–
2018–1009)) received in the Office of the Presi-
dent of the Senate on September 23, 2019; to
the Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation.
EC–2856. A communication from the Attor-
ney-Advisor, U.S. Coast Guard, Department
of Homeland Security, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Safety Zone; Cape Fear River, Wilmington,
NC’’ ((RIN1625–AA00) (Docket No. USCG–
2019–0302)) received in the Office of the Presi-
dent of the Senate on September 23, 2019; to
the Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation.
EC–2857. A communication from the Attor-
ney-Advisor, U.S. Coast Guard, Department
of Homeland Security, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Safety Zone; Fireworks Display, Indian
River Bay, DE’’ ((RIN1625–AA00) (Docket No.
USCG–2019–0509)) received in the Office of the
President of the Senate on September 23,
2019; to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation.
EC–2858. A communication from the Attor-
ney-Advisor, U.S. Coast Guard, Department
of Homeland Security, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Safety Zone; New Jersey Intracoastal Wa-
terway, Atlantic City, NJ’’ ((RIN1625–AA00)
(Docket No. USCG–2019–0719)) received in the
Office of the President of the Senate on Sep-
tember 23, 2019; to the Committee on Com-
merce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–2859. A communication from the Attor-
ney-Advisor, U.S. Coast Guard, Department
of Homeland Security, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Safety Zone; Incline Village Wedding Fire-
works Display, Crystal Bay, Incline’’
((RIN1625–AA00) (Docket No. USCG–2019–
0678)) received in the Office of the President
of the Senate on September 23, 2019; to the
Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation.
EC–2860. A communication from the Attor-
ney-Advisor, U.S. Coast Guard, Department
of Homeland Security, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Safety Zone; 2019 Monte Labor Day Fire-
works Display, Carnelian Bay, Carnelian
Bay, CA’’ ((RIN1625–AA00) (Docket No.
USCG–2019–0730)) received in the Office of the
President of the Senate on September 23,
2019; to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation.
EC–2861. A communication from the Attor-
ney-Advisor, U.S. Coast Guard, Department
of Homeland Security, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Safety Zone; Missouri River, mile marker
117 to 116.5 Chamois, MO’’ ((RIN1625–AA00)
(Docket No. USCG–2019–0760)) received in the
Office of the President of the Senate on Sep-
tember 23, 2019; to the Committee on Com-
merce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–2862. A communication from the Attor-
ney-Advisor, U.S. Coast Guard, Department
of Homeland Security, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Safety Zone; Kanawha River, Charleston,
WV’’ ((RIN1625–AA00) (Docket No. USCG–
2019–0734)) received in the Office of the Presi-
dent of the Senate on September 23, 2019; to
the Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation.
EC–2863. A communication from the Attor-
ney-Advisor, U.S. Coast Guard, Department
of Homeland Security, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Safety Zone; Newtown Creek, New York,
NY’’ ((RIN1625–AA00) (Docket No. USCG–
2019–0725)) received in the Office of the Presi-
dent of the Senate on September 23, 2019; to
the Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation.
EC–2864. A communication from the Attor-
ney-Advisor, U.S. Coast Guard, Department
of Homeland Security, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Safety Zone; R/V POLARCUS ALIMA, Cook
Inlet, Homer, Alaska’’ ((RIN1625–AA00)
(Docket No. USCG–2019–0774)) received in the
Office of the President of the Senate on Sep-
tember 23, 2019; to the Committee on Com-
merce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–2865. A communication from the Attor-
ney-Advisor, U.S. Coast Guard, Department
of Homeland Security, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Safety Zone; Saint Simons Sound, GA’’
((RIN1625–AA00) (Docket No. USCG–2019–
0794)) received during adjournment of the
Senate in the Office of the President of the
Senate on October 1, 2019; to the Committee
on Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–2866. A communication from the Attor-
ney-Advisor, U.S. Coast Guard, Department
of Homeland Security, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Safety Zone; Neches River, Beaumont, TX’’
((RIN1625–AA00) (Docket No. USCG–2019–
0614)) received during adjournment of the
Senate in the Office of the President of the
Senate on October 1, 2019; to the Committee
on Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–2867. A communication from the Attor-
ney-Advisor, U.S. Coast Guard, Department
of Homeland Security, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Safety Zone; San Juan Harbor, San Juan,
PR’’ ((RIN1625–AA00) (Docket No. USCG–
2019–0686)) received during adjournment of
the Senate in the Office of the President of
the Senate on October 1, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Commerce, Science, and Transpor-
tation.
EC–2868. A communication from the Attor-
ney-Advisor, U.S. Coast Guard, Department
of Homeland Security, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Safety Zone; Delaware River, Philadelphia,
PA’’ ((RIN1625–AA00) (Docket No. USCG–
2019–0784)) received during adjournment of
the Senate in the Office of the President of
the Senate on October 1, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Commerce, Science, and Transpor-
tation.
EC–2869. A communication from the Attor-
ney-Advisor, U.S. Coast Guard, Department
of Homeland Security, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Safety Zone; Delaware Bay and River, PA’’
((RIN1625–AA00) (Docket No. USCG–2019–
0782)) received during adjournment of the
Senate in the Office of the President of the
Senate on October 1, 2019; to the Committee
on Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–2870. A communication from the Attor-
ney-Advisor, U.S. Coast Guard, Department
of Homeland Security, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Spe-
cial Local Regulation; Tennessee River,
Florence, AL’’ ((RIN1625–AA08) (Docket No.
USCG–2019–0768)) received in the Office of the
President of the Senate on September 23,
2019; to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation.
EC–2871. A communication from the Attor-
ney-Advisor, U.S. Coast Guard, Department
of Homeland Security, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Spe-
cial Local Regulation; North Atlantic Ocean,
Ocean City, MD’’ ((RIN1625–AA08) (Docket
No. USCG–2019–0634)) received during ad-
journment of the Senate in the Office of the
President of the Senate on October 1, 2019; to
the Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation.
EC–2872. A communication from the Attor-
ney-Advisor, U.S. Coast Guard, Department
of Homeland Security, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Spe-
cial Local Regulation; Battle of the Bridges,
Intracoastal Waterway; Venice, FL’’
((RIN1625–AA08) (Docket No. USCG–2019–
0508)) received during adjournment of the
Senate in the Office of the President of the
Senate on October 1, 2019; to the Committee
on Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–2873. A communication from the Attor-
ney-Advisor, U.S. Coast Guard, Department
of Homeland Security, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Safety Zone; Wilmington River, Savannah,
GA’’ ((RIN1625–AA00) (Docket No. USCG–
2019–0756)) received during adjournment of
the Senate in the Office of the President of
the Senate on October 1, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Commerce, Science, and Transpor-
tation.
EC–2874. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Office of Sustainable Fisheries,
National Marine Fisheries Service, Depart-
ment of Commerce, transmitting, pursuant
to law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Fish-
eries of the Northeastern United States;
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:28 Oct 22, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00012 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A21OC6.012 S21OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5919
October 21, 2019
Summer Flounder Fishery; Quota Transfer
from NC to MA’’ (RIN0648–GAR–A005) re-
ceived in the Office of the President of the
Senate on September 24, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Commerce, Science, and Transpor-
tation.
EC–2875. A communication from the Acting
Director of the Office of Sustainable Fish-
eries, National Marine Fisheries Service, De-
partment of Commerce, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Fisheries of the Northeastern United
States; Final Rule; 2019 Closure of the Closed
Area I Scallop Access Area to General Cat-
egory Individual Fishing Quota Scallop Ves-
sels’’ (RIN0648–XX004) received in the Office
of the President of the Senate on September
24, 2019; to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation.
EC–2876. A communication from the Acting
Director of the Office of Sustainable Fish-
eries, National Marine Fisheries Service, De-
partment of Commerce, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Fisheries of the Northeastern United
States; Final Rule: 2019 Closure of the North-
ern Gulf of Maine Scallop Management Area
to the Limited Access General Category
Fishery’’ (RIN0648–XG998) received in the Of-
fice of the President of the Senate on Sep-
tember 24, 2019; to the Committee on Com-
merce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–2877. A communication from the Acting
Director of the Office of Sustainable Fish-
eries, National Marine Fisheries Service, De-
partment of Commerce, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Fisheries of the Northeastern United
States; Atlantic Mackerel, Squid, and
Butterfish Fishery; 2019 Illex Squid Quota
Harvested’’ (RIN0648–XX007) received in the
Office of the President of the Senate on Sep-
tember 24, 2019; to the Committee on Com-
merce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–2878. A communication from the Acting
Director of the Office of Sustainable Fish-
eries, National Marine Fisheries Service, De-
partment of Commerce, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Fisheries of the Northeastern United
States; Northeast Multispecies Fishery;
Common Pool Measures for Fishing Year
2019’’ (RIN0648–XG900) received in the Office
of the President of the Senate on September
24, 2019; to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation.
EC–2879. A communication from the Acting
Director of the Office of Sustainable Fish-
eries, National Marine Fisheries Service, De-
partment of Commerce, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Fisheries of the Northeastern United
States; Summer Flounder Fishery; Quota
Transfer from NC to VA’’ (RIN0648–GAR–
A004) received in the Office of the President
of the Senate on September 24, 2019; to the
Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation.
EC–2880. A communication from the Acting
Director of the Office of Sustainable Fish-
eries, National Marine Fisheries Service, De-
partment of Commerce, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Western and Central Pacific Fisheries for
Highly Migratory Species; 2019 Bigeye Tuna
Longline Fishery Closure’’ (RIN0648–XP002)
received in the Office of the President of the
Senate on September 24, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Commerce, Science, and Transpor-
tation.
EC–2881. A communication from the Acting
Director of the Office of Sustainable Fish-
eries, National Marine Fisheries Service, De-
partment of Commerce, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘At-
lantic Highly Migratory Species; Atlantic
Bluefin Tuna Fisheries; Closure of the Gen-
eral Category June through August 2019
Fishery’’ (RIN0648–XT013) received in the Of-
fice of the President of the Senate on Sep-
tember 24, 2019; to the Committee on Com-
merce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–2882. A communication from the Acting
Director of the Office of Sustainable Fish-
eries, National Marine Fisheries Service, De-
partment of Commerce, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Pa-
cific Coast Groundfish Fishery; 2019–2020 Bi-
ennial Specifications and Management Meas-
ures; Inseason Adjustments for March and
April 2019’’ (RIN0648–BI94) received in the Of-
fice of the President of the Senate on Sep-
tember 24, 2019; to the Committee on Com-
merce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–2883. A communication from the Acting
Director of the Office of Sustainable Fish-
eries, National Marine Fisheries Service, De-
partment of Commerce, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘No-
tice of Inseason Adjustment to 2019 Inter-
national Pacific Halibut Commission Fish-
ery Regulations’’ (RIN0648–WCR–A001) re-
ceived in the Office of the President of the
Senate on September 24, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Commerce, Science, and Transpor-
tation.
EC–2884. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Office of Sustainable Fisheries,
National Marine Fisheries Service, Depart-
ment of Commerce, transmitting, pursuant
to law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Pacific
Coast Groundfish Fishery; 2019–2020 Biennial
Specifications and Management Measures;
Inseason Adjustments for June 2019’’
(RIN0648–BJ11) received in the Office of the
President of the Senate on September 24,
2019; to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation.
EC–2885. A communication from the Acting
Director of the Office of Sustainable Fish-
eries, National Marine Fisheries Service, De-
partment of Commerce, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Fisheries off the West Coast States; the
Highly Migratory Species Fishery; Closure’’
(RIN0648–WCR–A002) received in the Office of
the President of the Senate on September 24,
2019; to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation.
EC–2886. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Office of Sustainable Fisheries,
National Marine Fisheries Service, Depart-
ment of Commerce, transmitting, pursuant
to law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Atlan-
tic Highly Migratory Species; Atlantic
Bluefin Tuna Fisheries; Temporary Rule;
Inseason Quota Transfer (Reserve Category
to Harpoon Category)’’ (RIN0648–XT010) re-
ceived in the Office of the President of the
Senate on September 24, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Commerce, Science, and Transpor-
tation.
EC–2887. A communication from the Acting
Director of the Office of Sustainable Fish-
eries, National Marine Fisheries Service, De-
partment of Commerce, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘At-
lantic Highly Migratory Species; Atlantic
Bluefin Tuna Fisheries; Temporary Rule;
Closure of the Harpoon Category Fishery for
2019’’ (RIN0648–XT011) received in the Office
of the President of the Senate on September
24, 2019; to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation.
EC–2888. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Office of Sustainable Fisheries,
National Marine Fisheries Service, Depart-
ment of Commerce, transmitting, pursuant
to law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Atlan-
tic Highly Migratory Species; Atlantic
Bluefin Tuna Fisheries; Temporary Rule;
Closure of Atlantic Bluefin Tuna Angling
Category Northern Area Trophy Fishery’’
(RIN0648–XT001) received in the Office of the
President of the Senate on September 24,
2019; to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation.
EC–2889. A communication from the Acting
Director of the Office of Sustainable Fish-
eries, National Marine Fisheries Service, De-
partment of Commerce, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘At-
lantic Highly Migratory Species; Atlantic
Bluefin Tuna Fisheries; Temporary Rule;
Inseason General Category Retention Limit
Adjustment (Remainder of June through Au-
gust 2019 Subquota Period)’’ (RIN0648–XT007)
received in the Office of the President of the
Senate on September 24, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Commerce, Science, and Transpor-
tation.
EC–2890. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Office of Sustainable Fisheries,
National Marine Fisheries Service, Depart-
ment of Commerce, transmitting, pursuant
to law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Atlan-
tic Highly Migratory Species; Atlantic
Bluefin Tuna Fisheries; Temporary Rule;
Inseason Quota Transfer (Reserve Category
to Harpoon Category)’’ (RIN0648–XT008) re-
ceived in the Office of the President of the
Senate on September 24, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Commerce, Science, and Transpor-
tation.
EC–2891. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Office of Sustainable Fisheries,
National Marine Fisheries Service, Depart-
ment of Commerce, transmitting, pursuant
to law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Atlan-
tic Highly Migratory Species; Atlantic
Bluefin Tuna Fisheries; Angling Category
Retention Limit Adjustment’’ (RIN0648–
XH007) received in the Office of the President
of the Senate on September 24, 2019; to the
Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation.
EC–2892. A communication from the Acting
Director of the Office of Sustainable Fish-
eries, National Marine Fisheries Service, De-
partment of Commerce, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘At-
lantic Highly Migratory Species; Temporary
Rule; Inseason General Category Retention
Limit Adjustment (June through August 2019
Subquota Period)’’ (RIN0648–HMS–A001) re-
ceived in the Office of the President of the
Senate on September 24, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Commerce, Science, and Transpor-
tation.
EC–2893. A communication from the Acting
Director of the Office of Sustainable Fish-
eries, National Marine Fisheries Service, De-
partment of Commerce, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘At-
lantic Highly Migratory Species; Atlantic
Bluefin Tuna Fisheries; Closure of the An-
gling Category Gulf of Mexico Trophy Fish-
ery’’ (RIN0648–XG950) received in the Office
of the President of the Senate on September
24, 2019; to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation.
EC–2894. A communication from the Acting
Director of the Office of Sustainable Fish-
eries, National Marine Fisheries Service, De-
partment of Commerce, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘At-
lantic Highly Migratory Species; Temporary
Rule; Swordfish General Commercial Permit
Retention Limit Inseason Adjustment for
Northwest Atlantic, Gulf of Mexico, and U.S.
Caribbean Regions from July 1 through De-
cember 31, 2019’’ (RIN0648–XT002) received in
the Office of the President of the Senate on
September 24, 2019; to the Committee on
Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–2895. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Office of Sustainable Fisheries,
National Marine Fisheries Service, Depart-
ment of Commerce, transmitting, pursuant
to law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Atlan-
tic Highly Migratory Species; Commercial
Aggregated Large Coastal Shark and Ham-
merhead Shark Management Groups in the
Atlantic; Retention Limit Adjustment’’
(RIN0648–XT012) received in the Office of the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:28 Oct 22, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00013 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A21OC6.014 S21OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5920 October 21, 2019
President of the Senate on September 24,
2019; to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation.
EC–2896. A communication from the Acting
Director of the Office of Sustainable Fish-
eries, National Marine Fisheries Service, De-
partment of Commerce, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘At-
lantic Highly Migratory Species; Commer-
cial Aggregated Large Coastal Shark and
Hammerhead Shark Management Groups Re-
tention Limit Adjustment’’ (RIN0648–XT003)
received in the Office of the President of the
Senate on September 24, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Commerce, Science, and Transpor-
tation.
EC–2897. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Office of Sustainable Fisheries,
National Marine Fisheries Service, Depart-
ment of Commerce, transmitting, pursuant
to law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Fish-
eries of the Exclusive Economic Zone Off
Alaska; Pacific Ocean Perch in the Western
Aleutian District of the Bering Sea and
Aleutian Islands’’ (RIN0648–XY003) received
in the Office of the President of the Senate
on September 24, 2019; to the Committee on
Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–2898. A communication from the Acting
Director of the Office of Sustainable Fish-
eries, National Marine Fisheries Service, De-
partment of Commerce, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Fisheries of the Exclusive Economic Zone
Off Alaska; Pacific Ocean Perch in the West
Yakutat District of the Gulf of Alaska’’
(RIN0648–XH070) received in the Office of the
President of the Senate on September 24,
2019; to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation.
EC–2899. A communication from the Acting
Director of the Office of Sustainable Fish-
eries, National Marine Fisheries Service, De-
partment of Commerce, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Fisheries of the Exclusive Economic Zone
Off Alaska; Dusky Rockfish in the West Yak-
utat District of the Gulf of Alaska’’
(RIN0648–XH071) received in the Office of the
President of the Senate on September 24,
2019; to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation.
EC–2900. A communication from the Acting
Director of the Office of Sustainable Fish-
eries, National Marine Fisheries Service, De-
partment of Commerce, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Fisheries of the Exclusive Economic Zone
Off Alaska; Other Rockfish in the Aleutian
Islands Subarea of the Bering Sea and Aleu-
tian Islands Management Area’’ (RIN0648–
XY004) received in the Office of the President
of the Senate on September 24, 2019; to the
Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation.
EC–2901. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Office of Sustainable Fisheries,
National Marine Fisheries Service, Depart-
ment of Commerce, transmitting, pursuant
to law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Fish-
eries of the Exclusive Economic Zone Off
Alaska; Pacific Ocean Perch in the Central
Aleutian District of the Bering Sea and
Aleutian Islands’’ (RIN0648–XY009) received
in the Office of the President of the Senate
on September 24, 2019; to the Committee on
Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–2902. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Office of Sustainable Fisheries,
National Marine Fisheries Service, Depart-
ment of Commerce, transmitting, pursuant
to law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Fish-
eries of the Exclusive Economic Zone Off
Alaska; Reapportionment of the 2019 Gulf of
Alaska Halibut Prohibited Species Catch
Limits for Trawl Gear Categories’’ (RIN0648–
XH099) received in the Office of the President
of the Senate on September 24, 2019; to the
Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation.
EC–2903. A communication from the Acting
Director of the Office of Sustainable Fish-
eries, National Marine Fisheries Service, De-
partment of Commerce, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Fisheries of the Exclusive Economic Zone
Off Alaska; Blackspotted/Rougheye Rockfish
in the Western and Central Aleutian Dis-
tricts of the Bering Sea and Aleutian Islands
Management Area’’ (RIN0648–XY005) received
in the Office of the President of the Senate
on September 24, 2019; to the Committee on
Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–2904. A communication from the Acting
Director of the Office of Sustainable Fish-
eries, National Marine Fisheries Service, De-
partment of Commerce, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Fisheries of the Exclusive Economic Zone
Off Alaska; Pollock in the West Yakutat Dis-
trict of the Gulf of Alaska’’ (RIN0648–XY002)
received in the Office of the President of the
Senate on September 24, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Commerce, Science, and Transpor-
tation.
EC–2905. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Office of Sustainable Fisheries,
National Marine Fisheries Service, Depart-
ment of Commerce, transmitting, pursuant
to law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Sable-
fish in the Bering Sea Subarea of the Bering
Sea and Aleutian Islands Management Area’’
(RIN0648–XH079) received in the Office of the
President of the Senate on September 24,
2019; to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation.
EC–2906. A communication from the Acting
Director of the Office of Sustainable Fish-
eries, National Marine Fisheries Service, De-
partment of Commerce, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Fisheries of the Exclusive Economic Zone
Off Alaska; Flatfish Exchange in the Bering
Sea and Aleutian Islands’’ (RIN0648–XH046)
received in the Office of the President of the
Senate on September 24, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Commerce, Science, and Transpor-
tation.
EC–2907. A communication from the Acting
Director of the Office of Sustainable Fish-
eries, National Marine Fisheries Service, De-
partment of Commerce, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Fisheries of the Exclusive Economic Zone
Off Alaska; Reallocation of Pollock in the
Bering Sea and Aleutian Islands’’ (RIN0648–
XH059) received in the Office of the President
of the Senate on September 24, 2019; to the
Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation.
EC–2908. A communication from the Acting
Director of the Office of Sustainable Fish-
eries, National Marine Fisheries Service, De-
partment of Commerce, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Fisheries of the Exclusive Economic Zone
Off Alaska; Kamchatka Flounder in the Ber-
ing Sea and Aleutian Islands’’ (RIN0648–
XH066) received in the Office of the President
of the Senate on September 24, 2019; to the
Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation.
EC–2909. A communication from the Acting
Director of the Office of Sustainable Fish-
eries, National Marine Fisheries Service, De-
partment of Commerce, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Commercial Harvest Closure for the Snowy
Grouper in the South Atlantic’’ (RIN0648–
XS006) received in the Office of the President
of the Senate on September 24, 2019; to the
Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation.
EC–2910. A communication from the Acting
Director of the Office of Sustainable Fish-
eries, National Marine Fisheries Service, De-
partment of Commerce, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘2019
Gulf Recreational Private and For-Hire Sea-
sons for Red Snapper’’ (RIN0648–XG837) re-
ceived in the Office of the President of the
Senate on September 24, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Commerce, Science, and Transpor-
tation.
EC–2911. A communication from the Acting
Director of the Office of Sustainable Fish-
eries, National Marine Fisheries Service, De-
partment of Commerce, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Fisheries of the Exclusive Economic Zone
Off Alaska; Greenland Turbot in the Aleu-
tian Islands Subarea of the Bering Sea and
Aleutian Islands Management Area’’
(RIN0648–XG984) received in the Office of the
President of the Senate on September 24,
2019; to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation.
EC–2912. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Office of Sustainable Fisheries,
National Marine Fisheries Service, Depart-
ment of Commerce, transmitting, pursuant
to law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Com-
mercial Harvest Closure for the Golden
Tilefish Commercial Hook-and-line Compo-
nent in the South Atlantic’’ (RIN0648–XS003)
received in the Office of the President of the
Senate on September 24, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Commerce, Science, and Transpor-
tation.
EC–2913. A communication from the Acting
Director of the Office of Sustainable Fish-
eries, National Marine Fisheries Service, De-
partment of Commerce, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Commercial Harvest Closure for the
Blueline Tilefish in the South Atlantic’’
(RIN0648–XS005) received in the Office of the
President of the Senate on September 24,
2019; to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation.
EC–2914. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Office of Sustainable Fisheries,
National Marine Fisheries Service, Depart-
ment of Commerce, transmitting, pursuant
to law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘2019
Recreational Harvest Closure for the Golden
Tilefish in the South Atlantic’’ (RIN0648–
XS001) received in the Office of the President
of the Senate on September 24, 2019; to the
Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation.
EC–2915. A communication from the Acting
Director of the Office of Sustainable Fish-
eries, National Marine Fisheries Service, De-
partment of Commerce, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘2018–2019 Commercial Harvest Closure for
the Yellowtail Snapper in the South Atlan-
tic’’ (RIN0648–XH054) received in the Office of
the President of the Senate on September 24,
2019; to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation.
EC–2916. A communication from the Acting
Director of the Office of Sustainable Fish-
eries, National Marine Fisheries Service, De-
partment of Commerce, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘2019
Commercial Harvest Closure for the Other
Jacks Complex in the South Atlantic’’
(RIN0648–XS002) received in the Office of the
President of the Senate on September 24,
2019; to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation.
EC–2917. A communication from the Dep-
uty Assistant Administrator for Regulatory
Programs, National Marine Fisheries Serv-
ice, Department of Commerce, transmitting,
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Coastal Migratory Pelagic Resources of the
Gulf of Mexico and Atlantic Region; Com-
mercial Trip Limit Reduction for Spanish
Mackerel in the Atlantic Southern Zone’’
(RIN0648–XG732) received in the Office of the
President of the Senate on September 24,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:28 Oct 22, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00014 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A21OC6.016 S21OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5921
October 21, 2019
2019; to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation.
EC–2918. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Office of Sustainable Fisheries,
National Marine Fisheries Service, Depart-
ment of Commerce, transmitting, pursuant
to law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘2019
Gulf of Mexico Commercial Greater
Amberjack Season Closure and Quota Reduc-
tion’’ (RIN0648–XG771) received in the Office
of the President of the Senate on September
24, 2019; to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation.
EC–2919. A communication from the Dep-
uty Assistant Administrator for Regulatory
Programs, National Marine Fisheries Serv-
ice, Department of Commerce, transmitting,
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Fisheries of the Exclusive Economic Zone
Off Alaska; Pacific Cod by Vessels Using Pot
Gear in the Western Regulatory Area of the
Gulf of Alaska’’ (RIN0648–XG720) received in
the Office of the President of the Senate on
September 25, 2019; to the Committee on
Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–2920. A communication from the Dep-
uty Assistant Administrator for Regulatory
Programs, National Marine Fisheries Serv-
ice, Department of Commerce, transmitting,
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Fisheries of the Exclusive Economic Zone
Off Alaska; Pacific Cod by Pot Catcher/Proc-
essors in the Bering Sea and Aleutian Islands
Management Area’’ (RIN0648–XG699) received
in the Office of the President of the Senate
on September 25, 2019; to the Committee on
Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–2921. A communication from the Dep-
uty Assistant Administrator for Regulatory
Programs, National Marine Fisheries Serv-
ice, Department of Commerce, transmitting,
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Fisheries of the Exclusive Economic Zone
Off Alaska; Pacific Cod by Vessels Using Pot
Gear in the Central Regulatory Area of the
Gulf of Alaska’’ (RIN0648–XG733) received in
the Office of the President of the Senate on
September 25, 2019; to the Committee on
Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–2922. A communication from the Dep-
uty Assistant Administrator for Regulatory
Programs, National Marine Fisheries Serv-
ice, Department of Commerce, transmitting,
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Fisheries of the Exclusive Economic Zone
Off Alaska; Pacific Cod by Trawl Catcher
Vessels in the Central Regulatory Area of
the Gulf of Alaska’’ (RIN0648–XG721) received
in the Office of the President of the Senate
on September 25, 2019; to the Committee on
Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–2923. A communication from the Dep-
uty Assistant Administrator for Regulatory
Programs, National Marine Fisheries Serv-
ice, Department of Commerce, transmitting,
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Fisheries of the Exclusive Economic Zone
Off Alaska; Sablefish in the Bering Sea and
Aleutian Islands Management Area’’
(RIN0648–XG688) received in the Office of the
President of the Senate on September 25,
2019; to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation.
EC–2924. A communication from the Dep-
uty Assistant Administrator for Regulatory
Programs, National Marine Fisheries Serv-
ice, Department of Commerce, transmitting,
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Fisheries of the Exclusive Economic Zone
Off Alaska; Gulf of Alaska; Final 2019 and
2020 Harvest Specifications for Groundfish;
Correcting Amendment’’ (RIN0648–XG471) re-
ceived during adjournment of the Senate in
the Office of the President of the Senate on
October 3, 2019; to the Committee on Com-
merce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–2925. A communication from the Acting
Director of the Office of Sustainable Fish-
eries, National Marine Fisheries Service, De-
partment of Commerce, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Fisheries of the Exclusive Economic Zone
Off Alaska; Pollock in Statistical Area 610 in
the Gulf of Alaska’’ (RIN0648–XG013) received
during adjournment of the Senate in the Of-
fice of the President of the Senate on Octo-
ber 9, 2019; to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation.
EC–2926. A communication from the Acting
Director of the Office of Sustainable Fish-
eries, National Marine Fisheries Service, De-
partment of Commerce, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Fisheries of the Exclusive Economic Zone
Off Alaska; Sablefish in the Western Regu-
latory Area of the Gulf of Alaska’’ (RIN0648–
XY035) received during adjournment of the
Senate in the Office of the President of the
Senate on October 9, 2019; to the Committee
on Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–2927. A communication from the Acting
Director of the Office of Sustainable Fish-
eries, National Marine Fisheries Service, De-
partment of Commerce, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Fisheries of the Exclusive Economic Zone
Off Alaska; Several Groundfish Species in
the Bering Sea and Aleutian Islands Manage-
ment Area’’ (RIN0648–XY034) received during
adjournment of the Senate in the Office of
the President of the Senate on October 9,
2019; to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation.
EC–2928. A communication from the Dep-
uty Assistant Administrator for Regulatory
Programs, National Marine Fisheries Serv-
ice, Department of Commerce, transmitting,
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Fisheries of the Exclusive Economic Zone
Off Alaska; Pacific Cod by Catcher Vessels
Using Hook-and-Line Gear in the Western
Regulatory Area of the Gulf of Alaska’’
(RIN0648–XG714) received in the Office of the
President of the Senate on September 25,
2019; to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation.
EC–2929. A communication from the Dep-
uty Assistant Administrator for Regulatory
Programs, National Marine Fisheries Serv-
ice, Department of Commerce, transmitting,
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Fisheries of the Exclusive Economic Zone
Off Alaska; Pacific Cod by Catcher Vessels
Less Than 60 Feet (18.3 Meters) Length Over-
all Using Hook-and-line or Pot Gear in the
Bering Sea and Aleutian Islands Manage-
ment Area’’ (RIN0648–XG698) received in the
Office of the President of the Senate on Sep-
tember 25, 2019; to the Committee on Com-
merce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–2930. A communication from the Dep-
uty Assistant Administrator for Regulatory
Programs, National Marine Fisheries Serv-
ice, Department of Commerce, transmitting,
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Fisheries of the Exclusive Economic Zone
Off Alaska; Pacific Cod by Catcher Vessels
Greater than or Equal to 60 feet Length
Overall Using Pot Gear in the Bering Sea
and Aleutian Islands Management Area’’
(RIN0648–XG701) received in the Office of the
President of the Senate on September 25,
2019; to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation.
EC–2931. A communication from the Dep-
uty Assistant Administrator for Regulatory
Programs, National Marine Fisheries Serv-
ice, Department of Commerce, transmitting,
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Fisheries of the Exclusive Economic Zone
Off Alaska; Pacific Cod by Non-American
Fisheries Act Crab Vessels Operating as
Catcher Vessels Using Pot Gear in the West-
ern Regulatory Area of the Gulf of Alaska’’
(RIN0648–XG731) received in the Office of the
President of the Senate on September 25,
2019; to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation.
EC–2932. A communication from the Dep-
uty Assistant Administrator for Regulatory
Programs, National Marine Fisheries Serv-
ice, Department of Commerce, transmitting,
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Fisheries of the Exclusive Economic Zone
Off Alaska; Inseason Adjustment to the 2019
Gulf of Alaska Pollock Total Allowable
Catch Amounts’’ (RIN0648–XG685) received in
the Office of the President of the Senate on
September 25, 2019; to the Committee on
Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–2933. A communication from the Dep-
uty Assistant Administrator for Regulatory
Programs, National Marine Fisheries Serv-
ice, Department of Commerce, transmitting,
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Temporary Rule to Establish Management
Measures for Red Grouper in the Gulf of
Mexico’’ (RIN0648–BI63) received during ad-
journment of the Senate in the Office of the
President of the Senate on October 3, 2019; to
the Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation.
EC–2934. A communication from the Dep-
uty Assistant Administrator for Regulatory
Programs, National Marine Fisheries Serv-
ice, Department of Commerce, transmitting,
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘International Fisheries; Western and Cen-
tral Pacific Fisheries for Highly Migratory
Species; Fishing Limits in Purse Seine and
Longline Fisheries; Fishing Restrictions in
Purse Seine Fisheries’’ (RIN0648–BI78) re-
ceived during adjournment of the Senate in
the Office of the President of the Senate on
October 3, 2019; to the Committee on Com-
merce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–2935. A communication from the Dep-
uty Assistant Administrator for Regulatory
Programs, National Marine Fisheries Serv-
ice, Department of Commerce, transmitting,
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Final Rule to Implement Abbreviated
Framework Amendment 2 to the Fishery
Management Plan for the Snapper-Grouper
Fishery of the South Atlantic Region’’
(RIN0648–BI56) received during adjournment
of the Senate in the Office of the President
of the Senate on October 3, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Commerce, Science, and Transpor-
tation.
EC–2936. A communication from the Dep-
uty Assistant Administrator for Regulatory
Programs, National Marine Fisheries Serv-
ice, Department of Commerce, transmitting,
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Fisheries of the Northeastern United
States; Atlantic Mackerel, Squid, and
Butterfish Fisheries; Specifications’’
(RIN0648–XG657) received during adjourn-
ment of the Senate in the Office of the Presi-
dent of the Senate on October 3, 2019; to the
Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation.
EC–2937. A communication from the Acting
Director of the Office of Sustainable Fish-
eries, National Marine Fisheries Service, De-
partment of Commerce, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘At-
lantic Highly Migratory Species; Atlantic
Commercial Shark Fisheries; Temporary
Rule; Inseason Quota Transfer for Blacktip
Shark, Aggregated Large Coastal Sharks,
and Hammerhead Shark Management Groups
in the Gulf of Mexico Region’’ (RIN0648–
XT016) received during adjournment of the
Senate in the Office of the President of the
Senate on October 9, 2019; to the Committee
on Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–2938. A communication from the Acting
Director of the Office of Sustainable Fish-
eries, National Marine Fisheries Service, De-
partment of Commerce, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘At-
lantic Highly Migratory Species; Atlantic
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:28 Oct 22, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00015 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A21OC6.018 S21OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5922 October 21, 2019
Bluefin Tuna Fisheries; Temporary Rule;
Inseason General Category Quota Transfer
and Closure (September 2019 Subquota Pe-
riod)’’ (RIN0648–XT018) received during ad-
journment of the Senate in the Office of the
President of the Senate on October 9, 2019; to
the Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation.
EC–2939. A communication from the Dep-
uty Assistant Administrator for Regulatory
Programs, National Marine Fisheries Serv-
ice, Department of Commerce, transmitting,
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Fisheries Off West Coast States; Coastal
Pelagic Species Fisheries; Annual Specifica-
tions’’ (RIN0648–XG972) received during ad-
journment of the Senate in the Office of the
President of the Senate on October 3, 2019; to
the Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation.
EC–2940. A communication from the Dep-
uty Assistant Administrator for Regulatory
Programs, National Marine Fisheries Serv-
ice, Department of Commerce, transmitting,
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Fisheries of the Northeastern United
States; Summer Flounder, Scup, and Black
Sea Bass Fisheries; Revised 2019 Summer
Flounder Specifications’’ (RIN0648–XG898) re-
ceived during adjournment of the Senate in
the Office of the President of the Senate on
October 3, 2019; to the Committee on Com-
merce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–2941. A communication from the Dep-
uty Assistant Administrator for Regulatory
Programs, National Marine Fisheries Serv-
ice, Department of Commerce, transmitting,
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Fisheries of the Northeastern United
States; Northeast Multispecies Fishery; Ad-
justment of Georges Bank and Southern New
England/Mid-Atlantic Yellowtail Flounder
Annual Catch Limits’’ (RIN0648–XG833) re-
ceived during adjournment of the Senate in
the Office of the President of the Senate on
October 3, 2019; to the Committee on Com-
merce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–2942. A communication from the Acting
Director of the Office of Sustainable Fish-
eries, National Marine Fisheries Service, De-
partment of Commerce, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Fisheries of the Northeastern United
States; Small-Mesh Multispecies Fishery,
Inseason Adjustment to the Northern Red
Hake Possession Limit’’ (RIN0648–XX010) re-
ceived during adjournment of the Senate in
the Office of the President of the Senate on
October 9, 2019; to the Committee on Com-
merce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–2943. A communication from the Acting
Director of the Office of Sustainable Fish-
eries, National Marine Fisheries Service, De-
partment of Commerce, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Fisheries Off the Exclusive Economic Zone
Off Alaska; Flatfish Exchange in the Bering
Sea and Aleutian Islands’’ (RIN0648–XY033)
received during adjournment of the Senate
in the Office of the President of the Senate
on October 9, 2019; to the Committee on Com-
merce, Science, and Transportation.
f
REPORTS OF COMMITTEES
The following reports of committees
were submitted:
By Mr. GRAHAM, from the Committee on
the Judiciary, with amendments:
S. 2132. A bill to promote security and pro-
vide justice for United States victims of
international terrorism.
f
INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND
JOINT RESOLUTIONS
The following bills and joint resolu-
tions were introduced, read the first
and second times by unanimous con-
sent, and referred as indicated:
By Ms. CORTEZ MASTO (for herself
and Mr. ROBERTS):
S. 2648. A bill to amend title XVIII of the
Social Security Act to improve the
benchmarking process for the Medicare
Shared Savings Program; to the Committee
on Finance.
By Mr. MORAN (for himself, Mr. COR-
NYN, Mr. INHOFE, and Mr. MANCHIN):
S. 2649. A bill to amend the Federal Finan-
cial Institutions Examination Council Act of
1978 to improve the examination of deposi-
tory institutions, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Banking, Housing, and
Urban Affairs.
By Mr. DURBIN (for himself and Mr.
BROWN):
S. 2650. A bill to amend part D of title
XVIII of the Social Security Act to deliver a
meaningful benefit and lower prescription
drug prices under the Medicare program; to
the Committee on Finance.
By Ms. SINEMA (for herself and Mr.
BOOZMAN):
S. 2651. A bill to amend title 38, United
States Code, to authorize the Secretary of
Veterans Affairs to provide inscriptions for
spouses and children on certain headstones
and markers furnished by the Secretary, and
for other purposes; to the Committee on Vet-
erans’ Affairs.
By Mr. BLUMENTHAL:
S. 2652. A bill to amend title 49, United
States Code, to provide that only citizens or
nationals of the United States may operate
trains within the United States that origi-
nate in Mexico; to the Committee on Com-
merce, Science, and Transportation.
By Mr. MERKLEY (for himself, Mr.
MARKEY, and Ms. HIRONO):
S. 2653. A bill to prohibit funding for heads
of state meetings and multilateral summits
at any Trump Organization-owned property;
to the Committee on Foreign Relations.
By Mr. BLUMENTHAL (for himself,
Mr. WHITEHOUSE, Ms. HARRIS, Mr.
BOOKER, and Mrs. GILLIBRAND):
S. 2654. A bill to prohibit the obligation or
expenditure of Federal funds for certain
agreements relating to the 46th G7 Summit,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Foreign Relations.
f
SUBMISSION OF CONCURRENT AND
SENATE RESOLUTIONS
The following concurrent resolutions
and Senate resolutions were read, and
referred (or acted upon), as indicated:
By Mr. CORNYN (for himself, Mrs.
FEINSTEIN, Mr. RISCH, and Mrs. CAP-
ITO):
S. Res. 366. A resolution supporting the
goals and ideals of Red Ribbon Week during
the period of October 23 through October 31,
2019; to the Committee on Health, Education,
Labor, and Pensions.
By Mr. PORTMAN (for himself and Mr.
BROWN):
S. Res. 367. A resolution condemning the
horrific attack in Dayton, Ohio, and express-
ing support and prayers for all those im-
pacted by that tragedy; to the Committee on
the Judiciary.
By Mr. MCCONNELL (for himself and
Mr. SCHUMER):
S. Res. 368. A resolution to authorize the
production of records by the Permanent Sub-
committee on Investigations of the Com-
mittee on Homeland Security and Govern-
mental Affairs; considered and agreed to.
By Mr. BLUNT (for himself and Ms.
KLOBUCHAR):
S. Con. Res. 27. A concurrent resolution
providing for the use of the catafalque situ-
ated in the Exhibition Hall of the Capitol
Visitor Center in connection with memorial
services to be conducted in the House wing of
the Capitol for the Honorable Elijah E. Cum-
mings, late a Representative from the State
of Maryland; considered and agreed to.
f
ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS
S. 27
At the request of Mr. MANCHIN, the
name of the Senator from Illinois (Ms.
DUCKWORTH) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 27, a bill to amend the Surface
Mining Control and Reclamation Act of
1977 to transfer certain funds to the
1974 United Mine Workers of America
Pension Plan, and for other purposes.
S. 34
At the request of Mr. CRUZ, the name
of the Senator from California (Mrs.
FEINSTEIN) was added as a cosponsor of
S. 34, a bill to require a report on the
continuing participation of Cambodia
in the Generalized System of Pref-
erences.
S. 211
At the request of Mr. HOEVEN, the
name of the Senator from California
(Ms. HARRIS) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 211, a bill to amend the Victims of
Crime Act of 1984 to secure urgent re-
sources vital to Indian victims of
crime, and for other purposes.
S. 229
At the request of Mr. UDALL, the
name of the Senator from California
(Ms. HARRIS) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 229, a bill to provide advance ap-
propriations authority for certain ac-
counts of the Bureau of Indian Affairs
and Bureau of Indian Education of the
Department of the Interior and the In-
dian Health Service of the Department
of Health and Human Services, and for
other purposes.
S. 460
At the request of Mr. WARNER, the
name of the Senator from Indiana (Mr.
BRAUN) was added as a cosponsor of S.
460, a bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to extend the exclu-
sion for employer-provided education
assistance to employer payments of
student loans.
S. 560
At the request of Ms. BALDWIN, the
names of the Senator from Minnesota
(Ms. SMITH), the Senator from North
Carolina (Mr. TILLIS) and the Senator
from Maine (Ms. COLLINS) were added
as cosponsors of S. 560, a bill to amend
the Public Health Service Act, the Em-
ployee Retirement Income Security
Act of 1974, and the Internal Revenue
Code of 1986 to require that group and
individual health insurance coverage
and group health plans provide cov-
erage for treatment of a congenital
anomaly or birth defect.
S. 947
At the request of Mr. CRAPO, the
name of the Senator from Montana
(Mr. TESTER) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 947, a bill to amend the Radiation
Exposure Compensation Act to improve
compensation for workers involved in
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:28 Oct 22, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00016 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A21OC6.020 S21OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5923
October 21, 2019
uranium mining, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 1032
At the request of Mr. PORTMAN, the
names of the Senator from Mississippi
(Mrs. HYDE-SMITH) and the Senator
from Delaware (Mr. COONS) were added
as cosponsors of S. 1032, a bill to amend
the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to
modify the definition of income for
purposes of determining the tax-ex-
empt status of certain corporations.
S. 1180
At the request of Mr. UDALL, the
name of the Senator from California
(Ms. HARRIS) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 1180, a bill to extend the full Fed-
eral medical assistance percentage to
urban Indian organizations.
S. 1253
At the request of Mrs. FEINSTEIN, the
name of the Senator from Iowa (Ms.
ERNST) was added as a cosponsor of S.
1253, a bill to apply requirements relat-
ing to delivery sales of cigarettes to
delivery sales of electronic nicotine de-
livery systems, and for other purposes.
S. 1300
At the request of Mr. BLUNT, the
names of the Senator from Mississippi
(Mr. WICKER), the Senator from Ten-
nessee (Mr. ALEXANDER), the Senator
from Arkansas (Mr. COTTON) and the
Senator from Alaska (Mr. SULLIVAN)
were added as cosponsors of S. 1300, a
bill to require the Secretary of the
Treasury to mint a coin in commemo-
ration of the opening of the National
Law Enforcement Museum in the Dis-
trict of Columbia, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 1392
At the request of Mr. SULLIVAN, the
names of the Senator from Wisconsin
(Ms. BALDWIN) and the Senator from
Alabama (Mr. JONES) were added as co-
sponsors of S. 1392, a bill to direct the
Comptroller General of the United
States to conduct an assessment of the
responsibilities, workload, and vacancy
rates of suicide prevention coordina-
tors of the Department of Veterans Af-
fairs, and for other purposes.
S. 1399
At the request of Mr. MERKLEY, the
names of the Senator from Alabama
(Mr. JONES) and the Senator from
Maine (Ms. COLLINS) were added as co-
sponsors of S. 1399, a bill to amend title
VIII of the Public Health Services Act
to revise and extend nursing workforce
development programs.
S. 1421
At the request of Mr. MARKEY, the
name of the Senator from New Jersey
(Mr. MENENDEZ) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 1421, a bill to award a Congres-
sional Gold Medal to the 23d Head-
quarters Special Troops and the 3133d
Signal Service Company in recognition
of their unique and distinguished serv-
ice as a ‘‘Ghost Army’’ that conducted
deception operations in Europe during
World War II.
S. 1590
At the request of Mr. MERKLEY, the
names of the Senator from California
(Ms. HARRIS), the Senator from
Vermont (Mr. SANDERS) and the Sen-
ator from Virginia (Mr. WARNER) were
added as cosponsors of S. 1590, a bill to
amend the State Department Basic Au-
thorities Act of 1956 to authorize re-
wards for thwarting wildlife trafficking
linked to transnational organized
crime, and for other purposes.
S. 1657
At the request of Ms. COLLINS, the
names of the Senator from Mississippi
(Mrs. HYDE-SMITH) and the Senator
from Connecticut (Mr. MURPHY) were
added as cosponsors of S. 1657, a bill to
provide assistance to combat the esca-
lating burden of Lyme disease and
other tick and vector-borne diseases
and disorders.
S. 1728
At the request of Mr. MARKEY, the
names of the Senator from Hawaii (Ms.
HIRONO), the Senator from Washington
(Ms. CANTWELL) and the Senator from
Wisconsin (Ms. BALDWIN) were added as
cosponsors of S. 1728, a bill to require
the United States Postal Service to sell
the Alzheimer’s semipostal stamp for 6
additional years.
S. 1757
At the request of Ms. ERNST, the
names of the Senator from North Caro-
lina (Mr. TILLIS) and the Senator from
Idaho (Mr. RISCH) were added as co-
sponsors of S. 1757, a bill to award a
Congressional Gold Medal, collectively,
to the United States Army Rangers
Veterans of World War II in recogni-
tion of their extraordinary service dur-
ing World War II.
S. 1822
At the request of Mr. WICKER, the
names of the Senator from Florida (Mr.
SCOTT) and the Senator from Michigan
(Ms. STABENOW) were added as cospon-
sors of S. 1822, a bill to require the Fed-
eral Communications Commission to
issue rules relating to the collection of
data with respect to the availability of
broadband services, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 1827
At the request of Mr. WYDEN, the
name of the Senator from New Jersey
(Mr. BOOKER) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 1827, a bill to amend the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986 to exclude cor-
porations operating prisons from the
definition of taxable REIT subsidiary.
S. 1838
At the request of Mr. RUBIO, the
names of the Senator from Connecticut
(Mr. MURPHY), the Senator from North
Dakota (Mr. HOEVEN) and the Senator
from California (Ms. HARRIS) were
added as cosponsors of S. 1838, a bill to
amend the Hong Kong Policy Act of
1992, and for other purposes.
S. 1908
At the request of Mrs. GILLIBRAND,
the name of the Senator from Illinois
(Ms. DUCKWORTH) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 1908, a bill to amend the
Richard B. Russell National School
Lunch Act to improve the efficiency of
summer meals.
S. 1918
At the request of Mr. BOOZMAN, the
name of the Senator from Alabama
(Mr. JONES) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 1918, a bill to amend the Richard
B. Russell National School Lunch Act
to require alternative options for sum-
mer food service program delivery.
S. 2015
At the request of Mr. SCOTT of South
Carolina, the name of the Senator from
Indiana (Mr. BRAUN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 2015, a bill to amend the
Higher Education Act of 1965 to direct
the Secretary of Education to develop
a plain language disclosure form for
borrowers of Federal student loans, and
for other purposes.
S. 2042
At the request of Mr. SCHUMER, the
name of the Senator from Nevada (Ms.
CORTEZ MASTO) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 2042, a bill to require the Sec-
retary of the Treasury to mint coins in
commemoration of the National Purple
Heart Hall of Honor.
S. 2080
At the request of Ms. BALDWIN, the
names of the Senator from California
(Ms. HARRIS) and the Senator from
Oklahoma (Mr. INHOFE) were added as
cosponsors of S. 2080, a bill to amend
the Public Health Service Act to in-
crease the number of permanent fac-
ulty in palliative care at accredited
allopathic and osteopathic medical
schools, nursing schools, social work
schools, and other programs, including
physician assistant education pro-
grams, to promote education and re-
search in palliative care and hospice,
and to support the development of fac-
ulty careers in academic palliative
medicine.
S. 2085
At the request of Ms. ROSEN, the
name of the Senator from California
(Mrs. FEINSTEIN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 2085, a bill to authorize
the Secretary of Education to award
grants to eligible entities to carry out
educational programs about the Holo-
caust, and for other purposes.
S. 2108
At the request of Mr. DAINES, the
name of the Senator from Utah (Mr.
ROMNEY) was added as a cosponsor of S.
2108, a bill to amend section 6903 of
title 31, United States Code, to provide
for additional population tiers, and for
other purposes.
S. 2168
At the request of Mr. MURPHY, the
name of the Senator from Wisconsin
(Ms. BALDWIN) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 2168, a bill to establish a stu-
dent loan forgiveness plan for certain
borrowers who are employed at a quali-
fied farm or ranch.
S. 2203
At the request of Mr. BLUNT, the
name of the Senator from South Caro-
lina (Mr. SCOTT) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 2203, a bill to extend the trans-
fer of Electronic Travel Authorization
System fees from the Travel Pro-
motion Fund to the Corporation for
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:28 Oct 22, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00017 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A21OC6.023 S21OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5924 October 21, 2019
Travel Promotion (Brand USA)
through fiscal year 2027, and for other
purposes.
S. 2260
At the request of Mr. SULLIVAN, the
name of the Senator from Maine (Ms.
COLLINS) was added as a cosponsor of S.
2260, a bill to provide for the improve-
ment of domestic infrastructure in
order to prevent marine debris, and for
other purposes.
S. 2303
At the request of Mr. LEAHY, the
name of the Senator from Arizona (Ms.
SINEMA) was added as a cosponsor of S.
2303, a bill to allow United States citi-
zens and legal residents to travel be-
tween the United States and Cuba.
S. 2434
At the request of Mr. PETERS, the
names of the Senator from Massachu-
setts (Mr. MARKEY) and the Senator
from Maryland (Mr. VAN HOLLEN) were
added as cosponsors of S. 2434, a bill to
establish the National Criminal Justice
Commission.
S. 2491
At the request of Mr. UDALL, the
names of the Senator from Oregon (Mr.
WYDEN) and the Senator from Min-
nesota (Ms. SMITH) were added as co-
sponsors of S. 2491, a bill to terminate
certain rules issued by the Secretary of
the Interior and the Secretary of Com-
merce relating to endangered and
threatened species, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 2496
At the request of Mr. CASEY, the
name of the Senator from Rhode Island
(Mr. REED) was added as a cosponsor of
S. 2496, a bill to amend title II of the
Social Security Act to eliminate the
Medicare and disability insurance ben-
efits waiting periods for disabled indi-
viduals.
S. 2539
At the request of Mr. RUBIO, the
name of the Senator from Indiana (Mr.
BRAUN) was added as a cosponsor of S.
2539, a bill to modify and reauthorize
the Tibetan Policy Act of 2002, and for
other purposes.
S. 2570
At the request of Ms. SINEMA, the
names of the Senator from Maryland
(Mr. VAN HOLLEN) and the Senator
from Minnesota (Ms. KLOBUCHAR) were
added as cosponsors of S. 2570, a bill to
award a Congressional Gold Medal to
Greg LeMond in recognition of his
service to the United States as an ath-
lete, activist, role model, and commu-
nity leader.
S. 2602
At the request of Mr. BURR, the name
of the Senator from Pennsylvania (Mr.
CASEY) was added as a cosponsor of S.
2602, a bill to exclude vehicles to be
used solely for competition from cer-
tain provisions of the Clean Air Act,
and for other purposes.
S. 2624
At the request of Mr. PAUL, the name
of the Senator from Utah (Mr. LEE) was
added as a cosponsor of S. 2624, a bill to
prohibit arms sales to Turkey.
S. 2641
At the request of Mr. RISCH, the
names of the Senator from Ohio (Mr.
PORTMAN) and the Senator from Illi-
nois (Ms. DUCKWORTH) were added as
cosponsors of S. 2641, a bill to promote
United States national security and
prevent the resurgence of ISIS, and for
other purposes.
S.J. RES. 21
At the request of Mr. BRAUN, his
name was withdrawn as a cosponsor of
S.J. Res. 21, a joint resolution pro-
posing amendments to the Constitu-
tion of the United States relative to
the line item veto, a limitation on the
number of terms that a Member of Con-
gress may serve, and requiring a vote
of two-thirds of the membership of
both Houses of Congress on any legisla-
tion raising or imposing new taxes or
fees.
S.J. RES. 56
At the request of Mr. DURBIN, the
names of the Senator from Colorado
(Mr. BENNET) and the Senator from
Maine (Mr. KING) were added as cospon-
sors of S.J. Res. 56, a joint resolution
providing for congressional disapproval
under chapter 8 of title 5, United
States Code, of the rule submitted by
the Department of Education relating
to ‘‘Borrower Defense Institutional Ac-
countability’’.
S. CON. RES. 9
At the request of Mr. ROBERTS, the
name of the Senator from Ohio (Mr.
BROWN) was added as a cosponsor of S.
Con. Res. 9, a concurrent resolution ex-
pressing the sense of Congress that tax-
exempt fraternal benefit societies have
historically provided and continue to
provide critical benefits to the people
and communities of the United States.
f
STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED
BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS
By Mr. DURBIN (for himself and
Mr. BROWN):
S. 2650. A bill to amend part D of
title XVIII of the Social Security Act
to deliver a meaningful benefit and
lower prescription drug prices under
the Medicare program; to the Com-
mittee on Finance.
Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the text of the
bill be printed in the RECORD.
There being no objection, the text of
the bill was ordered to be printed in
the RECORD, as follows:
S. 2650
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Medicare
Prescription Drug Savings and Choice Act of
2019’’.
SEC. 2. ESTABLISHMENT OF MEDICARE OPER-
ATED PRESCRIPTION DRUG PLAN
OPTION.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Subpart 2 of part D of
title XVIII of the Social Security Act is
amended by inserting after section 1860D–11
(42 U.S.C. 1395w–111) the following new sec-
tion:
‘‘MEDICARE OPERATED PRESCRIPTION DRUG
PLAN OPTION
‘‘SEC. 1860D–11A. (a) IN GENERAL.—Not-
withstanding any other provision of this
part, for each year (beginning with 2021), in
addition to any plans offered under section
1860D–11, the Secretary shall offer one or
more Medicare operated prescription drug
plans (as defined in subsection (d)) with a
service area that consists of the entire
United States and shall enter into negotia-
tions in accordance with subsection (c) with
pharmaceutical manufacturers to reduce the
purchase cost of covered part D drugs for eli-
gible part D individuals who enroll in such a
plan.
‘‘(b) ENROLLMENT.—Notwithstanding sub-
paragraphs (C) and (D) of section 1860D–
1(b)(1), a Medicare operated prescription
drug plan offered under this section shall
serve as the default prescription drug plan
for all part D enrollees unless another pre-
scription drug plan is selected.
‘‘(c) NEGOTIATIONS.—Notwithstanding sec-
tion 1860D–11(i), for purposes of offering a
Medicare operated prescription drug plan
under this section, the Secretary shall nego-
tiate with pharmaceutical manufacturers
with respect to the purchase price of covered
part D drugs in a Medicare operated prescrip-
tion drug plan and shall encourage the use of
more affordable therapeutic equivalents to
the extent such practices do not override
medical necessity as determined by the pre-
scribing physician. To the extent practicable
and consistent with the previous sentence,
the Secretary shall implement negotiation
and incentive strategies similar to those
used by other Federal purchasers of prescrip-
tion drugs to reduce the purchase cost of
covered Part D drugs, and other strategies,
as described in subsection (f), which may in-
clude the use of a pricing scale based on an
international price index.
‘‘(d) MEDICARE OPERATED PRESCRIPTION
DRUG PLAN DEFINED.—For purposes of this
part, the term ‘Medicare operated prescrip-
tion drug plan’ means a comprehensive pre-
scription drug plan that offers qualified pre-
scription drug coverage and access to nego-
tiated prices described in section 1860D–
2(a)(1)(A). Such a plan may offer supple-
mental prescription drug coverage in the
same manner as other qualified prescription
drug coverage offered by other prescription
drug plans.
‘‘(e) MONTHLY BENEFICIARY PREMIUM.—
‘‘(1) QUALIFIED PRESCRIPTION DRUG COV-
ERAGE.—The monthly beneficiary premium
for qualified prescription drug coverage and
access to negotiated prices described in sec-
tion 1860D–2(a)(1)(A) to be charged under a
Medicare operated prescription drug plan
shall be uniform nationally. Such premium
for months in 2021 and each succeeding year
shall be based on the average monthly per
capita actuarial cost of offering the Medi-
care operated prescription drug plan for the
year involved, including administrative ex-
penses.
‘‘(2) SUPPLEMENTAL PRESCRIPTION DRUG
COVERAGE.—Insofar as a Medicare operated
prescription drug plan offers supplemental
prescription drug coverage, the Secretary
may adjust the amount of the premium
charged under paragraph (1).
‘‘(f) USE OF NEGOTIATION AND BENEFIT DE-
SIGN INCENTIVES.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—With respect to the oper-
ation of a Medicare operated prescription
drug plan and in negotiating with respect to
the purchase price of covered part D drugs in
such plan, the Secretary shall reward value,
increase appropriate use of drugs, and ensure
patient safety and access to medications.
‘‘(2) ROLE OF AHRQ.—The Director of the
Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:42 Oct 22, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00018 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A21OC6.025 S21OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5925
October 21, 2019
in coordination with the Administrator of
the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Serv-
ices, shall be responsible for assessing the
clinical benefit of covered part D drugs and
making recommendations to the Secretary
regarding the negotiated prices of covered
drugs and any appropriate tiering or incen-
tive strategies under the plan. In conducting
such assessments and making such rec-
ommendations, the Director shall carry out
the following activities:
‘‘(A) Consider the comparable inter-
national price of such drugs based upon the
median retail list price of such drug (which
shall be, as practicable, the volume-weighted
price for comparable units and dosage forms)
among a category of at least the following
peer reference countries: Canada, the United
Kingdom, France, Japan, Australia, and Ger-
many.
‘‘(B) Consider safety concerns and post-
market data, including those identified by
the Food and Drug Administration and from
national health registries.
‘‘(C) Use available data and evaluations,
including from research supported by the Na-
tional Institutes of Health, with priority
given to randomized controlled trials, to ex-
amine clinical effectiveness, comparative ef-
fectiveness, safety, and enhanced compliance
with a drug regimen.
‘‘(D) Use the same classes of drugs devel-
oped by United States Pharmacopeia for this
part.
‘‘(E) Consider evaluations made by—
‘‘(i) the Director under section 1013 of the
Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement,
and Modernization Act of 2003;
‘‘(ii) other Federal entities, such as the
Secretary of Veterans Affairs; and
‘‘(iii) other private and public entities,
which may include the Drug Effectiveness
Review Project and Medicaid programs.
‘‘(F) Consider recommendations made by
the advisory committee pursuant to para-
graph (3)(F).
‘‘(G) Recommend to the Secretary those
drugs in a class that provide a greater clin-
ical benefit, including fewer safety concerns
or less risk of side-effects, than another drug
in the same class.
‘‘(3) USE OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall es-
tablish and appoint an advisory committee
(in this paragraph referred to as the ‘advi-
sory committee’)—
‘‘(i) to review petitions from drug manufac-
turers, health care provider organizations,
patient groups, and other entities regarding
negotiated prices; and
‘‘(ii) to recommend any changes in order to
further negotiations with respect to such
prices.
‘‘(B) COMPOSITION.—Subject to subpara-
graph (C), the advisory committee shall be
composed of 9 members and shall include
representatives of physicians, pharmacists,
consumers, and others with expertise in eval-
uating prescription drugs. The Secretary
shall select members based on their knowl-
edge of pharmaceuticals and the Medicare
population. Members shall be deemed to be
special Government employees for purposes
of applying the conflict of interest provi-
sions under section 208 of title 18, United
States Code, and no waiver of such provi-
sions for such a member shall be permitted.
‘‘(C) BANNED INDIVIDUALS.—
‘‘(i) DRUG COMPANY LOBBYISTS.—No former
registered drug manufacturer lobbyist—
‘‘(I) may be appointed to the advisory com-
mittee; or
‘‘(II) may be employed by the advisory
committee during the 6-year period begin-
ning on the date on which the registered lob-
byist terminates its registration in accord-
ance with section 4(d) of the Lobbying Dis-
closure Act of 1995 (2 U.S.C. 1603(d)) or the
agent terminates its status, as applicable.
‘‘(ii) SENIOR EXECUTIVES OF LAW-BREAKING
COMPANIES.—No former senior executive of a
covered entity (as defined in clause (iii))—
‘‘(I) may be appointed to the Advisory
Committee; or
‘‘(II) may be employed by the Advisory
Committee during the 6-year period begin-
ning on the later of—
‘‘(aa) the date of the settlement described
in item (aa) of clause (iii)(II); or
‘‘(bb) the date on which the enforcement
action described in item (bb) of such clause
has concluded.
‘‘(iii) COVERED ENTITY.—The term ‘covered
entity’ means any entity that is—
‘‘(I) a drug manufacturer; and
‘‘(II)(aa) operating under Federal settle-
ment including a Federal consent decree; or
‘‘(bb) the subject of an enforcement action
in a court of the United States or by an
agency.
‘‘(D) CONSULTATION.—The advisory com-
mittee shall consult, as necessary, with phy-
sicians who are specialists in treating the
disease for which a drug is being considered.
‘‘(E) REQUEST FOR STUDIES.—The advisory
committee may request the Agency for
Healthcare Research and Quality or an aca-
demic or research institution to study and
make a report on a petition described in sub-
paragraph (A)(i) in order to assess cost-effec-
tiveness, clinical effectiveness, comparative
effectiveness, safety, and compliance with a
drug regimen.
‘‘(F) RECOMMENDATIONS.—The advisory
committee shall make recommendations to
the Director of the Agency for Healthcare
Research and Quality regarding the appro-
priate price at which to begin negotiations
on a part D drug pursuant to this section.
‘‘(G) LIMITATIONS ON REVIEW OF MANUFAC-
TURER PETITIONS.—The advisory committee
shall not review a petition of a drug manu-
facturer under subparagraph (A)(i) with re-
spect to a covered part D drug unless the pe-
tition is accompanied by the following:
‘‘(i) Raw data from clinical trials on the
safety and effectiveness of the drug.
‘‘(ii) Any data from clinical trials con-
ducted using active controls on the drug or
drugs that are the current standard of care.
‘‘(iii) Any available data on comparative
effectiveness of the drug.
‘‘(iv) Any other information the Secretary
requires for the advisory committee to com-
plete its review.
‘‘(g) INFORMING BENEFICIARIES.—The Sec-
retary shall take steps to inform part D eli-
gible individuals not previously enrolled in a
Medicare operated drug plan (including such
individuals who are newly eligible to enroll
under this part) regarding the enrollment of
such individual in a Medicare operated drug
plan in accordance with this section, includ-
ing providing information in the annual
handbook and adding information to the offi-
cial public Medicare website related to pre-
scription drug coverage available through
this part.
‘‘(h) APPLICATION OF ALL OTHER REQUIRE-
MENTS FOR PRESCRIPTION DRUG PLANS.—Ex-
cept as specifically provided in this section,
any Medicare operated drug plan shall meet
the same requirements as apply to any other
prescription drug plan, including the require-
ments of section 1860D–4(b)(1) relating to as-
suring pharmacy access.’’.
(b) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.—
(1) Section 1860D–3(a) of the Social Secu-
rity Act (42 U.S.C. 1395w–103(a)) is amended
by adding at the end the following new para-
graph:
‘‘(4) AVAILABILITY OF THE MEDICARE OPER-
ATED PRESCRIPTION DRUG PLAN.—A Medicare
operated prescription drug plan (as defined
in section 1860D–11A(d)) shall be offered na-
tionally in accordance with section 1860D–
11A.’’.
(2)(A) Section 1860D–3 of the Social Secu-
rity Act (42 U.S.C. 1395w–103) is amended by
adding at the end the following new sub-
section:
‘‘(c) PROVISIONS ONLY APPLICABLE IN 2006
THROUGH 2020.—The provisions of this sec-
tion shall only apply with respect to 2006
through 2020.’’.
(B) Section 1860D–11(g) of such Act (42
U.S.C. 1395w–111(g)) is amended by adding at
the end the following new paragraph:
‘‘(8) NO AUTHORITY FOR FALLBACK PLANS
AFTER 2020.—A fallback prescription drug
plan shall not be available after December
31, 2020.’’.
(3) Section 1860D–13(c)(3) of the Social Se-
curity Act (42 U.S.C. 1395w–113(c)(3)) is
amended—
(A) in the heading, by inserting ‘‘AND MEDI-
CARE OPERATED PRESCRIPTION DRUG PLANS’’
after ‘‘FALLBACK PLANS’’; and
(B) by inserting ‘‘or a Medicare operated
prescription drug plan’’ after ‘‘a fallback pre-
scription drug plan’’.
(4) Section 1860D–16(b)(1) of the Social Se-
curity Act (42 U.S.C. 1395w–116(b)(1)) is
amended—
(A) in subparagraph (C), by striking ‘‘and’’
after the semicolon at the end;
(B) in subparagraph (D), by striking the pe-
riod at the end and inserting ‘‘; and’’; and
(C) by adding at the end the following new
subparagraph:
‘‘(E) payments for expenses incurred with
respect to the operation of Medicare oper-
ated prescription drug plans under section
1860D–11A.’’.
(5) Section 1860D–41(a) of the Social Secu-
rity Act (42 U.S.C. 1395w–151(a)) is amended
by adding at the end the following new para-
graph:
‘‘(19) MEDICARE OPERATED PRESCRIPTION
DRUG PLAN.—The term ‘Medicare operated
prescription drug plan’ has the meaning
given such term in section 1860D–11A(d).’’.
(c) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.—Nothing in
this section shall be interpreted to supersede
any other negotiation authority granted to
the Secretary under Federal law with respect
to prescription drug prices.
SEC. 3. IMPROVED APPEALS PROCESS UNDER
THE MEDICARE OPERATED PRE-
SCRIPTION DRUG PLAN.
Section 1860D–4(h) of the Social Security
Act (42 U.S.C. 1305w–104(h)) is amended by
adding at the end the following new para-
graph:
‘‘(4) APPEALS PROCESS FOR MEDICARE OPER-
ATED PRESCRIPTION DRUG PLAN.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall de-
velop a well-defined process for appeals for
denials of benefits under this part under the
Medicare operated prescription drug plan (as
defined in section 1860D–11A(d)). Such proc-
ess shall be efficient, impose minimal admin-
istrative burdens, and ensure the timely pro-
curement of medications. Medical necessity
shall be based on professional medical judg-
ment, the medical condition of the bene-
ficiary, and other medical evidence.
‘‘(B) CONSULTATION IN DEVELOPMENT OF
PROCESS.—In developing the appeals process
under subparagraph (A), the Secretary shall
consult with consumer and patient groups,
as well as other key stakeholders, to ensure
the goals described in subparagraph (A) are
achieved.’’.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:42 Oct 22, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00019 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A21OC6.029 S21OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5926 October 21, 2019
SUBMITTED RESOLUTIONS
SENATE RESOLUTION 366—SUP-
PORTING THE GOALS AND
IDEALS OF RED RIBBON WEEK
DURING THE PERIOD OF OCTO-
BER 23 THROUGH OCTOBER 31,
2019
Mr. CORNYN (for himself, Mrs. FEIN-
STEIN, Mr. RISCH, and Mrs. CAPITO) sub-
mitted the following resolution; which
was referred to the Committee on
Health, Education, Labor, and Pen-
sions:
S. RES. 366
Whereas the National Family Partnership
started the Red Ribbon Campaign in 1988—
(1) to preserve the memory of Enrique
‘‘Kiki’’ Camarena, a special agent of the
Drug Enforcement Administration who—
(A) served the Drug Enforcement Admin-
istration for 11 years; and
(B) was murdered in the line of duty in
1985 while engaged in the battle against il-
licit drugs;
(2) to commemorate the service of Special
Agent Camarena to the Drug Enforcement
Administration and the people of the United
States; and
(3) to further the cause for which Special
Agent Camarena gave his life;
Whereas the Red Ribbon Campaign is the
most longstanding drug prevention program
in the United States, bringing drug aware-
ness to millions of people in the United
States each year;
Whereas Red Ribbon Week is celebrated
every year during the period of October 23
through October 31 by—
(1) State Governors and attorneys general;
(2) the National Family Partnership;
(3) parent-teacher associations;
(4) Boys and Girls Clubs of America;
(5) the Young Marines;
(6) the Drug Enforcement Administration;
and
(7) hundreds of other organizations
throughout the United States;
Whereas the objective of Red Ribbon Week
is to promote the creation of drug-free com-
munities through drug prevention efforts,
education programs, parental involvement,
and community-wide support;
Whereas, according to the 2018 National
Drug Threat Assessment, drug poisoning
deaths are the leading cause of injury death
in the United States, outnumbering deaths
by firearms, motor vehicle crashes, suicide,
and homicide;
Whereas approximately 69,000 people died
from drug overdoses in the United States in
2018;
Whereas reducing the demand for con-
trolled substances would—
(1) curtail lethal addictions and overdoses;
and
(2) reduce the violence associated with
drug trafficking;
Whereas, although public awareness of il-
licit drug use is increasing, emerging drug
threats and growing epidemics continue to
demand attention;
Whereas a majority of teenagers abusing
prescription drugs get those drugs from fam-
ily, friends, and the home medicine cabinet;
Whereas the Drug Enforcement Adminis-
tration hosts a National Take Back Day
twice a year, on the last Saturdays of Octo-
ber and April, for the public to safely dispose
of unused or expired prescription drugs that
can lead to accidental poisoning, overdose,
or abuse;
Whereas the number of people reporting
heroin use during the past 12 months doubled
between 2002 and 2018, from 404,000 to 808,000;
Whereas, according to the Centers for Dis-
ease Control and Prevention, the number of
deaths attributable to methamphetamine
has risen every year since 2008 to a high of
approximately 12,815 in 2018;
Whereas cocaine availability and use in
the United States continued to rise between
2016 and 2018, with total deaths attributable
to cocaine exceeding 14,600 in 2018, the high-
est recorded total in the 21st century;
Whereas fentanyl and the analogues of
fentanyl have been devastating communities
and families at an unprecedented rate,
claiming more than 32,000 lives in 2018;
Whereas the presence of fentanyl poses
hazards to police officers and law enforce-
ment agents; and
Whereas parents, young people, schools,
businesses, law enforcement agencies, reli-
gious institutions and faith-based organiza-
tions, service organizations, senior citizens,
medical and military personnel, sports
teams, and individuals throughout the
United States will demonstrate their com-
mitment to healthy, productive, and drug-
free lifestyles by wearing and displaying red
ribbons during the week-long celebration of
Red Ribbon Week: Now, therefore, be it
Resolved, That the Senate—
(1) supports the goals and ideals of Red
Ribbon Week during the period of October 23
through October 31, 2019;
(2) encourages the people of the United
States to wear and display red ribbons dur-
ing Red Ribbon Week to symbolize their
commitment to healthy, drug-free lifestyles;
(3) encourages children, teens, and other
individuals to choose to live drug-free lives;
and
(4) encourages the people of the United
States—
(A) to promote the creation of drug-free
communities; and
(B) to participate in drug prevention ac-
tivities to show support for healthy, produc-
tive, and drug-free lifestyles.
f
SENATE RESOLUTION 367—CON-
DEMNING THE HORRIFIC ATTACK
IN DAYTON, OHIO, AND EX-
PRESSING SUPPORT AND PRAY-
ERS FOR ALL THOSE IMPACTED
BY THAT TRAGEDY
Mr. PORTMAN (for himself and Mr.
BROWN) submitted the following resolu-
tion; which was referred to the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary:
S. RES. 367
Whereas, on August 4, 2019, a mass shoot-
ing took place in Dayton, Ohio;
Whereas the people of the United States
mourn the 9 innocent lives lost in that un-
thinkable tragedy: Megan Betts, Monica
Brickhouse, Nicholas Cumer, Derrick Fudge,
Thomas McNichols, Lois Oglesby, Saeed
Saleh, Logan Turner, and Beatrice Warren-
Curtis;
Whereas the people of the United States
express gratitude for the heroic actions of
the men and women of the Dayton Police De-
partment who courageously responded to the
shooting and saved countless lives;
Whereas the people of the United States
express appreciation and gratitude for the
first responders who responded quickly to
the shooting and the professionals and vol-
unteers who cared for the injured;
Whereas the people of the United States
continue to pray for the individuals who
were wounded in the attack and continue to
recover;
Whereas the people of the United States
commit to supporting communities and local
businesses that have been devastated by gun
violence to help the communities and busi-
nesses recover and rebuild;
Whereas the entire Dayton community
united in support of the victims and their
families; and
Whereas the shooting in Dayton, Ohio, oc-
curred approximately 13 hours after a mass
shooting in El Paso, Texas, and the people of
the United States mourn the 22 innocent
lives lost in that tragedy: Now, therefore, be
it
Resolved, That the Senate—
(1) condemns the senseless attack that
took place in Dayton, Ohio, on Sunday, Au-
gust 4, 2019;
(2) honors the memory of the victims who
were killed;
(3) expresses hope for a full and speedy re-
covery and pledges continued support for the
individuals injured in the attack;
(4) offers heartfelt condolences and deepest
sympathies to the Dayton community and
the families, friends, and loved ones affected
by the tragedy;
(5) commits to seeking solutions to reduce
gun violence, mass shootings, and acts of do-
mestic terrorism in the United States; and
(6) honors the selfless and dedicated service
of—
(A) the medical professionals and other in-
dividuals who cared for the victims in the
community of Montgomery County, Ohio;
(B) the emergency response teams and law
enforcement officials who responded to the
call of duty; and
(C) the law enforcement officials who con-
tinue to investigate the attack.
f
SENATE RESOLUTION 368—TO AU-
THORIZE THE PRODUCTION OF
RECORDS BY THE PERMANENT
SUBCOMMITTEE ON INVESTIGA-
TIONS OF THE COMMITTEE ON
HOMELAND SECURITY AND GOV-
ERNMENTAL AFFAIRS
Mr. MCCONNELL (for himself and
Mr. SCHUMER) submitted the following
resolution; which was considered and
agreed to:
S. RES. 368
Whereas, the Permanent Subcommittee on
Investigations of the Committee on Home-
land Security and Governmental Affairs con-
ducted an investigation into China’s impact
on the U.S. education system;
Whereas, the Subcommittee has received a
request from the U.S. Department of Edu-
cation for access to records of the Sub-
committee’s investigation;
Whereas, by the privileges of the Senate of
the United States and Rule XI of the Stand-
ing Rules of the Senate, no evidence under
the control or in the possession of the Senate
can, by administrative or judicial process, be
taken from such control or possession but by
permission of the Senate;
Whereas, when it appears that evidence
under the control or in the possession of the
Senate is needed for the promotion of jus-
tice, the Senate will take such action as will
promote the ends of justice consistent with
the privileges of the Senate: Now, therefore,
be it
Resolved, That the Chairman and Ranking
Minority Member of the Permanent Sub-
committee on Investigations of the Com-
mittee on Homeland Security and Govern-
mental Affairs, acting jointly, are authorized
to provide to the U.S. Department of Edu-
cation and other regulatory agencies, law en-
forcement officials, and entities or individ-
uals duly authorized by Federal or State
governments, records of the Subcommittee’s
investigation into China’s impact on the
U.S. education system.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:42 Oct 22, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00020 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A21OC6.030 S21OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5927
October 21, 2019
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, on
behalf of myself and the distinguished
Democratic leader, Mr. SCHUMER, I
send to the desk a resolution on docu-
mentary production by the Permanent
Subcommittee on Investigations, and
ask for its immediate consideration.
Mr. President, the Permanent Sub-
committee on Investigations of the
Committee on Homeland Security and
Governmental Affairs recently con-
ducted an investigation into China’s
impact on the U.S. education system.
The Subcommittee has now received a
request from the U.S. Department of
Education seeking access to records
that the Subcommittee obtained dur-
ing the investigation.
In keeping with the Senate’s practice
under its rules, this resolution would
authorize the Chairman and Ranking
Minority Member of the Permanent
Subcommittee on Investigations, act-
ing jointly, to provide records, ob-
tained by the Subcommittee in the
course of its investigation, in response
to this request and requests from other
Federal or State government entities
and officials with a legitimate need for
the records.
f
SENATE CONCURRENT RESOLU-
TION 27—PROVIDING FOR THE
USE OF THE CATAFALQUE SITU-
ATED IN THE EXHIBITION HALL
OF THE CAPITOL VISITOR CEN-
TER IN CONNECTION WITH ME-
MORIAL SERVICES TO BE CON-
DUCTED IN THE HOUSE WING OF
THE CAPITOL FOR THE HONOR-
ABLE ELIJAH E. CUMMINGS,
LATE A REPRESENTATIVE FROM
THE STATE OF MARYLAND
Mr. BLUNT (for himself and Ms. KLO-
BUCHAR) submitted the following con-
current resolution; which was consid-
ered and agreed to:
S. CON. RES. 27
Resolved by the Senate (the House of Rep-
resentatives concurring), That the Architect of
the Capitol is authorized and directed to
transfer the catafalque which is situated in
the Exhibition Hall of the Capitol Visitor
Center to the House Wing of the Capitol so
that such catafalque may be used in connec-
tion with services to be conducted there for
the Honorable Elijah E. Cummings, late a
Representative from the State of Maryland.
f
AUTHORIZING THE PRODUCTION
OF RECORDS BY THE PERMA-
NENT SUBCOMMITTEE ON INVES-
TIGATIONS OF THE COMMITTEE
ON HOMELAND SECURITY AND
GOVERNMENTAL AFFAIRS
Mr. HOEVEN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the Senate
proceed to the consideration of S. Res.
368, submitted earlier today.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the resolution by
title.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
A resolution (S. Res. 368) to authorize the
production of records by the Permanent Sub-
committee on Investigations of the Com-
mittee on Homeland Security and Govern-
mental Affairs.
There being no objection, the Senate
proceeded to consider the resolution.
Mr. HOEVEN. I ask unanimous con-
sent the resolution be agreed to, the
preamble be agreed to, and the motions
to reconsider be considered made and
laid upon the table with no intervening
action or debate.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The resolution (S. Res. 368) was
agreed to.
The preamble was agreed to.
(The resolution, with its preamble, is
printed in today’s RECORD under ‘‘Sub-
mitted Resolutions.’’)
f
GRANT REPORTING EFFICIENCY
AND AGREEMENTS TRANS-
PARENCY ACT OF 2019
Mr. HOEVEN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the Senate
proceed to the immediate consider-
ation of Calendar No. 200, H.R. 150.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the bill by title.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
A bill (H.R. 150) to modernize Federal
grant reporting, and for other purposes.
There being no objection, the Senate
proceeded to consider the bill, which
had been reported from the Committee
on Homeland Security and Govern-
mental Affairs, with an amendment to
strike all after the enacting clause and
insert in lieu thereof the following:
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.
(a) SHORT TITLE.—This Act may be cited as
the ‘‘Grant Reporting Efficiency and Agree-
ments Transparency Act of 2019’’ or the
‘‘GREAT Act’’.
(b) TABLE OF CONTENTS.—The table of con-
tents for this Act is as follows:
Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents.
Sec. 2. Purposes.
Sec. 3. Definitions.
Sec. 4. Data standards for grant reporting.
Sec. 5. Single Audit Act.
Sec. 6. Consolidation of assistance-related in-
formation; publication of public
information as open data.
Sec. 7. Evaluation of nonproprietary identifiers.
Sec. 8. Rule of construction.
Sec. 9. No additional funds authorized.
SEC. 2. PURPOSES.
The purposes of this Act are to—
(1) modernize reporting by recipients of Fed-
eral grants and cooperative agreements by cre-
ating and imposing data standards for the infor-
mation that those recipients are required by law
to report to the Federal Government;
(2) implement the recommendation by the Di-
rector of the Office of Management and Budget
contained in the report submitted under section
5(b)(6) of the Federal Funding Accountability
and Transparency Act of 2006 (31 U.S.C. 6101
note) relating to the development of a ‘‘com-
prehensive taxonomy of standard definitions for
core data elements required for managing Fed-
eral financial assistance awards’’;
(3) reduce burden and compliance costs of re-
cipients of Federal grants and cooperative
agreements by enabling technology solutions,
existing or yet to be developed, for use in both
the public and private sectors to better manage
the data that recipients already provide to the
Federal Government; and
(4) strengthen oversight and management of
Federal grants and cooperative agreements by
agencies by consolidating the collection and dis-
play of and access to open data that has been
standardized and, where appropriate, increas-
ing transparency to the public.
SEC. 3. DEFINITIONS.
In this Act, the terms ‘‘agency’’, ‘‘Director’’,
‘‘Federal award’’, and ‘‘Secretary’’ have the
meanings given those terms in section 6401 of
title 31, United States Code, as added by section
4(a) of this Act.
SEC. 4. DATA STANDARDS FOR GRANT REPORT-
ING.
(a) AMENDMENT.—Subtitle V of title 31, United
States Code, is amended by inserting after chap-
ter 63 the following:
‘‘CHAPTER 64—DATA STANDARDS FOR
GRANT REPORTING
‘‘Sec.
‘‘6401. Definitions.
‘‘6402. Data standards for grant reporting.
‘‘6403. Guidance applying data standards for
grant reporting.
‘‘6404. Agency requirements.
‘‘§ 6401. Definitions
‘‘In this chapter:
‘‘(1) AGENCY.—The term ‘agency’ has the
meaning given the term in section 552(f) of title
5.
‘‘(2) CORE DATA ELEMENTS.—The term ‘core
data elements’ means data elements relating to
financial management, administration, or man-
agement that—
‘‘(A) are not program-specific in nature or
program-specific outcome measures, as defined
in section 1115(h) of this title; and
‘‘(B) are required by agencies for all or the
vast majority of recipients of Federal awards for
purposes of reporting.
‘‘(3) DIRECTOR.—The term ‘Director’ means
the Director of the Office of Management and
Budget.
‘‘(4) EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENT.—The term ‘Ex-
ecutive department’ has the meaning given the
term in section 101 of title 5.
‘‘(5) FEDERAL AWARD.—The term ‘Federal
award’—
‘‘(A) means the transfer of anything of value
for a public purpose of support or stimulation
authorized by a law of the United States, in-
cluding financial assistance and Government fa-
cilities, services, and property;
‘‘(B) includes a grant, a subgrant, a coopera-
tive agreement, or any other transaction; and
‘‘(C) does not include a transaction or agree-
ment—
‘‘(i) that provides for conventional public in-
formation services or procurement of property or
services for the direct benefit or use of the Gov-
ernment; or
‘‘(ii) that provides only—
‘‘(I) direct Government cash assistance to an
individual;
‘‘(II) a subsidy;
‘‘(III) a loan;
‘‘(IV) a loan guarantee; or
‘‘(V) insurance.
‘‘(6) SECRETARY.—The term ‘Secretary’ means
the head of the standard-setting agency.
‘‘(7) STANDARD-SETTING AGENCY.—The term
‘standard-setting agency’ means the Executive
department designated under section 6402(a)(1).
‘‘(8) STATE.—The term ‘State’ means each
State of the United States, the District of Co-
lumbia, each commonwealth, territory, or pos-
session of the United States, and each federally
recognized Indian Tribe.
‘‘§ 6402. Data standards for grant reporting
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—
‘‘(1) DESIGNATION OF STANDARD-SETTING AGEN-
CY.—The Director shall designate the Executive
department that administers the greatest num-
ber of programs under which Federal awards
are issued in a calendar year as the standard-
setting agency.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:42 Oct 22, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00021 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 6333 E:\CR\FM\A21OC6.028 S21OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5928 October 21, 2019
‘‘(2) ESTABLISHMENT OF STANDARDS.—Not
later than 2 years after the date of enactment of
this chapter, the Secretary and the Director
shall establish Governmentwide data standards
for information reported by recipients of Federal
awards.
‘‘(3) DATA ELEMENTS.—The data standards es-
tablished under paragraph (2) shall include, at
a minimum—
‘‘(A) standard definitions for data elements
required for managing Federal awards; and
‘‘(B) unique identifiers for Federal awards
and recipients of Federal awards that can be
consistently applied Governmentwide.
‘‘(b) SCOPE.—The data standards established
under subsection (a)—
‘‘(1) shall include core data elements;
‘‘(2) may cover information required by law to
be reported to any agency by recipients of Fed-
eral awards, including audit-related informa-
tion reported under chapter 75 of this title; and
‘‘(3) may not be used by the Director or any
agency to require the collection of any data not
otherwise required under Federal law.
‘‘(c) REQUIREMENTS.—The data standards es-
tablished under subsection (a) shall, to the ex-
tent reasonable and practicable—
‘‘(1) render information reported by recipients
of Federal awards fully searchable and ma-
chine-readable;
‘‘(2) be nonproprietary;
‘‘(3) incorporate standards developed and
maintained by voluntary consensus standards
bodies;
‘‘(4) be consistent with and implement appli-
cable accounting and reporting principles; and
‘‘(5) incorporate the data standards estab-
lished under the Federal Funding Account-
ability and Transparency Act of 2006 (31 U.S.C.
6101 note).
‘‘(d) CONSULTATION.—In establishing the data
standards under subsection (a), the Secretary
and the Director shall consult with—
‘‘(1) the Secretary of the Treasury to ensure
that the data standards established under sub-
section (a) incorporate the data standards es-
tablished under the Federal Funding Account-
ability and Transparency Act of 2006 (31 U.S.C.
6101 note);
‘‘(2) the head of each agency that issues Fed-
eral awards;
‘‘(3) recipients of Federal awards and organi-
zations representing recipients of Federal
awards;
‘‘(4) private sector experts;
‘‘(5) members of the public, including privacy
experts, privacy advocates, auditors, and indus-
try stakeholders; and
‘‘(6) State and local governments.
‘‘§ 6403. Guidance applying data standards
for grant reporting
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 3 years
after the date of enactment of this chapter—
‘‘(1) the Secretary and the Director shall
jointly issue guidance to all agencies directing
the agencies to apply the data standards estab-
lished under section 6402(a) to all applicable re-
porting by recipients of Federal awards; and
‘‘(2) the Director shall prescribe guidance ap-
plying the data standards established under sec-
tion 6402(a) to audit-related information re-
ported under chapter 75 of this title.
‘‘(b) GUIDANCE.—The guidance issued under
subsection (a) shall—
‘‘(1) to the extent reasonable and prac-
ticable—
‘‘(A) minimize the disruption of existing re-
porting practices of, and not increase the report-
ing burden on, agencies or recipients of Federal
awards; and
‘‘(B) explore opportunities to implement mod-
ern technologies in reporting relating to Federal
awards;
‘‘(2) allow the Director to permit exceptions
for classes of Federal awards, including excep-
tions for Federal awards granted to Indian
Tribes and Tribal organizations consistent with
the Indian Self-Determination and Education
Assistance Act (25 U.S.C. 5301 et seq.), if the Di-
rector publishes a list of those exceptions and
submits the list to the Committee on Homeland
Security and Governmental Affairs of the Sen-
ate and the Committee on Oversight and Reform
of the House of Representatives; and
‘‘(3) take into consideration the consultation
required under section 6402(d).
‘‘(c) UPDATING GUIDANCE.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Not less frequently than
once every 10 years, the Director shall update
the guidance issued under subsection (a).
‘‘(2) PROCEDURES.—In updating guidance
under paragraph (1), the Director shall, to the
maximum extent practicable, follow the proce-
dures for the development of the data standards
and guidance prescribed under this section and
section 6402.
‘‘§ 6404. Agency requirements
‘‘Not later than 1 year after the date on which
guidance is issued or updated under subsection
(b) or (c), respectively, of section 6403, the head
of each agency shall—
‘‘(1) ensure that all of the Federal awards
that the agency issues use data standards for all
future information collection requests; and
‘‘(2) amend existing information collection re-
quests under chapter 35 of title 44 (commonly
known as the ‘Paperwork Reduction Act’) to
comply with the data standards established
under section 6402 of this chapter, in accordance
with the guidance issued by the Secretary and
the Director under section 6403 of this chap-
ter.’’.
(b) TECHNICAL AND CONFORMING AMEND-
MENT.—The table of chapters for subtitle V of
title 31, United States Code, is amended by in-
serting after the item relating to chapter 63 the
following:
‘‘64. Data standards for grant report-
ing ............................................... 6401’’.
SEC. 5. SINGLE AUDIT ACT.
(a) AMENDMENTS.—
(1) AUDIT REQUIREMENTS.—Section 7502(h) of
title 31, United States Code, is amended, in the
matter preceding paragraph (1), by inserting ‘‘in
an electronic form in accordance with the data
standards established under chapter 64 and’’
after ‘‘the reporting package,’’.
(2) REGULATIONS.—Section 7505 of title 31,
United States Code, is amended by adding at the
end the following:
‘‘(d) Such guidance shall require audit-related
information reported under this chapter to be
reported in an electronic form in accordance
with the data standards established under chap-
ter 64.’’.
(b) GUIDANCE.—Not later than 3 years after
the date of enactment of this Act, the Director
shall issue guidance requiring audit-related in-
formation reported under chapter 75 of title 31,
United States Code, to be reported in an elec-
tronic form consistent with the data standards
established under chapter 64 of that title, as
added by section 4(a) of this Act.
SEC. 6. CONSOLIDATION OF ASSISTANCE-RE-
LATED INFORMATION; PUBLICATION
OF PUBLIC INFORMATION AS OPEN
DATA.
(a) COLLECTION OF INFORMATION.—Not later
than 5 years after the date of enactment of this
Act, the Secretary and the Director shall, using
the data standards established under chapter 64
of title 31, United States Code, as added by sec-
tion 4(a) of this Act, enable the collection, pub-
lic display, and maintenance of Federal award
information as a Governmentwide data set, sub-
ject to reasonable restrictions established by the
Director to ensure protection of personally iden-
tifiable information and otherwise sensitive in-
formation.
(b) PUBLICATION OF INFORMATION.—The Sec-
retary and the Director shall require the publi-
cation of data reported by recipients of Federal
awards that is collected from all agencies on a
single public portal, which may be an existing
Governmentwide website, as determined appro-
priate by the Director.
(c) FOIA.—Nothing in this section shall re-
quire the disclosure to the public of information
that would be exempt from disclosure under sec-
tion 552 of title 5, United States Code (commonly
known as the ‘‘Freedom of Information Act’’).
SEC. 7. EVALUATION OF NONPROPRIETARY IDEN-
TIFIERS.
(a) DETERMINATION REQUIRED.—The Director
and the Secretary shall determine whether to
use nonproprietary identifiers described in sec-
tion 6402(a)(3)(B) of title 31, United States Code,
as added by section 4(a) of this Act.
(b) FACTORS TO BE CONSIDERED.—In making
the determination under subsection (a), the Di-
rector and the Secretary shall consider factors
such as accessibility and cost to recipients of
Federal awards, agencies that issue Federal
awards, private sector experts, and members of
the public, including privacy experts, privacy
advocates, transparency experts, and trans-
parency advocates.
(c) PUBLICATION AND REPORT ON DETERMINA-
TION.—Not later than the earlier of 1 year after
the date of enactment of this Act or the date on
which the Director and the Secretary establish
data standards under section 6402(a)(2) of title
31, United States Code, as added by section 4(a)
of this Act, the Director and the Secretary shall
publish and submit to the Committee on Home-
land Security and Governmental Affairs of the
Senate and the Committee on Oversight and Re-
form of the House of Representatives a report
explaining the reasoning for the determination
made under subsection (a).
SEC. 8. RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.
Nothing in this Act, or the amendments made
by this Act, shall be construed to require the
collection of data that is not otherwise required
under any Federal law, rule, or regulation.
SEC. 9. NO ADDITIONAL FUNDS AUTHORIZED.
No additional funds are authorized to carry
out the requirements of this Act and the amend-
ments made by this Act. Such requirements shall
be carried out using amounts otherwise author-
ized.
Mr. HOEVEN. I ask unanimous con-
sent that the committee-reported sub-
stitute amendment be agreed to; that
the bill, as amended, be considered
read a third time and passed; and that
the motion to reconsider be considered
made and laid upon the table.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The committee-reported amendment,
in the nature of a substitute, was
agreed to.
The amendment was ordered to be
engrossed and the bill to be read a
third time.
The bill was read the third time.
The bill (H.R. 150), as amended, was
passed.
f
ORDERS FOR TUESDAY, OCTOBER
22, 2019
Mr. HOEVEN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that when the Sen-
ate completes its business today, it ad-
journ until 10 a.m., Tuesday, October
22; further, that following the prayer
and pledge, the morning hour be
deemed expired, the Journal of pro-
ceedings be approved to date, the time
for the two leaders be reserved for their
use later in the day, morning business
be closed, and the Senate proceed to
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:42 Oct 22, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00022 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A21OC6.010 S21OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5929
October 21, 2019
executive session and resume consider-
ation of Treaties Calendar No. 5, Trea-
ty Document No. 116–1, under the pre-
vious order; and, finally, that the Sen-
ate recess from 12:30 p.m. until 2:15
p.m. to allow for the caucus meetings.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
ADJOURNMENT UNTIL 10 A.M.
TOMORROW
Mr. HOEVEN. Mr. President, if there
is no further business to come before
the Senate, I ask unanimous consent
that it stand adjourned under the pre-
vious order.
There being no objection, the Senate,
at 6:19 p.m., adjourned until Tuesday,
October 22, 2019, at 10 a.m.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:42 Oct 22, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00023 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G21OC6.021 S21OCPT1
EXTENSIONS OF REMARKS
∑ This ‘‘bullet’’ symbol identifies statements or insertions which are not spoken by a Member of the Senate on the floor.
Matter set in this typeface indicates words inserted or appended, rather than spoken, by a Member of the House on the floor.
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E1313
October 21, 2019
HONORING THE PUEBLO OF
LAGUNA FEAST DAYS
HON. DEBRA A. HAALAND
OF NEW MEXICO
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, October 21, 2019
Ms. HAALAND. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to commemorate the Pueblo of Laguna
for hosting annual Village Feast Days. I speak
in honor of the Pueblo of Laguna, our tribal
members and traditions. With Laguna Village’s
Saint Joseph Feast Day, celebrated on the
19th day of March and September. With Seam
Village’s Feast Day celebrated on July 26th.
With Mesita Village’s Feast Day celebrated on
August 15th. With Encinal Village’s Feast Day
celebrated on September 8th. With Paguate
Village’s Feast Day celebrated on September
25th. With Paraje Village’s Feast Day cele-
brated on October 17th. Laguna Pueblo has
six distinct villages, and they each celebrate
respective feast days; expect for the Sep-
tember Saint Joseph’s Feast day where all vil-
lages celebrate together.
Pueblo Feast Days commemorate the
Catholic Saints that were given to each New
Mexico pueblo when the Franciscan Priests
descended upon the Pueblos beginning in the
late 1500s. The Pueblo of Laguna feast is
among the largest of Pueblo feast days in the
Southwestern United States where thousands
of people travel across New Mexico and the
United States to attend. The Pueblo is located
approximately forty miles west of Albuquerque.
The ancestors of the Pueblo of Laguna
have occupied the region since at least 1300
A.D. When the Pueblo Indians migrated to the
Rio Grande Valley from places such as Chaco
Canyon, Mesa Verde and Bears Eats. Laguna
is Spanish for ‘‘lago’’ or ‘‘lake’’ which is in ref-
erence to a small lake that was once located
within the Pueblo. The Keres language is the
Indigenous language that members of Laguna
speak.
The Pueblo of Laguna feast days are times
for members of the Pueblo of Laguna to cele-
brate our culture, heritage, art and traditions
by members gathering on the pueblo village
plaza for traditions by members gathering on
the pueblo village plaza for traditional dances
and opening our homes to visitors to share in
traditional food. Feast days are open to the
public, where visitors are given the opportunity
to understand the Laguna peoples’ traditions
by observing ceremonial dances, cultural ac-
tivities and purchasing arts and crafts.
The importance of understanding all native
cultures cannot be understated. Diverse cul-
tural understanding is in furtherance of a bet-
ter-informed people and nation. Knowledge of
Native American culture tears down racial and
cultural barriers and promotes an inclusive so-
ciety. An inclusive society is necessary to na-
tional progress and the prosperity of the peo-
ple of the United States. Inclusion allows peo-
ple to come together in support of each other,
promoting the well being of all people regard-
less of cultural and racial background.
Madam Speaker, today I request to honor
the Pueblo of Laguna for hosting their annual
Feast Days which are essential to the future of
our community and the overall strength and
resilience of all Native American people. I
thank and honor the Pueblo of Laguna for
their hard work and dedication to protecting
their culture and traditions, which will stand for
generations to come.
f
MARTY SEROTER
HON. DONALD NORCROSS
OF NEW JERSEY
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, October 21, 2019
Mr. NORCROSS. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to honor and commend Gibbsboro, New
Jersey resident Marty Seroter, Camden Coun-
ty Town Hall Veteran Honoree.
After graduating from High School, in the
late 1960s, Mr. Marty Seroter proudly enlisted
and served in the United States Army. During
his time of service, Mr. Seroter was stationed
in Germany where he earned the rank of Spe-
cialist E–4 and as a musician, gladly served in
the United States Army Band.
Following his return stateside, Mr. Seroter
continued to serve his community through his
career with Camden County as a Clerk Driver
and Messenger for more than two decades.
Through his distinguished career and lifetime
of public service, and as an American Legion
Post Bugler, Mr. Seroter actively participates
in countless events performing Taps for formal
County ceremonies, such as the Pearl Harbor
Day services held annually on the Battleship
New Jersey in the City of Camden and the
County Memorial Day ceremony held to honor
veterans and those interred at Potter’s Field.
As a dedicated public servant, today and for
the past 30 years, Mr. Seroter continues his
service as an active member of the American
Legion Post 371 Honor Guard. Serving his
community and fellow veterans at the Amer-
ican Legion Post, Mr. Seroter presently over-
sees the Legion Hall rentals and manages the
canteen and continues to participate in the
Presentation of the Colors and Taps at formal
ceremonies as the Post Bugler.
In recognition of his valiant and distin-
guished service to our nation, Mr. Seroter was
awarded and has humbly received the Na-
tional Defense Service Medal for his honor-
able active service as a member of the Armed
Forces.
Madam Speaker, I ask you to join me in
honoring Mr. Marty Seroter of Gibbsboro, New
Jersey who is a constant reminder of the sac-
rifices that our men and women of the Armed
Forces make to protect and defend the liberty
and freedom of all Americans.
REMEMBERING THE LIFE OF ANNA
MARIE TEODOSIO
HON. TIM RYAN
OF OHIO
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, October 21, 2019
Mr. RYAN. Madam Speaker, I rise today to
honor the life of Anna Marie Teodosio who
peacefully entered into eternal life on October
16, 2019 while surrounded by her loving fam-
ily.
Anna was born to Mary and Giuseppe Tiano
on February 5, 1928 in Derby, Connecticut.
She grew up in Derby along with two sisters
and eight brothers and attended Derby High
School.
Anna eventually met the love of her life,
Alexander ‘‘Al’’ Teodosio, at a local dance
celebrating the end of World War II. After a
long courtship, Al and Anna were married on
August 19, 1950 at St. Mary’s Catholic Church
in Derby, Connecticut. Shortly after their mar-
riage, they moved to Brooklyn, New York and
eventually Akron, Ohio, where they began
their family. Their love grew and flourished
throughout an adventurous sixty-five year mar-
riage.
Anna was a true inspiration and a beautiful
human spirit to all that knew and loved her.
Her passions were embracing her faith,
spending time with family and friends, reading,
playing Scrabble and card games, cooking,
and rooting for Notre Dame football. She es-
pecially treasured preparing large traditional
Italian Sunday afternoon dinners for her ever-
growing family.
Anna, with her beloved husband Al, raised
five loving children: MaryAnne Cort (Bill),
Thomas Teodosio (Linda), Carol Anne Peter
(Dave), Robert Teodosio (Tina), and Alex
Teodosio (Stephanie).
She is survived by nine grandchildren,
Christine Klaben, Kathleen Klaben (Dave
Nulanz), Ellen Karns, Joseph Cort (Melissa),
David Cort, Christopher Teodosio (Katherine),
Alexandra Teodosio, Nicholas Teodosio and
Joseph Teodosio. She is also survived by six
great grandchildren, Emily Cort, Clara Cort,
Charles Nulanz, Alice Karns, Charlotte
Teodosio and Ava Teodosio; and by her be-
loved brother, William Tiano along with many
close friends who knew her to be compas-
sionate and caring through her faith and in her
service to others. Anna was preceded in death
by her parents; nine siblings; son, Alan; and
granddaughter, Andrea Teodosio.
I am very proud to be a friend of Anna’s
son, Judge Thomas Teodosio, and her daugh-
ter-in-law, Judge Linda Tucci Teodosio. Anna
touched many lives, and I extend my deepest
sympathies to all who knew and loved her.
She will be greatly missed.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:59 Oct 22, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K21OC8.001 E21OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E1314 October 21, 2019
INTRODUCTION OF THE COM-
BATING IMPLICIT BIAS IN EDU-
CATION ACT
HON. ELEANOR HOLMES NORTON
OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, October 21, 2019
Ms. NORTON. Madam Speaker, today, I in-
troduce the Combating Implicit Bias in Edu-
cation Act. My bill would create a $30 million
grant program for schools to train teachers,
principals and other personnel on implicit bias
with respect to actual or perceived race, reli-
gion, sex (including sexual orientation and
gender identity), disability, ethnicity and socio-
economic status.
This year, a report by the U.S. Commission
on Civil Rights found that students of color
with disabilities received far more severe and
frequent punishment than their white counter-
parts. In December, the U.S. Secretary of
Education Betsy DeVos eliminated the Obama
Administration’s guidance seeking to curb ex-
clusionary discipline, undermining key steps
toward dismantling discriminatory discipline
practices in classrooms.
In 2017, the Georgetown Law Center on
Poverty and Inequality released a report find-
ing that people disproportionately think of
Black girls as more adult-like and less inno-
cent compared to their white peers. This bias
has been linked to harsher treatment of Black
girls in schools. Students experiencing implicit
bias and even outright discrimination face far
greater expulsion and suspension rates, fuel-
ing the school-to-prison pipeline and widening
the student achievement gap.
This bill aims to reduce the effect of implicit
bias on school discipline, academic achieve-
ment and academic attainment through re-
search-based training for education personnel,
and provides teachers with necessary tools to
provide equal educational and constructive be-
havioral feedback.
Under my bill, the Institute of Education
Sciences under the Department of Education
would be tasked with evaluating and reporting
on the effectiveness of the training.
I strongly urge my colleagues to support this
legislation.
f
HONORING ROSEMARY PARGA
DURAN
HON. JIM COSTA
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, October 21, 2019
Mr. COSTA. Madam Speaker, I rise today to
honor Dr. RoseMary Parga Duran as she re-
tires from her position as Superintendent of
Merced City School District. Throughout her
43 years in education, Dr. Parga Duran has
made a positive impact on countless Merced
schools and students.
Dr. Parga Duran earned her associate de-
gree from Merced College and completed her
bachelor’s degree from California State Uni-
versity, Fresno (Fresno State). After grad-
uating from Fresno State in 1977, she re-
turned to Merced County to begin her teaching
career at Planada Elementary School. Later in
her career, she received a master’s degree
from California State University, Stanislaus
and a doctorate from the University of South-
ern California.
In 1985, she started her career with Merced
City School District as a teacher and would
later become an assistant principal, principal,
and in 2002 was named the district’s Asso-
ciate Superintendent of Educational Services.
Six years later, Dr. Parga Duran became
Merced City School District’s first female su-
perintendent.
As the leader of Merced County’s largest
school district, Dr. Parga Duran has worked
tirelessly to address the challenges facing the
18 schools in the district. She began her job
as superintendent during the great recession
and led the district through this period without
any employee layoffs, while keeping the dis-
trict’s budget fiscally solvent. Dr. Parga Duran
was an advocate for the successful passage
of Measure M, a bond which provided funds
for school campuses to modernize and receive
necessary safety upgrades.
Under Dr. Parga Duran’s leadership,
Merced City School District received two Gold-
en Bell Awards from the California School
Boards Association for their STEAM (science,
technology, engineering, arts, math) and pre-
school programs. She also oversaw the open-
ing of Rivera Middle School and their STEAM
Center. It is evident that Dr. Parga Duran’s
contributions to Merced City School District
will continue to have an impact on our edu-
cators and future generations of leaders long
after her retirement.
Madam Speaker, I ask my colleagues to join
me in honoring the career and accomplish-
ments of Dr. RoseMary Parga Duran. It is both
fitting and appropriate that we honor her and
the positive impact she has made in the lives
of students and staff as she celebrates her re-
tirement. I wish Dr. Parga Duran, her family,
and Merced City School District the best as
she retires at the end of this year.
f
RECOGNIZING DR. MICHAEL
CALIGIURI FOR HIS
GROUNDBREAKING CONTRIBU-
TIONS TO THE FIELD OF MEDI-
CINE
HON. BRIAN HIGGINS
OF NEW YORK
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, October 21, 2019
Mr. HIGGINS of New York. Madam Speak-
er, I rise today to recognize the exemplary ca-
reer of Dr. Michael Caligiuri who has been
elected to the National Academy of Medicine’s
Class of 2018, one of the single highest hon-
ors in the field of medicine and healthcare.
Dr. Caligiuri spent his formative years in
Kenmore, New York, where he attended St.
Joseph’s Collegiate Institute. He then enrolled
at the University at Buffalo to earn his under-
graduate degree, and subsequently attended
Stanford College for Medical School where he
obtained his M.D.
Dr. Caligiuri utilized his education to the
best of his ability to become a leader in his
profession. He served as the CEO of The
James Cancer Hospital and Solove Research
Institute, and he also directed The Ohio State
University Comprehensive Cancer Center for
fourteen years. In addition, he is the Imme-
diate Past President of the American Associa-
tion for Cancer Research, of which he was re-
cently named a fellow.
Dr. Caligiuri has served as chairperson, or
in other advisory capacities, for countless re-
search organizations in addition to conducting
several of his own research protocols. His
groundbreaking research focused on the de-
velopment and activation of human natural kill-
er cells and their modulation to help treat dis-
eases like leukemia and brain cancer. Since
these discoveries, over one thousand patients
with cancer have been treated with clinical
protocols that were conceived in Dr. Caligiuri’s
laboratory.
In 2018, Dr. Caligiuri was named the Presi-
dent of the City of Hope in Los Angeles, a
leading cancer research and treatment center.
He conducted rigorous research and com-
bined that with an inclusive leadership style to
connect other healthcare institutions together
in order to ensure the highest quality patient
experience and care.
Dr. Caligiuri’s breakthrough discoveries in
NK leukemia and cutaneous T cell lymphoma
has helped get him elected to the National
Academy of Medicine, which according to The
New York Times is, ‘‘the United States’ most
esteemed and authoritative adviser on issues
of health and medicine, and its reports can
transform medical thinking around the world’’.
The incredible distinction of election to the
National Academy of Medicine has only been
awarded to just over two thousand medical ex-
perts since 1970. Members are elected based
on their professional achievement and commit-
ment to service, and they do their selfless and
consequential work without any compensation.
No more than eighty members are elected an-
nually. This speaks to Dr. Caligiuri’s passion
for healthcare, commitment to community
service, and his overall talent as a medical
professional. Complimenting the extraordinary
accomplishments achieved during his career,
Dr. Caligiuri is also a loving husband and a
devoted father of three children.
Today we recognize Dr. Michael Caligiuri for
becoming an innovative and influential leader
both in the United States and around the
world in not only engaging in exemplary re-
search and treatment practices, but also advo-
cating for the many people whose lives have
been affected by the devastating reality of
cancer.
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. KAY GRANGER
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, October 21, 2019
Ms. GRANGER. Madam Speaker, I was un-
able to attend votes due to circumstances be-
yond my control. Had I been present, I would
have voted ‘‘yea’’ on Roll Call No. 561; ‘‘nay’’
on Roll Call No. 562; ‘‘yea’’ on Roll Call No.
563; and ‘‘nay’’ on Roll Call No. 564.
f
HONORING ARMY PFC. NATHAN P.
BROWN
HON. ELISE M. STEFANIK
OF NEW YORK
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, October 21, 2019
Ms. STEFANIK. Madam Speaker, I rise
today in recognition of Army Pfc. Nathan P.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:59 Oct 22, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A21OC8.001 E21OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E1315
October 21, 2019
Brown, who was tragically killed on Easter
Sunday, April 11, 2004, when a rocket-pro-
pelled grenade hit his Humvee in Samarra,
Iraq, about 60 miles north of Baghdad, during
Operation Iraqi Freedom.
Nathan was a lifelong resident of South
Glens Falls, New York. He enlisted in the New
York Army National Guard immediately after
graduating from South Glens Falls High
School in 2002, in the aftermath of 9/11. Na-
than was posthumously awarded The Bronze
Star, Purple Heart, and the New York Medal
of Valor for his bravery.
Friends and family of Nathan remember him
as a generous and positive person, a brave
soldier, and a beloved member of the commu-
nity.
Next week, he will be inducted into The
South Glens Falls Bulldog Pride Hall of Fame,
in recognition of his sacrifice and commitment.
This honor is a testament to Nathan’s selfless
pride for his country. Nathan gave the ultimate
sacrifice, and for that we all owe him a debt
of gratitude.
I am proud to stand and honor Army Pfc.
Nathan P. Brown, a beloved member of the
South Glens Falls Community, and a shining
example of those who give their lives to pro-
tect our country and its interests. Please join
me in recognizing Nathan Brown for his serv-
ice, and in honor of his legacy.
f
HONORING GREG M. CONGER
HON. J. LUIS CORREA
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, October 21, 2019
Mr. CORREA. Madam Speaker, I rise to
recognize the achievements of Greg M. Con-
ger and congratulate him on his well-deserved
retirement. Mr. Conger has been a voice for
working Californians by organizing and advo-
cating for workers’ rights. He has changed the
relationship between employees and manage-
ment forever. Greg M. Conger served as the
President of UFCW Local 324, with 23,000
members in Orange County and the Long
Beach area in Southern California.
Mr. Conger started as a meat cutting ap-
prentice with Local 551 in 1976. This is where
he started volunteering for various union com-
mittees and campaigns. In 1984, he was hired
as a Union Representative. His efforts did not
go unnoticed and one year later he was pro-
moted to Executive Assistant to the President
and worked on contract negotiations.
Mr. Conger was a senior strategist and top-
level negotiator during the Southern California
supermarket strike and lockouts that ran be-
tween October 2003 and February 2004. Over
the course of the dispute, Mr. Conger worked
to boost the morale of his members and even
volunteered to be arrested twice in acts of civil
disobedience. His leadership and commitment
to the working community attracted the atten-
tion of the UFCW International Union, which
elected him as an International Vice President
in April 2004.
In September 2003, Mr. Conger became
President of Local 324. After just five weeks in
his new role, he led Local 324 during the 141-
day strike and lock-out—the longest and cost-
liest retail strike in American history. Mr. Con-
ger and UFCW Local 324 changed the rela-
tionship between employees and management
forever by empowering workers to stand up for
themselves in the face of intense pressure. He
was at the forefront of the dynamic movement
that sought to build successes of recent years.
Today, we celebrate not only his advocacy
and success, but his future. I ask my col-
leagues to join me in honoring Greg M. Con-
ger for his commitment to serving the commu-
nity by being the greater voice for our workers.
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. A. DONALD McEACHIN
OF VIRGINIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, October 21, 2019
Mr. MCEACHIN. Madam Speaker, I was un-
avoidably detained on September 24, 2019
during roll call no. 541, On Motion to Suspend
the Rules and Pass, as Amended, H.R. 3190,
BURMA Act. Had I been present, I would have
voted ‘‘yea.’’
f
RECOGNIZING WESTERN REGION
DIRECT SUPPORT PROFESSIONAL
OF THE YEAR KARRIE
SCHINDLER
HON. GUY RESCHENTHALER
OF PENNSYLVANIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, October 21, 2019
Mr. RESCHENTHALER. Madam Speaker, I
rise today to recognize Karrie Schindler who
has been selected as the Pennsylvania Advo-
cacy and Resources for Autism and Intellec-
tual Disability’s Western Region Direct Support
Professional of the Year. Ms. Schindler has
dedicated her life to lifting-up and improving
the lives of individuals in our community with
autism. She is a beacon of compassion and
dedicates her time to providing in-home care
to those with disabilities so they can lead self-
directed lives in their communities.
Since 2013, Ms. Schindler has provided
Home and Community Habilitation care to a
special woman named Maryann. Throughout
the years, Ms. Schindler has helped Maryann
live a full and active life and engage with her
community.
Sadly, in December 2018, Maryann’s moth-
er unexpectedly passed away. Following this
tragedy, Maryann was forced to move to Flor-
ida, away from the community she loved and
the support system she had fostered through-
out her years with Ms. Schindler.
Late one January night, Ms. Schindler re-
ceived a call from Maryann that she was at
the airport and didn’t know what to do. Without
hesitation, Ms. Schindler sprang into action.
She drove straight to the Pittsburgh airport to
pick Maryann up. It wasn’t long before Ms.
Schindler and her family made the decision to
become Life Sharing providers and welcome
Maryann into their home permanently.
Madam Speaker, Karrie Schindler has dem-
onstrated extraordinary selflessness and com-
passion in her work with Maryann. Please join
me in congratulating Ms. Schindler on her se-
lection as the Pennsylvania Advocacy and Re-
sources for Autism and Intellectual Disability’s
Western Region Direct Support Professional of
the Year.
HONORING SIOBHAN MCVAY AS A
RECIPIENT OF THE PRESI-
DENTIAL AWARD FOR EXCEL-
LENCE IN MATHEMATICS AND
SCIENCE TEACHING
HON. ANDY KIM
OF NEW JERSEY
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, October 21, 2019
Mr. KIM. Madam Speaker, I rise today to
honor Siobhan McVay of Delran High School
in Delran, New Jersey, as a recipient of the
Presidential Award for Excellence in Mathe-
matics and Science Teaching (PAEMST).
Each year, the PAEMST recognizes out-
standing K–12 teachers for their contributions
to the teaching and learning of science, tech-
nology, engineering, mathematics, and com-
puter science. Recipients of the award are
widely respected by their peers, displaying
strong expertise in STEM education, and hav-
ing made a lasting positive impact on their stu-
dents. Only 108 teachers from all 50 states,
the District of Columbia, and the U.S. terri-
tories receive this selective recognition each
year.
I commend Mr. McVay for his fine work as
an educator and mentor to his students, build-
ing important skills that will help them succeed
in a rapidly developing world. STEM education
is a building block to an increasingly complex
economy that relies on a strong technological
skill set. Today’s students with strong STEM
backgrounds will be those that discover a cure
for cancer, help to bring an end to climate
change, and gets an American on Mars. The
important skills that Mr. McVay’s students de-
velop from his instruction will bring important
individual achievements, and will aid our na-
tion in the future.
I’m proud to say that we have excellent
quality teachers in New Jersey like Mr.
McVay, and I look forward to seeing his impor-
tant work develop in the growth and success
of his students.
f
IN REMEMBRANCE OF GRACE
QUINN GOODPASTURE
HON. ROBERT J. WITTMAN
OF VIRGINIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, October 21, 2019
Mr. WITTMAN. Madam Speaker, I rise
today in recognition of Grace Quinn
Goodpasture for being selected as a recipient
of a Student-Athlete-Scholarship from the Na-
tional Interscholastic Athletic Administrators
Association.
Grace attends the Steward School in Ash-
land, Virginia, where she played 4 years of
Varsity Soccer, lettering all four years. She
was also a member of the Varsity Cross
Country and Dive team, lettering in those as
well. She says community service is a core
value of her family and has always been a
part of her life. She has earned her Gold
Award in the Girl Scouts and was a Senate
Page for the Virginia Senate. Her spirit of
service should inspire all of us.
I commend her on receiving this recognition
for her distinguished scholastic, leadership,
and sportsmanship. This recognition of her
work in the community, in the classroom, and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:59 Oct 22, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A21OC8.005 E21OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E1316 October 21, 2019
on the athletic field is a testament to her com-
mitment to hard work and service to others.
She is an example of the leaders that we will
need to guide our nation and the Virginia
Commonwealth in the future.
Madam Speaker, I ask you to join me in
recognizing Grace Goodpasture for her
achievements in her community. May God
bless Grace and her family.
f
IN RECOGNITION OF THE 8TH DIS-
TRICT OF WISCONSIN’S FIRST
RESPONDERS OF THE YEAR
HON. MIKE GALLAGHER
OF WISCONSIN
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, October 21, 2019
Mr. GALLAGHER. Madam Speaker, I rise
today during First Responders Appreciation
Month to recognize ten first responders from
Wisconsin’s 8th District who received the Wis-
consin State Assembly’s First Responder of
the Year award. The Assembly selected and
recognized the nominees below for their he-
roic actions, professional achievement, body
of work, and length of service within the field
of public safety:
The late Mitchell Lundgaard, Appleton Fire
Department; Joseph Wesoloski, Ashwaubenon
Department of Public Safety; Dan Rettler,
Black Creek Fire Department; Lt. Jeff
Engelbrecht, Green Bay Police Department;
Sgt. William Tedlie, Greenville Police Depart-
ment; Chief Al Tlachac, Luxemburg Commu-
nity Fire Department; Chief Rick Badgley,
Peshtigo Police Department; TJ Schrank, Riv-
erview Volunteer Fire Department; Mary Beck,
Shawano County Dispatch Center; and Sgt.
Brandon Leschke, Weyauwega Police Depart-
ment and Weyauwega Area Fire Department.
First responders represent the best and
bravest in our communities. These heroes
selflessly give their time and skills to protect
and serve others. I am proud to represent
men and women with such a commitment to
their communities and who prioritize the wel-
fare of others before their own. Their unwaver-
ing devotion to fostering safe and strong com-
munities is truly inspiring.
Madam Speaker, I urge all members of this
body to join me in thanking these first re-
sponders for their service and dedication to
protecting our communities.
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. A. DONALD McEACHIN
OF VIRGINIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, October 21, 2019
Mr. MCEACHIN. Madam Speaker, I was un-
avoidably detained on September 27, 2019
during roll call no. 553, On Passage, S.J. Res.
54, Relating to a national emergency declared
by the President on February 15, 2019. Had I
been present, I would have voted ‘‘yea.’’ I was
also unavoidably detained during roll call no.
554, On Motion to Suspend the Rules and
Pass, H.R. 3722, Joint Task Force to Combat
Opioid Trafficking Act. Had I been present, I
would have voted ‘‘yea.’’ I was also unavoid-
ably detained during roll call no. 555, On Mo-
tion to Table, H. Res. 603, Raising a question
of the privileges of the House. Had I been
present, I would have voted ‘‘aye.’’
f
COST ESTIMATE TO H.R. 4617
HON. ZOE LOFGREN
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, October 21, 2019
Ms. LOFGREN. Madam Speaker, I include
in the RECORD the cost estimate for H.R. 4617
from the Congressional Budget Office. The
cost estimate was not available at the time of
the filing of the Committee report.
U.S. CONGRESS,
CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE,
Washington, DC, October 21, 2019.
Hon. ZOE LOFGREN,
Chairperson, Committee on House Administra-
tion, House of Representatives, Washington,
DC.
DEAR MADAM CHAIRPERSON: The Congres-
sional Budget Office has prepared the en-
closed cost estimate for H.R. 4617, the
SHIELD Act.
If you wish further details on this esti-
mate, we will be pleased to provide them.
The CBO staff contact is Matthew Pickford.
Sincerely,
MARK P. HADLEY
(For Phillip L. Swagel, Director).
Enclosure.
H.R. 4617, THE SHIELD ACT—OCTOBER 16, 2019
[By fiscal year, millions of dollars]
2020 2020–2024 2020–2029
Direct Spending (Outlays) .. * * *
Revenues ............................ * * *
Increase or Decrease (¥)
in the Deficit .................. * * *
Spending Subject to Appro-
priation (Outlays) ........... * 2 **
* = between ¥$500,000 and $500,000.
** = not estimated.
Statutory pay-as-you-go procedures apply?
Yes.
Increases on-budget deficits in any of the
four consecutive 10-year periods beginning in
2030? No.
Mandate Effects:
Contains intergovernmental mandate? No.
Contains private-sector mandate? Yes,
Under Threshold.
H.R. 4617 would amend the Federal Elec-
tion Campaign Act of 1971. Most provisions
in the bill are related to prohibiting the par-
ticipation of foreign nationals in election-re-
lated activities, and making additional cam-
paign expenditures and advertising pur-
chases subject to public disclosure.
CBO estimates that implementing H.R.
4617 would cost $2 million over the 2020–2024
period, subject to the availability of appro-
priated funds. Those amounts would cover
additional administrative costs for the Fed-
eral Election Commission (FEC) to ensure
compliance with the bill. In 2019, the FEC re-
ceived an appropriation of $71 million.
Violators of the bill’s reporting require-
ments could be subject to civil and criminal
penalties, so enacting H.R. 4617 could in-
crease collections of fines. Civil fines are re-
corded in the budget as revenues. Criminal
fines are recorded as revenues, deposited in
the Crime Victims Fund, and subsequently
spent without further appropriation. CBO es-
timates that any additional collections
would not be significant in any year and over
the 2020–2029 period because of the relatively
small number of additional cases likely to be
affected.
H.R. 4617 would impose private-sector man-
dates as defined in the Unfunded Mandates
Reform Act (UMRA) on candidates for fed-
eral office, campaign committees, political
entities, and advertising platforms, among
other entities. CBO expects that the aggre-
gate cost of the mandates would be small be-
cause compliance with some of the mandates
would not impose costs or because the af-
fected entities already perform similar dis-
closure and reporting activities. For such en-
tities, the new duties would impose only
small incremental costs. Therefore, CBO es-
timates that the cost of the mandates would
not exceed the private-sector threshold es-
tablished in UMRA ($164 million in 2019, ad-
justed annually for inflation).
Title I would:
Require political campaigns to report con-
tacts by foreign entities offering contribu-
tions or election coordination to the Federal
Bureau of Investigation and the FEC and to
establish a policy requiring staff to report
such contacts and to notify staff of that pol-
icy.
Expand the types of communication sub-
ject to existing disclosure rules under the
Federal Election Campaign Act and require
disclaimers on internet and digital commu-
nications.
Require online platforms that sell political
advertisements and meet minimum traffic
thresholds to maintain a public database of
qualified political advertisements.
Require television and radio broadcasters
and online platforms to make reasonable ef-
forts to ensure that campaign communica-
tions are not purchased by a foreign na-
tional.
Title II would prohibit foreign nationals
from:
Participating in the decision making proc-
ess of any election-related activity.
Contributing to super political action com-
mittees (PACs) or campaigns concerning a
state or local ballot initiative or ref-
erendum.
Making campaign or advocacy expendi-
tures for digital, broadcast, and internet
communications.
Title II would impose additional private-
sector mandates by requiring corporations
and labor organizations that make campaign
contributions to certify that no foreign na-
tionals participated in the decision making
process related to those contributions and by
requiring corporate PACs to certify that
they are not under foreign control.
H.R. 4617 would impose no intergovern-
mental mandates as defined in UMRA.
The CBO staff contacts for this estimate
are Matthew Pickford (for federal costs) and
Andrew Laughlin (for mandates), The esti-
mate was reviewed by H. Samuel Papenfuss,
Deputy Assistant Director for Budget Anal-
ysis.
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. A. DONALD McEACHIN
OF VIRGINIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, October 21, 2019
Mr. MCEACHIN. Madam Speaker, I was un-
avoidably detained on October 15, 2019 dur-
ing roll call no. 556, On Motion to Suspend the
Rules and Pass, as Amended, H.R. 2385, To
permit the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to es-
tablish a grant program to conduct cemetery
research and produce educational materials
for the Veterans Legacy Program. Had I been
present, I would have voted ‘‘yea.’’ I was also
unavoidably detained during roll call no. 557,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:59 Oct 22, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A21OC8.010 E21OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E1317
October 21, 2019
On Motion to Suspend the Rules and Pass,
H.R. 95, Homeless Veteran Families Act. Had
I been present, I would have voted ‘‘yea.’’
f
HONORING PATRICIA LEE AS A
RECIPIENT OF THE PRESI-
DENTIAL AWARD FOR EXCEL-
LENCE IN MATHEMATICS AND
SCIENCE TEACHING
HON. ANDY KIM
OF NEW JERSEY
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, October 21, 2019
Mr. KIM. Madam Speaker, I rise today to
honor Patricia Lee of Lumberton Middle
School in Lumberton, New Jersey, as a recipi-
ent of the Presidential Award for Excellence in
Mathematics and Science Teaching
(PAEMST).
Each year, the PAEMST recognizes out-
standing K–12 teachers for their contributions
to the teaching and learning of science, tech-
nology, engineering, mathematics, and com-
puter science. Recipients of the award are
widely respected by their peers, displaying
strong expertise in STEM education, and hav-
ing made a lasting positive impact on their stu-
dents. Only 108 teachers from all 50 states,
the District of Columbia, and the U.S. terri-
tories receive this selective recognition each
year.
I commend Ms. Lee for her fine work as an
educator and mentor to her students, building
important skills that will help them succeed in
a rapidly developing world. STEM education is
a building block to an increasingly complex
economy that relies on a strong technological
skill set. Today’s students with strong STEM
backgrounds will be those that discover a cure
for cancer, help to bring an end to climate
change, and gets an American on Mars. The
important skills that Ms. Lee’s students de-
velop from her instruction will bring important
individual achievements, and will aid our na-
tion in the future.
I’m proud to say that we have excellent
quality teachers in New Jersey like Ms. Lee,
and I look forward to seeing her important
work develop in the growth and success of her
students.
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. ANNA G. ESHOO
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, October 21, 2019
Ms. ESHOO. Madam Speaker, I was unable
to be present during roll call vote number 565,
566, and 567 on October 18, 2019. I would
like the record to reflect how I would have
voted: on roll call vote number 565, I would
have voted NO; on roll call vote number 566,
I would have voted NO; on roll call vote num-
ber 567, I would have voted YES.
HONORING THE SARANAC LABORA-
TORY FOR BEING DESIGNATED A
MILESTONES IN MICROBIOLOGY
SITE BY THE SOCIETY FOR
MICROBIOLOGY
HON. ELISE M. STEFANIK
OF NEW YORK
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, October 21, 2019
Ms. STEFANIK. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to honor the Saranac Laboratory for
being designated a Milestones in Microbiology
site by the Society for Microbiology. I am
proud to represent a district that has made
such historic impacts on science and medi-
cine.
Saranac Lake is host to many important his-
torical sites including the Saranac Laboratory.
Dr. Edward Livingston Trudeau was a physi-
cian operating out of New York City when he
contracted tuberculosis. He found that the cli-
mate in the North Country significantly im-
proved his health so he moved to Saranac
Lake, where he established the Adirondack
Cottage Sanitarium at Saranac Lake for treat-
ment of tuberculosis. Dr. Trudeau used his
own home to study tuberculosis until it was
burned down by some of the equipment. With
his partners, Trudeau immediately began plan-
ning a state of the art laboratory to continue
his work. Saranac Laboratory was finished in
1894 and was the only lab in the country spe-
cifically designed to study tuberculosis. Experi-
ments were conducted there until its closure in
1935. After changing hands several times,
Historic Saranac Lake faithfully restored it and
opened it to the public as a museum in 2009.
On behalf of New York’s 21st Congressional
District, I want to thank the Historic Saranac
Lake Board of Directors for their hard work.
Their success in preserving the rich history of
Saranac Lake has led to this well-deserved
recognition. As we look back on and celebrate
the achievements of previous generations, I
encourage everyone to support the North
Country’s next generation of scientists and en-
trepreneurs.
f
IN RECOGNITION OF ARNOLD
‘‘BUD’’ STERN’S 100TH BIRTHDAY
HON. MIKE GALLAGHER
OF WISCONSIN
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, October 21, 2019
Mr. GALLAGHER. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to honor Arnold ‘‘Bud’’ Stern of New
London, Wisconsin on celebrating his 100th
birthday.
Born on November 3, 1919, Bud grew up in
New London, Wisconsin and graduated from
New London High School. He then attended
St. Louis University and studied nursing. Upon
the completion of his degree, he moved to Ne-
vada and worked at the Hoover Dam as an in-
dustrial nurse. After the attack on Pearl Har-
bor, Bud entered the armed services and was
deployed overseas.
Bud served as a surgical nurse during
World War II. His assignment was to set up
field hospitals where he assisted in abdominal
repair surgeries. Field hospitals were mobile
medical care units typically erected near the
front lines of battle. Operating teams were
often used to reinforce other medical units and
treat soldiers who suffered non-transportable
injuries. Nurses in World War II were a part of
every link in the chain of evacuation estab-
lished in each theater of war, and contributed
to the low post-injury mortality rate among
American military forces.
To commemorate Bud’s milestone birthday,
the community of New London is hosting a
celebration on October 27th in his honor.
Friends of the New London Public Museum
and the New London Heritage Historical Soci-
ety captured Bud’s memories of living in New
London and his service in World War II in a
video to be played at the event. The Mayor of
New London, Gary Henke, recognized Bud by
issuing a proclamation declaring November 3
as Arnold ‘‘Bud’’ Stern Day.
Madam Speaker, I urge all members of this
body to join me in thanking Arnold ‘‘Bud’’
Stern for his service and wishing him a happy
and healthy 100th birthday.
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. A. DONALD McEACHIN
OF VIRGINIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, October 21, 2019
Mr. MCEACHIN. Madam Speaker, I was un-
avoidably detained on September 26, 2019
during roll call no. 549, On Ordering the Pre-
vious Question, H. Res. 591, Providing for
consideration of S.J. Res. 54, relating to a na-
tional emergency declared by the President on
February 15, 2019. Had I been present, I
would have voted ‘‘yea.’’ I was also unavoid-
ably detained during roll call no. 550, On
Agreeing to the Resolution, H. Res. 591, Pro-
viding for consideration of S.J. Res. 54, relat-
ing to a national emergency declared by the
President on February 15, 2019. Had I been
present, I would have voted ‘‘yea.’’ I was also
unavoidably detained during roll call no. 551,
On Motion to Recommit with Instructions, H.R.
3525, U.S. Border Patrol Medical Screening
Standards Act. Had I been present, I would
have voted ‘‘nay.’’ I was also unavoidably de-
tained during roll call no. 552, On Passage,
H.R. 3525, U.S. Border Patrol Medical Screen-
ing Standards Act. Had I been present, I
would have voted ‘‘yea.’’
f
IN HONOR OF MAUREEN
FRESCHET, UPON HER RETIRE-
MENT FROM THE SAN MATEO
CITY COUNCIL
HON. JACKIE SPEIER
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, October 21, 2019
Ms. SPEIER. Madam Speaker, I rise to
honor Maureen Freschet as she retires from
the San Mateo City Council after eight years
of noteworthy service to the people of San
Mateo. This service follows many years in
other positions of public benefit throughout the
county.
Maureen has deep roots in San Mateo. Her
grandparents immigrated from Italy in the
1920’s and Maureen is justly proud of her
Italian-American heritage. On one occasion in
recent years, she spoke movingly from the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:59 Oct 22, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A21OC8.015 E21OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E1318 October 21, 2019
council dais about the evolution of San Mateo
through the eyes of an immigrant family. She
recounted the older stores and businesses
that made San Mateo, in the eyes of its resi-
dents in the 1920’s, 30’s, 40’s and 50’s, a
place where neighborhoods and neighbors
mixed freely as everyone raised families and
watched generations grow through peacetime
and wars.
Many of these memories served her well as
she sat on the city’s planning commission and
also guided her decisions as a
councilmember. During her tenure, she sup-
ported the redevelopment of Bay Meadows
race track into a thriving commercial, residen-
tial and transit hub. The city straightened out
a convoluted intersection at Highway 92 and
El Camino Real, began a $1 billion + project
to add to the sewer treatment system, saw an
explosion of jobs and amenities downtown,
witnessed the rebirth of its major shopping
center, and undertook transformational work at
25th Avenue and the Caltrain line.
As the economy recovered, she encouraged
high technology companies to settle into
downtown San Mateo and advocated for res-
taurants and in favor of a lively downtown at
nighttime and on the weekends. While many
contributed to these successes, few were as
vocal as Maureen Freschet in making the
point: Downtown San Mateo is a destination
that is fun, safe and lively from morning to
night.
She’s an active member of the San Mateo
Chamber of Commerce and the Rotary Club.
She was the President of the Belmont Cham-
ber of Commerce during her 23 years as a
government and community relations officer
for Notre Dame de Namur University, in Bel-
mont. If there was a public event or civic en-
gagement that needed attention in either city,
Maureen Freschet was present, energetic,
often a leader, and always a beneficial force
for community improvement.
Many of Maureen’s most visible contribu-
tions will never have her name on them. Due
to her service on the county’s transportation
authority, she was involved in major projects
to improve traffic and transit. As people move
through the community, and despite traffic
woes created by a 2 percent unemployment
rate and high technology job growth that is es-
sentially engulfing our community, travelers
have Maureen to thank in part for recent and
coming improvements that will benefit them for
generations to come.
Maureen is an enthusiastic supporter of San
Mateo’s adopted Army unit, the 101st Airborne
‘‘Screaming Eagles,’’ and worked tirelessly to
welcome them on the 50th anniversary of their
adoption by San Mateo. She spearheaded the
effort to create a memorial in Central Park to
honor San Mateo’s fallen military and local
public safety heroes.
Her dedication to law enforcement is multi-
faceted. She served on the county’s Juvenile
Justice and Delinquency Prevention Commis-
sion and on the Executive Board of the Serv-
ice League. She is also a staunch opponent of
human trafficking and made numerous presen-
tations on this important subject.
Maureen raised her two daughters, Nicole
and Kristen, as a single mother. She is now
known as ‘‘Nini,’’ to her grandson, Carson. Out
of all the titles she’s earned over the years,
this one is her most cherished. She also
earned a Bachelor of Science Degree in
Human Services Administration and a Mas-
ter’s in Public Administration from the Univer-
sity of Notre Dame de Namur in Belmont.
For decades, Maureen Freschet has been
the quintessential pillar of the community. In
America’s democratic tradition, no leader can
honestly say, ‘‘Only I can lead us or all will
perish.’’ No one is irreplaceable. That being
said, in San Mateo, Maureen is close. She
wishes to spend more time with her husband,
Andy, and her family. I commend her for keep-
ing her priorities straight. However, exemplary
citizenship is inspiring to us all. Maureen will
likely roar at times with her private voice, con-
tinue to lead by personal example, and thus
inspire all who know her to remain engaged in
the awesome task of governing this great na-
tion.
f
HONORING THE KNOWLES TEACH-
ER INITIATIVE FOR 20 YEARS OF
SERVICE
HON. ANDY KIM
OF NEW JERSEY
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, October 21, 2019
Mr. KIM. Madam Speaker, I rise today to
honor the Knowles Teacher Initiative of
Moorestown, New Jersey, for their 20 years of
work developing teachers that transform math
and science education for students across the
United States.
Established in 1999 by Janet H. and C.
Harry Knowles, the Knowles Teacher Initiative
supports a network of math and science
teachers nationwide in expanding innovative
practices and teaching expertise. Through
their programs like the Knowles Teaching Fel-
lows Program and the Knowles Senior Fellows
Program, Knowles brings in early-career high
school math and science teachers to aid in
their professional development and create a
lasting network of highly qualified educators
across the country.
Over their 20 years serving our nation’s
teachers, Knowles has supported more than
400 Fellows who have taught math and
science to more than 250,000 students. There
is no doubt that the Knowles Teacher Initiative
has made a lasting impact in not only the lives
of the educators that took part in their fellow-
ships, but also the students that have bene-
fitted from the high-quality instruction stem-
ming from Knowles programs.
I commend the Knowles Teacher Initiative
for the important work they have done to help
to provide development opportunities for our
nation’s math and science teachers. I’m proud
to support their work and look forward to many
impactful years to come.
f
HONORING THE RETURN OF THE
REMAINDER OF THE TULUWAT
TO THE WIYOT TRIBE
HON. JARED HUFFMAN
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, October 21, 2019
Mr. HUFFMAN. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to celebrate the long-awaited return of
the remainder of Tuluwat to the Wiyot Tribe.
This transfer of land from the City of Eureka
is an exceptional gesture that recognizes the
sacredness of the island to the tribe, which
considers it the center of the universe.
Also known as Indian Island, the 280-acre
island was home to the Wiyot people, which
held its annual World Renewal Ceremony
there for many hundreds of years. In the win-
ter of 1860, white settlers coordinated attacks
on Wiyot women, children, and elders while
the men were away. As many as 250 un-
armed Wiyot people were massacred. Indian
Island was later diked and drained and a boat-
yard and lumber mills were built there, leaving
behind a toxic legacy.
In 2000, the Wiyot Tribe purchased a 1.5-
acre parcel of the island. Four years later, the
City of Eureka transferred 67 acres to the
tribe. In 2014, the Wiyot Tribe restored the
World Renewal Ceremony to that part of the
island. In December 2018, the Eureka City
Council voted to repatriate the rest of its land
on Tuluwat to the Wiyot Tribe. The Wiyot
Tribe has worked for years to clean up toxins
on the island, as well as to protect shell
middens and other important sites and re-
sources from erosion.
The Wiyot Tribe will continue to use the site
for ceremonies, including at the Etpidolh Vil-
lage site, and work to remove invasive
Spartina densiflora on the island’s wetlands.
Madam Speaker, the repatriation of Tuluwat
from the City of Eureka to the Wiyot Tribe has
profound importance to the Wiyot people,
whose ancestors suffered greatly during the
early white settlement of the region. I urge my
colleagues to join me in recognizing this his-
toric agreement that continues to try to heal
the harms of the past.
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. A. DONALD McEACHIN
OF VIRGINIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, October 21, 2019
Mr. MCEACHIN. Madam Speaker, I was un-
avoidably detained on October 16, 2019 dur-
ing roll call no. 558, On Ordering the Previous
Question, H. Res. 629, Providing for consider-
ation of the bill (H.R. 1815) SEC Disclosure
Effectiveness Testing Act, and providing for
consideration of the bill (H.R. 3624) Outsourc-
ing Accountability Act. Had I been present, I
would have voted ‘‘yea.’’ I was also unavoid-
ably detained during roll call no. 559, On
Agreeing to the Resolution, H. Res. 629, Pro-
viding for consideration of the bill (H.R. 1815)
SEC Disclosure Effectiveness Testing Act, and
providing for consideration of the bill (H.R.
3624) Outsourcing Accountability Act. Had I
been present, I would have voted ‘‘yea.’’ I was
also unavoidably detained during roll call no.
560, On Motion to Suspend the Rules and
Pass, H.J. Res. 77, Opposing the decision to
end certain United States efforts to prevent
Turkish military operations against Syrian
Kurdish forces in Northeast Syria. Had I been
present, I would have voted ‘‘yea.’’
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:59 Oct 22, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A21OC8.021 E21OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E1319
October 21, 2019
TRIBUTE TO CONGRESSMAN CUM-
MINGS FROM THE AMERICAN
DENTAL ASSOCIATION
HON. MICHAEL K. SIMPSON
OF IDAHO
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, October 21, 2019
Mr. SIMPSON. Madam Speaker, I am deep-
ly saddened by the loss of my colleague, Con-
gressman Elijah Cummings. He was a true
leader in Congress and had the respect of his
colleagues. I feel honored for having the op-
portunity to work with him as his Co-chair of
the Congressional Oral Health Caucus. As a
former dentist, I appreciated Congressman
Cummings for being an advocate for oral
health and advancing many important issues
in a bipartisan manner. He will be missed in
the halls of Congress and I send my deepest
condolences to his family.
On behalf of the American Dental Associa-
tion, I would like to include in the RECORD the
following statement which recognizes Con-
gressman Cummings for his dedication to oral
health:
The American Dental Association (ADA)
would like to offer its sincerest condolences
to the colleagues, family, friends and con-
stituents of Representatives Elijah Cum-
mings. Representative Cummings dedicated
his life of service to uplifting and empow-
ering the people he was sworn to represent in
Congress.
Since 1996, Congressman Cummings has
proudly represented Maryland’s 7th Congres-
sional District in the U.S. House of Rep-
resentatives, where we have discussed many
of the complex challenges of health care in
his state. Rep. Cummings understood the sig-
nificance between oral health and general
well-being for overall health.
As Co-chair of the Oral Health Caucus,
Rep. Cummings was dedicated to increasing
awareness of oral health care and to funding
emerging dental research. Americans will
forever be thankful for his support of initia-
tives that address oral health equity, includ-
ing the Action for Dental Health Act. He was
a staunch supporter and promoter of oral
health as a part of overall health policy.
Rep. Cummings knew that greater access to
dental care needed to include education and
awareness and made it a priority to help ini-
tiate Maryland’s first statewide oral health
literacy campaign.
Rep. Cummings often said that ‘‘Our chil-
dren are the living messages that we send to
a future we will never see.’’ We admired his
dedication to ensuring that our next genera-
tions have access to quality health care and
education. Congress lost a true advocate for
the people today. His willingness to work
and fight for those who need him most is the
biggest loss to our nation.
The ADA will sincerely miss the wisdom
and dedication of Congressman Cummings to
make real and lasting change with the con-
tinued commitment and collaboration of the
oral health community. We will remain sad-
dened yet dedicated to help make that last-
ing change as part of his legacy.
Sincerest condolences,
CHAD P. GEHANI, D.D.S.,
President of the American Dental Association.
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. KAY GRANGER
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, October 21, 2019
Ms. GRANGER. Madam Speaker, I was un-
able to attend votes due to circumstances be-
yond my control.
Had I been present, I would have voted
‘‘yea’’ on Roll Call No. 565; ‘‘yea’’ on Roll Call
No. 566; and ‘‘nay’’ on Roll Call No. 567.
f
HONORING THE LIFE OF ALFRED
JACKSON ‘‘A.J.’’ POWELL
HON. DOUG COLLINS
OF GEORGIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, October 21, 2019
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Madam Speaker,
I rise today to honor the remarkable life of Al-
fred Jackson ‘‘A.J.’’ Powell.
A.J., as he was affectionately known by his
family and friends, was a longtime resident of
Quitman, Georgia. He graduated from Dixie
High School and went on to study at the Uni-
versity of Georgia, earning a degree in Agri-
culture. Upon graduation, A.J. enlisted in the
Army Air Corps, where he served our country
honorably as a meteorologist and Ordinance
Officer, ultimately achieving the rank of Cap-
tain.
A.J. had a broad and meaningful impact on
his community in Quitman, Georgia. After re-
turning from military service, he paired his love
for agriculture with his experience in the Army
to serve veterans in his community. He orga-
nized the first Veterans’ Farm Training pro-
gram in the county, serving as an agriculture
teacher for groups of veterans, and later was
promoted by the State Department of Edu-
cation to Supervisor for the Veterans Agri-
culture Program for all the counties in South
Georgia.
After leaving the Department of Education,
A.J. opened Powell’s Farm Supply, becoming
a leading innovator in agricultural infrared pho-
tography and liquid fertilizer products. He
raised beef cattle on his farm, Crooked Creek,
and was actively involved in the agriculture
community, assuming roles ranging from
President of the Georgia Seedsmen’s Associa-
tion to President of the Chamber of Com-
merce.
Throughout his life, A.J. served his commu-
nity in a variety of capacities. Among his
greatest joys was serving in his church,
Quitman First Baptist Church, where he was
an active member, serving many roles, includ-
ing as a Sunday school teacher and the Chair-
man of Deacons. First and foremost, A.J. was
a man of integrity who was well known for his
faith in Jesus and his love for others. He lived
out Joshua 24: 15, ‘‘. . . as for me and my
house, we will serve the Lord.’’
A.J. will be forever remembered as a man
of faith, diligence, and integrity. Most impor-
tantly, he will be remembered as a loyal and
faithful husband to his beloved wife, Mary; fa-
ther to his three children, Beth, Jay and Lisa;
grandfather, great grandfather, uncle, and
friend. A.J. will be dearly missed, but his leg-
acy will be felt for generations to come. On
behalf of the people of Georgia, I hope you
will join me in celebrating his wonderful life.
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. A. DONALD McEACHIN
OF VIRGINIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, October 21, 2019
Mr. MCEACHIN. Madam Speaker, I was un-
avoidably detained on September 25, 2019
during roll call no. 542, On Ordering the Pre-
vious Question on the Amendment and the
Resolution, H. Res. 577, Providing for consid-
eration of H.R. 2203, the Homeland Security
Improvement Act; H.R. 3525, the US Border
Patrol Medical Screening Standards Act; and
H. Res. 576, expressing the sense of the
House with respect to the whistleblower com-
plaint of August 12, 2019, made to the Inspec-
tor General of the Intelligence Community.
Had I been present, I would have voted ‘‘yea.’’
I was also unavoidably detained during roll call
no. 543, On Agreeing to the Resolution, H.
Res. 577, Providing for consideration of H.R.
2203, the Homeland Security Improvement
Act; H.R. 3525, the U.S. Border Patrol Medical
Screening Standards Act; and H. Res. 576,
expressing the sense of the House with re-
spect to the whistleblower complaint of August
12, 2019, made to the Inspector General of
the Intelligence Community. Had I been
present, I would have voted ‘‘yea.’’ I was also
unavoidably detained during roll call no. 544,
On Motion to Suspend the Rules and Pass, as
Amended, H.R. 1595, SAFE Banking Act. Had
I been present, I would have voted ‘‘yea.’’ I
was also unavoidably detained during roll call
no. 545, On Motion to Recommit with Instruc-
tions, H.R. 2203, Homeland Security Improve-
ment Act. Had I been present, I would have
voted ‘‘no.’’ I was also unavoidably detained
during roll call no. 546, On Passage, H.R.
2203, Homeland Security Improvement Act.
Had I been present, I would have voted ‘‘yea.’’
I was also unavoidably detained during roll call
no. 547, On Motion to Table, H. Res. 590,
Raising a question of the privileges of the
House. Had I been present, I would have
voted ‘‘aye.’’ I was also unavoidably detained
during roll call no. 548, On Agreeing to the
Resolution, H. Res. 576, Expressing the sense
of the House of Representatives with respect
to the whistleblower complaint of August 12,
2019, made to the Inspector General of the In-
telligence Community. Had I been present, I
would have voted ‘‘yea.’’
f
HONORING MICHAEL DUNLEA AS A
RECIPIENT OF THE PRESI-
DENTIAL AWARD FOR EXCEL-
LENCE IN MATHEMATICS AND
SCIENCE TEACHING
HON. ANDY KIM
OF NEW JERSEY
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, October 21, 2019
Mr. KIM. Madam Speaker, I rise today to
honor Michael Dunlea of Tabernacle Elemen-
tary School in Tabernacle, New Jersey, as a
recipient of the Presidential Award for Excel-
lence in Mathematics and Science Teaching
(PAEMST).
Each year, the PAEMST recognizes out-
standing K–12 teachers for their contributions
to the teaching and learning of science, tech-
nology, engineering, mathematics, and com-
puter science. Recipients of the award are
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:59 Oct 22, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A21OC8.025 E21OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E1320 October 21, 2019
widely respected by their peers, displaying
strong expertise in STEM education, and hav-
ing made a lasting positive impact on their stu-
dents. Only 108 teachers from all 50 states,
the District of Columbia, and the U.S. terri-
tories receive this selective recognition each
year.
I commend Mr. Dunlea for his fine work as
an educator and mentor to his students, build-
ing important skills that will help them succeed
in a rapidly developing world. STEM education
is a building block to an increasingly complex
economy that relies on a strong technological
skill set. Today’s students with strong STEM
backgrounds will be those that discover a cure
for cancer, help to bring an end to climate
change, and gets an American on Mars. The
important skills that Mr. Dunlea’s students de-
velop from his instruction will bring important
individual achievements, and will aid our na-
tion in the future.
I’m proud to say that we have excellent
quality teachers in New Jersey like Mr.
Dunlea, and I look forward to seeing his im-
portant work develop in the growth and suc-
cess of his students.
f
CELEBRATING THE LIFE OF
JERRY EPSTEIN
HON. TED LIEU
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, October 21, 2019
Mr. TED LIEU of California. Madam Speak-
er, I rise today with my colleague Congress-
woman LUCILLE ROYBAL-ALLARD, to celebrate
the life of Mr. Jerry Epstein, who passed away
at the age of 96 on September 2, 2019 in Los
Angeles, California. Jerry was an integral part
of the development of Los Angeles County
through his involvement in real estate, con-
struction, and philanthropic causes.
Born on August 29, 1923 as the only child
of Meyer and Tilda Epstein, Jerry was raised
in the Bronx and Mount Vernon, New York.
Shortly after the bombing of Pearl Harbor,
Jerry enlisted in the military, serving as an en-
listed man and commissioned officer in the
United States Army and Air Force. He flew in
B–17 and B–29 bombers and served on active
duty during multiple island invasions in the Pa-
cific Theater during World War II.
After the war, Jerry enrolled at Emory Uni-
versity, where he met the love of his life, Pat.
They were married on December 26, 1948
and celebrated more than 66 years together
before she passed on July 22, 2015.
In 1949 Jerry and Pat moved to Los Ange-
les, where Jerry initially worked for Pat’s fam-
ily business. In 1952, Jerry became involved
in real estate, including the development and
management of multi-family rental apartments,
as well as the initial creation and development
of Marina del Rey, now the largest pleasure
boat harbor community in the world.
Jerry took pride in his service on several
local and state public bodies focused on trans-
portation infrastructure and public building
construction. He was appointed to the Los An-
geles County Economy and Efficiency Com-
mission in the 1970s and was the first chair-
man of the Energy Commission for the City
and County of Los Angeles. Jerry also served
as a chairman of the California Transportation
Commission and vice chair of the California
High-Speed Rail Authority.
As a trustee of Saint John’s Hospital and
Health Center Foundation in Santa Monica for
more than 40 years, Jerry felt great pleasure
working with the compassionate sisters, doc-
tors, nurses and staff treating and healing pa-
tients. Jerry was also chair of the Develop-
ment Committee that oversaw the $500 million
reconstruction of Saint John’s after the 1994
Northridge earthquake.
Philanthropic causes played a big role in
Jerry’s life—he and Pat were honored by the
National Conference of Christians and Jews,
the Boys and Girls Club of Venice, Big Broth-
ers of America, Portals, and Saint John’s Hos-
pital; they also supported many charities, in-
cluding the Lucille and Edward R. Roybal
Foundation, the Jewish Federation, and Jew-
ish Family Service of Los Angeles.
Jerry’s impact on the communities he
helped build from the ground up is indelible.
Congresswoman ROYBAL-ALLARD and I are
blessed to have known and worked with Jerry
on issues of importance in Southern Cali-
fornia. May his commitment to service inspire
those of us working toward a brighter future.
f
HONORING WILLIAM M. MOONEY,
JR.
HON. NITA M. LOWEY
OF NEW YORK
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, October 21, 2019
Mrs. LOWEY. Madam Speaker, I rise to
honor William M. Mooney, Jr. as he prepares
for his retirement from the Westchester Coun-
ty Association (WCA), where he currently
serves as President and CEO.
First elected to head the Westchester Coun-
ty Association in 2004, Bill Mooney has distin-
guished himself as one of the premier advo-
cates for the Lower Hudson Valley’s business
and banking communities. Under Bill’s stead-
fast leadership, the WCA transformed from a
network of business interests to a formidable
organization focused on fostering economic
growth and development in Westchester
County and beyond.
Counted among Bill’s numerous accomplish-
ments are helping to launch The Blueprint for
Westchester, a groundbreaking campaign that
resulted in the repurposing, reactivation, and
redevelopment of millions of square feet of un-
derutilized space in Westchester County. With
Bill at the helm, the WCA also managed a
$9.8 million federal workforce development
grant—the largest such grant in the history of
Westchester County—resulting in hundreds of
jobs for Hudson Valley residents.
Beyond his prowess as a business leader,
Bill has always been dedicated to giving back
to the community. Bill’s philanthropic efforts
have directly benefitted the United Way of
Westchester and Putnam Counties, the Amer-
ican Heart Walk, the Westchester Partnership
for Economic Development, the Red Cross of
Rockland County, and countless other non-
profits and educational organizations.
Bill Mooney has dedicated his career to
making Westchester County a desirable place
in which to live and work. Bill’s achievements
have left an indelible mark on the lives of so
many, and his legacy will be remembered long
after he leaves the WCA. Thanks to his tire-
less efforts, William M. Mooney, Jr.’s pre-
diction that Westchester County’s best days lie
ahead seems certain to come true.
HONORING CHRISTINE CARPENTER
AS IOWA’S CANCER CHAMPION
OF THE YEAR
HON. CYNTHIA AXNE
OF IOWA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, October 21, 2019
Mrs. AXNE. Madam Speaker, I rise today to
honor breast cancer survivors across Iowa. I
want to recognize Christine Carpenter as a
champion and advocate for Iowa women with
breast cancer.
Christine was diagnosed with breast cancer
26 years ago—and won. She took her experi-
ence with breast cancer and turned into a mis-
sion. She is now a leading voice with the Iowa
Breast Cancer Advocacy Network, a valuable
member of the Iowa Beyond Pink Team, and
a frequent face here on Capitol Hill.
I’ve had the chance to meet with Christine
as she fights for research funding and advo-
cates for legal changes that will better serve
Iowans, and all women, with breast cancer. If
you or a loved one in Iowa have experienced
breast cancer, you’ve likely either met Chris-
tine or benefited from the work she’s done.
She helped ensure that those on Medicaid re-
ceive treatment for breast and cervical can-
cers—even if they didn’t qualify under the
standard programs. Through her persistent ad-
vocacy, Christine was able to protect Iowan
women who are most in need.
Christine is the right woman to have on your
side and fierce advocate for breast cancer sur-
vivors. That is why it is no surprise that Chris-
tine was awarded the Iowa Cancer Champion
of the Year 2019. Christine’s ‘‘Iowa-Nice’’ ap-
proach has ensured that all our federally elect-
ed officials from Iowa are supporting important
breast cancer reform legislation.
In honor of Christine and Iowans with breast
cancer, I am calling on my House colleagues
to sign onto the Metastatic Breast Cancer Ac-
cess to Care Act. This legislation will waive
the 24-month waiting period for Medicare eligi-
bility and the 5-month waiting period of Social
Security Disability Insurance for those with
metastatic breast cancer. Metastatic breast
cancer is when that cancer has spread be-
yond the breast and into other organs. Dev-
astatingly, it cannot be cured. It is estimated
that nearly 160,000 women in the United
States have this terminal form of breast can-
cer. As we work toward a cure, it is important
we provide these women and their families
with the financial peace of mind they need in
this difficult time.
f
TRIBUTE TO MONTGOMERY
MAYOR TODD STRANGE
HON. TERRI A. SEWELL
OF ALABAMA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, October 21, 2019
Ms. SEWELL of Alabama. Madam Speaker,
I rise today to honor Mayor Todd Strange, the
56th mayor of Montgomery, Alabama, on his
decade of service to his city, his state and to
the people of Alabama. Mayor Strange’s out-
standing career has been characterized by his
commitment to restoring and ensuring Mont-
gomery’s economic vitality, his unique sense
of humor and, most importantly, his deep and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:59 Oct 22, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A21OC8.029 E21OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E1321
October 21, 2019
unwavering love for his city. Since taking of-
fice on March 23, 2009, Mayor Strange has
been a strong and able leader, who has con-
sistently put people over politics, and has re-
mained resistant to the divisions commonplace
in today’s political climate. He leaves the City
of Montgomery a better place for his excellent
leadership.
Long interested in the complexities and
practical applications of politics, Mayor
Strange graduated from Murphy High School
in Mobile, Alabama before continuing on to
earn his B.A. in Political Science from
Montevallo University. After graduating, Mayor
Strange took the opportunity to try his own
hand at politics, serving as chairman of the
Montgomery County Commission and as Di-
rector of the Alabama Department of Com-
merce. During this time, Mayor Strange was
instrumental in coordinating efforts that re-
sulted in substantial job growth and economic
revitalization throughout the city, including
working with many partners to bring the
Hyundai Motor Manufacturing Facility of Ala-
bama to Montgomery.
Over the course of his career, Mayor
Strange also worked in the private sector, ably
taking on leadership roles in the automotive
and telecommunications fields. Mayor Strange
served as President, CEO and Co-owner of
Blount-Strange Automotive Group, where he
oversaw hundreds of employees, and held
several leadership roles within South Central
Bell Company (now AT&T). He further served
as Senior Vice President of Administration of
Blount International, Ltd. and President and
CEO of Blount Development Corporation.
Mayor Strange first came into office winning
a special election after his predecessor, Mayor
Bobby Bright, was elected to the United States
House of Representatives. His election came
on the heels of the economic recession, evi-
dent in the city’s operating budget. Over the
following six years, Mayor Strange worked dili-
gently to continue revitalization in his city,
making use of major sporting events, con-
ferences, new jobs and economic develop-
ment to drive revenue. By 2015, the City of
Montgomery closed out the fiscal year with
over twenty million in the coffers.
Further, during his time as mayor, Mayor
Strange made use of new technologies to cut
costs and keep the city safe, implementing a
Smart City Initiative, which makes use of artifi-
cial intelligence to assess roads for paving
projects. The initiative utilizes cutting edge
surveillance and sanitation technology in order
to streamline efficiency; and uses in-house
software technology to keep costs in check.
The project symbolizes Mayor Strange’s com-
mitment to finding practical, cost-effective so-
lutions that make use of all that modern tech-
nology has to offer, in order for the city to run
as smoothly as possible.
Mayor Strange has served as Chairman of
the Montgomery Business Committee for the
Arts, Chairman of the Capital City Club and
Chairman of the Board of Trustees of the City
of Montevallo. He was formerly the Chairman
of the University of Montevallo National Alumni
Association, the Chairman of the Board of Di-
rectors for the Montgomery Area Chamber of
Commerce, the President of the Alabama In-
stitute for the Deaf and Blind Foundation, the
Board Chairman of the Montgomery Riverfront
Development Committee and the Chairman of
the Montgomery Riverfront Alliance. A testa-
ment to his enduring legacy and impact,
Mayor Strange has been honored with myriad
awards and recognition, including: The Busi-
ness and Professional Women Boss of the
Year Award, the March of Dimes River Region
Citizen of the Year Award, the Auburn Univer-
sity at Montgomery Outstanding Community
Leader Award and Time Magazine’s Quality
Dealer Award for Alabama.
Throughout his long and impressive career,
Mayor Strange has been blessed to be sup-
ported by his wife Linda, his two daughters,
Jennifer and Elizabeth and his grandchildren.
The strength provided by his family has al-
lowed Mayor Strange his remarkable profes-
sional successes and, certainly, his commit-
ment to honoring family values has carried
over to his service as mayor.
On a personal note, I have greatly enjoyed
working with Mayor Strange on the federal
issues that matter most to Montgomery and
the River Region. I’m especially proud of the
work that our community and, especially, the
work that Mayor Strange and his office have
done to make the 187th Air National Guard
home to the new F–35 Lightening II Jets, re-
sulting in the creation of hundreds of jobs and
tens of millions of dollars in economic invest-
ment. As we usher in this new era for the City
of Montgomery, I know that Mayor Strange’s
legacy will be the foundation upon which oth-
ers will lead. While he may be retiring from his
service as Mayor, I know he will still be an ac-
tive, lifelong advocate on behalf of the people
of the City of Montgomery and the River Re-
gion.
Madam Speaker, I ask my colleagues to join
me in honoring Todd Strange for his out-
standing service as mayor of the City of Mont-
gomery.
f
HONORING JASON ROSS
HON. JOHN RATCLIFFE
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, October 21, 2019
Mr. RATCLIFFE. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to honor and thank a truly great Amer-
ican, my District Chief of Staff, Jason Ross.
After five years of dedication to our country
and the communities of Texas’ Fourth Con-
gressional District, Jason is departing from my
office to return to the private sector with a
record of extraordinary achievement and the
gratitude of thousands of Texans whom he
has served faithfully.
Madam Speaker, I don’t have the words to
accurately or adequately convey my gratitude
for Jason’s commitment, dedication, devotion
and loyalty to this endeavor over the past five
years.
Since Day 1 in January 2015, I have trusted
Jason with charting a course for our district
operations to the more than 700,000 Texans
across 18 counties. Now, almost 5 years later,
there has never been a single day where I
have not been rewarded for that decision.
Along the way, I’ve been witness to and
credited for so many great and wonderful
things that have transpired in our district—but
always knowing that the credit belongs to and
has resulted from the work of everyone on
staff, under Jason’s inspiring leadership.
Personally, I could never have expected or
deserved a better supporter, defender, con-
fidant and friend than Jason Ross.
I was once told that if the only prayer you
ever say in your life is ‘‘thank you,’’ but if you
say it with genuine praise and glory to God,
then you’ve both said and prayed enough. So,
on behalf of Texas’ Fourth Congressional Dis-
trict, I would like to formally honor Jason Ross
on his years of dedicated service to our con-
stituents and this nation by saying . . .
Thank you, Jason.
f
TRIBUTE TO GREGORY GARCIA
HON. JOAQUIN CASTRO
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, October 21, 2019
Mr. CASTRO of Texas. Madam Speaker,
today I rise in honor of Mr. Gregory Garcia
who passed away on Friday, October 4, 2019.
Mr. Garcia dedicated his life to community and
education. He is survived by wife of 42 years,
Margaret; his daughters Christine, Gina, and
Glinda; son Gregory Anthony; and his sister
Leila Ramos. He will be greatly missed.
Mr. Greg Garcia was born and raised in San
Antonio, Texas, graduating from Central
Catholic High School in 1958. A proud alumni
of Texas A&M University, he graduated in
1962 with a Bachelor of Arts in Business.
There, he actively participated in the Corps of
Cadets.
After extensive work in the private sector for
20 years, he heard the call to return and serve
the alma mater that he so loved. Mr. Garcia
was incredibly active in our community and his
involvement was only matched by his desire to
make San Antonio the best it can possibly be.
During his time with the Texas A&M Univer-
sity System, he served as Vice Chancellor of
Governmental Relations. He partnered with his
dear friends, the late Senator Frank Madla, in
establishing a university on San Antonio’s
Southside. He has since been recognized as
a founding father of Texas A&M University—
San Antonio.
Madam Speaker, it is with a heavy heart
that I acknowledge the passing of Mr. Gregory
Garcia. San Antonio and its Southside com-
munities mourn the loss of a great pillar who
dedicated his life to the service of others. I
thank Mr. Garcia for everything he has done
for San Antonians, the entire state of Texas,
and for his fellow Aggies.
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. JOYCE BEATTY
OF OHIO
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, October 21, 2019
Mrs. BEATTY. Madam Speaker, I was ab-
sent from the House Chamber on October 18,
2019, to attend a funeral in my district. Had I
been present, I would have voted no on Roll
Call No. 565; no on Roll Call No. 566; and yes
on Roll Call No. 567.
f
SENATE COMMITTEE MEETINGS
Title IV of Senate Resolution 4,
agreed to by the Senate of February 4,
1977, calls for establishment of a sys-
tem for a computerized schedule of all
meetings and hearings of Senate com-
mittees, subcommittees, joint commit-
tees, and committees of conference.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:59 Oct 22, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A21OC8.033 E21OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E1322 October 21, 2019
This title requires all such committees
to notify the Office of the Senate Daily
Digest—designated by the Rules Com-
mittee—of the time, place and purpose
of the meetings, when scheduled and
any cancellations or changes in the
meetings as they occur.
As an additional procedure along
with the computerization of this infor-
mation, the Office of the Senate Daily
Digest will prepare this information for
printing in the Extensions of Remarks
section of the CONGRESSIONAL RECORD
on Monday and Wednesday of each
week.
Meetings scheduled for Tuesday, Oc-
tober 22, 2019 may be found in the Daily
Digest of today’s RECORD.
MEETINGS SCHEDULED
OCTOBER 23
10 a.m.
Committee on Armed Services
Subcommittee on SeaPower
To receive a closed briefing on the
Navy’s ‘‘Spectrum of Conflict’’ stra-
tegic framework.
SVC–217
Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation
To hold hearings to examine the reau-
thorization of the Satellite Television
Extension and Localism Act.
SH–216
Committee on Environment and Public
Works
To hold hearings to examine improving
American economic competitiveness
through water resources infrastruc-
ture.
SD–406
2:30 p.m.
Committee on Appropriations
Subcommittee on State, Foreign Oper-
ations, and Related Programs
To hold hearings to examine United
States policy and assistance in Syria.
SD–124
Committee on Foreign Relations
Subcommittee on Europe and Regional Se-
curity Cooperation
To hold hearings to examine successes
and unfinished business in the Western
Balkans.
SD–419
United States Senate Caucus on Inter-
national Narcotics Control
To hold hearings to examine marijuana
and America’s health, focusing on
questions and issues for policy makers.
SD–215
OCTOBER 24
9:30 a.m.
Committee on Armed Services
To hold hearings to examine the nomina-
tion of Vice Admiral Charles A. Rich-
ard, USN, to be Admiral and Com-
mander, United States Strategic Com-
mand, Department of Defense.
SD–G50
10 a.m.
Committee on Banking, Housing, and
Urban Affairs
To hold hearings to examine data owner-
ship, focusing on exploring implica-
tions for data privacy rights and data
valuation.
SD–538
Committee on Homeland Security and
Governmental Affairs
Subcommittee on Regulatory Affairs and
Federal Management
To hold a joint hearing to examine E–
Rulemaking comment systems.
SD–342
Committee on the Judiciary
Business meeting to consider S. 2511, to
amend title 40, United States Code, to
provide the Marshal of the Supreme
Court of the United States and Su-
preme Court Police with the authority
to protect the Chief Justice of the
United States, any Associate Justice of
the Supreme Court, and other individ-
uals in any location, and the nomina-
tions of Halil Suleyman Ozerden, of
Mississippi, to be United States Circuit
Judge for the Fifth Circuit, Danielle J.
Hunsaker, of Oregon, to be United
States Circuit Judge for the Ninth Cir-
cuit, Steven J. Menashi, to be United
States Circuit Judge for the Second
Circuit, William Joseph Nardini, of
Connecticut, to be United States Cir-
cuit Judge for the Second Circuit, Jodi
W. Dishman, to be United States Dis-
trict Judge for the Western District of
Oklahoma, Karen Spencer Marston, to
be United States District Judge for the
Eastern District of Pennsylvania, Rich-
ard Earnest Myers II, to be United
States District Judge for the Eastern
District of North Carolina, Sarah E.
Pitlyk, to be United States District
Judge for the Eastern District of Mis-
souri, Anuraag Singhal, to be United
States District Judge for the Southern
District of Florida, Daniel Mack
Traynor, to be United States District
Judge for the District of North Dakota,
and David M. DeVillers, to be United
States Attorney for the Southern Dis-
trict of Ohio, Department of Justice.
SD–226
Commission on Security and Cooperation
in Europe
To hold hearings to examine anti-corrup-
tion initiatives to fight emerging
methods of foreign bribery.
RHOB–2128
10:30 a.m.
Committee on Finance
To hold hearings to examine treating
substance misuse in America, focusing
on scams, shortfalls, and solutions.
SD–215
2 p.m.
Select Committee on Intelligence
To receive a closed briefing to examine
certain intelligence matters.
SH–219
OCTOBER 29
9:30 a.m.
Committee on Armed Services
To hold hearings to examine the nomina-
tions of Lisa W. Hershman, of Indiana,
to be Chief Management Officer, Dana
S. Deasy, of Virginia, to be Chief Infor-
mation Officer, and Robert John Sand-
er, of Virginia, to be General Counsel
of the Department of the Navy, all of
the Department of Defense.
SD–G50
OCTOBER 30
10 a.m.
Committee on Energy and Natural Re-
sources
Subcommittee on Water and Power
To hold hearings to examine the use of
technology and innovation to increase
water security and enable economic de-
velopment in the West.
SD–366
2:30 p.m.
Committee on Armed Services
Subcommittee on Cybersecurity
To receive a closed briefing on Depart-
ment of Defense cyber operations.
SVC–217
Committee on the Judiciary
Subcommittee on Intellectual Property
To hold hearings to examine promoting
the useful arts, focusing on how Con-
gress can prevent the issuance of poor
quality patents.
SD–226
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:59 Oct 22, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00010 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\M21OC8.000 E21OCPT1
D1134
Monday, October 21, 2019
Daily Digest
Senate
Chamber Action
Routine Proceedings, pages S5907–5929
Measures Introduced: Seven bills and four resolu-
tions were introduced, as follows: S. 2648–2654, S.
Res. 366–368, and S. Con. Res. 27. Page S5922
Measures Reported:
S. 2132, to promote security and provide justice
for United States victims of international terrorism,
with amendments. Page S5922
Measures Passed:
Providing for the Use of the Catafalque: Senate
agreed to S. Con. Res. 27, providing for the use of
the catafalque situated in the Exhibition Hall of the
Capitol Visitor Center in connection with memorial
services to be conducted in the House wing of the
Capitol for the Honorable Elijah E. Cummings, late
a Representative from the State of Maryland.
Pages S5909, S5927
Authorizing the Production of Records by the
Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations: Senate
agreed to S. Res. 368, to authorize the production
of records by the Permanent Subcommittee on Inves-
tigations of the Committee on Homeland Security
and Governmental Affairs. Pages S5926–27, S5927
Grant Reporting Efficiency and Agreements
Transparency Act: Senate passed H.R. 150, to mod-
ernize Federal grant reporting, after agreeing to the
committee amendment in the nature of a substitute.
Pages S5927–28
Treaty on the Republic of North Macedonia—
Agreement: Senate resumed consideration of the
protocol to the North Atlantic Treaty of 1949 on
the Accession of the Republic of North Macedonia
(Treaty Doc. 116–1), taking action on the following
motion and amendments proposed thereto:
Pages S5909–16
Pending:
McConnell Amendment No. 946, to change the
enactment date. Page S5909
McConnell Amendment No. 947 (to Amendment
No. 946), of a perfecting nature. Page S5909
During consideration of this measure today, Senate
also took the following action:
By 84 yeas to 2 nays (Vote No. 326), three-fifths
of those Senators duly chosen and sworn, having
voted in the affirmative, Senate agreed to the motion
to close further debate on the treaty. Pages S5915–16
A unanimous-consent agreement was reached pro-
viding for further consideration of the treaty, post-
cloture, at approximately 10 a.m., on Tuesday, Octo-
ber 22, 2019, and the time until 12 noon be equally
divided between the two Leaders, or their designees;
and that all post-cloture time on the treaty expire at
12 noon, and Senate vote on ratification of the trea-
ty. Page S5916
Messages from the House: Page S5917
Measures Referred: Page S5917
Measures Placed on the Calendar:
Pages S5909, S5917
Executive Communications: Pages S5917–22
Additional Cosponsors: Pages S5922–24
Statements on Introduced Bills/Resolutions:
Pages S5924–26
Additional Statements: Pages S5916–17
Record Votes: One record vote was taken today.
(Total—326) Page S5916
Adjournment: Senate convened at 3 p.m. and ad-
journed at 6:19 p.m., until 10 a.m. on Tuesday, Oc-
tober 22, 2019. (For Senate’s program, see the re-
marks of the Acting Majority Leader in today’s
Record on pages S5928–29.)
Committee Meetings
(Committees not listed did not meet)
No committee meetings were held.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:55 Oct 22, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D21OC9.REC D21OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D1135
October 21, 2019
House of Representatives
Chamber Action
Public Bills and Resolutions Introduced: 11 pub-
lic bills, H.R. 4767–4777; and 3 resolutions, H.
Res. 647–649 were introduced. Pages H8297–98
Additional Cosponsors: Pages H8298–H8300
Reports Filed: Reports were filed today as follows:
H.R. 2514, to make reforms to the Federal Bank
Secrecy Act and anti-money laundering laws, and for
other purposes, with an amendment (H. Rept.
116–245, Part 1);
H.R. 4617, to amend the Federal Election Cam-
paign Act of 1971 to clarify the obligation to report
acts of foreign election influence and require imple-
mentation of compliance and reporting systems by
Federal campaigns to detect and report such acts,
and for other purposes, with an amendment (H.
Rept. 116–246, Part 1); and
H. Res. 646, providing for consideration of the
bill (H.R. 2513) to ensure that persons who form
corporations or limited liability companies in the
United States disclose the beneficial owners of those
corporations or limited liability companies, in order
to prevent wrongdoers from exploiting United States
corporations and limited liability companies for
criminal gain, to assist law enforcement in detecting,
preventing, and punishing terrorism, money laun-
dering, and other misconduct involving United
States corporations and limited liability companies,
and for other purposes (H. Rept. 116–247).
Page H8297
Speaker: Read a letter from the Speaker wherein she
appointed Representative Gomez to act as Speaker
pro tempore for today. Page H8263
Recess: The House recessed at 12:10 p.m. and re-
convened at 2 p.m. Pages H8264
Communication from the Clerk—Office of Con-
gressional Ethics: Pursuant to section 1(k) of House
Resolution 895, One Hundred Tenth Congress, and
section 104(c) of House Resolution 6, One Hundred
Sixteenth Congress, the Clerk transmitted to the
Speaker that the following individuals each have
signed an agreement not to be a candidate for the
office of Senator or Representative in, or Delegate or
Resident Commissioner to, the Congress for purposes
of the Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971 until
at least 3 years after they are no longer a member
of the board or staff of the Office of Congressional
Ethics: David Skaggs, Allison Hayward, Belinda
Pinckney, Karan English, James Eagen, Michael
Barnes, Paul Vinovich, Lynn Westmoreland, Omar
Ashmawy, Jeffrey Brown, William Cable, Annie
Cho, Helen Eisner, Mary Flanagan, Samuel McHale,
Gabrielle Piper, Sean Quinn, Jeremy Ritter-
Wiseman, and Paul Solis. Page H8265
Recess: The House recessed at 2:11 p.m. and recon-
vened at 3:29 p.m. Page H8265–66
Suspensions: The House agreed to suspend the rules
and pass the following measures:
Small Business Development Centers Improve-
ment Act of 2019: H.R. 4406, amended, to amend
the Small Business Act to improve the small busi-
ness development centers program, by a 2/3 yea-and-
nay vote of 375 yeas to 25 nays, Roll No. 569;
Pages H8266–68, H8280–81
Women’s Business Centers Improvements Act of
2019: H.R. 4405, to amend the Small Business Act
to improve the women’s business center program;
Pages H8268–74
SCORE for Small Business Act of 2019: H.R.
4407, to amend the Small Business Act to reauthor-
ize the SCORE program, by a 2⁄3 yea-and-nay vote
of 389 yeas to 8 nays, Roll No. 570; and
Pages H8274–77, H8281
Establishing Growth Accelerator Fund Competi-
tion within the Small Business Administration:
H.R. 4387, to establish Growth Accelerator Fund
Competition within the Small Business Administra-
tion. Pages H8277–78
Recess: The House recessed at 4:26 p.m. and recon-
vened at 6:22 p.m. Page H8278
Question of Privilege: Representative Biggs rose to
a question of the privileges of the House and sub-
mitted a resolution. Upon examination of the resolu-
tion, the Chair determined that the resolution quali-
fied. Subsequently, the House agreed to the Hoyer
motion to table H. Res. 647, condemning and cen-
suring Adam Schiff, Representative of California’s
28th Congressional District, by a yea-and-nay vote of
218 yeas to 185 nays, Roll No. 568. Pages H8279–80
Providing for the use of the catafalque situated
in the Exhibition Hall of the Capitol Visitor Cen-
ter in connection with memorial services to be
conducted in the House wing of the Capitol for
the Honorable Elijah E. Cummings, late a rep-
resentative of the State of Maryland: The House
agreed to take from the Speaker’s table and agree to
S. Con. Res. 27, providing for the use of the cata-
falque situated in the Exhibition Hall of the Capitol
Visitor Center in connection with memorial services
to be conducted in the House wing of the Capitol
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:55 Oct 22, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D21OC9.REC D21OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D1136 October 21, 2019
for the Honorable Elijah E. Cummings, late a rep-
resentative of the State of Maryland. Page H8282
Senate Referrals: S. 2258 was held at the desk. S.
2635 was referred to the Committee on the Judici-
ary. S. Con. Res. 27 was held at the desk.
Pages H8265, H8296
Senate Messages: Message received from the Senate
today and message received from the Senate by the
Clerk and subsequently presented to the House
today appears on page H8277.
Quorum Calls—Votes: Three yea-and-nay votes de-
veloped during the proceedings of today and appear
on pages H8279–80, H8280–81, and H8281. There
were no quorum calls.
Adjournment: The House met at 12 noon and ad-
journed at 9:25 p.m.
Committee Meetings
CORPORATE TRANSPARENCY ACT OF 2019
Committee on Rules: Full Committee held a hearing on
H.R. 2513, the ‘‘Corporate Transparency Act of
2019’’. The Committee granted, by record vote of
9–4, a structured rule providing for consideration of
H.R. 2513, the ‘‘Corporate Transparency Act of
2019’’. The rule provides one hour of general debate
on the bill equally divided and controlled by the
chair and ranking minority member of the Com-
mittee on Financial Services. The rule waives all
points of order against consideration of the bill. The
rule provides that the amendment in the nature of
a substitute recommended by the Committee on Fi-
nancial Services now printed in the bill, modified by
the amendment printed in Part A of the Rules Com-
mittee report, shall be considered as adopted and the
bill, as amended, shall be considered as read. The
rule waives all points of order against provisions in
the bill, as amended. The rule makes in order only
those amendments printed in Part B of the Rules
Committee report accompanying the resolution. Each
such amendment may be offered only in the order
printed in the report, may be offered only by a
Member designated in the report, shall be considered
as read, shall be debatable for the time specified in
the report equally divided and controlled by the pro-
ponent and an opponent, shall not be subject to
amendment, and shall not be subject to a demand
for division of the question. The rule waives all
points of order against the amendments printed in
Part B of the report. Finally, the rule provides one
motion to recommit with or without instructions.
Testimony was heard from Representatives Carolyn
B. Maloney of New York, McHenry, Burgess, and
Davidson of Ohio.
Joint Meetings
No joint committee meetings were held.
f
COMMITTEE MEETINGS FOR TUESDAY,
OCTOBER 22, 2019
(Committee meetings are open unless otherwise indicated)
Senate
Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs: to
hold an oversight hearing to examine the status of the
Consolidated Audit Trail, 10 a.m., SD–538.
Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation: Sub-
committee on Science, Oceans, Fisheries, and Weather, to
hold hearings to examine research and innovation, focus-
ing on ensuring America’s economic and strategic leader-
ship, 2:15 p.m., SD–562.
Committee on Energy and Natural Resources: to hold hear-
ings to examine international efforts to increase energy ef-
ficiency and opportunities to advance energy efficiency in
the United States, 10 a.m., SD–366.
Committee on Foreign Relations: to hold hearings to exam-
ine the impact of Turkey’s offensive in northeast Syria,
2:30 p.m., SD–419.
Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs:
to hold hearings to examine the nominations of Joshua A.
Deahl, to be an Associate Judge of the District of Colum-
bia Court of Appeals, Deborah J. Israel and Andrea L.
Hertzfeld, both to be an Associate Judge of the Superior
Court of the District of Columbia, and Robert Anthony
Dixon, to be United States Marshal for the Superior
Court of the District of Columbia, Department of Justice,
10 a.m., SD–342.
Committee on the Judiciary: to hold hearings to examine
sanctuary jurisdictions, focusing on the impact on public
safety and victims, 10 a.m., SD–226.
Select Committee on Intelligence: to hold closed hearings to
examine certain intelligence matters, 2:30 p.m., SH–219.
House
Committee on Agriculture, Subcommittee on Conservation
and Forestry, hearing entitled ‘‘Realizing the Conserva-
tion Benefits of Precision Agriculture’’, 2 p.m., 1300
Longworth.
Committee on Armed Services, Subcommittee on Readi-
ness, hearing entitled ‘‘Ship and Submarine Maintenance:
Cost and Schedule Challenges’’, 2 p.m., 2118 Rayburn.
Committee on Education and Labor, Subcommittee on
Civil Rights and Human Services, hearing entitled ‘‘Long
Over Due: Exploring the Pregnant Workers’ Fairness Act
(H.R. 2694)’’, 10:15 a.m., 2175 Rayburn.
Committee on Financial Services, Full Committee, hearing
entitled ‘‘The End of Affordable Housing? A Review of
the Trump Administration’s Plans to Change Housing Fi-
nance in America’’, 10 a.m., 2128 Rayburn.
Subcommittee on Consumer Protection and Financial
Institutions, hearing entitled ‘‘An Examination of the De-
cline of Minority Depository Institutions and the Impact
on Underserved Communities’’, 2 p.m., 2128 Rayburn.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:55 Oct 22, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D21OC9.REC D21OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D1137
October 21, 2019
Committee on Foreign Affairs, Subcommittee on Asia, the
Pacific, and Nonproliferation, begin hearing entitled
‘‘Human Rights in South Asia: Views from the State De-
partment and the Region’’, 10 a.m., 2172 Rayburn.
Subcommittee on Asia, the Pacific, and Nonprolifera-
tion, continue hearing entitled ‘‘Human Rights in South
Asia: Views from the State Department and the Region’’,
2 p.m., 2318 Rayburn.
Subcommittee on Europe, Eurasia, Energy, and the En-
vironment, hearing entitled ‘‘Protecting the Good Friday
Agreement from Brexit’’, 2 p.m., 2172 Rayburn.
Committee on Homeland Security, Subcommittee on Cy-
bersecurity, Infrastructure Protection and Innovation,
hearing entitled ‘‘Preparing for the Future: An Assess-
ment of Emerging Cyber Threats’’, 2 p.m., 310 Cannon.
Committee on the Judiciary, Full Committee, hearing en-
titled ‘‘Securing America’s Elections Part II: Oversight of
Government Agencies’’, 10 a.m., 2141 Rayburn.
Committee on Natural Resources, Full Committee, hearing
on legislation to amend the Puerto Rico Oversight, Man-
agement, and Economic Stability Act or ‘PROMESA,’
and for other purposes, 10 a.m., 1324 Longworth.
Subcommittee on National Parks, Forests, and Public
Lands, hearing entitled ‘‘No More Standoffs: Protecting
Federal Employees and Ending the Culture of Anti-Gov-
ernment Attacks and Abuse’’, 2 p.m., 1324 Longworth.
Committee on Oversight and Reform, Subcommittee on
Government Operations, hearing entitled ‘‘Metro: Report
Card for America’s Subway’’, 2 p.m., 2154 Rayburn.
Committee on Rules, Full Committee, hearing on H.R.
4617, the ‘‘Stopping Harmful Interference in Elections
for a Lasting Democracy Act’’, 3 p.m., H–313 Capitol.
Committee on Small Business, Subcommittee on Investiga-
tions, Oversight, and Regulations, hearing entitled ‘‘Na-
tive 8(a) Contracting: Emerging Issues’’, 10 a.m., 2360
Rayburn.
Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, Sub-
committee on Economic Development, Public Buildings,
and Emergency, hearing entitled ‘‘An Assessment of Fed-
eral Recovery Efforts from Recent Disasters’’, 10 a.m.,
2167 Rayburn.
Committee on Veterans’ Affairs, Subcommittee on Dis-
ability Assistance and Memorial Affairs, hearing on H.R.
4360, the ‘‘VA Overpayment Accountability Act’’; H.R.
592, the ‘‘Protect Veterans from Financial Fraud Act of
2019’’; H.R. 1030, the ‘‘Veteran Spouses Equal Treat-
ment Act’’; H.R. 4165, the ‘‘Improving Benefits for Un-
derserved Veterans Act’’; H.R. 4183, the ‘‘Identifying
Barriers and Best Practices Study Act’’; H.R. 628, the
‘‘WINGMAN Act’’; H.R. 1424, the ‘‘Fallen Warrior Bat-
tlefield Cross Memorial Act’’; H.R. 1911, the ‘‘SFC Brian
Woods Gold Star and Military Survivors Act’’; legislation
to extend increased dependency and indemnity compensa-
tion paid to surviving spouses of veterans who die from
ALS; and legislation to permit appellants to appear before
the Board of Veterans’ Appeals via picture and voice
transmission from locations outside the Department of
Veterans Affairs (VA), 10:30 a.m., HVC–210.
Committee on Ways and Means, Full Committee, markup
on H.R. 3398, the ‘‘Pathways to Health Careers Act of
2019’’; H.R. 3, the ‘‘Lower Drug Costs Act Now Act of
2019’’; H.R. 4650, the ‘‘Medicare Dental Act of 2019’’;
H.R. 4665, the ‘‘Medicare Vision Act of 2019’’; and
H.R. 4618, the ‘‘Medicare Hearing Act of 2019’’, 9:30
a.m., 110 Longworth.
Select Committee on the Climate Crisis, Full Committee,
hearing entitled ‘‘Solving the Climate Crisis: Natural So-
lutions to Cutting Pollution and Building Resilience’’, 2
p.m., 1302 Longworth.
Joint Meetings
Commission on Security and Cooperation in Europe: to hold
hearings to examine reform in Armenia, 2 p.m., 210,
Cannon Building.
f
CONGRESSIONAL PROGRAM AHEAD
Week of October 22 through October 25, 2019
Senate Chamber
On Tuesday, Senate will continue consideration of
the protocol to the North Atlantic Treaty of 1949
on the Accession of the Republic of North Mac-
edonia (Treaty Doc. 116–1), post-cloture, and vote
on ratification of the treaty at 12 noon.
Following disposition of the treaty, Senate will
vote on the motion to invoke cloture on the nomina-
tion of Andrew P. Bremberg, of Virginia, to be Rep-
resentative of the United States of America to the
Office of the United Nations and Other Inter-
national Organizations in Geneva, with the rank of
Ambassador.
During the balance of the week, Senate may con-
sider any cleared legislative and executive business.
Senate Committees
(Committee meetings are open unless otherwise indicated)
Committee on Appropriations: October 23, Subcommittee
on State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs, to
hold hearings to examine United States policy and assist-
ance in Syria, 2:30 p.m., SD–124.
Committee on Armed Services: October 23, Subcommittee
on SeaPower, to receive a closed briefing on the Navy’s
‘‘Spectrum of Conflict’’ strategic framework, 10 a.m.,
SVC–217.
October 24, Full Committee, to hold hearings to ex-
amine the nomination of Vice Admiral Charles A. Rich-
ard, USN, to be Admiral and Commander, United States
Strategic Command, Department of Defense, 9:30 a.m.,
SD–G50.
Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs: Octo-
ber 22, to hold an oversight hearing to examine the sta-
tus of the Consolidated Audit Trail, 10 a.m., SD–538.
October 24, Full Committee, to hold hearings to ex-
amine data ownership, focusing on exploring implications
for data privacy rights and data valuation, 10 a.m.,
SD–538.
Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation: Octo-
ber 22, Subcommittee on Science, Oceans, Fisheries, and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:55 Oct 22, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D21OC9.REC D21OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D1138 October 21, 2019
Weather, to hold hearings to examine research and inno-
vation, focusing on ensuring America’s economic and
strategic leadership, 2:15 p.m., SD–562.
October 23, Full Committee, to hold hearings to ex-
amine the reauthorization of the Satellite Television Ex-
tension and Localism Act, 10 a.m., SH–216.
Committee on Energy and Natural Resources: October 22,
to hold hearings to examine international efforts to in-
crease energy efficiency and opportunities to advance en-
ergy efficiency in the United States, 10 a.m., SD–366.
Committee on Environment and Public Works: October 23,
to hold hearings to examine improving American eco-
nomic competitiveness through water resources infrastruc-
ture, 10 a.m., SD–406.
Committee on Finance: October 24, to hold hearings to
examine treating substance misuse in America, focusing
on scams, shortfalls, and solutions, 10:30 a.m., SD–215.
Committee on Foreign Relations: October 22, to hold hear-
ings to examine the impact of Turkey’s offensive in
northeast Syria, 2:30 p.m., SD–419.
October 23, Subcommittee on Europe and Regional Se-
curity Cooperation, to hold hearings to examine successes
and unfinished business in the Western Balkans, 2:30
p.m., SD–419.
Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs:
October 22, to hold hearings to examine the nominations
of Joshua A. Deahl, to be an Associate Judge of the Dis-
trict of Columbia Court of Appeals, Deborah J. Israel and
Andrea L. Hertzfeld, both to be an Associate Judge of the
Superior Court of the District of Columbia, and Robert
Anthony Dixon, to be United States Marshal for the Su-
perior Court of the District of Columbia, Department of
Justice, 10 a.m., SD–342.
October 24, Permanent Subcommittee on Investiga-
tions, with the Subcommittee on Regulatory Affairs and
Federal Management, to hold a joint hearing to examine
E-Rulemaking comment systems, 10 a.m., SD–342.
Committee on the Judiciary: October 22, to hold hearings
to examine sanctuary jurisdictions, focusing on the im-
pact on public safety and victims, 10 a.m., SD–226.
October 24, Full Committee, business meeting to con-
sider S. 2511, to amend title 40, United States Code, to
provide the Marshal of the Supreme Court of the United
States and Supreme Court Police with the authority to
protect the Chief Justice of the United States, any Asso-
ciate Justice of the Supreme Court, and other individuals
in any location, and the nominations of Halil Suleyman
Ozerden, of Mississippi, to be United States Circuit
Judge for the Fifth Circuit, Danielle J. Hunsaker, of Or-
egon, to be United States Circuit Judge for the Ninth
Circuit, Steven J. Menashi, to be United States Circuit
Judge for the Second Circuit, William Joseph Nardini, of
Connecticut, to be United States Circuit Judge for the
Second Circuit, Jodi W. Dishman, to be United States
District Judge for the Western District of Oklahoma,
Karen Spencer Marston, to be United States District
Judge for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania, Richard
Earnest Myers II, to be United States District Judge for
the Eastern District of North Carolina, Sarah E. Pitlyk,
to be United States District Judge for the Eastern Dis-
trict of Missouri, Anuraag Singhal, to be United States
District Judge for the Southern District of Florida, Daniel
Mack Traynor, to be United States District Judge for the
District of North Dakota, and David M. DeVillers, to be
United States Attorney for the Southern District of Ohio,
Department of Justice, 10 a.m., SD–226.
Select Committee on Intelligence: October 22, to hold
closed hearings to examine certain intelligence matters,
2:30 p.m., SH–219.
October 24, Full Committee, to receive a closed brief-
ing to examine certain intelligence matters, 2 p.m.,
SH–219.
United States Senate Caucus on International Narcotics Con-
trol: October 23, to hold hearings to examine marijuana
and America’s health, focusing on questions and issues for
policy makers, 2:30 p.m., SD–215.
House Committees
Committee on Armed Services, October 23, Subcommittee
on Military Personnel, hearing entitled ‘‘TBA’’, 2 p.m.,
2212 Rayburn. This hearing is closed.
Committee on Education and Labor, October 23, Sub-
committee on Health, Employment, Labor, and Pensions;
and Subcommittee on Workforce Protections, joint hear-
ing entitled ‘‘The Future of Work: Preserving Worker
Protections in the Modern Economy’’, 10:15 a.m., 2175
Rayburn.
Committee on Energy and Commerce, October 23, Sub-
committee on Oversight and Investigations, hearing enti-
tled ‘‘Sabotage: The Trump Administration’s Attack on
Health Care’’, 10 a.m., 2123 Rayburn.
October 23, Subcommittee on Environment and Cli-
mate Change, hearing entitled ‘‘Building a 100 Percent
Clean Economy: Solutions for Planes, Trains and Every-
thing Beyond Automobiles’’, 10:30 a.m., 2322 Rayburn.
October 24, Subcommittee on Consumer Protection
and Commerce, hearing entitled ‘‘Reauthorizing Brand
USA and the U.S. SAFE WEB Act’’, 9:30 a.m., 2123
Rayburn.
Committee on Financial Services, October 23, Full Com-
mittee, hearing entitled ‘‘An Examination of Facebook
and Its Impact on the Financial Services and Housing
Sectors’’, 10 a.m., 2128 Rayburn.
Committee on Foreign Affairs, October 23, Full Com-
mittee, hearing entitled ‘‘The Betrayal of our Syrian
Kurdish Partners: How Will American Foreign Policy
and Leadership Recover?’’, 10 a.m., 2172 Rayburn.
October 23, Subcommittee on the Western Hemi-
sphere, Civilian Security, and Trade, hearing entitled
‘‘The Trump Administration’s FY 2020 Budget and U.S.
Policy toward Latin America and the Caribbean’’, 2 p.m.,
2172 Rayburn.
Committee on Homeland Security, October 23, Full Com-
mittee, markup on H.R. 2932, the ‘‘Homeland Security
for Children Act’’; H.R. 3469, the ‘‘Covert Testing and
Risk Mitigation Improvement Act of 2019’’; H.R. 3787,
the ‘‘DHS Countering Unmanned Aircraft Systems Coor-
dinator Act’’; H.R. 4237, the ‘‘Advancing Cybersecurity
Diagnostics and Mitigation Act’’; H.R. 4402, the ‘‘Inland
Waters Security Review Act’’; H.R. 4713, the ‘‘Depart-
ment of Homeland Security Office of Civil Rights and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:55 Oct 22, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D21OC9.REC D21OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D1139
October 21, 2019
Civil Liberties Authorization Act’’; H.R. 4727, the ‘‘De-
partment of Homeland Security Mentor Protégé Program
Act of 2019’’; H.R. 4739, the ‘‘Synthetic Opioid Expo-
sure Prevention and Training Act’’; H.R. 4737, the ‘‘De-
partment of Homeland Security Climate Change Research
Act’’; H.R. 4753, the ‘‘Drone Origin Security Enhance-
ment Act’’; H.R. 4761, the ‘‘DHS Opioid Detention Re-
silience Act of 2019’’; and legislation on the National
Commission on Online Platforms and Homeland Security
Act, 10 a.m., 310 Cannon.
Committee on the Judiciary, October 23, Full Committee,
markup on H.R. 4, the ‘‘Voting Rights Advancement
Act of 2019’’; and H.R. 565, the ‘‘AMIGOS Act’’, 10
a.m., 2141 Rayburn.
Committee on Natural Resources, October 23, Full Com-
mittee, markup on H.R. 934, the ‘‘Health Benefits for
Miners Act of 2019’’; H.R. 935, the ‘‘Miners Pension
Protection Act’’; and H.R. 2579, the ‘‘Hardrock Leasing
and Reclamation Act of 2019’’, 10 a.m., 1324 Long-
worth.
Committee on Oversight and Reform, October 23, Sub-
committee on Civil Rights and Civil Liberties, hearing
entitled ‘‘Examining the Oil Industry’s Efforts to Sup-
press the Truth about Climate Change’’, 10 a.m., 2154
Rayburn.
October 23, Subcommittee on National Security, hear-
ing entitled ‘‘The Trump Administration’s Syria Policy:
Perspectives from the Field’’, 2 p.m., 2154 Rayburn.
Committee on Science, Space, and Technology, October 23,
Subcommittee on Environment; and Subcommittee on
Space and Aeronautics, joint hearing entitled ‘‘Space
Weather: Advancing Research, Monitoring, and Fore-
casting Capabilities’’, 2 p.m., 2318 Rayburn.
Committee on Small Business, October 23, Full Com-
mittee, hearing entitled ‘‘Prison to Proprietorship: Entre-
preneurship Opportunities for the Formerly Incarcerated’’,
11:30 a.m., 2360 Rayburn.
Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, October
23, Subcommittee on Water Resources and Environment,
hearing entitled ‘‘The Pebble Mine Project: Process and
Potential Impacts’’, 10 a.m., 2167 Rayburn.
Committee on Veterans’ Affairs, October 23, Sub-
committee on Economic Opportunity, hearing entitled
‘‘Protecting Benefits for All Servicemembers’’, 10 a.m.,
HVC–210.
Committee on Ways and Means, October 23, Full Com-
mittee, markup on H.R. 4742, to amend the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986 to impose a tax on nicotine used
in vaping, etc.; H.R. 4716, the ‘‘Inhaler Coverage and
Access Now Act’’; H.R. 1922, the ‘‘Restoring Access to
Medication Act of 2019’’; and H.R. 3708, the ‘‘Primary
Care Enhancement Act of 2019’’, 1 p.m., 1100 Long-
worth.
Joint Meetings
Commission on Security and Cooperation in Europe: October
22, to hold hearings to examine reform in Armenia, 2
p.m., 210, Cannon Building.
October 24, Full Committee, to hold hearings to ex-
amine anti-corruption initiatives to fight emerging meth-
ods of foreign bribery, 10 a.m., 2128, Rayburn Building.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:55 Oct 22, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D21OC9.REC D21OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
Congressional Record The Congressional Record (USPS 087–390). The Periodicals postage
is paid at Washington, D.C. The public proceedings of each House
of Congress, as reported by the Official Reporters thereof, are
printed pursuant to directions of the Joint Committee on Printing as authorized by appropriate provisions of Title 44, United
States Code, and published for each day that one or both Houses are in session, excepting very infrequent instances when
two or more unusually small consecutive issues are printed one time. ¶ Public access to the Congressional Record is available online through
the U.S. Government Publishing Office, at www.govinfo.gov, free of charge to the user. The information is updated online each day the
Congressional Record is published. For more information, contact the GPO Customer Contact Center, U.S. Government Publishing Office.
Phone 202–512–1800, or 866–512–1800 (toll-free). E-Mail, contactcenter@gpo.gov. ¶ To place an order for any of these products, visit the U.S.
Government Online Bookstore at: bookstore.gpo.gov. Mail orders to: Superintendent of Documents, P.O. Box 979050, St. Louis, MO
63197–9000, or phone orders to 866–512–1800 (toll-free), 202–512–1800 (D.C. area), or fax to 202–512–2104. Remit check or money order, made
payable to the Superintendent of Documents, or use VISA, MasterCard, Discover, American Express, or GPO Deposit Account. ¶ Following
each session of Congress, the daily Congressional Record is revised, printed, permanently bound and sold by the Superintendent of Documents
in individual parts or by sets. ¶ With the exception of copyrighted articles, there are no restrictions on the republication of material from
the Congressional Record.
POSTMASTER: Send address changes to the Superintendent of Documents, Congressional Record, U.S. Government Publishing Office,
Washington, D.C. 20402, along with the entire mailing label from the last issue received.
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
D1140 October 21, 2019
Next Meeting of the SENATE
10 a.m., Tuesday, October 22
Senate Chamber
Program for Tuesday: Senate will continue consider-
ation of the protocol to the North Atlantic Treaty of
1949 on the Accession of the Republic of North Mac-
edonia (Treaty Doc.116–1), post-cloture, and vote on rati-
fication of the treaty at 12 noon.
Following disposition of the treaty, Senate will vote on
the motion to invoke cloture on the nomination of An-
drew P. Bremberg, of Virginia, to be Representative of
the United States of America to the Office of the United
Nations and Other International Organizations in Gene-
va, with the rank of Ambassador.
(Senate will recess from 12:30 p.m. until 2:15 p.m. for their
respective party conferences.)
Next Meeting of the HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
10 a.m., Tuesday, October 22
House Chamber
Program for Tuesday: Consideration of measures under
suspension of the Rules.
Extensions of Remarks, as inserted in this issue
HOUSE
Axne, Cynthia, Iowa, E1320
Beatty, Joyce, Ohio, E1321
Castro, Joaquin, Tex., E1321
Collins, Doug, Ga., E1319
Correa, J. Luis, Calif., E1315
Costa, Jim, Calif., E1314
Eshoo, Anna G., Calif., E1317
Gallagher, Mike, Wisc., E1316, E1317
Granger, Kay, Tex., E1314, E1319
Haaland, Debra A., N.M., E1313
Higgins, Brian, N.Y., E1314
Huffman, Jared, Calif., E1318
Kim, Andy, N.J., E1315, E1317, E1318, E1319
Lieu, Ted, Calif., E1320
Lofgren, Zoe, Calif., E1316
Lowey, Nita M., N.Y., E1320
McEachin, A. Donald, Va., E1315, E1316, E1316, E1317,
E1318, E1319
Norcross, Donald, N.J., E1313
Norton, Eleanor Holmes, The District of Columbia,
E1314
Ratcliffe, John, Tex., E1321
Reschenthaler, Guy, Pa., E1315
Ryan, Tim, Ohio, E1313
Sewell, Terri A., Ala., E1320
Simpson, Michael K., Idaho, E1319
Speier, Jackie, Calif., E1317
Stefanik, Elise M., N.Y., E1314, E1317
Wittman, Robert J., Va., E1315
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:55 Oct 22, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 0664 Sfmt 0664 E:\CR\FM\D21OC9.REC D21OCPT1
