Congressional Record
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
United States
of America PROCEEDINGS AND DEBATES OF THE 116th
CONGRESS, FIRST SESSION
b This symbol represents the time of day during the House proceedings, e.g., b 1407 is 2:07 p.m.
Matter set in this typeface indicates words inserted or appended, rather than spoken, by a Member of the House on the floor.
.
H2889
Vol. 165 WASHINGTON, THURSDAY, MARCH 28, 2019 No. 54
House of Representatives
The House met at 9 a.m. and was
called to order by the Speaker.
f
PRAYER
The Chaplain, the Reverend Patrick
J. Conroy, offered the following prayer:
Merciful God, thank You for giving
us another day.
Your care and wisdom are shown to
us by the way You extend Your king-
dom into our world down to the present
day. Your Word reveals every aspect of
Your saving plan. You accomplish Your
designed purpose in and through the
hearts of the faithful who respond to
You.
Today, convert our minds and hearts
that we may become the great Nation
You hope us to be.
Help the Members of this people’s
House to seek Your presence in the
midst of their busy lives. Animate
them with Your spirit and help them to
perform their appointed tasks to come
to solutions that will redound to the
benefit of our Nation.
May all that is done this day be for
Your greater honor and glory.
Amen.
f
THE JOURNAL
The SPEAKER. The Chair has exam-
ined the Journal of the last day’s pro-
ceedings and announces to the House
her approval thereof.
Pursuant to clause 1, rule I, the Jour-
nal stands approved.
Mr. CROW. Madam Speaker, pursu-
ant to clause 1, rule I, I demand a vote
on agreeing to the Speaker’s approval
of the Journal.
The SPEAKER. The question is on
the Speaker’s approval of the Journal.
The question was taken; and the
Speaker announced that the ayes ap-
peared to have it.
Mr. CROW. Madam Speaker, on that
I demand the yeas and nays.
The yeas and nays were ordered.
The SPEAKER. Pursuant to clause 8,
rule XX, further proceedings on this
question will be postponed.
f
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
The SPEAKER. Will the gentleman
from California (Mr. HARDER) come for-
ward and lead the House in the Pledge
of Allegiance.
Mr. HARDER of California led the
Pledge of Allegiance as follows:
I pledge allegiance to the Flag of the
United States of America, and to the Repub-
lic for which it stands, one nation under God,
indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
f
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER
The SPEAKER. The Chair will enter-
tain up to five requests for 1-minute
speeches on each side of the aisle.
f
SALARY EQUALITY
(Mr. HARDER of California asked
and was given permission to address
the House for 1 minute.)
Mr. HARDER of California. Madam
Speaker, I rise today because it is abso-
lutely absurd that in the year 2019,
women are still paid less than men, 77
cents on the dollar compared to men,
but it is even worse for women of color.
Latina women make only 53 cents on
the dollar.
That is why I was so proud to support
the Paycheck Fairness Act, which in-
cluded our amendment to specifically
support women of color.
There are thousands of Latina
women in my district who work hard
day in, day out, only to be paid half
what their male counterparts get. It
hurts them, it hurts their families, and
it hurts our Central Valley commu-
nity.
This is an equality issue, but it is
also an economic issue. In fact, almost
a quarter of the families in the Central
Valley have a woman as their bread-
winner.
It is 2019. It is time that women, es-
pecially Latina women, are not left be-
hind.
Madam Speaker, I urge my col-
leagues in the Senate to take up this
bill and make sure we are lifting up ev-
eryone in our communities.
f
CONGRESS MUST UPHOLD IDEA
PROMISE
(Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania
asked and was given permission to ad-
dress the House for 1 minute and to re-
vise and extend his remarks.)
Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania.
Mr. Speaker, in the 1970s, Congress
made a commitment to provide a free
and appropriate education to students
with disabilities.
While we have made tremendous
progress, thanks to the Individuals
with Disabilities Education Act, we
have also failed to fully fund the cost
of special education that was promised
by Congress at that point in time.
Congress promised to cover 40 per-
cent of the extra cost of special edu-
cation, but we have never come close
to fulfilling that promise. In fact, cur-
rent funding remains only at 14 percent
of the targeted amount.
Mr. Speaker, that is shameful.
This means our students and schools
suffer, it means that the programs will
be cut, it means schools won’t be able
to recruit and retain qualified teach-
ers, and above all else, it means that
students with disabilities will not be
able to succeed, not without the appro-
priate high-quality services they de-
serve.
That is why I proudly cosponsored
the bipartisan IDEA Full Funding Act,
which would mandate gradual in-
creases in IDEA funding to reach that
full commitment made by Congress of
40 percent by fiscal year 2029 and each
subsequent fiscal year.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:56 Mar 29, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A28MR7.000 H28MRPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2890 March 28, 2019
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
support this bill and uphold the prom-
ise to provide students and schools
with the resources they need.
f
HONORING THE LIFE OF JOHN
BERSIA
(Mrs. MURPHY asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Mrs. MURPHY. Mr. Speaker, I rise to
honor the life and legacy of central
Florida community leader, faculty
member, and editorial writer, John
Bersia, who recently passed away.
Born and raised in central Florida,
John earned a bachelor’s degree from
the University of Central Florida as
well as masters degrees from George-
town University, American University,
and the London School of Economics.
He then returned to our community
to begin writing editorials for the Or-
lando Sentinel. There, he won a Pul-
itzer Prize for an editorial series that
exposed the predatory lending prac-
tices of irresponsible payday lenders,
leading to legislation that cracked
down on that industry.
In 2001, he began teaching at the Uni-
versity of Central Florida, where he
helped establish the Center for the
Study of Human Trafficking and Mod-
ern Slavery. Throughout his career, he
inspired his students to pursue a love
of travel, new cultures, and humanity-
focused work, but his passion spread
beyond that campus.
He hosted a weekly TV show on
WUCF and chaired different institu-
tions, including the Global Connections
Foundation, the World Affairs Council
of Central Florida, and the Orlando
Area Committee on Foreign Relations.
John sought to broaden people’s con-
nections to the outside world while
helping us see that global issues can
also be local.
For that and much more, he will be
truly missed.
f
CONGRATULATING VINCENNES
UNIVERSITY MEN’S BASKETBALL
CHAMPIONS
(Mr. BUCSHON asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. BUCSHON. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to recognize the accomplishment
of an outstanding group of young men
from Vincennes University in Indiana.
For the first time since 1972 and the
fourth time in school history, the Vin-
cennes University Trailblazers cap-
tured the National Junior College Ath-
letic Association Men’s Basketball
Championship.
Led by coach Todd Franklin, the
Blazers had a benchmark year, ending
the season with a record of 34–2 and de-
feating Ranger College in the cham-
pionship game by a score of 87–77.
The team’s standout in the finals was
freshman forward Kevin Osawe, who
scored 22 points and had ten rebounds,
earning the tournament’s most valu-
able player honors.
Athletics provide a set of skills that
will be with these young men for the
rest of their lives.
The commitment and follow-through
required to come together as a team
and win a national championship are
rare and should be commended.
Congratulations to the Vincennes
University Blazers men’s basketball
team on a job well done, and good luck
next year.
f
HONORING THE LIFE OF STEVE
CERNAK
(Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ asked
and was given permission to address
the House for 1 minute and to revise
and extend her remarks.)
Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ. Mr.
Speaker, I rise today to mourn the
passing of a dear friend and remarkable
professional, Steve Cernak.
As CEO of Port Everglades in
Broward County, Florida, Steve
oversaw the largest expansion in the
port’s history and helped Port Ever-
glades grow to become the number one
cruise port in the country.
He had a vision for the port, and he
was an incredibly dedicated public
servant.
Steve loved his work, community,
and family.
He was a loving husband, father, and
grandfather, and took any opportunity
to share how proud he was of his grand-
children, often sharing photos of them
before meetings, to which I can person-
ally attest.
His professionalism was unmatched,
and I am grateful for his unwavering
commitment to keeping Americans
safe.
Although Steve is no longer with us,
his legacy will live on through the in-
stitution he helped propel into the
leading port in our Nation.
Steve Cernak was a selfless, compas-
sionate, and tireless public servant,
and he will be profoundly missed, but
never forgotten.
f
HONORING ROCK BRIDGE HIGH
SCHOOL BOYS BASKETBALL TEAM
(Mrs. HARTZLER asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute.)
Mrs. HARTZLER. Mr. Speaker, I rise
to honor the Rock Bridge High School
Bruins boys basketball team of Colum-
bia, Missouri, for winning the Missouri
State Championship Class 5 Basketball
Championship in Springfield.
In winning the school’s first boys
basketball state title, the Bruins ex-
hibited a never-say-die attitude, stag-
ing a comeback after being down by
eight points heading into the final
quarter against Christian Brothers Col-
lege High School.
The Bruins came close last year,
bowing out in the semi-finals, but this
year’s team would not be denied.
The long hours of practice paid off, as
Rock Bridge came roaring back in the
final quarter to win 63–59 and bring
home the championship.
This season finale is a testament to
the great coaching of Jim Scanlon and
the dedication and hard work of all the
players, whose determination and
teamwork brought home the victory.
So congratulations to the Rock
Bridge High School Bruins, state
champs from Missouri’s Fourth Dis-
trict. We are proud of you and we wish
you continued success.
f
DOUGLAS COUNTY, COLORADO:
THE HEALTHIEST COMMUNITY IN
THE UNITED STATES
(Mr. CROW asked and was given per-
mission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. CROW. Mr. Speaker, I rise today
to celebrate Douglas County, Colorado,
being named the healthiest community
in the United States by U.S. News and
World Report.
With all due respect to all of my col-
leagues in this body, there is no State
like Colorado. We are home to 300 days
of sunshine, the Rocky Mountains, and
the best breweries and skiing in the
country. And it should be no surprise
that it helped make us the seventh
fastest growing State in the country.
But this year we have added another
accomplishment to our list: commu-
nity health.
With seven of America’s top 25
healthiest communities in Colorado,
Douglas County tops that list. Home to
countless walking trails, community-
building events, 63,000 acres of pro-
tected land, and innovative infrastruc-
ture, Douglas County is truly a great
place to live.
Mr. Speaker, I welcome my col-
leagues to Douglas County and the rest
of our incredible district to see for
themselves what makes The Centennial
State so great.
f
THE AMERICAN PEOPLE DESERVE
THE TRUTH
(Mr. COLLINS of Georgia asked and
was given permission to address the
House for 1 minute and to revise and
extend his remarks.)
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Mr. Speak-
er, thus far, I have released four tran-
scripts of interviews from the Judici-
ary Committee into the apparent
wrongdoing at the FBI and the Justice
Department.
Today, I release the fifth.
The American people deserve trans-
parency, they deserve to know what
transpired at the highest levels of the
FBI, and the origin of the probe into
President Trump’s campaign.
Therefore, Mr. Speaker, I request the
link, dougcollins.house.gov/nellieohr be
placed in the RECORD so the American
people can review the transcript of Nel-
lie Ohr’s interview.
I will continue to work to release as
many transcripts as possible.
The American people deserve the
truth.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:56 Mar 29, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K28MR7.002 H28MRPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2891
March 28, 2019
b 0915
DISPARITIES IN PAY
(Ms. PLASKETT asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend her re-
marks.)
Ms. PLASKETT. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to talk about the disparities in
pay between men and women in this
country.
Today, women are paid only 80 cents
for every dollar paid to men, resulting
in a gap of $10,169 each year. The gap
exists in every State, regardless of ge-
ography, occupation, education, or
work patterns.
This disparity is worse for women of
color. On average, Hispanic women are
typically paid 53 cents; Native Amer-
ican women, 58 cents; and Black
women, 61 cents for every dollar paid
to White, non-Hispanic men.
The Paycheck Fairness Act would
help to close these punishing gaps by
eliminating loopholes in the Equal Pay
Act.
The wage gap between America’s men
and women denies women $900 billion
in income each year. Across the coun-
try, this disparity directly affects chil-
dren. In my district of the Virgin Is-
lands, 32 percent of families with chil-
dren live in poverty. Of that number, 76
percent are headed by a single mother.
We know that families who live in
poverty have higher rates of instability
and that children living in poverty per-
form worse in school than their coun-
terparts. By paying each woman the
$10,000 they lose per annum to the wage
gap, we can do the right thing, and the
fiscally responsible thing, and raise
millions of families above the poverty
line.
f
OPPOSING BAN ON TRANSGENDER
MEMBERS OF ARMED FORCES
Mr. SMITH of Washington. Mr.
Speaker, pursuant to House Resolution
252, I call up the resolution (H. Res. 124)
expressing opposition to banning serv-
ice in the Armed Forces by openly
transgender individuals, and ask for its
immediate consideration.
The Clerk read the title of the resolu-
tion.
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr.
JOHNSON of Georgia). Pursuant to
House Resolution 252, the resolution is
considered read.
The text of the resolution is as fol-
lows:
H. RES. 124
Whereas, on July 26, 2017, President Trump
announced via Twitter that the United
States Government would reverse the exist-
ing policy of allowing transgender
servicemembers to serve openly in order to
implement a ban on transgender people from
serving in the Armed Forces;
Whereas transgender servicemembers have
served openly since 2016, bravely defending
our Nation with distinction while preserving
unit cohesion and contributing to military
readiness;
Whereas a 2016 study by the RAND Cor-
poration found that allowing transgender
Americans to serve openly in the Armed
Forces would ‘‘have minimal impact on read-
iness and health care costs’’ and ‘‘little or no
impact on unit cohesion, operational effec-
tiveness or readiness’’;
Whereas thousands of transgender Ameri-
cans currently serve actively in the Armed
Forces and in the Reserves throughout all
branches and military occupational special-
ties;
Whereas the American Medical Associa-
tion, the American Psychological Associa-
tion, the American Psychiatric Association,
and three former military Surgeons General
each have affirmed the medical efficacy of
transition-related care and have expressed
opposition to President Trump’s discrimina-
tory ban;
Whereas the claims attempting to justify
President Trump’s ban are based on flawed
scientific and medical assertions;
Whereas the Department of Defense report
from 2018 falsely asserts there is ‘‘consider-
able scientific uncertainty’’ regarding the ef-
ficacy of transition-related care;
Whereas there is a global medical con-
sensus that such care is effective, safe, and
reliable;
Whereas the Department of Defense has
failed to provide evidence the existing policy
has impaired morale, unit readiness, or unit
cohesion;
Whereas all five military Chiefs of Staff
have testified publicly that the existing pol-
icy has had no adverse effect on military
readiness;
Whereas, on August 1, 2017, fifty-six retired
generals and admirals released a statement
affirming, ‘‘This proposed ban, if imple-
mented, would cause significant disruptions,
deprive the military of mission-critical tal-
ent, and compromise the integrity of
transgender troops who would be forced to
live a lie, as well as non-transgender peers
who would be forced to choose between re-
porting their comrades or disobeying pol-
icy’’;
Whereas at least 18 nations allow
transgender people to serve openly and effec-
tively in their armed forces;
Whereas transgender members of the
Armed Forces have fought in defense of our
freedoms with honor and distinction since
our Nation’s founding and have been be-
stowed with such commendations and awards
as the Bronze Star and Purple Heart for their
courage and sacrifices;
Whereas President Trump’s ban on
transgender members of the Armed Forces
targets and stigmatizes a whole class of peo-
ple; and
Whereas President Trump’s ban on
transgender members of the Armed Forces
would affect all transgender members of the
Armed Forces and force them to serve under
a policy that stigmatizes and devalues their
contributions to our Nation’s defense: Now,
therefore, be it
Resolved, That the House of Representa-
tives—
(1) strongly opposes President Trump’s dis-
criminatory ban on transgender members of
the Armed Forces;
(2) rejects the flawed scientific and medical
claims upon which it is based; and
(3) strongly urges the Department of De-
fense to not reinstate President Trump’s ban
on transgender members of the Armed
Forces and to maintain an inclusive policy
allowing qualified transgender Americans to
enlist and serve in the Armed Forces.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The res-
olution shall be debatable for 1 hour,
equally divided and controlled by the
chair and ranking minority member of
the Committee on Armed Services.
The gentleman from Washington (Mr.
SMITH) and the gentleman from Texas
(Mr. THORNBERRY) each will control 30
minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from Washington.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. SMITH of Washington. Mr.
Speaker, I ask unanimous consent that
all Members have 5 legislative days in
which to revise and extend their re-
marks and to include extraneous mate-
rial on H. Res. 124.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from Washington?
There was no objection.
Mr. SMITH of Washington. Mr.
Speaker, I yield myself 5 minutes.
Mr. Speaker, this resolution is very
straightforward. The Department of
Defense, in cooperation with the White
House, recently issued a policy, which
will be implemented in a couple weeks,
that would, effectively, bar
transgender people from being able to
serve in the military. We have this res-
olution to reject that policy. It is that
simple and that straightforward.
We believe the policy that the Pen-
tagon is putting forward is unfair,
based on ignorance and bigotry, and
will actually harm national security.
We ask the House, in this resolution, to
express the sense of Congress that we
oppose this policy from the Pentagon.
Again, what this policy is primarily
based on is ignorance and bias against
the transgender community. The poli-
cies being implemented will make it
virtually impossible for them to serve
in the military. This is unfair discrimi-
nation, and it is also harmful to na-
tional security.
The Army last year failed to meet its
recruitment quotas. It is a constant
challenge in the military to find the
people who have the character, the ca-
pability, and the ability to serve in our
military.
We have the best military in the his-
tory of the world. We need high-quali-
fied people to serve. To single out a
particular group of people, to discrimi-
nate against them and say that they
cannot serve, not because they can’t
meet the qualifications—it is not be-
cause they can’t run fast enough or
shoot straight enough or work hard
enough—to be a member of the mili-
tary, but because of something that lit-
erally has nothing to do with their
ability to do their job, is bad for na-
tional security and is unfair discrimi-
nation.
We have heard a lot from people
about how difficult it is for unit cohe-
sion to have transgender people in the
military, a whole bunch of arguments.
The only problem with that is the mili-
tary leaders who have actually been re-
sponsible for this—and I am just going
to read one quote. There are many, and
some of my colleagues will say it as
well.
Army Chief of Staff Milley, who is
about to become the Chairman of the
Joint Chiefs of Staff, last year said
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:56 Mar 29, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K28MR7.005 H28MRPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2892 March 28, 2019
there are precisely zero reports of
issues of cohesion, discipline, or morale
as a result of transgender people serv-
ing.
There is no issue in terms of readi-
ness, despite what the proponents of
this policy will say. It is discrimina-
tion, pure and simple, and it is unnec-
essary.
We also hear opponents say that the
policy doesn’t ban transgender people
from serving and, under certain cir-
cumstances, they can. But those cir-
cumstances, as described, are so lim-
iting and restricting. Worst of all, as I
will explain in a minute, in certain
parts, it allows them to serve only if
they are willing to deny who they are.
That amounts to a ban. If you cannot
be who you are and serve in the mili-
tary, then that is a choice nobody
should have to make.
Let’s start with the fact that, right
now, under this policy, anyone who
wants to join the military, if they have
transitioned to a different gender, ei-
ther gone through the surgery or began
hormone therapy, this ban says they
cannot join. Again, this doesn’t say
anything about their fitness to serve,
in terms of their physical ability or
anything. If they have simply had tran-
sition surgery or gone through hor-
mone therapy, they are barred from
serving.
Worse than that, the people who are
already in the military who are
transgender are, to a certain extent,
grandfathered in. In many different
places throughout this policy, it says
over and over again that they have to
serve in their biological sex. A lot of
people go: Well, what the heck does
that mean? That gets at the essence, at
the very heart, of what it means to be
transgender.
This is not something that is just in
people’s minds. It is a physiological
condition that people are born into in
which they decide they are more com-
fortable being in the opposite gender.
That is one of the cornerstone difficul-
ties that all these people have to go
through: Who am I? What gender do I
want to be?
Working with therapists and working
with other people, they make that de-
termination. They decide: I know who I
am, and this is who I am going to be.
This policy now says: Sorry, we don’t
care what your doctor says. You can-
not be the gender that you know that
you are. You have to deny who you are
in order to stay in the military.
In many places throughout this pol-
icy, that is a consistent theme and
points out what is so totally and com-
pletely wrong about this policy.
You have also heard, undoubtedly,
that there are higher healthcare costs
for people who are transgender. There
are a number of studies out that show
that actually isn’t true. Yes,
healthcare expense is part of people
who serve in the military, and, regret-
tably, people who join the military
have all manner of different healthcare
expenses that we do have to pick up,
but there is no evidence that this has
an increased cost over an average serv-
icemember.
Furthermore, we know that the pur-
pose of this policy is not about cost be-
cause one of the first points that I
made was about how they are not now
going to be allowed to join the military
even if they have already gone through
transition surgery or hormone therapy.
So even if they are all done with that,
and there is no additional medical cost
to come, this policy says that they are
barred and banned from joining the
military.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
time of the gentleman has expired.
Mr. SMITH of Washington. Mr.
Speaker, I yield myself an additional 15
seconds.
It makes it perfectly clear that this
policy is unfair discrimination based
on bigotry and ignorance, and I urge
this House to reject it.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. THORNBERRY. Mr. Speaker, I
yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
Mr. Speaker, this resolution is a
sense of Congress resolution that
makes no change whatsoever in law or
policy. It is a messaging bill rather
than legislation that actually does
something on a substantive issue.
So, one may ask, why bother oppos-
ing a bill that doesn’t do anything? I
have a couple answers.
Part of the answer, to me, is that we
normally do not bring isolated issues
in the jurisdiction of the Armed Serv-
ices Committee to the floor.
Part of the reason that a national de-
fense authorization bill has been signed
into law every year for 58 straight
years under Presidents of both parties
and Congresses of both parties is that
we try to look at national security as
a whole as it relates to the Department
of Defense. There have been a few iso-
lated instances where something need-
ed immediate attention, but, generally,
we try to look at the whole, not bring
isolated issues to the floor. I worry
that doing so, even with a messaging
bill, undermines that bipartisan ap-
proach that has been so successful.
Another part of the reason, Mr.
Speaker, is that we also normally try
to keep our troops above and beyond
politics. Bringing a messaging bill that
does nothing to law or policy also
threatens to undermine that, and I
worry about that.
On its face, the resolution, the mes-
saging bill that is before us, includes a
number of statements that are just flat
wrong. It says that President Trump
reversed the prior policy on
transgender individuals in a tweet. In
fact, well before any Presidential
tweet, Secretary of Defense Mattis had
put a delay on implementation of the
policy that had previously been an-
nounced so that there could be a 6-
month review. There was a 6-month re-
view with experts, with uniformed and
civilian people from all the services,
with medical experts, with a whole va-
riety of folks.
It is serious and thoughtful, despite
some of the characterizations that
have been made from time to time. I
recommend that Members actually
read it, because I think they will be
impressed. They may not agree with all
of the recommendations, but they will
see the serious and thoughtful ap-
proach that the Department took to
this issue.
As a result of this review, the pre-
vious policy was modified. It didn’t go
back to the way it was. Again, those
details are in the report.
The resolution before us today says
that the Mattis policy is a ban. It is
not. The D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals
found, on January 4, 2019, that it is fac-
tually inaccurate to call it a blanket
ban. In reversing the lower court, the
court of appeals said: ‘‘The district
court made an erroneous finding that
the Mattis plan was the equivalent of a
blanket ban on transgender service.’’
This resolution before us says that
there is a global medical consensus on
transgender care. But the World Pro-
fessional Association for Transgender
Health says that they offer flexible
clinical guidelines that cannot possibly
reflect all the differences and situa-
tions which exist.
Mr. Speaker, turning to the sub-
stance of the matter for a second, to
me, the heart of the issue is contained
in the very first sentence to the De-
partment report, which was issued in
February 2018. The first sentence says:
‘‘It is a bedrock principle of the De-
partment of Defense that any eligible
individual who can meet the high
standards for military service without
special accommodations should be per-
mitted to serve.’’
Any eligible individual who can meet
the standards without special accom-
modation should be permitted to serve.
That is what I believe, Mr. Speaker. I
think that is what this policy attempts
to achieve.
Now, it is a fair point to say it went
too far this way or it didn’t go far
enough this way. We can have those
substantive, serious debates at an ap-
propriate time and place. But a mes-
saging bill is not going to get that job
done.
I would say, finally, Mr. Speaker,
that our committee heard the day be-
fore yesterday a reminder that only 29
percent of Americans aged 17 to 25 are
eligible for military service. Only 29
percent meet the physical, mental, and
legal requirements to be eligible for
military service, even if they want to.
That means 71 percent are not eligible,
for whatever reason.
There could be, and maybe there
should be, a debate that the standards
are too high, that we need to lower the
standards, that we need to make some
changes in the standards so that more
people are eligible. But the point is,
our view of military service is that
anyone who meets those standards
should be allowed to serve. If someone
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:56 Mar 29, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K28MR7.006 H28MRPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2893
March 28, 2019
cannot meet those standards, for what-
ever reason, through no fault of their
own, then they are not able to serve.
They can serve in a different way, but
not in military service.
b 0930
I think, again, Mr. Speaker, if we
were to really be discussing the sub-
stance of the issue rather than a mes-
saging bill, then we could talk about
the high standards for military service
without special accommodation and
there would be a substantive discus-
sion. That is not what we are doing
today. It is a messaging bill, and that
is too bad because there are serious
issues that need to be discussed.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. SMITH of Washington. Mr.
Speaker, just briefly, I will agree, this
is a messaging bill, and the message is
this is a bad policy. That is what the
House is doing.
I will also agree that, when it comes
to crafting the right policy in this
area, it should be done in committee,
and it will be done in committee. That
is why we didn’t bring that out here on
the floor.
But I think it is important for the
House of Representatives to make it
clear how wrong we think this policy
is.
Mr. Speaker, I yield 3 minutes to the
gentleman from Massachusetts (Mr.
KENNEDY).
Mr. KENNEDY. Mr. Speaker, equal
has always been our Nation’s North
Star.
Endowed by our creator, inscribed by
Jefferson in our Declaration of Inde-
pendence, engraved above the doors to
the highest court in our land, codified
in our Constitution after a war tore our
country apart, it is that pursuit of
equality, that journey for a more per-
fect Union, that sets America apart.
At times, we have stumbled. We have
enslaved men, women, and children be-
cause of the color of their skin. We
have segregated those same families in
the first breaths of their freedom.
We have stigmatized fellow Ameri-
cans based on their race, their ances-
try, their god, the nation of their birth,
the hand that they hold, and their very
identity.
Some willing to die for our freedom
fought wars only to meet a government
that offered them a handshake and a
return to second-class citizenship.
Today, this House has a chance to
not repeat the mistakes of our past, to
move one step closer to that sacred
promise by telling brave trans men and
women in uniform that they cannot be
banned from military service because
of who they are—because that is the
very foundation for this policy: tar-
geted discrimination against
transgender Americans.
Supporters will say otherwise. It is
about unit cohesion, they say—except
for the fact that the five chiefs of staff
for the military branches have testified
that they are aware of exactly zero in-
stances of a transgender servicemem-
ber negatively impacting discipline or
morale.
It will degrade our military, they
say—except that 56 retired generals
and flag officers told us that it is the
ban that would degrade readiness,
‘‘even more than the failed Don’t Ask,
Don’t Tell policy’’ did.
It is science, they say—except that
the Department of Defense relied on
data nearly half a century old and ig-
nored plenty of other studies.
Just ask the American Medical Asso-
ciation, the American Psychology As-
sociation, the American Psychiatric
Association.
It is about cost, they say—except
that the military spends ten times
more annually on erectile dysfunction
medication than we have on trans-re-
lated care in the past 3 years combined.
It is not a ban, they say. Ask any one
of the brave transgender servicemem-
bers or veterans in the gallery today
exactly what this ban means.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
time of the gentleman has expired.
Mr. SMITH of Washington. Mr.
Speaker, I yield the gentleman from
Massachusetts an additional 1 minute.
Mr. KENNEDY. Mr. Speaker, in a
country that celebrates freedom, this
policy tells our servicemembers that
they do not have the freedom to be who
they are. Where is the freedom in that?
Mr. Speaker, I ask all Members of the
House to support this resolution.
Mr. THORNBERRY. Mr. Speaker, I
yield 5 minutes to the gentlewoman
from Missouri (Mrs. HARTZLER).
Mrs. HARTZLER. Mr. Speaker, let
me tell you about a sharp, young pa-
triot from my district.
She worked hard, earned straight
A’s, and was accepted into law school
to join the JAG Corps. She, however,
was denied entry into the military be-
cause she had bunions on her feet.
She is an amazing woman and a long-
distance runner, but DOD’s policy was
clear that, due to the risk of future
surgery, she could potentially be tem-
porarily undeployable and, so, was de-
nied entrance into military service.
She did not meet the physical-mental-
medical standards.
Another constituent was denied serv-
ice because he had asthma. He, too,
wanted to serve his country, but the
health risk outweighed the benefits to
the military. He did not meet the phys-
ical-mental-medical standards.
DOD’s military exception standards
state:
Individuals must be free of medical condi-
tions or physical defects that may require
excessive time lost from duty for necessary
treatment or hospitalization.
Our all-volunteer military is the
greatest military force in the world,
and we must allow it—we must allow
it—to make the best medical and mili-
tary judgment about what medical con-
ditions should qualify or disqualify an
individual from serving. We should not
carve out exceptions for an entire pop-
ulation.
Military service is a privilege, not a
right. That is why Secretary Mattis re-
viewed and issued a new policy on
transgender service and the medical
condition of gender dysphoria.
The policy is not a ban, and it allows
transgender servicemembers to serve
in their biological sex. The Mattis pol-
icy does not kick anyone out of the
military for being transgender, nor
does it give preferential treatment to
transgender persons. All persons, un-
less grandfathered or granted a waiver,
must serve in their birth gender.
It is a fair policy, allowing
transgender individuals to serve openly
as long as they are willing to serve in
their biological sex and they can meet
the medical behavioral standards.
This resolution we are voting on
today is riddled with inaccuracies.
First, as I just stated, the policy is not
a ban.
Second, it claims there is a global
medical consensus that transgender
care is effective, safe, and reliable.
That is not true. RAND, the Mayo Clin-
ic, CMS, and others have all deter-
mined that there is not enough quality
evidence to be able to say that. And
there are valid concerns.
There are costs as well. The Depart-
ment of Defense announced already
that they have spent $8 million on
those individuals who have identified
as transgender last year, and that
money has been spent on psycho-
therapy, on sex change operations.
That is money that could have been
spent on bullets, body armor for our
troops.
Third, the resolution claims there is
not an adverse effect on military readi-
ness. This is false. The individual read-
iness of those undergoing treatment for
gender dysphoria will be impacted. It
takes over 260 days just to recover
from the surgery.
Individual readiness directly impacts
the readiness of our forces, so the diag-
nosis and treatment for transgender
personnel takes them away from their
jobs for an indeterminate amount of
time. This lost deployment time means
someone else will have to step forward
and go in their place. This is unfair.
The military has valid reasons for ex-
cluding people with certain medical
conditions from service. It is not the
job of Congress to dictate what medical
conditions the military should accept.
We should not degrade the efficiency
and lethality of our Armed Forces.
This resolution is riddled with false
claims, and I urge my colleagues to op-
pose its passage.
Mr. SMITH of Washington. Mr.
Speaker, I yield 1 minute to gentle-
woman from California (Ms. PELOSI),
the Speaker of the House.
Ms. PELOSI. Mr. Speaker, I thank
the distinguished chairman for yield-
ing time and, really, for his leadership
on this very important issue as to who
we are as a nation, how we honor our
oath to protect and defend the Amer-
ican people, and, in doing so, recog-
nizing the contribution of all who want
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:56 Mar 29, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K28MR7.007 H28MRPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2894 March 28, 2019
to serve our country. I thank the gen-
tleman from Washington (Mr. SMITH)
for his leadership.
I also acknowledge the leadership of
our colleague JOE KENNEDY, sponsor of
this legislation, for his relentless lead-
ership and his forming and chairman-
ship of the Transgender Caucus that
has been so important in making clear,
in our policy, that we respect the dig-
nity and worth of every person.
Mr. Speaker, the men and women
who step forward to serve in the U.S.
military are patriots, all of them, peo-
ple of great strength and courage
whose sacrifice keeps us safe. We owe
those heroes our must humbled grati-
tude and our most steadfast support,
and I want to thank our trans friends
for their service, their courage, their
patriotism in serving our country.
Instead of honoring their service, the
President continues to insist on his
cruel transgender servicemember ban.
This is an act of cruelty.
Let us all salute, again, Congressman
JOE KENNEDY, a champion for equality,
fairness, and dignity in this Congress,
for his firm, moral leadership on this
resolution to oppose the President’s
bigoted ban.
The resolution that our distinguished
chairman, Mr. SMITH, and our col-
league, JOE KENNEDY, are putting forth
is bipartisan because protecting
transgender servicemembers is a mat-
ter of patriotism and it transcends pol-
itics.
The President’s ban, as I said, is
cruel and arbitrary, a decision designed
to humiliate the transgender Ameri-
cans who are risking and giving their
lives for the United States of America.
There is no moral justification for
this ban, which violates every value of
our American democracy and betrays
our fundamental belief in fairness, dig-
nity, and respect.
There is no medical justification for
this ban, which the American Medical
Association, the American Psycho-
logical Association, and the American
Psychiatric Association all oppose.
And there is no military justification
for this ban which would undermine
our military readiness and make Amer-
ica less strong and safe, and that is ac-
cording to our own military.
After the President first unleashed
his ban, 56 retired generals and flag of-
ficers issued a statement asserting that
the ban ‘‘would cause significant dis-
ruptions, deprive the military of mis-
sion-critical talent, and compromise
the integrity of transgender troops who
would be forced to live a lie, as well as
non-transgender peers who are forced
to choose between reporting their com-
rades or disobeying policy. As a re-
sult,’’ they go on to say, ‘‘the proposed
ban would degrade readiness even more
than the failed Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell
policy.’’
Other military leaders have spoken
out to denounce this ban: Former Joint
Chief of Staff, Mike Mullen; Army
Chief of Staff, General Mark Milley;
Commandant of the United States
Coast Guard, Karl Schultz; Chief of
Naval Operations, Admiral Jon Rich-
ardson; Commandant of the Marine
Corps, General Robert Neller.
Yet the President has chosen to ig-
nore the expertise of these military
leaders, making clear that prejudice,
not patriotism, drives his decisions.
The President’s ban, again, is cruel.
No one with the strength and bravery
to serve in the U.S. military should be
turned away because of who they are.
The House will continue to fight this
discriminatory action, which has no
place in our country. We will never
allow hate and prejudice to dictate our
national security. I hope we have a re-
sounding ‘‘yes’’ vote to reject the
President’s ban today.
Again, I thank the distinguished
chairman, Mr. SMITH, and our col-
league JOE KENNEDY for his leadership
and courage.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Mem-
bers are reminded to refrain from en-
gaging in personalities toward the
President.
Mr. SMITH of Washington. Mr.
Speaker, I am sorry, at some point
someone has got to tell me what ‘‘en-
gaging in personalities’’ means. I have
served in this body for a long time. I
still don’t know what that means.
Mr. Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the
gentlewoman from California (Mrs.
DAVIS).
Mrs. DAVIS of California. Mr. Speak-
er, I rise today in solidarity with our
transgender servicemembers and to
stand against President Trump’s pro-
posed ban of transgender people serving
in the military.
Transgender troops have been serving
openly since 2016—at home, overseas,
and in combat zones—without incident.
b 0945
When I met with transgender service-
members last month, I was impressed
to learn that by serving openly—I want
to make a note of that—by serving
openly, the quality of their service im-
proved, and, in fact, the obstacles—and
there are many obstacles, Mr. Speak-
er—the obstacles they have overcome
informed their greater ability to do
their job. Their impressive records
speak for themselves, and there is no
doubt that each of the servicemembers
I met with have served their country
with distinction.
As already stated, this ban is blatant
discrimination poorly disguised as con-
cerns over readiness, unit cohesion,
and medical costs associated with
transitioning. We already know that
there have been zero reports of issues
regarding unit morale or cohesion
since the ban was lifted in 2016, a fact
that has been supported by the chief of
staff of every service. The cost of medi-
cally transitioning has also been prov-
en to have minimal impact on the mili-
tary’s healthcare budget.
This administration is resorting to
misinformation; misinformation to ex-
clude capable, qualified people from
service to their country.
At a time when the Army is failing
to meet recruitment goals, and the
Navy and Air Force opted to lower
their quota in order to reach their own
recruitment goals, we cannot be turn-
ing away dedicated, able-bodied re-
cruits simply because they happen to
be transgender.
Mr. THORNBERRY. Mr. Speaker, I
continue to reserve the balance of my
time.
Mr. SMITH of Washington. Mr.
Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the gen-
tlewoman from California (Ms. SPEIER).
Ms. SPEIER. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to support this resolution with
vigor.
Last month, the Subcommittee on
Military Personnel within the Armed
Services Committee held a hearing. It
was the first time in the history of this
Congress that five transgender mem-
bers of the military were allowed to
testify.
Four of them are trans female. One of
them is trans male. All five of them
have served our country with distinc-
tion. All five of them have served more
than 12 years in the military. One of
them is a West Point graduate. All of
them have served either in Iraq, Af-
ghanistan, multiple deployments, and
in submarine service.
To the servicemember, all I saw was
pride to be in the military, pride to
serve their country, pride to put them-
selves on the line.
The testimony from the administra-
tion was like a twisted pretzel. They
offered a weak and dithering defense of
their cruel policy. Two things became
clear at this hearing:
First, the administration policy is a
ban. Make no mistake about it. Those
who are in the military and serving as
transgender can continue to do so. No
one can come into the military who is
transgender. If you are in the military
and transgender and have not identi-
fied, you cannot identify. So it is a
ban.
Captain Alivia Stehlik put it best:
Currently, soldiers are allowed to seek care
no matter what, trans related or not. If the
policy changes, soldiers will no longer be
able to seek care, because if you say, I am
trans and get a diagnosis of gender dys-
phoria, regardless of your job performance,
you are ineligible and will be terminated.
The policy is a solution in search of
a problem. Worse, it discriminates
against our servicemembers.
Second, the hearing demonstrated re-
soundingly that the last 21⁄2 years of
open service have been unequivocally
successful.
Mr. Speaker, let me say, transgender
servicemembers have been there for us.
It is time for us to be there for them.
Mr. THORNBERRY. Mr. Speaker, I
continue to reserve the balance of my
time.
Mr. SMITH of Washington. Mr.
Speaker, I yield 1 minute to the gen-
tleman from Maryland (Mr. HOYER),
the distinguished majority leader.
(Mr. HOYER asked and was given
permission to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:31 Mar 29, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K28MR7.009 H28MRPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2895
March 28, 2019
Mr. HOYER. Mr. Speaker, I thank
the chairman for yielding. I thank the
ranking member for his service, and his
leadership as chairman.
Mr. Speaker, I urge all Members to
reject the President’s executive order
and to support this resolution.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support
of the resolution introduced by my
friend, the gentleman from Massachu-
setts (Mr. KENNEDY). His resolution
simply states what millions and mil-
lions of Americans know to be true,
that the Trump administration’s ban
on transgender people serving their
country in our military is discrimina-
tory. It reflects bias. It reflects preju-
dice. Indeed, it reflects bigotry.
Martin Luther King tried to teach us
that what we said in the Declaration of
Independence, we ought to live out. He
said that all of us—and, certainly, he
would have included women as we did
yesterday in our Paycheck Fairness
Act—are created equal in the image of
God.
Martin Luther King said that we
ought to judge one another on the con-
tent of our character. The President’s
order does not do that. The President’s
order is based upon a prejudiced view of
somebody because of a distinction that
is not the content of their character
nor the quality of their performance.
I was proud to be a sponsor of and
brought to this floor as majority lead-
er, the repeal of the Don’t Ask, Don’t
Tell legislation. That has enhanced our
national security, not diminished it.
The President’s resolution states
what millions and millions of Ameri-
cans know to be true: that the Trump
administration’s ban on transgender
people serving their country in our
military is discriminatory; that it
denigrates the service of patriotic
Americans. That is a facet of their
character. They are patriotic, and they
want to serve, and the service judges
them able to do so.
This resolution, millions of Ameri-
cans understand, undermines our na-
tional defense at a time of serious glob-
al threats. This resolution rightfully
calls on the Trump administration not
to implement such a ban on April 12.
To do so would be a blow to our coun-
try and the principles it represents.
Let me remind my colleagues that
there was a time when we said African
Americans ought not to serve with
White Americans together because that
would undermine morale and under-
mine the security of our country. That
was a manifestation of prejudice and
bigotry, not of intellectual honesty,
content of character.
Have we not yet learned that lesson?
Are we not big enough to live out the
premise that all men and women are
created equal? This resolution seeks to
redeem the best of America’s prin-
ciples, not the worst of our discrimina-
tory past.
I was proud to bring legislation to
the floor as majority leader that ended
Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell, and it was over-
whelmingly supported in this House
and in the Senate, and passed. It has
been a benefit, not a detriment.
In the years since, we have seen our
military strengthen by the open serv-
ice of many LGBT Americans who have
contributed a great deal to keeping
America safe and advancing our na-
tional security interests around the
world.
To say to transgender servicemem-
bers in uniform that they must leave
their units, not because they are not
performing well, not because they are
not needed, but because of who they
are, not the content of their character,
not their service, not their perform-
ance, but because of who they are,
would be a shameful action for our
country and deprive us of their talent
and contributions.
To deny transgender Americans the
opportunity to put on that uniform and
wear the flag of the country they wish
to serve—as I do every day—would be
to diminish that flag, that Declaration
of Independence, that Constitution of
the United States of which we are so
proud.
I hope my colleagues in this body
will join in sending a clear message
that the House, not Republicans or
Democrats, that the people’s House re-
flects the values, the service, and patri-
otism of our transgender fellow Ameri-
cans.
Let us today reflect the best of our
values, not the worst of our values.
Pass this resolution. Make America
proud of its Declaration of Independ-
ence and its Constitution, and of Mar-
tin Luther King, Jr.’s admonition to
make our judgments based upon con-
tent of character.
Mr. THORNBERRY. Mr. Speaker, I
continue to reserve the balance of my
time.
Mr. SMITH of Washington. Mr.
Speaker, I am pleased to yield 2 min-
utes to the gentleman from California
(Mr. CARBAJAL).
Mr. CARBAJAL. Mr. Speaker, as a
veteran, I rise in support of this resolu-
tion. When this country first debated
the possibility of African Americans,
women, or LGBT people serving in our
military, the same doubts, the same re-
ports, and the same concerns were
raised regarding their service.
One of these misleading claims is
that allowing transindividuals to serve
could harm our military readiness. Mr.
Speaker, allowing patriotic Americans
who are willing, capable, and ready to
serve their country does not harm
readiness.
I will tell you what does: diverting
military personnel and billions of dol-
lars in military construction funding
to build an unnecessary wall to respond
to a nonmilitary fabricated emergency.
I want to ask my friends who support
this shameful service ban whether they
believe they have the right to deny an
individual their right to be who they
are, to limit opportunities because of
their gender identity? Are these the
values America was founded upon?
We as a nation are much better than
this. During the repeal of Don’t Ask,
Don’t Tell, critics invoked fear upon
America saying that it would disrupt
unit morale and readiness. Today, 9
years later, we have the most powerful
and capable military in the world.
For almost 3 years, transgender
troops have been able to serve openly.
During that time, there has been no
evidence of lack of military readiness
or unit cohesion. Unfortunately, in re-
turn for their service, we are requiring
they suppress their identity. This is ab-
solutely unacceptable and discrimina-
tory.
I believe former chairman of the
Joint Chiefs of Staff, General Dempsey
responded best when he stated:
‘‘The service of the men and women
who volunteer and who meet our stand-
ards of service is a blessing, not a bur-
den.’’
b 1000
Mr. THORNBERRY. Mr. Speaker, I
reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. SMITH of Washington. Mr.
Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the gen-
tleman from Maryland (Mr. BROWN).
Mr. BROWN of Maryland. Mr. Speak-
er, I rise to express my vehement oppo-
sition to banning service in the Armed
Forces by openly transgender individ-
uals because the Trump administration
considers transgender identity to be
some medically disqualifying condi-
tion. Gender identity is not a medical
condition; it is who we are as individ-
uals.
Since President Truman deseg-
regated the military, we have torn
down barriers to the equal treatment
and opportunity of every American to
serve. Women now serve in combat
roles defending our Nation as Rangers,
infantrymen and submariners. Gay,
lesbian, and bisexual Americans serve
our country openly and with distinc-
tion.
In 2016, the Pentagon lifted the ban
on transgender Americans, allowing
them to serve without having to hide
their true identity. The fact that thou-
sands of transgender servicemembers
are currently serving, meeting, and ex-
ceeding standards and are deployed
worldwide speaks volumes about their
dedication and contributions to our
Nation. We need their skills, their ex-
perience, their courage, and their pa-
triotism.
In 1948, many Americans agreed that
racial segregation in the Armed Forces
was right, but history shows all of us
today that they were wrong. Former
Defense Secretary Gates said: ‘‘No as-
pect of Black Americans’ quest for jus-
tice and equality under the law has
been nobler than what has been called
the ‘fight for the right to fight.’’’
My 30 years in the Army leads me to
believe that all Americans who want to
serve and who can meet our standards
should be given the right to fight. My
deep belief is shared by General
Dunford, Chairman of the Joint Chiefs
of Staff, who reiterated that very belief
to me just 2 days ago.
We have an obligation to allow
transgender Americans the right to
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:56 Mar 29, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K28MR7.011 H28MRPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2896 March 28, 2019
fight for our Nation. We cannot, Mr.
Speaker, settle for this discriminatory
policy.
Mr. THORNBERRY. Mr. Speaker, I
continue to reserve the balance of my
time.
Mr. SMITH of Washington. Mr.
Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the gen-
tleman from California (Mr. CISNEROS).
Mr. CISNEROS. Mr. Speaker, I want
to thank Mr. KENNEDY for his leader-
ship on this issue and the members and
staff on the House Armed Services
Committee for helping bring this im-
portant resolution to the House floor.
I served in the Navy during the time
of Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell. Too many
were forced to live their lives in secret,
unable to be true to themselves. In
2016, transgender servicemembers were
allowed to serve openly in the United
States military, individuals like Lieu-
tenant Commander Blake Dremann,
who is still currently on Active Duty
and who has deployed 11 times.
During his testimony in the Military
Personnel Subcommittee, he stated
that his transition meant that he was
no longer compartmentalizing parts of
his life. He also stated that his decision
to transition made him a better officer
and a better leader. He has proven it by
receiving the Navy Batchelder Award,
which is given to Navy top Supply
Corps officers.
My support for Lieutenant Com-
mander Dremann and all our
transgender servicemembers is un-
equivocal. They have shown tremen-
dous courage, and it is why I fight for
inclusion and equality for the LGBTQ
community.
The President’s policy is taking not
only our military, but our country,
backwards. It is unnecessary, and it is
purely a discriminatory action against
a group of individuals who want to do
nothing more than serve their country.
It is a disgusting attack on a commu-
nity that he once swore to protect. He
is attacking servicemembers who have
already proven their ability to meet
strategic needs and who pose no risk to
unit cohesion or military readiness.
As far as I am concerned, any person
who has the courage, spirit, and com-
mitment to serve our country in uni-
form when so many choose not to
should be allowed to do so.
I will vote to pass this resolution,
and unlike the President, I will con-
tinue to advocate for and protect our
LGBTQ community. I urge my col-
leagues on both sides of the aisle to
vote in support of this resolution and
denounce the President’s hateful policy
toward our servicemembers.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Mem-
bers are reminded to refrain from en-
gaging in personalities toward the
President.
Mr. THORNBERRY. Mr. Speaker, I
reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. SMITH of Washington. Mr.
Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the gen-
tleman from New York (Mr. NADLER).
Mr. NADLER. Mr. Speaker, I thank
the gentleman for yielding.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support
of this resolution and in opposition to
the administration’s ban on openly
transgender individuals in the armed
services.
Throughout history, each time we ex-
pand who may join the armed services
to better reflect the diversity of our
Nation, the same tired and disproven
arguments are brought back: that any
individual within a new group, regard-
less of their ability, is unfit to serve
and that they will disrupt unit cohe-
sion. We heard these arguments with
respect to Black and Latino men;
women; and gays, lesbians, and
bisexuals.
But we know that is simply untrue.
There are no issues with transgender
individuals serving in our military.
You don’t have to take my word for it.
The service chiefs of all five branches
of our military have testified that
there have been zero instances of
transgender servicemembers hurting
cohesion or readiness since the ban was
first lifted.
The conservative obsession with tar-
geting and attacking transgender indi-
viduals in all areas of American life is
cruel and immoral. It is astonishing
that, after years of ‘‘support our
troops’’ demagoguery from my col-
leagues across the aisle, they would
choose to turn their backs on Active-
Duty servicemembers and vote to spe-
cifically deny them medically pre-
scribed care.
After 21⁄2 years of transgender serv-
icemembers serving with no issues,
there is one reason and one reason
alone for this administration to be
bringing back a ban on transgender
servicemembers: to force a bigoted
agenda on the military that they can-
not force on the rest of the American
people.
Mr. Speaker, much of the history of
this country is the history of expand-
ing our understanding of whom the
Declaration of Independence meant
when it said that all men are created
equal. It didn’t mean, in 1776, Black
men; it certainly didn’t mean women;
it didn’t mean Native Americans; and
it didn’t mean LGBTQ people. We have
come to the point where we under-
stand, at least aspirationally, it means
all of those things.
This resolution gives us a choice:
Do we join the march? Do we con-
tinue the march to expand the meaning
of the Declaration of Independence to
declare equality for everyone regard-
less of specific characteristics, or do we
join that dreary procession of slavers,
confederates, racists, and misogynists
who have dragged this country through
the mud and have besmirched the
ideals of the Declaration of Independ-
ence?
That is our choice today. Let’s take
the right one.
Mr. THORNBERRY. Mr. Speaker, I
continue to reserve the balance of my
time.
Mr. SMITH of Washington. Mr.
Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the gen-
tleman from Rhode Island (Mr.
CICILLINE).
Mr. CICILLINE. Mr. Speaker, I rise
in strong support of this resolution ex-
pressing opposition to President
Trump’s decision to ban transgender
individuals from serving in the Armed
Forces. I am proud to be a cosponsor of
this resolution, and I thank my friend,
Mr. KENNEDY, for his extraordinary
leadership on this issue.
The President’s decision in 2017 to
prohibit transgender individuals from
military service is disgraceful and
wrong. Not only is the decision based
on ignorance and bigotry, but the evi-
dence shows there is absolutely no need
for this discriminatory policy.
America has the strongest and most
effective military in the history of the
world, and that is because of the brave
individuals who serve in uniform. Ex-
cluding an entire group of highly quali-
fied and skilled individuals from serv-
ice undermines our national security.
In 2016, the Obama administration re-
moved the ban on transgender individ-
uals after thoroughly and carefully
studying how it would impact the mili-
tary and military readiness. A year
later, President Trump announced he
would resume prohibiting transgender
individuals from serving in a tweet and
didn’t even bother to tell his Secretary
of Defense about it.
The National Center for Transgender
Equality estimates that over 15,000
trans people are currently serving in
the military. In 2016, a study by RAND
Corporation found that service by
transgender individuals does not ad-
versely affect readiness, and, in fact,
many military leaders have acknowl-
edged that the ban will degrade mili-
tary readiness.
This cruel ban seeks to force
transgender members of our military
back into the closet or out of service.
It is a policy that is not based on any
factor or any careful deliberation, but
merely an attempt to score points with
the hard right faction of his political
base. By doing this, the President is
hurting our military, making our coun-
try less safe, and making our country
less just.
Transgender individuals who serve
our country in the Armed Forces are
American heroes. They deserve our
thanks, and they deserve more than to
be used as a political prop by their
Commander in Chief. We as a country
are better than this.
Mr. Speaker, quite simply, it is un-
American and immoral to deny
transgender individuals who want to
serve our country in uniform the right
to do so simply because of who they
are, and I urge my colleagues to sup-
port this resolution.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Mem-
bers are reminded to refrain from en-
gaging in personalities toward the
President.
Mr. THORNBERRY. Mr. Speaker, I
continue to reserve the balance of my
time.
Mr. SMITH of Washington. Mr.
Speaker, I yield 1 minute to the gentle-
woman from California (Ms. LEE).
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:16 Mar 29, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K28MR7.013 H28MRPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2897
March 28, 2019
Ms. LEE of California. Mr. Speaker, I
thank Chairman SMITH for his leader-
ship and for yielding time.
I also want to recognize Congressman
KENNEDY for his tremendous leadership
on this issue.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support
of H. Res. 124, rejecting the President’s
discriminatory ban on openly
transgender servicemembers in the
military.
Transgender servicemembers have
served with honor and distinction in
the defense of our country for decades,
yet President Trump announced on
Twitter that transgender servicemem-
bers would no longer be allowed to
serve, despite the fact that many mili-
tary leaders concluded that being
transgender does not impact our readi-
ness. President Trump’s own Chief of
Staff said he hadn’t received any re-
ports of problems with unit cohesion or
morale regarding transgender service-
members.
The President’s cowardly ban makes
it clear that prejudice, not patriotism,
guides his decisions.
As the daughter of a career military
officer who served in a segregated mili-
tary, I know what it is like for our
country to betray our American val-
ues. As a person of faith, I was taught
to treat everyone equally. As an Afri-
can American woman, I will fight dis-
crimination wherever it surfaces.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
vote ‘‘yes’’ on this resolution.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Mem-
bers are reminded to refrain from en-
gaging in personalities toward the
President.
Mr. THORNBERRY. I continue to re-
serve the balance of my time, Mr.
Speaker.
Mr. SMITH of Washington. Mr.
Speaker, I yield 1 minute to the gentle-
woman from Texas (Ms. JACKSON LEE).
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker, I
thank the chairman and the ranking
member managing this bill, and I
thank Mr. KENNEDY for his insight.
We are reminded that we have noth-
ing to fear but fear itself. Franklin
Delano Roosevelt offered those great
words on the precipice of World War II,
the victory with the United States
troops standing side by side, some of
them African Americans who lived and
served in the uniform but in a seg-
regated way. But their blood was the
same, and they shared their blood in
the same way; they died in the same
way.
Do we want victory or defeat?
Let me be very clear. Allowing
transgenders to serve and brushing
them out is a travesty.
Do you realize that it is clear that
the RAND report found that healthcare
coverage for transgender military per-
sonnel would increase the military
total account by less than zero?
In addition, when all of this was
banned by the Obama administration,
we recognized it is honored, the sac-
rifices of selfless transgender service-
members who have endured exclusion,
silence, and persecution due to dis-
criminatory policies and attitudes
against LGBT and military personnel
such as Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell, which
was rightfully struck down under the
Obama administration.
We must be against these destructive
practices.
Do we want victory or defeat?
There is nothing to fear but fear
itself.
Support this resolution to stand with
those who want to serve and die for
their country.
I rise in support of H. Res. 124.
Mr. Speaker, on Wednesday, July 26, 2017,
the fears of the LGBTQ community were con-
firmed.
In an unexpected move that immediately
sent shockwaves through the media and
LGBTQ+ community, the President tweeted
Wednesday morning that ‘‘the United States
Government will not accept or allow
Transgender individuals to serve in any capac-
ity in the U.S. Military.’’
Scores of individuals, civil rights groups, and
military personnel on all sides of the political
spectrum unanimously condemned the Presi-
dent’s announcement as an intolerant and irra-
tional violation of the sacred right of
Transgender Americans to valiantly serve their
country.
In his tweets, the President claimed that
‘‘our military . . . cannot be burdened with the
tremendous medical costs and disruption that
transgender in the military would entail.’’
This statement directly contradicts the
wealth of rigorous evidence indicating the
exact opposite:
According to a 2016 study by the RAND
Corporation, allowing transgender individuals
to serve openly in the military poses ‘‘little to
no impact on unit cohesion, operational effec-
tiveness, or readiness.’’
Furthermore, RAND found that health care
coverage for transgender military personnel
would increase the U.S. military’s total annual
health care expenditures by a mere 0.04 to
0.13-percent.
The President’s illogical ban on transgender
military personnel reverses a previous policy
set forth by Former Defense Secretary Ash
Carter in June, 2016 that allowed transgender
troops to serve openly.
This policy under Obama was a significant
step forward that made our armed services
more inclusive.
It honored the sacrifices of selfless
transgender service members who have en-
dured exclusion, silence, and persecution due
to discriminatory policies and attitudes against
LGBTQ+ military personnel such as ‘‘Don’t
Ask, Don’t Tell,’’ which was rightfully struck
down under the Obama administration.
Numerous advocacy groups that focus on
LGBTQ+ service members and veterans orga-
nizations have decried the President’s
transgender ban announcement and criticized
the hypocrisy and poor leadership of the White
House.
Officials at OutServe, which provides legal
assistance to LGBTQ+ troops and recruits,
said Trump’s ‘‘pseudo-policy-by-twitter’’ dem-
onstrated ‘‘blatant disregard for transgender
service members.’’
The group then turned the President’s hate-
ful rhetoric back on itself: ‘‘The disruptive bur-
den to the military comes from indecision in a
White House which itself is not focused on vic-
tory if it’s targeting service members.
The readiness, effectiveness, and lethality of
the Armed Services comes from the commit-
ment of our troops—not the vagaries and big-
otry of exclusionary policies.’’
The Palm Center, an advocacy group for
transgender service members, denounced the
President’s comments as ‘‘creating a worse
version of don’t ask, don’t tell’’ policy.
Vote Vets, an organization dedicated to
opening U.S. military services to diverse
Americans, correctly assessed that ‘‘removing
[transgender service members] weakens our
country and our military.’’
There are approximately 15,000 transgender
service members currently serving in the U.S.
military.
The President’s announcement offers no
clarity on the status of these troops who con-
tinue to serve their country with honor, dignity,
and excellence.
However, if the President’s expression of in-
tent to ‘‘not accept or allow Transgender indi-
viduals to serve’’ entails the removal of these
service members from the ranks of the U.S.
military—this can only be understood as a di-
rect violation of the rights and principles laid
down in the Constitution.
Angela Davis once said, ‘‘If they come for
me in the morning, they will come for you in
the night.’’
Americans of all races, ethnicities, origins,
sexual preferences, and gender identities must
realize that the reverse is also true: If the
President comes for them in the morning, he
will come for me in the night.
To the brave transgender individuals who
have served, currently serve, or dream of
serving in the military: I recognize your com-
mitment to protecting this nation with your very
lives.
I oppose the President’s unlawful agenda of
discrimination. I will not stop until your sac-
rifices are regarded as equal under the law of
the United States.
To all members of the transgender commu-
nity: I stand with you. I am fighting for you. I
will not allow your rights to be stripped away
by bigoted men who have lost sight of what it
means to be American. That is why I support
H. Res. 124.
Mr. THORNBERRY. Mr. Speaker,
may I inquire of the Chair whether the
gentleman from Washington, the chair-
man, has any further speakers other
than himself.
Mr. SMITH of Washington. I am pre-
pared to close at this time, Mr. Speak-
er.
Mr. THORNBERRY. Mr. Speaker, I
yield myself the balance of my time.
Mr. Speaker, it seems to me that the
current House leadership seems rather
consumed by Presidential tweets. As a
matter of fact, just a few moments ago,
the Speaker of the House, herself, was
one of those Members who had to be re-
minded that it is a violation of the
rules of the House to disparage the
character of the President.
I guess we could do this every day.
The President could tweet, and we
would have a sense of Congress to com-
ment on it, and the President would
tweet. But generally, Mr. Speaker, I
think there is a higher and better pur-
pose for this House to work on the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:04 Mar 29, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K28MR7.014 H28MRPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2898 March 28, 2019
problems that confront the American
people.
As I mentioned a few moments ago,
this is a messaging bill. It changes no
law. It changes no policy. It could also
be done down in the House radio-tele-
vision correspondents’ gallery. Some-
body could give a speech, and there
could be a press conference. It would
have the same effect as having this res-
olution on the floor.
I don’t have the time to correct all of
the misstatements in the resolution or
that have been made on the floor
today. I will say this, Mr. Speaker: If
we are going to do messaging, then my
primary message is that every indi-
vidual who serves our Nation in the
military is entitled to respect and our
appreciation—every single individual—
and I am among those who are very im-
pressed, by the way, by the transgender
individuals who testified in front of our
Military Personnel Subcommittee just
a few weeks ago.
But on the substance of this issue, I
believe the principle for the Depart-
ment of Defense is that any eligible in-
dividual who can meet the high stand-
ards for military service without spe-
cial accommodation should be per-
mitted to serve.
b 1015
Any eligible individual who can meet
the standard without special accommo-
dation should be permitted to serve.
I think that is the standard. That is
not exactly what we have been talking
about today, but that is the standard,
and it should be the standard.
There may be some differences about
what a special accommodation is,
about various medical diagnoses and
conditions. I understand that. But the
standard is, if you meet the standard
without special accommodation you
should be permitted to serve.
And those who serve deserve our re-
spect and our appreciation. That is the
point. But that is not really the point
of this resolution.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
Mr. SMITH of Washington. Mr.
Speaker, I yield myself the balance of
my time.
Let’s remember one important point.
There was no problem. This was not an
issue. It was not talked about until the
President decided that, in his words, he
wanted to ban transgender people from
serving in the military.
I hope that is not engaging in person-
alities. It is simply saying what he said
and did. He sent out a tweet saying we
should ban people who are transgender.
Then the military has had to backfill
that tweet with a policy. I feel bad for
the members of the military who have
had to do that, who have had to waste
their time for the last year trying to
accommodate the ignorance and big-
otry of this presidential policy.
There was no problem. Every single
service chief testified there is no im-
pact on unit cohesion. We weren’t talk-
ing about that until the President de-
cided that he wanted to discriminate
against transgender people.
I think the ranking member of the
Armed Services Committee is 100 per-
cent correct. Every eligible person who
can perform the duties should be al-
lowed to serve.
This policy violates that principle in
a whole bunch of different ways, but I
will simply mention two.
Even if you have already
transitioned, even if you have already
gone through all of the healthcare
needs and have fully transitioned to a
new gender, this policy says you will
not be allowed to serve if you are
transgender.
That means that fully qualified peo-
ple—not ones who have potential fu-
ture surgery or anything—are being
banned from serving.
It also says, if you are serving now,
you cannot be who you are. And this is
where the ignorance comes in.
Wow. What do you mean?
You have got to be the gender you
were born in.
That is not the way it works. That is
ignorance talking. This policy saying
that, No, sorry, you have to be in your
‘‘biological sex’’ means you have to
deny who you are. And that will also
ban people from serving who are other-
wise 100 percent qualified.
Without question, trans men and
women who are fully qualified to serve
in the military will be banned by this
policy.
We have already seen the other two
arguments: Well, the healthcare costs
will go up.
No, they won’t. The stats, the evi-
dence, the facts show that transgender
people have no greater healthcare costs
than the average person serving in the
military.
And the unit cohesion argument is an
absolute joke. This debate, this policy,
prompted by the President, inserting
discrimination where it did not belong,
is the only thing that has caused any of
this issue.
As General Milley said: zero evidence
of any unit cohesion issue.
So, let’s be 100 percent clear here.
This policy is based on ignorance and
bigotry.
And why are we doing it on the House
floor instead of down in some press
conference somewhere? Because the
vote of this House matters more than
just the individual words of a few Mem-
bers.
I, as a Member of the United States
House and as a citizen of the United
States of America, want my Congress
to go on record that we will not stand
for ignorance and bigotry in our mili-
tary or anywhere else.
A vote of this House makes it clear
just how wrongheaded this policy is.
And make no mistake about it, this is
not the military that wanted this. The
President drove it, and he is causing
problems that do not need to be caused.
We should reject this policy.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. All time
for debate has expired.
Pursuant to House Resolution 252,
the previous question is ordered on the
resolution and the preamble.
The question is on adoption of the
resolution.
The question was taken; and the
Speaker pro tempore announced that
the ayes appeared to have it.
Mr. SMITH of Washington. Mr.
Speaker, on that I demand the yeas
and nays.
The yeas and nays were ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 9 of rule XX, this 15-
minute vote on adoption of H. Res. 124
will be followed by a 5-minute vote on
agreeing to the Speaker’s approval of
the Journal.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—yeas 238, nays
185, answered ‘‘present’’ 1, not voting 8,
as follows:
[Roll No. 135]
YEAS—238
Adams
Aguilar
Allred
Axne
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Beyer
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brindisi
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Bustos
Butterfield
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Clyburn
Cohen
Connolly
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cummings
Cunningham
Davids (KS)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Evans
Finkenauer
Fitzpatrick
Fletcher
Foster
Frankel
Fudge
Gabbard
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (TX)
Gottheimer
Green (TX)
Grijalva
Haaland
Harder (CA)
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Higgins (NY)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Hollingsworth
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Huffman
Hurd (TX)
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (TX)
Kaptur
Katko
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Lamb
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Lowenthal
Lowey
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCollum
McEachin
McGovern
McNerney
Meeks
Meng
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Murphy
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Norcross
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Pelosi
Perlmutter
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Porter
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Reed
Rice (NY)
Richmond
Rose (NY)
Rouda
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:16 Mar 29, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00010 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K28MR7.016 H28MRPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2899
March 28, 2019
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (WA)
Soto
Spanberger
Speier
Stanton
Stevens
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Underwood
Van Drew
Vargas
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watson Coleman
Welch
Wexton
Wild
Wilson (FL)
Yarmuth
NAYS—185
Aderholt
Allen
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Bergman
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (UT)
Bost
Brady
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Byrne
Calvert
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Cline
Cloud
Cole
Collins (GA)
Collins (NY)
Comer
Conaway
Cook
Crawford
Crenshaw
Curtis
Davidson (OH)
Davis, Rodney
Duffy
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Estes
Ferguson
Fleischmann
Flores
Fortenberry
Foxx (NC)
Fulcher
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Gonzalez (OH)
Gooden
Gosar
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Griffith
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Hagedorn
Harris
Hartzler
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Hill (AR)
Holding
Hudson
Huizenga
Hunter
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamborn
Latta
Lesko
Long
Loudermilk
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Marchant
Marshall
Massie
Mast
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McHenry
McKinley
Meadows
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Mullin
Newhouse
Norman
Nunes
Olson
Palmer
Pence
Perry
Posey
Ratcliffe
Reschenthaler
Rice (SC)
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rooney (FL)
Rose, John W.
Rouzer
Roy
Rutherford
Scalise
Schweikert
Scott, Austin
Sensenbrenner
Shimkus
Simpson
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smucker
Spano
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stewart
Stivers
Taylor
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Turner
Upton
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Watkins
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Wenstrup
Westerman
Williams
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yoho
Young
Zeldin
ANSWERED ‘‘PRESENT’’—1
Amash
NOT VOTING—8
Abraham
DesJarlais
Diaz-Balart
Granger
Palazzo
Ryan
Veasey
Wilson (SC)
b 1047
Messrs. MEADOWS and GONZALEZ
of Ohio changed their vote from ‘‘yea’’
to ‘‘nay.’’
So the resolution was agreed to.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
Stated for:
Mr. DIAZ-BALART. Mr. Speaker, I was un-
able to vote today because I was in my Dis-
trict with the Vice-President. I support anyone
willing and capable of serving in the U.S.
armed forces, including transgender individ-
uals. If I had been present, I would have voted
‘‘ yea’’ for H. Res. 124.
Mr. RYAN. Mr. Speaker, due to unforeseen
circumstances on Thursday, March 28, 2019,
I was not present to cast my vote on the ques-
tion of Agreeing to H. Res. 124, a resolution
expressing opposition to banning service in
the Armed Forces by openly transgender indi-
viduals. I agree in the strongest terms with the
resolution’s denunciation of the ban, and had
I been present my vote would have been yea
on rollcall 135.
f
THE JOURNAL
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, the unfin-
ished business is the question on agree-
ing to the Speaker’s approval of the
Journal, on which the yeas and nays
were ordered.
The question is on the Speaker’s ap-
proval of the Journal.
This is a 5-minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—yeas 216, nays
179, answered ‘‘present’’ 1, not voting
35, as follows:
[Roll No. 136]
YEAS—216
Adams
Aderholt
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Bacon
Baird
Banks
Barr
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bergman
Beyer
Bilirakis
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brady
Brown (MD)
Budd
Bustos
Butterfield
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Clyburn
Cohen
Cooper
Courtney
Crist
Curtis
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Dean
DeGette
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Evans
Finkenauer
Fleischmann
Fortenberry
Foster
Frankel
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Gianforte
Gomez
Gonzalez (TX)
Griffith
Grijalva
Haaland
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Hill (CA)
Himes
Hollingsworth
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Hudson
Huffman
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (TX)
Kaptur
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kelly (PA)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Long
Lowenthal
Lowey
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
McBath
McCarthy
McClintock
McCollum
McEachin
McGovern
McNerney
Meadows
Meeks
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Murphy
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Newhouse
Norcross
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Pascrell
Payne
Pence
Perlmutter
Perry
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Reschenthaler
Richmond
Rodgers (WA)
Roybal-Allard
Ruppersberger
Rush
Rutherford
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrier
Schweikert
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Serrano
Shalala
Sherman
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (NJ)
Smith (WA)
Soto
Speier
Stanton
Stauber
Steil
Stewart
Stivers
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Taylor
Thompson (MS)
Thornberry
Tipton
Titus
Tlaib
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Underwood
Vargas
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Waltz
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watkins
Welch
Wenstrup
Wilson (FL)
NAYS—179
Aguilar
Allen
Allred
Amash
Axne
Balderson
Bera
Biggs
Bishop (UT)
Bost
Brindisi
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Burchett
Burgess
Byrne
Calvert
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Cisneros
Cline
Cloud
Cole
Collins (NY)
Comer
Conaway
Connolly
Cook
Correa
Costa
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crawford
Crenshaw
Crow
Cuellar
Cummings
Cunningham
Davids (KS)
Davidson (OH)
Davis, Rodney
DeFazio
Duffy
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Estes
Ferguson
Fitzpatrick
Fletcher
Flores
Foxx (NC)
Fudge
Fulcher
Gallagher
Gibbs
Golden
Gonzalez (OH)
Gooden
Gosar
Gottheimer
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Guest
Guthrie
Hagedorn
Harder (CA)
Harris
Hartzler
Hern, Kevin
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Hill (AR)
Holding
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Katko
Kelly (MS)
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
Kirkpatrick
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamborn
Latta
Lesko
Loudermilk
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Maloney, Sean
Massie
Mast
Matsui
McAdams
McCaul
McHenry
McKinley
Meng
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Mucarsel-Powell
Mullin
Norman
Nunes
O’Halleran
Olson
Palmer
Panetta
Pappas
Peterson
Porter
Posey
Reed
Rice (NY)
Riggleman
Roby
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rooney (FL)
Rose (NY)
Rose, John W.
Rouda
Rouzer
Roy
Ruiz
Scalise
Schrader
Scott, Austin
Sensenbrenner
Sewell (AL)
Sherrill
Shimkus
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smucker
Spanberger
Spano
Steube
Stevens
Suozzi
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (PA)
Timmons
Turner
Upton
Van Drew
Walberg
Walden
Watson Coleman
Weber (TX)
Westerman
Wexton
Wild
Williams
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Young
Zeldin
ANSWERED ‘‘PRESENT’’—1
Tonko
NOT VOTING—35
Abraham
Babin
Brownley (CA)
Collins (GA)
DeLauro
DesJarlais
Diaz-Balart
Gabbard
Gaetz
Gohmert
Granger
Green (TN)
Green (TX)
Grothman
Herrera Beutler
Higgins (NY)
Lamb
Marchant
Marshall
Palazzo
Peters
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:04 Mar 29, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00011 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A28MR7.003 H28MRPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2900 March 28, 2019
Ratcliffe
Rice (SC)
Ryan
Simpson
Stefanik
Torres (CA)
Veasey
Wagner
Walker
Walorski
Webster (FL)
Wilson (SC)
Yarmuth
Yoho
b 1059
So the Journal was approved.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
Ms. GRANGER. Mr. Speaker, I was unable
to attend votes due to circumstances beyond
my control. Had I been present, I would have
voted ‘‘nay’’ on rollcall No. 135 and ‘‘yea’’ on
rollcall No. 136.
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
Mr. PALAZZO. Mr. Speaker, due to a family
commitment, I was not present and therefore
unable to vote on Thursday, March 28, 2019.
Had I been present I would have voted ‘‘nay’’
on rollcall No. 135 and ‘‘nay’’ on rollcall No.
136.
f
RESIGNATION AS MEMBER OF
COMMITTEE ON SCIENCE, SPACE,
AND TECHNOLOGY
The SPEAKER pro tempore laid be-
fore the House the following resigna-
tion as a member of the Committee on
Science, Space, and Technology:
CONGRESS OF THE UNITED STATES,
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
Washington, DC, March 27, 2019.
Speaker NANCY PELOSI,
Speaker of the House of Representatives,
Washington, DC.
DEAR MADAM SPEAKER: This letter is to in-
form you of my intention to resign my seat
on the House Committee on Science, Space,
and Technology; effective immediately.
I appreciate your assistance with this re-
quest and the opportunity to serve on the
Committee in the 115th Congress.
If I may ever be of any help, please do not
hesitate to contact me.
Sincerely,
NEAL P. DUNN M.D.,
Member of Congress.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Without
objection, the resignation is accepted.
There was no objection.
f
ELECTING MEMBERS TO A CER-
TAIN STANDING COMMITTEE OF
THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTA-
TIVES
Ms. CHENEY. Mr. Speaker, by direc-
tion of the House Republican Con-
ference, I send to the desk a privileged
resolution and ask for its immediate
consideration.
The Clerk read the resolution, as fol-
lows:
H. RES. 264
Resolved, That the following named Mem-
bers be, and are hereby, elected to the fol-
lowing committee of the House of Represent-
atives:
COMMITTEE ON SCIENCE, SPACE, AND TECH-
NOLOGY: Ms. Herrera Beutler, Miss González-
Colón of Puerto Rico.
The resolution was agreed to.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
CLARIFICATION OF GRADE AND
PAY OF PODIATRISTS OF THE
DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AF-
FAIRS
Mr. TAKANO. Mr. Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that the Com-
mittee on Veterans’ Affairs be dis-
charged from further consideration of
the bill (S. 863) to amend title 38,
United States Code, to clarify the
grade and pay of podiatrists of the De-
partment of Veterans Affairs, and ask
for its immediate consideration in the
House.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from California?
There was no objection.
The text of the bill is as follows:
S. 863
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. CLARIFICATION OF GRADE AND PAY
OF PODIATRISTS OF THE DEPART-
MENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS.
(a) GRADE.—The list in section 7404(b) of
title 38, United States Code, is amended—
(1) by striking ‘‘PODIATRIC SURGEON
(DPM)’’ and inserting ‘‘PODIATRIST’’; and
(2) by inserting after the item relating to
‘‘Physician and surgeon grade.’’ the fol-
lowing new item:
‘‘Podiatrist grade.’’.
(b) PAY.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Section 7431 of such title
is amended—
(A) by striking ‘‘physician and dentist’’
each place it appears and inserting ‘‘physi-
cian, podiatrist, and dentist’’;
(B) by striking ‘‘physicians and dentists’’
each place it appears and inserting ‘‘physi-
cians, podiatrists, and dentists’’;
(C) by striking ‘‘physician or dentist’’ each
place it appears and inserting ‘‘physician,
podiatrist, or dentist’’;
(D) by striking ‘‘physicians or dentists’’
each place it appears and inserting ‘‘physi-
cians, podiatrists, or dentists’’;
(E) by striking ‘‘Physician and Dentist’’
each place it appears and inserting ‘‘Physi-
cian, Podiatrist, and Dentist’’; and
(F) in subsection (e)(1)(A), by inserting
‘‘podiatrists and’’ before ‘‘dentists.’’.
(2) ADMINISTRATIVE MATTERS.—Section 7433
of such title is amended by striking ‘‘physi-
cians and dentists’’ each place it appears and
inserting ‘‘physicians, podiatrists, and den-
tists’’.
(3) CONFORMING AMENDMENT.—The heading
of subchapter III of chapter 74 of such title is
amended by inserting ‘‘, PODIATRISTS,’’
after ‘‘PHYSICIANS’’.
(4) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of
sections at the beginning of chapter 74 of
such title is amended by striking the item
relating to subchapter III and inserting the
following new item:
‘‘SUBCHAPTER III—PAY FOR PHYSICIANS,
PODIATRISTS, AND DENTISTS’’.
(5) TECHNICAL AMENDMENT.—Section 7433 of
such title is further amended—
(A) by striking subsection (b);
(B) in subsection (a)—
(i) by striking ‘‘(1) The Secretary’’ and in-
serting ‘‘The Secretary’’; and
(ii) by redesignating paragraph (2) as sub-
section (b); and
(C) in subsection (b), as so redesignated—
(i) by striking ‘‘In prescribing’’ and insert-
ing ‘‘RECOMMENDATIONS AND VIEWS.—In pre-
scribing’’; and
(ii) by striking ‘‘this paragraph’’ and in-
serting ‘‘this subsection’’.
The bill was ordered to be read a
third time, was read the third time,
and passed, and a motion to reconsider
was laid on the table.
f
REQUEST TO CONSIDER H.R. 962,
BORN-ALIVE ABORTION SUR-
VIVORS PROTECTION ACT
Mr. OLSON. Mr. Speaker, I ask unan-
imous consent that the Committee on
the Judiciary be discharged from fur-
ther consideration of H.R. 962, the
Born-Alive Abortion Survivors Protec-
tion Act, and ask for its immediate
consideration in the House.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under
guidelines consistently issued by suc-
cessive Speakers, as recorded in sec-
tion 956 of the House Rules and Man-
ual, the Chair is constrained not to en-
tertain the request unless it has been
cleared by the bipartisan floor and
committee leaderships.
Mr. OLSON. Mr. Speaker, if the
unanimous consent request cannot be
entertained, on behalf of the human
beings, babies who leave their moth-
er’s—
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tleman is not recognized for debate.
Mr. OLSON. Mr. Speaker, if this
unanimous consent request cannot be
entertained, I urge the Speaker—
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tleman is not recognized for debate.
f
COMMUNICATION FROM THE
REPUBLICAN LEADER
The SPEAKER pro tempore laid be-
fore the House the following commu-
nication from the Honorable KEVIN
MCCARTHY, Republican Leader:
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
Washington, DC, March 27, 2019.
Hon. NANCY PELOSI,
Speaker of the House,
Washington, DC.
DEAR MADAM SPEAKER: Pursuant to Sec-
tion 1652(b) of the John S. McCain National
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year
2019, I am pleased to appoint the following
Member to the Cyberspace Solarium Com-
mission:
The Honorable Mike Gallagher of Wis-
consin
Thank you for your attention to this mat-
ter.
Sincerely,
KEVIN MCCARTHY,
Republican Leader.
f
LEGISLATIVE PROGRAM
(Mr. SCALISE asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Mr. SCALISE. Mr. Speaker, I yield to
the gentleman from Maryland (Mr.
HOYER) for two important reasons. One
is to inquire of the majority leader the
schedule for the coming week, and also
to inquire of the majority leader the
score of the LSU-Maryland basketball
game from last week.
I yield to my good friend from Mary-
land.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:46 Mar 29, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00012 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A28MR7.006 H28MRPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2901
March 28, 2019
Mr. HOYER. Mr. Speaker, I antici-
pated this was going to be an extraor-
dinarily hostile colloquy.
Louisiana was so incredibly lucky.
However, it cost me, I admit to the
world, I guess. I hope I don’t get in
legal trouble. But the Republican whip
and I had a little sort of side bet, so I
owe the Republican whip a crab dinner
for four people. That is the bad news.
The good news is the minority whip
will now be eating the best crab in
America, not Louisiana crab. It will be
Maryland crab that I will be giving him
for dinner.
Mr. Speaker, if my friend would like
to ask some questions about the sched-
ule—or he did ask me, I am told. But I
knew that game was coming.
Mr. SCALISE. I will be happy to ask
both questions again.
I look forward to the Maryland crab
dinner. I think, as the gentleman from
Maryland knows, a lot of times when
you go to places and they say it is
Maryland crab, it is really Gulf of Mex-
ico crab, because they want the best
quality to offer the patrons.
We were excited to see the buzzer
beater. I know both of us were waiting
in those last 12 seconds to see which
team would walk away with the Sweet
16 banner. I am proud that my mighty
Fighting Tigers of LSU were in that
number. But we will come to D.C., and,
hopefully, the gentleman will now be
rooting for us so that he can say he
rooted for the eventual national cham-
pion, LSU Tigers, to win the Final
Four.
I yield to the gentleman to hear
about the schedule for the coming
week in Congress.
Mr. HOYER. Mr. Speaker, I think it
keeps getting worse. In any event, we
will move on to the schedule.
I congratulate LSU. They played an
excellent game, as did Maryland. It was
a really good game. There has to be one
winner and one loser, and we lost.
We have the fourth youngest team in
the NCAA, so we will be back next
year. Maybe we will be able to play
LSU again, if they make it.
On Monday, the House will meet at
noon for morning-hour debate and 2
p.m. for legislative business, with votes
postponed until 6:30 p.m.
On Tuesday, the House will meet at
10 a.m. for morning-hour debate and
noon for legislative business.
On Wednesday, Mr. Speaker, the
House will meet at 9 a.m. and recess
immediately. The House will reconvene
at 11 a.m. for the purpose of receiving
a joint meeting with the Senate. His
Excellency Jens Stoltenberg, the Sec-
retary General for the North Atlantic
Treaty Organization, will address us.
Members are advised to be on the
House floor and seated no later than
10:30 a.m. for the joint meeting.
Mr. Speaker, on Thursday, the House
will meet at 9 a.m. for legislative busi-
ness, with last votes no later than 3
p.m. We will consider several bills
under suspension of the rules. The com-
plete list of suspension bills will be an-
nounced by the close of business to-
morrow.
Mr. Speaker, the House will also con-
sider a major piece of legislation, H.R.
1585, the Violence Against Women Re-
authorization Act of 2019. Frankly,
that bill should have been reauthorized
prior to September 30 of last year in
the last Congress. We extended it until
February 15 of this year, at which time
it lapsed. We are very hopeful and ex-
pect that this will pass this next week.
It is sponsored by Representative
KAREN BASS. I am pleased to bring this
bipartisan bill to the floor, in response
to our Nation’s crisis of domestic vio-
lence, dating violence, sexual assault,
and stalking.
The Violence Against Women Act of-
ficially expired on September 30. As I
said, it was extended. It is way overdue
that we consider a long-term author-
ization of this legislation.
Mr. Speaker, it is possible that we
will bring to the floor legislation re-
garding the crisis that is occurring in
Yemen. There are 22 million people at
risk of starvation—22 million people at
risk of starvation—noncombatants,
women, and children.
We also may consider other legisla-
tion, if it comes from the Senate.
Mr. SCALISE. Mr. Speaker, I thank
the gentleman for the schedule update.
I would like to inquire, we know that
there are only 7 legislative days left for
Congress to meet its required deadline
to provide a budget, the April 15 dead-
line. What troubles me is that there
has been no budget brought through
the House Budget Committee. In fact,
there have been reports that your ma-
jority doesn’t plan to bring a budget at
all.
Obviously, the budgets are very im-
portant to show the priorities of our
Congress, to show the priorities of each
of our majorities, as we did in 7 of the
8 years we were in the majority, not
only doing a budget, but then, this last
year, we were able to reach a 2-year
budget agreement, so we were able to
know with certainty what the budget
numbers were that we would actually
be working on to draft our appropria-
tions bills. Again, the bills carry out
the priorities of Congress, to show the
country how we are going to properly
fund government at the levels that we,
as a Congress, set, which is what the
budget does.
As I have seen, there is no current
budget agreement negotiation going on
that is yielding anything. So, without
a budget agreement, does the gen-
tleman plan to at least provide and
bring a budget to the House floor?
I yield to the gentleman.
Mr. HOYER. It is a very interesting
question, Mr. Speaker, that the minor-
ity whip asked me.
I would ask, in response, a question:
Does the minority whip remember
when last year, when you were in
charge, you brought the budget to the
floor?
Mr. SCALISE. I will be happy to
walk through the last 8 years.
Mr. HOYER. Mr. Speaker, I asked the
gentleman a simple question. He asked
me about when the budget was coming,
and I asked him when did he bring the
budget to the floor last year.
Mr. SCALISE. Mr. Speaker, last
year, as the gentleman knows, we were
working under a 2-year budget agree-
ment. Typically, we don’t have a 2-year
budget agreement. You bring one budg-
et, and that is the budget for that year.
For fiscal year 2012, the House passed
a budget. In our majority, we passed a
budget to establish those numbers to
then start the appropriations process.
In 2013, we passed through the House
a budget to establish the 2013 budget
numbers to work off of.
In 2014, we passed a budget through
the House to establish the budget for
that fiscal year.
In 2015, we passed a budget through
the House to establish a budget for
that year.
In 2016, we actually got an agree-
ment, both between the House and the
Senate, and passed the budget, of
course, through the House and the Sen-
ate.
In fiscal year 2017, we passed a budget
through the House and the Senate and
got a full agreement to do an appro-
priations process.
In fiscal year 2018, as the gentleman
knows, we actually agreed to a 2-year
budget agreement to not only set the
fiscal year numbers for 1 year, but for
2 years, which was tremendously help-
ful in making sure that our Nation’s
defense, which many times had been
used as bargaining chips for other
budget negotiations, we took that off
the table. We made sure our men and
women in uniform had the certainty of
a 2-year budget agreement, which
doesn’t happen often. Frankly, it
should happen more often, and we
should strive toward that, so we
achieved that.
In 2019, as the gentleman knows, we
passed a budget out of the House Budg-
et Committee, but we already had a
budget agreement to work through the
appropriations process because we had
done a 2-year budget the prior year.
b 1115
We don’t have even a 1-year budget
agreement right now. And as the gen-
tleman knows, there are no fruitful ne-
gotiations to get a 1- or 2-year budget
agreement, so there is no budget num-
ber to work off of, which is why you
produce a budget.
Last year, we did bring a bill out of
committee, but we didn’t need to pass
a budget because we already had the
budget number agreed to from the 2-
year deal prior.
And so with that, is the gentleman
willing to engage in or come to an
agreement on at least a 1- or 2-year
budget agreement so that we can actu-
ally have an appropriations process
that works for the country and shows
the priorities of this Nation?
Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gentleman
from Maryland.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:24 Mar 29, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00013 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K28MR7.026 H28MRPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2902 March 28, 2019
Mr. HOYER. I appreciate, Mr. Speak-
er, a lot of words of the minority whip.
He didn’t pass the budget last year.
There was no fiscal year 2019 budget.
He is correct that we had reached a
caps deal. That is not the budget, Mr.
Speaker.
A budget is a plan that is reported
out and brought to the floor and passed
and sent to the Senate, and the Senate
passes it and we have a budget that is
in the same position on each side of the
aisle. That is a budget. That has rarely
been done in the last 8 years.
A caps deal has been reached. I would
like to see a caps deal reached.
I have been talking to Mr. MCCON-
NELL, who wants a caps deal reached; I
have talked to Mr. SHELBY—both of
those, Republican leaders. I have
talked to the White House about a caps
deal.
Unfortunately, I don’t think Mr.
Mulvaney wants to reach a caps deal.
He wants to use it as leverage as op-
posed to allowing us to proceed in the
regular order.
But a budget is a different kettle of
fish, I will tell my friend, than a caps
deal. A caps deal does, in fact, set the
302 level of discretionary funding for
both defense and nondefense spending.
Yes, we reached the 2-year cap deal. I
have been trying for the last 2 months
to get meaningful negotiations under-
way to do the same. I have not been
successful, largely because the Presi-
dent, apparently, and Mr. Mulvaney
are not interested in reaching such a
deal. I regret that.
But the Budget Committee is meet-
ing this week—it is going to meet next
week, and we are going to be reporting
out what will be what the minority
whip refers to as a budget. It will cer-
tainly speak to the levels of funding
that we need to spend.
I want to pass the appropriation bills
by June 30. That has never been done,
but I want to do it. I think we can do
it, Mr. Speaker, and I am going to
work towards that objective. It will re-
quire reaching what numbers are going
to be for discretionary spending.
Unfortunately, the budget that the
President of the United States sent
down to Congress is totally unreason-
able and irrational, and there is not a
single person, I think, on this floor who
will support his budget.
I will tell the minority whip that I
will be glad to give his party the oppor-
tunity to vote on the President’s budg-
et. If he asks me, I will have it put on
the floor.
Mr. Speaker, it is unfortunate that
we are not able to get to a budget caps
deal. We passed and began, in my view,
an irrational—and I voted for it, and I
am sorry that I voted for it—Budget
Control Act, creating the sequester.
‘‘Sequester’’ is a complicated word
which starts with S, which I tell my
people in my district and town, many,
stands for ‘‘stupid.’’ It was an irra-
tional document that took numbers
out of the air without regard to our re-
sponsibilities and our opportunities.
But I am hopeful, and I tell the Re-
publican whip, my friend, that we are
going to try to—hopefully, working
with his party—establish some reason-
able, rational numbers for defense and
nondefense discretionary funding so
that we can move ahead with doing
what really makes the difference, and
that is the adoption of appropriation
bills on this floor; send them to the
Senate; have the Senate consider them;
and we will have a conference, and we
will pass those bills and send them to
the President of the United States.
Mr. SCALISE. Mr. Speaker, I, too,
am hopeful that we are able to start an
appropriations process and, ideally, to
complete it by summer—well in ad-
vance of the September 30 government
funding deadline—because we shouldn’t
be operating under deadline after dead-
line, where we go until the midnight
hour.
But as the gentleman knows, you
can’t start an appropriations process
until you actually set what are known
as the 302 numbers, the 302(a) and (b)
numbers, so that we know what each
appropriations bill can target in terms
of its overall spending number, to have
that caps limit.
Ideally, it would be done through a
budget with the April 15 deadline, but
maybe the gentleman is going to be
able to work with the committee to get
a budget passed out of committee be-
fore the deadline and, if not, as the
gentleman urges, a hopeful desire to
get a caps deal. I would like to get a
caps deal as well.
I supported the last caps deal because
it gave us 2 years of certainty. It was
bipartisan. It was an agreement that,
while we may disagree on top-line
numbers—and we want more money for
defense, and some on your side might
want more for nondefense discre-
tionary—we finally came to an agree-
ment. That did give tremendous cer-
tainty to our men and women in uni-
form. So over 70 percent of this Federal
Government was fully funded for the
fiscal year.
Clearly, we had a difference on border
security, and that remaining area of
our budget wasn’t funded. But at least
the 70-plus percent of the people of this
country who rely on those services and
want a strong defense were able to see
us achieve that. Hopefully, we can do
something like that again well before
the deadline. That is the objective.
Mr. HOYER. Will my friend yield
simply for clarification?
Mr. SCALISE. Mr. Speaker, I would
be happy to yield.
Mr. HOYER. I want the public, Mr.
Speaker, to understand that a caps
deal is not a budget. They are two sep-
arate items:
A budget is a plan for expenditure on
defense and nondefense objectives. A
caps deal is to simply set not nec-
essarily those priorities per se, but to
set a top level of discretionary spend-
ing. That is why it is called a cap.
It has been about $1.1 trillion or $1.2
trillion—now, it is going to be a little
over that this year, I presume—for dis-
cretionary spending. Most of the budg-
et, of course, is not discretionary
spending. Two-thirds of the budget is
either mandatory spending or debt pay-
ment.
I just want to clarify that we are
talking about two separate items. One
is a budget, which is a budget plan
which can, in fact, include caps within
it, but a caps deal is a separate deal.
As the gentleman has pointed out, we
have usually made them now for 2
years since the sequester would other-
wise have gone into effect. The reason
we made that deal is both sides—both
sides—are unwilling to follow the se-
quester because we think the sequester
does not make rational sense for the
security of our country and for the in-
vestments our country needs to make.
The President doesn’t want to do
that either. The difference is, he wants
to borrow an additional $180 billion-
plus to fund defense and leave domestic
discretionary spending largely at 2010
or 2009 levels. We think that doesn’t
make sense.
But I will clarify for the gentleman
again that the Budget Committee is, in
fact, considering what legislation they
should bring to the floor in order to fa-
cilitate us, as the caps deals did, to fa-
cilitate us achieving the ability to
mark up our appropriation bills, send
them to the Senate, and try to reach
agreement between the Senate and the
House prior to September 30, and cer-
tainly to avoid the historic and very
harmful shutdown that occurred at the
end of the last Congress and continued
into this Congress.
Mr. SCALISE. Mr. Speaker, as I
pointed out earlier, you have two
methods within which to set those
caps: You can do it through the budg-
et—which 7 of the 8 years we were in
the minority we did—or you can do it
through a separate caps deal, which 2
years ago we were able to do for a 2-
year period, which is why we didn’t do
a budget last year. We passed it out of
committee and at least showed what
our priorities are, but we didn’t need to
pass a budget to get a caps deal be-
cause we had a caps deal in place from
the prior year.
The other 7 years there was no caps
deal, so the budget laid out that num-
ber, and the gentleman’s majority has
done neither. You don’t have a caps
deal or a budget, and so at some point
you are going to have to produce the
number to show what we are going to
start the appropriations process using.
The other part of the budget, which
isn’t talked about as much but is
equally important, is the establish-
ment of the priorities for that major-
ity. How do we get back to a balanced
Federal budget, for example? We laid
that out in our budget multiple times.
We have programs like Medicare.
Medicare is going bankrupt if we do
nothing. It would be irresponsible for
us to let Medicare go to bankruptcy.
Actual reports show it could go bank-
rupt in the next 8 years, which we
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:24 Mar 29, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00014 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K28MR7.028 H28MRPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2903
March 28, 2019
think is irresponsible. That is why we
put, in our budget, a plan to save Medi-
care from bankruptcy.
Whatever the gentleman’s plan would
be to save Medicare from bankruptcy, I
would urge him to show it. Show the
American people what the priorities
are. But they haven’t done that.
And why? Why haven’t they done
that? Because they have spent the last
2 years trying to impeach the Presi-
dent, trying to lay out this foundation
that there was collusion.
Mr. HOYER. Will the gentleman
yield?
Mr. SCALISE. The gentleman will
yield in a moment.
But let’s be clear, for the last 2 years
we heard this clarion call that there
was some collusion between the Presi-
dent or his family and Russia. We
heard all this talk about impeachment
and everything on down from the high-
est levels, including, now, the chair-
man of the House Intelligence Com-
mittee, who went multiple times on na-
tional TV and said there was more
than credible evidence of collusion.
Finally, everybody was waiting on
the Mueller report. Many were hanging
their hat, saying it is going to show all
these things. There is going to be a list
of indictments. Go look at all the tapes
from every national TV show you can
imagine of some of the most outlandish
claims that were made. And now the
Mueller report comes out, and it is
clear those claims are baseless. There
was no collusion.
Mr. HOYER. The Mueller report is
not out, Mr. Whip.
Mr. SCALISE. There was no collu-
sion.
Mr. HOYER. Will the gentleman
yield?
The Mueller report is not out. The
only report that is out is the Barr four-
page letter report.
Mr. SCALISE. We will see the full
Mueller report.
Mr. HOYER. I hope you are right, Mr.
Whip.
Mr. SCALISE. Clearly, we have seen
assessments of it. If the gentleman
thinks it is going to show something
differently, then please share it, but
they made it clear there was no collu-
sion and there will be no further indict-
ments.
In fact, the Attorney General of the
United States said this: ‘‘But as noted
above, the special counsel did not find
that the Trump campaign, or anyone
associated with it, conspired or coordi-
nated with the Russian Government in
these efforts, despite multiple offers
from Russian-affiliated individuals to
assist the Trump campaign.’’
So multiple times they were offered,
they never even came close. There was
no collusion.
These conspiracy theories, the witch
hunts, it is time for it to end. There
was no collusion.
If you or any of your colleagues have
proof of collusion, as your chairman of
the House Intelligence Committee
claims, they need to show that to the
Attorney General of the United States,
because it completely contradicts what
the Attorney General has now said
based on the findings of the Mueller re-
port.
There was no collusion.
And so when Chairman SCHIFF says,
‘‘more than circumstantial evidence’’—
that he has seen—‘‘that associates of
President Trump colluded with Rus-
sia’’—in August, ‘‘I think there is plen-
ty of evidence of collusion or con-
spiracy in plain sight.’’
And even now that the Attorney Gen-
eral makes it very clear there was no
collusion, the chairman of the Intel-
ligence Committee will not recant his
previous statements that have been
discounted.
Today, as the gentleman knows, this
morning, every member of the minor-
ity party on the House Intelligence
Committee called for the chairman of
the Intelligence Committee to step
down, every member.
So I would ask the gentleman: Will
you call for the chairman of the Intel-
ligence Committee to step down as
chairman after losing so much credi-
bility in the wild and vicious claims
that he has made that have been dis-
puted by the Attorney General of the
United States based on this Mueller re-
port after 22 months and over $20 mil-
lion of taxpayer money that found no
collusion?
Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gentleman
from Maryland.
Mr. HOYER. Mr. Speaker, what it
found is six of the President’s closest
associates—his campaign manager, his
deputy campaign manager, his foreign
policy adviser, his national security
adviser, his lawyer and counsel for over
a decade—all committed crimes. All
were either convicted or pled to
crimes.
Mr. SCALISE. Crimes of collusion?
Mr. HOYER. You had a lot to say. I
have something in response.
There is not a person on our side of
the aisle who doesn’t believe the letter
that you issued regarding Mr. SCHIFF
isn’t totally a partisan distraction
from what you hope is not found. There
has been no Mueller report yet that we
have received.
The gentleman, Mr. Speaker, voted
to have the Mueller report, as did every
other member on his side of the aisle
and every member on our side of the
aisle, to be disclosed. Hopefully, it will
be.
b 1130
Hopefully, it will not be just a four-
page letter from the Attorney General
of the United States appointed by Mr.
Trump. Hopefully, we will get Mr.
Mueller’s full report. That is what the
Congress voted to get. That is what we
expect to get, and that is what we hope
to get.
Let me assure the gentleman that
there is not a person on my side of the
aisle that believes that Mr. SCHIFF has
done anything but act in the highest
interest of our government, of the In-
telligence Committee, and of full
knowledge for the American people,
unlike his predecessor who worked
hand-in-glove with the White House,
not as an independent coequal branch
of government, but as an advocate for
the White House’s position, who clearly
should have been removed and was not.
Mr. Speaker, I say to the minority
whip that Mr. SCHIFF is a member of
the highest integrity, highest intellect,
and has great responsibility. I expect
him to pursue his responsibilities as
chairman of the Intelligence Com-
mittee to assure that neither Russia
nor any other country will in the fu-
ture be able to interfere in the elec-
tions of the United States, as Mr.
Mueller concluded the Russians have.
Now, the President hasn’t concluded
that, but almost every American un-
derstands that the Russians tried to,
on behalf of the President of the United
States, affect the elections. So I tell
my friend, I hope that we can have the
debate. Let’s look at the Mueller re-
port.
Very frankly, there are other inves-
tigations that are going on, as the gen-
tleman knows, in the Southern District
of New York, as well as in the Govern-
ment Operations Subcommittee, as
well as in the Foreign Affairs Com-
mittee, as well as in the Financial
Services Committee, as well as in the
Intelligence Committee.
We still pale in insignificance in the
number of investigations that we have
had or oversight hearings that we have
had when compared to the oversight
hearings the Republicans had of the
Obama administration and Mrs. Clin-
ton in trying to undermine their credi-
bility, an administration that, by the
way, I don’t think anybody was put in
legal jeopardy and there were no scan-
dals in the Obama administration.
There were disagreements, but I
would think the gentleman ought to be
very reserved, very frankly, in terms of
making conclusions based upon a four-
page letter before we have seen the
Mueller report, before we have seen the
actions of the Southern District of New
York, and before we have seen the re-
sults of the oversight hearings that are
continuing.
Mr. SCALISE. Mr. Speaker, reclaim-
ing my time, there are a number of
items that need to be addressed in
what the gentleman just said.
First of all, to claim that there was
any collusion as you said, ‘‘on behalf of
the President of the United States with
Russia’’ goes in complete contradiction
to the findings that were delivered to
us by the Attorney General of the
United States, and I am going to read
it one more time.
As we noted above, the special counsel did
not find that the Trump campaign or anyone
associated with it conspired or coordinated
with the Russian Government.
Anyone who would make a claim to
the contrary is either being irrespon-
sible or ought to show the evidence. If
there is evidence that the chairman of
the Intelligence Committee has, and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:24 Mar 29, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00015 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K28MR7.029 H28MRPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2904 March 28, 2019
let’s be clear, he has tweeted things
out, here is what we know. This is from
Chairman SCHIFF. In 2017, here is what
we know: The Russians offered help.
The campaign accepted help. The Rus-
sians gave help. The President made
full use of that help. He has claimed,
again, that he has more than cir-
cumstantial evidence that there was
collusion.
Yet, the Attorney General of the
United States, after reviewing the en-
tire Mueller report, which we hope we
all see, obviously, within the confines
of the law—the law makes it clear how
something like that gets reported—I
hope the gentleman understands and
wouldn’t suggest that classified infor-
mation should be disclosed—but the re-
port ought to be disclosed and show the
American people what they have found.
But we have seen the summary of it,
and, of course, we are going to look at
the entire thing.
And maybe then after reviewing the
entire thing, if the gentleman does see,
as the report summary shows, that
there was no collusion with the Presi-
dent of the United States, then maybe
this gentleman and all of the other
people who have made outrageous
claims that the President was in collu-
sion, will maybe acknowledge they
were wrong, will maybe offer an apol-
ogy. Who knows. We can hold out hope
for that.
But let’s be clear about the state-
ments that were made and the things
that were alluded to that aren’t true,
that weren’t the case. Maybe it was
wishful thinking and it shouldn’t have
been. No one should hope that the
President of the United States, any
President, conspired with a foreign
government.
But to suggest it over and over again
for 2 years, and then for all of this 22
months of investigation, thorough in-
vestigation, multiple countries visited,
over $20 million of taxpayer money,
more than our committees have to run
all of their oversight operations to
thoroughly investigate, they found
there was no collusion.
Sure, the Russians tried to meddle
with elections and they have done it
before, and we ought to make sure that
it doesn’t happen again, and we can
work together on that. But to suggest
that the President of the United States
colluded when he didn’t, is irrespon-
sible. And it has happened over and
over, and it continues to this day. It
has got to stop.
This idea that maybe some other at-
tempt to go and harass the President
and his family is going to find some-
thing else, it gives credence to the
claims it was a witch hunt. It is time
for us to focus on the real problems of
this country.
It is also time for us to hold people in
our intelligence agencies accountable,
those who showed up at their job with
a partisan agenda.
The FBI, CIA, or any intelligence
agency is no place for you to bring
your political agenda. We all have po-
litical views. But if someone puts that
badge on and accepts that responsi-
bility, and then uses that position to
abuse power, we all ought to call on it
to be rooted out, and I hope it is rooted
out.
If there were abuses of the FISA
process, which is a very important
court that has a very narrow focus to
protect the national security of this
country, if the FISA court was abused
by people in positions of power because
they wanted to carry out a political
agenda because they didn’t like the re-
sults of the 2016 Presidential election,
that is not the place for it.
The ballot box next year is the place
to go carry it out, not wearing the
badge and being a member of law en-
forcement in this country. So I hope
that is rooted out, because we want to
see the integrity of those institutions
like the FBI restored. I want the coun-
try to have full faith and confidence
that the people working there are car-
rying out the national security inter-
ests of the country, not their own po-
litical interests.
There are a lot of questions raised
over whether or not that happened. But
in the end, when we review the report—
we have seen the summary. If people
are still hoping that there is some mys-
tery indictment out there—they said
there are no further indictments. They
said there was no collusion with the
Presidential campaign.
So at what time is the gentleman’s
side going to acknowledge it didn’t
happen? If you want to change the re-
sults of the Presidential election, the
results are changed at the ballot box.
That is how we resolve it in America.
We don’t try to go find something on a
President that doesn’t exist.
We have done oversight. You have
done oversight. The Mueller investiga-
tion was the ultimate oversight for 22
months and it rooted out and found
there was no collusion between the
President and the Russians. Maybe
some people are disappointed to hear
it.
We should all celebrate that as a
country, but we all ought to be con-
cerned that no President of the United
States is targeted by an intelligence
agency, or by a Congress, or a major-
ity, or a minority because they don’t
like the results of the election, so they
are going to abuse power to go and try
to take them down. That is not the
way we do it.
I hope we can finally focus on the
real problems of this country and not
continue to use these committees even
after they didn’t find what they were
looking for to keep finding something
that is not there.
The former chairman that was al-
luded to, Mr. NUNES, did a very impec-
cable job of carrying out his duties to
find the facts. It was always about the
facts. And if you go and look at how he
carried himself and managed his com-
mittee, the entire time it was about
finding the facts. They looked and we
looked. There was no conclusion that
we found.
If someone has proof of that conclu-
sion that they keep alluding to, it is
time for them to show it. Show the
American people what you have. Don’t
run around hiding saying you have
something when the Attorney General
says it is not there.
If someone knows about collusion,
they owe it to the country to show it.
But if it is not there, stop saying it. It
is irresponsible, and, hopefully, every-
body heeds those words and we get
back to focusing on what is important
for this country. Express our political
differences.
Obviously, if there is a political dif-
ference that we have with each other,
with the President, with a Cabinet Sec-
retary, we have all kinds of forums to
express that opposition to correct it, to
bring legislation to the floor.
But if we just don’t like somebody
personally, that is not what we are
here to do. And I hope we can get be-
yond that.
I yield to the gentleman from Mary-
land.
Mr. HOYER. Mr. Speaker, I don’t
think I will respond to all of that, time
being of the essence, I suppose.
The gentleman represents a party
who held eight hearings, all headed by
Republicans, on Mrs. Clinton. All eight
reached the same conclusion, but the
first one wasn’t enough. The second
one wasn’t enough. The third one
wasn’t enough. The fourth, fifth, sixth,
and seventh weren’t enough. So the
gentleman from South Carolina (Mr.
Gowdy) was appointed to do one more
because it was pretty close to the elec-
tion then, Mr. Speaker.
The majority leader, now the minor-
ity leader of this House, said: Oh, no,
they accomplished something. They ac-
complished the political objective. He
said that on television, roundly criti-
cized by his party. Why did you say
that? Why did you admit that?
But for the minority whip to say that
the Mueller report instigated X mil-
lions of dollars spent for political pur-
poses, Mueller was appointed by a Re-
publican, not by a Democrat, and the
Attorney General recused himself so
the Deputy Attorney General, Mr.
Rosenstein, was the one that appointed
him.
Why did he recuse himself? Because
he had been involved, contrary to what
he testified to in his nomination hear-
ing, with the Russian Ambassador. I
don’t know if there was anything of
substance in this conversation because
we don’t fully know what that con-
versation was.
But the fact of the matter is, for the
minority whip to be talking about po-
litical hearings or oversight, and then
to say he has had an opportunity to re-
view the Mueller report, the gentleman
has had more than I have had.
He reviewed the four pages of the
Barr letter, appointed by Mr. Trump,
and what we know is Barr’s reading
and his conclusion. But, frankly, we
knew that before, because he sent a 19-
page letter months ago that he thought
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:46 Mar 29, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00016 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K28MR7.031 H28MRPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2905
March 28, 2019
this investigation would not reach any
conclusion, and that it should not, and
that the President could not be held
accountable, in any event. That was
Justice Department policy.
So I listened to a long discussion, in
my view, with all due respect, I tell my
friend, the whip, at odds with the per-
formance of their administration and
the eight hearings they had in trying
to bring Mrs. Clinton down and never
finding—never, eight hearings, all led
by Republicans—a conclusion that led
to anything.
So we will see what the Mueller re-
port says, I hope. And I am pleased
that the whip and his party voted to
have the Mueller report fully disclosed.
He is correct. There are some national
security interests that will properly re-
strict some of that, so we don’t out
sources or ways and means of discov-
ering information.
But having said that, I say to the
whip that we will have a time to debate
this. We will have a time to debate it
when we have the information. We will
have a time to debate it, perhaps
months from now, when all of these in-
vestigations are through.
But I wouldn’t take too much solace
in what the Mueller report did. It led
to, as I said, the indictment and con-
viction of the President’s campaign
manager. It led to the indictment and
conviction, either through plea or
trial, of five other individuals to date.
That is not something to be very
proud of in terms of the President of
the United States being so close to and
so involved—Mr. Cohen, in particular,
brings that information forth to a
hearing, and he was apparently his
closest legal adviser for over a decade.
We will see. But I don’t think now, Mr.
Speaker, is the time to debate it. Be-
cause the time to debate it will be to
see when we see, and the American peo-
ple see the Mueller report.
I want to say to my friend, so he un-
derstands, I am pleased that we don’t
have a finding that the President of the
United States colluded, as he said he
did not do. Colluded, of course, is not a
legal term. Conspiracy is the gravamen
or the essence of a criminal activity, a
conspiracy to commit something that
is illegal.
But we have a time to debate that
and discuss it. And the American peo-
ple, hopefully, are going to have an op-
portunity to reach their own conclu-
sion, which, obviously, in the final
analysis, will be the most important
conclusion.
But the good news is, we are con-
tinuing to do the substantive business
of the people of the United States. We
are continuing to focus on jobs. We had
numerous hearings this week on jobs,
on wages.
We had numerous hearings on
healthcare, and the costs of healthcare,
and the costs of prescription drugs. We
passed one of the most far-reaching re-
form bills that we have seen on the
floor of this House, H.R. 1. Every Dem-
ocrat voted for it. Almost every Repub-
lican voted against it.
b 1145
We have passed some rational and
reasonable controls on people with
criminal records who are on the no-fly
list or with mental health problems
from not getting weapons to hurt a lot
of people quickly. We have seen the
tragedy here and around the world.
So we have done a lot of very sub-
stantive legislation in a relatively
short time, and, very frankly, we would
have done more if the Republicans
hadn’t let the government shut down
and repeatedly voted against opening it
up for the first month of our session.
Mr. Speaker, this is obviously about
scheduling, and we are going to con-
tinue to bring substantive bills to the
floor to respond to the needs of the
American people. Yes, we can do over-
sight as well, but that will not preclude
us from pursuing, as the majority, the
agenda that we think the American
people sent us here to Washington and
made us the majority to do.
I hope that my Republican friends
will join us in that effort and offer sub-
stantive amendments when they think
there are differences that they have
with that legislation, consider those,
and send them to the Senate, because
that is really what the people want us
to do.
To the gentleman’s observation
about impeachment, I know he has
been here. I know he has voted on ef-
forts by some to move ahead on im-
peachment, and surely I know that he
knows the overwhelming majority of
Democrats voted ‘‘no.’’ I know that he
must have heard Speaker PELOSI say
that we are not pursuing impeachment
and that we want to focus on the needs
of the American people. I am sure he
heard that, Mr. Speaker, but he tends
to reference otherwise on that. I think
that is not accurate.
The American people ought to under-
stand that we are pursuing their agen-
da: their jobs, their healthcare, and the
welfare of their families. That is what
our duty is, that is what our responsi-
bility is, and that is what we are doing.
Mr. SCALISE. Mr. Speaker, whether
or not there is an ultimate move to-
wards something like impeachment,
which I hope wouldn’t come, and with
all the things we know—there are no
high crimes or misdemeanors and there
is not even collusion—there are still
committee chairmen in the gentle-
man’s own party who are talking about
impeachment. It is not something
made up. There are leaders in the gen-
tleman’s party talking about it.
The chairman of the Judiciary Com-
mittee issued more than 80 subpoenas.
Again, the majority can keep looking.
Look at the summary of the Mueller
report—2,800 subpoenas, more than 500
search warrants, and interviews of ap-
proximately 500 witnesses. So the gen-
tleman can talk about people who were
indicted who have nothing to do with
the collusion and nothing to do with
any ties to the President. Maybe some-
body had filed a false tax return, then
go throw the book at him.
Mr. Cohen came and lied to Congress,
and he deserves to go to jail for it.
What did the majority do? They
brought him back as their star witness,
a man who was already guilty of lying
to Congress. He came, swore himself in,
and likely lied to Congress again. So,
again, throw the book at him.
But in terms of what the basis of the
investigation was, it was to find collu-
sion, and they found none: no further
indictments; no evidence of collusion;
in fact, saw the Trump campaign push-
ing back and even offers for help.
Foreign governments like Russia try-
ing to interfere with our elections
clearly happened—not just Russia,
other countries too—and we all ought
to be concerned about it. We all want
to make sure that our defenses are as
high as we can make them so that they
are not able to collude.
We have seen companies in America
that were taken advantage of during
that campaign season, and they have
taken corrective actions, too, so that
Russia can’t use social media compa-
nies in this Nation to try to take ad-
vantage of our electoral system.
But in terms of collusion with the
President of the United States and a
foreign government, it didn’t happen. If
anybody has evidence to the contrary,
then show it to the American people.
Stop alluding behind some cloak-and-
dagger conspiracy theory that it hap-
pened still to this day when the
Mueller investigation concluded it
didn’t happen.
We will get the full report. I look for-
ward to reviewing it just as the gen-
tleman from Maryland is looking for-
ward to reviewing it, and maybe we
will continue this conversation.
But if all of the findings that the At-
torney General gave us in his summary
are accurate, which I don’t discount
they will be—I think they will be at
the highest level of confidence that the
Attorney General’s summary is accu-
rate. If it is not, then clearly we will
take that up separately. But if it turns
out to be accurate, then I think we all
ought to celebrate, number one, the
fact that there was no collusion, but
then move on.
The people who made accusations
that turned out to be baseless ought to
apologize and recognize there are peo-
ple’s personal lives and integrity that
were being questioned. If it turned out
they were wrong in making those accu-
sations, then they ought to hold them-
selves accountable and to a higher
standard. Those are the points that I
was making.
Mr. Speaker, I yield to my friend.
Mr. HOYER. Mr. Speaker, I would
ask my friend: Is he at all concerned
that somebody that he didn’t mention,
Mr. Flynn, was, in fact, indicted and
convicted of lying about his relation-
ship with the Russians and his having
clients in Europe, in Ukraine, which he
failed to disclose?
He was appointed to one of the high-
est offices, the National Security Advi-
sor to the President, and he lied about
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:46 Mar 29, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00017 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K28MR7.032 H28MRPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2906 March 28, 2019
his relations with the Russians to law
enforcement, which is a crime, and was
convicted and, in fact, pled.
I understand what Mr. Barr has said
in a 4-page letter after some 48 hours of
review of all of the documents, all of
the evidence, that was adduced. None
of us really knows. I am not going to
make a conclusion until I have an op-
portunity to review the report. I hope
we will have a full debate on that.
All of us are concerned, Republicans
and Democrats, about the extraor-
dinary number of people very close to
the President—and, most importantly,
Flynn, who was the National Security
Advisor to the President—who were
convicted of lying to law enforcement,
some not paying their taxes and cheat-
ing the American people and all of us
by not paying their fair share of what
was due. I think that ought to be of
concern to all of us.
These weren’t just some people. They
were the President’s campaign chair-
man. They were one of the President’s
foreign policy advisers, Mr.
Papadopoulos. It was his personal at-
torney for 10 years, a so-called fixer,
did anything he was told or implied to
do. We all ought to have concern about
that.
But we ought to also be happy that,
hopefully, correctly, Mr. Mueller found
that we were not in a conspiracy with—
I don’t know about that, but colluding
with—I don’t really know what that ex-
actly means; I have a sense, but it is
not a legal issue—that the President
did not, because any President who did
collude with a foreign government that
was clearly not our friend and, indeed,
for the most part, our competitor and,
yes, enemy, that would be something, I
think, of which all of us would be ex-
traordinarily concerned. I am glad that
Mr. Mueller didn’t find that.
But to think that, as the President
says, this was a whitewash and no
problems when five or six of your clos-
est allies and friends have been or are
about to be sent to jail, that is not
something to be happy about.
It wasn’t that Mueller didn’t find
wrongdoing. What Mueller didn’t find
was, beyond a shadow of a doubt, there
was criminal behavior on which he be-
lieved he could act. That is what Barr
said. And, in fact, Mr. Mueller, in
Barr’s letter, concluded that the Presi-
dent could not be exonerated or in-
dicted on the basis of obstruction of
justice. He made a conclusion that
there was not sufficient evidence.
We don’t know the answer to that
question, but Mr. Mueller says that he
could not find beyond a reasonable
doubt and, therefore, made no assess-
ment as to whether he did or did not.
In any event, we need to move on, as
I said, Mr. Speaker, with the people’s
business: jobs, healthcare, integrity in
government, safety in our neighbor-
hoods, education of our children, and
the health of our people.
Mr. Speaker, I want to tell the whip
that I look forward to working with
him on such an agenda for the people.
Mr. SCALISE. Mr. Speaker, I share
the gentleman’s concern about address-
ing those important issues.
I will say, for the five people whom
the gentleman referenced, anybody
who broke the law ought to be held ac-
countable. But after 500 witnesses are
interviewed and over 2,800 subpoenas,
all looking to find collusion with the
Russian Government, not one of the
people the gentleman mentioned had
anything to do with colluding with the
Russian Government.
If they made misstatements or if
they didn’t pay their taxes, after 2,800
subpoenas, then make sure that they
are held accountable for the things
they did, but don’t suggest that it had
anything to do with collusion with
Russia, because it didn’t.
Again, Mr. Speaker, go pull 500
names out of the phonebook, and if you
put the full weight of the United States
Government and 2,800 subpoenas into
looking into 500 random people, I am
sure not one of them will have done
anything wrong—and hopefully not.
But if they did and it had nothing to do
with what you were initially looking
for, let’s not try to suggest it had any-
thing to do with collusion, because it
didn’t.
We will see the full report. We look
forward to seeing that. Again, hope-
fully, if the full report shows what we
have already seen in the summary,
that there was no collusion, then peo-
ple who have been claiming there was
collusion will also hold themselves ac-
countable and maybe apologize, maybe
recant, but surely stop continuing any
kind of witch hunt and then focus on
these important issues like getting our
economy even stronger; working with
this President to solve big problems
which we have the opportunity to do to
get a real trade agreement with our
neighbors Mexico and Canada, all of
whom want to have better trade rela-
tionships with us and help benefit our
economy, create more jobs, and have
fairer labor standards; something we
have in front of us, an opportunity to
do in a bipartisan way, maybe get a
budget agreement so that we can have,
certainly well before the September 30
deadline, how we are going to fund our
government in a responsible way, make
sure our men and women in uniform
don’t have to wonder whether or not
they are going to get paid while they
are deployed in a foreign country;
make sure we can focus on lowering
healthcare costs; and immigration re-
form that can solve some of the big
problems on border security and some
of the other areas.
So, hopefully, we can find agreement
on that, and I am sure, in the coming
weeks, we will on some, if not all,
those issues. I look forward to working
with the gentleman to do that.
I appreciate, while we go back and
forth sometimes, we can have a little
fun with our hobbies, but we also have
big, important tasks; and I know that
the gentleman carries out his role in
the most responsible way to promote
the agenda that he thinks is best for
this country, as do I, and, ideally, we
can find a lot of intersection where we
can work together to get really good
things done for the American people.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
f
HOUR OF MEETING ON TOMOR-
ROW, AND ADJOURNMENT FROM
FRIDAY, MARCH 29, 2019, TO MON-
DAY, APRIL 1, 2019
Mr. HOYER. Mr. Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that when the
House adjourns today, it adjourn to
meet at 2:30 p.m. tomorrow, and fur-
ther, when the House adjourns on that
day, it adjourn to meet at noon on
Monday, April 1, 2019, for morning-hour
debate and 2 p.m. for legislative busi-
ness.
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr.
CASE). Is there objection to the request
of the gentleman from Maryland?
There was no objection.
f
b 1200
RECOGNIZING JOHN OSTENBURG
OF PARK FOREST, ILLINOIS
(Ms. KELLY of Illinois asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute.)
Ms. KELLY of Illinois. Mr. Speaker,
in recognition of Mayor John
Ostenburg of Park Forest, Illinois: son,
husband, father, grandfather, mayor,
trustee, legislator, leader, collabo-
rator, author, teacher, speaker, editor,
reporter, environmentalist, unionist,
merchant, director, adviser, lecturer,
painter, reader, traveler, neighbor, hu-
manitarian, and ubiquitous friend.
‘‘We do not exist for ourselves,’’ his
mentor once said.
When theologian Thomas Merton ut-
tered those simple words, it likely
tickled the eardrums and, certainly,
the fancy of our friend, John
Ostenburg.
To be clear, John enjoys his various
vocations, but it just so happens that
many endeavors share a common
thread: to serve others for the greater
good.
He makes sure everything he does,
every role he plays, positively impacts
others. That is who he is.
A perpetual student of mankind and
relentless advocate of Chicago’s South-
land, John’s omnipotence comes com-
plete with the genuine chuckle of a
friend, the wise grin of a mediator, the
dignified humility of a monk.
With career highlights too long to
list and colleagues too numerous to
count, I commend and thank John
Ostenburg for his longtime service to
residents across the Second Congres-
sional District of Illinois.
On their behalf and on behalf of the
Congress of the United States, I wish
Park Forest Mayor John Ostenburg
Godspeed as he retires from elective of-
fice, if not from public service.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:24 Mar 29, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00018 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K28MR7.034 H28MRPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2907
March 28, 2019
HONORING ELAINE EIGEMAN
(Mrs. RODGERS of Washington asked
and was given permission to address
the House for 1 minute and to revise
and extend her remarks.)
Mrs. RODGERS of Washington. Mr.
Speaker, I rise today to honor Elaine
Eigeman.
In Congress, every day we have peo-
ple who come to the Nation’s Capitol
to advocate for important issues facing
people in every community across our
country. However, few do this as tire-
lessly and with as much passion and
grace as Elaine.
As the board chair of the
Lymphedema Advocacy Group, Elaine
has given a strong voice to
lymphedema patients all across the
country.
She was the driving force behind the
Lymphedema Treatment Act, which we
will introduce in the House this week,
to require Medicare to cover an essen-
tial part of lymphedema treatment.
Elaine developed lymphedema in
1999. Throughout her journey, she has
made it her mission to support others
and to be a voice for all suffering from
this disease.
Thank you, Elaine, for your leader-
ship and for creating a vibrant commu-
nity for patients in the Northwest and
beyond. I am proud to be your friend.
f
HONORING NATIONAL DEAF
HISTORY MONTH
(Mrs. BEATTY asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Mrs. BEATTY. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to honor National Deaf History
Month, celebrated March 13 through
April 15 each year.
What started as a very small observa-
tion at a Washington, D.C., library has
grown to a 32-day-long celebration rec-
ognizing the countless contributions of
deaf and hard-of-hearing Americans
and honoring deaf culture.
I was so pleased when one of my con-
stituents, Dawn Watts, an advocate for
the deaf community, approached me
with an idea of introducing a resolu-
tion recognizing Deaf History Month in
Congress for the very first time.
I want to thank Dawn, as well as the
National Association of the Deaf and
the American Library Association, for
their insight and support for this reso-
lution.
Mr. Speaker, I encourage all Ameri-
cans to take time this month to learn
more about deaf Americans who helped
shape our country, and I am honored to
be able to have introduced this resolu-
tion.
f
EQUAL PAY FOR EQUAL WORK
(Ms. DEAN asked and was given per-
mission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Ms. DEAN. Mr. Speaker, America is
built on some core values that every-
one should have an equal voice in our
democracy, that everyone deserves
equal opportunity, and that equal work
should mean equal pay.
Right now, however, equal work
doesn’t mean equal pay. According to
the United States Census Bureau, on
average, women earn just 80 cents for
every dollar earned by men. This wage
gap hurts women, of course, but it also
hurts their families and our economy
as a whole.
Yesterday, we took a major step to-
ward addressing this challenge by pass-
ing H.R. 7, the Paycheck Fairness Act.
This bill will help close the wage gap
by holding employers accountable for
discriminatory practices and making it
easier for workers to seek redress.
If we believe that Americans deserve
equal pay for equal work—and I believe
that as deeply as I believe anything—
then this bill is how we put our values
into action.
I thank Representative DELAURO for
her decades of leadership on this issue,
and I urge the Senate to take up this
bill. What better way to conclude
Women’s History Month than by mak-
ing history for women and for all
Americans?
f
SUPPORTING TRANSGENDER
TROOPS
(Ms. HAALAND asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Ms. HAALAND. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today in support of our transgender
troops.
The United States is stronger and
safer when our military reflects our
Nation’s diversity. This administra-
tion’s transgender ban makes a mock-
ery of that commitment. And let’s be
clear: This is a ban.
We must not ask transgender service-
members to go back in the closet or
tell them: You are less than other
Americans.
I wholeheartedly support every single
American who wants to serve our coun-
try. My father was a 30-year career ma-
rine, and he would never judge another
marine on anything other than their
ability to complete their mission. Why
should there be another standard?
Trans servicemembers meet the same
standards as every servicemember, and
this was confirmed during a sub-
committee hearing when trans troops
testified as witnesses. These
transgender troops were highly deco-
rated and earned recognition on the
basis of the quality of their work.
As all military personnel do,
transgender troops deserve our respect.
I challenge anyone who favors this
kind of discrimination to look at their
transgender constituents and tell them
they are not fit to serve.
I thank my colleagues for taking a
stand for all of our servicemembers
today.
COMMUNICATION FROM THE HON-
ORABLE BRIAN J. MAST, MEM-
BER OF CONGRESS
The SPEAKER pro tempore laid be-
fore the House the following commu-
nication from the Honorable BRIAN J.
MAST, Member of Congress:
CONGRESS OF THE UNITED STATES,
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
Washington, DC, March 27, 2019.
Hon. NANCY PELOSI,
Speaker, House of Representatives,
Washington, DC.
DEAR MADAM SPEAKER: This is to notify
you formally, pursuant to Rule VIII of the
Rules of the House of Representatives, that
I, the Honorable Brian J. Mast, have been
served with a subpoena for testimony in a
criminal trial issued by the United States
District Court for the Southern District of
Florida.
After consultation with the Office of Gen-
eral Counsel, I have determined that compli-
ance with the subpoena is consistent with
the privileges and rights of the House.
Sincerely,
BRIAN J. MAST,
Member of Congress.
f
COMMUNICATION FROM LEGISLA-
TIVE CORRESPONDENT, THE
HONORABLE BRIAN J. MAST,
MEMBER OF CONGRESS
The SPEAKER pro tempore laid be-
fore the House the following commu-
nication from Stephanie Cope, legisla-
tive correspondent, the Honorable
BRIAN J. MAST, Member of Congress:
CONGRESS OF THE UNITED STATES,
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
Washington, DC, March 27, 2019.
Hon. NANCY PELOSI,
Speaker, House of Representatives,
Washington, DC.
DEAR MADAM SPEAKER: This is to notify
you formally, pursuant to Rule VIII of the
Rules of the House of Representatives, that
I, Stephanie Cope, have been served with a
subpoena for testimony in a criminal trial
issued by the United States District Court
for the Southern District of Florida.
After consultation with the Office of Gen-
eral Counsel, I have determined that compli-
ance with the subpoena is consistent with
the privileges and rights of the House.
Sincerely,
STEPHANIE COPE,
Legislative Correspondent,
Office of Congressman Brian Mast.
f
ISSUES OF THE DAY
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under
the Speaker’s announced policy of Jan-
uary 3, 2019, the gentleman from Texas
(Mr. GOHMERT) is recognized for 60 min-
utes as the designee of the minority
leader.
Mr. GOHMERT. Mr. Speaker, at this
time, it is my honor to yield to my
friend from New Jersey, not just a
friend, but a brother, ardent pro-life
advocate who I have seen has compas-
sion for every baby child.
Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gentleman
from New Jersey (Mr. SMITH).
AN IMPORTANT MESSAGE AMERICA NEEDS TO
HEAR
Mr. SMITH of New Jersey. Mr.
Speaker, I thank my good friend and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:46 Mar 29, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00019 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K28MR7.037 H28MRPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2908 March 28, 2019
colleague for yielding and for his lead-
ership on behalf of human rights. We
have worked on issues in Sudan and
other issues over the years. I want to
thank him for being such a compas-
sionate person.
Mr. Speaker, on Wednesday evening,
I attended a premiere of the new film,
‘‘Unplanned,’’ which opens this week-
end in over 1,000 theaters. The movie is
extraordinarily well written, well di-
rected, and well acted. Ashley Bratcher
is spectacular as Abby Johnson, the
key character in the film.
‘‘Unplanned’’ tells a largely untold
story, a very difficult story, and is
packed with insight and a profoundly
important message that America and
the world needs to hear.
Based on the life of Abby Johnson
and her book, ‘‘Unplanned,’’ the film
chronicles Ms. JOHNSON’s work at
Planned Parenthood as a student activ-
ist, followed by almost 8 years at a
large Planned Parenthood clinic in
Texas, where over 20,000 abortions were
performed.
Working as a counselor and then as
actual director of that clinic, Abby
says that 10 minutes of participation in
an ultrasound-guided abortion shook
the foundation of her values and
changed the course of her life. She
writes in the book, which is powerfully
portrayed in the film:
‘‘The details startled me. At 13
weeks, you could clearly see the profile
of the head, both arms and legs, and
even tiny fingers and toes. With my
eyes glued to the image of this per-
fectly formed baby, I watched as a new
image emerged on the video screen.’’
‘‘The cannula, a straw-shaped instru-
ment attached to the end of a suction
tube, had been inserted into the uterus
and was nearing the baby’s side. It
looked like an invader on the screen,
out of place. Wrong. It just looked
wrong.’’
She goes on to write, and you can see
this portrayed on the screen:
‘‘My heart sped up. Time slowed. I
didn’t want to look, but I didn’t want
to stop looking either.’’
‘‘At first, the baby didn’t seem aware
of the cannula. The next moment was
the sudden jerk of a tiny foot of the
baby as it started kicking, as if trying
to get away from the probing invader.
As the cannula pressed in, the baby
began struggling to turn and twist
away.’’
‘‘And then the doctor’s voice broke
through, startling me. ‘‘Beam me up,
Scotty,’’ telling the assistant to turn
on the suction.’’
The abortion clinic director went on
to write:
‘‘I had a sudden urge to yell, ‘‘Stop,’’
to shake the woman and say: ‘‘Look
what is happening to your baby. Wake
up. Hurry. Stop.’’
‘‘But even as I thought those words,
I thought of my own hand and saw my
own hand holding the probe. I was one
of them, performing this act of abor-
tion.’’
Again, her eyes shot back to the
screen, and she writes:
‘‘The cannula was already being ro-
tated by the doctor, and now I could
see the tiny body violently twisting
with it. For the briefest moment, it
looked as if the baby was being wrung
like a dishcloth, twirled and squeezed.
And then the little body crumpled and
began disappearing into the cannula
before my eyes.’’
‘‘The last thing I saw was the tiny,
perfectly formed backbone sucked into
the tube, and then everything was
gone.’’
Abby Johnson writes:
‘‘The image of that tiny, dead baby,
mangled and sucked away, kept replay-
ing in my mind.’’
‘‘What was in this woman’s womb
just a moment ago was alive. It wasn’t
tissue. It wasn’t cells. This was a
human baby fighting for life, a battle it
lost in the blink of an eye.’’
She writes in the book:
‘‘What I have told people for years as
a Planned Parenthood leader, what I
believed and taught and defended, is a
lie.’’
Mr. Speaker, someday—someday—fu-
ture generations of Americans will
look back on us and wonder how and
why such a rich and seemingly enlight-
ened society, so blessed and endowed
with the capacity to protect and en-
hance vulnerable human life—the
weakest and the most vulnerable—
could have so aggressively promoted
death to children by abortion.
They will demand to know why dis-
membering a child like the one that
Abby Johnson witnessed—pulverizing
an infant with suction or chemically
poisoning a baby with any number of
toxic chemicals failed to elicit empa-
thy, mercy, or compassion for these
victims.
b 1215
No one is expendable or a throwaway,
Mr. Speaker. Every human life has infi-
nite value. Birth is merely an event; it
is not the beginning of life. Abortion is
violence against children and it is vio-
lence against women.
The movie ‘‘Unplanned’’ not only
moved me, as I believe it will move
others, but it also inspired me, as I be-
lieve it will inspire others, to care even
more for both victims of abortion, the
mother, and the child, to love them
both, to reach out to post-abortive
women. And there are ministries all
over this country that say, Yes, an
abortion has been procured, but we
love you and we want to see you rec-
oncile and find peace and joy again.
This movie makes clear that we need
to continue to reach out to the people
inside the abortion industry, in the sin-
cere hope that they, like Abby John-
son, will recognize that there is noth-
ing compassionate, benign, or nur-
turing about abortion.
Abby Johnson has formed a ministry,
a nongovernmental organization. It is
called And Then There Was None. It is
designed to assist abortion clinic work-
ers out of the industry. To date, ap-
proximately, 500 abortion clinic work-
ers have left that field of work includ-
ing seven abortion doctors who now
nurture life, rather than kill it.
Abby Johnson is a courageous, self-
less woman who spreads truth and
compassion. She speaks truth to power.
‘‘Unplanned’’ is a truly amazing movie.
Mr. GOHMERT. Will the gentleman
stay for a question.
Mr. Speaker, I am deeply moved and
touched by everything my friend from
New Jersey has had to say. But at one
point, my friend said, he really be-
lieved that some day Americans will
look back on this point in history. And
one of my great concerns, because of
the love I know is shared between us
both for this country; and desperately
wanting this country, our children,
grandchildren, great grandchildren,
someday to enjoy our freedoms, one of
my biggest concerns is that it won’t be
Americans that look back; that if we
stay on this road where we dismember
and kill babies, it may not be Ameri-
cans that look back, it may be histo-
rians in some other country after the
United States no longer exists in its
present condition that look back and
say, Wow, look how degenerate they
had gotten, and it just seemed so ac-
cepted.
Does the gentleman from New Jer-
sey, my friend, have any concerns that,
perhaps, if we don’t address this prob-
lem that it may not be Americans that
look back and see this problem area?
I yield to my friend.
Mr. SMITH of New Jersey. Mr.
Speaker, I thank the gentleman for
yielding.
I do believe that there are deep con-
cerns about the loss of life and what it
means demographically, both here and
all over the world. I mean, in places
like China, sex selection abortion has
claimed the lives of so many of the girl
children that there are tens of millions
of men who will never marry because
the women simply have been
exterminated through sex selection
abortion.
I have held a number of congressional
hearings—I have chaired them—where
we have talked about the disparity be-
tween boys and girls. One estimate pos-
ited there are 62 million missing girls
in China alone.
One of my witnesses said that if you
look at all the women that have been
killed in Asia through sex selection
abortion alone, and it is worldwide, it
equals, equates with the number of all
the women and girl children living in
the United States of America. I mean,
that is a horrific crime, in my opinion,
against women. And the disparity in
male to female that is a consequence
leads to other horrific consequences,
like human trafficking.
As my good friend knows, I am the
prime author of the Trafficking Vic-
tims Protection Act and four other
laws that combat human trafficking,
including the most recently signed, the
Frederick Douglass anti-human traf-
ficking law signed by President Trump
just a few months ago. I am the author
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:24 Mar 29, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00020 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K28MR7.048 H28MRPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2909
March 28, 2019
of those bills; and we watch very close-
ly what is happening all over the
world.
In places like China, trafficking has
increased because of the missing
daughters who have been killed, simply
because they happened to be girls and
women, young women, young females.
On this floor of the House, as the
gentleman knows, because he voted, as
did I, we had a bill to ban sex selection
abortions. And to this day, I am
shocked and dismayed how many of our
colleagues—and I respect our col-
leagues on both sides of this issue—
didn’t see that discrimination begins in
the womb, when a woman is singled
out, a girl, girl child, simply because
she is a girl and is killed for that rea-
son.
Sex selection abortion is almost
never—although it is occasionally for
the boy child, it is the girl child who
suffers. So when we look back, when
our future generations look back, they
will also note that discrimination. Why
did that bill not become law?
It seems to me there are at least 20
nations around the world where there
are disparities; India and China are
among the worst, but it is a huge prob-
lem. And we need to look at protecting
unborn children as a human rights
issue.
Killing an unborn child in the womb
is the only human rights abuse that
dares call itself a human right; and
there are people, purveyors of abortion,
who do that on a regular basis. They
keep saying it is a right; a right to dis-
member a child; the right to chemi-
cally poison a child.
As the gentleman knows, because he
was, again, one of the sponsors of the
Pain-Capable Unborn Child Protection
Act, which I have re-introduced in this
Congress—Trent Franks had intro-
duced it in previous—passed three
times here on the House floor. It says
that children at least 20 weeks, and
maybe earlier, but at least at 20 weeks,
need to be protected because they suf-
fer excruciating pain when they are
being dismembered, for a couple of
minutes. We are not sure exactly how
long, but the evidence is very, very
clear that they suffer as they are being
killed by abortion.
And that legislation passed with good
numbers, good—a large number of
Members of the House, but it is not law
yet.
So, you know, I think when we look
back, we are going to say we had all
these opportunities. And now the most
recent—and I appreciate my friend
from Texas yielding this time—the
most recent outrage is what is hap-
pening with regards to children who
are born alive and then are killed after
birth.
We just had the mayor—not the
mayor—the Governor of New York
eviscerating protections for children
who survive abortions.
Years ago, the Philadelphia Inquirer
did a piece, a big piece, a big article
called ‘‘The Dreaded Complication.’’
And the dreaded complication were
those children who somehow evaded
the dismemberment process or some
other part of that process and emerged
alive. It was usually a hysterotomy
abortion in most cases, but other cases
as well, to go on and breathe and gasp
and cry. And these very weak and vul-
nerable children should be protected.
We have a bill that has been intro-
duced, the Born-Alive Protection Act.
We have asked, as just a few hours ago
from this floor many times—I did it as
well—asking that our friends in the
majority would allow this bill to come
up, so at least when these children are
born alive, the same regimen of care,
the same due diligence would be given
to that boy or girl, gasping for breath,
to ensure that they are protected and
get resuscitation.
Why, in these abortion clinics, are
they allowed to die due to exposure, or
sometimes to additional effort to just
kill them?
This legislation has had a large num-
ber of cosponsors in the House and Sen-
ate. The Senate had an opportunity to
take it up and it was voted down,
sadly, by other friends on the other
side of the aisle. And again, we reach
out to our friends on the other side of
the aisle to say this is a human rights
issue.
Born alive? I did a speech in 2012 on
what is called after-birth abortion.
Two ethicists wrote this piece—and I
would invite anyone who wants to,
read it; it is on my website.
Two ethicists wrote this piece about
how we ought to kill babies after birth
because, really, they are not really dif-
ferent than the child before birth. They
can’t dream; they can’t talk; they
don’t have cognitive abilities that say,
a 4-year-old or a 5-year-old might have.
You know, birth is an event that hap-
pens to all of us. It is a continuum of
life, and abortion is violence against
children. But after-birth abortion also
is violence against children.
Let me just conclude. Many people,
like Alveda King, Dr. Martin Luther
King’s niece, she has had two abor-
tions. And she has said, how can the
dream survive—that is to say, her
great uncle’s dream, I have a dream—if
we kill the children and hurt and
wound the women?
The pro-life movement, and I have
been in it for 47 years, care for both,
mother and child; love them both. And,
again, this new movie, ‘‘Unplanned,’’
chronicles a woman, Abby Johnson,
who was right there with the strongest
of the pro-abortion activists in this
country, including counseling women
to get abortions.
And then she was director of a clinic
in Texas, as I said earlier, in the gen-
tleman’s home State. Then, when she
saw that child killed, in real time, on
an ultrasound, it shattered the myth
that somehow that child is not human
and not alive, and she walked out the
door and never came back.
There were people praying for her
from the 40 Days for Life, a very, very
humane organization of men and
women who pray for the clinic per-
sonnel; they pray for the babies; they
pray for the moms. That is their agen-
da, care, love, compassion.
She then, later on, and as depicted in
the movie, was at—you know, trying to
reach out to some women as well, so
they wouldn’t make this irreversible
decision.
So I want to thank the gentleman
again. But, you know, someday we will
recognize that these children—and you
know, this millennial generation and
others that are coming along, you
know, first baby pictures now for par-
ents and grandparents are of
ultrasound imaging of their children.
That is what goes on the refrigerator.
The newborn pictures go on, too, with
great smiles and great joy when the
child is born. But we now know, before
birth when he or she is a girl or a boy.
We know just so much, and we have
that picture, which is the first baby
picture.
And to think—and this is what got to
Abby Johnson—she watched as that
child was dismembered right in front of
her. She was holding the probe; and it
just dawned on her, the blind spot was
lifted, and she realized, I am partici-
pating in the killing of a baby. And she
left that clinic, and now she is one of
the most courageous pro-life leaders in
the country and the world.
Mr. GOHMERT. Mr. Speaker, I really
appreciate those words from my friend,
CHRIS SMITH, and I look forward to see-
ing that movie.
I was very moved watching the movie
‘‘Gosnell’’. It just—I thought about the
poets, the inhumanity to man. It is
tragic.
Having talked to people that have
taught in China, you know, it is a
human crisis what is going on with the
abortion of so many women. And like
my friend, CHRIS SMITH, I can’t help
but wonder why that is not considered
a war on women when you kill a baby
in utero simply because the child is fe-
male. But apparently, in China, since
couples are only allowed normally to
have one child, many couples think,
well, we would rather have a boy. Dis-
crimination against girls.
As a father who has three girls, they
have brought joy to my life in so many
ways. I just cannot fathom the thought
of ever doing anything to have pre-
vented those girls from being born.
But there are far-reaching implica-
tions when you have a gendercide. But
as was pointed out by a teacher in
China, first of all, the boys don’t have
as much opportunity to have female
friends, making it more difficult to
find a heterosexual partner.
But more than that, because it is re-
stricted to one child, you have two sets
of grandparents and two parents, six
people who have one child to focus on,
and it actually—
One of the greatest disciplined groups
of children in the world used to be con-
sidered from China.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:24 Mar 29, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00021 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K28MR7.050 H28MRPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2910 March 28, 2019
b 1230
More and more, you have doting
grandparents and parents. Since they
only have one child to dote on among
the six of them, more and more of
those Chinese children are being
spoiled rotten. It is much more dif-
ficult to maintain order, because now
that there is one child to spoil among
six people, the teacher is never right.
The child is always right.
It is interesting, seeing all the far-
reaching ramifications of this
gendercide against women. I hope and
literally do pray that things will
change, and babies will no longer be
killed just simply because they are fe-
male.
FRAUD ON FISA COURT
Mr. GOHMERT. Mr. Speaker, there
are four other topics I wanted to touch
on.
One, I was greatly surprised to find
out about a motion and order by the
Obama administration in 2012 before
the FISA court, because being on the
Judiciary Committee—I wasn’t there
when the PATRIOT Act was passed; I
have been there for reauthorization—I
have grave concerns about some of the
civil rights there.
My colleagues across the aisle on the
Judiciary Committee, many of them
had extremely grave concerns when
they were in the minority about civil
rights and civil liberties, and those
seem to have taken a backseat while
the President was President Obama.
I am hopeful that, now that there is
not a Democrat in the White House, we
can get some bipartisan concern again
about civil liberties, after the Obama
administration really did run rough-
shod over so many.
One of the things we were assured in
reauthorizing the FISA court, the pro-
cedures and all, is that no American,
and this was in the PATRIOT Act as
well, but no American would be caught
up in any foreign surveillance or sur-
veillance by our U.S. entities, whether
CIA, NSA, whatever, unless the Amer-
ican citizen was engaged in a conversa-
tion with a known terrorist, foreign
terrorist, or an agent of a known ter-
rorist organization.
Then through this colonoscopy, figu-
ratively speaking, that the Trump
campaign and administration were get-
ting, we come to find out things were
far more loose in protecting civil lib-
erties and privacy rights.
On the FISA court, unfortunately, we
have at least one or more FISA judges
that really don’t care about the Con-
stitution. They don’t care about
Fourth and Fifth Amendment rights.
They have allowed the Justice Depart-
ment to run roughshod over those.
I am very concerned about how far
this goes back. Did it go back before
the Obama administration? Is it a
newer invention? Just how many ac-
tivities once considered unthinkable by
the Federal Government are now just
ho-hum to FISA judges?
The fact is that we now know the
FISA court, at least one, perhaps more
courts, were lied to. Since this is basi-
cally a Star Chamber where the public
is not allowed to know what went on—
things are held in secret. The tran-
scripts are held in secret, unless you
get them released by WikiLeaks, as the
application for warrant, the affidavit
on which it was based, and the order
regarding Verizon some years back—
WikiLeaks released that.
That was the eye-opener for me, be-
cause as just an ardent historian when
it comes to so many things American,
and that includes First Amendment
rights, I was shocked, Fourth Amend-
ment, Fifth Amendment.
We know the Constitution is very
clear. You can’t just say: Give me all
the information you have.
It is required that you have some
kind of probable cause here, and you
have to describe with particularity the
area to be searched or the thing to be
searched and the specific thing that is
being sought for which there is a war-
rant.
I was overwhelmed to see an affidavit
saying: Well, for America’s protection,
we just need every bit of information
that Verizon has on every one of their
customers.
I am going, oh, my gosh. During my
days as a felony judge in Texas, if an
officer had come with an affidavit and
an application signed, sworn to, and
given that to me, that we need a war-
rant, I am going, you have got to be
kidding. There is no particularity here.
It is just saying give me everything
you have on every customer this com-
pany has.
Are you kidding? You need to go
back to school. I am not sure I need to
be signing any more warrants for you if
that is the way you consider constitu-
tional rights.
Yet, it was just ho-hum for the Jus-
tice Department, ho-hum for the FISA
court judges.
I mean, unless there is some FISA
judge that signed these four warrants
regarding the Trump campaign, and in-
dividuals with it, who has just com-
pletely lost his or her mind and doesn’t
know what is going on, that judge, or
judges, has to be aware they were lied
to. There was fraud upon that court.
The fact that we have Federal judges
who were confirmed by the U.S. Senate
after being appointed by a U.S. Presi-
dent who would not be bothered that
the United States Department of Jus-
tice and the FBI had people who would
come before that judge and lie to that
judge, and the judge is not bothered—
‘‘oh, well.’’
I remember after a bankruptcy hear-
ing many years ago, I really liked this
judge, but he said: Louie, you seem
bothered that the person who filed
bankruptcy got caught in a huge lie.
That seemed to bother you. But, Louie,
they all lie. You just got to get used to
it.
Well, I have still not gotten used to
the idea that somebody can come in
and lie under oath before a judge with-
out any ramifications coming from
that.
The fact that we have one or more
FISA judges who are not bothered,
have done nothing, and have put no one
in jail for the fraud committed in the
FISA court tells me we have to either
get rid of the FISA courts—go back to
the way it was before, when if you had
a matter of national security, it was
treated differently, but we didn’t have
special Star Chambers where you came
and had secret hearings. You just went
to a normal judge and handled things
in camera, if necessary. We have to ei-
ther do that, get rid of the FISA
courts, or we have to have some safe-
guards to make sure that Americans’
rights are protected.
But there is a motion and order here.
The motion, it was secret, classified,
before the Foreign Intelligence Sur-
veillance Court. This is from April 23,
2012. It has now been declassified. I had
no idea that the Obama administra-
tion, the Justice Department, had
sought this and gotten it, but appar-
ently, as broadly spread as information
was about American citizens whose
names were unmasked and about what
they were saying when it didn’t nec-
essarily involve any foreign terrorist
organization—I am still not over the
fact that some of us were lied to, in
order to get some of the PATRIOT Act
reauthorized. That was not the Obama
administration I am talking about.
But this is a motion, and the title is:
‘‘Government’s Submission of Amend-
ments to Standard Minimization Pro-
cedures.’’ That is the procedure where,
if it is an American citizen who is
caught up in a phone surveillance,
phone conversations that are being
surveilled by our intelligence, the
minimization is what the law requires
where you mask the name. You mini-
mize the conversation so that the iden-
tity and other information is not avail-
able for review, because the Constitu-
tion protects American citizens and
gives them Fourth Amendment and
Fifth Amendment rights that other-
wise would be abused.
But this says: ‘‘For FBI Electronic
Surveillance and Physical Search Con-
ducted Under the Foreign Intelligence
Surveillance Act, and Submission of
Revised Minimization Procedures for
the National Counterterrorism Center,
and Motion for Amended Orders Per-
mitting Use of Amended Minimization
Procedures.’’
Then I see that it was classified by
Tashina Gauhar, Deputy Assistant At-
torney General. She answered directly
to Rod Rosenstein, I guess still does.
My understanding is, and I was told,
that she is one of the key people who
was telling Jeff Sessions that he need-
ed to recuse himself. This is an attor-
ney, Deputy Assistant Attorney Gen-
eral, who was loyal to Sally Yates, is
still loyal to Sally Yates, even though
she refused to do her constitutional
duty to defend a constitutional act by
President Trump. She didn’t care for
the President, so she wasn’t going to
carry out her constitutionally man-
dated duty.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:24 Mar 29, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00022 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K28MR7.043 H28MRPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2911
March 28, 2019
Fortunately, Sally Yates is no longer
there, and we have at least some people
there who are willing to carry out their
obligation under the Constitution.
But when my friend Jeff Sessions was
saying he has talked to career people
and they have encouraged him, told
him he needed to recuse himself, I had
heard that Tashina Gauhar was one of
those people. You can call her a career
person. I hope her career is about
ended, at least in the Justice Depart-
ment.
I also had understood she was some-
one who was trying to make Jeff Ses-
sions look bad. As the National Secu-
rity Council liaison, the notices of NSC
meetings would go to her for the Attor-
ney General. I was told she would sit
on those and not get them to the At-
torney General. He would get his no-
tices late. He would be, therefore, the
least prepared at the NSC’s critical
meetings. Sometimes, he would have
conflicts because she didn’t get him the
notices early enough. Yet she, I was
told, is one of those who said: Oh, yeah,
you have to recuse yourself.
Her loyalties were more to President
Obama and Sally Yates than they ap-
pear to be, at least to me, to the Con-
stitution itself. Yet she is the one who
is also pushing to change the mini-
mization requirements.
What really got me as I read through
this lengthy motion, I think this is
really the crux of it, over here at page
64.
b 1245
Over here on page 64—so, obviously,
it is a long motion on behalf of the U.S.
Government by Tashina Gauhar—it
says:
‘‘The following underlined text will
be inserted into the first sentence: ‘The
FBI may disseminate FISA-acquired
information concerning United States
persons, which’ ’’—and then here is the
underlined part—‘‘ ‘reasonably appears
to be’ ’’—and then not underlined—
‘‘ ‘foreign intelligence information’ ’’—
more underlining—‘‘ ‘is necessary to
understand foreign intelligence infor-
mation or assess its importance, or is
evidence of a crime being disseminated
for a law enforcement purpose.’ ’’
Look, when you get language like
this that could allow the massive dis-
tribution of what we were assured dur-
ing reauthorization of these type pro-
cedures—oh, no, it is so restricted.
See, here are the regulations. This is
who can find out about an American
citizen who was surveilled electroni-
cally. It is protected. If somebody—an
American citizen—happens to be cap-
tured just because of who they are
talking to, you know, we have the
minimization—nobody gets to know
who that person is. The requirements
are so tough to reveal the name.
Oh, no, not in this that was filed by
Tashina Gauhar, if it reasonably ap-
pears it is necessary to understand
some intelligence. Good grief, that
throws the door wide open. You could
justify giving this constitutionally pro-
tected information to basically any-
body. Well, I think this will be impor-
tant to help them understand some
other intelligence information. This is
an outrage.
And I had no idea—I don’t know of
anybody who did know back in 2012—
that the Obama Justice Department
was throwing this door open with this
kind of vague and ambiguous termi-
nology: Oh, well, if it helps them un-
derstand other information, well, then
they can see and hear and get all of
what otherwise should be constitu-
tionally protected information where
the U.S. Government has been spying
on U.S. citizens.
As I have said before, I mean, it is be-
coming more and more clear that the
only thing that Orwell got wrong was
the year. It wasn’t 1984. But here, oh,
yeah, anything that our DOJ, our intel-
ligence, want to disseminate to their
friends, even if it is somebody that
may be working at the U.N., we will
disclose it to anybody, because it will
help them understand other informa-
tion better.
For everyone’s sake, this is such an
outrage. And here it is, 7 years—yeah,
next month—7 years since this motion
and order was filed in order to allow
the government to pass around top-se-
cret information that should be not
only classified, it should never have
been obtained in the first place.
And then, through the investigation
of the Donald Trump campaign, we find
out that, actually, you don’t have to be
a terrorist or a member of a known ter-
rorist organization. If you happen to be
an ambassador, which, I would imag-
ine, most all of the Members of the
House and Senate have met with am-
bassadors and have talked to ambas-
sadors of foreign countries. And it had
never crossed my mind that our Jus-
tice Department, or our NSA, CIA, or
FBI, that they may say: Oh, here is a
Senator or a U.S. Congressman who is
having a conversation with a foreign
ambassador, so we get to surveil this
Member of Congress or Senate.
But, it turns out, if you have a con-
versation with an ambassador, you
can’t be sure anymore that you don’t
have the FBI’s electronic intelligence
community noting and logging and
checking everything that you are doing
and saying. That is incredible. That is
just almost unfathomable, due to the
protections that used to be observed
for American citizens. I thought we
made progress.
The days when Attorney General
Kennedy authorized a wiretap of Mar-
tin Luther King, Jr., and Hoover were
surveilling so many people that never
should have been allowed to be
surveilled, I thought we had gotten be-
yond that. Some of those activities
were unconstitutional, were illegal. I
thought we had progressed to the point
that Members of the House and Senate,
both sides of the aisle, should be deeply
offended to find out that their govern-
ment may be spying on them, perhaps
when they talk to an ambassador. Even
if it is not a terrorist country, it is just
extraordinary what we have been find-
ing out in the last 2 years about the ex-
tent of abuses of Americans’ privacy
rights.
I am hoping, though, that we can
work across the aisle to rein in some of
these abuses, since the Obama adminis-
tration is no longer there and the pro-
tection that seems some of my col-
leagues were trying to afford them,
even though, in my mind, it meant
really abuses of Americans’ constitu-
tional rights.
And then, somewhat related, my
friend RAND PAUL, down the hall, this
story from Paul Bedard, yesterday,
notes that, ‘‘Senator RAND PAUL esca-
lated his demand for an investigation
into former Obama officials who ‘con-
cocted’ the anti-Trump Russia scandal,
revealing that former CIA director
John Brennan was the key figure who
legitimized the charges and discredited
‘dossier’ against the President.’’
And it is interesting. This term ‘‘dos-
sier’’ everybody is using now because of
the former MI6, a former FBI inform-
ant who became no longer trusted by
the FBI, no longer usable, because he
was untrustworthy by the FBI, which
was never conveyed to the FISA judge,
that allowed the judge to keep signing
warrants based on this untrustworthy
person, but now to have this. As Sen-
ator PAUL was reporting in a tweet, he
said that he had heard from a high-
level source that Brennan helped to
validate the dossier in intelligence re-
ports.
‘‘A high-level source tells me it was
Brennan who insisted that the
unverified and fake Steele dossier be
included in the intelligence report . . .
Brennan should be asked to testify
under oath in Congress ASAP,’’ Sen-
ator PAUL tweeted.
In an earlier tweet Wednesday, Sen-
ator PAUL called for wide investigation
into former President Barack Obama
and his team. ‘‘Time for Congress to in-
vestigate. What did President Obama
know and when? How did this hoax go
on for so long unabated?’’
It goes on to say:
‘‘Brennan has denied in the past that
he included the salacious dossier. . . .
But at least two other top intelligence
officials said he did.’’
And we do know, sort of parentheti-
cally here, it is not in the article, but
we know Brennan has admitted being
untruthful under oath before the Sen-
ate. He has admitted perjuring himself
when it suited what he wanted to ac-
complish. And this is a guy that was
overrunning the Trump campaign,
Donald Trump and his campaign—then
Donald Trump, now President Trump—
just abusing his position as head of an
intelligence agency.
This says, ‘‘And Washington Post edi-
tor Bob Woodward also said that Bren-
nan endorsed the dossier from Chris-
topher Steele when he’’—Bob Wood-
ward—‘‘got a copy in late 2016. Wood-
ward said that Brennan felt it matched
the Russia collusion charges he had
heard.’’
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:24 Mar 29, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00023 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K28MR7.044 H28MRPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2912 March 28, 2019
And I can’t help but wonder now if
where Brennan heard this was when it
came out of his own mouth.
‘‘The dossier was never considered
true until it was recognized in intel-
ligence assessments and only after the
late Senator John McCain and top
Obama officials helped circulate it,
said Paul.’’
‘‘The dossier was underwritten by the
Democratic National Committee and
Hillary Clinton’s campaign. By indi-
cating the Kremlin interfered in the
election, it helped to fuel false allega-
tions of foreign collusion with the
Trump campaign, leading to 2 years of
nonstop investigations.’’
‘‘ ‘I’m very concerned that it’s be-
coming more clear that the Obama ad-
ministration was able to obtain a FISA
warrant to spy on our campaign based
on phony opposition research from the
Clinton campaign. Having Federal law
enforcement spy on a Presidential
campaign based on phony campaign re-
search is really distressing and the
true untold story,’ he said.’’
This is a problem. I know others may
feel otherwise.
I like ADAM SCHIFF. He was put in
charge of—back when he was in the Ju-
diciary Committee where I was serving,
we actually impeached two Federal
judges who needed to be impeached,
who needed to be removed, and my col-
league, ADAM SCHIFF, did a wonderful
job in handling that effort. As far as I
am concerned, he developed great
credibility with me in his profes-
sionalism in the way he handled the
impeachment of those two Federal
judges.
But, over the last 2 years, as he has
continued to say we know there was
collusion between the Trump adminis-
tration and Russia and we have evi-
dence and on and on, his credibility
when it comes to intelligence matters
has now been done great harm, not
only here, but abroad. So I think it is
time to have a different chairman of
intelligence.
It is too important that we have
someone who is a chairman that hasn’t
spent 2 years saying something was
true that it turned out wasn’t. We need
to have a Democrat who has credibility
with foreign governments, as well as
here in the House, as well as in the
Senate, and there are people like that.
There are people like that on both
sides of the aisle that have that kind of
credibility that we know just would
not be spreading something that wasn’t
absolutely true.
So I agree with my friends that are
on the Intelligence Committee, and I
appreciate my fellow Texan, MIKE CON-
AWAY, for pointing out this is now a
problem and it needs to be addressed.
b 1300
This article points out something I
very much appreciate. The article is
from Gregg Re with FOX News. ‘‘Presi-
dent Trump, in an exclusive, wide-
ranging interview Wednesday night
with FOX News’ Hannity’’—and that
was a great interview my friend Sean
Hannity had with the President, really
enjoyable, last night. But anyway, it
says, ‘‘ . . . to release the full and
unredacted Foreign Intelligence Sur-
veillance Act warrants and related doc-
uments used by the FBI to probe his
campaign, saying he wants to ‘get to
the bottom’ of how the long-running
Russia collusion narrative began.
‘‘Trump told anchor Sean Hannity
that his lawyers previously had advised
him not to take that dramatic step out
of fear that it could be considered ob-
struction of justice. ‘I do, I have plans
to declassify and release. I have plans
to absolutely release,’ Trump said. ‘I
have some very talented people work-
ing for me, lawyers, and they really
didn’t want me to do it early on. . . . A
lot of people wanted me to do it a long
time ago.’ ’’ I was one of those people.
He says: ‘‘I’m glad I didn’t do it. We
got a great result without having to do
it, but we will. One of the reasons that
my lawyers didn’t want me to do it is,
they said, if I do it, they’ll call it a
form of obstruction.’’
Last fall, when I was in the Oval Of-
fice along with the President talking
for a while, and then his personal at-
torney came in, it seemed clear to me
that his personal attorney was very
concerned about declassifying the doc-
uments, that it was not the time to do
it.
But there is no reason not to do it
now, for sure. These things need to
come out. We need to see just how
badly abused this system was.
My friend JERRY NADLER is chairman
of the Committee on the Judiciary. I
remember my first term. There was no
more vocal advocate on behalf of civil
liberties and privacy rights. I really
hope that our chairman of the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary will join in
with Republicans to try to correct this
situation.
Clearly, there are still many people
who are working in the Trump admin-
istration who don’t want President
Trump to succeed, don’t want the
President to succeed with what he is
trying to do, what he promised he
would do.
I don’t think anybody has to worry
about President Trump being abusive
secretly of somebody’s rights. But if
this isn’t handled now, even though Re-
publicans are not in the majority, if we
don’t clamp down on what we see are
clear abuses within the DOJ, within
the intelligence community, with the
FISA courts, then we are easily headed
for a time when somebody else will
come in there and they will see how
the system was abused during the
Obama administration.
I don’t know whether that will be a
Democrat or a Republican, but I am
telling you, if we don’t clamp down on
it now, the abuses will allow the aris-
ing of a Chavez. It will allow the aris-
ing of these people who got elected and
then became totalitarian.
I think there is a great deal to the
poster that circulated: ‘‘The problem
with socialism is, you can vote your
way into it, but you have to shoot your
way out of it.’’
That is what they found in Ven-
ezuela. They voted it in, but in order to
have true socialism, you have to move
toward totalitarian. You have to have
such a powerful government. You can
take from those who have earned and
who have worked and give to those who
are more desirable to have it, accord-
ing to the government.
It is interesting that we have billion-
aires who are contributing massive
amounts of money to move toward so-
cialism. Obviously, they don’t know
their history well enough to know,
that, yeah, they are considered good
friends of the movement—thank you;
you are a hero—but then when you
move either toward communism—
which true communism means there is
no government. Everybody just shares
and shares alike out of the goodness of
their heart. You never can get there.
You got to have a totalitarian govern-
ment. That is why communism doesn’t
work.
Socialism, they welcome the help of
all the rich people. But once you move
toward real, true socialism, most of the
time, the billionaires, they are going to
end up in prison or dead and their
money confiscated.
So I am amazed that so many billion-
aires don’t realize they are just lackeys
who are being appreciated now, but
some day, they are going to go under
the bus, and their money is going to be
relieved from them.
It is a very critical time. As the
Mueller investigation has finally con-
cluded, having questioned Mr. Mueller
numerous times, having done so much
research on the man I feel like I know
him very well—obviously, not as well
as Eric Holder, who thought he would
end up with an indictment to keep
going.
I can’t help but wonder if we have a
new Attorney General who came in and
realized there is nothing here. After all
these subpoenas, tens of millions of
dollars, it is time to wrap it up.
I really do think Mueller, left to his
own devices, would have just kept an
investigation going until every poten-
tial limitation on anything he had
done wrong had run out.
But it is time to reform FISA courts,
time to reform DOJ, time to reform
our intelligence communities so the
kind of abuses that have just gone on
will not continue and Presidents in the
future, whether Democrat or Repub-
lican, will not be tempted to abuse the
system, as it is now appearing to have
been done.
Mr. Speaker, I appreciate the indul-
gence. At this time, I yield back the
balance of my time.
f
ADJOURNMENT
Mr. GOHMERT. Mr. Speaker, I move
that the House do now adjourn.
The motion was agreed to; accord-
ingly (at 1 o’clock and 6 minutes p.m.),
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:24 Mar 29, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00024 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K28MR7.046 H28MRPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2913
March 28, 2019
under its previous order, the House ad-
journed until tomorrow, Friday, March
29, 2019, at 2:30 p.m.
f
EXECUTIVE COMMUNICATIONS,
ETC.
Under clause 2 of rule XIV, executive
communications were taken from the
Speaker’s table and referred as follows:
524. A letter from the Deputy Assistant Ad-
ministrator for Regulatory Programs,
NMFS, Office of Protected Resources —
Headquarters, Department of Commerce,
transmitting the Department’s final rule —
Taking and Importing Marine Mammals;
Taking Marine Mammals Incidental to Na-
tional Park Service’s Research and Moni-
toring Activities in Southern Alaska Na-
tional Parks [Docket No.: 180411364-9092-02]
(RIN: 0648-BH90) received March 21, 2019, pur-
suant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-
121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee
on Natural Resources.
525. A letter from the Management and
Program Analyst, FAA, Department of
Transportation, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s final rule — Modification of Class E
Airspace for the following Alaska Towns;
Hooper Bay, AK; Kaltag, AK; King Salmon,
AK; Kodiak, AK; Manokotak, AK; Middleton
Island, AK [Docket No.: FAA-2017-0347; Air-
space Docket No.: 17-AAL-3] (RIN: 2120-AA66)
received March 21, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Transpor-
tation and Infrastructure.
526. A letter from the Management and
Program Analyst, FAA, Department of
Transportation, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s interim final rule — External Mark-
ing Requirement for Small Unmanned Air-
craft [Docket No.: FAA-2018-1084; Amdt. No.:
48-2] (RIN: 2120-AL32) received March 21, 2019,
pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law
104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Com-
mittee on Transportation and Infrastruc-
ture.
527. A letter from the Management and
Program Analyst, FAA, Department of
Transportation, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s final rule — Airworthiness Direc-
tives; The Boeing Company Airplanes [Dock-
et No.: FAA-2018-0902; Product Identifier
2018-NM-047-AD; Amendment 39-19543; AD
2019-01-04] (RIN: 2120-AA64) received March
21, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A);
Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to
the Committee on Transportation and Infra-
structure.
528. A letter from the Management and
Program Analyst, FAA, Department of
Transportation, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s final rule — Airworthiness Direc-
tives; The Boeing Company Airplanes [Dock-
et No.: FAA-2018-0581; Product Identifier
2018-NM-029-AD; Amendment 39-19547; AD
2019-01-08] (RIN: 2120-AA64) received March
21, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A);
Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to
the Committee on Transportation and Infra-
structure.
529. A letter from the Ombudsman, Federal
Motor Carrier Safety Administration, De-
partment of Transportation, transmitting
the Department’s final rule — ELDT; Com-
mercial Driver’s License Upgrade from Class
B to Class A [Docket No.: FMCSA-2017-0371]
(RIN: 2126-AC05) received March 21, 2019, pur-
suant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-
121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee
on Transportation and Infrastructure.
530. A letter from the Management and
Program Analyst, FAA, Department of
Transportation, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s final rule — Airworthiness Direc-
tives; Safran Helicopter Engines, S.A., Tur-
boshaft Engines [Docket No.: FAA-2018-0949;
Product Identifier 2018-NE-20-AD; Amend-
ment 39-19484; AD 2018-22-11] (RIN: 2120-AA64)
received March 21, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Transpor-
tation and Infrastructure.
531. A letter from the Management and
Program Analyst, FAA, Department of
Transportation, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s final rule — Airworthiness Direc-
tives; Pratt & Whitney Division (PW) Tur-
bofan Engines [Docket No.: FAA-2018-0826;
Product Identifier 2018-NE-27; Amendment
39-19553; AD 2019-03-01] (RIN: 2120-AA64) re-
ceived March 21, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Transpor-
tation and Infrastructure.
532. A letter from the Management and
Program Analyst, FAA, Department of
Transportation, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s final rule — Airworthiness Direc-
tives; Airbus SAS Airplanes [Docket No.:
FAA-2018-0554; Product Identifier 2018-NM-
064-AD; Amendment 39-19569; AD 2019-03-17]
(RIN: 2120-AA64) received March 21, 2019, pur-
suant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-
121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee
on Transportation and Infrastructure.
533. A letter from the Management and
Program Analyst, FAA, Department of
Transportation, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s final rule — Airworthiness Direc-
tives; Airbus SAS Airplanes [Docket No.:
FAA-2018-0788; Product Identifier 2018-NM-
004-AD; Amendment 39-19544; AD 2019-01-05]
(RIN: 2120-AA64) received March 21, 2019, pur-
suant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-
121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee
on Transportation and Infrastructure.
534. A letter from the Management and
Program Analyst, FAA, Department of
Transportation, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s final rule — Airworthiness Direc-
tives; Airbus Helicopters Deutschland GmbH
(Previously Eurocopter Deutschland GmbH)
Helicopters [Docket No.: FAA-2017-1126;
Product Identifier 2017-SW-125-AD; Amend-
ment 39-19587; AD 2019-05-05] (RIN: 2120-AA64)
received March 21, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Transpor-
tation and Infrastructure.
535. A letter from the Management and
Program Analyst, FAA, Department of
Transportation, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s final rule — Airworthiness Direc-
tives; The Boeing Company Airplanes [Dock-
et No.: FAA-2018-0793; Product Identifier
2018-NM-057-AD; Amendment 39-19545; AD
2019-01-06] (RIN: 2120-AA64) received March
21, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A);
Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to
the Committee on Transportation and Infra-
structure.
536. A letter from the Management and
Program Analyst, FAA, Department of
Transportation, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s final rule — Airworthiness Direc-
tives; The Boeing Company Airplanes [Dock-
et No.: FAA-2016-9189; Product Identifier
2016-NM-114-AD; Amendment 39-19578; AD
2019-03-26] (RIN: 2120-AA64) received March
21, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A);
Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to
the Committee on Transportation and Infra-
structure.
537. A letter from the Management and
Program Analyst, FAA, Department of
Transportation, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s final rule — Standard Instrument Ap-
proach Procedures, and Takeoff Minimums
and Obstacle Departure Procedures; Mis-
cellaneous Amendments [Docket No.: 31240;
Amdt. No.: 3841] received March 21, 2019, pur-
suant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-
121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee
on Transportation and Infrastructure.
538. A letter from the Management and
Program Analyst, FAA, Department of
Transportation, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s final rule — Airworthiness Direc-
tives; The Boeing Company Airplanes [Dock-
et No.: FAA-2018-0162; Product Identifier
2017-NM-116-AD; Amendment 39-19542; AD
2019-01-03] (RIN: 2120-AA64) received March
21, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A);
Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to
the Committee on Transportation and Infra-
structure.
539. A letter from the Management and
Program Analyst, FAA, Department of
Transportation, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s final rule — Standard Instrument Ap-
proach Procedures, and Takeoff Minimums
and Obstacle Departure Procedures; Mis-
cellaneous Amendments [Docket No. 31241;
Amdt. No.: 3842] received March 21, 2019, pur-
suant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-
121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee
on Transportation and Infrastructure.
540. A letter from the Management and
Program Analyst, FAA, Department of
Transportation, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s final rule — Airworthiness Direc-
tives; Viking Air Limited (Type Certificate
Previously Held by Bombardier, Inc.;
Canadair Limited) Airplanes [Docket No.:
FAA-2018-0638; Product Identifier 2018-NM-
016-AD; Amendment 39-19552; AD 2019-02-05]
(RIN: 2120-AA64) received March 21, 2019, pur-
suant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-
121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee
on Transportation and Infrastructure.
541. A letter from the Management and
Program Analyst, FAA, Department of
Transportation, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s final rule — Amendment of Class E
Airspace; Flippin, AR [Docket No.: FAA-2018-
0952; Airspace Docket No.: 18-ASW-16] (RIN:
2120-AA66) received March 21, 2019, pursuant
to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121,
Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on
Transportation and Infrastructure.
542. A letter from the Management and
Program Analyst, FAA, Department of
Transportation, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s final rule — Revocation of Class E
Airspace; Beeville-Chase Field, TX [Docket
No.: FAA-2018-0917; Airspace Docket No.: 18-
ASW-14] (RIN: 2120-AA66) received March 21,
2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public
Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the
Committee on Transportation and Infra-
structure.
543. A letter from the Management and
Program Analyst, FAA, Department of
Transportation, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s final rule — Airworthiness Direc-
tives; Airbus Helicopters Deutschland GmbH
(Type Certificate Previously Held By
Eurocopter Deutschland GmbH) Helicopters
[Docket No.: FAA-2013-0555; Product Identi-
fier 2010-SW-047-AD; Amendment 39-19537; AD
2014-05-06 R2] (RIN: 2120-AA64) received
March 21, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Transpor-
tation and Infrastructure.
544. A letter from the Management and
Program Analyst, FAA, Department of
Transportation, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s final rule — Establishment of Class E
Airspace; Williston, ND [Docket No.: FAA-
2018-0250; Airspace Docket No.: 17-AGL-3]
(RIN: 2120-AA66) received March 21, 2019, pur-
suant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-
121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee
on Transportation and Infrastructure.
545. A letter from the Management and
Program Analyst, FAA, Department of
Transportation, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s final rule — Airworthiness Direc-
tives; Airbus SAS Airplanes [Docket No.:
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:24 Mar 29, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00025 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K28MR7.047 H28MRPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2914 March 28, 2019
FAA-2018-0556; Product Identifier 2018-NM-
015-AD; Amendment 39-19555; AD 2019-03-03]
(RIN: 2120-AA64) received March 21, 2019, pur-
suant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-
121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee
on Transportation and Infrastructure.
546. A letter from the Management and
Program Analyst, FAA, Department of
Transportation, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s final rule — Airworthiness Direc-
tives; Bell Helicopter Textron Canada Lim-
ited Helicopters [Docket No.: FAA-2018-0647;
Product Identifier 2017-SW-083-AD; Amend-
ment 39-19557; AD 2019-03-05] (RIN: 2120-AA64)
received March 21, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Transpor-
tation and Infrastructure.
547. A letter from the Management and
Program Analyst, FAA, Department of
Transportation, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s final rule — Airworthiness Direc-
tives; Engine Alliance Turbofan Engines
[Docket No.: FAA-2019-0048; Product Identi-
fier 2018-NE-19-AD; Amendment 39-19556; AD
2019-03-04] (RIN: 2120-AA64) received March
21, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A);
Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to
the Committee on Transportation and Infra-
structure.
548. A letter from the Management and
Program Analyst, FAA, Department of
Transportation, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s final rule — Airworthiness Direc-
tives; Zodiac Aerotechnics Oxygen Mask
Regulators [Docket No.: FAA-2017-0505; Prod-
uct Identifier 2017-NE-15-AD; Amendment 39-
19472; AD 2018-21-14] (RIN: 2120-AA64) received
March 21, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Transpor-
tation and Infrastructure.
549. A letter from the Assistant Secretary
of the Army, Civil Works, Department of De-
fense, transmitting the Corps’ report on San
Joaquin River Basin, Lower San Joaquin
River, CA: Integrated Interim Feasibly Re-
port, Environmental Impact Statement, and
Environmental Impact Report for February
2018 (H. Doc. No. 116—24); to the Committee
on Transportation and Infrastructure and or-
dered to be printed.
550. A letter from the Regulation Develop-
ment Coordinator, Office of Regulation Pol-
icy and Management, Office of the Secretary
(00REG), Department of Veterans Affairs,
transmitting the Department’s final rule —
VA Acquisition Regulation: Construction
and Architect-Engineer Contracts (RIN: 2900-
AQ18) received March 21, 2019, pursuant to 5
U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec.
251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on Vet-
erans’ Affairs.
551. A letter from the Chief, Publications
and Regulations Branch, Internal Revenue
Service, transmitting the Services IRB only
rule — 2019 Calendar Year Resident Popu-
lation Figures [Notice 2019-19] received
March 21, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Ways and
Means.
552. A letter from the Chief, Publications
and Regulations Branch, Internal Revenue
Service, transmitting the Service’s IRB only
rule — Distributions of Stock and Securities
of a Controlled Corporation (Revenue Ruling
2019-9) received March 21, 2019, pursuant to 5
U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec.
251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on
Ways and Means.
f
REPORTS OF COMMITTEES ON
PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS
Under clause 2 of rule XIII, reports of
committees were delivered to the Clerk
for printing and reference to the proper
calendar, as follows:
Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi: Committee
on Homeland Security. H.R. 1598. A bill to
require the Secretary of Homeland Security
to issue a strategy to improve hiring and re-
tention of U.S. Customs and Border Protec-
tion personnel in rural or remote areas, and
for other purposes; with an amendment
(Rept. 116–22). Referred to the Committee of
the Whole House on the state of the Union.
Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi: Committee
on Homeland Security. H.R. 1639. A bill to
amend the Homeland Security Act of 2002 to
improve U.S. Customs and Border Protection
(CBP) identification of staffing needs, and
for other purposes; with an amendment
(Rept. 116–23). Referred to the Committee of
the Whole House on the state of the Union.
Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi: Committee
on Homeland Security. H.R. 1589. A bill to
amend the Homeland Security Act of 2002 to
establish chemical, biological, radiological,
and nuclear intelligence and information
sharing functions of the Office of Intel-
ligence and Analysis of the Department of
Homeland Security and to require dissemi-
nation of information analyzed by the De-
partment to entities with responsibilities re-
lating to homeland security, and for other
purposes; with an amendment (Rept. 116–24).
Referred to the Committee of the Whole
House on the state of the Union.
Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi: Committee
on Homeland Security. H.R. 1593. A bill to
amend the Homeland Security Act of 2002 to
establish a school security coordinating
council, and for other purposes; with an
amendment (Rept. 116–25). Referred to the
Committee of the Whole House on the state
of the Union.
Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi: Committee
on Homeland Security. H.R. 1433. A bill to
amend the Homeland Security Act of 2002 to
improve morale within the Department of
Homeland Security workforce by conferring
new responsibilities to the Chief Human Cap-
ital Officer, establishing an employee en-
gagement steering committee, requiring ac-
tion plans, and authorizing an annual em-
ployee award program, and for other pur-
poses; with an amendment (Rept. 116–26). Re-
ferred to the Committee of the Whole House
on the state of the Union.
Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi: Committee
on Homeland Security. H.R. 1590. A bill to
require an exercise related to terrorist and
foreign fighter travel, and for other purposes
(Rept. 116–27). Referred to the Committee of
the Whole House on the state of the Union.
f
PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS
Under clause 2 of rule XII, public
bills and resolutions of the following
titles were introduced and severally re-
ferred, as follows:
By Mr. CUNNINGHAM (for himself, Mr.
ROONEY of Florida, Mr. LOWENTHAL,
Mr. HUFFMAN, Mr. VAN DREW, Mr.
HASTINGS, Mr. ROUDA, Mr. PAPPAS,
Mr. GALLEGO, Ms. VELÁZQUEZ, Ms.
HILL of California, Mr. PANETTA, Ms.
OCASIO-CORTEZ, Mr. BEYER, Ms.
WASSERMAN SCHULTZ, Ms. JAYAPAL,
Ms. SHALALA, Ms. HAALAND, Mr.
JOHNSON of Georgia, Mr. MCEACHIN,
Mr. CARBAJAL, Mr. KIM, Ms. PINGREE,
Mr. TED LIEU of California, Mr. CASE,
Mr. SCHIFF, Ms. CASTOR of Florida,
Ms. DEGETTE, Mr. LEVIN of Cali-
fornia, Mr. SOTO, and Mr. COX of Cali-
fornia):
H.R. 1941. A bill to amend the Outer Conti-
nental Shelf Lands Act to prohibit the Sec-
retary of the Interior including in any leas-
ing program certain planning areas, and for
other purposes to the Committee on Natural
Resources.
By Mr. AMASH (for himself and Ms.
LOFGREN):
H.R. 1942. A bill to repeal the authority to
access on an ongoing basis business records
for foreign intelligence and international
terrorism investigations, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on the Judiciary,
and in addition to the Committee on Intel-
ligence (Permanent Select), for a period to
be subsequently determined by the Speaker,
in each case for consideration of such provi-
sions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned.
By Mr. CLYBURN (for himself, Mr.
CLEAVER, Mr. HASTINGS, Mr. RICH-
MOND, Mr. PAYNE, Mrs. DEMINGS, Ms.
JOHNSON of Texas, Ms. FUDGE, Ms.
OMAR, Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN, Ms.
CLARKE of New York, Ms. ADAMS, Mr.
DANNY K. DAVIS of Illinois, Mr. SCOTT
of Virginia, Mr. THOMPSON of Mis-
sissippi, Mr. VEASEY, Mr. JEFFRIES,
Mr. HORSFORD, Mr. JOHNSON of Geor-
gia, Ms. BASS, Mrs. BEATTY, Ms.
OCASIO-CORTEZ, Mr. ENGEL, Mr. RUSH,
Mr. COX of California, Mr. LUJÁN, Mr.
BISHOP of Georgia, Ms. BARRAGÁN,
Ms. GABBARD, Ms. HILL of California,
Mr. NADLER, Mr. SAN NICOLAS, Mr.
CÁRDENAS, Mr. SIRES, Mr. SOTO, Mr.
CUMMINGS, Mr. DEFAZIO, Mr.
CISNEROS, Ms. JACKSON LEE, Ms. WIL-
SON of Florida, Mr. MCEACHIN, Ms.
NORTON, Ms. LEE of California, Mr.
LEWIS, Mrs. LAWRENCE, Ms. SEWELL
of Alabama, Mr. COHEN, Mr. SABLAN,
Mrs. TRAHAN, Mr. CARSON of Indiana,
Ms. SCHAKOWSKY, Mr. CLAY, Ms. MAT-
SUI, Mr. GARAMENDI, Mr. KHANNA, Mr.
PETERS, Mr. GRIJALVA, Ms.
VELÁZQUEZ, Ms. MOORE, Mr. CASE,
Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire, Mr.
MOULTON, Mr. EVANS, Mr. LEVIN of
California, and Ms. BLUNT ROCH-
ESTER):
H.R. 1943. A bill to provide funding for Fed-
erally qualified health centers and the Na-
tional Health Service Corps; to the Com-
mittee on Energy and Commerce.
By Mrs. LESKO (for herself and Mrs.
LEE of Nevada):
H.R. 1944. A bill to require directors of
medical facilities of the Department of Vet-
erans Affairs to submit annual pamphlets to
the Secretary of Veterans Affairs on the sta-
tus of such facilities, and for other purposes;
to the Committee on Veterans’ Affairs.
By Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia (for him-
self, Ms. KAPTUR, Mr. SERRANO, Ms.
SCHAKOWSKY, Ms. OCASIO-CORTEZ, Ms.
MOORE, Mr. RASKIN, Mr. FOSTER, Mrs.
NAPOLITANO, Ms. PINGREE, Ms.
SPEIER, Ms. BONAMICI, Mr. PANETTA,
Mr. LOWENTHAL, Ms. OMAR, Mrs. DIN-
GELL, Ms. ESHOO, Mr. RUSH, Mr.
TONKO, Ms. LEE of California, Mr.
LYNCH, Miss RICE of New York, Mr.
KHANNA, Mr. GRIJALVA, Ms. LOFGREN,
Mr. MCGOVERN, Ms. HAALAND, Mr.
POCAN, Mr. CICILLINE, Mr. BLU-
MENAUER, Mr. DANNY K. DAVIS of Illi-
nois, Mr. PALLONE, Ms. JAYAPAL, Mr.
THOMPSON of Mississippi, Ms. JUDY
CHU of California, Ms. NORTON, Mr.
CLEAVER, Mr. HIMES, Ms. MCCOLLUM,
Mr. LIPINSKI, Mr. BEYER, Mr. KIND,
Mr. PAYNE, and Mr. TED LIEU of Cali-
fornia):
H.R. 1945. A bill to suspend United States
security assistance with Honduras until such
time as human rights violations by Hon-
duran security forces cease and their per-
petrators are brought to justice; to the Com-
mittee on Foreign Affairs, and in addition to
the Committee on Financial Services, for a
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:24 Mar 29, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00026 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\L28MR7.000 H28MRPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2915
March 28, 2019
period to be subsequently determined by the
Speaker, in each case for consideration of
such provisions as fall within the jurisdic-
tion of the committee concerned.
By Ms. GABBARD (for herself and Ms.
NORTON):
H.R. 1946. A bill to amend the Help Amer-
ica Vote Act of 2002 to require voting sys-
tems used in elections for Federal office to
produce a voter-verified paper ballot of each
vote cast on the system, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on House Adminis-
tration, and in addition to the Committee on
the Budget, for a period to be subsequently
determined by the Speaker, in each case for
consideration of such provisions as fall with-
in the jurisdiction of the committee con-
cerned.
By Mr. DAVID P. ROE of Tennessee
(for himself and Mr. BRINDISI):
H.R. 1947. A bill to amend title 38, United
States Code, to exempt transfers of funds
from Federal agencies to the Department of
Veterans Affairs for nonprofit corporations
established under subchapter IV of chapter
73 of such title from certain provisions of the
Economy Act; to the Committee on Vet-
erans’ Affairs.
By Ms. SCHAKOWSKY (for herself, Mr.
CARTER of Georgia, Mr. BLUMENAUER,
Mr. KELLY of Pennsylvania, Mr. RUIZ,
Mr. WELCH, Mr. GIANFORTE, Ms. MAT-
SUI, Mr. DEFAZIO, Mr. CICILLINE, Ms.
MOORE, Ms. GABBARD, Ms. JOHNSON of
Texas, Mrs. RODGERS of Washington,
Mr. FITZPATRICK, Mr. GAETZ, Mr.
DIAZ-BALART, Mr. HOLDING, Mrs.
BUSTOS, Mr. BUTTERFIELD, Mr. VELA,
Ms. BLUNT ROCHESTER, Mr. RUSH, Mr.
KHANNA, Mr. MOULTON, Mr. YARMUTH,
Mr. GRIJALVA, Ms. HILL of California,
Mr. FOSTER, Mr. TONKO, Mr. HAS-
TINGS, Mr. THOMPSON of California,
Mr. CLEAVER, Mr. KING of New York,
Mr. MASSIE, Mr. KING of Iowa, Mr.
RUTHERFORD, Mr. LIPINSKI, Mr.
COHEN, Mr. VISCLOSKY, Mr. SUOZZI,
Mrs. DAVIS of California, Mr.
GALLEGO, Mr. HECK, Mr. MICHAEL F.
DOYLE of Pennsylvania, Mr. PRICE of
North Carolina, Mr. COLE, Mr. SMITH
of Nebraska, Mr. WESTERMAN, Mr.
BYRNE, Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois,
Mr. RASKIN, Mr. KIND, Mr. ROSE of
New York, Mr. DUFFY, Mr. KATKO,
Mr. STEWART, Mr. GRIFFITH, Miss
GONZÁLEZ-COLÓN of Puerto Rico, Mrs.
BROOKS of Indiana, Mr. ZELDIN, Mr.
RYAN, Mr. DEUTCH, Ms. SEWELL of
Alabama, Ms. KELLY of Illinois, Ms.
MUCARSEL-POWELL, Ms. BARRAGÁN,
Ms. SCHRIER, Mr. YOUNG, Mr. MULLIN,
Mr. RICE of South Carolina, Mrs.
RADEWAGEN, Mr. NEGUSE, Mr. ENGEL,
Ms. MCCOLLUM, Mrs. DINGELL, Mr.
CARTWRIGHT, Mr. COOPER, Miss RICE
of New York, Mr. WILSON of South
Carolina, Mr. HURD of Texas, Mr.
ROONEY of Florida, Mr. WENSTRUP,
Mr. JOYCE of Ohio, Mr. LOEBSACK, Mr.
SCHIFF, Mr. MORELLE, Ms. BONAMICI,
Mr. LAWSON of Florida, Mr. POSEY,
Mr. LAMBORN, Ms. ADAMS, Mr.
PALAZZO, and Mr. MITCHELL):
H.R. 1948. A bill to amend title XVIII of the
Social Security Act to provide for Medicare
coverage of certain lymphedema compres-
sion treatment items as items of durable
medical equipment; to the Committee on En-
ergy and Commerce, and in addition to the
Committee on Ways and Means, for a period
to be subsequently determined by the Speak-
er, in each case for consideration of such pro-
visions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned.
By Mr. WESTERMAN:
H.R. 1949. A bill to authorize the court to
depart from a statutory minimum in the
case of a juvenile offender, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. WESTERMAN:
H.R. 1950. A bill to authorize the court to
impose a reduced sentence for a youthful vic-
tim offender, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. WESTERMAN:
H.R. 1951. A bill to amend title 18, United
States Code, to authorize a court to reduce
the term of imprisonment imposed on cer-
tain defendants convicted as an adult for an
offense committed and completed before the
defendant attained 18 years of age, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on the Ju-
diciary.
By Mr. COLLINS of Georgia (for him-
self and Mr. LANGEVIN):
H.R. 1952. A bill to amend the Intercountry
Adoption Act of 2000 to require the Secretary
of State to report on intercountry adoptions
from countries which have significantly re-
duced adoption rates involving immigration
to the United States, and for other purposes;
to the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
By Mr. CLEAVER (for himself, Ms.
STEFANIK, Mr. COMER, Ms. DAVIDS of
Kansas, and Ms. BROWNLEY of Cali-
fornia):
H.R. 1953. A bill to award a Congressional
Gold Medal to the female telephone opera-
tors of the Army Signal Corps, known as the
‘‘Hello Girls’’; to the Committee on Finan-
cial Services, and in addition to the Com-
mittee on House Administration, for a period
to be subsequently determined by the Speak-
er, in each case for consideration of such pro-
visions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned.
By Mr. KUSTOFF of Tennessee (for
himself and Mr. TIMMONS):
H.R. 1954. A bill to provide that the Federal
Communications Commission may not pre-
vent a State or Federal correctional facility
from utilizing jamming equipment, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Energy
and Commerce.
By Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire (for
herself, Mr. SMITH of New Jersey, and
Ms. WATERS):
H.R. 1955. A bill to require the Adminis-
trator of the Centers for Medicare & Med-
icaid Services to conduct a study on
antipsychotic prescribing practices in non-
nursing home settings under the Medicare
program, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Ways and Means, and in addition
to the Committee on Energy and Commerce,
for a period to be subsequently determined
by the Speaker, in each case for consider-
ation of such provisions as fall within the ju-
risdiction of the committee concerned.
By Mr. DAVID P. ROE of Tennessee
(for himself, Ms. STEFANIK, Mr.
KHANNA, and Mr. THOMPSON of Cali-
fornia):
H.R. 1956. A bill to authorize the Depart-
ment of Labor’s voluntary protection pro-
gram; to the Committee on Education and
Labor.
By Mr. LEWIS (for himself, Mr. KELLY
of Pennsylvania, Mr. NEAL, Mr.
BRADY, Ms. DELBENE, Mrs. WALORSKI,
Ms. SÁNCHEZ, Mr. LAHOOD, Mr.
SUOZZI, Mr. WENSTRUP, Ms. JUDY CHU
of California, Ms. MOORE, and Mr.
BRENDAN F. BOYLE of Pennsylvania):
H.R. 1957. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to modernize and improve
the Internal Revenue Service, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Ways and
Means, and in addition to the Committee on
Financial Services, for a period to be subse-
quently determined by the Speaker, in each
case for consideration of such provisions as
fall within the jurisdiction of the committee
concerned.
By Mr. MCCAUL:
H.R. 1958. A bill to amend the Homeland
Security Act of 2002 to authorize provision to
a foreign government of financial assistance
for foreign country operations to address in-
dividuals who may pose a national security,
border security, or terrorist threat to the
United States before such a threat reaches
the United States, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Foreign Affairs, and in ad-
dition to the Committee on Homeland Secu-
rity, for a period to be subsequently deter-
mined by the Speaker, in each case for con-
sideration of such provisions as fall within
the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
By Mr. GRIFFITH (for himself and Mr.
CUELLAR):
H.R. 1959. A bill to amend the Federal
Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act with respect
to compounding pharmacies, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Energy and
Commerce.
By Mr. BEYER:
H.R. 1960. A bill to cap the emissions of
greenhouse gases through a requirement to
purchase carbon permits, to distribute the
proceeds of such purchases to eligible indi-
viduals, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Energy and Commerce, and in ad-
dition to the Committee on Ways and Means,
for a period to be subsequently determined
by the Speaker, in each case for consider-
ation of such provisions as fall within the ju-
risdiction of the committee concerned.
By Mr. BLUMENAUER (for himself,
Mr. TIPTON, Mr. PANETTA, and Mr.
WALDEN):
H.R. 1961. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to ensure that kombucha is
exempt from any excise taxes and regula-
tions imposed on alcoholic beverages; to the
Committee on Ways and Means.
By Mr. BOST (for himself, Mr. HARDER
of California, Mr. CRIST, and Mr.
RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois):
H.R. 1962. A bill to direct the Secretary of
Veterans Affairs to use on-site regulated
medical waste treatment systems at certain
Department of Veterans Affairs facilities,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Veterans’ Affairs.
By Ms. BROWNLEY of California:
H.R. 1963. A bill to expand the research and
education on and delivery of complementary
and integrative medicine to veterans, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Vet-
erans’ Affairs.
By Mr. BUTTERFIELD (for himself
and Mr. HUDSON):
H.R. 1964. A bill to provide for the recogni-
tion of the Lumbee Tribe of North Carolina,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Natural Resources.
By Mr. SOTO (for himself and Miss
GONZÁLEZ-COLÓN of Puerto Rico):
H.R. 1965. A bill to set forth the terms for
the admission of the territory of Puerto Rico
as a State of the Union; to the Committee on
Natural Resources.
By Mr. CUMMINGS (for himself, Mr.
SARBANES, and Mr. RUPPERSBERGER):
H.R. 1966. A bill to direct the Comptroller
General of the United States to complete a
study on barriers to participation in feder-
ally funded cancer clinical trials by popu-
lations that have been traditionally under-
represented in such trials; to the Committee
on Energy and Commerce, and in addition to
the Committees on Armed Services, and Vet-
erans’ Affairs, for a period to be subse-
quently determined by the Speaker, in each
case for consideration of such provisions as
fall within the jurisdiction of the committee
concerned.
By Mr. DANNY K. DAVIS of Illinois
(for himself and Ms. DELBENE):
H.R. 1967. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to enhance the Child and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:24 Mar 29, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00027 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\L28MR7.100 H28MRPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2916 March 28, 2019
Dependent Care Tax Credit and make the
credit fully refundable; to the Committee on
Ways and Means.
By Mr. JEFFRIES (for himself, Mr.
CLYBURN, Ms. WATERS, Ms. CLARKE of
New York, Ms. ADAMS, Mr. ALLRED,
Ms. BASS, Mrs. BEATTY, Mr. BISHOP of
Georgia, Ms. BLUNT ROCHESTER, Mr.
BRINDISI, Mr. BROWN of Maryland,
Ms. BROWNLEY of California, Mr.
BUTTERFIELD, Mr. CARSON of Indiana,
Mr. CASTEN of Illinois, Ms. CASTOR of
Florida, Ms. CLARK of Massachusetts,
Mr. CLAY, Mr. CISNEROS, Mr. COHEN,
Mr. COX of California, Mr. CUMMINGS,
Ms. DAVIDS of Kansas, Ms. DEAN, Mr.
DELGADO, Ms. DELAURO, Mrs.
DEMINGS, Mr. ENGEL, Mr. ESPAILLAT,
Ms. FUDGE, Miss GONZÁLEZ-COLÓN of
Puerto Rico, Mr. GREEN of Texas, Mr.
GRIJALVA, Ms. HAALAND, Mr. HIGGINS
of New York, Ms. HILL of California,
Ms. NORTON, Ms. KENDRA S. HORN of
Oklahoma, Mr. HORSFORD, Ms. JACK-
SON LEE, Ms. JAYAPAL, Ms. JOHNSON
of Texas, Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia,
Mr. KING of New York, Mrs. LAW-
RENCE, Mr. LAWSON of Florida, Ms.
LEE of California, Mrs. LEE of Ne-
vada, Mr. LEVIN of Michigan, Mr.
LOWENTHAL, Mrs. LOWEY, Mrs. CARO-
LYN B. MALONEY of New York, Mr.
SEAN PATRICK MALONEY of New York,
Mrs. MCBATH, Mr. MEEKS, Ms.
MOORE, Mr. MOULTON, Mr. MORELLE,
Mrs. MURPHY, Mr. NADLER, Mr.
NEGUSE, Ms. OCASIO-CORTEZ, Mr.
PAYNE, Ms. PLASKETT, Ms. PRESSLEY,
Miss RICE of New York, Mr. RICH-
MOND, Mr. ROSE of New York, Mr.
RUSH, Mr. SAN NICOLAS, Ms. SCHA-
KOWSKY, Mr. SCOTT of Virginia, Mr.
DAVID SCOTT of Georgia, Mr.
SERRANO, Ms. SEWELL of Alabama,
Mr. STANTON, Mr. SUOZZI, Ms. TITUS,
Mrs. TRAHAN, Mr. TRONE, Mr. THOMP-
SON of Mississippi, Mr. TONKO, Ms.
UNDERWOOD, Mr. VAN DREW, Mr.
VEASEY, Ms. VELÁZQUEZ, Mrs. WAT-
SON COLEMAN, Ms. WILSON of Florida,
Mr. ZELDIN, Mr. CLEAVER, Mrs. DAVIS
of California, Ms. SPEIER, Mrs.
NAPOLITANO, Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD,
Ms. GABBARD, Ms. WASSERMAN
SCHULTZ, Mr. MALINOWSKI, Mr. MI-
CHAEL F. DOYLE of Pennsylvania, Ms.
KAPTUR, Ms. MENG, Mr. YARMUTH,
Mr. GONZALEZ of Texas, Ms. KUSTER
of New Hampshire, and Mrs. HAYES):
H.R. 1968. A bill to posthumously award a
Congressional gold medal to Shirley Chis-
holm; to the Committee on Financial Serv-
ices, and in addition to the Committee on
House Administration, for a period to be sub-
sequently determined by the Speaker, in
each case for consideration of such provi-
sions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned.
By Mr. DANNY K. DAVIS of Illinois
(for himself and Mr. WENSTRUP):
H.R. 1969. A bill to amend title XVIII of the
Social Security Act to cover screening com-
puted tomography colonography as a
colorectal cancer screening test under the
Medicare program; to the Committee on En-
ergy and Commerce, and in addition to the
Committee on Ways and Means, for a period
to be subsequently determined by the Speak-
er, in each case for consideration of such pro-
visions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned.
By Mr. MICHAEL F. DOYLE of Penn-
sylvania (for himself, Mr. OLSON, Mr.
KIND, Mr. GIANFORTE, Mr. SARBANES,
and Ms. SEWELL of Alabama):
H.R. 1970. A bill to amend title XVIII of the
Social Security Act to provide for payment
for services of radiologist assistants under
the Medicare program, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Energy and Com-
merce, and in addition to the Committee on
Ways and Means, for a period to be subse-
quently determined by the Speaker, in each
case for consideration of such provisions as
fall within the jurisdiction of the committee
concerned.
By Mr. GALLEGO (for himself, Mr.
GRIJALVA, Mrs. KIRKPATRICK, Mr.
O’HALLERAN, and Mr. STANTON):
H.R. 1971. A bill to direct the Secretary of
Education to carry out a grant program to
make grants to eligible entities to carry out
full-day kindergarten programs, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Edu-
cation and Labor.
By Mr. GIANFORTE:
H.R. 1972. A bill to designate the facility of
the United States Postal Service located at
1100 West Kent Avenue in Missoula, Mon-
tana, as the ‘‘Jeannette Rankin Post Office
Building’’; to the Committee on Oversight
and Reform.
By Mr. HIGGINS of New York (for him-
self and Mr. KELLY of Pennsylvania):
H.R. 1973. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to provide authority to add
additional vaccines to the list of taxable vac-
cines; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
By Mr. HORSFORD:
H.R. 1974. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to permanently extend the
mine rescue team training credit; to the
Committee on Ways and Means.
By Mr. KATKO (for himself, Mr.
NEWHOUSE, Mr. FITZPATRICK, and Mr.
LIPINSKI):
H.R. 1975. A bill to establish in the Cyber-
security and Infrastructure Security Agency
of the Department of Homeland Security a
Chief Information Security Officer Advisory
Committee; to the Committee on Homeland
Security, and in addition to the Committees
on Energy and Commerce, and Oversight and
Reform, for a period to be subsequently de-
termined by the Speaker, in each case for
consideration of such provisions as fall with-
in the jurisdiction of the committee con-
cerned.
By Mr. KILDEE (for himself, Mr.
BERGMAN, Mr. BRENDAN F. BOYLE of
Pennsylvania, Mr. FITZPATRICK, Ms.
DEAN, Mrs. DINGELL, Mr. HUFFMAN,
Mr. PAPPAS, Ms. STEVENS, Mr.
WELCH, Ms. SLOTKIN, Mrs. LAWRENCE,
Mr. SEAN PATRICK MALONEY of New
York, Mr. LUJÁN, Mr. DELGADO, Mr.
KHANNA, Mr. LEVIN of Michigan, and
Ms. TLAIB):
H.R. 1976. A bill to require the Director of
the United States Geological Survey to per-
form a nationwide survey of perfluorinated
compounds, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Natural Resources.
By Mr. KIND (for himself, Mr. REED,
and Mr. COURTNEY):
H.R. 1977. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to extend for 2 years the
exclusion from gross income of discharges of
qualified principal residence indebtedness; to
the Committee on Ways and Means.
By Mr. TED LIEU of California (for
himself, Mr. STIVERS, Mr. PETERS,
Mr. CORREA, Mr. HARDER of Cali-
fornia, Mr. YOUNG, and Mr. COSTA):
H.R. 1978. A bill to fight homelessness in
the United States by authorizing a grant
program within the Health Resources and
Services Administration for housing pro-
grams that offer comprehensive services and
intensive case management for homeless in-
dividuals and families; to the Committee on
Financial Services.
By Mr. TED LIEU of California (for
himself and Mr. FITZPATRICK):
H.R. 1979. A bill to improve the manage-
ment of driftnet fishing; to the Committee
on Natural Resources.
By Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of
New York (for herself, Mr.
FITZPATRICK, Mrs. LAWRENCE, Mrs.
WAGNER, Ms. NORTON, Mrs. DINGELL,
Mr. GRIJALVA, Mr. GONZALEZ of
Texas, Ms. FRANKEL, Mr. KHANNA,
Ms. WILD, Mr. YARMUTH, Ms. DEAN,
Ms. HAALAND, Ms. STEFANIK, Mr.
BARR, Mrs. BEATTY, Mr. HURD of
Texas, Mr. TURNER, Mr. STIVERS, Mr.
MCNERNEY, Miss GONZÁLEZ-COLÓN of
Puerto Rico, Mr. HORSFORD, Ms. PIN-
GREE, Mr. COLLINS of New York, Mr.
SWALWELL of California, and Mr.
ZELDIN):
H.R. 1980. A bill to establish in the Smith-
sonian Institution a comprehensive women’s
history museum, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on House Administration,
and in addition to the Committees on Nat-
ural Resources, and Transportation and In-
frastructure, for a period to be subsequently
determined by the Speaker, in each case for
consideration of such provisions as fall with-
in the jurisdiction of the committee con-
cerned.
By Mr. SEAN PATRICK MALONEY of
New York (for himself, Mr. TED LIEU
of California, Ms. GABBARD, Mr.
TAKANO, Ms. BONAMICI, Ms. NORTON,
Mr. LOWENTHAL, Mr. CRIST, Mr.
ESPAILLAT, Mr. ENGEL, Mr. CARSON of
Indiana, Mr. GRIJALVA, Mr. COHEN,
Mr. KILMER, Mr. MICHAEL F. DOYLE of
Pennsylvania, Ms. MUCARSEL-POW-
ELL, Mr. GOMEZ, Ms. MCCOLLUM, Mr.
SMITH of Washington, Mr. MCGOVERN,
Mr. GARAMENDI, Mr. KENNEDY, Ms.
VELÁZQUEZ, Ms. MATSUI, Mr.
QUIGLEY, Mr. RYAN, Mr. CICILLINE,
Mrs. NAPOLITANO, Mr. FOSTER, Mr.
PAPPAS, Mr. BLUMENAUER, Mr.
SWALWELL of California, Mr. TONKO,
Mr. MEEKS, Mr. VARGAS, Mr. HIGGINS
of New York, Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD,
Ms. SPEIER, Mr. POCAN, Ms. JAYAPAL,
Mr. HASTINGS, Mr. MOULTON, Ms.
TITUS, Mrs. TORRES of California, Mr.
HIMES, Mr. RUSH, Ms. BROWNLEY of
California, Mr. KILDEE, Mrs. CRAIG,
Ms. JACKSON LEE, Ms. WASSERMAN
SCHULTZ, Mr. PETERS, Ms. OMAR, Ms.
WEXTON, Mr. DEFAZIO, Mr. NADLER,
Ms. DELAURO, Ms. WILD, Mr. HECK,
Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN, Ms. LEE of
California, Mr. PANETTA, Ms. KELLY
of Illinois, and Mr. BROWN of Mary-
land):
H.R. 1981. A bill to amend title XIX of the
Social Security Act to prohibit payments
under the Medicaid program for conversion
therapy, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Energy and Commerce.
By Mr. MORELLE (for himself, Ms.
MOORE, Ms. MENG, and Mr. REED):
H.R. 1982. A bill to require the Secretary of
the Treasury to mint coins in recognition
and celebration of the National Women’s
Hall of Fame; to the Committee on Financial
Services, and in addition to the Committee
on the Budget, for a period to be subse-
quently determined by the Speaker, in each
case for consideration of such provisions as
fall within the jurisdiction of the committee
concerned.
By Mr. O’HALLERAN (for himself and
Ms. STEFANIK):
H.R. 1983. A bill to reauthorize and extend
funding for community health centers and
the National Health Service Corps; to the
Committee on Appropriations.
By Mr. PETERS (for himself, Mr.
MEADOWS, Mr. CISNEROS, Mr. CON-
NOLLY, Mr. GARAMENDI, Mr. GRAVES
of Louisiana, Mr. HARDER of Cali-
fornia, Ms. HILL of California, Mrs.
MCBATH, Mr. NORMAN, Mr. PALLONE,
Mr. ROUDA, Mr. TONKO, and Mr.
WEBER of Texas):
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:24 Mar 29, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00028 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\L28MR7.100 H28MRPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2917
March 28, 2019
H.R. 1984. A bill to amend chapter 11 of
title 31, United States Code, to require the
Director of the Office of Management and
Budget to annually submit to Congress a re-
port on all disaster-related assistance pro-
vided by the Federal Government; to the
Committee on Transportation and Infra-
structure.
By Ms. PORTER (for herself and Ms.
HERRERA BEUTLER):
H.R. 1985. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to increase the exclusion
for employer-provided dependent care assist-
ance including the limitation on dependent
care flexible spending arrangements; to the
Committee on Ways and Means.
By Mr. RATCLIFFE (for himself, Miss
RICE of New York, and Mr. HURD of
Texas):
H.R. 1986. A bill to amend section 175b of
title 18, United States Code, to correct a
scrivener’s error; to the Committee on the
Judiciary.
By Ms. SÁNCHEZ (for herself and Mr.
REED):
H.R. 1987. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to provide a tax incentive
for the installation and maintenance of me-
chanical insulation property; to the Com-
mittee on Ways and Means.
By Mr. DAVID SCOTT of Georgia (for
himself, Mr. ZELDIN, Mr. LEVIN of
California, and Mr. BARR):
H.R. 1988. A bill to clarify seasoning re-
quirements for certain refinanced mortgage
loans, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Financial Services, and in addi-
tion to the Committee on Veterans’ Affairs,
for a period to be subsequently determined
by the Speaker, in each case for consider-
ation of such provisions as fall within the ju-
risdiction of the committee concerned.
By Mr. STEUBE (for himself and Mr.
RESCHENTHALER):
H.R. 1989. A bill to amend the Immigration
and Nationality Act to modify the provisions
that relate to family-sponsored immigrants;
to the Committee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. TURNER (for himself and Mrs.
BEATTY):
H.R. 1990. A bill to amend the National
Aviation Heritage Act to reauthorize the Na-
tional Aviation Heritage Area, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Natural Re-
sources.
By Ms. ADAMS:
H.J. Res. 54. A joint resolution proposing
an amendment to the Constitution of the
United States recognizing and securing the
fundamental right to life, liberty, and prop-
erty, which includes housing, health care,
education, and nutrition; to the Committee
on the Judiciary.
By Ms. CHENEY:
H. Res. 264. A resolution electing Members
to a certain standing committee of the
House of Representatives; considered and
agreed to.
By Ms. JACKSON LEE (for herself, Ms.
BASS, Ms. BLUNT ROCHESTER, Mrs.
MCBATH, Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN, Ms.
FUDGE, Ms. KELLY of Illinois, Mrs.
HAYES, Ms. PLASKETT, Ms. CLARKE of
New York, Ms. MENG, Mr. HORSFORD,
Mr. HARDER of California, Mr. DOG-
GETT, Mr. PAPPAS, Mr. YARMUTH, Mr.
JEFFRIES, Mrs. TORRES of California,
Ms. SHALALA, Mr. THOMPSON of Mis-
sissippi, Ms. SEWELL of Alabama, Mr.
BISHOP of Georgia, Mr. HASTINGS, Mr.
CLEAVER, Mr. CLAY, Mrs. BEATTY, Mr.
CLYBURN, Mr. RICHMOND, Mr.
BUTTERFIELD, and Mrs. LAWRENCE):
H. Res. 265. A resolution commemorating
the life and legacy of Sojourner Truth; to the
Committee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. CÁRDENAS (for himself, Mr.
AGUILAR, Ms. BARRAGÁN, Mr. BROWN
of Maryland, Ms. BROWNLEY of Cali-
fornia, Mr. CARBAJAL, Mr. CASTRO of
Texas, Ms. JUDY CHU of California,
Mr. CICILLINE, Mr. CISNEROS, Ms.
CLARK of Massachusetts, Ms. CLARKE
of New York, Mr. COHEN, Mr. CORREA,
Mr. COX of California, Mrs. DAVIS of
California, Mr. ENGEL, Mr.
ESPAILLAT, Mr. FOSTER, Ms.
GABBARD, Mr. GOMEZ, Mr. GRIJALVA,
Ms. HAALAND, Mr. HORSFORD, Ms.
JAYAPAL, Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia,
Mr. KHANNA, Mrs. KIRKPATRICK, Ms.
LEE of California, Ms. LOFGREN, Mr.
LOWENTHAL, Mr. LUJÁN, Ms. MATSUI,
Mr. MCGOVERN, Mr. MCNERNEY, Ms.
MOORE, Mrs. NAPOLITANO, Ms. NOR-
TON, Mr. O’HALLERAN, Ms. OCASIO-
CORTEZ, Mr. PALLONE, Mr. PANETTA,
Mr. PASCRELL, Mr. PETERS, Mr.
QUIGLEY, Mr. RASKIN, Ms. ROYBAL-
ALLARD, Mr. RUIZ, Mr. SABLAN, Ms.
SCHAKOWSKY, Mr. SIRES, Ms. SPEIER,
Mr. STANTON, Mr. TAKANO, Mrs.
TORRES of California, Mr. VARGAS,
Mr. VELA, Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN, Ms.
ESCOBAR, Mr. HASTINGS, Ms. ESHOO,
Mr. NEAL, Mr. GALLEGO, Mr. GARCÍA
of Illinois, Ms. GARCIA of Texas, Mr.
LEVIN of California, Mr. SOTO, Ms.
VELÁZQUEZ, Ms. HILL of California,
and Mrs. TRAHAN):
H. Res. 266. A resolution recognizing March
31 as ‘‘César Chávez Day’’ in honor of the ac-
complishments and legacy of César Estrada
Chávez; to the Committee on Oversight and
Reform.
By Ms. CLARKE of New York:
H. Res. 267. A resolution supporting the
designation of March 2019 as National Kidney
Month; to the Committee on Oversight and
Reform.
By Mr. GOSAR:
H. Res. 268. A resolution expressing support
for the designation of Cesar Chavez’s birth-
day, March 31, 2019, as National Border Con-
trol Day; to the Committee on Education
and Labor.
By Mr. LATTA (for himself, Mrs.
HARTZLER, Mr. FITZPATRICK, Ms.
STEFANIK, Mrs. BUSTOS, Mr. GALLA-
GHER, Mr. GREEN of Tennessee, Mr.
HUDSON, Mr. COX of California, Mr.
STEUBE, Mr. MOULTON, Mr. MCCLIN-
TOCK, Mr. TURNER, Mrs. BROOKS of In-
diana, Mr. CISNEROS, Mrs. AXNE, Mr.
WILSON of South Carolina, and Mr.
BYRNE):
H. Res. 269. A resolution expressing support
for the designation of March 2, 2020, as ‘‘Gold
Star Families Remembrance Day’’; to the
Committee on Armed Services, and in addi-
tion to the Committee on Veterans’ Affairs,
for a period to be subsequently determined
by the Speaker, in each case for consider-
ation of such provisions as fall within the ju-
risdiction of the committee concerned.
By Ms. SÁNCHEZ (for herself, Mr.
COOK, Mr. YOUNG, and Mr. BUDD):
H. Res. 270. A resolution expressing support
for designation of a Welcome Home Vietnam
Veterans Day; to the Committee on Vet-
erans’ Affairs.
f
MEMORIALS
Under clause 3 of rule XII,
11. The SPEAKER presented a memorial of
the Senate of the State of South Dakota, rel-
ative to Senate Concurrent Resolution No. 8,
requesting Congress to lawfully change the
Medicaid eligibility requirements to give
states the option to provide Medicaid serv-
ices to persons in jail pending disposition;
which was referred to the Committee on En-
ergy and Commerce.
PRIVATE BILLS AND
RESOLUTIONS
Under clause 3 of rule XII,
Mr. NEGUSE introduced a bill (H.R.
1991) for the relief of Jeanette
Vizguerra-Ramirez; which was re-
ferred to the Committee on the Judi-
ciary.
f
CONSTITUTIONAL AUTHORITY
STATEMENT
Pursuant to clause 7 of rule XII of
the Rules of the House of Representa-
tives, the following statements are sub-
mitted regarding the specific powers
granted to Congress in the Constitu-
tion to enact the accompanying bill or
joint resolution.
By Mr. CUNNINGHAM:
H.R. 1941.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 3
By Mr. AMASH:
H.R. 1942.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Congress has the implied power to repeal
laws that exceed its constitutional authority
as well as laws within its constitutional au-
thority.
By Mr. CLYBURN:
H.R. 1943.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8 of the United States
Constitution.
By Mrs. LESKO:
H.R. 1944.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 18
By Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia:
H.R. 1945.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1 Section 8
By Ms. GABBARD:
H.R. 1946.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
The U.S. Constitution including Article 1,
Section 8.
By Mr. DAVID P. ROE of Tennessee:
H.R. 1947.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8 of the United States
Constitution.
By Ms. SCHAKOWSKY:
H.R. 1948.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 3
The Congress shall have Power . . . To reg-
ulate Commerce with foreign Nations, and
among the several States, and with the In-
dian Tribes.
By Mr. WESTERMAN:
H.R. 1949.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 1, with respect
to the power to ‘‘lay and collect Taxes, Du-
ties, Imposts, and Excises,’’ and to provide
for the ‘‘general Welfare of the United
States.’’ Article 1, Section 8, Clause 3 of the
U.S. Constitution gives Congress the power
to ‘‘regulate Commerce with foreign Nations,
and among the several States, and with the
Indian Tribes.’’
By Mr. WESTERMAN:
H.R. 1950.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:24 Mar 29, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00029 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\L28MR7.100 H28MRPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2918 March 28, 2019
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 1, with respect
to the power to ‘‘lay and collect Taxes, Du-
ties, Imposts, and Excises,’’ and to provide
for the ‘‘general Welfare of the United
States.’’ Article 1, Section 8, Clause 3 of the
U.S. Constitution gives Congress the power
to ‘‘regulate Commerce with foreign Nations,
and among the several States, and with the
Indian Tribes.’’
By Mr. WESTERMAN:
H.R. 1951.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 1, with respect
to the power to ‘‘lay and collect Taxes, Du-
ties, Imposts, and Excises,’’ and to provide
for the ‘‘general Welfare of the United
States.’’ Article 1, Section 8, Clause 3 of the
U.S. Constitution gives Congress the power
to ‘‘regulate Commerce with foreign Nations,
and among the several States, and with the
Indian Tribes.’’
By Mr. COLLINS of Georgia:
H.R. 1952.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
This bill is enacted pursuant to Article I,
Section 8, Clauses 4 and 18 of the United
States Constitution.
By Mr. CLEAVER:
H.R. 1953.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 1 of the U.S. Constitu-
tion.
By Mr. KUSTOFF of Tennessee:
H.R. 1954.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Under Article I, Section 8, the Necessary
and Proper Clause. Congress shall have
power to make all laws which shall be nec-
essary and proper for carrying into Execu-
tion for the foregoing Power and all Powers
vested by this Constitution in the Govern-
ment of the United States, or in any Depart-
ment or Officer thereof.
By Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire:
H.R. 1955.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section VIII
By Mr. DAVID P. ROE of Tennessee:
H.R. 1956.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 3
By Mr. LEWIS:
H.R. 1957.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
This bill is enacted pursuant to the power
granted to Congress under Article I of the
United States Constitution and its subse-
quent amendments, and further clarified and
interpreted by the Supreme Court of the
United States.
By Mr. MCCAUL:
H.R. 1958.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, section 8 of the Constitution of
the United States.
By Mr. GRIFFITH:
H.R. 1959.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
This bill is enacted pursuant to the power
granted to Congress under Article I, Section
8 of the United States Constitution.
By Mr. BEYER:
H.R. 1960.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the United States
Constitution
By Mr. BLUMENAUER:
H.R. 1961.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 1
By Mr. BOST:
H.R. 1962.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 1
By Ms. BROWNLEY of California:
H.R. 1963.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8 of the Constitution
By Mr. BUTTERFIELD:
H.R. 1964.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Under Article I, Section 8, Clause 3 of the
Constitution, Congress has the power to col-
lect taxes and expend funds to provide for
the general welfare of the United States.
Congress may also make laws that are nec-
essary and proper for carrying into execution
their powers enumerated under Article I.
By Mr. SOTO:
H.R. 1965.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, and Article 4, Section
3, of the United States Constitution.
By Mr. CUMMINGS:
H.R. 1966.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clauses 1 and 18 of the
Constitution of the United States.
By Mr. DANNY K. DAVIS of Illinois:
H.R. 1967.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I of the Constitution and its subse-
quent amendments and further clarified and
interpreted by the Supreme Court of the
United States.
By Mr. JEFFRIES:
H.R. 1968.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article l, Section 8, Clause 18, to make all
laws, which shall be necessary and proper for
carrying into execution the foregoing pow-
ers.
By Mr. DANNY K. DAVIS of Illinois:
H.R. 1969.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I of the Constitution and its subse-
quent amendments and further clarified and
interpreted by the Supreme Court of the
United States.
By Mr. MICHAEL F. DOYLE of Penn-
sylvania:
H.R. 1970.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8
[Page H2754]
By Mr. GALLEGO:
H.R. 1971.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 18
By Mr. GIANFORTE:
H.R. 1972.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8 of the U.S. Constitu-
tion
By Mr. HIGGINS of New York:
H.R. 1973.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8.
By Mr. HORSFORD:
H.R. 1974.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 1 of the Con-
stitution of the United States.
By Mr. KATKO:
H.R. 1975.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1 Section 8 Clause 1: Congress shall
have the power to lay and collect Taxes, Du-
ties, Imports and Excises, to pay the Debts
and provide for the common Defense and
general Welfare of the United States.
By Mr. KILDEE:
H.R. 1976.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8
By Mr. KIND:
H.R. 1977.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Clause 1 of Section 8 of Article I of the U.S.
Constitution
By Mr. TED LIEU of California:
H.R. 1978.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Pursuant to Article 1, Section 8.
By Mr. TED LIEU of California:
H.R. 1979.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section VIII
By Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of
New York:
H.R. 1980.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8
By Mr. SEAN PATRICK MALONEY of
New York:
H.R. 1981.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8
By Mr. MORELLE:
H.R. 1982.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 5: ‘‘To coin
Money, regulate the Value there of, and of
foreign Coin, and fix the Standard of Weights
and Measures;’’
By Mr. O’HALLERAN:
H.R. 1983.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 18
By Mr. PETERS:
H.R. 1984.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8
By Ms. PORTER:
H.R. 1985.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1. Section 8.
By Mr. RATCLIFFE:
H.R. 1986.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the United States
Constitution.
By Ms. SÁNCHEZ:
H.R. 1987.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I Section 8
By Mr. DAVID SCOTT of Georgia:
H.R. 1988.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8
By Mr. STEUBE:
H.R. 1989.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8
The Congress shall have Power To lay and
collect Taxes, Duties, Imposts and Excises,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:24 Mar 29, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00030 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A28MR7.021 H28MRPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2919
March 28, 2019
to pay the Debts and provide for the common
Defence and general Welfare of the United
States; but all Duties, Imposts and Excises
shall be uniform throughout the United
States;
To borrow money on the credit of the
United States;
To regulate Commerce with foreign Na-
tions, and among the several States, and
with the Indian Tribes;
To establish an uniform Rule of Natu-
ralization, and uniform Laws on the subject
of Bankruptcies throughout the United
States;
To coin Money, regulate the Value thereof,
and of foreign Coin, and fix the Standard of
Weights and Measures;
To provide for the Punishment of counter-
feiting the Securities and current Coin of the
United States;
To establish Post Offices and Post Roads;
To promote the Progress of Science and
useful Arts, by securing for limited Times to
Authors and Inventors the exclusive Right to
their respective Writings and Discoveries;
To constitute Tribunals inferior to the su-
preme Court;
and Offenses against the Law of Nations;
To declare War, grant Letters of Marque
and Reprisal, and make Rules concerning
Captures on Land and Water;
To raise and support Armies, but no Appro-
priation of Money to that Use shall be for a
longer Term than two Years;
To provide and maintain a Navy;
To make Rules for the Government and
Regulation of the land and naval Forces;
To provide for calling forth the Militia to
execute the Laws of the Union, suppress In-
surrections and repel Invasions;
To provide for organizing, arming, and dis-
ciplining, the Militia, and for governing such
Part of them as may be employed in the
Service of the United States, reserving to
the States respectively, the Appointment of
the Officers, and the Authority of training
the Militia according to the discipline pre-
scribed by Congress;
To exercise exclusive Legislation in all
Cases whatsoever, over such District (not ex-
ceeding ten Miles square) as may, by Cession
of particular States, and the acceptance of
Congress, become the Seat of the Govern-
ment of the United States, and to exercise
like Authority over all Places purchased by
the Consent of the Legislature of the State
in which the Same shall be, for the Erection
of Forts, Magazines, Arsenals, dock-Yards,
and other needful Buildings; And
To make all Laws which shall be necessary
and proper for carrying into Execution the
foregoing Powers, and all other Powers vest-
ed by this Constitution in the Government of
the United States, or in any Department or
Officer thereof.
By Mr. TURNER:
H.R. 1990.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8
By Mr. NEGUSE:
H.R. 1991.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the U.S. Constitu-
tion
By Ms. ADAMS:
H.J. Res. 54.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8
ADDITIONAL SPONSORS
Under clause 7 of rule XII, sponsors
were added to public bills and resolu-
tions, as follows:
H.R. 9: Mr. SMITH of Washington, Ms. PIN-
GREE, Mrs. HAYES, Mr. KEATING, Mr. SAR-
BANES, Mrs. DINGELL, Miss RICE of New York,
Mr. O’HALLERAN, Ms. HILL of California, and
Mr. YARMUTH.
H.R. 20: Mr. PERRY and Mr. GOODEN.
H.R. 38: Mr. TAYLOR.
H.R. 61: Mr. GOTTHEIMER.
H.R. 95: Mr. COURTNEY, Mr. STEIL, Mr. NOR-
CROSS, and Ms. DELBENE.
H.R. 101: Mr. BILIRAKIS, Ms. CASTOR of
Florida, Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ, and Ms.
FRANKEL.
H.R. 141: Ms. JAYAPAL and Ms. HILL of Cali-
fornia.
H.R. 434: Ms. BLUNT ROCHESTER, Mrs.
MCBATH, Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN, Ms. FUDGE,
Ms. KELLY of Illinois, Mrs. HAYES, Ms.
PLASKETT, Ms. CLARKE of New York, Ms.
MENG, Mr. HORSFORD, Mr. DOGGETT, Mr.
PAPPAS, Mr. YARMUTH, Mrs. TORRES of Cali-
fornia, Ms. SHALALA, Mr. THOMPSON of Mis-
sissippi, Ms. SEWELL of Alabama, Mr. BISHOP
of Georgia, Mr. HASTINGS, Mr. CLAY, Mr.
CLYBURN, Mr. RICHMOND, Mrs. LAWRENCE, and
Mrs. BEATTY.
H.R. 500: Mr. ZELDIN, Mr. MCCAUL, Mr.
RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois, Mr. WOMACK, Mr.
COLE, Mr. ROGERS of Kentucky, Mr. POSEY,
Mr. HAGEDORN, Mr. CARTER of Texas, and Mr.
BUTTERFIELD.
H.R. 510: Mr. BRENDAN F. BOYLE of Penn-
sylvania, Mr. KEVIN HERN of Oklahoma, Mrs.
KIRKPATRICK, and Mr. GALLEGO.
H.R. 535: Ms. TLAIB.
H.R. 550: Mr. GRAVES of Missouri and Mr.
RICHMOND.
H.R. 553: Mr. COMER and Mrs. ROBY.
H.R. 569: Mr. ROSE of New York.
H.R. 587: Mr. SMUCKER, Mr. GARCÍA of Illi-
nois, Mr. GRAVES of Missouri, and Ms.
SPEIER.
H.R. 612: Mr. GOSAR.
H.R. 647: Mr. SIRES and Mr. TURNER.
H.R. 759: Ms. HAALAND.
H.R. 779: Ms. CHENEY, Mr. FULCHER, and
Ms. STEFANIK.
H.R. 784: Mr. GOODEN.
H.R. 808: Mr. COLE and Mr. HURD of Texas.
H.R. 830: Mr. DAVID SCOTT of Georgia.
H.R. 836: Mr. SPANO.
H.R. 864: Ms. JACKSON LEE.
H.R. 865: Mr. HIGGINS of New York.
H.R. 961: Mr. CISNEROS, Mr. PERLMUTTER,
Mr. GOTTHEIMER, Mr. KHANNA, Mr. VAN
DREW, Ms. LEE of California, and Mrs. CRAIG.
H.R. 962: Mr. WOODALL.
H.R. 1006: Mr. WALBERG.
H.R. 1035: Mr. PALAZZO.
H.R. 1049: Ms. SCANLON.
H.R. 1073: Ms. HILL of California.
H.R. 1086: Mr. HECK.
H.R. 1175: Mr. STAUBER.
H.R. 1182: Ms. KELLY of Illinois.
H.R. 1183: Ms. KELLY of Illinois.
H.R. 1243: Mr. COSTA, Ms. HILL of Cali-
fornia, Mr. VAN DREW, and Mr. WELCH.
H.R. 1254: Ms. HILL of California.
H.R. 1260: Ms. OMAR.
H.R. 1266: Mr. GRIJALVA.
H.R. 1279: Mr. ROSE of New York.
H.R. 1287: Ms. KELLY of Illinois, Ms. CAS-
TOR of Florida, and Mr. ROUDA.
H.R. 1377: Ms. WILSON of Florida.
H.R. 1379: Mr. POCAN.
H.R. 1380: Mr. NEGUSE.
H.R. 1383: Mr. CORREA.
H.R. 1386: Mr. VAN DREW.
H.R. 1425: Mr. VAN DREW.
H.R. 1426: Mr. O’HALLERAN.
H.R. 1471: Mr. WELCH, Mr. RASKIN, Mr.
KRISHNAMOORTHI, Mr. CICILLINE, Mr.
LOWENTHAL, Mr. MCGOVERN, Ms. OMAR, and
Ms. CLARKE of New York.
H.R. 1540: Mr. PASCRELL.
H.R. 1553: Ms. HILL of California.
H.R. 1570: Mr. GONZALEZ of Texas, Mr.
KINZINGER, Mr. KING of New York, Mr.
ALLRED, Mr. GUEST, Mr. JOYCE of Pennsyl-
vania, and Mr. LUETKEMEYER.
H.R. 1572: Ms. PINGREE.
H.R. 1579: Mr. LARSON of Connecticut, Mr.
CARTWRIGHT, and Mr. FITZPATRICK.
H.R. 1622: Mr. KATKO, Mr. RIGGLEMAN, Mr.
CÁRDENAS, and Mr. CUMMINGS.
H.R. 1629: Mr. RASKIN.
H.R. 1644: Mr. STANTON, Ms. WEXTON, Mr.
DESAULNIER, Mrs. HAYES, Mr. CARBAJAL, and
Mrs. LURIA.
H.R. 1653: Ms. JACKSON LEE, Mr. ROSE of
New York, Mr. HARDER of California, Ms.
KUSTER of New Hampshire, and Ms. SCHA-
KOWSKY.
H.R. 1674: Mr. GOSAR.
H.R. 1684: Ms. TLAIB.
H.R. 1709: Mr. SUOZZI and Mrs. DAVIS of
California.
H.R. 1717: Mr. CARSON of Indiana.
H.R. 1735: Ms. NORTON and Mrs. NAPOLI-
TANO.
H.R. 1739: Mr. WEBER of Texas.
H.R. 1741: Mrs. BROOKS of Indiana, Mr.
GRAVES of Louisiana, Mr. DIAZ-BALART, Mr.
FORTENBERRY, Mr. GIANFORTE, Mr. BRADY,
Mr. LUETKEMEYER, Mrs. WALORSKI, Mr. WAL-
DEN, Mr. STEIL, Mr. SMITH of New Jersey,
and Mr. RIGGLEMAN.
H.R. 1765: Ms. MOORE and Mr. GARAMENDI.
H.R. 1781: Mr. VAN DREW.
H.R. 1837: Mr. KATKO, Mrs. TORRES of Cali-
fornia, Mr. KING of New York, Mr. RYAN, Mr.
GIBBS, Mr. POSEY, Mr. BILIRAKIS, Miss RICE
of New York, Ms. STEFANIK, Mr. LUETKE-
MEYER, Mr. KELLY of Pennsylvania, Mr. VAN
DREW, and Mr. ZELDIN.
H.R. 1854: Mr. COLE and Mr. RODNEY DAVIS
of Illinois.
H.R. 1855: Mr. JOHNSON of Louisiana and
Mr. ARMSTRONG.
H.R. 1857: Mr. COHEN.
H.R. 1869: Mr. CISNEROS, Mr. FITZPATRICK,
Mr. RYAN, Mr. LAHOOD, Mr. JORDAN, Mr.
RICE of South Carolina, Mr. MEADOWS, Mr.
O’HALLERAN, and Mr. HUNTER.
H.R. 1889: Mr. CÁRDENAS.
H.R. 1931: Mr. CORREA.
H.R. 1933: Mr. PAPPAS.
H.J. Res. 38: Ms. STEVENS and Mr. NEGUSE.
H.J. Res. 48: Ms. ADAMS.
H. Res. 33: Mr. LARSON of Connecticut, Mr.
HORSFORD, Ms. CASTOR of Florida, Mr.
GROTHMAN, Mr. LUJÁN, Mr. PRICE of North
Carolina, Ms. SPEIER, Ms. LEE of California,
Ms. HERRERA BEUTLER, Mrs. CRAIG, and Ms.
JAYAPAL.
H. Res. 54: Mrs. CRAIG, Mr. MCEACHIN, Mr.
DAVID P. ROE of Tennessee, Mr. CARSON of
Indiana, Ms. JAYAPAL, and Mr. DEUTCH.
H. Res. 106: Mrs. BROOKS of Indiana.
H. Res. 129: Ms. CLARK of Massachusetts.
H. Res. 214: Mr. FITZPATRICK and Mr.
PAYNE.
H. Res. 246: Ms. WILSON of Florida, Mr.
POSEY, Mr. SENSENBRENNER, Mr. VAN DREW,
Mr. GROTHMAN, Mr. HARRIS, Mr. CORREA, and
Mrs. MURPHY.
H. Res. 255: Mr. LONG, Mr. KILMER, and Mr.
ZELDIN.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:24 Mar 29, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00031 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A28MR7.025 H28MRPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
Congressional Record
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
United States
of America PROCEEDINGS AND DEBATES OF THE 116th
CONGRESS, FIRST SESSION
∑ This ‘‘bullet’’ symbol identifies statements or insertions which are not spoken by a Member of the Senate on the floor.
.
S2063
Vol. 165 WASHINGTON, THURSDAY, MARCH 28, 2019 No. 54
Senate
The Senate met at 10 a.m. and was
called to order by the President pro
tempore (Mr. GRASSLEY).
f
PRAYER
The Chaplain, Dr. Barry C. Black, of-
fered the following prayer:
Let us pray.
King of our lives, we acknowledge
Your sovereignty, believing because of
You we live and move and have our
being.
Show our lawmakers how to use this
day’s fleeting minutes to accomplish
Your purposes on Earth. Make our Sen-
ators Your instruments of deliverance,
causing justice to roll down like waters
and righteousness like a mighty
stream. Sanctify their thoughts, words,
and deeds throughout this day and all
of their tomorrows. Lord, provide them
with goodness, grace, and wisdom for
the living of these days.
We pray in Your Holy Name. Amen.
f
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
The President pro tempore led the
Pledge of Allegiance, as follows:
I pledge allegiance to the Flag of the
United States of America, and to the Repub-
lic for which it stands, one nation under God,
indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
f
RESERVATION OF LEADER TIME
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mrs.
HYDE-SMITH). Under the previous order,
the leadership time is reserved.
The Senator from Iowa.
Mr. GRASSLEY. Madam President, I
ask unanimous consent to speak for 1
minute as in morning business.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
FLOODING IN IOWA
Mr. GRASSLEY. Madam President,
Governor Reynolds designated this
week as ‘‘Severe Weather Awareness
Week’’ in Iowa. That goes beyond just
a flooding situation; it is because of
the catastrophic flooding throughout
our State and to tell everybody that it
is not over. The National Oceanic and
Atmospheric Administration has
warned of significant spring flooding
yet to come.
We are seeing increased flows in the
Missouri River, the Mississippi River,
and their tributaries. Iowans should re-
view their insurance policies for gaps
and consider flood insurance. That is
one of the things Governor Reynolds is
suggesting. Also, it would be good to
have a plan in case it is necessary to
evacuate, including important personal
belongings and pets. FEMA’s website,
ready.gov, can help you with that in-
formation.
Iowans know severe weather, includ-
ing massive snowstorms, flooding, tor-
nadoes, and heavy winds. The key is
that we prepare, help our neighbors,
and stay vigilant.
I thank Governor Reynolds for alert-
ing people to the future, as well as wor-
rying about the past.
Thank you.
I yield the floor.
f
RECOGNITION OF THE MAJORITY
LEADER
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The ma-
jority leader is recognized.
f
DISASTER FUNDING
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
in recent months, my home State of
Kentucky has been hit by severe
weather. Over half of our 120 counties
have reported flood damage. Governor
Bevin has placed the entire Common-
wealth under a state of emergency and
mobilized resources to help with recov-
ery. Local, State, and Federal emer-
gency officials have started assessing
the flood damage. My staff and I are
monitoring the progress to provide as-
sistance wherever we can. I look for-
ward to meeting with the Kentucky
emergency management director later
today to get the latest updates.
Unfortunately, my State is not
alone—far from it. Many States are
currently bearing heavy burdens in the
wake of powerful natural disasters.
Families in Florida and the Carolinas
are still picking up the pieces from a
damaging hurricane season. In Ala-
bama and Georgia, recovery is just be-
ginning after vicious tornadoes. The ef-
fects of serious flooding remain across
the Southeast. In places in the Mid-
west, such as Iowa, Missouri, Kansas,
and Nebraska, many Americans are
still waiting, praying, and working to
mitigate the destruction from dev-
astating flooding. Many communities
are still literally under water.
I know right now the entire Senate is
especially mindful of the destruction in
America’s heartland, so I am grateful
for the efforts of several colleagues to
bring forward a package of supple-
mental disaster relief funds to address
the most urgent needs.
The legislation we are considering
this week would help growers and pro-
ducers with storm-related crop losses.
It would help local infrastructure—
from roads to schools and hospitals—
resume full operation. It would help
our Nation’s military restore readiness
at bases and installations that were
caught in harm’s way.
Thanks to Chairman SHELBY, Sen-
ators ISAKSON, PERDUE, SCOTT, RUBIO,
and others, we will have the oppor-
tunity to deliver critical resources to
the communities facing the long road
back to normal. I hope each of our col-
leagues will join me in supporting this
measure, which will do just that.
f
THE GREEN NEW DEAL
Mr. MCCONNELL. Now, Madam
President, on an entirely different mat-
ter, this week, the American people
saw our Democratic colleagues go on
VerDate Sep 11 2014 23:41 Mar 28, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A28MR6.000 S28MRPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2064 March 28, 2019
the record on a truly astonishing pol-
icy proposal—a truly astonishing pol-
icy proposal.
After months of enthusiastic declara-
tions of support, after tripping over
one another to prove their devotion to
the far-left core of the new Democratic
Party, the vast majority of our col-
leagues across the aisle were unable to
vote against even an obviously ludi-
crous proposal to tank the U.S. econ-
omy and to leave American workers
out in the cold.
You might think that after their rad-
ical proposal met with such an inglo-
rious end, my colleagues might choose
to pause and take stock. Well, think
again. Just yesterday, our Democratic
colleagues introduced a Senate version
of Speaker PELOSI’s sweeping legisla-
tion to rewrite the rules of American
politics to benefit one side—new Wash-
ington rules for how citizens can exer-
cise political speech, new Washington
systems to funnel taxpayer dollars into
the pockets of political campaigns, and
an unprecedented Washington intru-
sion into State and local election law
all across our country.
As I have argued before, it conven-
iently turns out that the vast majority
of their proposed changes seem tailored
to help more Democrats get elected
and stay elected; hence my name for
this legislation: the Democratic politi-
cian protection act.
Apparently, our friends are under the
impression that if Democrats aren’t
winning as many elections as they
would like, then the entire process by
which we elect our representatives
must certainly be broken. If Democrats
don’t like an outcome, then the rules
themselves need to be tossed aside.
This seems to be emerging as a kind of
pattern on the other side of the aisle.
When our Constitution, our institu-
tions, or the American people dis-
appoint our Democratic colleagues, in-
stead of taking the hint and perhaps
making their own positions more main-
stream, they instead look to change
the rules.
After they failed to defeat the nomi-
nation of Justice Kavanaugh last year,
liberal leaders decided the underlying
structure of the American judiciary
needed to be radically overhauled to
suit their whims.
They set out to rehabilitate the ab-
surd notion of ‘‘court-packing’’—a
term that since the 1930s has been syn-
onymous in American history with the
idea of an unprincipled power grab.
The idea that Democrats sometimes
lose Presidential elections and that Re-
publican Presidents sometimes subse-
quently appoint Supreme Court Jus-
tices is apparently no longer tolerated.
Instead of filling the existing vacan-
cies, why shouldn’t the next Demo-
cratic President just make up a bunch
of new ones—create a bunch of new
ones—so the far left can stack the
Court? Forget about nine Justices.
Forget about judges who don’t wear red
robes or blue robes but black robes.
Forget about interpreting and applying
our laws and Constitution the way they
are written instead of how partisans
might wish they were written. The far
left wants to forget about all of that
because Democrats would rather re-
write the rules.
So out of the ash heap of history
came this talk of ‘‘court-packing’’—a
notion that would threaten the rule of
law and our American judicial system
as we have long understood it. It is a
truly radical proposal that has been
dead and buried by bipartisan con-
sensus for almost a century. But now
President Obama’s Attorney General,
Eric Holder, says: ‘‘We should be talk-
ing even about expanding the number
of people who serve on the Supreme
Court, if there is a Democratic presi-
dent.’’ One of our Senate colleagues,
who is currently running for President,
called this an ‘‘interesting idea that I
would have to think more about.’’ The
New York Times reported that at a re-
cent campaign event, another Demo-
cratic candidate said that he is open to
the idea after being asked about it by
a member of a new far-left group that
is literally named—this is their name;
listen to this—‘‘Pack the Courts.’’
I hope the lion’s share of our Demo-
cratic colleagues will speak out force-
fully against exhuming this thoroughly
discredited idea. I hope my colleagues
will have the courage to look these far-
left agitators in the eye and tell them
that some traditions and some institu-
tions are more important than partisan
point-scoring. But given that we have
already seen Democrats rush headlong
to embrace schemes like the Demo-
cratic politician protection act, Medi-
care for None, and the so-called Green
New Deal, I have to say, at this point,
that kind of courageous statement
would come as a pleasant surprise.
f
MEASURE PLACED ON THE
CALENDAR—H.R. 297
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
I understand there is a bill at the desk
due for a second reading.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the title of the bill for
the second time.
The senior assistant bill clerk read as
follows:
A bill (H.R. 297) to extend the Federal rec-
ognition to the Little Shell Tribe of Chip-
pewa Indians of Montana, and for other pur-
poses.
Mr. MCCONNELL. In order to place
the bill on the calendar under the pro-
visions of rule XIV, I object to further
proceedings.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Objec-
tion having been heard, the bill will be
placed on the calendar.
f
CONCLUSION OF MORNING
BUSINESS
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Morning
business is closed.
SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS
ACT, 2019—MOTION TO PROCEED—
Resumed
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the Senate will re-
sume consideration of the motion to
proceed to H.R. 268, which the clerk
will report.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
Motion to proceed to Calendar No. 15, H.R.
268, a bill making supplemental appropria-
tions for the fiscal year ending September 30,
2019, and for other purposes.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. All
postcloture time has expired.
The question is on the motion to pro-
ceed.
The motion was agreed to.
f
SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS
ACT, 2019
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the bill.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
A bill (H.R. 268) making supplemental ap-
propriations for the fiscal year ending Sep-
tember 30, 2019, and for other purposes.
Pending:
McConnell (for Shelby) Amendment No. 5,
of a perfecting nature.
Schumer Amendment No. 6, of a perfecting
nature.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
I ask unanimous consent to withdraw
Amendment Nos. 5 and 6.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The amendments were withdrawn.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Alabama.
AMENDMENT NO. 201
Mr. SHELBY. Madam President, I
call up my amendment No. 201.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
Clerk will report.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
The Senator from Alabama [Mr. SHELBY]
proposes an amendment numbered 201.
Mr. SHELBY. Madam President, I
ask unanimous consent that the read-
ing be dispensed with.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
(Purpose: In the nature of a sub-
stitute.)
(The amendment is printed in today’s
RECORD under ‘‘Text of Amendments.’’)
CLOTURE MOTION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
send a cloture motion to the desk.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clo-
ture motion having been presented
under rule XXII, the Chair directs the
clerk to read the motion.
The senior assistant bill clerk read as
follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on the Sen-
ate amendment No. 201 to H.R. 268, making
supplemental appropriations for the fiscal
VerDate Sep 11 2014 23:41 Mar 28, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G28MR6.002 S28MRPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2065
March 28, 2019
year ending September 30, 2019, and for other
purposes.
Mitch McConnell, Roy Blunt, Richard C.
Shelby, Johnny Isakson, Pat Roberts,
Steve Daines, Mike Rounds, David
Perdue, Rick Scot, Lamar Alexander,
John Barrasso, John Hoeven, John
Thune, John Boozman, Shelley Moore
Capito, Tom Cotton, Rob Portman.
AMENDMENT NO. 213 TO AMENDMENT NO. 201
Mr. MCCONNELL. I have an amend-
ment at the desk and ask the clerk to
report.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
The Senator from Kentucky [Mr. MCCON-
NELL] proposes an amendment numbered 213
to amendment No. 201.
The amendment is as follows:
At the end add the following.
‘‘This act shall be effective 1 day after en-
actment.’’
Mr. MCCONNELL. I ask for the yeas
and nays on my amendment.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there a
sufficient second?
There appears to be a sufficient sec-
ond.
The yeas and nays are ordered.
AMENDMENT NO. 214 TO AMENDMENT NO. 213
Mr. MCCONNELL. I have a second-de-
gree amendment at the desk.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
The Senator from Kentucky [Mr. MCCON-
NELL] proposes an amendment numbered 214
to amendment No. 213.
Mr. MCCONNELL. I ask unanimous
consent that the reading be dispensed
with.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The amendment is as follows:
Strike ‘‘1 day’’ and insert ‘‘2 days’’
AMENDMENT NO. 215
Mr. MCCONNELL. I have an amend-
ment to the text of the underlying bill.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
The Senator from Kentucky [Mr. MCCON-
NELL] proposes an amendment numbered 215
to language proposed to be stricken by
amendment No. 201.
Mr. MCCONNELL. I ask unanimous
consent that the reading be dispensed
with.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The amendment is as follows:
At the end add the following.
‘‘This Act shall take effect 3 days after the
date of enactment.’’
Mr. MCCONNELL. I ask for the yeas
and nays on my amendment.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there a
sufficient second?
There appears to be a sufficient sec-
ond.
The yeas and nays are ordered.
AMENDMENT NO. 216 TO AMENDMENT NO. 215
Mr. MCCONNELL. I have a second-de-
gree amendment at the desk.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
The Senator from Kentucky [Mr. MCCON-
NELL] proposes an amendment numbered 216
to amendment No. 215.
The amendment is as follows:
Strike ‘‘3 days’’ and insert ‘‘4 days’’
Mr. MCCONNELL. I ask unanimous
consent that the mandatory quorum
calls for the cloture motions be waived.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
Mr. MCCONNELL. I suggest the ab-
sence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant bill clerk pro-
ceeded to call the roll.
Mr. LEAHY. Madam President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
MUELLER REPORT
Mr. LEAHY. Madam President, I
thought it was exceptionally good news
on Sunday that Special Counsel Robert
Mueller did not implicate our Presi-
dent in a criminal conspiracy with
Russia to attack our elections. The al-
ternative, of course, would have been
nothing short of catastrophic for our
Republic.
I also want to express my apprecia-
tion to Mr. Mueller and his team for
their service to our country for deter-
mining the facts of what happened dur-
ing what was an unprecedented attack
on our democracy. This investigation
endured relentless attacks during its
22-month existence. In fact, the inves-
tigation by Mr. Mueller was attacked
1,100 times by President Trump alone
during this time according to the New
York Times.
These attacks may have tried to po-
liticize and undermine Mr. Mueller’s
investigation, but they didn’t deter his
course. Anybody that knows Robert
Mueller would know that he would not
be intimidated by anybody, Republican
or Democrat. In fact, far from being de-
terred, Mr. Mueller obtained 37 indict-
ments, including against numerous
close aides of the President. That
marks this special counsel’s investiga-
tion as one of the most productive and
consequential in our history. The
American people and their representa-
tives in Congress now deserve to see
the special counsel’s work.
The oversight authority of this body
is deeply rooted in the Constitution.
We would be derelict in our duties if we
did not do everything within our power
to obtain a full report and its under-
lying evidence. We already know from
the 37 indictments, and from the testi-
mony received by the Judiciary Com-
mittee, that this investigation has un-
covered serious misconduct. We know
the Trump campaign was informed
that Russia had stolen Democratic
emails months before anybody else. We
know that a senior member of the cam-
paign enthusiastically accepted an
offer from the Russian Government to
provide ‘‘incriminating’’ information
on Hillary Clinton, and, afterward, he
and President Trump blatantly mis-
represented that meeting. We know
from Roger Stone’s indictment that
the President was told about a coming
release of stolen emails, and the cam-
paign asked Stone to keep them ap-
prised of developments with future re-
leases. And we know that during all of
this, the President was hiding his pur-
suit of a lucrative business deal in Mos-
cow.
Now, these activities may not
amount to a crime, but they certainly
amount to serious misconduct that
reached the highest levels of the cam-
paign and this administration, and
they certainly raise questions about
the President’s baffling relationship
with Russia and Vladimir Putin. This
relationship has been baffling to both
Republicans and Democrats.
That doesn’t even touch on obstruc-
tion of justice. Attorney General Barr’s
letter revealed that there is still non-
public evidence of the President’s at-
tempts to interfere with this investiga-
tion. The special counsel did not con-
clude whether the President’s obsessive
interference in this investigation
qualifies as obstruction. Yet he stated
that his report does not exonerate the
President—does not exonerate the
President. That is an extraordinary
statement.
Apparently, Attorney General Barr
believes there is insufficient evidence
to charge obstruction, but Mr. BARR
also believes that it is not obstruction
for a President to interfere with an in-
vestigation by exercising his Article II
powers. Regardless, he believes that
the only mechanism for holding a sit-
ting President accountable is through
Congress.
Let’s accept all of that. I don’t nec-
essarily accept all of it, but let’s as-
sume he is accurate in that. Then I
would hope he would agree that it is
the judgment of Congress and of the
American people that is of the utmost
importance in this moment. There is
simply no justification for hiding even
a portion of the Mueller report. The
President has claimed it totally exon-
erates him.
With respect to the collusion inves-
tigation, grand jury secrecy can be
waived by the courts when there is a
particular need that outweighs the in-
terest in secrecy. With respect to the
obstruction investigation, executive
privilege cannot be used to hide evi-
dence of a potential crime. In fact, if
you want to hide evidence of a poten-
tial crime under executive privilege,
all they have to do is look at a Su-
preme Court case where that was tried
called United States v. Richard Nixon.
Any claim would likely not survive a
challenge under United States v.
Nixon. It is hard to imagine that such
hypothetical claims were not waived
when administration witnesses talked
to the special counsel’s office.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 23:41 Mar 28, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G28MR6.004 S28MRPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2066 March 28, 2019
Transparency is really the touch-
stone of our democracy. Any attempt
to hide swaths of the Mueller report
from public scrutiny is only going to
fuel suspicions that President Trump’s
Justice Department, which represents
not President Trump but all the United
States, is instead playing the role of
President Trump’s defense team. If no
person, however powerful, is truly
above the law, then no person should
be permitted to conceal the results of
such a critical national security inves-
tigation from public view.
I hope that in the days and weeks
ahead, the Senate has something to say
about that. Everyone, Republican and
Democrat alike, has a stake in know-
ing what is in that report and seeing
the whole report. After months and
months of work and all the investiga-
tions, all the indictments, and all the
grand jury hearings, to say we have to
rely on just a four-page summary is
not enough. I don’t accept that. I would
hope that no Senator, Republican or
Democrat, would accept it.
I note that the House of Representa-
tives voted unanimously—every Repub-
lican and every Democrat—to have the
report released. I note that when we
tried to have a similar resolution here,
it was blocked by the Republican lead-
er. I think the Republican leader
should turn to all of us and say: Let
the American people know the facts.
H.R. 268
Madam President, I do not see any-
body else seeking recognition. I would
note, on another matter, the disaster
supplemental appropriations legisla-
tion has been filed, and there will be
discussions on that. The House of Rep-
resentatives has a bill which does a
great deal for the disaster relief for all
Americans who were hurt by the recent
disasters in our country. I proposed
some modification of it, which would
include all Americans and believe the
House would have accepted it.
I am concerned now that we have be-
fore us a bill that excludes a large
number of Americans, those in Puerto
Rico, people who served nobly in our
military and helped this country and
other Americans. They should not be
excluded for whatever reason. So we
will have a debate on that next week.
I hope very soon, for the American
people, that we can have an honest and
clear resolution that will bring relief
to those who suffered from disasters
such as fires, hurricanes, and floods
throughout our country.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Mr. THUNE. Madam President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
ECONOMIC GROWTH
Mr. THUNE. Madam President, when
Republicans took office after the 2016
Presidential election, we had one goal
in mind: make life better for American
families. We knew a big part of that
was getting our economy going again.
After years of sluggish economic
growth, family budgets were stretched
thin. Getting ahead had frequently
been replaced by getting by. Wages
were stagnant and jobs and opportuni-
ties were often few and far between.
So the Republicans and the President
got right to work. We repealed burden-
some regulations that were
hamstringing economic growth, and we
passed a comprehensive reform of our
outdated Tax Code.
You might ask, Why the Tax Code?
Well, the Tax Code has a huge effect on
American families’ prosperity. It helps
determine how much you bring home
in your paycheck and how much you
have left over to spend or save. It helps
determine what kind of jobs, wages,
and opportunities are available to you.
A small business owner struggling to
afford a heavy tax bill is unlikely to
have the money to hire a new worker
or to expand her business. A larger
business is going to find it harder to
create jobs or improve benefits for em-
ployees if it is struggling to stay com-
petitive against foreign businesses pay-
ing much less in taxes.
Prior to the passage of the Tax Cuts
and Jobs Act, our Tax Code was not
helping American workers. It was tak-
ing too much from Americans’ pay-
checks, and it was making it difficult
for businesses to grow and to create
jobs. We passed the Tax Cuts and Jobs
Act to put more money in Americans’
pockets, spur economic growth, and ex-
pand opportunities for American work-
ers.
We cut tax rates for American fami-
lies, doubled the child tax credit, and
nearly doubled the standard deduction.
We lowered tax rates across the
board for owners of small- and medium-
sized businesses, farms, and ranches.
We lowered our Nation’s massive cor-
porate tax rate, which, up until Janu-
ary 1 of last year, was the highest cor-
porate tax rate in the developed world.
We expanded business owners’ ability
to recover the cost of investments they
make in their businesses, which frees
up cash they can reinvest in their oper-
ations and in their workers, and we
brought the U.S. international tax sys-
tem into the 21st century so American
businesses are not operating at a com-
petitive disadvantage next to their for-
eign counterparts.
Now we are seeing the results. Our
economy is thriving. Economic growth
in the fourth quarter of 2017 to the
fourth quarter of 2018 was 3.1 percent,
the strongest growth we have seen lit-
erally in 13 years. The unemployment
rate dropped to 3.8 percent in Feb-
ruary, the 12th straight month the un-
employment rate has been at or below
4 percent. That is the longest streak in
nearly 50 years. The number of job
openings has once again exceeded the
number of job seekers. In fact, the De-
partment of Labor reports that Janu-
ary was the 11th straight month with
more job openings than people looking
for work.
The economy has added more than 5.3
million jobs since President Trump was
elected. Job growth has averaged
209,000 jobs a month over the past 12
months, exceeding the 2017 average by
30,000 jobs a month. Wage growth is ac-
celerating. Wages are growing at a rate
of 3.4 percent—the seventh straight
month in which wages have grown at a
rate of 3 percent or greater. Median
household income is at an alltime high.
Business investment is up, which
means more jobs and opportunities for
American workers. U.S. manufacturing
is booming. Small business hiring re-
cently hit a record high, and the list
goes on.
This is a big turnaround.
After years of economic stagnation
during the Obama administration,
some were predicting that sluggish eco-
nomic growth would be the new nor-
mal. When President Trump took of-
fice, the Congressional Budget Office
predicted the economy would grow at a
rate of 2 percent in 2018 and 1.7 percent
in 2019. After Republicans cut burden-
some regulations and passed a historic
tax reform bill, the Congressional
Budget Office substantially revised
that projection, predicting 2.9 percent
growth in 2018 and 2.7 percent in 2019—
and the economy has delivered on that
prediction.
Importantly, the benefits of our
thriving economy are being spread far
and wide. The lowest wage earners saw
the fastest wage growth in 2018. The
Wall Street Journal recently reported:
All sorts of people who have previously had
trouble landing a job are now finding work.
Racial minorities, those with less education,
and people working in the lowest-paying jobs
are getting bigger pay raises and in many
cases experiencing the lowest unemployment
rate ever recorded for their groups. They are
joining manufacturing workers, women in
their prime working years, Americans with
disabilities, and those with criminal records,
among others, in finding improved job pros-
pects after years of disappointment.
Tax cuts and other Republican eco-
nomic policies are making life better
for American families. So what do
Democrats want to do? Continue with
the policies that are bringing relief to
American families? That would make
sense.
Unfortunately not. Democrats want
to raise taxes—by a lot—to pay for the
socialist fantasies they are now em-
bracing. Plans such as the Green New
Deal and Medicare for All would result
in massive tax hikes on just about ev-
eryone. Our economy would suffer and
American families would see a perma-
nent reduction in their standard of liv-
ing.
It is deeply alarming that the Demo-
cratic Party is rapidly turning into the
Socialist Party. It is vitally important
that we ensure that hard-working
Americans never have to live under
Democrats’ socialist fantasies.
Republicans are committed to pro-
tecting Americans from any attempt to
VerDate Sep 11 2014 23:41 Mar 28, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G28MR6.009 S28MRPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2067
March 28, 2019
undo the economic progress we have
made, and we will continue working to
strengthen our economy even further.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Mr. SCHUMER. Madam President, I
ask unanimous consent that the order
for the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
RECOGNITION OF THE MINORITY LEADER
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
Democratic leader is recognized.
HEALTHCARE
Mr. SCHUMER. Madam President, on
Monday the Trump administration
doubled down on their assault on
American healthcare by supporting an
effort to completely eliminate the
healthcare law through the courts.
People scratched their heads, saying:
Are they really doing this after trying
for 2 years unsuccessfully and after los-
ing the election?
Yes, they are. The action is no small
matter. The Trump administration’s
radical support for the wholesale elimi-
nation of the healthcare law would
send our healthcare system into cer-
tain chaos. If the Trump administra-
tion has its way, it would send pre-
miums soaring for millions of Ameri-
cans. It would revoke coverage for tens
of millions more who gained coverage
through medical expansions. It would
strike protections for an estimated 133
million adults in America who have
preexisting medical conditions, even
people who get coverage from their em-
ployer.
Let me say that again. There are 133
million Americans who have pre-
existing medical conditions. If the
Trump administration has its way, the
insurance company could just tell
those 133 million and their families: We
cut you off. We don’t want to pay for
your insurance anymore because it is
too expensive. Your daughter has can-
cer. Your wife has severe diabetes.
It is a disgrace. Let’s not forget that
the system would impose billions of
dollars in new prescription drug costs
on seniors in Medicare. The con-
sequences are dire. That is why we are
introducing an amendment to ensure
that not a dime of the American peo-
ple’s money goes to the Trump admin-
istration’s fight to destroy the entire
healthcare system. Not one cent of the
Department of Justice should be used
to hurt Americans like this.
Donald Trump campaigned on ‘‘End
ObamaCare.’’ Then, the Republican
Party—and even we thought Trump
himself—saw they had no replacement.
This repeal and replace had no replace-
ment. They couldn’t come up with one.
What is the Republican Party now
standing for? Here it is. ‘‘The Repub-
lican Party will become the party of
healthcare,’’ says Donald Trump. Abso-
lutely not. Here is what his tweet
should say if he is being honest and
telling the truth to the American peo-
ple: The Republican Party will become
the party that ended your healthcare.
You cannot have a situation in the
Trump administration where President
Trump says one thing and their Attor-
ney General goes to court to do the op-
posite. You cannot or should not have
a situation where Republican Senators
get up and say we need to expand
healthcare for people, and then they
say not a peep when their own Presi-
dent tries to strip it away from them.
President Trump says the Republican
Party wants to be the party of
healthcare. Well, I say, God help the
middle class if Republicans are the
party of healthcare. What, dare I ask,
is their plan? Let me ask Leader
MCCONNELL and every Republican Sen-
ator, and I hope their constituents will
ask them, too, because this is the No. 1
issue across the country.
We should ask our Republican friends
and the President: What is your plan to
deal with prescription drug costs?
Costs are at an alltime high. Instead,
they are supporting this lawsuit that
would impose billions of dollars in pre-
scription drug costs on seniors.
We should ask President Trump and
Leader MCCONNELL: What is your plan
to get more people covered on high-
quality health insurance that they can
actually afford at a time when pre-
miums are still rising because of sabo-
tage by the Trump administration?
How will they bring relief?
Instead, our Republican colleagues,
by their silence, are assenting to a law-
suit that would kick tens of millions of
people off insurance.
I ask President Trump, Senator
MCCONNELL, and our Republican col-
leagues: What is your plan to protect
people with preexisting conditions?
Over and over again, the Republicans
say they support keeping safeguards
for preexisting conditions. Instead,
they are supporting this lawsuit or, by
their silence, assenting to their party’s
President’s lawsuit that completely
wipes away the protections for pre-
existing conditions.
The American people deserve answers
because President Trump insisted yes-
terday that he has a ‘‘plan that is far
better than ObamaCare.’’ We all know
that that is not true. He just talks off
the top of his head. He said it at the
lunch.
President Trump, what is your plan
that is better than ObamaCare? You
may not have all of the details, but
give us the main points.
When you are President, you have a
responsibility, as people’s lives are at
stake. They need healthcare. It is not
for you to simply say ‘‘we have a better
plan,’’ file a lawsuit that gets rid of the
existing plan, and then give people no
inclination—no clue—as to what that
plan is.
Why is this happening?
One, we know that President Trump
has no fidelity issues. He talks off the
top of his head. He doesn’t know what
the issues are all about. Regarding
issues, he is the least informed Presi-
dent we have ever had in American his-
tory. He just says what he thinks
sounds nice at the moment, and then
his administration does the hard-right
thing all of the time—the extreme
thing—that has a narrow special inter-
est but is not in the interest of the
American people.
MICK MULVANEY
Madam President, President Trump’s
actual administration seems to be far
to the right of even the mainstream of
the Republican Party. Why does that
happen? Well, here is one reason.
Mick Mulvaney is now Chief of Staff
and was the head of the OMB, but he
still has a lot of say over that Agency.
It was reported last night that it was
Mick Mulvaney, against the advice of
others, who convinced President
Trump to take this radical position on
healthcare. So we all know who is hold-
ing the strings, who is putting in Presi-
dent Trump’s head these hard-right
ideas that his administration contin-
ually effectuates and of which he al-
most never backs off. We now seem to
be living in the Mick Mulvaney admin-
istration.
He is the same person who said we
need to end Medicare as we know it.
That should send a chill down every
American’s spine. Let me repeat that.
The Mick Mulvaney administration, of
which President Trump is a willing fol-
lower, if you will, says: We should end
Medicare as we know it.
Do Americans believe that? No. Do
Republicans believe that? Most of them
do not. Yet this man, Mulvaney—not
elected—puts ideas in President
Trump’s head, and that is what Presi-
dent Trump does. Make no mistake
about it—the ultimate responsibility is
President Trump’s, but when you won-
der why the words the President says
differ from so many administration
policies—and it is the policies that are
hurting Americans—the reason is
Mulvaney.
Here is what the Mulvaney adminis-
tration looks like: extreme budget cuts
to the programs that the middle-class
families depend on—cuts to the Depart-
ments of Education and Transpor-
tation; severe cuts to the Office of
Science; severe cuts to the EPA; cuts
to programs that are most in need,
SNAP; faster cuts to Medicare; and re-
peated government shutdowns. It was
reported yesterday that the adminis-
tration is considering no more Fannie
and Freddie—no more help for the mid-
dle class to buy a home. This is an-
other great Mulvaney idea.
Mick Mulvaney was one of the five
most hard-right people in the House of
Representatives. He was one of the au-
thors of the previous shutdown. His
views are far, far away from the aver-
age American’s. Donald Trump, who
gets full blame for Mulvaney’s ideas
because he is enacting them, seems to
be following him lock, stock, and bar-
rel. If the President had actually cam-
paigned on these Mulvaney ideas in
2016, he would have been roundly de-
feated.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:36 Mar 29, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G28MR6.010 S28MRPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2068 March 28, 2019
If he goes to Michigan tonight and
talks about these Mulvaney ideas, he
will get booed even by his own sup-
porters, for he enacts the Mulvaney
ideas. His Justice Department is now
suing to get rid of healthcare, which is
something Mulvaney has always advo-
cated for.
President Trump, your administra-
tion is now the Mulvaney administra-
tion.
That should terrify every single
American, and it should terrify any
thoughtful Republican Senator.
Make no mistake about it—Donald
Trump’s hard-right administration,
which so hurts the middle class and so
helps the narrow, wealthy, special, and
corporate interests—the brain child of
many of these ideas—comes from Mr.
Mulvaney. He puts it into the cipher of
Donald Trump. Donald Trump enacts
it, and the American people suffer.
PUERTO RICO
Madam President, on Puerto Rico, it
has been 18 months since Hurricane
Maria and Hurricane Irma devastated
the people of Puerto Rico and the sur-
rounding islands.
These were extraordinary disasters
that required an extraordinary re-
sponse, but President Trump has
hardheartedly said that the island of
Puerto Rico has received too much aid.
He complained that the U.S. Govern-
ment had already given $91 billion in
relief.
Mr. President, stop making up your
own facts, for $90 billion is the amount
of damage these storms caused. The
people of Puerto Rico are suffering.
They have received a sliver of the fund-
ing they need.
It is hard to fathom the depths of
cruelty that it takes for the President
to treat the people of Puerto Rico this
way. They are American citizens.
The Democrats have taken action.
The House passed a comprehensive dis-
aster bill 2 months ago. It would have
provided aid to Puerto Rico and to the
other States that are hurt. We want to
help all of those States, as that is what
Americans do, but Donald Trump has
told our Senate Republicans: No aid for
Puerto Rico. Instead of standing up
and saying that it is wrong, that it is
not fair, they seem to be going along.
This is shameful. We have an oppor-
tunity to change that by fixing the dis-
aster bill that is currently on the floor.
I would tell our Republican friends
that we want to help people in the
States where there is flooding in the
Midwest, where there are wildfires in
the West, where there are droughts, but
the bill they are trying to pass here is
never going to pass the House. They
know that. To get disaster aid for the
country, which is well needed in so
many places, our Republican friends
are going to have to tell Donald Trump
his cold, cruel-hearted, and divisive
policy must fall, his policy of not let-
ting any of the already allocated aid be
distributed to Puerto Rico.
MUELLER REPORT
Madam President, on one final mat-
ter—Mueller—yesterday and for the
second time this week, Leader MCCON-
NELL blocked our request that was
made by the ranking member of the
Judiciary Committee, DIANNE FEIN-
STEIN, to make public the full report
authored by Special Counsel Mueller.
I thank Senator FEINSTEIN for mak-
ing the request and for standing up for
transparency. As Senator FEINSTEIN
said, a four-page summary from a po-
litical appointee is hardly a sufficient
substitute for Special Counsel
Mueller’s 2-year investigation. There
were reports this morning that the
Mueller report is over 300 pages. All we
have gotten is a four-page summary by
someone who was appointed by the ad-
ministration and who, before he took
office, felt the President could never—
almost never—be called for obstruction
of justice, which is one of the main
parts of the Mueller investigation.
For Mr. Barr to quickly issue a four-
page report in his attempt to try to ex-
onerate President Trump and now to
delay the release of an over 300-page re-
port that has been written by Mueller
so that the American people and we
Senators and Congressmen cannot see
what was written has too much of the
odor of political expediency to help the
man who appointed him, President
Trump.
The American people have a right to
know the full scope of the facts behind
Russia’s interference in our election.
The American people have a right to
come to their own conclusions about
actions taken by this administration.
The American people deserve to have
full confidence in the integrity of our
system and in the impartiality of the
rule of law, and only the full release of
the report can affirm that.
What I am saying here shouldn’t be
controversial. In the House, it passed
420 to nothing—the resolution to make
the full report public—voted for by
such partisan defenders of the Presi-
dent’s, like Representative JORDAN and
Representative MEADOWS.
Transparency, we all know, is all the
more important because the Attorney
General has made no secret of his an-
tipathy toward this investigation and
appears intent on holding the report
secret for as long as possible. I guess
his hope is to let the dust settle, and
then no one will pay attention. Well,
he is wrong about that. He is pro-
longing this. Remember, this Attorney
General made clear that he was hostile
to the special counsel and was opposed
to Mueller’s inquiry into obstruction of
justice. Then he opines about it 2 days
later without showing anybody any
backing? That is so wrong.
According to press reports, in his
phone call yesterday with Mr. NADLER,
Mr. Barr would not even commit to re-
leasing the whole report at any time.
He wouldn’t commit to a date. He was
not even willing to disclose how many
pages were in the special counsel’s re-
port, as if that were some kind of state
secret.
As I said, since that conversation,
there have been reports that it is over
300 pages. If it is, it is just disgraceful
for Mr. Barr, who was able to read
through it and summarize it in 48
hours, to now say he can’t release it
because he is busy culling it.
The Attorney General must end the
stalling and the secrecy. It is not going
to be a happy opening chapter for the
Attorney General when history looks
back on what he has done. We should
make the report public now.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. ROM-
NEY). The Senator from Iowa.
(The remarks of Mr. GRASSLEY per-
taining to the introduction of S. 928 are
printed in today’s RECORD under
‘‘Statements on Introduced Bills and
Joint Resolutions.’’)
NOMINATION OF WILLIAM R. EVANINA
Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President, an-
other thing that I shouldn’t have to
come to the floor to talk about—and it
will only take me about 3 or 4 min-
utes—is that I am still hearing ques-
tions about my intent to object to the
nomination of William Evanina. These
are the same questions I heard last
year when I initially placed my hold on
Evanina.
By the way, my hold is printed in the
RECORD, and the rules of this Senate
require all Members who put a hold on
a nomination or a bill, within 2 days
after doing that, to put something in
the RECORD, and most Senators aren’t
following that rule of the Senate. So if
you have some disagreement about
something and you put a secret hold on
and somebody wants to sit down and
talk with you to see what is wrong,
how are they going to know who it is?
That is why, in 2011, on a vote of 96 to
4, Senator WYDEN and I got these rules,
so there should be no secret holds in
the U.S. Senate.
So I am back here again. This state-
ment will be the fourth time since
June 4, 2018, that I have publicly ex-
pressed my reason for this hold here on
the Senate floor. It seems to me no one
has been listening to what I have been
saying, but what is unusual about
that?
As I have said repeatedly, the Judici-
ary Committee has experienced dif-
ficulty in obtaining relevant docu-
ments and briefings from the Justice
Department and the Office of the Di-
rector of National Intelligence.
Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosen-
stein personally—I want to empha-
size—personally assured me that the
Judiciary Committee would receive
equal access to information provided to
the House Permanent Select Com-
mittee on Intelligence with regard to
negotiations about the pending sub-
poenas from that committee related to
the 2016 election controversies.
I haven’t received equal access, as
promised.
On August 7, 2018, I wrote to the Jus-
tice Department and pointed out that
the House Intelligence Committee re-
ceived documents related to Bruce Ohr
on May 8, 2018, that the Judiciary Com-
mittee did not receive.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:36 Mar 29, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G28MR6.012 S28MRPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2069
March 28, 2019
I ask unanimous consent to have
that letter inserted in the RECORD.
There being no objection, the mate-
rial was ordered to be printed in the
RECORD, as follows:
U.S. SENATE,
COMMITTEE ON THE JUDICIARY,
Washington, DC, August 7, 2018.
Hon. ROD J. ROSENSTEIN,
Deputy Attorney General,
U.S. Department of Justice.
DEAR DEPUTY ATTORNEY GENERAL ROSEN-
STEIN: As we have discussed on several occa-
sions, you agreed to provide the Judiciary
Committee equal access to documents pro-
duced to the U.S. House of Representatives,
including those pursuant to requests and
subpoenas from the Select Committee on In-
telligence related to 2016 election controver-
sies.
Unfortunately, even though you gave me
your word that the Committee would receive
equal access, the Department has failed to
deliver. On July 12, 2018, the New York Times
reported that the Trump Administration or-
dered ‘‘more lawmakers be given access to
classified information about an informant
the F.B.I. used in 2016 to investigate possible
ties between the Trump campaign and Rus-
sia . . .’’ The article also reported that,
‘‘[t]he F.B.I. files about the informant will
now be available to all members of the Sen-
ate and House Intelligence Committees, in-
stead of to just a group of congressional
leaders known as the Gang of Eight.’’
As you are aware, in the authorizing reso-
lution that created the Senate Intelligence
Committee, the Senate explicitly reserved
for other standing Committees, such as the
Senate Judiciary Committee, the inde-
pendent authority to ‘‘study and review any
intelligence activity’’ and ‘‘to obtain full and
prompt access to the product of the intel-
ligence activities of any department or agen-
cy,’’ when such a matter ‘‘directly affects a
matter otherwise within the jurisdiction of
such committee.’’
This Committee has jurisdiction over all
federal courts, including the Foreign Intel-
ligence Surveillance Court (FISC). Based on
public reporting, the new information pro-
vided to the Intelligence Committees ap-
pears to be relevant to an application to the
FISC, which is an issue that has already
been subject to extensive oversight by this
Committee. Some of that oversight has been
public, when possible. However, as you know,
the Committee has also conducted its over-
sight responsibilities through classified let-
ters, briefings, and document reviews. We
have respected the limitations necessary to
protect national security information. The
Department has been responsive to the Com-
mittee’s previous oversight requests and has
provided access to the FISA application and
some of the relevant background materials
on more than one occasion, which is appre-
ciated.
Yet, my Committee staff have attempted
to informally work with the Department’s
Office of Legislative Affairs to obtain the
equal access you promised to all of the rel-
evant materials, but to no avail. For exam-
ple, on March 23, 2018, the House Intelligence
Committee requested the records of nine in-
dividuals related to Steele, his dossier, or
campaign-related applications to the FISC.
The nine individuals are:
1. James Comey,
2. Andrew McCabe,
3. Peter Strzok,
4. Lisa Page,
5. Sally Moyer,
6. Bill Priestap,
7. Greg Brower,
8. James Baker,
9. Bruce Ohr.
The Department produced records to
HPSCI related to Bruce Ohr on May 8, 2018,
but initially withheld them from this Com-
mittee and denied that any records relevant
to these topics had been provided to HPSCI.
Only after Committee staff confronted De-
partment staff with the misrepresentation
were the Ohr documents finally produced to
this Committee on May 21, 2018.
Accordingly, no later than August 14,
please produce all records previously pro-
duced to HPSCI pursuant to its request and
answer the following questions:
1. Are the 63 pages of Ohr-related records
produced to this Committee on May 21, 2018,
the sum total of all responsive Ohr docu-
ments in the possession of the DOJ or the
FBI? If not, when will production of records
responsive to this request be complete?
2. When will DOJ and FBI begin producing
documents to this Committee pursuant to
this request from the other eight individ-
uals?
3. When will the Department provide in
camera review on equal terms for the mate-
rial referenced in the New York Times arti-
cle?
Please send all unclassified material di-
rectly to the Committee. In keeping with the
requirements of Executive Order 13526, if any
of the responsive documents do contain clas-
sified information, please segregate all un-
classified material within the classified doc-
uments, provide all unclassified information
directly to the Committee, and provide a
classified addendum to the Office of Senate
Security. Although the Committee complies
with all laws and regulations governing the
handling of classified information, it is not
bound, absent its prior agreement, by any
handling restrictions.
Thank you in advance for your cooperation
with this request. If you have questions,
please contact Jason Foster of my Com-
mittee staff.
Sincerely,
CHARLES E. GRASSLEY,
Chairman, Committee on the Judiciary.
Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President, the
Department flatout denied that those
records had been provided to the House
Intelligence Committee.
That wasn’t the truth.
After my staff confronted the Depart-
ment, we eventually received some
documents.
There is no reason for stonewalling;
there is no reason for lack of coopera-
tion—plain and simple.
In that August 2018 letter, I asked for
additional documents based on my
equal access agreement with Deputy
Attorney General Rosenstein. To date,
the Department still hasn’t provided a
response.
I later learned that the Justice De-
partment has taken the position that
Director Coats has prohibited them
from sharing the requested records
with the committee.
Then, in addition to the outstanding
records request, in May 2018, the Direc-
tor of National Intelligence and the
Justice Department provided a briefing
in connection with the pending House
Intelligence subpoena, to which no
Senate Judiciary Committee member
was invited.
The Judiciary Committee’s attempt
to schedule an equivalent briefing has
been ignored.
The lack of cooperation, then, obvi-
ously, as any one of the 100 Senators
would do—the bureaucracy, the face-
less bureaucrats, are forcing our hand.
Congressional oversight is a constitu-
tional requirement. It seems that in
every administration—Republican or
Democratic—I am forced to remind
them of that constitutional responsi-
bility of oversight, and that responsi-
bility cuts both ways.
The executive branch can’t hide doc-
uments from one congressional com-
mittee, especially one that clearly has
oversight jurisdiction over the matter,
and at the same time provide those
very same documents to another com-
mittee.
In this case, my colleagues on the
Senate Intelligence Committee have
received these documents. I don’t
blame them at all for getting that in-
formation. I say to them: full speed
ahead with whatever you need to do.
However, that doesn’t mean this Sen-
ator has to stand down. It is quite the
opposite. I am going to fight until I get
what has been promised to me but,
more importantly, promised to 21
members of the Judiciary Committee.
I think it is worthy of note that the
authorizing resolution that created the
Senate Intelligence Committee made
clear that other committees still have
authority to review intelligence docu-
ments.
For example, S. Res. 400 explicitly re-
serves for other standing committees,
such as the Judiciary Committee, inde-
pendent authority to ‘‘study and re-
view any intelligence activity to the
extent that such activity directly af-
fects a matter otherwise within the ju-
risdiction of such committee’’ and ‘‘to
obtain full and prompt access to the
product of the intelligence activities of
any department or any agency’’ within
that jurisdiction.
The information I seek is connected
to the Foreign Intelligence Surveil-
lance Court. That court is within the
jurisdiction of the Judiciary Com-
mittee.
Now, to be fair, the Justice Depart-
ment has provided access to FISA ap-
plications and some of the relevant
background materials on more than
one occasion. One must give credit
where credit is due. However, if they
have provided the Judiciary Com-
mittee access to that information,
what is holding them back from show-
ing us the rest? The secrecy just
doesn’t make any sense, and it is se-
crecy that often prevents account-
ability.
I will not release my hold until the
Justice Department upholds its equal
access agreement with me and the Ju-
diciary Committee.
In no way am I questioning Mr.
Evanina’s credentials. Director Coats
and others have spoken highly of him.
The fact is, if they really do believe in
his credentials, then they should
produce the requested documents they
have promised me more than once.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from New Jersey.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:36 Mar 29, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G28MR6.014 S28MRPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2070 March 28, 2019
H.R. 268
Mr. MENENDEZ. Mr. President, I am
glad to have been here to hear the dis-
tinguished chairman of the Judiciary
Committee talk about the oversight
and the responsiveness that the execu-
tive branch agencies owe to the U.S.
Senate and its committees.
In doing so, I am having a similar
problem with the State Department as
it relates to getting information about
actions that have taken place with ref-
erence to political reprisals and firings
at the State Department and subject to
being investigated right now by the in-
spector general of the State Depart-
ment and special counsel. So I can
share in his concerns about the inabil-
ity to get information from the execu-
tive branch as a legitimate exercise of
oversight.
I rise today, as I have so many times
in my career, to be the voice for the
people of Puerto Rico in the U.S. Sen-
ate.
On September 20, 2017, Hurricane
Maria—a powerful category 5 storm—
ripped through the center of the island
of Puerto Rico, wiping out its elec-
trical grid and leaving millions of
American citizens disconnected and in
the dark. This was preceded by Hurri-
cane Irma, which also struck the is-
land—a double body blow. What ensued
were months of absolute darkness, hun-
ger, despair, and death.
While the President played golf in
Mar-a-Lago, thousands of our fellow
Americans were dying due to the lack
of electricity to power oxygen tanks,
dialysis centers, or refrigerated medi-
cations—problems that, as I said at the
time, could not be solved with paper
towels.
I will never forget this moment, one
of the most insulting moments to the
people of Puerto Rico—a people who
are a part of the United States, 3.5 mil-
lion U.S. citizens who have served and
worn the uniform of this Nation, whose
names on the Vietnam Memorial here
in Washington are disproportionate to
the number of their population. The
President said:
[They] want everything to be done for
them. . . . I hate to tell you, Puerto Rico,
but you are throwing our budget out of
whack.
No other American citizen in any
other of the areas of disaster heard
anything—anything—near to that.
Today we know that nearly 3,000
Americans perished in what is now
known as one of the worst natural dis-
asters to strike our Nation in all of
American history.
Now, let me be clear. We know that a
President cannot prevent a natural dis-
aster, but when the lives of Americans
are on the line, we expect our Com-
mander in Chief to do everything in
their power to come to their aid. These
are the moments that are supposed to
reveal the very best of America. In the
face of disasters of this magnitude, we
do not turn our backs on our fellow
citizens. We face the challenge head-
on. We save as many lives as we can.
We strive to stem suffering, and we
lend a helping hand. That is the Amer-
ican way.
Just imagine how many lives could
have been saved had President Trump
directed the Federal Emergency Man-
agement Agency to give Puerto Rico
‘‘the A Plus treatment’’ he called for,
for our fellow citizens in Alabama. For
the majority Latino, Spanish-speaking
island of Puerto Rico, there was no A-
plus treatment. They got the F-minus
treatment.
The painful reality is, nothing can
ever bring the thousands of Americans
who died in Hurricane Maria back, but
that doesn’t mean the President
shouldn’t try to make things right. He
has many opportunities to atone for
his cruel and unfair treatment of the
Puerto Rican people. Instead, Presi-
dent Trump seems intent on kicking
Puerto Ricans when they are down.
Just last week, he hosted a group of
my Republican colleagues at the White
House and proceeded to complain about
how much Puerto Rico has received.
What is so disappointing is that none
of my colleagues even dared to check
the President on this issue. They didn’t
receive what he said. They received a
fraction of what he said.
This President continues to behave
as if the people who call Puerto Rico
home are not real Americans. It is al-
most as if he views himself as the real
victim here, not the 3,000 American
mothers and fathers and brothers and
sisters who perished in Hurricane
Maria’s wake.
We in the Senate have an obligation
to do what is right with this disaster
supplemental.
So let me say first that I am glad ev-
eryone here agrees Puerto Rico needs a
fully funded Nutrition Assistance Pro-
gram for the next fiscal year. Still, it
is appalling to hear the White House
call the House of Representatives bill’s
inclusion of an additional $600 million
for nutrition assistance as ‘‘excessive
and unnecessary.’’
There is nothing excessive or unnec-
essary about helping 1.35 million strug-
gling, low-income Americans in Puerto
Rico—many of them with small chil-
dren—avoid going hungry. We are talk-
ing about $649 a month for a family of
four, just $160 or so a week for the peo-
ple who need it the most.
Let’s turn for a moment to what is
missing from the Senate legislation.
First, Hurricane Maria created 6 mil-
lion cubic yards of debris for the is-
land. A year and a half later, the island
still has approximately 168,000 cubic
yards of debris stored in temporary
sites waiting to be removed.
To put that in perspective, a large
dump truck can carry 10 cubic yards.
That means it would take 16,800 dump
trucks to remove all the garbage cre-
ated by the hurricane on a small island
that barely measures 100 miles long by
35 miles wide.
Make no mistake, Puerto Rico has
made significant progress, but the crip-
pled economy has made everything
that much harder. This legislation
should help them get the job done, not
set them back.
Second, there remains hundreds of
open FEMA projects for emergency
protective measures. We are talking
about short-term locations for govern-
ment Agencies to provide vital services
as they await the completion of perma-
nent reconstruction.
We should also allow for the contin-
ued use of generators to power critical
facilities on the island. This would help
keep the public safe and provide sta-
bility to Puerto Rico’s power grid
while it is repaired. We can do this by
increasing the Federal cost waivers for
categories A and B to 100 percent, just
as the House of Representatives’ bill
does.
Congress has done this many times
before—this is not new—after Hurri-
canes Katrina, Wilma, Dennis, and
Rita, and Puerto Rico deserves no less.
In the bipartisan Budget Act we
passed last year, we specifically au-
thorized FEMA to waive Stafford Act
requirements so they could replace and
repair facilities in a way that reflects
today’s industry standards, not their
previous subpar condition. Yet I keep
hearing of FEMA’s nickel-and-diming
over what it may fix and what Puerto
Rico may not fix.
So let’s end the ambiguity. Let’s fix
this language. Let’s send a clear mes-
sage that it was always Congress’s in-
tent to rebuild Puerto Rico stronger
and more resilient than ever.
No one wants to face the same kind
of damage next hurricane season. As it
is said, an ounce of prevention is worth
a pound of cure.
So let’s properly fund the Army
Corps of Engineers so they can help re-
build the Cano Martin Pena, which
continues to flood over with raw sew-
age, imperiling 26,000 American lives
with unsanitary conditions and breed-
ing grounds for mosquito-transmitted
diseases like Zika.
These are the kind of measures that
would be stripped from the House bill
by the pending substitute. It is just not
right. It is just not right. These 3.5 mil-
lion U.S. citizens have worn the uni-
form of the United States, have de-
fended this Nation, going back to when
Congress gave the all-Puerto Rican
regiment, the ‘‘Borinqueneers,’’ the
highest commendation it can, the Con-
gressional Gold Medal, but that doesn’t
mean anything if you turn your back
on 3.5 million U.S. citizens. It doesn’t
mean anything if you treat them as
second-class citizens. It is just fun-
damentally biased and wrong.
Come September, we will have to
congregate once again to talk about
the island’s crumbling medical infra-
structure and the need to provide Puer-
to Rico with additional Medicaid fund-
ing. We can solve that problem today
by adding critical Medicaid funding for
the territories.
Puerto Rico is clearly a subject of
angst and resentment for the Presi-
dent. I don’t know why, but it is clear-
ly so. So I suggest we do him a favor,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:36 Mar 29, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G28MR6.016 S28MRPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2071
March 28, 2019
spare him the worry, and get the job
done ourselves today. Let’s do what is
right.
I urge my colleagues to vote against
cloture on the substitute, let the un-
derlying bill stand, and let us move for-
ward so we act in the name of our Na-
tion. It is the United States of Amer-
ica. We leave no American behind, and
we should leave none of the 3.5 million
Americans in Puerto Rico behind.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Texas.
HURRICANE HARVEY AMENDMENT
Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, in 2017,
I said on the Senate floor that we need-
ed to come together to help rebuild in
the wake of Hurricane Harvey in the
Houston area and that our work was
not complete and more work needed to
be done. That, unfortunately, still is
true today.
It is true also for the damage caused
by other natural disasters during the
same timeframe that was appropriated
by Congress but has not yet found its
way to the intended beneficiaries. Al-
though we voted to send billions of dol-
lars to help Texans still reeling from
Hurricane Harvey, some of those funds
are still needlessly caught up in bu-
reaucratic redtape.
This is not just a phenomenon that
affects my State. It affects all of our
States. This is not acceptable to me,
and it isn’t acceptable to the people I
represent—all 28 million of them—and
it shouldn’t be acceptable to Members
of the Senate.
This storm ravaged the Texas coast
and was the largest rain event in
American history, with parts of South-
east Texas seeing 60 inches of rain over
about a 5- or 6-day period. It destroyed
people’s homes, their businesses, and
our communities.
In the wake of the storm, we all
pulled together in Congress, in an un-
usually bipartisan manner, to provide
billions of dollars in disaster aid. Like
I said, it wasn’t just for Texas. It was
for Florida, Puerto Rico, for wildfires
out in California, and other places that
suffered from natural disasters.
The dollars we appropriated, and
were signed into law by the President,
have helped Texans get back to some
sense of normalcy, and I am grateful to
my colleagues for working together
with us to make that happen. What has
not been helpful, however, are the un-
necessary delays on the part of the Of-
fice of Management and Budget in get-
ting the roughly $4 billion in mitiga-
tion funds into the hands of State and
local communities that desperately
need them.
I have searched in vain in the Con-
stitution for where the Office of Man-
agement and Budget has the power to
veto appropriations bills passed by
Congress and signed into law by the
President. I can’t find it. Yet they are
still the impediment to the execution
of Congress’s intent to get the money
to the people who need it.
The intent of Congress was crystal
clear in the February 2018 disaster sup-
plemental, when we appropriated about
$12 billion of community development
block grants for disaster recovery.
As I said, the undue delay is unac-
ceptable, and I am filing an amend-
ment to the disaster relief that is on
the floor of the Senate this week to en-
sure that these funds and other like
funds are properly disbursed.
Last month, Governor Abbott, Sen-
ator CRUZ, and I wrote a letter to the
OMB to stop stalling, but so far all we
have heard is crickets.
The amendment we will file will start
a timer on when the Federal Govern-
ment must release funds appropriated
by Congress. It will give the govern-
ment bureaucracy up to 90 days to get
the money untangled from all the red-
tape and to get it to the communities
that desperately need it. This 90-day
rule wouldn’t just apply to this par-
ticular block of funding; it would apply
to any funds that are now being with-
held by the Office of Management and
Budget that Congress appropriates to
these States.
As I said, last time I checked, Con-
gress had the power of the purse, not
the Office of Management and Budget.
I don’t know about the rest of my col-
leagues, but I am not OK with letting
OMB dictate when and how duly appro-
priated funds are released to the in-
tended beneficiaries.
The disregard of those who are still
struggling to rebuild and prepare for
future storms by the bureaucrats is ap-
palling. They know the kinds of hard-
ships my constituents are facing, and
they know that Hurricane Harvey will
not be the last hurricane to hit Texas.
It is time to do what is right by our
State and local communities who have
seen their livelihoods rot in a fleet of
floodwater.
It has now been more than a year
since President Trump signed a bill
that would have sent roughly $4 billion
to Texas. Imagine what could have
been accomplished with that money in
the meantime. They could have re-
paired wastewater treatment facilities
that haven’t been fully restored. It
could have led to important economic
revitalization projects in decimated
areas. They could have even relocated
or elevated damaged facilities to pre-
pare for the next storm. But, no—those
projects are still on hold because the
OMB has refused to release the fund-
ing.
The 2019 hurricane season is fast ap-
proaching, and it is critical we get
work done on long-term projects to
protect my State and the Texas coast
against future storms.
It is difficult to plan for the future
with the resources we need being
caught up in bureaucratic limbo. We
have been waiting to get to the place
where before Harvey and after Harvey
isn’t such a stark difference.
With the inclusion of my amend-
ment, the clock will start ticking on
the Office of Management and Budget
to do its job and ultimately release
these hurricane recovery funds. Texas
communities have waited long enough.
BORDER SECURITY
Mr. President, I want to draw atten-
tion to another group of people who
need our help, and those are the offi-
cers and agents of the U.S. Customs
and Border Protection.
Yesterday, Commissioner McAleenan
announced that Customs and Border
Protection is facing an ‘‘unprecedented
humanitarian and border security cri-
sis all along our Southwest border,’’
and he provided some alarming statis-
tics.
Yesterday morning, CBP had more
than 13,000 migrants under their care.
Under normal circumstances, a high
number is 4,000. They consider 6,000 to
be a crisis, and now they have more
than double that. Yesterday, the Com-
missioner said that we are at a ‘‘break-
ing point’’ along the border.
Frankly, because the American peo-
ple aren’t acquainted with some of the
details, they may think that CBP can
easily handle 13,000 people in their cus-
tody on a given day, but, unfortu-
nately, that is not the case.
CBP’s detention facilities are rel-
atively small, built for the short-term
detention of single adults. The current
immigrant surge from Central America
is primarily of children and family
units and has put these small facilities
at overcapacity levels. Processing
times have slowed due to the large
number of people being processed and
the lack of Border Patrol personnel to
process them.
As the Chief of the Border Patrol has
testified before the Senate Judiciary
Committee, this is intentional on be-
half of the transnational criminal orga-
nizations that are responsible for
transporting people from Central
America to our borders. This is a mon-
eymaking proposition. If you can
charge $5,000 or more a head for every
person you deliver to our border, that
is a big, big deal. These people are not
just involved in transporting immi-
grants. They are engaged in trafficking
of human beings for sex or involuntary
servitude, and they are also engaged in
trafficking drugs.
I will remind all of us that last year,
70,000-plus Americans died from drug
overdoses—70,000 Americans died from
drug overdoses last year—according to
the Centers for Disease Control. A sub-
stantial portion of that was part of the
opioid crisis, not just prescription
drugs but also synthetic fentanyl as
well as heroin. Ninety percent of the
heroin that comes into the United
States comes across the U.S.-Mexico
border. As President Obama himself
said in 2014, this is truly a humani-
tarian and security crisis, but it is on
steroids today.
On Monday, CBP had the highest to-
tals of apprehensions in more than a
decade, and on Tuesday, they broke
that record. Daily averages for border
apprehensions are higher than we have
seen at any time since 2006.
Last month, CBP apprehended 76,000
people in 1 month on our southern bor-
der—the highest monthly total in over
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:36 Mar 29, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G28MR6.017 S28MRPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2072 March 28, 2019
a decade. Yesterday, Commissioner
McAleenan, announced that, in March,
they are on track to beat that record
with 100,000 apprehensions along our
southwest border. That is 76,000 appre-
hensions in February and an estimated
100,000 in March.
As a result of the surge, because the
Border Patrol has to do something, 40
percent of the Border Patrol’s man-
power is now spent processing immi-
grants and providing care and trans-
portation. In other words, they are not
engaged in their primary mission,
which is border security, because they
are busy handing out juice boxes and
diapers to children, as well as proc-
essing the immigrants who are pro-
viding other transportation.
The Border Patrol simply doesn’t
have the resources, nor should it be ex-
pected to have the resources, to handle
this crisis and perform their primary
duty, which is to protect our border.
We know that detention centers are at
or over capacity, and local charities
and nongovernmental Agencies are
strained, as well, and all of our border
communities are being overrun by hu-
manity.
Recently, Senator CRUZ and I were
down at the Sarita checkpoint to name
that checkpoint after a heroic Border
Patrol agent who was killed by two il-
legal aliens. We were approached by
the chief of police from McAllen—
somebody who is well respected in law
enforcement circles in our State—who
said that because the Border Patrol is
simply unable to process all of these
people, and they are being released into
those communities or put on a bus and
sent to places like San Antonio, they
are increasingly worried about public
safety. That is notwithstanding the
fact that many of our border commu-
nities are extraordinarily safe, at least
on our side of the border. If you go on
the Mexican side of the border, they
are some of the most dangerous cities
in our hemisphere.
This is having a profound impact on
our local communities, on the men and
women of the Customs and Border Pa-
trol. Frankly, it should be an embar-
rassment to us here in this country
that we haven’t dealt with this in a
more timely and more effective way.
Because the cartels have figured this
out, people crossing the border today
are largely families and unaccom-
panied minors because of the special
way they have to be processed and be-
cause of a consent decree called the
Flores decision, which says you can’t
detain them for more than 20 days.
That is not enough time to get them in
front of an immigration judge in order
to adjudicate their asylum claim, so
they are released into the interior of
the United States. Guess what. Over-
whelmingly, they don’t show up for
their court hearings because they real-
ize they have beat the system. The car-
tels know that because of the money
they make. They are exploiting these
vulnerabilities in our laws and in our
infrastructure. The only people who
can fix that are Congress and the Presi-
dent, working together in a bipartisan
way.
I know we have had a big debate over
border barriers—walls, fences, you
name it—but, frankly, you could build
all the barriers you want along our
southwest border, and it will not stop
this flow of unaccompanied minors and
family units because, frankly, they are
showing up at the border, and they are
turning themselves in. So we need to
act.
Two weeks ago, Ms. Nielsen, Sec-
retary of the Department of Homeland
Security, said: ‘‘The situation on our
southern border has gone from a crisis,
to a national emergency, to a near sys-
tem-wide meltdown.’’
Our Democratic colleagues have
called this a fake emergency. They
have opposed treating this crisis for
what it is. It is even more than an
emergency; it is a total system failure,
and the only people who can fix it are
Congress, working with the President.
I am not sure how much longer our
Democratic colleagues could be in de-
nial when we see this flood of human-
ity coming across in higher and higher
numbers every day.
The issue is staring us in the face.
The numbers confirm what we have
said all along: This is a border security
and humanitarian crisis.
Secretary Nielsen made an important
point that our communities, our mem-
bers of law enforcement, and the immi-
grants themselves are paying the price
for our inaction.
We have heard it from people at the
border who know how to fix the prob-
lem, and we need to listen. They have
told us time and again that it will take
a combination of technology, physical
infrastructure, and boots on the
ground. It will also take legislative ac-
tion to fill the gaps in our laws that we
know exist and are being exploited by
the cartels.
I want to commend the men and
women of Customs and Border Patrol
for working around the clock in a
thankless job but in an important job.
Frankly, I am embarrassed that they
haven’t seen more support by the peo-
ple who represent them in Congress.
We have sent them out on a losing
battle unless we can work together
here in Congress to give them the re-
sources and the legislative fixes they
need.
I want to assure these dedicated men
and women that we are trying, but we
need their help to talk to their elected
Representatives here in Congress. We
need Ms. PELOSI to consider this the
same humanitarian crisis that Presi-
dent Obama identified back in 2014,
when he called it a humanitarian and
security crisis. By any measure, it has
gotten much, much worse. We need to
give this crisis the serious attention
that it deserves.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mrs.
FISCHER). The clerk will call the roll.
The bill clerk proceeded to call the
roll.
Ms. KLOBUCHAR. Madam President,
I ask unanimous consent that the order
for the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
UNANIMOUS CONSENT REQUEST—H. CON. RES. 24
Ms. KLOBUCHAR. Madam President,
I rise today to discuss transparency in
our democracy and security for our
elections.
It has been nearly a week since Spe-
cial Counsel Mueller’s report was com-
pleted and submitted to the Attorney
General of the United States. We still
have not seen the report. I have urged
the Department of Justice to release
the report, and the administration
should not delay in producing the re-
port to Congress. We know the Amer-
ican people want to know what is in
the report. According to some public
opinion polls, nearly 90 percent of them
have said they want to know what is in
the report. We also know that 420 Mem-
bers of the House of Representatives
voted that the report should be made
public.
We cannot get ourselves out of the
mode of remembering that a foreign
power invaded our election. Some peo-
ple call it meddling. That is what I do
when I call my daughter on a Saturday
night and ask her what she is doing. I
call it an invasion of our democracy.
We have learned from the intel-
ligence heads under both Barack
Obama and Donald Trump, including
former Senator Coats, who told us that
this has happened, and, in fact, the
Russians are getting even bolder. That
is what he told us. That is why I think
it is very important, putting every-
thing else aside, that we find out the
facts in this report.
There have been indictments that
have come out of this investigation—
dozens of indictments. They made it
clear that the unprecedented inter-
ference in the 2016 election was de-
signed by the Kremlin with the goal of
making Americans lose faith in our
election system, whether you are a
Democrat, a Republican, or an Inde-
pendent.
We know from the intelligence heads
and from some of the indictments that
have been made public that they did
this in many ways. We have learned
that the Russians tried to hack into
the actual election equipment of 21
States and that in Illinois, they got as
far as the voter files. What does that
mean? If we could get more facts about
that since that was actually—the hack-
ing of the campaigns and elections was
referenced in Attorney General Barr’s
four-page letter. Well, if we knew more
facts, it might help Senator LANKFORD
and me to pass our bill, the Secure
Elections Act. We have the support of
Senator BURR and Senator WARNER, as
well as Senator HARRIS and Senator
GRAHAM. Maybe it would help us con-
vince the leader that we should have a
vote on the simple concept of having
backup paper ballots and audits. Maybe
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:36 Mar 29, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00010 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G28MR6.020 S28MRPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2073
March 28, 2019
it would help us convince the public to
put pressure on the White House not to
block that bill.
It doesn’t matter what political
party you are in—we all want to have
secure elections. None of us want to
have a situation where there is one
county or one State in which elections
get screwed up because someone
hacked into them.
The other thing that we learned and
got confirmed in the four-page letter
was that we know there was hacking
into a political campaign, right? Well,
we want to know the facts about that.
Again, as people have noticed, there
are a lot of people running for office—
not just for President but for the U.S.
Senate and the House of Representa-
tives—and certainly the American peo-
ple and the people who work in the
Congress have the right to know ex-
actly what happened. That was one of
the major reasons we had this inves-
tigation in the first place.
There was something else that was
mentioned in the four-page letter that
we all want to have more details about;
that is, another way Russia tried to in-
fluence our election was through the
spread of false propaganda on the inter-
net, right? We have now seen the ads.
We have seen them in sworn hearings.
One of the ones that I will never forget
is one that was Russian sponsored,
which was a picture of an African-
American woman, and it basically
said—I am paraphrasing—‘‘Why wait in
line? You can text your vote for Hil-
lary Clinton,’’ with a texting number
on it. That is a crime. That is illegal.
That was one of the ads the Russians
put into our system.
We know that they put false issue
ads out there to divide Americans—
sometimes from the left, trying to
make it like they were looking from
the left, and sometimes from the right.
They were simply trying to sow discord
in our great democracy.
Our democracy is fragile. Our democ-
racy is something that we cherish. Our
democracy must be protected. That is
why, if we could get this full report,
that would help us greatly to perhaps
step back and look at the Honest Ads
Act. That is a bill which I had with
Senator McCain and Senator WARNER,
and we have a number of Republicans
who are actually cosponsoring it in the
House of Representatives.
I think getting more details here
would help to make the case that be-
fore the 2020 election—we know that in
2016 alone, $1.4 billion was spent on
internet advertising, on social media
platforms, such as Facebook and Twit-
ter, and we didn’t know who was pay-
ing for it. We later found out that some
of it was in rubles. How obvious can
you get? And then also we didn’t even
know what the ads were because they
just vanished from the internet.
So when we first proposed this bill,
people said: Oh, you are trying to regu-
late. Well, guess what. Things changed
after Cambridge Analytica, and we sud-
denly got growing support for this idea
that the same rules that apply to news-
paper and TV and radio should apply to
internet platforms. Now, a number of
the major platforms are doing it them-
selves, although they vary in what
they do and it is a patchwork. Also,
major CEOs of these companies are
saying they now support this bill.
The time has come—in fact, we are
running out of time—to put the rules
in place on issue ads and candidate ads.
I believe it is not just selfishly what I
want to get done; it is something that
a lot of people in this Chamber want to
get done, and that is, making sure our
next election is protected from foreign
influence on the propaganda side, on
the election security side, and on the
hacking side. Getting the full report
will help us make the case. It will help
us figure out exactly what happened.
As I mentioned, there are many peo-
ple—420 in the House of Representa-
tives—who said they want to see it.
Congress should be able to see the full,
unredacted report without delay. We
are a coequal branch of government
and have received unredacted grand
jury and classified information in the
past. But more than Congress, the pub-
lic should be able to see this. That is
why the House voted 420 to 0—we don’t
get that kind of vote on a volleyball
resolution—in support of publicly re-
leasing the report. Members standing
in the way of this report becoming pub-
lic will have to explain why to the
American people.
We know we can do two things at
once in this Chamber or maybe 20
things at once. We know the impor-
tance right now of making sure we
don’t repeal the Affordable Care Act,
which is why 2 nights ago I was here at
this very desk until late at night read-
ing 100 letters from people who opposed
repealing the Affordable Care Act be-
cause of the protection it gives them to
not get kicked off their health insur-
ance. We know how important it is to
finally do something about prescrip-
tion drugs. We know how important it
is to work on advancing an optimistic
economic agenda for the people of this
country. At the same time, we also
have to protect the public’s right to
know. We have to protect the security
in many ways—security of our country
abroad, our military—and make sure
we are protecting the very democracy
that is at the core of this country. The
way to do that is to make sure no for-
eign power messes with our election.
There are hundreds of pages in this
report. There are hundreds of people
who were interviewed. All of us are a
little in the dark, especially those peo-
ple who are not on the committees that
receive classified information. There
are many people who would like to
know exactly what went down. If I
were the secretary of state in one of
our States, whether it be the State of
Arkansas or the State of Arizona, I
would want to know what happened be-
cause I, if I am the secretary of state,
am responsible for my State’s election
security.
We urge the Attorney General to do
everything he can to make this report
public. Now that the special counsel
has completed his investigation, we
must see the report.
I ask unanimous consent that the
Senate proceed to the immediate con-
sideration of H. Con. Res. 24, expressing
the sense of Congress that the report of
Special Counsel Mueller should be
made available to the public and to
Congress, which is at the desk; further,
that the concurrent resolution be
agreed to, the preamble be agreed to,
and the motions to reconsider be con-
sidered made and laid upon the table
with no intervening action or debate.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
objection?
The Senator from Kentucky.
Mr. PAUL. Reserving the right to ob-
ject, I think we all want transparency.
I think we all want reports to be re-
vealed. We think the American people
deserve to know what happened with
the Russians hacking into Democratic
emails and with the Russian involve-
ment in trying to affect the outcome of
our elections. I think we all want that.
What do we know so far? We know
that we spent $30 million to investigate
this, and they have decided and con-
cluded—after doing hundreds of inter-
views and thousands of subpoenas, they
have concluded that President Trump
did not collude with the Russians, did
not conspire with the Russians, did not
commit a crime with the Russians, and
the President has said repeatedly he
never talked to the Russians. We do
know that. That is what we know so
far.
But now that we know that, in addi-
tion to the Mueller report, we also need
to know: Was there malfeasance? Was
there misuse of government power? Did
President Obama’s administration get
involved in an election to actually try
to manipulate and infiltrate the Trump
campaign to entrap them or try to
spread information that was incorrect?
We need to know that.
So I am asking the Senator by unani-
mous consent to accept my amend-
ment, which would say that not only
will we see the Mueller report, but we
will also see the communications be-
tween John Brennan, known to have
already lied to the Senate about spying
on Senate computers, and James Clap-
per, also known to have lied to the
Senate in testimony over the bulk col-
lection of phone records, and their
communications with James Comey,
who is known to have illegally leaked
information about this investigation to
the press—that their communications
become known to all of us.
We need to know why they decided
that the fake Russian dossier was real.
The country had concluded it wasn’t.
No media outlet would produce the
Russian dossier because it was so un-
verifiable. Yet the FBI head and the
CIA head kept sending the dossier out
to people, having it come back to them
again, saying: Oh, my goodness, look at
what this Senator gave us. It was what
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:36 Mar 29, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00011 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G28MR6.021 S28MRPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2074 March 28, 2019
they already had that nobody was be-
lieving and nobody was discounting
and now the Mueller report has said
was fake, was made up. The dossier was
not true, but that is what began this
entire investigation.
Why should we know about this? Be-
cause we don’t want this to happen
every 2 to 4 years. I don’t care whether
it is a Democrat President or Repub-
lican President. We should not waste
the time of the entire country sending
spies into campaigns, making false ac-
cusations, and tying the country in
knots for 2 years. Tying us in knots
such that people are at each other’s
throats and will not talk to each other
because we spread this false narrative
that President Trump had something
to do with the Russians. It was not
true. We spent $30 million and now we
know it is not true.
So I ask unanimous consent that my
amendment be added to the current
resolution.
We will agree to see the Mueller re-
port as long as the other side will agree
to show us the communications that
took place in deciding to promote this
fake allegation against the President.
We want to know whether there was
misuse of their office. If that is al-
lowed, then I will agree to the consent
request.
I would ask unanimous consent that
my amendment be added to the Sen-
ator’s resolution.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
objection?
Ms. KLOBUCHAR. Reserving the
right to object, I would simply point
out that this entire investigation was
started by the Justice Department
under the Republican administration,
and then, of course, guided by Deputy
Attorney General Rod Rosenstein, who
was appointed by the President.
I will note that this is a simple reso-
lution to just get the report. We may
not agree with the foundation of this
investigation, but we are simply trying
to get the fruits of the investigation,
which I believe will be helpful to this
Chamber to figure out what we should
do to protect our national security.
We are simply trying to adopt and
consider the House resolution, which
again was voted on 420 to 0, including
all Republicans present. The House
voted 420 to 0 to see the report. That is
why I was simply hoping that we could
do this on a bipartisan basis and try to
see the report ourselves.
Therefore, I object.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Objec-
tion is heard.
Is there objection to the original re-
quest?
Mr. PAUL. Reserving the right to ob-
ject.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Kentucky.
Mr. PAUL. The Senator made one
point that the investigation was begun
under Republicans of this dossier.
The Mueller report and the Mueller
aspect of this was begun under Repub-
licans, but the actual investigation—
the promoting, the passing around of
the fake Russian dossier—occurred
under President Obama’s administra-
tion.
What we need to discover and what
we do not yet know is, Was President
Obama involved? Was this done for par-
tisan purposes? Was this done to try to
elect Hillary Clinton? Was this done
with mal intent?
We need to know the truth, and to
get to the truth, we need not only the
Mueller report, but we need every
ounce of information about the people
at the very top of our intelligence com-
munity who were promoting the inclu-
sion of this fake dossier that most
American media outlets had discounted
as unverifiable and that turned out to
be unverifiable.
We based this investigation on a lie.
We should investigate who the liars
were.
I object.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Objec-
tion is heard.
The Senator from Minnesota.
Ms. KLOBUCHAR. Madam President,
if my Republican colleagues don’t want
to read the report and they want to
rely on a summary, that is their right,
and they can make requests in the fu-
ture. I am sure they can get all of that
in the future, but all I am simply ask-
ing for right now is that whether you
agreed with this investigation or not,
the public have the right to see the
hundreds of pages that may well help
us understand what Russia did.
I believe our constitutional duty re-
quires us to have the report and the
American people do not deserve to be
left in the dark about what the report
says.
I hope that it will be made public
very soon, and I hope the Attorney
General of the United States under-
stands there are a number of us who
would like to see a full unredacted re-
port, and there are a whole lot of peo-
ple who would like to see it as well.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The bill clerk proceeded to call the
roll.
Mr. DURBIN. Madam President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
MOMMA’S ACT
Mr. DURBIN. Madam President, if
you had to pick a country—anywhere
in the world—where you faced a serious
illness, you are likely to pick the
United States. Here we have some of
the greatest hospitals, doctors, and
some of the greatest research institu-
tions in the world. In some other coun-
tries, they certainly have good medical
care, but if you could only pick one, I
certainly would pick this country, the
United States of America. That is why
it is kind of surprising to learn that
when it comes to some basic indicators
of how well we are doing in the United
States compared to other countries,
there are some surprising answers.
We are facing a public health crisis in
this country today that is often over-
looked and ignored, and it is one I am
sure will touch each and every one of
us. It is the issue of maternal and in-
fant health.
Too often in our country, new moth-
ers and their babies—especially women
and babies of color—are dying from
completely preventable health com-
plications. Take this statistic to heart:
The United States is only 1 of 13 coun-
tries in the world where the death rate
of new mothers is worse today than it
was 25 years ago. How can it be pos-
sible that in the United States of
America, mothers are dying at a rate
worse than it was 25 years ago? Nation-
wide, more than 700 women die every
year as a result of pregnancy. More
than 70,000 others experience severe,
near-fatal complications. In my State
of Illinois, 73 women die every year due
to pregnancy-related complications,
and 70 percent of those deaths are pre-
ventable.
Not only are we losing these new
moms, we are losing their babies.
Every year, more than 23,000 infants
die in the United States largely due to
factors that could be prevented. Some
of them are birth defects which could
be detected in utero, preterm birth, low
birth rate, and maternal complica-
tions. Here is a startling statistic. The
United States of America—our home;
this great Nation of plenty—ranks 32
out of 35 wealthy Nations when it
comes to infant mortality. Is it pos-
sible? If so, what are we going to do
about it?
The tragedy of maternal and infant
mortality is even more pronounced
when you look at mothers of babies of
color. Black infants in America are
twice as likely to die as White infants.
That racial disparity is greater today
than it was in the year 1850. Nation-
wide, women of color are three to four
times more likely than White women
to die as a result of their pregnancy. In
Illinois, African-American women are
six times more likely than White
women to die of pregnancy-related
complications.
Something has to be done. That is
why, this week, I joined with Congress-
woman ROBIN KELLY, Senator
DUCKWORTH, and others introducing
what we call the MOMMA’s Act. First
and foremost, our bill would expand
the length of time a new mom can keep
her Medicaid healthcare coverage.
More than half of the babies born my
State of Illinois are to mothers who are
covered by Medicaid—health insurance
for those who are not wealthy and
don’t have access to private health in-
surance. The Medicaid Program covers
more than half of the babies and moth-
ers as they go through the birthing
process.
Do you know what happens to Med-
icaid under the current law? Two
months after the baby is born, the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:36 Mar 29, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00012 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G28MR6.026 S28MRPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2075
March 28, 2019
mothers are cut off. Our bill would ex-
pand that to a year. Given that 60 per-
cent of maternal deaths occur in the
weeks and months after delivery, it is
imperative that these new moms have
the protection of Medicaid longer than
60 days.
We understand that many States’
Medicaid Programs, including my own,
are strapped for cash. Our bill will pay
for itself by increasing Federal tobacco
taxes. That is right. This Senator just
called for an increase in taxes. You bet
I did. The last time we dramatically in-
creased the Federal tobacco tax was to
create the Children’s Health Insurance
Program.
Is it worth it for kids to be born
healthy and live to their full terms in
life? Of course.
Given that Big Tobacco and its
vaping interest have made billions of
dollars at the expense of children and,
I might add, of the African-American
community, we believe they should
help pay for this undertaking. As I
said, in 2009 that is exactly what we did
to create the Children’s Health Insur-
ance Program.
Next, the MOMMA Act would im-
prove access to doulas. Too often,
Black women are not listened to or
taken seriously by healthcare pro-
viders. Doulas can help to provide edu-
cation, advocacy, and support for
women whose voices are often ignored.
To this point, our bill would also im-
prove implicit bias and cultural com-
petency training among healthcare
providers. Sadly, the United States is
still struggling with racial bias in
healthcare.
Finally, our bill would improve hos-
pital coordination and the reporting on
maternal health outcomes, and it
would ensure the widespread adoption
and implementation of services to im-
prove care.
If you have listened to the speech so
far, you are probably thinking there is
one thing he didn’t mention—that
many of those African-American
women are in poverty, that they are
low-income women. That probably ex-
plains why they don’t have adequate
care during their pregnancies or ade-
quate care for their new children.
That is what I had concluded, but it
is wrong. The statistics I have given
you about racial disparity do not link
up with one’s economic status. Even
African-American mothers who have
high incomes and high educations are
facing the same threats of maternal
mortality. It is not driven by income
or poverty. There is something more to
the story. Don’t we owe it to ourselves
to look at it?
There are issues that divide this
Chamber, and one of the issues, of
course, is abortion. There are people
with differing views on both sides of
the aisle. It is always a contentious de-
bate, but can’t we all agree—pro-choice
and pro-life—that we ought to focus on
this, on the mothers who are delivering
babies, to make sure that the mom sur-
vives and that the baby survives? That
is what this act is all about, the
MOMMA Act.
There are 23,000 infants and 700 new
moms who die each year in the United
States—some of the worst statistics in
the world. We could prevent them with
screenings, interventions, and the right
healthcare. On a bipartisan basis, I can
think of no better way to help babies
and moms than to keep them alive and
healthy, and that is what the MOMMA
Act would do.
WOMEN’S HISTORY MONTH
Mr. President, on June 26, 1913, on a
beautiful day in Springfield, IL, Gov-
ernor Edward Dunne signed into law a
bill making Illinois the first State east
of the Mississippi where women could
vote.
It was not equal voting rights, to be
sure.
The new law gave Illinois women the
right to vote only for Presidential elec-
tors and most local offices—but not for
Governor, State representatives or
Members of Congress. Still, it was his-
toric.
Word of the milestone sped around
the world.
When the legendary Chicago humani-
tarian Jane Addams—the first Amer-
ican woman to receive the Nobel Peace
Prize—announced the news at an inter-
national suffragette conference in Bu-
dapest, delegates roared with approval.
The suffragettes’ battle to achieve
even limited voting rights was long—it
took nearly 60 years—and bitterly
fought.
The first time the suffragettes took
their campaign to Chicago’s street cor-
ners, in 1910, they were ignored by
some and derided by many—including
many women.
When Illinois suffragettes traveled by
train to Washington in 1913 to lobby
President Woodrow Wilson for voting
rights for all American women, their
train stopped at Harper’s Ferry, WV—
this same place where fiery aboli-
tionist John Brown made his stand
against slavery.
As they spoke publicly for voting
rights, the women were pelted with
snowballs by men and boys, but they
didn’t back down.
In Washington, D.C., suffragettes
from Illinois and other States encoun-
tered angry mobs and police who re-
fused to intervene.
More than 100 women ended up in
hospitals. Still, the women didn’t re-
treat.
In 1914, 200,000 women registered to
vote in Chicago, and eight women ran
for aldermanic seats.
Five years later, on June 10, 1919, Illi-
nois became the first State in the Na-
tion to ratify the 19th Amendment to
the United States Constitution, giving
all American women the right to vote
in all elections.
That is a distinction we are proud of.
By 1920, the 19th Amendment was rati-
fied by the necessary two-thirds of
States.
Next year, we will celebrate the 100th
anniversary of the women’s right to
vote in America.
As this Women’s History Month
draws to a close, I want to take a few
moments to recall the courageous
women who have helped advance the
cause of freedom in my State and in
our Nation and the women who con-
tinue to shape our Nation’s shared des-
tiny.
This Congress—the 116th Congress—
includes more women than any Con-
gress in our Nation’s history. In the
House, America’s first woman Speaker,
Nancy Pelosi, returned to her leader-
ship post with 102 women as her col-
leagues.
Here in the Senate, we now have 25
women Senators—the most in our Na-
tion’s history.
The congressional delegation from
my home State of Illinois also has
more women members than ever be-
fore—including the youngest African-
American woman ever elected to Con-
gress: Representative Lauren Under-
wood, but we still have a long way to
go to reach true gender equality in
America.
This Congress may include record
numbers of women, but women still
make up only 25 percent of the Senate
and less than that—a little over 23 per-
cent—in the House. Those numbers
ought to be higher.
The number of women serving in
State legislatures has quintupled since
1971. Women now make up nearly 29
percent of State legislatures today.
In Illinois, women make up one-third
of the General Assembly. That’s
progress, but all States—including Illi-
nois—can and must do a better job of
recruiting, supporting, and electing
women leaders.
Women are making history in other
professions and other ways, too.
More than 200,000 women serve in the
U.S. military today, and America has
1.6 million women veterans. My friend
and fellow Senator from Illinois,
TAMMY DUCKWORTH, is one of those vet-
erans. She is amazing. She lost both
legs when a Blackhawk helicopter she
was co-piloting was shot down in Iraq.
As soon as she healed from her injuries,
she asked: ‘‘What else can I do to help
other veterans and help my country?’’
I encourage the Department of De-
fense to do more to harness the patri-
otism and talent of American women
by opening more combat roles to
women.
It has been said before, and I agree:
You can measure a nation’s character
and its hopes for a better future by how
it treats women and girls.
While America has made great
progress, in gender equality, especially
in the last two generations, we still
have far to go.
It has been nearly 60 years since
President Kennedy signed the Equal
Pay Act into law in 1963. Yet American
women in general still earn only 80
cents for every dollar earned by men.
For women of color, the gap is even
greater; African American women earn
only 61 cents, and Latina women earn
only 53 cents for every dollar a White
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:02 Mar 29, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00013 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G28MR6.027 S28MRPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2076 March 28, 2019
man makes. These disparities persist
even among women and men who do
the same or comparable work. That is
wrong, and we need to close the pay
fairness gap.
Many women across the country still
lack access to affordable healthcare,
including reproductive health care
services.
Roe v. Wade was decided more than
40 years ago, but attacks on access
have limited a woman’s right to choose
in many States, and too many women,
especially women of color, are dying
during or shortly after childbirth.
Here is a sobering fact: The United
States is one of only 13 countries in the
world where the maternal mortality
rate is worse now than it was 25 years
ago. Every year, more than 700 women
in our Nation—most of them women of
color—die as a result of their preg-
nancies, with more than 60 percent of
these deaths being completely prevent-
able.
This is unacceptable. Having a baby
anywhere, especially in the United
States, should not be a death sentence.
We must do better.
The Equal Rights Amendment has
been waiting for passage since the
1920s. My home State of Illinois finally
ratified it last year.
Here is an idea. Let us work together
to ratify the Equal Rights Amendment
in this Congress.
For the 100th anniversary of women’s
voting rights in America let’s pass the
ERA. If we truly believe in gender
equality, let’s put it in writing in the
U.S. Constitution.
Let’s not just celebrate Women’s His-
tory Month; let’s build on women’s his-
torical successes and make this an
even more perfect Union.
MUELLER REPORT
Last Friday, Attorney General Wil-
liam Barr announced that Special
Counsel Bob Mueller had submitted a
lengthy report from his investigation
to the Attorney General.
On Sunday, Attorney General Barr
sent another letter to Congress sum-
marizing Mr. Barr’s view of the ‘‘prin-
cipal conclusions’’ of the Mueller re-
port.
This letter is very troubling, particu-
larly because the Attorney General in-
serted his own judgment about poten-
tial obstruction of justice by the Presi-
dent rather than letting the Mueller
report speak for itself.
I have said repeatedly that I trust
Bob Mueller. I believed he could be
trusted to do a thorough and fair inves-
tigation into what happened with Rus-
sian meddling in the 2016 election. I
still feel that way.
We have now heard Attorney General
Barr’s description of what Special
Counsel Mueller found, but, respect-
fully, that is not good enough.
The American people need to hear
Special Counsel Mueller’s description
of what he found.
Attorney General Barr is a political
appointee. The reason a special counsel
was appointed in this case was to take
politics out of the investigation.
The Mueller report needs to be made
public without delay. That is what we
need to have confidence in the outcome
of this investigation. The House of
Representatives voted 420 to 0 for mak-
ing the report public. Even the Presi-
dent claims he wants the report to be
public, but we are already seeing an ef-
fort by the White House and Repub-
licans to walk back from transparency
of the Mueller report.
On Monday, White House Press Sec-
retary Sarah Sanders said the White
House will ‘‘want to make sure we’re
protecting the office of the presidency;
have to look at things like protecting
executive privilege and sources and
methods.’’
Let us be clear—We need to see the
full Mueller report, not just summaries
and not just page after page of redacted
text. The sooner this happens, the
sooner we can reassure the American
people about the integrity of the proc-
ess. The American people deserve no
less.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
YOUNG). The Senator from Montana.
AFFORDABLE CARE ACT
Mr. TESTER. Mr. President, the de-
cision earlier this week to undo the Af-
fordable Care Act—the decision made
by a bunch of unelected bureaucrats at
the Department of Justice—is nothing
short of a slap in the face to our de-
mocracy.
The Affordable Care Act was passed
by majorities in the House and the
Senate; it was upheld by the Supreme
Court; and it continues to be supported
by folks on both sides of the aisle.
Nonetheless, the Department of Jus-
tice, through the direction of the Presi-
dent of the United States, has decided
to undo the ACA and all the things
that are in the ACA.
This isn’t the first time. For the last
nearly decade, I have heard a seem-
ingly endless number of speeches on
the floor of this body, and we have seen
vote after vote after vote after vote,
under both Republican and Democratic
leadership, to repeal the ACA. It hasn’t
succeeded.
So what the Department of Justice
decided to do is take the law into their
own hands and circumvent the legisla-
tive process. I guess they felt they had
no other choice.
It didn’t just happen this week. Last
summer, they refused to defend a pro-
vision of the ACA that protects people
with preexisting conditions. That is
pretty interesting.
My best friend in life, other than my
wife, has diabetes, and he is somebody
who has fought diabetes since we were
in junior high. His folks didn’t have di-
abetes, but he did. He still does.
He was not able to have health insur-
ance that was affordable until the ACA
came along. He wasn’t even allowed to
change jobs for fear that when he did
get health insurance when he changed
jobs, he would lose it and then have to
go uninsured until—until—the ACA
came along.
So when the DOJ decided to not de-
fend the provision for preexisting con-
ditions, it left many of us scratching
our heads.
Then, earlier this week, the adminis-
tration took it even further by lending
its full-throated support for over-
turning the ACA in its entirety, which
would result in ripping healthcare
away from tens of millions of Ameri-
cans.
This administration’s actions would
put millions of Americans at risk by
getting rid of every last protection
that was enshrined in the law, includ-
ing Medicaid expansion and coverage
for preexisting conditions that are,
without debate, providing lifesaving
and affordable healthcare to folks
across this country.
If they, the administration, succeed
in dismantling our healthcare system,
I guarantee you the cost of healthcare
will rise through the roof.
Oh, yes—no, no—they will point to
junk plans. There are junk plans out
there. They are cheap, but they are
called junk for a reason. Just hope, if
you have a junk plan, you never get
sick because they are junk.
Dismantling this healthcare system
not only will cause healthcare to go
through the roof—because we are going
back to the old system—there is no re-
place here. They will replace it with
the old system. It will imperil the sus-
tainability of our hospitals across this
country but particularly in rural and
frontier communities.
Don’t ask me about this; ask hospital
administrators. They will tell you that
if the healthcare bill is repealed, they
will either have to change the entire
way they provide healthcare or close
entirely. Once again, it will mean
American families are just one dev-
astating diagnosis away from bank-
ruptcy, particularly if you live in rural
America.
This administration’s heartless deci-
sion is going to have devastating con-
sequences on Montana’s families. Let
me give some statistics from a Mon-
tana perspective:
Fifty thousand Montanans who buy
their healthcare coverage on the ACA
market would lose that. Now, 50,000 is
not many people, right? In a State of
just over 1 million, that is a lot of peo-
ple.
Ninety thousand Montanans who re-
ceive coverage as a result of Medicaid
expansion would lose their coverage. I
have told the story many times about
a gentleman in Butte, MT, who was
fighting diabetes and, by his own ad-
mission, mental health problems. This
guy was about 45 years old, by the way.
When the legislature expanded Med-
icaid 2 years ago, he was able to get
healthcare to finally get his diabetes
under control, and he was able to see a
psychologist to get the tools he needed
to take care of his own mental health.
It resulted in his ability—for the first
time in his life, he said—to be able to
get a full-time job and support his fam-
ily. He was incredibly proud of that.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:39 Mar 29, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00014 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A28MR6.011 S28MRPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2077
March 28, 2019
That is one story of many across Mon-
tana and across this country, where
Medicaid expansion has done an incred-
ible job getting people back into the
economy and helping build our econ-
omy. Know, once the ACA is repealed,
Medicaid expansion is gone.
In Montana, we have 152,000 Mon-
tanans with preexisting conditions
that before the ACA would disqualify
them from coverage for healthcare. If
the ACA is repealed, they could once
again face lifetime caps; so, when you
get sick and need that health insurance
the most, it will not be there because
you would be up against a cap.
They already have Medicare, where
more than 110,000 Montana seniors rely
on Medicare prescription drug plans for
coverage of prescription drugs. That is
going to be gone. It would reopen the
doughnut hole and make hundreds of
thousands responsible for increased
costs.
I can tell you, in Montana, where
poverty is the highest is in Indian
Country. They would lose their assist-
ance to purchase coverage or cost-shar-
ing reductions to eliminate out-of-
pocket expenses—these are our Native
Americans—or those who were able to
get on expanded Medicaid would lose
that.
These aren’t nameless, faceless folks.
These are folks like Donna from Big
Timber, who, after battling cancer,
wouldn’t be able to access quality, af-
fordable healthcare without the ACA.
They are people like Jeffrey from
Great Falls, who has a daughter with
special needs and owns a business. He
told me his family and business would
both fall apart without the ACA. It
means the many folks in Libby who
rely on quality insurance to access
their community health center to ad-
dress the unique healthcare challenges
their government promised to protect
would be gone.
Look, I have sat in this body, and I
have heard speech after speech after
speech about the ACA, what it does
good and what it does not so good, but
I am telling you, if you want to cause
a train wreck in healthcare, this is a
great way to do it—repeal it and let ev-
erybody be on their own—and it is not
going to be pretty.
If you start losing rural hospitals in
rural America, they will not come
back. You will see further depopulation
in rural America—because, by the way,
that golden hour is called golden for a
reason when you get hurt. If that hos-
pital isn’t there, you are more likely to
go live in a more urban population cen-
ter where healthcare is more expensive.
Nobody in this body has ever said the
ACA was perfect, but I firmly believe it
was a lot better than what we had. We
always have the opportunity to step
forth and improve it. Repealing it is
not improving it.
What repealing is, is a campaign
promise. We have heard them before:
We are going to repeal the Affordable
Care Act, ObamaCare. We are going to
build a wall on the southern border, no
matter if it separates farmers from
their land, no matter if it creates a dif-
ferent border on the southern border. It
was a campaign promise, just like re-
pealing the ACA was.
The reason we are in single-digit pop-
ularity in this body is that we don’t lis-
ten to the people. We listen to a select
few who have certain people’s ears in
this body, and we don’t make decisions
based on what is best for this country
and the people who live here. This is
just another example of that.
It is time the Members of the great-
est deliberative body wake up, take the
ACA and improve the things that are
wrong with it, and do our level best to
make sure people can afford to get
sick. It is pretty basic.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk proceeded to
call the roll.
Mr. BARRASSO. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
NOMINATION OF NICOLE R. NASON
Mr. BARRASSO. Mr. President, I rise
today in support of the nomination of
Nicole Nason to serve as Administrator
of the Federal Highway Administration
at the U.S. Department of Transpor-
tation.
The Federal Highway Administration
plays a central role in America’s mo-
bility. The administration is the lead
partner to State and local transpor-
tation programs that maintain and im-
prove our Nation’s roads, highways,
and bridges. It has been without a Sen-
ate-confirmed leadership director for
far too long.
America’s transportation infrastruc-
ture faces a number of challenges. Au-
thorization of the Federal highway pro-
grams are going to expire at the end of
September of 2020. We need to work to-
gether in Congress to write and pass a
bipartisan highway infrastructure bill
that upgrades America’s roads and
bridges.
The Environment and Public Works
Committee, which I chair, has already
begun the bipartisan process of draft-
ing this legislation. The Federal High-
way Administration needs a strong Ad-
ministrator in the office, one who can
work with Congress on the develop-
ment and implementation of highway
infrastructure legislation.
Nicole Nason is the right person for
the job. She is well qualified, and
brings impressive experience in trans-
portation policy to this critically im-
portant position.
Under President Bush, she served as
Administrator of the National Highway
Traffic Safety Administration. That is
the Department of Transportation’s
top road safety official.
Before that, she served as the Depart-
ment of Transportation’s Assistant
Secretary for Government Affairs. In
that role, she played a key part in ne-
gotiating the bipartisan passage of a 5-
year highway reauthorization bill.
Ms. Nason most recently served as
the Assistant Secretary of the U.S. De-
partment of State’s Bureau of Adminis-
tration, a position where she has man-
aged nearly 2,000 employees and con-
tractors.
Ms. Nason has won praise from a
wide variety of groups. Helen Witty is
the national president of Mothers
Against Drunk Driving. This is what
she stated:
Nicole is a true champion of highway safe-
ty and will be an asset to the Department of
Transportation as the Federal Highway Ad-
ministration Administrator. On behalf of
MADD, I wholeheartedly endorse her for this
position.
The Associated General Contractors
of America had this to say:
Ms. Nason is a superb choice to fulfill the
Federal Highway Administration’s leader-
ship role in improving mobility on our na-
tion’s highways.
The Governors Highway Safety Asso-
ciation has stated:
Throughout her career, Ms. Nason has
demonstrated a clear commitment to public
service and, during her tenure as Adminis-
trator of the National Highway Traffic Safe-
ty Administration (NHTSA) a dedication to
advancing highway safety.
Confirming Ms. Nason to be Adminis-
trator of the Federal Highway Admin-
istration will be an important step in
supporting our Nation’s highways,
roads, and bridges.
The Environment and Public Works
Committee recognized this when we re-
ported her nomination by voice vote on
February 5. That has been nearly 2
months ago. It shouldn’t take this long
to confirm such a highly qualified
nominee to such an important position.
Nicole Nason will be an excellent Ad-
ministrator of the Federal Highway
Administration. I encourage every Sen-
ator to vote to confirm her.
I yield the floor.
f
EXECUTIVE SESSION
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the Senate will pro-
ceed to executive session to consider
the following nomination, which the
clerk will report.
The legislative clerk read the nomi-
nation of Nicole R. Nason, of New
York, to be Administrator of the Fed-
eral Highway Administration.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, there will be 15
minutes of debate, equally divided in
the usual form.
The Senator from Delaware.
Mr. CARPER. Mr. President, I am
pleased to join my friend and col-
league, Senator BARRASSO, to speak on
behalf of the nomination of Nicole
Nason to serve as Administrator of the
Federal Highway Administration.
Ms. Nason is currently serving as the
Assistant Secretary for Administration
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:39 Mar 29, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00015 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G28MR6.031 S28MRPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2078 March 28, 2019
at the State Department. Right now,
though, there is no Administrator lead-
ing the Federal Highway Administra-
tion. In fact, it has been more than 2
years since we had an Administrator in
charge at that important Agency. The
last time our country went this long
without top leadership at the Federal
Highway Administration was more
than 100 years ago, back when the
Agency was known as the Bureau of
Public Roads. Henry Ford had just in-
troduced the Model T, and the idea of
speedy and safe transcontinental travel
was still outside of our imagination
and even further from being realized.
Today the Federal Highway Adminis-
tration oversees more than 220,000
miles of our National Highway System
and some 145,000 bridges. The sad truth
is, many of these roadways and many
of these bridges are in poor, in some
cases, even dangerous condition, hav-
ing been in use far beyond the intended
duration of their original design.
Moments from now, when Ms. Nason
is confirmed—and I hope she will be
confirmed—to be our Administrator, I
think she is going to inherit respon-
sibilities and political realities far
more challenging and complex than
perhaps all of her predecessors.
As our next Administrator, Ms.
Nason will find herself at the center of
a national crisis because our highway
trust fund is going broke, and the sys-
tem of paying for it is broken.
Last year, we spent about $11 billion
more from the highway trust fund than
we collected in revenues. When that
happens, the highway trust fund turns
to the general fund, Treasury, and
says: How about $11 billion? The gen-
eral fund doesn’t have $11 billion, so
what Treasury does is it issues debt in
order to finance the hole in the trust
fund, the general fund, so we can actu-
ally fund the hole in the highway trust
fund. It is crazy. In fact, to pay for the
FAST Act, we took $70 billion from the
general fund and other programs.
For the next Transportation bill, we
need to find an additional $68 billion—
$68 billion—just to prevent the high-
way trust fund from going broke for 5
more years and to keep our programs
at the current funding level.
We all know that the current funding
isn’t sufficient, either. Despite spend-
ing more than we collect, we still
aren’t spending enough. The backlog of
money to rehabilitate and improve
highways and bridges in this country
has grown to $800 billion. The backlog
for roads, highways, and bridges is $800
billion. The 800-pound gorilla in the
room is really an $800 billion gorilla.
We have to figure out how we are
going to pay to maintain or better yet
rebuild and modernize our roads, high-
ways, bridges, and transit systems.
That should be near the top of our to-
do list. It is not just the Senate, not
just the House, not just the Congress,
not just the administration, but all of
us together.
Whether or not it is fair, Ms. Nason’s
job as Administrator will be made ei-
ther easier or all the more difficult by
Congress’s ability or inability and the
administration’s ability or inability to
responsibly address that 800-pound go-
rilla.
On the topic of paying for infrastruc-
ture, I was encouraged to hear from
Ms. Nason at her confirmation hearing
that she believes that ‘‘all options are
on the table.’’ Those are her words:
‘‘All options are on the table.’’ I wel-
come those words.
We also discussed several other pol-
icy-related concerns Ms. Nason will
need to begin addressing on day one at
the Federal Highway Administration.
Too many pedestrians, too many
bicyclists, and too many drivers put
their lives at risk when they use our
roadways.
In 2017, 2 years ago, there were more
than 37,000 fatalities on our Nation’s
roadways. In that same year, nearly
7,000 nonmotorized users were killed.
That is unacceptable.
I was encouraged that during her
confirmation hearing, Ms. Nason prom-
ised that she would have a focus on
safety at the Agency and work closely
with NHTSA and others to improve in-
formation-sharing with States, local-
ities, and Tribal communities.
Too many Americans lack access to
reliable transit or safe places to walk
or to bike. In my State, we have done
a lot in the last 20, 25 years. There is a
lot more to do, and, frankly, we can
learn from other States, and maybe
one or two of them can learn from us.
Meanwhile, our country’s public safe-
ty networks should connect people to
commerce and opportunity in every
ZIP Code—not just some of them, in
every ZIP Code. In too many instances,
disadvantaged communities are spa-
tially disconnected from commerce and
opportunity. Lower income neighbor-
hoods are often far from good-paying
job opportunities, or safe and depend-
able transit options don’t exist for
those working outside of an 8 a.m. to 5
p.m. schedule. Our country’s public
transportation networks should lift up
disadvantaged communities—lift them
up. The Federal Highway Administra-
tion must be a strong Federal partner
in that effort.
Too many drivers lack access to
charging stations for electric vehicles
and hydrogen fueling stations for fuel
cell vehicles. This is especially frus-
trating for those who have made in-
vestments in this technology but may
not have feasible options to use those
investments.
That brings us to the glaring reality
of climate change and its worsening
impact on our infrastructure. Our vehi-
cles and travel patterns exacerbate the
impacts of climate change, and mobile
sources are our Nation’s largest source
of greenhouse gas emissions. I want to
say that again. Our vehicles and travel
patterns accelerate and exacerbate the
effects of climate change, and mobile
sources—our cars, trucks, and vans—
are our Nation’s largest source of
greenhouse gas emissions in this coun-
try and on the planet.
Meanwhile, increasingly frequent and
extreme weather events are continuing
to erode our transportation networks.
We see it in my State. My guess is that
we see it in every other State that is
represented here.
Sea level rise threatens the struc-
tural integrity and longevity of our
roads and bridges. Delaware is the low-
est lying State in America, and seas
are rising. That is not a good combina-
tion.
The challenges are great, but here is
the good news: so are the opportuni-
ties. The challenges are great, but so
are the opportunities.
Today, I am supporting the nomina-
tion of Ms. Nason because I believe the
key to success at any organization—
any organization I have ever been a
part of—is its leadership—the Navy,
the State of Delaware’s Governor, and
here. Right now, the Federal Highway
Administration needs a top leader, and
I believe that in Ms. Nason, they will
have one. I hope—more than just hope,
I believe she is going to prove to be a
partner with Congress and work with
us to address some of the many chal-
lenges I have laid out and the many
challenges before us in the months and
years ahead. I call on all of our col-
leagues—Democratic, Republican, and
a couple of Independents—to rise up
later today when the vote is taken and
vote in favor of her nomination.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk proceeded to
call the roll.
Mr. PAUL. Mr. President, I ask unan-
imous consent that the order for the
quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
Mr. PAUL. Mr. President, I ask unan-
imous consent for both sides to yield
back all remaining time.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The question is, Will the Senate ad-
vise and consent to the Nason nomina-
tion?
Mrs. FISCHER. I ask for the yeas and
nays.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there a
sufficient second?
There appears to be a sufficient sec-
ond.
The clerk will call the roll.
The bill clerk called the roll.
Mr. THUNE. The following Senators
are necessarily absent: the Senator
from Kansas (Mr. MORAN) and the Sen-
ator from Alaska (Mr. SULLIVAN).
Further, if present and voting, the
Senator from Kansas (Mr. MORAN)
would have voted ‘‘yea.’’
Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the
Senator from New Jersey (Mr. BOOKER)
and the Senator from Michigan (Ms.
STABENOW) are necessarily absent.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Are there
any other Senators in the Chamber de-
siring to vote?
The result was announced—yeas 95,
nays 1, as follows:
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:02 Mar 29, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00016 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G28MR6.032 S28MRPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2079
March 28, 2019
[Rollcall Vote No. 54 Ex.]
YEAS—95
Alexander
Baldwin
Barrasso
Bennet
Blackburn
Blumenthal
Blunt
Boozman
Braun
Brown
Burr
Cantwell
Capito
Cardin
Carper
Casey
Cassidy
Collins
Coons
Cornyn
Cortez Masto
Cotton
Cramer
Crapo
Cruz
Daines
Duckworth
Durbin
Enzi
Ernst
Feinstein
Fischer
Gardner
Gillibrand
Graham
Grassley
Harris
Hassan
Hawley
Heinrich
Hirono
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Inhofe
Isakson
Johnson
Jones
Kaine
Kennedy
King
Klobuchar
Lankford
Leahy
Lee
Manchin
Markey
McConnell
McSally
Menendez
Merkley
Murkowski
Murphy
Murray
Paul
Perdue
Peters
Portman
Reed
Risch
Roberts
Romney
Rosen
Rounds
Rubio
Sasse
Schatz
Schumer
Scott (FL)
Scott (SC)
Shaheen
Shelby
Sinema
Smith
Tester
Thune
Tillis
Toomey
Udall
Van Hollen
Warner
Warren
Whitehouse
Wicker
Wyden
Young
NAYS—1
Sanders
NOT VOTING—4
Booker
Moran
Stabenow
Sullivan
The nomination was confirmed.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the motion to re-
consider is considered made and laid
upon the table, and the President will
be immediately notified of the Senate’s
actions.
f
LEGISLATIVE SESSION
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ate will resume legislative session.
f
SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS
ACT, 2019
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Utah.
FREE TRADE RESOLUTION
Mr. LEE. Mr. President, for the last 3
years, the world has watched with rapt
attention as the United Kingdom has
debated and negotiated that country’s
exit from the European Union after the
historic Brexit vote in June of 2016.
There have been multiple deals pro-
posed since then, and now the deadline
for withdrawal fast approaches this
Friday. As the special ally of Britain
for a very long time—a very close ally
for well over 100 years—this is and it
ought properly be of great interest to
us in the United States of America.
Throughout times of change and tu-
mult, the UK has been one of our
staunchest and most loyal allies. We
stood beside each other through two
world wars and throughout the Cold
War. Now, in the 21st century, the
United States and the United Kingdom
have become even stronger friends and
partners, both in the fight against
global terrorism and for freedom,
peace, and prosperity.
The United Kingdom, significantly, is
the seventh largest trading partner the
United States has. In 2017 alone, we are
talking about $232 billion in goods that
were traded between our two countries.
Now, Britain’s impending exit from the
European Union presents an enormous
opportunity to strengthen and to pre-
serve our special relationship.
As the Brexit deadline approaches,
the United States should stand ready
and willing to negotiate a free trade
agreement with the United Kingdom,
which is the purpose of the resolution
that I want to bring before this body
today. Prior to this, we haven’t been
able to have true free trade with Brit-
ain, precisely because the UK was a
member of the EU and, therefore, had
to play by its rules.
Yet once the UK leaves, it will re-
claim the authority to make its own
trade agreements, opening up a window
of opportunity for genuine, bilateral
free trade with our own country. Such
an agreement would advance pros-
perity on both sides of the Atlantic as
an engine of economic liberty.
This resolution—the one I would like
to bring up and plan to bring up either
later today or Monday, based on the
schedule I am trying to negotiate with
Senator WYDEN—is a good deal. It is a
good deal for the United States and for
the United Kingdom. I think it is such
a no-brainer, in fact, that most Ameri-
cans would probably be surprised to
find out that we don’t already have a
free trade agreement with our friends
on the other side of the pond.
Yet there are some objections to this
resolution. Some of my colleagues have
argued that by encouraging a free
trade agreement with Britain, we
would somehow be meddling in this af-
fair or picking sides, or that we would
somehow be affirming Brexit. Yet this
resolution that I want to offer and am
suggesting that we call up and pass by
unanimous consent, itself, says noth-
ing about whether or not Brexit should
or should not happen—not at all. That
is not a decision that belongs to this
body, and it is not a decision that I am
even suggesting that this body make.
It is not ours to make. It is a decision
for the British people to make—the
people of the United Kingdom—and
they, of course, have made it. They
have decided to stand on their own. We
should stand with them just as they
have stood beside us in conflict after
conflict, in cause after cause, defending
the dignity of the immortal human
soul and the cause of freedom through-
out the world.
Others have claimed that the point of
this measure is somehow to lambaste
the EU, but this, too, badly misses the
point, which is simply to preserve a
unique and important alliance and to
promote America’s interests in the
world.
Finally, some have suggested that
this resolution that I want to propose
and call up and pass before this body
did not go through the Finance Com-
mittee. First of all, this is not a com-
plicated resolution. It is simple. It is a
straightforward, 2-page resolution de-
claring the sense of the Senate that
No. 1, the United States has and should
have a close, mutually beneficial trad-
ing and economic partnership with the
United Kingdom without interruption
and, No. 2, that the President, with the
support of Congress, should lay the
groundwork for a future trade agree-
ment between the United States and
the United Kingdom.
Also, the vast majority of resolutions
that simply specify a general sense of
the Senate do not normally go through
the full-blown legislative committee
process. A straightforward assertion of
friendship, support, and economic part-
nership with one of our oldest and clos-
est allies in the world should not be
controversial—not in the least. Amer-
ica’s special relationship with the
United Kingdom is special because we
make it so—our two peoples, our two
governments.
It is not our job to decide whether or
not the UK stays in the EU. It is up to
the British people to decide whether to
stick with the EU or not. It is up to us
to decide whether we stick with the
British, and we should. We should do
that by supporting this resolution
today.
Thank you, Mr. President.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Oklahoma.
WOMEN’S HISTORY MONTH
Mr. LANKFORD. Mr. President, I
want to be able to talk about a couple
of subjects today, but I want to be able
to set the context on these with the
recognition of Women’s History Month.
A lot of fairly remarkable ladies in
Oklahoma have set American history
and world history into a different pace
based on what they have done in the
past.
I can’t help, when I am talking about
Women’s History Month, to be able to
talk about my own mom, who is a
pacesetter in her own leadership. She
was a student, librarian, and mom. She
went through elementary school librar-
ian and high school librarian and then
became the director of libraries for a
very large school district.
She led the way for our family and
community. She even led the American
Association of School Librarians
around the country. She was a pace-
setter there.
There are other pacesetters that I
would highlight who are Oklahoma
pacesetters. The first is Claire Luper.
Born in Okfuskee County, OK, in 1923,
Claire Luper was the first African-
American student to enroll in the His-
tory Department at the University of
Oklahoma. She was a civil rights lead-
er. She led Americans at lunch
counters in 1958 as she was seated there
and helped to train youth to be seated
at lunch counters to break through the
racism that was existing in Oklahoma
City and in Oklahoma.
Claire Luper herself was arrested 26
times for just eating lunch—for just
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:39 Mar 29, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00017 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A28MR6.009 S28MRPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2080 March 28, 2019
leading for the rights of what every
single human being should be allowed
to do in our great country.
After 26 arrests and the breakthrough
leadership that she experienced, she
now has been recognized with over 500
different awards and honors in her life-
time. She taught in the Oklahoma City
area for 41 years, was a senior adviser
for the NAACP Youth Council in Okla-
homa City, and is now a member of the
Oklahoma Hall of Fame.
Another great leader from Oklahoma
is Shannon Lucid. She was raised in
Bethany, OK. In 1979 she became an as-
tronaut in a time period when ladies
did not become astronauts. She set the
pace. She was the chief scientist at
NASA from 2002 to 2003. She served as
the capsule communicator for numer-
ous space missions. She was the first
woman to receive the Congressional
Space Medal of Honor.
Jeane Kirkpatrick is another Oklaho-
man. Born in 1926, she was the first
woman appointed to serve as a Perma-
nent Representative to the United
States for the United Nations. She
served from 1981 to 1985. She served on
President Ronald Reagan’s Cabinet,
was a political science professor at
Georgetown University, and was a fel-
low at the American Enterprise Insti-
tute. She made Oklahoma proud.
Let me tell you about a current one
now. LaRita Aragon. LaRita Aragon
was born in Shawnee, OK, but she was
raised in the big town of Dale, just out-
side of Shawnee. She became the first
woman to hold the rank of brigadier
general in the Oklahoma Air National
Guard and the first female commander
of the Air National Guard.
Before her military career, she was
an elementary school teacher and a
principal. After retirement from the
military, she returned to education.
She served as the director of advanced
programs in the University of Okla-
homa College of Continuing Education.
Then, in January 2011, she started serv-
ing as secretary of veterans affairs for
the State of Oklahoma. She is a re-
markable military leader from our
State and a tremendous role model for
people in our State—boys and girls.
Maria Tallchief was born in 1925 in
Fairfax, OK. She was a member of the
Osage Nation. At age 17, she did a crazy
thing. She moved to New York City to
pursue her dream of becoming a danc-
er. As her career began to take off, peo-
ple tried to persuade Maria Tallchief to
change her last name so that she
wouldn’t face the prejudice of being
Native American. She refused to do
that. She continued to work and to
prove herself. In 1947 she became the
first American to dance with the Paris
Opera Ballet. She led the way, and she
set the pace.
Oklahomans are proud of these ladies
and many, many others who have done
great work and made remarkable ad-
vances. We are proud of them.
LONG-TERM BUDGET PLANNING
Mr. President, from recognizing
Women’s History Month, let me make
a comment on something currently
happening in the Senate. Right now in
the Senate, the Senate Budget Com-
mittee is continuing to work on a
budget.
The President turns in a budget. As
many people know, since 1974, the
President’s budget has been just a doc-
ument of ideas. The Senate and the
House agree together on a budget, set a
number, and then do appropriations
bills. That is how we actually do the
spending for the Federal taxpayers’
dollars. Since 1974, it has typically
begun with a budget document from
the Senate and from the House.
They are working on that budget
document right now in the Budget
Committee, but here is the difficult
thing. In all likelihood, that budget
document that will come out of com-
mittee will never come to this floor
and will never be voted on because of
the difficulty we face right now in our
deficit and the challenges the budget
will have in order for it to move
through the process. In all likelihood,
this body will deem a budget number,
where there will be no real plan. It will
just set a budget number and then
move on and start heading toward ap-
propriations.
Layer upon layer of debt and deficit
will be added to where we are as a na-
tion. Our simple challenge is, how do
we get around this?
Last year, 16 Members met—eight
Senators, eight House Members; eight
Republicans, eight Democrats—to try
to strategize how we could change the
budget process. Though I commend
Chairman ENZI of the Budget Com-
mittee and his remarkable work,
thought, and incredible staff, once
again that document will not make a
difference on this floor, and once again
it will not set us on a long-term path
to getting back to solvency. We have to
change the process of what we do.
These 16 Members met all last year
to establish a set of ideas of how we
could change the process, but it failed
in December. I am challenging this
body to step up to it again and to re-
engage on some simple sets of ideas of
how we can get our budget back in bal-
ance and how we can do better plan-
ning. Though we do budgets and though
we will do the deeming of a budget
number, there is no real plan for how
things can get better. We have to get
better at planning, so let me give you
some simple ideas that were birthed
out of the conversation last year.
We hold debt ceiling votes, which are
supposedly to limit our debt, but they
never do. They did decades ago, but
they have not for decades. We will have
12 appropriations bills in some form
and in some way so as to actually do
the spending in the next several
months, but there will be no bill to
deal with how we can reduce spending.
A simple idea that came out of that
conversation last year was this: How
do we add a 13th bill?
As simple as I can say it, we have 12
spending bills. In every single Con-
gress, the 13th bill would be set aside
for how we will reduce our deficit. We
have a structure with which to do that.
It is the reconciliation process. It will
certainly take work to reform this. We
have a process in place right now that
we could use but that we don’t. What if
we mandate it each year? We would
have our 12 spending bills in whatever
form they would take, but in every sin-
gle session of Congress, we would have
to have some conversation about what
we would do to reduce spending or to
fix our deficit. It is not an unreason-
able proposal. It is an opportunity for
us to sit and plan, to actually think
about things, and to work things out.
Senator MAGGIE HASSAN and I also
have another idea for working through
the process. How do we end government
shutdowns? How do we stop the per-
petual cliffs of budgeting issues? There
is a simple way to do that.
The simple way to do that, as odd as
it may sound, is for Members of Con-
gress and our staffs, as well as for
members of the staff within the Office
of Management and Budget from the
White House, to not travel if you get to
the end of a budget year and the budget
is not done. You can’t leave until the
work is done, is as simple as I can say
it. That may sound overly simplistic,
but I guarantee you, if this body has to
work through 2 weeks, no one would
have the opportunity to travel. Every-
one would have to be here days and
weekends. There would be no official
travel. There would be no opportunity
to head back and see your family.
There would be no codels or staffdels or
any kind of other opportunity to leave.
Each day, we would also have to have
a quorum call and be here until the
work gets done. Then we would solve
this.
Last December, we had this pro-
tracted shutdown that began when
Members of Congress left for Christ-
mas. They just left with there being an
unresolved budget issue here. If Sen-
ator HASSAN’s and my idea were to
pass, we would have finished that work
last December, and Americans would
never have experienced that protracted
government shutdown.
We have differences of opinion. It is
who we are as Americans, and that is
what we represent in the U.S. Senate,
but we should not punish Federal
workers and the American people be-
cause we have not worked out our dif-
ferences here. We should stay until the
work is done, and we should keep nego-
tiating until we are finished. That is a
simple, straightforward way to resolve
this.
With our adding a 13th bill to enable
our having to plan for how we will ac-
tually deal with debt and deficit, there
will be some moment created every
year to compel us to actually be here
until our work is done as well as hav-
ing a more systematic structure of how
we are going to do budgeting. All of
these are simple ideas, but they are
ideas that will help us get on top of a
$22 trillion debt and an approaching $1
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:39 Mar 29, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00018 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G28MR6.036 S28MRPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2081
March 28, 2019
trillion yearly deficit. It is as if we
have lost the importance of this, and
we cannot.
My challenge to this body is to make
the budget mean something again.
Let’s actually do long-term planning,
and let’s figure out how to make a
process work for the taxpayers. We can
figure this out, and we can work to-
gether to do it.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant bill clerk pro-
ceeded to call the roll.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the order
for the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
BOOZMAN). Without objection, it is so
ordered.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President,
what is the pending business?
The PRESIDING OFFICER. H.R. 268,
the supplemental appropriations bill.
CLOTURE MOTION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
send a cloture motion to the desk for
H.R. 268.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clo-
ture motion having been presented
under rule XXII, the Chair directs the
clerk to read the motion.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on H.R. 268,
making supplemental appropriations for the
fiscal year ending September 30, 2019, and for
other purposes.
Mitch McConnell, Josh Hawley, John
Thune, Shelley Moore Capito, Johnny
Isakson, Mike Crapo, Richard Burr,
James Lankford, Tom Cotton, Roy
Blunt, David Perdue, Mike Rounds, Bill
Cassidy, John Cornyn, Rob Portman,
Steve Daines, John Kennedy.
S. RES. 50
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
come to the floor to discuss the unprec-
edented obstruction that has faced
President Trump’s nominees for the
past 26 months—and counting—and to
announce that the Senate is going to
do something about it.
The systematic, across-the-board
delay and obstruction that have crip-
pled this administration’s nominations
are unique in American history.
Every Presidential election since
Adams beat Jefferson in 1796 has left
some Senators disappointed that their
side lost. There is always a losing side,
and they are never happy about it. But
the past 2 years have been the first
time—the first time ever—that the un-
happy party has used Senate procedure
to systematically blockade the new
President’s nominees and prevent him
from even staffing up his administra-
tion. Let me say that again. Since Jan-
uary 2017, for the first time in the 230-
year history of the U.S. Senate, a mi-
nority of Senators have used Senate
procedure to systematically prevent
the President of the United States
from putting a full team in place.
During the first 2 years of the last six
Presidential administrations before
President Trump, 24 total cloture votes
had to be held to advance a nomina-
tion, but in President Trump’s first 2
years, there were 128 cloture votes on
nominees.
For 42 different executive branch po-
sitions, cloture votes have been re-
quired for the first time in history—the
first time ever. Uncontroversial Assist-
ant Secretaries and Agencies’ general
counsels never required cloture votes
before—ever—until this particular
Democratic minority.
Just compare President Trump’s first
2 years to President Obama’s. Overall,
we have confirmed 22 percent fewer
nominations for President Trump and
sent more than twice as many back to
the White House.
Take just the Foreign Relations
Committee as one example. The share
of nominees sent to the Foreign Rela-
tions Committee who were still not
confirmed after President Trump’s first
2 years was more than three times—
three times—what it was for President
Obama.
To be clear, the lion’s share of all of
these are not controversial, high-pro-
file figures. In most cases, they are un-
ambiguously well-qualified nominees
for critical but lower profile jobs.
For example, it took more than 6
months—6 months—and several tragic
railroad accidents that made national
news before a minority of Senators
would allow us to confirm the Presi-
dent’s nominee to head the Federal
Railroad Administration. That is 6
months and several railroad accidents
to get us to confirm the President’s
nominee to head the Federal Railroad
Administration.
He had worked in railroads as an en-
gineer, manager, and executive for 45
years. Our colleagues on the Commerce
Committee voice-voted him out of
committee. Actually, when Democrats
finally allowed his nomination to come
to the floor—when they finally allowed
that—he was confirmed by voice vote.
Despite the fact that nobody actually
objected to this nominee, this impor-
tant job was held empty for 6 long
months. It is obstruction for obstruc-
tion’s sake.
It is the same story with even the
least controversial judicial nominees.
Last January, it took more than a
week of floor time to confirm four dis-
trict judges, all of whom had been
voice-voted out of the Judiciary Com-
mittee the previous autumn, but there
were still months of delays. Then clo-
ture votes were required for each, but
once we finally plowed through to the
confirmation votes, they were all con-
firmed unanimously.
There were months of delays and pro-
cedural roadblocks for four bipartisan
nominees whom not a single Senator
actually opposed.
This is not a principled maneuver,
not thoughtful use of minority powers,
but obstruction simply for the sake of
obstruction.
This historic campaign isn’t fair to
our duly elected President, and, more
importantly, it is not fair to the Amer-
ican people. The American people de-
serve the government they elected.
They deserve important positions to be
promptly filled with capable individ-
uals, not held open indefinitely out of
political spite.
As we all acknowledge, from an insti-
tutional perspective, this is completely
unsustainable, but if we allow it to per-
sist, it seems guaranteed to become
standard operating procedure for every
administration going forward.
Let’s assume 2 years from now that
my side is in the minority, and there is
a Democratic President. If we allow
this to persist, we will be doing the
same thing to those guys that they
have been doing to us. It will be the
new norm.
Some of our colleagues who are lead-
ing the systematic obstruction are ac-
tually running for President them-
selves. Well, these tactics will vir-
tually guarantee that any future
Democratic administration is sub-
jected to the same paralysis. Every-
body will be doing it.
Is this how the American Govern-
ment is supposed to work from here on
out—whichever party loses the White
House basically prohibits the new
President from standing up an adminis-
tration?
We can’t accept this. This just can’t
be allowed to continue. We need to re-
store the Senate to the way it func-
tioned for literally decades.
Remember, the idea that nominees
would regularly require cloture votes
was completely foreign to the Senate
until this sad chapter began during the
administration of President Bush 41, in
the early 2000s.
As of 1968—1968—cloture had never
been required for any nomination—any
nomination. As of 1978, it had been re-
quired for two—two as of 1978.
Until 2003, in no conference—none—
had more than 12 cloture motions ever
been needed for nominations. But now,
again, President Trump’s chosen nomi-
nees faced 128 cloture votes in the Con-
gress that just past. So this entire con-
versation is a modern aberration. This
hasn’t been going on forever. This is a
fairly recent thing. This behavior is
new. We need to restore the Senate’s
tradition in this area. Fortunately, we
have a clear roadmap to do just that.
In 2013, immediately after President
Obama’s reelection, 78 Senators, in-
cluding me, passed a bipartisan stand-
ing order to speed up the consideration
of many Presidential nominees. Sev-
enty-eight Members of this body passed
a standing order to help President
Obama speed up the Executive Cal-
endar.
It reduced the postcloture time for
most nominations without touching
the Supreme Court, circuit courts, or
the highest levels of the executive
branch. Essentially everything else got
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:31 Mar 29, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00019 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G28MR6.037 S28MRPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2082 March 28, 2019
a more streamlined process so nomi-
nees could be confirmed more effi-
ciently.
Again, President Obama had just
been inaugurated for the second time
days earlier. You better believe Repub-
licans were disappointed we had lost,
but we did not throw a systematic tan-
trum. Instead, a sizable number of us
came over and joined the Democrats to
help the Senate process noncontrover-
sial nominations, as it had for the vast
bulk of the history of the Senate. I was
a Republican leader in the minority,
and I still supported it. We judged if it
was the right thing to do, and we did it.
The standing order passed 78 to 16.
So, today, I am filing cloture on a
resolution that takes that bipartisan
effort as its blueprint. This resolution
from Senator BLUNT and Senator
LANKFORD would implement very simi-
lar steps and make them a permanent
part of the Senate going forward.
The Supreme Court, circuit courts,
Cabinet-level executive positions, and
certain independent boards and com-
missions would not change, but for
most other nominations—for literally
the hundreds of lower level nomina-
tions that every new President
makes—postcloture debate time would
be reduced from 30 hours to 2 hours.
This would keep the floor moving. It
would facilitate more efficient consent
agreements, and, most importantly, it
would allow the administration—fi-
nally, 2 years into its tenure—to staff
numerous important positions that re-
main unfilled with nominees who have
been languishing.
This resolution has come up through
the regular order, through the Rules
Committee, and next week we will vote
on it. It deserves the same kind of bi-
partisan vote that Senator SCHUMER
and Senator Reid’s proposal received
back during the Obama administration.
I understand that many of my Demo-
cratic colleagues have indicated they
would be all for this reform as long as
it doesn’t go into effect until 2021,
when they obviously hope someone else
might be in the White House, but they
are reluctant to support it now. Give
me a break. That is unfair on its face.
My Democratic colleagues were more
than happy to support a similar pro-
posal back in 2013 under President
Obama. They whisper in our ears pri-
vately that they would support it now
if it took effect in 2021, oh, but they
can’t support it now, especially under
these unprecedented circumstances,
simply because we have a Republican
President.
Fair is fair. Members of this body
should only support reforms that they
would be as ready to support in the mi-
nority as they are in the majority.
Put another way, if my side is in the
minority 2 years from now, I don’t
think this will be unfair, and it will
not disadvantage us in the wake of a
new Democratic President. This is a
change the institution needs—a change
the institution made already, basi-
cally, with a 2-year experiment when
President Obama was in office. This is
reform that every Member should em-
brace when their party controls the
White House and when it does not con-
trol the White House.
I urge every one of my colleagues:
Let’s get the Senate back to a normal
historical pattern for handling Presi-
dential nominations. Let’s give Presi-
dent Trump, as well as all future Presi-
dents, a functional process for building
their administrations. Let’s give the
American people the government they
actually elected, and let’s seize this
chance to do so through the bipartisan
regular order that we are pursuing
here, both in committee and now on
the floor.
The status quo is unsustainable for
the Senate and for the country. It is
unfair to this President and to future
Presidents of either party. It cannot
stand, and it will not stand.
Mr. MERKLEY. Mr. President, will
the minority leader yield for a ques-
tion?
Mr. MCCONNELL. I still have the
floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The ma-
jority leader has the floor.
Mr. MERKLEY. Will the majority
leader yield for a question?
f
IMPROVING PROCEDURES FOR THE
CONSIDERATION OF NOMINA-
TIONS IN THE SENATE—Motion to
Proceed
Mr. MCCONNELL. I move to proceed
to Calendar No. 24, S. Res. 50.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the resolution by
title.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
Motion to proceed to S. Res. 50, a resolu-
tion improving procedures for the consider-
ation of nominations in the Senate.
CLOTURE MOTION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
send a cloture motion to the desk.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clo-
ture motion having been presented
under rule XXII, the Chair directs the
clerk to read the motion.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on the mo-
tion to proceed to Calendar No. 24, S. Res. 50,
a resolution improving procedures for the
consideration of nominations in the Senate.
Mitch McConnell, Roy Blunt, Mike
Crapo, Richard C. Shelby, Johnny Isak-
son, Lamar Alexander, Pat Roberts,
Ron Johnson, John Barrasso, Steve
Daines, John Hoeven, John Thune,
Mike Rounds, John Boozman, Shelley
Moore Capito, Tom Cotton, David
Perdue.
f
EXECUTIVE SESSION
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate proceed to executive session for the
consideration of Calendar Nos. 130
through 156 and all nominations on the
Secretary’s desk; that the nominations
be confirmed; that the motions to re-
consider be considered made and laid
upon the table with no intervening ac-
tion or debate; that no further motions
be in order; that any statements re-
lated to the nominations be printed in
the Record; that the President be im-
mediately notified of the Senate’s ac-
tion, and the Senate then resume legis-
lative session.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
objection?
Mr. MERKLEY. Reserving the right
to object, Mr. President.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Oregon is recognized.
Mr. MERKLEY. The majority leader
has said he is going to put a rule
change on the floor, and we are going
to return to historical norm. The his-
torical norm has been that when such
issues are on the floor, amendments
will be allowed.
Does the majority leader intend to
allow amendments?
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
understand the Senator from Oregon is
propounding a question. If he would re-
peat it, I would appreciate it.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Oregon.
Mr. MERKLEY. Referring to histor-
ical norms, it has been a historical
norm to allow amendments on the floor
of this Chamber so that they could be
debated, and I recall very well listen-
ing to you complain a great deal about
Harry Reid’s blocking of amendments,
blocking the tree, and he did, in fact,
do that as the majority leader.
Then he would negotiate with that
whole set of amendments on both sides.
It took some time, but there were
amendments.
We have had a historic lull in amend-
ments, and now we are proposing a rule
change on how this Chamber operates.
So isn’t it the right thing to do, before
returning to historical norm or trying
to restore that sense of making this a
functioning Chamber—
Mr. MCCONNELL. Is the Senator
asking me a question?
Mr. MERKLEY. Yes.—to allow
amendments when this comes to the
floor? I am asking if he would allow
such amendments.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, let
me say that we have had a number of
bills that were brought to the floor
open for amendment. One of the things
we devolved into here, another unfortu-
nate precedent, is Members objecting
to time agreements on amendments
from either side. So even if the major-
ity leader calls up a bill and has it open
for amendment, unless Members of the
Senate in both parties will allow there
to be time agreements so that we can
actually have votes on amendments, it
gets bogged down.
I think the complaint of my friend
from Oregon is legitimate. I have been
very frustrated by the fact that when I
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:31 Mar 29, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00020 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G28MR6.041 S28MRPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2083
March 28, 2019
call up a bill and open it up for amend-
ments, I have Members on both sides
preventing each other’s amendments
from getting a vote. I share the frus-
tration of my colleague from Oregon,
but I assure him that when I call up a
bill and say that it is open for amend-
ment, it is open for amendment. It is
just that it requires Senatorial bipar-
tisan cooperation to set time agree-
ments to actually have such votes.
Mr. President, I ask unanimous con-
sent—I think I have a UC agreement, a
UC pending.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
objection to the request with respect to
the—
Mr. MERKLEY. Reserving the right
to object, I didn’t actually get clarity
on whether he will open the floor for
amendments when he will bring this
rule change to the floor—whether it
will be open in the sense that when one
amendment is completed, a Senator
can ask for another to be considered or
only the amendments he approves will
be allowed to be considered.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, in
order to guarantee a particular amend-
ment would get a vote without con-
sent, we would have to be able to get 60
votes and vote cloture to advance the
amendment.
I will just reiterate to my friend from
Oregon that his complaint is legiti-
mate, but it does require, no matter
what the majority leader says with re-
gard to openness of the bill, some level
of bipartisan cooperation in order to
process amendments. We have tried
that on numerous occasions, and Mem-
bers on both sides have sort of
hunkered down and objected to each
other’s amendments, thereby making
the amendment process, in an open
fashion, simply impossible.
I do have a consent agreement pend-
ing. I don’t know whether the Senator
from Oregon wants to continue to ob-
ject to all of these—
Mr. MERKLEY. Reserving the right
to object.
Mr. MCCONNELL.—nominations,
which would include people from the
Marine Corps, the Navy, the Air Force,
and the Army. I was seeking the mili-
tary promotions of these people who
are serving our country in the Armed
Forces.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
objection?
Mr. MERKLEY. Reserving the right
to object, I will, in fact, make this the
last time I reserve the right to object,
simply to make the point that there
are many ideas for improving this
Chamber that have not had due consid-
eration.
My colleague has expressed a lot of
frustration over executive nomina-
tions. I put forward an amendment in
the minority establishing a 100-day
clock for amendments to be voted be-
fore this floor once the paperwork is
complete. Others have other ideas, in-
cluding the ability to have a time at
the start of every 2 years to be able to
have an open debate on amendments—
on how we work. Others have other
ideas for improving this Chamber.
I think such a debate is way overdue,
but if it is the majority leader’s intent
to allow just the one issue that he is
bringing forward, then that is not turn-
ing the clock back to historical norm.
I was here in this Chamber in 1976
and during the eighties, seeing this
body debate issues. I would ask, if my
colleague brings this to the floor as he
is planning to do, that he open it up for
amendments. Get a time agreement. I
will certainly encourage my side to
agree to such a thing.
I take your point about it not just
being a delay. I think there are serious
possibilities for improving how we
work that should be debated. I hope my
colleague will open the floor for
amendments.
I withdraw my objection.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The nominations considered and con-
firmed are as follows:
IN THE MARINE CORPS
The following named officers for appoint-
ment in the United States Marine Corps Re-
serve to the grade indicated under title 10,
U.S.C., section 12203:
To be brigadier general
Col. Leonard F. Anderson, IV
Col. William E. Souza, III
IN THE NAVY
The following named officer for appoint-
ment in the United States Navy to the grade
indicated under title 10, U.S.C., section 624:
To be rear admiral
Rear Adm. (lh) Peter G. Stamatopoulos
The following named officer for appoint-
ment in the United States Navy to the grade
indicated under title 10, U.S.C., section 624:
To be rear admiral
Rear Adm. (lh) Gayle D. Shaffer
The following named officers for appoint-
ment in the United States Navy to the grade
indicated under title 10, U.S.C., section 624:
To be rear admiral
Rear Adm. (lh) Kelly A. Aeschbach
Rear Adm. (lh) Frank D. Whitworth
The following named officers for appoint-
ment in the United States Navy to the grade
indicated under title 10, U.S.C., section 624:
Rear Adm. (lh) Blake L. Converse
Rear Adm. (lh) Charles B. Cooper, II
Rear Adm. (lh) Donald D. Gabrielson
Rear Adm. (lh) Gregory N. Harris
Rear Adm. (lh) Jeffrey T. Jablon
Rear Adm. (lh) Yancy B. Lindsey
Rear Adm. (lh) John F. Meier
Rear Adm. (lh) James E. Pitts
Rear Adm. (lh) John B. Skillman
Rear Adm. (lh) Karl O. Thomas
Rear Adm. (lh) John F. Wade
Rear Adm. (lh) Michael A. Wettlaufer
The following named officer for appoint-
ment in the United States Navy to the grade
indicated under title 10, U.S.C., section 624:
To be rear admiral (lower half)
Capt. Dean A. Vanderley
The following named officer for appoint-
ment in the United States Navy to the grade
indicated under title 10, U.S.C., section 624:
To be rear admiral (lower half)
Capt. Kenneth W. Epps
The following named officer for appoint-
ment in the United States Navy to the grade
indicated under title 10, U.S.C., section 624:
To be rear admiral (lower half)
Capt. Timothy H. Weber
The following named officer for appoint-
ment in the United States Navy to the grade
indicated under title 10, U.S.C., section 624:
To be rear admiral (lower half)
Capt. James L. Hancock
The following named officers for appoint-
ment in the United States Navy to the grade
indicated under title 10, U.S.C., section 624:
To be rear admiral (lower half)
Capt. Nicholas M. Homan
Capt. Michael J. Vernazza
The following named officer for appoint-
ment in the United States Navy to the grade
indicated under title 10, U.S.C., section 624:
To be rear admiral (lower half)
Capt. Charles W. Brown
The following named officer for appoint-
ment as Chief of Naval Personnel and ap-
pointment in the United States Navy to the
grade indicated while assigned to a position
of importance and responsibility under title
10, U.S.C., sections 601 and 5141:
To be vice admiral
Rear Adm. John B. Nowell, Jr.
IN THE AIR FORCE
The following named officer for appoint-
ment in the United States Air Force to the
grade indicated while assigned to a position
of importance and responsibility under title
10, U.S.C., section 601:
To be lieutenant general
Maj. Gen. Steven L. Basham
The following named Air National Guard of
the United States officer for appointment in
the Reserve of the Air Force to the grade in-
dicated under title 10, U.S.C., sections 12203
and 12212:
To be brigadier general
Col. Steven J. Butow
IN THE ARMY
The following named officer for appoint-
ment in the United States Army to the grade
indicated while assigned to a position of im-
portance and responsibility under title 10,
U.S.C., section 601:
To be lieutenant general
Maj. Gen. Karen H. Gibson
IN THE NAVY
The following named officers for appoint-
ment in the United States Navy to the grade
indicated under title 10, U.S.C., section 624:
To be rear admiral
Rear Adm. (lh) James P. Downey
Rear Adm. (lh) Shane G. Gahagan
Rear Adm. (lh) Francis D. Morley
The following named officer for appoint-
ment in the United States Navy to the grade
indicated while assigned to a position of im-
portance and responsibility under title 10,
U.S.C., section 601:
To be vice admiral
Rear Adm. Ronald A. Boxall
IN THE ARMY
The following named officer for appoint-
ment as Chief of Chaplains, United States
Army, and appointment in the United States
Army to the grade indicated while assigned
to that position under title 10, U.S.C., sec-
tions 7036 and 7073:
To be major general
Brig. Gen. Thomas L. Solhjem
The following named officers for appoint-
ment in the United States Army to the grade
indicated under title 10, U.S.C., section 624:
To be major general
Brig: Gen. Telita Crosland
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:31 Mar 29, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00021 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G28MR6.044 S28MRPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2084 March 28, 2019
Brig. Gen. Dennis P. LeMaster
The following named Army National Guard
of the United States officer for appointment
as the Director, Army National Guard, and
for appointment to the grade indicated in
the Reserve of the Army under title 10,
U.S.C., sections 601 and 10506:
To be lieutenant general
Lt. Gen. Daniel R. Hokanson
The following named officer for appoint-
ment in the United States Army to the grade
indicated while assigned to a position of im-
portance and responsibility under title 10,
U.S.C., section 601:
To be lieutenant general
Maj. Gen. Leon N. Thurgood
The following named officer for appoint-
ment in the United States Army to the grade
indicated while assigned to a position of im-
portance and responsibility under title 10,
U.S.C., section 601:
To be lieutenant general
Maj. Gen. Walter E. Piatt
IN THE AIR FORCE
The following named officer for appoint-
ment in the United States Air Force to the
grade indicated while assigned to a position
of importance and responsibility under title
10, U.S.C., section 601:
To be lieutenant general
Lt. Gen. James C. Slife
IN THE ARMY
The following named officer for appoint-
ment in the United States Army to the grade
indicated while assigned to a position of im-
portance and responsibility under title 10,
U.S.C., section 601:
To be general
Lt. Gen. Paul E. Funk, II
IN THE NAVY
The following named officer for appoint-
ment in the United States Navy to the grade
indicated while assigned to a position of im-
portance and responsibility under title 10,
U.S.C., section 601:
To be vice admiral
Rear Adm. Dee L. Mewbourne
The following named officer for appoint-
ment in the United States Navy to the grade
indicated while assigned to a position of im-
portance and responsibility under title 10,
U.S.C., section 601:
To be vice admiral
Rear Adm. Jon A. Hill
The following named officer for appoint-
ment in the United States Navy to the grade
indicated while assigned to a position of im-
portance and responsibility under title 10,
U.S.C., section 601:
To be vice admiral
Rear Adm. Stuart B. Munsch
NOMINATIONS PLACED ON THE SECRETARY’S
DESK
IN THE AIR FORCE
PN288 AIR FORCE nominations (55) begin-
ning DANIEL M. ANDERSON, and ending
DENISE M. ZONA, which nominations were
received by the Senate and appeared in the
Congressional Record of January 24, 2019.
PN425 AIR FORCE nomination of Thomas
D. Crimmins, which was received by the Sen-
ate and appeared in the Congressional
Record of February 25, 2019.
PN427 AIR FORCE nominations (16) begin-
ning SHAWN C. BISHOP, and ending CHRIS-
TIAN L. WILLIAMS, which nominations
were received by the Senate and appeared in
the Congressional Record of February 25,
2019.
PN428 AIR FORCE nominations (14) begin-
ning MICHELL A. ARCHEBELLE, and end-
ing SHELLEY A. SHELTON, which nomina-
tions were received by the Senate and ap-
peared in the Congressional Record of Feb-
ruary 25, 2019.
PN429 AIR FORCE nominations (6) begin-
ning PETER N. FISCHER, and ending JONA-
THAN H. WADE, which nominations were re-
ceived by the Senate and appeared in the
Congressional Record of February 25, 2019.
PN430 AIR FORCE nominations (425) begin-
ning BRIAN M. ALEXANDER, and ending
JASON C. ZUMWALT, which nominations
were received by the Senate and appeared in
the Congressional Record of February 25,
2019.
PN472 AIR FORCE nomination of Latoya
D. Smith, which was received by the Senate
and appeared in the Congressional Record of
March 5, 2019.
PN473 AIR FORCE nomination of Lisa
Marie Ahaesy, which was received by the
Senate and appeared in the Congressional
Record of March 5, 2019.
PN500 AIR FORCE nominations (3) begin-
ning JULIE HUYGEN, and ending TOM
POSCH, which nominations were received by
the Senate and appeared in the Congres-
sional Record of March 6, 2019.
IN THE ARMY
PN305 ARMY nomination of Matthew D.
Colsia, which was received by the Senate and
appeared in the Congressional Record of Jan-
uary 24, 2019.
PN306 ARMY nomination of Deven R. Gas-
ton, which was received by the Senate and
appeared in the Congressional Record of Jan-
uary 24, 2019.
PN380 ARMY nominations (949) beginning
ADRIAN ACEVEDO, and ending G010477,
which nominations were received by the Sen-
ate and appeared in the Congressional
Record of February 6, 2019.
PN381 ARMY nominations (556) beginning
BENJAMIN T. ABEL, and ending G010598,
which nominations were received by the Sen-
ate and appeared in the Congressional
Record of February 6, 2019.
PN382 ARMY nominations (555) beginning
KWANSAH E. ACKAH, and ending D014862,
which nominations were received by the Sen-
ate and appeared in the Congressional
Record of February 6, 2019.
PN383 ARMY nominations (51) beginning
ALAN ADAME, and ending D013619, which
nominations were received by the Senate and
appeared in the Congressional Record of Feb-
ruary 6, 2019.
PN384 ARMY nomination of Elizabeth A.
Fields, which was received by the Senate and
appeared in the Congressional Record of Feb-
ruary 6, 2019.
PN433 ARMY nomination of P. J. Fox,
which was received by the Senate and ap-
peared in the Congressional Record of Feb-
ruary 25, 2019.
PN434 ARMY nomination of Nathan M.
Clayton, which was received by the Senate
and appeared in the Congressional Record of
February 25, 2019.
PN435 ARMY nomination of Adam P.
James, which was received by the Senate and
appeared in the Congressional Record of Feb-
ruary 25, 2019.
PN436 ARMY nominations (33) beginning
JASON S. BAKER, and ending RICHARD J.
ZEIGLER, which nominations were received
by the Senate and appeared in the Congres-
sional Record of February 25, 2019.
PN437 ARMY nomination of Shelia R. Day,
which was received by the Senate and ap-
peared in the Congressional Record of Feb-
ruary 25, 2019.
PN438 ARMY nomination of Robert D.
Cope, which was received by the Senate and
appeared in the Congressional Record of Feb-
ruary 25, 2019.
PN439 ARMY nomination of William C.
Mitchell, which was received by the Senate
and appeared in the Congressional Record of
February 25, 2019.
PN474 ARMY nomination of Rubirosa B.
Bago, which was received by the Senate and
appeared in the Congressional Record of
March 5, 2019.
PN475 ARMY nomination of Meghan C.
Gerrity, which was received by the Senate
and appeared in the Congressional Record of
March 5, 2019.
PN476 ARMY nomination of Daniel M. Jan-
sen, which was received by the Senate and
appeared in the Congressional Record of
March 5, 2019.
PN477 ARMY nomination of Randolph
Powell, which was received by the Senate
and appeared in the Congressional Record of
March 5, 2019.
PN478 ARMY nomination of Michael J.
Prokos, which was received by the Senate
and appeared in the Congressional Record of
March 5, 2019.
PN481 ARMY nomination of Anthony
Bellofigueroa, which was received by the
Senate and appeared in the Congressional
Record of March 5, 2019.
PN482 ARMY nomination of Sean R. Rich-
ardson, which was received by the Senate
and appeared in the Congressional Record of
March 5, 2019.
PN483 ARMY nomination of Kahtonna C.
Allen, which was received by the Senate and
appeared in the Congressional Record of
March 5, 2019.
PN484 ARMY nomination of Angelo N.
Catalano, which was received by the Senate
and appeared in the Congressional Record of
March 5, 2019.
PN485 ARMY nomination of Charles J. Ca-
lais, which was received by the Senate and
appeared in the Congressional Record of
March 5, 2019.
PN486 ARMY nomination of Robert T.
Evans, which was received by the Senate and
appeared in the Congressional Record of
March 5, 2019.
PN501 ARMY nominations (2) beginning
PAULA I. SCHASBERGER, and ending JAN
E. ALDYKIEWICZ, which nominations were
received by the Senate and appeared in the
Congressional Record of March 6, 2019.
IN THE MARINE CORPS
PN319 MARINE CORPS nominations (2) be-
ginning STEVEN M. ANGELINE, and ending
Curtis E. Borjas, which nominations were re-
ceived by the Senate and appeared in the
Congressional Record of January 24, 2019.
PN326 MARINE CORPS nominations (2) be-
ginning DAVID F. HUNLEY, and ending
JAMES P. STOCKWELL, which nominations
were received by the Senate and appeared in
the Congressional Record of January 24, 2019.
PN328 MARINE CORPS nomination of
John C. Jarvis, which was received by the
Senate and appeared in the Congressional
Record of January 24, 2019.
PN337 MARINE CORPS nominations (2) be-
ginning NATHANEAL J. HART, JR., and
ending DUSTIN R. HEFFEL, which nomina-
tions were received by the Senate and ap-
peared in the Congressional Record of Janu-
ary 24, 2019.
PN340 MARINE CORPS nominations (5) be-
ginning MATTHEW J. ANDERSON, and end-
ing ISAAC K. TIBAYAN, which nominations
were received by the Senate and appeared in
the Congressional Record of January 24, 2019.
IN THE NAVY
PN487 NAVY nomination of Edward M.
Prendergast, which was received by the Sen-
ate and appeared in the Congressional
Record of March 5, 2019.
PN489 NAVY nomination of Thomas L.
Hinnant, III, which was received by the Sen-
ate and appeared in the Congressional
Record of March 5, 2019.
PN490 NAVY nomination of Sanjay
Sharma, which was received by the Senate
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:31 Mar 29, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00022 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A28MR6.043 S28MRPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2085
March 28, 2019
and appeared in the Congressional Record of
March 5, 2019.
PN502 NAVY nomination of Angela Tang,
which was received by the Senate and ap-
peared in the Congressional Record of March
6, 2019.
f
LEGISLATIVE SESSION
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ate will now resume legislative session.
f
MORNING BUSINESS
Mr. MCCONNELL. I ask unanimous
consent that the Senate be in a period
of morning business, with Senators
permitted to speak therein for up to 10
minutes each.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
REMEMBERING ANDREW
MARSHALL
Mr. INHOFE. Mr. President, thank
you for the opportunity to recognize a
titan of defense thinking, Andrew Mar-
shall, who passed away at the age of 97
on March 26, 2019.
Mr. Marshall was the founding father
of the Department of Defense’s Office
of Net Assessment. From its creation,
he served as its director for over four
decades, leaving an indelible mark on
our defense institutions. He finally re-
tired in 2015, at the age of 93.
In his role, he piloted rigorous anal-
ysis of critical national security issues,
rooted in his unparalleled institutional
knowledge. This is why he was often
called the ‘Yoda’ of the Pentagon.
His groundbreaking work shaped how
the Department of Defense responds to
long-term challenges and paved the
way for a nimbler, more modern force.
Despite its relatively small budget,
the Office of Net Assessment has had
an outsized impact on military think-
ing. In particular, he foresaw the
threats posed by the then-Soviet Union
and, more recently, China.
Mr. Marshall’s legacy goes beyond
strategic thinking. He also trained the
next generation of defense analysts, in-
cluding the current Vice Chairman of
the Joint Chiefs of Staff, Air Force
Gen. Paul Selva, ensuring his knowl-
edge lasts into the future.
Our Nation is more secure because of
Mr. Marshall’s important work. We
owe a great deal of debt to him, and I
am thankful for the opportunity to
commemorate him today.
f
ADDITIONAL STATEMENTS
TRIBUTE TO DR. JONATHAN L.
BINGHAM
∑ Mr. DAINES. Mr. President, this
week, I have the distinct honor of rec-
ognizing Dr. Jonathan L. Bingham for
his service in providing quality der-
matologic surgery care to the folks in
Great Falls and his military service in
the Montana Air National Guard.
Dr. Bingham graduated from the U.S.
Naval Academy. Following the Naval
Academy, he went on to medical school
at Pennsylvania State University and
the Air War College. Dr. Bingham then
served with distinction as a flight sur-
geon and Mohs Surgeon-Dermatologist
in the U.S. Navy.
Throughout the course of his career,
he has served his country and his fel-
low citizens with great honor. During
his time in the Navy, he deployed in
support of Operation Iraqi Freedom as
a flight surgeon, and he also served as
faculty dermatologist and Mohs Sur-
geon at the National Naval Medical
Center and the Walter Reed National
Military Medical Center to support the
White House Medical Unit and the Of-
fice of the Attending Physician.
In Great Falls, Dr. Bingham is one of
the leading experts on dermatologic
care. Despite his successful career as a
civilian and servicemember, Dr. Bing-
ham continues his service to our coun-
try in the Air National Guard.
Dr. Bingham is an inspiration to any
young Montanans seeking to live out a
life in service to his or her country. I
congratulate Dr. Bingham for his ex-
emplary record of excellence, and I
thank him for his continued service to
the people of Montana and our coun-
try.∑
f
TRIBUTE TO CLARE HARMON
∑ Mr. DAINES. Mr. President, I would
like to recognize and congratulate
Clara Harmon from Helena for winning
the 2019 Treasure State Spelling Bee.
Clara is an exceptional young woman
who attends school through the Helena
Area Christian Home Educators.
Clara endured 19 rounds of tough
competition which amounted to 3 1/2
hours before she was crowned the vic-
tor. Clara is a shining example of the
best and the brightest Montana has to
offer. This May, Clara will be travel-
ling to National Harbor, MD, to rep-
resent Montana at the Scripps Na-
tional Spelling Bee. I also want to
thank Clara’s parents, Charles and
Dianna Harmon for raising such a tal-
ented and passionate daughter.
All of Montana will be rooting for
Clara as she represents us on the na-
tional stage in May.∑
f
TRIBUTE TO PHILLIP SOUTH
∑ Mr. DAINES. Mr. President, this
week I have the honor of recognizing
Phillip South of Sheridan, MT, for his
100 years of determination, bravery,
and service.
At 100, Philip South has lived
through 18 presidents, two World Wars,
the Great Depression, and was born
when there were only 48 States in the
United States. Mr. South served his
country heroically in World War II as a
rifleman and scout in the U.S. Marine
Corps with the renowned First Marine
Division.
In the Guadalcanal, Phillips survived
sniper fire and his small regiment of ri-
fleman and scouts found themselves in
the heart of the battle for Henderson
Field. He held a position not too far
from Medal of Honor recipient John
Basilone, to hold the line against an
onslaught of Japanese troops. Despite
being outnumbered, his small group
prevailed.
I would like to thank Mr. South for
his service to our Nation. He is an in-
spiration to all young Montanans wish-
ing to serve their country.∑
f
TRIBUTE TO DELORES PIGSLEY
∑ Mr. MERKLEY. Mr. President, this
month, Women’s History Month, we
recognize and celebrate the contribu-
tions that women have made to the
betterment of our Nation. Today, I
want to talk about one such remark-
able woman from my home State of Or-
egon: Delores Pigsley.
In 1991, Delores Pigsley said, ‘‘You
never quit being an Indian just because
your tribe has been terminated.’’
Delores—Dee to her friends—ought to
know. As a young child, Delores wit-
nessed the termination of her Tribe,
the Confederated Tribes of Siletz Indi-
ans, in 1954, and just over two decades
later, in 1977, she was the driving force
behind the Siletz becoming the first
Tribe in Oregon, and just the second
tribe in the entire United States to
have its Federal status as a sovereign
government restored.
For over four decades now, Delores
has never slowed down or wavered in
her commitment to serving the mem-
bers of the Siletz Tribe, 32 of those
years as Tribal chairman.
As chief negotiator for the Siletz
Tribe, Delores passed agreements with
Congress, negotiated compacts, and
testified here on Capitol Hill before
Congress. She has worked with the Bu-
reau of Indian Affairs and Indian
Health Services on behalf of her Tribal
members, and thanks in no small meas-
ure to her leadership, the Confederated
Tribes of Siletz Indians, which was
once on the verge of ceasing to exist,
now owns and manages a reservation of
over 3,500 acres, with a casino, resorts,
hotels, a school, and health clinics.
Delores is many things to many peo-
ple: a chairman, a leader, a role model,
a wife, a mother, and a grandmother.
In spite of all her accomplishments,
she remains humble, attributing much
of her success to other Tribal council
leaders and to many national Tribal
leaders who have served as mentors to
her.
So this Women’s History Month, let’s
take a moment to recognize and to
thank Delores Pigsley for all that she
has done for the members of the Siletz
Tribe, for Tribes across the country,
and for the people of Oregon.
Thank you.∑
f
TRIBUTE TO GARY YOHE
∑ Mr. MURPHY. Mr. President, I would
like to take a moment to pay tribute
to Gary Yohe, a Connecticut resident
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:31 Mar 29, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00023 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A28MR6.044 S28MRPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2086 March 28, 2019
and preeminent national expert on cli-
mate change, who is retiring from Wes-
leyan University.
Professor Yohe has had an impressive
and distinguished career. After receiv-
ing his PhD in economics from Yale
University, he devoted his career to cli-
mate impact and mitigation research.
He worked as a senior member of the
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate
Change, receiving a share of the 2007
Nobel Prize, served as vice chair of the
National Climate Assessment Develop-
ment and Advisory Committee under
President Obama, and has testified be-
fore the Senate on multiple occasions
to explain the risks and impacts of cli-
mate change. Professor Yohe continues
to serve as a member of the New York
City Panel on Climate Change and has
been a member of the faculty at Wes-
leyan University for more than 40
years. On a more personal note, he has
been a great resource to my office, and
I hope he will continue to contribute to
public policy after his official retire-
ment.
I would like to congratulate Pro-
fessor Yohe on his retirement from
Wesleyan University and take this mo-
ment to thank him for his contribu-
tions to the scientific community.∑
f
MESSAGES FROM THE HOUSE
At 10:09 a.m., a message from the
House of Representatives, delivered by
Mr. Novotny, one of its reading clerks,
announced that the House has passed
the following bill, in which it requests
the concurrence of the Senate:
H.R. 7. An act to amend the Fair Labor
Standards Act of 1938 to provide more effec-
tive remedies to victims of discrimination in
the payment of wages on the basis of sex, and
for other purposes.
At 1:25 p.m., a message from the
House of Representatives, delivered by
Mr. Cole, one of its reading clerks, an-
nounced that the House has passed the
following bill, without amendment:
S. 863. An act to amend title 38, United
States Code, to clarify the grade and pay of
podiatrists of the Department of Veterans
Affairs.
The message also announced that
pursuant to Section 1652(b) of the John
S. McCain National Defense Authoriza-
tion Act for Fiscal Year 2019, the Mi-
nority Leader appoints the following
Member of the House of Representa-
tives to the Cyberspace Solarium Com-
mission: Mr. GALLAGHER of Wisconsin.
f
MEASURES PLACED ON THE
CALENDAR
The following bill was read the sec-
ond time, and placed on the calendar:
H.R. 297. An act to extend the Federal rec-
ognition to the Little Shell Tribe of Chip-
pewa Indians of Montana, and for other pur-
poses.
f
EXECUTIVE AND OTHER
COMMUNICATIONS
The following communications were
laid before the Senate, together with
accompanying papers, reports, and doc-
uments, and were referred as indicated:
EC–793. A communication from the Direc-
tor of Cost Assessment and Program Evalua-
tion, Department of Defense, transmitting,
pursuant to law, a report relative to the De-
partment’s development of a plan for inte-
grated overhead persistent infrared capabili-
ties (OSS–2019–0294); to the Committees on
Appropriations; Armed Services; and Select
Committee on Intelligence.
EC–794. A communication from the Under
Secretary of Defense (Research and Engi-
neering), transmitting, pursuant to law, a re-
port relative to the funding of Department of
Defense programs under the Defense Labora-
tory Modernization Pilot Program; to the
Committees on Armed Services; and Appro-
priations.
EC–795. A communication from the Assist-
ant Secretary of Defense (Legislative Af-
fairs), transmitting legislative proposals rel-
ative to the ‘‘National Defense Authoriza-
tion Act for Fiscal Year 2020’’; to the Com-
mittee on Armed Services.
EC–796. A communication from the Sec-
retary of the Treasury, transmitting, pursu-
ant to Executive Order 13313 of July 31, 2003,
a semiannual report detailing telecommuni-
cations-related payments made to Cuba pur-
suant to Department of the Treasury li-
censes; to the Committee on Banking, Hous-
ing, and Urban Affairs.
EC–797. A communication from the Deputy
Director, Bureau of Land Management, De-
partment of the Interior, transmitting, pur-
suant to law, a report relative to the Bu-
reau’s efforts to better align state and fed-
eral plans for managing Greater Sage-Grouse
habitat on federal lands; to the Committee
on Energy and Natural Resources.
EC–798. A communication from the Assist-
ant Secretary for Legislation, Department of
Health and Human Services, transmitting,
pursuant to law, the fiscal year 2018 report of
the Federal Coordinated Health Care Office;
to the Committee on Finance.
EC–799. A communication from the Chair-
man of the United States International
Trade Commission, transmitting, pursuant
to law, the Commission’s Budget Request for
fiscal year 2020; to the Committee on Fi-
nance.
EC–800. A communication from the Direc-
tor, Defense Security Cooperation Agency,
transmitting, pursuant to law, a report rel-
ative to the Arms Export Control Act (OSS–
2019–0255); to the Committee on Foreign Re-
lations.
EC–801. A communication from the Assist-
ant Secretary, Legislative Affairs, Depart-
ment of State, transmitting, pursuant to
law, a report relative to the designation of a
group as a Foreign Terrorist Organization by
the Secretary of State (OSS–2019–0272); to
the Committee on Foreign Relations.
EC–802. A communication from the Assist-
ant Secretary, Bureau of Legislative Affairs,
Department of State, transmitting, pursuant
to law, sixteen (16) reports relative to vacan-
cies in the Department of State, received in
the Office of the President of the Senate on
March 26, 2019; to the Committee on Foreign
Relations.
EC–803. A communication from the Under
Secretary of the Army, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, a report entitled ‘‘Annual Report
to Congress on the Activities of the Western
Hemisphere Institute for Security Coopera-
tion for 2018’’; to the Committee on Foreign
Relations.
EC–804. A communication from the Board
Members, Railroad Retirement Board, trans-
mitting, pursuant to law, a report relative to
the Board’s budget request for fiscal year
2020; to the Committee on Health, Education,
Labor, and Pensions.
EC–805. A communication from the Inspec-
tor General of the Railroad Retirement
Board, transmitting, pursuant to law, the In-
spector General’s Congressional Budget Jus-
tification for fiscal year 2020; to the Com-
mittee on Health, Education, Labor, and
Pensions.
EC–806. A communication from the Con-
gressional Relations Officer of the United
States International Trade Commission,
transmitting, pursuant to law, the Commis-
sion’s Annual Performance Report for fiscal
year 2018 and Annual Performance Plan for
fiscal year 2019–2020; to the Committee on
Homeland Security and Governmental Af-
fairs.
EC–807. A communication from the Deputy
Assistant Administrator for Regulatory Pro-
grams, National Marine Fisheries Service,
Department of Commerce, transmitting, pur-
suant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Taking and Importing Marine Mammals;
Taking Marine Mammals Incidental to Na-
tional Park Service’s Research and Moni-
toring Activities in Southern Alaska Na-
tional Parks’’ (RIN0648–BH90) received dur-
ing adjournment of the Senate in the Office
of the President of the Senate on March 18,
2019; to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation.
EC–808. A communication from the Attor-
ney-Advisor, U.S. Coast Guard, Department
of Homeland Security, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Safety Zone; Mississippi Canyon Block 20,
South of New Orleans, LA, Gulf of Mexico’’
((RIN1625–AA08) (Docket No. USCG–2018–
1062)) received in the Office of the President
of the Senate on March 25, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Commerce, Science, and Transpor-
tation.
f
PETITIONS AND MEMORIALS
The following petition or memorial
was laid before the Senate and was re-
ferred or ordered to lie on the table as
indicated:
POM–22. A concurrent resolution adopted
by the Legislature of the State of South Da-
kota urging the United States Congress to
amend the Social Security Act to allow
states to provide Medicaid services to those
persons presumed innocent in jail awaiting
trial; to the Committee on Finance.
SENATE CONCURRENT RESOLUTION NO. 8
Whereas, a basic principle of the United
States judicial system is that citizens
charged with a crime are innocent until
proven guilty; and
Whereas, the United States and South Da-
kota have determined it is right and appro-
priate to care for our most vulnerable citi-
zens through the Medicaid program, and
county jails are populated by many persons
who have serious medical conditions and
mental illnesses or who are the parents of
small children who qualify for Medicaid ben-
efits; and
Whereas, the jail population in the United
States is growing faster than the prison pop-
ulation, and approximately two-thirds of the
jail population consists of those pending dis-
position who remain innocent until proven
guilty and who are currently not being treat-
ed equally to those awaiting trial who ob-
tained bail and were released awaiting adju-
dication; and
Whereas, providing Medicaid services to
persons in jail pending disposition will in-
crease the likelihood that the provision of
services is continuous once the person reen-
ters the community; and
Whereas, section 1905(a)(A) of the Social
Security Act prevents South Dakota from
providing Medicaid services to persons in jail
VerDate Sep 11 2014 15:50 Jun 10, 2019 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00024 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\RECORD19\MARCH\S28MR9.REC S28MR9
CORRECTION
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2087
March 28, 2019
pending disposition who would otherwise be
covered under the Medicaid policies of South
Dakota: Now, therefore, be it
Resolved, By the Senate of the Ninety-
Fourth Legislature of the State of South Da-
kota, the House of Representatives concur-
ring therein, that the Legislature requests
the United States Congress to amend the So-
cial Security Act to allow states to provide
Medicaid, services to those persons presumed
innocent in jail awaiting trial; and be it fur-
ther
Resolved, That the secretary of the senate
transmit copies of this resolution to the
Speaker and Clerk of the United States
House of Representatives, the President and
Secretary of the United States Senate, the
United States Secretary of Health and
Human Services, and to the South Dakota
congressional delegation.
f
REPORTS OF COMMITTEES
The following reports of committees
were submitted:
By Mr. BURR, from the Select Committee
on Intelligence:
Special Report entitled ‘‘Report of the Se-
lect Committee on Intelligence United
States Senate Covering the Period January
3, 2017 to January 3, 2019’’ (Rept. No. 116–20).
Additional views filed.
By Mr. HOEVEN, from the Committee on
Indian Affairs, without amendment:
S. 257. A bill to provide for rental assist-
ance for homeless or at-risk Indian veterans,
and for other purposes (Rept. No. 116–21).
By Mr. GRAHAM, from the Committee on
the Judiciary:
Special Report entitled ‘‘Report on the Ac-
tivities of the Senate Committee on the Ju-
diciary During the 115th Congress’’ (Rept.
No. 116–22).
By Mr. RISCH, from the Committee on
Foreign Relations:
Special Report entitled ‘‘Legislative Ac-
tivities Report of the Committee on Foreign
Relations, United States Senate, One Hun-
dred Fifteenth Congress’’ (Rept. No. 116–23).
By Mr. WICKER, from the Committee on
Commerce, Science, and Transportation:
Special Report entitled ‘‘Legislative Ac-
tivities Report of the Committee on Com-
merce, Science, and Transportation of the
United States Senate During the 115th Con-
gress’’ (Rept. No. 116–24).
f
EXECUTIVE REPORTS OF
COMMITTEE
The following executive reports of
nominations were submitted:
By Mr. GRAHAM for the Committee on the
Judiciary.
Wing Chau, of Rhode Island, to be United
States Marshal for the District of Rhode Is-
land for the term of four years.
Ramona L. Dohman, of Minnesota, to be
United States Marshal for the District of
Minnesota for the term of four years.
(Nominations without an asterisk
were reported with the recommenda-
tion that they be confirmed.)
f
INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND
JOINT RESOLUTIONS
The following bills and joint resolu-
tions were introduced, read the first
and second times by unanimous con-
sent, and referred as indicated:
By Mr. UDALL (for himself, Mr.
BLUMENTHAL, Mr. BOOKER, Mr.
CARDIN, Mrs. FEINSTEIN, Mrs. GILLI-
BRAND, Ms. HARRIS, Mr. LEAHY, Mr.
MARKEY, Mr. MERKLEY, Mr. SANDERS,
Mr. VAN HOLLEN, Mr. WHITEHOUSE,
and Mr. DURBIN):
S. 921. A bill to prohibit the use of
chlorpyrifos on food, to prohibit the registra-
tion of pesticides containing chlorpyrifos,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry.
By Mr. LANKFORD (for himself, Mrs.
SHAHEEN, Mr. VAN HOLLEN, and Mr.
TILLIS):
S. 922. A bill to limit the transfer of F–35
aircraft to Turkey; to the Committee on
Foreign Relations.
By Mrs. FEINSTEIN (for herself, Ms.
MURKOWSKI, Mrs. GILLIBRAND, Ms.
KLOBUCHAR, Mr. BENNET, Ms. SMITH,
Ms. HIRONO, Ms. CORTEZ MASTO, Ms.
HARRIS, and Ms. ROSEN):
S. 923. A bill to fight homelessness in the
United States by authorizing a grant pro-
gram within the Health Resources and Serv-
ices Administration for housing programs
that offer comprehensive services and inten-
sive case management for homeless individ-
uals and families; to the Committee on
Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
By Mr. CORNYN (for himself and Ms.
HASSAN):
S. 924. A bill to amend the Child Abuse
Prevention and Treatment Act to require
training and education to teachers and other
school employees, students, and the commu-
nity about how to prevent, recognize, re-
spond to, and report child sexual abuse in
primary and secondary education; to the
Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and
Pensions.
By Mr. CORNYN (for himself, Ms.
SINEMA, Mr. TILLIS, Ms. COLLINS,
Mrs. FISCHER, and Mr. RUBIO):
S. 925. A bill to impose additional sanc-
tions with respect to Iran’s Revolutionary
Guard Corps, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Foreign Relations.
By Mr. WYDEN:
S. 926. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to ensure that kombucha is
exempt from any excise taxes and regula-
tions imposed on alcoholic beverages; to the
Committee on Finance.
By Mr. PORTMAN (for himself and Mr.
BROWN):
S. 927. A bill to amend the National Avia-
tion Heritage Act to reauthorize the Na-
tional Aviation Heritage Area, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Energy and
Natural Resources.
By Mr. GRASSLEY (for himself and
Mr. WYDEN):
S. 928. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to modernize and improve
the Internal Revenue Service, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Finance.
By Mr. TILLIS (for himself and Mr.
BURR):
S. 929. A bill to amend title 28, United
States Code, to redefine the eastern and mid-
dle judicial districts of North Carolina; to
the Committee on the Judiciary.
By Ms. ERNST (for herself and Mr.
GARDNER):
S. 930. A bill to allow women greater access
to safe and effective contraception; to the
Committee on Finance.
By Mr. CASEY (for himself, Mrs. MUR-
RAY, Mr. WYDEN, Mr. BROWN, Mr.
CARDIN, Ms. CANTWELL, Mrs. GILLI-
BRAND, Ms. HASSAN, Ms. HIRONO, Mr.
MENENDEZ, Ms. STABENOW, Ms. COR-
TEZ MASTO, Ms. KLOBUCHAR, Mr. VAN
HOLLEN, Mr. BLUMENTHAL, Mr. BEN-
NET, Mr. WHITEHOUSE, Mr. MERKLEY,
Mr. REED, Mr. DURBIN, Mr. LEAHY,
and Mr. SCHUMER):
S. 931. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to enhance the Child and
Dependent Care Tax Credit and make the
credit fully refundable; to the Committee on
Finance.
By Mr. YOUNG (for himself, Ms. COR-
TEZ MASTO, Mr. SCOTT of South Caro-
lina, and Mr. BENNET):
S. 932. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to provide for the tax-ex-
empt financing of certain government-owned
buildings; to the Committee on Finance.
By Mr. WHITEHOUSE (for himself and
Ms. MURKOWSKI):
S. 933. A bill to improve data collection
and monitoring of the Great Lakes, oceans,
bays, estuaries, and coasts, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation.
By Mr. LEE (for himself and Mr. PAUL):
S. 934. A bill to prohibit mandatory or
compulsory checkoff programs; to the Com-
mittee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and For-
estry.
By Mr. LEE (for himself, Mr. BOOKER,
Mr. PAUL, and Ms. WARREN):
S. 935. A bill to prohibit certain practices
relating to certain commodity promotion
programs, to require greater transparency by
those programs, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition,
and Forestry.
By Mr. WYDEN (for himself and Mr.
PAUL):
S. 936. A bill to repeal the authority to ac-
cess on an ongoing basis business records for
foreign intelligence and international ter-
rorism investigations, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. KENNEDY:
S. 937. A bill to direct the Secretary of
Commerce to require institutions of higher
education and other research facilities to ob-
tain deemed export licenses for foreign na-
tionals conducting scientific research at
such institutions and facilities, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Banking,
Housing, and Urban Affairs.
By Mr. BURR (for himself, Mr. CARDIN,
Mr. BLUNT, Ms. KLOBUCHAR, Mr.
TILLIS, Mr. BROWN, and Mr. WICKER):
S. 938. A bill to amend the Intercountry
Adoption Act of 2000 to require the Secretary
of State to report on intercountry adoptions
from countries which have significantly re-
duced adoption rates involving immigration
to the United States, and for other purposes;
to the Committee on Foreign Relations.
By Mr. KENNEDY:
S. 939. A bill to establish limitations re-
garding Confucius Institutes, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Health, Edu-
cation, Labor, and Pensions.
By Mr. VAN HOLLEN:
S. 940. A bill to cap the emissions of green-
house gases through a requirement to pur-
chase carbon permits, to distribute the pro-
ceeds of such purchases to eligible individ-
uals, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Finance.
By Mr. MENENDEZ (for himself and
Mr. BOOKER):
S. 941. A bill to amend the Communica-
tions Act of 1934 to clarify the obligations of
licensees under section 331 of that Act, and
for other purposes; to the Committee on
Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
By Mr. KING (for himself and Ms. WAR-
REN):
S. 942. A bill to amend the Federal Election
Campaign Act of 1971 to require all political
committees to notify the Federal Election
Commission within 48 hours of receiving cu-
mulative contributions of $1,000 or more
from any contributor during a calendar year,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Rules and Administration.
By Mr. SCHATZ (for himself, Mr.
JONES, Mr. BLUMENTHAL, Ms. HARRIS,
Ms. KLOBUCHAR, and Mr. WYDEN):
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:31 Mar 29, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00025 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A28MR6.028 S28MRPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2088 March 28, 2019
S. 943. A bill to amend the Higher Edu-
cation Act of 1965 to provide capacity-build-
ing assistance to institutions of higher edu-
cation to examine and address inequities in
college student access and success, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Health,
Education, Labor, and Pensions.
By Mr. SCHATZ (for himself, Mr.
BLUMENTHAL, Mr. BROWN, Mr.
CARDIN, Mr. DURBIN, Mr. MARKEY,
Mr. MENENDEZ, Mrs. MURRAY, Mr.
PETERS, Ms. ROSEN, Ms. SMITH, Ms.
STABENOW, Mr. VAN HOLLEN, and Ms.
WARREN):
S. 944. A bill to enhance the security oper-
ations of the Transportation Security Ad-
ministration and the stability of the trans-
portation security workforce by applying a
unified personnel system under title 5,
United States Code, to employees of the
Transportation Security Administration who
are responsible for screening passengers and
property, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Commerce, Science, and Transpor-
tation.
By Mr. KENNEDY (for himself and Mr.
VAN HOLLEN):
S. 945. A bill to amend the Sarbanes-Oxley
Act of 2002 to require certain issuers to dis-
close to the Securities and Exchange Com-
mission information regarding foreign juris-
dictions that prevent the Public Company
Accounting Oversight Board from per-
forming inspections under that Act, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Bank-
ing, Housing, and Urban Affairs.
By Mr. VAN HOLLEN (for himself and
Mr. CARDIN):
S. 946. A bill to direct the Comptroller
General of the United States to complete a
study on barriers to participation in feder-
ally funded cancer clinical trials by popu-
lations that have been traditionally under-
represented in such trials; to the Committee
on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
By Mr. CRAPO (for himself, Mr. UDALL,
Mr. RISCH, Mr. HEINRICH, Mr. BENNET,
and Mr. BOOKER):
S. 947. A bill to amend the Radiation Expo-
sure Compensation Act to improve com-
pensation for workers involved in uranium
mining, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary.
By Ms. KLOBUCHAR (for herself, Ms.
COLLINS, and Ms. ROSEN):
S. 948. A bill to provide incentives to physi-
cians to practice in rural and medically un-
derserved communities, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. UDALL (for himself, Mr.
MERKLEY, Ms. KLOBUCHAR, Mr. SCHU-
MER, Mr. LEAHY, Mr. DURBIN, Mr.
CARDIN, Mr. WYDEN, Ms. BALDWIN,
Mr. VAN HOLLEN, Mr. COONS, Mr.
MARKEY, Mr. BLUMENTHAL, Mr. HEIN-
RICH, Mr. KAINE, Ms. HIRONO, Mr.
SANDERS, Mr. SCHATZ, Mrs. GILLI-
BRAND, Ms. HARRIS, Mr. BROWN, Mr.
BENNET, Ms. WARREN, Ms. SMITH,
Mrs. FEINSTEIN, Mr. CARPER, Mr.
KING, Mr. CASEY, Ms. CORTEZ MASTO,
Mr. WHITEHOUSE, Mr. TESTER, Mr.
BOOKER, Ms. STABENOW, Ms.
DUCKWORTH, Mr. MURPHY, Mrs. SHA-
HEEN, Ms. HASSAN, Mr. PETERS, Ms.
ROSEN, Mr. MENENDEZ, Mrs. MURRAY,
Mr. JONES, Mr. REED, Mr. MANCHIN,
and Ms. CANTWELL):
S. 949. A bill to expand Americans’ access
to the ballot box, reduce the influence of big
money in politics, and strengthen ethics
rules for public servants, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Finance.
By Ms. STABENOW (for herself, Mr.
ROUNDS, Mr. PETERS, Mr. TILLIS, Mr.
BURR, and Ms. BALDWIN):
S. 950. A bill to require the Director of the
United States Geological Survey to perform
a nationwide survey of perfluorinated com-
pounds, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Environment and Public Works.
By Mr. COONS (for himself, Mr. YOUNG,
Mr. MORAN, and Mr. BROWN):
S. 951. A bill to promote registered appren-
ticeships, including registered apprentice-
ships within in-demand industry sectors,
through the support of workforce inter-
mediaries, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and
Pensions.
By Mr. COTTON (for himself and Mr.
GRAHAM):
S. 952. A bill to provide that the Federal
Communications Commission may not pre-
vent a State or Federal correctional facility
from utilizing jamming equipment, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Com-
merce, Science, and Transportation.
By Mr. DAINES:
S. 953. A bill to designate the facility of
the United States Postal Service located at
1100 West Kent Avenue in Missoula, Mon-
tana, as the ‘‘Jeannette Rankin Post Office
Building’’; to the Committee on Homeland
Security and Governmental Affairs.
By Mr. BROWN (for himself, Mr. COT-
TON, Ms. DUCKWORTH, Mr. GARDNER,
Mr. MARKEY, Mr. MANCHIN, Mr. SCHU-
MER, Mr. PORTMAN, Mr. RUBIO, Mr.
TILLIS, Ms. WARREN, and Mr. BEN-
NET):
S. 954. A bill to provide grants to State,
local, territorial, and Tribal law enforce-
ment agencies to purchase chemical screen-
ing devices and train personnel to use chem-
ical screening devices in order to enhance
law enforcement efficiency and protect law
enforcement officers; to the Committee on
the Judiciary.
By Mr. MERKLEY:
S. 955. A bill to amend the Help America
Vote Act of 2002 to reduce waiting times for
voters in Federal elections; to the Com-
mittee on Rules and Administration.
By Mr. MERKLEY:
S. 956. A bill to amend the Federal Election
Campaign Act of 1971 to require the disclo-
sure of all donations; to the Committee on
Rules and Administration.
By Mr. MERKLEY:
S. 957. A bill to amend the Help America
Vote Act of 2002 to establish minimum re-
quirements for early voting; to the Com-
mittee on Rules and Administration.
By Mr. MERKLEY:
S. 958. A bill to amend the National Voter
Registration Act of 1993 to save eligible vot-
ers from voter purging, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Rules and Ad-
ministration.
By Ms. COLLINS (for herself and Mrs.
FEINSTEIN):
S. 959. A bill to establish in the Smithso-
nian Institution a comprehensive women’s
history museum, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Rules and Administration.
By Mr. MERKLEY:
S. 960. A bill to establish a commission to
develop proposals regarding voting represen-
tation for citizens of the United States who
reside in a territory, commonwealth, or Fed-
eral District of the United States; to the
Committee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. MERKLEY:
S.J. Res. 16. A joint resolution proposing
an amendment to the Constitution of the
United States to abolish the electoral col-
lege and to provide for the direct election of
the President and Vice President of the
United States; to the Committee on the Ju-
diciary.
SUBMISSION OF CONCURRENT AND
SENATE RESOLUTIONS
The following concurrent resolutions
and Senate resolutions were read, and
referred (or acted upon), as indicated:
By Mrs. MURRAY:
S. Res. 128. A resolution commemorating
the 100th anniversary of the National Parks
Conservation Association; to the Committee
on Energy and Natural Resources.
By Mr. MENENDEZ (for himself, Mr.
BENNET, Mr. BLUMENTHAL, Mr. BOOK-
ER, Mr. BROWN, Ms. CORTEZ MASTO,
Ms. DUCKWORTH, Mrs. FEINSTEIN, Ms.
HARRIS, Mr. HEINRICH, Ms. HIRONO,
Ms. KLOBUCHAR, Mr. MARKEY, Mrs.
MURRAY, Ms. ROSEN, Ms. SMITH, Ms.
WARREN, Mr. UDALL, Mr. DURBIN, and
Mr. SANDERS):
S. Res. 129. A resolution honoring the ac-
complishments and legacy of Cesar Estrada
Chavez; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
By Ms. DUCKWORTH (for herself, Mrs.
CAPITO, Mrs. SHAHEEN, Mr.
BLUMENTHAL, Ms. WARREN, Ms. CANT-
WELL, and Mrs. FEINSTEIN):
S. Res. 130. A resolution recognizing the
significance of endometriosis as an unmet
chronic disease for women and designating
March 2019 as ‘‘Endometriosis Awareness
Month’’; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
By Ms. KLOBUCHAR (for herself and
Mr. BURR):
S. Res. 131. A resolution designating April
2019 as ‘‘National 9–1-1 Education Month’’; to
the Committee on the Judiciary.
By Ms. STABENOW (for herself and
Mr. PETERS):
S. Res. 132. A resolution honoring the life
of Ted Lindsay; to the Committee on the Ju-
diciary.
By Mr. GARDNER (for himself, Mr.
COONS, and Mr. MARKEY):
S. Con. Res. 10. A concurrent resolution
recognizing that Chinese telecommuni-
cations companies such as Huawei and ZTE
pose serious threats to the national security
of the United States and its allies; to the
Committee on Foreign Relations.
f
ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS
S. 64
At the request of Ms. KLOBUCHAR, the
name of the Senator from North Da-
kota (Mr. CRAMER) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 64, a bill to prohibit brand
name drug companies from compen-
sating generic drug companies to delay
the entry of a generic drug into the
market, and to prohibit biological
product manufacturers from compen-
sating biosimilar and interchangeable
companies to delay the entry of bio-
similar biological products and inter-
changeable biological products.
S. 151
At the request of Mr. THUNE, the
name of the Senator from Mississippi
(Mr. WICKER) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 151, a bill to deter criminal
robocall violations and improve en-
forcement of section 227(b) of the Com-
munications Act of 1934, and for other
purposes.
S. 164
At the request of Mr. DAINES, the
name of the Senator from Connecticut
(Mr. BLUMENTHAL) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 164, a bill to amend title
10, United States Code, to remove the
prohibition on eligibility for TRICARE
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:31 Mar 29, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00026 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A28MR6.025 S28MRPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2089
March 28, 2019
Reserve Select of members of the re-
serve components of the Armed Forces
who are eligible to enroll in a health
benefits plan under chapter 89 of title
5, United States Code.
S. 296
At the request of Ms. COLLINS, the
name of the Senator from Pennsyl-
vania (Mr. CASEY) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 296, a bill to amend XVIII
of the Social Security Act to ensure
more timely access to home health
services for Medicare beneficiaries
under the Medicare program.
S. 317
At the request of Mr. GRASSLEY, the
name of the Senator from Florida (Mr.
RUBIO) was added as a cosponsor of S.
317, a bill to amend title XIX of the So-
cial Security Act to provide States
with the option of providing coordi-
nated care for children with complex
medical conditions through a health
home.
S. 386
At the request of Mr. LEE, the names
of the Senator from Delaware (Mr.
COONS) and the Senator from Idaho
(Mr. RISCH) were added as cosponsors of
S. 386, a bill to amend the Immigration
and Nationality Act to eliminate the
per-country numerical limitation for
employment-based immigrants, to in-
crease the per-country numerical limi-
tation for family-sponsored immi-
grants, and for other purposes.
S. 433
At the request of Ms. COLLINS, the
name of the Senator from Oregon (Mr.
MERKLEY) was added as a cosponsor of
S. 433, a bill to amend title XVIII of the
Social Security Act to improve home
health payment reforms under the
Medicare program.
S. 474
At the request of Mr. WYDEN, the
name of the Senator from New York
(Mrs. GILLIBRAND) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 474, a bill to amend title
XI of the Social Security Act to re-
quire drug manufacturers to publicly
justify unnecessary price increases.
S. 475
At the request of Mr. WYDEN, the
name of the Senator from Delaware
(Mr. COONS) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 475, a bill to amend title XVIII of
the Social Security Act to prevent cat-
astrophic out-of-pocket spending on
prescription drugs for seniors and indi-
viduals with disabilities.
S. 476
At the request of Mr. WYDEN, the
name of the Senator from Delaware
(Mr. COONS) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 476, a bill to amend title XI and
XVIII of the Social Security Act to
provide greater transparency of dis-
counts provided by drug manufactur-
ers.
S. 479
At the request of Mr. TOOMEY, the
name of the Senator from Illinois (Ms.
DUCKWORTH) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 479, a bill to revise section 48 of
title 18, United States Code, and for
other purposes.
S. 504
At the request of Ms. SINEMA, the
name of the Senator from Illinois (Ms.
DUCKWORTH) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 504, a bill to amend title 36,
United States Code, to authorize The
American Legion to determine the re-
quirements for membership in The
American Legion, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 506
At the request of Mrs. FEINSTEIN, the
name of the Senator from Illinois (Ms.
DUCKWORTH) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 506, a bill to support State, Tribal,
and local efforts to remove access to
firearms from individuals who are a
danger to themselves or others pursu-
ant to court orders for this purpose.
S. 518
At the request of Ms. CANTWELL, the
name of the Senator from Massachu-
setts (Mr. MARKEY) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 518, a bill to amend title
XVIII of the Social Security Act to
provide for Medicare coverage of cer-
tain lymphedema compression treat-
ment items as items of durable medical
equipment.
S. 521
At the request of Mr. BROWN, the
names of the Senator from Hawaii (Ms.
HIRONO) and the Senator from Con-
necticut (Mr. MURPHY) were added as
cosponsors of S. 521, a bill to amend
title II of the Social Security Act to re-
peal the Government pension offset and
windfall elimination provisions.
S. 530
At the request of Mr. SCHATZ, the
name of the Senator from Michigan
(Ms. STABENOW) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 530, a bill to establish the Fed-
eral Labor-Management Partnership
Council.
S. 567
At the request of Mr. CRUZ, the name
of the Senator from Georgia (Mr.
PERDUE) was added as a cosponsor of S.
567, a bill clarifying that it is United
States policy to recognize Israel’s sov-
ereignty over the Golan Heights.
S. 610
At the request of Mr. BLUMENTHAL,
the name of the Senator from Cali-
fornia (Mrs. FEINSTEIN) was added as a
cosponsor of S. 610, a bill to amend
title 9 of the United States Code with
respect to arbitration.
S. 622
At the request of Mr. JONES, the
names of the Senator from Arizona
(Ms. MCSALLY), the Senator from Colo-
rado (Mr. GARDNER) and the Senator
from Minnesota (Ms. SMITH) were added
as cosponsors of S. 622, a bill to amend
title 10, United States Code, to repeal
the requirement for reduction of sur-
vivor annuities under the Survivor
Benefit Plan by veterans’ dependency
and indemnity compensation, and for
other purposes.
S. 630
At the request of Mr. BROWN, the
name of the Senator from Oregon (Mr.
MERKLEY) was added as a cosponsor of
S. 630, a bill to amend the Consumer
Financial Protection Act of 2010 with
respect to arbitration.
S. 695
At the request of Mr. SASSE, the
name of the Senator from Tennessee
(Mrs. BLACKBURN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 695, a bill to amend the
Elementary and Secondary Education
Act of 1965 to allow parents of eligible
military dependent children to estab-
lish Military Education Savings Ac-
counts, and for other purposes.
S. 703
At the request of Mrs. FEINSTEIN, the
name of the Senator from New Jersey
(Mr. BOOKER) was withdrawn as a co-
sponsor of S. 703, a bill to amend title
10, United States Code, to address
health, safety, and environmental haz-
ards at private military housing units,
to prohibit the payment by members of
the Armed Forces of deposits or other
fees relating to such housing units, and
for other purposes.
At the request of Mrs. FEINSTEIN, the
name of the Senator from Connecticut
(Mr. MURPHY) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 703, supra.
S. 716
At the request of Mr. CARDIN, the
name of the Senator from New York
(Mrs. GILLIBRAND) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 716, a bill to impose sanc-
tions under the Global Magnitsky
Human Rights Accountability Act to
combat corruption, money laundering,
and impunity in Guatemala, and for
other purposes.
S. 778
At the request of Ms. MURKOWSKI, the
name of the Senator from Oregon (Mr.
WYDEN) was added as a cosponsor of S.
778, a bill to direct the Secretary of
Commerce, acting through the Admin-
istrator of the National Oceanic and
Atmospheric Administration, to con-
duct coastal community vulnerability
assessments related to ocean acidifica-
tion, and for other purposes.
S. 802
At the request of Mr. DAINES, the
name of the Senator from Mississippi
(Mrs. HYDE-SMITH) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 802, a bill to amend part
A of title IV of the Social Security Act,
and for other purposes.
S. 803
At the request of Mr. TOOMEY, the
names of the Senator from Nevada (Ms.
CORTEZ MASTO), the Senator from
Georgia (Mr. ISAKSON), the Senator
from Nevada (Ms. ROSEN) and the Sen-
ator from Missouri (Mr. BLUNT) were
added as cosponsors of S. 803, a bill to
amend the Internal Revenue Code of
1986 to restore incentives for invest-
ments in qualified improvement prop-
erty.
S. 817
At the request of Mr. CRAPO, the
name of the Senator from Oklahoma
(Mr. LANKFORD) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 817, a bill to amend the Inter-
nal Revenue Code of 1986 to remove si-
lencers from the definition of firearms,
and for other purposes.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:31 Mar 29, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00027 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A28MR6.031 S28MRPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2090 March 28, 2019
S. 834
At the request of Mr. BROWN, the
names of the Senator from Connecticut
(Mr. BLUMENTHAL) and the Senator
from Minnesota (Ms. KLOBUCHAR) were
added as cosponsors of S. 834, a bill to
amend the Public Health Service Act
to enhance the national strategy for
combating and eliminating tuber-
culosis, and for other purposes.
S. 846
At the request of Mr. CORNYN, the
names of the Senator from Arkansas
(Mr. COTTON) and the Senator from
Idaho (Mr. RISCH) were added as co-
sponsors of S. 846, a bill to amend title
49, United States Code, to limit certain
rolling stock procurements, and for
other purposes.
S. 867
At the request of Ms. HASSAN, the
name of the Senator from Connecticut
(Mr. BLUMENTHAL) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 867, a bill to protect stu-
dents of institutions of higher edu-
cation and the taxpayer investment in
institutions of higher education by im-
proving oversight and accountability of
institutions of higher education, par-
ticularly for-profit colleges, improving
protections for students and borrowers,
and ensuring the integrity of postsec-
ondary education programs, and for
other purposes.
S. 879
At the request of Mr. VAN HOLLEN,
the name of the Senator from Wash-
ington (Mrs. MURRAY) was added as a
cosponsor of S. 879, a bill to provide a
process for granting lawful permanent
resident status to aliens from certain
countries who meet specified eligibility
requirements, and for other purposes.
S. 894
At the request of Mr. DURBIN, the
name of the Senator from Maryland
(Mr. VAN HOLLEN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 894, a bill to authorize
dedicated domestic terrorism offices
within the Department of Homeland
Security, the Department of Justice,
and the Federal Bureau of Investiga-
tion to analyze and monitor domestic
terrorist activity and require the Fed-
eral Government to take steps to pre-
vent domestic terrorism.
S. 919
At the request of Mr. CRUZ, the name
of the Senator from Michigan (Mr.
PETERS) was added as a cosponsor of S.
919, a bill to reduce regulatory burdens
and streamline processes related to
commercial space activities, and for
other purposes.
S. CON. RES. 5
At the request of Mr. BARRASSO, the
name of the Senator from North Da-
kota (Mr. CRAMER) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. Con. Res. 5, a concurrent
resolution supporting the Local Radio
Freedom Act.
S. RES. 30
At the request of Mrs. FEINSTEIN, the
name of the Senator from New Jersey
(Mr. BOOKER) was added as a cosponsor
of S. Res. 30, a resolution condemning
efforts to undermine democracy in
Hungary and urging President Trump
to defend the universal human rights
and democratic norms under attack by
the Orban government.
S. RES. 119
At the request of Mr. BROWN, the
name of the Senator from Connecticut
(Mr. BLUMENTHAL) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. Res. 119, a resolution sup-
porting the goals of World Tuberculosis
Day to raise awareness about tuber-
culosis.
S. RES. 120
At the request of Mr. CARDIN, the
name of the Senator from Montana
(Mr. TESTER) was added as a cosponsor
of S. Res. 120, a resolution opposing ef-
forts to delegitimize the State of Israel
and the Global Boycott, Divestment,
and Sanctions Movement targeting
Israel.
S. RES. 123
At the request of Mr. RISCH, the
names of the Senator from Utah (Mr.
ROMNEY) and the Senator from Wyo-
ming (Mr. BARRASSO) were added as co-
sponsors of S. Res. 123, a resolution
supporting the North Atlantic Treaty
Organization and recognizing its 70
years of accomplishments.
AMENDMENT NO. 204
At the request of Mr. BLUMENTHAL,
the names of the Senator from New
Jersey (Mr. MENENDEZ) and the Sen-
ator from New Jersey (Mr. BOOKER)
were added as cosponsors of amend-
ment No. 204 intended to be proposed to
H.R. 268, a bill making supplemental
appropriations for the fiscal year end-
ing September 30, 2019, and for other
purposes.
AMENDMENT NO. 212
At the request of Mr. CORNYN, the
names of the Senator from Florida (Mr.
SCOTT) and the Senator from South
Carolina (Mr. GRAHAM) were added as
cosponsors of amendment No. 212 in-
tended to be proposed to H.R. 268, a bill
making supplemental appropriations
for the fiscal year ending September 30,
2019, and for other purposes.
f
STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED
BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS
By Mr. GRASSLEY (for himself
and Mr. WYDEN):
S. 928. A bill to amend the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986 to modernize and
improve the Internal Revenue Service,
and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Finance.
Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President, I am
pleased that my colleague, Finance
Committee Ranking Member WYDEN,
will be joining me in introducing the
Taxpayer First Act of 2019 later today.
This legislation seeks to modernize the
Internal Revenue Service, improve tax-
payers’ services, and strengthen tax-
payer protections.
The package of IRS reforms we will
introduce today is the culmination of
years of work by both the Senate Fi-
nance Committee and the House Ways
and Means Committee. It is truly a bi-
partisan package that adopts provi-
sions authored by committee members
on both sides of the aisle of the House
and the Senate.
Former Chairman Hatch of Utah de-
serves a lot of credit for working to
reach a bipartisan, bicameral agree-
ment at the end of the last Congress,
which is reflected in the legislation we
will be introducing this afternoon.
I know Senator Hatch put a lot of
work into trying to get this legislation
across the finish line last year. Unfor-
tunately, it wasn’t meant to be, due to
both political realities and, maybe,
time constraints—even more so.
However, his work helped us get to
where we are today. In other words, we
are advancing a great deal of what Sen-
ator Hatch worked on, and our hope is
that it will allow us to move quickly
this year and finally get these com-
monsense reforms of the Internal Rev-
enue Service enacted into law.
Some of the IRS reforms in this leg-
islation include establishing a truly
independent Office of Appeals within
the Internal Revenue Service. This will
help ensure the playing field is not tilt-
ed against taxpayers when those tax-
payers are in dispute with the Internal
Revenue Service.
To help bring the Internal Revenue
Service into the 21st century, the legis-
lation also would require the IRS to
submit to Congress a plan to redesign
the structure of the Agency to improve
efficiency, enhance cyber security, and
better meet taxpayer needs.
It also includes a number of provi-
sions to protect the taxpayers better
from tax ID theft and improve tax-
payer interaction with the IRS, should
they become a victim of that crime.
This includes creating a single point of
contact in the IRS to help the tax-
payers navigate the bureaucracy and
resolve their issues as quickly as pos-
sible.
To provide taxpayers with better pro-
tection against becoming such a victim
in the first place, the legislation will
expand to all taxpayers an IRS pro-
gram that currently allows victims—
and only victims—of tax ID theft to ob-
tain a personalized PIN that better se-
cures the identity of any taxpayer who
asks for it.
The legislation also puts in place new
safeguards to protect taxpayers against
recent IRS enforcement abuses of so-
called structuring laws. On several oc-
casions, the IRS used these laws to
seize bank accounts of small business
owners when no underlying criminal
activity was present. This includes
seizing $33,000 from a small business
owner who operated a small restaurant
in Arnolds Park, IA, for nearly 40
years. The IRS—on a whim, taking
$33,000 from that small business—
caused the business to close, and the
owner did nothing wrong in the end.
Provisions in our bill will help ensure
these types of abuses never occur
again.
I would also like to note the improve-
ments to the IRS whistleblower pro-
gram that are contained in the bill.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:31 Mar 29, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00028 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A28MR6.033 S28MRPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2091
March 28, 2019
In 2006, I authored legislation estab-
lishing a mandatory Internal Revenue
Service whistleblower program. Since
it was established, the IRS whistle-
blower program has turned into one of
the most effective programs addressing
tax evasion, leading to the recovery of
more than $5 billion in taxes that oth-
erwise would have been lost to fraud.
Unfortunately, too many IRS whis-
tleblowers continue to be treated like a
skunk at a picnic. They often wait for
years, and while they are waiting for
years, it is in the dark, with no indica-
tion of whether the information they
provided to the IRS would ever lead to
a successful recovery or whether their
reward is even being processed.
Moreover, they are often putting
their careers on the line, exposing cor-
porate tax shelters with no protection
should their employer decide to retali-
ate.
Provisions in our bill will help to ad-
dress these issues by authorizing the
IRS to communicate with whistle-
blowers, in certain instances, while
protecting taxpayer privacy.
What we are really saying is this:
You ought to let these whistleblowers,
who are patriotic people, trying to help
the Federal Government collect money
that wouldn’t otherwise be collected—
treat them like the patriotic citizens
they are.
The bill would also extend anti-retal-
iation provisions to IRS whistleblowers
that are presently afforded to whistle-
blowers under other whistleblower
laws—the False Claims Act, which I
authored in 1986, as well as the more
recent Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which came
out of another committee that I didn’t
serve on.
Finally, the bill includes modifica-
tions to the private debt collection pro-
gram. I have long been a proponent of
this program as a way to tackle the tax
gap and to promote tax fairness. It
works by assigning certain tax debts,
which the IRS otherwise would not at-
tempt to collect, to an outside con-
tractor to pursue.
In other words, if the IRS isn’t going
to go after all the money that is owed
to the taxpayers—and we don’t want $1
more than what people owe, but we
want every dollar that people do owe—
if they aren’t going to go after it, we
ought to find some way to go after it.
That is why we have outside contrac-
tors pursuing some of these issues that
the IRS isn’t going to pursue.
Recent quarterly revenue reports
demonstrate the program has the po-
tential to bring in hundreds of millions
of dollars in revenue on an annual
basis.
I understand some of my colleagues,
particularly on the House Ways and
Means Committee, have been con-
cerned that the program has been too
heavily focused on lower income tax-
payers. We listened to these concerns,
and we worked to develop a sensible
compromise while yet strengthening
the long-term viability of this pro-
gram.
These are just a few of the provisions
in this bill. There are many others that
will go a long way toward making the
IRS work better for taxpayers.
I also know that some of my col-
leagues have additional ideas that we
were unable to include in this package.
I want them to know that I see this
legislation as a first step toward re-
forming the IRS and strengthening
taxpayers’ protections.
I agree there is more that we can do.
I am committed to evaluating addi-
tional proposals with input from all of
our colleagues on reforms that could be
included in a package of additional IRS
reforms later this Congress.
But first things first. Companion leg-
islation is being introduced in the
House, which I hope the Senate will re-
ceive in the near future.
I ask all of my colleagues to join me
and Ranking Member WYDEN in sup-
porting this bipartisan bill.
By Mrs. FEINSTEIN (for herself,
Ms. MURKOWSKI, Mrs. GILLI-
BRAND, Ms. KLOBUCHAR, Mr.
BENNET, Ms. SMITH, Ms. HIRONO,
Ms. CORTEZ MASTO, Ms. HARRIS,
and Ms. ROSEN):
S. 923. A bill to fight homelessness in
the United States by authorizing a
grant program within the Health Re-
sources and Services Administration
for housing programs that offer com-
prehensive services and intensive case
management for homeless individuals
and families; to the Committee on
Health, Education, Labor, and Pen-
sions.
Mrs. FEINSTEIN. Mr. President, I
rise today to introduce the ‘‘Fighting
Homelessness with Services and Hous-
ing Act.’’ This bill would help address
our Nation’s current homelessness cri-
sis by establishing a new Federal grant
program to increase support for com-
prehensive services paired with hous-
ing.
As we have seen with the growing di-
versity of our homeless populations—
families with children, veterans, indi-
viduals with mental health conditions,
people who simply could not keep up
with increases in rent—our Nation’s
homelessness crisis is not going to re-
solve itself on its own.
According to the most recent data
available from the U.S. Department of
Housing and Urban Development, there
are more than 552,000 homeless individ-
uals and families in the United States.
Nearly 25 percent of this population is
in California, with approximately
129,972 homeless people sleeping on the
streets on any given night.
In a Nation as prosperous as ours, we
can and we must do better. Our city,
county, state, and Federal govern-
ments must work hand-in-hand with
the non-profit and private sectors to
establish collaborative efforts to sig-
nificantly address the issue of home-
lessness.
The good news is that we have seen a
model that works: supportive housing
can truly stabilize an individual or
family and change their life. Sup-
portive services such as mental and
physical health care, substance abuse
treatment, education and job training,
and life skills such as financial literacy
are critical components. Paired with
intensive case management, supportive
housing models make a difference.
One success story is the Downtown
Women’s Center in Los Angeles. This
shelter allows homeless and formerly
homeless women to transform their
lives through a combination of perma-
nent, supportive housing and workforce
development. This would not be pos-
sible without the Center’s partnerships
with the City of Los Angeles, the Los
Angeles County Department of Health,
and other critical stakeholders. I’ve
visited the Center, and I encourage my
colleagues to do the same to see why
this model works.
It will take a significant investment
to solve the current homelessness cri-
sis. The ‘‘Fighting Homelessness with
Services and Housing Act’’ authorizes a
new Federal funding grant program of
$750 million per year, subject to annual
appropriations. Grantees must serve
individuals or families who are home-
less or at risk of becoming homeless by
providing housing paired with a com-
prehensive set of services, and they
must provide a 25 percent match for
any Federal funds received.
Because each individual and every
community is unique, the grant pro-
gram created by this bill would be
flexible in order to work in any region
or for any homeless population. This
bill supports the great work already
being done across the country, allow-
ing local governmental entities and
non-profit organizations to expand
their capacity and ensure a greater
reach by putting Federal dollars where
they will make the most effective im-
pact.
This bipartisan legislation is sup-
ported by a wide coalition of local gov-
ernment, housing, health, and child
welfare organizations, including the
Child Welfare League of America, Chil-
dren’s Defense Fund, Corporation for
Supportive Housing, Mayors and CEOS
for U.S. Housing Investment, National
Alliance to End Homelessness, Na-
tional Association of Counties, Na-
tional Education Association, National
League of Cities, National Low Income
Housing Coalition, NETWORK Lobby
for Catholic Social Justice, and Treat-
ment Communities of America.
I particularly want to thank Senator
MURKOWSKI for working with me on
this important issue. I hope our col-
leagues will join us in cosponsoring the
bill and moving it through the Senate.
Thank you Mr. President. I yield the
floor.
By Ms. COLLINS (for herself and
Mrs. FEINSTEIN):
S. 959. A bill to establish in the
Smithsonian Institution a comprehen-
sive women’s history museum, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on
Rules and Administration.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:31 Mar 29, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00029 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G28MR6.025 S28MRPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2092 March 28, 2019
Ms. COLLINS. Mr. President, I am
pleased to introduce, along with the
senior Senator from California, Mrs.
FEINSTEIN, the Smithsonian American
Women’s History Museum Act. This
bill would establish an American wom-
en’s history museum in our Nation’s
Capital.
American women have made invalu-
able contributions to our country in
every field, such as government, busi-
ness, medicine, law, literature, sports,
entertainment, the arts, and the mili-
tary. Telling the history of American
women matters, and a museum recog-
nizing these achievements and experi-
ences is long overdue.
In 1999, a Presidential commission on
commemorating women in American
history concluded that an ‘‘appropriate
celebration of women’s history in the
next millennium should include the
designation of a focal point for wom-
en’s history in our Nation’s capital.’’ In
2014, Congress took an important step
toward realizing this goal when it
passed legislation creating an inde-
pendent, bipartisan commission to
study the potential for establishing
such a museum in Washington, DC.
Following 18 months of study, the bi-
partisan commission unanimously con-
cluded, ‘‘America needs and deserves a
physical national museum dedicated to
showcasing the historical experiences
and impact of women in the country.’’
I could not agree more.
The bill we are introducing takes the
next step toward creating this national
museum. Incorporating the rec-
ommendations of the bipartisan Com-
mission, the bill would establish a na-
tional museum to collect, study, and
create programs incorporating and ex-
hibiting a wide spectrum of American
women’s experiences, contributions,
and history. The Smithsonian Institu-
tion would be the governing body, en-
suring that this museum is free and
open to all who visit Washington, DC.
Following the Commission’s rec-
ommendation, the Smithsonian has
begun an American Women’s History
Initiative to increase its research and
programming related to American
women, past and present.
Mr. President, this year we com-
memorate the 100th anniversary of
American women’s suffrage and the
decades-long fight for women’s equal-
ity at the ballot box. The story, lead-
ers, and lessons of women’s suffrage are
among the most powerful in our na-
tion’s history. Amid celebrations of
that historic moment, I can think of
few better ways to honor those women
and that momentous achievement than
by passing this legislation. A museum
dedicated to women’s history would
help ensure that future generations un-
derstand what we owe to those Amer-
ican women who have helped build, sus-
tain, and advance our society.
I urge my colleagues to support this
legislation.
SUBMITTED RESOLUTIONS
SENATE RESOLUTION 128—COM-
MEMORATING THE 100TH ANNI-
VERSARY OF THE NATIONAL
PARKS CONSERVATION ASSOCIA-
TION
Mrs. MURRAY submitted the fol-
lowing resolution; which was referred
to the Committee on Energy and Nat-
ural Resources:
S. RES. 128
Whereas on May 19, 1919, a group of sci-
entists, artists, and civic leaders met in
Washington, District of Columbia, and
founded the National Parks Association, now
known as the National Parks Conservation
Association;
Whereas Robert Sterling Yard, founder of
the National Parks Conservation Association
and first Chief of Education of the National
Park Service, led a 6-member committee to
develop the articles of incorporation for the
National Parks Conservation Association
‘‘to further the view of national parks as
classrooms and museums of nature’’;
Whereas the National Parks Conservation
Association has grown from 1 staff member
to a community of organizers, policy ex-
perts, attorneys, communications profes-
sionals, and more than 1,300,000 members and
supporters, all dedicated—
(1) to advocating for parks in the United
States; and
(2) to inspiring future generations to be
good stewards of public spaces;
Whereas the mission of the National Parks
Conservation Association, ‘‘protecting and
enhancing America’s National Park System
for present and future generations’’, is as rel-
evant in 2019 as the mission was in 1919;
Whereas, a century after being established,
the National Parks Conservation Associa-
tion—
(1) continues to act as a passionate and
outspoken defender of the national parks of
the United States; and
(2) represents people from different back-
grounds coming together to fulfill a unique
mandate to steward publicly shared land,
independent of government and private busi-
ness;
Whereas the founders of the National
Parks Conservation Association envisioned
national parks as incredible places deserving
of protection and preservation for all people;
Whereas the National Parks Conservation
Association is dedicated to ensuring that all
people can share in that vision, regardless of
gender, race, or religious belief; and
Whereas the National Parks Conservation
Association plays a vital role in protecting
places of unparalleled natural wonder, his-
torical significance, and cultural value with-
in the National Park System: Now, there-
fore, be it
Resolved, That the Senate—
(1) commemorates the 100th anniversary of
the founding of the National Parks Con-
servation Association;
(2) recognizes the National Parks Con-
servation Association for 100 years of pro-
tecting and enhancing the National Park
System for present and future generations;
(3) applauds the past, present, and future
efforts of the National Parks Conservation
Association to advocate for the National
Park System; and
(4) wishes the National Parks Conservation
Association continued success during the
next 100 years as the National Parks Con-
servation Association strives to engage and
inspire the public to advance the mission of
the National Park System.
SENATE RESOLUTION 129—HON-
ORING THE ACCOMPLISHMENTS
AND LEGACY OF CÉSAR
ESTRADA CHÁVEZ
Mr. MENENDEZ (for himself, Mr.
BENNET, Mr. BLUMENTHAL, Mr. BOOKER,
Mr. BROWN, Ms. CORTEZ MASTO, Ms.
DUCKWORTH, Mrs. FEINSTEIN, Ms. HAR-
RIS, Mr. HEINRICH, Ms. HIRONO, Ms.
KLOBUCHAR, Mr. MARKEY, Mrs. MUR-
RAY, Ms. ROSEN, Ms. SMITH, Ms. WAR-
REN, Mr. UDALL, Mr. DURBIN, and Mr.
SANDERS) submitted the following reso-
lution; which was referred to the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary:
S. RES. 129
Whereas César Estrada Chávez was born on
March 31, 1927, near Yuma, Arizona;
Whereas César Estrada Chávez spent his
early years on a family farm;
Whereas, at the age of 10, César Estrada
Chávez joined the thousands of migrant farm
workers laboring in fields and vineyards
throughout the Southwest after a bank fore-
closure resulted in the loss of the family
farm;
Whereas César Estrada Chávez, after at-
tending more than 30 elementary and middle
schools and achieving an eighth grade edu-
cation, left school to work full-time as a
farm worker to help support his family;
Whereas, at the age of 17, César Estrada
Chávez entered the United States Navy and
served the United States with distinction for
2 years;
Whereas, in 1948, César Estrada Chávez re-
turned from military service to marry Helen
Fabela, whom he had met while working in
the vineyards of central California;
Whereas César Estrada Chávez and Helen
Fabela had 8 children;
Whereas, as early as 1949, César Estrada
Chávez was committed to organizing farm
workers to campaign for safe and fair work-
ing conditions, reasonable wages, livable
housing, and the outlawing of child labor;
Whereas, in 1952, César Estrada Chávez
joined the Community Service Organization,
a prominent Latino civil rights group, and
worked with the organization to coordinate
voter registration drives and conduct cam-
paigns against discrimination in East Los
Angeles;
Whereas César Estrada Chávez served as
the national director of the Community
Service Organization;
Whereas, in 1962, César Estrada Chávez left
the Community Service Organization to es-
tablish the National Farm Workers Associa-
tion, which eventually became the United
Farm Workers of America;
Whereas, under the leadership of César
Estrada Chávez, the United Farm Workers of
America organized thousands of migrant
farm workers to fight for fair wages, health
care coverage, pension benefits, livable hous-
ing, and respect;
Whereas César Estrada Chávez was a
strong believer in the principles of non-
violence practiced by Mahatma Gandhi and
Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr.;
Whereas César Estrada Chávez effectively
used peaceful tactics that included fasting
for 25 days in 1968, 25 days in 1972, and 38 days
in 1988 to call attention to the terrible work-
ing and living conditions of farm workers in
the United States;
Whereas, through his commitment to non-
violence, César Estrada Chávez brought dig-
nity and respect to the organized farm work-
ers and became an inspiration to and a re-
source for individuals engaged in human
rights struggles throughout the world;
Whereas the influence of César Estrada
Chávez extends far beyond agriculture and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:31 Mar 29, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00030 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A28MR6.039 S28MRPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2093
March 28, 2019
provides inspiration for individuals working
to better human rights, empower workers,
and advance the American Dream, which in-
cludes all individuals of the United States;
Whereas César Estrada Chávez died on
April 23, 1993, at the age of 66 in San Luis,
Arizona, only miles from his birthplace;
Whereas more than 50,000 people attended
the funeral services of César Estrada Chávez
in Delano, California;
Whereas César Estrada Chávez was laid to
rest at the headquarters of the United Farm
Workers of America, known as ‘‘Nuestra
Señora de La Paz’’, located in the Tehachapi
Mountains in Keene, California;
Whereas, since the death of César Estrada
Chávez, schools, parks, streets, libraries, and
other public facilities, as well as awards and
scholarships, have been named in his honor;
Whereas more than 10 States and dozens of
communities across the United States honor
the life and legacy of César Estrada Chávez
each year on March 31;
Whereas March 31 is recognized as an offi-
cial State holiday in California, Colorado,
and Texas, and there is growing support to
designate the birthday of César Estrada
Chávez as a national day of service to memo-
rialize his heroism;
Whereas, during his lifetime, César Estrada
Chávez was a recipient of the Martin Luther
King Jr. Peace Prize;
Whereas, on August 8, 1994, César Estrada
Chávez was posthumously awarded the Presi-
dential Medal of Freedom;
Whereas, on October 8, 2012, President
Barack Obama authorized the Secretary of
the Interior to establish a César Estrada
Chávez National Monument in Keene, Cali-
fornia;
Whereas President Barack Obama was the
last President to honor the life and service of
César Estrada Chávez by proclaiming March
31, 2016, to be ‘‘César Chávez Day’’ and by
asking all people of the United States to ob-
serve March 31 with service, community, and
education programs to honor the enduring
legacy of César Estrada Chávez; and
Whereas the United States should continue
the efforts of César Estrada Chávez to ensure
equality, justice, and dignity for all people
of the United States: Now, therefore, be it
Resolved, That the Senate—
(1) recognizes the accomplishments and ex-
ample of César Estrada Chávez, a great hero
of the United States;
(2) pledges to promote the legacy of César
Estrada Chávez; and
(3) encourages the people of the United
States to commemorate the legacy of César
Estrada Chávez and to always remember his
great rallying cry, ‘‘≠Sı́, se puede!’’, which is
Spanish for ‘‘Yes, we can!’’.
f
SENATE RESOLUTION 130—RECOG-
NIZING THE SIGNIFICANCE OF
ENDOMETRIOSIS AS AN UNMET
CHRONIC DISEASE FOR WOMEN
AND DESIGNATING MARCH 2019
AS ‘‘ENDOMETRIOSIS AWARE-
NESS MONTH’’
Ms. DUCKWORTH (for herself, Mrs.
CAPITO, Mrs. SHAHEEN, Mr.
BLUMENTHAL, Ms. WARREN, Ms. CANT-
WELL, and Mrs. FEINSTEIN) submitted
the following resolution; which was re-
ferred to the Committee on the Judici-
ary:
S. RES. 130
Whereas 6,500,000 women in the United
States are living with endometriosis;
Whereas endometriosis is a chronic disease
affecting—
(1) 176,000,000 women throughout the world;
and
(2) an estimated 1 in 10 women in the
United States between the ages of 18 and 49;
Whereas medical societies and patient
groups have expressed the need for greater
public attention and updated resources tar-
geted to public education about this unmet
health need for women;
Whereas endometriosis occurs when tissue
similar to that normally found in the uterus
begins to grow outside the uterus;
Whereas, although endometriosis is one of
the most common gynecological disorders in
the United States, there is a lack of aware-
ness and prioritization of endometriosis as
an important health issue for women;
Whereas women can suffer for up to 10
years before being properly diagnosed;
Whereas approximately 1⁄3 to 1⁄2 of all
women with endometriosis will have dif-
ficulty getting pregnant;
Whereas endometriosis is a painful and de-
bilitating disorder;
Whereas endometriosis is associated with
increased health care costs and poses a sub-
stantial burden to patients in the health
care system;
Whereas the total annual direct health
care cost of symptoms associated with endo-
metriosis is $56,000,000,000, or nearly $11,000
per patient;
Whereas 51 percent of endometriosis pa-
tients report that the disease detrimentally
affects their performance of their job;
Whereas the Centers for Disease Control
and Prevention found that the average num-
ber of ‘‘bed days’’ for patients with endo-
metriosis was 18 days per year;
Whereas women with endometriosis can
lose 11 hours per work week through lost
productivity;
Whereas, in 2010, endometriosis patients
were hospitalized over 100,000 days because of
the disease;
Whereas there is a need for more research
and updated guidelines to treat endo-
metriosis;
Whereas the research dollars from the Na-
tional Institutes of Health dedicated to endo-
metriosis has dropped from $16,000,000 in 2010
to $6,000,000 in 2019;
Whereas there is an ongoing need for addi-
tional clinical research and treatment op-
tions to manage this debilitating disease;
and
Whereas there is no known cure for endo-
metriosis: Now, therefore, be it
Resolved, That the Senate—
(1) designates March 2019 as ‘‘Endo-
metriosis Awareness Month’’;
(2) recognizes the importance of endo-
metriosis as a health issue for women that
requires far greater attention, public aware-
ness, and education about the disease;
(3) encourages the Secretary of Health and
Human Services—
(A) to provide information to women, pa-
tients, and health care providers with re-
spect to endometriosis, including available
screening tools and treatment options, with
a goal of improving the quality of life and
health outcomes of women affected by endo-
metriosis;
(B) to conduct additional research on endo-
metriosis and possible clinical options; and
(C) to update information, tools, and stud-
ies currently available with respect to help-
ing women live with endometriosis; and
(4) respectfully requests that the Secretary
of the Senate transmit an enrolled copy of
this resolution to the Secretary of Health
and Human Services.
SENATE RESOLUTION 131—DESIG-
NATING APRIL 2019 AS ‘‘NA-
TIONAL 9–1–1 EDUCATION
MONTH’’
Ms. KLOBUCHAR (for herself and Mr.
BURR) submitted the following resolu-
tion; which was referred to the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary:
S. RES. 131
Whereas 9–1–1 is recognized throughout the
United States as the number to call in an
emergency to receive immediate help from
law enforcement agencies, fire services,
emergency medical services, and other ap-
propriate emergency response entities;
Whereas, in 1967, the President’s Commis-
sion on Law Enforcement and Administra-
tion of Justice recommended that a ‘‘single
number should be established’’ nationwide
for reporting emergency situations, and var-
ious Federal Government agencies and gov-
ernmental officials supported and encour-
aged the recommendation;
Whereas, in 1968, the American Telephone
and Telegraph Company (commonly known
as ‘‘AT&T’’) announced that it would estab-
lish the digits 9–1–1 as the emergency code
throughout the United States;
Whereas Congress designated 9–1–1 as the
national emergency call number in the Wire-
less Communications and Public Safety Act
of 1999 (47 U.S.C. 615 et seq.);
Whereas section 102 of the ENHANCE 911
Act of 2004 (47 U.S.C. 942 note) declared an
enhanced 9–1–1 system to be ‘‘a high national
priority’’ and part of ‘‘our Nation’s home-
land security and public safety’’;
Whereas it is important that policymakers
at all levels of government understand the
importance of 9–1–1, how the 9–1–1 system
works, and the steps that are needed to mod-
ernize the 9–1–1 system;
Whereas the 9–1–1 system is the connection
between the eyes and ears of the public and
the emergency response system in the
United States and is often the first place
emergencies of all magnitudes are reported,
making 9–1–1 a significant homeland security
asset;
Whereas nearly 6,000 9–1–1 public safety an-
swering points serve more than 3,000 coun-
ties and parishes throughout the United
States;
Whereas telecommunicators at public safe-
ty answering points answer more than
200,000,000 9–1–1 calls each year in the United
States;
Whereas a growing number of 9–1–1 calls
are made using wireless and Internet Pro-
tocol-based communications services;
Whereas a growing segment of the popu-
lation of the United States, including indi-
viduals who are deaf or hard of hearing or
who suffer from speech or language dis-
orders, autism spectrum disorder, cerebral
palsy, or anxiety, is increasingly commu-
nicating with nontraditional text, video, and
instant messaging communications services
and expects those services to be able to con-
nect directly to 9–1–1;
Whereas Next Generation 9–1–1 promises
enhanced accessibility, interoperability,
flexibility, and features, as well as network
resiliency and reliability;
Whereas the growth in usage and diver-
sification of means of communication to 9–1–
1 services, including mobile and Internet
Protocol-based systems, impose unique chal-
lenges for accessing 9–1–1 and, thus, require
increased education and awareness about the
emergency communications capabilities of
these different methods of communication;
Whereas numerous other ‘‘N–1–1’’ and 800
number services exist for nonemergency sit-
uations, including 2–1–1, 3–1–1, 5–1–1, 7–1–1, 8–
1–1, poison control centers, and mental
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:31 Mar 29, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00031 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A28MR6.040 S28MRPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2094 March 28, 2019
health hotlines, and the public needs to be
educated on when to use those services in ad-
dition to or instead of 9–1–1;
Whereas international visitors and immi-
grants make up an increasing percentage of
the population of the United States each
year, and visitors and immigrants may have
limited knowledge of the emergency calling
system in the United States;
Whereas people of all ages use 9–1–1, and it
is critical to educate people on the proper
use of 9–1–1;
Whereas senior citizens are highly likely
to need to access 9–1–1, and many senior citi-
zens are learning to use new technology;
Whereas thousands of 9–1–1 calls are made
every year by children properly trained in
the use of 9–1–1, which saves lives and under-
scores the critical importance of training
children early in life about 9–1–1;
Whereas the 9–1–1 system is often misused,
including by the placement of prank and
nonemergency calls;
Whereas misuse of the 9–1–1 system results
in costly and inefficient use of 9–1–1 and
emergency response resources and needs to
be reduced;
Whereas parents, teachers, and all other
caregivers need to play an active role in 9–1–
1 education for children, but can do so only
after first being educated themselves;
Whereas there are many avenues for 9–1–1
public education, including safety fairs,
school presentations, libraries, churches,
businesses, public safety answering point
tours or open houses, civic organizations,
and senior citizen centers;
Whereas children, parents, teachers, and
the National Parent Teacher Association
make vital contributions to the education of
children about the importance of 9–1–1
through targeted outreach efforts to public
and private school systems;
Whereas the United States Government
should strive to host at least 1 educational
event regarding the proper use of 9–1–1 in
every school in the country each year;
Whereas programs to promote proper use
of 9–1–1 during National 9–1–1 Education
Month could include—
(1) public awareness events, including con-
ferences, media outreach, and training ac-
tivities for parents, teachers, school admin-
istrators, other caregivers, and businesses;
(2) educational events in schools and other
appropriate venues; and
(3) production and distribution of informa-
tion about the 9–1–1 system designed to edu-
cate people of all ages on the importance and
proper use of 9–1–1; and
Whereas the people of the United States
deserve the best education regarding the use
of 9–1–1: Now, therefore, be it
Resolved, That the Senate—
(1) designates April 2019 as ‘‘National 9–1–1
Education Month’’; and
(2) urges governmental officials, parents,
teachers, school administrators, caregivers,
businesses, nonprofit organizations, and the
people of the United States to observe the
month with appropriate ceremonies, training
events, and activities.
f
SENATE RESOLUTION 132—HON-
ORING THE LIFE OF TED LIND-
SAY
Ms. STABENOW (for herself and Mr.
PETERS) submitted the following reso-
lution; which was referred to the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary:
S. RES. 132
Whereas Robert Blake Theodore Lindsay
(referred to in this preamble as ‘‘Ted Lind-
say’’) was born in Renfrew, Ontario, Canada,
on July 29, 1925, and was a professional hock-
ey player known for his love of the sport and
defense of players’ rights;
Whereas, in 1917, the father of Ted Lindsay,
Leslie ‘‘Bert’’ Lindsay, was one of the first
players in the National Hockey League (in
this preamble referred to as the ‘‘NHL’’) and
was the first NHL goalie in the history of the
league to record a win;
Whereas Ted Lindsay entered the NHL in
1944 at 19 years of age when he joined the De-
troit Red Wings;
Whereas Ted Lindsay was known as a
fierce competitor who earned the nicknames
‘‘Terrible Ted’’ and ‘‘Old Scarface’’ for his
toughness;
Whereas the NHL developed 2 penalties, el-
bowing and kneeing, because of his physical
play;
Whereas Ted Lindsay played left wing on
the ‘‘Production Line’’ alongside Gordie
Howe and Sid Abel, the most productive of-
fensive scoring unit in the NHL from the late
1940s through the mid-1950s;
Whereas Ted Lindsay played 14 seasons
with the Detroit Red Wings and led the team
to 4 Stanley Cup championships;
Whereas, in 1950, Ted Lindsay started one
of the most beloved traditions in the NHL by
lifting the Stanley Cup over his head and
skating around the rink after winning the
Stanley Cup Finals;
Whereas Ted Lindsay led an effort to orga-
nize the first National Hockey League Play-
ers’ Association;
Whereas the Detroit Red Wings stripped
Ted Lindsay of his captaincy and traded Ted
Lindsay to the struggling Chicago Black
Hawks in retribution for his actions to
unionize NHL players;
Whereas Ted Lindsay played 3 seasons with
the Chicago Blackhawks and helped the
team to the playoffs;
Whereas, in 1964, at 39 years of age, Ted
Lindsay rejoined the Detroit Red Wings at
the behest of his former teammate, Detroit
Red Wings Coach Sid Abel;
Whereas, in 1966, Ted Lindsay was inducted
into the Hockey Hall of Fame, but refused to
attend the men-only ceremony without his
wife and children, leading to a rules change
the following year;
Whereas, in 1977, the Detroit Red Wings
named Ted Lindsay as general manager, and
Ted Lindsay led the team to the playoffs for
the first time in 9 years and to a playoff se-
ries win for the first time in 12 years;
Whereas Ted Lindsay appeared in 11 NHL
All-Star games during 17 seasons in the NHL
and recorded 379 goals and 472 assists for 851
points, making him the highest-scoring left
wing at the time.
Whereas Ted Lindsay generously devoted
his time to charity, driving across Michigan
and Ontario to offer advice and encourage-
ment to young hockey players;
Whereas Ted Lindsay started the Ted Lind-
say Foundation, which has raised millions of
dollars toward finding a cure for autism;
Whereas, in December 2018, the Ted Lind-
say Foundation pledged $1,000,000 to support
the autism outreach efforts of Oakland Uni-
versity;
Whereas Ted Lindsay was preceded in
death by his wife of 27 years, Joanne Lind-
say, who died in 2017;
Whereas, on March 4, 2019, Ted Lindsay
died at 93 years of age, after a long career in
professional hockey that inspired millions of
people; and
Whereas Ted Lindsay is survived by his 3
children, 1 stepdaughter, and many grand-
children and great-grandchildren, and by
hockey fans across the United States: Now,
therefore, be it
Resolved, That the Senate—
(1) honors the life and legacy of Ted Lind-
say for his significant contributions to the
sport of hockey, the city of Detroit, and the
State of Michigan;
(2) expresses its deepest sympathies and
condolences to the family of Ted Lindsay
upon his passing; and
(3) respectfully requests that the Secretary
of the Senate transmit an enrolled copy of
this resolution to the family of Ted Lindsay.
f
SENATE CONCURRENT RESOLU-
TION 10—RECOGNIZING THAT
CHINESE TELECOMMUNICATIONS
COMPANIES SUCH AS HUAWEI
AND ZTE POSE SERIOUS
THREATS TO THE NATIONAL SE-
CURITY OF THE UNITED STATES
AND ITS ALLIES
Mr. GARDNER (for himself, Mr.
COONS, and Mr. MARKEY) submitted the
following concurrent resolution; which
was referred to the Committee on For-
eign Relations:
S. CON. RES. 10
Whereas fifth generation (5G) wireless
technology promises greater speed and ca-
pacity and will provide the backbone for the
next generation of digital technologies;
Whereas fifth generation wireless tech-
nology will be a revolutionary advancement
in telecommunications with the potential to
create millions of jobs and billions of dollars
in economic opportunity;
Whereas Chinese companies, including
Huawei, have invested substantial resources
in advancing fifth generation wireless tech-
nology and other telecommunications serv-
ices around the globe, including subsidies
provided directly by the Government of the
People’s Republic of China;
Whereas Chinese officials have increased
leadership roles at the International Tele-
communications Union, where international
telecommunications standards are set, and
companies such as Huawei have increased
their influence at the 3rd Generation Part-
nership Project (3GPP), whose work informs
global technology standards;
Whereas Huawei and ZTE have aggres-
sively sought to enter into contracts
throughout the developing world, including
throughout Latin America and Africa in
countries such as Venezuela and Kenya;
Whereas, in 2012, the Permanent Select
Committee on Intelligence of the House of
Representatives released a bipartisan report
naming Huawei and ZTE as national security
threats;
Whereas, in 2013, the United States re-
stricted Federal procurement of certain
products produced by Huawei and ZTE and
has since expanded restrictions on Federal
procurement of those products;
Whereas, in 2016, the national legislature
of the People’s Republic of China passed the
Cyber Security Law of the People’s Republic
of China, article 28 of which requires ‘‘net-
work operators,’’ including companies like
Huawei, to ‘‘provide technical support and
assistance’’ to Chinese authorities involved
in national security efforts;
Whereas, in 2017, the national legislature
of the People’s Republic of China passed the
National Intelligence Law of the People’s
Republic of China, article 7 of which requires
‘‘all organizations and citizens’’—including
companies like Huawei and ZTE—to ‘‘sup-
port, assist, and cooperate with national in-
telligence efforts’’ undertaken by the Peo-
ple’s Republic of China;
Whereas, in August 2018, the Government
of Australia banned Huawei and ZTE from
building the fifth generation wireless net-
works of Australia;
Whereas, in August 2018, Congress re-
stricted the heads of Federal agencies from
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:31 Mar 29, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00032 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A28MR6.046 S28MRPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2095
March 28, 2019
procuring certain covered telecommuni-
cations equipment and services, which in-
cluded Huawei and ZTE equipment;
Whereas, in December 2018, the Govern-
ment of Japan issued instructions effectively
banning Huawei and ZTE from official con-
tracts in the country;
Whereas, on December 7, 2018, a Vice-Presi-
dent of the European Commission expressed
concern that Huawei and other Chinese com-
panies may be forced to cooperate with Chi-
na’s intelligence services to install ‘‘manda-
tory backdoors’’ to allow access to encrypted
data;
Whereas, in January 2019, the Office of the
Director of National Intelligence issued a
Worldwide Threat Assessment that describes
concerns ‘‘about the potential for Chinese in-
telligence and security services to use Chi-
nese information technology firms as routine
and systemic espionage platforms against
the United States and allies’’;
Whereas, in February 2019, the Government
of New Zealand expressed serious concern
about Huawei building the fifth generation
wireless networks of New Zealand;
Whereas the Department of Justice has
charged Huawei with the theft of trade se-
crets, obstruction of justice, and other seri-
ous crimes;
Whereas, against the strong advice of the
United States and a number of the security
partners of the United States, the govern-
ments of countries such as Germany have in-
dicated that they may permit Huawei to
build out the fifth generation wireless net-
works of those countries;
Whereas installation of Huawei equipment
in the communications infrastructure of
countries that are allies of the United States
would jeopardize the security of communica-
tion lines between the United States and
those allies;
Whereas secure communications systems
are critical to ensure the safety and defense
of the United States and allies of the United
States;
Whereas the North Atlantic Treaty Organi-
zation (NATO) and other vital international
security arrangements depend on strong and
secure communications, which could be put
at risk through the use of Huawei and ZTE
equipment; and
Whereas there has been broad bipartisan
consensus in Congress for years that Chinese
companies like Huawei and ZTE present seri-
ous threats to national and global security:
Now, therefore, be it
Resolved by the Senate (the House of Rep-
resentatives concurring), That—
(1) Chinese telecommunications companies
such as Huawei and ZTE pose serious threats
to the national security of the United States
and allies of the United States;
(2) the United States should reiterate to
countries that are choosing to incorporate
Huawei or ZTE products in their new tele-
communications infrastructure that the
United States will consider all necessary
measures to limit the risks incurred by enti-
ties of the United States Government or
Armed Forces from use of such compromised
networks;
(3) the United States should continue to
make allies of the United States aware of the
ongoing and future risks to telecommuni-
cations networks shared between the United
States and such allies; and
(4) the United States should work with the
private sector and allies and partners of the
United States, including the European
Union, in a regularized bilateral or multilat-
eral format, to identify secure, cost-effec-
tive, and reliable alternatives to Huawei or
ZTE products.
AMENDMENTS SUBMITTED AND
PROPOSED
SA 213. Mr. MCCONNELL proposed an
amendment to amendment SA 201 proposed
by Mr. SHELBY to the bill H.R. 268, making
supplemental appropriations for the fiscal
year ending September 30, 2019, and for other
purposes.
SA 214. Mr. MCCONNELL proposed an
amendment to amendment SA 213 proposed
by Mr. MCCONNELL to the amendment SA 201
proposed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill H.R. 268,
supra.
SA 215. Mr. MCCONNELL proposed an
amendment to the bill H.R. 268, supra.
SA 216. Mr. MCCONNELL proposed an
amendment to amendment SA 215 proposed
by Mr. MCCONNELL to the bill H.R. 268, supra.
SA 217. Mr. ROMNEY submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed to amendment
SA 201 proposed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill
H.R. 268, supra; which was ordered to lie on
the table.
SA 218. Mr. RUBIO submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed to amendment
SA 201 proposed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill
H.R. 268, supra; which was ordered to lie on
the table.
SA 219. Mr. RUBIO (for himself and Mr.
PERDUE) submitted an amendment intended
to be proposed to amendment SA 201 pro-
posed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill H.R. 268,
supra; which was ordered to lie on the table.
SA 220. Mr. RUBIO (for himself and Mr.
PERDUE) submitted an amendment intended
to be proposed to amendment SA 201 pro-
posed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill H.R. 268,
supra; which was ordered to lie on the table.
SA 221. Mr. RUBIO (for himself and Mr.
PERDUE) submitted an amendment intended
to be proposed to amendment SA 201 pro-
posed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill H.R. 268,
supra; which was ordered to lie on the table.
SA 222. Mr. INHOFE (for himself, Mrs.
FISCHER, Mr. TILLIS, Mr. SCOTT of Florida,
Mr. RUBIO, and Mr. COTTON) submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 201 proposed by Mr. SHELBY
to the bill H.R. 268, supra; which was ordered
to lie on the table.
SA 223. Mr. UDALL (for himself and Mr.
HEINRICH) submitted an amendment intended
to be proposed to amendment SA 201 pro-
posed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill H.R. 268,
supra; which was ordered to lie on the table.
SA 224. Mr. UDALL (for himself, Mr. HEIN-
RICH, Mr. MENENDEZ, Mr. REED, Ms. HARRIS,
Mr. BLUMENTHAL, Ms. HIRONO, Mrs. FEIN-
STEIN, and Mr. LEAHY) submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed to amendment
SA 201 proposed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill
H.R. 268, supra; which was ordered to lie on
the table.
SA 225. Mr. MCCONNELL (for Mr. BURR
(for himself and Mr. MANCHIN)) proposed an
amendment to the resolution S. Res. 69, des-
ignating March 29, 2019, as ‘‘Vietnam Vet-
erans Day’’.
SA 226. Mr. SCOTT, of Florida submitted
an amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 201 proposed by Mr. SHELBY
to the bill H.R. 268, making supplemental ap-
propriations for the fiscal year ending Sep-
tember 30, 2019, and for other purposes; which
was ordered to lie on the table.
SA 227. Mr. COTTON submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed to amendment
SA 201 proposed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill
H.R. 268, supra; which was ordered to lie on
the table.
SA 228. Mr. SCHUMER (for himself, Ms.
KLOBUCHAR, Mr. HEINRICH, Mr. JONES, Mr.
REED, Ms. BALDWIN, Mr. MENENDEZ, Mr. DUR-
BIN, Mr. BLUMENTHAL, Mr. BOOKER, Ms.
HIRONO, Mr. CASEY, Mr. WHITEHOUSE, Ms.
DUCKWORTH, Mr. MURPHY, Mr. TESTER, Mr.
CARPER, Mr. KING, Mr. CARDIN, Mrs. MURRAY,
Mr. SANDERS, Mr. MARKEY, Mr. WYDEN, Ms.
STABENOW, Ms. HARRIS, Mr. BROWN, Ms. WAR-
REN, Mr. MERKLEY, Ms. HASSAN, Mrs. SHA-
HEEN, Mr. PETERS, Mr. COONS, Ms. SMITH, and
Mrs. FEINSTEIN) submitted an amendment in-
tended to be proposed to amendment SA 201
proposed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill H.R. 268,
supra; which was ordered to lie on the table.
f
TEXT OF AMENDMENTS
SA 213. Mr. MCCONNELL proposed an
amendment to amendment SA 201 pro-
posed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill H.R.
268, making supplemental appropria-
tions for the fiscal year ending Sep-
tember 30, 2019, and for other purposes;
as follows:
At the end add the following:
‘‘This act shall be effective 1 day after en-
actment.’’
SA 214. Mr. MCCONNELL proposed an
amendment to amendment SA 213 pro-
posed by Mr. MCCONNELL to the amend-
ment SA 201 proposed by Mr. SHELBY to
the bill H.R. 268, making supplemental
appropriations for the fiscal year end-
ing September 30, 2019, and for other
purposes; as follows:
Strike ‘‘1 day’’ and insert ‘‘2 days’’
SA 215. Mr. MCCONNELL proposed an
amendment to the bill H.R. 268, mak-
ing supplemental appropriations for
the fiscal year ending September 30,
2019, and for other purposes; as follows:
At the end add the following.
‘‘This Act shall take effect 3 days after the
date of enactment.’’
SA 216. Mr. MCCONNELL proposed an
amendment to amendment SA 215 pro-
posed by Mr. MCCONNELL to the bill
H.R. 268, making supplemental appro-
priations for the fiscal year ending
September 30, 2019, and for other pur-
poses; as follows:
Strike ‘‘3 days’’ and insert ‘‘4 days’’
SA 217. Mr. ROMNEY submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 201 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 268, making
supplemental appropriations for the
fiscal year ending September 30, 2019,
and for other purposes; which was or-
dered to lie on the table; as follows:
At the appropriate place, insert the fol-
lowing:
SEC. ll. BUDGETING FOR DISASTERS.
(a) SHORT TITLE.—This section may be
cited as the ‘‘Budgeting for Disasters Act’’.
(b) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments
made by this section shall—
(1) take effect on the date of enactment of
this Act; and
(2) apply with respect to fiscal year 2021,
and each fiscal year thereafter.
(c) REPEAL OF EXEMPTION FOR DISASTER
SPENDING FROM THE ANNUAL BUDGET CAPS.—
Section 251(b)(2) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 (2
U.S.C. 901(b)(2)) is amended—
(1) by striking subparagraph (D); and
(2) by redesignating subparagraphs (E) and
(F) as subparagraphs (D) and (E), respec-
tively.
(d) TECHNICAL AND CONFORMING AMEND-
MENTS.—
(1) Section 254 of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 (2
U.S.C. 904) is amended—
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:29 Mar 29, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00033 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A28MR6.051 S28MRPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2096 March 28, 2019
(A) in subsection (e), by striking the sec-
ond sentence; and
(B) in subsection (f)(2)(A), by striking ‘‘, in-
cluding a final estimate of the adjustment
for disaster funding’’.
(2) The Department of the Interior and Re-
lated Agencies Appropriations Act, 1992
(Public Law 102–154; 105 Stat. 990) is amend-
ed—
(A) in title I in the matter under the head-
ing ‘‘DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR’’
under the heading ‘‘BUREAU OF LAND MAN-
AGEMENT’’ under the heading ‘‘EMERGENCY
DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR FIREFIGHTING
FUND’’ (43 U.S.C. 1474a), by striking ‘‘: Pro-
vided further’’ and all that follows and insert-
ing a period; and
(B) in title II in the matter under the head-
ing ‘‘DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE’’
under the heading ‘‘FOREST SERVICE’’ under
the heading ‘‘EMERGENCY FOREST SERVICE
FIREFIGHTING FUND’’ (16 U.S.C. 556e) by strik-
ing ‘‘: Provided further’’ and all that follows
and inserting a period.
(3) Section 430(c)(1) of the Robert T. Staf-
ford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assist-
ance Act (42 U.S.C. 5189h(c)(1)) is amended—
(A) in subparagraph (F), by adding ‘‘and’’
at the end; and
(B) by striking subparagraph (H).
(4) The matter under the heading ‘‘DIS-
ASTER RELIEF’’ under the heading ‘‘FED-
ERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGEN-
CY’’ under chapter II of title I of the Dire
Emergency Supplemental Appropriations
and Transfers for Relief From the Effects of
Natural Disasters, for Other Urgent Needs,
and for Incremental Cost of ‘‘Operation
Desert Shield/Desert Storm’’ Act of 1992 (42
U.S.C. 5302) is amended by striking ‘‘: Pro-
vided further,’’ and all that follows and in-
serting a period.
(5) Section 2602(e) of the Low-Income Home
Energy Assistance Act of 1981 (42 U.S.C.
8621(e)) is amended by striking the second
sentence.
(6) Section 104(a) of the Wildfire Suppres-
sion Funding and Forest Management Ac-
tivities Act (43 U.S.C. 17648a–2(a)) is amended
in the matter preceding paragraph (1) by
striking ‘‘section 251(b)(2)(F)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985 (2 U.S.C. 901(b)(2)(F)(i)), as added
by section 102 of this division’’ and inserting
‘‘section 251(b)(2)(E)(i) of the Balanced Budg-
et and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985
(2 U.S.C. 901(b)(2)(E)(i))’’.
SA 218. Mr. RUBIO submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 201 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 268, making
supplemental appropriations for the
fiscal year ending September 30, 2019,
and for other purposes; which was or-
dered to lie on the table; as follows:
Strike title III and insert the following:
TITLE III
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE
MILITARY PERSONNEL
MILITARY PERSONNEL, AIR FORCE
For an additional amount for ‘‘Military
Personnel, Air Force’’, $59,629,000, for nec-
essary expenses related to the consequences
of Hurricanes Michael and Florence: Pro-
vided, That such amount is designated by the
Congress as being for an emergency require-
ment pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of
the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit
Control Act of 1985.
RESERVE PERSONNEL, AIR FORCE
For an additional amount for ‘‘Reserve
Personnel, Air Force’’, $7,323,000, for nec-
essary expenses related to the consequences
of Hurricanes Michael and Florence: Pro-
vided, That such amount is designated by the
Congress as being for an emergency require-
ment pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of
the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit
Control Act of 1985.
OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE
OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE, MARINE CORPS
For an additional amount for ‘‘Operation
and Maintenance, Marine Corps’’,
$200,000,000, for necessary expenses related to
the consequences of Hurricanes Michael and
Florence: Provided, That such amount is des-
ignated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE, AIR FORCE
For an additional amount for ‘‘Operation
and Maintenance, Air Force’’, $400,000,000, for
necessary expenses related to the con-
sequences of Hurricanes Michael and Flor-
ence: Provided, That such amount is des-
ignated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE, AIR FORCE
For an additional amount for ‘‘Operation
and Maintenance, Air Force’’, $342,012,000, to
remain available for obligation until Sep-
tember 30, 2020, for necessary expenses re-
lated to the consequences of Hurricanes Mi-
chael and Florence: Provided, That such
amount is designated by the Congress as
being for an emergency requirement pursu-
ant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act
of 1985.
OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE, AIR FORCE
For an additional amount for ‘‘Operation
and Maintenance, Air Force’’, $738,290,000, to
remain available for obligation until Sep-
tember 30, 2020, for necessary expenses for
Facilities Sustainment, Restoration and
Modernization (FSRM) related to the con-
sequences of Hurricanes Michael and Flor-
ence: Provided, That such amount is des-
ignated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE, AIR FORCE
RESERVE
For an additional amount for ‘‘Operation
and Maintenance, Air Force Reserve’’,
$3,505,000, to remain available for obligation
until September 30, 2020, for necessary ex-
penses related to the consequences of Hurri-
canes Michael and Florence: Provided, That
such amount is designated by the Congress
as being for an emergency requirement pur-
suant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985.
PROCUREMENT
AIRCRAFT PROCUREMENT, AIR FORCE
For an additional amount for ‘‘Aircraft
Procurement, Air Force’’, $46,000,000, for nec-
essary expenses related to the consequences
of Hurricanes Michael and Florence: Pro-
vided, That such amount is designated by the
Congress as being for an emergency require-
ment pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of
the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit
Control Act of 1985.
OTHER PROCUREMENT, AIR FORCE
For an additional amount for ‘‘Other Pro-
curement, Air Force’’, $84,587,000, for nec-
essary expenses related to the consequences
of Hurricanes Michael and Florence: Pro-
vided, That such amount is designated by the
Congress as being for an emergency require-
ment pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of
the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit
Control Act of 1985.
RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST AND
EVALUATION
RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST AND
EVALUATION, AIR FORCE
For an additional amount for ‘‘Research,
Development, Test and Evaluation, Air
Force’’, $66,656,000, for necessary expenses re-
lated to the consequences of Hurricanes Mi-
chael and Florence: Provided, That such
amount is designated by the Congress as
being for an emergency requirement pursu-
ant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act
of 1985.
RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST AND
EVALUATION, AIR FORCE
For an additional amount for ‘‘Research,
Development, Test and Evaluation, Air
Force’’, $1,072,000, for necessary expenses for
Facilities Sustainment, Restoration and
Modernization (FSRM) related to the con-
sequences of Hurricanes Michael and Flor-
ence: Provided, That such amount is des-
ignated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
SA 219. Mr. RUBIO (for himself and
Mr. PERDUE) submitted an amendment
intended to be proposed to amendment
SA 201 proposed by Mr. SHELBY to the
bill H.R. 268, making supplemental ap-
propriations for the fiscal year ending
September 30, 2019, and for other pur-
poses; which was ordered to lie on the
table; as follows:
On page 8, beginning on line 12, strike
‘‘Cindy’’ and all that follows through ‘‘cold’’
on line 14 and insert ‘‘Cindy, losses of peach
and blueberry crops in calendar year 2017 due
to extreme cold, blueberry productivity
losses in calendar year 2018 as a result of ex-
treme cold and hurricane damage in calendar
year 2017, and losses of milk and
aquacultured plants and animals’’.
SA 220. Mr. RUBIO (for himself and
Mr. PERDUE) submitted an amendment
intended to be proposed to amendment
SA 201 proposed by Mr. SHELBY to the
bill H.R. 268, making supplemental ap-
propriations for the fiscal year ending
September 30, 2019, and for other pur-
poses; which was ordered to lie on the
table; as follows:
On page 3, line 20, strike ‘‘occurring in cal-
endar years 2018 and 2019’’ and insert ‘‘occur-
ring during the period beginning on January
1, 2018, and ending on the date of enactment
of this Act’’.
SA 221. Mr. RUBIO (for himself and
Mr. PERDUE) submitted an amendment
intended to be proposed to amendment
SA 201 proposed by Mr. SHELBY to the
bill H.R. 268, making supplemental ap-
propriations for the fiscal year ending
September 30, 2019, and for other pur-
poses; which was ordered to lie on the
table; as follows:
On page 3, line 16, strike ‘‘milk’’ and insert
‘‘aquacultured plants and animals, milk,’’.
SA 222. Mr. INHOFE (for himself,
Mrs. FISCHER, Mr. TILLIS, Mr. SCOTT of
Florida, Mr. RUBIO, and Mr. COTTON)
submitted an amendment intended to
be proposed to amendment SA 201 pro-
posed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill H.R.
268, making supplemental appropria-
tions for the fiscal year ending Sep-
tember 30, 2019, and for other purposes;
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:29 Mar 29, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00034 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A28MR6.050 S28MRPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2097
March 28, 2019
which was ordered to lie on the table;
as follows:
In title III, under the heading ‘‘Operation
and Maintenance, Marine Corps’’ strike
‘‘$200,000,000’’ and insert ‘‘$381,000,000’’.
In title III, under the heading ‘‘Operation
and Maintenance, Air Force’’ strike
‘‘$400,000,000’’ and insert ‘‘$550,000,000’’.
SA 223. Mr. UDALL (for himself and
Mr. HEINRICH) submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 201 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 268, making
supplemental appropriations for the
fiscal year ending September 30, 2019,
and for other purposes; which was or-
dered to lie on the table; as follows:
At the appropriate place in title XI of divi-
sion A, insert the following:
SEC. 11ll. None of the funds appropriated
or otherwise made available in this division
for the Army Corps of Engineers, the Depart-
ment of Homeland Security, or the Depart-
ment of Defense may be obligated or ex-
pended to plan, develop, or construct a new
physical barrier along the Southwestern bor-
der of the United States.
SA 224. Mr. UDALL (for himself, Mr.
HEINRICH, Mr. MENENDEZ, Mr. REED,
Ms. HARRIS, Mr. BLUMENTHAL, Ms.
HIRONO, Mrs. FEINSTEIN, and Mr.
LEAHY) submitted an amendment in-
tended to be proposed to amendment
SA 201 proposed by Mr. SHELBY to the
bill H.R. 268, making supplemental ap-
propriations for the fiscal year ending
September 30, 2019, and for other pur-
poses; which was ordered to lie on the
table; as follows:
At the appropriate place in title XI of divi-
sion A, insert the following:
SEC. 11ll. Notwithstanding section 201 of
the National Emergencies Act of 1976 (50
U.S.C. 1621), section 284 or 2808 of title 10,
United States Code, section 923 of the Water
Resources Development Act of 1986 (33 U.S.C.
2293), or any other provision of law, no funds
appropriated or otherwise made available in
this division or prior to the date of the en-
actment of this Act may be used for the con-
struction of barriers, land acquisition, or
any other associated activities on the South-
ern border of the United States without spe-
cific statutory authorization from Congress.
SA 225. Mr. MCCONNELL (for Mr.
BURR (for himself and Mr. MANCHIN))
proposed an amendment to the resolu-
tion S. Res. 69, designating March 29,
2019, as ‘‘Vietnam Veterans Day’’; as
follows:
Strike the preamble and insert the fol-
lowing:
Whereas the Vietnam War was fought in
the Republic of Vietnam from 1955 to 1975
and involved regular forces from the Demo-
cratic Republic of Vietnam and Viet Cong
guerrilla forces in armed conflict with the
Armed Forces of the United States, the
armed forces of allies of the United States,
and the armed forces of the Republic of Viet-
nam;
Whereas the Armed Forces of the United
States became involved in Vietnam because
the United States Government wanted to
provide direct support by the Armed Forces
to the Government of the Republic of Viet-
nam to defend against the growing threat of
Communism from the Democratic Republic
of Vietnam;
Whereas members of the Armed Forces of
the United States began serving in an advi-
sory role to the Government of South Viet-
nam in 1955;
Whereas, as a result of the incidents in the
Gulf of Tonkin on August 2 and 4, 1964, Con-
gress approved the Gulf of Tonkin Resolu-
tion (Public Law 88–408) by an overwhelming
majority on August 7, 1964, which provided to
the President of the United States the au-
thority to use armed force to assist the Re-
public of Vietnam in the defense of its free-
dom against the Democratic Republic of
Vietnam;
Whereas, in 1965, ground combat units of
the Armed Forces of the United States ar-
rived in the Republic of Vietnam to join ap-
proximately 23,000 personnel of the Armed
Forces who were already present there;
Whereas, by December 1965, approximately
184,000 troops of the Armed Forces of the
United States were in Vietnam, and by 1969,
the number of such troops reached a peak of
approximately 549,500, including members of
the Armed Forces who were supporting the
combat operations from Thailand, Cambodia,
Laos, Japan, the Philippines, and aboard
Navy vessels;
Whereas, on January 27, 1973, the Agree-
ment on Ending the War and Restoring
Peace in Viet-Nam (commonly known as the
‘‘Paris Peace Accords’’) was signed, which re-
quired the release of all prisoners-of-war of
the United States held in North Vietnam and
the withdrawal of all Armed Forces of the
United States from South Vietnam;
Whereas, on March 29, 1973, the Armed
Forces of the United States completed the
withdrawal of combat units and combat sup-
port units from South Vietnam;
Whereas, on April 30, 1975, North Viet-
namese forces captured Saigon, the capital
of South Vietnam, effectively placing South
Vietnam under Communist control;
Whereas more than 58,000 members of the
Armed Forces of the United States lost their
lives in the Vietnam War, and more than
300,000 members of the Armed Forces of the
United States were wounded in Vietnam;
Whereas, in 1982, the Vietnam Veterans
Memorial Wall was dedicated in the District
of Columbia to commemorate the members
of the Armed Forces of the United States
who died or were declared missing-in-action
in Vietnam;
Whereas the Vietnam War was an ex-
tremely divisive issue among the people of
the United States and a conflict that caused
a generation of veterans to wait too long for
the public of the United States to acknowl-
edge and honor the efforts and services of
those veterans;
Whereas members of the Armed Forces
who served bravely and faithfully for the
United States during the Vietnam War were
often wrongly criticized for the decisions of
policymakers that were beyond the control
of those members; and
Whereas designating March 29, 2019, as
‘‘Vietnam Veterans Day’’ would be an appro-
priate way to honor the members of the
Armed Forces of the United States who
served in South Vietnam and throughout
Southeast Asia during the Vietnam War:
Now, therefore, be it
SA 226. Mr. SCOTT of Florida sub-
mitted an amendment intended to be
proposed to amendment SA 201 pro-
posed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill H.R.
268, making supplemental appropria-
tions for the fiscal year ending Sep-
tember 30, 2019, and for other purposes;
which was ordered to lie on the table;
as follows:
On page 3, line 16, strike ‘‘milk’’ and insert
‘‘milk, timber,’’.
SA 227. Mr. COTTON submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 201 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 268, making
supplemental appropriations for the
fiscal year ending September 30, 2019,
and for other purposes; which was or-
dered to lie on the table; as follows:
At the appropriate place, insert the fol-
lowing:
SEC. ll. DECLARATION OF EMERGENCY.
(a) DECLARATION.—The Trafalgar Road Fire
in Bella Vista, Arkansas shall be deemed to
be an emergency under section title V of the
Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emer-
gency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5191 et seq.).
(b) EFFECTIVE DATE.—Subsection (a) shall
take effect as if enacted on August 1, 2018.
SA 228. Mr. SCHUMER (for himself,
Ms. KLOBUCHAR, Mr. HEINRICH, Mr.
JONES, Mr. REED, Ms. BALDWIN, Mr.
MENENDEZ, Mr. DURBIN, Mr.
BLUMENTHAL, Mr. BOOKER, Ms. HIRONO,
Mr. CASEY, Mr. WHITEHOUSE, Ms.
DUCKWORTH, Mr. MURPHY, Mr. TESTER,
Mr. CARPER, Mr. KING, Mr. CARDIN,
Mrs. MURRAY, Mr. SANDERS, Mr. MAR-
KEY, Mr. WYDEN, Ms. STABENOW, Ms.
HARRIS, Mr. BROWN, Ms. WARREN, Mr.
MERKLEY, Ms. HASSAN, Mrs. SHAHEEN,
Mr. PETERS, Mr. COONS, Ms. SMITH, and
Mrs. FEINSTEIN) submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 201 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 268, making
supplemental appropriations for the
fiscal year ending September 30, 2019,
and for other purposes; which was or-
dered to lie on the table; as follows:
At the appropriate place, insert the fol-
lowing:
NO USE OF FUNDS FOR LITIGATION IN TEXAS V.
UNITED STATES
SEC. lll. None of the funds made avail-
able under this Act, or any other Act, may
be used by the Department of Justice for the
cost of litigation in opposition to the Pa-
tient Protection and Affordable Care Act
(Public Law 111–148; 124 Stat. 119) in Texas v.
United States, No. 4:18–cv–00167–O (N.D.
Tex.).
f
AUTHORITY FOR COMMITTEES TO
MEET
Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, I have 4
requests for committees to meet during
today’s session of the Senate. They
have the approval of the Majority and
Minority leaders.
Pursuant to rule XXVI, paragraph
5(a), of the Standing Rules of the Sen-
ate, the following committees are au-
thorized to meet during today’s session
of the Senate:
COMMITTEE ON ARMED SERVICES
The Committee on Armed Services is
authorized to meet during the session
of the Senate on Thursday, March 28,
2019, at 9:30 a.m., to conduct a hearing
entitled, ‘‘Department of Energy’s
Atomic energy defense program.’’
COMMITTEE ON ENERGY AND NATURAL
RESOURCES
The Committee on Energy and Nat-
ural Resources is authorized to meet
during the session of the Senate on
Thursday, March 28, 2019, at 10 a.m., to
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:29 Mar 29, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00035 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A28MR6.050 S28MRPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2098 March 28, 2019
conduct a hearing on the nomination of
David Bernhardt, of Virginia, to be
Secretary of the Interior.
COMMITTEE ON ENVIRONMENT AND PUBLIC
WORKS
The Committee on Environment and
Public Works is authorized to meet
during the session of the Senate on
Thursday, March 28, 2019, at 10 a.m., to
conduct a hearing entitled, ‘‘Exam-
ining the Federal response to the risks
associated with per and ployfluoralkyl
substances.’’
COMMITTEE ON THE JUDICIARY
The Committee on the Judiciary is
authorized to meet during the session
of the Senate on Thursday, March 28,
2019, at 10:30 a.m., to conduct a hearing
on the following nominations: Daniel
P. Collins, and Kenneth Kiyul Lee,
both of California, both to be a United
States Circuit Judge for the Ninth Cir-
cuit, James Wesley Hendrix, and Mark
T. Pittman, both to be a United States
District Judge for the Northern Dis-
trict of Texas, Sean D. Jordan, to be
United States District Judge for the
Eastern District of Texas, Wing Chau,
to be United States Marshal for the
District of Rhode Island, and Ramona
L. Dohman, to be United States Mar-
shal for the District of Minnesota.
f
PRIVILEGES OF THE FLOOR
Mr. LEAHY. Madam President, I ask
unanimous consent that Owen Gomory
from my office be granted floor privi-
leges for the remainder of today.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
APPOINTMENTS
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
Chair, on behalf of the Vice President,
pursuant to 10 U.S.C. 4355(a), appoints
the following Senators to the Board of
Visitors of the U.S. Military Academy:
the Honorable TAMMY DUCKWORTH of Il-
linois (At Large) and the Honorable
JOE MANCHIN III of West Virginia (Com-
mittee on Appropriations).
f
RECOGNIZING ACHIEVEMENT IN
CLASSIFIED SCHOOL EMPLOYEES
ACT
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Com-
mittee on Health, Education, Labor,
and Pensions be discharged from fur-
ther consideration of H.R. 276 and the
Senate proceed to its immediate con-
sideration.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the bill by title.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
A bill (H.R. 276) to direct the Secretary of
Education to establish the Recognizing In-
spiring School Employees (RISE) Award Pro-
gram recognizing excellence exhibited by
classified school employees providing serv-
ices to students in prekindergarten through
high school.
There being no objection, the com-
mittee was discharged and the Senate
proceeded to consider the bill.
Mr. MCCONNELL. I further ask
unanimous consent that the bill be
read a third time and passed and the
motion to reconsider be considered
made and laid upon the table with no
intervening action or debate.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The bill (H. R. 276) was ordered to a
third reading, was read the third time,
and passed.
f
VIETNAM VETERANS DAY
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Judi-
ciary Committee be discharged from
further consideration and the Senate
now proceed to S. Res. 69.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the resolution by
title.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
A resolution (S. Res. 69) designating March
29, 2019, as ‘‘Vietnam Veterans Day.’’
There being no objection, the com-
mittee was discharged and the Senate
proceeded to consider the resolution.
Mr. MCCONNELL. I ask unanimous
consent that the resolution be agreed
to; the Burr amendment to the pre-
amble at the desk be agreed to; the pre-
amble, as amended, be agreed to; and
the motions to reconsider be consid-
ered made and laid upon the table.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The resolution (S. Res. 69) was agreed
to.
The amendment (No. 225) was agreed
to as follows:
Strike the preamble and insert the fol-
lowing:
Whereas the Vietnam War was fought in
the Republic of Vietnam from 1955 to 1975
and involved regular forces from the Demo-
cratic Republic of Vietnam and Viet Cong
guerrilla forces in armed conflict with the
Armed Forces of the United States, the
armed forces of allies of the United States,
and the armed forces of the Republic of Viet-
nam;
Whereas the Armed Forces of the United
States became involved in Vietnam because
the United States Government wanted to
provide direct support by the Armed Forces
to the Government of the Republic of Viet-
nam to defend against the growing threat of
Communism from the Democratic Republic
of Vietnam;
Whereas members of the Armed Forces of
the United States began serving in an advi-
sory role to the Government of South Viet-
nam in 1955;
Whereas, as a result of the incidents in the
Gulf of Tonkin on August 2 and 4, 1964, Con-
gress approved the Gulf of Tonkin Resolu-
tion (Public Law 88–408) by an overwhelming
majority on August 7, 1964, which provided to
the President of the United States the au-
thority to use armed force to assist the Re-
public of Vietnam in the defense of its free-
dom against the Democratic Republic of
Vietnam;
Whereas, in 1965, ground combat units of
the Armed Forces of the United States ar-
rived in the Republic of Vietnam to join ap-
proximately 23,000 personnel of the Armed
Forces who were already present there;
Whereas, by December 1965, approximately
184,000 troops of the Armed Forces of the
United States were in Vietnam, and by 1969,
the number of such troops reached a peak of
approximately 549,500, including members of
the Armed Forces who were supporting the
combat operations from Thailand, Cambodia,
Laos, Japan, the Philippines, and aboard
Navy vessels;
Whereas, on January 27, 1973, the Agree-
ment on Ending the War and Restoring
Peace in Viet-Nam (commonly known as the
‘‘Paris Peace Accords’’) was signed, which re-
quired the release of all prisoners-of-war of
the United States held in North Vietnam and
the withdrawal of all Armed Forces of the
United States from South Vietnam;
Whereas, on March 29, 1973, the Armed
Forces of the United States completed the
withdrawal of combat units and combat sup-
port units from South Vietnam;
Whereas, on April 30, 1975, North Viet-
namese forces captured Saigon, the capital
of South Vietnam, effectively placing South
Vietnam under Communist control;
Whereas more than 58,000 members of the
Armed Forces of the United States lost their
lives in the Vietnam War, and more than
300,000 members of the Armed Forces of the
United States were wounded in Vietnam;
Whereas, in 1982, the Vietnam Veterans
Memorial Wall was dedicated in the District
of Columbia to commemorate the members
of the Armed Forces of the United States
who died or were declared missing-in-action
in Vietnam;
Whereas the Vietnam War was an ex-
tremely divisive issue among the people of
the United States and a conflict that caused
a generation of veterans to wait too long for
the public of the United States to acknowl-
edge and honor the efforts and services of
those veterans;
Whereas members of the Armed Forces
who served bravely and faithfully for the
United States during the Vietnam War were
often wrongly criticized for the decisions of
policymakers that were beyond the control
of those members; and
Whereas designating March 29, 2019, as
‘‘Vietnam Veterans Day’’ would be an appro-
priate way to honor the members of the
Armed Forces of the United States who
served in South Vietnam and throughout
Southeast Asia during the Vietnam War:
Now, therefore, be it
The preamble, as amended, was
agreed to.
S. RES. 69
Whereas the Vietnam War was fought in
the Republic of Vietnam from 1955 to 1975
and involved regular forces from the Demo-
cratic Republic of Vietnam and Viet Cong
guerrilla forces in armed conflict with the
Armed Forces of the United States, the
armed forces of allies of the United States,
and the armed forces of the Republic of Viet-
nam;
Whereas the Armed Forces of the United
States became involved in Vietnam because
the United States Government wanted to
provide direct support by the Armed Forces
to the Government of the Republic of Viet-
nam to defend against the growing threat of
Communism from the Democratic Republic
of Vietnam;
Whereas members of the Armed Forces of
the United States began serving in an advi-
sory role to the Government of South Viet-
nam in 1955;
Whereas, as a result of the incidents in the
Gulf of Tonkin on August 2 and 4, 1964, Con-
gress approved the Gulf of Tonkin Resolu-
tion (Public Law 88–408) by an overwhelming
majority on August 7, 1964, which provided to
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:29 Mar 29, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00036 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A28MR6.060 S28MRPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2099
March 28, 2019
the President of the United States the au-
thority to use armed force to assist the Re-
public of Vietnam in the defense of its free-
dom against the Democratic Republic of
Vietnam;
Whereas, in 1965, ground combat units of
the Armed Forces of the United States ar-
rived in the Republic of Vietnam to join ap-
proximately 23,000 personnel of the Armed
Forces who were already present there;
Whereas, by December 1965, approximately
184,000 troops of the Armed Forces of the
United States were in Vietnam, and by 1969,
the number of such troops reached a peak of
approximately 549,500, including members of
the Armed Forces who were supporting the
combat operations from Thailand, Cambodia,
Laos, Japan, the Philippines, and aboard
Navy vessels;
Whereas, on January 27, 1973, the Agree-
ment on Ending the War and Restoring
Peace in Viet-Nam (commonly known as the
‘‘Paris Peace Accords’’) was signed, which re-
quired the release of all prisoners-of-war of
the United States held in North Vietnam and
the withdrawal of all Armed Forces of the
United States from South Vietnam;
Whereas, on March 29, 1973, the Armed
Forces of the United States completed the
withdrawal of combat units and combat sup-
port units from South Vietnam;
Whereas, on April 30, 1975, North Viet-
namese forces captured Saigon, the capital
of South Vietnam, effectively placing South
Vietnam under Communist control;
Whereas more than 58,000 members of the
Armed Forces of the United States lost their
lives in the Vietnam War, and more than
300,000 members of the Armed Forces of the
United States were wounded in Vietnam;
Whereas, in 1982, the Vietnam Veterans
Memorial Wall was dedicated in the District
of Columbia to commemorate the members
of the Armed Forces of the United States
who died or were declared missing-in-action
in Vietnam;
Whereas the Vietnam War was an ex-
tremely divisive issue among the people of
the United States and a conflict that caused
a generation of veterans to wait too long for
the public of the United States to acknowl-
edge and honor the efforts and services of
those veterans;
Whereas members of the Armed Forces
who served bravely and faithfully for the
United States during the Vietnam War were
often wrongly criticized for the decisions of
policymakers that were beyond the control
of those members; and
Whereas designating March 29, 2019, as
‘‘Vietnam Veterans Day’’ would be an appro-
priate way to honor the members of the
Armed Forces of the United States who
served in South Vietnam and throughout
Southeast Asia during the Vietnam War:
Now, therefore, be it
Resolved, That the Senate—
(1) designates March 29, 2019, as ‘‘Vietnam
Veterans Day’’;
(2) honors and recognizes the contributions
of the veterans of the Armed Forces of the
United States who served in Vietnam during
war and during peace;
(3) encourages States and local govern-
ments to designate March 29, 2019, as ‘‘Viet-
nam Veterans Day’’; and
(4) encourages the people of the United
States to observe Vietnam Veterans Day
with appropriate ceremonies and activities
that—
(A) provide the appreciation that veterans
of the Vietnam War deserve;
(B) demonstrate the resolve that the peo-
ple of the United States shall never forget
the sacrifices and service of a generation of
veterans who served in the Vietnam War;
(C) promote awareness of the faithful serv-
ice and contributions of the veterans of the
Vietnam War—
(i) during service in the Armed Forces of
the United States; and
(ii) to the communities of the veterans
since returning home;
(D) promote awareness of the importance
of entire communities empowering veterans
and the families of veterans in helping the
veterans readjust to civilian life after serv-
ice in the Armed Forces; and
(E) promote opportunities for veterans of
the Vietnam War—
(i) to assist younger veterans returning
from the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan in re-
habilitation from wounds, both seen and un-
seen; and
(ii) to support the reintegration of younger
veterans into civilian life.
f
RECOGNIZING THE HERITAGE,
CULTURE, AND CONTRIBUTIONS
OF AMERICAN INDIAN, ALASKA
NATIVE, AND NATIVE HAWAIIAN
WOMEN IN THE UNITED STATES
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Indian
Affairs Committee be discharged from
further consideration and the Senate
now proceed to the consideration of S.
Res. 100.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the resolution by
title.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
A resolution (S. Res. 100) recognizing the
heritage, culture, and contributions of Amer-
ican Indian, Alaska Native, and Native Ha-
waiian women in the United States.
There being no objection, the com-
mittee was discharged and the Senate
proceeded to consider the resolution.
Mr. BLUMENTHAL. Mr. President,
today I wish to recognize two remark-
able female leaders of the Mohegan and
Mashantucket Pequot Tribes in honor
of National Women’s History Month.
Both Tribes have reservations in the
State of Connecticut and are an inte-
gral part of our community. The
women I recognize today represent so
many other Native American women
who were strong in conviction, fearless
in leadership, and dedicated to pre-
serving their Tribal identity.
Dr. Gladys Iola Tantaquidgeon was a
Mohegan Medicine Woman born in 1899.
After learning tribal spirituality and
herbalism from her ‘‘grandmothers,’’
Dr. Tantaquidgeon studied at the Uni-
versity of Pennsylvania, writing in the
field of anthropology and working with
noted anthropologist Frank Speck. She
researched herbal medicine among re-
lated east coast Tribes in order to
broaden her Mohegan pharmacopeia.
For her impressive academic achieve-
ments, Dr. Tantaquidgeon received
honorary doctorates from the Univer-
sity of Connecticut and Yale Univer-
sity. She was also inducted into the
Connecticut Women’s Hall of Fame and
received the National Organization for
Women’s Harriet Tubman Award, the
Connecticut Education Association’s
Friend of Education Award, and nu-
merous Native American honors.
Her contributions extended beyond
academia. In 1931, she, her brother Har-
old and their father, John, founded the
Tantaquidgeon Indian Museum in
Uncasville, CT, using education to help
remedy prejudice. Then in 1934, John
Collier, the Commissioner of Indian Af-
fairs, recruited Dr. Tantaquidgeon to
serve as a community worker on the
Yankton Sioux Reservation in South
Dakota. For 9 years, she served as a
specialist for the newly formed Federal
Indian Arts and Crafts Board to pro-
mote Indian art, encouraging the res-
toration of critically important an-
cient practices the Federal Govern-
ment had prohibited at that time.
Dr. Tantaquidgeon used her strong
sense of social justice to support
women in difficult situations by work-
ing as the Niantic Women’s Prison li-
brarian in the 1940s. She continued her
life of service to others when her per-
sonal records of correspondence about
Mohegan births, graduations, mar-
riages, and deaths played a pivotal role
in gaining Federal Recognition for the
Mohegans in 1994.
Throughout her amazing 106 years of
life, she led the way for women, espe-
cially women of color, to seize new op-
portunities and for everyone to engage
in a greater level of discussion and edu-
cation about Native American history
and culture. Her legacy will leave a
positive academic and social impact for
years to come.
The other exceptional woman I wish
to remember today is Martha Ann
‘‘Matt’’ Langevin, a Mashantucket
Pequot Indian. Born in 1901, she spent
her entire life in Mashantucket and
dedicated her years to researching tra-
ditional medicinal uses for indigenous
plants and herbs.
Ms. Langevin strongly advocated for
the preservation of the Mashantucket
Pequot land, culture, and way of life.
She stood at the forefront of efforts to
defend the Tribe’s lands whenever
State or local government officials
tried to take them away. Her readiness
to protect her community dem-
onstrates Ms. Langevin’s indomitable
determination.
She was also an incredibly thought-
ful, loving friend to many. With three
siblings and seven half-siblings, Ms.
Langevin was considered a beloved
aunt by her nieces and nephews, as well
as by other Pequot children who stayed
with her when their parents left to find
work. She took excellent care of the
children.
Much of Ms. Langevin’s life focused
on gardening, preserving food, and
watching over her ancestral lands. One
of her most important undertakings
was her constant work to preserve
Pequot traditions and land, a task she
took up with great passion and convic-
tion. An inductee into the Connecticut
Women’s Hall of Fame, Ms. Langevin
will be remembered for her compassion
and zeal for continuing traditions and
looking after the people and the lands
she loved.
I applaud both of these women’s im-
mense accomplishments, and I hope my
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:31 Mar 29, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00037 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A28MR6.014 S28MRPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2100 March 28, 2019
colleagues will join me in recognizing
Dr. Tantaquidgeon and Ms. Langevin
as we celebrate National Women’s His-
tory Month.
Mr. MCCONNELL. I know of no fur-
ther debate on the resolution.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
further debate?
Hearing none, the question is on
agreeing to the resolution.
The resolution (S. Res. 100) was
agreed to.
Mr. MCCONNELL. I ask unanimous
consent that the preamble be agreed to
and the motions to reconsider be con-
sidered made and laid upon the table
with no intervening action or debate.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The preamble was agreed to.
(The resolution, with its preamble, is
printed in the RECORD of March 7, 2019,
under ‘‘Submitted Resolutions.’’)
f
MILITARY RETIREE
APPRECIATION DAY
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Judi-
ciary Committee be discharged from
further consideration of S. Res. 118 and
the Senate proceed to its immediate
consideration.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the resolution by
title.
The senior assistant clerk read as fol-
lows:
A resolution (S. Res. 118) recognizing the
importance of paying tribute to those indi-
viduals who have faithfully served and re-
tired from the Armed Forces of the United
States, designating April 18, 2019, as ‘‘Mili-
tary Retiree Appreciation Day’’, and encour-
aging the people of the United States to
honor the past and continued service of mili-
tary retirees to their local communities and
the United States.
There being no objection, the com-
mittee was discharged, and the Senate
proceeded to consider the resolution.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the reso-
lution be agreed to, the preamble be
agreed to, and the motions to recon-
sider be considered made and laid upon
the table with no intervening action or
debate.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The resolution (S. Res. 118) was
agreed to.
The preamble was agreed to.
(The resolution, with its preamble, is
printed in the RECORD of March 14, 2019,
under ‘‘Submitted Resolutions.’’)
f
CONDEMNING THE MARCH 15, 2019,
TERRORIST ATTACKS IN CHRIST-
CHURCH, NEW ZEALAND
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the For-
eign Relations Committee be dis-
charged from further consideration of
S. Res 124 and the Senate proceed to its
immediate consideration.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the resolution by
title.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
A resolution (S. Res. 124) condemning the
March 15, 2019, terrorist attacks in Christ-
church, New Zealand, offering sincere condo-
lences to all of the victims and their fami-
lies, and expressing and standing in soli-
darity with the people and Government of
New Zealand.
There being no objection, the com-
mittee was discharged, and the Senate
proceeded to consider the resolution.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the reso-
lution be agreed to, the preamble be
agreed to, and the motions to recon-
sider be considered made and laid upon
the table with no intervening action or
debate.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The resolution (S. Res. 124) was
agreed to.
The preamble was agreed to.
(The resolution, with its preamble, is
printed in the RECORD of March 27, 2019,
under ‘‘Submitted Resolutions.’’)
f
ORDER OF BUSINESS
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the filing
deadline for first-degree amendments
with respect to the cloture motions
filed during today’s session relating to
H.R. 268 be at 4 p.m., Monday, April 1,
2019.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Oregon.
Mr. MERKLEY. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent to speak for up to
20 minutes.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
VOTER SUPPRESSION
Mr. MERKLEY. Mr. President, the
most important words in our Constitu-
tion are the first three. We all know
them: ‘‘We the people,’’ written in
supersize font so we don’t forget what
our Constitution is all about—govern-
ment, as Lincoln put it, of, by, and for
the people, or, as Jefferson put it, gov-
ernment designed to produce laws that
reflect the will of the people.
We don’t see that now. We don’t have
a government of, by, and for the peo-
ple. Instead, we have a system that has
been profoundly corrupted. It has been
corrupted by gerrymandering. It has
been corrupted by voter suppression
and intimidation. It has been corrupted
by dark and dirty money that has
flooded our campaigns and wiped out
the voice of millions of Americans.
That is where we are now in this cor-
rupted state.
We have debates on the floor that are
all about helping a small group of peo-
ple within a circle of power and privi-
lege rather than having bills that help
the citizens of the United States of
America. In fact, we have a President
who just this week said his goal was to
tear down healthcare for 30 million
Americans, to wipe out the expansion
of Medicaid, to wipe out the tax credits
that assist so many Americans with
being able to afford insurance, to wipe
out the protection to be able to get
healthcare if you have a preexisting
condition, and to wipe out the ability
of your children to be on your policy
until the age of 26. That is government
by and for this very little circle of
privilege and power instead of the peo-
ple of the United States of America. We
saw it in other ways too.
In 2017, we saw a bill that reached
into the Federal Treasury, took $1.5
trillion, and gave almost all of it to
that small group of people inside that
circle of privilege and power while it
ignored the rest of the country. That is
what happens in corrupt countries. The
power elite reach in, take the Treasury
for themselves, and ignore the will of
the people.
Every Member of this body took a
pledge to the Constitution of the
United States—a Constitution not
founded on we the powerful but on we
the people. So I ask: Are we going to
honor that oath? If we are going to
honor it, it means we have to stand up
and end this deep and vast corruption.
Yesterday, Senator UDALL and I and
all of my colleagues on this side of the
aisle introduced a bill that is designed
to take on gerrymandering, to take on
voter suppression, and to take on dark
money. Let’s talk about gerry-
mandering.
The Supreme Court has never done a
thing about it even though it is clearly
all about having the powerful choose
its voters rather than having the vot-
ers choose their Representatives. It is a
complete shredding of the vision of the
Constitution. The Supreme Court ut-
terly failed to act. It has a case before
it now, and it will have another oppor-
tunity, but don’t hold your breath.
The time to address gerrymandering
is before it is done. How do you do
that? You do that with independent
commissions. Independent commis-
sions have been adopted in States like
Iowa, and they have been widely re-
ceived by the citizens as an issue of
fairness. Yet, across so many States,
we have congressional districts that
are deliberately gerrymandered to
favor the parties in power. It has hap-
pened in Democratic States, and it has
happened in Republican States. You
see it sometimes by the crazy configu-
rations of the map. Sometimes you see
it when a State that is essentially
equally divided between the parties
produces congressional Representatives
heavily leaning to one side.
It is hard to remedy after the fact,
but you can remedy before the fact by
having independent commissions
across this country. The way you take
that on is you have a group of six indi-
viduals. They take two from the Demo-
crats and two from the Republicans
and two of whom are Independents, and
they may select a broader set of par-
ticipants—maybe an additional three
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:29 Mar 29, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00038 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A28MR6.015 S28MRPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2101
March 28, 2019
for the Ds and three from the Rs and
three from the Independents. Then,
when they take votes, there has to be a
vote from each of those three sectors.
That is sort of the design that forces
cooperation and sets up a condition of
fairness, and that is what the For the
People Act does that we introduced
yesterday.
Now, I will tell you that State by
State, and in my State, people ask:
Why should I fix gerrymandering when
that State over there still favors the
other party? It is like waving the white
flag on my turf while they are ripping
us off over there. That is why it should
be done at the Federal level. That is
why we should pass the For the People
Act.
This act takes on the issue of voting
fairness. If you really believe in the vi-
sion of a democratic republic, you be-
lieve in voter empowerment, not voter
suppression. Yet what have we seen
this last November 6? We have seen
strategies to keep college students
from voting, strategies to keep com-
munities of color from voting, strate-
gies to keep the poor from voting,
strategies to prevent Native Americans
from voting. Those strategies are born
from people who don’t believe in the vi-
sion of our Constitution. They don’t
believe it is the foundation for what we
have. They see this as just a game to
produce a result, which is a govern-
ment for that small group of people in-
side that circle of power and privilege.
I am a little more patriotic than that.
I believe in the vision of our Constitu-
tion, so let’s take on these efforts to
obstruct voting.
We did have a bill that had vast bi-
partisan support. It was called the Vot-
ing Rights Act, and we reauthorized it
with vast bipartisan support because
not so long ago, both sides of the aisle
believed in the vision of our Constitu-
tion but not now. Unfortunately, now
we are hearing that our colleagues
across the aisle like voter intimida-
tion. We see the Republican States en-
gaging in it on a massive scale. It is in-
creasing their power. They want to
hold onto it—to clutch it to their
chests and not let go. Yet, if you be-
lieve in the Constitution, if you believe
in our country, you would let go. You
would say: Let’s appeal to all of the
voters with our vision and not try to
stop them from voting.
That is why we need to take down
the barriers for voting. That is why we
need automatic voter registration and
internet registration and same-day reg-
istration—so people can sign up to
vote. It means we need better access to
voting so there isn’t manipulation at
the precinct places and so there is
early voting nationwide and the right
to choose to vote by mail.
Now, of course, I am a little biased
on this because my home State of Or-
egon led the Nation in automatic voter
registration, and we led the Nation in
voting by mail. For those who are wor-
rying about people voting who
shouldn’t be voting, nothing is more
secure than to vote by mail, and those
who are worried about electronic ma-
chines being hacked and not having a
paper ballot, there is nothing more se-
cure than voting by mail.
When polls do occur and people go to
those polls, shouldn’t we make sure
they are adequately staffed? The whole
strategy of moving polling places at
the last minute in order to confuse peo-
ple and the whole strategy of under-
staffing polling places in the neighbor-
hoods that you don’t want to have vote
is really evil—evil in that it takes
away the vision of our Constitution.
Voter empowerment is the vision;
voter suppression is not. So that takes
us to those polls and to our making
sure we have a polling protection act.
That is why we need the For the People
Act—to take that on.
Then we come to dark and dirty
money—money flowing in from cor-
porations and all kinds of overseas, for-
eign participants. Nothing is being
done here about that. Of course, the vi-
sion laid out by Thomas Jefferson
called it equal voice. It meant distrib-
uted power among the electorate, not
concentrated power, only with equal
voice. He said it was the mother prin-
ciple. Only with that do you get bills
that reflect the will of the people. We
are getting bills that reflect a small
circle of power and privilege, not the
people, because of this dark money
concentrating power.
When the Koch brothers’ cartel puts
hundreds of millions of dollars into our
campaign, the ordinary voter asks:
Where is my equal voice? I don’t have
hundreds of millions of dollars. I will
be lucky if I can give $10 to this can-
didate and $15 to that candidate. So the
American people know the system is
rigged—rigged in a profound way by
this dark money.
Where does this come from?
It comes from that same Supreme
Court that gutted the Voting Rights
Act, from that same Supreme Court
that failed to take on gerrymandering.
It is the Court that has flipped our
Constitution on its head and has re-
placed we the people with the vision of
government by and for that small
group of people in a circle of power—
people like the Koch brothers, who, in
2014, spent hundreds of millions of dol-
lars to change the makeup of this
Chamber. Nobody in my blue-collar
neighborhood has hundreds of millions
of dollars. They know the system has
been rigged. That is why we need the
For the People Act—to restore the vi-
sion of our Constitution.
I encourage all red-blooded, patriotic
Americans to stand up for their Con-
stitution, to fight for the vision em-
bodied in Jefferson’s mother principle
of equal voice, distributed power, and
to remedy the dark money flowing
through our campaigns. Not only is it
vastly corrupting, but it drives vast
cynicism because the people see what
is going on.
Let’s fix the gerrymandering on the
front end. It is hard for the courts to do
it on the back end even if they had the
will to do so. Let’s fix fair voting on
the front end and not argue about it
afterward when we can’t even count
the ballots because there are electronic
machines and people didn’t have a fair
chance to get to the polls. Let’s fix the
dark money and embrace equal voice.
I am concerned that time is short to
save our Republic because the money
has so piled up under this strategy of
government by and for the powerful
that over the last decades, while the
wages and benefits of ordinary people
have been flat or declining, the wealth
of that small circle of power has gone
through the roof.
In the first three decades after World
War II, everyone participated. It was
the spirit of the war. We were all in it
together. Let’s make our government
work for all. In the midseventies, it
ended—vast wealth for the wealthy and
only struggling opportunities or strug-
gling conditions for those ordinary
Americans.
We have to save our Constitution.
Let’s do it. Let’s pass the For the Peo-
ple Act. Let’s have a full and robust de-
bate on this floor so we will all be ac-
countable to our citizens and to our
pledge and our oath to the Constitu-
tion of the United States of America.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Alaska.
f
TRIBUTE TO LEIF FONNESBECK
Ms. MURKOWSKI. Mr. President, I
have come to the floor today to recog-
nize a truly exceptional member of the
U.S. Senate—not one who has a vote on
this floor but certainly one who has
wielded great influence and who has
generated great appreciation from
many of us who have had the privilege
and the honor to serve on the Appro-
priations Committee, as you have.
Today I am here to speak about an
individual who has been serving the
U.S. Senate on the Interior Appropria-
tions Subcommittee now for two dec-
ades, and this gentleman is a friend by
the name of Leif Fonnesbeck.
Leif started with the Interior Appro-
priations Committee under the helm of
Chairman Slade Gorton from the State
of Washington and then also, of course,
the chairman of the full Appropriations
Committee at that time, my friend and
mentor Ted Stevens.
So it is actually a little bit bitter-
sweet for me to be speaking about Leif
and recognizing his contributions be-
cause after two decades—21 years—Leif
is retiring from public service, and I
understand, certainly, his desire.
Twenty years is a good run. It is a sig-
nificant amount of effort and truly an
admirable career.
Both Leif and I are born and raised
Alaskans, and you can never take the
home out of your heart. It is something
that is a continual tug, and so I can
certainly understand his desire to
spend more time at home with the in-
credible Alaskans whom we call friends
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:31 Mar 29, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00039 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G28MR6.051 S28MRPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2102 March 28, 2019
and family and to be in our amazing
and extraordinary spaces.
As I mentioned, Leif is an Alaskan.
He grew up there in Anchorage. Leif’s
mom was a librarian, and his father
was a principal. He and his sisters grew
up exploring and experiencing every-
thing that is Alaska—all things great.
He attended East High School. He
left to get his undergraduate degree in
finance from here in Washington, DC,
at Georgetown University, my alma
mater. He then went on to law school
and went out to the University of Ari-
zona. Then, shortly after he got his law
degree, he returned home to Anchor-
age, thinking that he was going to
practice law there.
So he wasn’t there for too very long
when then-Appropriations Committee
Chairman Ted Stevens tapped Leif and
said: Look, I would like to have you
come back to Washington, DC, and
work for me on the Senate Appropria-
tions Interior Subcommittee. So it was
at that time that Leif made the big
move, leaving from Anchorage and
coming back here to Washington, DC,
to work with his mentor and my men-
tor, Ted Stevens.
There are a lot of stories that go on
around here. I have enjoyed getting to
know the great Senator from Vermont,
Mr. LEAHY, who had a great tenure
working with Chairman Stevens on the
Appropriations Committee, but you
learn a lot from leaders like that, and
I know that Leif certainly learned a
great deal from the leadership of Sen-
ator Stevens.
He learned the art of the appropria-
tions process, the art of trying to work
with people on oftentimes contentious
issues and places, but he really, truly
learned the art of looking out for the
needs of Alaska and Alaskans while
meeting the needs of the Interior bill.
He truly, truly served with distinction
throughout his tenure on the sub-
committee.
In addition to being an expert—and
he really was an expert at his job—he
is just a rock-solid guy. He gave solid
advice, was willing to be helpful, and
had a nature and a generosity that
were really key to all those who knew
him and who really had the pleasure to
work with him.
Oftentimes, you can’t say that it is
really a pleasure to work with you.
Well, it was a pleasure—it is a pleas-
ure—to work with Leif Fonnesbeck.
Since becoming chairman of the Inte-
rior Appropriations Subcommittee, I
have had the benefit of Leif’s experi-
ence and knowledge of Alaska and of
the appropriations process. I will tell
you, when I moved over to Interior to
take that on as chair of that sub-
committee, it was a little bit daunting
at first. It is an expansive portfolio—
everything from the EPA to manage-
ment of our public lands, to the Indian
Health Service, to the BIA. It is all
over the board, and it is a challenging
one, including how we are dealing with
wildfires and fire borrowing. We have
some significant, significant chal-
lenges, but Leif was just that font of
knowledge, not only from his experi-
ence on the committee but just from
his experience in working with so
many of these issues and working with
so many of the people over the years.
He has been an absolutely excellent
partner in navigating the really very
difficult, complicated, and complex
process that is required to produce
funding bills in a manner that is
viewed as fair and open and just true to
the process. I am just so very, very
grateful to his service to me, to the
State of Alaska, and, truly, to the U.S.
Senate.
For 21 years now, Leif’s work on the
Interior Subcommittee has impacted
the lives of more Alaskans than he will
possibly ever realize. His efforts, par-
ticularly on behalf of Alaska’s Native
communities, as well as our vast nat-
ural resources, have had and will con-
tinue to have a tremendous impact on
our State and our people. Because of
his work, more communities have ac-
cess to clean water through new drink-
ing systems. This was something that
Leif really concentrated on. He would
go out to the villages. He would see
firsthand what it meant to the health
conditions of families when they don’t
have access to clean and safe drinking
water and when they don’t have sanita-
tion facilities, and he worked to ad-
dress that.
More Alaskans are empowered to
build their economy and create healthy
communities through investments for
new infrastructure and support for pro-
grams to address domestic violence,
substance abuse, and suicide.
Every year we have been able to help
those accounts move forward because
the needs were so desperate and the
needs were so urgent, and Leif helped
to advance those priorities.
Support for rural healthcare clinics
enabled more Alaskans to have access
to care. There were the efforts that he
went through to help facilitate Native
hospitals, whether in Barrow or in
Nome, and now down in the Bethel re-
gion with the joint venture projects,
making sure that we have adequate,
strong staffing packages. Investments
in our public lands have helped to pro-
tect Alaska’s tourism industry and our
outdoor recreation opportunities.
He and I would go back and forth and
forth and back as to whether or not the
pedestrian walkway to allow visitors in
Brooks Camp to view the bears was too
Taj Mahal of a bridge or whether it was
a bridge that was going to be necessary
to protect the tourists from the bears
when the bears got disinterested in the
salmon that they were munching on.
Leif got down in the weeds. He got
into the issues. He knew what was
going on.
His efforts for local governments to
construct roads and public schools are
investments that will make a lasting
impact on the State of Alaska and the
people who live there. Knowing that
this is a lasting impact that this indi-
vidual, Leif, has made, is just so huge.
So as Leif is preparing to leave this
place where he has been for two dec-
ades to go back home to spend more
time there—whether it is fishing or
just enjoying or going back to work—I
know that he leaves many, many
friends here. He leaves many that have
such appreciation for his work, his
character, his honesty, and just his
professionalism.
I want to thank him for all of his
years of dedication, his commitment,
his service. I wish him and his dog Leo
the best as they go back to Alaska.
They will be hiking around, wandering
around the shadow of the Chugach
Mountains. I know, wherever it is that
he goes, though, he will be involved in
helping the people of Alaska.
I look forward to continuing to work
with Lee in the next chapter of his life.
It is indeed an honor to be able to
speak about him and his good work
today.
I know we are set to wrap up here. It
is my colleague from Alaska who usu-
ally has the last word on a Thursday
evening, and he speaks about the Alas-
kan of the Week. Senator SULLIVAN is
not here today and will not be giving
those comments, but I feel I have kind
of filled in with giving him an Alaska
of the Week with Leif Fonnesbeck, a
gentleman who has served our State
honorably over such period of time.
With that, I yield the floor.
(Ms. MURKOWSKI assumed the
chair.)
(Mr. WICKER assumed the chair.)
f
ORDERS FOR MONDAY, APRIL 1,
2019
Ms. MURKOWSKI. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that when the
Senate completes its business today, it
adjourn until 3 p.m., Monday, April 1;
further, that following the prayer and
pledge, the morning hour be deemed
expired, the Journal of proceedings be
approved to date, the time for the two
leaders be reserved for their use later
in the day, morning business be closed,
and the Senate resume consideration of
H.R. 268; further, that notwithstanding
the provisions of rule XXII, the cloture
motions with respect to H.R. 268 filed
during today’s session of the Senate
ripen at 5:30 p.m., Monday, April 1; fi-
nally, that if cloture is not invoked
with respect to the motions filed on
H.R. 268, the cloture motion with re-
spect to S. Res. 50 ripen at 2:15 p.m.,
Tuesday, April 2.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
ORDER FOR ADJOURNMENT
Ms. MURKOWSKI. Mr. President, if
there is no further business to come be-
fore the Senate, I ask that it stand ad-
journed under the previous order.
There being no objection, the Senate,
at 4:33 p.m., adjourned until Monday,
April 1, 2019, at 3 p.m.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:31 Mar 29, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00040 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G28MR6.053 S28MRPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2103
March 28, 2019
CONFIRMATIONS
Executive nominations confirmed by
the Senate March 28, 2019:
DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION
NICOLE R. NASON, OF NEW YORK, TO BE ADMINIS-
TRATOR OF THE FEDERAL HIGHWAY ADMINISTRATION.
IN THE MARINE CORPS
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICERS FOR APPOINTMENT
IN THE UNITED STATES MARINE CORPS RESERVE TO THE
GRADE INDICATED UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 12203:
To be brigadier general
COL. LEONARD F. ANDERSON IV
COL. WILLIAM E. SOUZA III
IN THE NAVY
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
IN THE UNITED STATES NAVY TO THE GRADE INDICATED
UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 624:
To be rear admiral
REAR ADM. (LH) PETER G. STAMATOPOULOS
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
IN THE UNITED STATES NAVY TO THE GRADE INDICATED
UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 624:
To be rear admiral
REAR ADM. (LH) GAYLE D. SHAFFER
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICERS FOR APPOINTMENT
IN THE UNITED STATES NAVY TO THE GRADE INDICATED
UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 624:
To be rear admiral
REAR ADM. (LH) KELLY A. AESCHBACH
REAR ADM. (LH) FRANK D. WHITWORTH
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICERS FOR APPOINTMENT
IN THE UNITED STATES NAVY TO THE GRADE INDICATED
UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 624:
To be rear admiral
REAR ADM. (LH) BLAKE L. CONVERSE
REAR ADM. (LH) CHARLES B. COOPER II
REAR ADM. (LH) DONALD D. GABRIELSON
REAR ADM. (LH) GREGORY N. HARRIS
REAR ADM. (LH) JEFFREY T. JABLON
REAR ADM. (LH) YANCY B. LINDSEY
REAR ADM. (LH) JOHN F. MEIER
REAR ADM. (LH) JAMES E. PITTS
REAR ADM. (LH) JOHN B. SKILLMAN
REAR ADM. (LH) KARL O. THOMAS
REAR ADM. (LH) JOHN F. WADE
REAR ADM. (LH) MICHAEL A. WETTLAUFER
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
IN THE UNITED STATES NAVY TO THE GRADE INDICATED
UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 624:
To be rear admiral (lower half)
CAPT. DEAN A. VANDERLEY
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
IN THE UNITED STATES NAVY TO THE GRADE INDICATED
UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 624:
To be rear admiral (lower half)
CAPT. KENNETH W. EPPS
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
IN THE UNITED STATES NAVY TO THE GRADE INDICATED
UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 624:
To be rear admiral (lower half)
CAPT. TIMOTHY H. WEBER
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
IN THE UNITED STATES NAVY TO THE GRADE INDICATED
UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 624:
To be rear admiral (lower half)
CAPT. JAMES L. HANCOCK
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
IN THE UNITED STATES NAVY TO THE GRADE INDICATED
UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 624:
To be rear admiral (lower half)
CAPT. NICHOLAS M. HOMAN
CAPT. MICHAEL J. VERNAZZA
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
IN THE UNITED STATES NAVY TO THE GRADE INDICATED
UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 624:
To be rear admiral (lower half)
CAPT. CHARLES W. BROWN
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
AS CHIEF OF NAVAL PERSONNEL AND APPOINTMENT IN
THE UNITED STATES NAVY TO THE GRADE INDICATED
WHILE ASSIGNED TO A POSITION OF IMPORTANCE AND
RESPONSIBILITY UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTIONS 601
AND 5141:
To be vice admiral
REAR ADM. JOHN B. NOWELL, JR.
IN THE AIR FORCE
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
IN THE UNITED STATES AIR FORCE TO THE GRADE INDI-
CATED WHILE ASSIGNED TO A POSITION OF IMPORTANCE
AND RESPONSIBILITY UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION
601:
To be lieutenant general
MAJ. GEN. STEVEN L. BASHAM
THE FOLLOWING NAMED AIR NATIONAL GUARD OF THE
UNITED STATES OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT IN THE RE-
SERVE OF THE AIR FORCE TO THE GRADE INDICATED
UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTIONS 12203 AND 12212:
To be brigadier general
COL. STEVEN J. BUTOW
IN THE ARMY
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
IN THE UNITED STATES ARMY TO THE GRADE INDICATED
WHILE ASSIGNED TO A POSITION OF IMPORTANCE AND
RESPONSIBILITY UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 601:
To be lieutenant general
MAJ. GEN. KAREN H. GIBSON
IN THE NAVY
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICERS FOR APPOINTMENT
IN THE UNITED STATES NAVY TO THE GRADE INDICATED
UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 624:
To be rear admiral
REAR ADM. (LH) JAMES P. DOWNEY
REAR ADM. (LH) SHANE G. GAHAGAN
REAR ADM. (LH) FRANCIS D. MORLEY
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
IN THE UNITED STATES NAVY TO THE GRADE INDICATED
WHILE ASSIGNED TO A POSITION OF IMPORTANCE AND
RESPONSIBILITY UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 601:
To be vice admiral
REAR ADM. RONALD A. BOXALL
IN THE ARMY
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
AS CHIEF OF CHAPLAINS, UNITED STATES ARMY, AND
APPOINTMENT IN THE UNITED STATES ARMY TO THE
GRADE INDICATED WHILE ASSIGNED TO THAT POSITION
UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTIONS 7036 AND 7073:
To be major general
BRIG. GEN. THOMAS L. SOLHJEM
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICERS FOR APPOINTMENT
IN THE UNITED STATES ARMY TO THE GRADE INDICATED
UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 624:
To be major general
BRIG. GEN. TELITA CROSLAND
BRIG. GEN. DENNIS P. LEMASTER
THE FOLLOWING NAMED ARMY NATIONAL GUARD OF
THE UNITED STATES OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT AS
THE DIRECTOR, ARMY NATIONAL GUARD, AND FOR AP-
POINTMENT TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE RESERVE
OF THE ARMY UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTIONS 601 AND
10506:
To be lieutenant general
LT. GEN. DANIEL R. HOKANSON
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
IN THE UNITED STATES ARMY TO THE GRADE INDICATED
WHILE ASSIGNED TO A POSITION OF IMPORTANCE AND
RESPONSIBILITY UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 601:
To be lieutenant general
MAJ. GEN. LEON N. THURGOOD
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
IN THE UNITED STATES ARMY TO THE GRADE INDICATED
WHILE ASSIGNED TO A POSITION OF IMPORTANCE AND
RESPONSIBILITY UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 601:
To be lieutenant general
MAJ. GEN. WALTER E. PIATT
IN THE AIR FORCE
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
IN THE UNITED STATES AIR FORCE TO THE GRADE INDI-
CATED WHILE ASSIGNED TO A POSITION OF IMPORTANCE
AND RESPONSIBILITY UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION
601:
To be lieutenant general
LT. GEN. JAMES C. SLIFE
IN THE ARMY
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
IN THE UNITED STATES ARMY TO THE GRADE INDICATED
WHILE ASSIGNED TO A POSITION OF IMPORTANCE AND
RESPONSIBILITY UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 601:
To be general
LT. GEN. PAUL E. FUNK II
IN THE NAVY
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
IN THE UNITED STATES NAVY TO THE GRADE INDICATED
WHILE ASSIGNED TO A POSITION OF IMPORTANCE AND
RESPONSIBILITY UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 601:
To be vice admiral
REAR ADM. DEE L. MEWBOURNE
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
IN THE UNITED STATES NAVY TO THE GRADE INDICATED
WHILE ASSIGNED TO A POSITION OF IMPORTANCE AND
RESPONSIBILITY UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 601:
To be vice admiral
REAR ADM. JON A. HILL
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
IN THE UNITED STATES NAVY TO THE GRADE INDICATED
WHILE ASSIGNED TO A POSITION OF IMPORTANCE AND
RESPONSIBILITY UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 601:
To be vice admiral
REAR ADM. STUART B. MUNSCH
IN THE AIR FORCE
AIR FORCE NOMINATIONS BEGINNING WITH DANIEL M.
ANDERSON AND ENDING WITH DENISE M. ZONA, WHICH
NOMINATIONS WERE RECEIVED BY THE SENATE AND AP-
PEARED IN THE CONGRESSIONAL RECORD ON JANUARY
24, 2019.
AIR FORCE NOMINATION OF THOMAS D. CRIMMINS, TO
BE COLONEL.
AIR FORCE NOMINATIONS BEGINNING WITH SHAWN C.
BISHOP AND ENDING WITH CHRISTIAN L. WILLIAMS,
WHICH NOMINATIONS WERE RECEIVED BY THE SENATE
AND APPEARED IN THE CONGRESSIONAL RECORD ON
FEBRUARY 25, 2019.
AIR FORCE NOMINATIONS BEGINNING WITH MICHELL A.
ARCHEBELLE AND ENDING WITH SHELLEY A. SHELTON,
WHICH NOMINATIONS WERE RECEIVED BY THE SENATE
AND APPEARED IN THE CONGRESSIONAL RECORD ON
FEBRUARY 25, 2019.
AIR FORCE NOMINATIONS BEGINNING WITH PETER N.
FISCHER AND ENDING WITH JONATHAN H. WADE, WHICH
NOMINATIONS WERE RECEIVED BY THE SENATE AND AP-
PEARED IN THE CONGRESSIONAL RECORD ON FEBRUARY
25, 2019.
AIR FORCE NOMINATIONS BEGINNING WITH BRIAN M.
ALEXANDER AND ENDING WITH JASON C. ZUMWALT,
WHICH NOMINATIONS WERE RECEIVED BY THE SENATE
AND APPEARED IN THE CONGRESSIONAL RECORD ON
FEBRUARY 25, 2019.
AIR FORCE NOMINATION OF LATOYA D. SMITH, TO BE
LIEUTENANT COLONEL.
AIR FORCE NOMINATION OF LISA MARIE AHAESY, TO
BE COLONEL.
AIR FORCE NOMINATIONS BEGINNING WITH JULIE
HUYGEN AND ENDING WITH TOM POSCH, WHICH NOMINA-
TIONS WERE RECEIVED BY THE SENATE AND APPEARED
IN THE CONGRESSIONAL RECORD ON MARCH 6, 2019.
IN THE ARMY
ARMY NOMINATION OF MATTHEW D. COLSIA, TO BE
MAJOR.
ARMY NOMINATION OF DEVEN R. GASTON, TO BE
MAJOR.
ARMY NOMINATIONS BEGINNING WITH ADRIAN
ACEVEDO AND ENDING WITH G010477, WHICH NOMINA-
TIONS WERE RECEIVED BY THE SENATE AND APPEARED
IN THE CONGRESSIONAL RECORD ON FEBRUARY 6, 2019.
ARMY NOMINATIONS BEGINNING WITH BENJAMIN T.
ABEL AND ENDING WITH G010598, WHICH NOMINATIONS
WERE RECEIVED BY THE SENATE AND APPEARED IN THE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD ON FEBRUARY 6, 2019.
ARMY NOMINATIONS BEGINNING WITH KWANSAH E.
ACKAH AND ENDING WITH D014862, WHICH NOMINATIONS
WERE RECEIVED BY THE SENATE AND APPEARED IN THE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD ON FEBRUARY 6, 2019.
ARMY NOMINATIONS BEGINNING WITH ALAN ADAME
AND ENDING WITH D013619, WHICH NOMINATIONS WERE
RECEIVED BY THE SENATE AND APPEARED IN THE CON-
GRESSIONAL RECORD ON FEBRUARY 6, 2019.
ARMY NOMINATION OF ELIZABETH A. FIELDS, TO BE
MAJOR.
ARMY NOMINATION OF P. J. FOX, TO BE LIEUTENANT
COLONEL.
ARMY NOMINATION OF NATHAN M. CLAYTON, TO BE
MAJOR.
ARMY NOMINATION OF ADAM P. JAMES, TO BE MAJOR.
ARMY NOMINATIONS BEGINNING WITH JASON S. BAKER
AND ENDING WITH RICHARD J. ZEIGLER, WHICH NOMINA-
TIONS WERE RECEIVED BY THE SENATE AND APPEARED
IN THE CONGRESSIONAL RECORD ON FEBRUARY 25, 2019.
ARMY NOMINATION OF SHELIA R. DAY, TO BE LIEUTEN-
ANT COLONEL.
ARMY NOMINATION OF ROBERT D. COPE, TO BE LIEU-
TENANT COLONEL.
ARMY NOMINATION OF WILLIAM C. MITCHELL, TO BE
COLONEL.
ARMY NOMINATION OF RUBIROSA B. BAGO, TO BE
MAJOR.
ARMY NOMINATION OF MEGHAN C. GERRITY, TO BE
MAJOR.
ARMY NOMINATION OF DANIEL M. JANSEN, TO BE
MAJOR.
ARMY NOMINATION OF RANDOLPH POWELL, TO BE
MAJOR.
ARMY NOMINATION OF MICHAEL J. PROKOS, TO BE
MAJOR.
ARMY NOMINATION OF ANTHONY BELLOFIGUEROA, TO
BE MAJOR.
ARMY NOMINATION OF SEAN R. RICHARDSON, TO BE
MAJOR.
ARMY NOMINATION OF KAHTONNA C. ALLEN, TO BE
MAJOR.
ARMY NOMINATION OF ANGELO N. CATALANO, TO BE
COLONEL.
ARMY NOMINATION OF CHARLES J. CALAIS, TO BE
LIEUTENANT COLONEL.
ARMY NOMINATION OF ROBERT T. EVANS, TO BE COLO-
NEL.
ARMY NOMINATIONS BEGINNING WITH PAULA I.
SCHASBERGER AND ENDING WITH JAN E. ALDYKIEWICZ,
WHICH NOMINATIONS WERE RECEIVED BY THE SENATE
AND APPEARED IN THE CONGRESSIONAL RECORD ON
MARCH 6, 2019.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:31 Mar 29, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00041 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 9801 E:\CR\FM\A28MR6.001 S28MRPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2104 March 28, 2019
IN THE MARINE CORPS
MARINE CORPS NOMINATIONS BEGINNING WITH STE-
VEN M. ANGELINE AND ENDING WITH CURTIS E. BORJAS,
WHICH NOMINATIONS WERE RECEIVED BY THE SENATE
AND APPEARED IN THE CONGRESSIONAL RECORD ON
JANUARY 24, 2019.
MARINE CORPS NOMINATIONS BEGINNING WITH DAVID
F. HUNLEY AND ENDING WITH JAMES P. STOCKWELL,
WHICH NOMINATIONS WERE RECEIVED BY THE SENATE
AND APPEARED IN THE CONGRESSIONAL RECORD ON
JANUARY 24, 2019.
MARINE CORPS NOMINATION OF JOHN C. JARVIS, TO BE
MAJOR.
MARINE CORPS NOMINATIONS BEGINNING WITH
NATHANEAL J. HART, JR. AND ENDING WITH DUSTIN R.
HEFFEL, WHICH NOMINATIONS WERE RECEIVED BY THE
SENATE AND APPEARED IN THE CONGRESSIONAL
RECORD ON JANUARY 24, 2019.
MARINE CORPS NOMINATIONS BEGINNING WITH MAT-
THEW J. ANDERSON AND ENDING WITH ISAAC K.
TIBAYAN, WHICH NOMINATIONS WERE RECEIVED BY THE
SENATE AND APPEARED IN THE CONGRESSIONAL
RECORD ON JANUARY 24, 2019.
IN THE NAVY
NAVY NOMINATION OF EDWARD M. PRENDERGAST, TO
BE LIEUTENANT COMMANDER.
NAVY NOMINATION OF THOMAS L. HINNANT III, TO BE
COMMANDER.
NAVY NOMINATION OF SANJAY SHARMA, TO BE LIEU-
TENANT COMMANDER.
NAVY NOMINATION OF ANGELA TANG, TO BE COM-
MANDER.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:31 Mar 29, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00042 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 9801 E:\CR\FM\A28MR6.003 S28MRPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
EXTENSIONS OF REMARKS
∑ This ‘‘bullet’’ symbol identifies statements or insertions which are not spoken by a Member of the Senate on the floor.
Matter set in this typeface indicates words inserted or appended, rather than spoken, by a Member of the House on the floor.
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E365
March 28, 2019
CELEBRATING THE 50TH ANNIVER-
SARY OF THE NATIONAL TECH-
NICAL INSTITUTE FOR THE
DEAF
HON. JOSEPH D. MORELLE
OF NEW YORK
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, March 28, 2019
Mr. MORELLE. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to congratulate the National Technical
Institute for the Deaf on celebrating 50 years
of providing an outstanding education for deaf
and hard-of-hearing students. The National
Technical Institute for the Deaf, or NTID, is
one of the nine colleges at Rochester Institute
of Technology in Rochester, New York. With
almost 9,000 alumni and a 94 percent average
employment rate over the past five years for
its deaf and hard-of-hearing graduates, NTID
continues to open doors and break down bar-
riers for people who are deaf or hard-of-hear-
ing.
For decades, the deaf community advocated
for a technical university, and in 1965, that
dream became a reality. After legislation was
introduced in April that year, the National
Technical Institute of the Deaf was established
by Congress via Public Law 89–36 and signed
by President Lyndon Baines Johnson on June
8, 1965. Three years later, in September
1968, 70 deaf young men and women arrived
at the Rochester Institute of Technology, or
RIT, campus to become the charter class of
NTID students.
And here we are, 50 years after that charter
class was facing the completion of its first year
of academic instruction, and NTID is still ex-
celling at its primary mission. ‘‘. . . to provide
deaf and hard-of-hearing students with out-
standing state-of-the-art technical and profes-
sional education programs, complemented by
a strong arts and sciences curriculum, to pre-
pare them to live and work in the mainstream
of a rapidly changing global community and
enhance their lifelong learning.’’
We know NTID has succeeded because
NTID students persist and graduate at rates
favorable to national rates for two- and four-
year colleges and because they are, on aver-
age, employed at higher rates and earn more
over their lifetimes than deaf peers who do not
attend NTID.
Over the past 50 years, NTID has also sur-
passed expectations for its secondary mission,
by establishing one of the country’s oldest and
most prestigious American Sign Language in-
terpreter training programs, improving the edu-
cation of deaf children and youth by preparing
future educators, and conducting research and
outreach that benefit deaf people worldwide.
Serving as the U.S. Representative for Mon-
roe County is a source of great pride for me,
a pride that comes from knowing the role that
Rochester has played and continues to play in
changing the world for the better. NTID has
helped make Rochester the diverse, innova-
tive and determined community it is today. We
are so fortunate to have this national treasure
as part of RIT and part of Rochester. I ask my
colleagues to join me in congratulating NTID
on 50 years of excellence
f
TRIBUTE TO ZYGMUND
KOWALESKI
HON. DON YOUNG
OF ALASKA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, March 28, 2019
Mr. YOUNG. Madam Speaker, today I’d like
to congratulate Zygmund Kowaleski on the oc-
casion of his 99th birthday on April 7th, and
thank him for his service to the United States
Navy and to the United States of America.
Mr. Kowaleski enlisted as a gunner on a
twin-engine PBM flying boat in October of
1941, just two months before the ambush at
Pearl Harbor would launch the U.S. into World
War II. As a part of Torpedo Squadron Eight
present at the Battle of Midway, he and his
fellow crew members earned commendations
for bravery in engagements at Guadalcanal,
Midway, and the British Solomon Islands.
Attempting to fly a mail route off the coast
of the Fiji Islands, Mr. Kowaleski’s plane
stalled on takeoff and crashed into the Pacific
Ocean. He was forced to free himself from the
downed plane and paddle from the wreckage,
fearful the ship’s 500-pound depth charges
would detonate.
Madam Speaker, even after receiving com-
bat honors twice for his heroics, Mr. Kowaleski
once again piloted a U.S. Navy plane, instead
hunting German submarines in the North At-
lantic Ocean.
Mr. Kowaleski moved out to Alaska in 1967
after fulfilling his Naval service, continuing to
fly as an FAA Airway Systems Inspection
Pilot. But whether he was piloting a torpedo
bomber or a twin-engine Cessna, he always
conducted himself with valor and should be
considered among Alaska’s finest Naval Avi-
ators for his service.
An aviator needs quick decision-making and
a cool head to fly a plane in combat. Many of
us will not know the kind of mental toughness
required to see a mission to its conclusion,
even under the most dire flight conditions.
Madam Speaker, I rise today to honor
Zygmund Kowaleski, who now at the age of
99, will have spent nearly one quarter of his
life’s work in service to his country having
flown missions from Dutch Harbor to the Pan-
ama Canal. There are few people that can
claim to have sacrificed as much under our
flag, and he is owed the thanks and gratitude
of all of us here in Washington and in Alaska.
RECOGNIZING POLICE CHIEF TROY
MCGEE OF HELENA
HON. GREG GIANFORTE
OF MONTANA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, March 28, 2019
Mr. GIANFORTE. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to honor Troy McGee of Helena for his
four decades of public service in the Helena
Police Department, including nearly 23 years
as chief of police.
Growing up in the community he would
serve, Troy graduated from Helena High
School in 1971 and Carroll College in 1975.
Troy began his career with the Helena Po-
lice Department in 1975 and worked his way
through the ranks. After nearly 20 years in the
department, Troy was promoted to police chief
in August 1996.
Throughout his career, Troy was dedicated
to law enforcement safety and training in Mon-
tana. He has contributed his time, experience,
and perspective to several organizations, in-
cluding the Montana Attorney General’s Law
Enforcement Advisory Council, the Montana
Peace Officers Standards and Training Coun-
cil, and the Montana Law Enforcement Acad-
emy Advisory Board. He also has advocated
for law enforcement with the Montana Chiefs
of Police Association and the Montana Police
Officers Protective Association.
As Helena’s chief of police, Troy created
stronger relationships between his department
and the community. He also bolstered the
city’s relationship with other law enforcement
agencies. His commitment to coordination and
partnership led the city’s police department to
work with the Lewis and Clark County Sheriff’s
Department to form a joint SWAT team.
Troy has dedicated his life to the well-being
of his community and law enforcement officers
throughout our state. On behalf of the people
of Montana, thank you for your service, Chief
McGee.
Madam Speaker, for his decades of out-
standing service and for his dedication to pub-
lic safety, law enforcement, and his commu-
nity, I recognize Troy McGee for his spirit of
Montana.
f
HONORING THE HONORABLE DR.
AMELIA ROSS-HAMMOND FOR
HER CAREER AND SERVICE TO
THE HAMPTON ROADS COMMU-
NITY
HON. ELAINE G. LURIA
OF VIRGINIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, March 28, 2019
Mrs. LURIA. Madam Speaker, I rise today to
honor and recognize the Honorable Dr. Amelia
Ross-Hammond for her tremendous career
and service in the Hampton Roads area.
Honorable Dr. Ross-Hammond recently re-
tired from Norfolk State University where she
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:38 Mar 29, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A28MR8.001 E28MRPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E366 March 28, 2019
taught Music Appreciation and the Humanities.
Not only has Honorable Dr. Ross-Hammond
been dedicated to her work as a Distinguished
Professor, but she has been a renowned pub-
lic servant. She served on the Virginia Beach
City Council, and various councils and boards
at the State and local level such as the City’s
Diversity and Inclusion Forums, and co-
chaired the Mayor’s African American Round-
table—just to name a few. She currently
serves as a Commissioner for the Hampton
Roads Transportation Commission and Presi-
dent-Elect for the Virginia Beach Beautification
Commission. These are only a select few of
her numerous titles and positions.
Honorable Dr. Ross-Hammond received
awards for her service to the Hampton Roads
community such as the Resolution of Appre-
ciation from the Hampton Roads District Plan-
ning Commission and the Urban League of
South Hampton Roads Young Professionals
Award for Community Service. She was also
the 2016 Honoree for the Norfolk State Uni-
versity Music Department’s Spring Gala.
Honorable Dr. Ross-Hammond’s dedication
to strengthening bonds among people of dif-
ferent racial, ethnic, and religious backgrounds
is truly inspiring. I am proud to honor and rec-
ognize Honorable Dr. Ross-Hammond’s lead-
ership and the role she plays in making our
community a better place. Hampton Roads
has significantly benefited from her presence.
f
CONGRATULATING DENNIS BROWN
HON. JOHN H. RUTHERFORD
OF FLORIDA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, March 28, 2019
Mr. RUTHERFORD. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to recognize and congratulate Dennis
Brown on 50 years of employment at the An-
heuser-Busch Jacksonville Brewery.
Mr. Brown began at the brewery in April of
1969, working onsite even before it packaged
its first barrel of beer.
His attention to detail, unmatched work
ethic, and commitment to quality has allowed
him to excel as a leader in the brewery.
I have visited the Jacksonville brewery and
can personally attest to its productivity and ef-
ficiency.
There is great honor in hard work at a job
worth doing, and the admirable record of Mr.
Brown’s longevity speaks to his successful ca-
reer.
I thank Mr. Brown for his part in making
Budweiser the King of Beers and wish him the
best in all future endeavors.
Cheers.
f
HONORING THE 1969 NEW YORK
METS UPON THE 50TH ANNIVER-
SARY OF THEIR WORLD SERIES
CHAMPIONSHIP
HON. PETER T. KING
OF NEW YORK
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, March 28, 2019
Mr. KING of New York. Madam Speaker, I
rise, on this, the greatest day of the year,
Opening Day of the Major League Baseball
season to honor the 1969 New York Mets
upon the 50th Anniversary of their World Se-
ries Championship. This scrappy team, led by
the remarkable Gil Hodges, disproved their
doubters, united a city, and offered hope dur-
ing a dark time in our country’s history. A sea-
son that began with a loss to the expansion
Montreal Expos ended with Joan Hodges
screaming ‘‘We’re Champions’’ in an exuber-
ant clubhouse under the beautiful Shea Sta-
dium. With a rotation led by the powerful arms
of Tom ‘‘The Franchise’’ Seaver and Jerry
Koosman and a lineup packed with the ability
of the likes of Ed Kranepool, Bud Harrelson,
Cleon Jones, and Art Shamsky, these Mets
jumped over the moon and won the World Se-
ries. The team that had been stumbling since
the year of its creation somehow managed to
outlast the historic Chicago Cubs with three
future Hall of Famers, the imposing Atlanta
Braves led by Hammerin’ Hank Aaron, and the
awe-inducing Baltimore Orioles led by Frank
and Brooks Robinson. The characters that
were these Mets offered hope to a struggling
New York City and optimism for a country suf-
fering through the Vietnam War. Fifty years
ago, my New York Mets reminded the country
why baseball is truly America’s pastime. I,
along with so many others who were cheering
them during those exciting days, say thank
you, congratulations on their 50th Anniversary,
and Let’s Go Mets.
f
RECOGNIZING THE REINTRODUC-
TION OF THE LYMPHEDEMA
TREATMENT ACT
HON. JANICE D. SCHAKOWSKY
OF ILLINOIS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, March 28, 2019
Ms. SCHAKOWSKY. Madam Speaker, as
we near the end of March, which is
Lymphedema Awareness Month, I rise to mark
my reintroduction of the Lymphedema Treat-
ment Act. When a cancer patient has her
lymph nodes removed and experiences swell-
ing and discomfort, it is a jarring experience.
She is then often hit with another surprise:
many insurers, including Medicare, do not
cover a critical treatment for lymphedema—
compression garments. This is one more chal-
lenge on top of the monumental battle of fight-
ing cancer.
Including medically-necessary compression
garments in Medicare coverage is a common-
sense solution to increase access for the 10
million people who suffer from lymphedema.
That is what my bill would do. Coverage under
Medicare sets a precedent and is an important
step in increasing access to compression gar-
ments for all Americans. 384 of my colleagues
cosponsored this bill last Congress, and al-
most 100 have joined me and Representatives
BUDDY CARTER, EARL BLUMENAUER, and MIKE
KELLY as original cosponsors today. It is crit-
ical that we pass this bill into law.
Finally, I want to thank the Lymphedema
Advocacy Group in particular for their tireless
work in championing the Lymphedema Treat-
ment Act. Today, my heart is with Elaine
Eigeman, board chair of the Lymphedema Ad-
vocacy Group, who recently entered hospice
care. She has been a champion for
lymphedema patients for years, and she is the
primary reason this bill was first introduced
four years ago. I am proud to reintroduce this
bill in her honor.
COMMEMORATION OF THE OPEN-
ING OF THE LIFE MESSAGE VET-
ERANS RESOURCE & OUTREACH
CENTER IN ROWLETT, TEXAS
HON. COLIN Z. ALLRED
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, March 28, 2019
Mr. ALLRED. Madam Speaker, I am hon-
ored to commemorate a milestone for the
community of Rowlett, Texas, the grand open-
ing of the Life Message Veterans Resource &
Outreach Center.
This facility is already making a difference in
veterans’ lives in this community, but Friday,
March 29, 2019 will mark the ground-breaking
and official opening ceremony of the center.
We owe a great debt to our veterans and
their families, and I thank the people of
Rowlett for their work on this effort. This is a
great example of a community coming to-
gether to support those who have sacrificed
so much for our nation.
It is an honor to represent them in Con-
gress, and I know that I am deeply dedicated
to being a strong and reliable partner for this
new center as it works to become a source of
long-term support and solutions for our vet-
erans.
f
RECOGNIZING THE LIFE OF
ROBERT J. JAMISON, SR.
HON. TRENT KELLY
OF MISSISSIPPI
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, March 28, 2019
Mr. KELLY of Mississippi. Madam Speaker,
I rise today to celebrate the life of Reverend
Robert J. Jamison, Sr., who passed away on
Sunday, March 24 at age 82.
Rev. Jamison, a native of Tupelo, Mis-
sissippi, was born on May 28, 1936 to Van
and Cora Jamison. He was the third of four
children and dedicated his life to Christ at an
early age at Rising Star Missionary Baptist
Church. Robert graduated from George Wash-
ington Carver High School and married his
high school sweetheart, Minnie Lee Edwards,
in 1954. After graduation, he received degrees
from Mississippi Industrial College, University
of Utah, and Memphis Theological Seminary.
Rev. Jamison served as pastor of Second
Baptist Church, New Providence Missionary
Baptist Church and founded the People’s
Community Baptist Church in Tupelo, Mis-
sissippi. It was through these roles and many
more that Rev. Jamison touched many lives.
He was dedicated to making his community
better by serving the people any way he
could.
Rev. Jamison’s life is one that should be
celebrated and remembered. His legacy of
obedience to God and selfless service to oth-
ers lives on in all the lives he touched.
Left to cherish his memories are his son,
Robert ‘‘Fonda’’ Jamison, Jr. of Silver Spring,
MD; three daughters, Searcy (Ray) Taylor and
Venita Goins of Gulfport, MS, Marcy Jamison
of Tupelo, MS; four grandchildren, Christen
Shane Jamison of Philadelphia, PA, Julicia
‘‘GiGi’’ Taylor of Camp Spring, MD, William
(Ashlee) Goins and daughter, Ava Claire of
Starkville, MS, Jamison Goins of Atlanta, GA;
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:34 Mar 29, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A28MR8.003 E28MRPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E367
March 28, 2019
three sisters, Jennie Kincaid and Annie Turner
of Milwaukee, WI, Dora Thomas of Memphis,
TN; one brother, Tyree Jamison of Rockville,
MD; two brother-in-laws, Eddie Edwards and
Obie Edwards of Verona, MS; one sister-in-
law, Leora Edwards of Verona, MS and a host
of nieces, nephews, other relatives and
friends.
f
HONORING LOYD RUTHERFORD OF
MOULTON, ALABAMA
HON. ROBERT B. ADERHOLT
OF ALABAMA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, March 28, 2019
Mr. ADERHOLT. Madam Speaker, I want to
acknowledge the lifetime of service Mr. Loyd
Rutherford of Moulton, Alabama has given to
the farm community in our nation and the dif-
ference he has made in countless lives.
Mr. Rutherford currently serves on the board
of directors for Alabama Farm Credit. He will
be retiring on April 19, 2019 after almost 30
years of service to the board. In addition to
this longevity on the board, he has served as
Chairman of the Board for almost the same
length of time, taking that title in 1995. He
held that title until 2017.
In addition to Mr. Rutherford’s service to the
state of Alabama, he has also served other
parts of our nation. He served on the District
Benefits Administrative Committee for the
Farm Credit Bank of Texas. Rutherford also
worked on the Farm Credit Benefit Alliance
plan sponsor committee, which services both
AgFirst Bank and the Farm Credit Bank of
Texas, the Tenth District Farm Credit Council
Board, the National Farm Credit Council
board, and the Farm Credit Council Services
Board.
Mr. Rutherford retired from working 32 years
with a local cooperative in Alabama. He is cur-
rently the owner and operator of JRL Inc., a
construction and development company in
Moulton, Alabama. He also farms cotton, soy-
beans, cattle and broilers.
I want to commend Mr. Rutherford for his
service, especially his time serving Alabama
Farm Credit. The organization has helped an
untold number of farmers, especially those just
getting started in the business, to realize their
dreams of making a career out of helping to
feed America.
He is married to Janice and they have three
children, Jeffrey, Regina and Tanya, eight
grandchildren and six great-grandchildren. I
am happy to congratulate Mr. Rutherford and
I wish him all the best in his well-earned retire-
ment from the Alabama Farm Credit Board of
Directors. I know his leadership and knowl-
edge will be greatly missed.
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. KAY GRANGER
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, March 28, 2019
Ms. GRANGER. Madam Speaker, I was un-
able to attend votes due to circumstances be-
yond my control.
Had I been present, I would have voted
NAY on Roll Call No. 130; NAY on Roll Call
No. 131; YEA on Roll Call No. 132; YEA on
Roll Call No. 133; and NAY on Roll Call No.
134.
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. GUS M. BILIRAKIS
OF FLORIDA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, March 28, 2019
Mr. BILIRAKIS. Madam Speaker, yesterday,
I was unavoidably detained and unable to
make votes. Had I been present, I would have
voted: Yea on Roll Call 126, the European En-
ergy Security and Diversity Act (HR 1616).
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:34 Mar 29, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A28MR8.008 E28MRPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
REMARKS
D315
Thursday, March 28, 2019
Daily Digest
Senate
Chamber Action
Routine Proceedings, pages S2063–S2104
Measures Introduced: Forty bills and seven resolu-
tions were introduced, as follows: S. 921–960, S.J.
Res. 16, S. Res. 128–132, and S. Con. Res. 10.
Pages S2087–88
Measures Reported:
Special Report entitled ‘‘Report of the Select
Committee on Intelligence United States Senate
Covering the Period January 3, 2017 to January 3,
2019’’. (S. Rept. No. 116–20)
Special Report entitled ‘‘Report on the Activities
of the Senate Committee on the Judiciary During
the 115th Congress’’. (S. Rept. No. 116–22)
Special Report entitled ‘‘Legislative Activities Re-
port of the Committee on Foreign Relations, United
States Senate, One Hundred Fifteenth Congress’’. (S.
Rept. No. 116–23)
Special Report entitled ‘‘Legislative Activities Re-
port of the Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation of the United States Senate During
the 115th Congress’’. (S. Rept. No. 116–24)
S. 257, to provide for rental assistance for home-
less or at-risk Indian veterans. (S. Rept. No. 116–21)
Page S2087
Measures Passed:
Recognizing Achievement in Classified School
Employees Act: Committee on Health, Education,
Labor, and Pensions was discharged from further
consideration of H.R. 276, to direct the Secretary of
Education to establish the Recognizing Inspiring
School Employees (RISE) Award Program recog-
nizing excellence exhibited by classified school em-
ployees providing services to students in prekinder-
garten through high school, and the bill was then
passed. Page S2098
Vietnam Veterans Day: Committee on the Judi-
ciary was discharged from further consideration of S.
Res. 69, designating March 29, 2019, as ‘‘Vietnam
Veterans Day’’, and the resolution was then agreed
to, after agreeing to the following amendment pro-
posed thereto: Pages S2098–99
McConnell (for Burr/Manchin) Amendment No.
225, to amend the preamble. Pages S2098–99
Recognizing American Indian, Alaska Native,
and Native Hawaiian Women: Committee on In-
dian Affairs was discharged from further consider-
ation of S. Res. 100, recognizing the heritage, cul-
ture, and contributions of American Indian, Alaska
Native, and Native Hawaiian women in the United
States, and the resolution was then agreed to.
Pages S2099–S2100
Military Retiree Appreciation Day: Committee
on the Judiciary was discharged from further consid-
eration of S. Res. 118, recognizing the importance of
paying tribute to those individuals who have faith-
fully served and retired from the Armed Forces of
the United States, designating April 18, 2019, as
‘‘Military Retiree Appreciation Day’’, and encour-
aging the people of the United States to honor the
past and continued service of military retirees to
their local communities and the United States, and
the resolution was then agreed to. Page S2100
Condemning the Terrorist Attacks in Christ-
church, New Zealand: Committee on Foreign Rela-
tions was discharged from further consideration of S.
Res. 124, condemning the March 15, 2019, terrorist
attacks in Christchurch, New Zealand, offering sin-
cere condolences to all of the victims and their fami-
lies, and expressing and standing in solidarity with
the people and the Government of New Zealand,
and the resolution was then agreed to. Page S2100
Measures Considered:
Supplemental Appropriations Act—Agreement:
Senate began consideration of H.R. 268, making
supplemental appropriations for the fiscal year end-
ing September 30, 2019, after agreeing to the mo-
tion to proceed, and taking action on the following
motions and amendments proposed thereto:
Pages S2064–77
Withdrawn:
McConnell (for Shelby) Amendment No. 5, of a
perfecting nature. Page S2064
Schumer Amendment No. 6, of a perfecting na-
ture. Page S2064
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:03 Mar 29, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D28MR9.REC D28MRPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D316 March 28, 2019
Pending:
Shelby Amendment No. 201, in the nature of a
substitute. Page S2064
McConnell Amendment No. 213 (to Amendment
No. 201), to change the enactment date. Page S2065
McConnell Amendment No. 214 (to Amendment
No. 213), of a perfecting nature. Page S2065
McConnell Amendment No. 215 (to the language
proposed to be stricken by Amendment No. 201), to
change the enactment date. Page S2065
McConnell Amendment No. 216 (to Amendment
No. 215), of a perfecting nature. Page S2065
A motion was entered to close further debate on
Shelby Amendment No. 201 (listed above), and, in
accordance with the provisions of Rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, and pursuant to the
unanimous-consent agreement of Thursday, March
28, 2019, a vote on cloture will occur at 5:30 p.m.,
on Monday, April 1, 2019. Pages S2064–65
A motion was entered to close further debate on
the bill, and, in accordance with the provisions of
Rule XXII of the Standing Rules of the Senate, a
vote on cloture will occur upon disposition of Shelby
Amendment No. 201. Page S2081
A unanimous-consent agreement was reached pro-
viding that the filing deadline for first-degree
amendments with respect to the motions to invoke
cloture on Thursday, March 28, 2019, relating to
the bill be at 4 p.m., on Monday, April 1, 2019.
Page S2100
A unanimous-consent agreement was reached pro-
viding that at approximately 3 p.m., on Monday,
April 1, 2019, Senate resume consideration of the
bill; that notwithstanding the provisions of Rule
XXII, the motions to invoke cloture with respect to
the bill filed on Thursday, March 28, 2019, ripen at
5:30 p.m., on Monday, April 1, 2019, and that if
cloture is not invoked with respect to the motions
filed on the bill, the motion to invoke cloture on the
motion to proceed to consideration of S. Res. 50,
improving procedures for the consideration of nomi-
nations in the Senate, ripen at 2:15 p.m., on Tues-
day, April 2, 2019. Page S2102
Nominations in the Senate—Cloture: Senate
began consideration of the motion to proceed to con-
sideration S. Res. 50, improving procedures for the
consideration of nominations in the Senate.
Page S2082
A motion was entered to close further debate on
the motion to proceed to consideration of the resolu-
tion, and, in accordance with the provisions of Rule
XXII of the Standing Rules of the Senate, a vote on
cloture will occur upon disposition of H.R. 268,
making supplemental appropriations for the fiscal
year ending September 30, 2019. Page S2082
Appointments:
Board of Visitors of the U.S. Military Academy:
The Chair, on behalf of the Vice President, pursuant
to 10 U.S.C. 4355(a), appointed the following Sen-
ators to the Board of Visitors of the U.S. Military
Academy: Senators Duckworth (At Large) and
Manchin (Committee on Appropriations). Page S2098
Nominations Confirmed: Senate confirmed the fol-
lowing nominations:
By 95 yeas to 1 nay (Vote No. EX. 54), Nicole
R. Nason, of New York, to be Administrator of the
Federal Highway Administration.
Pages S2977–79, S2103–04
3 Air Force nominations in the rank of general.
8 Army nominations in the rank of general.
2 Marine Corps nominations in the rank of gen-
eral.
31 Navy nominations in the rank of admiral.
Routine lists in the Air Force, Army, Marine
Corps, and Navy. Pages S2082–95, S2103–04
Messages from the House: Page S2086
Measures Placed on the Calendar: Page S2086
Executive Communications: Page S2086
Petitions and Memorials: Pages S2086–87
Executive Reports of Committees: Page S2087
Additional Cosponsors: Pages S2088–90
Statements on Introduced Bills/Resolutions:
Pages S2090–95
Additional Statements: Pages S2085–86
Amendments Submitted: Pages S2095–97
Authorities for Committees to Meet:
Pages S2097–98
Privileges of the Floor: Page S2098
Record Votes: One record vote was taken today.
(Total—54) Page S2079
Adjournment: Senate convened at 10 a.m. and ad-
journed at 4:33 p.m., until 3 p.m. on Monday, April
1, 2019. (For Senate’s program, see the remarks of
the Acting Majority Leader in today’s Record on
Page S2102.)
Committee Meetings
(Committees not listed did not meet)
APPROPRIATIONS: COAST GUARD
Committee on Appropriations: Subcommittee on Depart-
ment of Homeland Security concluded a hearing to
examine proposed budget estimates and justification
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:03 Mar 29, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D28MR9.REC D28MRPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D317
March 28, 2019
for fiscal year 2020 for the Coast Guard, after receiv-
ing testimony from Admiral Karl Schultz, Com-
mandant, Coast Guard, Department of Homeland
Security.
APPROPRIATIONS: DEPARTMENT OF
EDUCATION
Committee on Appropriations: Subcommittee on Depart-
ments of Labor, Health and Human Services, and
Education, and Related Agencies concluded a hear-
ing to examine proposed budget estimates and jus-
tification for fiscal year 2020 for the Department of
Education, after receiving testimony from Betsy
DeVos, Secretary of Education.
APPROPRIATIONS: FOOD AND DRUG
ADMINISTRATION
Committee on Appropriations: Subcommittee on Agri-
culture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Admin-
istration, and Related Agencies concluded a hearing
to examine proposed budget estimates and justifica-
tion for fiscal year 2020 for the Food and Drug Ad-
ministration, after receiving testimony from Scott
Gottlieb, Commissioner, Food and Drug Administra-
tion, Department of Health and Human Services.
DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION REQUEST AND
FUTURE YEARS DEFENSE PROGRAM
Committee on Armed Services: Committee concluded a
hearing to examine Department of Energy’s atomic
energy defense programs in review of the Defense
Authorization Request for fiscal year 2020 and the
Future Years Defense Program, after receiving testi-
mony from Rick Perry, Secretary, and Lisa E. Gor-
don-Hagerty, Under Secretary for Nuclear Security,
and Administrator, National Nuclear Security Ad-
ministration, both of the Department of Energy.
BUSINESS MEETING
Committee on the Budget: Committee ordered favorably
reported the original concurrent resolution on the
budget for fiscal year 2020.
NOMINATION
Committee on Energy and Natural Resources: Committee
concluded a hearing to examine the nomination of
David Bernhardt, of Virginia, to be Secretary of the
Interior, after the nominee, who was introduced by
Senator Gardner, testified and answered questions in
his own behalf.
PFAS
Committee on Environment and Public Works: Com-
mittee concluded a hearing to examine the Federal
response to the risks associated with per- and
polyfluoroalkyl substances (PFAS), after receiving
testimony from David P. Ross, Assistant Adminis-
trator, Office of Water, Environmental Protection
Agency; Maureen Sullivan, Deputy Assistant Sec-
retary of Defense for Environment; and Patrick N.
Breysse, Director, National Center for Environmental
Health and Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease
Registry, Centers for Disease Control and Preven-
tion, and Linda S. Birnbaum, Director, National In-
stitute of Environmental Health Sciences and Na-
tional Toxicology Program, National Institutes of
Health, both of the Department of Health and
Human Services.
BUSINESS MEETING
Committee on the Judiciary: Committee ordered favor-
ably reported the nominations of Wing Chau, to be
United States Marshal for the District of Rhode Is-
land, and Ramona L. Dohman, to be United States
Marshal for the District of Minnesota.
h
House of Representatives
Chamber Action
Public Bills and Resolutions Introduced: 50 pub-
lic bills, H.R. 1941–1990; 1 private bill, H.R.
1991; and 8 resolutions, H.J. Res. 54; and H. Res.
264–270, were introduced. Pages H2914–17
Additional Cosponsors: Page H2919
Reports Filed: Reports were filed today as follows:
H.R. 1598, to require the Secretary of Homeland
Security to issue a strategy to improve hiring and re-
tention of U.S. Customs and Border Protection per-
sonnel in rural or remote areas, and for other pur-
poses, with an amendment (H. Rept. 116–22);
H.R. 1639, to amend the Homeland Security Act
of 2002 to improve U.S. Customs and Border Pro-
tection (CBP) identification of staffing needs, and for
other purposes, with an amendment (H. Rept.
116–23);
H.R. 1589, to amend the Homeland Security Act
of 2002 to establish chemical, biological, radio-
logical, and nuclear intelligence and information
sharing functions of the Office of Intelligence and
Analysis of the Department of Homeland Security
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:03 Mar 29, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D28MR9.REC D28MRPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D318 March 28, 2019
and to require dissemination of information analyzed
by the Department to entities with responsibilities
relating to homeland security, and for other pur-
poses, with an amendment (H. Rept. 116–24);
H.R. 1593, to amend the Homeland Security Act
of 2002 to establish a school security coordinating
council, and for other purposes, with an amendment
(H. Rept. 116–25);
H.R. 1433, to amend the Homeland Security Act
of 2002 to improve morale within the Department
of Homeland Security workforce by conferring new
responsibilities to the Chief Human Capital Officer,
establishing an employee engagement steering com-
mittee, requiring action plans, and authorizing an
annual employee award program, and for other pur-
poses, with an amendment (H. Rept. 116–26); and
H.R. 1590, to require an exercise related to ter-
rorist and foreign fighter travel, and for other pur-
poses (H. Rept. 116–27). Page H2914
Journal: The House agreed to the Speaker’s approval
of the Journal by a yea-and-nay vote of 216 yeas to
179 nays with one answering ‘‘present’’, Roll No.
136. Pages H2889, H2899–H2900
Expressing opposition to banning service in the
Armed Forces by openly transgender individ-
uals: The House agreed to H. Res. 124, expressing
opposition to banning service in the Armed Forces
by openly transgender individuals, by a yea-and-nay
vote of 238 yeas to 185 nays with one answering
‘‘present’’, Roll No. 135. Pages H2891–99
H. Res. 252, the rule providing for consideration
of the bill (H.R. 7) and the resolution (H. Res. 124)
was agreed to yesterday, March 27th.
Committee Resignation: Read a letter from Rep-
resentative Dunn wherein he resigned from the
Committee on Science, Space, and Technology.
Page H2900
Committee Election: The House agreed to H. Res.
264, electing Members to a certain standing com-
mittee of the House of Representatives. Page H2900
Amending title 38, United States Code, to clarify
the grade and pay of podiatrists of the Depart-
ment of Veterans Affairs: The House agreed to
take from the Speaker’s table and pass S. 863, to
amend title 38, United States Code, to clarify the
grade and pay of podiatrists of the Department of
Veterans Affairs. Page H2900
Cyberspace Solarium Commission—Appoint-
ment: Read a letter from Representative McCarthy,
Minority Leader, in which he appointed the fol-
lowing Member to the Cyberspace Solarium Com-
mission: Representative Gallagher. Page H2900
Meeting Hour: Agreed by unanimous consent that
when the House adjourns today, it adjourn to meet
at 2:30 p.m. tomorrow, March 29th, and further
when the House adjourns on that day, it adjourn to
meet at 12 noon on Monday, April 1st for Morning
Hour debate. Page H2906
Quorum Calls—Votes: Two yea-and-nay votes de-
veloped during the proceedings of today and appear
on pages H2898–99 and H2899–H2900. There
were no quorum calls.
Adjournment: The House met at 9 a.m. and ad-
journed at 1:06 p.m.
Committee Meetings
APPROPRIATIONS—U.S. FOREST SERVICE
Committee on Appropriations: Subcommittee on Inte-
rior, Environment, and Related Agencies held a
budget hearing on the U.S. Forest Service. Testi-
mony was heard from Vicki Christiansen, Chief, U.S.
Forest Service, Department of Agriculture.
FISCAL YEAR 2020 BUDGET REQUEST FOR
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE SCIENCE AND
TECHNOLOGY PROGRAMS: MAINTAINING
A ROBUST ECOSYSTEM FOR OUR
TECHNOLOGICAL EDGE
Committee on Armed Services: Subcommittee on Intel-
ligence and Emerging Threats and Capabilities held
a hearing entitled ‘‘Fiscal Year 2020 Budget Request
for Department of Defense Science and Technology
Programs: Maintaining a Robust Ecosystem for our
Technological Edge’’. Testimony was heard from Mi-
chael D. Griffin, Under Secretary of Defense for Re-
search and Engineering, Office of the Secretary of
Defense; Bruce D. Jette, Assistant Secretary of the
Army for Acquisition, Logistics and Technology, De-
partment of the Army; James F. Geurts, Assistant
Secretary of the Navy for Research, Development &
Acquisition, Department of the Navy; and William
Roper, Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Ac-
quisition, Technology and Logistics, Department of
the Air Force.
FY20 PRIORITIES FOR DEPARTMENT OF
DEFENSE NUCLEAR ACTIVITIES
Committee on Armed Services: Subcommittee on Stra-
tegic Forces held a hearing entitled ‘‘FY20 Priorities
for Department of Defense Nuclear Activities’’. Tes-
timony was heard from David Trachtenberg, Deputy
Under Secretary of Defense for Policy, Department of
Defense; General John Hyten, U.S. Air Force, Com-
mander, U.S. Strategic Command; Vice Admiral
Johnny Wolfe, U.S. Navy, Director, Strategic Sys-
tems Programs; and Lieutenant General Richard
Clark, U.S. Air Force, Deputy Chief of Staff, Stra-
tegic Deterrence and Nuclear Integration.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:03 Mar 29, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D28MR9.REC D28MRPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D319
March 28, 2019
MISCELLANEOUS MEASURES
Committee on Financial Services: Full Committee con-
cluded a markup on H.R. 389, the ‘‘Kleptocracy
Asset Recovery Rewards Act’’; H.R. 1500, the ‘‘Con-
sumers First Act’’; H.R. 1595, the ‘‘Secure and Fair
Enforcement Banking Act of 2019’’; H.R. 1815, the
‘‘SEC Disclosure Effectiveness Testing Act’’; and
H.R. 1856, the ‘‘Ending Homelessness Act of
2019’’. H.R. 389, H.R. 1500, H.R. 1595, H.R.
1856, and H.R. 1815 were ordered reported, as
amended.
THE COLORADO RIVER DROUGHT
CONTINGENCY PLAN
Committee on Natural Resources: Subcommittee on
Water, Oceans, and Wildlife held a hearing entitled
‘‘The Colorado River Drought Contingency Plan’’.
Testimony was heard from Brenda Burman, Com-
missioner, U.S. Bureau of Reclamation; Tom
Buschatzke, Director, Arizona Department of Water
Resources; John D’Antonio, State Engineer, New
Mexico; Eric Millis, Director, Utah Division of
Water Resources; Peter Nelson, Chairman, Colorado
River Board of California; Pat Tyrrell, State Engi-
neer, Wyoming; John Entsminger, General Manager,
Southern Nevada Water Authority; and James
Eklund, Colorado Commissioner, Upper Colorado
River Commission.
ABANDONED MINE LAND RECLAMATION:
INNOVATIVE APPROACHES AND
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
OPPORTUNITIES
Committee on Natural Resources: Subcommittee on En-
ergy and Mineral Resources held a hearing entitled
‘‘Abandoned Mine Land Reclamation: Innovative
Approaches and Economic Development Opportuni-
ties’’. Testimony was heard from Dan Fisher, Treas-
urer, Gillespie, Illinois; Eric Cavazza, Director,
Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protec-
tion; and public witnesses.
MEMBER DAY
Committee on Oversight and Reform: Full Committee
held a hearing entitled ‘‘Member Day’’. Testimony
was heard from Chairman Kilmer, and Representa-
tives Gallagher, Brooks of Alabama, and Smith of
New Jersey.
PUTIN’S PLAYBOOK: THE KREMLIN’S USE
OF OLIGARCHS, MONEY AND
INTELLIGENCE IN 2016 AND BEYOND.
Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence: Full Com-
mittee held a hearing entitled ‘‘Putin’s Playbook:
The Kremlin’s Use of Oligarchs, Money and Intel-
ligence in 2016 and Beyond’’. Testimony was heard
from public witnesses.
ORGANIZATIONAL MEETING
Select Committee on the Climate Crisis: Full Committee
held an organizational meeting. The Committee
adopted its Rules for the 116th Congress, without
amendment.
Joint Meetings
No joint committee meetings were held.
f
COMMITTEE MEETINGS FOR FRIDAY,
MARCH 29, 2019
(Committee meetings are open unless otherwise indicated)
Senate
No meetings/hearings scheduled.
House
No hearings are scheduled.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:03 Mar 29, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D28MR9.REC D28MRPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
Congressional Record The Congressional Record (USPS 087–390). The Periodicals postage
is paid at Washington, D.C. The public proceedings of each House
of Congress, as reported by the Official Reporters thereof, are
printed pursuant to directions of the Joint Committee on Printing as authorized by appropriate provisions of Title 44, United
States Code, and published for each day that one or both Houses are in session, excepting very infrequent instances when
two or more unusually small consecutive issues are printed one time. ¶ Public access to the Congressional Record is available online through
the U.S. Government Publishing Office, at www.govinfo.gov, free of charge to the user. The information is updated online each day the
Congressional Record is published. For more information, contact the GPO Customer Contact Center, U.S. Government Publishing Office.
Phone 202–512–1800, or 866–512–1800 (toll-free). E-Mail, contactcenter@gpo.gov. ¶ To place an order for any of these products, visit the U.S.
Government Online Bookstore at: bookstore.gpo.gov. Mail orders to: Superintendent of Documents, P.O. Box 979050, St. Louis, MO
63197–9000, or phone orders to 866–512–1800 (toll-free), 202–512–1800 (D.C. area), or fax to 202–512–2104. Remit check or money order, made
payable to the Superintendent of Documents, or use VISA, MasterCard, Discover, American Express, or GPO Deposit Account. ¶ Following
each session of Congress, the daily Congressional Record is revised, printed, permanently bound and sold by the Superintendent of Documents
in individual parts or by sets. ¶ With the exception of copyrighted articles, there are no restrictions on the republication of material from
the Congressional Record.
POSTMASTER: Send address changes to the Superintendent of Documents, Congressional Record, U.S. Government Publishing Office,
Washington, D.C. 20402, along with the entire mailing label from the last issue received.
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
D320 March 28, 2019
Next Meeting of the SENATE
3 p.m., Monday, April 1
Senate Chamber
Program for Monday: Senate will resume consideration
of H.R. 268, Supplemental Appropriations Act, and vote
on the motion to invoke cloture on Shelby Amendment
No. 201, at 5:30 p.m. The filing deadline for first-degree
amendments to the bill and Shelby Amendment No. 201,
is at 4 p.m.
Next Meeting of the HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
2:30 p.m., Friday, March 29
House Chamber
Program for Friday: House will meet in Pro Forma ses-
sion at 2:30 p.m.
Extensions of Remarks, as inserted in this issue
HOUSE
Aderholt, Robert B., Ala., E367
Allred, Colin Z., Tex., E366
Bilirakis, Gus M., Fla., E367
Gianforte, Greg, Mont., E365
Granger, Kay, Tex., E367
Kelly, Trent, Miss., E366
King, Peter T., N.Y., E366
Luria, Elaine G., Va., E365
Morelle, Joseph D., N.Y., E365
Rutherford, John H., Fla., E366
Schakowsky, Janice D., Ill., E366
Young, Don, Alaska, E365
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:03 Mar 29, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0664 Sfmt 0664 E:\CR\FM\D28MR9.REC D28MRPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
DIGEST
