Congressional Record
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
United States
of America PROCEEDINGS AND DEBATES OF THE 116th
CONGRESS, FIRST SESSION
b This symbol represents the time of day during the House proceedings, e.g., b 1407 is 2:07 p.m.
Matter set in this typeface indicates words inserted or appended, rather than spoken, by a Member of the House on the floor.
.
H1495
Vol. 165 WASHINGTON, MONDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 2019 No. 26
House of Representatives
The House met at noon and was
called to order by the Speaker pro tem-
pore (Mr. BUTTERFIELD).
f
DESIGNATION OF SPEAKER PRO
TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore laid be-
fore the House the following commu-
nication from the Speaker:
WASHINGTON, DC,
February 11, 2019.
I hereby appoint the Honorable G. K.
BUTTERFIELD to act as Speaker pro tempore
on this day.
NANCY PELOSI,
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
f
MORNING-HOUR DEBATE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the order of the House of Janu-
ary 3, 2019, the Chair will now recog-
nize Members from lists submitted by
the majority and minority leaders for
morning-hour debate.
The Chair will alternate recognition
between the parties. All time shall be
equally allocated between the parties,
and in no event shall debate continue
beyond 1:50 p.m. Each Member, other
than the majority and minority leaders
and the minority whip, shall be limited
to 5 minutes.
f
HONORING SWEDISH COMMUNITY
OF LINDSBORG, KANSAS
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Kansas (Mr. MARSHALL) for 5 minutes.
Mr. MARSHALL. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to honor the 150th anniversary of
a town in my district, Lindsborg, Kan-
sas, also known as Little Sweden.
The town was originally settled in
1869 by hardworking Swedish farmers
who, like my great-grandfather, had
left Sweden because of the potato fam-
ine.
These farmers were new to America
and new to the landscape and climate
of Kansas. Their goal was to establish
a home and community rich in Swedish
culture, religion, and business.
Today, Lindsborg is a bright, vibrant
community where retailers feature
unique traditional Swedish treats and
artwork; where visitors can walk up
and down the streets and Main Street
and find more than 15 wild Dala horses
painted to represent a unique piece of
Lindsborg’s culture. My own family
often has one of these Dala horses in
their entryway as folks enter their
house.
It is a community that is proud of its
heritage and comes together to carry
on a variety of Swedish festivals and
traditions honoring its original set-
tlers.
I, myself, am one-quarter Swedish
and very proud of this fact. Growing
up, we kept many Swedish traditions
in our family. We celebrated them
whenever we had the occasion. Still
today, our Christmas Eve dinners al-
ways feature various Swedish dishes,
including pickled herring, anchovies,
hardtack crackers, Swedish candies,
and desserts. My mom, brother, and
wife to this day enjoy their annual pil-
grimage to Lindsborg to pick out their
very special Swedish Christmas gifts.
In 2010, I was able to take my mother
back to Sweden, along with my oldest
son and daughter, and view the home
that my grandfather had built; the
farm where they farmed; the fences
they had built out of stone; the barns
they had built out of stone, still func-
tional and standing today; and the
water well my great-grandfather had
dug. All of those parts of the farm were
still functioning.
I was able to see the church where
my great-grandfather and great-grand-
mother were married and see the ceme-
tery where many of our relatives are
buried to this day. It is a trip I will
never forget.
I am very proud of my Swedish roots,
and I am honored to represent Bethany
College and the town of Lindsborg.
This town will always have a very spe-
cial place in my heart, and it is my
honor to sponsor the resolution that
celebrates this milestone for
Lindsborg. I can’t wait until this year’s
Messiah Festival, when we will get to
watch them live there in Lindsborg.
Mr. Speaker, I am very proud to rep-
resent this Swedish community, some-
thing that will always represent so
much to my family.
f
CONGRATULATING DIANA SMITH
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Nebraska (Mr. SMITH) for 5 minutes.
Mr. SMITH of Nebraska. Mr. Speak-
er, I rise to congratulate the Beatrice
Municipal Airport manager, Diana
Smith, on her induction into the Ne-
braska Aviation Hall of Fame.
Diana has worked at the airport, lo-
cated in southeastern Nebraska, for 47
years, with the past 18 years as its
manager. During her tenure, Diana has
presided over a number of improve-
ments to the Beatrice Municipal Air-
port, including a new administration
building and the repaving of both its
runways.
She went on to chair the Nebraska
Aeronautics Commission in 2015, where
she worked to support Nebraska’s air-
ports statewide.
Please join me in thanking and con-
gratulating Diana for her service to her
local community and to the entire
State of Nebraska.
f
RECESS
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 12(a) of rule I, the Chair
declares the House in recess until 2
p.m. today.
Accordingly (at 12 o’clock and 4 min-
utes p.m.), the House stood in recess.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:11 Feb 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A11FE7.000 H11FEPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H1496 February 11, 2019
b 1400
AFTER RECESS
The recess having expired, the House
was called to order by the Speaker pro
tempore (Mr. BUTTERFIELD) at 2 p.m.
f
PRAYER
The Chaplain, the Reverend Patrick
J. Conroy, offered the following prayer:
Dear God, we give You thanks for
giving us another day.
We ask Your special blessing upon
the Members of this people’s House.
They face difficult decisions in difficult
times, with only a few days before the
next funding deadline to keep all of the
government open. Bless those Members
of the conference committee working
to bring resolution to all differences.
At the same time, this is a week in
which the House notes the loss of an
historic Member, John Dingell, who
served in the people’s House for over
one-quarter of its existence. Bless his
family in their mourning, as well as all
Members who possess special memories
of his presence and contributions to
the greatness of the House of Rep-
resentatives.
We remember as well WALTER JONES,
whose quiet but steady presence in the
House reminded us all of the value of
integrity in government service. May
his moral strength be a helpful encour-
agement to all who wish to serve.
Bless us, O God, and be with us all
this day and every day to come. May
all that is done be for Your greater
honor and glory.
Amen.
f
THE JOURNAL
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair has examined the Journal of the
last day’s proceedings and announces
to the House his approval thereof.
Pursuant to clause 1, rule I, the Jour-
nal stands approved.
f
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair will lead the House in the Pledge
of Allegiance.
The SPEAKER pro tempore led the
Pledge of Allegiance as follows:
I pledge allegiance to the Flag of the
United States of America, and to the Repub-
lic for which it stands, one nation under God,
indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
f
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER
PRO TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under
clause 5(d) of rule XX, the Chair an-
nounces to the House that, in light of
the passing of the gentleman from
North Carolina (Mr. JONES), the whole
number of the House is 432.
f
RECESS
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 12(a) of rule I, the Chair
declares the House in recess until ap-
proximately 4 p.m. today.
Accordingly (at 2 o’clock and 2 min-
utes p.m.), the House stood in recess.
f
b 1600
AFTER RECESS
The recess having expired, the House
was called to order by the Speaker pro
tempore (Mr. BUTTERFIELD) at 4 p.m.
f
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER
PRO TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, the Chair
will postpone further proceedings
today on motions to suspend the rules
on which a recorded vote or the yeas
and nays are ordered, or votes objected
to under clause 6 of rule XX.
The House will resume proceedings
on postponed questions at a later time.
f
PRESIDENTIAL LIBRARY
DONATION REFORM ACT OF 2019
Ms. HILL of California. Mr. Speaker,
I move to suspend the rules and pass
the bill (H.R. 1063) to amend title 44,
United States Code, to require informa-
tion on contributors to Presidential li-
brary fundraising organizations, and
for other purposes, as amended.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 1063
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Presidential
Library Donation Reform Act of 2019’’.
SEC. 2. PRESIDENTIAL LIBRARIES.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 2112 of title 44,
United States Code, is amended by adding at
the end the following new subsection:
‘‘(h) PRESIDENTIAL LIBRARY FUNDRAISING
ORGANIZATION REPORTING REQUIREMENT.—
‘‘(1) REPORTING REQUIREMENT.—Not later
than 15 days after the end of a calendar quar-
ter and until the end of the requirement pe-
riod described in paragraph (2), each Presi-
dential library fundraising organization
shall submit to the Archivist information for
that quarter in an electronic searchable and
sortable format with respect to every con-
tributor who gave the organization a con-
tribution or contributions (whether mone-
tary or in-kind) totaling $200 or more for the
quarterly period.
‘‘(2) DURATION OF REPORTING REQUIRE-
MENT.—The requirement to submit informa-
tion under paragraph (1) shall continue until
the later of the following occurs:
‘‘(A) The Archivist has accepted, taken
title to, or entered into an agreement to use
any land or facility for the Presidential ar-
chival depository for the President for whom
the Presidential library fundraising organi-
zation was established.
‘‘(B) The President whose archives are con-
tained in the deposit no longer holds the Of-
fice of President.
‘‘(3) INFORMATION REQUIRED TO BE PUB-
LISHED.—The Archivist shall publish on the
website of the National Archives and
Records Administration, within 30 days after
each quarterly filing, any information that
is submitted under paragraph (1), without a
fee or other access charge in a downloadable
database.
‘‘(4) SUBMISSION OF FALSE MATERIAL INFOR-
MATION PROHIBITED.—
‘‘(A) INDIVIDUAL.—
‘‘(i) PROHIBITION.—It shall be unlawful for
any person who makes a contribution de-
scribed in paragraph (1) to knowingly and
willfully submit false material information
or omit material information with respect to
the contribution to an organization de-
scribed in such paragraph.
‘‘(ii) PENALTY.—The penalties described in
section 1001 of title 18, United States Code,
shall apply with respect to a violation of
clause (i) in the same manner as a violation
described in such section.
‘‘(B) ORGANIZATION.—
‘‘(i) PROHIBITION.—It shall be unlawful for
any Presidential library fundraising organi-
zation to knowingly and willfully submit
false material information or omit material
information under paragraph (1).
‘‘(ii) PENALTY.—The penalties described in
section 1001 of title 18, United States Code,
shall apply with respect to a violation of
clause (i) in the same manner as a violation
described in such section.
‘‘(5) PROHIBITION ON CONTRIBUTION.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—It shall be unlawful for
a person to knowingly and willfully—
‘‘(i) make a contribution described in para-
graph (1) in the name of another person;
‘‘(ii) permit his or her name to be used to
effect a contribution described in paragraph
(1); or
‘‘(iii) accept a contribution described in
paragraph (1) that is made by one person in
the name of another person.
‘‘(B) PENALTY.—The penalties set forth in
section 309(d) of the Federal Election Cam-
paign Act of 1971 (2 U.S.C. 437g(d)) shall
apply to a violation of subparagraph (A) in
the same manner as if such violation were a
violation of section 316(b)(3) of such Act (2
U.S.C. 441b(b)(3)).
‘‘(6) REGULATIONS REQUIRED.—The Archi-
vist shall promulgate regulations for the
purpose of carrying out this subsection.
‘‘(7) DEFINITIONS.—In this subsection:
‘‘(A) INFORMATION.—The term ‘informa-
tion’ means the following:
‘‘(i) The amount or value of each contribu-
tion made by a contributor referred to in
paragraph (1) in the quarter covered by the
submission.
‘‘(ii) The source of each such contribution,
and the address of the entity or individual
that is the source of the contribution.
‘‘(iii) If the source of such a contribution is
an individual, the occupation of the indi-
vidual.
‘‘(iv) The date of each such contribution.
‘‘(B) PRESIDENTIAL LIBRARY FUNDRAISING
ORGANIZATION.—The term ‘Presidential li-
brary fundraising organization’ means an or-
ganization that is established for the purpose
of raising funds for creating, maintaining,
expanding, or conducting activities at—
‘‘(i) a Presidential archival depository; or
‘‘(ii) any facilities relating to a Presi-
dential archival depository.’’.
(b) APPLICABILITY.—Section 2112(h) of title
44, United States Code (as added by sub-
section (a))—
(1) shall apply to an organization estab-
lished for the purpose of raising funds for
creating, maintaining, expanding, or con-
ducting activities at a Presidential archival
depository or any facilities relating to a
Presidential archival depository before, on,
or after the date of the enactment of this
Act; and
(2) shall only apply with respect to con-
tributions (whether monetary or in-kind)
made after the date of the enactment of this
Act.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:11 Feb 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K11FE7.003 H11FEPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1497
February 11, 2019
SEC. 3. NO ADDITIONAL FUNDS AUTHORIZED.
No additional funds are authorized to carry
out the requirements of this Act and the
amendments made by this Act. Such require-
ments shall be carried out using amounts
otherwise authorized.
SEC. 4. DETERMINATION OF BUDGETARY EF-
FECTS.
The budgetary effects of this Act, for the
purpose of complying with the Statutory
Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010, shall be deter-
mined by reference to the latest statement
titled ‘‘Budgetary Effects of PAYGO Legisla-
tion’’ for this Act, submitted for printing in
the Congressional Record by the Chairman of
the House Budget Committee, provided that
such statement has been submitted prior to
the vote on passage.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentlewoman from
California (Ms. HILL) and the gen-
tleman from North Carolina (Mr.
MEADOWS) each will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from California.
GENERAL LEAVE
Ms. HILL of California. Mr. Speaker,
I ask unanimous consent that all Mem-
bers may have 5 legislative days in
which to revise and extend their re-
marks and include extraneous material
on this measure.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gentle-
woman from California?
There was no objection.
Ms. HILL of California. Mr. Speaker,
I yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
Mr. Speaker, I thank Chairman CUM-
MINGS and Representative MEADOWS for
sponsoring this legislation.
Former Representative JOHN DUNCAN
from Tennessee first sponsored a bill to
improve Presidential libraries 19 years
ago. A bill identical to the one before
us passed the House in the last Con-
gress with bipartisan support. I hope
we now can finally get this important
reform enacted.
The Presidential Library Donation
Reform Act would make the process for
building Presidential libraries more
transparent. Presidential libraries have
become increasingly expensive as they
have evolved into multipurpose cen-
ters.
The costs for building a Presidential
library must come from private fund-
ing, and modern libraries cost mil-
lions—in some cases, hundreds of mil-
lions—of dollars to build.
The George W. Bush Presidential
Center, for example, cost an estimated
$250 million to build, and President
Bush raised approximately $500 million
for the building and an endowment for
his library, museum, and institute.
Although President Obama has raised
hundreds of millions of dollars for his
Presidential library, he has voluntarily
disclosed the names of those who have
donated $200 or more.
We should not, however, rely on such
voluntary disclosures. Under current
law, there is no requirement to disclose
the identities of those who donate to a
Presidential library, and a President,
while still in office, is able to raise an
unlimited amount from private dona-
tions.
There is no limitation on who can do-
nate to a sitting President for a Presi-
dential library, or how much they can
donate, and their identities remain se-
cret.
This bill would require organizations
that raise money to build Presidential
libraries to disclose the identity of any
individual who donates more than $200.
The National Archives and Records Ad-
ministration would then be required to
post the donation information online.
The bill would also create criminal
penalties for individuals who report
false information on donations and for
fundraising organizations that omit do-
nation information.
A group of 15 good government orga-
nizations, including Citizens for Re-
sponsibility and Ethics in Washington
and the Sunlight Foundation, sent a
letter last Congress urging the House
to support this bill.
Here is what they wrote: ‘‘Under the
current opaque system, Presidents
raise funds privately to establish their
Presidential libraries. These efforts,
which often begin long before they
leave office, are unregulated and undis-
closed, creating opportunities for, and/
or the appearance of, influence ped-
dling. Improved transparency would
help reduce the appearance of impro-
priety and help deter inappropriate be-
havior.’’
This bill had bipartisan support and
passed the House last Congress without
opposition.
Mr. Speaker, I urge every Member of
this body to support this bill, and I re-
serve the balance of my time.
Mr. MEADOWS. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R.
1063. I appreciate the gentlewoman’s
remarks as it relates to this particular
bill. The bipartisan Presidential Li-
brary Donation Reform Act, which was
introduced by the gentleman from
Maryland, my good friend, Mr. CUM-
MINGS, is certainly one worthy of our
support, Mr. Speaker.
Under current law, Presidents can
fundraise for their Presidential librar-
ies through private, unlimited dona-
tions while they are still in office.
There are no current requirements for
any Presidential library fundraising or-
ganization to disclose the source or
size of the donation it receives. Dona-
tions can be from individuals, compa-
nies, associations, and foreign govern-
ments, with no transparency.
Presidential libraries have become
more expensive throughout the years.
President Clinton’s library cost $165
million. President Bush’s cost $250 mil-
lion. President Obama’s is projected to
cost more than $500 million.
This bill requires Presidential library
fundraising organizations to disclose to
the National Archives information
about contributors who have donated
$200 or more in any quarter. The Na-
tional Archives would then be tasked
with making the data available on its
website in a downloadable format.
H.R. 1063 also sunsets the disclosure
requirement to when the management
of the actual library is transferred to
the National Archives.
Mr. Speaker, this is a bipartisan
piece of legislation. It is a pro-trans-
parency bill that has already passed
the House, as my colleague mentioned,
not once but three different times,
with overwhelming support under both
Democratic and Republican majorities.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
support this bill, and I yield back the
balance of my time.
Ms. HILL of California. Mr. Speaker,
I urge passage of H.R. 1063, as amended,
and I yield back the balance of my
time.
Mr. CUMMINGS. Mr. Speaker, I introduced
the Presidential Library Donation Reform Act
of 2019 to make the process of raising money
to build presidential libraries more transparent.
I thank Representative MARK MEADOWS for
joining me in sponsoring this legislation.
Right now, a president—while still in office—
can raise an unlimited amount of money for a
presidential library from private donations, and
the identities of all the donors can remain se-
cret. It is time to enact this bipartisan legisla-
tion to require the disclosure of donor informa-
tion.
Presidential libraries are built using private
funds accepted through a private, non-profit
organization. The costs of building modern
presidential libraries can be in the hundreds of
millions of dollars. The George W. Bush Presi-
dential Center, for example, cost an estimated
$250 million to build, and President Bush
raised several hundred million dollars to build
the facility.
President Obama has also raised hundreds
of millions of dollars for his presidential library.
President Obama has voluntarily disclosed the
names of donors who have given $200 or
more. While I applaud President Obama’s ef-
forts at transparency, we cannot rely on every
president to voluntarily disclose donor informa-
tion.
This bipartisan legislation would require the
disclosure of information about every donor
who gives $200 or more for a presidential li-
brary and establish penalties for false report-
ing and non-compliance. This bill would make
these vital changes to the law to deter inap-
propriate behavior.
Former Republican Representative John
Duncan of Tennessee first sponsored a bill to
improve the process for building presidential li-
braries 19 years ago. Representative Duncan
also sponsored the same legislation we are
considering today with me last Congress. The
bill had bipartisan support and passed the
House last Congress without opposition. It is
past time for us to enact this bipartisan reform
and shed light on an otherwise opaque sys-
tem.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentlewoman from California (Ms.
HILL) that the House suspend the rules
and pass the bill, H.R. 1063, as amend-
ed.
The question was taken; and (two-
thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the bill, as
amended, was passed.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:51 Feb 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A11FE7.002 H11FEPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H1498 February 11, 2019
SOCIAL MEDIA USE IN CLEARANCE
INVESTIGATIONS ACT OF 2019
Ms. HILL of California. Mr. Speaker,
I move to suspend the rules and pass
the bill (H.R. 1065) to provide for a
study on the use of social media in se-
curity clearance investigations.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 1065
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Social Media
Use in Clearance Investigations Act of 2019’’.
SEC. 2. STUDY ON USE OF SOCIAL MEDIA IN SE-
CURITY CLEARANCE INVESTIGA-
TIONS.
Not later than 6 months after the date of
enactment of this Act, the Director of the
Office of Management and Budget shall sub-
mit to Congress a report on the examination
of social media activity during security
clearance investigations, including—
(1) the current use of publicly available so-
cial media in security clearance background
investigations;
(2) any legal impediments to examining
publicly available social media activity, and
whether those impediments are statutory or
regulatory in nature;
(3) the results of any pilot programs to in-
corporate social media checks in such inves-
tigations, including the effectiveness and
cost of such programs;
(4) options for widespread implementation
of the examination of social media activity
during such investigations; and
(5) estimates on the cost for such options
as part of—
(A) all Top Secret investigations; or
(B) all Secret and Top Secret investiga-
tions.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentlewoman from
California (Ms. HILL) and the gen-
tleman from North Carolina (Mr.
MEADOWS) each will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from California.
GENERAL LEAVE
Ms. HILL of California. Mr. Speaker,
I ask unanimous consent that all Mem-
bers may have 5 legislative days in
which to revise and extend their re-
marks and include extraneous material
on this measure.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gentle-
woman from California?
There was no objection.
Ms. HILL of California. Mr. Speaker,
I yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
Mr. Speaker, I thank Congressmen
LYNCH and HICE for their work on this
bill. This bill would require the Direc-
tor of the Office of Management and
Budget to issue a report to Congress on
the use of social media checks in back-
ground investigations for security
clearances.
In recent years, a number of agencies
have begun pilot programs to help de-
velop the best methods for incor-
porating social media into background
checks. For example, the Army initi-
ated a pilot program that found that,
while checking social media is a valu-
able tool, it can be costly and may
raise legal issues.
This bill would require that OMB
conducts a comprehensive study on
these issues and report back to Con-
gress. This one-time report would de-
scribe the current uses of social media
postings for investigative purposes and
any legal concerns or impediments to
their use.
In addition, the report would summa-
rize the results of any pilot programs
on the use of social media conducted to
date and provide cost estimates for im-
plementing their widespread use in the
background investigation process.
This report would greatly assist Con-
gress in determining whether further
legislative action is needed when it
comes to the Federal Government’s use
of social media in background inves-
tigations. An identical measure was ap-
proved by the House last year without
opposition.
Mr. Speaker, I urge every Member of
this body to support this bill, and I re-
serve the balance of my time.
Mr. MEADOWS. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R.
1065, the Social Media Use in Clearance
Investigations Act of 2019, introduced
by the gentleman from Massachusetts
(Mr. LYNCH).
Mr. Speaker, I was at one of these
hearings where we were talking about
this very issue and how it was just
mind-boggling that we would not use
current protocols, in terms of looking
at national security clearances and the
approval thereof.
It was Mr. LYNCH’s initiative here to
actually address that in a legislative
manner, and I support his good work
there.
Millions of Americans use social
media to interact with family mem-
bers, friends, and followers. Public
posts on social media websites occa-
sionally provide a unique insight into a
person’s character and interests.
In several high-profile cases, Federal
contractors with valid security clear-
ances who leaked classified informa-
tion had posted highly suspicious en-
tries on their social media accounts.
For example, Edward Snowden used
various online aliases to post sus-
picious content on the comment boards
of a tech magazine before he received
his security clearance. A simple
check—mind you, a simple check—
would have let us know of these sus-
picious activities and certainly could
have worked to mitigate some of the
damages that we all know too well.
Private companies and private citi-
zens can and often do search publicly
available social media accounts to
learn more about job applicants. How-
ever, our government does not regu-
larly check the social media of individ-
uals who have applied for security
clearances.
On May 12, 2016, the Office of the Di-
rector of National Intelligence issued a
new policy permitting the use of public
social media information in security
clearance investigations. Despite that
legal clearance, most security clear-
ance investigations still do not involve
a social media check.
Various Federal entities have studied
the potential use of social media infor-
mation in background investigations
for at least a decade. The National Se-
curity Agency, the Army, OPM, and
others have conducted pilot programs
on the effectiveness of social media
checks, and it is not clear what use has
been made of this data for these pro-
grams or whether the programs can be
expanded to cover more applicants.
Concerning online behavior should be
one of many factors used to evaluate a
person’s fitness to access classified in-
formation.
H.R. 1065, the Social Media Use in
Clearance Investigations Act, is a step
toward creating a more holistic secu-
rity clearance review process. The bill
requires OMB to evaluate pilot pro-
grams conducted to date and estimate
the costs of wider implementation of
publicly available social media checks.
This report is due within 6 months
and will help guide subsequent legisla-
tion to require checks of publicly
available data. We cannot wait any
longer to modernize our security clear-
ance process.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
support this thoughtful piece of legisla-
tion, and I reserve the balance of my
time.
Ms. HILL of California. Mr. Speaker,
I yield 5 minutes to the gentleman
from Massachusetts (Mr. LYNCH).
Mr. LYNCH. Mr. Speaker, I thank
the gentlewoman for yielding.
As chairman of the Subcommittee on
National Security, I rise in strong sup-
port of H.R. 1065, the Social Media Use
in Clearance Investigations Act, bipar-
tisan legislation that I introduced ear-
lier this month. It had passed this
House previously, last session, with no
opposition.
I commend our full committee chair-
man, Mr. CUMMINGS of Maryland, for
his continued leadership on this issue
of security clearance reform and for his
work to advance H.R. 1065 to the floor
today.
I also thank the new ranking member
of our subcommittee, Mr. HICE of Geor-
gia, for his support as well.
In order to enhance the Federal secu-
rity clearance process, H.R. 1065 will
require the Office of Management and
Budget to examine the extent to which
Federal agencies are reviewing publicly
available social media profiles as they
conduct background investigations for
security clearance applicants.
This bill will also require OMB to
submit recommendations to Congress
on how we can implement this exam-
ination of social media activity in
clearance investigations across the
Federal Government while also safe-
guarding individual privacy rights.
Our bipartisan oversight of the secu-
rity clearance process has already re-
vealed that Federal agencies have too
often missed red flags in determining
an individual’s eligibility to access
classified information and facilities.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:02 Feb 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K11FE7.007 H11FEPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1499
February 11, 2019
We need only recall the tragic shooting
at the Washington Navy Yard in 2013 to
underscore the devastating impact of a
failure to effectively vet security clear-
ance holders such as Aaron Alexis, a
defense contractor with a marked his-
tory of gun violence who was still
issued a secret-level clearance.
b 1615
Chief among the recommendations
offered by the interagency council that
President Obama convened to identify
lapses in security clearance reviews
was the need for agencies to have ‘‘ac-
cess to relevant information from a va-
riety of sources.’’
As noted by William Evanina, the
head of counterintelligence for the U.S.
government since 2014, his quote is:
Social media has become an integral and
very public part of the fabric of many Ameri-
cans’ daily lives. And we cannot ignore this
important open source in our effort to safe-
guard our national interests.
Moreover, a public social media pro-
file adds to the ‘‘mosaic’’ of a person
and may reveal to background inves-
tigators evidence suggesting a change
in ideology, ill intent, vulnerability to
blackmail, and allegiance to another
country.
The integration of social media into
security clearance background inves-
tigations falls in line with the unprece-
dented exploitation of Twitter,
Facebook, WhatsApp, Telegram, and
other networking services by terrorist
organizations, including the Islamic
State.
As reported by the Combating Ter-
rorism Center at West Point, the pro-
lific use of social media by terrorist
groups has not only facilitated the dis-
semination of propaganda, but also
served as a primary global recruitment
and financing tool.
Foreign governments are also in-
creasingly relying on social media to
advance their espionage efforts. Ac-
cording to open source reports, Chinese
spy agencies have routinely resorted to
using fake LinkedIn accounts to try to
recruit Americans with access to gov-
ernment and commercial secrets.
‘‘60 Minutes’’ recently reported that
former CIA officer Kevin Mallory, who
has been convicted on espionage
charges, was first approached by his
Chinese government handlers through
the LinkedIn career networking site.
In advance of our 2016 subcommittee
hearing on this issue, then-Director of
National Intelligence, James Clapper,
directed Federal agencies to integrate
public social media reviews into the se-
curity clearance process. While this di-
rective was a step in the right direc-
tion, it has been incorporated quite un-
evenly and on a limited basis.
Our bill, H.R. 1065, will advance the
full integration of this important re-
form to better ensure that our national
security framework is adapting to
evolving technologies much faster than
the usual pace that is characteristic of
the Federal Government.
I would note that, according to the
annual job recruitment survey issued
by CareerBuilder, an online employ-
ment resource, seven out of 10 private
sector employers have already incor-
porated social media reviews into their
hiring process.
Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman
for his kind remarks in reference to
this bill, and I urge my colleagues on
both sides of the aisle to support H.R.
1065.
Mr. MEADOWS. Mr. Speaker, in clos-
ing, I want to thank the gentleman,
again, for his thoughtfulness on this
particular piece of legislation. I know
that he has worked with my previous
colleague, now the Governor of Florida,
Mr. DeSantis, and we have great bipar-
tisan support.
Mr. Speaker, I would urge the adop-
tion and passing of H.R. 1065, and I
yield back the balance of my time.
Ms. HILL of California. Mr. Speaker,
I urge the passage of H.R. 1065, and I
yield back the balance of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr.
ESPAILLAT). The question is on the mo-
tion offered by the gentlewoman from
California (Ms. HILL) that the House
suspend the rules and pass the bill,
H.R. 1065.
The question was taken.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. In the
opinion of the Chair, two-thirds being
in the affirmative, the ayes have it.
Ms. HILL of California. Mr. Speaker,
on that I demand the yeas and nays.
The yeas and nays were ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, further pro-
ceedings on this motion will be post-
poned.
f
ALLOWING WHISTLEBLOWERS TO
DISCLOSE INFORMATION TO CER-
TAIN RECIPIENTS
Ms. HILL of California. Mr. Speaker,
I move to suspend the rules and pass
the bill (H.R. 1064) to amend title 5,
United States Code, to allow whistle-
blowers to disclose information to cer-
tain recipients, as amended.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 1064
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. RECIPIENTS OF WHISTLEBLOWER
DISCLOSURES.
Section 2302(b)(8)(B) of title 5, United
States Code, is amended by striking ‘‘or to
the Inspector’’ and all that follows through
‘‘such disclosures’’ and inserting ‘‘the In-
spector General of an agency, a supervisor in
the employee’s direct chain of command up
to and including the head of the employing
agency, or to an employee designated by any
of the aforementioned individuals for the
purpose of receiving such disclosures’’.
SEC. 2. DETERMINATION OF BUDGETARY EF-
FECTS.
The budgetary effects of this Act, for the
purpose of complying with the Statutory
Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010, shall be deter-
mined by reference to the latest statement
titled ‘‘Budgetary Effects of PAYGO Legisla-
tion’’ for this Act, submitted for printing in
the Congressional Record by the Chairman of
the House Budget Committee, provided that
such statement has been submitted prior to
the vote on passage.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentlewoman from
California (Ms. HILL) and the gen-
tleman from North Carolina (Mr.
MEADOWS) each will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from California.
GENERAL LEAVE
Ms. HILL of California. Mr. Speaker,
I ask unanimous consent that all Mem-
bers may have 5 legislative days in
which to revise and extend their re-
marks and include extraneous material
on the measure before us.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gentle-
woman from California?
There was no objection.
Ms. HILL of California. Mr. Speaker,
I yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
I introduced this bill, along with the
distinguished Congressman from North
Carolina, Mr. MARK MEADOWS, to make
it easier for whistleblowers to disclose
wrongdoing. This bill would protect
whistleblowers who report waste,
fraud, or abuse, to their supervisors at
a government agency.
Under current law, an employee
would not be protected from retalia-
tion for disclosing information to a su-
pervisor, even if the employee reason-
ably believes it is necessary to expose a
violation of a law, rule, or regulation.
A whistleblower is currently only pro-
tected by law if they make their disclo-
sures to the Office of Special Counsel,
an Inspector General, Congress, the
head of the whistleblower’s agency, or
an employee designated by the head of
the agency.
Under this bill, an employee who is
covered by the Whistleblower Protec-
tion Act could report alleged mis-
conduct to any supervisor in their di-
rect chain of command. This sensible
change in law would allow employees
to provide evidence of wrongdoing to a
supervisor instead of requiring employ-
ees to report all the way up to the head
of an agency or an inspector general.
This change in the law would protect
employees who use the proper channels
at their agency to report waste, fraud,
and abuse. Employees in the intel-
ligence community already have these
whistleblower protections as a result of
a Presidential policy directive issued
in 2012. This bill would ensure that all
federal employees have the same pro-
tections as whistleblowers in the intel-
ligence community.
I urge my colleagues to support this
important bill, and I reserve the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. MEADOWS. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
I rise in support of H.R. 1064, and I
want to thank the gentlewoman from
California for her leadership on this ef-
fort. Any time that you support whis-
tleblowers, it is a good day in Congress;
and to do that a bipartisan way, with
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:02 Feb 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K11FE7.009 H11FEPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H1500 February 11, 2019
the gentlewoman’s leadership, is cer-
tainly a day that should be applauded.
I thank the gentlewoman for her lead-
ership.
Whistleblowers in the Federal Gov-
ernment should be able to tell their su-
pervisor when something is going
wrong. That is the truth, no matter
what, especially in cases involving
classified information which implies,
Mr. Speaker, that it is a matter of na-
tional security.
Under the current law, whistle-
blowers dealing with classified infor-
mation in the intelligence community
can make protected disclosures to their
supervisors. However, whistleblowers
dealing with classified information
outside of the intelligence community
do not have the same protection.
With fewer legally-protected options,
employees outside of the intelligence
community may be more likely to
make an illegal disclosure to people or
entities without the proper security
clearance.
Federal employees dealing with clas-
sified information outside of the IC
community must be reassured that
they can report wrongdoing to the ap-
propriate people, including their super-
visors.
With that protection, whistleblowers
will be less likely to disclose protected
sensitive information on waste, fraud,
and abuse to the media or other enti-
ties or individuals without the proper
security clearance.
This bill would allow whistleblowers
to make protected disclosures of classi-
fied information to individuals within
their chain of command, as the gentle-
woman has already suggested.
There are very few conceivable cir-
cumstances in which a whistleblower
complaint to a supervisor would jeop-
ardize national security, but such dis-
closures are not currently protected.
There is no reasonable basis for con-
cern about whistleblowers throughout
the Federal Government having the
right to contact individuals within
their chain of command about waste,
fraud, or abuse of a classified nature.
These additional whistleblower protec-
tions will make it easier for Federal
employees to do the responsible thing
when it comes to classified disclosures.
I urge my colleagues to support this.
I thank the gentlewoman for her lead-
ership, and I yield back the balance of
my time.
Ms. HILL of California. Mr. Speaker,
I urge passage of H.R. 1064, as amended,
and I yield back the balance of my
time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentlewoman from California (Ms.
HILL) that the House suspend the rules
and pass the bill, H.R. 1064, as amend-
ed.
The question was taken; and (two-
thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the bill, as
amended, was passed.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
SETTLEMENT AGREEMENT INFOR-
MATION DATABASE ACT OF 2019
Ms. HILL of California. Mr. Speaker,
I move to suspend the rules and pass
the bill (H.R. 995) to amend chapter 3 of
title 5, United States Code, to require
the publication of settlement agree-
ments, and for other purposes, as
amended.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 995
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Settlement
Agreement Information Database Act of
2019’’.
SEC. 2. INFORMATION REGARDING SETTLEMENT
AGREEMENTS ENTERED INTO BY
FEDERAL AGENCIES.
(a) REQUIREMENTS FOR SETTLEMENT AGREE-
MENTS.—Chapter 3 of title 5, United States
Code, is amended by adding at the end the
following new section:
‘‘§ 307. Information regarding settlement
agreements
‘‘(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
‘‘(1) LOCAL GOVERNMENT.—The term ‘local
government’ has the meaning given that
term in section 6501 of title 31.
‘‘(2) ORDER TYPE.—The term ‘order type’
means the type of action or instrument used
to settle a civil or criminal judicial action.
‘‘(3) SETTLEMENT AGREEMENT.—The term
‘settlement agreement’ means a settlement
agreement (including a consent decree)
that—
‘‘(A) is entered into by an Executive agen-
cy; and
‘‘(B) relates to an alleged violation of Fed-
eral civil or criminal law.
‘‘(4) STATE.—The term ‘State’ means each
of the several States, the District of Colum-
bia, each territory or possession of the
United States, and each federally recognized
Indian Tribe.
‘‘(b) SETTLEMENT AGREEMENT INFORMATION
DATABASE.—
‘‘(1) EXECUTIVE AGENCY REQUIREMENT.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—Subject to subparagraph
(B), the head of each Executive agency shall,
in accordance with guidance issued pursuant
to paragraph (2), submit the following infor-
mation to the database established under
paragraph (3):
‘‘(i) A list of each settlement agreement, in
a categorized and searchable format, entered
into by the Executive agency, as a party to
a lawsuit, which shall include, for each set-
tlement agreement—
‘‘(I) the order type of the settlement agree-
ment;
‘‘(II) the date on which the parties entered
into the settlement agreement;
‘‘(III) a list of specific violations that
specify the basis for the action taken, with a
description of the claims each party settled
under the settlement agreement;
‘‘(IV) the amount of attorneys’ fees and
other litigation costs awarded, if any, in-
cluding a description of the statutory basis
for such an award;
‘‘(V) the amount each party settling a
claim under the settlement agreement is ob-
ligated to pay under the settlement agree-
ment;
‘‘(VI) the total amount the settling parties
are obligated to pay under the settlement
agreement;
‘‘(VII) the amount, if any, the settling
party is obligated to pay that is expressly
specified under the settlement agreement as
a civil or criminal penalty or fine;
‘‘(VIII) any payment made under the set-
tlement agreement, including a description
of any payment made to the Federal Govern-
ment;
‘‘(IX) the projected duration of the settle-
ment agreement, if available;
‘‘(X) a list of State or local governments
that may be directly affected by the terms of
the settlement agreement;
‘‘(XI) a brief description of any economic
data and methodology used to justify the
terms of the settlement agreement;
‘‘(XII) any modifications to the settlement
agreement, when applicable;
‘‘(XIII) notice and comments, when appli-
cable; and
‘‘(XIV) whether the settlement agreement
is still under judicial enforcement and any
period of time by which the parties agreed to
have certain conditions met.
‘‘(ii) A copy of each—
‘‘(I) settlement agreement entered into by
the Executive agency; and
‘‘(II) statement issued under paragraph (4).
‘‘(B) NONDISCLOSURE.—The requirement to
submit information or a copy of a settlement
agreement under subparagraph (A) shall not
apply to the extent the information or copy
(or portion thereof)—
‘‘(i) is subject to a confidentiality provi-
sion that prohibits disclosure of the informa-
tion or copy (or portion thereof); and
‘‘(ii) would not be disclosed under section
552, if the Executive agency provides a cita-
tion to the applicable exemption.
‘‘(C) CLARIFICATION OF RESPONSIBLE AGEN-
CY.—In a case in which an Executive agency
is acting at the request or on behalf of an-
other Executive agency (referred to as the
originating agency), the originating agency
is responsible for submitting information
under subparagraph (A).
‘‘(2) GUIDANCE.—The Director of the Office
of Management and Budget shall issue guid-
ance for Executive agencies to implement
paragraph (1). Such guidance shall include
the following:
‘‘(A) Specific dates by which submissions
must be made, not less than twice a year.
‘‘(B) Data standards, including common
data elements and a common, nonpropri-
etary, searchable, machine-readable, plat-
form independent format.
‘‘(C) A requirement that the information
and documents required under paragraph (1)
are publicly available for a period starting
on the date of the settlement through not
less than 5 years after the termination of the
settlement agreement.
‘‘(3) ESTABLISHMENT OF DATABASE.—The Di-
rector of the Office of Management and
Budget, or the head of an Executive agency
designated by the Director, shall establish
and maintain a public, searchable,
downloadable database for Executive agen-
cies to directly upload and submit the infor-
mation and documents required under para-
graph (1) for immediate publication online.
‘‘(4) STATEMENT OF CONFIDENTIALITY.—If
the head of an Executive agency determines
that a confidentiality provision in a settle-
ment agreement, or the sealing of a settle-
ment agreement, is required to protect the
public interest of the United States, the head
of the Executive agency may except the set-
tlement agreement from the requirement in
paragraph (1) and shall issue a written public
statement stating why such action is re-
quired to protect the public interest of the
United States, which shall explain—
‘‘(A) what interests confidentiality pro-
tects; and
‘‘(B) why the interests protected by con-
fidentiality outweigh the public’s interest in
knowing about the conduct of the Federal
Government and the expenditure of Federal
resources.’’.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:01 Feb 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K11FE7.012 H11FEPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1501
February 11, 2019
(b) TECHNICAL AND CONFORMING AMEND-
MENT.—The table of sections for chapter 3 of
title 5, United States Code, is amended by
adding at the end the following new item:
‘‘307. Information regarding settlement
agreements.’’.
(c) DEADLINE TO ESTABLISH DATABASE.—
Not later than 1 year after the date of the
enactment of this Act, the Director of the
Office of Management and Budget shall issue
guidance required by section 307(b)(2) of title
5, United States Code, as added by subsection
(a), and establish the settlement agreement
information database required by section
307(b)(3) of title 5, United States Code, as
added by subsection (a).
(d) DEADLINE FOR FIRST SUBMISSION.—Not
later than 90 days after the Director issues
guidance under section 307(b)(2) of title 5,
United States Code, as added by subsection
(a), the head of each Executive agency (as
defined in section 105 of title 5, United States
Code) shall begin submitting information to
the database established under such section
307.
SEC. 3. AMENDMENTS TO THE FREEDOM OF IN-
FORMATION ACT.
Section 552(a)(2) of title 5, United States
Code, is amended—
(1) by redesignating subparagraphs (B)
through (E) as subparagraphs (C) through
(F), respectively; and
(2) by inserting after subparagraph (A) the
following new subparagraph:
‘‘(B) each settlement agreement (as defined
in section 307) entered into by an Executive
agency, with redactions for information that
the agency may withhold under paragraph
(8) and subsections (b) and (c) of this sec-
tion;’’.
SEC. 4. RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.
Nothing in this Act, or the amendments
made by this Act, shall be construed to re-
quire the disclosure of information or
records that any agency may properly with-
hold from public disclosure under section 552
of title 5, United States Code (commonly
known as the ‘‘Freedom of Information
Act’’).
SEC. 5. EFFECTIVE DATE; APPLICABILITY.
This Act shall be effective 180 days after
the date of the enactment of this Act and
shall apply—
(1) with respect to any settlement agree-
ment (as such term is defined in section 307
of title 5, United States Code, as added by
section 2), entered into on or after the date
of the enactment of this Act; and
(2) to the extent practicable, any such set-
tlement agreement (as such term is defined
in section 307 of title 5, United States Code,
as added by section 2) that remains in effect
on or after the date of the enactment of this
Act.
SEC. 6. DETERMINATION OF BUDGETARY EF-
FECTS.
The budgetary effects of this Act, for the
purpose of complying with the Statutory
Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010, shall be deter-
mined by reference to the latest statement
titled ‘‘Budgetary Effects of PAYGO Legisla-
tion’’ for this Act, submitted for printing in
the Congressional Record by the Chairman of
the House Budget Committee, provided that
such statement has been submitted prior to
the vote on passage.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentlewoman from
California (Ms. HILL) and the gen-
tleman from North Carolina (Mr.
MEADOWS) each will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from California.
GENERAL LEAVE
Ms. HILL of California. Mr. Speaker,
I ask unanimous consent that all Mem-
bers may have 5 legislative days in
which to revise and extend their re-
marks and include extraneous material
on this measure.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gentle-
woman from California?
There was no objection.
Ms. HILL of California. Mr. Speaker,
I yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
I support this commonsense measure.
The Settlement Agreement Informa-
tion Database Act would create a data-
base of settlement agreements entered
into by Federal agencies that relate to
alleged violations of Federal, civil or
criminal law.
The Office of Management and Budg-
et would manage this database and set
deadlines for submission. The heads of
executive agencies would be required
to submit details about the types of
settlement agreements, the parties in-
volved in the settlements, specific vio-
lations, and the dates on which the set-
tlement agreements were agreed to.
The information about the settle-
ment agreements would remain public
until 5 years after the termination of
the agreements. The information in the
agreements would remain subject to
the Freedom of Information Act, but if
the head of the agency decided to keep
an entire agreement confidential, he or
she would be required to provide an ex-
planation of that action.
This bill would improve the trans-
parency surrounding settlement agree-
ments which, in the past, have been
difficult for the public to access.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. MEADOWS. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
I rise in support of H.R. 995. But be-
fore I do, I want to congratulate the
gentlewoman on the passage, I believe,
of her first bill here on the House floor;
and go even further to say that, in
keeping with this bipartisan support of
H.R. 995, the Settlement Agreement In-
formation Database Act of 2019 that
was introduced, and is introduced, by
the gentleman from Alabama (Mr.
PALMER).
Mr. Speaker, transparency and public
participation are critical to maintain-
ing the public trust in its government.
However, Federal agencies have in-
creasingly resolved litigation by enter-
ing into settlement agreements rather
than going through a lengthy public
trial.
Now settlement agreements are often
negotiated behind closed doors. Those
secret negotiations effectively prevent
the public from participating in impor-
tant policy sessions.
Mr. Speaker, let me reiterate this.
When these settlements are done, when
they are actually consummated, they
set up future public policy, and to do
that behind closed doors is certainly
not something that a transparent gov-
ernment should be about.
State and local governments, indus-
try stakeholders, and taxpayers are
often directly affected by these settle-
ments, but unable to provide input.
For example, through the settlement
agreement, the Environmental Protec-
tion Agency required the city of Fort
Smith, Arkansas, to overhaul its sewer
system in 12 years. Sewer utility bills
increased by 167 percent in 3 years to
fund the obligation of this agreement.
At the same time, Fort Smith resi-
dents’ income actually decreased by 11
percent.
The burden of a Federal settlement
can be difficult to see and understand.
Poor recordkeeping makes it impos-
sible for Congress and the public to de-
termine the full impact of the Federal
settlement agreements.
Agencies release information about
settlements at their discretion. Some
agencies rely even on press releases to
release the amount of information. So,
as a result, the public only sees the
facts through what the agency puts out
and only in the most favorable light.
So, in many cases these closed-door
negotiations, the terms of the settle-
ment are deemed confidential. Without
an explanation to the public, the proc-
ess becomes even more opaque and
seemingly arbitrary.
b 1630
H.R. 995 will shine a light on Federal
settlement agreements. This bill will
require the establishment of electronic
and publicly available databases for
agencies’ settlement agreements.
Mr. Speaker, I urge all of my col-
leagues to support this particular bill,
and I reserve the balance of my time.
Ms. HILL of California. Mr. Speaker,
I reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. MEADOWS. Mr. Speaker, I yield
as much time as he may consume to
the gentleman from Alabama (Mr.
PALMER), the sponsor of this particular
piece of legislation.
Mr. PALMER. Mr. Speaker, I would
like to join my colleague from North
Carolina in congratulating the gentle-
woman from California on passing her
first bill. I now know what that broad
smile was about when the ‘‘yeas’’ were
announced.
Mr. Speaker, the Federal Govern-
ment’s duty to serve the public inter-
est relies on transparency and account-
ability to its citizens; however, since
the 1970s, Federal agencies have in-
creasingly chosen to avoid a public
trial and settle litigation behind closed
doors. The resulting consent decrees
and settlement agreements can man-
date terms beyond the scope of the
original violation of Federal law and
can lead to higher costs than a trial.
These agreements are nearly impos-
sible to modify or vacate, and in many
cases can remain in place for decades.
In one instance in New York City, their
special education program has been
under a consent decree since 1972.
This process has influenced a range
of public policies across governmental
programs in States, counties, and cit-
ies, with elected officials inheriting the
burden with little knowledge of the
mandates or cost.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:26 Feb 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A11FE7.006 H11FEPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H1502 February 11, 2019
In Alabama, for instance, when
former Member of Congress Governor
Bob Riley was elected Governor of Ala-
bama, he was going over the budget
and saw the amount for legal fees and
asked what it was for. He was informed
of the number of consent decrees that
the State was under and they were pay-
ing out these legal fees, and it was an
enormous amount.
States, municipalities, industry,
stakeholders, and taxpayers are often
directly affected by the terms of the
agreements but are prevented from
participating in the negotiations. In
some cases, the settlements are de-
clared to be confidential and the con-
tents sealed, without providing any ex-
planation.
Unfortunately, there is no uniform
standard for recordkeeping across Fed-
eral agencies. While some agencies
have issued directives to streamline
and publish this information, most of
the public’s access to Federal settle-
ment agreement information is pri-
marily issued, as my colleague from
North Carolina pointed out, in the
form of a press release. It is, therefore,
impossible for the public to determine
the comprehensive costs and outcomes
of these settlement agreements.
This lack of transparency leaves
elected officials, agency officials, and
the public in the dark about the con-
sent decrees that can impact them. Of-
tentimes, newly elected officials, as I
said, from Governors to attorneys gen-
eral to mayors are sworn in and inherit
substantial legal obligations they were
completely unaware of before they
took office.
The Settlement Agreement Informa-
tion Database Act will address this
problem. The bill establishes a central-
ized and electronic database of settle-
ment agreements entered into by Fed-
eral agencies. Basic information about
the settlement agreements already col-
lected by Federal agencies, such as
payments and dates, will be available
to the public online through this data-
base.
H.R. 995 provides long overdue trans-
parency and accountability and stand-
ards to the Federal settlement agree-
ments.
Mr. Speaker, I thank my colleagues,
the gentleman from North Carolina
(Mr. MEADOWS) and the gentlewoman
from California (Ms. HILL), for their
support on this bill, and I urge my
other colleagues to support this bill as
well.
Mr. MEADOWS. Mr. Speaker, I thank
the gentleman from Alabama for his
leadership on this particular bill. I
urge the adoption of it, and I yield
back the balance of my time.
Ms. HILL of California. Mr. Speaker,
I want to thank the distinguished gen-
tlemen from Alabama and from North
Carolina for their congratulations and
in sharing my excitement over the pas-
sage of my first bill.
Mr. Speaker, I urge the passage of
H.R. 995, as amended, and I yield back
the balance of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentlewoman from California (Ms.
HILL) that the House suspend the rules
and pass the bill, H.R. 995, as amended.
The question was taken.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. In the
opinion of the Chair, two-thirds being
in the affirmative, the ayes have it.
Ms. HILL of California. Mr. Speaker,
I object to the vote on the ground that
a quorum is not present and make the
point of order that a quorum is not
present.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, further pro-
ceedings on this question will be post-
poned.
The point of no quorum is considered
withdrawn.
f
CREATING ADVANCED STREAM-
LINED ELECTRONIC SERVICES
FOR CONSTITUENTS ACT OF 2019
Ms. HILL of California. Mr. Speaker,
I move to suspend the rules and pass
the bill (H.R. 1079) to require the Direc-
tor of the Office of Management and
Budget to issue guidance on electronic
consent forms, and for other purposes,
as amended.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 1079
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Creating Ad-
vanced Streamlined Electronic Services for
Constituents Act of 2019’’ or the ‘‘CASES
Act’’.
SEC. 2. SENSE OF CONGRESS.
It is the sense of Congress that—
(1) congressional offices provide crucial
services to constituents by acting as a liai-
son between the constituents and the respec-
tive agencies;
(2) this includes assisting constituents by
making inquiries and working toward resolu-
tions on behalf of the constituent with the
respective agencies; and
(3) this process should be simplified
through the creation of electronic forms that
may be submitted under section 552a of title
5, United States Code (commonly referred to
as the Privacy Act), thus modernizing the
process for constituents and improving ac-
cess and efficiency of Government services
and agencies in order to expedite the resolu-
tion of the problem for which constituents
sought help.
SEC. 3. OMB GUIDANCE ON ELECTRONIC CON-
SENT AND ACCESS FORMS.
(a) GUIDANCE.—Not later than 1 year after
the date of the enactment of this Act, the
Director shall issue guidance that does the
following:
(1) Requires each agency to accept elec-
tronic identity proofing and authentication
processes for the purposes of allowing an in-
dividual to provide prior written consent for
the disclosure of the individual’s records
under section 552a(b) of title 5, United States
Code, or for individual access to records
under section 552a(d) of such title.
(2) Creates a template for electronic con-
sent and access forms and requires each
agency to post the template on the agency
website and to accept the forms from any in-
dividual properly identity proofed and au-
thenticated in accordance with paragraph (1)
for the purpose of authorizing disclosure of
the individual’s records under section 552a(b)
of title 5, United States Code, or for indi-
vidual access to records under section 552a(d)
of such title.
(3) Requires each agency to accept the
electronic consent and access forms de-
scribed in paragraph (2) from any individual
properly identity proofed and authenticated
in accordance with paragraph (1) for the pur-
pose of authorizing disclosure of the individ-
ual’s records to another entity, including a
congressional office, in accordance with sec-
tion 552a(b) of title 5, United States Code, or
for individual access to records under section
552a(d).
(b) AGENCY COMPLIANCE.—Each agency
shall comply with the guidance issued pursu-
ant to subsection (a) not later than 1 year
after the date on which such guidance is
issued.
(c) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) AGENCY; INDIVIDUAL; RECORD.—The
terms ‘‘agency’’, ‘‘individual’’, and ‘‘record’’
have the meanings given those terms in sec-
tion 552a(a) of title 5, United States Code.
(2) DIRECTOR.—The term ‘‘Director’’ means
the Director of the Office of Management
and Budget.
SEC. 4. NO ADDITIONAL FUNDS AUTHORIZED.
No additional funds are authorized to carry
out the requirements of this Act. Such re-
quirements shall be carried out using
amounts otherwise authorized.
SEC. 5. DETERMINATION OF BUDGETARY EF-
FECTS.
The budgetary effects of this Act, for the
purpose of complying with the Statutory
Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010, shall be deter-
mined by reference to the latest statement
titled ‘‘Budgetary Effects of PAYGO Legisla-
tion’’ for this Act, submitted for printing in
the Congressional Record by the Chairman of
the House Budget Committee, provided that
such statement has been submitted prior to
the vote on passage.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentlewoman from
California (Ms. HILL) and the gen-
tleman from North Carolina (Mr.
MEADOWS) each will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from California.
GENERAL LEAVE
Ms. HILL of California. Mr. Speaker,
I ask unanimous consent that all Mem-
bers may have 5 legislative days in
which to revise and extend their re-
marks and include extraneous material
on this measure.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gentle-
woman from California?
There was no objection.
Ms. HILL of California. Mr. Speaker,
I yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
Mr. Speaker, I support this bill, the
CASES for Constituents Act, intro-
duced by Representatives GARRET
GRAVES and JOE KENNEDY. This bill
would modernize the way Federal agen-
cies process Privacy Act waivers and
make it easier for Members of Congress
to help constituents get assistance
from Federal agencies.
Our constituents are required to pro-
vide Federal agencies with written con-
sent before our offices can obtain infor-
mation from the agency on their be-
half. Some agencies have outdated
policies and still require these consent
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:26 Feb 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K11FE7.015 H11FEPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1503
February 11, 2019
forms to be mailed or faxed, which can
be next to impossible in certain cir-
cumstances, such as after a major
storm or other natural disaster.
Under this bill, the Office of Manage-
ment and Budget would be required to
create a template for electronic con-
sent forms and issue guidance to agen-
cies requiring them to accept such
forms.
Mr. Speaker, I appreciate the bipar-
tisan way in which this bill was devel-
oped, and I thank Representatives
GRAVES and KENNEDY for their diligent
efforts to address this problem.
This is a good bipartisan bill, and I
urge my colleagues to support it.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. MEADOWS. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
I rise in support of H.R. 1079, the
CASES for Constituents Act, intro-
duced by the gentleman from Lou-
isiana (Mr. GRAVES) and, as was men-
tioned, the gentleman from Massachu-
setts (Mr. KENNEDY).
I have some prepared remarks, Mr.
Speaker, but let me just deviate from
that for just a second.
Finally, two people have come to-
gether to get rid of the archaic way
that we have to get disclosures, that
only go to hurt our constituents whom
we aim to serve. I mean, only in the
government do we have this kind of
way where we actually have to make
sure that we run it over by a carrier pi-
geon to get something done.
All of us have been together where
we are trying to serve our constitu-
ents. Sometimes it is very time sen-
sitive, Mr. Speaker, and what do they
want?
Well, you need to go get the privacy
release form.
And if you go get the privacy release
form: Well, no. That is not okay. You
have got to get their actual signature.
And so we are sending people all
over.
So it is with heartfelt gratitude, Mr.
Speaker, that I want to thank these
two gentlemen for doing something
that is not only common sense but
much needed.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Ms. HILL of California. Mr. Speaker,
I will just note for the record that I be-
lieve faxes may or may not have ended
their usefulness before I was born.
Mr. Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the
gentleman from Massachusetts (Mr.
KENNEDY).
Mr. KENNEDY. Mr. Speaker, I thank
my colleague from California for her
support and for her observation about
the utility of fax machines; the gen-
tleman from North Carolina as well for
his comments of support; and my col-
league, Mr. GRAVES, for his leadership,
his advocacy on this piece of legisla-
tion, and for his determination in get-
ting this done. It was a long, long slog
to try to navigate our way through the
morass to get there, but we did, and
Mr. GRAVES’ office deserves a lot of
credit for that.
We were able to clear the House
unanimously last year, Mr. Speaker,
and I am excited for our prospects this
year.
Importantly, as well, Mr. Speaker,
today is the first time that identical
texts have been introduced in the
United States Senate. Senators CARPER
and PORTMAN are taking the lead, and
I look forward to our offices working
together to get this bill across the fin-
ish line.
For all the attention that is placed
on Members of Congress when we are in
Washington, there is no more impor-
tant responsibility of this job than
helping our constituents back home.
Whether assisting a veteran seeking
benefits or a retiree accessing Medi-
care, we can ease the burden off of our
neighbors’ shoulders by getting them
the help that they have earned.
When one of our constituents calls
our office, whether it is in Newton,
Massachusetts, or in Baton Rouge,
Louisiana, they don’t ask us about our
political parties or policy positions;
they just ask for a little bit of help.
Usually, those neighbors only reach
our office when they have fought every
other battle possible first; but too
often, archaic rules, as outlined by Mr.
MEADOWS, build obstacles in our efforts
to provide that help. With the CASES
for Constituents Act, we can modernize
our government, streamline that proc-
ess, and more directly assist them
when they need it.
Let’s bring the casework process a
step closer to the 21st century and pro-
vide electronic access to privacy re-
lease forms.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
support the bill.
Mr. MEADOWS. Mr. Speaker, I yield
as much time as he may consume to
the gentleman from Louisiana (Mr.
GRAVES) in support of this particular
piece of legislation that he and the
gentleman who just spoke have led so
eloquently and diligently on.
Mr. GRAVES of Louisiana. Mr.
Speaker, I thank the gentleman from
North Carolina for yielding.
Mr. Speaker, years ago, they created
something called the internet. If you
are not familiar with it, I would urge
you to go to your local library, go to
the card catalog system to get the
right Dewey decimal number, go find a
book, and read up on it, because appar-
ently many in our Federal Government
haven’t realized that this has been cre-
ated.
As was noted a little while ago, in
1974, there was an act called the Pri-
vacy Act that was passed—1974. Since
that time, we have had companies like
Apple and Amazon and Microsoft and
many others that have proliferated and
are now worth billions and billions of
dollars, some of the largest companies
in the world.
Mr. Speaker, this is similar to us
having to mail in a form to get an am-
bulance to come to our house.
As was noted by some of the previous
speakers, in many cases, people con-
tact us because of emergency situa-
tions. We have had family members
contact us when their loved ones were
stuck overseas in emergency situa-
tions. We have had people contact us
because there was water filling up their
home and they needed emergency serv-
ices at the time. Under the Privacy Act
of 1974 that was written 45 years ago,
we were unable to help them, as Mr.
MEADOWS noted, unless they sent us a
signed privacy release form.
I remember distinctly, in August of
2016, when we had a record flood in my
home State of Louisiana, talking to
constituents who were on their
cellphones saying that their homes had
2, 4, 6, 8, 10 feet of water and asking for
help with FEMA, the Small Business
Administration, and other government
services, and myself or other folks on
our team having to tell them: You bet,
we want to help you. All you need to do
is go to your computer, go to this
website, click the link, print it out.
You can imagine the response from
people: I would love to be able to go to
my computer right now. I would love
to be able to find it, if it wasn’t under
4 feet of water right now.
Incredibly frustrating.
Mr. Speaker, the government today
has a customer service approval rating
of 70 percent—70 percent is the cus-
tomer service approval rating. While
that was sufficient to get me through
high school, that is not okay for the
Federal Government. It is entirely in-
appropriate.
This bill simply updates the Federal
Government to put it online with how
we file our taxes, how we handle our
banking, insurance, and virtually ev-
erything else we do, ensuring that
when people contact us, we can use
those same technologies to protect pri-
vacy, that we can ensure the right peo-
ple are asking for the right approvals,
and we can quickly, within minutes,
begin providing them services through
their own Federal Government.
Mr. Speaker, I thank my friend from
Massachusetts (Mr. KENNEDY) for per-
severing and continuing to work with
us on this. I want to thank my friends,
Mr. MEADOWS from North Carolina and
Ms. HILL from California. Thank you
all very much for doing this.
This is bipartisan. This is common
sense. It should have been done decades
ago.
Mr. Speaker, I want to thank Jen-
nifer Bollinger, Eric Fins, all the OGR
staff and others who helped get this
bill done, and I am looking forward to
passage.
I urge full support.
Mr. MEADOWS. Mr. Speaker, I want
to go ahead and close, if we can, at this
particular point, but before I do so, I
want to thank all of our staff.
It is so easy at times for us to get up
here, and yet the legislation that gets
introduced oftentimes is not just due
to our personal staff in our offices, but
the committee staff, and so I want to
make sure that I emphasize that today.
Mr. Speaker, I will close with this
final comment.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:01 Feb 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K11FE7.017 H11FEPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H1504 February 11, 2019
I had a constituent not long ago who
said: You know, I will just email you a
release, and we won’t have to go
through all of this getting it in writ-
ing.
I said: No, no, no, no, no. That will
take an act of Congress.
Well, let me just tell you, today the
Congress has acted.
Mr. Speaker, I urge support, and I
yield back the balance of my time.
Ms. HILL of California. Mr. Speaker,
I would like to join my colleague in
thanking the staff. I was handheld
through this entire process.
Mr. Speaker, I urge the passage of
H.R. 1079, as amended, and I yield back
the balance of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentlewoman from California (Ms.
HILL) that the House suspend the rules
and pass the bill, H.R. 1079, as amend-
ed.
The question was taken.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. In the
opinion of the Chair, two-thirds being
in the affirmative, the ayes have it.
Ms. HILL of California. Mr. Speaker,
on that I demand the yeas and nays.
The yeas and nays were ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, further pro-
ceedings on this motion will be post-
poned.
f
RECESS
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 12(a) of rule I, the Chair
declares the House in recess until ap-
proximately 6:30 p.m. today.
Accordingly (at 4 o’clock and 45 min-
utes p.m.), the House stood in recess.
f
b 1829
AFTER RECESS
The recess having expired, the House
was called to order by the Speaker pro
tempore (Mr. ESPAILLAT) at 6 o’clock
and 29 minutes p.m.
f
EXPRESSING THE PROFOUND SOR-
ROW OF THE HOUSE OF REP-
RESENTATIVES ON THE DEATH
OF THE HONORABLE WALTER B.
JONES
Mr. PRICE of North Carolina. Mr.
Speaker, I send to the desk a privileged
resolution and ask for its immediate
consideration.
The Clerk read the resolution, as fol-
lows:
H. RES. 121
Resolved, That the House has heard with
profound sorrow of the death of the Honor-
able Walter B. Jones, a Representative from
the State of North Carolina.
Resolved, That a committee of such Mem-
bers of the House as the Speaker may des-
ignate, together with such Members of the
Senate as may be joined, be appointed to at-
tend the funeral.
Resolved, That the Sergeant-at-Arms of the
House be authorized and directed to take
such steps as may be necessary for carrying
out the provisions of these resolutions and
that the necessary expenses in connection
therewith be paid out of applicable accounts
of the House.
Resolved, That the Clerk communicate
these resolutions to the Senate and transmit
a copy thereof to the family of the deceased.
Resolved, That when the House adjourns
today, it adjourn as a further mark of re-
spect to the memory of the deceased.
The resolution was agreed to.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER
PRO TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pro-
ceedings will resume on questions pre-
viously postponed.
Votes will be taken in the following
order:
Motions to suspend the rules and
pass:
H.R. 1065; and
H.R. 1079.
The first electronic vote will be con-
ducted as a 15-minute vote. Pursuant
to clause 9 of rule XX, the second elec-
tronic vote will be conducted as a 5-
minute vote.
f
SOCIAL MEDIA USE IN CLEARANCE
INVESTIGATIONS ACT OF 2019
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, the unfin-
ished business is the vote on the mo-
tion to suspend the rules and pass the
bill (H.R. 1065) to provide for a study on
the use of social media in security
clearance investigations, on which the
yeas and nays were ordered.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentlewoman from California (Ms.
HILL) that the House suspend the rules
and pass the bill.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—yeas 377, nays 3,
not voting 51, as follows:
[Roll No. 76]
YEAS—377
Adams
Aderholt
Aguilar
Allen
Amash
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Axne
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Bergman
Beyer
Bilirakis
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Brady
Brindisi
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Bustos
Butterfield
Byrne
Calvert
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Cleaver
Cline
Clyburn
Cohen
Cole
Comer
Conaway
Connolly
Cook
Cooper
Correa
Courtney
Craig
Crawford
Crenshaw
Crist
Cuellar
Cummings
Cunningham
Curtis
Davids (KS)
Davidson (OH)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Davis, Rodney
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
DesJarlais
Deutch
Diaz-Balart
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Engel
Eshoo
Espaillat
Estes
Evans
Ferguson
Finkenauer
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Fletcher
Flores
Fortenberry
Foster
Foxx (NC)
Frankel
Fudge
Fulcher
Gallagher
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Gianforte
Gibbs
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (OH)
Gonzalez (TX)
Gooden
Gosar
Gottheimer
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Green (TN)
Green (TX)
Griffith
Grijalva
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Haaland
Hagedorn
Harder (CA)
Harris
Hartzler
Hastings
Heck
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Higgins (NY)
Hill (AR)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Holding
Hollingsworth
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Hudson
Huffman
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Johnson (TX)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Katko
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamb
Lamborn
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Latta
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Lesko
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Long
Lowenthal
Lowey
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Marshall
Massie
Mast
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McCollum
McEachin
McGovern
McHenry
McKinley
McNerney
Meadows
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Mullin
Murphy
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Newhouse
Norcross
Norman
Nunes
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Palazzo
Pallone
Palmer
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Pence
Perlmutter
Perry
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Porter
Posey
Pressley
Price (NC)
Raskin
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (NY)
Rice (SC)
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rooney (FL)
Rose (NY)
Rose, John W.
Rouda
Rouzer
Roy
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rutherford
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scalise
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Schweikert
Scott (VA)
Scott, Austin
Scott, David
Sensenbrenner
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smith (WA)
Smucker
Soto
Spanberger
Spano
Speier
Stanton
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stevens
Stewart
Stivers
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Taylor
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Turner
Underwood
Upton
Van Drew
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Waltz
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watkins
Webster (FL)
Welch
Wenstrup
Westerman
Wexton
Wild
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yarmuth
Yoho
Young
Zeldin
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:25 Feb 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00010 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\RECORD19\FEBRUARY\H11FE9.REC H11FE9
CORRECTION
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1505
February 11, 2019
NAYS—3
Biggs Gaetz Gohmert
NOT VOTING—51
Abraham
Allred
Babin
Bishop (UT)
Bost
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Burgess
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Clay
Cloud
Collins (GA)
Collins (NY)
Costa
Cox (CA)
Crow
Dingell
Duffy
Escobar
Gabbard
Graves (MO)
Hayes
Huizenga
Johnson (LA)
Kaptur
Kind
Kinzinger
Lawrence
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Loudermilk
Marchant
Meeks
Meng
Olson
Quigley
Ratcliffe
Richmond
Rush
Ryan
Shimkus
Simpson
Vargas
Wagner
Walorski
Watson Coleman
Weber (TX)
Wilson (FL)
b 1857
Ms. ADAMS, Messrs. ARRINGTON,
and GOSAR changed their vote from
‘‘nay’’ to ‘‘yea.’’
So (two-thirds being in the affirma-
tive) the rules were suspended and the
bill was passed.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
Stated for:
Mr. CARTER of Georgia. Mr. Speaker, I
was unavoidably detained. Had I been
present, I would have voted ‘‘yea’’ on rollcall
No. 76.
f
CREATING ADVANCED STREAM-
LINED ELECTRONIC SERVICES
FOR CONSTITUENTS ACT OF 2019
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, the unfin-
ished business is the vote on the mo-
tion to suspend the rules and pass the
bill (H.R. 1079) to require the Director
of the Office of Management and Budg-
et to issue guidance on electronic con-
sent forms, and for other purposes, as
amended, on which the yeas and nays
were ordered.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentlewoman from California (Ms.
HILL) that the House suspend the rules
and pass the bill, as amended.
This is a 5-minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—yeas 379, nays 0,
not voting 52, as follows:
[Roll No. 77]
YEAS—379
Adams
Aderholt
Aguilar
Allen
Amash
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Axne
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Bergman
Beyer
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Brady
Brindisi
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Bustos
Butterfield
Byrne
Calvert
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Carter (GA)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Cleaver
Cline
Clyburn
Cohen
Cole
Comer
Conaway
Connolly
Cook
Cooper
Correa
Courtney
Craig
Crawford
Crenshaw
Crist
Cuellar
Cummings
Cunningham
Curtis
Davids (KS)
Davidson (OH)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Davis, Rodney
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
DesJarlais
Deutch
Diaz-Balart
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Engel
Eshoo
Espaillat
Estes
Evans
Ferguson
Finkenauer
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Fletcher
Flores
Fortenberry
Foster
Foxx (NC)
Frankel
Fudge
Fulcher
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (OH)
Gonzalez (TX)
Gooden
Gosar
Gottheimer
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Green (TN)
Green (TX)
Griffith
Grijalva
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Haaland
Hagedorn
Harder (CA)
Harris
Hartzler
Hastings
Heck
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Higgins (NY)
Hill (AR)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Holding
Hollingsworth
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Hudson
Huffman
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Johnson (TX)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Katko
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamb
Lamborn
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Latta
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Lesko
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Long
Lowenthal
Lowey
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Marshall
Massie
Mast
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McCollum
McEachin
McGovern
McHenry
McKinley
McNerney
Meadows
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Mullin
Murphy
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Newhouse
Norcross
Norman
Nunes
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Palazzo
Pallone
Palmer
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Pence
Perlmutter
Perry
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Porter
Posey
Pressley
Raskin
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (NY)
Rice (SC)
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rooney (FL)
Rose (NY)
Rose, John W.
Rouda
Rouzer
Roy
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rutherford
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scalise
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Schweikert
Scott (VA)
Scott, Austin
Scott, David
Sensenbrenner
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smith (WA)
Smucker
Soto
Spanberger
Spano
Speier
Stanton
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stevens
Stewart
Stivers
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Taylor
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Turner
Underwood
Upton
Van Drew
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Waltz
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watkins
Webster (FL)
Welch
Wenstrup
Westerman
Wexton
Wild
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yarmuth
Yoho
Young
Zeldin
NOT VOTING—52
Abraham
Allred
Babin
Bishop (UT)
Bost
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Burgess
Carter (TX)
Clay
Cloud
Collins (GA)
Collins (NY)
Costa
Cox (CA)
Crow
Dingell
Duffy
Escobar
Gabbard
Graves (MO)
Hayes
Huizenga
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (LA)
Kaptur
Kind
Kinzinger
Lawrence
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Loudermilk
Marchant
Meeks
Meng
Olson
Price (NC)
Quigley
Ratcliffe
Richmond
Rush
Ryan
Shimkus
Simpson
Vargas
Wagner
Walorski
Watson Coleman
Weber (TX)
Wilson (FL)
b 1904
So (two-thirds being in the affirma-
tive) the rules were suspended and the
bill, as amended, was passed.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
Mr. CLOUD. Mr. Speaker, due to personal
illness, I missed votes. Had I been present, I
would have voted ‘‘Yea’’ on rollcall No. 76 and
‘‘Yea’’ on rollcall No. 77.
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
Mr. ALLRED. Mr. Speaker, as I am back
home in Dallas, Texas, on paternity leave with
my family, I submit the following vote expla-
nation.
Had I been present, I would have voted
YEA on Roll Call No. 76 and YEA on Roll Call
No. 77.
f
REPORT ON RESOLUTION PRO-
VIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF
H.J. RES. 37, REMOVAL OF
UNITED STATES ARMED FORCES
FROM HOSTILITIES IN YEMEN
THAT HAVE NOT BEEN AUTHOR-
IZED BY CONGRESS; WAIVING A
REQUIREMENT OF CLAUSE 6(a)
OF RULE XIII WITH RESPECT TO
CONSIDERATION OF CERTAIN
RESOLUTIONS REPORTED FROM
THE COMMITTEE ON RULES; AND
PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION
OF MOTIONS TO SUSPEND THE
RULES
Mr. MCGOVERN, from the Com-
mittee on Rules, submitted a privi-
leged report (Rept. No. 116–8) on the
resolution (H. Res. 122) providing for
consideration of the joint resolution
(H.J. Res. 37) directing the removal of
United States Armed Forces from hos-
tilities in the Republic of Yemen that
have not been authorized by Congress;
waiving a requirement of clause 6(a) of
rule XIII with respect to consideration
of certain resolutions reported from
the Committee on Rules; and providing
for consideration of motions to suspend
the rules, which was referred to the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:09 Feb 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00011 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A11FE7.008 H11FEPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H1506 February 11, 2019
House Calendar and ordered to be
printed.
f
HONORING THE LIFE, ACHIEVE-
MENTS, AND DISTINGUISHED
PUBLIC SERVICE OF JOHN DAVID
DINGELL, JR., AND EXPRESSING
CONDOLENCES TO HIS FAMILY
ON HIS PASSING
Mr. HOYER. Mr. Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that the Com-
mittee on House Administration be dis-
charged from further consideration of
House Resolution 120, and ask for its
immediate consideration in the House;
and further, I ask unanimous consent
that it be read in full.
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr.
BUTTERFIELD). Is there objection to the
request of the gentleman from Mary-
land?
There was no objection.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Clerk will report the resolution.
The Clerk read as follows:
H. RES. 120
Whereas the death of former chairman of
the Committee on Energy and Commerce,
Representative John David Dingell, Jr., on
February 8, 2019, brought not only a sense of
deep personal loss to his family, including
his wife Representative Debbie Dingell of
Michigan’s 12th Congressional District and
his children and grandchildren, to his many
former colleagues and friends, but also to the
institution of the House of Representatives
and to the Nation;
Whereas John Dingell represented the peo-
ple of southeastern Michigan with distinc-
tion in the House for 59 years, from Decem-
ber 13, 1955, to January 3, 2015, making him
the longest serving Member of either cham-
ber of Congress in its history to date;
Whereas John Dingell’s father, the late
John David Dingell, Sr., preceded him in
service as a Member of the House from
March 4, 1933, to September 19, 1955, and his
wife Debbie Dingell succeeded him on Janu-
ary 3, 2015, and continues to serve, and
Michiganders have entrusted John Sr., John
Jr., and Debbie Dingell together to serve as
their voice in the Congress for the past 86
years;
Whereas John Dingell was raised from the
age of six in southeast Michigan, his parents’
home State, and where his father was elected
to serve in the Seventy Third Congress;
Whereas John Dingell was fiercely proud of
his Polish-American roots and throughout
his life shared the joys of his heritage with
others, including delivering paczki pastries
to colleagues, House staff, and visitors to the
Capitol;
Whereas John Dingell’s first taste of public
service and participation in government was
as a page for the House of Representatives;
Whereas John Dingell, while serving as a
House page, was in the Hall of the House on
December 8, 1941, to witness President
Franklin Roosevelt deliver his iconic address
asking for a declaration of war against
Japan following the bombing of Pearl Har-
bor;
Whereas John Dingell was drafted into the
United States Army at the age of 18 and
served honorably;
Whereas John Dingell received both his
B.S. and J.D. degrees from Georgetown Uni-
versity and then served in private law prac-
tice, as a park ranger with the National
Park Service, and as an assistant prosecutor
before his election to the House;
Whereas John Dingell was elected to the
House following the death of his father in
1955 and was reelected 29 times;
Whereas John Dingell took up the mantle
of advocating for affordable health insurance
coverage for the Nation’s seniors, as cham-
pioned by his father, and worked to secure
the enactment of Medicare in 1965, presided
over its passage in the House, and was on
hand to witness its signing into law by Presi-
dent Lyndon Johnson;
Whereas John Dingell was a crusader for
the environment, helping to author and
shepherd to passage the Clean Air Act, the
Clean Water Act, the Safe Drinking Water
Act, the Endangered Species Act, and the
National Environmental Policy Act;
Whereas John Dingell fought to make civil
rights a part of Democrats’ platform in 1960,
standing up to those who believed it would
alienate certain voters and declaring that it
was the right thing to do;
Whereas John Dingell was a strong sup-
porter in the House of the Civil Rights Act of
1957, the Civil Rights Act of 1960, the Civil
Rights Act of 1964, and the Voting Rights
Act of 1965;
Whereas John Dingell served as chairman
of the Committee on Energy and Commerce
from January 3, 1981, to January 3, 1995, and
again from January 3, 2007, to January 3,
2009, and served as its ranking minority
member during the years in between, making
him the senior Democratic member on that
Committee for 26 years;
Whereas during every Congress in which he
served, John Dingell introduced legislation
to provide universal access to health care,
and he invited Speaker Nancy Pelosi to use
the gavel with which he presided over pas-
sage of Medicare in 1965 to preside over the
Affordable Care Act’s passage in the House
in 2010;
Whereas John Dingell, over the course of
his tenure, served with eleven Presidents (Ei-
senhower, Kennedy, Johnson, Nixon, Ford,
Carter, Reagan, Bush, Clinton, Bush, and
Obama);
Whereas John Dingell served as Dean of
the House from January 3, 1995, until Janu-
ary 3, 2015;
Whereas John Dingell retired from the
House in 2015 and was succeeded by his be-
loved wife, whom he referred to as his ‘‘love-
ly Deborah’’, who carries on his legacy and
now serves as co-chair of the Democratic
Policy and Communications Committee in
the Democratic Caucus;
Whereas, in 2014, President Barack Obama
awarded John Dingell the Presidential Medal
of Freedom, the Nation’s highest civilian
honor;
Whereas John Dingell, both before and
after his retirement, gathered a large fol-
lowing on Twitter, where he demonstrated
his wit, wisdom, and clever commentary on
the Nation’s politics, while promoting great-
er civility, patriotism, tolerance, justice,
and inclusion; and
Whereas John Dingell was held in the high-
est esteem by Members of the House from
both parties, not only because of his record
tenure in office but because of his sharp in-
tellect, good humor, congeniality, and belief
in working together to achieve consensus
through trust and camaraderie: Now, there-
fore, be it
Resolved, That the House of Representa-
tives—
(1) honors the life, achievements, and dis-
tinguished public service of John David Din-
gell, Jr.; and
(2) expresses condolences to his family on
his passing.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the consideration of the
resolution?
There was no objection.
The resolution was agreed to.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
REQUEST TO CONSIDER H.R. 962,
BORN-ALIVE ABORTION SUR-
VIVORS PROTECTION ACT
Mr. WALKER. Mr. Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary be discharged
from further consideration of H.R. 962,
the Born-Alive Abortion Survivors Pro-
tection Act, and ask for its immediate
consideration in the House.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under
guidelines consistently issued by suc-
cessive Speakers, and recorded in sec-
tion 956 of the House Rules and Man-
ual, the Chair is constrained not to en-
tertain the request unless it has been
cleared by the bipartisan floor and
committee leaderships.
Mr. WALKER. Mr. Speaker, if this
unanimous consent request cannot be
entertained, I urge the Speaker and the
majority leader to immediately sched-
ule the born-alive bill so we can stand
up and protect the sanctity of human
life, and I would ask all others to join
that request.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tleman has not been recognized for de-
bate.
f
b 1915
NATIONAL CAREER AND
TECHNICAL EDUCATION MONTH
(Mr. LANGEVIN asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Mr. LANGEVIN. Mr. Speaker, I rise
as co-chair of the bipartisan Congres-
sional Career and Technical Education
Caucus to recognize February as Na-
tional CTE Month. Today, my good
friend and caucus co-chair, Representa-
tive THOMPSON, and I introduced a reso-
lution supporting the goals and ideals
of CTE Month.
This resolution is particularly impor-
tant because many Americans still
hold an outdated view of CTE as a plan
B. In fact, today it is quite the oppo-
site. The CTE programs are academic
pathways that allow students to ex-
plore careers in high demand, high-pay-
ing industries that are relevant in to-
day’s society from healthcare to ad-
vanced manufacturing to IT.
CTE Month is a time not only to cel-
ebrate the achievements of CTE stu-
dents, like the bright and motivated
SkillsUSA students from Rhode Island
who visit my office each year, but to
spread awareness of today’s CTE and
its potential to help students and busi-
nesses succeed.
Mr. Speaker, society needs workers
with these skills that are in demand
today, and I want to thank Representa-
tive THOMPSON for his partnership and
urge my colleagues to join us in sup-
porting CTE programs across the coun-
try.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:53 Feb 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00012 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K11FE7.026 H11FEPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1507
February 11, 2019
BORDER SECURITY
(Mr. YOHO asked and was given per-
mission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. YOHO. Mr. Speaker, after the
conclusion of the last shutdown, I was
hopeful that we would work together in
good faith to find a commonsense ap-
proach to secure our border. However,
it appears that the Democrats are more
concerned with releasing illegal aliens
than addressing border security.
Recently, my colleagues on the other
side of the aisle have suggested that we
reduce the adult detention beds for il-
legal detainees in exchange for border
security. This is unacceptable. As we in
this body are all aware, adult detention
beds are an essential aspect of enforc-
ing our immigration laws. Reducing
the amount of beds would further exac-
erbate our problems with interior en-
forcement, thus relying on an ineffec-
tive catch and release policy. Only 4
percent of those released ever show up
for their court date. That means that
they have a 96 percent chance of stay-
ing in this country.
Our primary role of government is se-
curity. Border security is national se-
curity, and our national security
should not be a bargaining chip for the
Democrats’ political games. I urge my
colleagues across the aisle to take this
issue seriously.
Please stop playing political games
with our Nation’s security and the
brave men and women of our Coast
Guard, TSA, CBP, and ICE agents. We
must work together as Americans and
fix our broken immigration system
which starts with a secure border.
f
CONGRESSIONAL CHILDREN’S
CAUCUS
(Ms. JACKSON LEE asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute.)
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker, the
clarity that I would like to offer is that
none of us should tolerate any shut-
down of the government or ever hold-
ing our Federal workers hostage to pol-
icy debates, and that is for my col-
leagues and friends on the other side of
the aisle and for this administration.
But I think in all fairness, the clarity
on the question of detention beds is to
make sure that the criminals are de-
tained and to make sure that women
and children, like little 9-month-old
Roger, have alternative housing. That
is the debate. But that debate can go
on and go on beyond holding the gov-
ernment hostage and our workers hos-
tage.
Mr. Speaker, I would also like to in-
troduce the fact that I am establishing
the Congressional Children’s Caucus, as
we have done every year since I have
been here. Our focus is for better qual-
ity of life for children, not only in this
Nation but around the world. One of
the priorities will be hunger amongst
children here in the United States and
around the world.
It is noteworthy that children do go
to bed hungry here in the United
States, and it is important that we
support the food nutrition programs
and the lunch, breakfast, and dinner
programs in our public schools.
We must ensure that this Nation pro-
tects its children.
f
BORDER SECURITY
(Ms. CHENEY asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Ms. CHENEY. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today because every American should
know that we are now at the point
where the Democrats are demanding
that ICE release dangerous criminals
onto the streets of the United States.
First, they demanded that we not
build a wall. Their leader said that
would be immoral. Now they are de-
manding that we release dangerous
criminals we have already appre-
hended.
Mr. Speaker, they are threatening to
shut the government down, they are so
committed to this position. Most
Americans know their government’s
most sacred obligation is the defense of
the Nation. The Democrats want to
abolish one of the very agencies tasked
with this responsibility. This is a back-
door effort to do so.
Under this latest proposal, ICE has
said they could be required to release
as many as 15,000 criminals on to our
streets. The far left radical positions of
today’s Democrats are threatening the
security of our Nation.
It is time to build the wall, secure
our borders, support our law enforce-
ment, and keep dangerous criminals off
our streets.
f
GUN VIOLENCE
(Ms. BROWNLEY of California asked
and was given permission to address
the House for 1 minute.)
Ms. BROWNLEY of California. Mr.
Speaker, this Thursday marks 1 year
since the horrific shooting in Parkland,
Florida, that took 17 precious lives. My
community faced our own tragedy just
9 months later when 12 of our friends
and neighbors were stolen from us at
the Borderline Bar and Grill.
As our communities continue to
mourn these devastating tragedies, we
must also honor the memories of those
we lost with action. There is no single
answer that will stop every incident of
gun violence, but to do nothing with
the argument that it will not fix every-
thing is unconscionable.
One of the first steps we need to take
is passing H.R. 8, the Bipartisan Back-
ground Checks Act, which is being con-
sidered by the House Judiciary Com-
mittee this week.
I call on my colleagues on both sides
of the aisle to support this bill, a crit-
ical first step to keeping deadly weap-
ons out of the wrong hands.
CAPPING ICE’S DETENTION
CAPACITY
(Mr. BACON asked and was given per-
mission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. BACON. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to speak out against the dan-
gerous proposal that is being put forth
by leadership on the other side of the
aisle, the Democratic proposal to place
an artificial and arbitrary cap on ICE’s
detention capacity.
ICE is outstanding at arresting gang
members, felons, drug dealers, and
human traffickers, but now Speaker
PELOSI and Minority Leader SCHUMER
want to limit how many they catch.
This represents a breakdown in law and
order and will only make our broken
border less secure.
It does not make sense to tell a State
trooper that he can only pull over 10
people and then must stop, or a city
cop saying: once you catch your second
thief, she must stop.
Does the next person committing an
illegal act get a free pass because we
have hit some magic number?
Our country embraces the rule of
law. We do not get to pick and choose,
especially when it pertains to our na-
tional security.
I urge the Democratic leadership to
withdraw this ludicrous proposal and
come to the negotiating table. It is
about time we work together, but we
will not and cannot undermine our na-
tional security and the safety of our
communities.
f
ILLEGAL IMMIGRATION AND A
BORDER WALL
(Mr. CARTER of Georgia asked and
was given permission to address the
House for 1 minute and to revise and
extend his remarks.)
Mr. CARTER of Georgia. Mr. Speak-
er, I rise today to discuss our broken
immigration system and our need to
overcome partisan politics to find a so-
lution. The most glaring example of
this broken system and the one most
endangering to American citizens is
our porous southern border. Tens of
thousands of illegal immigrants bypass
checkpoints and avoid our immigration
laws by using that border to gain ac-
cess to America.
But my colleagues across the aisle
refuse to see the issue. They ignore all
the evidence to push their political
agenda and discredit the President at
the expense of Americans’ security.
They now have found a new excuse—
the number of ICE’s adult detention
beds.
Let’s be clear what this stunt is: a
backdoor attempt to defund ICE, pre-
vent them from doing their critical
mission, and attempt to appease those
demanding open borders.
I sincerely urge my colleagues across
the aisle to come to the table to nego-
tiate in good faith for the safety and
security of all Americans. We need bor-
der security along our southern border
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:33 Feb 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00013 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K11FE7.028 H11FEPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H1508 February 11, 2019
which includes a wall structure, and we
need ICE to achieve its public safety
mission.
To the Democrats: Stop these last-
minute games and let’s do our job for
the American people.
f
SUPPORTING OUR AMERICAN
HERITAGE
(Mr. HIGGINS of Louisiana asked
and was given permission to address
the House for 1 minute.)
Mr. HIGGINS of Louisiana. Mr.
Speaker, I rise today in support of
American tradition and heritage,
American law enforcement, and the
sovereignty of our Nation.
I stand here in the Chamber of the
people’s House, a 57-year-old American
man who has never witnessed such di-
vision and insanity as I have observed
here in D.C., where right is wrong,
where American traditions are re-
jected, where Christian principles are
ridiculed, where many of my colleagues
across the aisle envision an America
with no sovereign borders, no fossil
fuels, and no Second Amendment, a
land where no airplanes fly, where po-
lice cannot arrest, and where jails do
not exist.
I remind my colleagues that we are
here to serve the best interests and se-
curity of the American people. We were
not elected by citizens of foreign soil,
nor should we allow our bicameral, bi-
partisan Congress to become infected
with anti-American sentiment.
f
GOLD JOURNEY TO EXCELLENCE
AWARD
(Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania
asked and was given permission to ad-
dress the House for 1 minute and to re-
vise and extend his remarks.)
Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania.
Mr. Speaker, for the eighth consecutive
year, the Juniata Valley Council, Boy
Scouts of America, achieved the Gold
Journey to Excellence Award.
It was an honor to celebrate this out-
standing achievement yesterday with
the council as well as volunteers at the
unit, district, and council levels, as
well as the Scouts and parents in Cen-
tre, Huntingdon, Juniata, and Mifflin
Counties in central Pennsylvania.
Mr. Speaker, the Journey to Excel-
lence Award measures a council’s per-
formance in a range of areas; including
fiscal management, membership
growth and retention, and program ex-
cellence; including camping, advance-
ment, and community service, among
other areas.
These key performance areas are di-
rectly related to producing successful,
growing, and sustainable Scouting pro-
grams. I am incredibly proud of the Ju-
niata Valley Boy Scout Council, which
I have been a member of for four dec-
ades. The annual recognition dinner is
a time to celebrate achievements, and
I was pleased to see Jonathan Long of
my hometown recognized as the How-
ard Cub Pack Leader of the Year.
Scouting makes a difference in the
lives of so many youth. I congratulate
the Juniata Council on this out-
standing achievement.
f
HOUR OF MEETING ON TOMORROW
Mr. PRICE of North Carolina. Mr.
Speaker, I ask unanimous consent that
when the House adjourns today, it ad-
journ to meet at 9 a.m. tomorrow.
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr.
CUNNINGHAM). Is there objection to the
request of the gentleman from North
Carolina?
There was no objection.
f
BORDER SECURITY
(Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania asked
and was given permission to address
the House for 1 minute.)
Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania. Mr.
Speaker, tonight I rise to address the
dangerous proposal being put forth by
Democrats in the ongoing negotiations
to secure our border and fund the gov-
ernment.
Talks on this issue are now stalled
because Democrats are demanding a
cap in the number of beds allocated to
detain illegal criminals. But this new
initiative blatantly contradicts what
our leaders on the ground are asking us
to do on this issue.
Just this weekend, the National
Sheriffs’ Association and the Major
County Sheriffs of America both stat-
ed: ‘‘Any legislation that reduces ICE’s
detention capacity would hinder its
ability to perform its national security
and public safety missions. . . . In
order to meet the cap being tentatively
proposed by Congress, ICE would be
compelled to release thousands of
aliens from custody.’’
The sheriffs went on to say that if
the Democrats’ plans were approved,
then 9,000 illegal immigrants would
have to be released by the end of the
fiscal year. That is 9,000 criminals.
We need to focus on securing our bor-
der, funding the wall, and making our
country safer, not protecting criminals
and sending them back onto the streets
to endanger our citizens.
We need to listen to these rec-
ommendations.
f
b 1930
BORDER SECURITY
(Mr. BURCHETT asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Mr. BURCHETT. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to ask my colleagues on the
other side of the aisle to finally come
to the table for a meaningful discus-
sion around securing our Nation’s bor-
ders.
The Democrats’ leadership would
have the entire country believe that
our President and the Republicans are
the ones holding up negotiations to
avoid another unnecessary government
shutdown, but it is the President and
the House Republicans who have come
to the bargaining table in good faith.
Just this week, there were rumors
that a deal was near with less border
funding than the President and my
party wanted. That is what happens in
negotiations: We give, and they take.
Now that we are close to a deal being
cut, the Democrats are moving the
goalpost, Mr. Speaker. This brand-new
cap on ICE detention beds came out of
thin air and is proof that the Demo-
crats are willing to do anything to
keep from making a deal with the
President and the Republicans.
What is worse, the move by the
Democrats would make our country
less secure. It is just a backdoor at-
tempt to get rid of ICE entirely.
The citizens of this country deserve
better, Mr. Speaker. They deserve a
government that works. Let’s do the
job our constituents sent us here to do.
f
BORDER SECURITY
(Mr. ARMSTRONG asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute and to revise and extend
his remarks.)
Mr. ARMSTRONG. Mr. Speaker,
sheriffs from across the country are in
D.C. this week, and they have a simple
message for Congress: Secure the bor-
der.
These sheriffs know that border secu-
rity will help stem the flow of illegal
drugs and human trafficking which af-
fect communities all across the coun-
try.
The sheriffs warn that a new demand
from my colleagues across the aisle
could mean over 8,000 criminals would
have to be released by authorities.
They wrote: ‘‘This dangerous Con-
gressional proposal not only jeopard-
izes the risk of our national security,
but hinders our law enforcement offi-
cers from effectively enforcing and up-
holding the law and protecting their
communities.’’
In other words, this demand does not
make our country safer.
We need to empower law enforcement
to hold criminal aliens, when appro-
priate, to protect our communities.
The last thing we should do is release
dangerous criminals from custody.
I urge negotiators to come to an
agreement to secure our border, build
the wall—a barrier, a fence, a parti-
tion, a panel. I am less interested in se-
mantics and more interested in sup-
porting the law enforcement officers
who are on the front lines every day
protecting our communities.
f
BORDER SECURITY
(Mr. LAMALFA asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. LAMALFA. Mr. Speaker, instead
of working in good faith to secure our
borders and reach a compromise to
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:33 Feb 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00014 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K11FE7.029 H11FEPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1509
February 11, 2019
avoid another shutdown, House Demo-
crats have other ideas.
They argue that allowing ICE to in-
crease adult detention beds from 40,000
to 52,000 is actually a bad idea—unbe-
lievable.
Is there any solution the Democrats
pose for securing our borders and our
sovereign Nation?
They don’t want the agency to have
the capacity to detain more illegal im-
migrants who cross into the United
States. Instead, just flow right in, in-
creasing the risk to our citizens, as we
see time and time again, especially in
my home State of California.
Right now, there are 48,000 illegal im-
migrants detained thanks to the in-
creased enforcement of our sovereign
border laws under this administration.
Our county sheriffs are greatly con-
cerned, however, that the new numbers
that the Democrats are posing for us
will release up to 10,000 illegal immi-
grants—criminals, even—onto our
streets, into our country.
Instead of providing additional beds
and allowing our Border Patrol agents
to do their jobs, they have actually
proposed to knock that number down
to 35,000.
It appears my colleagues on the other
side of the aisle would rather release il-
legal immigrants into the community,
many of them traffickers, endangering
our public.
f
BORDER SECURITY
(Mr. GAETZ asked and was given per-
mission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. GAETZ. Mr. Speaker, what do we
think would happen in this country if
we said we were only going to lock up
1,000 people, total, for murder? Well,
probably, after the thousandth person
was arrested and locked up, you would
have a lot more murders, not less, be-
cause people would think they could
get away with it.
The caravans that are forming in
Central and South America and coming
toward our southern border aren’t
shrinking; they are growing. That is
why Democrats don’t want us to be
able to lock up all the people who com-
mit the crime of unlawful entry into
the country, because they want to in-
duce that illegal immigration.
Well, Mr. Speaker, we want to stop
it, and our negotiators are operating in
good faith, but now Democrats are add-
ing new issues.
Here is my challenge to Speaker
PELOSI: If she has got a bill that can
pass with Democratic votes to secure
the border, put it on the floor, because
we are tired of negotiating when the
goalposts keep moving, when the terms
keep changing, and when Democrats do
not appear sincere about securing our
border.
It is like we are negotiating against
a ghost. We are tired of it, and the
American people are tired of it.
APPOINTMENT OF MEMBERS TO
UNITED STATES GROUP OF THE
NATO PARLIAMENTARY ASSEM-
BLY
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair announces the Speaker’s ap-
pointment, pursuant to 22 U.S.C. 1928a,
and the order of the House of January
3, 2019, of the following Members on the
part of the House to the United States
Group of the NATO Parliamentary As-
sembly:
Ms. SÁNCHEZ, California
Mr. LARSEN, Washington
Mrs. DAVIS, California
Mr. MEEKS, New York
Mr. BRENDAN F. BOYLE, Pennsylvania
Mr. COSTA, California
f
ISSUES OF THE DAY
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under
the Speaker’s announced policy of Jan-
uary 3, 2019, the gentleman from North
Carolina (Mr. WALKER) is recognized
for 60 minutes as the designee of the
minority leader.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. WALKER. Mr. Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that all Members
may have 5 legislative days in which to
revise and extend their remarks and in-
clude extraneous material on the topic
of this Special Order.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from North Carolina?
There was no objection.
Mr. WALKER. Mr. Speaker, I would
like to extend our deepest sympathies,
prayers, and certainly our thoughts to
the family of John Dingell and WALTER
JONES.
I did not know Mr. Dingell and only
came after and served with his lovely
wife, DEBBIE DINGELL, but certainly
wish all of their family our extended
prayers.
And the same goes for one of our
North Carolina delegation members,
WALTER JONES, and his family, Joe
Anne and Ashley, who served faithfully
for North Carolinians for a quarter of a
century.
Certainly, we will remember those,
as we already have tonight, in our
Prayer Caucus in praying for both fam-
ilies.
I don’t really have any speeches writ-
ten out tonight but do want to talk
about a couple of areas that I believe
are continuing to impact our country,
maybe two of the foremost areas: bor-
der security, and then I want to talk a
little bit about where our country
stands in the pro-life movement.
Let me start with border security.
This seems to be happening in real
time. In fact, just last night, Mr.
Speaker, I received a phone call from a
local sheriff who is part of the 3,000
sheriff representatives in the National
Sheriffs’ Association. You see, they are
becoming more and more concerned as
we get less and less, as a body, con-
cerned about border security.
They reached out to me last night
and said: Fifty of us would like to de-
liver a letter to the Capitol to Members
of Congress, specifically Chairwoman
NITA LOWEY and Ranking Member KAY
GRANGER. Our plans weren’t to arrive
until this afternoon, but we quickly
made arrangements to be here this
morning.
If these 50 sheriffs were going to trav-
el all over the country, States from
Massachusetts to Arizona to Wash-
ington to Texas, the least we could do
would be to be here and to greet them,
which we did.
On a very cold, rainy morning this
morning, we met these 50 sheriffs on
the Capitol steps, at which time they
handed to me this letter, and I would
like to read it this evening. It says:
Dear Chairwoman NITA LOWEY and Rank-
ing Member KAY GRANGER:
On behalf of more than 3,000 sheriffs rep-
resented by both the National Sheriffs’ Asso-
ciation and the Major County Sheriffs of
America, we write in opposition to Congress’
most recent deliberation to place an artifi-
cial cap on Immigration and Customs En-
forcement’s detention capacity.
Now, I am going to explain this in
just a little bit and get into detail.
Capping the number of detention beds uti-
lized by ICE not only jeopardizes the integ-
rity of the immigration system, but would
cripple ICE’s ability to detain criminal
aliens and other aliens who pose a risk to
public safety or are a flight risk.
They continue:
Any legislation that reduces ICE’s deten-
tion capacity would hinder its ability to per-
form its national security and public safety
missions but, also, impact local law enforce-
ment’s ability to protect the communities
they serve.
You know, we have heard a lot from
some of our Democratic colleagues who
say the people who should be making
these decisions or the people who
should be informing us of these deci-
sions are the people with the most ex-
perience. Well, here is our National
Sheriffs’ Association, 3,000-strong, sit-
ting representatives here.
They go on to say:
In order to meet the cap being tentatively
proposed by Congress, ICE would be com-
pelled to release thousands of aliens from
custody.
Now, listen to this data point:
To achieve the 16,500 adult average de-
tainee population—ADP—caps for the re-
maining 7 months of the fiscal year, a net re-
duction of 9,264 adults by the end of this fis-
cal year would be required.
Now, what does that mean? It means,
if you are not meeting the caps, these
folks, these criminal aliens, are going
to get released.
You say, well, are these criminal
aliens? Here is the number:
Approximately 72 percent of ICE’s current
detention population is subject to manda-
tory detention due to the alien having cer-
tain convictions or having committed cer-
tain acts.
So, of that number, 72 percent we
know of, we are just going to say, or
the Democrats want us to say, Mr.
Speaker, that we just need to release
these because we want to put a cap,
just pick a number out of the air be-
cause we don’t think we should have
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:31 Feb 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00015 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K11FE7.031 H11FEPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H1510 February 11, 2019
more than that, no matter what kind
of crimes they committed.
This is ludicrous.
They conclude by saying:
Placing a cap on ICE detention beds would
undermine the efficacy of the immigration
system and reduce the number of aliens who
are removed from the United States.
They use these words:
This dangerous congressional proposal not
only jeopardizes the risk of our national se-
curity, but hinders our law enforcement offi-
cers from effectively enforcing and uphold-
ing the law and protecting their commu-
nities.
There you have it. They are saying
the reduction of these detention beds,
which is just a backhanded way of
defunding Immigration and Customs
Enforcement, would hinder them from
doing their job.
So tonight I am reminding my Demo-
cratic colleagues that, by pushing for
the reduction of detention beds, these
sheriffs, who serve for little pay and
serve in dangerous situations in many
places, in many remote areas, they are
telling my colleagues: Don’t do this.
This puts us in a dangerous situation.
This puts our communities in a more
dangerous situation when we allow
thousands of criminal aliens to be put
back in the different communities on
the streets.
This is preposterous.
The National Sheriffs’ Association
and the Major County Sheriffs of
America oppose the current budget
proposal and urge Congress to consider
the dangerous ramifications that pass-
ing this depreciated budget could have
on the citizens of America.
Mr. Speaker, these aren’t my words.
Mr. Speaker, these aren’t the words of
our minority leader, KEVIN MCCARTHY,
or our whip, STEVE SCALISE, or our
chair, LIZ CHENEY. These are the words
of our local county sheriffs, urging and
pleading: Do not continue to push for
this.
It is a real shame that these sheriffs
have to come to Washington, D.C.—33
degrees outside, in the rain—to plead
with a Member of Congress to try and
stop such a preposterous suggestion.
As they stood today—and I brought
them inside the Capitol, gave them a
quick tour, even took them over into
the Rayburn Room, and we talked a
little bit. We talked about how struc-
tures work, how steel slats work. We
talked about the places of San Diego
and El Paso, where there has been a
drastic reduction in crime.
You see, these sheriffs get it. These
sheriffs are elected officials themselves
and have a duty to uphold the law,
much like the same oath that Members
of Congress take to protect and serve
the American people.
Structures work.
Now the Democrats, at the last
minute, are trying another ploy by try-
ing to come up with some crazy sugges-
tion that we should reduce the amount
of detention beds, putting a cap on it,
automatically releasing criminal
aliens. It is time for my Democratic
colleagues to put up or shut up when it
comes to being genuine about border
security.
One of the things that we have seen
recently is not only a lackadaisical ap-
proach about border security, but we
have also seen it in the protection and
the sanctity of human life.
b 1945
Many Members are very passionate
and should be so. You see, this isn’t
about an argument over how much
funding a certain project should re-
ceive. This isn’t about a preference on
a particular issue that comes out of
committee. The reason this has
brought so much passion over the last
50 years is because this has to do with
human life.
I can tell you, as a former pastor and
being in the hospital room when a
loved one breathed their last breath, I
have seen how families had yearned for
just another hour, another day. It is a
very sad and tragic situation. They
would have given everything they had
for another few precious minutes with
that loved one: a son, a daughter, a
dad, a brother, a sister, a mom.
Yet we have cheapened life to the
place, in these Hallowed Halls, that it
has simply become a political pawn, a
bargaining chip. How did we get to this
place?
The other night, the night before the
National Prayer Breakfast, I was
speaking with a wonderful representa-
tive, a lady from the country of Latvia,
who was appalled at our abortion laws,
who are so much further than anything
we see in Europe.
When we have to begin to talk about
only six other countries that have such
extreme abortion laws as ours, is that
not a wake-up call?
When the Governor of New York, Mr.
Speaker, continues to advocate with
such lack of respect for human life, is
that not a wake-up call?
When Governor Ralph Northam be-
gins to talk about infanticide, is that
not a wake-up call?
What does it take for everyday Amer-
icans to say enough is enough when it
comes to human life?
Right now, we are trying to bring to
the floor a Born-Alive Abortion Protec-
tion Act. What does it say? Well, it is
not overwhelming too much. It basi-
cally says, if a baby survives a botched
abortion, then the providers would be
required by law to sustain its life. Yet
we can’t get it to the floor.
The reason why is because, when it
was introduced last time, last cycle, we
had several brave, strong Democrats
who had the courage to step forward
and vote for a piece of legislation that
would require providers to sustain life
during these times.
I remember I was so moved by that
kind of courage nearly a year or so ago
that I went back to my office and
wrote thank-you cards to those Demo-
crats who were willing to stand up for
the sanctity of human life.
What is it worth to us? Not only is
the Born-Alive Protection Act some-
thing that is important; I would even
add another bill that was passed out of
the House, not taken up before the
Senate, the Pain-Capable Child Protec-
tion Act, that would limit abortions
after 20 weeks to only specific cir-
cumstances.
What is it going to take for our coun-
try to put the kind of concern and the
favor that God’s creation deserves?
Speaking of God’s creation, Mr.
Speaker, our Speaker of the House,
just 3 days ago, sent this tweet out
that I will read. She said: ‘‘We have a
moral responsibility to protect God’s
creation for generations to come.’’
That is why, today, she was naming a
select committee not on the sanctity of
human life, but on climate control.
We need to take a look at all the
issues, but we need to stand as Mem-
bers of Congress for those who cannot
stand for themselves. We need to be a
voice for those who have no voice.
Mr. Speaker, I rise tonight to con-
tinue to remind us that God’s creation
isn’t just what we see in nature. God’s
creations are also these unborn babies.
May we come to the place that we pro-
tect.
So tonight, as I talk about border se-
curity and pro-life issues, I yield to the
gentleman from Florida (Mr. YOHO), a
large animal veterinarian from the
Gainesville, Florida, area, to share his
thoughts on what we need to do secure
our border.
Mr. YOHO. Mr. Speaker, I appreciate
the gentleman’s yielding and putting
this together. It is such an important
issue.
I just left another meeting, and we
were talking about border security.
There shouldn’t even be a fight, be-
cause what we are talking about is
what we are charged with in Congress,
Republicans and Democrats, and the
President. We have all taken that oath,
and that oath talks about protecting
our country and upholding our Con-
stitution from all enemies, foreign and
domestic.
When you look at border security,
that should not be a partisan issue if
you focus on border security and take
politics out of it—not Donald Trump’s
fence, not a party’s fence; this is secu-
rity for the American people.
Just last week, there was a bust of
drugs coming in from Mexico in a load
of bell peppers that had over 1,000
pounds of methamphetamines. It was
valued at $1.2 billion, coming from our
southern border. That came through a
legal border checkpoint. That is border
security that we are not doing that we
should do that erodes the very social
fabric of this Nation.
Two weeks before that, there was a
bust of a legal truck coming in car-
rying cucumbers from the southern
border through Mexico that had over
200 pounds of fentanyl. In fact, it had
enough fentanyl to kill an estimated 55
million Americans—55 million Ameri-
cans. Again, it came through a legal
checkpoint.
So when we talk about border secu-
rity, take the narrative and the argu-
ment off of Donald Trump’s border wall
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:31 Feb 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00016 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K11FE7.033 H11FEPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1511
February 11, 2019
and put it on Americans’ border secu-
rity. If we as Republicans and Demo-
crats come together as Americans, we
will have border security.
It is not racist. It is not trying to
keep anybody out who wants to come
here legally, which there are ample
places for people to come legally. This
is about securing the people in our
country, the men and women who get
exposed to these drugs.
In addition to that—and I don’t un-
derstand why the Mexican Government
hasn’t done more about this. They are
growing over 22 hectares of poppy
fields. Poppy is used for heroin produc-
tion. There is not a medicinal use in
that quantity that needs to come into
this country. The only way that is
coming in is illegally, through either
illegal checkpoints or no checkpoints,
or it is coming through legal check-
points where we are not emphasizing
border security with the new tech-
nologies we have.
So it pains me to think of this coun-
try going through another shutdown
that it doesn’t need to because people
want to play party politics.
You think of the young men and
women in DHS, with border security,
our TSA employees, our Coast Guard,
Customs and Border Patrol, and ICE
agents. They show up for work, and we
here in this body can’t come to an
agreement about America’s border se-
curity. It is shameful for us. It is em-
barrassing.
But when you try to tell the people
who are in those situations—I know
people very well who are in the Coast
Guard, and when you say, ‘‘Well, you
just don’t understand. They are hold-
ing up. They don’t want Trump to have
a wall,’’ they say, ‘‘I don’t care whose
problem it is. Fix the problem.’’ In
fact, one of them said, ‘‘You know
where you need to build a wall around
first is around Washington, D.C. so you
guys can’t leave until you solve this
problem.’’
It is just a shame that we, together,
as Republicans and Democrats, can’t
solve this problem. But, unfortunately,
politics gets put into this.
If I may talk about the other issue
the gentleman was talking about,
being a veterinarian, I have come to
believe, and my Christian values say,
that life begins at conception. There is
no doubt in my mind. The good Lord
put it there, and I am blessed that I
have had the experiences I have had.
In fact, I have been able to do embryo
transfers in the equine, in the horse
world, and I can withdraw an embryo
from a female horse between 5 and 7
days of pregnancy. Even at that size—
when you look at it under a micro-
scope, it looks like a golf ball—it is a
baby horse developing.
I think it is ironic and it is sad that
in this country we have laws on the
books that will protect the unborn tur-
tle in an egg or the eagle within an
egg, in a nest, and we have laws that
say that it is a Federal offense and you
will go to prison for it, that we will
protect species, but yet when it comes
to our own kind, the human species—
that if you believe like you and I do
and the majority of Americans that we
are created in the image of God—I have
seen an erosion of our society, and it
pains me.
I know, every 100 years they say
there is a breakdown of our society;
but I can only think that this time
around, when you are saying it is okay
to kill a baby, full term, that is a
breathing, living, creature of God, it is
okay, that something is wrong in our
society.
I think of that verse in the Bible—
the gentleman will know the number
and all that—that says:
If my people will turn away from their
wicked ways and humble themselves and get
down on their knees, I will forgive them.
And He says:
If they do that, then I will continue to
bless them.
So, I appreciate the gentleman doing
this. I have got some more facts and
figures if he has time.
Mr. WALKER. Mr. Speaker, I thank
Dr. YOHO. I appreciate his wisdom and
his experience in this area.
As we continue to talk about these
two issues tonight, I think back to the
border security issue and how this has
become more of a campaign against the
President of the United States, when
just a few short years ago, the major-
ity of Senators, who were Democrats at
the time, voted for a structure at that
time, voted for a wall. It wasn’t politi-
cally incorrect at that point to call it
a wall. But we see how quickly in
Washington, D.C., things do become po-
litically correct.
Why? It is because we see the num-
bers. We see the work of our border
agents. We see the work of ICE, which,
in 2017, was able to ascertain over
800,000 pounds of drugs. Think about
that, 800,000 pounds of drugs. Enough
fentanyl to kill every man, woman, and
child not just in our country, but in all
of North America was ascertained.
A week ago tomorrow night, sitting
right up to my left in the second row
there, was my sister-in-law. Her broth-
er was an Army veteran, wonderful
young man, played basketball in col-
lege with my youngest brother. Scott
Aaron was his name.
One day, he injured his knee, and he
had to have an operation. From that
operation, he was given painkillers.
Painkillers went to opioids; opioids ob-
viously included heroin, to the place
where he became a full-fledged addict.
He tried multiple times to overcome
that addiction to heroin but, in the
end, failed and realized that, in his
mind, he did not have hope, which
brought him to the place of commit-
ting suicide.
Now, Scott is not by himself, to the
tune of 300 families per week that are
having the funeral of a loved one due to
some kind of tragic overdose, mostly
heroin. Now heroin is laced with
fentanyl, and we are seeing more and
more epidemic proportions.
We are doing everything we can in
Congress to provide the funding to
combat the heroin crisis, but why
wouldn’t it make sense that we also
put up some structures, specifically in
hot spots along the border, to help re-
duce and maybe even, in some cases,
eliminate?
On this floor, I have talked with
more than a dozen of my Democratic
friends and colleagues who have told
me time after time after time: We have
no doubt that a structure works.
So why not move forward? Why not
come to an agreement—a compromise,
if you will—to be able to begin to lay
out the places where a structure, a
fence, a wall could work?
How many lives would need to be
saved to make it worth it?
How many families could be reunited
without an empty chair this Thanks-
giving or this Christmas?
How many would it take for it to be
worth it? How many would it take for
us to get past the political jargon of
being able to use this as some kind of
pawn to argue back and forth?
I would say just one. The case could
be made for thousands.
b 2000
Border security: It is time we come
together. We don’t even need to be
talking about another shutdown or CR.
We need to be able to resolve this. This
is a commonsense solution to be able
to resolve this.
Republicans aren’t talking about a
border from San Diego to McAllen,
Texas. We understand there are places
where drones, where technology, where
surveillance may be the better way.
We don’t believe in eminent domain
and blocking people’s views of the Rio
Grande River with a wall, but there are
things that we can do immediately.
Yet I believe it has come to the place
where we put personalities and politics
over the people themselves.
Border security: It is time we do
something.
Mr. Speaker, I yield again to my
friend, Dr. YOHO, to have a few more
data points on border security. Then I
will close out in just a few minutes.
Mr. YOHO. Mr. Speaker, I thank the
gentleman for yielding me time.
Mr. Speaker, as I was talking earlier
about the drugs coming in, the meth-
amphetamine and the fentanyl that is
coming in, these aren’t coming in by
the honest farmer or ranch hand or
farmworker in Mexico. These are or-
chestrated by drug cartels.
Keep in mind, the methamphetamine
and the fentanyl coming into this
country primarily comes via China, so
you have nation-states that are send-
ing products into this country. China is
trying to re-create the Opium Wars of
the 1800s with our youth in this coun-
try.
Mr. Speaker, Mr. WALKER brought up
the deaths, and I feel really bad for his
family to have his brother-in-law go
through that. I can’t imagine the pain
and the horror.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:16 Feb 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00017 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K11FE7.034 H11FEPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H1512 February 11, 2019
There are 300 opioid deaths a week in
this country alone, but that is just the
tip of the iceberg.
A good friend of mine, he is a heart
surgeon in Gainesville, Florida. He
said: TED, that is just the tip of it. I
have a young lady in, and it is her
fourth heart valve replacement. At 25
years of age, the fourth heart valve re-
placement, because as they use the
drugs, they don’t use sterile tech-
niques. They get infected. Their im-
mune system goes down, and the bac-
teria will grow on the heart valve. Her
fourth one.
I said: Tom, what is the cost of that?
He said: The average heart valve is
close to $100,000.
$400,000, and if she dies, she doesn’t
die from a drug overdose. In the
records, it is from heart failure.
So the 300 a week who we know are
dying from drug overdoses, that is just
the tip of the iceberg.
We talk about the cost. You can put
a monetary cost on the deaths and the
EMTs and all the emergency support
staff and the ERs that we as taxpayers
are funding, because, as he said, guess
who paid for that? I said the hospital.
He said: Absolutely. No insurance.
We can put a price on that, a mone-
tary price, but you can’t put a price on
the disruption and the loss of a family
member, as Mr. WALKER’s family went
through. The price of that goes on for-
ever.
If we look at just numbers, from a
typical number standpoint, we get 2,000
inadmissible migrants arriving at our
southern border daily. That means,
since January 2, when the Democrats
took over, 41 days approximately, that
means there were 82,000 inadmissible
migrants who came into this country
or were trying to.
Of the family units—that is a spouse,
a husband and wife, or just a mother
and father with their children—in the
last 41 days, that equates to 36,395 fam-
ily units.
If you look at the illegal aliens ar-
rested for homicide charges just in the
last 41 days, it is more than 228 arrests.
Let’s take politics out of this argu-
ment, and let’s do what is right by the
American people: fund our government,
fund DHS, secure our borders with any
means from above.
Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman
from North Carolina for his passion
about this.
Mr. WALKER. Mr. Speaker, I thank
Dr. YOHO for his comments tonight. I
appreciate that.
Mr. Speaker, just a couple more
thoughts on border security as we
move forward.
America was built on immigration.
Nearly everyone within the sound of
my voice, even though the halls have
emptied out tonight, can go back and
trace, from some ancestry point, the
impact that immigrants had on this
country, but it is legal immigration.
Now, somebody might ask, how are
we doing in that area? Thank you for
asking.
America has the most generous im-
migration laws in the world. In 2017
alone, we took over 1.1 million immi-
grants who raised their right hand, who
took an oath to pledge allegiance to
this great country of America. We are
doing pretty good there, and the Presi-
dent has even made proposals to in-
crease that amount.
It is the illegal immigration. We
don’t want our hearts to get lost in
this, as Republicans, and specifically
speaking for myself, having worked in
refugee camps, having worked inter-
nationally to understand the plight
and the struggle that goes on, to be
able to expand America as fast as we
can, to legally allow people to be part
of the greatest country in the history
of the world.
Yet, as Members of Congress, when
we raise that right hand to do our best
to protect, we need to take that seri-
ously.
The crazy calls to abolish our law en-
forcement, agencies like ICE, which in
2017 rescued 904 children who were
being exploited, how many children
would it take for it to be worth it, for
Immigration and Customs Enforce-
ment? How many of those children
would we measure any success by this?
To go as far as calling for abolish-
ment, that is not America. That is
crazy political speech.
Speaking of crazy political speech,
the recent absurd language that has be-
come acceptable to talk about third
trimesters and to talk about infan-
ticide, what are we coming to in this
country?
Listen, we don’t pass judgment on
the young woman who is making some-
times a life decision. Working with our
own Greensboro Pregnancy Care Cen-
ter, sometimes these young ladies
don’t even realize they have another
option. We don’t pass judgment. Do not
believe the lies that this is about
hating or judging these mere innocent
souls.
The problem that I have tonight is
the political leaders who are providing
the pathway to cheapen the sanctity of
our human lives. That is where the
focus needs to be. It needs to be that
colleagues, Republicans and Demo-
crats, are willing to stand up for those
who simply don’t have any rights.
Who advocates for the baby? Who
speaks out on behalf of the baby? It is
all about reproductive rights. It is all
about choice. It is all about what is
now called women’s healthcare. Who
voices or who stands up for the baby?
As we talked about a little earlier to-
night in our bipartisan prayer caucus
where a dozen or so Members were
gathered, I brought up the point it
wasn’t too long ago that I remember
sitting in a prestigious place with my
wife, being the honored guests. To add
to that, I think back over the last 4
years I have served with the United
States Congress. I have sat down with
Prime Ministers and royalty all across
this world to have opportunities to
talk policy. But I am well aware that,
in our life, the remembrance of a Con-
gressman lasts about 15 minutes,
maybe 20 minutes, once you are gone
from these hallowed halls.
We are judged, in some ways, by our
policy. But ultimately, what we do for
God, to me, matters the most, when it
comes to eternal values. One day, when
we all stand before God, we will be
judged not by just whatever button we
pushed on the back of these chairs but,
ultimately, what we did, I believe, with
life.
That is why it is important to me. It
is why it is important to millions and
millions of Americans.
Let’s get back to the place where we
are willing to stand up, where we are
willing to raise our voices for a child
who cannot raise its own.
Tonight, let’s get back to a place
where we have a respect for the Al-
mighty, for God, who, as I read in a
tweet earlier, is the giver and the cre-
ator of life.
I think of David’s writing in the Old
Testament. I think of Psalm 139, where
David captured quite poetically the
words how we are ‘‘fearfully and won-
derfully made,’’ how that even when we
were formed, the beginning of our sub-
stance, God knew us. Not only did he
know us, it is that he had a purpose
and a plan for every life born and un-
born.
May we never grow weary, and may
we never tire of doing all that we can
in the United States Congress to pro-
tect, stand for, and defend the sanctity
of human life.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
f
GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWN
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under
the Speaker’s announced policy of Jan-
uary 3, 2019, the gentleman from Flor-
ida (Mr. SOTO) is recognized for 60 min-
utes as the designee of the majority
leader.
Mr. SOTO. Mr. Speaker, first, I want
to thank the gentleman from North
Carolina. We in Florida all express our
condolences for the loss of Congress-
man WALTER JONES. I thank the gen-
tleman for bringing that up.
Mr. Speaker, we had the longest
shutdown in history caused by the
President of the United States claim-
ing the mantel that government needed
to be shut down for his border wall.
Then, finally, government was re-
opened as every party came to their
senses.
As we speak, Mr. Speaker, we have
Senate Members and House Members
diligently negotiating a bipartisan bor-
der deal, four Republicans in the Sen-
ate led by Senator SHELBY and three
Democrats led by Senator LEAHY. In
the House, we have Chairwoman NITA
LOWEY, subcommittee Chairwoman
ROYBAL-ALLARD, Ranking Member
GRANGER, and Ranking Member
FLEISCHMANN.
I believe a deal is imminent, where
both sides will deliver concessions and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:46 Feb 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00018 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K11FE7.036 H11FEPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1513
February 11, 2019
have to compromise. Yet, tonight, I
heard dozens of speeches by my friends
across the aisle on the one hand plead-
ing for a bipartisan deal and on the
other hand condemning Democrats
with every other breath.
Were they not aware that there is a
bipartisan negotiation happening as we
speak that their colleagues are in-
volved in? Devoid of reality, perhaps,
or maybe it was just political scare
tactics.
Mr. Speaker, when bipartisan plans
come up before this body this week,
and we show that we will keep the gov-
ernment open and protect our Nation, I
know one other thing is for sure: My
colleagues across the aisle are going to
need a new script, because these scare
tactics aren’t going to work anymore.
BLACK HISTORY MONTH
Mr. SOTO. Mr. Speaker, in honor of
Black History Month, I want to recog-
nize Anna M. Pinellas. Anna M.
Pinellas and her husband, Louis C.
Pinellas, moved to Kissimmee, Florida,
in 1981, after having worked in local
government in Washington, Maryland,
and Virginia.
Having knowledge in securing funds
for various projects, she was hired by
the city of Kissimmee and was able to
secure grants for the infrastructure
around Osceola Square Mall, the pav-
ing of Hill Street, and John Young
Parkway, the first of those grants
being $750,000.
b 2015
She was also hired by Osceola County
government to secure Federal funds for
projects, which include bringing Head
Start back to Osceola County, refur-
bishing the old courthouse, and the es-
tablishment of a salary plan for Osce-
ola County employees.
One of her primary goals was to pur-
sue the establishment of the Dr. Mar-
tin Luther King, Jr. holiday in the city
of Kissimmee, city of St. Cloud, Osce-
ola County, and the school board. Thir-
ty-four years ago, Pinellas founded
Osceola Visionaries, Inc., a nonprofit
corporation devoted to honoring and
celebrating Dr. Martin Luther King,
Jr. before the holiday was observed.
Today, Pinellas continues to honor
Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. by hosting
their annual banquet and holding pro-
grams for the central Florida commu-
nity.
And for that, Mrs. Pinellas, we honor
you.
RECOGNIZING BEVERLYE COLSON NEAL
Mr. SOTO. Mr. Speaker, in honor of
Black History Month, I recognize
Beverlye Colson Neal.
Beverlye Colson Neal is the president
of the Orange County branch of the
NAACP and the former executive direc-
tor for the Florida State Conference of
the NAACP. She has spent most of her
life fighting for civil rights, beginning
in her early childhood, as a member of
the Jacksonville Youth Council of the
NAACP.
She has a wealth of experience in the
field of civil rights, community, and
political organizing. Her involvement
has been centered around safeguarding
the Black community.
She coordinated the 1984 GOTV ef-
forts for the Congressional District 3
for Reverend Jesse Jackson for Presi-
dent of the United States, getting the
only elected Jesse Jackson delegate
from Florida from that congressional
district. In 2009, she was asked by Dr.
C. Delores Tucker to start a chapter of
the National Congress of Black Women,
Inc. in Florida. She has since organized
five other chapters in the State. She
has been instrumental in ensuring the
programs under the NCBW-Orlando re-
flect the needs of Black women and
their families in Orlando.
She is the mother of three adult
sons—James, Odell, and Kenneth
Neal—and the proud grandmother of
five grandchildren. She has a com-
mitted passion for the work that she
does in the State, and is always work-
ing for those who are ignored or over-
looked. She feels that this is God’s pur-
pose for her life on Earth.
And for that, Mrs. Beverlye Colson
Neal, we honor you.
RECOGNIZING JOHNNIE WALKER
Mr. SOTO. Mr. Speaker, in honor of
Black History Month, I recognize
Johnnie Walker.
Johnnie Walker was born in Ethiopia
in 1961, where his father was a tech-
nical advisor for the U.S. Department
of State. He is now employed as a na-
tional representative for the American
Federation of Government Employees,
working for and with Federal employ-
ees performing the full range of em-
ployee and labor relations duties for
Florida, Puerto Rico, and the U.S. Vir-
gin Islands.
For 32 years, he has been a labor ac-
tivist, advocate, and trainer, with ex-
tensive experience representing union-
ized bargaining unit employee mem-
bers, and others. His advocacy has ob-
tained over $500,000 in back pay for
D.C. government bargaining unit em-
ployees.
Walker received his undergraduate
degrees in political science and liberal
arts from the College of Central Flor-
ida and Howard University. He worked
as the constituent liaison for the late
Florida Congressman Bill Chappell, Jr.
from 1983 to 1986. He has received nu-
merous recognitions from the D.C.
Committee on Political Education,
D.C. Central Labor Council, and the
AFGE.
Walker represents Federal Govern-
ment employees and provides commu-
nity support and outreach to thousands
of union members he represents, the
most recent example being the ongoing
support for furloughed employees by
holding collections and distribution
drives, town halls, and roundtable dis-
cussions to discuss the effects and seek
solutions.
And for that, Mr. Johnnie Walker, we
honor you.
RECOGNIZING CYNTHIA DOWNING
Mr. SOTO. Mr. Speaker, in honor of
Black History Month, I recognize Cyn-
thia Downing.
Cynthia Downing is a native of Flor-
ida; mother of one daughter, Cyntoria;
and a recent grandmother of grandson,
JaMarcus. She is a graduate of Haines
City Senior High. She received her
Bachelor’s degree in Management of
Human Resources and a Master of
Business Administration degree from
the University of Phoenix.
Ms. Downing is a lifetime member of
the Haines City NAACP, where she
serves as president. Her love of advo-
cating for people and seeking justice
has afforded her the opportunity to
serve on social and economic panels.
She is most proud of instituting the
Black History Program, Black History
Essay Contest, quarterly mission
projects, a scholarship program, and
the Drum Major for Justice Award.
Serving in this capacity allows her to
bring awareness and new initiatives to
her community.
She always had a passion for helping
others reach their fullest potential,
and her management skills allowed her
to start her own business as a trainer
and coach. She also assists with voca-
tional rehabilitation with job place-
ment.
Ms. Downing is also active in many
ministries of her church, New Mount
Zion Missionary Baptist Church in
Haines City. She serves as a Sunday
school teacher, newsletter editor,
website administrator, and president of
the Shepherd’s Care Ministry.
She lives by the quote her dad often
repeated: ‘‘To whom much is given,
much is required.’’
And for that, Ms. Cynthia Downing,
we honor you.
RECOGNIZING ANTHONY GORDON
Mr. SOTO. Mr. Speaker, in honor of
Black History Month, I recognize An-
thony Gordon.
Anthony Gordon was born and raised
in Avon Park, Florida. After grad-
uating from Avon Park High School, he
attended Polk State College on a base-
ball scholarship, and soon began his
professional baseball career with the
Seattle Mariners, Kansas City Royals,
Chicago White Sox, and Milwaukee
Brewers.
After retiring from professional base-
ball in 1996, he began working with Bill
and Brian Jarrett to purchase and op-
erate the Jarrett-Gordon Ford dealer-
ships in central Florida.
Anthony serves as a board member
for the Ford Motor Minority Dealers
Association, as a Rotarian since 2002,
and also served as a Haines City Cham-
ber Board member, on the Board of Di-
rectors for Heart of Florida hospital,
and was recognized as the Haines City
Chamber of Commerce 2014 Citizen of
the Year. He volunteers for the Great
American Teach-In at Ridge High
School, Bethune Academy and Horizon
Elementary in recognition of Black
History Month.
Mr. Anthony Gordon is a dedicated
husband and father, as well as a long-
time active member of New Zion Tem-
ple Holiness Church Association, where
he currently serves as an ordained min-
ister. He is a firm believer that his
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:31 Feb 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00019 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K11FE7.038 H11FEPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H1514 February 11, 2019
life’s accomplishments are directly or-
dered by the mercy and grace of God.
And for that, Mr. Anthony Gordon,
we honor you.
RECOGNIZING WAYNE GANDY
Mr. SOTO. Mr. Speaker, in honor of
Black History Month, I recognize
Wayne Gandy.
In 1989, as a senior at Haines City
High School, Wayne Gandy was re-
cruited by Auburn University to play
football. He was then drafted as a first-
round pick to the Los Angeles Rams,
where he played his first 5 years. Since
then, he has played for the Pittsburgh
Steelers, New Orleans Saints, and the
Atlanta Falcons, having never missed a
game.
After the NFL, Gandy focused on his
foundation, The Wayne Gandy Founda-
tion, organized exclusively to support
and promote the power of sports in de-
veloping the qualities of leadership, so-
cial responsibility, and excellence
through the sponsorship of sports
camps, team building events, and pro-
grams that build healthy spirits, bod-
ies, and minds of at-risk teens.
In addition to this, he also hosts a
daily 3-hour syndicated radio show, the
Sports Joc Show with Wayne Gandy,
and serves as a color analyst for ESPN.
Gandy still returns to his hometown,
Haines City, Florida, and offers help
wherever it may be needed. For the
past 3 years, he has sponsored the
Wayne Gandy Christmas Tournament,
a semi-final high school basketball
tournament in Haines City.
In 2017, Haines City High School dedi-
cated the Wayne Gandy field to Mr.
Gandy, thus showing how much his
name is synonymous to the meaning of
truly being a ‘‘hometown hero.’’
And for that, Mr. Wayne Gandy, we
honor you.
RECOGNIZING LEMUEL GEATHERS
Mr. SOTO. Mr. Speaker, in honor of
Black History Month, I recognize
Lemuel Geathers.
Mr. Lemuel Geathers, from the his-
toric Pughsville neighborhood of Win-
ter Haven, Florida, served as the city’s
first African American Commissioner
and Mayor. He was also the special as-
sistant to Congressman Andy Ireland.
He is a World War II veteran, and
served as an electrician in the Navy.
In 1954, he went on to receive a Bach-
elor of Science degree in industrial arts
and education from Florida A&M Uni-
versity. He spent 28 years as a teacher
in Polk County, and one of his greatest
accomplishments was serving on the
committee to establish a junior college
in Winter Haven, Florida, now known
as Polk State College, because he knew
the importance of receiving a good edu-
cation.
He has served on the Central Florida
Regional Planning Council, Winter
Haven Hospital Board, Polk County In-
dustrial Bonding Board, Polk County
Master Planning Committee, and was
chairman of the city’s Human Rela-
tions Committee. Mr. Geathers was
also the first African American chair-
man of the Democratic Executive Com-
mittee in Polk County. He has been af-
filiated with the National Education
Association, American Legion, NAACP,
Boys and Girls Club, and Optimist
Club.
His wife, Juanita Geathers, is a re-
tired educator and former secretary of
the Florida Democratic Party. They
have six children and nine grand-
children, all college educated.
And for that, Mr. Lemuel Geathers,
we honor you.
RECOGNIZING GEORGE BROOKS
Mr. SOTO. Mr. Speaker, in honor of
Black History Month, I recognize
George Brooks.
Staff Sergeant George Brooks en-
listed in the U.S. Air Force in 1954; 7
years after the USAF had integrated
its forces. He was stationed in Biloxi,
less than 1 year before Emmett Till
was murdered in Money, Mississippi.
He was also one of the first African
Americans to attend electronics
school.
While stationed in Spokane, Wash-
ington, he worked on the B–36 aircraft,
becoming one of the first Black bomb
navigation technicians to fly the craft,
flying three missions. He left Spokane
in 1956 for Westover Air Force Base, in
Springfield, Massachusetts, where he
first started working on the B–52 bomb-
er, also joining the first ranks of Black
navigators on that plane.
He flew 47 missions in the B–52, and
was awarded the Air Medal with two
clusters. Over the course of his 20-year
career, he flew over 100 missions, until
retiring from the USAF in 1974.
Mr. Brooks went to work for the De-
partment of Defense for 13 years after
that as an electronics consultant, until
his retirement in 1987. He traveled the
world extensively, with stops in seven
continents, including Antarctica, fi-
nally ending up in Nalcrest, just out-
side Lake Wales.
Staff Sergeant George Brooks, for
that, we honor you.
RECOGNIZING ORRETT DAVIS
Mr. SOTO. Mr. Speaker, in honor of
Black History Month, I recognize
Orrett Davis.
Orrett Davis is a growth marketer,
startup advocate, and technology en-
thusiast. While continuing to support
Orlando’s tech community, Mr. Davis
currently serves as Director of Mar-
keting at SightPlan, an Orlando-based
technology company providing cutting-
edge solutions for the Nation’s growing
multifamily industry.
Mr. Davis is a proud graduate of the
University of Florida, and received a
master’s degree in business administra-
tion from Rollins College. Prior to
SightPlan, Mr. Davis was head of
growth for Abe AI, a financial tech-
nology company, recently acquired by
Envestnet Yodlee, where he launched
the largest virtual summit on artificial
intelligence and banking.
Mr. Davis was the first executive di-
rector for the Orlando Tech Associa-
tion, OTA, which helped cultivate the
explosive growth of Orlando’s startup
and technology ecosystem.
b 2030
As head of OTA, Mr. Davis was in-
vited to the inaugural Tech Meet Up at
the White House by the Obama admin-
istration, where he presented on the
growth of Orlando’s startup commu-
nity.
Mr. Davis has made a tremendous im-
pact on the central Florida commu-
nity, and in addition to his work in Or-
lando, he has helped foster entrepre-
neurial communities throughout the
country.
For that, Mr. Orrett Davis, we honor
you.
IN RECOGNITION OF DELORIS MCMILLON
Mr. SOTO. Mr. Speaker, in honor of
Black History Month, I want to recog-
nize Deloris McMillon.
Ms. Deloris McMillon is a retired ed-
ucator and administrator whose career
spanned from 1965 to 2003. Her commit-
ment to educating children and com-
munity service are among her greatest
gifts and strengths.
Ms. McMillon moved to Kissimmee in
1966 after marrying her college sweet-
heart, the late Samuel Lawrence
McMillon, Jr.
During a time when schools were still
segregated, she helped pave the way for
the integration of Black educators into
the Osceola County School System.
After receiving her master’s in ad-
ministration and supervision in 1989,
she was promoted to assistant prin-
cipal at Osceola High School, and then
principal of Parkway Middle School.
Ms. McMillon has received numerous
awards for her outstanding contribu-
tions and leadership in education and
community service. She is a recipient
of the NAACP Lifetime Achievement
Award, the Rosa Parks Memorial
Award, the OCTA Human and Civil
Rights Award, and more.
Her involvements include Valencia
Community College Board of Trustees;
Osceola County Fire and Rescue Advi-
sory Board; Osceola Visionaries, Inc.;
and a member of the Kissimmee/Osce-
ola County Chamber of Commerce
Leadership.
Deloris McMillon is currently the
President of the Osceola County branch
of the NAACP. She continues to advo-
cate for equal rights and education.
She encourages young people to seek
higher educational opportunities by
providing tutoring and financial assist-
ance to college-bound students. She is
a true role model for all women, not
just women of color.
And for that, Ms. Deloris McMillon,
we honor you.
IN RECOGNITION OF GAIL PASCHALL-BROWN
Mr. SOTO. Mr. Speaker, in honor of
Black History Month, I want to recog-
nize Gail Paschall-Brown. Gail
Paschall-Brown started her life in
Brooklyn, New York, but was raised by
her grandparents in rural North Caro-
lina.
Now a Floridian, Paschall-Brown is
celebrating 21 years at WESH–2 News,
where she has served as an anchor and
is a general assignment reporter.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:31 Feb 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00020 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K11FE7.040 H11FEPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1515
February 11, 2019
Starting in television while in high
school, working in her hometown,
Paschall-Brown did everything from
shooting video for the city to doing
commercials for advertisers.
Gail received a bachelor of arts in
drama and speech, with a minor in
broadcasting, from East Carolina Uni-
versity. While at ECU, she received the
Broadcaster of the Year Award from
her peers and worked at WITN-TV 7 in
North Carolina. She served on ECU’s
first practicum program for journal-
ists.
Paschall-Brown learned the business
from all angles. Beginning as a tape
jockey, she moved to reporter, then to
anchor, and even did weather before
Doppler radar was implemented.
In Florida, she has covered countless
stories, including related to Trayvon
Martin and Casey Anthony, and Polk
County’s Alejandra Juarez’s deporta-
tion story to Mexico, that I am cur-
rently working on legislation for.
Some of Gail’s most memorable sto-
ries include the first Gulf War, the Gre-
nada Invasion, and Susan Smith, who
drowned her two sons, tragically. She
has interviewed notables, including
Congresswoman Shirley Chisholm, au-
thor Alex Haley, sportscaster Jayne
Kennedy, and did stories ranging from
Bob Hope, Phylicia Rashad, to Pope
Air Force Base.
Gail has received numerous commu-
nity awards, including: being inducted
into the Central Florida Association of
Black Journalists Hall of Fame; Or-
ange County Mayor Teresa Jacobs pro-
claimed Gail Paschall-Brown Day on
April 30, 2015, for being a committed
and engaged reporter who has shown
integrity and compassion for the com-
munity; and that same year, she also
received the Spirit of Journalism
Oprah Winfrey Journalism Award.
She is most proud of her two chil-
dren: Jasmine, a senior at North Caro-
lina A&T; and Joshua, a sophomore at
Florida Gulf Coast University.
After nearly four decades as a jour-
nalist, Gail says she loves this business
still and hopes to continue serving the
central Florida community.
And for that, Ms. Gail Paschall-
Brown, we honor you.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the remain-
der of my time.
f
LEAVE OF ABSENCE
By unanimous consent, leave of ab-
sence was granted to:
Mr. QUIGLEY (at the request of Mr.
HOYER) for today on account of a death
in the family.
Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN (at the re-
quest of Mr. HOYER) for today on ac-
count of illness.
Mrs. SUSAN BROOKS of Indiana (at the
request of Mr. MCCARTHY) for today on
account of district business.
f
ADJOURNMENT
Mr. SOTO. Mr. Speaker, I move that
the House do now adjourn.
The motion was agreed to; accord-
ingly (at 8 o’clock and 36 minutes
p.m.), under its previous order and pur-
suant to House Resolution 121, the
House adjourned until tomorrow, Tues-
day, February 12, 2019, at 9 a.m., as a
further mark of respect to the memory
of the late Honorable WALTER B.
JONES.
f
BUDGETARY EFFECTS OF PAYGO
LEGISLATION
Pursuant to the Statutory Pay-As-
You-Go Act of 2010 (PAYGO), Mr. YAR-
MUTH hereby submits, prior to the vote
on passage, for printing in the CON-
GRESSIONAL RECORD, that H.R. 995, the
Settlement Agreement Information
Database Act of 2019, would have no
significant effect on direct spending or
revenues, and therefore, the budgetary
effects of such bill are estimated as
zero.
Pursuant to the Statutory Pay-As-
You-Go Act of 2010 (PAYGO), Mr. YAR-
MUTH hereby submits, prior to the vote
on passage, for printing in the CON-
GRESSIONAL RECORD that H.R. 1063, the
Presidential Library Donation Reform
Act of 2019, would have no significant
effect on direct spending or revenues,
and therefore, the budgetary effects of
such bill are estimated as zero.
Pursuant to the Statutory Pay-As-
You-Go Act of 2010 (PAYGO), Mr. YAR-
MUTH hereby submits, prior to the vote
on passage, for printing in the CON-
GRESSIONAL RECORD, that H.R. 1064, a
bill to amend title 5, United States
Code, to allow whistleblowers to dis-
close information to certain recipients,
would have no significant effect on di-
rect spending or revenues, and there-
fore, the budgetary effects of such bill
are estimated as zero.
Pursuant to the Statutory Pay-As-
You-Go Act of 2010 (PAYGO), Mr. YAR-
MUTH hereby submits, prior to the vote
on passage, for printing in the CON-
GRESSIONAL RECORD, that H.R. 1079, the
Creating Advanced Streamlined Elec-
tronic Services for Constituents Act of
2019, would have no significant effect
on direct spending or revenues, and
therefore, the budgetary effects of such
bill are estimated as zero.
f
EXECUTIVE COMMUNICATIONS,
ETC.
Under clause 2 of rule XIV, executive
communications were taken from the
Speaker’s table and referred as follows:
116. A letter from the Alternate OSD
FRLO, Office of the Secretary, Department
of Defense, transmitting the Department’s
final rule — Retroactive Stop Loss Special
Pay Compensation [Docket ID: DOD-2018-OS-
0071] (RIN: 0790-AK39) received February 8,
2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public
Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the
Committee on Armed Services.
117. A letter from the Alternate OSD
FRLO, Office of the Secretary, Department
of Defense, transmitting the Department’s
final rule — Compensation of Certain
Former Operatives Incarcerated by the
Democratic Republic of Vietnam [Docket ID:
DOD-2018-OS-0050] (RIN: 0790-AK38) received
February 8, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Armed Serv-
ices.
118. A letter from the Alternate OSD
FRLO, Office of the Secretary, Department
of Defense, transmitting the Department’s
final rule — Unsatisfactory Performance of
Ready Reserve Obligation [Docket ID: DOD-
2018-OS-0069] (RIN: 0790-AK28) received Feb-
ruary 8, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Armed Serv-
ices.
119. A letter from the Alternate OSD
FRLO, Office of the Secretary, Department
of Defense, transmitting the Department’s
final rule — Participation in Reserve Train-
ing Programs [Docket ID: DOD-2018-OS-0070]
(RIN: 0790-AK29) received February 8, 2019,
pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law
104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Com-
mittee on Armed Services.
120. A letter from the Assistant General
Counsel for Regulatory Services, Office of
Elementary and Secondary Education, De-
partment of Education, transmitting the De-
partment’s notice — Supplement NOT Sup-
plant Under Title I, Part A of the Elemen-
tary and Secondary Education Act of 1965, As
Amended by the Every Student Succeeds Act
received February 8, 2019, pursuant to 5
U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec.
251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on Edu-
cation and Labor.
121. A letter from the Acting Assistant
Secretary of Labor for Occupational Safety
and Health, Department of Labor, transmit-
ting the Department’s final rule — Tracking
of Workplace Injuries and Illnesses [Docket
No.: OSHA-2013-0023] (RIN: 1218-AD17) re-
ceived February 8, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Education
and Labor.
122. A letter from the Director, Regula-
tions Policy and Management Staff, FDA,
Department of Health and Human Services,
transmitting the Department’s final rule —
Food Additives Permitted in Feed and
Drinking Water of Animals; Formic Acid
[Docket No.: FDA-2017-F-2130] received Feb-
ruary 8, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Energy and
Commerce.
123. A letter from the White House Liaison,
Department of Education, transmitting a no-
tification of a federal vacancy pursuant to 5
U.S.C. 3349(a); Public Law 105-277, 151(b); (112
Stat. 2681-614); to the Committee on Over-
sight and Reform.
124. A letter from the Acting Chairman,
Federal Mine Safety and Health Review
Commission, transmitting the Department’s
fiscal year 2018 annual report prepared in ac-
cordance with Section 203(a) of the Notifica-
tion and Federal Employee Anti-Discrimina-
tion and Retaliation Act of 2002 (No FEAR
Act), Public Law 107-174; to the Committee
on Oversight and Reform.
125. A letter from the Assistant General
Counsel for Regulatory Services, Office of
General Counsel, Department of Education,
transmitting the Department’s final regula-
tions — Adjustment of Civil Monetary Pen-
alties for Inflation [Docket ID: ED-2019-OGC-
0004] (RIN: 1801-AA18) received February 8,
2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public
Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the
Committee on the Judiciary.
126. A letter from the Assistant Director,
Office of Regulation Policy and Manage-
ment, Office of the Secretary (00REG), De-
partment of Veteran Affairs, transmitting
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:31 Feb 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00021 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K11FE7.041 H11FEPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H1516 February 11, 2019
the Department’s final rule — Federal Civil
Penalties Inflation Adjustment Act Amend-
ments (RIN: 2900-AQ55) received February 8,
2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public
Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the
Committee on the Judiciary.
127. A letter from the Management and
Program Analyst, FAA, Department of
Transportation, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s final rule — Amendment of Class D
and Class E Airspace; Casper, WY [Docket
No.: FAA-2017-0223; Airspace Docket No.: 17-
ANM-9] (RIN: 2120-AA66) received February
8, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Pub-
lic Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the
Committee on Transportation and Infra-
structure.
128. A letter from the Management and
Program Analyst, FAA, Department of
Transportation, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s final rule — Amendment of Class E
Airspace; Bethel, ME [Docket No.: FAA-2018-
0883; Airspace Docket No.: 18-ANE-5] (RIN:
2120-AA66) received February 8, 2019, pursu-
ant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-
121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee
on Transportation and Infrastructure.
129. A letter from the Management and
Program Analyst, FAA, Department of
Transportation, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s final rule — Amendment of Class E
Airspace; Mesquite, NV [Docket No.: FAA-
2018-0007; Airspace Docket No.: 17-AWP-18]
(RIN: 2120-AA66) received February 8, 2019,
pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law
104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Com-
mittee on Transportation and Infrastruc-
ture.
130. A letter from the Management and
Program Analyst, FAA, Department of
Transportation, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s final rule — Airworthiness Direc-
tives; The Boeing Company Airplanes [Dock-
et No.: FAA-2018-1066; Product Identifier
2018-NM-176-AD; Amendment 39-19540; AD
2019-01-01] (RIN: 2120-AA64) received Feb-
ruary 8, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Transpor-
tation and Infrastructure.
131. A letter from the Management and
Program Analyst, FAA, Department of
Transportation, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s final rule — IFR Altitudes; Miscella-
neous Amendments [Docket No.: 31228;
Amdt. No.: 543] received February 8, 2019,
pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law
104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Com-
mittee on Transportation and Infrastruc-
ture.
132. A letter from the Management and
Program Analyst, FAA, Department of
Transportation, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s final rule — Amendment of Class E
Airspace; Pago Pago, American Samoa
[Docket No.: FAA-2018-0082; Airspace Docket
No.: 16-AWP-22] (RIN: 2120-AA66) received
February 8, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Transpor-
tation and Infrastructure.
133. A letter from the Management and
Program Analyst, FAA, Department of
Transportation, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s final rule — Amendment of Class D
and Class E Airspace, and Removal of Class
E Airspace; Lompoc, CA [Docket No.: FAA-
2017-1146; Airspace Docket No.: 17-AWP-16)
[RIN: 2120-AA66] received February 8, 2019,
pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law
104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Com-
mittee on Transportation and Infrastruc-
ture.
134. A letter from the Management and
Program Analyst, FAA, Department of
Transportation, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s final rule — Establishment of Class E
Airspace; Leitchfield, KY [Docket No.: FAA-
2018-0485; Airspace Docket No.: 18-ASO-10]
(RIN: 2120-AA66) received February 8, 2019,
pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law
104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Com-
mittee on Transportation and Infrastruc-
ture.
135. A letter from the Management and
Program Analyst, FAA, Department of
Transportation, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s final rule — Amendment of Class D
and Class E Airspace; Aspen, CO [Docket No.:
FAA-2018-0016; Airspace Docket No.: 17-ANM-
14] (RIN: 2120-AA66) received February 8,
2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public
Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the
Committee on Transportation and Infra-
structure.
136. A letter from the Management and
Program Analyst, FAA, Department of
Transportation, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s final rule — Removal of Class E Air-
space; Mercury, NV [Docket No.: FAA-2017-
1148; Airspace Docket No.: 17-AWP-30] (RIN:
2120-AA66) received February 8, 2019, pursu-
ant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-
121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee
on Transportation and Infrastructure.
137. A letter from the Management and
Program Analyst, FAA, Department of
Transportation, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s final rule — Amendment of Class D
Airspace; Appleton, WI [Docket No.: FAA-
2018-0006; Airspace Docket No.: 18-AGL-1]
(RIN: 2120-AA66) received February 8, 2019,
pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law
104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Com-
mittee on Transportation and Infrastruc-
ture.
138. A letter from the Management and
Program Analyst, FAA, Department of
Transportation, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s final rule — Establishment of Class E
Airspace; Hardinsburg, KY [Docket No.:
FAA-2018-0486; Airspace Docket No.: 18-ASO-
11] (RIN: 2120-AA66) received February 8,
2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public
Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the
Committee on Transportation and Infra-
structure.
139. A letter from the Management and
Program Analyst, FAA, Department of
Transportation, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s final rule — Amendment of Class D
and Class E Airspace; Moses Lake, WA
[Docket No.: FAA-2017-1033; Airspace Docket
No.: 17-ANM-19] (RIN: 2120-AA66) received
February 8, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Transpor-
tation and Infrastructure.
140. A letter from the Management and
Program Analyst, FAA, Department of
Transportation, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s final rule — Establishment of Class E
Airspace; Maurice, IA [Docket No.: FAA-
2018-0671; Airspace Docket No.: 18-ACE-3]
(RIN: 2120-AA66) received February 8, 2019,
pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law
104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Com-
mittee on Transportation and Infrastruc-
ture.
141. A letter from the Management and
Program Analyst, FAA, Department of
Transportation, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s final rule — Amendment of Class D
and Class E Airspace and Revocation of Class
E Airspace; Jackson, MI [Docket No.: FAA-
2017-1187; Airspace Docket No.: 17-AGL-25]
(RIN: 2120-AA66) received February 8, 2019,
pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law
104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Com-
mittee on Transportation and Infrastruc-
ture.
142. A letter from the Management and
Program Analyst, FAA, Department of
Transportation, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s final rule — Establishment of Class E
Airspace; Glen Ullin, ND [Docket No.: FAA-
2018-0312; Airspace Docket No.: 18-AGL-7]
(RIN: 2120-AA66) received February 8, 2019,
pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law
104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Com-
mittee on Transportation and Infrastruc-
ture.
143. A letter from the Management and
Program Analyst, FAA, Department of
Transportation, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s final rule — Amendment of VOR Fed-
eral Airways V-170 and V-219 in the Vicinity
of Fairmont, MN [Docket No.: FAA-2018-0280;
Airspace Docket No.: 17-AGL-27] (RIN: 2120-
AA66) received February 8, 2019, pursuant to
5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec.
251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on
Transportation and Infrastructure.
144. A letter from the Management and
Program Analyst, FAA, Department of
Transportation, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s final rule — Establishment of Class E
Airspace; Engelhard, NC [Docket No.: FAA-
2018-0626; Airspace Docket No.: 18-ASO-9]
(RIN: 2120-AA66) received February 8, 2019,
pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law
104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Com-
mittee on Transportation and Infrastruc-
ture.
145. A letter from the Management and
Program Analyst, FAA, Department of
Transportation, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s final rule — Establishment of Class E
Airspace and Amendment of Class D and
Class E Airspace; Olympia, WA [Docket No.:
FAA-2017-1012; Airspace Docket No.: 17-ANM-
20] (RIN: 2120-AA66) received February 8,
2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public
Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the
Committee on Transportation and Infra-
structure.
146. A letter from the Management and
Program Analyst, FAA, Department of
Transportation, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s final rule — Amendment of Class E
Airspace for the following Alaska Towns;
Nuiqsut, AK; Perryville, AK; Pilot Point,
AK; and Point Lay, AK [Docket No.: FAA-
2017-0348; Airspace Docket No.: 17-AAL-4]
(RIN: 2120-AA66) received February 8, 2019,
pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law
104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Com-
mittee on Transportation and Infrastruc-
ture.
147. A letter from the Management and
Program Analyst, FAA, Department of
Transportation, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s final rule — Amendment of Class E
Airspace; Atqasuk, AK [Docket No.: FAA-
2018-0577; Airspace Docket No.: 18-AAL-9]
(RIN: 2120-AA66) received February 8, 2019,
pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law
104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Com-
mittee on Transportation and Infrastruc-
ture.
f
REPORTS OF COMMITTES ON
PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS
Under clause 2 of rule XIII, reports of
committees were delivered to the Clerk
for printing and reference to the proper
calendar, as follows:
Mr. MCGOVERN: Committee on Rules.
House Resolution 122. Resolution providing
for consideration of the joint resolution (H.J.
Res. 37) directing the removal of United
States Armed Forces from hostilities in the
Republic of Yemen that have not been au-
thorized by Congress; waiving a requirement
of clause 6(a) of rule XIII with respect to
consideration of certain resolutions reported
from the Committee on Rules; and providing
for consideration of motions to suspend the
rules (Rept. 116–8). Referred to the House
Calendar.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:37 Feb 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00022 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\L11FE7.000 H11FEPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1517
February 11, 2019
PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS
Under clause 2 of rule XII, public
bills and resolutions of the following
titles were introduced and severally re-
ferred, as follows:
By Mr. GARAMENDI (for himself, Mr.
CISNEROS, Ms. VELÁZQUEZ, Mr. BERA,
Mr. GOMEZ, Mr. TAKANO, Mr.
LOWENTHAL, Mr. ROUDA, Mr.
CARBAJAL, Mr. HUFFMAN, Ms. ESHOO,
Mr. VARGAS, Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD,
Mr. SOTO, Ms. LOFGREN, Ms. MATSUI,
Mr. SERRANO, Mrs. NAPOLITANO, Ms.
PLASKETT, and Mr. HARDER of Cali-
fornia):
H.R. 1137. A bill to amend the Water Re-
sources Development Act of 1986 to repeal
the authority relating to reprogramming
during national emergencies; to the Com-
mittee on Transportation and Infrastruc-
ture.
By Mr. REED (for himself and Mr. HIG-
GINS of New York):
H.R. 1138. A bill to reauthorize the West
Valley demonstration project, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Energy and
Commerce.
By Mrs. NAPOLITANO (for herself, Mr.
KATKO, Mr. LOWENTHAL, Mr. KING of
New York, Mr. QUIGLEY, Mr. DAVID
SCOTT of Georgia, Mr. HUFFMAN, Mr.
POCAN, Mr. LIPINSKI, Mr. CUMMINGS,
Mr. GARAMENDI, Ms. BLUNT ROCH-
ESTER, Mr. RYAN, Mr. GRIJALVA, Mr.
SUOZZI, Ms. BROWNLEY of California,
Mr. AGUILAR, Mr. NADLER, Mr. SHER-
MAN, Ms. SCHAKOWSKY, Ms. TITUS,
Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN, Mr. CARSON
of Indiana, Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia,
Mr. BLUMENAUER, Mr. MCEACHIN, Mr.
VARGAS, Mr. SEAN PATRICK MALONEY
of New York, Mr. HIGGINS of New
York, Mr. TONKO, Ms. JOHNSON of
Texas, Ms. CLARKE of New York, Mr.
KILMER, Mr. SIRES, Mr. PALLONE, Mr.
BROWN of Maryland, Mr. DESAULNIER,
Mr. ROSE of New York, Mrs. DAVIS of
California, Mr. KRISHNAMOORTHI, Ms.
MOORE, Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD, Ms.
OMAR, Mr. GREEN of Texas, Mrs. LAW-
RENCE, Ms. NORTON, Ms. JAYAPAL, Ms.
FUDGE, Mr. COHEN, Mr. TAKANO, Ms.
LOFGREN, Mr. CARBAJAL, Mr. LARSEN
of Washington, Mr. NORCROSS, Mr.
PASCRELL, and Mr. CARTWRIGHT):
H.R. 1139. A bill to amend title 49, United
States Code, to require the development of
public transportation operations safety risk
reduction programs, and for other purposes;
to the Committee on Transportation and In-
frastructure.
By Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi (for
himself and Mrs. LOWEY):
H.R. 1140. A bill to enhance the security
operations of the Transportation Security
Administration and stability of the transpor-
tation security workforce by applying the
personnel system under title 5, United States
Code, to employees of the Transportation Se-
curity Administration who provide screening
of all passengers and property, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Homeland Se-
curity, and in addition to the Committee on
Oversight and Reform, for a period to be sub-
sequently determined by the Speaker, in
each case for consideration of such provi-
sions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned.
By Mr. SAN NICOLAS:
H.R. 1141. A bill to make technical correc-
tions to the Guam World War II Claims
Fund; to the Committee on Appropriations.
By Mr. PASCRELL (for himself, Mr.
SMITH of New Jersey, Mr. KIM, Mr.
HIGGINS of New York, Mr. DANNY K.
DAVIS of Illinois, Mr. ROUDA, Mr.
ENGEL, Ms. NORTON, Mrs. NAPOLI-
TANO, Mr. SUOZZI, Miss RICE of New
York, Mr. GARAMENDI, Mr. LARSON of
Connecticut, Mr. PALLONE, Ms.
DELAURO, Mr. RUPPERSBERGER, Mrs.
WATSON COLEMAN, Mr. NORCROSS, Mr.
MALINOWSKI, Mr. SIRES, Mr.
LOWENTHAL, Mr. PAYNE, Mr. SEAN
PATRICK MALONEY of New York, Mr.
MEEKS, Ms. JUDY CHU of California,
Mr. COSTA, Mr. GOMEZ, Ms. MCCOL-
LUM, Mr. RUSH, Mr. PANETTA, Mr.
BRENDAN F. BOYLE of Pennsylvania,
Ms. MENG, Mr. COURTNEY, and Ms.
SÁNCHEZ):
H.R. 1142. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to repeal the dollar limita-
tion on the deduction for State and local
taxes and restore the 39.6 percent individual
income tax rate bracket; to the Committee
on Ways and Means.
By Ms. ESHOO:
H.R. 1143. A bill to amend title XXVII of
the Public Health Service Act to require a
health insurance issuer offering short-term
limited duration insurance to include a
standardized disclosure and certain informa-
tion with respect to coverage exclusions and
premium variations in marketing, applica-
tion, and enrollment materials distributed in
connection with such insurance and prohib-
iting the sale of such insurance during cer-
tain periods; to the Committee on Energy
and Commerce.
By Mr. GALLAGHER:
H.R. 1144. A bill to prohibit the use of funds
during a lapse in appropriations to support
congressional delegations, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Oversight and
Reform.
By Mr. HOLLINGSWORTH:
H.R. 1145. A bill to amend title 18, United
States Code, to prohibit former Members and
elected officers of Congress from lobbying
Congress at any time after leaving office; to
the Committee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. HUFFMAN (for himself, Mr.
FITZPATRICK, Mr. AGUILAR, Ms.
BARRAGÁN, Ms. BASS, Mr. BEYER, Mr.
BLUMENAUER, Ms. BONAMICI, Mr.
BRENDAN F. BOYLE of Pennsylvania,
Mr. BROWN of Maryland, Ms.
BROWNLEY of California, Mr.
CARBAJAL, Mr. CÁRDENAS, Mr. CART-
WRIGHT, Mr. CASTEN of Illinois, Ms.
CASTOR of Florida, Ms. JUDY CHU of
California, Mr. CICILLINE, Ms. CLARKE
of New York, Mr. CLAY, Mr. COHEN,
Mr. WELCH, Mr. CROW, Mr. DEFAZIO,
Ms. DEGETTE, Mrs. DEMINGS, Mr.
DESAULNIER, Mr. DEUTCH, Mrs. DIN-
GELL, Mr. MICHAEL F. DOYLE of Penn-
sylvania, Ms. ESHOO, Mr. ESPAILLAT,
Mr. GALLEGO, Mr. GARAMENDI, Mr.
GOMEZ, Ms. HAALAND, Mr. HASTINGS,
Ms. HILL of California, Mr. HIGGINS of
Louisiana, Mr. HIMES, Ms. JAYAPAL,
Mr. KENNEDY, Mr. KILDEE, Mr. KIL-
MER, Mr. KRISHNAMOORTHI, Mrs. LAW-
RENCE, Ms. LEE of California, Mr.
LEVIN of California, Mr. TED LIEU of
California, Mr. LIPINSKI, Ms. LOF-
GREN, Mr. LOWENTHAL, Mr. LUJÁN,
Mr. LYNCH, Mr. SEAN PATRICK MALO-
NEY of New York, Ms. MATSUI, Ms.
MCCOLLUM, Mr. MCEACHIN, Mr.
MCGOVERN, Mr. MCNERNEY, Ms.
MENG, Mr. MORELLE, Mr. MOULTON,
Ms. MUCARSEL-POWELL, Mr. NADLER,
Mrs. NAPOLITANO, Mr. NEGUSE, Ms.
NORTON, Ms. OMAR, Mr. PANETTA, Mr.
PETERS, Ms. PINGREE, Mr. POCAN, Mr.
QUIGLEY, Mr. RASKIN, Ms. ROYBAL-
ALLARD, Ms. SCHAKOWSKY, Mr.
SCHIFF, Mr. SERRANO, Ms. SHALALA,
Mr. SIRES, Mr. SMITH of Washington,
Mr. SOTO, Ms. SPEIER, Mr. SUOZZI,
Mr. TONKO, Mr. VAN DREW, Ms.
VELÁZQUEZ, Ms. WASSERMAN
SCHULTZ, Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN, Ms.
WATERS, Ms. WILSON of Florida, Mr.
MALINOWSKI, Mr. ROUDA, Mr. RYAN,
Mr. CONNOLLY, Mrs. TRAHAN, Mrs.
MURPHY, Mr. KHANNA, Mr. PERL-
MUTTER, Mr. TRONE, and Mr.
CUNNINGHAM):
H.R. 1146. A bill to amend Public Law 115-
97 (commonly known as the Tax Cuts and
Jobs Act) to repeal the Arctic National Wild-
life Refuge oil and gas program, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Natural
Resources.
By Mr. MCKINLEY (for himself, Mr.
MOONEY of West Virginia, Mrs. MIL-
LER, and Mr. TRONE):
H.R. 1147. A bill to establish the Appa-
lachian Forest National Heritage Area, and
for other purposes; to the Committee on Nat-
ural Resources.
By Mr. RICE of South Carolina (for
himself, Mr. DUNN, and Mr. SABLAN):
H.R. 1148. A bill to provide for disaster tax
relief; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
By Mr. VAN DREW (for himself, Mr.
RUTHERFORD, Mr. CUNNINGHAM, Mr.
SMITH of New Jersey, Ms. SHALALA,
and Mr. MAST):
H.R. 1149. A bill to prohibit the Depart-
ment of the Interior from issuing certain ge-
ological and geophysical exploration permits
under the Outer Continental Shelf Lands
Act, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Natural Resources.
By Mr. RUIZ (for himself, Mr. CASTRO
of Texas, Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD, Ms.
LOFGREN, Mr. NADLER, Mr. LUJÁN,
Mr. CARBAJAL, Mr. CISNEROS, Mr.
VARGAS, Ms. GARCIA of Texas, Ms.
VELÁZQUEZ, Ms. MUCARSEL-POWELL,
Mr. SIRES, Mrs. NAPOLITANO, Ms.
BARRAGÁN, Mr. SAN NICOLAS, Mr.
SABLAN, Ms. ESCOBAR, Mr. SOTO, Mr.
GONZALEZ of Texas, Mr. ESPAILLAT,
Mr. CÁRDENAS, Mr. CORREA, Mrs.
TORRES of California, and Mr.
GALLEGO):
H. Con. Res. 17. Concurrent resolution ex-
pressing the sense of Congress regarding the
provision of a basic standard of humani-
tarian care to all individuals in U.S. Cus-
toms and Border Protection custody; to the
Committee on the Judiciary, and in addition
to the Committee on Homeland Security, for
a period to be subsequently determined by
the Speaker, in each case for consideration
of such provisions as fall within the jurisdic-
tion of the committee concerned.
By Mr. LANGEVIN (for himself, Mr.
BISHOP of Georgia, Mr. BRINDISI, Mr.
CARTER of Texas, Mr. COMER, Mrs.
CRAIG, Mr. MICHAEL F. DOYLE of
Pennsylvania, Mr. FITZPATRICK, Mr.
GROTHMAN, Mr. GUTHRIE, Mrs.
HARTZLER, Mr. HECK, Ms. JACKSON
LEE, Ms. JAYAPAL, Mr. JOHNSON of
Georgia, Mr. KILMER, Mr. KING of
Iowa, Mr. KINZINGER, Mr.
KRISHNAMOORTHI, Mr. LARSEN of
Washington, Mr. LATTA, Mrs. LAW-
RENCE, Mrs. LEE of Nevada, Mr.
LUETKEMEYER, Mr. MCNERNEY, Mr.
MITCHELL, Mr. MORELLE, Mr. PETER-
SON, Mr. POCAN, Mr. RICHMOND, Mr.
RYAN, Mr. SCHRADER, Mr. SIMPSON,
Mr. SMITH of Washington, Mr.
SMUCKER, Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsyl-
vania, Mr. THOMPSON of California,
Mr. UPTON, Mr. WESTERMAN, Ms. WIL-
SON of Florida, and Mr. YARMUTH):
H. Res. 119. A resolution supporting the
goals and ideals of Career and Technical
Education Month; to the Committee on Edu-
cation and Labor.
By Mr. HOYER:
H. Res. 120. A resolution honoring the life,
achievements, and distinguished public serv-
ice of John David Dingell, Jr., and expressing
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:37 Feb 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00023 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\L11FE7.100 H11FEPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H1518 February 11, 2019
condolences to his family on his passing; to
the Committee on House Administration.
considered and agreed to.
By Mr. PRICE of North Carolina:
H. Res. 121. A resolution expressing the
profound sorrow of the House of Representa-
tives on the death of the Honorable Walter
B. Jones; considered and agreed to.
By Mr. HIMES (for himself, Ms. NOR-
TON, Mr. QUIGLEY, Mr. LOWENTHAL,
Mr. HUFFMAN, Mr. MCEACHIN, Mr.
SCHIFF, Mr. LAWSON of Florida, Ms.
SCHAKOWSKY, Mr. MCNERNEY, Mr.
COHEN, Mr. POCAN, Mr. FOSTER, Mr.
RASKIN, Mr. KILMER, Ms. TITUS, Ms.
LOFGREN, and Mr. SUOZZI):
H. Res. 123. A resolution expressing support
for designation of February 12, 2019, as ‘‘Dar-
win Day’’ and recognizing the importance of
science in the betterment of humanity; to
the Committee on Science, Space, and Tech-
nology.
By Mr. KENNEDY (for himself, Ms.
SPEIER, Ms. MCCOLLUM, Mr. JOHNSON
of Georgia, Ms. JACKSON LEE, Mr.
NADLER, Mr. GRIJALVA, Ms. NORTON,
Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of New
York, Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ, Mr.
LOWENTHAL, Ms. BROWNLEY of Cali-
fornia, Mr. SERRANO, Ms. ROYBAL-
ALLARD, Mr. GALLEGO, Mr. HASTINGS,
Ms. DEGETTE, Mr. PAPPAS, Mr.
GOMEZ, Ms. PORTER, Mr. ESPAILLAT,
Ms. WILD, Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN, Mr.
MCGOVERN, Ms. DEAN, Ms. WEXTON,
Mr. CRIST, Mr. QUIGLEY, Ms. SCAN-
LON, Ms. MENG, Mrs. DINGELL, Mr.
PAYNE, Ms. CLARK of Massachusetts,
Mr. BROWN of Maryland, Mr. RASKIN,
Mr. PALLONE, Ms. CLARKE of New
York, Mr. EVANS, Mr. WELCH, Ms.
PINGREE, Mr. KHANNA, Ms. HILL of
California, Mr. SEAN PATRICK MALO-
NEY of New York, Mr. SIRES, Ms. DA-
VIDS of Kansas, Ms. TLAIB, Mr.
CICILLINE, Mr. PANETTA, Mr. COX of
California, Mrs. CRAIG, Ms.
VELÁZQUEZ, Ms. WATERS, Mr. LYNCH,
Ms. HOULAHAN, Mr. CARBAJAL, Mr.
ENGEL, Ms. BARRAGÁN, Mr. DEUTCH,
Mr. SCHIFF, Mr. MCEACHIN, Ms.
BLUNT ROCHESTER, Ms. HAALAND, Mr.
KEATING, Ms. ESHOO, Ms. GABBARD,
Ms. DELBENE, Mr. KILMER, Mr. NOR-
CROSS, Ms. PRESSLEY, Mr. GOLDEN,
Mr. CÁRDENAS, Ms. TITUS, Mr. SOTO,
Mr. HUFFMAN, Mr. HIGGINS of New
York, Mr. HIMES, Mr. PETERS, Mr.
CLAY, Mr. THOMPSON of California,
Mrs. KIRKPATRICK, Mr. CISNEROS, Mr.
TRONE, Mr. ROSE of New York, Ms.
MATSUI, Mr. MORELLE, Mr. SWALWELL
of California, Ms. SCHAKOWSKY, Mr.
MALINOWSKI, Ms. KUSTER of New
Hampshire, Mr. DESAULNIER, Mr.
TONKO, Mr. SABLAN, Ms. BONAMICI,
Mr. NEAL, Mr. COHEN, Mrs. TRAHAN,
Mr. MEEKS, Mrs. DAVIS of California,
Ms. MUCARSEL-POWELL, Mr. LUJÁN,
Mr. TAKANO, Mr. KRISHNAMOORTHI,
Mr. CROW, Mr. LEVIN of Michigan,
Ms. OCASIO-CORTEZ, Mrs. NAPOLITANO,
Mr. CARSON of Indiana, Ms. GARCIA of
Texas, and Ms. LOFGREN):
H. Res. 124. A resolution expressing opposi-
tion to banning service in the Armed Forces
by openly transgender individuals; to the
Committee on Armed Services.
f
PRIVATE BILLS AND
RESOLUTIONS
Under clause 3 of rule XII,
Ms. GARCIA of Texas introduced a bill
(H.R. 1150) for the relief of Enrique
Soriano and Areli Soriano; which was
referred to the Committee on the Ju-
diciary.
f
CONSTITUTIONAL AUTHORITY
STATEMENT
Pursuant to clause 7 of rule XII of
the Rules of the House of Representa-
tives, the following statements are sub-
mitted regarding the specific powers
granted to Congress in the Constitu-
tion to enact the accompanying bill or
joint resolution.
By Mr. GARAMENDI:
H.R. 1137.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clauses 1 and 18 of the
United States Constitution
By Mr. REED:
H.R. 1138.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 1 of the United
States Constitution
By Mrs. NAPOLITANO:
H.R. 1139.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Clauses 1, 3, and 18 of section 8 of article I
of the Constitution
By Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi:
H.R. 1140.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1 Section 8
By Mr. SAN NICOLAS:
H.R. 1141.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
The constitutional authority on which this
bill rests is the power of the Congress to
make appropriations as set forth in Article I,
Section 9, Clause 7, and to make rules and
regulations respecting the U.S. territories,
as enumerated in Article IV, Section 3,
Clause 2 of the Constitution; and to make all
rules and regulations respecting the Terri-
tories and possessions as enumerated in Arti-
cle IV, Section 3, Clause 2 of the United
States Constitution.
By Mr. PASCRELL:
H.R. 1142.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 3 of the United
States Constitution.
By Ms. ESHOO:
H.R. 1143.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, clause 3
By Mr. GALLAGHER:
H.R. 1144.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
The legislation places limitations on how
Treasury can expend funds during a lapse in
regular appropriations. Congress has the au-
thority to enact this under Article 1, Section
9 of the Constitution:
‘‘No Money shall be drawn from the Treas-
ury, but in Consequence of Appropriations
made by Law; and a regular Statement and
Account of the Receipts and Expenditures of
all public Money shall be published from
time to time.’’
By Mr. HOLLINGSWORTH:
H.R. 1145.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 18: To make all
Laws which shall be necessary and proper for
carrying into Execution the foregoing Pow-
ers, and all other Powers vested by this Con-
stitution in the Government of the United
States, or in any Department or Officer
thereof.
By Mr. HUFFMAN:
H.R. 1146.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article IV, Section 3, Clause 2: The Con-
gress shall have Power to dispose of and
make all needful Rules and Regulations re-
specting the Territory or other Property be-
longing to the United States.
By Mr. MCKINLEY:
H.R. 1147.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8
By Mr. RICE of South Carolina:
H.R. 1148.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 1:
The Congress shall have Power To lay and
collect Taxes, Duties, Imposts and Excises,
to pay the Debts and provide for the common
Defence and general Welfare of the United
States; but all Duties, Imposts and Excises
shall be uniform throughout the United
States
By Mr. VAN DREW:
H.R. 1149.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Section 8 of Article 1 of the United States
Constitution.
By Ms. GARCIA of Texas:
H.R. 1150.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 4 of the U.S.
Constitution.
f
ADDITIONAL SPONSORS
Under clause 7 of rule XII, sponsors
were added to public bills and resolu-
tions, as follows:
H.R. 38: Mr. POSEY.
H.R. 64: Mr. SMITH of New Jersey, Mr.
ALLEN, Mr. MOONEY of West Virginia, Mr.
LAMBORN, Mr. CARTER of Georgia, Mr. KELLY
of Mississippi, Mr. BILIRAKIS, and Mr. FLO-
RES.
H.R. 93: Mr. GRIJALVA, Ms. CLARKE of New
York, Mr. TAKANO, and Mr. COOPER.
H.R. 94: Mr. BRENDAN F. BOYLE of Pennsyl-
vania.
H.R. 117: Mr. ROUDA.
H.R. 125: Mr. RICHMOND.
H.R. 141: Mr. SABLAN and Mr. RICHMOND.
H.R. 155: Mr. MOONEY of West Virginia.
H.R. 218: Mr. CALVERT.
H.R. 219: Mr. FLORES.
H.R. 220: Mr. KATKO.
H.R. 273: Mr. LUJÁN and Mr. CARBAJAL.
H.R. 275: Mr. CARTWRIGHT and Mr. ROUDA.
H.R. 276: Mrs. DEMINGS, Mr. TRONE, Mr.
PETERSON, and Mr. BOST.
H.R. 299: Mr. GALLEGO, Ms. GRANGER, Mr.
GRAVES of Missouri, Ms. DEAN, Mr. YAR-
MUTH, Ms. HOULAHAN, Ms. KAPTUR, Mr.
MALINOWSKI, Mr. DEUTCH, Mr. HIGGINS of
New York, and Mr. MCKINLEY.
H.R. 305: Mr. BROOKS of Alabama.
H.R. 309: Mr. MALINOWSKI.
H.R. 310: Mr. LARSEN of Washington.
H.R. 365: Ms. CLARKE of New York, Mr.
RUSH, and Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ.
H.R. 369: Mr. MAST, Mrs. ROBY, and Mr.
BROOKS of Alabama.
H.R. 394: Mr. TAKANO and Mr. MEEKS.
H.R. 402: Mrs. KIRKPATRICK, Mr. GOSAR, and
Mr. SCHWEIKERT.
H.R. 510: Mr. BABIN, Mr. LAMBORN, Mr.
LUETKEMEYER, Ms. GRANGER, Mr. CARTER of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:37 Feb 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00024 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\L11FE7.100 H11FEPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1519
February 11, 2019
Texas, Mr. EMMER, Mr. MCNERNEY, Mr.
GRAVES of Georgia, Mr. PETERS, Mr. HARRIS,
and Mr. WILLIAMS.
H.R. 530: Mr. BLUMENAUER and Mr.
DESAULNIER.
H.R. 540: Mr. COHEN and Ms. DEAN.
H.R. 550: Mr. SIRES, Mr. LYNCH, and Mr.
THOMPSON of Pennsylvania.
H.R. 553: Mrs. MILLER, Mr. WITTMAN, Mr.
PANETTA, Mr. CONAWAY, Mr. COURTNEY, Mr.
BEYER, Mr. WALBERG, Mr. LANGEVIN, Mr.
WATKINS, Ms. ESCOBAR, and Ms. PINGREE.
H.R. 555: Mr. POCAN.
H.R. 582: Mr. ROSE of New York.
H.R. 587: Mr. NUNES, Mr. MEADOWS, and Mr.
MEEKS.
H.R. 594: Ms. MOORE, Ms. NORTON, and Mr.
MEEKS.
H.R. 596: Mr. HECK and Mr. HIMES.
H.R. 597: Mr. WELCH.
H.R. 598: Mr. SHERMAN.
H.R. 613: Mr. TED LIEU of California and
Mr. YOUNG.
H.R. 621: Mr. WATKINS.
H.R. 638: Mr. WILLIAMS and Mr. ROY.
H.R. 647: Mr. KEATING and Mr. LUETKE-
MEYER.
H.R. 668: Mr. AGUILAR, Ms. BARRAGÁN, Mr.
CRIST, Mr. CROW, Ms. ESCOBAR, Ms. HILL of
California, Mr. KIND, Mr. LOWENTHAL, Mrs.
CAROLYN B. MALONEY of New York, Mr. SEAN
PATRICK MALONEY of New York, Ms. MATSUI,
Mr. MCGOVERN, Mrs. NAPOLITANO, Ms.
OCASIO-CORTEZ, Mr. PRICE of North Carolina,
Mr. QUIGLEY, Mr. RASKIN, Ms. ROYBAL-
ALLARD, Mr. SWALWELL of California, Ms.
TITUS, Mr. THOMPSON of California, Mr.
TONKO, Mr. VARGAS, Mr. VEASEY, Ms. WILSON
of Florida, Mr. ROUDA, Ms. SCHAKOWSKY, Ms.
NORTON, Mr. TAKANO, and Mr. LUJÁN.
H.R. 678: Mr. MCGOVERN, Mr. RASKIN, and
Mr. LAWSON of Florida.
H.R. 703: Mr. GOMEZ.
H.R. 708: Mr. HUDSON.
H.R. 713: Mr. BALDERSON.
H.R. 724: Mr. PERLMUTTER, Mr. MCCAUL,
Mr. MALINOWSKI, and Mr. BACON.
H.R. 726: Mrs. DINGELL.
H.R. 727: Ms. MOORE.
H.R. 734: Ms. CLARKE of New York and Ms.
NORTON.
H.R. 737: Mr. BACON, Mr. CASTEN of Illinois,
Ms. DELAURO, Mr. DESAULNIER, Ms.
JAYAPAL, Mr. MCGOVERN, Mr. NORCROSS, Mr.
STIVERS, Mr. WELCH, Mr. WOODALL, Mr.
MALINOWSKI, and Mr. CONNOLLY.
H.R. 738: Mr. GREEN of Tennessee.
H.R. 748: Mr. HASTINGS, Mr. JOHNSON of
Louisiana, Mr. STAUBER, Mr. TED LIEU of
California, Mr. SHERMAN, Mrs. BEATTY, Mr.
WILSON of South Carolina, Mr. MCEACHIN,
and Mr. LEVIN of Michigan.
H.R. 763: Ms. CLARKE of New York.
H.R. 764: Mr. MEUSER.
H.R. 781: Mr. GOTTHEIMER.
H.R. 793: Mr. NORMAN.
H.R. 803: Mr. ESTES.
H.R. 807: Mr. HUNTER.
H.R. 810: Mr. HECK.
H.R. 830: Mr. COSTA, Mr. MCNERNEY, Mr.
PALAZZO, and Mr. KING of Iowa.
H.R. 832: Mr. MARSHALL.
H.R. 833: Mr. MAST and Mr. HUDSON.
H.R. 845: Mr. BALDERSON.
H.R. 849: Mr. HIMES, Ms. MOORE, Mrs. LAW-
RENCE, Mr. LARSON of Connecticut, Mr.
CLEAVER, Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire, Mr.
MCNERNEY, and Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN.
H.R. 850: Mr. PERRY.
H.R. 864: Mr. FITZPATRICK.
H.R. 865: Ms. HOULAHAN, Ms. FRANKEL, and
Mr. PETERSON.
H.R. 868: Mr. MCGOVERN.
H.R. 873: Mr. FITZPATRICK.
H.R. 881: Mr. COHEN.
H.R. 885: Mr. ROUDA.
H.R. 891: Mr. POSEY.
H.R. 892: Mr. MCCLINTOCK.
H.R. 899: Mr. BURCHETT.
H.R. 911: Mr. COLE.
H.R. 919: Mr. STIVERS.
H.R. 920: Mr. HASTINGS.
H.R. 928: Mrs. DAVIS of California and Mr.
MCGOVERN.
H.R. 929: Mr. COHEN, Mr. KING of New York,
Mr. SUOZZI, and Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ.
H.R. 935: Mr. ROGERS of Alabama.
H.R. 946: Mrs. DINGELL, Mr. TONKO, Mr.
COHEN, and Mr. DEFAZIO.
H.R. 949: Mr. GREEN of Tennessee, Mr. FLO-
RES, and Mr. BUDD.
H.R. 956: Mr. BUDD, Mr. DUNCAN, Mr.
GOSAR, Mr. MEADOWS, Mr. KELLY of Mis-
sissippi, and Mr. STEWART.
H.R. 962: Mr. SENSENBRENNER, Mr.
SCHWEIKERT, Mr. HILL of Arkansas, Mr.
LONG, Mr. MCKINLEY, Mr. PETERSON, Mrs.
RODGERS of Washington, Mr. GRAVES of Mis-
souri, Mr. COLE, Mr. LIPINSKI, Mr. CRENSHAW,
and Mr. MCHENRY.
H.R. 965: Mr. MEADOWS.
H.R. 969: Mr. STEIL.
H.R. 995: Mr. TAYLOR.
H.R. 1002: Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois and
Mr. KING of New York.
H.R. 1004: Ms. BASS, Mr. DEFAZIO, Mr.
BEYER, Ms. PINGREE, and Mr. GARCÍA of Illi-
nois.
H.R. 1005: Ms. GABBARD.
H.R. 1008: Ms. DELBENE and Mr. COX of
California.
H.R. 1011: Ms. NORTON, Ms. MOORE, Mr. GRI-
JALVA, Ms. CLARKE of New York, Ms.
MUCARSEL-POWELL, Ms. HAALAND, Mr.
GALLEGO, Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ, and Ms.
SCHAKOWSKY,
H.R. 1015: Mr. THOMPSON of California.
H.R. 1016: Ms. TITUS and Ms. KELLY of Illi-
nois.
H.R. 1019: Mr. NUNES, Mr. BILIRAKIS, Mr.
BABIN, Mr. VELA, Mr. STEWART, Ms.
DELAURO, and Mr. WRIGHT.
H.R. 1041: Mr. LUJÁN.
H.R. 1042: Mrs. LOWEY and Mr. CONNOLLY.
H.R. 1043: Mr. CISNEROS.
H.R. 1044: Mr. STAUBER, Ms. DELBENE, Mr.
CARBAJAL, Mr. SCHWEIKERT, Mr. WATKINS,
Mr. BISHOP of Utah, Ms. VELÁZQUEZ, Ms.
FRANKEL, Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ, Ms.
SCANLON, and Mr. GARAMENDI.
H.R. 1046: Mr. GARCÍA of Illinois and Mr.
MORELLE.
H.R. 1055: Mrs. LEE of Nevada, Mr.
CÁRDENAS, and Ms. ADAMS.
H.R. 1058: Mr. SEAN PATRICK MALONEY of
New York, Mr. PETERSON, and Mr. SAN NICO-
LAS.
H.R. 1060: Ms. VELÁZQUEZ.
H.R. 1062: Mr. ROY, Mr. WELCH, and Mr.
FITZPATRICK.
H.R. 1063: Mr. TAYLOR.
H.R. 1064: Mr. TAYLOR.
H.R. 1065: Mr. HICE of Georgia and Mr. TAY-
LOR.
H.R. 1066: Mr. CARBAJAL, Mr. HARDER of
California, and Ms. PINGREE.
H.R. 1069: Mr. MCNERNEY.
H.R. 1073: Mr. MCGOVERN and Mr. SIRES.
H.R. 1074: Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ.
H.R. 1079: Mr. TAYLOR and Mr. BABIN.
H.R. 1098: Mr. RESCHENTHALER.
H.R. 1104: Mr. THOMPSON of California and
Mr. ZELDIN.
H.R. 1105: Mr. THOMPSON of California.
H.R. 1117: Mr. PERLMUTTER, Mr. GOMEZ,
and Mr. THOMPSON of California.
H.J. Res. 36: Mr. KING of Iowa.
H. Con. Res. 15: Mr. FOSTER, Mr. SIRES, Mr.
CICILLINE, Mr. HARDER of California, Mr.
GARAMENDI, and Ms. HAALAND.
H. Res. 33: Mrs. LOWEY, Mr. WATKINS, Mr.
MEEKS, Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ, Mr.
DEUTCH, Mr. HASTINGS, Mr. KEATING, and Ms.
OCASIO-CORTEZ.
H. Res. 39: Mr. MCCLINTOCK.
H. Res. 54: Mr. FORTENBERRY, Mrs. LOWEY,
and Mr. KRISHNAMOORTHI.
H. Res. 60: Mr. THOMPSON of California, Mr.
YARMUTH, Ms. FUDGE, and Mr.
KRISHNAMOORTHI.
H. Res. 72: Mr. NEWHOUSE, Mr. MEUSER, Mr.
BRADY, Mr. MARSHALL, Mr. CLOUD, Mr. BOST,
Mr. PERRY, Mr. STIVERS, Mr. RIGGLEMAN, and
Mr. WESTERMAN.
H. Res. 75: Mr. WATKINS, Mr. GUEST, Mr.
COHEN, and Ms. JACKSON LEE.
H. Res. 88: Mr. JOYCE of Ohio.
H. Res. 93: Mr. SENSENBRENNER, Mr. FLO-
RES, and Ms. KAPTUR.
H. Res. 95: Mrs. BEATTY and Ms.
WASSERMAN SCHULTZ.
H. Res. 100: Ms. TITUS, Mrs. BUSTOS, Mr.
LATTA, Mr. GONZALEZ of Ohio, and Mr.
COHEN.
H. Res. 101: Mr. WATKINS.
H. Res. 110: Mr. GAETZ, Mr. HICE of Geor-
gia, Mr. WALBERG, Mrs. HARTZLER, Mr. BUDD,
Mr. CONAWAY, Mr. DAVID P. ROE of Ten-
nessee, Mr. DUNCAN, Mr. LAMBORN, Mr. HIG-
GINS of Louisiana, Mr. GOSAR, Mr. GOHMERT,
Mr. NORMAN, Mr. WEBER of Texas, Mr. WIL-
LIAMS, Mr. BABIN, and Mr. CHABOT.
H. Res. 116: Mr. GALLEGO, Ms. KAPTUR, Mr.
BISHOP of Utah, Mr. LAMBORN, Mr. MEADOWS,
Mr. RATCLIFFE, Mr. LUETKEMEYER, and Mr.
WEBER of Texas.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:37 Feb 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00025 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A11FE7.019 H11FEPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
Congressional Record
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
United States
of America PROCEEDINGS AND DEBATES OF THE 116th
CONGRESS, FIRST SESSION
∑ This ‘‘bullet’’ symbol identifies statements or insertions which are not spoken by a Member of the Senate on the floor.
.
S1151
Vol. 165 WASHINGTON, MONDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 2019 No. 26
Senate
The Senate met at 3 p.m. and was
called to order by the President pro
tempore (Mr. GRASSLEY).
f
PRAYER
The Chaplain, Dr. Barry C. Black, of-
fered the following prayer:
Let us pray.
O God, our Redeemer, thank You for
Your abundant mercy and grace. You
continue to do for us more than we can
ask or imagine.
Guide the steps of our Senators. May
they look to You to bring them to Your
desired destination, as You surround
them with the shield of Your divine
favor.
Eternal King, help us all to never for-
get how Your sustaining grace has kept
us in the past. May the memories of
Your loving providence in our history
infuse us with the spirit of optimism
for all of our tomorrows.
We pray in Your merciful Name.
Amen.
f
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
The President pro tempore led the
Pledge of Allegiance, as follows:
I pledge allegiance to the Flag of the
United States of America, and to the Repub-
lic for which it stands, one nation under God,
indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
f
RECOGNITION OF THE MAJORITY
LEADER
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
HAWLEY). The majority leader is recog-
nized.
f
GOVERNMENT FUNDING
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, as
recently as a few days ago, our govern-
ment funding discussions seemed to be
in a pretty good place. Bipartisan, bi-
cameral negotiations on finishing out
the year’s appropriations process
seemed to be right on track. We ap-
peared headed toward a compromise re-
sult that would have provided much
needed investments in border security
and completed our remaining appro-
priations bill to fully fund the govern-
ment.
Last week, the Democratic leader
seemed confident that ‘‘we worked out
a plan to refund the government, deal
with border security in a way that
would be acceptable to all sides. That’s
working pretty well.’’ Just this past
Friday, the ranking member of the Ap-
propriations Committee, Senator
LEAHY, suggested that ‘‘we’re 95 to 98
percent done.’’
But then over the weekend, we heard
that the talks had suddenly hit a snag.
The bipartisan momentum had stalled.
What went wrong? Here is what hap-
pened. The House Democrats decided to
add a poison pill demand into the con-
versations at the eleventh hour. It is a
new demand. It is really extreme—a
hard, statutory cap on the number of
illegal immigrants who could be de-
tained by the Federal Government.
This would result in the release of
thousands of criminal aliens and our
inability to detain thousands more
criminal aliens whom our Federal and
State law enforcement authorities will
apprehend.
This is a poison pill that no adminis-
tration—not this one, not the previous
one—would or should ever accept.
Imagine the absurdity of this. House
Democrats want to set a limit on how
many criminal aliens our government
can detain. This is a limit that is not
based on any aspect of reality, such as
how many criminal aliens there actu-
ally are or what crimes they have com-
mitted; it is just an arbitrary number a
couple of lawmakers have pulled out of
thin air. The consequence of such an
arbitrary limit is obvious: Thousands
of criminal aliens would simply be re-
leased into the interior of our country,
both immediately and then on a rolling
basis into the future.
The National Sheriffs’ Association
explained this in a letter to Chairman
SHELBY and Senator LEAHY. Here is
what the sheriffs had to say:
Capping the number of detention beds . . .
not only jeopardizes the integrity of the im-
migration system, but would cripple ICE’s
ability to detain criminal aliens and other
aliens who pose a risk to public safety or are
a flight risk. . . . In order to meet the cap
tentatively proposed by Congress, ICE would
be compelled to release thousands of aliens
from custody.
That is what the National Sheriffs’
Association had to say about it—re-
leased, just like that, right out into
the United States of America. It is
hard to believe this is where some
Democrats are—a get-out-of-jail-free
card for criminals because the radical
left doesn’t like U.S. Immigrations and
Customs Enforcement. Let me say that
again. It is a get-out-of-jail-free card
for criminals because the radical left
doesn’t like U.S. Immigrations and
Customs Enforcement.
It is hard to believe the ‘‘Abolish
ICE’’ fringe among House Democrats
actually thinks enforcing our laws is
wrong. It is hard to believe a group of
House Democrats see kneecapping
American law enforcement as a higher
priority than keeping the government
open. But it would be even harder to
believe that leading Democrats would
be open to this craziness and would let
this last-minute poison pill scuttle the
entire appropriations process.
Just last year, when the Democratic
leader was highlighting productive, bi-
partisan work on this appropriations
process, he said: ‘‘Both sides have
worked to avoid poison pill riders. That
has meant steady progress.’’ Ranking
Member LEAHY celebrated that through
last year’s committee process, ‘‘We
avoided new poison pill riders.’’ So I
hope my Democratic colleagues are
able to talk some sense into their side.
Some House Democrats are risking a
second partial government shutdown
by calling for this absurd, last-minute
poison pill. No administration of any
party would sign a bill that forced
them to release criminal aliens into
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:17 Feb 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A11FE6.000 S11FEPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1152 February 11, 2019
the interior of the United States. No
administration would accept this poi-
son pill forcing the release of criminals
now and on a rolling basis going for-
ward.
I understand that the four leaders on
Appropriations in both Chambers will
be meeting in just a few minutes. I
would implore my friends across the
aisle: Untangle yourselves from the
most extreme far-left voices out on the
fringe. Do not let this radical fringe
and its absurd demand prevent you
from taking yes for an answer. Don’t
let them torpedo all of this bipartisan
work.
This provision would, rightly, be a
total nonstarter with the White
House—with any White House, not just
this one. It would erase our progress
and kick us back to square one. It is a
total poison pill, pure and simple.
The American people are not clam-
oring for more aliens with criminal
backgrounds to be roaming at large in
their communities. I never heard any-
body ask for that. And they certainly
are not so eager for that outcome that
they want another partial shutdown in
order to achieve it.
My Democratic colleagues in this
Chamber need to see this stunt for
what it is, bring their side back to the
table, and finish our work for the
American people.
f
RESERVATION OF LEADER TIME
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the leadership time
is reserved.
f
CONCLUSION OF MORNING
BUSINESS
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Morning
business is closed.
f
NATURAL RESOURCES MANAGE-
MENT ACT—MOTION TO PRO-
CEED—Resumed
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the Senate will re-
sume consideration of S. 47, which the
clerk will report.
The legislative clerk read as follows:
A bill (S. 47) to provide for the manage-
ment of the natural resources of the United
States, and for other purposes.
Pending:
Murkowski/Manchin modified amendment
No. 111, in the nature of a substitute.
Murkowski amendment No. 112 (to amend-
ment No. 111), to modify the authorization
period for the Historically Black Colleges
and Universities Historic Preservation Pro-
gram.
f
MAKING FURTHER CONTINUING
APPROPRIATIONS FOR THE DE-
PARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECU-
RITY FOR FISCAL YEAR 2019—
MOTION TO PROCEED
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
move to proceed to Calendar No. 6, H.J.
Res. 1.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the motion.
The legislative clerk read as follows:
Motion to proceed to Calendar No. 6, H.J.
Res. 1, a bill making further continuing ap-
propriations for the Department of Home-
land Security for fiscal year 2019, and for
other purposes.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from West Virginia.
Mr. MANCHIN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent to speak for no
more than 10 minutes.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
S. 47
Mr. MANCHIN. Mr. President, Chair-
man MURKOWSKI and I have been work-
ing with the majority leader and mi-
nority leader to resolve the few re-
maining issues on our bill, which is the
land management bill we have before
us.
I would like to thank all Senators for
their cooperation and for the work
they have put in to get this to this
point. I believe we are making good
progress.
We will vote on the motion to invoke
cloture at 5:30. I will be joining Chair-
man MURKOWSKI in voting yes on clo-
ture, and I encourage all of my col-
leagues to do the same.
I understand that Senator LEE, my
dear friend from Utah, may want a
vote on his amendment to exempt Utah
from the Antiquities Act. I have talked
to Senator LEE many times about his
concerns with national monuments in
his State. While I respect his views, I
will oppose any amendment that
threatens the success of this lands bill.
At this point, any amendment would
threaten the success of the bill.
This bill is truly a great piece of leg-
islation for our country. This package
includes numerous important provi-
sions that will enhance conservation,
recreation, and hunting, fishing, and
shooting opportunities for sportsmen
on Federal lands.
In my view, one of the most impor-
tant provisions in the bill is the perma-
nent—I repeat, the permanent—reau-
thorization of the Land and Water Con-
servation Fund. I have long supported
the permanent reauthorization of the
LWCF, which has played a crucial role
in making my State all the more wild
and wonderful. In fact, since 1965, $243
million of LWCF funds have been spent
to enhance recreation and conservation
in West Virginia alone.
LWCF funds have been used to pro-
vide public access and protect many of
West Virginia’s most popular recre-
ation sites, including the Dolly Sods
Wilderness in the Monongahela Na-
tional Forest, as well as every access
point on the Lower Gauley River in the
Gauley River National Recreation
Area. As you can see on this chart,
LWCF funds have protected 57,000 acres
in the Gauley River and the New River
Gorge.
While LWCF funds are used to pro-
tect important Federal conservation
and recreation lands, the program also
provides essential funding to States to
enhance State and local park and out-
door recreational opportunities. These
are not free giveaways to States but,
rather, they are matching grants that
result in increased recreational oppor-
tunities at the State and local levels.
This is Ritter Park in Huntington,
WV. Ritter Park offers miles of walk-
ing trails along an area called Fourpole
Creek. Ritter Park also has numerous
tennis courts, playground facilities,
and an amphitheater that is used by
the community for small events, such
as concerts and plays. The rose garden,
which you can see here, is a wonderful
place to spend some time, and in 2012,
Ritter Park was named as one of the
‘‘Great Public Spaces’’ by the Amer-
ican Planning Association. Over the
years, more than $625,000 in State Land
and Water Conservation funds has been
spent on improvements at Ritter Park.
The Land and Water Conservation
Fund also provides other important fi-
nancial assistance to States, including
funding for the Forest Legacy Pro-
gram, which helps to protect working
forests on private lands; the American
Battlefield Protection Program, which
helps to protect Civil War and Revolu-
tionary War battlefield sites on State
and private lands; and grants to pro-
tect endangered species’ habitats on
non-Federal lands.
On the Federal side, LWCF funds
have been used to safeguard some of
our Nation’s iconic public lands. Here
you can see just a few examples of
areas where LWCF funds have been
used to ensure that we can set aside
these areas for future generations and
help our land management Agencies
follow their conservation missions as
directed by Congress.
LWCF funds help to complete the
protection of and provide important
public access to areas set aside by Con-
gress in recognition of their national
significance, including lands managed
by the National Park Service, the U.S.
Fish and Wildlife Service, the Bureau
of Land Management, and the Forest
Service.
In West Virginia, we have the Canaan
Valley National Wildlife Refuge, which
is managed by the U.S. Fish and Wild-
life Service. Canaan was established in
1994 and was the 500th wildlife refuge to
be established. Since 1994, every single
acre of the 16,613-acre area was ac-
quired using LWCF funds. As one can
see here, the Canaan Valley National
Wildlife Refuge is a truly beautiful
place that would not have been possible
had we not had the LWCF. Permanent
reauthorization of the LWCF will en-
sure States and Federal land manage-
ment Agencies will continue to protect
and conserve nationally significant
lands for future generations—all with-
out relying on taxpayer dollars. It is
past time for Congress to permanently
reauthorize the LWCF.
The Land and Water Conservation
Fund is one of the many pieces of legis-
lation in this package. It is another
reason we need to pass this bill without
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:17 Feb 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G11FE6.001 S11FEPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1153
February 11, 2019
amendments and send it over to the
House and then to the President for his
signature. I am pleased that we are
making good progress, and I hope we
will be able to move to its final passage
without additional delays.
I thank the Presiding Officer.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk proceeded to
call the roll.
Ms. MURKOWSKI. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the order
for the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
Ms. MURKOWSKI. Mr. President, we
are here this Monday afternoon to con-
tinue debate on S. 47, which is our Nat-
ural Resources Management Act, which
we introduced just last month with
Senator CANTWELL. We have been
working on this bill with not only Sen-
ator CANTWELL and Senator MANCHIN
but with the chairman and ranking
member of the House Natural Re-
sources Committee. We did that last
fall when the composition of that com-
mittee on the House side was a little
bit different and now in this new year.
We have been working forward with the
commitment from our respective lead-
erships to bring this measure to the
floor early in this Congress, and here
we are.
I am very thankful and appreciative
to Leader MCCONNELL and Senator
SCHUMER for keeping their word to
allow us a few days of debate on this
very important natural resources and
lands package. We have a great part-
nership going on in working with my
new ranking member on the com-
mittee, Senator MANCHIN, in working
with his team in conjunction with
ours, and, again, in building on the
great, great work that we have had
with my friend and colleague from the
State of Washington, Senator CANT-
WELL, and her team. There have been
so many who have really come to-
gether in a very collaborative way and
in a very dedicated way to help make
this happen.
I make mention of the contributions
of a few Members on our side and a few
Members on the Democratic side who
have really been engaged with us
throughout this process—Senator
GARDNER, Senator DAINES, Senator
WYDEN, Senator HEINRICH—and of the
dozens of Members who are on this
measure as cosponsors. We truly appre-
ciate it.
We made some good progress last
week. We reached agreement to enter
into debate on our bill. We considered
two amendments. Both of those amend-
ments were tabled in order to preserve
what we would refer to as the spirit of
the bicameral-bipartisan agreement.
We anticipate one more amendment to
process today before we move to a clo-
ture vote. I am pleased that we are at
this point as we near the end of the
floor debate on this measure, and I
would like to spend just a few moments
this afternoon, if I may, speaking to
the really extensive process that has
gone into this bill.
It is a substantive bill. There is no
doubt about it. It is substantive be-
cause of the many, many different, dis-
crete, small provisions that have been
incorporated into it. Reaching this
point has been no small task. I men-
tioned last week the way that we han-
dle many of these lands matters before
the U.S. Senate. It is an imperfect
process—that is certainly for sure—but
so many of these issues are so paro-
chial that they just do not command
the floor time that is available here.
Invariably, what we effort to do is to
put together a package of these meas-
ures. We really haven’t seen a lands
package before the Congress that has
been ready to move out or, actually, be
signed into law—that is, I guess, the
best way to say it—since 2014. So that
is 5 years of really pent-up demand, if
you will, to address these matters.
So over the course of several years
and multiple Congresses, both the Sen-
ate Energy and Natural Resources
Committee and the House Natural Re-
sources Committee have held dozens of
hearings and business meetings to pre-
pare the more than 100 bills we have
now incorporated into S. 47. So when
you think about, again, the process
that goes into it—this is endless hours,
countless hours of Member time, of
staff time that go into these meetings
as we work on very local priorities and
then drafting the legislative text and
refining it to make it right and refin-
ing it yet again to make it right.
We have also worked for months on a
bipartisan, bicameral basis to truly ne-
gotiate every word in this bill, literally
down to one-tenth of a mile for a cer-
tain designation on a specific convey-
ance there, so really taking a very
sharp eye and a sharp pencil to all of
the provisions that are in here.
We have really worked to try to in-
corporate as many local, State, and
Member priorities as possible. The
process these matters went through in
order to get where we are today—the
regular order process in the House, in
the Senate, and in many cases, in
both—is really quite impressive. I men-
tioned some of the Member priorities
last week. Members have come to the
floor. I indicated that we have included
provisions sponsored by at least 50 dif-
ferent Senators within this bill. That
number rises to about 90 Senators when
we count the cosponsorship of various
Members. So, again, it was very col-
laborative in terms of how we reached
out to everyone to ensure their prior-
ities are heard.
We have heard a lot on the floor
about the contributions contained
within the sportsmen’s provision—
something I have worked on with Mem-
bers over the course of years, with dif-
ferent partners on the other side,
whether it was Senator TESTER or Sen-
ator HEINRICH. It has been three Con-
gresses running that we have tried to
advance a bipartisan sportsmen’s bill.
So there are so many who are looking
with great interest into finally passing
these sportsmen’s provisions.
There is a provision in here that
helps the folks in Tennessee. One of
Senator ALEXANDER’s priority projects
is a special resource study for the
James K. Polk Presidential home in
Columbia, TN. It was built in 1916. It is
the only surviving private residence of
our 11th President. What we do within
this bill is we take that first step to
make a determination, to ask the ques-
tion of whether this special place
should be designated as a national park
unit at some point in the future. So
pretty parochial, pretty small, but it is
important to those in Columbia, TN.
I mentioned some of the Arizona pro-
visions. Udall Park in Tucson, AZ, is a
priority for the Arizona delegation.
This is one of those issues where they
have a pretty popular local community
park in the city, and there are all
kinds of activities one would antici-
pate taking place in a small park—
baseball, swimming, farmers market.
Up until just a couple years ago, the
city of Tucson was actually unaware
that the Federal Government even
owned this local park. So what we do
in this bill is we clean up the owner-
ship issue, which allows the city to
move forward with the day-to-day ac-
tivities without facing these Federal
bureaucratic hurdles that happen back
here. So when they want to do some-
thing that would be good for that com-
munity, such as expanding a farmers
market or improving cell service on
the softball fields, they don’t have to
come to us to ask for permission—pret-
ty common sense.
I mentioned some of the priorities
coming out of the State of Louisiana
and a measure that Senator CASSIDY
has been working on, the Lake
Bistineau Land Title Stability Act. I
shared the story of some homeowners
who had been on a parcel for 13 years,
built their home, wanted to sell, and
then they found out they couldn’t be-
cause they didn’t have clear title to
their land due to an issue with the
BLM management survey. So we
worked with BLM and the State of
Louisiana—all this bipartisan work—to
clear up the title. Again, this is some-
thing that you wouldn’t think you
would need an act of Congress to do,
but we do that.
Up in the State of Minnesota, we
worked with their delegation to modify
the boundaries of the Voyageurs Na-
tional Park.
In Georgia, we are expanding the
Ocmulgee National Monument—this is
a prehistoric American Indian site—
and we are doing this at the request of
the local communities and the Tribes.
It has strong support from the Creek
Indian Tribe and the local community.
It is a designation that will help pre-
serve the historic and cultural values
of the area as well provide economic
benefit by giving greater opportunities
for visitors.
So these are some of the various pri-
orities we have included in this very
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:17 Feb 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G11FE6.002 S11FEPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1154 February 11, 2019
comprehensive package. These are not
things that are going to make the front
page of the Washington Post or the
New York Times. These are very local.
But I can pretty much guarantee that
they will be on the front page of the
Ocmulgee—I still don’t know if I am
pronouncing that correctly—within the
Creek Indian Tribe. They are going to
make sure people know that this is
something we have been working on for
a long period of time and that it has fi-
nally been addressed in Congress.
Working over the years to help ad-
dress these priorities is very, very im-
portant. We have received the support
of not only so many colleagues in the
Senate and in the House, Republicans
and Democrats, but we have heard it
from organizations and communities
around the country. Some of these
names are pretty well known to us:
Ducks Unlimited, the Boone and
Crockett Club, Congressional Sports-
men’s Foundation, the National Wild-
life Federation, the U.S. Travel Asso-
ciation, the Nature Conservancy.
That is just a few of the many that
have weighed in. I want to give a cou-
ple more examples of groups that have
written in to share their support.
The Southeast Tourism Society
wrote that ‘‘S. 47 has earned the enthu-
siastic support of the travel and tour-
ism industry.’’
I mentioned last week that so many
of the provisions contained in this bill
really help these little local economies
or the broader economies within the re-
gion, so you can see where the travel
and tourism industry would be appre-
ciative.
The Outdoor Recreation Round-
table—this is a consortium made up of
a number of recreation associations—
wrote that our bill should be passed to
‘‘guarantee American’s great outdoors
receive the attention and resources
they so richly deserve and to ensure
the outdoor recreation economy con-
tinues to grow.’’
We are also hearing from commu-
nities that have been waiting for con-
gressional action to resolve long-
standing Federal land management
issues. I mentioned the one in Lou-
isiana. I also mentioned the situation
in Tucson, AZ. We did receive a letter
from the mayor of Tucson in support of
our package because of the provision
we have included that he says ‘‘will
bring closure to a historic agreement
made between the city of Tucson and
Bureau of Land Management at a pop-
ular urban park in Tucson’s northeast
business and residential areas.’’ That
mayor knows this is going to allow the
local community to do some of the
more simple tasks, such as operating a
farmers market, without going through
these bureaucratic hoops and hurdles.
Another provision in the bill will
convey a parcel of land on the shores of
Lake Fannin to Fannin County in
Texas. The county commissioner
shared that with the conveyance of
this land, they will be able to ‘‘con-
tinue the process to restore, preserve,
and protect the historical significance
and beauty this lake has to offer for
years to come.’’
So, again, there is the encourage-
ment we are getting from the commu-
nities and from the organizations. I
have certainly heard from a lot of Alas-
kans who are very pleased about where
we are with this lands package.
We heard from Sheri Buretta. Sheri
is the chair of Chugach Alaska Cor-
poration, and she wrote that ‘‘Section
1113 of S. 47, while long overdue from
our perspective, provides a welcome
and extremely helpful mechanism for
addressing serious inequities relative
to our land settlement.’’
Again, the land settlement in Alaska
is decades old, and we are still at-
tempting to address some of those in-
equities, and this legislation allows us
to do that.
David Fee, who is the coordinating
scientist at the Alaska Volcano Ob-
servatory, noted that ‘‘current volcano
monitoring capacity in the United
States is deficient, and we are unable
to accurately forecast and detect erup-
tions at an adequate level. . . . Passing
and funding [this measure will provide]
for a safer and more resilient United
States.’’
The benefits we provide for so many
around the country—these are just a
few of the examples of the many com-
munities and organizations that sup-
port the passage of the bill. We have a
full list of our supporters that is avail-
able on the committee’s website—it
runs almost 7 pages long—that I am
going to be submitting for the record—
not only that consolidated list but also
the many, many letters of support we
have received. These folks—these indi-
viduals, these groups, these commu-
nities—are writing in to make their
support known because there is good
policy in this package. It is policy that
fosters economic development in rural
America. It is policy that ensures that
incredible landscapes are conserved for
future generations to enjoy. It is policy
that ensures access for sports men and
women. It also allows for greater ac-
cess for some of our off-highway vehi-
cles. It is policy that enhances our vol-
cano-monitoring systems. It empowers
local water managers to make deci-
sions on how to conserve water and en-
dangered species.
I want to just kind of segue off of
that because there hasn’t been a lot of
discussion about the water provisions
within this bill. I keep referring to S.
47 as the lands package, but the truth
is, it is not just about land; it is about
water as well, and it includes a number
of important western water provisions.
We improve water management by
taking important steps to provide
greater local control over water re-
sources and promote management that
balances the needs of water users with
fish and wildlife protection. As an ex-
ample of this, we create a new Bureau
of Reclamation title transfer program.
This is going to facilitate conveyance
of water facilities to the local agencies
that have been managing them for dec-
ades and in some cases longer than dec-
ades—almost over a century—and that
have fully repaid the government for
the cost. So effectively what we are
talking about here is we are simpli-
fying the process for local utilities,
States, and Tribes to pursue title
transfers for reclamation projects, not
by requiring an act of Congress to do
it. So it is simplification. It is common
sense. It is making things work. It is a
straightforward change in the law that
will make a huge difference for the en-
tities in 17 of our Western States that
manage water projects, canals, and
other water infrastructure that irri-
gate more than 11 million acres of
land—land that provides fresh fruits
and vegetables for millions of Ameri-
cans every day.
In the bill, we also authorize indi-
vidual title transfers to California and
Oklahoma. These provisions will great-
ly improve water management and
incentivize capital investment in water
infrastructure while conserving water
resources and protecting public safety.
The reauthorization of the Upper Col-
orado and the San Juan River fish re-
covery program and phase 3 of the Yak-
ima Basin Water Enhancement Project
are both included in this bill. I think
both of these are great examples of how
a collaborative approach to water chal-
lenges, rather than litigation and con-
flict, results in solutions that benefit
water users and the environment. We
have certainly heard from Senator
CANTWELL on this as it relates to the
Yakima Basin project and the very col-
laborative effort that was involved
with that. The Colorado River project
involves bringing four species of endan-
gered fish back from the brink of ex-
tinction while water development
projects move forward.
There are other important water pro-
visions that didn’t make it into the bill
for various reasons. I think many of us
were disappointed, it is fair to say. It is
clear to me that there is a lot more
that we have to do to address these
major challenges with western manage-
ment of water and drought resilience.
We have some issues to work through
on that, certainly not the least of
which is the Colorado River drought
contingency plan. This involves an
interstate agreement to keep Lake
Mead from dropping to critical levels.
It has taken years of negotiation with
cities, Tribes, farmers, and elected offi-
cials.
I clearly understand that this is a
time-sensitive issue. I had hoped we
might be able to finalize it for this
package, but I am looking forward to
working with both Senator MCSALLY,
who is the new chairman of the Water
and Power Subcommittee of the En-
ergy Committee, and Senator CORTEZ
MASTO, who is the ranking member, so
we can get this over the finish line as
quickly as we can.
We also need to complete our work to
reauthorize the Bureau of Reclama-
tion’s infrastructure funding programs
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:17 Feb 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G11FE6.003 S11FEPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1155
February 11, 2019
to better utilize Federal lands and
water facilities for aquifer recharge
and eliminate duplication in the per-
mitting of reclamation pump storage
projects.
We are making good strides on the
water side with this measure as well. I
think it is important to remind folks
that it is a lands package; it addresses
many of the issues related to water; it
is a sportsmen’s package; and it is
truly a conservation package as we
look to what we have included and in-
corporated as the permanent author-
ization of the Land and Water Con-
servation Fund.
This is a good bill we have in front of
us. We have been able to make it even
a little better through our substitute
amendment. I do know that we have
many colleagues who, if we had more
time, would say that they have more
amendments they would like to offer
for the package. We are not going to
have the time or the ability to come to
an agreement to add them here, but it
is not without a great deal of work
that we have gotten to this place.
Again, the fact that we have been
working for years—literally, years—to
put this together is demonstration of
our good faith to try to incorporate as
much as we possibly can.
I do want to repeat, and I know Sen-
ator MANCHIN has, as well, that this is
not going to be our last chance to pass
natural resources legislation in this
Congress. As soon as we get done here—
hopefully, no later than early tomor-
row—we are going to be right back at
work. The Energy and Natural Re-
sources Committee is going back to
work, holding hearings, moving lands
legislation. This is our effort, what we
are dealing with right now, to clear the
deck, and then move on to some new
issues. We will be back again to move
many of the provisions that perhaps
weren’t quite ready for this particular
package.
Later this afternoon, we are going to
vote on motions to end debate on S. 47.
I strongly, strongly encourage all
Members to support that motion and to
allow us to take final steps to move
this important package with good,
strong, robust bipartisan support, and
send it over to the House of Represent-
atives so that we can finally get this
enacted into law.
I see my friend from Nebraska is
here.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Nebraska.
LEAD PROGRAM STUDENTS
Mrs. FISCHER. Mr. President, I offer
my thanks and appreciation to the
chairman of the committee, Senator
MURKOWSKI, and the ranking member,
Senator MANCHIN, for the work they
have done on this lands package. They
have tried their best to bring to the
forefront a number of different view-
points and, obviously, a wide variety of
issues that are included in this pack-
age. They have worked hard to meet
many demands on all sides, and I thank
them for getting that done.
I am going to be installed this week
as one of the chairmen of the sports-
men’s caucus, and we are thrilled to be
able to have the sportsmen’s bill in-
cluded in this package so that we can
continue to see this great American
tradition of families and friends enjoy-
ing the outdoors, hunting, fishing, and
recreating in this beautiful land that
we have here in the United States of
America.
I am very fortunate today to wel-
come a number of conservationists
from Nebraska to Washington, DC.
This is a group of bright, young people
who are taking part in Nebraska’s
Leadership Education/Action Develop-
ment Program, true conservationists
who are ag producers, ag business peo-
ple, and are here visiting us. This is
known as the LEAD Program. They are
individuals from various backgrounds
who participate in this premier agri-
culture leadership program.
Over the course of 2 years, Nebraska
LEAD fellows engage in monthly semi-
nars all across the State; they visit our
Nation’s Capital; and they even have
the opportunity to study agriculture
systems overseas. The goal of the
LEAD Program is to develop the next
generation of innovative thinkers,
problem solvers, and decision makers
who will work to provide food and fuel
to our world.
As a proud LEAD alum myself, I can
tell you that it has helped to shape
who I am today. This program con-
tinues to be near and dear to my heart.
Through the LEAD Program, I learned
valuable leadership skills that I have
carried with me in serving my commu-
nity in the Nebraska Legislature and
right here in the U.S. Senate.
Many may not know this statistic,
but by the year 2050, there will be an
additional 2 billion people to feed in
this world. It is important that the fu-
ture generations of agricultural leaders
are motivated and prepared to deal
with unforeseen challenges on the road
ahead. The LEAD Program is an ex-
traordinary opportunity for Nebras-
kans to learn more about international
trade, about foreign policy, and the
unique agricultural systems that we
have in our State, in our country, and
in our world. Participants in the pro-
gram will gain firsthand experience in
what it means to be an agricultural
leader here at home.
Agriculture is the beating heart of
my State’s economy. The hard work of
our farmers and ranchers in Nebraska
produces abundant bounties every
year. We feed the world. We are privi-
leged to do this and proud of this re-
sponsibility, and we pass it on to the
next generation.
We also know that putting food on
family dinner tables around the world
does not come easy. It is the result of
calloused hands and long days. It is
chopping ice in the tank for thirsty
cattle when it is 20 below, and moving
irrigation pipes for thirsty crops when
it is 110. It is the product of bright in-
novations, new technology, critical
thinking, and fresh solutions in ad-
dressing some of our world’s most
pressing challenges. Now it is in the
hands of the next generation of leaders.
Nebraska’s LEAD Class 38 under-
stands this. They know that our future
is filled with promise. So I am expect-
ing great things from each and every
one of them, and I look forward to
meeting with them this afternoon after
I leave the floor.
LEAD Class 38, we are grateful for
the work that you are doing now and
the good work that you will do to help
build a stronger Nebraska and a
stronger world. I want to again extend
a formal, warm welcome to all mem-
bers of LEAD 38, and I hope you will
enjoy your time in our Nation’s Cap-
ital.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Ms.
ERNST). The majority leader.
CLOTURE MOTION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
I send a cloture motion to the desk for
the motion to proceed.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clo-
ture motion having been presented
under rule XXII, the Chair directs the
clerk to read the motion.
The bill clerk read as follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on the pend-
ing motion to proceed to Calendar No. 6, H.J.
Res. 1, making further continuing appropria-
tions for the Department of Homeland Secu-
rity for fiscal year 2019, and for other pur-
poses.
Pat Roberts, Susan M. Collins, Michael
B. Enzi, Roger F. Wicker, Lisa Mur-
kowski, Marco Rubio, James M. Inhofe,
Deb Fischer, Mike Crapo, Chuck Grass-
ley, Mike Rounds, Lamar Alexander,
John Boozman, Richard C. Shelby,
John Thune, Joni Ernst, Mitch McCon-
nell
Mr. MCCONNELL. I ask unanimous
consent that the mandatory quorum
calls be waived.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
Mr. MCCONNELL. I withdraw the
motion to proceed to H.J. Res. 1.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator has that right.
The motion is withdrawn.
f
NATURAL RESOURCES MANAGE-
MENT ACT—MOTION TO PRO-
CEED—Continued
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Maine.
Ms. COLLINS. Madam President, I
ask unanimous consent that I be per-
mitted to proceed as in morning busi-
ness for up to 10 minutes.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
Ms. COLLINS. Thank you.
(The remarks of Ms. COLLINS per-
taining to the introduction of S. 433 are
printed in today’s RECORD under
‘‘Statements on Introduced Bills and
Joint Resolutions.’’)
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:17 Feb 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G11FE6.005 S11FEPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1156 February 11, 2019
Ms. COLLINS. Madam President, the
second bill that I have introduced is
the Home Health Care Planning Im-
provement Act. I have introduced this
bill with my friend and colleague from
Maryland, Senator CARDIN. Our legisla-
tion will improve the access that Medi-
care beneficiaries have to home
healthcare by allowing physician as-
sistants, nurse practitioners, clinical
nurse specialists, and certified nurse
midwives to order home health serv-
ices. All of these healthcare profes-
sionals are playing increasingly impor-
tant roles in the delivery of healthcare,
particularly in rural and underserved
areas of our Nation, like those rep-
resented by the Presiding Officer and
the State of Maine.
I have learned of far too many cases
of seniors experiencing unnecessary
delays in accessing home healthcare
because a physician was not available
to order the care promptly. To avoid
these needless delays, it is common
sense that other medical professionals
who are familiar with a patient’s case
should be able to order these services.
Under current law, however, only phy-
sicians are allowed to certify or ini-
tiate home healthcare for Medicare pa-
tients, even though they may not be as
familiar with the patient’s case as the
nonphysician provider. In some cases,
the certifying physician may not even
have a relationship with the patient
and must rely on the recommendation
of the nurse practitioner, physician as-
sistant, clinical nurse specialist, or
certified nurse midwife to order the
medically necessary home healthcare.
That makes no sense whatsoever. In
too many cases, these requirements
create obstacles, delays, and unneces-
sary paperwork before home healthcare
can be provided. The result can be an
unnecessary hospital readmission or
other setback for the patient that
would not have occurred had the home
healthcare been provided promptly.
The Home Health Care Planning Im-
provement Act removes the needless
delays in getting Medicare patients the
home healthcare they need simply be-
cause a physician is not available to
sign the form required by law. Again, I
would make the point that this physi-
cian may not even have a relationship
with the senior or other patient who
needs the home healthcare. That pri-
mary care relationship may be between
the patient and a nurse practitioner or
a physician assistant, and yet that
qualified healthcare professional is un-
able to order the home care that the
patient needs.
These two bills will help to ensure
the viability and accessibility of home
health services now and in the future.
By helping patients to avoid much
more costly hospital stays and nursing
homes, we know that home healthcare
saves Medicare, Medicaid, and private
insurers’ programs millions of dollars
each year. At a time when healthcare
costs are among our most pressing pol-
icy challenges, we should embrace
cost-effective solutions like home
healthcare.
Thank you, Madam President.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Mr. THUNE. Madam President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
GOVERNMENT FUNDING
Mr. THUNE. Madam President, imag-
ine going into a U.S. prison and an-
nouncing that a substantial number of
the prisoners had to be released imme-
diately—no exceptions, even if the pris-
oners in question had participated in
serious crimes or committed violent of-
fenses. That is an unthinkable sce-
nario, and no one would seriously sug-
gest going into our Nation’s prisons
and immediately releasing thousands
of prisoners, including violent offend-
ers onto the streets. Yet that is exactly
what Democrats are proposing as part
of a border security agreement.
Over the weekend, Democrats pro-
posed capping the number of illegal im-
migrants who could be detained by Im-
migration and Customs Enforcement.
Incredibly, they are refusing to allow
an exception to the cap for violent
criminals. Under Democrats’ proposal,
if Immigration and Customs Enforce-
ment needed to detain more than 16,500
violent criminals in the interior of our
country, they simply wouldn’t be able
to do it. Instead, immigration enforce-
ment officers would have to choose
which violent criminals to release back
into our communities. Think about
that.
Obviously, everyone who has come
here illegally has broken our laws, but
in a lot of cases in question, we are
talking about people who have violated
other laws, like laws against assault,
rape, murder, theft, drug trafficking,
and more. We are talking about lim-
iting law enforcement’s ability to
make sure that those individuals are
detained.
It isn’t just about future detentions
either. If the Democrats’ enforcement
cap went into effect, Immigration and
Customs Enforcement would be forced
to release criminals already in deten-
tion onto our Nation’s streets.
Additionally, there are an estimated
180,000 criminal illegal aliens in the
United States who currently are not in
custody.
So, under the Democrats’ proposal,
not only would Immigration and Cus-
toms Enforcement be forced to release
violent criminals, for all practical pur-
poses, it would also be prohibited from
trying to take additional dangerous
criminals off of our streets.
Let’s be very clear about what we are
talking about here. We are talking
about limiting the ability of a law en-
forcement agency to enforce criminal
laws. No administration of either party
would accept an arbitrary limit on the
number of criminals it would be able to
detain. No administration would or
should sign off on a law that would
force law enforcement agencies to
leave violent criminals on our Nation’s
streets.
As of a couple of days ago, the Re-
publicans, I would say, were encour-
aged by the bipartisan nature of the
negotiations to prevent another gov-
ernment shutdown. Then the Demo-
crats came forward with this absurd
proposal to limit law enforcement’s
ability to detain even dangerous crimi-
nals.
Are Democrats trying to derail nego-
tiations with a poison pill at the elev-
enth hour and force another shutdown?
The question has to be asked since no
one could seriously think that any
President of either party would sign a
deal that would limit his administra-
tion’s ability to enforce the law.
We still have a few days left. I hope
the Democrats will abandon this pre-
posterous proposal to release dan-
gerous criminals onto our Nation’s
streets. We can achieve a deal to avert
another shutdown, but we can’t do it
by jeopardizing law enforcement’s abil-
ity to protect the American people.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Mr. THUNE. Madam President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
Mr. THUNE. Madam President, I sug-
gest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Mr. LEE. Madam President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
S. 47
Mr. LEE. Madam President, a little
over a month ago, I stood before this
body to object to the massive public
lands package that it was poised to
pass. This bill, some 680 pages long,
was released at 10 a.m. that morning—
that very morning when they first
wanted us to pass this. My staff and I
had not seen it beforehand, and we had
been given no time to read it. This is,
of course, really bad process—terrible
process. This is not the way legislation
should be written. It is not the way
legislation should be debated. It is, of
course, never ever the way legislation
should be passed. In addition to the bad
process, I objected at the time because
I suspected that it also contained bad
policy—bad policy that would dis-
proportionately and negatively affect
my State of Utah.
Now we find ourselves today, more
than a month later, at a moment at
which we are considering the bill. Dur-
ing that time period, I have, of course,
had time to read the bill. Unfortu-
nately, those suspicions that I had
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:17 Feb 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G11FE6.014 S11FEPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1157
February 11, 2019
about the bill have since been con-
firmed. This bill perpetuates a terrible
standard for Federal land policy in the
West, particularly for the State of
Utah.
To give one some background, the
Federal Government owns more than
640 million acres of land. This is a stag-
gering amount of real estate—an
amount of land that in its totality is
larger than the entireties of France,
Spain, Germany, Poland, Italy, the
United Kingdom, Austria, Switzerland,
and the Netherlands combined—all of
them. I don’t mean the national parks
of those lands combined. I don’t mean
the government lands owned by those
respective nations. I mean the entirety
of those countries combined. That is
how much land the Federal Govern-
ment owns just within the United
States. That is a problem, especially
because of the way it is distributed.
Do you see this? Federal public land
is not distributed evenly across the en-
tire country. It is distributed in such a
way that the West bears a dispropor-
tionate burden. In fact, my home State
of Utah is a place that itself bears a
disproportionate burden, a dispropor-
tionate share of that land, with two-
thirds of the land being owned by the
Federal Government. You will see, on
this map, we have Federal land marked
in red, and land that is not owned by
the Federal Government is marked in
white. You will see there is a big dif-
ference, as you move from west to east,
in the amount of Federal land that ex-
ists.
I remember when Eliza, my daughter,
was about 8 years old. It was the first
time I ever showed her this map. As
best I could, I explained it to her, an 8-
year-old.
At the time, she looked at the map
and said:
Look, Daddy. They own Utah.
I said:
Yes, Eliza, you’re right. They own Utah.
In every State east of Colorado, the
Federal Government owns less than 15
percent of the land. In many of those
States, it is in the low single digits as
a percentage of the total land in a
State that is owned by the Federal
Government. In Colorado or in every
State west of Colorado, the Federal
Government owns at least 15 percent of
the land, and in many of the States,
like mine, it is a lot, lot more than
that. This is, of course, an enormous
amount of land. Make no mistake—it
imposes an enormous burden on my
State. In light of this, what are my ob-
jections to this bill? Well, there are a
few.
First, this bill permanently reauthor-
izes something called the Land and
Water Conservation Fund, or the
LWCF, as it is sometimes abbreviated.
Passed in 1964 by Congress, the LWCF
was enacted to promote and preserve
access to recreation opportunities on
public land—to promote and preserve
access to recreation opportunities.
This is an admirable and worthy goal,
so the fund was set up to be the prin-
cipal source of money for new Federal
land acquisition and to assist the
States in developing recreation oppor-
tunities.
As originally conceived and passed by
Congress, it directed 60 percent of its
funds to be appropriated for State pur-
poses and 40 percent for Federal pur-
poses. Unfortunately, the program has
since drifted from its original intent
and from its original wording, and it
has been a program that has been rife
with abuse. I understand that in some
States, people like it, and I understand
that in some States, this is a program
that is well regarded. It is not the case
in every State.
To be clear, in 1976, the law was
amended, and it was amended to re-
move that 60-percent State provision,
stating simply that not less than 40
percent must be used for Federal pur-
poses. Then it was silent on whether a
State would, in fact, receive a penny.
The result? Well, it has been used for
more Federal land acquisition than to
actually care for, access, and manage
the land that we already have, and 61
percent of funds have historically been
used for acquisition, compared to the
25 percent that has historically been
allocated to State grants. So millions
of acres of land have been added to the
Federal Government’s already vast es-
tate solely through the LWCF pro-
gram.
Not surprisingly, the Federal Govern-
ment has not always been a good stew-
ard of this land, and that is putting it
mildly. Look, the sheer magnitude of
unfunded needs on Federal lands is
itself staggering. Now, this shouldn’t
be surprising. The Federal Government
is run by human beings, and the Fed-
eral Government owns an enormous
amount of land—a staggering amount
of land. So for any one entity to own
and manage that much land is going to
be a daunting task, and I am not just
talking here about neglect of garden
variety BLM lands—those managed by
the Bureau of Land Management or one
of the other land management agencies
of the Federal Government. A lot of
those lands that comprise what we
might describe as the crown jewels,
even of our National Park System—
those parts of the Federal public lands
that the American people know and
enjoy the most and identify most close-
ly with what they like about Federal
land management—even many of those
have been neglected.
Take, for example, Grand Canyon Na-
tional Park. We have deferred mainte-
nance costs there of over $329 million.
Yellowstone National Park has de-
ferred maintenance of over $515 mil-
lion. That is an enormous amount of
land that is not being properly main-
tained. So in Yellowstone, here you
have a picture of a road going through
the park, and that road is completely
pockmarked and made dangerous—in
some places almost unusable—by pot-
holes that haven’t been repaired.
No American would necessarily want
to drive down a road that looks like
that. This is some of what happens
when you continue to acquire more
when you can’t manage what you have.
Here in the Grand Canyon, we have a
picture of a pipe that has sprung a leak
and is leaking quite dangerously.
So what we have is a situation that,
according to a 2017 CRS report, has re-
sulted in a maintenance backlog of
Federal lands totaling $18.6 billion.
Wildfires have run rampant in parts
of the country, especially in the West,
which the government has failed to
prevent, and it is not just that they
have failed to prevent those wildfires.
It is not just that the Federal Govern-
ment is not always well equipped to ei-
ther prevent them in the first place or
to fight them because of the vast in-
ventory of lands that it has. In many
instances, poor land management proc-
esses have resulted in severe environ-
mental degradation that has itself been
the predictable cause of widespread en-
vironmental catastrophe within Fed-
eral public lands.
To cite one of many examples, there
is an infestation of a certain type of
bark beetle within a certain area of
federally owned forest. Locals under-
stand that it is coming and ask the
Federal Government to abate the nui-
sance, to address the infestation. The
Federal Government refuses. The State
and local authorities come back and
say: OK, will you at least let us deal
with the nuisance, get rid of the bark
beetle so it doesn’t destroy the trees,
because if it destroys the trees, it is
going to create a local environmental
and economic catastrophe for our peo-
ple. The Federal Government says no.
So the bark beetle does its damage and
destroys hundreds of thousands of
acres of wooded area. It kills the trees.
The trees then die.
The local populations go back to the
Federal Government and say: These
trees are dead. Will you cut them down
so that we don’t have this massive tin-
derbox of forest fire waiting to happen?
The Federal Government says no.
The people come back, those who live
around the area, and say: Can we cut
them down because, otherwise, this is
going to be a tinderbox. There is going
to be a fire. People are going to get
hurt, and it is going to wreak havoc on
our local environment.
The Federal Government still says
no.
Then, guess what happens. Those
trees catch on fire. They burn down,
creating environmental catastrophe,
disrupting the watershed, and this, in
turn, leads to floods.
All of these things connect back up
to poor Federal land management proc-
esses, and those poor Federal land
management processes are the result of
the fact that we have too much Federal
land in the inventory to begin with.
Meanwhile, we have ill-kept roads
and trails that, in some cases, have ac-
tually kept people away from our na-
tional treasures rather than allowing
them to access them.
Furthermore, none of the current
LWCF funds—not any of them—are di-
rected toward maintenance or upkeep
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:17 Feb 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G11FE6.007 S11FEPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1158 February 11, 2019
of these lands, including within our na-
tional parks.
But for years now, Congress has per-
petuated the status quo of this broken,
dangerous, and environmentally reck-
less program by reauthorizing it in
giant omnibus spending bills or con-
tinuing resolutions without even the
slightest incremental, modest reform.
Worse still would be making reauthor-
ization permanent. Indeed, it would
deny us any regular opportunity as a
Congress to actually reform and im-
prove the program.
Second, the bill creates another 1.3
million acres of wilderness in the
West—half of that being in Emery
County, UT.
Now, at the outset, I want to say
that wilderness designations might
sound like a good thing, and sometimes
they are. But this highly restrictive
designation limits far more activities
than is necessary in many, many in-
stances to actually protect the land.
In fact, a wilderness designation pro-
hibits almost all human activity. This
land usually cannot be used for any
commercial activity or any infrastruc-
ture. It cannot be developed for rec-
reational purposes or traveled across
by car, bus, automobile, or even a bicy-
cle—even a bicycle made for that spe-
cific purpose—to say nothing of any
type of agricultural development or
timber harvesting. In a State like
Utah, where the Federal Government
owns more than two-thirds of the land,
these designations have big con-
sequences, especially for the poor and
middle class in my State.
The amount of Federal land in Utah
already sets out a great disadvantage
to the people of Utah to begin with.
While private landowners would pay
property taxes on this land, and those
taxes would go to the State and its po-
litical subdivisions, the Federal Gov-
ernment does not. It does not pay prop-
erty taxes. So Utah is deprived of what
should be and otherwise would be a
huge source of revenue and of oppor-
tunity.
What does that mean? Well, as a re-
sult, our schools are underfunded, local
governments are crippled, fire depart-
ments are, ironically, depleted and,
therefore, unable to properly take care
of the lands they are charged to pro-
tect in the first place, and many times
strapped in their ability to provide
basic services to those most in need.
With so much of this land in the grip
of Federal bureaucrats, it is again lim-
ited in its use, in its opportunity, in its
potential for use for development, for
infrastructure, and for jobs that are es-
sential to our State’s economy—jobs
that would be essential to any State’s
economy.
But with further wilderness designa-
tions by Congress, this is an even
tighter grip. As the LWCF perpetuates
the acquisition of even more Federal
public land, communities like those
throughout my State start to suffer
even more. Citizens, you see, in this
type of an environment have to go to
the Federal Government, cap in hand,
to ask permission for the use of any of
the land at all, for access to any of the
land at all, whether that means to dig
a well, to build a road, to bury a cable,
or to do virtually anything on it at all.
So designating more than 660,000
acres of wilderness in Emery County is
of no small consequence.
I understand that a lot of people here
like the fact that we are doing that.
Make no mistake. They are not the
people who live in Emery County. They
are not the people who live within hun-
dreds or even thousands of miles of
Emery County.
Finally, this bill does nothing to ad-
dress the imminent threat that Utah
faces from unilateral Executive land
grabs through the Antiquities Act.
To be clear, anything and everything
that is designated as red on this map
may be designated as a national monu-
ment overnight, at any moment, solely
at the discretion of the President. Any-
thing here is fair game to any Presi-
dent, at any time, to say: I now make
you a monument.
Now, the Antiquities Act, passed in
1906, was intended to give the President
of the United States the power to de-
clare land that is already owned or
controlled by the Federal Government
as a national monument and to do so
by Executive fiat. This was done in
order to protect specific historic and
cultural objects in the case of an emer-
gency where they couldn’t otherwise be
protected. But instead of reserving the
smallest area compatible with the
proper care and management of the ob-
jects to be protected, as the law itself
requires and as the text of the Antiq-
uities Act itself mandates, Presidents
in more modern times have designated
enormous, million-acre monuments far
beyond the scope of the objects in need
of immediate protection.
These monument designations—per-
haps the most restrictive of all Federal
land designations—often do more harm
than good. They radically undermine a
State’s economy by prohibiting energy
production, mining, fishing, ranching,
recreation, and a myriad of other uses.
Furthermore, without allowing Con-
gress or the State legislature any ac-
tionable input in a decision like this,
they effectively silence and disenfran-
chise the voices of the people closest to
and most affected by and connected to
the lands in question, depriving them
of any say in the process. This is not
fair. It is wrong, and it is something
that needs to be addressed.
Take, for example, the Grand Stair-
case-Escalante National Monument,
designated by President Clinton in
1996. The Clinton administration des-
ignated 1.7 million acres of land—or
about 67 percent of Kane County, UT,
for the monument, all the while claim-
ing that grazing would remain at his-
torical levels.
But this promise, of course, was not
kept. Since then, the BLM has revoked
permits and closed much needed range
land. You see, the men and women of
the Bureau of Land Management, while
well educated, well intentioned, and
perhaps hard-working in many in-
stances, are not from Utah. They don’t
respond to or stand accountable to
anyone who is from Utah. They don’t
come from these parts of the country
or from my State, where people’s day-
to-day livelihood and their ability to
access their own land for their own
purposes and to make a living—they
don’t have anything to do with this
land. So why would they care? They
don’t.
Today, grazing is down almost one-
third from what it had been more than
two decades ago when the Grand Stair-
case-Escalante National Monument
was proclaimed by President Clinton—
proclaimed and designated as such, by
the way, without any advance notice to
the people of Utah, without the Presi-
dent even entering the State of Utah to
do it.
Now, ranchers were hit hard. Many of
them lost their ability to fence in
water resources and maintain roads
around them. In some cases, they could
no longer bring water to their cattle,
and many families were forced to re-
duce their herds, sometimes by half.
This may not sound like much to some-
one who doesn’t understand ranching
or doesn’t know anyone who makes
their living off of ranching, but this
means all the world to those people
whose families for generations have
supported themselves through ranching
and ranching in that area where they
are deeply connected to this land.
Of course, there was the designation
of the Bears Ears National Monument
by President Obama. The citizens of
San Juan County, UT,—incidentally,
Utah’s poorest county—woke up on De-
cember 28, 2016, to find out that the
Obama administration had unilaterally
designated 1.35 million acres for that
monument overnight, even though
they had specifically pleaded against
that.
Keep in mind that San Juan County
has historically had some divisions—
some of them along political lines, be-
tween Republicans and Democrats, and
some of them along ethnic lines, be-
tween those who are Native American
and those who are not.
This was an issue that united Demo-
crats and Republicans alike in San
Juan County. It united Native Ameri-
cans in San Juan County and non-Na-
tive Americans in San Juan County
like few issues ever have in San Juan
County and few issues ever will in San
Juan County. This brought them to-
gether because people from all walks of
life opposed this if they lived in San
Juan County.
President Obama, at the time he de-
clared it, claimed this to have had the
overwhelming support of Native Amer-
ican populations. What was often left
out of that discussion is they were not
the Native American populations in
Utah. They were not the people who
lived in San Juan County. They were
people outside of this area, most of
them out of State, who supported it.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:17 Feb 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G11FE6.015 S11FEPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1159
February 11, 2019
Yes, it is easy to designate some-
thing as wilderness or a national
monument when it is not in your land,
when it is not in your community,
when it doesn’t affect your way of life.
That is what happens when we abuse
Federal public land ownership. That is
what happens when you take one State
and decide the Federal Government is
going to own more than two-thirds of
the land in that State.
Imagine if in your State—or in any
other State—any other land owner,
whether an individual, a for-profit cor-
poration, a nonprofit foundation, or
anything else, owned more than, let’s
say, 5 percent of the land. People would
be understandably, justifiably con-
cerned that that person or that entity
or that nonprofit, or whatever it was,
could have a disproportionate, outsized
impact on that State’s economy.
Imagine if that number were in-
creased to include not just 5 percent of
the land in your State, but 10, 15, 20, 25
percent of the land. As you rounded the
corner of 30 percent, people would start
to get freaked out. Imagine if that
number then soared above that—35, 40,
45, 50 percent—until it got up to nearly
70 percent of the land in your State.
Imagine further that, at that point,
that landowner declared itself exempt
from all forms of property taxation.
That would create problems for your
State.
This is what I beg and plead for my
colleagues from around the country,
particularly those who live east of Col-
orado, to understand. It is really easy
to support these things when it is in
somebody else’s State. It is really for
people on the northeastern seaboard to
look at Utah and say: Well, it is just
one of those square States. They have
plenty of land out there. They have
plenty of room. They don’t need to
worry about it.
Try living there. Try earning a living
there for your family. It is not right.
This goes against so much of what we
believe in, in this country.
Federal land ownership is not the
only unfair thing about this. Again,
Federal land ownership makes possible
the designation unilaterally, by one
person, of a national monument, and if
that one person happens to decide that
a particular State ought to be the next
victim, that person will make it so.
It just so happens that, just as Utah
has a disproportionate share of Federal
public land in its State, so, too, is it a
disproportionate victim under the An-
tiquities Act. Since the passage of the
Antiquities Act, Presidents have des-
ignated 77.85 million acres of land as
national monuments, and 87 percent of
that has been designated in the last 40
years. Of the land that has been des-
ignated as a monument over the last 25
years, 3.23 million acres, or 28 percent,
are in Utah. All of the land in the
United States designated as a monu-
ment in the last 25 years, that por-
tion—nearly 30 percent—is in my
State. Why is that fair? It is not, espe-
cially when you consider the harm
done to the economies, the disruption
that takes place as a result of these
designations, the widespread opposi-
tion from Democrats and Republicans
alike, and in San Juan County the Na-
tive American population and the non-
Native American population alike are
overwhelmingly against this.
What was intended to be an act of
cultural preservation has, sadly, dete-
riorated into a greedy, harmful Federal
land grab. As it currently stands, there
is always the threat of a decision com-
ing down from on high that will utterly
decimate the livelihoods of people in
Utah. There is no good reason for this.
Already, two other States have felt
the abuse of the Antiquities Act within
their borders, and they have received
relief. In the 1950s, Wyoming and Alas-
ka successfully called on Congress to
grant them Antiquities Act protec-
tions. Why? Because they had been dis-
proportionately burdened by this law.
As a result of their efforts, in Wyo-
ming, any monument designation must
be approved by Congress, and, in Alas-
ka, any designation made by Presi-
dential fiat that exceeds 5,000 acres
must be approved by Congress.
To be clear, in both of these States,
Congress still has the power to des-
ignate this. It is just that they are say-
ing, for those States where it has been
abused in the past, Congress as a
whole—people’s elected lawmakers as a
whole in Congress—ought to be the
ones designating, rather than putting
it in the hands of one person.
There is no reason why the people of
Utah, who have suffered more under
the Antiquities Act than any other
population in the entire country,
should be treated any differently.
There is no reason Utahns should live
under this constant threat of abuse.
That is why we have offered an amend-
ment that would remedy this.
With permanent authorization of the
LWCF, which will result only in a
greater Federal land footprint, and
with the roughly 660,000 acres of new
wilderness designation in Utah, I fear
my State is at even greater risk for yet
another monument designation. Thus,
at a bare minimum, Utah deserves the
same protection Wyoming has re-
ceived. Our amendment would add just
two words: ‘‘or Utah.’’ Without it, I
simply cannot vote for this bill. With
it, it gives us the protection we deserve
and protection that other States like
ours have already received.
In a day and age when we have to
deal with 680-page bills dropped on our
desks at 10 a.m. on the day we are
asked to pass it or a 2,232 page spend-
ing bill, as we faced last March for the
omnibus spending package, a bill that
is not two pages long, but just two
words long, should be welcomed.
There is much that is wrong with our
Federal land policy in the West, and,
unfortunately, much of that is some-
thing that this bill fails to correct.
Utahns, and Americans, deserve better
than the stranglehold that the Federal
Government is exercising over so much
of our country’s lands. Yet Washington
greedily continues to grab more, year
after year, imposing tighter and tight-
er restrictions, all the while failing to
maintain the lands that it already
owns. These lands will not be national
treasures for everyone if we can’t take
care of them in the first place. Indeed,
they will be treasures for no one if we
continue along this same pattern of
willful neglect.
Let me be very clear. My opposition
today is not about whether our na-
tional treasures or parks or monu-
ments or lands should be protected. It
is not about whether they should be,
but how to do that and who is best
equipped to do that and who is most
knowledgeable to do it well.
What I am asking for is for Utah’s
elected leaders—its elected lawmakers
in Congress—to at least be given a
chance to weigh in on these matters
before they become law, rather than to
have those decisions being made from
thousands of miles away by just one
person. Indeed, the very best way to
ensure that these national treasures
are protected and recreation available
is to empower our States and our local
communities, which understand and
appreciate their backyards best. They
know which land to prioritize, and they
know how to make that happen.
Just look at the State and local bal-
lot initiatives in the last few decades
to see the evidence. Since 1988, these
State initiatives have approved over
$72 billion in combined expenditures
for recreation and conservation. These
things matter to States and local com-
munities, and they have already raised
huge funds and found ways to preserve
and competently manage their public
lands.
Protection of our lands will happen
without the Federal Government’s
thumb on the scale, and it will happen
in a way that actually makes these
treasures more available for future
generations. We will not be helping
them preserve them, however, by deny-
ing access to the people who are in the
best position themselves to preserve
them; that is, the people who live and
work and recreate on them, the people
whose lives are interwoven with them
and have been for generations. And we
will not be helping the American peo-
ple by depriving them of their liveli-
hoods. That is why I have introduced
amendments that would make reforms
and improvements to the LWCF, the
Emery County wilderness designation
bill and other provisions in this pack-
age—amendments that would steer our
lands policy in a better direction, at
least as a starting point.
These are conversations worth hav-
ing. They need to be had, and we ought
to have them. But at a bare minimum,
with the least shred of compromise, we
could add just those two words—‘‘or
Utah’’—to give Utahns justice, to give
them a voice in managing and caring
for their lands.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:17 Feb 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G11FE6.017 S11FEPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1160 February 11, 2019
AMENDMENT NO. 187 TO AMENDMENT NO. 112
Mr. LEE. Mr. President, I call up my
amendment No. 187 to amendment No.
112.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
BOOZMAN). The clerk will report.
The legislative clerk read as follows:
The Senator from Utah [Mr. LEE], for him-
self and others, proposes an amendment
numbered 187 to amendment No. 112.
Mr. LEE. Mr. President, I ask unani-
mous consent that further reading of
the amendment be dispensed with.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The amendment is as follows:
(Purpose: To limit the extension or estab-
lishment of national monuments in the
State of Utah)
At the appropriate place, add the fol-
lowing:
SEC. lll. LIMITATION ON THE EXTENSION OR
ESTABLISHMENT OF NATIONAL
MONUMENTS IN THE STATE OF
UTAH.
Section 320301(d) of title 54, United States
Code, is amended—
(1) in the heading, by striking ‘‘WYOMING’’
and inserting ‘‘THE STATE OF WYOMING OR
UTAH’’; and
(2) by striking ‘‘Wyoming’’ and inserting
‘‘the State of Wyoming or Utah’’.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Alaska.
Ms. MURKOWSKI. Mr. President,
just to speak very, very briefly to the
good Senator’s amendment to amend
the Antiquities Act to prohibit the
President from designating national
monuments in Utah.
He and I have had some opportunity
to speak to this issue, and I certainly
agree with him when it comes to the
policy goals that he is seeking to as-
sert here. I clearly understand the frus-
tration he has.
With the previous administration, I
believe we have seen a real abuse of au-
thority—certainly an abuse of the spir-
it—of the Antiquities Act. We saw that
in Utah when millions of acres were
locked up through Executive designa-
tion. This was done despite some pret-
ty robust local opposition and objec-
tion.
This is a scenario that I know pretty
well because, in my State, we have a
Federal landlord that owns about 63
percent of the State, 224 million acres.
We have a provision in ANILCA that is
a specific no-more clause, prohibiting
the withdrawal of more than 5,000 acres
absent congressional approval. The
Obama administration circumvented
that law. They placed hundreds of
thousands of additional acres off limits
to development.
What my colleague is seeking here,
the ability to affirm or reject a monu-
ment designation by the State of Utah,
is something that, again, I truly under-
stand. I have supported legislation and
introduction of legislation to do just as
he has done—maybe not specific to one
State but making sure that we truly do
respect the spirit of the Antiquities
Act and making sure, when monuments
and monument designations move for-
ward, that they are done with local
support.
I am in a bit of a quandary here be-
cause what he is advocating for is
something that, again, I have been
there with him on. But our dilemma, if
you will, is that we have a package be-
fore us of lands bills, of water bills, of
sportsmen’s provisions, of conservation
provisions that we have been working
to kind of—not kind of, but to build
that level of consensus.
This measure is one that has been
identified by those with whom we have
been trying to work, not only here in
this body but with the House as well.
They have identified this as one of
those measures that would bring down
this effort. So we are in a position
where, while I support the goals the
Senator is seeking to achieve, I don’t
see a path forward for it in this Cham-
ber at this time.
As I mentioned—as you have heard
me say—we have some very important
provisions that we have been working
on for a period of years. I want to en-
sure those proceed. I don’t want to see
S. 47 fall. So I am going to move to
table the Lee amendment, but I want
to once again commit to the Senator
from Utah that I will work with him,
as the chairman of the Energy Com-
mittee, to address these monument
designations.
Given the vehicle that we have in
front of us, I will move to table and ask
that colleagues join me in this tabling
motion.
Mr. President, at this moment, I
move to table the Lee amendment No.
187.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. We have
a cloture motion that has ripened. The
motion to table is not in order unless
you have unanimous consent.
UNANIMOUS CONSENT AGREEMENT
Ms. MURKOWSKI. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that we be al-
lowed to proceed to table Lee amend-
ment No. 187.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
objection?
Without objection, it is so ordered.
MOTION TO TABLE
Ms. MURKOWSKI. Mr. President, I
move to table Lee amendment No. 187.
I ask for the yeas and nays.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there a
sufficient second?
There appears to be a sufficient sec-
ond.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk called the roll.
Mr. THUNE. The following Senators
are necessarily absent: the Senator
from Texas (Mr. CORNYN), the Senator
from Texas (Mr. CRUZ), the Senator
from North Dakota (Mr. HOEVEN), and
the Senator from Nebraska (Mr.
SASSE).
Further, if present and voting the
Senator from Texas (Mr. CORNYN)
would have voted ‘‘nay.’’
Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the
Senator from New York (Mrs. GILLI-
BRAND), the Senator from Minnesota
(Ms. KLOBUCHAR) and the Senator from
Michigan (Ms. STABENOW) are nec-
essarily absent.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Are there
any other Senators in the Chamber de-
siring to vote?
The result was announced—yeas 60,
nays 33, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 20 Leg.]
YEAS—60
Alexander
Baldwin
Bennet
Blumenthal
Booker
Brown
Burr
Cantwell
Capito
Cardin
Carper
Casey
Collins
Coons
Cortez Masto
Daines
Duckworth
Durbin
Feinstein
Gardner
Graham
Harris
Hassan
Heinrich
Hirono
Hyde-Smith
Isakson
Jones
Kaine
King
Leahy
Manchin
Markey
Menendez
Merkley
Murkowski
Murphy
Murray
Peters
Portman
Reed
Roberts
Rosen
Rounds
Sanders
Schatz
Schumer
Shaheen
Shelby
Sinema
Smith
Tester
Tillis
Udall
Van Hollen
Warner
Warren
Whitehouse
Wyden
Young
NAYS—33
Barrasso
Blackburn
Blunt
Boozman
Braun
Cassidy
Cotton
Cramer
Crapo
Enzi
Ernst
Fischer
Grassley
Hawley
Inhofe
Johnson
Kennedy
Lankford
Lee
McConnell
McSally
Moran
Paul
Perdue
Risch
Romney
Rubio
Scott (FL)
Scott (SC)
Sullivan
Thune
Toomey
Wicker
NOT VOTING—7
Cornyn
Cruz
Gillibrand
Hoeven
Klobuchar
Sasse
Stabenow
The motion is agreed to.
Ms. MURKOWSKI. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent to enter into a
colloquy with my colleague from Cali-
fornia, Senator FEINSTEIN.
While I was pleased that we could
reach agreement to include a designa-
tion of the Sacramento-San Joaquin
Delta National Heritage Area in the
substitute amendment, I want to clar-
ify what this designation does and, per-
haps more importantly, what it does
not do.
The purpose of this designation, as
with congressionally designated Na-
tional Heritage Areas in general, is to
celebrate the region’s history and cul-
tural heritage by promoting education,
tourism, recreation, and other historic
values. It also creates the opportunity
for Federal participation in promoting
these regional attributes.
In no way does this designation im-
plicate or interfere with any water fa-
cilities or operations associated with
the Sacramento-San Joaquin Delta. We
are not creating new regulatory au-
thority or modifying existing regu-
latory authority, including those re-
lated to land or water use, at any level
of government.
Further, S. 47 includes protections to
ensure that private property will not
be impacted by the designation, protec-
tions that apply to the ownership and
use of water rights both inside and out-
side of the National Heritage Area’s
boundary.
I ask Senator FEINSTEIN, you have
championed this National Heritage
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:17 Feb 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00010 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G11FE6.018 S11FEPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1161
February 11, 2019
Area designation for quite some time.
In her view, have I properly character-
ized the intended effect of this designa-
tion?
Mrs. FEINSTEIN. I thank my col-
league from Alaska and appreciate her
help with this measure. Yes, her char-
acterization of this provision is exactly
right. There is no intent that this des-
ignation will have any impact on water
rights or water-related management
decisions. The general protections and
limitations, along with the inclusion of
language specific to Delta water oper-
ations, makes certain that the designa-
tion of the Sacramento-San Joaquin
Delta National Heritage Area will not
affect or influence water operations of
the Central Valley Project, State
Water Project, or other water supply
facilities within the Bay-Delta water-
shed, including a reduction in water ex-
ports from the Bay-Delta. I am pleased
that we have included additional lan-
guage to dispel any such concerns and
make absolutely certain that no one
reads anything into the legislation
that is not there and was never in-
tended.
I thank her for including this des-
ignation in S. 47 and for all of her work
to move this historic public lands
package forward. The public lands
package includes a number of provi-
sions that will benefit California, and I
appreciate her leadership in building
bipartisan agreement to steer it
through the Senate.
Ms. MURKOWSKI. I thank Senator
FEINSTEIN. As we have explained, the
purpose of this designation is straight-
forward and intended to promote and
celebrate the cultural heritage of the
Sacramento-San Joaquin Delta region,
without any broader implications on
water or land management.
Mr. MURPHY. Mr. President, I wish
to engage in a colloquy with the chair-
man of the Energy and Natural Re-
sources Committee, Senator MUR-
KOWSKI, regarding S. 47, the Natural
Resources Management Act, often re-
ferred to as the lands package, of which
Chairman MURKOWSKI is the sponsor
and which is currently under consider-
ation by the full Senate. In particular,
I am interested in clarifying the intent
of title IV, regarding ‘‘Sportsmen’s Ac-
cess and Related Matters.’’
This title of the legislation deals
with—among other issues—the amount
of Federal lands open to hunting, fish-
ing, and recreational shooting. If I un-
derstand the bill correctly, nothing in
S. 47 opens existing Federal lands to
hunting, fishing, and recreational
shooting that are not currently open to
those activities. Moreover, under this
bill, those lands may be closed for rea-
sons, including public safety and envi-
ronmental protection, among other
reasons.
Is that a correct reading of the bill?
Ms. MURKOWSKI. Senator MURPHY’s
reading of the bill is correct.
Mr. MURPHY. Thank you. It is also
my understanding that S. 47 makes
uniform the process by which Federal
lands may be closed to hunting, fish-
ing, and recreational shooting More-
over, it is my understanding that S. 47
does nothing to change the standards
that the Federal Government uses to
determine whether to close Federal
lands to hunting, fishing, and rec-
reational shooting or to otherwise
limit those activities.
Is that a correct reading of the bill?
Ms. MURKOWSKI. Senator MURPHY’s
reading of the bill is correct.
Mr. MURPHY. Thank you.
f
CLOTURE MOTION
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Pursuant
to rule XXII, the Chair lays before the
Senate the pending cloture motion,
which the clerk will state.
The legislative clerk read as follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on Calendar
No. 7, S. 47, a bill to provide for the manage-
ment of the natural resources of the United
States, and for other purposes.
Mitch McConnell, Lisa Murkowski,
Kevin Cramer, Mike Braun, Mike
Rounds, Mike Crapo, Michael B. Enzi,
Steve Daines, John Cornyn, John
Thune, Thom Tillis, Tom Cotton, Rich-
ard Burr, Shelley Moore Capito, Rob
Portman, Todd Young.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. By unan-
imous consent, the mandatory quorum
call has been waived.
The question is, Is it the sense of the
Senate that debate on S. 47, a bill to
provide for the management of the nat-
ural resources of the United States,
and for other purposes, shall be
brought to a close?
The yeas and nays are mandatory
under the rule.
The clerk will call the roll.
The bill clerk called the roll.
Mr. THUNE. The following Senators
are necessarily absent: the Senator
from TX (Mr. CORNYN), the Senator
from TX (Mr. CRUZ), the Senator from
ND (Mr. HOEVEN), and the Senator from
NE (Mr. Sasse).
Further, if present and voting, the
Senator from TX (Mr. CORNYN) would
have voted ‘‘yea’’ and the Senator from
ND (Mr. HOEVEN) would have voted
‘‘yea’’.
Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the
Senator from MN (Mrs. KLOBUCHER)
and the Senator from MI Mrs.
STAVENOW) are necessarily absent.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. (Mr. SUL-
LIVAN). Are there any other Senators in
the Chamber desiring to vote?
The yeas and nays resulted—yeas 87,
nays 7, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 21 Leg.]
YEAS—87
Alexander
Baldwin
Barrasso
Bennet
Blackburn
Blumenthal
Blunt
Booker
Boozman
Braun
Brown
Burr
Cantwell
Capito
Cardin
Carper
Casey
Cassidy
Collins
Coons
Cortez Masto
Cotton
Cramer
Crapo
Daines
Duckworth
Durbin
Enzi
Ernst
Feinstein
Fischer
Gardner
Gillibrand
Graham
Grassley
Harris
Hassan
Hawley
Heinrich
Hirono
Hyde-Smith
Isakson
Jones
Kaine
King
Leahy
Manchin
Markey
McConnell
McSally
Menendez
Merkley
Moran
Murkowski
Murphy
Murray
Perdue
Peters
Portman
Reed
Risch
Roberts
Romney
Rosen
Rounds
Rubio
Sanders
Schatz
Schumer
Scott (FL)
Scott (SC)
Shaheen
Shelby
Sinema
Smith
Sullivan
Tester
Thune
Tillis
Udall
Van Hollen
Warner
Warren
Whitehouse
Wicker
Wyden
Young
NAYS—7
Inhofe
Johnson
Kennedy
Lankford
Lee
Paul
Toomey
NOT VOTING—6
Cornyn
Cruz
Hoeven
Klobuchar
Sasse
Stabenow
The PRESIDING OFFICER. On this
vote, the yeas are 87, the nays are 7.
Three-fifths of the Senators duly cho-
sen and sworn having voted in the af-
firmative, the motion is agreed to.
The Senator from Florida.
AMENDMENT NO. 182 TO AMENDMENT NO. 112
Mr. RUBIO. Mr. President, I call up
my amendment No. 182 to amendment
No. 112.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
The Senator from Florida [Mr. RUBIO] pro-
poses an amendment numbered 182 to amend-
ment No. 112.
Mr. RUBIO. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the reading of
the amendment be waived.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The amendment is as follows:
(Purpose: To give effect to more accurate
maps of units of the John H. Chafee Coast-
al Barrier Resources System that were pro-
duced by digital mapping)
At the end, add the following:
SEC. 2402A. JOHN H. CHAFEE COASTAL BARRIER
RESOURCES SYSTEM.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 2(b) of the
Strengthening Coastal Communities Act of
2018 (Public Law 115–358) is amended by add-
ing at the end the following:
‘‘(36) The map entitled ‘Cape San Blas Unit
P30/P30P (1 of 2)’ and dated December 19,
2018, with respect to Unit P30 and Unit P30P.
‘‘(37) The map entitled ‘Cape San Blas Unit
P30/P30P (2 of 2)’ and dated December 19,
2018, with respect to Unit P30 and Unit
P30P.’’.
(b) EFFECT.—Section 7003 shall have no
force or effect.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from the great State of Alaska.
ORDER OF PROCEDURE
Ms. MURKOWSKI. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that notwith-
standing rule XXII, at 4:30 p.m. on
Tuesday, February 12, all postcloture
time be considered expired on S. 47;
that following the disposition of any
pending amendments, the substitute
amendment, as amended, if amended,
be agreed to, the bill, as amended, be
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:21 Feb 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00011 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\RECORD19\FEBRUARY\S11FE9.REC S11FE9
CORRECTION
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1162 February 11, 2019
read a third time, and the Senate pro-
ceed to vote on passage of the bill, as
amended.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
Ms. MURKOWSKI. Mr. President, I
appreciate the cooperation of the body
on the very substantive vote, and I
look forward to tomorrow.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Oklahoma.
BORDER SECURITY
Mr. LANKFORD. Mr. President, 21⁄2
weeks ago, Democrats and Repub-
licans—the House, the Senate, and the
White House—agreed to reopen the
government for 3 weeks to be able to
continue negotiations on border secu-
rity.
A very simple statement that was
made by my Democratic colleagues
was this: Reopen the government for 3
weeks. We will negotiate on border se-
curity and come to an agreement, but
only if the government is open, and it
would be limited to border security.
It was a pretty straightforward con-
versation.
President Trump said: We trust you
on this.
We agreed to reopen the government
for 3 weeks to focus on border security.
Now it appears that based on the ne-
gotiations that are happening right
now in this building, this has become a
Lucy-and-the-football-type negotiation
because this doesn’t seem to be about
border security anymore.
My Democratic colleagues have said:
Now we want to add one thing. We will
vote for fencing at the border as long
as you agree to defund a section of ICE.
The whole negotiation now is this:
Yes, we will add border fencing, but
you have to agree to defund ICE.
Here is the way that works. Their
agreement is this: You will have to
limit the number of people that ICE
can detain.
Now, to our credit, this Congress has
always allocated funding to say: Here
is x amount of dollars for detention fa-
cilities and for bed space for ICE,
knowing that if somebody is picked up
at the border, when they are picked up
at the border as they cross, the Border
Patrol does not house them. They are
not detained by Border Patrol. They
are arrested by Border Patrol, and then
they are turned over to ICE.
So the plan is not to allocate enough
dollars for ICE detention but to create
a new arbitrary cap for the number of
people that ICE could actually detain,
so that ICE could only hold x amount
of people. That is what they want to
get a negotiation—for the first time
ever to have a maximum cap of the
number of people that ICE could de-
tain.
Why does that matter? One is to
allow funding for it, and another one is
to have a cap. A cap is very different,
and my Democratic colleagues know it.
In real life, here is what it would
look like. If ICE, at any point, already
had the number they have in custody
at that point and they arrest someone
else, they would have to choose to re-
lease someone currently in detention
before they could arrest someone and
put them in detention.
Let me give an example.
Coyotes now try for any adult who is
coming to try to have them bring a
child with them because they know if a
child travels with the adult, they are
going to get a special lane into the
country, as if they are coming as a
family. They get their own fast lane
into being released into the country.
If you have this ICE detainer cap,
coyotes will know: Bring people in
mass migration because ICE can’t re-
lease enough people at once. So if you
come as a thousand across the border
or 500 across the border, they have to
be released into the country because
ICE can’t quickly release 500 people
from detention to add the new 500 peo-
ple who are coming through.
My Democratic colleagues also know
that it currently takes about 41 days
for someone who is in detention to go
through the whole process to get a
hearing and get finished. This would
accelerate the process of getting those
people out and released into the coun-
try, rather than getting them through
the actual hearing.
The better solution on this is to add
judges and actually get people to go
through the process and get due proc-
ess faster, instead of releasing people
into the country. Once someone crosses
our border illegally and they are re-
leased into the country, the vast ma-
jority of those individuals never get de-
ported because they either don’t show
up for the hearing at all or, when they
do show up for the hearing and they are
told, no, you can’t legally stay, they
disappear.
This cap negotiation that is going on
right now is exactly the wrong direc-
tion to go. It is not about border secu-
rity. It is about releasing people into
the country.
Several years ago, there was a young
lady named Sarah Root. She was in
Iowa. It was graduation night from col-
lege, and she was hit by a drunk driver
and killed. Sarah Root’s loss drew the
Nation’s attention for a moment to the
issue of not only drunk driving but ille-
gal immigration, because the person
that hit Sarah was illegally present in
the country and had a blood alcohol
level three times above the legal limit.
Local law enforcement, at that time
under the Obama administration,
asked ICE to detain them. ICE said
they didn’t meet the minimum quali-
fication that had been set by the ad-
ministration to detain them. So they
released this person on bond. Sarah
later died from her injuries, and they
have never been able to find that guy
again. He is gone. He is somewhere in
the United States, or maybe he is run-
ning internationally. We don’t know,
but he is on our most wanted list in-
stead of being held.
That was a decision made by a pre-
vious administration just on priorities.
My Democratic colleagues are trying
to force ICE to make those kinds of de-
cisions every single day now—to deter-
mine who needs to be released and who
needs to be kept based on an arbitrary
cap that they want to put in on the
maximum number of people that ICE
can detain.
There is no State in the country that
sets an arbitrary cap, other than the
bed space that they have available. But
this conversation is that we have
enough bed space to hold someone, but
you can’t use that bed space because
we want to limit the number of people
that ICE can detain.
This is the current debate on border
security. It is not about border secu-
rity anymore. It is not about fencing
anymore. It is now about giving ICE a
maximum cap they can detain and, lit-
erally, forcing ICE to release people il-
legally present into the United States.
That is not border security. That is the
opposite of border security, and we
should not go for a deal that puts a cap
on ICE that is an arbitrary number.
I hope this administration rejects
that. I hope we can finish negotiations.
I hope the American people see this for
what it is. This is no longer about bor-
der security. This is about trying to
force this administration to release
people into the country who are ille-
gally present and prevent ICE from
doing its job. Enough is enough on this.
Let’s allow the ICE folks to be able to
do their job—they are Federal law en-
forcement—and not put a cap on them,
saying: You can only enforce the law
this far, and then after that, you can-
not enforce the law anymore because
we have an arbitrary cap. That needs
to be rejected, and that is not a serious
offer in negotiations.
The reason we don’t already have a
deal that is already done right now,
with this body debating it, is that de-
bate about capping ICE detentions got
added into the conversation last week-
end and blew up the whole negotiation.
This is not the White House blowing
up negotiations. This is not Repub-
licans blowing up negotiations. This is
my Democratic colleagues saying they
want a cap on ICE detentions and al-
lowing coyotes to be able to rush large
quantities at the border or forcing ICE
to have to make difficult choices about
which gang members they are going to
release and which they are going to
hold, literally getting a briefing every
morning saying: We can’t arrest any-
one today because we don’t have
enough detention space, so today we
have to look the other way.
That is an absurd proposal, and we
should reject it.
With that, I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Mr. TOOMEY. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:37 Feb 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00012 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G11FE6.025 S11FEPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1163
February 11, 2019
THE ECONOMY
Mr. TOOMEY. Mr. President, I rise to
discuss two economic issues this
evening. The first is a reaction to a
proposal that comes to us from our col-
leagues on the other side of the aisle.
Let me preface this with the observa-
tion that I am pretty sure we are living
through the strongest economy in the
United States in my adult lifetime. It
has been fantastic for the people I rep-
resent.
Our unemployment rate is pretty
much at a 50-year low. African-Amer-
ican and Hispanic unemployment is the
lowest that has ever been recorded. The
youth unemployment rate is extremely
low. It is at historically low levels. Our
economy has accelerated, and wages
are growing exactly as we said they
would. It is very simple. The demand
for workers has grown so much that
employers are being forced to bid ever
higher for the services of the workers.
Now we are in a tremendously envi-
able position of having more job open-
ings in America than there are people
looking for work in America. It is fan-
tastic. This is exactly what we want to
have happen.
Last week, the President was right
when he said that our economy is the
envy of the world. It is totally true.
So what do our colleagues on the
other side of the aisle propose to do in
light of the fact that we have this fan-
tastic economy? Well, Senator SAND-
ERS and Senator SCHUMER joined up
and made a proposal that we adopt leg-
islation that would severely restrict
the ability of American companies to
buy back their own stock. This is just
the latest iteration of a socialist tend-
ency that seems to be growing on the
far left. This is a horrendous idea.
I suppose we shouldn’t be surprised
when we hear a Socialist-leaning idea
coming from a self-described Demo-
cratic Socialist or a Socialist Demo-
crat—whatever the description is—but
I am surprised to hear this coming
from the Senate minority leader.
Let’s talk about this a little bit.
First of all, what is a stock buyback?
It is not that complicated. It is when
the owners of a company take some or
all of their money out of the company.
Let’s think about it this way. A busi-
ness is owned by its shareholders, and
the shareholders hire a management
team to take their money and invest it
in a way that will generate a return for
the investor, for the shareholder. That
is the role of the management team.
So why would they buy back their
own stock? The reason they would buy
back their own stock is that sometimes
it happens that the management team
of a company is just not able to deploy
any more capital in a way that would
generate a better return than what is
generally available in the marketplace.
What sometimes happens is companies
might make huge investments; they
may be investing tremendous
amounts—record amounts—in expand-
ing their capabilities, expanding their
production, more R&D, and expanding
their staff, but they can reach a limit
as to how much they can expand and
how much they productively invest at
any given point. If they have more
money—more cash—than they can pro-
ductively deploy, they have an obliga-
tion to return that to the people who
actually own it; that is, the share-
holders, the investors. That is their ob-
ligation.
Shockingly, Senators SANDERS and
SCHUMER are suggesting that compa-
nies be forbidden from being able to re-
turn some portion of their excess cap-
ital to their shareholders unless the
company first complies with a list of
political demands that Senators SCHU-
MER and SANDERS are advocating.
Let me tell you why this is such a
bad idea. I will give you three reasons.
No. 1, it is a disturbing and profound
attack on freedom. No. 2, it would be
terrible for the economy. And, No. 3, it
would hurt the very people they pre-
sumably intend to help. Let me go
through them in order.
First of all, as far as freedom goes,
whose company is it? To whom does a
given company in America belong? I
have always thought they belonged to
the shareholders of those companies—
the people who saved up and invested
in them, the people who have launched
those companies, and the people whose
capital made it possible. So, of course,
it should be within the rights of the
people who own a company to decide
what to do with the profits after all ex-
penses have been covered and taxes
have been paid. That is what we are
talking about here.
I have a question for my colleagues.
The question is, What principle confers
on politicians the right to control
whether and when and under what cir-
cumstances an investor can withdraw
his own money from a business in
which he invested? I don’t know what
that principle is.
I will say, to me, it seems exactly
equivalent to confiscating the property
of somebody—in this case, their owner-
ship in a business—and redistributing
that confiscated asset to whomever
they choose. That strikes me as pretty
close to the definition of socialism. It
clearly is an attack on the economic
freedom that underpins our entire
economy, an entire market economy.
My second point, and related, is this
would be terrible for the economy. It
would do great harm to an economy
that is doing quite well right now. The
main way it would be so damaging is it
would scare away capital.
Just stop and think about it. Our
economy thrives when people are will-
ing to invest in existing businesses, in
new businesses, and in startup busi-
nesses, but that investment is an abso-
lutely essential part of a thriving econ-
omy. Well, people are much less likely
to make an investment if Congress
makes it harder to take that invest-
ment out. So what we would do is we
would dry up sources of capital for
companies that need that capital be-
cause investors would understandably
say: Well, we are heading down the
road of putting all kinds of limits on
my ability to ever get my money out.
I think it may be good to just park it
and not invest it.
That would be a very bad develop-
ment.
The proponents of this idea of re-
stricting companies this way say they
want to ‘‘incentivize productive invest-
ment.’’ I have to laugh because I have
a secret for our colleagues. You see,
the free enterprise system already pro-
vides an incentive for productive in-
vestment. It is called the profit. That
is the whole idea. So we don’t need to
punish people for making an invest-
ment as a way to incentivize produc-
tive investment. In fact, it will not
work at all.
I think some of what they have ar-
gued displays a little bit of confusion
about how this works. In their argu-
ment about why something has to be
done, they say that 90 percent of prof-
its go to buybacks and dividends. What
else would you use it for? I mean, you
first have to cover all of your expenses
before you have a profit. So you could
have record amounts of research and
development, record amounts of expan-
sion, records amounts of employment,
and growth in employment, but after
all of that is covered, only then do you
have the profit. That is what is left
over. And after you have covered all of
those things, why wouldn’t you have
buybacks and a distribution to the in-
vestors?
That raises this question: Exactly
what problem is it that our colleagues
think they are solving here? We are
running at record high levels of invest-
ment in our economy. Capital expendi-
tures have gone through the roof in re-
sponse partly—largely—due to the
change in the tax law that we made.
The buybacks that have been occurring
have coincided with record levels of in-
vestment. What is the problem here?
By the way, as I pointed out earlier,
wage growth has accelerated at the
highest rate we have seen in many,
many years. I really don’t understand
what problem they think we are solv-
ing.
By the way, there is an alternative to
distributing excess capital to share-
holders. The alternative is keeping the
capital trapped in the company where
it is not being put to its most produc-
tive use. You see, one of the great dy-
namics of a market economy is that by
returning excess capital to share-
holders, the shareholders get to decide
what new idea deserves to be funded by
recycling this capital. Whether it is in
the form of dividends or stock
buybacks, we encourage this capital to
find a new home—a new startup, a new
idea, or an expansion of an existing
business. The capital is constantly
being redirected to the best ideas, as
long as you allow it to happen.
Finally, this idea would be very
harmful to the people it is, presum-
ably, meant to help. About 40 percent
of all equities in the United States are
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:37 Feb 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00013 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G11FE6.029 S11FEPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1164 February 11, 2019
held in pension and retirement ac-
counts. These are the accounts of
teachers and cabdrivers and truck-
drivers and folks who work at factories
and do every other job that our econ-
omy depends on, who put a little
money away. It may be in a 401(k) plan,
in an IRA, or in an employer-sponsored
pension plan; these folks own an awful
lot of the stock in America. Well,
buybacks are good for their investment
because, in some cases, it returns cash
that can then be redeployed. In other
cases, it provides a bid; it provides up-
ward pressure on the stock price, which
is good for the value of their savings.
Over time, if the stock gets retired,
then the diminished supply gets that
much greater a share of all of the fu-
ture earnings. This is completely a
win-win for savers and investors.
Let me just conclude by saying it is
a very, very bad idea for America to
take any steps down the road toward
socialism. This is very much an idea of
that ilk. In fact, it is a big step in the
direction of a collectivist socialist
economy, and we should reject this out
of hand.
U.S. TRADE
Mr. President, I also want to touch
on an unrelated topic, but it is an im-
portant one; that is, the ongoing dis-
cussion we are having in this Congress
and across the country with respect to
trade.
I think most of us in this Chamber
agree that international trade is very
good for the United States. I know it is
very good for Pennsylvania.
I think we all understand that if we
impose tariffs on imported goods, that
is a tax that American consumers have
to pay on a product or a service just
because it originates somewhere else.
If you add up the impact of the tariffs
that this administration has already
applied, according to the Congressional
Budget Office, that is already going to
take one-tenth of a percent off of our
GDP, off of our economic growth. That
is assuming no further tariffs occur,
which is unknown at this point.
In particular, I want to address a cat-
egory of tariffs that are known as sec-
tion 232 tariffs because that is the part
of the trade law which justifies these
tariffs. This is an old law. It is a Cold
War-era trade law that is designed to
allow a President to impose tariffs
when he believes there is a national se-
curity threat that requires these tar-
iffs, these taxes on some foreign prod-
uct for some reason that affects our na-
tional security.
In my view, the recent imposition of
these 232 tariffs on aluminum and steel
were not really about national secu-
rity. They had other motives and other
purposes, and, in my view, they have
done much more harm than good.
If you look at tariffs on imported
steel, you might believe that it is help-
ful to the people who are in the steel
industry. We have about 140,000 Ameri-
cans employed at steel mills. It is pos-
sible that the tariffs are helpful to
those companies and those employees
at some level. The problem is, we have
6.5 million people in companies that
use many, many multiples, and every-
body who works in that sector of our
economy across a wide range of indus-
tries is put at a competitive disadvan-
tage when they have to pay that tax on
imported steel and aluminum.
Some examples come to mind. Alle-
gheny Technologies is a company in
western Pennsylvania that last year
had to pay $16 million in taxes on the
steel they imported. They had no
choice but to import it because of the
unique nature of that steel. It is
threatening one of their production fa-
cilities.
American Keg is the only steel keg
maker in the United States and makes
beer kegs in Pennsylvania. They had to
lay off one-third of their workers in
March of last year because they are not
as competitive as they need to be.
Colonial Metal Products is a small
manufacturer. They use steel in fab-
rication. Their entire workforce is at
risk.
The list goes on and on because fun-
damentally these taxes make many
companies that use steel and alu-
minum less competitive.
That is not the only problem. As we
all know, many American exporters are
subject to retaliation by companies
that experience these tariffs. So there
are a lot of problems.
I have introduced legislation that is
meant to address this. One aspect of
this that I think is very important is
that the Constitution unambiguously
assigns to Congress the responsibility
for managing our economic relations—
our competing trade relations with
other countries. In the Constitution,
that explicitly includes the responsi-
bility for deciding whether and to what
extent we should impose tariffs on the
products of other countries. Yet for
years Congress has just let administra-
tion after administration take this re-
sponsibility that the Constitution
gives to us.
So what my legislation does is pretty
simple. It says, let’s restore to Con-
gress the responsibility that the Con-
stitution gives to Congress. Let’s make
sure that national security-related tar-
iffs are only imposed when Congress
says they should be imposed.
The legislation has 11 original co-
sponsors, roughly even between Repub-
licans and Democrats. Senator WARNER
is the lead Democrat on this bill, and
Senators SASSE and HASSAN are also
original cosponsors. Four of the co-
sponsors are from the Finance Com-
mittee, which has jurisdiction over this
issue. There is the House companion,
which is also bipartisan. There are 61
organizations, business groups and oth-
ers, that have endorsed this from the
outside.
It is important to make the point
that our legislation, while it is de-
signed to restore to Congress this im-
portant responsibility, doesn’t elimi-
nate the ability of a President to in-
voke section 232 and impose tariffs if
there is a genuine threat to American
security. What the President needs to
do is explain the threat, make the case
to the Congress, and under our legisla-
tion, there is a mechanism that re-
quires expedited consideration of the
President’s request. It can’t be filibus-
tered. It doesn’t take 60 votes. There is
a strict timeline. So this can’t languish
on a shelf somewhere; Congress has to
respond.
One other feature that is important
in this bill is that the executive branch
determination of whether there is a
threat to national security would no
longer be conducted by the Commerce
Department, as it is now; it would
move to the Department of Defense.
My view on that is very simple. The
Department of Defense is the entity
within our executive branch that is
best qualified to determined threats to
our national security.
I am hopeful that we will grow our
support and be able to get a vote on
this legislation.
I should point out that there are
other legislative approaches. There are
other ideas on 232. There is one bill
that, like mine, would shift the respon-
sibility for evaluating the threat from
the Commerce Department to the De-
fense Department, but the difference
with some of these other pieces of leg-
islation is they contemplate a dis-
approval resolution. They simply ob-
serve that Congress can pass a law to
prevent or rescind a 232 designation,
but these alternative bills would do
nothing to restore that responsibility
to Congress today. We could pass a law
if we had the votes, and we could over-
ride a Presidential veto. We could pass
a law to rescind any kind of tariff. The
alternative legislation doesn’t change
that fact. What my legislation does is
it would require the affirmative con-
sent of Congress before the tariffs can
go into place. That is a fundamental
difference.
So I think, for the sake of expanding
trade, but importantly, in my mind, for
the sake of restoring the constitutional
responsibility that is assigned to Con-
gress, we ought to pass this legislation.
With that, I suggest the absence of a
quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk proceeded to
call the roll.
Mr. TOOMEY. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
MORNING BUSINESS
NOMINATION HOLD
Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President, due
to the actions of the Department of
Justice, I have placed a hold on Donald
Washington to be Director of the U.S.
Marshals Service. This hold does not
reflect any misgivings I may have
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:37 Feb 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00014 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G11FE6.030 S11FEPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1165
February 11, 2019
against Mr. Washington. I believe he is
a man of great integrity, and his pre-
vious role as a U.S. Attorney has pre-
pared him for the post he has been
nominated to. Mr. Washington is an ex-
cellent candidate, and I look forward to
supporting his nomination. However, I
cannot allow his nomination to proceed
at this time due to the actions of the
Department of Justice.
On December 10, 2018, the Depart-
ment of Justice agreed to provide my
staff with a briefing on the Marshals’
apparent misuse of the Assets For-
feiture Fund. Then on January 7, 2019,
less than 24 hours before the briefing
was set to take place, the Department
cancelled on account that I was no
longer the chairman of the Judiciary
Committee.
As I have explained several times, it
is the constitutional duty of every
Member of Congress to conduct over-
sight. Furthermore, at the time that
the Department communicated their
cancellation, I was still chairman of
the Judiciary Committee.
I am placing this hold on Mr. Wash-
ington, a Department of Justice nomi-
nee, until the Department of Justice
fulfills the promise to provide my staff
with a briefing of the Assets Forfeiture
Fund.
f
ADDITIONAL STATEMENTS
HONORING CLAYTON JOEL
TOWNSEND
∑ Ms. SINEMA. Mr. President, today I
wish to honor the life and legacy of Of-
ficer Clayton Townsend, killed in the
line of duty on January 8, 2019, at the
age of 26. Officer Townsend was born in
Glendale, AZ, on May 30, 1992. He was a
dedicated, loyal, and highly skilled po-
lice officer at the Salt River Police De-
partment. Our State will miss him
dearly.
Officer Townsend served the Salt
River Police Department for 5 years
and was applauded by superiors on nu-
merous occasions for excellent commu-
nication skills and performance on the
job. He had always dreamed of becom-
ing a police officer and truly embodied
a genuine, caring, and compassionate
commitment to protect and serve oth-
ers.
Officer Townsend is survived by his
wife Deanna, his 10-month-old son
Brixton, and his mother Toni. He will
be dearly missed by other family mem-
bers, friends, and hundreds of bereaved
members of the Salt River community.
In the words of his older brother Cole,
Clayton ‘‘brought a warmth with him
wherever he went. He had a smile that
everyone felt.’’ Please join me in hon-
oring his memory.∑
f
MESSAGE FROM THE HOUSE
RECEIVED DURING ADJOURNMENT
ENROLLED BILL SIGNED
Under the authority of the order of
the Senate of January 3, 2019, the Sec-
retary of the Senate, on February 8,
2019, during the adjournment of the
Senate, received a message from the
House of Representatives announcing
that the Speaker had signed the fol-
lowing enrolled bill:
H.R. 439. An act to amend the charter of
the Future Farmers of America, and for
other purposes.
f
MESSAGE FROM THE HOUSE
At 3:25 p.m., a message from the
House of Representatives, delivered by
Mrs. Cole, one of its reading clerks, an-
nounced that the House has passed the
following bills, in which it requests the
concurrence of the Senate:
H.R. 450. An act to amend title 18, United
States Code, to provide an additional tool to
prevent certain frauds against veterans, and
for other purposes.
H.R. 494. An act to amend the Omnibus
Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 to
reauthorize the Juvenile Accountability
Block Grant program, and for other pur-
poses.
H.R. 507. An act to direct the Attorney
General to study issues relating to human
trafficking, and for other purposes.
H.R. 752. An act to amend titles 5 and 28,
United States Code, to require the mainte-
nance of databases on awards of fees and
other expenses to prevailing parties in cer-
tain administrative proceedings and court
cases to which the United States is a party,
and for other purposes.
H.R. 840. An act to amend title 38, United
States Code, to direct the Secretary of Vet-
erans Affairs to provide child care assistance
to veterans receiving certain medical serv-
ices provided by the Department of Veterans
Affairs.
ENROLLED BILL SIGNED
The President pro tempore (Mr.
GRASSLEY) announced that on today,
February 11, 2019, he had signed the fol-
lowing enrolled bill, which was pre-
viously signed by the Speaker of the
House:
H.R. 439. An act to amend the charter of
the Future Farmers of America, and for
other purposes.
f
MEASURES REFERRED
The following bills were read the first
and the second times by unanimous
consent, and referred as indicated:
H.R. 450. An act to amend title 18, United
States Code, to provide an additional tool to
prevent certain frauds against veterans, and
for other purposes; to the Committee on the
Judiciary.
H.R. 494. An act to amend the Omnibus
Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 to
reauthorize the Juvenile Accountability
Block Grant program, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
H.R. 507. An act to direct the Attorney
General to study issues relating to human
trafficking, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on the Judiciary.
H.R. 752. An act to amend titles 5 and 28,
United States Code, to require the mainte-
nance of databases on awards of fees and
other expenses to prevailing parties in cer-
tain administrative proceedings and court
cases to which the United States is a party,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
the Judiciary.
H.R. 840. An act to amend title 38, United
States Code, to direct the Secretary of Vet-
erans Affairs to provide child care assistance
to veterans receiving certain medical serv-
ices provided by the Department of Veterans
Affairs; to the Committee on Veterans’ Af-
fairs.
f
REPORTS OF COMMITTEES
The following reports of committees
were submitted:
By Mr. RUBIO, from the Committee on
Small Business and Entrepreneurship, with-
out amendment:
S. Res. 62. An original resolution author-
izing expenditures by the Committee on
Small Business and Entrepreneurship.
By Mr. ALEXANDER, from the Committee
on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions,
without amendment:
S. Res. 64. An original resolution author-
izing expenditures by the Committee on
Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
f
INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND
JOINT RESOLUTIONS
The following bills and joint resolu-
tions were introduced, read the first
and second times by unanimous con-
sent, and referred as indicated:
By Mr. CRAPO (for himself, Mr.
WYDEN, Mr. RISCH, Ms. MURKOWSKI,
Mr. MANCHIN, and Mr. MERKLEY):
S. 430. A bill to extend the Secure Rural
Schools and Community Self-Determination
Act of 2000; to the Committee on Energy and
Natural Resources.
By Ms. BALDWIN:
S. 431. A bill to promote registered appren-
ticeships and on-the-job training for small
and medium-sized businesses within in-de-
mand industry sectors, through the estab-
lishment and support of eligible partner-
ships; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. RUBIO:
S. 432. A bill to amend title 18, United
States Code, to provide an additional tool to
prevent certain frauds against veterans, and
for other purposes; to the Committee on the
Judiciary.
By Ms. COLLINS (for herself, Ms. STA-
BENOW, Mr. KENNEDY, Mr. JONES, Mr.
CASSIDY, Mr. PAUL, and Mrs. SHA-
HEEN):
S. 433. A bill to amend title XVIII of the
Social Security Act to improve home health
payment reforms under the Medicare pro-
gram; to the Committee on Finance.
By Mr. BRAUN:
S. 434. A bill to provide for a report on the
maintenance of Federal land holdings under
the jurisdiction of the Secretary of the Inte-
rior; to the Committee on Energy and Nat-
ural Resources.
By Mr. CARPER (for himself and Mr.
PORTMAN):
S. 435. A bill to require the Director of the
Office of Management and Budget to issue
guidance on electronic consent forms, and
for other purposes; to the Committee on
Homeland Security and Governmental Af-
fairs.
By Mr. VAN HOLLEN (for himself, Mr.
REED, Ms. WARREN, and Mr. MENEN-
DEZ):
S. 436. A bill to amend title 49, United
States Code, to require the development of
public transportation operations safety risk
reduction programs, and for other purposes;
to the Committee on Banking, Housing, and
Urban Affairs.
By Mr. MENENDEZ (for himself, Mr.
SCHUMER, Mr. WYDEN, Mr. DURBIN,
Mrs. MURRAY, Mr. BOOKER, Mr.
CARDIN, Ms. HARRIS, Mr. VAN HOL-
LEN, Mrs. FEINSTEIN, Mrs. GILLI-
BRAND, Ms. DUCKWORTH, Mr.
BLUMENTHAL, and Mr. MURPHY):
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:37 Feb 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00015 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A11FE6.007 S11FEPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1166 February 11, 2019
S. 437. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to repeal the dollar limita-
tion on the deduction for State and local
taxes and restore the 39.6 percent individual
income tax rate bracket; to the Committee
on Finance.
f
SUBMISSION OF CONCURRENT AND
SENATE RESOLUTIONS
The following concurrent resolutions
and Senate resolutions were read, and
referred (or acted upon), as indicated:
By Mr. RUBIO:
S. Res. 62. An original resolution author-
izing expenditures by the Committee on
Small Business and Entrepreneurship; from
the Committee on Small Business and Entre-
preneurship; to the Committee on Rules and
Administration.
By Mr. BLUMENTHAL (for himself,
Mr. MURPHY, and Mr. WHITEHOUSE):
S. Res. 63. A resolution expressing support
for the designation of February 12, 2019, as
‘‘Darwin Day’’ and recognizing the impor-
tance of science in the betterment of human-
ity; to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation.
By Mr. ALEXANDER:
S. Res. 64. An original resolution author-
izing expenditures by the Committee on
Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions;
from the Committee on Health, Education,
Labor, and Pensions; to the Committee on
Rules and Administration.
By Mr. JOHNSON (for himself, Mrs.
SHAHEEN, Mr. RISCH, Mr. MURPHY,
Mr. TILLIS, Mr. COONS, Mr. BARRASSO,
Mr. GARDNER, Mr. RUBIO, Mr.
CRAMER, and Mr. ENZI):
S. Res. 65. A resolution congratulating the
Hellenic Republic and the Republic of North
Macedonia on ratification of the Prespa
Agreement, which resolves a long-standing
bilateral dispute and establishes a strategic
partnership between the 2 countries; to the
Committee on Foreign Relations .
By Mrs. FEINSTEIN (for herself, Ms.
COLLINS, Ms. KLOBUCHAR, Ms. SMITH,
Mr. CARDIN, and Mr. BLUMENTHAL):
S. Res. 66. A resolution rejecting the use of
Government shutdowns; to the Committee
on Appropriations.
f
ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS
S. 74
At the request of Mr. DAINES, the
name of the Senator from Michigan
(Mr. PETERS) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 74, a bill to prohibit paying Mem-
bers of Congress during periods during
which a Government shutdown is in ef-
fect, and for other purposes.
S. 162
At the request of Ms. SMITH, the
name of the Senator from Alaska (Ms.
MURKOWSKI) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 162, a bill to provide back pay to
low-wage contractor employees, and
for other purposes.
S. 203
At the request of Mr. CRAPO, the
names of the Senator from Tennessee
(Mr. ALEXANDER), the Senator from
Maryland (Mr. VAN HOLLEN) and the
Senator from Connecticut (Mr. MUR-
PHY) were added as cosponsors of S. 203,
a bill to amend the Internal Revenue
Code of 1986 to permanently extend the
railroad track maintenance credit, and
for other purposes.
S. 204
At the request of Mr. KAINE, the
name of the Senator from Pennsyl-
vania (Mr. CASEY) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 204, a bill to amend the
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to waive
certain penalties for affected Federal
employees receiving a distribution
from the Thrift Savings Plan during a
lapse in appropriations, and for other
purposes.
S. 213
At the request of Mr. JOHNSON, the
name of the Senator from New Jersey
(Mr. BOOKER) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 213, a bill to amend the SOAR
Act.
S. 235
At the request of Mr. COONS, the
name of the Senator from Oklahoma
(Mr. LANKFORD) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 235, a bill to authorize the
Secretary of Education to award grants
to establish teacher leader develop-
ment programs.
S. 262
At the request of Mr. VAN HOLLEN,
the names of the Senator from Alaska
(Ms. MURKOWSKI) and the Senator from
Connecticut (Mr. BLUMENTHAL) were
added as cosponsors of S. 262, a bill to
provide for a pay increase in 2019 for
certain civilian employees of the Fed-
eral Government, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 274
At the request of Mr. ENZI, the name
of the Senator from Indiana (Mr.
BRAUN) was added as a cosponsor of S.
274, a bill to ensure that organizations
with religious or moral convictions are
allowed to continue to provide services
for children.
S. 296
At the request of Ms. COLLINS, the
name of the Senator from Arkansas
(Mr. BOOZMAN) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 296, a bill to amend XVIII of
the Social Security Act to ensure more
timely access to home health services
for Medicare beneficiaries under the
Medicare program.
S. 319
At the request of Mrs. MURRAY, the
name of the Senator from Minnesota
(Ms. KLOBUCHAR) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 319, a bill to improve the
reproductive assistance provided by the
Department of Defense and the Depart-
ment of Veterans Affairs to severely
wounded, ill, or injured members of the
Armed Forces, veterans, and their
spouses or partners, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 367
At the request of Mr. UDALL, the
name of the Senator from Ohio (Mr.
BROWN) was added as a cosponsor of S.
367, a bill to provide for the adminis-
tration of certain national monuments,
to establish a National Monument En-
hancement Fund, and to establish cer-
tain wilderness areas in the States of
New Mexico and Nevada.
S. 368
At the request of Mrs. SHAHEEN, the
name of the Senator from New York
(Mr. SCHUMER) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 368, a bill to prohibit the ap-
plication of certain restrictive eligi-
bility requirements to foreign non-
governmental organizations with re-
spect to the provision of assistance
under part I of the Foreign Assistance
Act of 1961.
S. 378
At the request of Mr. BROWN, the
names of the Senator from Connecticut
(Mr. BLUMENTHAL) and the Senator
from Minnesota (Ms. SMITH) were added
as cosponsors of S. 378, a bill to amend
the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to es-
tablish an excise tax on certain pre-
scription drugs which have been sub-
ject to a price spike, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 380
At the request of Mr. JOHNSON, the
name of the Senator from Iowa (Ms.
ERNST) was added as a cosponsor of S.
380, a bill to increase access to agency
guidance documents.
S. 382
At the request of Mr. BARRASSO, the
names of the Senator from Illinois (Ms.
DUCKWORTH) and the Senator from
Michigan (Ms. STABENOW) were added
as cosponsors of S. 382, a bill to author-
ize a special resource study on the
spread vectors of chronic wasting dis-
ease in Cervidae, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 385
At the request of Ms. HARRIS, the
name of the Senator from Ohio (Mr.
BROWN) was added as a cosponsor of S.
385, a bill to amend the Fair Labor
Standards Act of 1938 to provide in-
creased labor law protections for agri-
cultural workers, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 387
At the request of Mr. BOOKER, the
name of the Senator from Michigan
(Mr. PETERS) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 387, a bill to prohibit Federal
agencies and Federal contractors from
requesting that an applicant for em-
ployment disclose criminal history
record information before the appli-
cant has received a conditional offer,
and for other purposes.
S. 408
At the request of Mr. THUNE, the
name of the Senator from Hawaii (Mr.
SCHATZ) was added as a cosponsor of S.
408, a bill to amend title 38, United
States Code, to provide for annual cost-
of-living adjustments to be made auto-
matically by law each year in the rates
of disability compensation for veterans
with service-connected disabilities and
the rates of dependency and indemnity
compensation for survivors of certain
service-connected disabled veterans,
and for other purposes.
S. 409
At the request of Ms. HARRIS, the
name of the Senator from Tennessee
(Mr. ALEXANDER) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 409, a bill to post-
humously award a Congressional Gold
Medal in commemoration of Aretha
Franklin.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:37 Feb 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00016 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A11FE6.013 S11FEPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1167
February 11, 2019
AMENDMENT NO. 134
At the request of Mr. PORTMAN, the
name of the Senator from North Da-
kota (Mr. HOEVEN) was added as a co-
sponsor of amendment No. 134 intended
to be proposed to S. 47, a bill to provide
for the management of the natural re-
sources of the United States, and for
other purposes.
AMENDMENT NO. 157
At the request of Mr. SCHATZ, the
name of the Senator from Rhode Island
(Mr. REED) was added as a cosponsor of
amendment No. 157 intended to be pro-
posed to S. 47, a bill to provide for the
management of the natural resources
of the United States, and for other pur-
poses.
f
STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED
BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS
By Ms. COLLINS (for herself, Ms.
STABENOW, Mr. KENNEDY, Mr.
JONES, Mr. CASSIDY, Mr. PAUL,
and Mrs. SHAHEEN):
S. 433. A bill to amend title XVIII of
the Social Security Act to improve
home health payment reforms under
the Medicare program; to the Com-
mittee on Finance.
Ms. COLLINS. Mr. President, I rise
today to urge my colleagues to support
two bills that I have introduced that
will help to preserve and to expand ac-
cess to home healthcare.
I have been a strong supporter of
home care since my very first home
visit early in my Senate service. This
experience gave me the opportunity to
meet and to visit with home healthcare
patients, where I saw firsthand what a
difference highly skilled, caring vis-
iting nurses and other healthcare pro-
fessionals make in the lives of patients
and their families. I have been a pas-
sionate advocate of home healthcare
ever since.
The highly skilled and compassionate
care that home health agencies provide
in the State of Maine and across the
country have enabled millions of our
most frail and vulnerable individuals
to avoid hospitals and nursing homes
and to stay just where they want to
be—in the comfort, privacy, and secu-
rity of their own homes.
As we look to the future, home
health services will continue to be in
high demand. The Census projects that
by the year 2030, the proportion of U.S.
residents older than age 65 will have
nearly doubled from 2010.
The Home Health Payment Innova-
tion Act, which I have introduced with
Senator STABENOW, Senator KENNEDY,
Senator JONES, Senator CASSIDY, and
Senator PAUL, preserves access to ex-
isting home health services under the
Medicare Program, while also pro-
viding a pathway for innovative ap-
proaches to using these vital services.
This bipartisan legislation is endorsed
by the National Association of Home
Care and Hospice, as well as by the
Partnership for Quality Home
Healthcare.
Our bill would make two key adjust-
ments in home health payment reform
provisions that were passed last year.
First, it would prevent unwarranted
payment rate cuts by basing any be-
havioral adjustments on actual evi-
dence. Second, it would limit the risk
of disruption in care by providing a
phase-in for any necessary rate in-
creases or decreases. This phase-in is
critical for home health providers, as
CMS has already proposed cutting
Medicare payment rates in 2020 by
more than $1 billion in the first year
alone, based purely on assumptions of
changes in behavior.
Our bill also provides the pathway to
expanded use of home healthcare in the
Medicare Program without increasing
program spending.
It provides flexibility on waiving
what is called the ‘‘homebound require-
ment’’ for home health services when a
plan or innovative care delivery model,
such as an accountable care organiza-
tion, determines that providing care to
the patient in the home would improve
outcomes and reduce spending on pa-
tient care.
As plans and providers continue to
experiment with innovative ways to de-
liver care and improve value in Medi-
care spending, allowing them the flexi-
bility to waive this limitation—the
homebound limitation—will help to ad-
vance the goals of ensuring that care is
delivered at the right time, in the right
place, and at the right cost.
f
SUBMITTED RESOLUTIONS
SENATE RESOLUTION 62—AUTHOR-
IZING EXPENDITURES BY THE
COMMITTEE ON SMALL BUSI-
NESS AND ENTREPRENEURSHIP
Mr. RUBIO submitted the following
resolution; from the Committee on
Small Business and Entrepreneurship;
which was referred to the Committee
on Rules and Administration:
S. RES. 62
Resolved,
SECTION 1. GENERAL AUTHORITY.
In carrying out its powers, duties, and
functions under the Standing Rules of the
Senate, in accordance with its jurisdiction
under rule XXV of the Standing Rules of the
Senate, including holding hearings, report-
ing such hearings, and making investiga-
tions as authorized by paragraphs 1 and 8 of
rule XXVI of the Standing Rules of the Sen-
ate, the Committee on Small Business and
Entrepreneurship (in this resolution referred
to as the ‘‘committee’’) is authorized from
March 1, 2019 through February 28, 2021, in
its discretion, to—
(1) make expenditures from the contingent
fund of the Senate;
(2) employ personnel; and
(3) with the prior consent of the Govern-
ment department or agency concerned and
the Committee on Rules and Administration,
use on a reimbursable or nonreimbursable
basis the services of personnel of any such
department or agency.
SEC. 2. EXPENSES.
(a) EXPENSES FOR PERIOD ENDING SEP-
TEMBER 30, 2019.—The expenses of the com-
mittee for the period March 1, 2019 through
September 30, 2019 under this resolution
shall not exceed $1,708,807, of which
amount—
(1) not to exceed $25,000 may be expended
for the procurement of the services of indi-
vidual consultants, or organizations thereof
(as authorized by section 202(i) of the Legis-
lative Reorganization Act of 1946 (2 U.S.C.
4301(i))); and
(2) not to exceed $10,000 may be expended
for the training of the professional staff of
the committee (under procedures specified
by section 202(j) of that Act).
(b) EXPENSES FOR FISCAL YEAR 2020 PE-
RIOD.—The expenses of the committee for the
period October 1, 2019 through September 30,
2020 under this resolution shall not exceed
$2,929,383, of which amount—
(1) not to exceed $25,000 may be expended
for the procurement of the services of indi-
vidual consultants, or organizations thereof
(as authorized by section 202(i) of the Legis-
lative Reorganization Act of 1946 (2 U.S.C.
4301(i))); and
(2) not to exceed $10,000 may be expended
for the training of the professional staff of
the committee (under procedures specified
by section 202(j) of that Act).
(c) EXPENSES FOR PERIOD ENDING FEBRUARY
28, 2021.—The expenses of the committee for
the period October 1, 2020 through February
28, 2021 under this resolution shall not exceed
$1,220,576, of which amount—
(1) not to exceed $25,000 may be expended
for the procurement of the services of indi-
vidual consultants, or organizations thereof
(as authorized by section 202(i) of the Legis-
lative Reorganization Act of 1946 (2 U.S.C.
4301(i))); and
(2) not to exceed $10,000 may be expended
for the training of the professional staff of
the committee (under procedures specified
by section 202(j) of that Act).
SEC. 3. EXPENSES AND AGENCY CONTRIBUTIONS.
(a) EXPENSES OF THE COMMITTEE.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in
paragraph (2), expenses of the committee
under this resolution shall be paid from the
contingent fund of the Senate upon vouchers
approved by the chairman of the committee.
(2) VOUCHERS NOT REQUIRED.—Vouchers
shall not be required for—
(A) the disbursement of salaries of employ-
ees paid at an annual rate;
(B) the payment of telecommunications
provided by the Office of the Sergeant at
Arms and Doorkeeper;
(C) the payment of stationery supplies pur-
chased through the Keeper of the Stationery;
(D) payments to the Postmaster of the
Senate;
(E) the payment of metered charges on
copying equipment provided by the Office of
the Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper;
(F) the payment of Senate Recording and
Photographic Services; or
(G) the payment of franked and mass mail
costs by the Sergeant at Arms and Door-
keeper.
(b) AGENCY CONTRIBUTIONS.—There are au-
thorized to be paid from the appropriations
account for ‘‘Expenses of Inquiries and Inves-
tigations’’ of the Senate such sums as may
be necessary for agency contributions re-
lated to the compensation of employees of
the committee—
(1) for the period March 1, 2019 through
September 30, 2019;
(2) for the period October 1, 2019 through
September 30, 2020; and
(3) for the period October 1, 2020 through
February 28, 2021.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:22 Feb 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00017 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A11FE6.015 S11FEPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1168 February 11, 2019
SENATE RESOLUTION 63—EX-
PRESSING SUPPORT FOR THE
DESIGNATION OF FEBRUARY 12,
2019, AS ‘‘DARWIN DAY’’ AND
RECOGNIZING THE IMPORTANCE
OF SCIENCE IN THE BETTER-
MENT OF HUMANITY
Mr. BLUMENTHAL (for himself, Mr.
MURPHY, and Mr. WHITEHOUSE) sub-
mitted the following resolution; which
was referred to the Committee on Com-
merce, Science, and Transportation:
S. RES. 63
Whereas Charles Darwin developed the the-
ory of evolution by the mechanism of nat-
ural selection, which, together with the
monumental amount of scientific evidence
Charles Darwin compiled to support the the-
ory, provides humanity with a logical and in-
tellectually compelling explanation for the
diversity of life on Earth;
Whereas the validity of the theory of evo-
lution by natural selection developed by
Charles Darwin is further strongly supported
by the modern understanding of the science
of genetics;
Whereas it has been the human curiosity
and ingenuity exemplified by Charles Darwin
that has promoted new scientific discoveries
that have helped humanity solve many prob-
lems and improve living conditions;
Whereas the advancement of science must
be protected from those unconcerned with
the adverse impacts of global warming and
climate change;
Whereas the teaching of creationism in
some public schools compromises the sci-
entific and academic integrity of the edu-
cation systems of the United States;
Whereas Charles Darwin is a worthy sym-
bol of scientific advancement on which to
focus and around which to build a global
celebration of science and humanity in-
tended to promote a common bond among all
the people of the Earth; and
Whereas February 12, 2019, is the anniver-
sary of the birth of Charles Darwin in 1809
and would be an appropriate date to des-
ignate as ‘‘Darwin Day’’: Now, therefore, be
it
Resolved, That the Senate—
(1) supports the designation of ‘‘Darwin
Day’’; and
(2) recognizes Charles Darwin as a worthy
symbol on which to celebrate the achieve-
ments of reason, science, and the advance-
ment of human knowledge.
f
SENATE RESOLUTION 64—AUTHOR-
IZING EXPENDITURES BY THE
COMMITTEE ON HEALTH, EDU-
CATION, LABOR, AND PENSIONS
Mr. ALEXANDER submitted the fol-
lowing resolution; from the Committee
on Health, Education, Labor, and Pen-
sions; which was referred to the Com-
mittee on Rules and Administration:
S. RES. 64
Resolved, That, in carrying out its powers,
duties, and functions under the Standing
Rules of the Senate, in accordance with its
jurisdiction under rule XXV of such rules, in-
cluding holding hearings, reporting such
hearings, and making investigations as au-
thorized by paragraphs 1 and 8 of rule XXVI
of the Standing Rules of the Senate, the
Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and
Pensions is authorized from March 1, 2019,
through September 30, 2019; October 1, 2019,
through September 30, 2020; and October 1,
2020, through February 28, 2021, in its discre-
tion (1) to make expenditures from the con-
tingent fund of the Senate, (2) to employ per-
sonnel, and (3) with the prior consent of the
Government department or agency con-
cerned and the Committee on Rules and Ad-
ministration, to use on a reimbursable or
non-reimbursable basis the services of per-
sonnel of any such department or agency.
SEC. 2(a). The expenses of the committee
for the period March 1, 2019, through Sep-
tember 30, 2019, under this resolution shall
not exceed $5,451,418, of which amount (1) not
to exceed $75,000 may be expended for the
procurement of the services of individual
consultants, or organizations thereof (as au-
thorized by section 202(i) of the Legislative
Reorganization Act of 1946, as amended), and
(2) not to exceed $25,000 may be expended for
the training of the professional staff of such
committee (under procedures specified by
section 202(j) of the Legislative Reorganiza-
tion Act of 1946).
(b) For the period October 1, 2019, through
September 30, 2020, expenses of the com-
mittee under this resolution shall not exceed
$9,345,288, of which amount (1) not to exceed
$75,000 may be expended for the procurement
of the services of individual consultants, or
organizations thereof (as authorized by sec-
tion 202(i) of the Legislative Reorganization
Act of 1946, as amended), and (2) not to ex-
ceed $25,000 may be expended for the training
of the professional staff of such committee
(under procedures specified by section 202(j)
of the Legislative Reorganization Act of
1946).
(c) For the period October 1, 2020, through
February 28, 2021, expenses of the committee
under this resolution shall not exceed
$3,893,870, of which amount (1) not to exceed
$75,000 may be expended for the procurement
of the services of individual consultants, or
organizations thereof (as authorized by sec-
tion 202(i) of the Legislative Reorganization
Act of 1946, as amended), and (2) not to ex-
ceed $25,000 may be expended for the training
of the professional staff of such committee
(under procedures specified by section 202(j)
of the Legislative Reorganization Act of
1946).
SEC. 3. The committee shall report its find-
ings, together with such recommendations
for legislation as it deems advisable, to the
Senate at the earliest practicable date, but
not later than February 29, 2019, and Feb-
ruary 28, 2020, respectively.
SEC. 4. Expenses of the committee under
this resolution shall be paid from the contin-
gent fund of the Senate upon vouchers ap-
proved by the chairman of the committee,
except that vouchers shall not be required (1)
for the disbursement of salaries of employees
paid at an annual rate, or (2) for the pay-
ment of telecommunications provided by the
Office of the Sergeant at Arms and Door-
keeper, United States Senate, or (3) for the
payment of stationery supplies purchased
through the Keeper of the Stationery, United
States Senate, or (4) for payments to the
Postmaster, United States Senate, or (5) for
the payment of metered charges on copying
equipment provided by the Office of the Ser-
geant at Arms and Doorkeeper, United
States Senate, or (6) for the payment of Sen-
ate Recording and Photographic Services, or
(7) for payment of franked and mass mail
costs by the Sergeant at Arms and Door-
keeper, United States Senate.
SEC. 5. There are authorized such sums as
may be necessary for agency contributions
related to the compensation of employees of
the committee from March 1, 2019, through
September 30, 2019, October 1, 2019, through
September 30, 2020; and October 1, 2020,
through February 28, 2021, to be paid from
the Appropriations account for ‘‘Expenses of
Inquiries and Investigations.’’
SENATE RESOLUTION 65—CON-
GRATULATING THE HELLENIC
REPUBLIC AND THE REPUBLIC
OF NORTH MACEDONIA ON RATI-
FICATION OF THE PRESPA
AGREEMENT, WHICH RESOLVES
A LONG-STANDING BILATERAL
DISPUTE AND ESTABLISHES A
STRATEGIC PARTNERSHIP BE-
TWEEN THE 2 COUNTRIES
Mr. JOHNSON (for himself, Mrs. SHA-
HEEN, Mr. RISCH, Mr. MURPHY, Mr.
TILLIS, Mr. COONS, Mr. BARRASSO, Mr.
GARDNER, Mr. RUBIO, Mr. CRAMER, and
Mr. ENZI) submitted the following reso-
lution; which was referred to the Com-
mittee on Foreign Relations:
S. RES. 65
Whereas, in 2017, Prime Minister of the
Hellenic Republic Alexis Tsipras and Prime
Minister of the Republic of Macedonia Zoran
Zaev displayed great political courage and
leadership by intensifying efforts to resolve
a nearly 30-year dispute between the 2 coun-
tries;
Whereas, on June 17, 2018, the foreign min-
isters of the Hellenic Republic and the Re-
public of Macedonia signed the Prespa
Agreement, in which, subject to ratification
by the parliament of each country, both par-
ties agreed that the official name of the Re-
public of Macedonia would be changed to the
Republic of North Macedonia;
Whereas, on September 30, 2018, the Repub-
lic of Macedonia held a consultative ref-
erendum on the proposed name change in
which over 90 percent of those voting sup-
ported joining the North Atlantic Treaty Or-
ganization (referred to in this preamble as
‘‘NATO’’) and the European Union (referred
to in this preamble as the ‘‘EU’’) by accept-
ing the Prespa Agreement;
Whereas, on January 11, 2019, the Assembly
of the Republic of Macedonia, in accordance
with the Prespa Agreement, approved con-
stitutional amendments to change the name
of the country to the Republic of North Mac-
edonia;
Whereas, on January 25, 2019, the Hellenic
Parliament ratified the Prespa Agreement,
pledging not to object to the Republic of
North Macedonia joining international orga-
nizations, including NATO and the EU;
Whereas the Hellenic Republic is an impor-
tant ally of the United States, hosting
United States Naval Support Activity Souda
Bay on the island of Crete in the Mediterra-
nean Sea;
Whereas the Hellenic Republic has been a
NATO member since 1952, and has faithfully
met the 2 percent of gross domestic product
defense-spending goal established at the 2014
Wales NATO Summit;
Whereas the Republic of Macedonia made
important contributions to the United
States-led Operation Iraqi Freedom and to
the International Security Assistance Force
of NATO in Afghanistan;
Whereas the Republic of North Macedonia
continues to provide soldiers to the Resolute
Support Mission of NATO in Afghanistan;
Whereas the Republic of Macedonia joined
NATO’s Partnership for Peace in 1995, com-
menced a NATO Membership Action Plan in
1999, fulfilled the terms necessary for acces-
sion to NATO by the 2008 Bucharest Summit,
and was invited, in 2018, to begin NATO ac-
cession talks;
Whereas the Republic of Macedonia was
the first western Balkan country to sign a
Stabilization and Association Agreement
with the EU, and became an official can-
didate to join the EU in 2005;
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:22 Feb 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00018 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A11FE6.018 S11FEPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1169
February 11, 2019
Whereas, in June 2018, the European Coun-
cil set out the path toward opening EU ac-
cession negotiations with the Republic of
Macedonia; and
Whereas the resolution of the naming dis-
pute between the Hellenic Republic and the
Republic of North Macedonia paves the way
for the Republic of North Macedonia to be-
come a member of NATO and the EU: Now,
therefore, be it
Resolved, That the Senate—
(1) congratulates the Hellenic Republic and
the Republic of North Macedonia for resolv-
ing their nearly 30-year naming disagree-
ment;
(2) commends the leadership and courage
of Prime Minister of the Hellenic Republic
Alexis Tsipras and Prime Minister of the Re-
public of North Macedonia Zoran Zaev;
(3) asserts that the agreement between the
Hellenic Republic and the Republic of North
Macedonia advances stability, security, and
prosperity in Southeast Europe;
(4) supports the integration of the Republic
of North Macedonia into Euro-Atlantic insti-
tutions, including the North Atlantic Treaty
Organization and the European Union; and
(5) encourages other countries in the re-
gion to follow the example of the Hellenic
Republic and the Republic of North Mac-
edonia in peacefully resolving long-standing
disputes.
f
SENATE RESOLUTION 66—REJECT-
ING THE USE OF GOVERNMENT
SHUTDOWNS
Mrs. FEINSTEIN (for herself, Ms.
COLLINS, Ms. KLOBUCHAR, Ms. SMITH,
Mr. CARDIN, and Mr. BLUMENTHAL) sub-
mitted the following resolution; which
was referred to the Committee on Ap-
propriations:
S. RES. 66
Whereas the Government shutdown that
began on December 22, 2018 (referred to in
this preamble as the ‘‘Government shut-
down’’), lasted 35 days before ending on Jan-
uary 25, 2019, becoming the longest shutdown
in the history of the United States;
Whereas the Congressional Budget Office
has estimated that the Government shut-
down caused an $11,000,000,000 decline in the
gross domestic product of the United States,
$3,000,000,000 of which will never be recov-
ered;
Whereas the Government shutdown caused
significant harm to the United States by dis-
rupting important activities and services
carried out by—
(1) the Department of Agriculture;
(2) the Department of Commerce;
(3) the Department of Homeland Security;
(4) the Department of Housing and Urban
Development;
(5) the Department of the Interior;
(6) the Department of Justice;
(7) the Department of State;
(8) the Department of Transportation;
(9) the Department of the Treasury;
(10) the Environmental Protection Agency;
(11) the National Aeronautics and Space
Administration;
(12) the National Science Foundation; and
(13) other Federal agencies;
Whereas, according to the Administrative
Office of the United States Courts, the Gov-
ernment shutdown caused delays and uncer-
tainty within the judicial branch of the Gov-
ernment, a branch co-equal with the legisla-
tive branch and the executive branch;
Whereas the Government shutdown created
unnecessary chaos and, in many cases, finan-
cial hardship for the approximately 800,000
Federal workers who were forced to go with-
out paychecks during the duration of the
Government shutdown and for the families of
those Federal workers;
Whereas the Federal workers working
without pay or furloughed as a result of the
Government shutdown experienced prevent-
able hardship due to no fault of their own,
and Federal contractor employees affected
by the Government shutdown may never re-
cover the entirety of their lost wages;
Whereas private businesses working with
Federal agencies affected by the Government
shutdown saw a reduction in income and in-
direct consequences, including—
(1) issues with obtaining Federal permits,
loans, and grants; and
(2) in the case of small businesses with fed-
eral contracts, not having enough work for
the employees of those small businesses;
Whereas airports experienced delays dur-
ing the Government shutdown, as Transpor-
tation Security Administration agents and
air traffic controllers, who remained on the
job, dedicated to the safety of every flight,
were forced to work without pay in an al-
ready stressful profession;
Whereas the Government shutdown—
(1) suspended the use of E-Verify tech-
nology by employers to verify the immigra-
tion status of their workers;
(2) caused a 10-percent increase in the
backlog of cases in the immigration court
system; and
(3) forced members of the Coast Guard,
U.S. Customs and Border Protection, and
U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement
to miss 2 paychecks and suffer severe finan-
cial hardship;
Whereas the Government shutdown threat-
ened public health by hampering the oper-
ations of the Food and Drug Administration,
limiting—
(1) the ability to address critical medical
drug shortages; and
(2) Federal oversight of the food supply and
medical products in the United States;
Whereas, according to the FBI Agents As-
sociation, the Government shutdown inhib-
ited the Federal Bureau of Investigation
from carrying out the full operations of the
Bureau;
Whereas seniors at the Maritime Acad-
emies were unable to take licensing exams
due to the Government shutdown, which will
significantly delay the job searches of those
seniors, and merchant mariners were unable
to renew licenses;
Whereas thousands of low-income senior or
disabled households were at risk of losing
rental assistance during the Government
shutdown;
Whereas small nonprofit groups across the
United States that assist the homeless and
victims of domestic violence were unable to
access grants when employees were fur-
loughed;
Whereas, in the wake of one of the dead-
liest and most destructive wildfires in the
history of the United States, the Forest
Service was forced to suspend wildfire pre-
vention efforts due to the Government shut-
down;
Whereas the Government shutdown
harmed the National Parks and tourism that
supports the National Parks, and resulted
in—
(1) iconic Joshua trees being damaged and
chopped down;
(2) historical artifacts being stolen;
(3) animals being harassed; and
(4) sensitive habitat being trampled;
Whereas the Government shutdown—
(1) severely limited the ability of the Na-
tional Oceanic and Atmospheric Administra-
tion (referred to in this preamble as
‘‘NOAA’’) to fulfill critical regulatory and
resource management responsibilities;
(2) kept numerous fishermen off the water
in New England and other coastal areas be-
cause those fishermen were unable to obtain
required permits from NOAA; and
(3) created a significant backlog of work on
many critical initiatives of NOAA; and
Whereas the Federal Government has expe-
rienced 21 shutdowns since 1976, ranging in
duration from 1 day to 35 days: Now, there-
fore, be it
Resolved, That the Senate—
(1) affirms that, no matter how long a Gov-
ernment shutdown lasts, a Government shut-
down causes unnecessary pain—
(A) to Federal workers; and
(B) to the people of the United States;
(2) rejects the future use of a Government
shutdown as a negotiating tactic; and
(3) believes that the Government should
never resort to a shut down again.
f
AMENDMENTS SUBMITTED AND
PROPOSED
SA 171. Mr. CRAMER submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed to amendment
SA 111 proposed by Ms. MURKOWSKI (for her-
self and Mr. MANCHIN) to the bill S. 47, to
provide for the management of the natural
resources of the United States, and for other
purposes; which was ordered to lie on the
table.
SA 172. Mr. RUBIO (for himself and Mr.
SCOTT of Florida) submitted an amendment
intended to be proposed to amendment SA
112 proposed by Ms. MURKOWSKI to the
amendment SA 111 proposed by Ms. MUR-
KOWSKI (for herself and Mr. MANCHIN) to the
bill S. 47, supra; which was ordered to lie on
the table.
SA 173. Mr. SCHUMER submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed by him
to the bill S. 47, supra; which was ordered to
lie on the table.
SA 174. Mr. SCHUMER submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed by him
to the bill S. 47, supra; which was ordered to
lie on the table.
SA 175. Mr. SCHUMER submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed by him
to the bill S. 47, supra; which was ordered to
lie on the table.
SA 176. Mr. SCHUMER submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed by him
to the bill S. 47, supra; which was ordered to
lie on the table.
SA 177. Mr. SCHUMER submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed by him
to the bill S. 47, supra; which was ordered to
lie on the table.
SA 178. Mr. SCHUMER submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed by him
to the bill S. 47, supra; which was ordered to
lie on the table.
SA 179. Mr. HEINRICH submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed by him
to the bill S. 47, supra; which was ordered to
lie on the table.
SA 180. Mr. RUBIO (for himself and Mr.
SCOTT of Florida) submitted an amendment
intended to be proposed to amendment SA
111 proposed by Ms. MURKOWSKI (for herself
and Mr. MANCHIN) to the bill S. 47, supra;
which was ordered to lie on the table.
SA 181. Mr. BRAUN (for himself and Mr.
CORNYN) submitted an amendment intended
to be proposed to amendment SA 111 pro-
posed by Ms . MURKOWSKI (for herself and Mr.
MANCHIN) to the bill S. 47, supra; which was
ordered to lie on the table.
SA 182. Mr. RUBIO (for himself and Mr.
SCOTT of Florida) proposed an amendment to
amendment SA 112 proposed by Ms. MUR-
KOWSKI to the amendment SA 111 proposed
by Ms. MURKOWSKI (for herself and Mr.
MANCHIN) to the bill S. 47, supra.
SA 183. Ms. CANTWELL submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 111 proposed by Ms. MUR-
KOWSKI (for herself and Mr. MANCHIN) to the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:22 Feb 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00019 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A11FE6.020 S11FEPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1170 February 11, 2019
bill S. 47, supra; which was ordered to lie on
the table.
SA 184. Mr. SCHATZ (for himself, Mr. CAS-
SIDY, and Mr. REED) submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed to amendment
SA 111 proposed by Ms. MURKOWSKI (for her-
self and Mr. MANCHIN) to the bill S. 47, supra;
which was ordered to lie on the table.
SA 185. Mr. CARPER submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed to amendment
SA 111 proposed by Ms. MURKOWSKI (for her-
self and Mr. MANCHIN) to the bill S. 47, supra;
which was ordered to lie on the table.
SA 186. Mr. CARPER submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed by him to the
bill S. 47, supra; which was ordered to lie on
the table.
SA 187. Mr. LEE (for himself, Mr.
LANKFORD, Mr. TOOMEY, and Mr. ROMNEY)
proposed an amendment to amendment SA
112 proposed by Ms. MURKOWSKI to the
amendment SA 111 proposed by Ms. MUR-
KOWSKI (for herself and Mr. MANCHIN) to the
bill S. 47, supra.
f
TEXT OF AMENDMENTS
SA 171. Mr. CRAMER submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 111 proposed by Ms.
MURKOWSKI (for herself and Mr.
MANCHIN) to the bill S. 47, to provide
for the management of the natural re-
sources of the United States, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
At the end of tile V, insert the following:
SEC. 5lll. CADASTRE OF FEDERAL REAL PROP-
ERTY.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) CADASTRE.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The term ‘‘cadastre’’
means an inventory of real property devel-
oped through collecting, storing, retrieving,
or disseminating graphical or digital data
depicting natural or man-made physical fea-
tures, phenomena, or boundaries of the
earth, and any information related to the
data, including—
(i) surveys;
(ii) maps;
(iii) charts;
(iv) satellite and airborne remote sensing
data;
(v) images; and
(vi) services, including services of an archi-
tectural or engineering nature performed by
1 or more professionals, such as—
(I) a surveyor;
(II) a photogrammetrist;
(III) a hydrographer;
(IV) a geodesist; and
(V) a cartographer.
(B) INCLUSIONS.—The term ‘‘cadastre’’ in-
cludes—
(i) a reference frame consisting of a cur-
rent geodetic network;
(ii) a series of current and accurate large-
scale maps;
(iii) an existing cadastral boundary overlay
delineating all cadastral parcels;
(iv) a system for indexing and identifying
each cadastral parcel; and
(v) a series of land data files, each includ-
ing the parcel identifier, which can be used
to retrieve information and cross-reference
between and among other existing data files
that may contain information about the use,
assets, and infrastructure of each parcel.
(2) DEPARTMENT.—The term ‘‘Department’’
means the Department of the Interior.
(3) REAL PROPERTY.—The term ‘‘real prop-
erty’’ means real estate consisting of—
(A) land;
(B) buildings, crops, forests, or other re-
sources still attached to or within the land;
(C) improvements or fixtures permanently
attached to the land;
(D) any structure on the land; or
(E) any interest, benefit, right, or privilege
in the property described in subparagraphs
(A) through (D).
(b) CADASTRE OF FEDERAL REAL PROP-
ERTY.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall de-
velop and maintain a current and accurate
multipurpose cadastre of Federal real prop-
erty and any real property included under
paragraph (2)(A) to support Federal land
management activities on Federal real prop-
erty, including—
(A) resource development and conserva-
tion;
(B) agricultural use;
(C) active forest management;
(D) environmental protection; and
(E) other use of the real property.
(2) COST-SHARING.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary may enter
into cost-sharing agreements with States to
include any non-Federal land in a State in
the cadastre under paragraph (1).
(B) COST SHARE.—The Federal share of any
cost-sharing agreement described in subpara-
graph (A) shall not exceed 50 percent of the
total cost to a State for the development of
the cadastre of non-Federal land in the
State.
(3) CONSOLIDATION AND REPORT.—Not later
than 180 days after the date of enactment of
this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the
Committee on Energy and Natural Resources
of the Senate and the Committee on Natural
Resources of the House of Representatives a
report describing—
(A) the existing real property inventories
or any components of any cadastre of Fed-
eral real property currently authorized by
law or maintained by the Department, in-
cluding—
(i) the statutory authorization for each ex-
isting real property inventory or component
of a cadastre; and
(ii) the amount expended by the Federal
Government for each existing real property
inventory or component of a cadastre in fis-
cal year 2017;
(B) the existing real property inventories
or any components of any cadastre of Fed-
eral real property currently authorized by
law or maintained by the Department that
will be eliminated or consolidated into the
multipurpose cadastre under paragraph (1);
(C)(i) the existing real property inventories
or any components of any cadastre of Fed-
eral real property currently authorized by
law or maintained by the Department that
will not be eliminated or consolidated into
the multipurpose cadastre under paragraph
(1); and
(ii) a justification for not eliminating or
consolidating an existing real property in-
ventory or component of a cadastre de-
scribed in clause (i) into the multipurpose
cadastre under paragraph (1);
(D) the use of existing real property inven-
tories or any components of any cadastre
currently maintained by any unit of State or
local government that can be used to iden-
tify Federal real property within that unit of
government;
(E) the cost-savings that will be achieved
by eliminating or consolidating duplicative
or unneeded real property inventories or any
components of any cadastre of Federal real
property currently authorized by law or
maintained by the Department that will be-
come part of the multipurpose cadastre
under paragraph (1);
(F) a plan for the implementation of this
section, including a cost estimate and an as-
sessment of the feasibility of using revenue
from any transactional activity authorized
by law to offset any costs of implementing
this section;
(G) an assessment described in subpara-
graphs (A) through (E) with regard to each
cadastre and inventory of Federal real prop-
erty authorized, operated, or maintained by
each other Federal agency, which shall be
conducted in consultation with the Director
of the Office of Management and Budget, the
Administrator of the General Services Ad-
ministration, and the Comptroller General of
the United States; and
(H) recommendations for any legislation
necessary to increase the cost-savings and
enhance the effectiveness and efficiency of
replacing, eliminating, or consolidating Fed-
eral real property inventories or any compo-
nents of any cadastre of Federal real prop-
erty currently authorized by law or main-
tained by the Department.
(4) COORDINATION.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—In carrying out this sec-
tion, the Secretary shall—
(i) participate (in accordance with section
216 of the E–Government Act of 2002 (44
U.S.C. 3501 note; Public Law 107–347)) in the
establishment of such standards and com-
mon protocols as are necessary to ensure the
interoperability of geospatial information
pertaining to the cadastre under subsection
(b)(1) for all users of the information;
(ii) coordinate with, seek assistance and
cooperation of, and provide liaison to the
Federal Geographic Data Committee pursu-
ant to Office of Management and Budget Cir-
cular A–16 and Executive Order 12906 (43
U.S.C. 1457 note; relating to coordinating ge-
ographic data acquisition and access: the Na-
tional Spatial Data Infrastructure) for the
implementation of and compliance with such
standards as may be applicable to the cadas-
tre under subsection (b)(1);
(iii) integrate, or make the cadastre inter-
operable with, the Federal Real Property
Profile established pursuant to Executive
Order 13327 (40 U.S.C. 121 note; relating to
Federal real property asset management);
(iv) to the maximum extent practicable,
integrate with and leverage current cadastre
activities of units of State and local govern-
ment; and
(v) to the maximum extent practicable, use
contracts with the private sector to provide
such products and services as are necessary
to develop the cadastre under subsection
(b)(1).
(B) CONTRACTS CONSIDERED SURVEYING AND
MAPPING.—
(i) IN GENERAL.—A contract entered into
under subparagraph (A)(v) shall be consid-
ered to be a contract for services of sur-
veying and mapping (within the meaning of
chapter 11 of title 40, United States Code).
(ii) SELECTION PROCEDURES.—A contract
under subparagraph (A)(v) shall be entered
into in accordance with the selection proce-
dures in chapter 11 of title 40, United States
Code.
(c) TRANSPARENCY AND PUBLIC ACCESS.—
The Secretary shall—
(1) make the cadastre under subsection
(b)(1) publically available on the Internet in
a graphically geo-enabled and searchable for-
mat;
(2) ensure that the inventory referred to in
subsection (b) includes the identification of
all land suitable for disposal in accordance
with the Federal Land Policy and Manage-
ment Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.); and
(3) in consultation with the Secretary of
Defense and the Secretary of Homeland Se-
curity, prevent the disclosure of any parcel
or parcels of land, any buildings or facilities
on the land, or any information related to
the land, buildings, or facilities if that dis-
closure would impair or jeopardize the na-
tional security or homeland defense of the
United States.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:22 Feb 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00020 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A11FE6.022 S11FEPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1171
February 11, 2019
(d) EFFECT.—Nothing in this section—
(1) creates any substantive or procedural
right or benefit; or
(2) requires or authorizes—
(A) any new surveying or mapping of Fed-
eral real property;
(B) the evaluation of any parcel of land or
other real property for potential manage-
ment by a non-Federal entity;
(C) the disposal of any Federal real prop-
erty; or
(D) any new appraisal or assessment of—
(i) the value of any parcel of Federal land
or other real property; or
(ii) the cultural and archaeological re-
sources on any parcel of Federal land or
other real property.
SA 172. Mr. RUBIO (for himself and
Mr. SCOTT of Florida) submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 112 proposed by Ms.
MURKOWSKI to the amendment SA 111
proposed by Ms. MURKOWSKI (for herself
and Mr. MANCHIN) to the bill S. 47, to
provide for the management of the nat-
ural resources of the United States,
and for other purposes; which was or-
dered to lie on the table; as follows:
On page 1, after line 8, add the following:
SEC. 2402A. JOHN H. CHAFEE COASTAL BARRIER
RESOURCES SYSTEM.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 2(b) of the
Strengthening Coastal Communities Act of
2018 (Public Law 115–358) is amended by add-
ing at the end the following:
‘‘(36) The map entitled ‘Cape San Blas Unit
P30/P30P (1 of 2)’ and dated December 19,
2018, with respect to Unit P30 and Unit P30P.
‘‘(37) The map entitled ‘Cape San Blas Unit
P30/P30P (2 of 2)’ and dated December 19,
2018, with respect to Unit P30 and Unit
P30P.’’.
(b) EFFECT.—Section 7003 shall have no
force or effect.
SA 173. Mr. SCHUMER submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed by
him to the bill S. 47, to provide for the
management of the natural resources
of the United States, and for other pur-
poses; which was ordered to lie on the
table; as follows:
At the end, add the following:
The provisions in this Act shall go into ef-
fect 1 day after enactment.
SA 174. Mr. SCHUMER submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed by
him to the bill S. 47, to provide for the
management of the natural resources
of the United States, and for other pur-
poses; which was ordered to lie on the
table; as follows:
On page 1, line 1, strike ‘‘1 day’’ and insert
‘‘2 days’’.
SA 175. Mr. SCHUMER submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed by
him to the bill S. 47, to provide for the
management of the natural resources
of the United States, and for other pur-
poses; which was ordered to lie on the
table; as follows:
At the end, add the following:
The provisions in this Act shall go into ef-
fect 3 days after enactment.
SA 176. Mr. SCHUMER submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed by
him to the bill S. 47, to provide for the
management of the natural resources
of the United States, and for other pur-
poses; which was ordered to lie on the
table; as follows:
On page 1, line 1, strike ‘‘3’’ and insert ‘‘4’’.
SA 177. Mr. SCHUMER submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed by
him to the bill S. 47, to provide for the
management of the natural resources
of the United States, and for other pur-
poses; which was ordered to lie on the
table; as follows:
At the end, add the following:
The provisions in this Act shall go into ef-
fect 5 days after enactment.
SA 178. Mr. SCHUMER submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed by
him to the bill S. 47, to provide for the
management of the natural resources
of the United States, and for other pur-
poses; which was ordered to lie on the
table; as follows:
On page 1, line 1, strike ‘‘5’’ and insert ‘‘6’’.
SA 179. Mr. HEINRICH submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed by
him to the bill S. 47, to provide for the
management of the natural resources
of the United States, and for other pur-
poses; which was ordered to lie on the
table; as follows:
At the end of subtitle B of title I, add the
following:
SEC. 11ll. SAN JUAN COUNTY SETTLEMENT IM-
PLEMENTATION.
(a) EXCHANGE OF COAL PREFERENCE RIGHT
LEASE APPLICATIONS.—
(1) DEFINITION OF BIDDING RIGHT.—In this
subsection, the term ‘‘bidding right’’ means
an appropriate legal instrument or other
written documentation, including an entry
in an account managed by the Secretary,
issued or created under subpart 3435 of title
43, Code of Federal Regulations, that may be
used—
(A) in lieu of a monetary payment for 50
percent of a bonus bid for a coal lease sale
under the Mineral Leasing Act (30 U.S.C. 181
et seq.); or
(B) as a monetary credit against 50 percent
of any rental or royalty payments due under
any Federal coal lease.
(2) USE OF BIDDING RIGHT.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—If the Secretary retires a
coal preference right lease application under
the Mineral Leasing Act (30 U.S.C. 181 et
seq.) by issuing a bidding right in exchange
for the relinquishment of the coal preference
right lease application, the bidding right
subsequently may be used in lieu of 50 per-
cent of the amount owed for any monetary
payment of—
(i) a bonus in a coal lease sale; or
(ii) rental or royalty under a Federal coal
lease.
(B) PAYMENT CALCULATION.—
(i) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall cal-
culate a payment of amounts owed to a rel-
evant State under section 35(a) of the Min-
eral Leasing Act (30 U.S.C. 191(a)) based on
the combined value of the bidding rights and
amounts received.
(ii) AMOUNTS RECEIVED.—Except as pro-
vided in this paragraph, for purposes of cal-
culating the payment of amounts owed to a
relevant State under clause (i) only, a bid-
ding right shall be considered amounts re-
ceived.
(C) REQUIREMENT.—The total number of
bidding rights issued by the Secretary under
subparagraph (A) before October 1, 2029, shall
not exceed the number of bidding rights that
reflect a value equivalent to $67,000,000.
(3) SOURCE OF PAYMENTS.—The Secretary
shall make payments to the relevant State
under paragraph (2) from monetary pay-
ments received by the Secretary when bid-
ding rights are exercised under this section.
(4) TREATMENT OF PAYMENTS.—A payment
to a State under this subsection shall be
treated as a payment under section 35(a) of
the Mineral Leasing Act (30 U.S.C. 191(a)).
(5) TRANSFERABILITY; LIMITATION.—
(A) TRANSFERABILITY.—A bidding right
issued for a coal preference right lease appli-
cation under the Mineral Leasing Act (30
U.S.C. 181 et seq.) shall be fully transferable
to any other person.
(B) NOTIFICATION OF SECRETARY.—A person
who transfers a bidding right shall notify the
Secretary of the transfer by any method de-
termined to be appropriate by the Secretary.
(C) EFFECTIVE PERIOD.—
(i) IN GENERAL.—A bidding right issued
under the Mineral Leasing Act (30 U.S.C. 181
et seq.) shall terminate on the expiration of
the 7-year period beginning on the date the
bidding right is issued.
(ii) TOLLING OF PERIOD.—The 7-year period
described in clause (i) shall be tolled during
any period in which exercise of the bidding
right is precluded by temporary injunctive
relief granted under, or administrative, leg-
islative, or judicial suspension of, the Fed-
eral coal leasing program.
(6) DEADLINE.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—If an existing settlement
of a coal preference right lease application
has not been implemented as of the date of
enactment of this Act, not later than 180
days after that date of enactment, the Sec-
retary shall complete the bidding rights
valuation process in accordance with the
terms of the settlement.
(B) DATE OF VALUATION.—For purposes of
the valuation process under subparagraph
(A), the market price of coal shall be deter-
mined as of the date of the settlement.
(b) CERTAIN LAND SELECTIONS OF THE NAV-
AJO NATION.—
(1) CANCELLATION OF CERTAIN SELECTIONS.—
The land selections made by the Navajo Na-
tion pursuant to Public Law 93–531 (com-
monly known as the ‘‘Navajo-Hopi Land Set-
tlement Act of 1974’’) (25 U.S.C. 640d et seq.)
that are depicted on the map entitled ‘‘Nav-
ajo-Hopi Land Settlement Act Selected
Lands’’ and dated April 2, 2015, are cancelled.
(2) AUTHORIZATION FOR NEW SELECTION.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Subject to subparagraphs
(B), (C), and (D) and paragraph (3), the Nav-
ajo Nation may make new land selections in
accordance with the Act referred to in para-
graph (1) to replace the land selections can-
celled under that paragraph.
(B) ACREAGE CAP.—The total acreage of
land selected under subparagraph (A) shall
not exceed 15,000 acres of land.
(C) EXCLUSIONS.—The following land shall
not be eligible for selection under subpara-
graph (A):
(i) Land within a unit of the National
Landscape Conservation System.
(ii) Land within—
(I) the Glade Run Recreation Area;
(II) the Fossil Forest Research Natural
Area; or
(III) a special management area or area of
critical environmental concern identified in
a land use plan developed under section 202
of the Federal Land Policy and Management
Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1712) that is in effect on
the date of enactment of this Act.
(iii) Any land subject to a lease or contract
under the Mineral Leasing Act (30 U.S.C. 181
et seq.) or the Act of July 31, 1947 (commonly
known as the ‘‘Materials Act of 1947’’) (30
U.S.C. 601 et seq.) as of the date of the selec-
tion.
(iv) Land not under the jurisdiction of the
Bureau of Land Management.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:22 Feb 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00021 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A11FE6.023 S11FEPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1172 February 11, 2019
(v) Land identified as ‘‘Parcels Excluded
from Selection’’ on the map entitled ‘‘Par-
cels excluded for selection under the San
Juan County Settlement Implementation
Act’’ and dated December 14, 2018.
(D) DEADLINE.—Not later than 7 years after
the date of enactment of this Act, the Nav-
ajo Nation shall make all selections under
subparagraph (A).
(E) WITHDRAWAL.—Any land selected by
the Navajo Nation under subparagraph (A)
shall be withdrawn from disposal, leasing,
and development until the date on which the
selected land is placed into trust for the Nav-
ajo Nation.
(3) EQUAL VALUE.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Notwithstanding the
acreage limitation in the second proviso of
section 11(c) of Public Law 93–531 (commonly
known as the ‘‘Navajo-Hopi Land Settlement
Act of 1974’’) (25 U.S.C. 640d–10(c)) and sub-
ject to paragraph (2)(B), the value of the land
selected under paragraph (2)(A) and the land
subject to selections cancellation under
paragraph (1) shall be equal, based on ap-
praisals conducted under subparagraph (B).
(B) APPRAISALS.—
(i) IN GENERAL.—The value of the land se-
lected under paragraph (2)(A) and the land
subject to selections cancelled under para-
graph (1) shall be determined by appraisals
conducted in accordance with—
(I) the Uniform Appraisal Standards for
Federal Land Acquisitions; and
(II) the Uniform Standards of Professional
Appraisal Practice.
(ii) TIMING.—
(I) LAND SUBJECT TO SELECTIONS CAN-
CELLED.—Not later than 18 months after the
date of enactment of this Act, the appraisal
under clause (i) of the land subject to selec-
tions cancelled under paragraph (1) shall be
completed.
(II) NEW SELECTIONS.—The appraisals under
clause (i) of the land selected under para-
graph (2)(A) shall be completed as the Navajo
Nation finalizes those land selections.
(4) BOUNDARY.—For purposes of this sub-
section and the Act referred to in paragraph
(1), the present boundary of the Navajo Res-
ervation is depicted on the map entitled
‘‘Navajo Nation Boundary’’ and dated No-
vember 16, 2015.
(c) DESIGNATION OF AH-SHI-SLE-PAH WIL-
DERNESS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—In accordance with the
Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.), the
approximately 7,242 acres of land as gen-
erally depicted on the map entitled ‘‘San
Juan County Wilderness Designations’’ and
dated April 2, 2015, is designated as wilder-
ness and as a component of the National Wil-
derness Preservation System, which shall be
known as the ‘‘Ah-shi-sle-pah Wilderness’’
(referred to in this subsection as the ‘‘Wil-
derness’’).
(2) MANAGEMENT.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Subject to valid existing
rights, the Wilderness shall be administered
by the Director of the Bureau of Land Man-
agement in accordance with this subsection
and the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et
seq.), except that any reference in that Act
to the effective date of that Act shall be con-
sidered to be a reference to the date of enact-
ment of this Act.
(B) ADJACENT MANAGEMENT.—
(i) IN GENERAL.—Congress does not intend
for the designation of the Wilderness to cre-
ate a protective perimeter or buffer zone
around the Wilderness.
(ii) NONWILDERNESS ACTIVITIES.—The fact
that nonwilderness activities or uses can be
seen or heard from areas within the Wilder-
ness shall not preclude the conduct of the ac-
tivities or uses outside the boundary of the
Wilderness.
(C) INCORPORATION OF ACQUIRED LAND AND
INTERESTS IN LAND.—Any land or interest in
land that is within the boundary of the Wil-
derness that is acquired by the United States
shall—
(i) become part of the Wilderness; and
(ii) be managed in accordance with—
(I) the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et
seq.);
(II) this subsection; and
(III) any other applicable laws.
(D) GRAZING.—Grazing of livestock in the
Wilderness, where established before the
date of enactment of this Act, shall be al-
lowed to continue in accordance with—
(i) section 4(d)(4) of the Wilderness Act (16
U.S.C. 1133(d)(4)); and
(ii) the guidelines set forth in the report of
the Committee on Interior and Insular Af-
fairs of the House of Representatives accom-
panying H.R. 5487 of the 96th Congress (H.
Rept. 96–617).
(3) RELEASE OF WILDERNESS STUDY AREAS.—
Congress finds that, for the purposes of sec-
tion 603(c) of the Federal Land Policy and
Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1782(c)),
the land within the Ah-shi-sle-pah Wilder-
ness Study Area not designated as wilderness
by this subsection has been adequately stud-
ied for wilderness designation and is no
longer subject to section 603(c) of the Federal
Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43
U.S.C. 1782(c)).
(d) EXPANSION OF BISTI/DE-NA-ZIN WILDER-
NESS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—There is designated as wil-
derness and as a component of the National
Wilderness Preservation System certain Fed-
eral land comprising approximately 2,250
acres, as generally depicted on the map enti-
tled ‘‘San Juan County Wilderness Designa-
tions’’ and dated April 2, 2015, which is incor-
porated in and shall be considered to be a
part of the Bisti/De-Na-Zin Wilderness.
(2) ADMINISTRATION.—Subject to valid ex-
isting rights, the land designated as wilder-
ness by paragraph (1) shall be administered
by the Director of the Bureau of Land Man-
agement (referred to in this subsection as
the ‘‘Director’’), in accordance with—
(A) the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et
seq.), except that any reference in that Act
to the effective date of that Act shall be con-
sidered to be a reference to the date of enact-
ment of this Act; and
(B) the San Juan Basin Wilderness Protec-
tion Act of 1984 (Public Law 98–603; 98 Stat.
3155; 110 Stat. 4211).
(3) ADJACENT MANAGEMENT.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Congress does not intend
for the designation of the land as wilderness
by paragraph (1) to create a protective pe-
rimeter or buffer zone around that land.
(B) NONWILDERNESS ACTIVITIES.—The fact
that nonwilderness activities or uses can be
seen or heard from areas within the land des-
ignated as wilderness by paragraph (1) shall
not preclude the conduct of the activities or
uses outside the boundary of that land.
(4) INCORPORATION OF ACQUIRED LAND AND
INTERESTS IN LAND.—Any land or interest in
land that is within the boundary of the land
designated as wilderness by paragraph (1)
that is acquired by the United States shall—
(A) become part of the Bisti/De-Na-Zin Wil-
derness; and
(B) be managed in accordance with—
(i) the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et
seq.);
(ii) the San Juan Basin Wilderness Protec-
tion Act of 1984 (Public Law 98–603; 98 Stat.
3155; 110 Stat. 4211);
(iii) this subsection; and
(iv) any other applicable laws.
(5) GRAZING.—Grazing of livestock in the
land designated as wilderness by paragraph
(1), where established before the date of en-
actment of this Act, shall be allowed to con-
tinue in accordance with—
(A) section 4(d)(4) of the Wilderness Act (16
U.S.C. 1133(d)(4)); and
(B) the guidelines set forth in the report of
the Committee on Interior and Insular Af-
fairs of the House of Representatives accom-
panying H.R. 5487 of the 96th Congress (H.
Rept. 96–617).
(e) ROAD MAINTENANCE.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Subject to paragraph (2),
the Secretary, acting through the Director
of the Bureau of Indian Affairs, shall ensure
that L–54 between I–40 and Alamo, New Mex-
ico, is maintained in a condition that is safe
for motorized use.
(2) USE OF FUNDS.—In carrying out para-
graph (1), the Secretary and the Director of
the Bureau of Indian Affairs may not require
any Indian Tribe to use any funds—
(A) owned by the Indian Tribe; or
(B) provided to the Indian Tribe pursuant
to a contract under the Indian Self-Deter-
mination and Education Assistance Act (25
U.S.C. 5304 et seq.).
(3) ROAD UPGRADE.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Nothing in this sub-
section requires the Secretary or any Indian
Tribe to upgrade the condition of L–54 as of
the date of enactment of this Act.
(B) WRITTEN AGREEMENT.—An upgrade to
L–54 may not be made without the written
agreement of the Pueblo of Laguna.
(4) INVENTORY.—Nothing in this subsection
requires L–54 to be placed on the National
Tribal Transportation Facility Inventory.
SA 180. Mr. RUBIO (for himself and
Mr. SCOTT of Florida) submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 111 proposed by Ms.
MURKOWSKI (for herself and Mr.
MANCHIN) to the bill S. 47, to provide
for the management of the natural re-
sources of the United States, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
Strike section 7003 and insert the fol-
lowing:
SEC. 7003. JOHN H. CHAFEE COASTAL BARRIER
RESOURCES SYSTEM.
Section 2(b) of the Strengthening Coastal
Communities Act of 2018 (Public Law 115–358)
is amended by adding at the end the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(36) The map entitled ‘Cape San Blas Unit
P30/P30P (1 of 2)’ and dated December 19,
2018, with respect to Unit P30 and Unit P30P.
‘‘(37) The map entitled ‘Cape San Blas Unit
P30/P30P (2 of 2)’ and dated December 19,
2018, with respect to Unit P30 and Unit
P30P.’’.
SA 181. Mr. BRAUN (for himself and
Mr. CORNYN) submitted an amendment
intended to be proposed to amendment
SA 111 proposed by Ms. MURKOWSKI (for
herself and Mr. MANCHIN) to the bill S.
47, to provide for the management of
the natural resources of the United
States, and for other purposes; which
was ordered to lie on the table; as fol-
lows:
On page 695 of the amendment, after line
22, add the following:
SEC. 90ll. REPORT ON MAINTAINING FEDERAL
LAND HOLDINGS UNDER THE JURIS-
DICTION OF THE SECRETARY OF
THE INTERIOR.
Not later than 120 days after the date on
which the President submits to Congress the
budget of the United States for fiscal year
2020, the Secretary shall submit to Congress
a report that describes—
(1) all Federal land holdings under the ju-
risdiction of the Secretary; and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:22 Feb 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00022 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A11FE6.037 S11FEPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1173
February 11, 2019
(2) the total cost of maintaining the Fed-
eral land holdings described under paragraph
(1) for each of fiscal years 2017 through 2019,
including an accounting of holdings and ex-
penditures by each Federal agency with re-
spect to the land holdings.
SA 182. Mr. RUBIO (for himself and
Mr. SCOTT of Florida) proposed an
amendment to amendment SA 112 pro-
posed by Ms. MURKOWSKI to the amend-
ment SA 111 proposed by Ms. MUR-
KOWSKI (for herself and Mr. MANCHIN)
to the bill S. 47, to provide for the man-
agement of the natural resources of the
United States, and for other purposes;
as follows:
At the end, add the following:
SEC. 2402A. JOHN H. CHAFEE COASTAL BARRIER
RESOURCES SYSTEM.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 2(b) of the
Strengthening Coastal Communities Act of
2018 (Public Law 115–358) is amended by add-
ing at the end the following:
‘‘(36) The map entitled ‘Cape San Blas Unit
P30/P30P (1 of 2)’ and dated December 19,
2018, with respect to Unit P30 and Unit P30P.
‘‘(37) The map entitled ‘Cape San Blas Unit
P30/P30P (2 of 2)’ and dated December 19,
2018, with respect to Unit P30 and Unit
P30P.’’.
(b) EFFECT.—Section 7003 shall have no
force or effect.
SA 183. Ms. CANTWELL submitted
an amendment intended to be proposed
to amendment SA 111 proposed by Ms.
MURKOWSKI (for herself and Mr.
MANCHIN) to the bill S. 47, to provide
for the management of the natural re-
sources of the United States, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
Strike section 3002.
SA 184. Mr. SCHATZ (for himself, Mr.
CASSIDY, and Mr. REED) submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 111 proposed by Ms.
MURKOWSKI (for herself and Mr.
MANCHIN) to the bill S. 47, to provide
for the management of the natural re-
sources of the United States, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
At the end of subtitle E of title II, add the
following:
SEC. 24lll. MODIFICATIONS TO THE PRESERVE
AMERICA PROGRAM.
(a) PURPOSES.—The purposes of this section
are—
(1) to strengthen economic development
across the United States by supporting cul-
tural heritage tourism and historic preserva-
tion activities through the Preserve America
Program; and
(2) to encourage the Director of the Na-
tional Park Service to partner with gateway
communities (including Native American
communities and National Heritage Areas)
to leverage local cultural and historic herit-
age tourism assets.
(b) PRESERVE AMERICA GRANT PROGRAM.—
(1) ESTABLISHMENT.—Section 311102 of title
54, United States Code, is amended—
(A) in subsection (d)—
(i) in paragraph (1), by inserting ‘‘and the
Secretary of Commerce’’ after ‘‘Council’’;
and
(ii) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(3) ADVISORY ROLE OF SECRETARY OF COM-
MERCE.—The Secretary of Commerce shall
advise the program with respect to job cre-
ation, economic growth, and tourism policy
and promotion.’’; and
(B) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(f) TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—For any fiscal year for
which funds are not made available to pro-
vide grants under this section, to the extent
practicable, the program shall, in lieu of the
grants, provide technical assistance to the
eligible entities described in subsection (a)
for projects that meet the eligibility require-
ments described in subsection (b), as identi-
fied on the list of projects prepared by the
Secretary in accordance with subsection (d).
‘‘(2) LIMITATION.—The Secretary may take
into account the availability of staff re-
sources at the Department of the Interior,
the Council, and the Department of Com-
merce for purposes of determining the num-
ber of projects that are provided technical
assistance under this subsection.
‘‘(3) FORM.—The form of technical assist-
ance under paragraph (1) may include tech-
nical assistance provided by—
‘‘(A) the Director, with respect to—
‘‘(i) best practices in visitor services;
‘‘(ii) the conduct of research, inventories,
and surveys;
‘‘(iii) the documentation of historic re-
sources; and
‘‘(iv) the interpretation and promotion of
cultural and heritage assets;
‘‘(B) the Council, with respect to historic
preservation initiatives and best practices in
stewardship; and
‘‘(C) the Secretary of Commerce, with re-
spect to economic development and job cre-
ation resources.’’.
(2) PROGRAM METRICS.—Chapter 3111 of title
54, United States Code, is amended—
(A) by redesignating section 311105 as sec-
tion 311106; and
(B) by inserting after section 311104 the fol-
lowing:
‘‘§ 311105. Reports
‘‘(a) METRICS.—Not later than 180 days
after the date of enactment of the Natural
Resources Management Act, the Secretary,
in consultation with the Council and the
Secretary of Commerce, shall develop spe-
cific metrics to measure the effectiveness of
the program, including—
‘‘(1) the economic impact of the program
on local communities (including Native
American communities and National Herit-
age Areas); and
‘‘(2) the effect of the program on efforts to
preserve heritage resources.
‘‘(b) GRANTEE REPORT.—Not later than 2
years after the date on which a grantee re-
ceives a grant or technical assistance under
this chapter, the grantee shall submit to the
Secretary a report that—
‘‘(1) describes the outcome of the project
that was provided a grant or technical as-
sistance under this chapter; and
‘‘(2) based on the metrics developed under
subsection (a), assesses—
‘‘(A) the accomplishments of the project;
and
‘‘(B) the impact of the project on the com-
munity in which the project was carried out.
‘‘(c) ANNUAL REPORTS.—The Secretary
shall submit an annual report to the appro-
priate committees of Congress that includes
data provided by grantees to demonstrate
the economic impact of the program.’’.
(3) CONFORMING AMENDMENT.—The table of
sections for chapter 3111 of title 54, United
States Code, is amended by striking the item
relating to section 311105 and inserting the
following:
‘‘311105. Reports.
‘‘311106. Authorization of appropriations.’’.
(c) NATIONAL PARK SERVICE PARTNERSHIPS
WITH GATEWAY COMMUNITIES.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Subdivision 1 of division B
of subtitle III of title 54, United States Code,
is amended by adding at the end the fol-
lowing:
‘‘CHAPTER 3092—PARTNERSHIPS WITH
GATEWAY COMMUNITIES
‘‘Sec.
‘‘309201. Definitions.
‘‘309202. Partnerships with gateway commu-
nities.
‘‘309203. Report.
‘‘309204. Authorization of appropriations.
‘‘§ 309201. Definitions
‘‘In this chapter:
‘‘(1) APPROPRIATE CONGRESSIONAL COM-
MITTEE.—The term ‘appropriate congres-
sional committee’ means—
‘‘(A) the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation of the Senate;
‘‘(B) the Committee on Energy and Natural
Resources of the Senate;
‘‘(C) the Committee on Appropriations of
the Senate;
‘‘(D) the Committee on Energy and Com-
merce of the House of Representatives;
‘‘(E) the Committee on Natural Resources
of the House of Representatives; and
‘‘(F) the Committee on Appropriations of
the House of Representatives.
‘‘(2) GATEWAY COMMUNITY.—The term ‘gate-
way community’ means a community adja-
cent to a unit of the System, including a Na-
tive American community or a National Her-
itage Area.
‘‘(3) HERITAGE TOURISM.—The term ‘herit-
age tourism’ has the meaning given the term
in section 311101.
‘‘§ 309202. Partnerships with gateway commu-
nities
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall, to
the extent practicable, offer to enter into
partnerships with gateway communities to
leverage heritage tourism assets to strength-
en local economies and create jobs in the
gateway communities with the goal of estab-
lishing a standardized framework for part-
nerships throughout the System, including
through—
‘‘(1) providing financial assistance to gate-
way communities to support outreach and
promotional efforts;
‘‘(2) providing technical assistance to gate-
way communities based on Service best prac-
tices in tourism development and visitor
management, such as—
‘‘(A) inventorying tourism resources in the
gateway community;
‘‘(B) identifying historic heritage and cul-
tural resources;
‘‘(C) engaging collaborative partners and
stakeholders;
‘‘(D) designing community outreach and
participation strategies;
‘‘(E) developing concept plans for trails,
parks, historic resources, and natural areas;
‘‘(F) developing sustainable tourism devel-
opment frameworks for community plan-
ning; and
‘‘(G) encouraging regional strategies for
tourism development and promotion; and
‘‘(3) assisting gateway communities in ac-
cessing additional Federal resources avail-
able to strengthen tourism assets and sup-
port economic development.
‘‘(b) OBTAINING FINANCIAL AND TECHNICAL
ASSISTANCE.—The Secretary, in consultation
with stakeholders of System units, shall es-
tablish a process through which States, units
of local government, and Tribal governments
may apply for designation as a gateway com-
munity to become eligible for financial and
technical assistance made available under
this section.
‘‘(c) METRICS.—The Secretary, in consulta-
tion with gateway communities, shall de-
velop metrics to measure the impact of the
financial and technical assistance provided
to gateway communities under this section.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:22 Feb 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00023 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A11FE6.040 S11FEPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1174 February 11, 2019
‘‘§ 309203. Report
‘‘Not later than 1 year after the date of en-
actment of this Act, the Secretary shall sub-
mit to the appropriate congressional com-
mittees a report that—
‘‘(1) describes the efforts of the Secretary
to partner with gateway communities under
this chapter;
‘‘(2) analyzes the results of the financial
and technical assistance using the metrics
developed under section 309202(c); and
‘‘(3) identifies—
‘‘(A) the next steps that should be taken to
improve partnerships with gateway commu-
nities; and
‘‘(B) any actions that the Secretary will
take to improve the partnerships.
‘‘§ 309204. Authorization of appropriations
‘‘There are authorized to be appropriated
such sums as are necessary to carry out this
chapter.’’.
(2) CONFORMING AMENDMENT.—The table of
chapters for title 54, United States Code, is
amended by inserting after the item relating
to chapter 3091 the following:
‘‘3092. Partnerships with gate-
way communities ................... 309201’’.
SA 185. Mr. CARPER submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 111 proposed by Ms.
MURKOWSKI (for herself and Mr.
MANCHIN) to the bill S. 47, to provide
for the management of the natural re-
sources of the United States, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
Beginning on page 595 strike line 16 and all
that follows through page 603, line 16.
SA 186. Mr. CARPER submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed by
him to the bill S. 47, to provide for the
management of the natural resources
of the United States, and for other pur-
poses; which was ordered to lie on the
table; as follows:
Beginning on page 568 strike line 9 and all
that follows through page 576, line 9.
SA 187. Mr. LEE (for himself, Mr.
LANKFORD, Mr. TOOMEY, and Mr. ROM-
NEY) proposed an amendment to
amendment SA 112 proposed by Ms.
MURKOWSKI to the amendment SA 111
proposed by Ms. MURKOWSKI (for herself
and Mr. MANCHIN) to the bill S. 47, to
provide for the management of the nat-
ural resources of the United States,
and for other purposes; as follows:
At the appropriate place, add the fol-
lowing:
SEC. lll. LIMITATION ON THE EXTENSION OR
ESTABLISHMENT OF NATIONAL
MONUMENTS IN THE STATE OF
UTAH.
Section 320301(d) of title 54, United States
Code, is amended—
(1) in the heading, by striking ‘‘WYOMING’’
and inserting ‘‘THE STATE OF WYOMING OR
UTAH’’; and
(2) by striking ‘‘Wyoming’’ and inserting
‘‘the State of Wyoming or Utah’’.
f
NOTICE OF INTENT TO OBJECT TO
PROCEEDING
I, Senator CHUCK GRASSLEY, intend
to object to proceeding to the nomina-
tion of Donald W. Washington, of
Texas, to be Director of the United
States Marshals Service, dated Feb-
ruary 11, 2019.
f
PRIVILEGES OF THE FLOOR
Mr. THUNE. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that Stephanie Mil-
ler, detailee with the Energy and Nat-
ural Resources Committee, be granted
floor privileges through May 15.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
ORDERS FOR TUESDAY,
FEBRUARY 12, 2019
Mr. TOOMEY. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that when the Sen-
ate completes its business today, it ad-
journ until 10 a.m., Tuesday, February
12; further, that following the prayer
and pledge, the morning hour be
deemed expired, the Journal of pro-
ceedings be approved to date, the time
for the two leaders be reserved for their
use later in the day, and morning busi-
ness be closed; further, that following
leader remarks, the Senate resume
consideration of S. 47 and that the Sen-
ate recess from 12 noon until 2:15 p.m.
to allow for the weekly conference
meetings; finally, that all time during
recess, adjournment, morning business,
and leader remarks count postcloture
on S. 47.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
ADJOURNMENT UNTIL 10 A.M.
TOMORROW
Mr. TOOMEY. If there is no further
business to come before the Senate, I
ask that it stand adjourned under the
previous order.
Thereupon, the Senate, at 7:24 p.m.,
adjourned until Tuesday, February 12,
2019, at 10 a.m.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:38 Feb 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00024 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A11FE6.043 S11FEPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
EXTENSIONS OF REMARKS
∑ This ‘‘bullet’’ symbol identifies statements or insertions which are not spoken by a Member of the Senate on the floor.
Matter set in this typeface indicates words inserted or appended, rather than spoken, by a Member of the House on the floor.
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E157
February 11, 2019
HONORING BARBARA PAHRE
HON. MIKE THOMPSON
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, February 11, 2019
Mr. THOMPSON of California. Madam
Speaker, I rise today to recognize Barbara
Pahre for her many successes throughout her
career and at the American Association of
University Women (AAUW) and the Napa
County AAUW.
Ms. Pahre is an exceptional past president
of the Napa County American Association of
University Women. She started the Author’s
Forum, an event to raise scholarships for girls
and young women for their educational and
professional pursuits six years ago. The event
has been a major success and has raised
over $100,000 in scholarship funds.
Ms. Pahre was born in Illinois and moved to
Napa, California with her husband Keith in the
early 1960s. She began her career as a
teacher at Carneros School and retired as
Napa Valley Unified School District’s (NVUSD)
Associate Superintendent and Director of
Human Resources. During her time at NVUSD
she also directed the gifted students’ program
and the state funded school improvement pro-
grams and was the main negotiator for salary
and employment issues. Ms. Pahre has
worked with students in other capacities as
well. She ran Magic Years Preschool and
taught master’s level courses at Chapman
University and Pacific Union College.
Ms. Pahre is engaged in our community and
has given her time to many state and county
commissions and boards. Some of them in-
clude Napa Civil Service Commission, Napa
General Plan Review Committee, Napa Open
Space Committee, Golden Gate Bridge and
Highway Transportation District, and Sonoma/
Marin Area Rail Transit.
Madam Speaker, Barbara Pahre has spent
her career and retirement working to better
our community and serve our county. It is
therefore fitting and proper that we honor the
service of Barbara Pahre here today.
f
SAFEGUARDING DISASTER-RECOV-
ERY FUNDS FOR ARMY CORPS
CIVIL WORKS
HON. JOHN GARAMENDI
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, February 11, 2019
Mr. GARAMENDI. Madam Speaker, today I
introduce legislation to prevent the President
from diverting disaster-recovery funds from the
U.S. Army Corps of Engineers’ civil works
projects.
I want to thank my colleagues—Representa-
tives CISNEROS, VELÁZQUEZ, BERA, GOMEZ,
TAKANO, LOWENTHAL, ROUDA, CARBAJAL,
HUFFMAN, ESHOO, VARGAS, ROYBAL-ALLARD,
SOTO, LOFGREN, MATSUI, SERRANO, NAPOLI-
TANO, PLASKETT, and HARDER—for their sup-
port as original cosponsors.
Last month, I received alarming reports that
the President had reviewed a list of Army
Corps civil works projects in California and
Puerto Rico, totaling nearly $5 billion, from
which to divert disaster-recovery funding for
border wall construction.
Madam Speaker, it is morally reprehensible
that any President would take recovery funds
from disaster victims as ransom for a cam-
paign promise. Targeting funds for Califor-
nians to make a craven political point and resi-
dents of Puerto Rico, who are denied voting
rights in national elections and full representa-
tion in Congress, is equally low.
One of the Army Corps levee projects the
Trump Administration may defund protects
12,000 residents of Marysville, California from
hypothermia-inducing floodwaters that could
inundate the town in a matter of hours. This is
a matter of saving lives in my Congressional
district and helping California communities re-
build.
My bill would eliminate a provision from the
Water Resources Development Act of 1986
(Public Law 99–662), authorizing Presidents to
divert funding from the U.S. Army Corps of
Engineers’ civil works directorate in exigent
cases for national defense and emergencies.
This obscure 1986 provision is the legal au-
thority President Trump could invoke to divert
disaster-recovery funding for his promised bor-
der wall.
According to the nonpartisan Congressional
Research Service, no President has ever in-
voked this 1986 legal authority, which was
originally requested by the Reagan Adminis-
tration for cases of Congressionally declared
wars and presidentially declared national
emergencies requiring civil defense during the
Cold War.
In acting on my bill, the House can reassert
its Constitutional authority to direct federal
funding for national priorities that help commu-
nities rebuild and become more resilient to fu-
ture natural disasters. Madam Speaker, I urge
all Members to join us in cosponsoring this im-
portant legislation. I also expect my bill will be
included in the next Water Resources Devel-
opment Act.
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. STEVEN C. WATKINS, JR.
OF KANSAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, February 11, 2019
Mr. WATKINS. Madam Speaker, I was not
present for Roll Call Vote Number 75. Had I
been present, I would have voted yea on Roll
Call No. 75.
HONORING THE WORK OF MRS.
MILLIE RUTH MCCLELLAND
CHARLES
HON. CEDRIC L. RICHMOND
OF LOUISIANA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, February 11, 2019
Mr. RICHMOND. Madam Speaker, I rise to
honor the work of Mrs. Millie Ruth McClelland
Charles, a legendary social worker and native
of New Orleans, Louisiana.
Mrs. Charles was born July 25, 1923 in New
Orleans, Louisiana to Rev. Williams
McClelland, a Baptist preacher, and Frankie
Little, a school teacher.
Mrs. Charles entered Dillard University
when she was only 15 years old and grad-
uated with a degree in secondary education.
However, after a few years of teaching in
north Louisiana and loving the children in her
classes, she realized she could find more ful-
fillment in social work because she would be
able to help children and their families find
ways to solve problems. Therefore, she
earned a master’s degree in the subject at the
University of Southern California in the mid-
1950s.
Millie McClelland Charles has greatly im-
pacted the field of health and mental health
through her leadership in the founding and
guiding of the Southern University of New Or-
leans School of Social Work (BSW and MSW
programs) into fully accredited programs pro-
viding opportunity for professional develop-
ment to countless students. She is currently
Dean Emeritus and founder of the School of
Social Work. The founding of Southern Univer-
sity in New Orleans was a highly political
event when it took place at the height of the
Civil Rights Movement, reportedly to discour-
age black students from attending the pre-
dominately white University of New Orleans,
located less than a mile away.
Millie Charles’ ability in ultimately taking the
handful of social work courses taught at the
University of New Orleans, which were trans-
ferred to Southern University of New Orleans,
and subsequently expanding on them and de-
veloping them into fully accredited BSW and
MSW programs is considered somewhat of a
miracle in New Orleans. The high caliber Pro-
grams have attracted a well-credentialed, cul-
turally diverse faculty; the student population
is now well integrated also.
Dean Charles’ interests in social work edu-
cation go far beyond just working in the state
of Louisiana. She has served as the Co-Chair,
Council on Social Work Education (CSWE)
Annual Meeting; a Member of the CSWE
Committee on Undergraduate Curriculum
Standards; and a Site Visitor for the CSWE
Accreditation Commission. In addition, since
1972, she has consulted with numerous Un-
dergraduate and Graduate Social Work Pro-
grams around the U.S., advising them on Cur-
ricula.
Millie Charles has received numerous
awards. Some of them are: National Social
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:22 Feb 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A11FE8.001 E11FEPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E158 February 11, 2019
Worker of the Year (NASW), 1975; Humani-
tarian of the Year, Federal Women Employees
Association, 1975; Founders Award, New Or-
leans Chapter, National Association of Black
Social Workers, 1979; Doctor of Humane Let-
ters, Dillard University, 1993; and she also
was one of four women honored by the New
Orleans YWCA for lifetime of service to the
community. Millie Charles was hailed as a life-
long crusader for equality during a ceremony
in which she was presented The Times-Pica-
yune Loving Cup on Tuesday June 24, 2013.
Throughout her life, Charles, a native of New
Orleans’ Central City, has said consistently
that anything she might have accomplished
was the result of a group effort.
Madam Speaker, I honor the work of Mrs.
Millie Ruth McClelland Charles.
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. GWEN MOORE
OF WISCONSIN
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, February 11, 2019
Ms. MOORE. Madam Speaker, I missed
Roll Call vote number 72 on February 8, 2019.
Had I been present, I would have voted ‘‘no.’’
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. MIKE JOHNSON
OF LOUISIANA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, February 11, 2019
Mr. JOHNSON of Louisiana. Madam Speak-
er, I was unavoidably detained. Had I been
present, I would have voted ‘‘yea’’ on Roll Call
No. 74—MTR on H.R. 840 and ‘‘yea’’ on Roll
Call No. 75—Final passage of H.R. 840.
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. KATIE PORTER
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, February 11, 2019
Ms. PORTER. Madam Speaker, I was un-
able to be present for votes on Monday, Janu-
ary 28, 2019 due to a delayed flight. Had I
been present, I would have voted on ‘‘YES’’
on roll call votes 52, 53, and 54.
f
HONORING GWENN KUSKIN
FELDMAN
HON. LOIS FRANKEL
OF FLORDIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, February 11, 2019
Ms. FRANKEL. Madman Speaker, I rise
today to honor the life and memory of Gwenn
Kuskin Feldman, a beloved constituent of Flor-
ida’s 21st Congressional District. Gwenn will
be remembered as a loving mother and sister,
generous friend, and the grandmother who
never said no to her grandkids—Ellie, Ben,
and Ruby.
I was introduced to Gwenn through her son,
my colleague from New Jersey—Congress-
man JOSH GOTTHEIMER. Gwenn was a woman
who stood strong in her convictions. She
wasn’t afraid to give me a report on how I was
doing as her Congresswoman or speak her
mind about issues of the day. Above all, she
truly cared about the future of our country.
Gwenn’s contribution to our community
came from her immeasurable amount of love.
Before moving to Florida, she spent years
working with preschool children at Congrega-
tion Beth El in South Orange, New Jersey.
Her dedication to the growth of our youths
continued in Florida. Countless loved ones
honored her memory through donations to
Jewish Adoption & Family Care Options’
(JAFCO) Gwenn Feldman Fund for Fun.
In facing this loss, I am reminded of a Han-
nah Senesh poem, ‘‘There are Stars’’ or Yesh
Kochavim in the original Hebrew. The first few
lines embody Gwenn:
There are stars whose radiance is visible on
earth
though they have long been extinct.
There are people whose brilliance continues
to light
the world even though they are not longer
among the living.
Gwenn’s star continues to shine bright
through her children and the lives of the many
she impacted. I ask my colleagues to join me
in remembering this incredible American and
celebrating the inspiring life she lived.
f
HONORING CAPTAIN ROGER
HARLESS
HON. MIKE THOMPSON
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, February 11, 2019
Mr. THOMPSON of California. Madam
Speaker, I rise today to remember the life of
Captain Roger Harless and honor his commit-
ment to public service and our community.
Mr. Harless was born in Berkeley, California
and grew up in the nearby towns of Lafayette
and Moraga with his brother, Paul. In May of
1990, he joined the Contra Costa County Fire
Protection District. He was in the first Fire Dis-
trict class of paramedics and kept his certifi-
cation throughout his entire career. In April
2003, he became the captain of the district’s
paramedics team, where he worked diligently
to serve and protect the people of Contra
Costa County. In 2018, Captain Harless was a
member of the first group to complete Haz-
ardous Materials training. Mr. Harless passed
away on January 11, 2019 from an illness ac-
quired in the line of duty. He spent 29 years
at the Contra Costa Fire Protection District,
rising to the rank of Captain at Station 11.
Mr. Harless was dedicated to public service
and our community. He cherished the time he
spent mentoring new recruits and his fellow
firefighters. Mr. Harless also mentored children
in our community as a youth basketball and
soccer coach. One of his joys was watching
talent develop, whether at the fire station, on
the court or on the field.
Mr. Harless leaves behind a loving and de-
voted family. He was married to his wife,
Karen, for nearly 35 years. He was the father
of Jessica, Martin and Kelsie and the grand-
father to Sophia, Claire, and Mattisyn. He was
adored by his wife, children, grandchildren, ex-
tended family, friends and many others
throughout our community.
Madam Speaker, we thank Mr. Harless for
his dedication to public service. For this rea-
son, it is fitting and proper that we honor and
remember him here today.
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. W. GREGORY STEUBE
OF FLORIDA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, February 11, 2019
Mr. STEUBE. Madam Speaker, I missed
this vote series due to a death in the family.
Had I been present, I would have voted nay
on Roll Call No. 72; yea on Roll Call No. 73;
yea on Roll Call No. 74; and yea on Roll Call
No. 75.
f
REMEMBERING MIKE BOWEN
HON. STEVE COHEN
OF TENNESSEE
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, February 11, 2019
Mr. COHEN. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to pay tribute to Memphis businessman Mike
Bowen who was killed in a car accident in
Costa Rica on Saturday but who will be long
remembered for his grace in giving others, in-
cluding formerly incarcerated individuals, a
second chance. He was 61. Mr. Bowen was
the CEO of Champion Awards and Apparel, a
company that grew out of Custom Print,
founded in 1979, now the largest local li-
censee of University of Memphis-branded
merchandise. Mr. Bowen was a 1979 graduate
of then-Memphis State University and was ac-
tive in its alumni association. He was also an
active member of the Tiger Scholarship Fund,
the Beale Street Merchants Association, the
Greater Memphis Chamber of Commerce, the
Memphis Jaycees, Leadership Memphis and
the Special Olympics. For years, Mr. Bowen
coordinated the Memphis Business Journal’s
Small Business Awards ceremony.
Growing up in Parkway Village, he said his
mother taught him that the only color he and
his brother should see is green, hopefully with
a ‘‘Benjamin’’ on it. In 2007, Bowen made the
principled decision to hire people with felony
convictions for his business in a program that
he called Late Bloomers, begun in 2007. By
late 2016, 18 of his 48 employees had been
formerly incarcerated. Mr. Bowen said he
hired the men and women because his com-
pany was doing 20th Century work in the 21st
Century and need people willing to work hard
and sweat. In exchange, they received a living
wage and a lot of guidance on staying
straight, including meeting their legal obliga-
tions. Known for hugging his employees, Mr.
Bowen called many of them ‘‘heroes’’ for over-
coming adversity and sticking with hard work.
I want to express my condolences to his wife,
Suzie, and his sons Colby and Michael, his
extended family and his many friends. He led
a good life.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:22 Feb 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A11FE8.004 E11FEPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E159
February 11, 2019
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. JARED HUFFMAN
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, February 11, 2019
Mr. HUFFMAN. Madam Speaker, I regret
that I was absent from votes last week for per-
sonal reasons.
Had I been present, I would have voted
NAY on Roll Call No. 72; YEA on Roll Call No.
73; NAY on Roll Call No. 74; and YEA on Roll
Call No. 75.
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. BRENDAN F. BOYLE
OF PENNSYLVANIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, February 11, 2019
Mr. BRENDAN F. BOYLE of Pennsylvania.
Madam Speaker, on May 17, 2018, had I
been present, I would have voted no on Roll
Call vote No. 198 and No. 199.
On May 18, 2018, had I been present, I
would have voted no on Roll Call vote No.
203.
f
HONORING SAND IN MY SHOES
AWARD RECIPIENT TONY ARGIZ
HON. DONNA E. SHALALA
OF FLORIDA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, February 11, 2019
Ms. SHALALA. Madam Speaker, I rise in
recognition of Tony Argiz, recipient of this
year’s prestigious Sand in My Shoes Award
from the Greater Miami Chamber of Com-
merce. Tony Argiz is an exemplary community
leader and illustrates the ‘‘sand in my shoes’’
tenet of life that sets Miami apart as a fan-
tastic place to live and work.
The Sand in My Shoes Award takes its
name from a letter Damon Runyon wrote to
his friend Bill, a Hollywood movie producer,
detailing why he had opted to stay in South
Florida rather than return to California to write
a movie script. He wrote:
‘‘The truth of the matter is, Bill, we’ve got
sand in our shoes. It’s pretty difficult to ex-
plain that to anyone who doesn’t know what
it means. It means a land covered with sun-
light . . . warm and soft. It means white and
pink houses, with red and blue and green
roofs . . . . It means palm trees whispering
mysteriously and tall melaleucas nodding
their plumed heads to every breeze. It means
big fat porpoises playing in Biscayne Bay
and gaunt pelicans patrolling the sky at
dusk, and folks fishing from bridges all
day. . . . It means Hialeah and stately ave-
nues of giant palms and pink flamingo, black
swan and wild duck. . . . Turquoise blue
waters of the ocean lapping white beaches
and always the sun shining down in kindly
warmth. . . . It means Bimini where the big
game fish lurk and the nearby Keys where
the ghosts of bearded old buccaneers still
guard their buried treasure. . . .’’
Originally from Cuba, Tony Argiz came to
the United States with Operation Pedro Pan.
He lived at a Catholic boarding school in
Tampa until his parents came over, five years
later. He credits his early years in Florida with
giving him the hunger for education, for hard
work, and for success. He later attended Flor-
ida International University on a baseball
scholarship, an experience that taught him the
value of teamwork.
Today, Tony is Chairman and CEO of Morri-
son, Brown, Argiz & Farra, LLC, one of the top
40 accounting firms in the nation. In 1986, he
was appointed to Florida’s Board of Account-
ancy, which he later chaired. He has served
on the American Institute of CPAs Nomina-
tions Committee and on the PCP Executive
Committee and its Technical Issues Com-
mittee. He is also a leader among South Flor-
ida nonprofit organizations, as chairman of the
Adrienne Arsht Center Foundation and of
Facts About Cuban Exiles.
I am pleased to recognize the contributions
of my friend Tony to the greater Miami area
and to celebrate his extraordinary achieve-
ments as a community leader.
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. JOHN H. RUTHERFORD
OF FLORIDA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, February 11, 2019
Mr. RUTHERFORD. Madam Speaker, I was
unavoidably detained at the time of the vote.
Had I been present, I would have voted ‘‘yea’’
on Roll Call No. 70; ‘‘yea’’ on Roll Call No. 72;
‘‘yea’’ on Roll Call No. 73; ‘‘yea’’ on Roll Call
No. 74; and ‘‘yea’’ on Roll Call No. 75.
f
RECOGNIZING THE RACHEL CAR-
SON COUNCIL’S ‘‘CLEAR CUT’’
REPORT
HON. JAMIE RASKIN
OF MARYLAND
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, February 11, 2019
Mr. RASKIN. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to honor the important work of the Rachel Car-
son Council (RCC), which is named after the
visionary marine biologist, nature writer and
environmentalist who was a proud resident of
Silver Spring, Maryland.
Founded and based in Bethesda, the RCC
pays tribute to Rachel Carson’s imperishable
legacy by linking environmental, health, and
social policy solutions ‘‘with the goal of build-
ing a more just, sustainable, and peaceful fu-
ture.’’
The RCC recently released a comprehen-
sive report called ‘‘Clear Cut,’’ examining
wood pellet production and its adverse effects
on the health and sustainability of our forests
and communities. The report details the proc-
ess by which Southeastern forests are being
cut down, chopped up, and dehydrated before
being shipped and burned as carbon-intense
fuel.
According to the report, despite being touted
as a ‘‘green’’ alternative to fossil fuels, the
sourcing of wood pellets contributes to wide-
spread deforestation and pollution throughout
much of the American Southeast. In North
Carolina alone, the largest producer of wood
pellets, Enviva, clear cuts more than 50 acres
of forest each day. Left standing, these forests
would help control the climate, maintain the
biodiversity of our ecosystems, and filter our
air and water.
Following this environmentally invasive
sourcing process of clear-cutting, pellets are
burned, producing Volatile Organic Com-
pounds (VOCs), particulate matter (PM), nitro-
gen oxides (NO), and carbon monoxide (CO2),
all of which pose serious health risks to
human beings. Although the pollutants emitted
by wood pellet mills are indiscriminately harm-
ful to nearby inhabitants, the RCC report notes
that wood pellet mills have been
disproportionally constructed near poor com-
munities of color, which are bearing the dis-
proportionate burdens of deforestation, includ-
ing poor air quality and increased flood risks.
Although the environmental drawbacks of
wood pellet production are clear—wood pellet
mills emit approximately 65–percent more C02
per megawatt hour than modern coal plants—
the RCC argues that the industry has contin-
ued to mislead the public about the sustain-
ability of this practice. Moreover, the RCC’s
report concludes that the expansion of the
wood pellet industry is making it harder for us
to maintain our environmental standards and
address the global crisis of climate change.
Madam Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
review the well-researched and well-docu-
mented ‘‘Clear Cut’’ report by visiting the RCC
website at www.rachelcarsoncouncil.org. We
must keep the profound concerns raised in
this report in mind as we enact environmental,
forestry, and energy policies and work to pro-
tect the public health and safety.
f
HONORING THE NATIONAL COURT
REPORTERS ASSOCIATION’S
COURT REPORTING AND CAP-
TIONING WEEK
HON. JOHN SHIMKUS
OF ILLINOIS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, February 11, 2019
Mr. SHIMKUS. Madam Speaker, I rise in
honor of the National Court Reporters Asso-
ciation’s Court Reporting and Captioning
Week.
The NCRA supports and promotes excel-
lence among those who capture and convert
spoken words to text. These skills provide a
foundation of public transparency for our
courts, government hearings, and even our
very own House of Representatives.
Court Reporting and Captioning Week is a
nationwide initiative. It brings awareness to the
importance of the work that court reporters
and captioners do. Without the records they
provide, assuring accountability and oversight
over government institutions would be impos-
sible. For this reason, court reporters,
captioners, and the NCRA stand as part of the
foundation of our democracy.
Madam Speaker, I commend the NCRA for
its work and the work of its members, and I
congratulate the NCRA on celebrating Court
Reporting and Captioning Week.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:04 Feb 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A11FE8.012 E11FEPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E160 February 11, 2019
MOURNING THE PASSING OF THE
HONORABLE WALTER BEAMAN
JONES, JR., MEMBER OF CON-
GRESS FROM THE STATE OF
NORTH CAROLINA
HON. SHEILA JACKSON LEE
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, February 11, 2019
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Madam Speaker, I rise
to pay tribute to a great American and a distin-
guished member of this House, the Honorable
WALTER B. JONES, Jr.
The Honorable WALTER B. JONES, died on
Sunday, February 10, 2019 after a long ill-
ness.
In addition to being a beloved and highly re-
spected member of the House, WALTER JONES
was also a small business owner and a vet-
eran of the National Guard.
His presence will be greatly missed and we
all mourn his loss and extend our sincerest
condolences to his family and friends.
WALTER BEAMAN JONES, Jr. was born Feb-
ruary 10, 1943 in Farmville, North Carolina to
Walter B. and Doris Long Jones, where he
was raised.
Madam Speaker, WALTER JONES attended
Hargrave Military Academy in Chatham, Vir-
ginia and graduated in 1966 with a Bachelor
of Arts from Atlantic Christian College (now
Barton College) in Wilson, North Carolina.
Shortly after graduation WALTER JONES
joined the North Carolina National Guard while
also working as an executive with his family’s
business supply company.
In 1982, WALTER JONES, the son of Con-
gressman Walter B. Jones, Sr., was first elect-
ed as a Democrat to the North Carolina House
of Representatives.
After serving five successful terms and
being known for his advocacy of campaign fi-
nance reform and lobbying reform, in 1994,
WALTER JONES sought and won a seat in the
United States House of Representatives rep-
resenting the Third Congressional District of
North Carolina.
WALTER JONES was a dedicated and tireless
advocate for his community and always put
the interests of his district before the interests
of his party.
In Congress, WALTER JONES was an effec-
tive and powerful voice for those serving on
active duty as well as veterans.
In 2000, WALTER JONES fought to help clear
the names of two Marine pilots wrongly
blamed for the deadly crash of a V–22 Os-
prey.
In 2016, the Navy issued a clarification
about the cause of the fatal crash.
Anyone who met WALTER JONES knew of his
tenacity and abiding love for the military.
WALTER JONES fought against the corrosive
influence of money in politics for much of his
career.
As co-chair of the Campaign Finance Re-
form Caucus, WALTER JONES pushed for re-
forms to lessen the impact and role of large
campaign contributions and called for the re-
peal of the Supreme Court’s decision in Citi-
zens United, v. Federal Election Commission,
558 U.S. 310 (2010), which opened the flood-
gates for dark money and super PACs, and he
advocated for public financing of election cam-
paigns.
During his quarter century of service in Con-
gress he served on the Committee on Armed
Services as well as its Subcommittees on Tac-
tical Air and Land Forces and on Military Per-
sonnel.
Madam Speaker, a dear colleague has fall-
en but he will not be forgotten.
We are all saddened by the passing of the
Honorable WALTER B. JONES, Jr. but we are
happy to have served with him and our pray-
ers and condolences are with his family and
loved ones.
Madam Speaker, WALTER B. JONES, Jr. was
a faithful public servant, a great legislator, and
a good man, who will be missed by all who
knew and loved him.
I ask the House to observe a moment of si-
lence in memory of the Honorable WALTER
BEAMAN JONES, Jr., of North Carolina.
f
SENATE COMMITTEE MEETINGS
Title IV of Senate Resolution 4,
agreed to by the Senate of February 4,
1977, calls for establishment of a sys-
tem for a computerized schedule of all
meetings and hearings of Senate com-
mittees, subcommittees, joint commit-
tees, and committees of conference.
This title requires all such committees
to notify the Office of the Senate Daily
Digest—designated by the Rules Com-
mittee—of the time, place and purpose
of the meetings, when scheduled and
any cancellations or changes in the
meetings as they occur.
As an additional procedure along
with the computerization of this infor-
mation, the Office of the Senate Daily
Digest will prepare this information for
printing in the Extensions of Remarks
section of the CONGRESSIONAL RECORD
on Monday and Wednesday of each
week.
Meetings scheduled for Tuesday, Feb-
ruary 12, 2019 may be found in the
Daily Digest of today’s RECORD.
MEETINGS SCHEDULED
FEBRUARY 13
Time to be announced
Committee on the Judiciary
To hold hearings to examine pending
nominations.
SD–226
9:30 a.m.
Committee on Armed Services
To receive a closed briefing on cyber op-
erations to defend the midterm elec-
tions.
SVC–217
10 a.m.
Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation
To hold hearings to examine the nomina-
tions of Janice Miriam Hellreich, of
Hawaii, Robert A. Mandell, of Florida,
Don Munce, of Florida, and Bruce M.
Ramer, of California, each to be a
Member of the Board of Directors of
the Corporation for Public Broad-
casting, and a routine list in the Coast
Guard.
SD–G50
Committee on Environment and Public
Works
To hold hearings to examine the invasive
species threat, focusing on protecting
wildlife, public health, and infrastruc-
ture.
SD–406
Committee on Homeland Security and
Governmental Affairs
Business meeting to consider S. 380, to
increase access to agency guidance
documents, S. 396, to amend section
1202 of title 5, United States Code, to
modify the continuation of service pro-
vision for members of the Merit Sys-
tems Protection Board, S. 394, to
amend the Presidential Transition Act
of 1963 to improve the orderly transfer
of the executive power during Presi-
dential transitions, S. 195, to require
the Director of the Government Pub-
lishing Office to establish and maintain
a website accessible to the public that
allows the public to obtain electronic
copies of all congressionally mandated
reports in one place, S. 196, to save tax-
payer money and improve the effi-
ciency and speed of intragovernmental
correspondence, S. 395, to require each
agency, in providing notice of a rule
making, to include a link to a 100 word
plain language summary of the pro-
posed rule, S. 406, to establish a Fed-
eral rotational cyber workforce pro-
gram for the Federal cyber workforce,
S. 375, to improve efforts to identify
and reduce Governmentwide improper
payments, S. 315, to authorize cyber
hunt and incident response teams at
the Department of Homeland Security,
S. 333, to authorize the Secretary of
Homeland Security to work with cy-
bersecurity consortia for training, S.
74, to prohibit paying Members of Con-
gress during periods during which a
Government shutdown is in effect, S.
387, to prohibit Federal agencies and
Federal contractors from requesting
that an applicant for employment dis-
close criminal history record informa-
tion before the applicant has received a
conditional offer, H.R. 504, to amend
the Homeland Security Act of 2002 to
require the Department of Homeland
Security to develop an engagement
strategy with fusion centers, and the
nominations of Dennis Dean Kirk, of
Virginia, to be Chairman, and Julia
Akins Clark, of Maryland, and Andrew
F. Maunz, of Ohio, both to be a Mem-
ber, all of the of the Merit Systems
Protection Board, and Ronald D.
Vitiello, of Illinois, to be an Assistant
Secretary of Homeland Security.
SD–342
Commission on Security and Cooperation
in Europe
To receive a briefing on asset recovery in
Eurasia.
SD–562
10:30 a.m.
Committee on Rules and Administration
Business meeting to consider S. Res. 50,
improving procedures for the consider-
ation of nominations in the Senate, an
original resolution authorizing expend-
itures by committees for the 116th Con-
gress, and committee rules.
SR–301
2 p.m.
Committee on Armed Services
Subcommittee on Personnel
To hold a joint hearing to examine the
current condition of the Military Hous-
ing Privatization Initiative.
SD–G50
2:30 p.m.
Committee on Small Business and Entre-
preneurship
To hold an oversight hearing to examine
the Small Business Administration.
SR–428A
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:04 Feb 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A11FE8.018 E11FEPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E161
February 11, 2019
FEBRUARY 14
9:30 a.m.
Committee on Armed Services
To hold hearings to examine United
States Special Operations Command
and United States Cyber Command in
review of the Defense Authorization
Request for fiscal year 2020 and the Fu-
ture Years Defense Program.
SD–G50
10 a.m.
Committee on Banking, Housing, and
Urban Affairs
To hold hearings to examine the nomina-
tions of Bimal Patel, of Georgia, to be
an Assistant Secretary of the Treasury,
Todd M. Harper, of Virginia, and Rod-
ney Hood, of North Carolina, both to be
a Member of the National Credit Union
Administration Board, and Mark An-
thony Calabria, of Virginia, to be Di-
rector of the Federal Housing Finance
Agency.
SD–538
Committee on Energy and Natural Re-
sources
To hold hearings to examine the status
and outlook for cybersecurity efforts in
the energy industry.
SD–366
2 p.m.
Select Committee on Intelligence
To receive a closed briefing on certain
intelligence matters.
SH–219
FEBRUARY 26
10 a.m.
Committee on Banking, Housing, and
Urban Affairs
To hold hearings to examine the Semi-
annual Monetary Policy Report to the
Congress.
SD–106
Committee on Energy and Natural Re-
sources
To hold hearings to examine the state of
the U.S. territories.
SD–366
FEBRUARY 27
10 a.m.
Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation
To hold hearings to examine policy prin-
ciples for a Federal data privacy frame-
work in the United States.
SH–216
2:30 p.m.
Committee on Armed Services
Subcommittee on Personnel
To hold an oversight hearing to examine
military personnel policies and mili-
tary family readiness.
SR–222
MARCH 14
10 a.m.
Committee on Appropriations
Subcommittee on Departments of Labor,
Health and Human Services, and Edu-
cation, and Related Agencies
To hold hearings to examine the Ebola
outbreak in the Democratic Republic
of the Congo and other emerging
health threats.
SD–124
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:04 Feb 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\M11FE8.000 E11FEPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
REMARKS
D141
Monday, February 11, 2019
Daily Digest
Senate
Chamber Action
Routine Proceedings, pages S1151–S1174
Measures Introduced: Eight bills and five resolu-
tions were introduced, as follows: S. 430–437, and
S. Res. 62–66. Pages S1165–66
Measures Reported:
S. Res. 62, authorizing expenditures by the Com-
mittee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship.
S. Res. 64, authorizing expenditures by the Com-
mittee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
Page S1165
Measures Considered:
Natural Resources Management Act—Agree-
ment: Senate resumed consideration of S. 47, to pro-
vide for the management of the natural resources of
the United States, taking action on the following
amendments proposed thereto: Pages S1152, S1155–64
Rejected:
Lee Amendment No. 187 (to Amendment No.
112), to limit the extension or establishment of na-
tional monuments in the State of Utah. (By 60 yeas
to 33 nays (Vote No. 20), Senate tabled the amend-
ment.) Page S1160
Pending:
Murkowski/Manchin Modified Amendment No.
111, in the nature of a substitute. Page S1152
Murkowski Amendment No. 112 (to Amendment
No. 111), to modify the authorization period for the
Historically Black Colleges and Universities Historic
Preservation program. Page S1152
Rubio/Scott (FL) Amendment No. 182 (to
Amendment No. 112), to give effect to more accu-
rate maps of units of the John H. Chafee Costal Bar-
rier Resources System that were produced by digital
mapping. Page S1161
During consideration of this measure today, Senate
also took the following action:
By 87 yeas to 7 nays (Vote No. 21), three-fifths
of those Senators duly chosen and sworn, having
voted in the affirmative, Senate agreed to the motion
to close further debate on the bill. Page S1161
A unanimous-consent agreement was reached pro-
viding that notwithstanding the provisions of Rule
XXII, at 4:30 p.m., on Tuesday, February 12, 2019,
all post-cloture time be considered expired on the
bill; that following disposition of any pending
amendments, the substitute amendment as amended,
if amended, be agreed to, and Senate vote on passage
of the bill, as amended. Pages S1161–62
A unanimous-consent agreement was reached pro-
viding for further consideration of the bill, post-clo-
ture, at approximately 10 a.m., on Tuesday, February
12, 2019; and that all time during recess, adjourn-
ment, morning business, and Leader remarks count
post-cloture on the bill. Page S1174
Department Of Homeland Security Further Con-
tinuing Appropriations—Cloture: Senate began
consideration of the motion to proceed to consider-
ation of H. J. Res. 1, making further continuing ap-
propriations for the Department of Homeland Secu-
rity for fiscal year 2019. Pages S1152–55
A motion was entered to close further debate on
the motion to proceed to consideration of the joint
resolution, and, in accordance with the provisions of
Rule XXII of the Standing Rules of the Senate, a
vote on cloture will occur upon disposition of the
nomination of William Pelham Barr, of Virginia, to
be Attorney General, Department of Justice.
Page S1155
Subsequently, the motion to proceed was with-
drawn. Page S1155
Messages from the House: Page S1165
Measures Referred: Page S1165
Additional Cosponsors: Pages S1166–67
Statements on Introduced Bills/Resolutions:
Pages S1167–69
Additional Statements: Page S1165
Amendments Submitted: Pages S1169–74
Notices of Intent: Page S1174
Privileges of the Floor: Page S1174
Record Votes: Two record votes were taken today.
(Total—21) Pages S1160–61
Adjournment: Senate convened at 3 p.m. and ad-
journed at 7:24 p.m., until 10 a.m. on Tuesday,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:57 Feb 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D11FE9.REC D11FEPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D142 February 11, 2019
February 12, 2019. (For Senate’s program, see the re-
marks of the Acting Majority Leader in today’s
Record on page S1174.)
Committee Meetings
(Committees not listed did not meet)
No committee meetings were held.
h
House of Representatives
Chamber Action
Public Bills and Resolutions Introduced: 13 pub-
lic bills, H.R. 1137–1149; 1 private bill, H.R.
1150; and 6 resolutions, H. Con. Res. 17 and H.
Res. 119–121 and 123–124, were introduced.
Pages H1517–18
Additional Cosponsors: Pages H1518–19
Report Filed: A report was filed today as follows:
H. Res. 122, providing for consideration of the
joint resolution (H.J. Res. 37) directing the removal
of United States Armed Forces from hostilities in the
Republic of Yemen that have not been authorized by
Congress; waiving a requirement of clause 6(a) of
rule XIII with respect to consideration of certain res-
olutions reported from the Committee on Rules; and
providing for consideration of motions to suspend
the rules (H. Rept. 116–8). Page H1516
Speaker: Read a letter from the Speaker wherein she
appointed Representative Butterfield to act as Speak-
er pro tempore for today. Page H1495
Recess: The House recessed at 12:04 p.m. and re-
convened at 2 p.m. Pages H1495–96
Whole Number of the House: The Chair an-
nounced to the House that, in light of the passing
of the gentleman from North Carolina, Mr. Jones,
the whole number of the House is 432. Page H1496
Recess: The House recessed at 2:02 p.m. and recon-
vened at 4 p.m. Page H1496
Suspensions: The House agreed to suspend the rules
and pass the following measures:
Presidential Library Donation Reform Act of
2019: H.R. 1063, amended, to amend title 44,
United States Code, to require information on con-
tributors to Presidential library fundraising organiza-
tions; Pages H1496–97
Social Media Use in Clearance Investigations
Act of 2019: H.R. 1065, to provide for a study on
the use of social media in security clearance inves-
tigations, by a 2⁄3 yea-and-nay vote of 377 yeas to
3 nays, Roll No. 76; Pages H1498–99, H1504–05
Amending title 5, United States Code, to allow
whistleblowers to disclose information to certain
recipients: H.R. 1064, amended, to amend title 5,
United States Code, to allow whistleblowers to dis-
close information to certain recipients; and
Pages H1499–H1500
Creating Advanced Streamlined Electronic Serv-
ices for Constituents Act of 2019: H.R. 1079,
amended, to require the Director of the Office of
Management and Budget to issue guidance on elec-
tronic consent forms, by a 2⁄3 yea-and-nay vote of
379 yeas with none voting ‘‘nay’’, Roll No. 77.
Pages H1502–04, H1505
Recess: The House recessed at 4:45 p.m. and recon-
vened at 6:29 p.m. Page H1504
Expressing the profound sorrow of the House of
Representatives on the death of the Honorable
Walter B. Jones: The House agreed to H. Res. 121,
expressing the profound sorrow of the House of Rep-
resentatives on the death of the Honorable Walter B.
Jones. Page H1504
Honoring the life, achievements, and distin-
guished public service of John David Dingell,
Jr., and expressing condolences to his family on
his passing: The House agreed to discharge from
committee and agree to H. Res. 120, honoring the
life, achievements, and distinguished public service
of John David Dingell, Jr., and expressing condo-
lences to his family on his passing. Page H1506
Meeting Hour: Agreed by unanimous consent that
when the House adjourns today, it adjourn to meet
at 9 a.m. tomorrow, February 12th. Page H1508
Suspension—Proceedings Postponed: The House
debated the following measure under suspension of
the rules. Further proceedings were postponed.
Settlement Agreement Information Database
Act of 2019: H.R. 995, amended, to amend chapter
3 of title 5, United States Code, to require the pub-
lication of settlement agreements. Pages H1500–02
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:57 Feb 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D11FE9.REC D11FEPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D143
February 11, 2019
United States Group of the NATO Parliamen-
tary Assembly—Appointment: The Chair an-
nounced the Speaker’s appointment of the following
Members on the part of the House to the United
States Group of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly:
Representatives Sanchez, Larsen (WA), Davis (CA),
Meeks, Brendan F. Boyle (PA), and Costa.
Page H1509
Quorum Calls—Votes: Two yea-and-nay votes de-
veloped during the proceedings of today and appear
on pages H1504–05 and H1505. There were no
quorum calls.
Adjournment: The House met at 12 noon and at
8:36 p.m., pursuant to House Resolution 121, it
stands adjourned until 9 a.m. tomorrow, February
12th, as a further mark of respect to the memory of
the late Honorable Walter B. Jones.
Committee Meetings
DIRECTING THE REMOVAL OF UNITED
STATES ARMED FORCES FROM HOSTILITIES
IN THE REPUBLIC OF YEMEN THAT HAVE
NOT BEEN AUTHORIZED BY CONGRESS
Committee on Rules: Full Committee held a hearing on
H.J. Res. 37, directing the removal of United States
Armed Forces from hostilities in the Republic of
Yemen that have not been authorized by Congress.
The Committee granted, by record vote of 9–3, a
structured rule providing for consideration of H. J.
Res 37, Directing the removal of United States
Armed Forces from hostilities in the Republic of
Yemen that have not been authorized by Congress.
The rule provides one hour of general debate equally
divided and controlled by the chair and ranking mi-
nority member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
The rule waives all points of order against consider-
ation of the joint resolution. The rule makes in order
as original text for purpose of amendment the
amendment in the nature of a substitute consisting
of the text of Rules Committee Print 116–4 and
provides that it shall be considered as read. The rule
waives all points of order against that amendment in
the nature of a substitute. The rule makes in order
only those further amendments printed in the Rules
Committee report. Each such amendment may be of-
fered only in the order printed in the report, may
be offered only by a Member designated in the re-
port, shall be considered as read, shall be debatable
for the time specified in the report equally divided
and controlled by the proponent and an opponent,
shall not be subject to amendment, and shall not be
subject to a demand for division of the question. The
rule waives all points of order against the amend-
ments printed in the report. The rule provides one
motion to recommit with or without instructions.
Section 2 of the rule waives the requirement of
clause 6(a) of rule XIII for a two-thirds vote to con-
sider a report from the Committee on Rules on the
same day it is presented to the House with respect
to any resolution reported through the legislative
day of February 17, 2019, relating to a measure
making or continuing appropriations for the fiscal
year ending September 30, 2019. Section 3 of the
rule provides that it shall be in order at any time
through the calendar day of February 17, 2019, for
the Speaker to entertain motions that the House sus-
pend the rules as though under clause 1 of rule XV,
and that the Speaker or her designee shall consult
with the Minority Leader or his designee on the des-
ignation of any matter for consideration pursuant to
this section. Section 4 of the rule provides that the
chair of the Committee on Appropriations may in-
sert in the Congressional Record not later than Feb-
ruary 17, 2019, such material as she may deem ex-
planatory of measures making or continuing appro-
priations for the fiscal year ending September 30,
2019. Testimony was heard from Chairman Engel
and Representative McCaul.
Joint Meetings
No joint committee meetings were held.
f
COMMITTEE MEETINGS FOR TUESDAY,
FEBRUARY 12, 2019
(Committee meetings are open unless otherwise indicated)
Senate
Committee on Armed Services: to hold hearings to examine
the United States Indo-Pacific Command and United
States Forces Korea in review of the Defense Authoriza-
tion Request for fiscal year 2020 and the Future Years
Defense Program, 9:30 a.m., SD–G50.
Full Committee, to receive a closed briefing on the
United States Indo-Pacific Command and United States
Forces Korea in review of the Defense Authorization Re-
quest for fiscal year 2020 and the Future Years Defense
Program, 2:30 p.m., SVC–217.
Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions: to
hold hearings to examine managing pain during the
opioid crisis, 10 a.m., SD–430.
House
Committee on Appropriations, Subcommittee on Transpor-
tation, and Housing and Urban Development, and Re-
lated Agencies, hearing entitled ‘‘The Department of
Housing and Urban Development’s Management of
Housing Contracts During the Shutdown’’, 4 p.m.,
2358–A Rayburn.
Committee on Education and Labor, Full Committee, hear-
ing entitled ‘‘Underpaid Teachers and Crumbling Schools:
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:57 Feb 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D11FE9.REC D11FEPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D144 February 11, 2019
How Underfunding Public Education Shortchanges
America’s Students’’, 10:15 a.m., 2175 Rayburn.
Committee on Natural Resources, Subcommittee on Energy
and Mineral Resources, hearing entitled ‘‘Climate
Change: Preparing for the Energy Transition’’, 10 a.m.,
1324 Longworth.
Subcommittee on Indigenous Peoples of the United
States, hearing entitled ‘‘The Impacts of Climate Change
on Tribal Communities’’, 2 p.m., 1324 Longworth.
Committee on Ways and Means, Full Committee, hearing
entitled ‘‘The Cost of Rising Prescription Drug Prices’’,
10 a.m., 1100 Longworth.
f
CONGRESSIONAL PROGRAM AHEAD
Week of February 12 through February 15, 2019
Senate Chamber
On Tuesday, Senate will continue consideration of
S. 47, Natural Resources Management Act, post-clo-
ture, and vote on or in relation to amendments to
the bill and on final passage at 4:30 p.m.
Following disposition of S. 47, Senate will vote on
the motion to invoke cloture on the nomination of
William Pelham Barr, of Virginia, to be Attorney
General, Department of Justice.
During the balance of the week, Senate may con-
sider any cleared legislative and executive business.
Senate Committees
(Committee meetings are open unless otherwise indicated)
Committee on Armed Services: February 12, to hold hear-
ings to examine the United States Indo-Pacific Command
and United States Forces Korea in review of the Defense
Authorization Request for fiscal year 2020 and the Future
Years Defense Program, 9:30 a.m., SD–G50.
February 12, Full Committee, to receive a closed brief-
ing on the United States Indo-Pacific Command and
United States Forces Korea in review of the Defense Au-
thorization Request for fiscal year 2020 and the Future
Years Defense Program, 2:30 p.m., SVC–217.
February 13, Full Committee, to receive a closed brief-
ing on cyber operations to defend the midterm elections,
9:30 a.m., SVC–217.
February 13, Subcommittee on Readiness and Manage-
ment Support, with the Subcommittee on Personnel, to
hold a joint hearing to examine the current condition of
the Military Housing Privatization Initiative, 2 p.m.,
SD–G50.
February 14, Full Committee, to hold hearings to ex-
amine United States Special Operations Command and
United States Cyber Command in review of the Defense
Authorization Request for fiscal year 2020 and the Future
Years Defense Program, 9:30 a.m., SD–G50.
Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs: Feb-
ruary 14, to hold hearings to examine the nominations of
Bimal Patel, of Georgia, to be an Assistant Secretary of
the Treasury, Todd M. Harper, of Virginia, and Rodney
Hood, of North Carolina, both to be a Member of the
National Credit Union Administration Board, and Mark
Anthony Calabria, of Virginia, to be Director of the Fed-
eral Housing Finance Agency, 10 a.m., SD–538.
Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation: Feb-
ruary 13, to hold hearings to examine the nominations of
Janice Miriam Hellreich, of Hawaii, Robert A. Mandell,
of Florida, Don Munce, of Florida, and Bruce M. Ramer,
of California, each to be a Member of the Board of Direc-
tors of the Corporation for Public Broadcasting, and a
routine list in the Coast Guard, 10 a.m., SD–G50.
Committee on Energy and Natural Resources: February 14,
to hold hearings to examine the status and outlook for
cybersecurity efforts in the energy industry, 10 a.m.,
SD–366.
Committee on Environment and Public Works: February 13,
to hold hearings to examine the invasive species threat,
focusing on protecting wildlife, public health, and infra-
structure, 10 a.m., SD–406.
Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions: Feb-
ruary 12, to hold hearings to examine managing pain
during the opioid crisis, 10 a.m., SD–430.
Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs:
February 13, business meeting to consider S. 380, to in-
crease access to agency guidance documents, S. 396, to
amend section 1202 of title 5, United States Code, to
modify the continuation of service provision for members
of the Merit Systems Protection Board, S. 394, to amend
the Presidential Transition Act of 1963 to improve the
orderly transfer of the executive power during Presidential
transitions, S. 195, to require the Director of the Govern-
ment Publishing Office to establish and maintain a
website accessible to the public that allows the public to
obtain electronic copies of all congressionally mandated
reports in one place, S. 196, to save taxpayer money and
improve the efficiency and speed of intragovernmental
correspondence, S. 395, to require each agency, in pro-
viding notice of a rule making, to include a link to a 100
word plain language summary of the proposed rule, S.
406, to establish a Federal rotational cyber workforce pro-
gram for the Federal cyber workforce, S. 375, to improve
efforts to identify and reduce Governmentwide improper
payments, S. 315, to authorize cyber hunt and incident
response teams at the Department of Homeland Security,
S. 333, to authorize the Secretary of Homeland Security
to work with cybersecurity consortia for training, S. 74,
to prohibit paying Members of Congress during periods
during which a Government shutdown is in effect, S.
387, to prohibit Federal agencies and Federal contractors
from requesting that an applicant for employment dis-
close criminal history record information before the appli-
cant has received a conditional offer, H.R. 504, to amend
the Homeland Security Act of 2002 to require the De-
partment of Homeland Security to develop an engage-
ment strategy with fusion centers, and the nominations
of Dennis Dean Kirk, of Virginia, to be Chairman, and
Julia Akins Clark, of Maryland, and Andrew F. Maunz,
of Ohio, both to be a Member, all of the Merit Systems
Protection Board, and Ronald D. Vitiello, of Illinois, to
be an Assistant Secretary of Homeland Security, 10 a.m.,
SD–342.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:57 Feb 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D11FE9.REC D11FEPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D145
February 11, 2019
Committee on the Judiciary: February 13, to hold hearings
to examine pending nominations, Time to be announced,
SD–226.
Committee on Rules and Administration: February 13,
business meeting to consider S. Res. 50, improving pro-
cedures for the consideration of nominations in the Sen-
ate, an original resolution authorizing expenditures by
committees for the 116th Congress, and committee rules,
10:30 a.m., SR–301.
Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship: Feb-
ruary 13, to hold an oversight hearing to examine the
Small Business Administration, 2:30 p.m., SR–428A.
Select Committee on Intelligence: February 14, to receive a
closed briefing on certain intelligence matters, 2 p.m.,
SH–219.
House Committees
Committee on Appropriations, February 13, Subcommittee
on Energy and Water Development, and Related Agen-
cies, hearing entitled ‘‘Oversight Hearing: Department of
Energy’s Weatherization Assistance Program, 10 a.m.,
2362–B Rayburn.
February 13, Subcommittee on Legislative Branch,
budget hearing on the Library of Congress, 10 a.m.,
H–309 Capitol.
February 13, Subcommittee on Defense, hearing enti-
tled ‘‘U.S. Military Service Academies Overview’’, 11
a.m., H–140 Capitol.
February 13, Subcommittee on Military Construction,
Veterans Affairs, and Related Agencies, hearing entitled
‘‘Long Term Healthcare Challenges and Long Term Care
Hearing’’, 2 p.m., HT–2 Capitol.
Committee on Armed Services, February 13, Subcommittee
on Military Personnel, hearing entitled ‘‘Military Service
Academies’ Action Plans to Address the Results of Sexual
Assault and Violence Report at the Military Service Acad-
emies’’, 2 p.m., 2212 Rayburn.
Committee on Education and Labor, February 13, Sub-
committee on Civil Rights and Human Services; and
Subcommittee on Workforce Protections, joint hearing
entitled ‘‘Paycheck Fairness Act (H.R. 7): Equal Pay for
Equal Work’’, 10:15 a.m., 2175 Rayburn.
Committee on Energy and Commerce, February 13,
Subcommittee on Communications and Technology, hear-
ing entitled ‘‘Protecting Consumers and Competition: An
Examination of the T-Mobil and Sprint Merger’’, 10 a.m.,
2123 Rayburn.
February 13, Subcommittee on Health, hearing enti-
tled ‘‘Strengthening Our Health Care System: Legislation
to Reverse ACA Sabotage and Ensure Pre-Existing Condi-
tions Protections’’, 10:30 a.m., 2322 Rayburn.
February 15, Full Committee, hearing entitled ‘‘Com-
mittee Tributes to the Late Honorable John D. Dingell,
Jr.’’, 9:30 a.m., 2123 Rayburn.
Committee on Financial Services, February 13, Full Com-
mittee, hearing entitled ‘‘Homeless in America: Exam-
ining the Crisis and Solutions to End Homelessness’’, 10
a.m., 2128 Rayburn.
February 13, Subcommittee on Consumer Protection
and Financial Institutions, hearing entitled ‘‘Challenges
and Solutions: Access to Banking Services for Cannabis-
Related Businesses’’, 2 p.m., 2128 Rayburn.
February 14, Subcommittee on Housing, Community
Development, and Insurance, hearing entitled ‘‘The Af-
fordable Housing Crisis in Rural America: Assessing the
Federal Response’’, 2 p.m., 2128 Rayburn.
Committee on Foreign Affairs, February 13, Full Com-
mittee, hearing entitled ‘‘Venezuela at a Crossroads’’, 11
a.m., 2172 Rayburn.
Committee on Homeland Security, February 13, Full Com-
mittee, hearing entitled ‘‘Defending Our Democracy:
Building Partnerships to Protect America’s Elections’’, 10
a.m., 310 Cannon.
Committee on House Administration, February 14, Full
Committee, hearing entitled ‘‘For the People: Our Amer-
ican Democracy’’, 10 a.m., 1310 Longworth.
Committee on the Judiciary, February 13, Full Com-
mittee, markup on H.R. 8, the ‘‘Bipartisan Background
Checks Act of 2019’’; and H.R. 1112, the ‘‘Enhanced
Background Checks Act of 2019’’, 10 a.m., 2141 Ray-
burn.
February 14, Subcommittee on Antitrust, Commercial,
and Administrative Law, hearing entitled ‘‘The State of
Competition in the Wireless Market: Examining the Im-
pact of the Proposed Merger of T-Mobile and Sprint on
Consumers, Workers, and the Internet’’, 2 p.m., 2141
Rayburn.
Committee on Natural Resources, February 13, Sub-
committee on National Parks, Forests, and Public Lands,
hearing entitled ‘‘Climate Change and Public Lands: Ex-
amining Impacts and Considering Adaptation Opportuni-
ties’’, 10 a.m., 1324 Longworth.
Committee on Oversight and Reform, February 14, Sub-
committee on Government Operations, hearing entitled
‘‘Effects of Vacancies at the Merit Systems Protection
Board’’, 2 p.m., 2154 Rayburn.
Committee on Science, Space, and Technology, February 13,
Full Committee, hearing entitled ‘‘The State of Climate
Science and Why it Matters’’, 10 a.m., 2318 Rayburn.
Committee on Small Business, February 13, Full Com-
mittee, hearing entitled ‘‘Small Business Priorities for the
116th Congress’’, 11 a.m., 2360 Rayburn.
Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, February
13, Subcommittee on Aviation, hearing entitled ‘‘Putting
U.S. Aviation at Risk: The Impact of the Shutdown’’, 10
a.m., HVC–210.
Committee on Veterans’ Affairs, February 13, Full Com-
mittee, organizational meeting, 10 a.m., 1334 Long-
worth.
Committee on Ways and Means, February 13, Sub-
committee on Select Revenue Measures, hearing entitled
‘‘How Middle Class Families are Faring in Today’s Econ-
omy’’, 10 a.m., 1100 Longworth.
Joint Meetings
Commission on Security and Cooperation in Europe: Feb-
ruary 13, to receive a briefing on asset recovery in Eur-
asia, 10 a.m., SD–562.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:57 Feb 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D11FE9.REC D11FEPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
Congressional Record The Congressional Record (USPS 087–390). The Periodicals postage
is paid at Washington, D.C. The public proceedings of each House
of Congress, as reported by the Official Reporters thereof, are
printed pursuant to directions of the Joint Committee on Printing as authorized by appropriate provisions of Title 44, United
States Code, and published for each day that one or both Houses are in session, excepting very infrequent instances when
two or more unusually small consecutive issues are printed one time. ¶ Public access to the Congressional Record is available online through
the U.S. Government Publishing Office, at www.govinfo.gov, free of charge to the user. The information is updated online each day the
Congressional Record is published. For more information, contact the GPO Customer Contact Center, U.S. Government Publishing Office.
Phone 202–512–1800, or 866–512–1800 (toll-free). E-Mail, contactcenter@gpo.gov. ¶ To place an order for any of these products, visit the U.S.
Government Online Bookstore at: bookstore.gpo.gov. Mail orders to: Superintendent of Documents, P.O. Box 979050, St. Louis, MO
63197–9000, or phone orders to 866–512–1800 (toll-free), 202–512–1800 (D.C. area), or fax to 202–512–2104. Remit check or money order, made
payable to the Superintendent of Documents, or use VISA, MasterCard, Discover, American Express, or GPO Deposit Account. ¶ Following
each session of Congress, the daily Congressional Record is revised, printed, permanently bound and sold by the Superintendent of Documents
in individual parts or by sets. ¶ With the exception of copyrighted articles, there are no restrictions on the republication of material from
the Congressional Record.
POSTMASTER: Send address changes to the Superintendent of Documents, Congressional Record, U.S. Government Publishing Office,
Washington, D.C. 20402, along with the entire mailing label from the last issue received.
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
D146 February 11, 2019
Next Meeting of the SENATE
10 a.m., Tuesday, February 12
Senate Chamber
Program for Tuesday: Senate will continue consider-
ation of S. 47, Natural Resources Management Act, post-
cloture, and vote on or in relation to amendments to the
bill and on final passage at 4:30 p.m.
Following disposition of S. 47, Senate will vote on the
motion to invoke cloture on the nomination of William
Pelham Barr, of Virginia, to be Attorney General, De-
partment of Justice.
(Senate will recess from 12 noon until 2:15 p.m. for their
respective party conferences.)
Next Meeting of the HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
9 a.m., Tuesday, February 12
House Chamber
Program for Tuesday: House will meet in Pro Forma
session at 9 a.m.
Extensions of Remarks, as inserted in this issue
HOUSE
Boyle, Brendan F., Pa., E159
Cohen, Steve, Tenn., E158
Frankel, Lois, Fla., E158
Garamendi, John, Calif., E157
Huffman, Jared, Calif., E159
Jackson Lee, Sheila, Tex., E160
Johnson, Mike, La., E158
Moore, Gwen, Wisc., E158
Porter, Katie, Calif., E158
Raskin, Jamie, Md., E159
Richmond, Cedric L., La., E157
Rutherford, John H., Fla., E159
Shalala, Donna E., Fla., E159
Shimkus, John, Ill., E159
Steube, W. Gregory, Fla., E158
Thompson, Mike, Calif., E157, E158
Watkins, Steven C., Jr., Kans., E157
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:57 Feb 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0664 Sfmt 0664 E:\CR\FM\D11FE9.REC D11FEPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
DIGEST
