Congressional Record
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
United States
of America PROCEEDINGS AND DEBATES OF THE 116th
CONGRESS, FIRST SESSION
b This symbol represents the time of day during the House proceedings, e.g., b 1407 is 2:07 p.m.
Matter set in this typeface indicates words inserted or appended, rather than spoken, by a Member of the House on the floor.
.
H8231
Vol. 165 WASHINGTON, FRIDAY, OCTOBER 18, 2019 No. 165
Senate
The Senate was not in session today. Its next meeting will be held on Monday, October 21, 2019, at 3 p.m.
House of Representatives
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 18, 2019
The House met at 9 a.m. and was
called to order by the Speaker pro tem-
pore (Mr. NEGUSE).
f
DESIGNATION OF THE SPEAKER
PRO TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore laid be-
fore the House the following commu-
nication from the Speaker:
WASHINGTON, DC,
October 18, 2019.
I hereaby appoint the Honorable JOE
NEGUSE to act as Speaker pro tempore on
this day.
NANCY PELOSI,
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
f
PRAYER
The Chaplain, the Reverend Patrick
J. Conroy, offered the following prayer:
God our Father, we give You thanks
for giving us another day.
As the House comes to the end of an
emotional week, we ask that You give
all Members Your calming and com-
forting spirit.
We mourn the loss of a colleague, and
implore Your healing presence in this
Chamber, in the Cummings family, and
in the hearts of all who have labored in
these Halls, especially in the Oversight
Committee in these most recent years.
We continue to rely upon Your wis-
dom and understanding, and ask Your
favor for us and for our Nation.
May all that is done be for Your
greater honor and glory.
Amen.
THE JOURNAL
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair has examined the Journal of the
last day’s proceedings and announces
to the House his approval thereof.
Pursuant to clause 1, rule I, the Jour-
nal stands approved.
f
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Will the
gentlewoman from Indiana (Mrs.
WALORSKI) come forward and lead the
House in the Pledge of Allegiance.
Mrs. WALORSKI led the Pledge of
Allegiance as follows:
I pledge allegiance to the Flag of the
United States of America, and to the Repub-
lic for which it stands, one nation under God,
indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
f
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER
PRO TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair will entertain up to five requests
for 1-minute speeches on each side of
the aisle.
f
UAW STRIKE
(Mrs. DINGELL asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Mrs. DINGELL. Mr. Speaker, for the
last month, my brothers and sisters in
the UAW have been standing up for
their livelihoods, their families, and
their future. When home, I have joined
them at all hours and all shifts just to
listen, to support, and to understand.
Being on a picket line is hard work,
but UAW workers are committed work-
ers who are a crucial component of
building America’s auto industry and
driving our Nation’s economy.
This strike has been about the collec-
tive community and workers across
America being treated fairly, with dig-
nity and respect. Many UAW members
are newer hires and temporaries, work-
ers who are paid less than their col-
leagues whom they work side by side
with. Many temps work 7 days a week,
get no overtime, have no sick pay, and
can’t take time for a family emer-
gency.
The good news for the country is that
a tentative agreement between the
UAW and GM is now going for ratifica-
tion.
All workers need to recognize they
benefit from the courage, commitment,
and caring of these UAW workers. We
need their jobs here; we need manufac-
turing here in this country; but we
need fair pay, fair benefits, and com-
mitment to produce here in the United
States of America. Their fight is the
fight of all workers.
f
ABANDONED COAL MINES
(Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania
asked and was given permission to ad-
dress the House for 1 minute and to re-
vise and extend his remarks.)
Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today to draw at-
tention to our Nation’s abandoned coal
mines.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:23 Oct 19, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18OC7.000 H18OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8232 October 18, 2019
Pennsylvania’s heritage is rooted in
coal. It powered an industrial revolu-
tion and won two world wars. However,
as more and more coal mines continue
to shut their doors, properly closing
these mines is incredibly important.
Of Pennsylvania’s 67 counties, 43
have abandoned mine lands. My dis-
trict, Pennsylvania’s 15th Congres-
sional District, has the most, nation-
wide. These sites are a danger to the
environment and to Pennsylvania’s
residents.
To take action on this, I was pleased
to join my colleague, Representative
MATT CARTWRIGHT from Pennsylvania’s
Eighth Congressional District, in intro-
ducing H.R. 4248, the Abandoned Mine
Land Reauthorization Act.
The Abandoned Mine Land trust fund
is set to expire in September of 2021.
This bill will not only reauthorize the
fund for the next 15 years, but helps for
economic growth in coal communities
impacted by mine closures.
Since 1977, the AML program has
eliminated over 46,000 open mine por-
tals, and reauthorizing the AML trust
fund is critical to continued progress.
f
REDUCING PRESCRIPTION DRUG
COSTS
(Mr. TONKO asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. TONKO. Mr. Speaker, 3 in 10
adults in America today have reported
not taking medicine as prescribed be-
cause of the cost. Our seniors and fami-
lies should not have to choose between
paying their monthly bills and afford-
ing their prescription drugs.
That is why I introduced the Advanc-
ing Enrollment and Reducing Drug
Costs Act with my friend from New
Hampshire, CHRIS PAPPAS, to simplify
how low-income seniors get the help
they need affording their medications.
That is why I introduced the Star
Rating for Biosimilars Act with my
friend from Ohio, BOB GIBBS, to drive
down costs and provide greater access
to generic biosimilar drugs treating
cancer, arthritis, and many other con-
ditions.
And that is why the House is moving
forward with H.R. 3, the Low Drug
Costs Now Act, which will use competi-
tive price negotiation to save Medicare
some $345 billion and save United
States households nearly $160 billion,
combined. Private businesses would
save some $46 billion under our bill.
Across America, seniors and families
are struggling to afford the prescrip-
tion drugs that they need to stay
healthy and alive. It is time for Con-
gress to act. Let’s act now.
f
HONORING SENATOR RICHARD
LUGAR
(Mrs. WALORSKI asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute and to revise and extend
her remarks.)
Mrs. WALORSKI. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today in support of H.R. 3152 and to
honor the life and legacy of Senator
Richard Lugar, who passed away ear-
lier this year.
Senator Lugar was a true statesman,
whose unwavering dedication to his
community and his country led to a
lifetime of service. He worked tire-
lessly to champion freedom, advance
democracy, and build peace and pros-
perity both at home and abroad. His
wisdom, bipartisanship, and commit-
ment to America’s ideals made our
country stronger and safer.
Though we will miss his spirit and
conviction, the values he fought for
will endure in those who follow his ex-
ample of servant leadership. He built a
foundation of opportunity and em-
powerment so future generations of
Hoosiers could carry on his life’s mis-
sion.
Mr. Speaker, I ask my colleagues to
join me in supporting H.R. 3152 to dedi-
cate the Richard G. Lugar Post Office
in Indianapolis and to celebrate a lead-
er who never stopped working to make
the world a better place.
f
SOLIDARITY WITH HONG KONG
(Mr. TAKANO asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. TAKANO. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today in defense of liberal democratic
values and in solidarity with the people
of Hong Kong. Earlier this week, the
House passed legislation in support of
these values and of human rights.
A strong nation is one that does not
turn to its worst instincts in the face
of dissent. A strong nation does not see
liberal democratic values as a threat. A
strong nation tolerates differences in
pursuit of prosperity for itself and
prosperity for the world.
To my fellow Americans, I say that
we must not turn our backs on our
principles in exchange for profit; we
must not trade away our freedoms or
be indifferent to those who yearn to be
free.
To the 2 million courageous young
people in Hong Kong who marched, to
those who are willing to fight for a
prosperous future where their rights
will be respected and where their free-
doms will be protected: We are with
you.
f
NATIONAL DEBT
(Mr. CLINE asked and was given per-
mission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. CLINE. Mr. Speaker, I am here
once again to sound the alarm bell
about our country’s addiction to spend-
ing the hard-earned tax dollars of its
citizens and future generations.
It is with great regret that I report,
as many are already aware, that our
country’s national debt has topped $1
trillion for fiscal year 2019.
Now, we know that my colleagues on
the other side of the aisle will blame
President Trump’s Tax Cuts and Jobs
Act for this shortfall; but, in fact, the
corporations they attempt to hold re-
sponsible have paid $8 billion more in
the 11 months of this fiscal year than
they did in 2018, according to
issuesinsights.com.
No, the increase in the deficit over
the past year is due to rampant spend-
ing, stemming from right here in this
Chamber. Wasteful spending increases
have been seen across the board; and,
to add insult to injury, the interest
owed on this money is now up more
than 14 percent.
This is an issue that can go on no
more. I promised my constituents when
I came to Washington that I would con-
vey their concern about our runaway
national debt. It is time for all law-
makers to understand that we cannot
afford to use tax dollars as a piggy
bank for pet projects. Spending like
what we have seen is a threat to our
national security and a disservice to
the American people.
Since I started speaking 50 seconds
ago, our national debt has risen nearly
$2 million. Therefore, we cannot simply
encourage leadership in Congress to
commit to restoring regular order in
the appropriations process, but we
must demand that we address this fis-
cal crisis before it is too late.
f
PRESCRIPTION DRUG PRICES
(Ms. KENDRA S. HORN of Oklahoma
asked and was given permission to ad-
dress the House for 1 minute and to re-
vise and extend her remarks.)
Ms. KENDRA S. HORN of Oklahoma.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today to talk about
the urgent need to address the high and
rising costs of prescription drug prices
in this country.
Far too often, I have heard heart-
breaking stories from Oklahomans and
people in my community who face the
unacceptable reality of choosing be-
tween putting food on their table and
taking the lifesaving medications they
need.
Earlier this year, I held a townhall
where I heard from many people in
Oklahoma, and we released a report
about the soaring costs of insulin. In
my district alone, more than 22,000 sen-
iors on Medicare and other Oklaho-
mans living with disabilities and diabe-
tes face prescription drug costs of more
than $25 million.
It is time to act and make medicine
more affordable and make it possible
for people to get the lifesaving pre-
scription drugs they need.
One important solution is limiting
the out-of-pocket costs for patients at
the pharmacy counter. That is why I
introduced the Capping Drug Costs for
Seniors Act. This practical solution
lowers the cost for patients directly.
This bill keeps Medicare part D pa-
tients from paying more than $2,000 out
of pocket, which has a real impact for
46 million Americans who rely on this
program.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:23 Oct 19, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K18OC7.003 H18OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8233
October 18, 2019
Medication only works if it is taken
as prescribed. The high cost of pre-
scription drugs forces too many people
to choose between putting food on
their table and buying the medicine
they need.
We must continue working on this
important issue and create pathways
to affordable medications and improv-
ing health.
f
b 0915
HONORING THE MEMORY OF BILL
BERKMAN
(Mr. NEWHOUSE asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute and to revise and extend
his remarks.)
Mr. NEWHOUSE. Mr. Speaker, the
Tri-Cities community recently lost a
leader and a friend. I rise today to
honor the memory of Bill Berkman,
chairman of the Benton County Repub-
licans. Bill became involved with the
local Republican Party as a precinct
committee officer in 2016, and later
that year, as chairman. I got to know
him well while encouraging our fellow
community members to get out to
vote.
As owner of the MenZone franchises
in Kennewick and Pasco, Bill was a
passionate voice for limited govern-
ment and policies that supported small
business owners. Even with his strong
personal beliefs and conservative prin-
ciples, though, Bill never let partisan-
ship rise above integrity. He was ada-
mant that we could and should do more
to bring more respect into our politics.
He will be remembered for his efforts
to build bridges, including with his
counterparts in the local Democratic
Party.
We will all miss Bill’s booming voice,
his polite fervent candor, and his desire
for facts, for truth, and for solutions
for the Nation.
Rest in peace, Bill.
f
FIX MEDICAID FUNDING IN THE
INSULAR AREAS
(Mr. SABLAN asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. SABLAN. Mr. Speaker, Repub-
licans and Democrats on the House En-
ergy and Commerce Committee agree
that now is the time to fix Medicaid
funding in the insular areas.
H.R. 2328, reported out of the com-
mittee in July, addresses the serious
funding shortfall all the insular areas
face now that special ObamaCare Med-
icaid funding for our areas has ended.
In the Marianas, this special funding
has kept our only hospital open, and is
a significant source of revenue for doc-
tors in private practice, pharmacists,
and an array of healthcare providers.
Take this funding away, and not only
low-income families that qualify for
Medicaid will suffer, but everyone at
every income level who depends on
those doctors, pharmacists, and other
healthcare providers will lose service.
The insular areas have reached the
Medicaid cliff, but we have a solution.
Chairman PALLONE, Ranking Member
WALDEN, and all of the Members of the
Energy and Commerce Committee
agree: Let us bring H.R. 2328 to the
floor.
Show that the House is united and fix
the insular area Medicaid funding cliff.
f
REMEMBERING THE LIFE OF
MARVIN H. ‘‘MARK’’ CHESSER
(Mr. CARTER of Georgia asked and
was given permission to address the
House for 1 minute and to revise and
extend his remarks.)
Mr. CARTER of Georgia. Mr. Speak-
er, I rise today to remember the life of
Mr. Marvin H. ‘‘Mark’’ Chesser who
passed away at the age of 78 on Sep-
tember 25, the mayor pro tem of
Ludowici in Long County in the First
Congressional District of Georgia.
His friends and colleagues remember
him as a valuable servant to the com-
munity who served tirelessly and did a
great job. Even before becoming the
mayor pro tem, Mr. Chesser spent
countless hours dedicated to his local
community.
One important example of his work
includes his time driving school busses
for the district there. In addition, he
was very active within his church, both
in the men’s ministry and driving the
church van for Wednesday night activi-
ties.
During his time as mayor pro tem,
Mr. Chesser worked hard to promote
policies that boosted the economy, and
increased jobs in Ludowici. I am thank-
ful that we had Mr. Chesser in the First
Congressional District where his pas-
sion made our area a better place to
live.
Mr. Chesser’s family and friends will
be in my thoughts and prayers during
this most difficult time.
f
OUTSOURCING ACCOUNTABILITY
ACT OF 2019
GENERAL LEAVE
Ms. WATERS. Madam Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that all Members
have 5 legislative days within which to
revise and extend their remarks on
H.R. 3624, and to insert extraneous ma-
terial thereon.
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Ms.
KENDRA S. HORN of Oklahoma). Is there
objection to the request of the gentle-
woman from California?
There was no objection.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to House Resolution 629 and rule
XVIII, the Chair declares the House in
the Committee of the Whole House on
the state of the Union for the consider-
ation of the bill, H.R. 3624.
The Chair appoints the gentleman
from Colorado (Mr. NEGUSE) to preside
over the Committee of the Whole.
b 0919
IN THE COMMITTEE OF THE WHOLE
Accordingly, the House resolved
itself into the Committee of the Whole
House on the state of the Union for the
consideration of the bill (H.R. 3624) to
amend the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 to require the disclosure of the
total number of domestic and foreign
employees of certain public companies,
and for other purposes, with Mr.
NEGUSE in the chair.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The CHAIR. Pursuant to the rule, the
bill is considered read the first time.
General debate shall be confined to the
bill and shall not exceed 1 hour equally
divided and controlled by the chair and
ranking minority member of the Com-
mittee on Financial Services.
The gentlewoman from California
(Ms. WATERS) and the gentleman from
North Carolina (Mr. MCHENRY) each
will control 30 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from California.
Ms. WATERS. Mr. Chairman, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Chairman, I rise in support of
H.R. 3624, the Outsourcing Account-
ability Act of 2019 crafted by Rep-
resentative AXNE from Iowa, a new
Member to Congress and the Financial
Services Committee.
The Outsourcing Accountability Act
of 2019 protects American workers by
shining a light on companies that are
shipping jobs overseas.
Although public companies are re-
quired to disclose their total number of
employees, there is currently no re-
quirement that they disclose where
those employees are geographically
based. This allows companies to quiet-
ly ship jobs overseas and makes it dif-
ficult for investors to know if the com-
panies they are investing in are cre-
ating and protecting American jobs.
Moreover, voluntary disclosure of
outsourcing data has declined in recent
decades. According to the AFL–CIO:
‘‘. . . multinational companies have in-
creasingly focused job creation in non-
U.S. markets and would prefer not to
disclose numbers that could lead to
reputational risks.’’
As a result of the lack of disclosure,
some companies that are failing to in-
vest in American workers escape ac-
countability. The limited information
the public does have about companies’
outsourcing and offshoring usually
comes from the news media.
The data that we do have shows that
the U.S. is losing jobs to trade. Accord-
ing to the Economic Policy Institute,
the United States has lost more than 3
million American jobs to trade with
China in the last 20 years. Since 1975,
more than 5 million Americans have
been certified for Trade Adjustment
Assistance after losing wages, hours, or
their employment because of trade.
President Trump’s 2017 tax scam has
also worsened matters by essentially
incentivizing certain manufacturers to
move entire production lines overseas.
By requiring public companies to dis-
close the locations of their workforces,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:23 Oct 19, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K18OC7.004 H18OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8234 October 18, 2019
the Outsourcing Accountability Act
provides investors with the informa-
tion they need on which companies are
investing in the American economy
and will incentivize companies to in-
vest in American workers.
With the passage of this bill into law,
public companies would no longer be
able to ship jobs overseas under the
cover of darkness.
I commend Representative AXNE for
introducing this bill that creates trans-
parency and benefits American workers
and urge adoption of H.R. 3624.
I reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. MCHENRY. Mr. Chair, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Chair, I rise in opposition to H.R.
3624. The Republicans stand ready to
work with our colleagues on the other
side of the aisle to strengthen our pub-
lic markets and increase opportunities
for everyday investors.
We know that robust capital markets
give everyday investors the oppor-
tunity to save for a first home, a
child’s college education, and retire-
ment. But instead of considering a bill
that will grow the economy and create
jobs, we are using our floor time, a full
legislative day, in fact, to talk about
where public company employees are
located; not foreign companies, but
American public companies.
We are considering a bill that really
should be part of a larger bill. It
shouldn’t take up a full legislative day.
It is two-and-a-half pages of legislative
text and does very little that it pur-
ports to do.
But here we are. We must ensure that
public companies are properly regu-
lated and supervised to protect our
capital markets for all Americans.
That is why companies are already re-
quired to provide information to inves-
tors on risk exposure, material finan-
cial data, and the company’s financial
condition. These reports help investors
determine whether they believe the
company’s value is worthy of invest-
ment.
Unfortunately, Democrats are pur-
suing a partisan agenda of government
mandates that jeopardize economic op-
portunity for millions of middle-in-
come Americans.
H.R. 3624 is just the latest in a series
of partisan proposals offered by com-
mittee Democrats to add nonfinancial
disclosures to an already thorough list
of mandatory disclosures, and the ef-
fort is really to pursue a political agen-
da or political interest rather than eco-
nomic interest.
These mandates add to a company’s
cost of compliance. And in some cases,
they can put lives at risk for people
who are employed in countries around
the globe. They do not have an impact
on the underlying value of the firm,
and most certainly will discourage
companies from going public.
Why the bill’s sponsor wants compa-
nies to disclose where employees reside
is unclear. I know the title of the bill,
but I don’t see in the contents of the
bill anything related to the title of the
bill. The bill provides no context for
this data.
In fact, during the hearing on this
legislation, witnesses shared that sim-
ply knowing that 1 percent of the com-
pany’s workforce resides in a par-
ticular State or abroad, does not ex-
plain whether American workers hold
these jobs or have moved between
States or overseas for work; whether
some expertise or resource is central to
that job that cannot be found in the
United States or cannot be found in the
State or another region of the country;
or whether moving jobs overseas re-
sults in cheaper products for the Amer-
ican consumer or more jobs here in the
United States.
Perhaps they are selling something
to a foreign country. We don’t have
that as a part of information here with
this disclosure. The information sought
by H.R. 3624 would, at best, tell an in-
complete story and, at worst, could be
deeply misleading.
The only plausible explanation for
this bill is to use the information to
try to shame public companies based
on incomplete and misleading informa-
tion. It is unclear to me how shaming
a company benefits the everyday inves-
tor, or encourages more companies to
go public, or brings more vibrant cap-
ital markets here in the United States
or creates jobs here in the United
States.
How does shaming a company en-
courage more companies to go public?
How does shaming create more oppor-
tunities to save for retirement? How
does it enhance children’s savings for
college, or parents saving for their
children to go to college?
How does it build a brighter, more vi-
brant future for them economically? In
fact, we have yet this Congress to bring
a bill to the floor that would accom-
plish the goal of building retirement
savings, savings for a college edu-
cation, or help with buying a first
home.
We have yet to consider one bill that
will grow the economy or actually cre-
ate jobs. We are falling behind China.
We are falling behind our economic
competitors across the world when it
comes to the number of initial public
offerings, the number of IPOs.
China has more IPOs than the United
States in recent time. We need to right
this. I want to hear what my Democrat
colleagues’ solution is to that issue;
not just a messaging bill that we have
here today of two-and-a-half pages of
legislative text.
b 0930
I urge my colleagues to listen to the
American people. Let’s get back to the
economic work that they need, given
where we are in this economic cycle. I
encourage my colleagues to vote ‘‘no’’
on this bill. It does nothing that the
title says that it does.
Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance
of my time.
Ms. WATERS. Mr. Chairman, I yield
5 minutes to the gentlewoman from
Iowa (Mrs. AXNE), who is the sponsor of
the bill.
Mrs. AXNE. Mr. Chairman, I thank
Mrs. MALONEY, the chair of the Inves-
tor Protection, Entrepreneurship, and
Capital Markets Subcommittee, for her
support on this bill. I also thank Sen-
ator PETERS and Representative
MCNERNEY for their work on the Out-
sourcing Accountability Act.
Last December, Wells Fargo in my
district laid off 400 workers, claiming it
was due to technological advances. But
I heard from dozens of laid-off employ-
ees who were directed to train their re-
placements overseas. Across the coun-
try, corporations are shipping jobs
overseas, leaving American workers
high and dry, just to benefit their bot-
tom line.
What is worse is that corporations
aren’t even required to disclose when
they are laying off hardworking Ameri-
cans by moving jobs overseas. Cur-
rently, when corporations submit their
annual reports, they are only required
to disclose the total number of employ-
ees, not where they are located. This
makes it far too easy for companies to
hide when they are laying off American
workers and moving those jobs over-
seas.
It also makes it easier for corpora-
tions to deceive the public about inac-
curate job creation. If a company lays
off 500 workers in Iowa and then hires
1,000 of them in India, their annual re-
port would show that they added 500
jobs when, in reality, hardworking
Iowans are left unemployed, wondering
how they are going to pay their bills.
Employees who lose their jobs due to
overseas trade are eligible for Trade
Adjustment Assistance, or TAA. This
program provides laid-off American
workers with support and training to
find a new job. But workers are only el-
igible for this assistance if they can
certify that their job has been
outsourced, which can be very difficult
if a company is lying about outsourc-
ing.
Far too often, companies are more
concerned with protecting their public
image than protecting workers and are
reluctant to notify laid-off workers
that their job has been outsourced. We
have seen this happen time and time
again.
My bill, the Outsourcing Account-
ability Act, would simply require pub-
lic companies to include in their an-
nual report where their employees are
located by State and country. This will
disincentivize companies from out-
sourcing, and it will certainly
disincentivize them from lying to em-
ployees and the public about it. If a
company knows that information will
be disclosed, they will think twice
about such unpopular actions. Not only
will this help disincentivize the prac-
tice of outsourcing and protect Amer-
ican jobs, but it will give investors and
consumers the information they need
to identify companies that are sup-
porting American jobs.
I know some of my colleagues on the
other side of the aisle have said this is
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:23 Oct 19, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K18OC7.006 H18OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8235
October 18, 2019
too burdensome for companies. If a cor-
poration isn’t already tracking where
in the world their employees are lo-
cated, then for God’s sake, they have
bigger problems than this legislation.
One of the most difficult things
about trying to address outsourcing
and offshoring is that it is so hard to
get information about how many jobs
it affects. This is a commonsense re-
porting bill that will increase trans-
parency and accountability on a prac-
tice that is contributing to unemploy-
ment across this country, and it
doesn’t even cost the taxpayers a dime.
I have heard from dozens of Iowans in
my district who are looking at their
expenses and wondering how they are
going to get through the month. They
are wondering this because they have
been laid off by their employer that
claimed technological advances only to
then train employees to replace them
overseas.
I urge my colleagues on the other
side of the aisle to go back home to
their districts and talk to their con-
stituents who are struggling to pay
their bills or put food on the table be-
cause their jobs have been shipped
overseas. Go back home. Ask them if
they elected you to fight for American
jobs or for multinational corporations.
Mr. Chairman, I urge a ‘‘yes’’ vote on
the bill.
Mr. MCHENRY. Mr. Chairman, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
The bill does no such thing as the au-
thor just stated, Mr. Chair. It gives a
list of the numbers of employees in
each State or territory in the United
States. It gives the number of employ-
ees in a country as a matter of cor-
porate disclosures.
If my friend wants to talk about ac-
countability, a list of names is not ac-
countability, unless this is about the
trial bar suing or it is about naming
and shaming companies for changing
head counts in different States or gov-
ernment intervening to say that you
can’t move employees between States.
It does not do the things that the au-
thor states.
Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance
of my time.
Ms. WATERS. Mr. Chairman, I yield
3 minutes to the gentlewoman from
New York (Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY),
who is the chairwoman of the Sub-
committee on Investor Protection, En-
trepreneurship, and Capital Markets.
Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of New
York. Mr. Chairman, I thank the gen-
tlewoman for her support on this bill
and for her leadership on the Financial
Services Committee.
I rise in strong support of the bill to
protect American workers from out-
sourcing, H.R. 3624, the Outsourcing
Accountability Act of 2019. And I con-
gratulate my new colleague and my
new friend from the great State of
Iowa, CINDY AXNE, for her hard work on
this important bill that will help
American workers and save American
jobs.
This bill would require companies to
disclose in their annual report the
total number of employees they em-
ploy in each State and each foreign
country. It would also require compa-
nies to disclose how those numbers
have changed from the previous year,
which is critically important because
it will allow investors and the public to
monitor which companies are sending
U.S. jobs overseas and also to see
which companies are bringing jobs
back to the United States and employ-
ing Americans.
When companies outsource more of
their jobs to other countries, some-
times that lowers a company’s costs,
but it also exposes the company to
reputational risk and increased oper-
ational risk. If more of the company’s
workforce is located overseas, then the
company is more exposed to political
unrest or trade disruptions, which we
have recently seen around the world.
It also makes it more difficult for
companies to train workers who are lo-
cated halfway across the globe and to
oversee their workforce and ensure ro-
bust compliance with all the necessary
regulatory requirements. It opens the
company up to potential scandals and
fines, which, at the end of the day,
harms investors and harms the compa-
nies.
These risks are definitely material to
investors, and they need to know about
them.
The bill would fix these problems and
would hold companies that are out-
sourcing U.S. jobs accountable for the
decisions they are making. This bill
helps the American worker. It is just
plain common sense, and it does not
cost the taxpayer anything. It is a win-
win-win in so many areas.
Mr. Chairman, I urge my colleagues
to support this worker protection bill.
Mr. MCHENRY. Mr. Chairman, I re-
serve the balance of my time.
Ms. WATERS. Mr. Chairman, I yield
2 minutes to the gentleman from Cali-
fornia (Mr. MCNERNEY).
Mr. MCNERNEY. Mr. Chairman, I
thank Chairwoman WATERS and Rep-
resentative AXNE for bringing forth
this legislation, H.R. 3624.
I have to admit that I don’t really
understand the ranking member’s ob-
jection to this legislation. As Ameri-
cans continue to struggle in an econ-
omy where too many corporations
value profits over people, this legisla-
tion grew out of the idea that con-
sumers should know about the choices
their companies are making so they
can determine how to use their pur-
chasing power.
H.R. 3624 would require a publicly
traded company to disclose the number
of employees working in the United
States and abroad and to report the
differences from year to year.
Too many Americans find themselves
out of work because the companies
they have put their faith and hope for
the future in decided to ship their jobs
out of this country without a thought
for the workers and communities they
leave behind. As these companies look
for short-term gains through outsourc-
ing, they neglect the long-term damage
that this practice does to our economy
and to our country.
This legislation would bring real
transparency at a time when con-
sumers are becoming increasingly con-
scious about where they spend and in-
vest their money.
Mr. Chairman, I ask my colleagues to
join me in supporting this bill.
Mr. MCHENRY. Mr. Chairman, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
While I agree with my colleague from
New York’s sartorial decisions, we di-
verge here.
What I would say to my colleagues
here in the Chamber is that we all care
about having more workers here in
America. We do. A corporate mandate
on disclosing the number of employees
does not actually do that.
Having competitive regulations, hav-
ing a competitive Tax Code, competing
around the globe for jobs here in the
United States, winning a trade war
with the biggest competitor on the
globe that we have—a rising China—
and having an eye to the competition
we face globally is the way we get
American jobs here and keep them
here.
Simply mandating something more
on our companies and holding them
back and retraining them does not ac-
tually move us forward in the globe. It
doesn’t. It doesn’t actually get at the
driving force of this.
What I hear from my colleagues on
the other side of the aisle is that it
seems like they do support our having
a reset with our trade relationship
with China and that they do agree that
we need to have a new trading relation-
ship with our biggest trading partners
so we get more jobs here. The unions
support that concept. Republicans sup-
port that concept. We should be able to
have a bipartisan coalition to support a
better agenda on trade so that we have
American jobs here.
My district has felt that intensely,
with the loss of textile manufacturing
jobs. The way we brought them back is
by competing: by having better regula-
tion, better tax rates, and more tech-
nological innovation here in the United
States. Now, we have more jobs than
we did 10 years ago in textiles in North
Carolina. We have more jobs than we
did 10 years ago when it deals with fur-
niture.
We can compete. We can do this
smartly, and we can do it well. But
more corporate mandates and more ex-
pense burdens on public companies
does not lead to more public companies
and does not lead to better investments
for pensioners, whether it is public pen-
sions, union pensions, or individual
folks who want to save for their retire-
ment.
What we have to do is think dif-
ferently than just more mandates,
more regulation, and more burden.
No State has felt this type of chal-
lenge and dealt with it in a competitive
way than the State of Michigan.
Mr. Chairman, I yield 3 minutes to
the gentleman from Michigan (Mr.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:23 Oct 19, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K18OC7.008 H18OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8236 October 18, 2019
HUIZENGA), who is the lead Republican
on the Investor Protection, Entrepre-
neurship, and Capital Markets Sub-
committee.
Mr. HUIZENGA. Mr. Chairman, I ap-
preciate the ranking member yielding
me the time.
As I was hearing my colleagues de-
scribe what this bill does and whom it
is targeted at, it just struck me, there
is an untethering from reality of what
our economy is and how our economy
functions.
Certainly, along any of the border—
and, yes, we have a northern border,
while in Michigan it is actually to the
east of us. When you look at what hap-
pens in the automotive industry, and
when you look at what happens in the
agricultural industry, that is the most
porous border in the world because
that is our largest trading partner in
the world. In just the State of Michi-
gan alone, Canada is the seventh or
eighth largest trading partnership in
the entire world.
As we have been piling on regulation
upon regulation over the last number
of decades, Mr. Chairman, you saw
companies leaving the United States.
Sometimes, though, they were for dif-
ferent reasons. It is the supply chain.
It didn’t have anything to do with
lower labor markets in Canada. The
UAW strike also was the Canadian
workers’ strike. This is all linked to-
gether.
In the bill itself, there is a disclosure
requirement that we have to deseg-
regate by State, the District of Colum-
bia, Commonwealth, territory, and pos-
session, and compare a percentage. So,
Mr. Chairman, as you are shifting from
Ohio to Detroit, Indiana, or Wisconsin,
you are going to have to track all of
those things as you are going
through—by the way, not by numbers
but by percentages of the total number
of employees who physically work in
and domicile in another country out-
side of the United States.
Again, you are going to have to do
that same thing as you are shifting
automotive parts production between
subsidiaries. That happens all the time,
whether it is going from Troy, Michi-
gan, or to Windsor, Ontario.
b 0945
That is a free flow that goes back and
forth all the time. That has nothing to
do with some nefarious shipping of jobs
overseas. That is called supply chain.
So this bill is flawed because it
paints an incomplete company picture.
Simply knowing one percentage of a
company’s workforce residing abroad—
which obviously means everywhere and
on anything—just really does not give
you any kind of picture or flavor or
test of what is happening within that.
And, yes, it is duplicative. In fact, I
will have an amendment on this bill a
little bit later. We already have con-
flict mineral reporting. We have all
kinds of other reporting that had hap-
pened because of Dodd-Frank.
The CHAIR. The time of the gen-
tleman has expired.
Mr. MCHENRY. Mr. Chair, I yield the
gentleman from Michigan an addi-
tional 1 minute.
Mr. HUIZENGA. I can tell you that
the lack of competitiveness in the
United States and one of the challenges
that we have on our committee that we
constantly talk about is how do we
make sure that the United States is an
area for growth, innovation, entrepre-
neurship.
Because these companies that are
now public, none of them started out
public. They became public companies.
And we have seen a plunge in the num-
ber of publicly traded companies. That
is why I supported regulatory reform.
That is why I supported tax reform, be-
cause we had to make the United
States more competitive.
This bill does nothing to help the
United States become more competi-
tive. It becomes less competitive and
more burdensome, and all with the goal
of shaming companies, not actually
getting aggregate information that
helps anybody.
Ms. WATERS. Mr. Chairman, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
The Outsourcing Accountability Act
of 2019 is a commonsense bill that is
supported by consumer advocacy orga-
nizations, like Public Citizen, the labor
representatives from the AFL–CIO,
Communications Workers of America,
the United Automobile Workers, and
the United Steelworkers.
According to the Communications
Workers of America: ‘‘This key piece of
legislation would greatly help working
families and CWA fully supports the
bill’s passage. This is a vital effort to
guarantee that companies are required,
by law, to disclose the magnitude to
which they outsource American jobs
and exploit low-cost foreign labor.’’
According to the AFL–CIO, the
offshoring disclosure required by H.R.
3624 would ‘‘help investors analyze
companies’ strategic plans, exposures
to geopolitical risk and risk from ex-
treme weather events. From a public
policy perspective, such disclosure will
also allow the public to see the effect
of the corporate tax cut on encour-
aging offshoring.’’
Mr. Chairman, I include in the
RECORD a letter from the Communica-
tions Workers of America in support of
H.R. 3624.
COMMUNICATIONS WORKERS OF
AMERICA, LEGISLATIVE DEPARTMENT,
October 15, 2019.
Hon. CINDY AXNE,
Member of Congress,
Washington, DC.
DEAR REPRESENTATIVE AXNE: On behalf of
the officers and 700,000 members of the Com-
munications Workers of America ( CWA), I
am writing to thank you for introducing
H.R. 3624, the Outsourcing Accountability
Act of 2019. This key piece of legislation
would greatly help working families and
CWA fully supports the bill’s passage. This is
a vital effort to guarantee that companies
are required, by law, to disclose the mag-
nitude to which they outsource American
jobs and exploit low-cost, foreign labor.
As you know, under existing law, publicly
traded corporations are not required to pub-
licly list where their employees are located.
This lack of disclosure makes it much more
difficult to hold corporations that move jobs
overseas accountable. The Outsourcing Ac-
countability Act remedies this problem by
requiring companies to disclose the total
number of employees that they have by state
and country, and the percentage change from
the previous year.
Without this accountability mechanism,
corporations will continue to attempt to de-
ceive workers and the American public when
they outsource jobs. A prime example of this
problem occurred when Wells Fargo an-
nounced a massive layoff of over 26,500 em-
ployees in 2018. While the company pro-
claimed the layoff was due to changes in cus-
tomer preferences and publicly denied that
work was being offshored, several investiga-
tions by the Department of Labor revealed
that many people lost their jobs because
Wells Fargo chose to expand their operations
overseas. In fact, the company is opening a
call center in the Philippines where they will
employ over 7,000 workers. This same dy-
namic occurs frequently across industries.
CWA believes this bill adds imperative
transparency that will disincentive the prac-
tice of corporations outsourcing jobs. Fur-
thermore, it will help ensure that workers
affected by outsourcing are able to access
their Trade Adjustment Assistance benefits
by demonstrating more clearly that
offshoring played a role in their job loss.
We are very grateful for your efforts on
this bill and thank you for your commitment
to standing up for American workers with
the introduction of H.R. 3624. We look for-
ward to working with you on this and other
issues of importance to working people in
the future.
Sincerely,
SHANE LARSON,
Senior Director, Gov-
ernment Affairs and
Policy, Communica-
tions Workers of
America (CWA).
Ms. WATERS. Mr. Chair, I reserve
the balance of my time.
Mr. MCHENRY. Mr. Chair, I am ready
to close, if I may inquire if the gentle-
woman from California has any further
speakers.
Ms. WATERS. Mr. Chairman, I am
prepared to close.
Mr. MCHENRY. Mr. Chairman, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Let us be clear: The bill we are con-
sidering right now has nothing to do
with outsourcing. This is a political
talking point, not a piece of legisla-
tion. It will not bring jobs back to the
United States. The bill is simply de-
signed to create more opportunities for
corporate activists and the trial bar to
name and shame companies.
What does this do for the American
people? Nothing.
In contrast, the Republican Tax Cut
and Jobs Act has brought more jobs
and greater payback to the United
States.
Mr. Chair, our unemployment rate is
at a 50-year low, so all this economic
gloom about outsourcing, we have been
talking about insourcing, bringing jobs
back to the United States from over-
seas.
We have a President who has an ag-
gressive trade agenda to make sure
that we have more jobs here in the
United States instead of outsourcing
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:23 Oct 19, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K18OC7.009 H18OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8237
October 18, 2019
jobs through bad trade deals that we
agree in a bipartisan way.
Bad trade deals have cost us jobs
over the years, led by both Republican
and Democratic Presidents, unfortu-
nately. So there is bipartisan support
here for better trade legislation, better
trading relationships. Let’s focus on
that.
The labor force participation rate is
way up and continues to rise. More
people in the United States are enter-
ing the workforce than leaving the
workforce. The American people are
reaping the benefits of a strong econ-
omy.
If Democrats are serious about con-
tinuing to grow our economy and cre-
ate high-paying jobs, let’s start passing
bills that unleash companies, not con-
strain them.
Let’s help businesses grow, not dis-
courage them from going public. Amer-
ican businesses need resources, not
mandates, to compete with our biggest
economic threat—China.
If my Democratic colleagues are not
interested in growing our economy,
let’s find other areas of common
ground. We should pass bills that help
everyday Americans save for their re-
tirement, for their children’s college
education, or to buy their first home.
Let’s help those workers who are put-
ting together a couple of jobs get full-
time jobs.
Let’s pass bipartisan legislation to
help seniors access prescription drugs.
Let’s authorize the Defense Depart-
ment and have a stronger national de-
fense by passing a bipartisan National
Defense Authorization Act.
Unfortunately, this bill we are dis-
cussing today would do none of those
things; and we have spent the large
majority of our week discussing two
small, tidy, but very vacuous, extraor-
dinarily vacuous, pieces of legislation
that have consumed our week, legisla-
tively.
We have a 21⁄2 page bill that is the
full bit of our business here on a Fri-
day, on a legislative day. We had a
really meaningless, vacuous, poorly de-
signed bill yesterday that consumed a
whole legislative day as well. This is
not the way we should be running Con-
gress.
I would like to reiterate: The Repub-
licans stand ready to work with our
colleagues across the aisle on meaning-
ful legislation that will help the Amer-
ican people.
So let’s vote this bill down. Let’s not
just agree with the political talking
point that is put into legislative text
for political reasons. Let’s vote this
down. Let’s get to serious legislating
and get done with these empty bills
and on with the work of the American
people.
Mr. Chairman, I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
Ms. WATERS. Mr. Chair, may I in-
quire how much time I have remaining.
The CHAIR. The gentlewoman from
California has 17 minutes remaining.
Ms. WATERS. Mr. Chairman, I yield
myself the balance of my time.
Mr. Chairman, I have sat here and
listened to my colleagues on the oppo-
site side of the aisle attempt to explain
why it is they are opposed to this bill
and what this bill is attempting to do
to create transparency in American
companies by simply asking them to
disclose the number of jobs that they
are exporting overseas. I don’t under-
stand what their argument is.
I have heard from both sides of the
aisle, for years, that one of our number
one priorities is jobs: job creation and
job retention. I have heard from both
sides of the aisle that we must do ev-
erything that we can to stop American
corporations from exporting our jobs
offshore.
I have heard Members from both
sides of the aisle take to the floor of
the House of Representatives and talk
about how we must stop, how we must
do everything that we possibly can to
ensure that we are in no way sup-
porting or incentivizing our companies
to export our jobs overseas.
We heard the gentlewoman from Iowa
(Mrs. AXNE), author of this bill, who
talked about what happened in her dis-
trict with Wells Fargo. We heard her
explain how these people, these em-
ployees are hurting, and many of them
just feel it is absolutely unfair for our
companies who got big tax breaks to be
able to export our jobs overseas in
search of cheap labor, undermining the
labor force here in America.
I don’t know how they justify that.
And I heard the ranking member of
this committee keep talking about
shaming the companies. I don’t know
who he is trying to protect. I don’t
know where he gets this language
from, ‘‘shaming the companies.’’
But if that is what he wants to use,
if that is what he wants to accuse me
of—I am sure he is not accusing the au-
thor of this bill of shaming American
companies. But if you want to accuse
me of that, you might be able to do so.
And let me just say this: You might
be able to say that I am throwing a lit-
tle shade on you also, because if, in
fact, you are defending the actions of
American companies that are taking
your constituents’ jobs out of your dis-
trict, offshore, and you can defend
that, then there is something wrong
with your reasoning.
And I don’t know if it is shaming or
shading or whatever it is, I am opposed
to it. Most of the Members of this
House of Representatives are opposed
to it.
And this legislator, a new legislator,
who came to the Congress of the
United States probably wondered why
we hadn’t done something about this
sooner. I am so pleased that she had
the courage, the wisdom, and the in-
sight to challenge us all and to say this
has got to stop.
And you are saying this bill does
nothing? Are you saying that informa-
tion is no good? Are you saying that
somehow knowing this, understanding
this, we wouldn’t be able to do some-
thing about it?
Well, let me just tell you, I think you
are wrong. I think you are absolutely
wrong.
When this information is revealed,
when this information is unfolded,
when it is made evident that these
companies are doing this, then I think
we have more than a few Members who
will rise to the occasion to do every-
thing possible to stop shipping Amer-
ican jobs from our districts to foreign
countries for cheap labor.
Mr. Chairman, I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
The CHAIR. Members are reminded
to address their remarks to the Chair.
All time for general debate has ex-
pired.
Pursuant to the rule, the bill shall be
considered for amendment under the 5-
minute rule.
It shall be in order to consider as an
original bill for the purpose of amend-
ment under the 5-minute rule the
amendment in the nature of a sub-
stitute recommended by the Com-
mittee on Financial Services, printed
in the bill. That committee amend-
ment in the nature of a substitute shall
be considered as read.
The text of the committee amend-
ment in the nature of a substitute is as
follows:
H.R. 3624
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Outsourcing Ac-
countability Act of 2019’’.
SEC. 2. REQUIRED DISCLOSURE OF NUMBER OF
DOMESTIC AND FOREIGN EMPLOY-
EES.
Section 13 of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 (15 U.S.C. 78m) is amended by adding at
the end the following:
‘‘(s) DISCLOSURE OF NUMBER OF DOMESTIC
AND FOREIGN EMPLOYEES.—
‘‘(1) DEFINITION.—In this subsection, the term
‘covered subsidiary’ means, with respect to an
issuer, any subsidiary of such issuer that is—
‘‘(A) a consolidated subsidiary; or
‘‘(B) a subsidiary with respect to which the
issuer accounts for the investment of the issuer
in the subsidiary using the equity method of ac-
counting.
‘‘(2) DISCLOSURE REQUIREMENT.—Except with
respect to an emerging growth company, begin-
ning in the first full fiscal year that begins after
the date of the enactment of this subsection,
each issuer that is required to file a report with
the Commission pursuant to subsection (a) shall
disclose in such report—
‘‘(A) the total number of employees of the
issuer and any covered subsidiary of the issuer
who are domiciled in the United States—
‘‘(i) disaggregated by State, District of Colum-
bia, commonwealth, territory, or possession of
the United States; and
‘‘(ii) compared using a percentage change cal-
culation to any such total reported by the issuer
in the most recent annual report of the issuer;
‘‘(B) the total number of employees of the
issuer who physically work in and are domiciled
in any country other than the United States—
‘‘(i) disaggregated by country; and
‘‘(ii) compared using a percentage change cal-
culation to any such total reported by the issuer
in the most recent annual report of the issuer;
and
‘‘(C) the total number of employees of any
covered subsidiary of the issuer who physically
work in and are domiciled in any country other
than the United States—
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:23 Oct 19, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 6333 E:\CR\FM\K18OC7.012 H18OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8238 October 18, 2019
‘‘(i) disaggregated by country; and
‘‘(ii) compared using a percentage change cal-
culation to any such total reported by the issuer
in the most recent annual report of the issuer.
‘‘(3) RULEMAKING.—The Commission may
issue such rules as the Commission considers
necessary to implement this subsection.’’.
The CHAIR. No amendment to that
committee amendment in the nature of
a substitute shall be in order except
those printed in part C of House Report
116–237. Each such amendment may be
offered only in the order printed in the
report, by a Member designated in the
report, shall be considered read, shall
be debatable for the time specified in
the report, equally divided and con-
trolled by the proponent and an oppo-
nent, shall not be subject to amend-
ment, and shall not be subject to a de-
mand for division of the question.
AMENDMENT NO. 1 OFFERED BY MR. HUIZENGA
The CHAIR. It is now in order to con-
sider amendment No. 1 printed in part
C of House Report 116–237.
Mr. HUIZENGA. Mr. Chairman, I
have an amendment at the desk.
The CHAIR. The Clerk will designate
the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
Page 3, line 21, insert after ‘‘emerging
growth company’’ the following: ‘‘and except
as provided in paragraph (3)’’.
Page 5, after line 2, insert the following:
‘‘(3) EXCEPTION.—An issuer is not required
to disclose information pursuant to para-
graph (2) if such issuer is required to make
disclosures pursuant to—
‘‘(A) subsection 13(p); or
‘‘(B) section 229.402 of title 17, Code of Fed-
eral Regulation, relating to chief executive
officer pay ratios.’’.
Page 5, line 3, strike ‘‘(3)’’ and insert ‘‘(4)’’.
The CHAIR. Pursuant to House Reso-
lution 629, the gentleman from Michi-
gan (Mr. HUIZENGA) and a Member op-
posed each will control 5 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from Michigan.
b 1000
Mr. HUIZENGA. Mr. Chair, what we
just heard a little while ago from the
other side of the aisle can be easily ex-
plained. They don’t understand the
power of the Federal Government fully
on how it can deter growth in our econ-
omy.
It is not one big, giant thing. It is
death by a thousand cuts. It is creating
the atmosphere or destroying the at-
mosphere that allows innovation, al-
lows growth, and allows the entrepre-
neurial spirit that has set America
apart from the rest of the world. It is
putting it on the chopping block.
That is why I oppose this bill. Once
again, we are using the massive power
of the Federal Government to bully
companies around.
I am kind of curious, if this is all
about foreign jobs, why in the world,
under section (A)(i), we are going to
need all this information disaggregated
by State—by State.
This has nothing to do with whether
a job is going to Mexico or China or
Vietnam or Canada. It has to do with
whether it is going from Michigan to
Ohio or from Indiana to Iowa.
Yet, you are going to force the com-
panies to continue to do all of this
work for zero benefit, no benefit—not a
benefit to an investor, not a benefit to
the employee, certainly, unless, appar-
ently, you have something against
Michigan or against Ohio. I have got
something against their university, not
the State.
But why we continue to just pile this
on is why I believe this is deeply flawed
and it paints incomplete pictures of
what is going on.
So, today, my amendment is this: I
am offering a simple amendment that
would exempt issuers from making
these disclosures if they are already re-
quired to make a CEO pay ratio disclo-
sure and disclosures relating to con-
flict minerals.
I cannot describe to you fully in
these 5 minutes the damage that has
been done with conflict minerals alone
in a wide swath of industries, including
the automotive industry.
People would think: Why in the
world would that have anything to do
with it? It has been hundreds and hun-
dreds of man-hours to try to track
something down that is untrackable.
We still have no idea where all this is.
So, my amendment today—and, if
this is really about foreign jobs and all
those kinds of things, which we know
it is really not because we need to
disaggregate it by State; but, if it is
about that, then it is time for the au-
thors to step up and support this
amendment.
We need to stop mandating frivolous
disclosures for public companies. Well,
we already have two with the CEO pay
ratio and the conflict minerals.
I believe this is reasonable to say,
that if you already are doing those,
you no longer have to do these addi-
tional disclosures.
We should be looking at ways to
lower costs, reducing barriers on those
seeking to become the next Ford, the
next Amazon, the next Microsoft. In-
stead, we are just putting up speed
bump after speed bump after speed
bump. What happens, Mr. Chair, is
those speed bumps eventually turn into
a wall, and that stops all progress.
So, I encourage my colleagues to
vote ‘‘yes’’ on this amendment, and I
reserve the balance of my time.
Ms. WATERS. Mr. Chair, I claim the
time in opposition to the amendment.
The CHAIR. The gentlewoman from
California is recognized for 5 minutes.
Ms. WATERS. Mr. Chair, I strongly
oppose Representative HUIZENGA’s
amendment, which would effectively
gut H.R. 3624 by exempting the vast
majority of public companies from the
outsourcing disclosure.
The amendment does this indirectly
by exempting companies that have to
comply with SEC rules requiring dis-
closure of the pay ratio between the
CEO’s compensation and that of its me-
dian employee or rules requiring dis-
closures relating to conflict minerals.
However, all public companies must
comply with those rules, with some
narrow exemptions.
The CEO pay ratio and conflict min-
erals disclosures have nothing to do
with the new requirement to disclose
how many jobs are being outsourced.
Taken together with the limited ex-
emption for newly public companies al-
ready in H.R. 3624, the amendment
would limit the bill’s outsourcing dis-
closures to small reporting companies,
foreign private issuers, and certain reg-
istered investment companies.
What my Republican colleagues do
not seem to understand is that inves-
tors do care about all of these types of
disclosures. They know that when a
CEO makes significant multiples of the
median employee, the performance of
the company is hurt. Investors also
know that, if a company sources its
minerals to conflict zones, it faces a
much higher risk than a company with
a stable source of resources.
Likewise, investors also want to
know whether a company is creating
jobs in the United States or overseas.
By proposing a huge expansion of ex-
emptions, Representative HUIZENGA’s
amendment would effectively negate
the bill and allow companies to con-
tinue to, quietly and secretly, ship
American jobs overseas.
Let me just add to these comments,
in particular for all of the new Mem-
bers of Congress: Anytime any com-
pany is shipping jobs out of your dis-
trict, no matter where they are going,
you raise questions. You ask why they
are doing that. Don’t be ashamed to do
that. Don’t think that something is
wrong with doing that.
You were elected to represent the
people in your district, and Mr.
HUIZENGA would have you believe that,
if jobs are being taken from your State
to another State, you are supposed to
be quiet because something is wrong
with that.
I don’t care whether it is from State
to State or overseas or what have you.
Representatives who were sent here to
speak for their constituents should be
concerned about that, they should
raise the questions, and they should be
involved with everything they can do
to preserve those jobs.
Mr. Chair, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. HUIZENGA. Mr. Chair, may I in-
quire how much time I have remaining.
The CHAIR. The gentleman from
Michigan has 45 seconds remaining.
Mr. HUIZENGA. Mr. Chair, I will
make it quick, because this is pretty
easy.
What you just heard isn’t true, Mr.
Chairman, because if, truly, the other
side cared about anytime there was a
job getting shipped overseas, they
would not have, under the (B)(2) disclo-
sure requirement, an exemption with
respect to an emerging growth com-
pany.
If they actually put their money
where their mouth is, they wouldn’t
have that exclusion in there because,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:23 Oct 19, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18OC7.003 H18OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8239
October 18, 2019
apparently, an automotive job isn’t as
valuable as an emerging growth com-
pany job.
So, I am confused. If that is really
what it is all about, then we ought to
make sure that the rules apply to ev-
erybody and that there should not be
an exemption.
And I am confused as to why the au-
thor of this bill would allow that to
happen, would allow those technology
companies to ship those jobs overseas,
without any respect of having to report
that.
Obviously, Mr. Chairman, I am being
a little sarcastic, but it just goes to
show why this is a flawed bill, and I
yield back the balance of my time.
Ms. WATERS. Mr. Chair, I yield the
balance of my time to the gentle-
woman from Iowa (Mrs. AXNE), the
sponsor of this important legislation.
Mrs. AXNE. Mr. Chair, as a new
Member of Congress, there is a lot of
learning to be done. But what I can tell
you from listening to this debate this
morning is that I am always astounded
at how we can’t come together to find
common ground to help people in this
country, and that is simply what this
bill does.
This amendment proposed by my col-
league is, quite simply, designed to ex-
empt the vast majority of companies
from the Outsourcing Accountability
Act and leave the disclosures exactly
as they are now, and I fail to see any
logic behind saying that companies
that disclose their CEO pay ratio or
whether they are using conflict min-
erals should be exempt from the disclo-
sures in this bill. It has nothing to do
with it.
The disclosures in my bill are meant
to show if a corporation is truly sup-
porting American jobs or if they are
shipping them overseas.
If my colleague doesn’t want to know
where that information is and how
many companies are shipping jobs
overseas in the companies that he is in-
vesting in, then he should just simply
say so.
I know some of my colleagues on the
other side of the aisle have brought up
that there could be good reasons to add
jobs overseas. Nothing in this bill pre-
vents companies from explaining that.
If a company is opening new retail
stores abroad, they can simply say
that. The same goes for any other rea-
son.
This bill is very simple. It simply re-
quires the companies to disclose to the
public information that they already
have about what in country their em-
ployees are located. This amendment
would remove that requirement, leav-
ing companies free to continue to hide
that information.
A vote for this amendment is really a
vote against the bill itself.
Mr. Chair, I urge my colleagues to re-
ject this unproductive amendment.
Ms. WATERS. Mr. Chair, I yield back
the balance of my time.
The CHAIR. The question is on the
amendment offered by the gentleman
from Michigan (Mr. HUIZENGA).
The question was taken; and the
Chair announced that the noes ap-
peared to have it.
Mr. HUIZENGA. Mr. Chair, I demand
a recorded vote.
The CHAIR. Pursuant to clause 6 of
rule XVIII, further proceedings on the
amendment offered by the gentleman
from Michigan will be postponed.
AMENDMENT NO. 2 OFFERED BY MR. HILL OF
ARKANSAS
The CHAIR. It is now in order to con-
sider amendment No. 2 printed in part
C of House Report 116–237.
Mr. HILL of Arkansas. Mr. Chair-
man, I have an amendment at the desk.
The CHAIR. The Clerk will designate
the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
Page 3, line 21, insert after ‘‘emerging
growth company’’ the following: ‘‘and except
as provided in paragraph (3)’’.
Page 5, after line 2, insert the following:
‘‘(3) EXCEPTION.—An issuer is not required
to disclose information pursuant to para-
graph (2) if such information is not mate-
rial.’’.
Page 5, line 3, strike ‘‘(3)’’ and insert ‘‘(4)’’.
The CHAIR. Pursuant to House Reso-
lution 629, the gentleman from Arkan-
sas (Mr. HILL) and a Member opposed
each will control 5 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from Arkansas.
Mr. HILL of Arkansas. Mr. Chair, I
want to thank the ranking member on
our side for offering me time to explain
my amendment. I commend my friend
from Iowa for her work in this legisla-
tion.
Let me make a couple of comments
initially about the bill, generally. First
of all, I don’t think this bill is going to
be a disincentive, as she described it, to
companies who are recruiting to an-
other State or considering moving to
another country, potentially, for sup-
ply chain reasons, because, look, they
are doing what they think is in the
best, long-run interest of building their
product.
And, don’t forget, our States recruit
our companies, countries recruit our
companies. We look at supply chains.
These are frequently very public mat-
ters about Governors bragging how
many employees they have from each
State and each company.
And the WARN Act, which is already
on the statute books, certainly takes
care of this issue of notice on layoffs
and disclosure of employees.
In my own State recently we had
Kimberly-Clark, a publicly traded com-
pany, decide to move jobs to Wisconsin.
Those jobs were well known in my dis-
trict and in Mr. GALLAGHER’s district
in Wisconsin. There was nothing secret
about it. It is just part of business re-
aligning inside our beautiful, largest
economy in the world.
And I do have concerns about this
disclosure internationally that my
friend is requiring, because what if you
are proposing to enter a country and
you want to keep that private, for com-
petition purposes, from international
competition or from your competitors
in the United States? You are now
forced, as a public company, to dis-
close, oh, I have one employee in a
country.
I find that concerning. You may even
put that employee at a safety risk, de-
pending on what country is a target for
Americans.
So, in my view, that brings up the
topic of overall burden, and we know of
the old expression ‘‘the straw that
broke the camel’s back.’’
And regulatory burdens are cumu-
lative. Any one burden doesn’t seem
large, but, when piled up on all the
other burdens, you see it in total.
I was talking to a chief accounting
officer the other day of a $2 billion
market cap company. She spends
$250,000 a year, for example, to comply
with the conflict mineral rule. If you
have a 10-time multiple on that, that is
a lot of money annualized impacting
their business to try to comply with
something they say is not physically
possible to comply with.
So, I look at this as an additional
burden. I urge that it not be adopted.
And my amendment does something
simple. It just simply says, if this em-
ployment disclosure, domestically or
internationally, is material to the
business, in keeping with the tradition
of the securities laws, then okay. So, if
it is a material statement to describe
where these employees are located to
the business, then that might be some-
thing useful.
Mr. Chair, I urge adoption of my
amendment, and I reserve the balance
of my time.
b 1015
Ms. WATERS. Mr. Chairman, I claim
time in opposition.
The CHAIR. The gentlewoman from
California is recognized for 5 minutes.
Ms. WATERS. Mr. Chairman, let me
say to my colleague from Arkansas on
the opposite side of the aisle that the
need to be concerned about regulations
relative to companies that are shipping
jobs overseas is something I don’t un-
derstand. I don’t understand why the
Members on the opposite side of the
aisle could take this precious time to
come here in defense of companies that
would ship our American jobs overseas
for cheap labor.
There is no excuse. There is no rea-
son. There is no reason why our col-
leagues who come here to represent
constituents, many of whom are still
looking for jobs, and those who get laid
off because their companies have taken
their jobs and shipped them overseas,
would come here and defend some com-
pany because they believe that we are
being too tough on them, that we are
overregulating them.
Well, I don’t understand it, and there
is nothing they could say or do to help
me understand that.
I strongly oppose Representative
HILL’s amendment because it would ef-
fectively negate the purpose of H.R.
3624 by allowing companies to opt out
of this disclosure if they believe that
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:00 Oct 19, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K18OC7.018 H18OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8240 October 18, 2019
the information is not ‘‘material’’ in-
formation for investors.
As we all know, in practice, compa-
nies have interpreted ‘‘material’’ only
to include information on issues that
have a current and easily quantifiable
impact. This is exactly what the multi-
national companies that have been
shipping American jobs overseas want,
to hide what they are doing.
As the AFL–CIO noted before an In-
vestor Protection, Entrepreneurship,
and Capital Markets Subcommittee
hearing in May, multinational compa-
nies ‘‘have increasingly focused job
creation in non-U.S. markets and
would prefer not to disclose numbers
that would lead to reputational risks.’’
We must stand with American work-
ers and address this informational bar-
rier to help investors, the public, and
policymakers understand the true mag-
nitude of the problem. So I urge my
colleagues to vote ‘‘no’’ on this amend-
ment.
Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance
of my time.
Mr. HILL of Arkansas. Mr. Chair,
how much time do I have?
The CHAIR. The gentleman from Ar-
kansas has 2 minutes remaining.
Mr. HILL of Arkansas. Mr. Chair, my
friend from California, I think, is mak-
ing the case that this bill is confusing
and a burden because we don’t even
know internationally if these are
American jobs that were moved or not.
You are just counting the people in
foreign countries. I don’t know that
that is really relevant. And it weakens
your argument, in my view, as well,
that we are disclosing in the States, as
my friend, the ranking member, made
so eloquently. So I think it is a burden.
It is not about shipping jobs. We have
the WARN Act, which directly deals
with jobs that are shipped overseas, or
moved, and makes sure that people are
retrained and compensated in the right
way.
Instead, this is another burden on our
public companies, our public compa-
nies. We want more public companies.
I just formed the Entrepreneur Cau-
cus with my friends Mr. FOSTER, Mr.
VEASEY, STEPHANIE MURPHY, and
STEVE CHABOT. We have asked GAO
why we are not having more public
companies at smaller sizes.
I submit to you, my friends from
California and Iowa, it is because we
have raised the cost of being public too
high. This is another burden, and I
think we should think long and hard
before we add burdens.
Materiality is the way to bring bal-
ance back.
Mr. Chair, I reserve the balance of
my time.
The CHAIR. Members are reminded
to address their remarks to the Chair.
Ms. WATERS. Mr. Chairman, I would
ask, does the gentleman have any more
speakers?
Mr. HILL of Arkansas. Mr. Chair-
man, I don’t, but I have time that I
will use, so I will use that time to
close.
Ms. WATERS. Mr. Chairman, I re-
serve the balance of my time.
Mr. HILL of Arkansas. Mr. Chair, let
me close by simply saying that we
want more public companies. We want
to lower the cost of being public. We
want to remove barriers from being
public. We do that by carefully bal-
ancing the regulatory burden to be
public.
This bill, which does not enhance any
knowledge for investors or do anything
important or material, weakens that
effort to reduce barriers to being pub-
lic.
I believe we should have a materi-
ality standard. I urge adoption of my
amendment.
Mr. Chair, I yield back the balance of
my time.
Ms. WATERS. Mr. Chairman, I would
say to the gentleman from Arkansas to
use your time to deal with the burden
that you claim multinationals have
just for doing this reporting. We will
use our time to support the workers
and the people of this country.
Mr. Chairman, I yield the balance of
my time to the gentlewoman from
Iowa (Mrs. AXNE), the sponsor of this
important legislation.
Mrs. AXNE. Mr. Chairman, as writ-
ten, my colleague’s amendment would
severely limit the Outsourcing Ac-
countability Act and continue to leave
companies in charge of whether or not
they tell the public about outsourcing.
Corporations are already going to
great lengths to cover it up, and if they
are moving jobs overseas, why would
they voluntarily disclose it in their an-
nual report?
My colleague mentioned that this is
the straw that broke the camel’s back.
I can tell you that these companies are
already tracking this information. We
have to pay workers; therefore, they
know exactly where they are located.
I have done this work in my past. I
have been involved with human re-
sources and organizational develop-
ment for my entire career. I have
tracked this kind of information. All it
takes is programming and a push of the
button to make sure that that informa-
tion comes out.
I would like to also talk about the
WARN Act because the WARN Act does
not require disclosure of whether lay-
offs are due to outsourcing. That is ex-
actly why we need this information, so
workers can get that Trade Adjust-
ment Assistance they need to put food
on the table to feed their children and
keep their lights on.
These disclosures are intended to find
out if a corporation is truly creating
American jobs or if, instead, they are
just moving them overseas. This
amendment, just like the last one,
would leave things just as they are
now, with corporations able to share
that information only if they decide to
do so.
That situation has left us with,
frankly, insufficient data about out-
sourcing as a general practice and
minimal transparency about which cor-
porations are creating American jobs.
I urge my colleagues to reject this
unproductive amendment.
Ms. WATERS. Mr. Chairman, I would
like to take this moment to thank my
colleague, a new Member of the Con-
gress of the United States who serves
on the Financial Services Committee,
for introducing, supporting, and work-
ing for this legislation.
I urge all of my colleagues to vote
‘‘no’’ on this amendment.
I yield back the balance of my time.
The CHAIR. The question is on the
amendment offered by the gentleman
from Arkansas (Mr. HILL).
The question was taken; and the
Chair announced that the noes ap-
peared to have it.
Mr. HILL of Arkansas. Mr. Chair, I
demand a recorded vote.
The CHAIR. Pursuant to clause 6 of
rule XVIII, further proceedings on the
amendment offered by the gentleman
from Arkansas will be postponed.
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE CHAIR
The CHAIR. Pursuant to clause 6 of
rule XVIII, proceedings will now re-
sume on those amendments printed in
part C of House Report 116–237 on which
further proceedings were postponed, in
the following order:
Amendment No. 1 by Mr. HUIZENGA of
Michigan.
Amendment No. 2 by Mr. HILL of Ar-
kansas.
The Chair will reduce to 2 minutes
the minimum time for any electronic
vote after the first vote in this series.
AMENDMENT NO. 1 OFFERED BY MR. HUIZENGA
The CHAIR. The unfinished business
is the demand for a recorded vote on
the amendment offered by the gen-
tleman from Michigan (Mr. HUIZENGA)
on which further proceedings were
postponed and on which the noes pre-
vailed by voice vote.
The Clerk will redesignate the
amendment.
The Clerk redesignated the amend-
ment.
RECORDED VOTE
The CHAIR. A recorded vote has been
demanded.
A recorded vote was ordered.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—ayes 184, noes 229,
not voting 24, as follows:
[Roll No. 565]
AYES—184
Abraham
Aderholt
Allen
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Bergman
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (UT)
Bost
Brady
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Byrne
Calvert
Carter (GA)
Chabot
Cheney
Cline
Cloud
Cole
Collins (GA)
Comer
Conaway
Cook
Crawford
Crenshaw
Curtis
Davidson (OH)
Davis, Rodney
DesJarlais
Diaz-Balart
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Estes
Ferguson
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Flores
Foxx (NC)
Fulcher
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Gonzalez (OH)
Gooden
Gosar
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:23 Oct 19, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00010 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K18OC7.021 H18OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8241
October 18, 2019
Griffith
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Hagedorn
Harris
Hartzler
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Hill (AR)
Holding
Hollingsworth
Hudson
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Katko
Keller
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamborn
Latta
Lesko
Long
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Marshall
Massie
Mast
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McHenry
McKinley
Meadows
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Mullin
Murphy (NC)
Newhouse
Norman
Nunes
Olson
Palazzo
Palmer
Pence
Perry
Posey
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rooney (FL)
Rose, John W.
Rouzer
Roy
Rutherford
Scalise
Schweikert
Scott, Austin
Sensenbrenner
Shimkus
Simpson
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smucker
Spano
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stewart
Stivers
Taylor
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Turner
Upton
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Watkins
Webster (FL)
Wenstrup
Westerman
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Young
Zeldin
NOES—229
Adams
Aguilar
Allred
Amash
Axne
Barragán
Bass
Bera
Beyer
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brindisi
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Bustos
Butterfield
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Cohen
Connolly
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cunningham
Davids (KS)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Engel
Escobar
Espaillat
Evans
Finkenauer
Fletcher
Fortenberry
Foster
Frankel
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Golden
Gonzalez (TX)
Gottheimer
Green, Al (TX)
Grijalva
Haaland
Harder (CA)
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Higgins (NY)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Huffman
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (TX)
Kaptur
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Lamb
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lawrence
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Lowenthal
Lowey
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCollum
McGovern
McNerney
Meeks
Meng
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Murphy (FL)
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Norcross
Norton
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Perlmutter
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Plaskett
Pocan
Porter
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Rice (NY)
Rice (SC)
Rose (NY)
Rouda
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Ryan
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (NJ)
Smith (WA)
Soto
Spanberger
Speier
Stanton
Stevens
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Underwood
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watson Coleman
Welch
Wexton
Wild
Wilson (FL)
Yarmuth
NOT VOTING—24
Babin
Beatty
Bishop (NC)
Carter (TX)
Clyburn
Eshoo
Fudge
Gabbard
Gomez
González-Colón
(PR)
Granger
Lawson (FL)
Loudermilk
Marchant
McEachin
Radewagen
Richmond
Sablan
San Nicolas
Schakowsky
Weber (TX)
Williams
Wright
Yoho
b 1053
Ms. WATERS, Mrs. LURIA, Messrs.
CASTEN of Illinois, VAN DREW,
LUJÁN, GARCÍA of Illinois, COURT-
NEY, and SCHNEIDER changed their
vote from ‘‘aye’’ to ‘‘no.’’
Messrs. POSEY, BUDD, SMITH of
Missouri, SCHWEIKERT, SMITH of Ne-
braska, ROONEY of Florida, and
GAETZ changed their vote from ‘‘no’’
to ‘‘aye.’’
So the amendment was rejected.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
Stated against:
Ms. SCHAKOWSKY. Mr. Chair, had I been
present, I would have voted ‘‘nay’’ on rollcall
No. 565.
Mr. GOMEZ. Mr. Chair, I inadvertently
missed one vote today. Had I been present, I
would have voted ‘‘nay’’ on rollcall No. 565.
AMENDMENT NO. 2 OFFERED BY MR. HILL OF
ARKANSAS
The CHAIR. The unfinished business
is the demand for a recorded vote on
the amendment offered by the gen-
tleman from Arkansas (Mr. HILL) on
which further proceedings were post-
poned and on which the noes prevailed
by voice vote.
The Clerk will redesignate the
amendment.
The Clerk redesignated the amend-
ment.
RECORDED VOTE
The CHAIR. A recorded vote has been
demanded.
A recorded vote was ordered.
The CHAIR. This will be a 2-minute
vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—ayes 187, noes 224,
not voting 26, as follows:
[Roll No. 566]
AYES—187
Abraham
Aderholt
Allen
Amash
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Bergman
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (UT)
Bost
Brady
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Byrne
Calvert
Carter (GA)
Chabot
Cheney
Cline
Cloud
Cole
Collins (GA)
Comer
Conaway
Cook
Crawford
Crenshaw
Curtis
Davidson (OH)
Davis, Rodney
DesJarlais
Diaz-Balart
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Estes
Ferguson
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Flores
Fortenberry
Foxx (NC)
Fulcher
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Gonzalez (OH)
Gooden
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Griffith
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Hagedorn
Harris
Hartzler
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Hill (AR)
Holding
Hollingsworth
Hudson
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Katko
Keller
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamborn
Latta
Lesko
Long
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Marshall
Massie
Mast
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McHenry
McKinley
Meadows
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Mullin
Murphy (NC)
Newhouse
Norman
Nunes
Olson
Palazzo
Palmer
Pence
Perry
Posey
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (SC)
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rooney (FL)
Rose, John W.
Rouzer
Roy
Rutherford
Scalise
Schweikert
Scott, Austin
Sensenbrenner
Shimkus
Simpson
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smucker
Spano
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stewart
Stivers
Taylor
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Turner
Upton
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Watkins
Webster (FL)
Wenstrup
Westerman
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Young
Zeldin
NOES—224
Adams
Aguilar
Allred
Axne
Barragán
Bass
Bera
Beyer
Bishop (GA)
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brindisi
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Bustos
Butterfield
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Cohen
Connolly
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cunningham
Davids (KS)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Engel
Escobar
Espaillat
Evans
Finkenauer
Fletcher
Foster
Frankel
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (TX)
Gottheimer
Green, Al (TX)
Haaland
Harder (CA)
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Higgins (NY)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Huffman
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (TX)
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Lamb
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lawrence
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Lowenthal
Lowey
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:31 Oct 19, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00011 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18OC7.006 H18OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8242 October 18, 2019
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCollum
McGovern
McNerney
Meeks
Meng
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Murphy (FL)
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Norcross
Norton
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Perlmutter
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Plaskett
Pocan
Porter
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Rice (NY)
Rose (NY)
Rouda
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Ryan
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (WA)
Soto
Spanberger
Speier
Stanton
Stevens
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Underwood
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watson Coleman
Welch
Wexton
Wild
Wilson (FL)
Yarmuth
NOT VOTING—26
Babin
Beatty
Bishop (NC)
Blumenauer
Carter (TX)
Clyburn
Eshoo
Fudge
Gabbard
González-Colón
(PR)
Gosar
Granger
Grijalva
Kaptur
Lawson (FL)
Loudermilk
Marchant
McEachin
Radewagen
Richmond
Sablan
San Nicolas
Weber (TX)
Williams
Wright
Yoho
b 1059
So the amendment was rejected.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
The Acting CHAIR (Mr. MCNERNEY).
The question is on the committee
amendment in the nature of a sub-
stitute.
The amendment was agreed to.
The Acting CHAIR. Under the rule,
the Committee rises.
Accordingly, the Committee rose;
and the Speaker pro tempore (Mr.
NEGUSE) having assumed the chair, Mr.
MCNERNEY, Acting Chair of the Com-
mittee of the Whole House on the state
of the Union, reported that that Com-
mittee, having had under consideration
the bill (H.R. 3624) to amend the Secu-
rities Exchange Act of 1934 to require
the disclosure of the total number of
domestic and foreign employees of cer-
tain public companies, and for other
purposes, and, pursuant to House Reso-
lution 629, he reported the bill back to
the House with an amendment adopted
in the Committee of the Whole.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under
the rule, the previous question is or-
dered.
The question is on the committee
amendment in the nature of a sub-
stitute.
The amendment was agreed to.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the engrossment and
third reading of the bill.
The bill was ordered to be engrossed
and read a third time, and was read the
third time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the passage of the bill.
The question was taken; and the
Speaker pro tempore announced that
the ayes appeared to have it.
Ms. WATERS. Mr. Speaker, on that I
demand the yeas and nays.
The yeas and nays were ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. This is a
5-minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—yeas 226, nays
184, not voting 21, as follows:
[Roll No. 567]
YEAS—226
Adams
Aguilar
Allred
Axne
Barragán
Bass
Bera
Beyer
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brindisi
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Bustos
Butterfield
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Cohen
Connolly
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cunningham
Davids (KS)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Engel
Escobar
Espaillat
Evans
Finkenauer
Fletcher
Foster
Frankel
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (TX)
Gottheimer
Green, Al (TX)
Grijalva
Haaland
Harder (CA)
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Higgins (NY)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Huffman
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (TX)
Kaptur
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Lamb
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lawrence
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Lowenthal
Lowey
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCollum
McGovern
McKinley
McNerney
Meeks
Meng
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Murphy (FL)
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Norcross
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Perlmutter
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Porter
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Rice (NY)
Rose (NY)
Rouda
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Ryan
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (NJ)
Smith (WA)
Soto
Spanberger
Speier
Stanton
Stevens
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Underwood
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watson Coleman
Welch
Wexton
Wild
Wilson (FL)
Yarmuth
NAYS—184
Abraham
Aderholt
Allen
Amash
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Bergman
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (UT)
Bost
Brady
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Byrne
Calvert
Carter (GA)
Chabot
Cheney
Cline
Cloud
Cole
Collins (GA)
Comer
Conaway
Cook
Crawford
Crenshaw
Curtis
Davidson (OH)
Davis, Rodney
DesJarlais
Diaz-Balart
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Estes
Ferguson
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Flores
Fortenberry
Foxx (NC)
Fulcher
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Gonzalez (OH)
Gooden
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Griffith
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Hagedorn
Harris
Hartzler
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Hill (AR)
Holding
Hollingsworth
Hudson
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Katko
Keller
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamborn
Latta
Lesko
Long
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Marshall
Mast
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McHenry
Meadows
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Mullin
Murphy (NC)
Newhouse
Norman
Nunes
Olson
Palazzo
Palmer
Pence
Perry
Posey
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (SC)
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rooney (FL)
Rose, John W.
Rouzer
Roy
Rutherford
Scalise
Schweikert
Scott, Austin
Sensenbrenner
Shimkus
Simpson
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smucker
Spano
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stewart
Stivers
Taylor
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Turner
Upton
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Watkins
Webster (FL)
Wenstrup
Westerman
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Young
Zeldin
NOT VOTING—21
Babin
Beatty
Bishop (NC)
Carter (TX)
Clyburn
Eshoo
Fudge
Gabbard
Gosar
Granger
Lawson (FL)
Loudermilk
Marchant
Massie
McEachin
Richmond
Rush
Weber (TX)
Williams
Wright
Yoho
b 1108
So the bill was passed.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
REMOVAL OF NAME OF MEMBER
AS COSPONSOR OF H.R. 4603
Mr. CARBAJAL. Mr. Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that Congress-
woman SHEILA JACKSON LEE be re-
moved as a cosponsor of H.R. 4603.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from California?
There was no objection.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:31 Oct 19, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00012 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18OC7.009 H18OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8243
October 18, 2019
REMOVAL OF NAME OF MEMBER
AS COSPONSOR OF H.R. 860
Mr. VAN DREW. Mr. Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent to remove my
name as a cosponsor of H.R. 860, the
Social Security 2100 Act.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from New Jersey?
There was no objection.
f
b 1115
LEGISLATIVE PROGRAM
(Mr. SCALISE asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. SCALISE. Madam Speaker, I
yield to the gentleman from Maryland
(Mr. HOYER), our distinguished major-
ity leader, for the purpose of inquiring
about the schedule for the week to
come.
Mr. HOYER. Madam Speaker, I
thank the gentleman for yielding.
On Monday, the House will meet at 12
p.m. for morning-hour debate and 2
p.m. for legislative business with votes
postponed until 6:30.
On Tuesday and Wednesday, the
House will meet at 10 a.m. for morning-
hour debate and 12 p.m. for legislative
business.
On Thursday, the House expects to
meet at 9 a.m. for legislative business.
Last votes of the week will be expected
no later than 3 p.m.
We will consider several bills under
suspension of the rules. A complete list
of suspensions will be announced by
the close of business today.
In addition, Madam Speaker, the
House will consider H.R. 2513, the Cor-
porate Transparency Act. This bill is
part of a package of legislation coming
to the floor to crack down on money
laundering and shine a light on the cor-
rosive impact of dark money from Rus-
sia and other authoritarian govern-
ments on our democracy, a serious na-
tional security threat that must be ad-
dressed.
Lastly, the House will consider H.R.
4617, Stopping Harmful Interference in
Elections for a Lasting Democracy,
otherwise known as the SHIELD Act.
Clearly, we believe that it is extraor-
dinarily dangerous to be having foreign
governments, particularly those who
are hostile to the interests of democ-
racy and the United States, to be par-
ticipating in any financial way or any
other way in our elections. This bill
will prevent foreign interference in our
elections and safeguard our democracy.
There also may be additional items
that are possible to be brought for-
ward, and we will notify the House and
the minority as soon as we have made
such decisions.
Mr. SCALISE. Madam Speaker, I
know we all continue to mourn the loss
of our colleague, Elijah Cummings. We
still see the flowers sitting in the spot
where Elijah used to sit.
Yesterday, I thought we had a very
appropriate remembrance of our col-
league in a special way, remembering
who he was, the special person he was,
the giant that he was, the leader—
sometimes in a very boisterous way,
sometimes in a gentle way.
But Maya, his wife, and his three
children are in our prayers, and will
continue to be as we remember that
great loss that we experienced and will
continue to remember.
I yield to the gentleman.
Mr. HOYER. Madam Speaker, I
thank my friend for yielding. I was
going to mention Elijah at the end of
our colloquy, but it was an extraor-
dinarily sad day to hear of the loss yes-
terday, in the very early morning, of a
colleague who was gentle, decent, hon-
est, of high intellect, and high integ-
rity.
The minority leader, Mr. MCCARTHY,
spoke beautifully, I thought, about
sentiments from both sides of the aisle,
about Elijah Cummings. He was re-
spected as a man, not only of intellect,
but of great civility and kindness. And,
yes, he could be tough. He was tough.
He was the son of sharecroppers and be-
came a Member of the Congress of the
United States.
What a wonderful American story,
and what a wonderful, decent, good
human being Elijah Cummings was.
And he will be remembered as such.
I thank the minority leader and I
thank the minority, so many Members,
who have served with Elijah on the mi-
nority, and, obviously, on a committee
as the minority leader, Mr. MCCARTHY,
pointed out, it can be pretty conten-
tious from time to time.
But notwithstanding, Trey Gowdy
and others who had served with him,
served as either ranking member or
chairman, spoke so highly of him. He
was a very dear friend of mine for over
four decades. He was the first African
American speaker pro tem of the Mary-
land House of Delegates; president of
the student government at Howard
University, Phi Beta Kappa; and served
with such distinction for 23 years in
this House, and we will miss him. I
thank the Republican whip for men-
tioning his passing, and how sad all of
us are at that passing.
Mr. SCALISE. Madam Speaker, as we
all remember him, it is that style. It
shows the example for all of us that
you can be tough, you can fight for the
things you believe in—we ought to all
come here to fight for the things we be-
lieve in—and that means we are not al-
ways going to agree.
But he always treated people fairly,
and the fact that even as he had some
of those tough confrontations with peo-
ple like Chairman Gowdy and JIM JOR-
DAN, that those people who went toe to
toe with him respected him, and mourn
his loss equally as we all do, I think it
says a lot about his character and that
he is able to leave a strong legacy as a
champion for the things he believed in.
But even his adversaries that he fought
with on the other side hold deep regard
for the kind of person he was. Again, he
was a great example for all of us to,
hopefully, try to emulate as we move
forward with some of the other chal-
lenges that we are facing.
I do want to ask the gentleman about
the latest efforts to try to get some
kind of fair process in where we are
with this impeachment inquiry. There
are hearings going on behind closed
doors. Many of my colleagues have
tried to attend some of those hearings
and have been turned away if they are
not on the committees of jurisdiction.
Colleagues that have tried to go and
read things like the Volker testimony
have been turned away, denied the abil-
ity to do that.
So there is a real concern that there
is an attempt to impeach a President
of the United States, remove a Presi-
dent who is duly elected, using a proc-
ess of secrecy, behind closed doors,
where one person is setting the rules,
breaking with the tradition that we
have always had with the only three
other times in our country’s history
where an impeachment inquiry began
in the House.
In all of those cases, they laid out
rules of fairness, where people were
able to ask questions on both sides.
People were able to call witnesses on
both sides. Even the President would
be able to have an opportunity to have
somebody there to also question peo-
ple. That has always been the case,
and, yet, it is not the case here.
Very serious questions of fairness
have been raised, and I would ask the
gentleman: Are we going to finally get
beyond this secret, closed-door, Star
Chamber process of impeachment and
go to something that is ruled in fair-
ness? I yield to the gentleman.
Mr. HOYER. Madam Speaker, I
thank the gentleman for yielding.
Madam Speaker, I reject wholly and
fully the premise underlying the whip’s
representation. There is no unfairness
in this process.
The Republicans are like the lawyer
who does not have the facts, because if
he has the facts, he pounds on the
facts; or if he has the law on his side,
he pounds on the law. But if he neither
has facts nor the law on his side, he
pounds on the table, Madam Speaker.
He makes noise.
The Republicans talk about process,
not the substance. And the process,
quite interestingly enough, is much of
what the Republicans put in the rules
that we included in our rules when we
adopted them.
And as the whip clearly knows, one
of the strongest advocates and defend-
ers of the President of the United
States sits there in the hearing, asks
questions, can review documents, and
could go right back to the White House
and to all of your Members and say:
This is what happened.
There is no unfairness in this, and no
requirement that we have a vote. The
committee is doing its job of fact-find-
ing. Frankly, the White House counsel
wrote a letter filled with eight pages
that clearly misconstrues the status of
this process; treats it as if it were the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:39 Oct 19, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00013 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K18OC7.029 H18OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8244 October 18, 2019
trial. We do not conduct the trial,
Madam Speaker. The Senate conducts
the trial.
And just as in our legal due process
system, when that occurs, the Presi-
dent will have all of that due process,
I am sure, extended to him by the
House of Representatives. That is not
what this proceeding is.
This proceeding is to decide whether
there is probable cause to think that
the President of the United States has
committed high crimes and mis-
demeanors. We have not made that
conclusion yet, and we may not make
it if the facts do not lead us there.
As Mr. SCHIFF pointed out in his let-
ter to all of the Members, there is a
very definite reason why grand juries
and this committee are doing its proc-
ess with full participation by the Re-
publican Members of the Select Com-
mittee on Intelligence; full participa-
tion.
It is because witnesses ought not to
be forewarned of what somebody else
has said. Why? So that they don’t par-
rot the other witness but tell the truth
as they know it to be.
And I will tell the gentleman, the
other reason grand juries are in secret
is to protect the innocent, so that if
there is no probable cause, there will
be no assertion that somebody alleged
that somebody did something wrong.
But the Republicans have been
pounding on process and the reason for
that, Madam Speaker, is they don’t
even want to discuss the substance. Of
course, the Acting Chief of Staff did
discuss substance. It is on the front
page of The Washington Post. Of course
we do this.
So I will tell my friend, this process
is fair. It is consistent with the rules.
It is consistent with the Constitution
of the United States. It is consistent
with the laws of this country. It is
about one of the most serious matters
we can deal with, and we don’t want to
make it a circus.
Yes, the committee is doing its work
in camera, so to speak, adducing the
facts. And your Members, and, particu-
larly, one of the President’s strongest
supporters, defenders, and collabo-
rators is sitting in the room every time
the hearing occurs—unless he absences
himself—and the Members of that com-
mittee, which you have appointed—not
you personally, but your conference
has appointed—are sitting in the room,
equal time asking questions.
b 1130
This hearing is fair, judicious, and
thoughtful. And the attempt to be-
smirch the chairman of the committee
is shameful. He is a fair and experi-
enced Member of this body who has
conducted himself as he should.
It is our constitutional responsi-
bility, Madam Speaker, to see the facts
behind conduct that may rise to the
level of a high crime and misdemeanor.
We don’t know that to be the case, but
if it is, we will meet our duty to the
Constitution, to the laws of this Na-
tion, and to the American public.
Mr. SCALISE. Madam Speaker, with
all due respect, this process is rotten to
the core. The gentleman can talk about
process, and he can talk about facts.
The facts point out that this process is
shrouded in secrecy.
Madam Speaker, you literally have a
chairman who was running around for 2
years during the whole Mueller inves-
tigation saying that he had ‘‘more than
circumstantial evidence’’ that there
was collusion between the President
and Russia. And then the Mueller Re-
port comes out, and there were no
charges. There was no collusion. In
fact, the chairman never showed his se-
cret evidence. If he had evidence ‘‘more
than circumstantial’’—his quotes—
then he should have shown it to the
American people. But he didn’t because
there was no evidence.
Those were the facts. If the facts
were there, Madam Speaker, you know
he would have shown that evidence. It
didn’t exist.
Instead of moving on and taking care
of the work of the people of this coun-
try, it is another witch hunt. It is an-
other fishing expedition in secret.
The gentleman talks about fairness,
why is it that voting Members of Con-
gress are being denied access to the
room?
The press doesn’t have access to
these hearings that the gentleman
calls fair. He calls them fair. There was
never even a vote of this House to start
an impeachment inquiry. It was a de-
cree from the Speaker in The Wash-
ington Post in September: ‘‘Therefore,
today, I am announcing’’—the Speaker
of the House—‘‘I am announcing the
House of Representatives is moving
forward with an official impeachment
inquiry.’’
That is a decree by the Speaker of
the House. That has never happened be-
fore. The other three times when there
was an impeachment inquiry, it was
started with a vote of the full House.
Everybody was accountable—no Star
Chamber, no one or two people in this
country who think they can run the en-
tire process and deny the people the
right of a duly elected President to
serve because they just don’t agree
with the results of the 2016 election.
They never showed high crimes and
misdemeanors. The majority has never
shown high crimes and misdemeanors.
They are just looking around for some-
thing.
The majority calls witnesses. They
talk about fairness and who is in the
room. Our side cannot call witnesses.
Do you think that is fair?
Our side, the President’s own coun-
sel——
Mr. HOYER. That is your rule.
Mr. SCALISE. The gentleman will
have an opportunity——
Mr. HOYER. That is your rule.
Mr. SCALISE. The gentleman made a
lot——
Mr. HOYER. That is your rule, Mr.
SCALISE.
Mr. SCALISE. This is your rule. You
are in charge of the House.
Mr. HOYER. That is your rule in the
Republican rule that we adopted.
Mr. SCALISE. This is your rule. You
are in charge of the House.
Mr. HOYER. That is your rule in the
Republican rule that we adopted.
Mr. SCALISE. You are the one who
made the official decree.
This is my time. I will yield time to
the gentleman in a moment.
If he wants to talk about fairness,
let’s lay out the facts because these are
the facts: Our side cannot call wit-
nesses. The majority could change that
rule today.
I would ask the gentleman: Would
you be willing to change the rule to let
our side call witnesses and to let the
President’s counsel be able to question
witnesses who are, in secret, making
charges against him to try to literally
undo the results of a duly elected
President? Would the gentleman be
willing to change the rules to do that?
Madam Speaker, I yield to the gen-
tleman.
Mr. HOYER. Fine. We are going
under your rules.
Mr. SCALISE. These are your rules.
You are the majority party.
Mr. HOYER. When we were in the mi-
nority, we were not allowed to do what
you are requesting to do. We were not
allowed to do it——
Mr. SCALISE. We never tried to im-
peach a President——
Mr. HOYER.—in any of the hearings.
Mr. SCALISE.—with all due respect.
Mr. HOYER. These are your rules,
Mr. SCALISE.
Mr. SCALISE. And in all three cases
where there was an impeachment——
Mr. HOYER. Ask your counsel.
Mr. SCALISE.—the rules allow for
both sides to have fairness.
Mr. HOYER. Ask your counsel if
those are your rules.
Mr. SCALISE. You think fairness is
you being able to control everything
and not letting the other side——
Mr. HOYER. Madam Speaker, appar-
ently, he does not want to answer——
Mr. SCALISE.—participate.
Madam Speaker, I reclaim the time.
Mr. HOYER.—about it being his rule.
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Ms.
GARCIA of Texas). Gentlemen, gentle-
men, please. Let’s have some order.
Mr. SCALISE. I appreciate it, Madam
Speaker.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. You can
proceed.
Mr. SCALISE. So let’s look at the
process. Let’s look at the facts.
Yes, if you think it is fair that you
can control everything and deny the
ability for Members of Congress to go
in and see what is happening behind
closed doors in that room, if you think
it is fair to deny the ability for both
sides to call witnesses—hey, you get to
call your witnesses and you think that
is fair, and you don’t want anything to
be disclosed.
You talk about innocence. Everybody
is innocent until proven guilty. You
think the President should have to go
prove his innocence time and time
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:23 Oct 19, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00014 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K18OC7.031 H18OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8245
October 18, 2019
again, with anonymous sources in
many cases citing things that are inac-
curate, that have been disproven. But
you can lay false claims out, and the
chairman can lay false claims out, and
then the President has to go prove his
innocence.
Time and time again, we see that
even with these selective leaks that are
coming out of your committee—which
shouldn’t happen—many of those are
disproven too, but the damage is done.
Just like when the chairman opened
up the committee hearing with a par-
ody, stating things that were false that
were not part of the phone call between
President Trump and President
Zelensky, giving his own version of it
that was false while the public was
watching on TV thinking that was the
transcript, that is disingenuous. That
is not a fair process, but that is what
happened.
Just today and yesterday and every
day, we have had of members of our
party—I don’t know if any members of
your party have tried—but members of
our party who wanted to try to go
down there and read the Volker testi-
mony or sit in the hearings were
turned away because the process is
going on in secret.
This is not fairness. This is not how
it has always been done. If you really
think it is unfair, and you think the
rules should be changed, you do get the
control over that. I will write the rule
with you, and we will vote for it to-
gether. We could pass that rule today.
In fact, I filed a rule change with
Ranking Member COLE of the Rules
Committee to allow Members access to
these hearings.
Madam Speaker, I would ask the gen-
tleman: Would you be willing to sched-
ule this rule for the floor so we could
have more fairness in this process?
I yield to the gentleman.
Mr. HOYER. Does the gentleman not
trust Mr. NUNES?
Apparently, there is no answer to
that question.
Mr. NUNES is the ranking Republican
and very close friend, associate, and de-
fender of the President of the United
States. He is there to hear every word.
My presumption is he also can tell
every word to his colleagues.
Mr. SCALISE. Well, let me ask the
gentleman: Would he allow——
Mr. HOYER. Madam Speaker——
Mr. SCALISE.—Mr. NUNES to call
witnesses?
Mr. HOYER. Madam Speaker, he
yielded to me. Is he reclaiming his
time and shutting me up?
Mr. SCALISE. Well, you asked a
question. Could I answer the question?
Mr. HOYER. You didn’t answer it.
But if you want to answer——
Mr. SCALISE. I am trying to answer
it.
Mr. HOYER. Do you trust Mr. NUNES?
Mr. SCALISE. I would trust Mr.
NUNES to have equal access to call in
witnesses, just like Chairman SCHIFF
does, to subpoena people. Chairman
SCHIFF can do that, and Mr. NUNES can-
not.
Why is Mr. NUNES denied those same
rights that the chairman has?
Madam Speaker, I yield to the gen-
tleman.
Mr. HOYER. Madam Speaker, I
thank the gentleman for yielding. He
hasn’t answered my question yet, but I
will assert again——
Mr. SCALISE. I would trust him to
run that same fair process.
Mr. HOYER. I assert, again, to any-
one who is listening, we are oper-
ating——
Mr. SCALISE. But he is denied that.
Mr. HOYER.—with respect to that
under the rules that the Republicans
adopted in their rules package and ap-
plied to our side when we were in the
minority, Madam Speaker.
The same rules that they imposed
upon us they are now complaining
about because they don’t think they
were fair. Apparently, they thought
they were fair when they were applied
to the Democratic minority. But, ap-
parently, now those same rules—their
rules they adopted and voted for—are
not fair because they are in the minor-
ity.
Very frankly, what is good for the
goose is good for the gander. What is
fair to the goose is fair to the gander.
They are your rules, Mr. SCALISE.
You ask your counsel. We adopted your
rules on the issuing of subpoenas—your
rules.
Mr. SCALISE. With all due respect,
the goose is being cooked behind closed
doors because you started an impeach-
ment inquiry by decree. You could
change the rules today.
If this is an impeachment inquiry, if
it is—and I would ask the question: Are
we in an impeachment inquiry right
now?
Madam Speaker, I yield to the gen-
tleman.
Mr. HOYER. We are in an exercise of
our constitutional responsibility——
Mr. SCALISE. Of an impeachment? Is
it? Yes or no? Is it an impeachment in-
quiry?
Mr. HOYER. Is the gentleman going
to let me answer?
Mr. SCALISE. I would ask him. It is
a yes or no question, but I yield to the
gentleman.
Mr. HOYER. The answer is that we
are involved in exercising our constitu-
tional responsibility to oversee, to
make sure that the laws of this Nation
and the Constitution of this Nation are
honored in practice and in spirit but
particularly in practice.
Let me ask the gentleman a ques-
tion. Do you think it is okay to ask
foreign leaders to interfere in our elec-
tions?
Mr. SCALISE. Is the gentleman
yielding?
Mr. HOYER. Certainly. It is your
time, you yielded to me, and I am ask-
ing a question.
Mr. SCALISE. So as the so-called
whistleblower——
Mr. HOYER. You want to talk about
process. That is substance.
Mr. SCALISE. As the so-called whis-
tleblower complaint started with leaks
to the press, where they said there
were quid pro quos in the phone call
with Zelensky, that is where this all
started——
Mr. HOYER. Do you want me to read
you the transcript?
Mr. SCALISE. So a phone call, this
was before the transcript was released,
there were all of these insinuations.
And this is a pattern, by the way, we
have seen even going back to the
Mueller investigation. And again, I
cited the chairman running around,
saying he had more than circumstan-
tial evidence——
Mr. HOYER. Who appointed Mr.
Mueller?
Mr. SCALISE.—of collusion, and
there was no collusion.
So now we move on to this claim of
quid pro quo. Well, first of all, you can
name all the whistleblowers you
want—you won’t. You won’t even allow
the whistleblower to be interviewed,
someone who is trying to take down—
someone who was deemed to have a po-
litical bias is trying to take down a
President of the United States in se-
cret——
Mr. HOYER. Will the gentleman
yield?
Mr. SCALISE.—behind closed doors
with innuendos.
Mr. HOYER. Will the gentleman
yield?
Mr. SCALISE. Absolutely. I would
absolutely yield to the gentleman.
Mr. HOYER. When he is talking
about the whistleblower, is that the
person that the President of the United
States said ought to be treated as if he
had done treason?
And we know what we do to those
who commit treason.
Is that the whistleblower you want
outed? Is that the whistleblower you
want to expose to that kind of danger?
Is that what you are talking about?
Mr. SCALISE. First of all——
Mr. HOYER. Madam Speaker, I would
ask the whip——
Mr. SCALISE. If you would yield, if
you are talking about the whistle-
blower, we are talking about a whistle-
blower, again, who is deemed to have a
political bias who got all of their infor-
mation secondhand.
And oh, by the way, the standard for
being a whistleblower used to be first-
hand information and, secretly, days
before the whistleblower complaint was
filed, after going to Chairman SCHIFF’s
staff and working with partisans to de-
velop the whistleblower complaint,
they changed the rules for even desig-
nating what is a whistleblower so it
could allow secondhand information.
Who changed that rule? Boy, we
would sure be curious to find out. But
you don’t want us to find all that out
because you are holding all of this in
secret.
Shouldn’t we know what is really
going on and what is behind this so-
called whistleblower complaint that
has been debunked?
So many of those claims were de-
bunked. There was no quid pro quo. In
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:23 Oct 19, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00015 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K18OC7.033 H18OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8246 October 18, 2019
fact, the two people who were on the
phone call, the ones who are really in
question here, both said there was
nothing wrong, both of them.
In fact, Zelensky said there was no
pressure. He wasn’t even aware that
any funds were being held up. He
praised the President for selling Jav-
elin missiles to Ukraine, which, by the
way, Barack Obama would not sell
when he was President of the United
States. He withheld the Javelin mis-
siles that Ukraine was asking for to de-
fend themselves against Russia.
Again, we talk about Russia. Who
stood up to Russia? President Trump
stood up to Russia by allowing Ukraine
to buy the Javelin missiles to bust the
tanks. Barack Obama wouldn’t sell
those. I don’t know why he wouldn’t
allow Ukraine to stand up to Russia. I
don’t know why Barack Obama allowed
Russia to interfere with our elections
and didn’t do more to stop it.
But we should be getting to the bot-
tom of that, yet we are not because it
is all a focus of secrecy, drib-drab, se-
lective leaks to try to give a false nar-
rative. Our Members can’t go talk to
our other colleagues about some of the
things that happened in these hearings.
It is all secret.
We want it to be opened up. In fact,
that is why I filed a rule change.
Again, I would ask the gentleman:
Would he support a rule change that
would allow all Members to participate
and be involved in at least sitting in on
these hearings to see what is really
going on if you are going to ask people
to impeach the President of the United
States?
Again, it has always been done with a
vote of the House. Now it is being done
by a decree from the Speaker. And you
won’t answer the question of whether
or not, yes or no, it is an impeachment
inquiry.
The Speaker said it is an impeach-
ment inquiry, but we have never voted
on it. Why don’t we ever vote like we
did all other times to set real rules of
fairness?
They always set rules of fairness
where both sides got to participate.
Real due process, which is part of our
Constitutional duty, is being denied in
secret. That is what is happening in
that room right now.
Madam Speaker, I yield to the gen-
tleman.
Mr. HOYER. Madam Speaker, there
is no such rule. None.
Mr. SCALISE. There is.
Mr. HOYER. But Mr. SCALISE be-
lieves, Madam Speaker, the more he re-
peats it, somebody will believe it.
Mr. SCALISE. Well, why are Mem-
bers being denied entrance to the
room?
Mr. HOYER. Have you yielded to me?
Mr. SCALISE. They are being turned
away today.
Mr. HOYER. Have you yielded to me?
Mr. SCALISE. I yield to the gen-
tleman.
Mr. HOYER. There is no such rule.
There are no requirements for any
committee to undertake any investiga-
tion that you have to have a rule
passed by this House.
And the gentleman apparently thinks
that, by having an investigation and an
inquiry, somehow that is an impeach-
ment; it is not. He is absolutely right.
To impeach would have to have a
vote of this House. Clearly, that is cor-
rect. That is consistent with the Con-
stitution and the laws of this country.
There is nothing that says—other than
the Republicans who repeat it ad nau-
seam because they are hopeful that
some people will believe what they say,
that somehow it is unfair that Demo-
crats and Republicans are sitting to-
gether as the constituted Permanent
Select Committee on Intelligence look-
ing at this matter.
Everybody has a right to ask a ques-
tion in that room. All Members have a
right to review the materials.
What he doesn’t like is the rule that
they put in place, Madam Speaker,
about who can call witnesses.
b 1145
They said the minority could not call
witnesses unless the chairman and the
committee approved of it. That is their
rule, not our rule. We adopted our rule.
We kept that rule in.
I asked the gentleman, Madam
Speaker, a question. Does he believe it
is right for a President of the United
States to seek foreign interference in
our elections? He has not answered
that question.
Here is the—it is not a transcript. It
is a report of the conversation, which
came from the White House. I would
hope we could count on its accuracy.
President: ‘‘I would like you to do us
a favor, though.’’
What do you think ‘‘though’’ means?
Yes, I know you want something, but
I would like to you do a favor,
‘‘though.’’
Mulvaney: Aid withheld to press
Ukraine.
Now, he doesn’t say what it was for.
I get that. But you don’t think Presi-
dent Zelensky had any doubt: I would
like you to do a favor.
Now, the whip, Madam Speaker, has
not answered my question whether he
thinks it is appropriate for a President
to ask a foreign leader for help in the
elections, whether it was the 2016 or
the 2020 elections. I happen to believe
it was the 2020 elections.
He talks about Hunter Biden; he
talks about Joe Biden all the time. So
it would not be an unreasonable con-
clusion that that is what he was talk-
ing about.
Let me ask you another question.
Mr. SCALISE. Would the gentleman
yield on that specific accusation he
just threw out?
Mr. HOYER. Before I do that, let me
say, collusion, by the way, my friend,
is not a crime. What, however, Mr.
Mueller did find is that there was rea-
son to believe that there was obstruc-
tion of justice, which is a crime. He
said, however, that, under Justice De-
partment’s rulings, he could not indict
the sitting President, so he referred it
to us.
Now, he is not a special prosecutor,
as Mr. SCHIFF pointed out. The special
prosecutors who precluded the two
most recent impeachment proceedings,
by the way, did their work in secret.
They did their work as a grand jury
does their work.
And, by the way, I don’t think the
gentleman is a lawyer, but in the grand
jury, people under investigation do not
have the right either to question,
present evidence, or have counsel
present in a grand jury. That is the
prosecutors trying to find out whether
there is probable cause that a crime
has been committed by A, B, or C. And
at that point in time, if the grand jury
agrees, an indictment is laid down, and
then all the due process rights to which
Mr. Cipollone talked about in his let-
ter—he did go to law school, and I
don’t know how he wrote that letter. It
has been panned by almost every legal
scholar that has reviewed it.
But I will tell my friend, do you be-
lieve it is appropriate to need a favor—
clearly about the elections, whatever
election. Do you believe it is appro-
priate for us to ask a foreign leader to
involve themselves in our elections?
Mr. SCALISE. I thank the gentleman
for yielding because there were many
things that were thrown out there that
need to be addressed.
First of all, the Department of Jus-
tice disagreed with Mueller’s assess-
ment that he didn’t have the ability to
bring charges. He had full authority to
bring any charges, and he brought zero
charges.
Mueller had full authority to bring
charges and brought zero because he
found nothing, and Justice even said he
didn’t have——
Mr. HOYER. Will the gentleman
yield?
Mr. SCALISE. I am going to yield in
a moment after I go through the dif-
ferent claims the gentleman made.
It is real interesting that the major-
ity leader read selectively from that
conversation between President Trump
and Zelensky on: Will you do me a
favor?
So let me read you the full sentence,
because you are trying to take one con-
text and shift it somewhere else, which
has been done over and over by Chair-
man SCHIFF and others.
So let’s start. This is President
Trump:
I would like you to find out what
happened with this whole situation
with Ukraine. They say CrowdStrike.
That is the sentence where he said: I
would like you to do us a favor.
Not ‘‘me,’’ ‘‘us.’’
Please read the transcript. That is
what he said.
And when he said, ‘‘I would like you
to do ‘us’ a favor, though, because our
country has been through a lot and
Ukraine knows a lot about it,’’ the cor-
ruption was going on in Ukraine. The
interference from Russia, much of it
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:31 Oct 19, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00016 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K18OC7.034 H18OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8247
October 18, 2019
was emanating from Ukraine in 2016.
We know that. Don’t deny it. Don’t try
to hide that.
‘‘I would like you to find out what
happened with this whole situation
with Ukraine. They say CrowdStrike.’’
He is not talking about Biden. He is
not talking about some future election.
He is talking about the company that
was looking into the corruption and
the interference by Russia in the 2016
election. We still haven’t gotten to the
bottom of that. This is part of it. This
absolutely went through Ukraine.
And, by the way, in the NDAA, a law
that is on the books today that the
gentleman voted for and I voted for,
the law requires that, when the United
States of America is giving money to a
foreign country, they have to make
sure that they are looking into wheth-
er or not there is corruption. And so he
is absolutely looking into the corrup-
tion, because we are sending hundreds
of millions of dollars over there.
And before they sent the hundreds of
millions, the law—not his personal
preference, the law—says he has to
look to make sure there is no corrup-
tion. That is in the NDAA law that we
passed last year. That is current law.
And so the President is complying
with the law asking him ‘‘do us a
favor’’—us, not him. Please make that
note accurately. And then he asks
about CrowdStrike. Not Biden,
CrowdStrike.
We all know what CrowdStrike was
involved in. They were involved in
looking into some of the illegal activ-
ity that Russia was participating in to
try to interfere with the 2016 election.
We still haven’t gotten the answer to
that. I wish your committee would be
spending more time on that so that we
can stop it from happening again.
And so that is what he was talking
about. That is the context. It is not ac-
curate, it is not fair to try to read it
out of context and then go attribute it
to something else, because many have
done that.
‘‘I would like you to do us a favor.’’
And then he says, all of this stuff
that was happening in Ukraine, ‘‘they
say CrowdStrike.’’ That is what he
asked about.
Madam Speaker, I yield to the gen-
tleman.
Mr. HOYER. Madam Speaker, I
thank the gentleman for yielding, and
I know he is very interested in reading
the whole thing, so let me read him
some more of the report we got from
the White House.
The other thing: ‘‘There’s a lot of
talk about Biden’s son, that Biden
stopped the prosecution and a lot of
people want to find out about that.’’
So: ‘‘Biden went around bragging that
he stopped the prosecution, so if you
can look into it’’—that doesn’t sound
to me like the 2016 election—‘‘if you
can look into it, it sounds horrible to
me.’’
What do you mean he doesn’t men-
tion Biden? I will give you a copy of
this, if you would like, if you want to
read the whole—I have read the whole
thing.
What do you think Giuliani was talk-
ing about? 2016? No.
Two of his compatriots, of course,
million-dollar bail; the Ambassador,
fired. Why? Because she wouldn’t co-
operate with making a foreign leader
complicit in the elections of the United
States of America. She had the courage
to come testify, as did the security ad-
viser for Russia from the White House
in this administration.
Now, frankly, Madam Speaker, I
don’t think this is the time to argue
the case. The time continues to be find-
ing out the facts, finding out the facts.
And those facts, every day, are more
instructive, whether it is Mr. Giuliani,
the President’s lawyer, who was sub-
stituted, Madam Speaker, for the State
Department—a private State depart-
ment.
The gentleman still hasn’t answered
my question: Is it appropriate? I want
a favor. And oh, by the way, the
Bidens, you know, that Hunter Biden
and Joe Biden, you really ought to
look at them.
Everybody who has looked at this
has said, including the present pros-
ecutor—or the recently present. I don’t
think he still is the prosecutor, but the
subsequent prosecutor said: We looked
at this. Nothing there. Nothing there.
That wasn’t acceptable, of course, to
the President of the United States, so
he kept beating on it. And he had $391
million needed by our Ukrainian
friends to defend themselves against
the Russians, otherwise known as
Putin.
Maybe Putin didn’t want that money
to go to Russia, to go to Ukraine,
Madam Speaker.
We just did a resolution for which
Mr. SCALISE voted, and that resolution
essentially said that the actions taken
the other day by the President in a
phone call with the authoritarian lead-
er of Ukraine helped Russia, helped
Iran, helped Syria——
Mr. SCALISE. With all due respect,
the resolution does not say that.
Mr. HOYER.—and hurt our allies in
the fight against ISIS, and has now
reached an agreement that the Presi-
dent claimed some victory on where
the Turks got everything they wanted
and our allies are going to be pushed
out.
Mr. SCALISE. Madam Speaker, I
would hope the gentleman is not trying
to conflate Ukraine with Turkey and
Syria and the Kurds.
Mr. HOYER. No, sir.
Mr. SCALISE. Because you just made
that assertion, and that is not——
Mr. HOYER. No, I did not make that
assertion.
Mr. SCALISE. The gentleman did.
Mr. HOYER. What I said was that we
are going to obviously have, and the
committee is having, a hearing on that
very matter without a vote of this
committee, because it is their responsi-
bility. And your minority member, Mr.
MCCAUL, is for that resolution that is
going to come out on the Turkish sanc-
tions.
My point to you is there was no vote
of this body that they should do that.
They are doing their responsibility as
the Select Committee on Intelligence,
as the Committee on the Judiciary, as
the Committee on Foreign Affairs, as
the Committee on Oversight and Re-
form. They are doing their duty.
When they reach a conclusion, they
will come and report to us. And they
will report, perhaps, no finding, or
maybe they will report they have find-
ings and, as a result, this body will
vote.
But the gentleman has still not an-
swered my basic question: Do you
think it is correct for a President of
the United States—clearly, if you read
this—you wanted to read the whole
thing; you read the whole thing. Clear-
ly, almost everybody who has read it—
almost everybody who has read it, even
some of Mr. Trump’s friends whom he
is now mad at have read it and said:
Look, this was not proper.
I am asking, Madam Speaker, wheth-
er the whip thinks it is proper to ask a
foreign leader to interfere in our elec-
tions.
Mr. SCALISE. Well, first of all, there
were no foreign leaders being asked to
interfere with elections. Russia was
trying to interfere with our elections
when Barack Obama was President.
President Trump is in this phone call
and in other actions trying to get to
the bottom of how the Russians inter-
fered to make sure it doesn’t happen
again. And he also has legal authority
in the NDAA to focus on decreasing
corruption as it involves taxpayer
money, and that was what they were
discussing on that phone call as well.
But getting back to the issue of the
hearings, because the gentleman keeps
talking about the hearings and what
this committee might produce, as if
they are having hearings on a bill to
lower drug prices—which, by the way,
we could be focusing on lowering drug
prices. There was a unanimous bill that
came out of committee to lower drug
prices.
Mr. HOYER. Madam Speaker, we did
that yesterday, as you know.
Mr. SCALISE. But the gentleman
won’t bring that bill to the floor that
would pass and be signed into law
today, and families across America
would be paying lower prices for drug
costs. But we don’t get that oppor-
tunity because they are focused on an
impeachment inquiry.
And, again, it was the Speaker’s own
words. She said this is an impeachment
inquiry.
And so you are trying to play it both
ways. You are trying to say, oh, it is
just the committee doing a normal
hearing.
It is not a normal hearing. Every
time there has been an impeachment
inquiry, there were rules laid out by
the House through a vote of all Mem-
bers of the House—all three times.
Even going back to Andrew Johnson,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:23 Oct 19, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00017 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K18OC7.035 H18OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8248 October 18, 2019
they voted in the House; for Clinton,
they voted in the House; for Nixon,
they voted in the House, and both sides
had fairness, both sides could call wit-
nesses. That is not the case today. Only
Chairman SCHIFF gets to call wit-
nesses.
Oh, gee-whiz, other people can ques-
tion Schiff’s witnesses, but why can’t
everybody question DEVIN NUNES’ wit-
nesses or JIM JORDAN’s witnesses? Be-
cause they are not allowed to come for-
ward under your rules.
And, again, we have a rule, 103(a)(2).
You cannot say that Members are not
being denied entrance. The rules of the
House, which you are in the majority,
you can change, we can change. But
every time there has been an impeach-
ment inquiry, all three times, this
House established those rules.
And so you want to deem an im-
peachment inquiry by the Speaker’s
decree, not a vote of the House. Well, if
you are going to do it, then do it the
fair way that it has always been done,
where both sides can call witnesses,
both sides can issue subpoenas, the
White House can actually have counsel
to ask questions to witnesses.
Some who have made statements
that have been deemed inaccurate, you
won’t allow the people who were there
who can deem it inaccurate to come
testify because you don’t want both
sides of the story. You want to be able
to present some one-sided report and
say: Here, this shows us what we want-
ed.
Because if a prosecutor wants to go
and find somebody guilty, they can me-
ander around and look, but that is not
the way it is supposed to work. It is
supposed to work where the prosecutor
sees something wrong, then they go out
and, in a fair process, find it.
b 1200
That is the Justice Department, by
the way, the judicial branch, that does
it. ADAM SCHIFF is not a prosecutor in
this case. He might have been a pros-
ecutor in his previous life, but he is a
chairman of a committee in Congress
now. He is not a prosecutor, but he is
acting like one, and he is doing it in se-
cret, without fair rules.
I can’t go into that hearing, and you
can’t go into that hearing. Rank-and-
file Members can’t go into that hear-
ing. They are being denied, today, the
ability to do it.
And you could change that rule. If it
is truly an impeachment inquiry—and,
again, you won’t answer the question
yes or no, but the Speaker said it is. If
it is, then treat it like every other im-
peachment inquiry where there is fair
due process on both sides, not just your
side.
You might like the fact that only
you can call witnesses, but you know
that is not fair. You know that is not
a fair process. And it is not how it has
been done in all other cases.
Mr. HOYER. It is your rule.
Mr. SCALISE. So I would just ask
the gentleman, would he be willing to
treat this impeachment inquiry, as the
Speaker designated it, like all of the
other impeachment inquiries in the
history of this Congress that have been
held, in a fair process?
Madam Speaker, I yield to the gen-
tleman.
Mr. HOYER. Madam Speaker, Mr.
SCALISE ought to know this is not like
any other one.
I am not sure about Johnson. There
was a special prosecutor in the Nixon
case. Nixon fired the first one, Mr. Cox,
you will recall. Mr. Jaworski succeeded
him.
There was a special prosecutor in the
Clinton case. All of them did—not ex-
actly, because all the Republicans are
in the room that are on the committee,
members of the committee.
It is a Select Committee on Intel-
ligence. The Intelligence Committee
operates that way, consistent with
their rules and with your rule. You
continue to say we ought to change the
rule. It is your rule that we adopted in
our own rules. You didn’t like it. You
liked it when it was applied to us, but
you don’t like it when it is applied to
you.
Mr. SCALISE. We never had an im-
peachment inquiry. We are talking
about an impeachment inquiry, which
has been done before—there is prece-
dent—three times, and it has always
been done the same way.
You are now having an impeachment
inquiry, but you are treating it as if it
is a secret, closed-door hearing, which
it is not.
Madam Speaker, I yield to the gen-
tleman.
Mr. HOYER. Madam Speaker, the
whip continues to ignore the fact that
there were very different cir-
cumstances. There were two special
prosecutors with respect to Nixon and
one special prosecutor with respect to
Mr. Clinton. That was a radically dif-
ferent position than we find ourselves
in today.
Mueller, by the way, was appointed
by the Deputy Attorney General of the
United States, a Republican appointed
by the President of the United States,
Mr. Trump—not our guy. He appointed
him.
Now, he dismisses that the special—
he is not a special prosecutor, but I for-
get exactly what his title was. In any
event, he wasn’t a special prosecutor,
but he did, in fact, find that there was
reason to believe that there was ob-
struction of justice.
Mr. SCALISE. He filed no charges. He
had authority. He filed no charges. He
found nothing that rose to the level of
filing charges that he had the full au-
thority to do.
Mr. HOYER. That is inaccurate,
Madam Speaker. That is inaccurate.
Mr. SCALISE. That is accurate. Did
he file a single charge? Please name it,
because I haven’t seen the charge be-
cause it doesn’t exist.
Madam Speaker, I yield to the gen-
tleman.
Mr. HOYER. Why didn’t he file a
charge? And if you read the report, as
I am sure you did——
Mr. SCALISE. So you are acknowl-
edging he didn’t.
Mr. HOYER. He said: I didn’t file a
charge because I cannot file a charge
against the President of the United
States under Justice Department rules.
Mr. SCALISE. And the Department
of Justice disagreed with that, but he
had the authority.
Mr. HOYER. He was an employee and
working for the Justice Department.
He was under the aegis of the Deputy
Attorney General of the United States.
He was not an independent actor, a spe-
cial prosecutor. He was an employee of
the Justice Department.
And the rules that Mueller followed
under the Justice Department are that
you cannot indict a President. He said,
however, the Congress can take action.
He said that. He said we were the prop-
er authority to take action in a case
like this.
We are doing that.
He puts a lot of emphasis on ‘‘in-
quiry.’’ Investigation, inquiry, hear-
ing—it is a fact-finding process in the
pursuit of our constitutional duties to
find out whether high crimes and mis-
demeanors have been committed by the
President of the United States.
It is a hearing. It is an investigation.
Call it an inquiry. The Speaker said
‘‘inquiry.’’ I adopt that language—in-
vestigation, hearing, whatever the lan-
guage is.
Mr. SCALISE. But an impeachment
inquiry is different.
Mr. HOYER. But the substance of
these charges—and I asked him about
one. He hasn’t answered the question of
whether he thinks it is appropriate to
ask a foreign leader for a favor. He
says, no, he didn’t ask for a favor.
Mr. SCALISE. He asked for a favor to
look into CrowdStrike. Again, read the
sentence.
Mr. HOYER. Why did he mention the
Bidens?
Mr. SCALISE. A lot of people are
asking about the Bidens, by the way.
Mr. HOYER. That is reaching.
Mr. SCALISE. I don’t think that is
anything new.
Mr. HOYER. Because that was the
subject of the discussion, Madam
Speaker.
Mr. SCALISE. CrowdStrike was the
subject of the favor for us, for our
country, to find out how Russia inter-
fered with the elections.
By the way, all nine Republicans of
the House Intelligence Committee sent
a letter to Chairman SCHIFF accusing
him of ‘‘withholding the existence of
documents from the minority.’’
So, you want to talk about fairness.
Maybe it is fair for you to withhold in-
formation from the minority members
of a committee during an impeachment
inquiry—withholding information, hid-
ing it, keeping it in secret, turning
away other Members of Congress from
even walking into the room. And you
are going to defend that?
We would join with you today to es-
tablish rules of fairness. You don’t
have to make them up. You don’t have
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:31 Oct 19, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00018 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K18OC7.037 H18OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8249
October 18, 2019
to reinvent the wheel because, in all
other three impeachment inquiries,
they did it the same way where both
sides had true fairness.
If you think fairness—just because
you have the might doesn’t make it
right. You have the majority, so you
can call your witnesses and shut every-
body else out and ‘‘withholding the ex-
istence of documents from the minor-
ity;’’ that is not the way to conduct an
impeachment inquiry. And those are
your rules.
Madam Speaker, I yield to the gen-
tleman.
Mr. HOYER. Madam Speaker, we
adopted the rules adopted by the Re-
publican majority in the last Congress
dealing with this subject.
Mr. SCALISE. With all due respect,
we never adopted impeachment inquiry
rules. We never did.
Mr. HOYER. Of course not. You are
talking about subpoenas and right to
documents.
Mr. SCALISE. The last time it was
done was during Bill Clinton’s time in
office. That was the last time it was
done.
Mr. HOYER. Madam Speaker, he is
talking about subpoenas; he is talking
about the right to see documents.
Mr. SCALISE. I am talking about
fairness, both sides having equal access
to call witnesses, to counter things
that are said that are inaccurate,
which are, right now, not being allowed
to happen.
Again, it is in secret. Nobody can see.
You can make claims or statements
about fairness. The minority members
of the committee have just said it is
not fair.
So, you can make it fair. You can
bring a rule up that we would support
that would actually allow both sides to
have the same access to information
and witnesses. You could do that right
now. And I would ask the gentleman,
would he be willing to do that?
Madam Speaker, I yield to the gen-
tleman.
Mr. HOYER. I am willing to follow
the rules that you imposed upon us.
Mr. SCALISE. On impeachment in-
quiries?
Mr. HOYER. We didn’t have an im-
peachment inquiry.
Mr. SCALISE. This is an impeach-
ment inquiry. You just admitted it is.
Mr. HOYER. No, the rules of the
committee in terms of subpoenas and
witnesses. We are following that rule.
He complains about it.
Madam Speaker, he hasn’t answered
the substantive question. They don’t
have an answer to the substantive
question.
Clearly, the testimony that was
given yesterday by the Acting Chief of
Staff clearly indicated putting leverage
on Ukraine to get something we want,
and, clearly, the President mentions
the election of 2020.
Mr. SCALISE. And the Chief of Staff
talked about corruption, which is the
law, by the way. The law says we have
to root out corruption.
Mr. HOYER. Are you reclaiming your
time?
Mr. SCALISE. I yield to the gen-
tleman.
Mr. HOYER. The gentleman men-
tioned the Justice Department. Mr.
Barr is essentially Mr. Trump’s lawyer.
Mr. Trump mentioned him in the tran-
script, too—it is not a transcript; it is
a report of the call—and said: Talk to
Barr, and he’ll come over there with
you and talk about this corruption,
i.e., Hunter Biden and Joe Biden, not
CrowdStrike.
Mr. SCALISE. They did.
Mr. HOYER. Madam Speaker, the
Justice Department refused to inves-
tigate this case, notwithstanding the
waterfall of facts and information that
raise questions.
We haven’t resolved the answers to
those questions, but we are inves-
tigating them because it is our con-
stitutional responsibility.
And I would say to my friend: We
could go on for the next 5 hours talking
about this. We would not agree. You
would continue to talk about process.
My perspective is we are pounding on
the table because the facts don’t want
to be discussed.
The only reason I brought up Turkey
is because, by a vote of 354–60, we said
the actions of the President of the
United States were inappropriate and
dangerous and helped our enemies, not
our allies. That is what we said in that
resolution, and, very frankly, two-
thirds of the Republicans voted for
that because they were concerned
about our national security interests.
We are concerned about our national
security interests when a President of
the United States is talking to a for-
eign leader, talking about elections,
past, present, or future—inappropriate,
in our opinion, and, we think, inappro-
priate in the minds of the American
people. But we will see, and we will
have a vote on that at some point in
time.
But, first, we are going to find out
what the facts are, and we have wit-
nesses coming forward to give us those
facts, with every Republican member
of the committee able to be there, able
to question witnesses, with equal time
because we believe that is fair.
And, very frankly, he says: Well,
they don’t have a right to call wit-
nesses. They do have the right to sug-
gest calling a witness, and the com-
mittee can vote on it, under the Repub-
lican rules that we adopted.
So, Madam Speaker, I would hope
that perhaps we could go on, perhaps,
to something else because we are not
going to reach agreement on this.
We are going to continue to have
what we believe are fair, proper, con-
sistent with the rules, consistent with
the Constitution of the United States,
consistent with the laws of the United
States of America, to find out whether
this President has committed high
crimes and misdemeanors.
And then, when we conclude an an-
swer to that question, every Member of
this House will have availability of all
the information. And, very frankly,
Mr. SCHIFF says in his letter to all of
us, that once the witnesses have been
concluded that we can see that. What
he doesn’t want is to have the wit-
nesses reading one another’s testimony
and parroting it. That is a fair thing,
to make sure that we don’t have one
witness just simply adopting the testi-
mony of another witness. We want the
truth, not parroting of other informa-
tion.
So, I would hope we can move on. I
am prepared to continue to speak
about this, but I don’t think we are
going to reach any conclusion beyond
what we have already stated on both
sides.
Mr. SCALISE. Well, if both sides
wanted the truth, they would let all
witnesses be able to come forward. You
shouldn’t be so insecure in your claim
that you won’t even let somebody come
and give an alternative view of some of
the secondhand and, in many cases,
thirdhand information, by people who
have a political bias.
Madam Speaker, the gentleman
hasn’t answered the fundamental ques-
tion of the precedent that you are
trashing and rolling over and running
backward over is that there have been
three—only three in the history of our
country—impeachment inquiries.
All of them started with a full vote of
the House, and all of them had rules of
fairness where both sides could partici-
pate.
That is not the case here. That is not
fairness. It is surely not how it has
been done all the other times. Maybe
you think the other three times it was
done wrong and you have got a better
way, but the public doesn’t buy it.
That is not fair when you only let one
side tell their version.
Mr. HOYER. The polls reflect that
the public believes we ought to be
doing what we are doing.
Mr. SCALISE. The polls reflect that
there is going to be an election next
year, and they want to decide the next
President. They don’t want the Speak-
er and Chairman SCHIFF to be deciding,
behind closed doors, who the next
President will be. That is not how we
should be conducting business.
We should be moving on to other
issues, like those bills that would lower
drug prices, like bills that will address
so many other problems that families
are facing, where there is actual work,
bipartisan work, that is being done by
relevant committees. And they are
moving bills out, and none of them are
moving through this House in a bipar-
tisan way that could become law.
So, we sit here, just days away from
a potential government shutdown, and
what is the focus? The focus is on a
one-sided, closed-door impeachment in-
quiry instead of those issues.
Madam Speaker, I yield to the gen-
tleman.
Mr. HOYER. Madam Speaker, we
have moved over 250 bills to the Sen-
ate. A number of those are very impor-
tant bills in the sense that they affect
a large number of people.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:31 Oct 19, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00019 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K18OC7.039 H18OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8250 October 18, 2019
We passed making permanent the
Land and Water Conservation Fund,
and 133 Republicans voted for that bill.
It sits, languishing, in the United
States Senate, led by a Republican
leader.
We passed that anti-hate resolution,
and 173 Republicans voted for that.
We passed comprehensive back-
ground checks, and only 2 Republicans
voted for that. And 90 percent of Amer-
ica—90 percent of America—supports
that bill. It sits, languishing, in the
United States Senate, unattended.
We have passed 96 percent of the
funding of government prior to June
30—96 percent. It hasn’t been done be-
fore. It sits.
Not a single bill has passed the Re-
publican-led United States Senate—not
a single appropriation bill.
We passed a number of bills to make
sure that the ACA was stable and pre-
existing conditions—Republicans didn’t
vote for that. Well, actually, eight did.
It sits, languishing, in the United
States Senate.
b 1215
We passed a bill on climate action,
what the Joint Chiefs of Staff say is
one of the major challenges to our se-
curity. Three Republicans voted for
that. It sits languishing in the United
States Senate.
We passed disaster relief. That did
pass.
We passed a lot of health legislation
and prescription drug legislation. We
said that prescription drug companies
can’t pay generics not to bring their
product to the market. It is called
‘‘pay to delay.’’ We passed that. It sits
languishing in the United States Sen-
ate.
Now, it either sits languishing in the
United States Senate because MITCH
MCCONNELL is against all of those or it
sits languishing so the Republicans can
say: You haven’t done anything. All
you are doing is impeachment.
That is baloney.
Madam Speaker, we had a markup
yesterday on a major bill that is going
to save $345 billion, according to CBO,
and bring prescription drug costs down
for every American. It was marked up
yesterday. We are going to bring it to
the floor before we leave here this work
period, and we are going to pass it.
I don’t predict how many Repub-
licans are going to vote for it, but I
predict this: It will sit languishing in
the United States Senate.
We passed the Equality Act so that
every American would be treated con-
sistent with our declaration that all
are created equal, not just some. It sits
languishing in the United States Sen-
ate.
So don’t say we haven’t done any-
thing. Don’t say impeachment is tak-
ing all of our time. It is not. We have
one committee right now—other com-
mittees also—one committee now that
is giving attention, as it should. But
the Energy and Commerce Committee,
the Ways and Means Committee, the
Education and Labor Committee, and
so many other committees are dealing
with substantive issues to make sure
the lives of our people are better for
the people.
I could read another 30 bills like that
languishing in the Republican-led
United States Senate.
We are doing our work. The govern-
ment was shut down when we took
over, the first time in history the gov-
ernment was shut down when a new
Congress was sworn in—the first time.
We spent 30 days just opening up the
people’s government.
We passed appropriations bills. But
not one has passed the United States
Senate, led by the Republican leader-
ship in the United States Senate. So
sad.
We ought to be doing our business.
We are doing our business. We are
doing the people’s business. We are
making their lives better, and we are
going to continue to do it. And we can
do the same as well in dealing with the
constitutional protections and the pro-
tections of our national security deal-
ing with the President of the United
States.
Mr. SCALISE. Mr. Speaker, on so
many of those bills that the gentleman
mentioned, the gentleman failed to
point out the poison pills that were at-
tached to those bills to ensure that
they went out in a partisan way.
Case in point is the bill the gen-
tleman mentioned last night. I was
there in the Energy and Commerce
Committee. Again, you take a package
of bills—here are two different alter-
natives. People wonder why Congress
can’t get things done.
You had a package of bills to lower
drug prices that every Republican and
every Democrat on the committee
voted for, worked for months to put to-
gether—good work, sincere, dedicated
work by the people on the committee
of jurisdiction—passed out of com-
mittee unanimously to lower drug
prices.
Then, last night, you saw a package
of bills on drug prices that resulted, ul-
timately, in socialist-style price-set-
ting, and it went out on a party-line
vote. Not one Republican voted for it.
If you can imagine, in divided gov-
ernment—which we are, Democratic
House, Republican Senate with a 60-
vote requirement, and a Republican
President. If you want to pound on a
table and make statements, you can
send out party-line vote after party-
line vote and say they are over there in
the Senate, because you know, just as
well as everyone else knows, those bills
won’t become law.
But if you look at the bills that came
out unanimously, why is it that you
send out the party-line vote to the Sen-
ate instead of taking the bill that came
out of committee unanimously that ac-
tually would get signed into law by the
President?
Months ago, that bill would be signed
into law, and families would be paying
lower prices for drugs today. But you
won’t send out the unanimous bill. You
send out the party-line bill.
That is what happens over and over.
People see it.
You talk about government funding.
We are 16 days away from a shutdown,
and you haven’t even gotten an agree-
ment with the Senate on a 302(b) num-
ber—in other words, how much we are
going to spend.
You are going to have to have some
give and take. You are going to have to
work with the other side. But that
work is not happening because you are
focused on a secret, behind-closed-
doors impeachment inquiry.
It would be helpful if we had that
302(b) number and you went and got the
agreement, so go over there and talk to
them.
But don’t just send them party-line
bills. Send them bills that are serious
and have a chance to get signed into
law. You know which bills those are.
Mr. HOYER. Will the gentleman
yield?
Mr. SCALISE. I yield to the gen-
tleman from Maryland.
Mr. HOYER. You know how this
process works. Let them pass whatever
bill they want; we will go to con-
ference. We have our position; they
have their position. It is led by your
party. They haven’t passed a single
bill.
You talk about getting a 302(b). We
sent them an offer 30 days ago. We
haven’t heard any response. Your party
runs that.
You want to pass those bills? You
think they are wonderful bills? Tell
MITCH MCCONNELL: Pass those bills and
send them over here. Let’s see what we
do with them.
We have a two-House legislature.
Madam Speaker, the Republicans con-
trol the Senate. Let them pass a bill.
You say everybody is for it? Then it
ought to pass. But don’t say Democrats
aren’t passing. We passed appropria-
tions bills. We have passed substantive
bills on prescription drugs. We have
passed substantive bills on healthcare.
We have passed substantive bills on
education. We have passed a sub-
stantive bill on the environment. We
have passed climate change protection.
We have passed lots of bills.
Now, if they don’t like those bills,
pass their own bills and send them over
here, Madam Speaker. We will have a
conference, and we will try to resolve
it. That is how the legislative process
works.
Don’t say that we have to do your
work and our work. We have a perspec-
tive, exactly as you did when you were
in the majority, and you jammed us
over and over again.
We are not trying to jam you. You
had a perspective; we had a perspec-
tive. You passed your perspective. You
knew the President of the United
States, when it was President Obama,
that he wasn’t going to sign those. You
knew the Senate wasn’t going to pass
them. Your position was, however: No,
that is our position. We have a right to
do that.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:31 Oct 19, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00020 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K18OC7.040 H18OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8251
October 18, 2019
You were right. You had a right to do
that.
But you want to deny us that right,
like you want to deny us following
your rules that you say are unfair.
Madam Speaker, I don’t get it. We
have done our work. We will continue
to do our work. We will continue to do
our work on both sides of the ledger,
doing our constitutional duty and
doing our legislative duty, which may
be one and the same.
Mr. SCALISE. Madam Speaker, hope-
fully, we can get that 302(b) number.
Hopefully, Madam Speaker, if we want
to talk about some of these bills, I
would love if the majority leader would
bring the package of bills that came
out of committee unanimously, where
every Republican and Democrat came
together, not with poison pills, but to
show that we can actually govern in a
way that a bill can get signed into law,
not party-line games.
We all know the issues with the Sen-
ate. We can both agree on the dif-
ferences we have with how the Senate
operates, where they require 60 votes,
which means, in order to do anything,
both sides—not one side, but both
sides—have to come together.
NDAA, first time in over 40 years
where an NDAA bill came out that sets
the rules for our Department of De-
fense funding in a partisan way, it
should have never been that way. It has
never happened that way before.
Hopefully, we can find a way to come
together and address some of these real
problems and have real fairness.
Mr. HOYER. Will the gentleman
yield?
Mr. SCALISE. I yield to the gen-
tleman from Maryland.
Mr. HOYER. I thank the gentleman
for yielding.
Madam Speaker, it is a two-House
legislature. One is led by Republicans;
one is led by Democrats.
The reason we don’t have 302(b) is be-
cause the Senate couldn’t agree with
itself on 302(b)s.
I talked to MITCH MCCONNELL in Jan-
uary of this year. MITCH MCCONNELL
comes out of the Appropriations Com-
mittee; I come out of the Appropria-
tions Committee. Both of us said that
we need to get 302(a)s, which is the big
number. You then subdivide it into 12
different committees. He agreed that
we ought to do that, but he said that
we have to have the President agree.
Very frankly, the Acting Chief of
Staff, who served in this body, did not
want to do that. The leadership of the
Republicans had as much trouble with
him as we had with him. Just ask Mr.
Boehner and Mr. Ryan. He didn’t want
to have a deal. He wanted a CR. Actu-
ally, he wanted less than a CR because
he wanted to go back to the sequester
numbers.
That is why we don’t have a 302(b),
because neither the White House,
Madam Speaker, nor the Acting Chief
of Staff would agree.
Mr. MCCONNELL said: I am not going
to do anything the President of the
United States won’t do.
Unlike being the independent, Article
I body that we ought to be, acting inde-
pendently and then sending it down to
the President, and he makes a decision
as to whether he wants to sign it or
not, we are simply saying, in the
United States Senate: If he won’t agree
with it, we won’t put it on the floor. He
doesn’t have to veto it.
The public has to be so extraor-
dinarily confused and angry about our
unwillingness and inability to get our
work done.
Madam Speaker, we have done our
work. The Senate hasn’t sent us any-
thing. It is not like they have sent us
something that we have rejected in a
partisan way. They haven’t sent us
anything. They are too busy appoint-
ing judges that they think will reflect
their ideological point of view.
So I am frustrated, along with the
citizens of this country.
Everybody here who wants to do a 1-
minute or a 5-minute is really frus-
trated. I get that. I am hopeful we can
end this because we are not going any-
where.
But we are going to continue to do
our job. We are going to continue to
pass legislation that we think is for the
people, to make their lives better, to
focus on them, not us. We are going to
focus on the Constitution and the laws
of this country, to make sure that they
are faithfully executed and carried out.
Mr. SCALISE. Mr. Speaker, I thank
the gentleman.
Maybe we would both agree that it
might be helpful if the four leaders—
the Speaker, the minority leader, the
Senate majority leader, and Senate mi-
nority leader—got in a room and
agreed not to leave until they come up
with an agreement so we can actually
do our business and not wait that 60
days.
The Secretary of Defense has made
clear how damaging it is to our defense
if we don’t have a DOD appropriations
bill passed and signed into law by the
time this funding expires, how it hurts
our men and women in uniform.
Hopefully, they would all agree to go
and have that conversation and, ulti-
mately, get that resolved. Then, we can
take care of more of the people’s work.
Madam Speaker, I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
f
ADJOURNMENT FROM FRIDAY, OC-
TOBER 18, 2019, TO MONDAY, OC-
TOBER 21, 2019
Mr. HOYER. Madam Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that when the
House adjourns today, it adjourn to
meet on Monday next, when it shall
convene at noon for morning-hour de-
bate and 2 p.m. for legislative business.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from Maryland?
There was no objection.
CALLING ON VIETNAMESE GOV-
ERNMENT TO RELEASE MICHAEL
NGUYEN
(Mr. LOWENTHAL asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute and to revise and extend
his remarks.)
Mr. LOWENTHAL. Madam Speaker,
today, I am here again, once more, to
speak about an American citizen, Mi-
chael Nguyen, who is currently in pris-
on in Vietnam on vague allegations
and charges.
I thank my colleague, Representative
KATIE PORTER, for her tireless advo-
cacy on this matter, and the men and
women at the State Department, in-
cluding Ambassador Dan Kritenbrink,
for their work and continued support.
It has been over a year since Michael
was arbitrarily detained, hastily tried,
and harshly imprisoned on claims that
he plotted to overthrow the Govern-
ment of Vietnam, which no one—and I
repeat, no one—has seen any evidence
of.
Earlier this year, Michael was con-
victed, along with two Vietnamese
men, after a half-day trial. Michael
was sentenced to 12 years in prison,
which is longer than the two Viet-
namese men received for the same
charges.
Michael’s family has struggled emo-
tionally and financially with his im-
prisonment. His wife and four daugh-
ters only want him to come home.
He is currently appealing the length
of his sentence.
As a co-chair of the Congressional
Caucus on Vietnam, I call upon the Vi-
etnamese Government to do the right
thing: quickly close this case and re-
turn Michael back to the United States
and to his family.
f
b 1230
RECOGNIZING THE IMPORTANCE
OF SCHOOL LUNCH PROGRAMS
IN OUR NATION
(Mr. COMER asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. COMER. Madam Speaker, this
week is National School Lunch Week. I
rise today to recognize the importance
of school lunch programs in our Na-
tion, which provide low-cost or free
lunches to more than 29 million chil-
dren in nearly 100,000 public and resi-
dential child care institutions across
the country. I have great appreciation
for all the hard work the school nutri-
tion service industry provides to en-
sure our children are fed nutritious
meals.
As the former commissioner of agri-
culture in Kentucky, I understand the
importance of child nutrition pro-
grams. Quality food service at school
should be the least of a child’s worries
as they are navigating the school envi-
ronment and engaging in new learning
opportunities. The health and well-
being of our Nation’s children is some-
thing all congressional Members can
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:31 Oct 19, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00021 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K18OC7.042 H18OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8252 October 18, 2019
adamantly support. This is a main pri-
ority of mine as the representative of
several rural, underserved commu-
nities in Kentucky’s First Congres-
sional District.
As a member of the House Committee
on Education and Labor, finding solu-
tions to better serve our Nation’s chil-
dren is a goal we are constantly striv-
ing to build upon. I look forward to
continuing to support important pro-
grams proven to serve and aid our Na-
tion’s children.
f
HONORING THE LIFE OF LIEUTEN-
ANT SANDEEP SINGH DHALIWAL
(Mrs. FLETCHER asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute and to revise and extend
her remarks.)
Mrs. FLETCHER. Madam Speaker, I
rise today to honor the life of Lieuten-
ant Sandeep Singh Dhaliwal of the
Harris County Sheriff’s Office, who was
shot and killed in the line of duty 3
weeks ago today on September 27.
As the first observant Sikh to serve
in the Harris County Sheriff’s Office
and one of the first in Texas to receive
a policy accommodation to practice his
religion while serving as a police offi-
cer, Deputy Dhaliwal was a role model
for Americans of all faiths who want to
serve others.
Deputy Dhaliwal sold his successful
business to join the sheriff’s office out
of a sense of duty and a desire to build
a bridge between the department and
the Houston area Sikh community. He
was known for his energy, his opti-
mism, and his giving heart, coordi-
nating relief efforts for our community
after Hurricane Harvey and traveling
to Puerto Rico to do the same after
Hurricane Maria.
Deputy Dhaliwal’s service to our
community and to our country is an
example to us all. The people of Hous-
ton, Harris County, the Harris County
Sheriff’s Office and the Sikh commu-
nity across the country celebrate the
life and mourn the loss of this remark-
able man, a selfless hero who rep-
resented the very best of our country’s
ideals.
f
IT’S TIME TO STOP THE MADNESS
(Mr. KELLER asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Mr. KELLER. Madam Speaker, the
impeachment inquiry being led by the
House Democrats is a sham process.
Over the last 3 weeks, we have seen a
stunning lack of transparency, the fail-
ure to provide basic due process rights
to the President, the selective leaking
of testimony and information, and
Members of Congress being refused
entry to the closed-door hearings.
I was even denied this week the op-
portunity to review the Volker testi-
mony, despite being on one of the com-
mittees responsible for fact finding in
this nontransparent inquiry.
Since day one, Democrats in this
Chamber have been attempting to over-
turn the results of the 2016 election by
any means necessary. They have been
so focused on impeachment, that re-
cently it seems like this Chamber,
Democrats’ friends in the news, and
pundits cannot focus on anything else.
As Democrats continue to focus on
keeping the curtain closed on these
proceedings to the public, the minority
and the President, the American people
are left to suffer without passage of the
USMCA, bipartisan prescription drug
reform, and border security measures.
The people in my district, both Re-
publicans and Democrats, have repeat-
edly told me they are sick and tired of
this nontransparent inquiry, and the
fact that Congress fails to do anything
other than focus on tearing down the
duly-elected President.
It is time to stop this nonsense. It is
time to stop the madness. It is time to
stop the opaque inquiry for the benefit
of the American people.
f
AMERICA IS BETTER THAN THIS
(Ms. DEAN asked and was given per-
mission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend her re-
marks.)
Ms. DEAN. Mr. Speaker, by aban-
doning our Kurdish allies in Syria,
President Trump has allowed ISIS
fighters to escape prison, strengthen
Russia, Iran and Syria, and damaged
our reputation around the world. He
has also betrayed an ally that fought
valiantly alongside American forces
against ISIS and who lost 11,000 sol-
diers doing so.
The Washington Post reports that
American soldiers are sickened by this
betrayal. One retired four-star general
described the President’s decision as,
‘‘unsound, morally indefensible, and a
disgrace.’’ Our allies around the world
are also disturbed. They watched
America leave its friends vulnerable to
attack. They took note as a predictable
humanitarian crisis ensued. As The
New York Times reports, many now see
the United States as an unreliable,
untrustworthy partner.
The President’s decision cost many
lives, including the lives of children,
and it will have painful consequences
for generations to come.
As our dear colleague, Representa-
tive ELIJAH CUMMINGS, so often said to
us, we are better than this, America is
better than this.
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr. VAN
DREW). Members are reminded to re-
frain from engaging in personalities to-
ward the President.
f
THE AMERICAN PEOPLE DESERVE
FOR THIS CONGRESS TO GO TO
WORK
(Mr. ALLEN asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. ALLEN. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today in opposition to Speaker
PELOSI’s radical partisan prescription
drug pricing plan.
Let’s not forget the last time that
Speaker PELOSI brought healthcare
legislation it was rushed through this
House, and it doubled our premiums
and our deductibles skyrocketed.
There is no guarantee that H.R. 3
would lower the prices of drugs, but
rather, it could mandate a one-size-
fits-all government takeover of
healthcare. It could pose a grave threat
to innovation, research and develop-
ment, and ultimately patient access to
life-changing prescriptions.
The bill could have far-reaching eco-
nomic consequences that would nega-
tively affect jobs, the economy, and
trade. The pharmaceutical industry
employs over 800,000 workers and sup-
ports an estimated four million jobs in
this country. I know this firsthand.
Right in my district healthcare re-
searchers are transforming patient
care and creating local jobs at the
same time.
This week the House Committee on
Education and Labor marked up this
legislation, and, unfortunately, my
amendment was not adopted. My
amendment would have prevented in-
novation and American manufacturing
from moving out of the United States
to China.
The American people deserve for this
Congress to go to work and pass legis-
lation that is bipartisan and has a
chance to become law to lower drug
prices.
f
AMERICANS SHOULD NOT HAVE
TO DECIDE BETWEEN LIFE AND
DEATH BECAUSE THEY CAN’T
AFFORD PRESCRIPTION DRUGS
(Ms. GARCIA of Texas asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute and to revise and extend
her remarks.)
Ms. GARCIA of Texas. Mr. Speaker,
we all continue to mourn the passing of
our dear friend ELIJAH CUMMINGS. He
was an honorable man with a deep
commitment to our Nation. He inspired
many of us to always do what is right
and to seek the truth. It is, therefore,
fitting that H.R. 3 will be renamed in
his Honor.
It is wrong and immoral that Ameri-
cans spend more money per person on
prescription drug prices than any other
country in the world. No American
should have to decide between life or
death because they can’t afford their
prescription drugs.
This is personal to me. Many of my
family members suffer from diabetes,
as do many of my constituents. This is
why I support H.R. 3. Let us honor the
legacy of our dear colleague with ac-
tion. Let’s deliver lower prescription
drug prices for the American people on
his behalf and in his Honor.
Rest in power, Mr. CUMMINGS.
f
CONGRATULATING THE FLORIDA
AIR NATIONAL GUARD’S 125TH
FIGHTER WING
(Mr. RUTHERFORD asked and was
given permission to address the House
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:31 Oct 19, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00022 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K18OC7.044 H18OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8253
October 18, 2019
for 1 minute and to revise and extend
his remarks.)
Mr. RUTHERFORD. Mr. Speaker, I
rise today to congratulate the Florida
Air National Guard’s 125th Fighter
Wing on their return home after a 4-
month deployment in support of Oper-
ation Spartan Shield.
During their deployment, the 125th
Fighter Wing served as an essential
and direct combat support component
of that mission that provided intel-
ligence, surveillance, and reconnais-
sance in southwest Asia and contrib-
uted to a successful mission. I thank
these brave Air Force men and women
who are willing to go abroad and risk
their lives for our freedom.
We are incredibly proud of the more
than 1,600 Air Force men and women
who make up the 125th Fighter Wing to
provide 24/7, 365 air homeland defense
to combatant commanders worldwide,
while simultaneously protecting the
life and property of Floridians during
times of crisis.
I especially want to thank their fam-
ilies and the northeast Florida commu-
nity for supporting these brave men
and women before, during, and after
they are sent into harm’s way.
Also, Mr. Speaker, as a 41-year law
enforcement officer, I know what due
process is and I know what fairness is
when I see it. This impeachment proc-
ess provides no due process, nor fair-
ness.
f
CONGRATULATING MARILYN
MIGUEL
(Mr. VAN DREW asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. VAN DREW. Madam Speaker,
Marilyn Miguel is 18 years old. She
graduated from Vineland High School
with a 4.0 this year, and she received a
full-ride scholarship to Harvard Uni-
versity. She also has coordinated with
Harvard for their new community out-
reach program, Service Starts with
Summer, which encourages incoming
freshmen to create service projects for
their various communities.
As a first-generation college student
and a second-generation Mexican
American, Marilyn knew the impor-
tance of implementing a college prepa-
ration course for incoming seniors at
her high school. Her free program ran
from August 13 to 15, and Marilyn
made sure to create an accessible, com-
prehensive college prep course for the
people of south Jersey.
Marilyn says the goal of her program
was to help people discover their own
potential. Nothing could be more im-
portant. Programs like these are essen-
tial for the success of young people,
and I commend Marilyn for bringing it
to our community in south Jersey.
I wish Marilyn the best of luck at
Harvard and to have a wonderful year.
You are truly a star, and south Jersey
is proud of you.
DEMOCRATS ARE TRYING TO IM-
PEACH THE PRESIDENT FOR
FOLLOWING A LAW THAT THEY
VOTED FOR
(Mr. BARR asked and was given per-
mission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. BARR. Madam Speaker, we know
the Democrats’ hyperpartisan closed-
door impeachment process lacks any
semblance of fundamental fairness. We
know from the transcript between
President Trump and President
Zelensky that there was no quid pro
quo.
But what many people don’t know is
this: In 2014, this House unanimously
passed the Ukraine Freedom Support
Act, which tasks the executive branch
to use U.S. assistance to bolster demo-
cratic institutions of Ukraine and
counter corruption and improve trans-
parency and accountability of the
Ukrainian Government. Every Demo-
crat voted for this measure.
In 2017, this House overwhelmingly
passed the National Defense Authoriza-
tion Act, which required the adminis-
tration to certify as a condition of pro-
viding assistance that the Government
of Ukraine has taken substantial ac-
tions to counter corruption and in-
crease accountability. 145 Democrats
voted for that.
In 2019, the NDAA that passed this
House required that certification re-
quirement again, and 139 Democrats
voted for that.
So here is the bottom line: Given re-
cent elections, President Trump not
only had the authority to address the
issue of corruption in the call with
President Zelensky, he had a legal duty
to speak and secure assurances from
the new Ukrainian Government that
those anticorruption measures would
be carried forward. The Democrats are
trying to impeach the President for fol-
lowing a law that they voted for.
f
b 1245
REVIEW IMPEACHMENT PROCESS
(Mr. MEUSER asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. MEUSER. Madam Speaker, let’s
review some facts surrounding this un-
fair, partisan impeachment process.
To begin with, a whistleblower
claims to have secondhand information
on the President’s call with the
Ukrainian President. The White House
released the transcript of the call,
making the whistleblower irrelevant.
The Ukrainian President, the most
important witness, emphasized pub-
licly that there was no quid pro quo
and no pressure. Prior to having any of
this information, or maybe they did,
the Speaker announces an impeach-
ment inquiry, and over 200 Democratic
Members of the House agree, evidence
be damned.
Since then, we have discovered that
the chairman’s staff met with the whis-
tleblower earlier than originally stat-
ed, yet stated that they didn’t.
All hearings were held in secrecy,
and there has been no due process.
Madam Speaker, a petty thief is pro-
vided more legal rights than the Presi-
dent of the United States. There is no
transparency of testimony to Members
of Congress or to the general public,
and there has been no vote for an im-
peachment inquiry.
It appears these impeachment pro-
ceedings are not about whether the
President did right or wrong or broke
any laws. It is only about scoring polit-
ical points while undermining the will
of the electorate.
f
LET’S GET BACK TO WORK
(Mr. LAMALFA asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. LAMALFA. Madam Speaker, I
rise today because I would sure like for
Congress to get back to work doing
what the American people really need.
It has been more than a year since
the USMCA, a trade agreement with
Canada and Mexico, was agreed to. We
still haven’t voted on it here in the
House, despite bipartisan support.
Why? Because a new and improved
trade deal with our closest neighbors
looks like it might be too much of a
win for the President for the Demo-
cratic leadership to allow.
Since the Democrats have been in
control of the House, what do we have
to show for it, other than investigation
after investigation? What have we ac-
complished in this Chamber for the
American people? Not what we should
be.
Hyperpartisan language has been in-
jected into bills that both parties
would otherwise support. Good, bipar-
tisan legislation on lowering prescrip-
tion drug prices that could pass com-
mittee unanimously languished be-
cause of hyperpartisan activity,
undoing the good work of our commit-
tees and hurting Americans who are
paying too much for prescription
drugs.
As my Democratic colleagues dive
headfirst into finding any excuse to im-
peach this President, they are leaving
the American people hung out to dry.
Let’s get to work. There are count-
less things other than this witch hunt.
f
ISSUES OF THE DAY
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Ms.
GARCIA of Texas). Under the Speaker’s
announced policy of January 3, 2019,
the gentleman from Texas (Mr. GOH-
MERT) is recognized for 60 minutes as
the designee of the minority leader.
Mr. GOHMERT. Madam Speaker, at
this time, I yield to the gentleman
from Texas (Mr. HURD), my friend.
Mr. HURD of Texas. Madam Speaker,
I rise today in support of H.R. 2420, the
National Museum of the American
Latino Act.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:31 Oct 19, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00023 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K18OC7.046 H18OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8254 October 18, 2019
As the lead Republican on this bill, I
believe it is my solemn obligation to
champion the gospel of the American
Latino, not only in Texas, not only in
Congress, but across the globe.
When you walk down the historic Na-
tional Mall, a sense of patriotism over-
whelms every American spirit. We
proudly celebrate our history, our inge-
nuity. We proudly celebrate the arts
and sciences. We acknowledge our sins
against our fellow man. We honor cen-
turies’ worth of heroic acts to bring
peace to the world.
But for nearly 60 million Americans,
there is a void when they visit The Na-
tional Mall, a hole in the quilt of
America’s fabric. That is why we need
a National Museum of the American
Latino.
For it is the Latino who has joined
fellow Americans in taking up arms
against oppression in defense of democ-
racy in every war since the American
Revolution; it is the Latino who has
contributed extensively to our Nation’s
history and culture; and it is the Amer-
ican Latino, through innovation and a
thirst for knowledge, who will help pro-
pel the United States into realms never
imagined by our forefathers.
Madam Speaker, I remind my col-
leagues present that the America we
cherish in our hearts would be a shell
of what she is today if it were not for
the selfless contributions of the Amer-
ican Latino.
This week, the Natural Resources
Committee has taken a critical step to-
ward the eternal immortalization of
the American Latino. This committee
has recognized that the American
image was painted by the broad strokes
of patriotic Latinos. This committee
has acknowledged the need to cham-
pion the accolades of American Latinos
past, present, and future.
Madam Speaker, I hope every Mem-
ber of this body will stand alongside
Congressman SERRANO, Congressman
CÁRDENAS, and I as we work to estab-
lish a foundation for the National Mu-
seum of the American Latino.
Mr. GOHMERT. Madam Speaker,
first, I want to pay tribute to a col-
league, Congressman Elijah Cummings.
We had political disagreements, but
in working together to help an Army
sergeant who was unfairly, inappropri-
ately prosecuted while serving and
being heroic in Afghanistan, I devel-
oped a great appreciation for Elijah
Cummings’ desire to see justice done.
It was an honor to work with him in
successfully helping Sergeant Derrick
Miller. I am proud to have Sergeant
Derrick Miller now working with me
and those of us that have started a cau-
cus, the Congressional Justice for War-
riors Caucus.
That arose out of sincere, worthy,
and quite able efforts by Elijah Cum-
mings. I had not been on a committee
with him, but it gave me an oppor-
tunity to see the heart of the man. He
will be sorely missed here in Congress,
and I am grateful to have had the
chance to have worked with him.
Madam Speaker, I also felt it was im-
portant to pay tribute to one of our
fallen soldiers. That is Master Sergeant
Mark Allen.
This is Master Sergeant Mark Allen,
his wife, and child.
I think this article from David Aaro
is very helpful in reminding people who
Master Sergeant Mark Allen was.
First of all, to become a master ser-
geant, with all the stripes above and
below, it takes many, many, many
years of devoted service.
Just for a little background, when I
was finishing college at Texas A&M
with a 4-year obligation of Active Duty
coming up in the Army, I was told by
an officer: Look, Louie, the best thing
you can do when you get to your post
is find a master sergeant that you like
and feel comfortable with, and make
him your confidant, because if he is a
master sergeant, he has been around
and has seen everything. You can trust
him, and he is one of the best we have
in the military.
It was very wise advice. That is the
kind of guy Mark Allen was.
This article says: ‘‘Retired Army
Master Sergeant Mark Allen died . . .
10 years after he was shot while look-
ing for a missing soldier in Afghanistan
back in 2009.’’ He has died at the age of
46.
Master Sergeant ‘‘Allen was unable
to walk or speak since being shot in
the head by a sniper in July 2009 during
his attempted search for Army Ser-
geant Bowe Bergdahl, who walked off
his base in Afghanistan.’’
The article doesn’t say it, but basi-
cally, Bowe Bergdahl was a deserter.
He betrayed his country. Even worse
than betraying his country, he be-
trayed his fellow soldiers who have to
rely on each other in a combat theater.
He simply walked away and went over
to the enemy.
This heroic master sergeant, Mark
Allen, dutifully went out into harm’s
way, looking for what they hoped was
not a deserter. They hoped that some-
thing happened, that the enemy may
have gotten him. They went looking.
He was leading, looking for what turns
out to have been a deserter.
In his service to his country, and in
his service to what he was afraid was a
fellow warrior who had befallen an en-
emy’s tactics, he got shot in the head
by an enemy sniper.
Master Sergeant Allen died 10 years
after he was shot while looking for
Bowe Bergdahl, the article says, who
went missing in Afghanistan. He de-
serted.
‘‘Bergdahl later pled guilty and was
dishonorably discharged, reduced in
rank from sergeant to private and fined
$1,000 per month over a 10-month pe-
riod for deserting his post and endan-
gering the lives of fellow soldiers, in-
cluding Allen.’’
In other words, we can thank Bowe
Bergdahl’s desertion for getting this
man maimed, paralyzed for 10 years,
and killed.
‘‘When Bergdahl was traded for five
Taliban prisoners’’—those are the en-
emies. Those are people who were kill-
ing Americans, and the Obama admin-
istration thought it wise to give five
people who had killed Americans, who
were enemies of America, give those
back so that they could go on killing
other Americans so that we could get
our deserter back from our enemy.
‘‘When Bergdahl was traded for five
Taliban prisoners and brought home,
Shannon Allen, Mark’s wife, didn’t
hold back her feelings for how he
changed their family forever.
‘‘ ‘Meet my husband,’ she wrote on
Facebook, ‘injuries directly brought to
you by the actions of this traitor.’ ’’
Our President, Donald Trump, ‘‘also
expressed his disdain toward the pris-
oner transfer of Bergdahl, calling the
decision ‘a complete’ and ‘total dis-
grace to our country and our military.’
‘‘During the trial of Bergdahl, Shan-
non testified that it took 90 minutes to
get her husband out of bed, showered,
and dressed each morning. She had to
use a pulley system, which was at-
tached to the ceiling to move him, ac-
cording to Task & Purpose.’’
Master Sergeant Allen’s ‘‘young
daughter also enjoyed climbing into his
wheelchair and sitting on his lap,
Shannon told the outlet.
‘‘U.S. Veterans’ Network posted a
tribute, calling Allen ‘a true American
hero.’
‘‘ ‘Master Sergeant Mark Allen, a
true American hero. Thank you for
your service, brother.’
‘‘His service will be held in
Loganville, Georgia.’’
b 1300
May he rest in peace and may some-
thing that we do here give comfort to
the family of this American hero that
was betrayed by a man who the Obama
administration traded five of our en-
emies to get back. That is a hero. If we
were going to trade enemies for any-
body, it would have been a guy like
this.
We thank Mark Allen for his service
and his incredible wife and daughter
for standing by our hero for the last 10
years.
I was here in the Chamber the last
couple of hours and heard the ex-
changes during the colloquy between
STEVE SCALISE and Leader HOYER. I
heard the comment that ADAM SCHIFF
is fair and judicious. And I hope the
Parliamentarian won’t get nervous, be-
cause I am going to adeptly avoid vio-
lating the rules.
Congressman ADAM SCHIFF, back in
2007, 2008, 2009, 2010, we were on the Ju-
diciary Committee together, and we
had two Federal judges who needed to
be impeached. They needed to be elimi-
nated from their official positions as
Federal judges. One had committed a
sexual assault, and the other had trou-
ble understanding that bribes were not
appropriate for judges.
Congressman SCHIFF was put in
charge, basically, of a temporary com-
mittee to deal with the impeachment
of those two judges, and during those
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:31 Oct 19, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00024 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K18OC7.047 H18OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8255
October 18, 2019
efforts, it was quite bipartisan. Repub-
licans had just gone into the minority
for the first time in many years. We
were in the minority, and Democrats
were in the majority.
I found ADAM SCHIFF very easy to
work with. I found that when he gave
his word on something, it could be
trusted. I found that he was a person
who was a pleasure to work together
with.
I have had trouble melding those ex-
periences with what I am seeing in the
effort to eliminate a duly elected
President from his position.
I heard our majority leader say he is
fair. So I would ask a hypothetical
question, not pointed directly at an in-
dividual, but just hypothetically: Is it
fair if someone lies for 2 years saying
they have overwhelming evidence that
a President is guilty of being a traitor
to his country and that there is no
question, the evidence is just over-
whelming and it is not just cir-
cumstantial, and it turns out there was
never such evidence?
Hypothetically speaking, I would
think that such a person’s fairness
would come into issue.
Hypothetically, is it fair to conspire
and collude with gossipmongers loyal
to President Obama, people like Clap-
per and Brennen who use potentially
third-, fourth-, fifth-, sixthhand hear-
say, to try to convict a President in
public opinion while remaining anony-
mous?
By the way, I heard reference to a
whistleblower who had no direct infor-
mation—he is a gossipmonger—that
there was fear for his safety. As an old
history major who has never stopped
studying history, I think we can take a
look at history.
If you look at this President’s time
as President, and even before being
President, people who have spoken out
against President Trump or candidate
Trump or businessman Trump, they
seem to still be around and talking.
I read about an Italian individual
who may have colluded with the Demo-
cratic National Committee or the Hil-
lary Clinton campaign in helping try to
set up candidate Trump so that our in-
telligence, with the cooperation, poten-
tially, of Britain, maybe Australia,
corruption in Ukraine, corruption in
Russia, trying to set President Trump
up. He was concerned for his life in
Italy and was asking security.
That is what brought the question to
my mind: Well, gee, who is he afraid of?
The people who have things to say—
even complete lies—about President
Trump are still alive and well and
kicking and lying, and they are out
there just spreading more gossip and
lies. They seem to be plenty healthy.
So the question arises: Who the heck
are they—people like the person who
was involved in the conspiracy to bring
down Donald Trump, who is he afraid
of? It shouldn’t be Donald Trump, be-
cause the people against him are still
out there.
Could it be that fear of safety could
be from those whom such a witness
could identify as conspiring to bring
down Donald Trump?
There are plenty of people who are no
longer alive who had been potential
witnesses against others in the Demo-
cratic Party, but it doesn’t seem that
there are potential witnesses against
Donald Trump who are dead.
So who would this gossip-mongering,
so-called whistleblower—he is not a
whistleblower. He is a gossipmonger.
He didn’t have any direct evidence. He
just wanted to create a problem for
President Trump.
People with whom he colluded knew
that President Trump, if they said: Oh,
he conspired in this phone conversa-
tion. He threatened Ukraine’s Presi-
dent. He did a quid pro quo in that con-
versation, it is very clear—we even had
a chairman represent from the chair-
man’s position that a number of times
in that conversation that President
Trump made clear that he was threat-
ening the Ukrainian President to ei-
ther get dirt on Vice President Biden
or else you are not going to get help.
Well, we know Joe Biden did that. He
is on video. The President doesn’t want
to talk about that, at least not the
mainstream.
Anyway, they knew that President
Trump could not afford to release a
transcript of the conversation, so they
knew whatever they were going to say
about what was in the conversation,
that would be the mantra. But it turns
out President Trump did release the
transcript of the conversation, so it
kind of messed up the strategy there.
They were already talking about the
President doing a cover-up because
that was the strategy: Look, first, we
will have this gossipmonger call him a
whistleblower. We will change the rules
by other Obama loyalists still in the
intelligence arena in our government.
We will change the rules because it has
always been a rule, and a good one, you
couldn’t be a whistleblower unless you
had direct evidence. So they had to
change the rule.
The inspector general, the new one—
not the one who was there previously;
he was a very honorable person—the
new one, not so honorable. And that is
why he dishonestly changed the rule
for whistleblowers so that you could be
a whistleblower and not have any di-
rect information at all. And he
backdated that so that it would go
back to the time that this
gossipmonger was actually coordi-
nating and colluding with the majority
staff on the Intelligence Committee.
We still don’t know if the Intel-
ligence Committee staff helped prepare
this so-called whistleblowing com-
plaint.
So when we hear the so-called whis-
tleblower, the gossipmonger is con-
cerned for his safety, well, it sure
couldn’t be from President Trump, be-
cause none of his enemies have been
harmed.
So who is he afraid of? Is he afraid of
the people that he colluded with to try
to bring down President Trump? He has
no basis being afraid of Trump.
As a former judge, sometimes you
have to sign protective orders. If some-
body came in with the facts that we
know so far about this gossipmonger,
my question would be: Who is he afraid
of? He shouldn’t be afraid of President
Trump in this situation. So who is he
afraid of? And that is a really good
question, I think.
So we have this Star Chamber pro-
ceeding attempting to remove a prop-
erly elected President.
We never had proceedings like this
trying to take out a President—never.
Since the Judiciary Committee was
formed, any time there was any effort
toward impeachment, it went through
the Judiciary Committee, which I am a
part of.
Apparently, the powers that be have
not been pleased with the Democratic
performance in the Judiciary Com-
mittee, so somebody figured out we are
better off politically—no matter the
damage it may do to our country, we
are better off politically having a Star
Chamber proceeding where we are the
only ones who go out and leak what we
want to be out. That way all of the ex-
culpatory evidence, evidence that
shows the President didn’t do anything
wrong, that doesn’t get to come out,
because, if it does, then we will demand
prosecution. So we will be the only
ones that leak information.
And we can legally make things
available to the press, so we will only
make those things available that are
taken out of context that help us ac-
complish our goal of trying to make
President Trump look bad.
I heard the Speaker on television say
that she was tasking six committees
with investigating President Trump,
and one of those, the Judiciary Com-
mittee, I am on.
b 1315
Sometimes we have things that are
so important to keep secret that they
are handled only by the Intelligence
Committee only in a SCIF, so it is se-
cured. But even then, as a member of
the Judiciary Committee, many times
I have gone to the SCIF to review clas-
sified information.
I remember on one occasion back
when the Democrats were in the major-
ity previously, I think it was the first
closed session we ever had here at Con-
gress, because it was desired to discuss
something that was classified, and I
came down here, was speaking right
here, and I was stopped by the majority
leader.
And he said: Wait a minute. We are
authorized to have this classified dis-
cussion, but the gentleman from Texas
is getting into areas that are above the
classified area. He is authorized to
have information that everybody here
is not allowed to have. So I was not al-
lowed to continue talking on that sub-
ject.
The point being, as a member of the
Judiciary Committee, we get into
things that are of a more secret nature,
classified information, that a majority
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:31 Oct 19, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00025 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K18OC7.050 H18OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8256 October 18, 2019
of our body here is authorized to know
and discuss and learn about.
So it has been quite surprising to be
locked out of hearings. And we know
that they are not so sensitive that only
the Intelligence Committee could hear
them, because they lumped in two
other committees, Foreign Affairs and
Oversight and Reform, so it is not
about just keeping it confined to the
Intelligence Committee.
But I specifically heard the Speaker
say that six committees would be in-
vestigating, and I am on one of those,
and, yet, I go into the SCIF, into the
hallway outside of the secure area, and
I am not allowed to go in.
I wanted to know who gave the order,
and the Democratic staff said: Well,
you know, that is the order.
Who gave the order?
Well, our boss told us.
So an unelected staffer tells two
other staffers that you are to prevent a
duly elected Member of Congress from
doing their job.
I wanted to know who gave that
order. Is it in writing somewhere? Who
gave that order? Who is it that is un-
dermining the election of over half of
the Members of Congress to prevent
them from being able to do their job?
Who gave that order?
They couldn’t say. They send out
more staff; not a Member of Congress.
It seemed a little cowardly to me. No-
body would come out. I was there with
friends like ANDY HARRIS, ANDY BIGGS,
and others. I went ahead and went
through the first door—there is an-
other door there—and they went apo-
plectic.
I am authorized to hear classified in-
formation. I am authorized to hear the
classified information that they were
supposedly listening to. But the truth
is, it is not classified. There is no rea-
son for it to be classified.
This is all a political show. That is
why there is no written order. That is
why there has been no vote in here to
proceed with impeachment, and it is
just wrong.
I don’t remember who said it, but
there was some historian that noted
there are many different—not many,
but there are a number of different
phases of a civil war, and only the last
phase involves guns.
But this sure feels like this coup at-
tempt is setting this country up for
civil war. I won’t participate in a civil
war, but our job here, our oath here is
to protect and defend the Constitution
of the United States.
I took that oath as a prosecutor. I
took that oath in the United States
Army—Active Duty for 4 years, inac-
tive Reserve for 2 more years. I took
that oath as a judge, as a felony judge.
I took that oath as a chief justice, and
I take that oath every 2 years, right
here.
And that is what a lot of us are try-
ing to do. But what is going on around
here is not fair. It is not just. It is
against the House rules. The House
rules are very clear: If there was not a
specific rule in ‘‘Jefferson’s Manual
and Rules of the House of Representa-
tives,’’ as adopted every 2 years, then
the precedence is what is the rule in
that case.
And the precedence on impeachment,
it goes through the Judiciary Com-
mittee, and it doesn’t happen anything
like what is happening now. It is true.
The majority could come in here and
have a vote and amend the rules so
they could defy all precedent on im-
peachment. But for some reason, they
prefer to break the rules rather than
simply come in and do what they can
as majority. They can change the rule
any time they get ready. They have got
enough votes to do that.
They won’t do that. For some reason,
they prefer to break the rules. This is
not good. Kids across America see what
is going on.
They are not taught history like they
once were. Why? Because since we have
the Department of Education and it
mandates the Federal test—oh, yeah,
you can come up with your own test,
but here is what has to be on there.
And if a child fails that, then you don’t
get any of your money back for that
child’s year in school. So everybody is
scared. Many schools drop history,
drop civics.
That is why a survey in recent years
indicated college students could name
The Three Stooges in greater numbers
than they could name the three
branches of government.
So they don’t know as much as they
used to about what goes on here. But
when they see that if you are in the
majority, you can break the rules any
time you want, if you dislike some
other elected official—like a Presi-
dent—and just try to eliminate him
from office, then it is okay.
In other words, the new Constitution
for America, apparently, based on what
we are seeing going on here on Capitol
Hill, is that if you are in the majority,
then the ends justify the means.
Since I have been here, there were
times we were in the majority when
there were Republicans—thank God
they were in a small number—but they
thought the ends justified the means.
It didn’t for them, and it doesn’t for
anybody else.
This little experiment in self-govern-
ment, we know won’t last forever. Any-
body that studied history at all knows,
no country, no government lasts for-
ever. And we are on borrowed time
right now, because we are setting
records every day as the Nation that
has functioned the longest under one
founding document, our Constitution.
The Romans didn’t make it that long
as a republic. We are setting records
every day.
We know it won’t last forever, but
my commitment is to do everything I
can to perpetuate our freedom, and
what was given to us, as the greatest
country in the history of the world,
more opportunity, more individual as-
sets than any country, even more than
Solomon’s Israel. We are an anomaly.
And we have broken the record on how
long we can exist with the freedoms we
have.
It is time we come together and stop
playing political games so that years
from now, future generations will not
be rising up and cursing our names. We
need to come together and abide by the
rules and the Constitution so that we
have a shot some day of our children
rising up and calling us blessed.
That ought to be our goal. I yield
back the balance of my time.
f
ADJOURNMENT
Mr. GOHMERT. Madam Speaker, I
move that the House do now adjourn.
The motion was agreed to; accord-
ingly (at 1 o’clock and 24 minutes
p.m.), under its previous order, the
House adjourned until Monday, Octo-
ber 21, 2019, at noon for morning-hour
debate.
f
EXECUTIVE COMMUNICATIONS,
ETC.
Under clause 2 of rule XIV, executive
communications were taken from the
Speaker’s table and referred as follows:
2665. A letter from the Deputy Bureau
Chief, Wireline Competition Bureau, Federal
Communications Commission, transmitting
the Commission’s final rule — The Uniendo a
Puerto Rico Fund and the Connect USVI
Fund [WC Docket No.: 18-143]; Connect Amer-
ica Fund [WC Docket No.: 10-90]; ETC Annual
Reports and Certifications [WC Docket No.:
14-58] received October 10, 2019, pursuant to 5
U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec.
251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on En-
ergy and Commerce.
2666. A letter from the Chief, Pricing Pol-
icy Division, Wireline Competition Bureau,
Federal Communications Commission, trans-
mitting the Commission’s final rule — Up-
dating the Intercarrier Compensation Re-
gime to Eliminate Access Arbitrage [WC
Docket No.: 18-155] received October 10, 2019,
pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law
104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Com-
mittee on Energy and Commerce.
2667. A letter from the Assistant Attorney
General, Office of Legislative Affairs, De-
partment of Justice, transmitting the De-
partment’s report detailing the progress and
the status of compliance with privatization
requirements, pursuant to Public Law 105-33,
Sec. 11201(c)(2)(B); (111 Stat. 734); to the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary.
2668. A letter from the Assistant Attorney
General, Office of Legislative Affairs, De-
partment of Justice, transmitting a signed
agreement between the United States of
America and the United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Northern Ireland on Access to
Electronic Data for the Purpose of Coun-
tering Serious Crime; to the Committee on
the Judiciary.
2669. A letter from the Acting Adminis-
trator, FEMA, Department of Homeland Se-
curity, transmitting a report advising that
the cost of response and recovery efforts for
FEMA-3416-EM in the State of Louisiana has
exceeded the limit for a single emergency
declaration, pursuant to 42 U.S.C. 5193(b)(3);
Public Law 93-288, Sec. 503(b)(3) (as amended
by Public Law 100-707, Sec. 107(a)); (102 Stat.
4707); to the Committee on Transportation
and Infrastructure.
2670. A letter from the Acting Adminis-
trator, FEMA, Department of Homeland Se-
curity, transmitting a report advising that
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:31 Oct 19, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00026 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K18OC7.052 H18OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8257
October 18, 2019
the cost of response and recovery efforts for
FEMA-3417-EM in the Commonwealth of
Puerto Rico has exceeded the limit for a sin-
gle emergency declaration, pursuant to 42
U.S.C. 5193(b)(3); Public Law 93-288, Sec.
503(b)(3) (as amended by Public Law 100-707,
Sec. 107(a)); (102 Stat. 4707); to the Com-
mittee on Transportation and Infrastruc-
ture.
2671. A letter from the Administrator,
FEMA, Department of Homeland Security,
transmitting a report advising that the cost
of response and recovery efforts for FEMA-
3419-EM in the State of Florida has exceeded
the limit for a single emergency declaration,
pursuant to 42 U.S.C. 5193(b)(3); Public Law
93-288, Sec. 503(b)(3) (as amended by Public
Law 100-707, Sec. 107(a)); (102 Stat. 4707); to
the Committee on Transportation and Infra-
structure.
2672. A letter from the Attorney-Advisor,
U.S. Coast Guard, Department of Homeland
Security, transmitting the Department’s
temporary final rule — Safety Zone, Wil-
mington River, Savannah, GA [Docket Num-
ber: USCG-2019-0756] (RIN: 1625-AA00) re-
ceived October 10, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Transpor-
tation and Infrastructure.
2673. A letter from the Attorney-Advisor,
U.S. Coast Guard, Department of Homeland
Security, transmitting the Department’s
temporary final rule — Special Local Regu-
lation; Battle of the Bridges, Intracoastal
Waterway; Venice, FL [Docket No.: USCG-
2019-0508] (RIN: 1625-AA08) received October
10, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A);
Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to
the Committee on Transportation and Infra-
structure.
2674. A letter from the Attorney-Advisor,
U.S. Coast Guard, Department of Homeland
Security, transmitting the Department’s
temporary final rule — Safety Zone; Colum-
bia River, Bonneville, OR [Docket No.:
USCG-2019-0781] (RIN: 1625-AA00) received
October 10, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Transpor-
tation and Infrastructure.
2675. A letter from the Attorney-Advisor,
U.S. Coast Guard, Department of Homeland
Security, transmitting the Department’s
temporary final rule — Safety Zone; San
Juan Harbor, San Juan, PR [Docket No.:
USCG-2019-0686] (RIN: 1625-AA00) received
October 10, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Transpor-
tation and Infrastructure.
2676. A letter from the Attorney-Advisor,
Office of Regulations and Administrative
Law, U.S. Coast Guard, Department of
Homeland Security, transmitting the De-
partment’s temporary final rule — Safety
Zone; Neches River, Beaumont, TX [Docket
No.: USCG-2019-0614] (RIN: 1625-AA00) re-
ceived October 10, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Transpor-
tation and Infrastructure.
2677. A letter from the Attorney-Advisor,
Office of Regulations and Administrative
Law, U.S. Coast Guard, Department of
Homeland Security, transmitting the De-
partment’s temporary final rule — Safety
Zone; Delaware Bay and River, PA [Docket
No.: USCG-2019-0782] (RIN: 1625-AA00) re-
ceived October 10, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Transpor-
tation and Infrastructure.
2678. A letter from the Attorney-Advisor,
Office of Regulations and Administrative
Law, U.S. Coast Guard, Department of
Homeland Security, transmitting the De-
partment’s temporary final rule — Special
Local Regulation; North Atlantic Ocean,
Ocean City, MD [Docket No.: USCG-2019-0634]
(RIN: 1625-AA08) received October 10, 2019,
pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law
104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Com-
mittee on Transportation and Infrastruc-
ture.
2679. A letter from the Attorney-Advisor,
Office of Regulations and Administrative
Law, U.S. Coast Guard, Department of
Homeland Security, transmitting the De-
partment’s temporary final rule — Safety
Zone, Delaware River, Philadelphia, PA
[Docket No.: USCG-2019-0784] (RIN: 1625-
AA00) received October 10, 2019, pursuant to
5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec.
251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on
Transportation and Infrastructure.
f
REPORTS OF COMMITTEES ON
PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS
Under clause 2 of rule XIII, reports of
committees were delivered to the Clerk
for printing and reference to the proper
calendar, as follows:
Mr. GRIJALVA: Committee on Natural Re-
sources. H.R. 2819. A bill to extend the au-
thority for the establishment of a commemo-
rative work in honor of Gold Star Families,
and for other purposes; with an amendment
(Rept. 116–243). Referred to the Committee of
the Whole House on the state of the Union.
Mr. GRIJALVA: Committee on Natural Re-
sources. H.R. 1568. A bill to assist in the con-
servation of the North Atlantic right whale
by supporting and providing financial re-
sources for North Atlantic right whale con-
servation programs and projects of persons
with expertise required for the conservation
of North Atlantic right whales, and for other
purposes; with an amendment (Rept. 116–244,
Pt. 1). Referred to the Committee of the
Whole House on the state of the Union.
DISCHARGE OF COMMITTEE
Pursuant to clause 2 of rule XIII, the
Committee on the Budget discharged
from further consideration. H.R. 1568
referred to the Committee of the Whole
House on the state of the Union.
f
PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS
Under clause 2 of rule XII, public
bills and resolutions of the following
titles were introduced and severally re-
ferred, as follows:
By Mr. POSEY (for himself, Mr. LIPIN-
SKI, Mr. WEBER of Texas, and Mr.
BABIN):
H.R. 4733. A bill to amend the Energy Pol-
icy Act of 2005 to provide for a low-dose radi-
ation basic research program; to the Com-
mittee on Science, Space, and Technology.
By Mr. BUCSHON (for himself, Mr. VIS-
CLOSKY, Mrs. WALORSKI, Mr. BANKS,
Mr. BAIRD, Mrs. BROOKS of Indiana,
Mr. PENCE, Mr. CARSON of Indiana,
and Mr. HOLLINGSWORTH):
H.R. 4734. A bill to designate the facility of
the United States Postal Service located at
171 South Maple Street in Dana, Indiana, as
the ‘‘Ernest ‘Ernie’ T. Pyle Post Office’’; to
the Committee on Oversight and Reform.
By Mr. MEUSER (for himself and Mr.
CARTWRIGHT):
H.R. 4735. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to allow a credit for certain
facilities that remediate and reclaim coal
refuse sites in the United States by pro-
ducing electricity from coal refuse; to the
Committee on Ways and Means.
By Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois (for
himself, Mr. DIAZ-BALART, Miss
GONZÁLEZ-COLÓN of Puerto Rico, Mr.
BACON, Ms. HERRERA BEUTLER, Mr.
POSEY, Mr. KING of New York, Mr.
WALKER, Ms. STEFANIK, Mr. STAUBER,
and Mr. STEUBE):
H.R. 4736. A bill to amend the Foreign
Agents Registration Act of 1938 to clarify the
coverage of political activities directed with-
in the United States by agents of foreign
principals outside of the Unites States, to
amend the Federal Election Campaign Act of
1971 to clarify the application of disclaimer
rules for political advertisements which are
disseminated online and to reduce the inci-
dence of illicit foreign money in elections, to
amend the Help America Vote Act of 2002 to
prohibit the collection and transmission of
ballots by third parties in elections for Fed-
eral office and to prohibit the availability of
funds under such Act to States which permit
non-citizens to vote in elections for public
office, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on House Administration, and in ad-
dition to the Committee on the Judiciary,
for a period to be subsequently determined
by the Speaker, in each case for consider-
ation of such provisions as fall within the ju-
risdiction of the committee concerned.
By Ms. CLARKE of New York (for her-
self and Mr. THOMPSON of Mis-
sissippi):
H.R. 4737. A bill to amend the Homeland
Security Act of 2002 to require the Under
Secretary for Science and Technology of the
Department of Homeland Security to re-
search and evaluate existing Federal re-
search regarding approaches to mitigate cli-
mate change on homeland security to iden-
tify areas for further research within the De-
partment, research and develop approaches
to mitigate the consequences of climate
change on homeland security, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Homeland Se-
curity.
By Mr. WALBERG (for himself, Mrs.
WAGNER, Ms. STEFANIK, and Mrs.
WALORSKI):
H.R. 4738. A bill to amend the Civil Rights
Act of 1964 to provide protections against
pregnancy discrimination in the workplace,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Education and Labor.
By Ms. CLARKE of New York (for her-
self, Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi,
Miss RICE of New York, Mr. ROSE of
New York, Mr. KING of New York, Mr.
KATKO, Mr. HIGGINS of Louisiana, Ms.
SLOTKIN, and Mr. ROGERS of Ala-
bama):
H.R. 4739. A bill to amend the Homeland
Security Act of 2002 to protect U.S. Customs
and Border Protection officers, agents, other
personnel, and canines against potential syn-
thetic opioid exposure, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Homeland Secu-
rity, and in addition to the Committee on
Ways and Means, for a period to be subse-
quently determined by the Speaker, in each
case for consideration of such provisions as
fall within the jurisdiction of the committee
concerned.
By Mr. RUSH:
H.R. 4740. A bill to direct the Consumer
Product Safety Commission, in consultation
with the Director of the Bureau of Alcohol,
Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives, the Di-
rector of the Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention, and the Director of the National
Institutes of Health, to conduct a study on
the safety and efficacy of tasers and fire-
arms, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Energy and Commerce.
By Mr. OLSON:
H.R. 4741. A bill to provide that the Federal
Communications Commission and commu-
nications service providers regulated by the
Commission under the Communications Act
of 1934 shall not be subject to certain provi-
sions of the National Environmental Policy
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:31 Oct 19, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00027 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\L18OC7.000 H18OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8258 October 18, 2019
Act of 1969 and the National Historic Preser-
vation Act with respect to the construction,
rebuilding, or hardening of communications
facilities following a major disaster or an
emergency declared by the President, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Energy
and Commerce, and in addition to the Com-
mittee on Natural Resources, for a period to
be subsequently determined by the Speaker,
in each case for consideration of such provi-
sions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned.
By Mr. SUOZZI (for himself and Mr.
KING of New York):
H.R. 4742. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to impose a tax on nicotine
used in vaping, etc; to the Committee on
Ways and Means.
By Mr. SABLAN (for himself and Mrs.
RADEWAGEN):
H.R. 4743. A bill to amend the Wagner-
Peyser Act to include the Commonwealth of
the Northern Mariana Islands and American
Samoa, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Education and Labor.
By Ms. FRANKEL (for herself, Mr.
COHEN, and Mr. THOMPSON of Mis-
sissippi):
H.R. 4744. A bill to prohibit the obligation
or expenditure of Federal funds for certain
agreements relating to the 46th G7 Summit,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Oversight and Reform, and in addition to the
Committee on Foreign Affairs, for a period
to be subsequently determined by the Speak-
er, in each case for consideration of such pro-
visions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned.
By Mr. LUETKEMEYER (for himself,
Mrs. WAGNER, and Mr. COSTA):
H.R. 4745. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to allow refunds of Federal
motor fuel excise taxes on fuels used in mo-
bile mammography vehicles; to the Com-
mittee on Ways and Means.
By Mr. BROWN of Maryland (for him-
self, Ms. SPEIER, Ms. ESCOBAR, Mr.
PAPPAS, and Mr. TED LIEU of Cali-
fornia):
H.R. 4746. A bill to direct the Secretary of
Defense to submit to Congress a report on
service waivers for transgender individuals,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Armed Services.
By Mr. CICILLINE (for himself, Ms.
SCHAKOWSKY, Mr. SERRANO, and Ms.
JACKSON LEE):
H.R. 4747. A bill to carry out an income-
contingent repayment program for Federal
Interest Free Education Loans for under-
graduate students, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Education and Labor.
By Mr. CISNEROS (for himself and Mr.
FITZPATRICK):
H.R. 4748. A bill to amend title 38, United
States Code, to extend increased dependency
and indemnity compensation paid to sur-
viving spouses of veterans who die from
amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, regardless of
how long the veterans had such disease prior
to death; to the Committee on Veterans’ Af-
fairs.
By Mr. CLAY:
H.R. 4749. A bill to provide temporary au-
thority to the Secretary of Education to re-
issue certain student loans to reduce interest
rates paid by borrowers, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Education and
Labor.
By Mr. CLAY:
H.R. 4750. A bill to amend title 11 of the
United States Code to make student loans
dischargeable; to the Committee on the Ju-
diciary.
By Mr. COHEN (for himself, Mr. SCOTT
of Virginia, Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALO-
NEY of New York, Ms. TLAIB, and Mr.
CARSON of Indiana):
H.R. 4751. A bill to amend title 31, United
States Code, to direct the Secretary of the
Treasury to regulate tax return preparers; to
the Committee on Ways and Means.
By Ms. CRAIG (for herself, Mr.
HAGEDORN, and Ms. MCCOLLUM):
H.R. 4752. A bill to accept land into trust
for the benefit of the Prairie Island Indian
Community as compensation to the Tribe for
Tribal lands that have been rendered dan-
gerous by the use and storage of highly toxic
nuclear materials, some of which also have
been inundated by flood waters, to release
the United States from related claims, and
for other purposes; to the Committee on Nat-
ural Resources.
By Mr. CRENSHAW (for himself, Ms.
TORRES SMALL of New Mexico, and
Mr. ROGERS of Alabama):
H.R. 4753. A bill to prohibit the Secretary
of Homeland Security from operating or pro-
curing foreign-made unmanned aircraft sys-
tems, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Homeland Security.
By Mr. CURTIS (for himself, Mr.
MCCAUL, Mr. SIRES, Mr. DIAZ-
BALART, and Mr. GONZALEZ of Texas):
H.R. 4754. A bill to express United States
support for Taiwan’s diplomatic alliances
around the world; to the Committee on For-
eign Affairs, and in addition to the Com-
mittee on Ways and Means, for a period to be
subsequently determined by the Speaker, in
each case for consideration of such provi-
sions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned.
By Ms. DELAURO (for herself and Ms.
MENG):
H.R. 4755. A bill to establish the Food Safe-
ty Administration to protect the public
health by preventing foodborne illness, en-
suring the safety of food, improving research
on contaminants leading to foodborne illness
and the chronic health outcomes associated
with foodborne illnesses, improving the sur-
veillance of foodborne pathogens (including
foodborne pathogens identified as antibiotic
resistant), and improving security of food
from intentional contamination, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Energy
and Commerce, and in addition to the Com-
mittee on Agriculture, for a period to be sub-
sequently determined by the Speaker, in
each case for consideration of such provi-
sions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned.
By Mr. DESAULNIER:
H.R. 4756. A bill to establish an Office of
Housing Innovation in the Department of
Housing and Urban Development to assist in
exploring and developing new approaches for
increasing and diversifying the supply of
housing and for meeting the challenges of
housing shortages, housing affordability, and
traffic congestion, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Financial Services.
By Mr. FOSTER (for himself, Mr.
RYAN, Mr. RUSH, Mr. MCGOVERN, Ms.
UNDERWOOD, and Mr. SWALWELL of
California):
H.R. 4757. A bill to prioritize funding for an
expanded and sustained national investment
in basic science research; to the Committee
on the Budget, and in addition to the Com-
mittees on Science, Space, and Technology,
and Armed Services, for a period to be subse-
quently determined by the Speaker, in each
case for consideration of such provisions as
fall within the jurisdiction of the committee
concerned.
By Mr. GRIFFITH:
H.R. 4758. A bill to require the Secretary of
Health and Human Services to establish a
national sexual assault care and treatment
task force; and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Energy and Commerce, and in
addition to the Committees on Ways and
Means, and the Judiciary, for a period to be
subsequently determined by the Speaker, in
each case for consideration of such provi-
sions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned.
By Mr. KEVIN HERN of Oklahoma:
H.R. 4759. A bill to increase emergency and
disaster relief response, build safer commu-
nities, strengthen Second Amendment
rights, streamline administrative reviews,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Transportation and Infrastructure.
By Mr. KEVIN HERN of Oklahoma:
H.R. 4760. A bill to bolster the domestic
workforce by encouraging communication
between career and technical education in-
stitutions and emphasizing potential em-
ployment opportunities, to amend the Inter-
nal Revenue Code of 1986 to treat certain
costs relating to career and technical edu-
cation as qualified higher education expenses
for purposes of section 529 programs, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Ways
and Means, and in addition to the Commit-
tees on Education and Labor, Transportation
and Infrastructure, Armed Services, and
Small Business, for a period to be subse-
quently determined by the Speaker, in each
case for consideration of such provisions as
fall within the jurisdiction of the committee
concerned.
By Mr. HIGGINS of Louisiana (for him-
self, Ms. CLARKE of New York, Mr.
ROGERS of Alabama, Mr. KATKO, Mr.
ROSE of New York, Mr. KING of New
York, Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania,
and Mr. MCCAUL):
H.R. 4761. A bill to ensure U.S. Customs
and Border Protection officers, agents, and
other personnel have adequate synthetic
opioid detection equipment, that the Depart-
ment of Homeland Security has a process to
update synthetic opioid detection capability,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Homeland Security, and in addition to the
Committee on Ways and Means, for a period
to be subsequently determined by the Speak-
er, in each case for consideration of such pro-
visions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned.
By Mr. HILL of Arkansas (for himself
and Mr. SCHWEIKERT):
H.R. 4762. A bill to amend the Securities
Act of 1933 to codify certain qualifications of
individuals as accredited investors for pur-
poses of the securities laws; to the Com-
mittee on Financial Services.
By Ms. KAPTUR (for herself, Mr. RYAN,
Mrs. BEATTY, Ms. FUDGE, Mr. GIBBS,
Mr. STIVERS, Mr. GONZALEZ of Ohio,
and Mr. JOYCE of Ohio):
H.R. 4763. A bill to extend the limited
wraparound coverage pilot program for an
additional 5 years, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
By Ms. MATSUI (for herself, Mr. BILI-
RAKIS, and Ms. PINGREE):
H.R. 4764. A bill to reauthorize the Stem
Cell Therapeutic and Research Act of 2005,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Energy and Commerce.
By Mr. MEADOWS:
H.R. 4765. A bill to amend the Food Secu-
rity Act of 1985 to provide for certain pay-
ment limitations with respect to commodity
programs, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Agriculture.
By Mr. YOUNG:
H.R. 4766. A bill to amend title 46, United
States Code, to exclude certain aquaculture
workers from treatment as seamen for the
purpose of liability in the event of injury or
death, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Transportation and Infrastruc-
ture, and in addition to the Committee on
the Judiciary, for a period to be subse-
quently determined by the Speaker, in each
case for consideration of such provisions as
fall within the jurisdiction of the committee
concerned.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:31 Oct 19, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00028 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\L18OC7.100 H18OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8259
October 18, 2019
By Mr. SCALISE (for himself and Mr.
COLE):
H. Res. 639. A resolution requiring that all
Members have non-participatory access to
committee proceedings related to matters
referred to by the Speaker in her announce-
ment of September 24, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Rules.
By Mr. PALMER (for himself, Mr.
MOONEY of West Virginia, Mr. HICE of
Georgia, Mr. DUNCAN, Mr. ADERHOLT,
Mr. BUCK, Mr. LAMBORN, Mr.
FULCHER, Mr. GAETZ, Mr. WRIGHT,
Mr. GROTHMAN, Mr. BILIRAKIS, Mrs.
HARTZLER, Mr. HILL of Arkansas, Mr.
ABRAHAM, Mr. BYRNE, Mr.
FLEISCHMANN, Mr. MEADOWS, Mr.
BUDD, Mr. ROY, Mr. CLOUD, Mr.
BABIN, Mr. WEBER of Texas, Mr.
GIANFORTE, Mr. BROOKS of Alabama,
Mr. FORTENBERRY, Mr. MARSHALL,
Mr. RUTHERFORD, Mr. SPANO, Mr.
KELLY of Mississippi, Mr. JOHNSON of
Louisiana, Mr. RATCLIFFE, Mr. WALK-
ER, Mr. BIGGS, Mrs. MILLER, Mr.
WENSTRUP, Mr. SMITH of New Jersey,
Mr. MULLIN, Mrs. RODGERS of Wash-
ington, Mr. MOOLENAAR, Mr.
WESTERMAN, and Ms. FOXX of North
Carolina):
H. Res. 640. A resolution condemning the
global persecution of Christians; to the Com-
mittee on Foreign Affairs.
By Mr. GRIJALVA (for himself, Miss
GONZÁLEZ-COLÓN of Puerto Rico, Mr.
SAN NICOLAS, Mr. SABLAN, and Ms.
PLASKETT):
H. Res. 641. A resolution acknowledging
that the decisions rendered by the United
States Supreme Court in the so-called Insu-
lar Cases rest on the same racist and ethno-
centric assumptions leading to Plessy v. Fer-
guson’s infamous ‘‘separate but equal’’ doc-
trine, that the legal doctrine emanating
from the Insular Cases has no place in
United States Constitutional law, and that
the Insular Cases must be rejected in their
entirety; to the Committee on the Judiciary,
and in addition to the Committee on Natural
Resources, for a period to be subsequently
determined by the Speaker, in each case for
consideration of such provisions as fall with-
in the jurisdiction of the committee con-
cerned.
By Mr. BLUMENAUER (for himself and
Mr. ZELDIN):
H. Res. 642. A resolution recognizing the
contributions of American Viticultural
Areas and winegrowing regions; to the Com-
mittee on Ways and Means.
By Ms. HERRERA BEUTLER (for her-
self and Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD):
H. Res. 643. A resolution recognizing wom-
en’s cardiovascular health as a critical
health care priority that affects every State
and contributes to increased health care
costs, and promoting the necessity of in-
creased awareness of and education on the
symptoms for heart disease among women,
gender-specific cardiovascular disease re-
search, and policy action to alleviate the
risks of heart disease among women; to the
Committee on Energy and Commerce.
By Mr. PAPPAS (for himself, Mr. BILI-
RAKIS, and Mr. SARBANES):
H. Res. 644. A resolution expressing support
for the designation of October 28 as ‘‘Oxi
Day’’ to commemorate the anniversary of
Greek Prime Minister Ioannis Metaxas’ an-
swer of ‘‘Oxi!’’ or ‘‘No!’’ to surrender to the
Axis forces, inflicting a fatal wound that
helped save democracy for the world; to the
Committee on Oversight and Reform.
By Mr. TRONE (for himself, Ms. WIL-
SON of Florida, Ms. FUDGE, Mrs. LEE
of Nevada, Ms. JUDY CHU of Cali-
fornia, Ms. JACKSON LEE, Mr. PAYNE,
Ms. CLARKE of New York, and Ms.
HOULAHAN):
H. Res. 645. A resolution expressing support
for the designation of October 11, 2019, as the
Day of the Girl Child in the United States,
and celebrating the International Day of the
Girl Child in the United States; to the Com-
mittee on Education and Labor.
f
CONSTITUTIONAL AUTHORITY
STATEMENT
Pursuant to clause 7 of rule XII of
the Rules of the House of Representa-
tives, the following statements are sub-
mitted regarding the specific powers
granted to Congress in the Constitu-
tion to enact the accompanying bill or
joint resolution.
By Mr. POSEY:
H.R. 4733.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
U.S. Constitution, Article I, Section 8,
Clause 18:
‘‘The Congress shall have Power . . . To
make all Laws which shall be necessary and
proper for carrying into Execution the fore-
going Powers, and all other Powers vested by
this Constitution in the Government of the
United States, or in any Department or Offi-
cer thereof.’’
By Mr. BUCSHON:
H.R. 4734.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, clause 7 of the United
States Constitution provides Congress with
the power to establish post offices and post
roads.
By Mr. MEUSER:
H.R. 4735.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8 of the Constitution of
the United States.
By Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois:
H.R. 4736.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the U.S. Constitu-
tion under the General Welfare Clause.
By Ms. CLARKE of New York:
H.R. 4737.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8
By Mr. WALBERG:
H.R. 4738.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 3 of the Con-
stitution of the United States; the power to
regulate commerce among the several states.
The purpose of the bill is to amend the
Civil Rights Act of 1964 to provide protec-
tions against pregnancy discrimination in
the workplace, and for other purposes.
By Ms. CLARKE of New York:
H.R. 4739.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8
By Mr. RUSH:
H.R. 4740.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8
By Mr. OLSON:
H.R. 4741.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8
By Mr. SUOZZI:
H.R. 4742.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the Constitution of
the United States.
By Mr. SABLAN:
H.R. 4743.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Under Article 1, Section 8 of the Constitu-
tion.
By Ms. FRANKEL:
H.R. 4744.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8
By Mr. LUETKEMEYER:
H.R. 4745.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
The Constitutional authority on which
this bill rests is the power of Congress to lay
and collect taxes, duties, imposts, and ex-
cises to pay the debts and provide for the
common Defense and general welfare of the
United States, as enumerated in Article I,
Section 8, Clause 1. Thus, Congress has the
authority not only to increase taxes, but
also, to reduce taxes to promote the general
welfare of the United States of America and
her citizens. Additionally, Congress has the
Constitutional authority to regulate com-
merce among the States and with Indian
Tribes, as enumerated in Article I, Section 8,
Clause 3.
By Mr. BROWN of Maryland:
H.R. 4746.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Necessary and Proper Clause (Art. 1, Sec. 8,
Cl. 18)
By Mr. CICILLINE:
H.R. 4747.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the Constitution of
the United States.
By Mr. CISNEROS:
H.R. 4748.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the U.S. Constitu-
tion
By Mr. CLAY:
H.R. 4749.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8
By Mr. CLAY:
H.R. 4750.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8
By Mr. COHEN:
H.R. 4751.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Clause 1 of Section 8 of Article 1 of the
United States Constitution and Amendment
XVI of the United States Constitution
By Ms. CRAIG:
H.R. 4752.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I Section 8
By Mr. CRENSHAW:
H.R. 4753.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article One, Section 8 (Clause 18): ‘‘To
make all Laws which shall be necessary and
proper for carrying into Execution the fore-
going Powers’’
Article One, Section 8 (Clause 1): ‘‘provide
for the common Defense’’
Article One, Section 8 (Clause 3): ‘‘to regu-
late Commerce with foreign Nations’’
By Mr. CURTIS:
H.R. 4754.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1 Section 8 Clause 3
By Ms. DELAURO:
H.R. 4755.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:31 Oct 19, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00029 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\L18OC7.100 H18OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8260 October 18, 2019
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1 Section 8, U.S. Constitution
By Mr. DESAULNIER:
H.R. 4756.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8.
By Mr. FOSTER:
H.R. 4767.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
This bill is enacted pursuant to the power
granted to Congress under Article I, Section
8, Clauses 1 and 18 of the United States Con-
stitution.
By Mr. GRIFFITH:
H.R. 4758.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
This bill is enacted pursuant to the power
granted to Congress under Article I, Section
8 of the United States Constitution.
By Mr. KEVIN HERN of Oklahoma:
H.R. 4759.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I Section 8 of the United States
Constitution
By Mr. KEVIN HERN of Oklahoma:
H.R. 4760.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I Section 8 of the United States
Constitution
By Mr. HIGGINS of Louisiana:
H.R. 4761.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
U.S.C. Art. I Sec. 8 cl 18.
By Mr. HILL of Arkansas:
H.R. 4762.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the U.S. Constitu-
tion
By Ms. KAPTUR:
H.R. 4763.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
The Commerce Clause.
By Ms. MATSUI:
H.R. 4764.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Artile 1, Section 8 of the US Constitution
By Mr. MEADOWS:
H.R. 4765.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 3 states ‘‘The
Congress shall have Power To . . . regulate
Commerce . . . among the several States
. . .’’ And Article 1, Section 8, Clause I states
‘‘The Congress shall have Power to . . . pro-
vide for the . . . general Welfare of the
United States . . .’’
By Mr. YOUNG:
H.R. 4766.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Under Article 1, Section 8, Clause 3 which
deals with interstate commerce.
f
ADDITIONAL SPONSORS
Under clause 7 of rule XII, sponsors
were added to public bills and resolu-
tions, as follows:
H.R. 24: Mr. MARSHALL.
H.R. 141: Mr. LUCAS and Mr. CUNNINGHAM.
H.R. 307: Mr. SMITH of New Jersey.
H.R. 587: Mr. HARDER of California.
H.R. 589: Mr. LAMALFA, Mr. CARTER of
Georgia, Mr. BILIRAKIS, Mr. BABIN, Mr.
GIBBS, Mr. DAVID P. ROE of Tennessee, Mr.
PALMER, Mr. HOLDING, and Mr. MEUSER.
H.R. 649: Mr. FITZPATRICK.
H.R. 724: Mr. BALDERSON, Mrs. RODGERS of
Washington, and Mr. LUJÁN.
H.R. 730: Ms. SCHRIER.
H.R. 737: Ms. SÁNCHEZ, Mr. DOGGETT, and
Ms. HOULAHAN.
H.R. 830: Mr. STEUBE.
H.R. 877: Mr. PALAZZO.
H.R. 879: Mr. DESAULNIER.
H.R. 934: Mr. LEVIN of Michigan.
H.R. 935: Mr. GALLEGO.
H.R. 948: Mr. FLEISCHMANN.
H.R. 960: Mr. MITCHELL.
H.R. 961: Mr. NADLER, Ms. DELAURO, Ms.
KELLY of Illinois, and Mr. COURTNEY.
H.R. 976: Mr. RUIZ and Mr. CASE.
H.R. 1002: Mr. KENNEDY, Mr. GREEN of
Texas, Mr. CÁRDENAS, Ms. SLOTKIN, Mrs.
HAYES, Mr. HUFFMAN, Mr. PHILLIPS, Mr. NAD-
LER, Mr. LEWIS, Mr. COURTNEY, Ms. WEXTON,
and Mrs. DEMINGS.
H.R. 1024: Mr. GOLDEN.
H.R. 1034: Mrs. HARTZLER.
H.R. 1035: Mrs. LESKO.
H.R. 1042: Mr. NADLER, Mr. LEWIS, Mr.
COURTNEY, Ms. WEXTON, and Mrs. DEMINGS.
H.R. 1043: Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD.
H.R. 1055: Ms. ESCOBAR.
H.R. 1109: Ms. SLOTKIN.
H.R. 1133: Mr. RYAN.
H.R. 1139: Mr. KILDEE.
H.R. 1154: Ms. CLARKE of New York.
H.R. 1155: Mrs. DINGELL.
H.R. 1185: Mr. LIPINSKI.
H.R. 1194: Ms. JACKSON LEE and Mr. HAS-
TINGS.
H.R. 1195: Mr. KATKO.
H.R. 1220: Mr. POCAN and Ms. JACKSON LEE.
H.R. 1225: Ms. PRESSLEY, Mr. CUNNINGHAM,
Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of New York, Mr.
HIGGINS of New York, Mr. VISCLOSKY, and
Ms. GABBARD.
H.R. 1230: Mr. LIPINSKI.
H.R. 1254: Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire.
H.R. 1256: Mr. SOTO.
H.R. 1305: Mr. DAVID SCOTT of Georgia and
Mr. ROONEY of Florida.
H.R. 1342: Mr. SMITH of Washington.
H.R. 1367: Mr. SOTO, Mr. SUOZZI, Mr.
KHANNA, Mr. BEYER, Ms. KELLY of Illinois,
Mr. DESAULNIER, and Ms. BROWNLEY of Cali-
fornia.
H.R. 1379: Ms. BLUNT ROCHESTER.
H.R. 1380: Mr. NADLER.
H.R. 1393: Mr. PAYNE, Mr. SABLAN, Mrs.
TRAHAN, and Mr. GARCÍA of Illinois.
H.R. 1434: Mr. WATKINS.
H.R. 1450: Mr. MICHAEL F. DOYLE of Penn-
sylvania, Mr. EVANS, and Mr. MCNERNEY.
H.R. 1488: Ms. FINKENAUER.
H.R. 1530: Mr. RICHMOND and Mr. PALAZZO.
H.R. 1545: Mr. SMUCKER.
H.R. 1549: Mr. MORELLE.
H.R. 1553: Mr. PERLMUTTER.
H.R. 1588: Mr. VELA.
H.R. 1622: Mrs. NAPOLITANO.
H.R. 1652: Mr. SCHIFF, Mr. PRICE of North
Carolina, Mr. CLEAVER, Mr. COHEN, and Mr.
ENGEL.
H.R. 1673: Mr. BROOKS of Alabama and Mr.
GUEST.
H.R. 1692: Ms. STEVENS.
H.R. 1711: Mr. MCEACHIN and Mr. COOPER.
H.R. 1748: Mr. DEUTCH, Mr. MCADAMS, Ms.
GARCIA of Texas, and Ms. ADAMS.
H.R. 1754: Mrs. HAYES, Ms. MCCOLLUM, Mr.
LEWIS, Mr. COURTNEY, and Ms. WEXTON.
H.R. 1766: Mrs. LESKO, Mr. BERA, Mr.
VARGAS, Mr. ROUDA, Mr. ROSE of New York,
Mr. STANTON, and Mr. GALLAGHER.
H.R. 1767: Mr. PAYNE.
H.R. 1777: Mr. POCAN.
H.R. 1804: Mr. ALLRED.
H.R. 1824: Miss RICE of New York.
H.R. 1857: Mr. SIRES.
H.R. 1865: Mr. HURD of Texas, Mr. GOMEZ,
Mr. STEUBE, Mr. PETERSON, Mr. SCOTT of Vir-
ginia, and Mrs. LAWRENCE.
H.R. 1868: Ms. MUCARSEL-POWELL.
H.R. 1873: Mr. PALAZZO and Mr. CICILLINE.
H.R. 1880: Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD and Ms.
MENG.
H.R. 1882: Mr. SUOZZI, Mrs. DINGELL, Mr.
BISHOP of Georgia, Ms. DELBENE, and Mr.
CARSON of Indiana.
H.R. 1923: Mr. SCOTT of Virginia, Mr. CAR-
SON of Indiana, and Mr. FOSTER.
H.R. 1945: Ms. CRAIG.
H.R. 1973: Mr. LARSON of Connecticut and
Mr. HOLDING.
H.R. 1975: Mr. RESCHENTHALER.
H.R. 2102: Mr. COX of California.
H.R. 2147: Mr. DUNCAN, Mr. ROGERS of Ken-
tucky, Ms. WEXTON, Mr. SENSENBRENNER, Mr.
QUIGLEY, Mr. PAPPAS, Mr. AUSTIN SCOTT of
Georgia, Mr. BISHOP of Utah, Ms. MCCOLLUM,
and Mr. BAIRD.
H.R. 2161: Mrs. BROOKS of Indiana and Mrs.
WALORSKI.
H.R. 2166: Mr. CASE.
H.R. 2178: Mr. SWALWELL of California.
H.R. 2191: Mr. MAST and Mr. DIAZ-BALART.
H.R. 2222: Mr. THOMPSON of California, Mr.
KUSTOFF of Tennessee, Mr. HARDER of Cali-
fornia, and Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia.
H.R. 2245: Ms. SPANBERGER.
H.R. 2258: Mr. DANNY K. DAVIS of Illinois.
H.R. 2268: Ms. NORTON, Mrs. NAPOLITANO,
Ms. MOORE, Mr. BISHOP of Georgia, Ms.
DELBENE, Mrs. DINGELL, and Ms. GARCIA of
Texas.
H.R. 2315: Ms. FINKENAUER.
H.R. 2321: Mrs. DEMINGS.
H.R. 2350: Mr. MAST.
H.R. 2382: Mr. CUNNINGHAM, Mr. KENNEDY,
Mr. SHIMKUS, and Mr. MCADAMS.
H.R. 2423: Mr. GRIFFITH, Ms. MATSUI, Mr.
WALKER, Mrs. MILLER, Mr. GOTTHEIMER, Ms.
PLASKETT, Mr. FULCHER, and Ms. MENG.
H.R. 2426: Mr. CUNNINGHAM, Mr. VISCLOSKY,
Ms. SPANBERGER, Mr. ALLRED, and Miss RICE
of New York.
H.R. 2431: Mr. BERA, Ms. LOFGREN, and Mr.
RUTHERFORD.
H.R. 2435: Mr. HURD of Texas.
H.R. 2442: Mr. QUIGLEY.
H.R. 2471: Ms. HAALAND and Ms. ESHOO.
H.R. 2474: Mr. FITZPATRICK and Mr. SMITH
of New Jersey.
H.R. 2491: Mr. THOMPSON of California.
H.R. 2501: Mr. CASE.
H.R. 2521: Mr. DEUTCH and Mr. MCGOVERN.
H.R. 2573: Mr. MICHAEL F. DOYLE of Penn-
sylvania, Ms. BARRAGÁN, Ms. CRAIG, Mr.
CARTWRIGHT, Mr. TONKO, Mr. SPANO, Mr.
DEUTCH, Mr. KENNEDY, Ms. MUCARSEL-POW-
ELL, Ms. DAVIDS of Kansas, and Mr. GOH-
MERT.
H.R. 2579: Ms. MCCOLLUM.
H.R. 2594: Mr. SOTO, Mr. PETERSON, and Mr.
HUFFMAN.
H.R. 2622: Mr. BUCK.
H.R. 2629: Mr. CASE.
H.R. 2645: Mr. BISHOP of Georgia, Mrs.
BEATTY, Ms. NORTON, Mr. BROWN of Mary-
land, and Mr. JOYCE of Ohio.
H.R. 2651: Mr. MCKINLEY and Ms. CRAIG.
H.R. 2680: Mr. RUIZ.
H.R. 2689: Mr. SMITH of Washington.
H.R. 2694: Ms. PRESSLEY and Mrs. LEE of
Nevada.
H.R. 2699: Mr. BURGESS.
H.R. 2708: Mrs. LURIA.
H.R. 2739: Ms. CHENEY.
H.R. 2746: Mr. BERA.
H.R. 2771: Mr. GOODEN.
H.R. 2775: Mr. CORREA and Mr. EVANS.
H.R. 2788: Mr. DAVID P. ROE of Tennessee.
H.R. 2825: Mr. HUDSON and Mr. PASCRELL.
H.R. 2846: Mr. BAIRD and Mr. JOYCE of Ohio.
H.R. 2887: Mr. BRINDISI.
H.R. 2895: Mr. BERA.
H.R. 2903: Ms. CHENEY.
H.R. 2913: Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN.
H.R. 2929: Mr. PHILLIPS.
H.R. 2970: Ms. WEXTON.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:31 Oct 19, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00030 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18OC7.013 H18OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8261
October 18, 2019
H.R. 2985: Mr. JOYCE of Ohio, Mr. GONZALEZ
of Texas, Mrs. WALORSKI, Ms. SANCHEZ, Mr.
LAMBORN, and Mr. PANETTA.
H.R. 3006: Mr. KRISHNAMOORTHI and Mr.
CASTEN of Illinois.
H.R. 3048: Mr. POCAN and Mr. MCKINLEY.
H.R. 3080: Mr. DEUTCH.
H.R. 3086: Mr. KILMER.
H.R. 3107: Mr. SCHWEIKERT and Ms.
FINKENAUER.
H.R. 3113: Mr. TAKANO, Ms. BLUNT ROCH-
ESTER, Mr. LEWIS, Ms. FRANKEL, Mr. THOMP-
SON of Mississippi, Mrs. MURPHY of Florida,
Mr. GUTHRIE, Ms. FINKENAUER, Ms. STEVENS,
Mr. HIGGINS of New York, Mrs. BROOKS of In-
diana, Mr. HUFFMAN, Mr. SOTO, Mr.
WESTERMAN, Mrs. WAGNER, and Mr. BILI-
RAKIS.
H.R. 3115: Mr. LEVIN of California.
H.R. 3129: Mr. TRONE and Mr. TED LIEU of
California.
H.R. 3138: Mr. GONZALEZ of Texas.
H.R. 3211: Ms. CRAIG.
H.R. 3225: Ms. BARRAGÁN.
H.R. 3243: Mr. BABIN.
H.R. 3275: Mr. WENSTRUP.
H.R. 3330: Mr. PHILLIPS.
H.R. 3350: Mr. KIM.
H.R. 3398: Mr. CLAY and Mr. KHANNA.
H.R. 3435: Mr. EVANS.
H.R. 3451: Mrs. TORRES of California and
Mr. POCAN.
H.R. 3458: Mr. PAPPAS.
H.R. 3463: Mr. FITZPATRICK, Mr. SMITH of
New Jersey, and Mr. PETERS.
H.R. 3466: Mr. ARRINGTON and Mr. PHILLIPS.
H.R. 3489: Mr. MOONEY of West Virginia.
H.R. 3495: Mr. SCHNEIDER.
H.R. 3497: Mr. WITTMAN, Mr. RUIZ, and Mrs.
DINGELL.
H.R. 3530: Mr. PALMER.
H.R. 3562: Mr. CASE.
H.R. 3565: Mr. BERA.
H.R. 3570: Mr. KEATING and Ms. FUDGE.
H.R. 3591: Mr. MOONEY of West Virginia.
H.R. 3598: Mr. ALLRED and Mr. EVANS.
H.R. 3632: Mr. MCKINLEY and Mr. RUIZ.
H.R. 3647: Mr. KIM.
H.R. 3681: Mr. HUFFMAN.
H.R. 3698: Ms. JACKSON LEE.
H.R. 3716: Mr. TIPTON.
H.R. 3717: Mr. PALMER.
H.R. 3742: Mr. KELLER, Mr. GONZALEZ of
Ohio, Mrs. LAWRENCE, Mr. LAMB, Mr. HECK,
and Mr. POCAN.
H.R. 3760: Mr. GRIJALVA and Mr. SOTO.
H.R. 3778: Ms. JAYAPAL and Mr. HARDER of
California.
H.R. 3846: Ms. BASS.
H.R. 3851: Mr. HORSFORD, Mr. CICILLINE,
Mr. SMITH of Missouri, Mrs. LURIA, Mr. FOR-
TENBERRY, Mr. POCAN, Mr. BEYER, Mr.
BUCSHON, and Ms. BROWNLEY of California.
H.R. 3937: Ms. SCHRIER.
H.R. 3942: Mr. BURGESS, Mr. RODNEY DAVIS
of Illinois, and Mr. DESAULNIER.
H.R. 3971: Mr. JORDAN.
H.R. 3980: Mr. RESCHENTHALER and Mr. TIP-
TON.
H.R. 4022: Ms. MCCOLLUM.
H.R. 4031: Mr. STEIL.
H.R. 4044: Mr. POSEY.
H.R. 4056: Mr. SMUCKER and Mr.
RESCHENTHALER.
H.R. 4100: Mr. KILMER.
H.R. 4101: Mr. POCAN.
H.R. 4116: Mr. EVANS.
H.R. 4162: Mr. MAST and Mrs. RODGERS of
Washington.
H.R. 4189: Mr. FLEISCHMANN, Ms. KENDRA S.
HORN of Oklahoma, Mr. GAETZ, and Miss
RICE of New York.
H.R. 4193: Mr. RYAN.
H.R. 4194: Ms. SLOTKIN.
H.R. 4195: Ms. SLOTKIN.
H.R. 4257: Mr. BISHOP of Georgia.
H.R. 4266: Mr. MCGOVERN.
H.R. 4283: Mr. CLINE.
H.R. 4294: Mr. CLINE.
H.R. 4305: Ms. BARRAGÁN, Ms. ESHOO, Mr.
BRADY, Mr. BRINDISI, Mr. BARR,
Mr. BUDD, Mr. HAGEDORN, Mr. HOLDING, Mr.
LATTA, Mr. LAMBORN, Mr. YOUNG, Mr. BOST,
Mr. JOHNSON of Ohio, Mr. COLLINS of Georgia,
Mr. MAST, Mr. BAIRD, Mr. JOYCE of Pennsyl-
vania, Mr. GREEN of Tennessee, Mr. HIGGINS
of Louisiana, and Mr. GONZALEZ of Ohio.
H.R. 4334: Mr. SMUCKER and Mr. MEUSER.
H.R. 4346: Mr. RYAN and Mr. GALLEGO.
H.R. 4348: Mr. KIM and Mr. POCAN.
H.R. 4349: Mr. COOK.
H.R. 4369: Mrs. MILLER.
H.R. 4371: Mr. WELCH.
H.R. 4391: Ms. JACKSON LEE.
H.R. 4393: Mr. MORELLE.
H.R. 4428: Mr. HASTINGS.
H.R. 4429: Mr. KIM, Ms. DEAN, and Mr.
UPTON.
H.R. 4438: Mr. BRINDISI.
H.R. 4456: Mr. HASTINGS.
H.R. 4481: Mr. CUELLAR.
H.R. 4496: Mr. BYRNE and Mr. CARTER of
Georgia.
H.R. 4508: Mr. FITZPATRICK.
H.R. 4550: Mr. GARCÍA of Illinois and Ms.
DELBENE.
H.R. 4555: Mr. WELCH and Mr. STIVERS.
H.R. 4556: Mr. PAPPAS and Mr. ESPAILLAT.
H.R. 4586: Ms. CHENEY.
H.R. 4615: Mr. KENNEDY.
H.R. 4617: Mr. CORREA, Mr. SWALWELL of
California, Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire,
Mr. GOLDEN, Ms. MCCOLLUM, Mr. VAN DREW,
Ms. PINGREE, Mrs. DEMINGS, Ms. WEXTON,
Mrs. FLETCHER, Ms. STEVENS, Mr. LIPINSKI,
Mr. PETERS, and Mr. SOTO.
H.R. 4640: Mr. DOGGETT.
H.R. 4645: Mr. O’HALLERAN.
H.R. 4680: Ms. MUCARSEL-POWELL.
H.R. 4681: Mr. MAST and Mr. PASCRELL.
H.R. 4691: Ms. NORTON, Mr. RASKIN, Ms.
JACKSON LEE, Mr. RYAN, and Mr. HASTINGS.
H.R. 4692: Miss GONZÁLEZ-COLÓN of Puerto
Rico, Mr. KEVIN HERN of Oklahoma, Mr.
JOHNSON of South Dakota, and Ms.
SPANBERGER.
H.R. 4694: Mr. PALLONE and Ms. CHENEY.
H.R. 4695: Mr. COSTA, Mr. GRAVES of Lou-
isiana, Mrs. WAGNER, Mr. ROONEY of Florida,
Mr. WILSON of South Carolina, Mr. YOHO, Mr.
FITZPATRICK, Mr. ZELDIN, Mr. CISNEROS, Mr.
ALLRED, Mr. SIRES, Mr. BUDD, Mr. LATTA,
Mr. HILL of Arkansas, Mr. LAMBORN, Mr.
GREEN of Tennessee, Mr. KING of New York,
Mr. OLSON, Mr. DEUTCH, Mr. BALDERSON, Mr.
WRIGHT, Mr. HURD of Texas, Mr. VARGAS, Mr.
BURCHETT, Mr. CRENSHAW, Mr. WALTZ, Mr.
KINZINGER, Mr. SMITH of New Jersey, Mr.
BACON, Mr. WATKINS, Mr. KEATING, Mr.
LIPINSKI, Mr. JOHN W. ROSE of Tennessee,
Mr. GALLAGHER, and Mr. CRIST.
H.R. 4698: Mrs. DEMINGS.
H.R. 4701: Mr. VARGAS and Ms. VELÁZQUEZ.
H.R. 4705: Ms. CRAIG.
H.R. 4708: Mr. MORELLE, Mr. KING of New
York, and Mr. SUOZZI.
H.R. 4709: Mr. MORELLE, Mr. KING of New
York, and Mr. SUOZZI.
H.R. 4715: Mr. KHANNA.
H.R. 4732: Mr. ROUDA.
H.J. Res. 38: Mr. DAVID SCOTT of Georgia.
H.J. Res. 76: Mr. SMITH of Washington.
H. Con. Res. 25: Mr. DEFAZIO.
H. Con. Res. 27: Mr. LATTA.
H. Con. Res. 64: Mr. POCAN.
H. Con. Res. 65: Mr. KILDEE.
H. Con. Res. 68: Mr. GONZALEZ of Texas, Mr.
KELLER, Mrs. LESKO, Mr. STEIL, and Mr.
KEVIN HERN of Oklahoma.
H. Res. 49: Mr. KINZINGER, Mr.
RESCHENTHALER, and Mr. FITZPATRICK.
H. Res. 60: Ms. SPANBERGER.
H. Res. 133: Mr. EVANS.
H. Res. 146: Mr. LATTA.
H. Res. 230: Mr. TRONE.
H. Res. 255: Mr. ROSE of New York.
H. Res. 277: Mrs. TORRES of California, Ms.
MENG, and Ms. HERRERA BEUTLER.
H. Res. 399: Mr. MCGOVERN.
H. Res. 467: Mrs. TORRES of California and
Ms. MENG.
H. Res. 483: Mr. STEIL.
H. Res. 517: Ms. WEXTON, Mr. CUNNINGHAM,
Mr. CARBAJAL, Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia, and
Mr. RUIZ.
H. Res. 538: Mr. PENCE.
H. Res. 546: Mr. MOULTON and Mr. SHIMKUS.
H. Res. 574: Ms. JAYAPAL, Ms. PRESSLEY,
Mr. MCGOVERN, Mr. HUFFMAN, and Ms.
SCHRIER.
H. Res. 602: Mr. BAIRD.
H. Res. 604: Mr. MASSIE, Mr. WITTMAN, and
Mr. HOLLINGSWORTH.
H. Res. 627: Mr. STANTON.
H. Res. 628: Mr. KILDEE.
H. Res. 630: Mr. JOYCE of Ohio, Mr. AMODEI,
Mr. WILSON of South Carolina, Mr. YOUNG,
Mr. MASSIE, Mr. STEIL, and Mr. GRAVES of
Georgia.
H. Res. 631: Mr. BISHOP of North Carolina
and Mr. GROTHMAN.
H. Res. 633: Mr. JOHN W. ROSE of Ten-
nessee, Mr. CURTIS, Mr. RUTHERFORD, Mr.
LAMBORN, Mr. BISHOP of North Carolina, Mr.
JOHNSON of South Dakota, and Mr. WALKER.
H. Res. 636: Mr. MCGOVERN.
f
DELETIONS OF SPONSORS FROM
PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS
Under clause 7 of rule XII, sponsors
were deleted from public bills and reso-
lutions, as follows:
H.R. 860: Mr. VAN DREW.
H.R. 4603: Ms. JACKSON LEE.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:05 Oct 19, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00031 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18OC7.018 H18OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
EXTENSIONS OF REMARKS
∑ This ‘‘bullet’’ symbol identifies statements or insertions which are not spoken by a Member of the Senate on the floor.
Matter set in this typeface indicates words inserted or appended, rather than spoken, by a Member of the House on the floor.
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E1303
October 18, 2019
CONGRATULATING THE 2019 HON-
OREES OF THE POLISH AMER-
ICAN CONGRESS ILLINOIS DIVI-
SION
HON. DANIEL LIPINSKI
OF ILLINOIS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Friday, October 18, 2019
Mr. LIPINSKI. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to congratulate 10 individuals who are being
recognized as the 2019 Polish American Con-
gress, Illinois Division, Honorees. These Pol-
ish-Americans will be honored on Sunday, Oc-
tober 20th, at the 50th Annual Polish Amer-
ican Heritage Award Banquets.
Each year, the Illinois Division of the Polish
American Congress presents awards to recog-
nize notable work in public service, philan-
thropy, heritage, community service, the arts,
and other notable accomplishments. This
year’s honorees are The Most Reverend
Thomas John Paprocki, Bishop of the Diocese
of Springfield in Illinois, Richard Owsiany,
Lucie Bucki, Dominic A. Pacyga, Ph.D., Jacek
Niemczyk, Tom Startek, Martin Obrecki, Maria
Roszek-Kucharski, Ewa Milde, and Bogdan
Lanko. The Polish American Congress, and its
mission to unite the Polish-American commu-
nity and to aid its members to become better
informed American citizens, have benefitted
from the contributions of these individuals.
The Illinois Division is one of 25 state divi-
sions under the national Polish American Con-
gress, and it represents 39 Polish-American
organizations and over one million Americans
of Polish heritage from across the state. In
Chicagoland, and Illinois as a whole, we are
blessed to have the most robust Polish-Amer-
ican community in our nation. The Illinois Divi-
sion works to bring community members to-
gether, and it is a privilege to represent and
work closely with so many members of this or-
ganization.
Madam Speaker, I ask my colleagues to join
me in recognizing the award recipients on this
tremendous honor. They deserve praise for
the energy and time they have dedicated to
strengthening Polonia and our nation. I wish
them the best in their future endeavors where
they will surely continue their success.
f
EMPLOYMENT SERVICES AND
JOBS PARITY ACT
HON. GREGORIO KILILI CAMACHO
SABLAN
OF THE NORTHERN MARIANA ISLANDS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Friday, October 18, 2019
Mr. SABLAN. Madam Speaker, today, I in-
troduce the Employment Services and Jobs
Parity Act. This legislation would make long
overdue amendments to the Wagner-Peyser
Act to include the Northern Mariana Islands
and American Samoa.
Presently, the Marianas and American
Samoa are not eligible for the employment
services formula grant that is currently award-
ed to all other states and insular areas. Con-
gressional action is needed to ensure all
Americans can get the help they need to de-
velop the skills necessary to enter in-demand
jobs and career paths. Special Representa-
tives of the Marianas and the President rec-
ommend in 2017 that the Department of Inte-
rior work cooperatively with DOL to extend the
Wagner-Peyser Act to the Marianas.
At a time when our island economies con-
tinue to recover from major natural disasters,
the annual Wagner-Peyser grant would pro-
vide timely support to the Marianas and Amer-
ican Samoan workforce through skills assess-
ment, career guidance, and referrals to train-
ing for job seekers.
Now is the time to make things right and en-
sure parity for all Americans. The gentle-
woman from American Samoa, Mrs.
Radewagen is an original co-sponsor. This bill
is important to the workers in the Marianas
and American Samoa. I urge all my col-
leagues to support this bipartisan legislation.
f
RECOGNIZING THE SERVICE OF
CITY COUNCILMAN DR. JOE LEE
SMITH
HON. BILL POSEY
OF FLORIDA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Friday, October 18, 2019
Mr. POSEY. Madam Speaker, today I would
like to recognize and celebrate the service of
Councilman Dr. Joe Lee Smith, who after 36
years of faithful service to our Rockledge City
Council, will enter retirement this November.
Having been elected to the city council
twelve consecutive terms, serving 3 years as
council chairman and as deputy mayor, the
city of Rockledge owes much to Dr. Smith for
his unmatched dedication and service to its
residents.
A life-long Brevard County resident, Dr.
Smith began his career as an educator, hav-
ing earned his doctoral degree in education
from University of Florida and serving as the
President Emeritus of Brevard Community
College (BCC) until 2000. He then came out
of retirement to become provost of the Palm
Bay Campus location and served as BCC’s
college ambassador until 2017.
In both his personal and professional life, he
was viewed as a mentor for students in the
community and his coworkers. He was a
founder of the Brevard Recreation Association
and served on the board of directors for many
community organizations such as the Salva-
tion Army, Circles of Care, Rolling Readers,
and the Boys and Girls Club.
Mayor Tom Price of Rockledge says of
Councilman Smith, ‘‘He’s the definition of a
true statesman, someone that you rarely see
in politics anymore. He’s done 36 years of
great work on the board and will be greatly
missed by the City Council.’’
In recognition of his work to advance higher
education in the community, Dr. Smith has
had several educational facilities named in his
honor such as the Joe Lee Smith Recreational
Center in Cocoa and the Dr. Joe Lee Smith
Teaching Center on the Brevard Community
College Melbourne Campus.
A revered and distinguished member of the
community, he has been the recipient of mul-
tiple awards including the Brevard Community
College Distinguished Servant Award, Onyx
Magazine’s Humanitarian Award, and the
United Third Bridge Puerto Rican Taino Award
for his work advancing the Hispanic commu-
nity in Brevard.
Aside from his distinguished role as an edu-
cator for the community, Dr. Smith has also
been honored as an athlete, having been in-
ducted into Florida A & M University’s Sports
Hall of Fame for his accomplishments as a tal-
ented baseball player in addition to the Space
Coast Sports Hall of Fame for his contribu-
tions in sports program development.
On November 20th, the Rockledge City
Council will recognize Dr. Smith’s long and ac-
complished tenure. His contributions to the
community are immeasurable and will surely
be felt and appreciated by generations of Flo-
ridians to come.
I ask my colleagues in the U.S. House of
Representatives along with the residents of
Rockledge to join me in saluting his work.
f
RECOGNIZING BETTY WIECHERT
AS SHE CELEBRATES HER 100TH
BIRTHDAY
HON. TROY BALDERSON
OF OHIO
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Friday, October 18, 2019
Mr. BALDERSON. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to offer my heartfelt congratulations to
Betty Wiechert, a resident of Muskingum
County, who is celebrating her 100th birthday
this Saturday, October 19, 2019.
Betty has lived a life characterized by devo-
tion and an unyielding selflessness, making
her a pillar of this congregation. A woman of
family, community, and faith, Betty was a Sun-
day School teacher and taught my very first
Sunday School class. Her devotion and un-
wavering loyalty for the Coburn Church com-
munity is still evident today as she attends
each and every Sunday service, even if that
requires taking a taxi to mass. Betty is an in-
credible inspiration and role model to us all
and I am sure turning 100 will not slow Betty
down in the slightest.
I join Betty’s friends and family in extending
my best and warmest wishes to her on this
special day, and in celebrating her life and
contributions to our congregation and commu-
nity. Happy 100th Birthday to Betty; it is an
honor celebrating with her.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:54 Oct 19, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K18OC8.001 E18OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E1304 October 18, 2019
IN RECOGNITION OF ANN
RUDISILL
HON. DEBBIE DINGELL
OF MICHIGAN
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Friday, October 18, 2019
Mrs. DINGELL. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to recognize Ann Rudisill and congratu-
late her on being a Southern Wayne County
Regional Chamber (SWCRC) Women of
Achievement Award Honoree. Her commit-
ment to our Downriver community makes her
a deserving recipient of SWCRC’s Inspiring
Achievement Award.
Ann Rudisill is a veteran of the United
States Air Force. After serving in Colorado
Springs for four years during the Vietnam Era,
Ann returned home with an unrelenting com-
mitment to the men and women who served in
the United States Armed Forces alongside
her. She endeavored to find new ways to sup-
port our nation’s veterans, especially those in
her local community, and has been passion-
ately pursing this mission ever since.
On April 7, 2017, Ann Rudisill founded
Downriver for Veterans. Recognizing many
veterans in our community lack reliable assist-
ance and transportation options, Ann estab-
lished Downriver for Veterans to help them
meet their needs and navigate throughout the
Downriver region. Since the organization’s in-
ception, Downriver for Veterans has provided
food, shelter, paperwork, and transportation to
over 350 veterans in our Downriver commu-
nity. The organization continues to rapidly
grow and was officially recognized as a non-
profit organization in February of this year.
Downriver for Veterans has a real impact on
the veterans of our community, and Ann’s
meaningful efforts truly serve as an inspiration
to all.
Madam Speaker, I ask my colleagues to join
me in honoring Ann Rudisill as she receives
SWCRC’s Leadership Award. Her commitment
to veterans by ensuring all their basic needs
are met is worthy of commendation. Ann
wholehearted deserves the SWCRC Leader-
ship Award, and, above all, we thank her for
her service to our great nation.
f
HONORING THE LIFE AND LEGACY
OF LARRY SIMMONS
HON. MARK E. GREEN
OF TENNESSEE
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Friday, October 18, 2019
Mr. GREEN of Tennessee. Madam Speak-
er, I rise today to honor the life and service of
a great American hero, Larry Simmons.
Mr. Simmons joined the United States Army
in 1960 after finishing high school. After sev-
eral assignments throughout the United States
and in Berlin, Mr. Simmons received orders to
deploy to Vietnam. Over the course of his two
tours in Vietnam, he received two Purple
Hearts and three Bronze Stars for his heroic
actions on the battlefield, including his rescue
of two small children during a firefight.
Following Mr. Simmons’ retirement from the
military in 1980, after 20 years of service, he
spent 14 years as a correctional officer at San
Quentin prison. After his retirement, Mr. Sim-
mons and his wife, Karen, moved to Kentucky
Lake to enjoy life as a grandfather and great
grandfather.
I ask my colleagues in the United States
House of Representatives to join me in con-
gratulating Mr. Simmons on his induction into
the Signature Healthcare Hall of Fame.
f
IN RECOGNITION OF MIDDLESEX
COUNTY FREEHOLDER
BLANQUITA B. VALENTI
HON. FRANK PALLONE, JR.
OF NEW JERSEY
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Friday, October 18, 2019
Mr. PALLONE. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to congratulate the Honorable Blanquita B. Va-
lenti on her retirement as a Middlesex County
Freeholder. As a freeholder, city council mem-
ber and educator, Freeholder Valenti has dis-
tinguished herself as a dedicated public serv-
ant whose contributions and achievements are
truly deserving of this body’s recognition.
A long-time resident of New Brunswick, New
Jersey, Freeholder Valenti devoted many
years to representing her community as a
council member and freeholder. She is well-re-
spected by her colleagues as well as the resi-
dents she serves. Her professionalism and vi-
sion for the community earned her elections to
leadership positions on the City Council and
Board of Chosen Freeholders, including coun-
cil vice president, council president and
freeholder deputy director.
Although retiring from elected office,
Freeholder Valenti remains an active commu-
nity leader and advocate for individuals and
families in Middlesex County. She has served
on numerous boards of social services agen-
cies, educational organizations and others, in-
cluding the Middlesex County Board of Social
Services, PRAB, Middlesex County Hispanic
Affairs Commission, ASPIRA New Jersey and
the Middlesex County College Foundation.
She is also a founding board member of Com-
ing Home of Middlesex County, Inc., a non-
profit aimed at ending homelessness in the
county, which is honoring Freeholder Valenti
at their Fall Gala on October 19, 2019.
In addition to serving in elected office,
Freeholder Valenti taught at Trenton State
College (currently The College of New Jersey)
and Rutgers University as well as high schools
throughout Middlesex County. She earned her
Master of Arts in Teaching in Secondary Edu-
cation from Seton Hall University and her
master’s degree in Spanish and Latin Amer-
ican Literature from Rutgers University, and
holds her undergraduate degree from Rose-
mont College in Pennsylvania.
Madam Speaker, once again, it is my great
honor to pay tribute to Freeholder Blanquita B.
Valenti as she retires as a Freeholder this
year. I sincerely hope that my colleagues will
join me in thanking her for her commitment to
public service and the betterment of our com-
munities.
COMMENDING DR. G. DOUGLAS
RIPLEY FOR HIS CHRISTIAN
LEADERSHIP AND SERVICE TO
NORTH ALABAMA
HON. MO BROOKS
OF ALABAMA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Friday, October 18, 2019
Mr. BROOKS of Alabama. Madam Speaker,
I rise today to recognize Dr. G. Douglas Rip-
ley, for his diligence in ministry and service to
others.
On January 1st, 1970, Dr. Ripley received
Jesus Christ as his Savior and immediately
began to cultivate his relationship with Christ
and understanding of the Bible. Within a few
weeks he enrolled in the Gulf Coast Bible Col-
lege at Anderson Church of God and there-
after traveled as a student evangelist, during
which time he met his wife, Katy.
In 1973, Dr. Ripley and Katy pastored Open
Door Baptist Church in Tennessee, where the
church grew from 16 to 1,000 people in a
short twelve years. By December of 1985, Dr.
Ripley, Katy, and their two children, Jessica
and Jeremy, moved to Decatur, Alabama
where Dr. Ripley became the Pastor of
Moulton Heights Baptist Church. The church
grew rapidly, relocating once and having five
major renovations from 1988 to 2004. Under
Dr. Ripley’s leadership, many lives have been
impacted.
Known as ‘‘Brother Douglas,’’ Dr. Ripley’s
passion for world missions and discipleship
have reached across the world. In fact, he
was one of the first pastors to visit Albania
and his act of bravery opened the way for
more churches to evangelize in Albania.
Madam Speaker, Dr. Ripley’s diligent and
obedient service to his flock and God is inspir-
ing and sets an example for future genera-
tions.
I commend Dr. G. Douglas Ripley for his
leadership in the church and passion for serv-
ice to Christ.
f
SUPPORTING H.R. 2328, THE REAU-
THORIZING AND EXTENDING
AMERICA’S COMMUNITY HEALTH
ACT
HON. GREGORIO KILILI CAMACHO
SABLAN
OF THE NORTHERN MARIANA ISLANDS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Friday, October 18, 2019
Mr. SABLAN. Madam Speaker, now is the
time to fix Medicaid funding, the insular areas.
This is an area of strong bipartisan agree-
ment—Republicans and Democrats on the
House Energy and Commerce committee
agree, and something must be done.
H.R. 2328 was reported out of Committee in
July. This bipartisan solution would address
the serious funding shortfall that all Insular
Areas face now that the special Obamacare
Medicaid funding has ended.
Our hospital, the Commonwealth Healthcare
Corporation (CHCC), and other healthcare
providers across the Marianas depend on the
availability of Medicaid funds as a significant
source of revenue. This special funding pro-
vided an average of $11 Million beyond our
statutory cap each year, ensuring CHCC and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:54 Oct 19, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A18OC8.003 E18OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E1305
October 18, 2019
other providers remain open so that people
can access healthcare services. In Fiscal Year
2018, 49 percent of all third-party payor reim-
bursements to CHCC were Medicaid. That
amounts to $17.3 Million in revenue rep-
resenting almost 30 percent of the hospital’s
total revenue. CHCC relies on Medicaid. With
no certainty of funding, the Marianas made the
tough decision on June 1, 2019 to cut off
Medicaid reimbursements to providers, direct-
ing all Medicaid beneficiaries to use the clinics
of the CHCC until further notice.
We received an additional $36 Million for
Medicaid in the disaster supplemental H.R.
2157, but in just a month after disbursement,
more than half of the funds were paid out to
providers, many of which are still owed reim-
bursements. We know the positive impact that
regular access to healthcare can have on a
person’s overall health—just as we know how
much worse a medical event can be for an in-
dividual that no longer has regular access. For
the Marianas, it is already difficult for people
to get to their providers for their specific
healthcare needs. The hold imposed on out-
patient clinics is evidence that taking this fund-
ing away not only threatens low-income fami-
lies, but everyone at all income levels. It is al-
ready happening, and Congress should act
now.
I thank Chairman PALLONE, Ranking Mem-
ber WALDEN, and all the members of the com-
mittee for understanding the urgency of the
Medicaid crisis in the insular areas and ad-
dressing the issue in a bipartisan way.
Let’s bring H.R. 2328 to the floor and show
that the House is united in our support for the
Insular Areas. Let’s fix the Medicaid funding
cliff.
f
FLETC ARTESIA 30-YEAR
ANNIVERSARY
HON. XOCHITL TORRES SMALL
OF NEW MEXICO
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Friday, October 18, 2019
Ms. TORRES SMALL of New Mexico.
Madam Speaker, today, October 18, 2019
marks the Federal Law Enforcement Training
Center (FLETC), Office of Artesia Operation’s
30-year anniversary. On September 22, 1988,
President Ronald Reagan signed the Treas-
ury, Postal Service and General Government
Appropriations Act, House Resolution 4775, to
grant the purchase, renovation, and adaptation
of a former college campus in Artesia, New
Mexico, as a facility of FLETC. The following
year, FLETC-Artesia was officially established
as a Training Delivery Point. Today, Artesia,
New Mexico, is the second largest FLETC site
in terms of workload, and largest in square
miles housing up to 1,800 students at any
time.
FLETC-Artesia’s role in keeping the country
safe cannot be understated. For the last three
decades, it has remained committed to pre-
paring the federal law enforcement community
through strategic partnerships in accordance
with a mission to safeguard the American peo-
ple, our country, and our values. FLETC-
Artesia has played a critical role in the initial
training of law enforcement officers on the
front line—including those joining United
States Border Patrol, the Federal Air Marshals
and Federal Flight Deck Officers. The Artesia
campus is also home to the Bureau of Indian
Affairs, Indian Police Academy, and the Bu-
reau of Indian Affairs Memorial, which honors
the service and sacrifice of those who have
died in the line of duty.
Since Congress authorized FLETC to pur-
chase, rehabilitate, and expand the site in
1989, over one million officers and agents
have been trained. More recently, in fiscal
year 2018, FLETC Artesia trained just under
4,000 students.
As a witness to the work that FLETC’s
Artesia location executes, I am honored to
recognize the full extent of FLETC’s work, in-
cluding the diversity and extensiveness of the
trainings and the collaboration required for
both local and global impact. The commitment
to delivering the quality training agents and of-
ficers need to successfully do their jobs, pro-
tect our communities, and protect themselves
is clear.
Law enforcement from across the country
and the world travel to Artesia, New Mexico to
learn from FLETC’s expertise. I am grateful for
FLETC’s work to serve New Mexico’s 2nd
Congressional District and our country. FLETC
is a cornerstone of our community, and we
celebrate its work and impact on FLETC-
Artestia’s 30-year anniversary.
f
RECOGNIZE THE INSTITUTE FOR
INCLUSION IN THE LEGAL PRO-
FESSION ON ITS 10TH ANNIVER-
SARY
HON. DANNY K. DAVIS
OF ILLINOIS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Friday, October 18, 2019
Mr. DANNY K. DAVIS of Illinois. Madam
Speaker, I rise to recognize the Institute for In-
clusion in the Legal Profession on its 10th An-
niversary. The legal profession remains one of
the least diverse professions in the United
States. This adversely impacts the pipeline of
women, racial/ethnic minorities, openly
LGBTQ+ individuals, individuals with disabil-
ities, and religious minorities, who will serve
as future legislators, judges, public policy ad-
vocates, civic and community leaders, and the
lawyers who can be found daily in boardrooms
and courtrooms. While there are an abun-
dance of organizations working to make the
American legal profession more diverse and
inclusive, and some progress made, much re-
mains to be done.
For ten years, the Institute for Inclusion in
the Legal Profession (‘‘IILP’’) has been work-
ing for ‘‘Real change. Now.’’ Its approach has
differed from more traditional efforts. It has fo-
cused on inclusion rather than just diversity. It
has emphasized the supply side over the de-
mand side: making the legal profession more
hospitable to diverse individuals, one where
anyone with the talent, aptitude, ambition, and
determination may enter and rise as high as
those abilities will permit. It has grounded its
work in research and data that go beyond the
anecdotal. It discusses the hard issues and
tackles the tough questions that need to be re-
solved before this profession can truly become
more diverse and inclusive. It addresses all
types of diversity in all practice settings all
over the United States. More importantly, ev-
eryone in the legal profession has a home
within the Institute for Inclusion in the Legal
Profession.
I was honored to give remarks during the in-
augural year of the formation of the IILP in
2009 and I am pleased to share these high-
lights from its first ten years of service. The
IILP is continuing to publish its ‘‘Review on the
State of Diversity and Inclusion in the Legal
Profession,’’ the only comprehensive compila-
tion of data, statistics, demographics, and
thought leadership essays designed in the
country. This report has become an important
tool to everyone in the legal profession who is
concerned about diversity and inclusion
issues. In addition, the IILP presented some
40 Symposia on the State of Diversity and In-
clusion in the Legal Profession to lawyers all
over the United States. These symposia bring
together an extremely diverse group of law-
yers who learn about all types of diversity and
find synergies that allow them to work across
lines of difference. The IILP provided the legal
profession with the only hard data available on
the business case for diversity in ‘‘The Busi-
ness Case for Diversity: Reality or Wishful
Thinking?’’. The IILP published the series,
‘‘Competing Interests,’’ which is the only anal-
ysis of the conflict between corporate efforts
aimed at economy and efficiency with cor-
porate efforts supporting diversity and inclu-
sion in the legal profession and the impact this
has upon minority lawyers. The IILP estab-
lished the Social Impact Incubator, a group of
Millennial lawyers from a wide range of back-
grounds and practice settings, who are learn-
ing to be thought leaders on diversity and in-
clusion for their generation. The IILP devel-
oped the program, ‘‘Diversity and Data Privacy
in a Digital World.’’ While much has been fo-
cused on data privacy issues, this program is
the first to examine those issues through the
lens of diversity and inclusion concerns. The
IILP conducts programs that offer unique and
thought-provoking ways to look at and think
about diversity and inclusion, such as ‘‘The
Ethics of Diversity and the Politics of Inclu-
sion,’’ wherein IILP examined challenges to di-
versity and political considerations that are im-
pacting inclusion efforts; and ‘‘Women and Mi-
norities,’’ studying the root causes and poten-
tial strategies to address tensions between
white women, women of color, lesbians, and
trans women. The IILP presented the first con-
ference outside the United State or United
Kingdom that was dedicated to diversity and
inclusion issues within the legal profession.
For its 10th Anniversary, the Institute for In-
clusion in the Legal Profession is celebrating
with another thought-provoking program: ‘‘Is
ROI (Return on Investment) the Appropriate
Measure for D&I (Diversity and Inclusion)?’’.
On behalf of the 7th Congressional District of
Illinois, I offer my deepest appreciation for the
work that you do and encourage that you con-
tinue to finding innovative approaches to en-
sure our legal professionals produce diverse
and inclusive workforces.
f
HONORING THE LIFE AND LEGACY
OF MARY BEATRICE BREWER
HON. MARK E. GREEN
OF TENNESSEE
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Friday, October 18, 2019
Mr. GREEN of Tennessee. Madam Speak-
er, I rise today to honor the life and legacy of
Mary Beatrice (Bea) Brewer, a resident of Sig-
nature Health Care in Erin, Tennessee.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:54 Oct 19, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\K18OC8.003 E18OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E1306 October 18, 2019
Mary Beatrice Hutchison was born on May
29, 1922 in Benton County, Tennessee. She
grew up in Benton County, where she stood
out as a high school basketball player. After
she graduated, she moved to Detroit to work
in a factory supplying the war effort in World
War II.
In 1945, Bea married Tom Brewer, a WWII
Army Air Corps veteran who survived many
months in a German prisoner of war camp.
Together, they raised two daughters—Lisa
and Kim—and two grandchildren—Jacob and
Lauren.
Bea and Tom lived in Houston County,
where Tom worked as a teacher and Bea
spent twenty years at the Stewart-Houston
Times, the local newspaper where she wrote
a column and served as editor. After retiring
from the paper, she worked at the Houston
County Soil Conservation for over twenty
years. For the past year, she has been a resi-
dent at Signature Health Care.
I ask my colleagues in the United States
House of Representatives to join me in con-
gratulating Mary Beatrice Brewer on her induc-
tion into the Signature Health Care Hall of
Fame.
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. ROSA L. DeLAURO
OF CONNECTICUT
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Friday, October 18, 2019
Ms. DELAURO. Madam Speaker, I was un-
avoidably detained and so I missed Roll Call
vote number 564 regarding passage of the
SEC Disclosure Effectiveness Testing Act.
Had I been present, I would have voted ‘‘Yes.’’
f
RECOGNIZING GEORGE FORMA
HON. RAUL RUIZ
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Friday, October 18, 2019
Mr. RUIZ. Madam Speaker, I rise to recog-
nize George Forma, who has been a cham-
pion for tribes and tribal sovereignty for more
than 50 years.
I am honored to represent eleven federally
recognized tribes in my district. Each of the
eleven tribes has had to fight for their rights
and their sovereignty at every turn.
Standing with tribes in that fight and leading
with them are the attorneys who represent
them in the court of law.
George was instrumental in securing victory
for tribes in the Cabazon case that set the
groundwork for tribes to transform their on-res-
ervation economies and conduct gaming oper-
ations, which has empowered tribes’ self-suffi-
ciency to provide adequate housing, schools,
and other needed social services for tribal
members.
He has successfully helped several tribes
fight their unjust termination and achieve re-
recognition as federally recognized tribes.
And over the decades, George has served
my constituents, the Morongo Band of Mission
Indians, providing advice and counsel with the
highest of integrity.
I want to thank George for his work and
wish him a long, happy retirement filled with
well-earned family time.
f
IN RECOGNITION OF ANITA
TWARDESKY
HON. DEBBIE DINGELL
OF MICHIGAN
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Friday, October 18, 2019
Mrs. DINGELL. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to recognize Anita Twardesky and con-
gratulate her for being a Southern Wayne
County Regional Chamber (SWCRC) Women
of Achievement Award Honoree. Her commit-
ment to our community in Michigan makes her
a deserving recipient of SWCRC’s Leadership
Award.
Riverside Kayak Connection (KRC) is Metro
Detroit’s premier paddling shop. Established in
2004, KRC offers kayak retail, tours, classes,
and events that serve all ranges of paddling
abilities. KRC is dedicated to improving
kayaking, water trails, and public access in
Southeast Michigan. Although based in Wyan-
dotte, KRC is involved in the entire Southeast
Michigan community, offering summer rental
locations in Belle Isle State Park and Elizabeth
Park and providing paddling classes in
Southgate and Detroit.
Anita Twardesky joined Riverside Kayak
Connection in 2006 as Community Outreach
Manager. Armed with a breadth of experience
in parks and recreation municipal administra-
tion, non-profit management, and grant writing,
Anita has excelled in her role at RKC. Her
high-level professionalism and leadership are
especially evident in her additional role as
President of Downriver Linked Greenways, a
non-profit organization with a mission to facili-
tate trail planning, development, and mar-
keting of our Downriver land and water trails.
Anita’s dedicated work in improving and shar-
ing our state’s beautiful and fun recreational
waterway activities truly makes a difference
and inspires future generations to enjoy, pro-
tect, and honor these valuable natural re-
sources.
Madam Speaker, I ask my colleagues to join
me in honoring Anita Twardesky as she re-
ceives SWCRC’s Leadership Award. As the
Great Lakes state, Michigan waterways are a
central component of our state’s identity.
Anita’s dedication to ensuring all Michiganders
can use these natural resources every year is
worthy of commendation. Anita truly deserves
SWCRC’s Leadership Award.
f
HONORING THE ROTARY CLUB OF
WHITE PLAINS, NEW YORK ON
ITS 100TH ANNIVERSARY
HON. NITA M. LOWEY
OF NEW YORK
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Friday, October 18, 2019
Mrs. LOWEY. Madam Speaker, I rise to
honor the Rotary Club of White Plains, New
York, as the institution celebrates its 100th an-
niversary on Saturday, October 19.
Established on October 1, 1919, the Rotary
Club of White Plains was the 540th club
charged by Rotary International and among
the earliest Rotary clubs in Westchester Coun-
ty. The club focuses on raising funds to help
local charities continue the critical, often chal-
lenging, work of helping those in need in the
City of White Plains and across the Lower
Hudson Valley.
In addition to local efforts, including scholar-
ship programs to support White Plains area
college students and sponsoring the Glen D.
Loucks Memorial Track and Field Games, the
Rotary Club of White Plains’ philanthropic
work has expanded internationally. The group
has made crucial contributions to the recon-
struction and redevelopment efforts in the City
of Bahia de Caráquez, Ecuador, after the
city’s infrastructure was greatly damaged by
an El Niño storm in 1998.
The Rotary Club of White Plains has been
an invaluable partner in making the City of
White Plains and the surrounding area a
healthier and more prosperous community.
Madam Speaker, I urge my fellow members of
Congress to join me in expressing both con-
gratulations and thanks to the Rotary Club of
White Plains and its former and current lead-
ers and members for their century of distin-
guished service to our community.
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. HENRY C. ‘‘HANK’’ JOHNSON, JR.
OF GEORGIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Friday, October 18, 2019
Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia. Madam Speaker,
on October 17, I was recorded as a yes vote
on Congresswoman Wagner’s Amendment to
H.R. 1815. To clarify, here is the correct infor-
mation with respect to that vote: Roll Call Vote
Number 563: No
f
HONORING MILLIE MARSHALL
HON. LARRY BUCSHON
OF INDIANA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Friday, October 18, 2019
Mr. BUCSHON. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to honor the career of Millie Marshall as
she retires after 28 years with Toyota. I’ve had
the privilege of getting to know Millie over the
past three years that she has served as plant
President for Toyota’s manufacturing facility in
Princeton, Indiana, which is located in the
Eighth District of Indiana. I have appreciated
Millie’s efforts to work with me and to keep me
updated about the exciting things and new in-
vestments taking place at the plant. During her
time as president, the plant has experienced
significant growth, which has in turn grown
jobs and the economy in Southwest Indiana.
Millie has been an outstanding leader who
is well known for her unwavering commitment
to mentoring and sponsoring women in the
STEM fields. As the first female president in
Toyota’s history and recipient of several
Women in Leadership awards, she helped
pave the way for other female leaders, not
only at Toyota but across Indiana and the na-
tion. I will miss working with Millie, and I wish
her all the best as she begins this next phase
of her life.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:54 Oct 19, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18OC8.009 E18OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E1307
October 18, 2019
HONORING THE LIFE AND LEGACY
OF JAMES COAKLEY
HON. MARK E. GREEN
OF TENNESSEE
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Friday, October 18, 2019
Mr. GREEN of Tennessee. Madam Speak-
er, I rise today to honor the life and service of
a great American hero, James ‘‘Shimmie’’
Coakley.
Mr. Coakley was born on March 15, 1920
and raised in Houston County, Tennessee. He
married Mildred Clark Coakley in 1940, and
they remained together for the next 73 years
and 9 months until her passing.
Mr. Coakley was drafted in December of
1944, and he fought in France and Germany
as part of the 143rd Infantry Regiment, 36th
Division under General Dwight D. Eisenhower.
Mr. Coakley was honorably discharged from
the Army as corporal in 1946 with a combat
wound from shrapnel.
After surviving a ten day journey back
across the Atlantic through a hurricane, Mr.
Coakley began a longtime career back in Ten-
nessee with the Meriwether Lewis Electric
Company, where he served for 33 years. In
retirement, he enjoys spending time with fam-
ily and visiting the residents of Signature
Healthcare of Erin, TN.
Mr. Coakley currently holds the distinction of
being the oldest living WWII veteran in Hous-
ton County. I ask my colleagues in the United
States House of Representatives to join me in
congratulating Mr. James Coakley on his in-
duction into the Signature Healthcare Hall of
Fame.
f
MISSING AND MURDERED
INDIGENOUS WOMEN
SPEECH OF
HON. TOM COLE
OF OKLAHOMA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, October 16, 2019
Mr. COLE. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to bring
attention to and urge Congressional action on
the Crisis of Missing and Murdered Indigenous
Women.
Mr. Speaker, more than 4 in 5 American In-
dian and Alaska Native women have experi-
enced violence in their lifetime. More than half
of American Indian and Alaska Native Women
have experienced sexual violence in their life-
time.
American Indian and Alaska Native women
are over one and half times more likely than
White women to have experienced violence in
the past year. Native women face murder
rates more than 10 times the national average
in some parts of the country. They also are al-
most 2 times as likely to have experienced
rape than non-Hispanic White women over the
course of their lifetime.
Given all these statistics of acts of violence,
96 percent of American Indian and Alaska Na-
tive women victims of sexual violence experi-
ence violence at the hands of a non-Native
perpetrator. To reiterate, nearly all of the vio-
lence committed against Native women are
committed by non-Natives.
Mr. Speaker, I do not believe the protection
of all women and children is or should be
treated as partisan issue. Tribal governments,
through trust and treaty obligations should
have the same authority as states to protect
women and children in vulnerable situations.
All states, tribal and local law enforcement au-
thorities should have access and the use of
the same tools to prevent these crimes, on or
off the reservations. Hunters know where to
hunt; fishermen know where to fish. And pred-
ators know where to prey.
I am pleased to see the House has taken
action on this issue with the passage of the
reauthorization of the Violence Against
Women Act, and I urge the Senate to take up
this important legislation and include strong
tribal provisions to ensure tribal governments
have all the resources available to protect
their communities.
f
IN RECOGNITION OF KIMBERLY
KRAMER
HON. DEBBIE DINGELL
OF MICHIGAN
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Friday, October 18, 2019
Mrs. DINGELL. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to recognize Kimberly Kramer and con-
gratulate her on being a Southern Wayne
County Regional Chamber (SWCRC) Women
of Achievement Award Honoree. Her commit-
ment to our community in Michigan makes her
a deserving recipient of SWCRC’s Entre-
preneur Award.
Kimberly Kramer established Your Look
Logos, LCC, a promotional product distributer
in Lincoln Park, Michigan in 2013. As a mem-
ber of the Advertising Special Institute, Your
Look Logos supplies companies with every
promotional product companies can imagine
like branded mugs, pens, tote bags, t-shirts,
and watches from over 3,000 suppliers. With
a mission to help business owners create
long-lasting and memorable relationships with
clients, Your Look Logos specializes in con-
sulting with businesses to find the best pro-
motional products to suit their unique needs.
Being involved in customer service for over
25 years, Kimberly Kramer personally knows
the importance of cultivating meaningful rela-
tionships between businesses and their cli-
ents. Six years ago, she put her professional
experience into action, creating a company
that would help others generate brand aware-
ness and leave a lasting impression on the cli-
ents they encounter. Since its inception, Your
Look Logos has become an important re-
source for many businesses across Michigan,
especially throughout Metro Detroit.
Madam Speaker, I ask my colleagues to join
me in honoring Kimberly Kramer as she re-
ceives SWCRC’s Entrepreneur Award.
Kimberly’s dedication to helping business
thrive and establish deeper connections with
clients has truly made a difference in our com-
munity. We are grateful for her work and wish
her and Your Look Logos continued success
in the years ahead.
CONGRATULATING DR. JASON
DINKO ON THE RECEIPT OF THE
INAUGURAL FOUNDERS AWARD
HON. DANIEL MEUSER
OF PENNSYLVANIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Friday, October 18, 2019
Mr. MEUSER. Madam Speaker, it is with
great admiration that I rise today to congratu-
late Dr. Jason Dinko of Luzerne County on re-
ceiving the inaugural Founders Award from
Geisinger Commonwealth Foundation.
Dr. Dinko, graduated from Geisinger Com-
monwealth School of Medicine in 2014.
Throughout his career, he has consistently
demonstrated his remarkable care and com-
passion for his patients and our community.
Dr. Dinko earned his undergraduate degree
from Marywood University and completed a
residency in family medicine near Pittsburgh.
He now serves the people of Montour County
as a family medicine clinician for Geisinger in
Danville, where the courtesy and compassion
he shows his patients has earned him a rep-
utation in the community for quality care. I can
think of no one more deserving of this honor.
On behalf of the U.S. House of Representa-
tives and the citizens of Pennsylvania’s Ninth
Congressional District, I ask my colleagues to
join me in congratulating Dr. Dinko on this
great honor and thank him for his care of the
people of our community.
f
HONORING THE ROTARY CLUB OF
PEEKSKILL, NEW YORK ON ITS
100TH ANNIVERSARY
HON. NITA M. LOWEY
OF NEW YORK
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Friday, October 18, 2019
Mrs. LOWEY. Madam Speaker, I rise to
honor the Rotary Club of Peekskill, New York,
as the institution celebrated its 100th anniver-
sary on Thursday, October 17.
Established in 1919, the Peekskill Rotary
Club was the 547th club charged by Rotary
International and among the earliest Rotary
clubs in Westchester County. The club fo-
cuses on raising funds to help local charities
continue the critical, often challenging, work of
helping those in need in the City of Peekskill
and across the Lower Hudson Valley. The
more than 10,000 people who attend the
club’s annual fundraiser at Peekskill High
School are a testament to the widespread
support for the club’s contributions to our com-
munity.
A highlight of its 10 decades of service was
the Rotary’s involvement in recovery efforts
after the attacks on the World Trade Center
on September 11, 2001. Rotary volunteers as-
sisted the Salvation Army in coordinating the
delivery of supplies to workers at Ground Zero
and raised funds for the families of the four
victims who were Peekskill residents. The club
also designated a memorial monument and
tree to those four individuals at Riverfront
Green Park on July 4, 2002.
The Rotary Club of Peekskill has been an
invaluable partner in making the Lower Hud-
son Valley a healthier and more prosperous
community. Madam, Speaker, I urge my fellow
members of Congress to join me in expressing
VerDate Sep 11 2014 19:02 Oct 21, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\RECORD19\OCTOBER\E18OC9.REC E18OC9
CORRECTION
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E1308 October 18, 2019
both congratulations and thanks to the Rotary
Club of Peekskill and its past and current
members for their century of service to our
community.
f
HONORING TC AND MAEGAN
SCHWINDLING AND ALL ADOP-
TIVE FAMILIES IN ALABAMA
HON. ROBERT B. ADERHOLT
OF ALABAMA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Friday, October 18, 2019
Mr. ADERHOLT. Madam Speaker, our
opening prayer yesterday morning was offered
by Pastor Phil Waldrep from Decatur, Ala-
bama. I want to thank Pastor Waldrep for his
dedication to the scripture and his passion for
families.
Six years ago, Pastor Waldrep’s extended
family grew through the gift of adoption. In
Spring of 2013, his oldest daughter, Maegan
Schwindling, and her husband, TC, began pur-
suing adoption from the Democratic Republic
of Congo. They were matched at the begin-
ning of summer 2013 with a young girl in
Lubumbashi, DRC.
Things took an unfortunate turn a few
months later. On September 25, 2013, adop-
tions from the DRC came to a halt as Presi-
dent Kabila blocked Internationally-adopted
children from leaving the country. Child place-
ment agencies and adoptive families scram-
bled to find their way through this roadblock
yet they were undeterred in getting these chil-
dren home.
I had the privilege of meeting Maegan and
several other Alabama families during this
season while they were stuck with children on
the other side of the world. We worked closely
with the Congressional Caucus on Adoption
and the U.S. State Department to help these
families be united here in their new homes.
Pastor Waldrep’s granddaughter Zoe finally
came home to the United States with Maegan
and TC on April 16, 2016. She became a
proud American citizen on September 27,
2016—almost 3 years to the day after Presi-
dent Kabila suspended international adoptions
in the DRC.
On Thursday, a little over 6 years after
Zoe’s journey with her family began, Zoe was
in the gallery to watch her grandfather open
the House of Representatives in prayer. Zoe
has suffered loss and tragedy in her life, but
through the gift of adoption and the love and
care of her parents and extended family, she
has become a true example of beauty in bro-
ken places.
As the House Republican co-chair of the
Congressional Caucus on Adoption, I’m hon-
ored to recognize the Schwindlings and all of
the adoptive families in Alabama. Next month
we will celebrate National Adoption Month.
May Zoe’s story be a reminder to us all of the
magnitude of loss and the beauty of coming
home that can be found in adoption stories
across the country.
IN MEMORY OF REVEREND
THEODORE GIBSON
HON. DONNA E. SHALALA
OF FLORIDA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Friday, October 18, 2019
Ms. SHALALA. Madam Speaker, I rise in
honor of Reverend Theodore Gibson, cham-
pion of civil rights in Miami.
Born in 1915, Reverend Gibson emerged as
a leader in South Florida’s desegregation
movement. Determined that his son would at-
tend an integrated school, Reverend Gibson
filed a lawsuit against Dade County Public
Schools. He also led desegregation efforts at
lunch counters and department stores, and
even helped integrate Crandon Park Beach by
leading a swim-in.
Reverend Gibson served as president of the
Miami NAACP from 1954 to 1964. During that
time, he refused to turn over the names of the
members of the local NAACP chapter to the
Florida state legislature, which was hunting for
communist influence in American political or-
ganizations. Reverend Gibson was arrested
and fined for standing up for the dignity of the
NAACP.
In 1972, Reverend Gibson was appointed to
the Miami City Commission, where he contin-
ued to promote civil rights and empower Afri-
can American communities. A powerful orator
and moral leader, Reverend Gibson devoted
himself to the Christ Episcopal Church in Co-
conut Grove, where he served as a rector until
his death in 1982. He is survived by his wife,
Thelma Gibson.
Reverend Gibson dedicated his life to pro-
moting the rights and welfare of the African
American community of Miami. His influence
continues to resonate in South Florida and will
be felt for years to come. I’m proud to honor
his memory.
f
IN RECOGNITION OF SARAH KEW
HON. DEBBIE DINGELL
OF MICHIGAN
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Friday, October 18, 2019
Mrs. DINGELL. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to recognize Sarah Kew and congratu-
late her for being a Southern Wayne County
Regional Chamber (SWCRC) Women of
Achievement Award Honoree. Her commit-
ment to our community in Michigan makes her
a deserving recipient of SWCRC’s Unsung
Heroine Award.
Kiwanis International is a global community
of clubs and members with a mission to ‘‘em-
power communities to improve the world by
making lasting differences in the lives of our
children.’’ Kiwanis Clubs throughout our com-
munity embody this mission and tirelessly
strive to serve the needs of children in cre-
ative ways by tackling hunger, improving lit-
eracy, promoting leadership, and offering guid-
ance.
Kiwanis Clubs throughout Michigan cannot
operate without strong and effective leaders
who demonstrate a true commitment to the or-
ganization’s mission. As Kiwanis of Michigan
District 5th Lieutenant Governor, Sarah Kew
dutifully leads our community’s Kiwanis Clubs,
working quietly behind the scenes to ensure
the organization continues to improve the lives
of our children. Known amongst her peers and
colleagues for her high degree of profes-
sionalism, compassion, and ambition, and she
is well-loved and cherished by so many within
the Kiwanis organization and beyond. Sarah
truly embodies all the qualities of an admirable
leader—she humbly strives for excellence
without seeking praise or recognition for any
of her significant accomplishments.
Madam Speaker, I ask my colleagues to join
me in honoring Sarah Kew as she receives
SWCRC’s Unsung Heroine Award. Sarah’s
dedication to our community’s children is re-
markable, and her continued leadership in the
Kiwanis Club is deeply appreciated. Sarah
truly deserves the SWCRC Unsung Heroine
Award.
f
HONORING BILL WINKKY IN
HONOR OF HIS EIGHTIETH
BIRTHDAY
HON. TOM REED
OF NEW YORK
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Friday, October 18, 2019
Mr. REED. Madam Speaker, today I rise to
honor Bill Winkky who recently celebrated his
eightieth birthday.
Bill Winkky, son of Mary Emma and Robert
Winkky, was born in Kingston, New York on
September 29, 1939. In his eighty years of
life, he has been a mentor, a friend, a father,
a husband and an all-around good man that
deserves to be recognized.
In 1963, Bill married Charlotte Sommerfeld
and has remained by her side for the past
fifty-six years. Bill has such dedication to his
wife and his family, it is heartwarming to see.
Yet, his family is not the only thing he has
been dedicated to over the years. He was a
teacher, dedicating thirty-two and a-half years
to educating and enriching the lives of the
youth he taught. He also coached several
sports, including football, wrestling, swimming
and track. The hours he spent dedicated to
young people were well spent, and he had a
profound impact on his students.
Bill also has dedicated time to serving peo-
ple as the Town of Veteran supervisor for ten
years and continues to hold this role now.
It is not often you have the pleasure of
meeting a man as dedicated to helping others
as Bill Winkky. He is a pillar in the community,
has given so much of himself to our youth
through his coaching and teaching tenure. He
continues to do a great deal as the Town of
Veteran supervisor. I am honored to know
him, and I am equally honored to celebrate his
achievements, his legacy of hard-work, com-
passion and community-mindedness here
today.
Given the above, I ask that this Legislative
Body pause in its deliberations and join me to
honor Bill Winkky on his eightieth birthday.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:54 Oct 19, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18OC8.020 E18OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E1309
October 18, 2019
CONGRATULATING NOBLE ‘‘BUD’’
QUANDEL ON THE RECEIPT OF
THE INAUGURAL FOUNDERS
AWARD
HON. DANIEL MEUSER
OF PENNSYLVANIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Friday, October 18, 2019
Mr. MEUSER. Madam Speaker, it is with
great admiration that I rise today to congratu-
late Ninth District Resident, Noble ‘‘Bud’’
Quandel of Schuylkill County, Pennsylvania on
receiving the inaugural Founders Award from
Geisinger Commonwealth Foundation.
Mr. Quandel began his career as a laborer
and apprentice while attending Bloomsburg
University, since succeeding his father in
1976, he has served as Chairman and CEO of
Quandel Enterprises. Although under his guid-
ance, his business has experienced great suc-
cess across the country, Mr. Quandel has re-
mained a cornerstone of our community. Mr.
Quandel has overseen significant Quandel
projects throughout our community including
Geisinger’s Medical Sciences Building and the
new Geisinger St. Luke’s facility in
Orwigsburg.
Mr. Quandel has consistently demonstrated
his commitment to being a good friend, busi-
nessman and neighbor. From producing
‘‘quicklime’’ for local building projects, Quandel
later added consulting services and instituted
an Employee Stock Ownership Program that
gave all its employees a vested interest in the
company’s success.
On behalf of the U.S. House of Representa-
tives and the citizens of Pennsylvania’s Ninth
Congressional District, I ask my colleagues to
join me in congratulating Noble ‘‘Bud’’
Quandel on this great honor and thank him for
his commitment to the betterment of our com-
munity.
f
CELEBRATING AULTMAN HOS-
PITAL AND CANTON CITY PUB-
LIC HEALTH BEING HONORED
WITH THE AHA DICK DAVIDSON
NOVA AWARD
HON. ANTHONY GONZALEZ
OF OHIO
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Friday, October 18, 2019
Mr. GONZALEZ of Ohio. Madam Speaker, I
rise today to recognize Aultman Hospital and
Canton City Public Health in Canton, Ohio—
winners of the 2019 American Hospitals Asso-
ciation Dick Davidson NOVA Award for their
joint efforts to create the Stark County Toward
Health Resiliency for Infant Vitality and Equity
(THRIVE) program.
THRIVE promotes women’s health before,
during and after pregnancy. After conducting a
fetal infant-mortality review, the collaborating
stakeholders selected interventions that would
have the greatest possible impact on overall
infant mortality and the disparity between
white and black infant mortality rates.
THRIVE’s goals include raising awareness of
the value of prenatal care, linking women to
prenatal services, addressing barriers to pre-
natal care and meeting socio-economic needs.
THRIVE also focuses on safe sleep education,
policies and resources to stop the problem of
infants dying at home because of unsafe
sleeping conditions.
While local hospitals provided the initial col-
laborative funding, additional funding was pro-
vided by the Ohio Department of Medicaid and
the March of Dimes. THRIVE’s strength is also
due to other collaborative partners such as
local school districts, community health pro-
viders and faith-based groups. It is THRIVE’s
stated goal that every baby born in Stark
County has the opportunity to reach his or her
First Birthday. I can think of no more noble
goal.
I applaud Aultman Hospital and Canton City
Public Health for their leadership in developing
THRIVE to address the pressing public health
concern of infant mortality in Stark County. It
is my earnest hope your efforts become the
model for addressing Ohio’s Infant Mortality
Rates as well. I think we all look to the day
when every child born in the great State of
Ohio can reach their First Birthday.
Congratulations on earning the 2019 Amer-
ican Hospitals Association Dick Davidson
NOVA Award.
f
CELEBRATING THE RETIREMENT
OF COMMAND SGT. MAJ. WAYNE
T. BREWSTER
HON. JOHN SHIMKUS
OF ILLINOIS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Friday, October 18, 2019
Mr. SHIMKUS. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to congratulate Command Sergeant Major
Wayne T. Brewster, on his retirement from the
United States Army Reserve, after more than
34 years of faithful service to our nation.
Command Sergeant Major Brewster was
born in Odin, IL and graduated from Sterling
High School in Sterling, IL in 1983. In 1985,
Command Sergeant Major Brewster com-
pleted Basic Combat Training and Advanced
Individual Training as an Infantry Soldier at
Fort Benning, GA. During his 34 years of serv-
ice, Command Sergeant Major Brewster would
serve with gallantry at every command level,
finishing his service as the Command Ser-
geant Major for Army Reserve Medical Com-
mand in Pinellas Park, FL. In his civilian ca-
pacity, Command Sergeant Major Brewster is
a Firefighter and Engineer for Poudre Fire Au-
thority and has been in the fire service since
1993.
Madam Speaker, I thank Command Ser-
geant Major Brewster for his 34 years of dedi-
cated service, and wish him well as he starts
this next chapter in his life.
f
IN HONOR OF THE MEMORY OF
JANIE MARIE JONES
HON. DEBBIE DINGELL
OF MICHIGAN
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Friday, October 18, 2019
Mrs. DINGELL. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to recognize and honor the esteemed
life of Janie Marie Jones. Ms. Jones passed
away on September 29, 2019 which greatly
saddened our entire community. Her remark-
able service to the Washtenaw County com-
munity is worthy of commendation.
Born in 1934, Ms. Jones grew up in Lou-
isiana and Texas. After marrying, she moved
to Detroit, Michigan with her two children. Ms.
Jones was a devoted mother, selflessly putting
the needs of her children before her own, and
even delayed pursuing her own education until
they were sufficiently grown. At the age of 35,
Ms. Jones received her high school diploma
from Robichaud High School and continued
her education at Concordia College. She
earned her Baccalaureate degree in 1989, and
later took classes toward a master’s degree in
education in the years before her illness.
Ms. Jones quickly became a fixture of the
Washtenaw County Community. Upon receiv-
ing her degree, she shared her enthusiasm for
education with our community’s children by
working as a substitute teacher and volunteer
for Head Start in Ypsilanti. Furthermore, Ms.
Jones was recognized as a dedicated advo-
cate for our community’s veterans. She
worked as a respiratory therapist at the Ann
Arbor Veterans Administration Medical Center
and also served veterans in a volunteer ca-
pacity, where she helped them navigate the
complex federal system and connect with the
services and resources they needed.
In addition to her work in healthcare, Ms.
Jones was selected to join the Washtenaw
County Sheriff’s Department in 1965 and was
a trailblazer in this field. Ms. Jones was the
first black woman deputy in the department’s
history, breaking the glass ceiling for other
women in our community. Furthermore, she
served on the Workforce Development Board,
the Citizens Council to the Juvenile Court, and
the Superior Township Planning Commission
and Board of Review. Ms. Jones dedicated
her life working for causes she believed in,
and her efforts truly affected change through-
out her community.
Madam Speaker, I ask my colleagues to join
me in honoring the legacy of Janie Marie
Jones. We will forever remember her remark-
able life, devotion, and service. She will be
dearly missed. May she rest in eternal peace.
f
HONORING THE LIFE AND LEGACY
OF DR. JAMES STADLER
HON. MICHAEL F. Q. SAN NICOLAS
OF GUAM
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Friday, October 18, 2019
Mr. SAN NICOLAS. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to honor the life and legacy of a good
man, Dr. James Stadler. Dr. Stadler is the be-
loved son of Edward Stadler, Sr. and Wanda
Stadler. He was a longtime resident of Guam,
a faithful servant, a husband, father, grand-
father, and a beloved pediatrician in our com-
munity on Guam.
Dr. James Stadler was born and raised in
Mt. Clemens, Michigan, and graduated from
St. Mary High School in 1967. From there, he
went on to pursue his undergraduate studies
at Michigan State University. He then grad-
uated with honors from the University of Michi-
gan Medical School, Ann Arbor, in 1974 and
completed his internship and residency in Pe-
diatrics touching the hearts of many children
at the Children’s Hospital of Los Angeles in
1977.
In that same year, our island was blessed
with a man who dedicated his life to the serv-
ice of others, particularly our children, as he
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:54 Oct 19, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A18OC8.025 E18OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E1310 October 18, 2019
was called to Guam on an 18-month contract
with FHP. He brought his loving wife and 11-
month old son at the time, Jeffrey. His cour-
age and curiosity gave our island a graceful
and beloved gift—and that was Dr. James
Stadler, who eventually decided to make
Guam home.
Dr. Stadler worked with FHP Clinic for 42
years, but also wore many other hats in our
community. He was the Chairman of Pediat-
rics at the Guam Memorial Hospital, and in
this role, he was instrumental to the opening
of the first Pediatric and Neonatal Intensive
Care Units. He also served as the GMH Med-
ical Director from 2005 to 2010, held multiple
volunteer teaching jobs such as ACLS and
BLS instructor for GMH, directed and in-
charge of Medical Symposiums held in Guam,
and was the President of the Guam Medical
Society when he was barely 30 years old. This
man was a pioneer in Guam’s medical com-
munity.
But all these hats he wore do not even
begin to define the real character behind Dr.
James Stadler—an honorable man of his
word, an angel for children, and someone to
truly count on. He is survived by his wife
Virgie, his children Jeffrey, Joseph, James,
Jennifer, and Jonathan, and his grand-
daughter, Olivia. His mark will forever be im-
printed on the hearts of all of us, and I join the
people of Guam in honoring the memory of
Dr. James Stadler and commemorating his
many contributions to our island. I extend my
sincere condolences to the entire Stadler fam-
ily. His legacy will inspire us now and forever.
f
HONORING THE PUBLIC SERVICE
OF MR. TERRY MCDONALD
HON. JIM BANKS
OF INDIANA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Friday, October 18, 2019
Mr. BANKS. Madam Speaker, I rise today to
honor Mr. Terry McDonald for his two decades
of service as Mayor of New Haven, Indiana.
Since his election in 1999, Terry has worked
diligently to usher in a new era of prosperity
for the second-largest city in Allen County.
Under Terry’s leadership, New Haven has
seen increases in commercial and industrial
activity and heralded improvements in its pub-
lic schools and infrastructure. He has brought
the city to a new level of prominence within
our great state and made his constituents
proud.
Above all, Terry has always seen his posi-
tion not as a job, but as a service and a duty.
As he does in his role as a minister, Terry
seeks to use his God-given talents to assist
those who need it the most. His first priority
has always been assisting those around him.
Officials at all levels of government can learn
a great deal from the honesty and integrity of
men like Mayor Terry McDonald.
As Terry’s time in public office draws to a
close, I wish him and his family nothing but
the very best as he continues his life of serv-
ice.
CELEBRATING BREMOND’S 150TH
ANNIVERSARY
HON. BILL FLORES
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Friday, October 18, 2019
Mr. FLORES. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to honor the one-hundred-and-fiftieth anniver-
sary of the City of Bremond, Texas.
It is an honor to represent Bremond and its
residents in the U.S. House of Representa-
tives.
Bremond has supported thousands of fami-
lies and businesses throughout the years, and
I am proud to offer my congratulations on their
sesquicentennial milestone.
Located in Robertson County, Bremond was
established along the Houston and Texas
Central Railway, which was built through the
area in 1869.
The city is named in honor of Paul
Bremond, an entrepreneur and founder of the
Houston, East and West Texas Railway.
The first train pulled into Bremond on June
15, 1870, with over 1,000 well-wishers present
for the occasion.
In the late 1800’s and early 1900’s Bremond
was thriving; it was a major cotton center, with
a number of gins running continually.
The city has stood the test of time and been
resilient; providing generations of families a
great quality of life.
In recent years, Bremond High School has
been a Texas football powerhouse. They won
three consecutive 2A State Championships—
2014, 2015 and 2016.
The citizens of Bremond are a hardy peo-
ple, and the pride of the city and its residents
has never been greater.
Madam Speaker, please join me in com-
memorating the City of Bremond and its proud
residents for their one-hundred-and-fiftieth an-
niversary.
In recognition of this occasion, I am pleased
to fly a United States flag over the United
States Capitol to honor Bremond’s sesqui-
centennial anniversary.
As I close, I urge all Americans to continue
praying for our country during these difficult
times, for our military men and women who
protect us from external threats, and for our
first responders who protect us here at home.
f
HONORING STEUBEN RURAL ELEC-
TRIC COOPERATIVE, INC. FOR
ITS SEVENTY-FIFTH ANNIVER-
SARY
HON. TOM REED
OF NEW YORK
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Friday, October 18, 2019
Mr. REED. Madam Speaker, today I rise to
recognize Steuben Rural Electric Cooperative,
Inc. for its seventy-fifth anniversary.
The Steuben Electric Association, Inc., was
formed in July 1941 under the Transportation
Corporations Law and was later converted to
an electric distribution cooperative in 1942. At
that time, the cooperative had five hundred
and three miles of line and one thousand
three hundred members. Two years later, its
first electric line was energized.
Cooperatives such as Steuben Rural Elec-
tric made it possible for rural areas to have
access to electric during the 1930s in areas
that would not have otherwise had this serv-
ice. Without these ingenious organizations, our
rural areas would not be what they are
today—we owe a debt of gratitude to the rural
electric movement that allowed our farmers to
use lights instead of lanterns and brought
much needed power to the people of these
rural communities.
In 1969, the Steuben Rural Electric Cooper-
ative, Inc. and the Chautauqua-Cattaraugus
Electric Cooperative, Inc. began discussing
the possibility of a merger. That merger came
to completion in 1970 and made the Steuben
Rural Electric Cooperative the largest of four
New York cooperatives.
However, these services are still needed,
from Steuben County to Cattaraugus County
and beyond. Currently, the cooperative has
grown to include one thousand one hundred
miles of line, serving six thousand three hun-
dred homes, farms and small businesses.
With such a rich legacy and a bright future, I
know we will see many more great things from
Steuben Rural Electric Cooperative.
Given the above, I ask that this Legislative
Body pause in its deliberations and join me to
recognize Steuben Rural Electric Cooperative,
Inc. for their seventy-fifth anniversary.
f
IN RECOGNITION OF JAMES (JIM)
HOECKER FOR HIS EXEMPLARY
CAREER IN ENERGY LAW AND
POLICY
HON. DEBBIE DINGELL
OF MICHIGAN
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Friday, October 18, 2019
Mrs. DINGELL. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to recognize Jim Hoecker, someone
who has been the voice of the electric trans-
mission industry and a dedicated public serv-
ant at the Federal Energy Regulatory Commis-
sion. Mr. Hoecker has announced his retire-
ment from his current role as Executive Direc-
tor and Counsel to the WIRES coalition at the
end of this year. His distinguished career is
worthy of commendation.
Mr. Hoecker is a widely-recognized expert in
the field of electric transmission. His invalu-
able insight has helped advance the interests
of the electric grid among policymakers, indus-
try leaders, and others who share WIRES’ be-
lief in the need to invest in the nation’s trans-
mission network.
Prior to working with WIRES, Mr. Hoecker
held several positions at FERC, serving as
legal counsel, commissioner, and ultimately as
chairman from 1997 to 2001. Among his
achievements at FERC were the develop-
ments of electric transmission and natural gas
pipeline open access and the creation of re-
gional transmission organizations. After his ca-
reer at FERC, Hoecker founded Hoecker En-
ergy Law & Policy PLLC and joined Husch
Blackwell LLP, where he will remain active in
his law and consultancy practice. Hoecker
holds a J.D. from the University of Wisconsin
Law School and a Ph.D from the University of
Kentucky.
Madam Speaker, I ask my colleagues to join
me in honoring Jim Hoecker and his exem-
plary career. Taking the steps to ensure that
our country has a robust electrical trans-
mission grid is no small task, and Mr. Hoecker
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:54 Oct 19, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A18OC8.029 E18OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E1311
October 18, 2019
has more than risen to the challenge. We
thank him for his tireless advocacy on behalf
of the electric transmission grid with WIRES
and at FERC.
f
TRIBUTE TO ARMENIANS OF COLO-
RADO, INC. ON ITS 40TH BIRTH-
DAY
HON. JASON CROW
OF COLORADO
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Friday, October 18, 2019
Mr. CROW. Madam Speaker, I would like to
pay tribute to Colorado’s oldest and largest Ar-
menian American organization—Armenians of
Colorado, Inc. (AOC)—for their four decades
of community building.
Established in 1979 by several families, Ar-
menians of Colorado (AOC) is a nonprofit or-
ganization that has grown to serve the Front
Range’s vibrant Armenian American commu-
nity. From teaching the Armenian language
and cultural traditions to raising awareness
about Armenian history, AOC has been the
pillar of the Centennial State’s rapidly growing,
vibrant Armenian community. Its purpose is to
foster a cohesive Armenian community and to
further the understanding of Armenian history,
culture, language, and customs within the
community and to the general public.
AOC’s landmark achievement, the Colorado
State Capitol Armenian Memorial Garden, was
established in 1982 with the planting of a blue
spruce and installation of a memorial plaque in
commemoration of the 1.5 million victims of
the Armenian Genocide. In 2015, on the cen-
tennial anniversary of the commencement of
the Armenian Genocide, AOC renovated the
Colorado State Capitol Armenian Memorial
Garden and installed a replica of a medieval
Armenian khachkar (cross-stone) in memory
of the victims of all crimes against humanity
and in tribute to Coloradans who participated
in the Near East Relief’s philanthropic efforts
to rescue and raise 132,000 orphans of the
Armenian Genocide. This khachkar memorial
is a recreation of one of the 3,000 Djulfa
cross-stones destroyed during the Nagorno-
Karabakh War.
Because the fact is, while the Armenian
genocide occurred generations ago and an
ocean away, we still feel its pain. We have
seen how easily the same motives that al-
lowed the Armenian genocide to occur still
happen to today. As we have learned, all too
often an assault on any ethnic group or reli-
gion is an assault on all of us.
AOC has also been instrumental in
partnering with the Armenian National Com-
mittee of America to establish the Sardarapat
Armenian Memorial Highway in my District in
2018 to mark the centennial anniversary of the
establishment of the Armenian Republic and
to celebrate Armenian Genocide survivors’ de-
termination to save their nation from total ex-
tinction.
On its 40th birthday, I wish AOC many more
successes in its commendable mission of
serving the educational and cultural needs of
Colorado’s vibrant Armenian American com-
munity.
f
IN HONOR OF ERIN TIDERMAN-
GROSS AND DEIRDRE ABRAMS
HON. RUSS FULCHER
OF IDAHO
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Friday, October 18, 2019
Mr. FULCHER. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to honor two wonderful teachers from
Idaho: Mrs. Erin Tiderman-Gross of Meridian,
Idaho, and Mrs. Deirdre Abrams of Donnelly,
Idaho who have been awarded the Presi-
dential Award for Excellence in Mathematics
and Science Teaching. This award is the high-
est honor bestowed by the United States gov-
ernment for teachers in science, technology,
engineering, mathematics, and computer stud-
ies. I am proud today to recognize the hard
work of Mrs. Abrams and Mrs. Tiderman-
Gross and their dedication, commitment, and
passion for our students’ success in the
sciences.
At Rocky Mountain High School in Meridian,
Idaho—my hometown—Mrs. Tiderman-Gross
teaches advanced placement biology and has
acted as a mentor to hundreds of students in
the National Honor Society. Mrs. Tiderman-
Gross is an adviser in one of the largest,
most-active National Honor Society Chapters
in Idaho. She has impacted countless families,
students, and community members through
her work, and after 24 years, continues to
share her passion for biology with her stu-
dents.
At Donnelly Elementary School, Mrs.
Abrams has taken the world to her students
through place-based learning. Mrs. Abrams
has given her students hands-on educational
trips to study rainbow trout populations, polli-
nator gardens, and cattle data to improve
water quality. Her students even share their
water quality data with local government agen-
cies. Mrs. Abrams has been an educator for
23 years and continues to be a shining exam-
ple of innovative teaching in the sciences.
I thank Mrs. Erin Tiderman-Gross and Mrs.
Deirdre Adams for their passion and commit-
ment to their students. This honor bestowed
upon them is a testament to their dedication
and I am so proud of their representation of
the great State of Idaho.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:54 Oct 19, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A18OC8.033 E18OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
REMARKS
D1130
Friday, October 18, 2019
Daily Digest
Senate
Chamber Action
The Senate was not in session and stands ad-
journed until 3 p.m., on Monday, October 21, 2019.
Committee Meetings
No committee meetings were held.
h
House of Representatives
Chamber Action
Public Bills and Resolutions Introduced: 34 pub-
lic bills, H.R. 4733–4766; and 7 resolutions, H.
Res. 639–645 were introduced. Pages H8257–59
Additional Cosponsors: Pages H8260–61
Reports Filed: Reports were filed today as follows:
H.R. 2819, to extend the authority for the estab-
lishment of a commemorative work in honor of Gold
Star Families, and for other purposes, with an
amendment (H. Rept. 116–243); and
H.R. 1568, to assist in the conservation of the
North Atlantic right whale by supporting and pro-
viding financial resources for North Atlantic right
whale conservation programs and projects of persons
with expertise required for the conservation of North
Atlantic right whales, and for other purposes, with
an amendment (H. Rept. 116–244, Part 1).
Page H8257
Speaker: Read a letter from the Speaker wherein she
appointed Representative Neguse to act as Speaker
pro tempore for today. Page H8231
Outsourcing Accountability Act of 2019: The
House passed H.R. 3624, to amend the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 to require the disclosure of
the total number of domestic and foreign employees
of certain public companies, by a yea-and-nay vote
of 226 yeas to 184 nays, Roll No. 567.
Pages H8233–42
Pursuant to the Rule, it shall be in order to con-
sider as an original bill for the purpose of amend-
ment under the five-minute rule the amendment in
the nature of a substitute recommended by the Com-
mittee on Financial Services now printed in the bill.
Pages H8237–38
Rejected:
Huizenga amendment (No. 1 printed in part C of
H. Rept. 116–237) that sought to exempt issuers
from making these disclosures if they are required to
make a CEO pay ratio disclosure or disclosures relat-
ing to conflict minerals (by a recorded vote of 184
ayes to 229 noes, Roll No. 565); and
Pages H8238–39, H8240–41
Hill (AR) amendment (No. 2 printed in part C
of H. Rept. 116–237) that sought to require disclo-
sure of the information under the bill only if that
information is material information for investors (by
a recorded vote of 187 ayes to 224 noes, Roll No.
566). Pages H8239–40, H8241–42
H. Res. 629, the rule providing for consideration
of the bills (H.R. 1815) and (H.R. 3624) was agreed
to Wednesday, October 16th.
Meeting Hour: Agreed by unanimous consent that
when the House adjourns today, it adjourn to meet
at 12 noon on Monday, October 21st for Morning
Hour debate. Page H8251
Quorum Calls—Votes: One yea-and-nay vote and
two recorded votes developed during the proceedings
of today and appear on pages H8240–41, H8241–42
and H8242–43. There were no quorum calls.
Adjournment: The House met at 9 a.m. and ad-
journed at 1:24 p.m.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:06 Oct 19, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D18OC9.REC D18OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D1131
October 18, 2019
Committee Meetings
AI AND THE EVOLUTION OF CLOUD
COMPUTING: EVALUATION HOW
FINANCIAL DATA IS STORED, PROTECTED,
AND MAINTAINED BY CLOUD PROVIDERS
Committee on Financial Services: Task Force on Artifi-
cial Intelligence held a hearing entitled ‘‘AI and the
Evolution of Cloud Computing: Evaluation How Fi-
nancial Data is Stored, Protected, and Maintained by
Cloud Providers’’. Testimony was heard from public
witnesses.
ONLINE PLATFORMS AND MARKET
POWER, PART 3: THE ROLE OF DATA AND
PRIVACY IN COMPETITION
Committee on the Judiciary: Subcommittee on Anti-
trust, Commercial, and Administrative Law held a
hearing entitled ‘‘Online Platforms and Market
Power, Part 3: The Role of Data and Privacy in
Competition’’. Testimony was heard from Rohit
Chopra, Commissioner, Federal Trade Commission;
and public witnesses.
Joint Meetings
No joint committee meetings were held.
f
COMMITTEE MEETINGS FOR MONDAY,
OCTOBER 21, 2019
(Committee meetings are open unless otherwise indicated)
Senate
No meetings/hearings scheduled.
House
Committee on Rules, Full Committee, hearing on H.R.
2513, the ‘‘Corporate Transparency Act of 2019’’, 5 p.m.,
H–313 Capitol.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:06 Oct 19, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D18OC9.REC D18OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
Congressional Record The Congressional Record (USPS 087–390). The Periodicals postage
is paid at Washington, D.C. The public proceedings of each House
of Congress, as reported by the Official Reporters thereof, are
printed pursuant to directions of the Joint Committee on Printing as authorized by appropriate provisions of Title 44, United
States Code, and published for each day that one or both Houses are in session, excepting very infrequent instances when
two or more unusually small consecutive issues are printed one time. ¶ Public access to the Congressional Record is available online through
the U.S. Government Publishing Office, at www.govinfo.gov, free of charge to the user. The information is updated online each day the
Congressional Record is published. For more information, contact the GPO Customer Contact Center, U.S. Government Publishing Office.
Phone 202–512–1800, or 866–512–1800 (toll-free). E-Mail, contactcenter@gpo.gov. ¶ To place an order for any of these products, visit the U.S.
Government Online Bookstore at: bookstore.gpo.gov. Mail orders to: Superintendent of Documents, P.O. Box 979050, St. Louis, MO
63197–9000, or phone orders to 866–512–1800 (toll-free), 202–512–1800 (D.C. area), or fax to 202–512–2104. Remit check or money order, made
payable to the Superintendent of Documents, or use VISA, MasterCard, Discover, American Express, or GPO Deposit Account. ¶ Following
each session of Congress, the daily Congressional Record is revised, printed, permanently bound and sold by the Superintendent of Documents
in individual parts or by sets. ¶ With the exception of copyrighted articles, there are no restrictions on the republication of material from
the Congressional Record.
POSTMASTER: Send address changes to the Superintendent of Documents, Congressional Record, U.S. Government Publishing Office,
Washington, D.C. 20402, along with the entire mailing label from the last issue received.
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
D1132 October 18, 2019
Next Meeting of the SENATE
3 p.m., Monday, October 21
Senate Chamber
Program for Monday: Senate will resume consideration
of the protocol to the North Atlantic Treaty of 1949 on
the Accession of the Republic of North Macedonia (Trea-
ty Doc. 116–1), and vote on the motion to invoke cloture
thereon at 5:30 p.m.
Next Meeting of the HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
12 noon, Monday, October 21
House Chamber
Program for Monday: To be announced.
Extensions of Remarks, as inserted in this issue
HOUSE
Aderholt, Robert B., Ala., E1308
Balderson, Troy, Ohio, E1303
Banks, Jim, Ind., E1310
Brooks, Mo, Ala., E1304
Bucshon, Larry, Ind., E1306
Cole, Tom, Okla., E1307
Crow, Jason, Col., E1311
Davis, Danny K., Ill., E1305
DeLauro, Rosa L., Conn., E1306
Dingell, Debbie, Mich., E1304, E1306, E1307, E1308,
E1309, E1310
Flores, Bill, Tex., E1310
Fulcher, Russ, Idaho, E1311
Gonzalez, Anthony, Ohio, E1309
Green, Mark E., Tenn., E1304, E1305, E1307
Johnson, Henry C. ‘‘Hank’’, Jr., Ga., E1306
Lipinski, Daniel, Ill., E1303
Lowey, Nita M., N.Y., E1306, E1307
Meuser, Daniel, Pa., E1307, E1309
Pallone, Frank, Jr., N.J., E1304
Posey, Bill, Fla., E1303
Reed, Tom, N.Y., E1308, E1310
Ruiz, Raul, Calif., E1306
Sablan, Gregorio Kilili Camacho, Northern Mariana
Islands, E1303, E1304
San Nicolas, Michael F.Q., Guam , E1309
Shalala, Donna E., Fla., E1308
Shimkus, John, Ill., E1309
Torres Small, Xochitl, N.M., E1305
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:06 Oct 19, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0664 Sfmt 0664 E:\CR\FM\D18OC9.REC D18OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
DIGEST
