Congressional Record
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
United States
of America PROCEEDINGS AND DEBATES OF THE 116th
CONGRESS, FIRST SESSION
b This symbol represents the time of day during the House proceedings, e.g., b 1407 is 2:07 p.m.
Matter set in this typeface indicates words inserted or appended, rather than spoken, by a Member of the House on the floor.
.
H9125
Vol. 165 WASHINGTON, THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 21, 2019 No. 187
House of Representatives
The House met at 9 a.m. and was
called to order by the Speaker.
f
PRAYER
The Chaplain, the Reverend Patrick
J. Conroy, offered the following prayer:
Eternal God, we give You thanks for
giving us another day. Send Your spirit
of peace and calm, that all might have
confidence in Your faithfulness to us,
and that no matter what lies ahead,
Your grace is abundantly available.
Now we approach a week during
which all Americans will gather to re-
member who we are: a nation gener-
ously blessed not only by You, our God,
but by courageous ancestors, faithful
allies, and the best good wishes of peo-
ple everywhere who long for freedom,
who would glory in the difficult work
of participative government, and who
do not enjoy the bounty we are privi-
leged to possess.
Bless the Members of this assembly,
and us all, that we would be worthy of
the call we have been given as Ameri-
cans. Help us all to be truly thankful
and appropriately generous in our re-
sponse.
May all that is done this day be for
Your greater honor and glory.
Amen.
f
THE JOURNAL
The SPEAKER. The Chair has exam-
ined the Journal of the last day’s pro-
ceedings and announces to the House
her approval thereof.
Pursuant to clause 1, rule I, the Jour-
nal stands approved.
f
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
The SPEAKER. Will the gentleman
from New York (Mr. BRINDISI) come
forward and lead the House in the
Pledge of Allegiance.
Mr. BRINDISI led the Pledge of Alle-
giance as follows:
I pledge allegiance to the Flag of the
United States of America, and to the Repub-
lic for which it stands, one nation under God,
indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
f
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER
The SPEAKER. The Chair will enter-
tain up to five requests for 1-minute
speeches on each side of the aisle.
f
HOUSE DEMOCRATS WORK FOR
THE PEOPLE
(Mr. CICILLINE asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Mr. CICILLINE. Madam Speaker, I
rise today to highlight the tremendous
progress House Democrats have made
to get government working for the peo-
ple.
In less than a year, we have passed
nearly 400 pieces of legislation, includ-
ing more than 275 bipartisan bills that
are currently sitting on MITCH MCCON-
NELL’s desk.
We passed legislation to protect cov-
erage for preexisting conditions, to
build on the progress of the ACA, and
to drive down the cost of prescription
drugs.
We fought to get hardworking folks
the good-paying jobs they need to put
food on the table by passing legislation
to raise the minimum wage; to ensure
equal pay for equal work; and to invest
more than $70 billion in green, job-cre-
ating infrastructure projects.
We fought to clean up corruption in
Washington by passing the most com-
prehensive anticorruption bill since
Watergate.
Yet MITCH MCCONNELL would rather
tout himself as the grim reaper than
vote on these bills that will help his
constituents and the American people.
I have a message for you, Senator
MCCONNELL: Do your job, or your con-
stituents will pick someone who will.
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Ms.
JACKSON LEE). Members are reminded
to address their remarks to the Chair.
IMPEACHMENT INQUIRY HAS NO
FACTS
(Mr. KELLER asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Mr. KELLER. Madam Speaker, we
are now in week 2 of the ‘‘public phase’’
of Speaker PELOSI’s and Chairman
SCHIFF’s impeachment inquiry.
What comes to mind is a song from
1980 by REO Speedwagon. I am not
going to do this any justice, but here it
is: ‘‘I heard it from a friend who heard
it from a friend who heard it from an-
other . . .’’
That is the evidence that has been
presented in private and in public: no
substance. In fact, Mr. Morrison and
Ambassador Volker, both of whom
claimed to have firsthand knowledge,
testified they witnessed no bribery, no
quid pro quos, and no illegal actions by
President Trump.
Yesterday, Ambassador Sondland
said: ‘‘I never heard from President
Trump that aid was conditioned on an
announcement’’ of investigations.
Here is what it is: We are talking
about innuendos, thoughts, and feel-
ings, but no facts. That is what is hap-
pening. That is what has happened in
the SCIF when it was rehearsed, and
that is what is happening in the public
performance this past couple of weeks.
f
DELAY MEDICAL DEVICE TAX
(Mr. BRINDISI asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Mr. BRINDISI. Madam Speaker, I
rise today in support of the advanced
manufacturing that is happening in
New York’s medical device industry.
Medical device companies across New
York employ nearly 20,000 people, pay-
ing good wages, helping patients live
healthier lives, and making products
here in the United States.
Companies like Welch Allyn and
ConMed are expanding manufacturing
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:24 Nov 22, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A21NO7.000 H21NOPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H9126 November 21, 2019
in upstate New York and creating hun-
dreds of new jobs. But this growth
could be hurt if we see the return of
the medical device tax.
The current suspension of the device
tax expires on December 31. Allowing
this tax to return could erode gains in
employment in the med-tech sector
from the last 4 years, ultimately hurt-
ing innovation and patient access to
new technology.
Madam Speaker, I hope we can work
together this year as Democrats and
Republicans to delay this tax and keep
supporting American manufacturing.
f
SUPPORT SERVICE ORGANIZATION
CAUCUS
(Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania
asked and was given permission to ad-
dress the House for 1 minute and to re-
vise and extend his remarks.)
Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania.
Madam Speaker, service plays an im-
portant role in communities across the
Nation. From small acts of kindness to
grand gestures, we can all do our part
to make a difference. It is something I
am personally passionate about, having
served as a volunteer firefighter for
many years and being involved in
scouting my entire life.
Nobody embodies this mission better
than the countless volunteers and serv-
ice organizations that can be found na-
tionwide. That is why I am honored to
co-chair the Congressional Service Or-
ganization Caucus with my colleague,
Congressman PANETTA from California.
The Congressional Service Organiza-
tion Caucus is a group of Members who
not only support their local volunteer
service organizations but share a mu-
tual admiration for community service
and humanitarian assistance.
The spirit of service is something
that both Republicans and Democrats
can come together to champion. That
is why Congressman PANETTA and I are
asking for the support of our col-
leagues in joining this caucus and up-
holding our support for these organiza-
tions and the communities that they
serve.
f
GIVE VETERANS HEALTH COV-
ERAGE FOR AGENT ORANGE
CONDITIONS
(Mr. HARDER of California asked
and was given permission to address
the House for 1 minute.)
Mr. HARDER of California. Madam
Speaker, I rise today to speak directly
to White House Chief of Staff Mick
Mulvaney.
Recent reports suggest you person-
ally intervened to stop Vietnam vets
from getting healthcare, all just to
save a buck.
It sounds crazy, and it is. Thousands
of veterans were affected by exposure
to Agent Orange during the Vietnam
war and deserve to have healthcare.
The VA Secretary tried to add four
medical conditions caused by Agent Or-
ange to the list VA would cover, but
Mick Mulvaney intervened to stop it.
This issue is personal for me. My
grandfather served in Vietnam, was ex-
posed to Agent Orange, and died from
lung cancer. Sadly, his story is not un-
common.
I refuse to stand by and let other vet-
erans die because they didn’t get the
healthcare they need. That is not who
we are.
Our veterans fought to keep us safe,
and many sacrificed life and limb. The
last thing they should have to do is
come home to fight another battle for
the healthcare they earned.
There is still time to turn this
around, Mick, and I beg you to recon-
sider.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Mem-
bers are reminded to address their re-
marks to the Chair.
f
PRIORITIZE TREATMENT FOR ALS
(Mr. CURTIS asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Mr. CURTIS. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to share my concerns with pa-
tient access to groundbreaking and
lifesaving ALS treatments. This is a
very personal issue to me as some of
my close friends and neighbors have
been affected by this difficult disease.
I applaud the enactment of the Right
to Try Act, allowing some people an-
other option to receive the treatments
they need. However, this should not be
the end of the conversation.
It is important to acknowledge that
the passage of this act has not opened
all the doors we expected, and many
are still denied access to treatments.
The FDA’s lengthy approval process
continues to limit patient access, at
times forcing my constituents to spend
large sums of money traveling overseas
for treatment or, more commonly, for-
feiting treatment altogether.
The use of stem cells to treat ALS,
widely used and deemed safe in other
countries, has been studied in the U.S.
for over 12 years but has yet to be ap-
proved, despite its fast-tracked status.
Delaying approval of this treatment,
commonly known as NurOwn, is put-
ting lives at risk. I urge the FDA to
prioritize its approval and give access
to thousands of ALS patients.
f
INCREASE FEDERAL USE OF
GREEN ENERGY
(Ms. BROWNLEY of California asked
and was given permission to address
the House for 1 minute.)
Ms. BROWNLEY of California.
Madam Speaker, the Federal Govern-
ment is the Nation’s largest purchaser
of electricity, yet it buys renewable en-
ergy at a rate that is far less than the
rest of the country.
With a climate crisis threatening our
planet and our way of life, this is not
acceptable. We can and must leverage
the resources of the Federal Govern-
ment to accelerate the technological
innovation needed to transition to a
green and clean economy.
That is why, earlier this week, I in-
troduced the Green Energy for Federal
Buildings Act. My legislation would re-
quire the Federal Government to in-
crease the share of electricity it gets
from renewable sources.
Under current law, the Federal Gov-
ernment is required to utilize only 7.5
percent renewable energy for its elec-
tricity needs. My bill would up the
ante, raising the requirement to 35 per-
cent by 2030, 75 percent by 2040, and 100
percent by 2050.
This crisis is upon us. We must have
the strength and the foresight to act
decisively, creatively, and boldly.
There is no time to waste.
f
CELEBRATING NATIONAL BIBLE
WEEK
(Mr. BUDD asked and was given per-
mission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. BUDD. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to celebrate the 78th anniversary
of National Bible Week.
In this very Bible, the Apostle Paul
tells us in 2 Timothy, Chapter 4:
For the time is coming when people will
not endure sound teaching, but have itching
ears, they will accumulate themselves teach-
ers to suit their own passions and will turn
away from listening to the truth and will
wander off into myths.
Even as I look behind me at the
words ‘‘In God We Trust,’’ I wonder if
we as a nation are succumbing to what
the Apostle Paul warned about 2,000
years ago.
There is a solution to this problem,
and it is found in the very same chap-
ter. Paul writes:
Preach the Word, be ready in season and
out of season; reprove, rebuke, and exhort,
with complete patience and teaching.
He writes in the prior chapter, 2 Tim-
othy, Chapter 3, that all Scripture is
breathed out by God and profitable for
teaching, for reproof, for correction,
and for training in righteousness, and
that a person of God may be complete,
equipped for every good work.
So we see the people of His creation
are intended for purposeful good works,
and we are guided into that purpose by
God through the very Scriptures that
we celebrate this week.
f
SUPPORTING NATIONAL RURAL
HEALTH DAY
(Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire
asked and was given permission to ad-
dress the House for 1 minute.)
Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire.
Madam Speaker, I rise today on Na-
tional Rural Health Day to bring at-
tention to the importance of
healthcare in rural communities across
this country and in New Hampshire.
Far too often, there are substantial
health disparities for those living in
rural America. Our rural communities
face growing and unique healthcare
challenges exacerbated by distance and
the time it takes to see a provider.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:21 Nov 22, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K21NO7.002 H21NOPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H9127
November 21, 2019
That is why I am a proud cosponsor
of H.R. 4995, the Maternal Health Qual-
ity Improvement Act. This legislation
would create rural maternal network
grant programs and ensure maternal
health providers are eligible for tele-
health.
This is especially impactful for Gran-
ite State families that face long dis-
tances and deal with extreme work-
force shortages that make it difficult
to access much-needed care. For them,
having access to telehealth for mater-
nal care is a real life-changer.
We must all continue to support and
lift up the innovation, quality, and
service of rural healthcare providers
and facilities.
f
RECOGNIZING PULMONARY HY-
PERTENSION AWARENESS
MONTH AND NATIONAL ADOP-
TION MONTH
(Mr. BRADY asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Mr. BRADY. Madam Speaker, I rise
today in recognition of two important
events in November: Pulmonary Hyper-
tension Awareness Month and National
Adoption Month.
Pulmonary hypertension was first
brought to my attention by my dear
friend Jack Stibbs, whose daughter,
Emily, had PH. Because of her early di-
agnosis and his terrific leadership,
Emily has been able to lead a rel-
atively normal life and recently grad-
uated from college and married. How-
ever, not all patients are as fortunate
as she.
That is why the work of the Pul-
monary Hypertension Association is so
important. Their efforts to increase
awareness and research across Federal
agencies are making a huge difference
in lives across the Nation. I am proud
to represent the PHA Lone Star Chap-
ter in The Woodlands, Texas.
November is also National Adoption
Month. This is a cause I hold close to
my heart because it is thanks to the
miracle of adoption that I have my in-
credible family today.
During this month, we recognize and
thank the adoptive parents, dedicated
professionals, and the faith-based orga-
nizations that work tirelessly to pro-
vide our Nation’s children with love
and support.
Madam Speaker, I ask my colleagues
to join me in raising awareness and
saying thanks to these two great
causes.
f
WORKPLACE VIOLENCE PREVEN-
TION FOR HEALTH CARE AND
SOCIAL SERVICE WORKERS ACT
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. COURTNEY. Madam Speaker, I
ask unanimous consent that all Mem-
bers have 5 legislative days to revise
and extend their remarks and include
extraneous materials on H.R. 1309.
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Ms.
BROWNLEY of California). Is there ob-
jection to the request of the gentleman
from Connecticut?
There was no objection.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to House Resolution 713 and rule
XVIII, the Chair declares the House in
the Committee of the Whole House on
the state of the Union for the consider-
ation of the bill, H.R. 1309.
The Chair appoints the gentlewoman
from Texas (Ms. JACKSON LEE) to pre-
side over the Committee of the Whole.
b 0916
IN THE COMMITTEE OF THE WHOLE
Accordingly, the House resolved
itself into the Committee of the Whole
House on the state of the Union for the
consideration of the bill (H.R. 1309) to
direct the Secretary of Labor to issue
an occupational safety and health
standard that requires covered employ-
ers within the health care and social
service industries to develop and im-
plement a comprehensive workplace vi-
olence prevention plan, and for other
purposes, with Ms. JACKSON LEE in the
chair.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The CHAIR. Pursuant to the rule, the
bill is considered read the first time.
General debate shall be confined to
the bill and shall not exceed 1 hour
equally divided and controlled by the
Chair and ranking minority member of
the Committee on Education and
Labor.
The gentleman from Connecticut
(Mr. COURTNEY) and the gentlewoman
from North Carolina (Ms. FOXX) each
will control 30 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from Connecticut.
Mr. COURTNEY. Madam Chair, I
yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
Madam Chair, today’s vote on H.R.
1309 is an important milestone in what
has been a 7-year process of getting the
Occupational Safety and Health Ad-
ministration to effectively act to pro-
tect the healthcare and social service
workforce from skyrocketing rates of
violence.
Sadly, in America today, nurses, doc-
tors, social workers, EMTs, and nurs-
ing assistants are more likely to be the
victim of on-the-job violence than any
other sector of our Nation’s workforce.
This violence comes in the form of
assaults, kicking, hitting, choking, and
spitting from patients and residents
and clients or those who may accom-
pany them. It affects a worker’s sense
of safety at work. It contributes to
burnout, absenteeism, high workers’
compensation costs, and stress. Trag-
ically, it can also lead to death.
According to the Bureau of Labor
Statistics, healthcare and social serv-
ice workers are more than five times as
likely to suffer a serious injury from
workplace violence than workers in
other settings. And this chart, which
shows the red line of healthcare work-
ers versus other sectors in the U.S.
economy vividly, powerfully dem-
onstrates the data that is coming into
the Department of Labor on this issue.
In psychiatric hospitals, that number
is drastically higher. In a recent sur-
vey, nearly 50 percent of emergency
room physicians report having been
physically assaulted at work, and 60
percent of those who have these occur-
rences said they happened in the past
year.
As this graph shows, these numbers
are on the rise. The incidents of vio-
lence in the workplace have increased
80 percent over the last decade.
Since OSHA has not effectively ad-
dressed this emergency, this bill is nec-
essary to ensure that a standard is
issued and enforced in a reasonable pe-
riod of time.
Using past precedent, the bill calls
for an interim final standard within 1
year and a final standard within 42
months. The public comment and rule-
making process is preserved in the de-
velopment of the final standard.
Very simply, the standard required
by the bill would require that covered
employers, such as hospitals and psy-
chiatric facilities, develop a workplace
violence prevention plan that is tai-
lored to the specific conditions and
hazards present at each workplace. It
is not a one-size-fits-all requirement.
Madam Chair, developing a plan is
not rocket science. For over 20 years,
OSHA has published voluntary guide-
lines on violence prevention that in-
clude commonsense measures, such as
training staff about how to identify
high-risk patients, share the informa-
tion with coworkers, not be alone, and
ways to de-escalate threats. We know
from the Joint Commission on Hospital
Accreditation that these measures
work, and the problem is, though, that
there is no consistent enforceable
standard to ensure their application,
and that is precisely what this bill
does.
While we will never eliminate all risk
or stop every violent attack, research
on the measures in this legislation
have been shown to substantially cut
the incidence of serious injury from
workplace violence. The nurses, doc-
tors, social workers, and EMTs who
care for us in our times of crisis and
need deserve to have these protections
soon, not in 7 years and not in 20 years,
as is likely if we fail to pass this legis-
lation into law, leaving OSHA rule-
making to its own dilatory, almost co-
matose, devices.
I would like to thank the large coali-
tion of healthcare professionals, their
organizations, and union representa-
tion who have diligently fought for
these protections for years; the sub-
committee chair, ALMA ADAMS, of the
Workforce Subcommittee on Education
and Labor and Chairman BOBBY SCOTT
for their leadership; also, Richard Mil-
ler and Jordan Barab, our committee
staff, who have done amazing work, as
well as Maria Costigan from my per-
sonal office, who have just worked
night and day for years to try and get
us to this point.
Madam Chair, I reserve the balance
of my time.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:21 Nov 22, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K21NO7.004 H21NOPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H9128 November 21, 2019
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
COMMITTEE ON ENERGY AND COMMERCE,
Washington, DC, September 6, 2019.
Hon. BOBBY SCOTT,
Chair, Committee on Education and Labor,
Washington, DC.
DEAR CHAIRMAN SCOTT: I write concerning
H.R. 1309, the ‘‘Workplace Violence Preven-
tion for Health Care and Social Service
Workers Act,’’ which was additionally re-
ferred to the Committee on Energy and Com-
merce.
In recognition of the desire to expedite
consideration of H.R. 1309, the Committee on
Energy and Commerce agrees to waive for-
mal consideration of the bill as to provisions
that fall within the rule X jurisdiction of the
Committee on Energy and Commerce. The
Committee takes this action with the mu-
tual understanding that we do not waive any
jurisdiction over the subject matter con-
tained in this or similar legislation, and that
the Committee will be appropriately con-
sulted and involved as this bill or similar
legislation moves forward so that we may
address any remaining issues within our ju-
risdiction. I also request that you support
my request to name members of the Com-
mittee on Energy and Commerce to any con-
ference committee to consider such provi-
sions.
Finally, I would appreciate the inclusion of
this letter in the report on the bill and into
the Congressional Record during floor con-
sideration of H.R. 1309.
Sincerely,
FRANK PALLONE, Jr.
Chairman.
COMMITTEE ON EDUCATION AND
LABOR, HOUSE OF REPRESENTA-
TIVES,
Washington, DC, September 9, 2019.
Hon. FRANK PALLONE, Jr.,
Chairman, House Committee on Energy and
Commerce, Washington, DC.
DEAR CHAIRMAN PALLONE: In reference to
your letter of September 6, 2019, I write to
confirm our mutual understanding regarding
H.R. 1309, the ‘‘Workplace Violence Preven-
tion for Health Care and Social Service
Workers Act.’’
I appreciate the Committee on Energy and
Commerce’s waiver of consideration of H.R.
1309 as specified in your letter. I acknowl-
edge that the waiver was granted only to ex-
pedite floor consideration of H.R. 1309 and
does not in any way waive or diminish the
Committee on Energy and Commerce’s juris-
dictional interests over this or similar legis-
lation.
I would be pleased to include our exchange
of letters on this matter in committee report
for H.R. 1309 and in the Congressional Record
during floor consideration of the bill to me-
morialize our joint understanding.
Again, thank you for your assistance with
these matters.
Sincerely,
ROBERT C. ‘‘BOBBY’’ SCOTT,
Chairman.
Ms. FOXX of North Carolina. Madam
Chair, I yield myself such time as I
may consume.
Madam Chair, I rise today in opposi-
tion to H.R. 1309, the Workplace Vio-
lence Prevention for Health Care and
Social Service Workers Act.
American workers deserve to be kept
out of harm’s way while on the job, al-
lowing them to return home to their
families and loved ones healthy and
safe.
According to the Bureau of Labor
Statistics, healthcare and social serv-
ice workplaces experience the highest
rate of workplace violence, totaling 71
percent of all workplace violence inju-
ries in 2017, and these workers are more
than four times as likely to suffer a
workplace violence injury.
There is no question that these care-
givers deserve meaningful and effective
protections, but H.R. 1309 is short-
sighted and partisan, and it fails to ad-
dress the important issue in an effec-
tive, feasible manner.
In the Education and Labor Commit-
tee’s single hearing on this issue back
in February, Members on both sides of
the aisle expressed a desire to work to-
gether to produce real policy solutions.
Committee Republicans believe there
can be a bipartisan response to this
issue that would aid in the rulemaking
process and provide protection to
healthcare and social service workers.
Instead, committee Democrats have
decided to advance legislation that cir-
cumvents the long-established rule-
making process and blocks valuable
input from workers and other stake-
holders who know better than we do
how to prevent workplace violence in
these unique circumstances.
The Occupational Safety and Health
Administration, or OSHA, the Federal
agency that helps ensure safe and
healthful working conditions, is cur-
rently working on a workplace violence
prevention rule for healthcare and so-
cial assistance workplaces, which in-
cludes gathering important stake-
holder input to create the most feasible
and effective Federal safety and health
standards possible.
However, by requiring OSHA to cir-
cumvent established rulemaking proce-
dures under the Occupational Safety
and Health Act and the Administrative
Procedure Act, H.R. 1309 would under-
mine and threaten this ongoing col-
laborative and evidence-based process
by denying OSHA the ability to be re-
sponsive to important feedback from
the public and impacted stakeholders.
H.R. 1309 severely limits the partici-
pation of industry, worker representa-
tives, the scientific community, and
the public from having a say in the de-
velopment of a new comprehensive
standard. Democrats are rejecting a
thorough response to this complex and
highly technical issue that is backed
by meaningful input.
Furthermore, this legislation turns a
blind eye to comprehensive research
and data. Currently, there is no agreed-
upon set of policies to prevent and
mitigate workplace violence for
healthcare and social service workers,
and researchers in the field have point-
ed out the need for additional studies
to determine the most effective re-
sponse.
In 2019, the Centers for Disease Con-
trol and Prevention said further re-
search was needed to identify effective
strategies that prevent workplace vio-
lence in healthcare and social service
settings.
Additionally, in 2016, the Govern-
ment Accountability Office, GAO,
noted there have been a limited num-
ber of studies done on the effectiveness
of workplace violence prevention pro-
grams, and GAO chose not to call on
OSHA to establish a standard without
further study.
Continuing with their record of
rushed and haphazard legislation,
Democrats are pushing a false sense of
urgency with H.R. 1309. This bill
wrongly implies that Congress should
impose a swift and sweeping standard
immediately, ignoring that OSHA is al-
ready enforcing workplace violence
prevention. In 2019, the Occupational
Safety and Health Review Commission
upheld penalties issued by OSHA under
the general duty clause against
healthcare facilities for not adequately
addressing workplace violence.
I will remind my colleagues on the
other side of the aisle that, according
to a 2018 American Hospital Associa-
tion survey, 97 percent of respondents
indicated they already have workplace
violence policies in place.
To make matters even worse, H.R.
1309 mandates yet another costly and
burdensome regulation. Simply put, fi-
nancially struggling healthcare facili-
ties such as rural hospitals and small
businesses cannot afford another cost-
ly, congressionally imposed mandate
from Washington.
Democrats will argue they didn’t in-
tend for the bill to have such a large
scope and to cost so much. What else
didn’t they intend to happen when they
rushed through this process, forcing an
overly prescriptive mandate on the
public?
Madam Chair, Republicans are com-
mitted to ensuring that healthcare and
social service workers are protected
from workplace violence. There is bi-
partisan support for OSHA’s current ef-
forts to create a standard on workplace
violence prevention. However, Congress
should aid in the rulemaking process,
not circumvent it, as H.R. 1309 does.
H.R. 1309 will likely have many unin-
tended consequences which negatively
impact healthcare and social services
workplaces, in addition to imposing a
costly mandate on healthcare pro-
viders. I urge my colleagues to join me
in opposing this unnecessary legisla-
tion so we can get to work on a bipar-
tisan solution.
Madam Chair, I reserve the balance
of my time.
Mr. COURTNEY. Madam Chair, I
yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
I would just note that this is a bipar-
tisan effort. There are 227 cosponsors in
the House, 8 Republicans. And again,
we have had lots of engagement, ac-
commodated a number of the issues
that came up at the public hearing
process.
Again, I would just note that I appre-
ciate the fact that the ranking member
spoke highly of OSHA’s volunteer
guidelines, which I have in my hand
here. Those are actually incorporated
into the bill language for the interim
final standard. So we are working ex-
actly with the guidelines that she en-
dorsed.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:21 Nov 22, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A21NO7.001 H21NOPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H9129
November 21, 2019
Madam Chair, I yield 2 minutes to
the gentleman from California (Mr.
KHANNA), an early advocate of this
measure.
Mr. KHANNA. Madam Chair, I thank
the gentleman from Connecticut for his
tireless, bipartisan leadership in shep-
herding this bill to this historic point.
It was my honor to work on the
healthcare worker portions of this bill,
and I am proud that it will pass today.
Madam Chair, I rise today in support
of the Workplace Violence Prevention
for Health Care and Social Service
Workers Act.
For far too long, the workers who
serve on the front lines of our commu-
nities have had to work in dangerous
conditions without adequate protec-
tion. Every day, our nurses and social
service workers face high levels of dan-
gers, levels that most of us would find
unacceptable in our own occupation.
Their courage to keep working, despite
these risks of violence, exemplifies the
selfless nature of healthcare.
b 0930
This bill follows what California has
done in creating a nationwide work-
place violence prevention standard, so
people no longer have to work in fear.
Since the implementation of Califor-
nia’s own standard, healthcare workers
have experienced marked improve-
ments in workplace violence preven-
tion measures. The California Nurses
Association reports that hospitals in
California are seeing increased security
staffing, increased training, and com-
prehensive reporting. These common-
sense protections did not exist prior to
California’s standard.
It is time to expand these protections
to healthcare and social service work-
ers nationwide. This affects real peo-
ple. We have heard stories of people
who have been injured, killed, whose
families have been harmed because of
this kind of violence.
Madam Chair, I include in the
RECORD a letter from National Nurses
United in support of this legislation.
National Nurses United has boldly led
on this issue for many years, including
getting the standards across the finish
line in California.
NATIONAL NURSES UNITED,
Washington, DC, November 18, 2019.
DEAR REPRESENTATIVE: This week, the
House of Representatives is scheduled to
vote on H.R. 1309, the Workplace Violence
Prevention for Health Care and Social Serv-
ice Workers Act, sponsored by Congressman
Joe Courtney. National Nurses United, rep-
resenting more than 155,000 registered nurses
(RNs) across the country, is firmly in sup-
port of this bill and strongly urges you to
vote in favor of it.
Our members work at the bedside in every
state in the nation, and we know that when
nurses are unsafe, our patients are also at
risk. Violence on the job has become en-
demic for RNs and other workers in
healthcare and social assistance settings.
Nurses report being punched, kicked, bitten,
beaten, and threatened with violence as they
provide care to others—and far too many
have experienced stabbings and shootings.
But there are practical steps that healthcare
and social service employers can take to ful-
fill their obligations to protect their employ-
ees from this serious occupational hazard.
We know that violence can be prevented
through the development and implementa-
tion of plans that are tailored to specific pa-
tient care units and facilities. These plans
must assess and address the range of risks
for violence—from the sufficiency of staffing
and security systems to patient-specific risk
factors.
H.R. 1309 mandates that the Occupational
Safety and Health Administration promul-
gate a workplace violence prevention stand-
ard that would require healthcare and social
service employers to develop and enforce
plans to protect their employees from vio-
lence on the job. To ensure that workplace
violence prevention plans are effective,
workers (including nurses, other direct care
employees, security personnel and ancillary
staff) must be involved throughout all stages
of plan development, implementation, and
review, which go hand-in-hand with the
standard’s comprehensive training require-
ments. The enforceable occupational health
and safety standard established in this legis-
lation is necessary to create and maintain
protections against workplace violence that
our members, other workers in healthcare
and social settings, and, importantly, our pa-
tients deserve.
This bi-partisan legislation is of high pri-
ority for RNs across the country, and we
hope you will join with us in supporting it
and voting yes on H.R. 1309 on the floor of
the House of Representatives.
Sincerely,
BONNIE CASTILLO, RN,
Executive Director.
ZENEI CORTEZ, RN,
President.
DEBORAH BURGER, RN,
President.
JEAN ROSS, RN,
President.
Mr. KHANNA. I want to thank,
again, the gentleman from Connecticut
for his leadership.
Ms. FOXX of North Carolina. Madam
Chair, I yield 3 minutes to the gen-
tleman from Georgia (Mr. ALLEN).
Mr. ALLEN. Madam Chair, those who
work in hospitals and in social services
are remarkable. They provide Ameri-
cans with compassion and care in some
of life’s most difficult situations. But
every day these workers face real risk
of workplace violence.
The Bureau of Labor Statistics re-
ports healthcare and social service
workplaces have higher rates of work-
place violence. No American should
feel threatened while on the job. That
is why the Occupational Safety and
Health Administration, or OSHA, has
recently taken steps to work with
stakeholders and industry partners to
analyze the issue on how to best pro-
tect these workers.
H.R. 1309 threatens this collaborative
work and denies OSHA the ability to
respond to feedback from the public
and stakeholders.
As a small business owner, I know
that top-down mandates simply do not
work. The bottom-up approach is the
tried-and-true method. Gather input
from all impacted before creating a
new policy.
This bill also lacks the research
needed to identify and prevent work-
place violence in these settings. In 2016,
the Government Accountability Office
said there haven’t been enough studies
done on the effectiveness of workplace
violence prevention programs and that
OSHA needed to review it further. Why
do some of my colleagues think they
know better than the industry, worker
representatives, the scientific commu-
nity, and the public?
Let’s also not forget that rushed
mandates like this one come at a cost.
The Congressional Budget Office esti-
mates the cost to private entities will
be at least $1.8 billion in the first 2
years that the rushed OSHA rule is in
effect and $750 million annually after
that. It is also estimated to cost public
facilities at least $100 million in the
first 2 years and $55 million annually
after that.
When I am back home in my district
and talk to healthcare providers, the
last thing they want is another costly
government mandate from Washington.
So let’s not put the cart before the
horse here.
Workplace violence is a serious issue,
and it needs a serious solution. We
should not pass this bill until we have
a thoroughly vetted and researched fix.
So let OSHA do their job to develop an
effective solution by working with the
very people that we are trying to help.
I urge my colleagues to oppose this
bill.
Mr. COURTNEY. Madam Chair, again
very quickly, the mandate costs that
CBO scored, the $1.7 billion, that is
spread out over 200,000 facilities, if you
read their note closely. If you do the
math, we are talking about a $9,000
cost per year for facilities. That, in my
opinion, in terms of protecting their
workforce, is not a high price to pay to
make sure that the people who work
there are safe.
Madam Chair, I yield 2 minutes to
the gentlewoman from North Carolina
(Ms. ADAMS), the chair of the Sub-
committee on Workforce Protections,
and I want to thank her for moving
this bill this calendar year.
Ms. ADAMS. Madam Chair, I thank
the gentleman from Connecticut for
yielding. I rise today to join my col-
leagues in strong support of H.R. 1309,
the Workplace Violence Prevention for
Health Care and Social Service Work-
ers Act.
Workplace violence impacts over 15
million healthcare workers in this
country. These workers offer critical
assistance to some of the most vulner-
able members of our society. They
work in our hospitals, our nursing
homes, our hospices, and they do this,
despite the fact that they are nearly
five times as likely to suffer serious
workplace violence injury than work-
ers in other sectors.
And those statistics account just for
physical injuries. So when the body re-
covers from workplace assaults, these
professionals are often plagued with ca-
reer-ending post-traumatic stress dis-
orders for the rest of their lives.
So I am glad that the House is con-
sidering the gentleman from Connecti-
cut’s bill today to finally compel OSHA
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:21 Nov 22, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K21NO7.007 H21NOPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H9130 November 21, 2019
to create a standard to protect these
workers in their places of work.
Madam Chair, it can take up to 20
years for OSHA to issue standards, as
in the case of its silica and beryllium
standards. Our Nation’s healthcare and
social service workers cannot afford to
wait that long while they serve under
the constant threat of violence.
H.R. 1309 takes a different approach.
It would require OSHA to issue an in-
terim standard requiring employers to
develop and implement a workplace vi-
olence prevention plan within 1 year
and a final standard within 42 months.
Contrary to the claims of my friends
on the other side of the aisle, this is
not a radical requirement.
OSHA has already held extensive
public comment on this topic since
1996, and H.R. 1309 would allow OSHA
to conduct a full public comment and
hearing process before a final standard
is issued. Our healthcare and social
service workers cannot wait, and nei-
ther can we.
Madam Chair, I include in the
RECORD a support letter from organiza-
tions representing our Nation’s
healthcare and social service workers,
as well as a support letter from AFL–
CIO.
NOVEMBER 20, 2019.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
Washington, DC.
DEAR REPRESENTATIVE: On behalf of the
undersigned organizations representing
nurses, social workers, psychiatric, home
health and personal care aides, as well as
other workers in the healthcare and social
service industries, we urge you to vote yes
on H.R. 1309, the Workplace Violence Preven-
tion for Health Care and Social Service
Workers Act. When healthcare and social
service professionals show up to work, they
shouldn’t have to worry about whether they
are going to be injured in an assault. The
many professionals who face risk of assault
every day include not only those working in
hospitals, clinics and mental health facili-
ties, but also those providing services in pa-
tients’ homes, and outside the four walls of
an office.
Healthcare and social service workers are
nearly five times more likely to be assaulted
than other workers, and the violence is
growing. Between 2007 and 2017, the rate of
violent injuries grew by 123 percent in hos-
pitals, 201 percent in psychiatric hospitals
and substance use treatment facilities, and
28 percent in social service settings. The
costs of this violence are high: in injury
rates, in professionals being driven from
doing the work they love, and in workers’
compensation claims and staff shortages.
Currently, there is no federally enforceable
violence prevention standard specifically
covering healthcare and social services, and
federal guidelines do not cover those work-
ing in public facilities. H.R. 1309 would re-
quire hospitals, residential treatment facili-
ties, clinics at correctional or detention fa-
cilities, substance use disorder treatment
centers, and other service facilities to de-
velop and implement comprehensive violence
prevention plans and provide whistleblower
protections for workers. We hear from mem-
bers about violence all the time: a nurse
choked to the point of unconsciousness; a
case manager who has suffered bone frac-
tures and debilitating brain injuries from
being thrown against walls and floors; social
workers brutally attacked, and even killed,
when conducting visits to client homes.
No one should face violence, intimidation,
or fear for their safety while working to help
others and save lives. Violence is not just
‘‘part of the job,’’ and studies show that pre-
vention plans work. Many violent incidents
can be predicted and minimized with the
right staffing, policies and protocols; and
this legislation builds upon well-established
guidelines from the Department of Labor.
This bill is essential to making healthcare
and social service settings safer for workers,
but also safer healing environments for pa-
tients. When a patient harms a social worker
or other clinician, it is traumatizing not
only for the clinician but also for the pa-
tient; and it sets treatment back for months,
if not years. Patients witnessing violence
also are traumatized.
We urge you to support the nurses, social
workers and other healthcare and social
service professionals in your district by vot-
ing for H.R. 1309, the Workplace Violence
Prevention for Health Care and Social Serv-
ice Workers Act.
Alliance for Retired Americans, American
Art Therapy Association, American Associa-
tion for Psychoanalysis in Clinical Social
Work, American Counseling Association,
American Federation of State, County and
Municipal Employees (AFSCME), American
Federation of Teachers, American Public
Health Association, Coalition of Labor Union
Women (CLUW) of Southwestern PA, Com-
munications Workers of America (CWA),
Emergency Nurses Association, Inter-
national Association of Machinists and Aero-
space Workers, Midstate Education & Serv-
ice Foundation, National Association of
County Behavioral Health & Developmental
Disability Directors (NACBHDD), National
Association of Rural Mental Health
(NARMH), National Association of Social
Workers, National COSH, National Nurses
United, National Rural Social Work Caucus,
People’s Action, Philadelphia Area Project
on Occupational Safety and Health
(PhilaPOSH), Rhode Island Committee on
Occupational Safety and Health (RICOSH),
School Social Work Association of America,
Service Employees International Union
(SEIU), Smart Transportation, United Food
and Commercial Workers International
Union, United Steelworkers, Worksafe.
AFL–CIO,
March 28, 2019.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
Washington, DC.
DEAR REPRESENTATIVE: I am writing on be-
half of the AFL–CIO to urge you to co-spon-
sor the Workplace Violence Prevention for
Health Care and Social Services Workers Act
(H.R. 1309). This bill, sponsored by Rep. Joe
Courtney (D–Conn.) would direct the Occupa-
tional Safety and Health Administration to
issue a federal workplace violence preven-
tion standard to protect workers in health
care and social services from injury and
death.
Workplace violence is a serious and grow-
ing safety and health problem that has
reached epidemic levels. Workplace violence
is now the third leading cause of job deaths,
and results in more than 28,000 serious lost-
time injuries each year. Nurses, medical as-
sistants, emergency responders and social
workers face some of the greatest threats,
suffering more than 70% of all workplace as-
saults. Women workers particularly are at
risk, suffering two out of every three serious
workplace violence injuries.
H.R. 1309 would help protect these workers
by requiring employers in the health care
and social service sectors to develop and im-
plement a workplace violence prevention
plan, tailored to specific workplace and em-
ployee populations. As part of the plan, em-
ployers would be required to identify and
correct hazards, develop systems for report-
ing threats of violence and injuries, provide
training for workers and management and
protect workers from retaliation for report-
ing workplace violence incidents. The bill
ensures that frontline workers have input,
helping employers identify common sense
measures like alarm devices, lighting, secu-
rity, and surveillance and monitoring sys-
tems to reduce the risk of violent assaults
and injuries.
The bill’s requirements for the workplace
violence prevention plan are based upon ex-
isting guidelines and recommendations from
OSHA, NIOSH and professional associations.
Scientific studies have documented that the
implementation of such prevention plans sig-
nificantly reduces the incidence of work-
place violence. Similar measures have been
adopted in a number of states and imple-
mented by some employers. However, cur-
rently there is no federal OSHA workplace
standard, and OSHA has been slow to take
action. The majority of healthcare and social
service workers lack effective protection and
remain at serious risk.
We urge you to support and co-sponsor
H.R. 1309 to help protect health care and so-
cial service workers from the growing threat
of workplace violence and unnecessary in-
jury and death.
Sincerely,
WILLIAM SAMUEL,
Director, Government Affairs.
Ms. ADAMS. I ask the House to pass
without delay the gentleman from Con-
necticut’s legislation.
Ms. FOXX of North Carolina. Madam
Chair, let me be clear, the safety of our
Nation’s healthcare and social service
workers is not a partisan issue. Re-
gardless of political beliefs, all of us in
this Chamber can appreciate the hard
work and empathy that healthcare
workers and community caregivers
demonstrate every single day on the
job.
Their dedication to caring for the
most vulnerable members of our com-
munities is extraordinary, and these
workers deserve our gratitude, our re-
spect, and our commitment to ensuring
they are safe on the job.
The nature of the work in these in-
dustries requires healthcare and social
services workers to interact directly
with individuals who are experiencing
tremendous stress, trauma, and grief,
which can cause situations to devolve
and put workers’ safety at risk.
American workers should be kept out
of harm’s way on the job, so they can
return home to their families every
day healthy and safe. These caregivers
deserve protections, but H.R. 1309 is
not the right way to address this im-
portant issue. Our healthcare workers
and caregivers deserve a thoroughly
vetted and researched solution that
protects them in the workplace. I
think we can do better by working to-
gether.
Madam Chair, I reserve the balance
of my time.
Mr. COURTNEY. Madam Chair, I
yield 3 minutes to the gentleman from
Virginia (Mr. SCOTT), the chairman of
the Committee on Education and
Labor.
Mr. SCOTT of Virginia. Madam
Chair, I want to thank the gentleman
from Connecticut for yielding and for
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:21 Nov 22, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K21NO7.009 H21NOPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H9131
November 21, 2019
his untiring leadership on workplace
safety issues.
I rise in support of H.R. 1309, the
Workplace Violence Prevention for
Healthcare and Social Service Workers
Act.
Healthcare facilities are where we
should be going to get well, but too
often, hardworking, highly skilled em-
ployees of these facilities are regularly
beaten, kicked, punched, and some-
times killed while performing their
jobs. Healthcare and social service
workers are four times as likely to suf-
fer serious workplace violence injuries
compared to workers in other sectors.
Many can never return to work after
the assault.
The Government Accountability Of-
fice has found the dangers to such
workers has gotten worse over the past
decade. From 2008 to 2017, workplace
violence incidence rates have more
than doubled at private hospitals and
home healthcare services with the
highest rates of violence found in psy-
chiatric and substance abuse hospitals.
Most acts of workplace violence in
healthcare facilities are foreseeable,
and they are preventable by imple-
menting workplace violence prevention
plans. Although OSHA and the Joint
Commission for hospital accreditations
have issued authoritative guidance,
voluntary efforts alone are not enough
to ensure the safety of these workers.
Currently, OSHA has no standard for
requiring healthcare and social service
employers to implement workplace vi-
olence prevention programs, and it
takes the agency from 7 to 20 years to
issue a new standard. The new beryl-
lium standard, for example, which has
just been finalized, has been under con-
sideration for about 17 years. And that
timeframe is not unusual.
Instead of waiting for years or even
decades for OSHA to act, H.R. 1309
would first direct OSHA to issue an in-
terim standard within 1 year and a
final standard within 42 months, re-
quiring healthcare and social service
employers to implement a workplace
violence prevention plan. And further,
it protects workers from retaliation for
reporting assaults to their employers
or government authorities.
Furthermore, since public employees
in 24 states lack any OSHA protec-
tions, this legislation requires public
hospitals and skilled nursing facilities
receiving Medicare funds to comply
with the workplace violence standards
in this bill.
Healthcare and social service work-
ers play a critical role in healthcare for
our families and our communities. At
the very least, we must do whatever we
can to ensure that these workers will
come home uninjured at the end of the
workday.
Madam Chair, I thank Chairman
PALLONE for his cooperation in moving
this bill to the floor. I also want to
thank Mr. COURTNEY and Representa-
tive ALMA ADAMS, chair of the Sub-
committee on Workforce Protections,
for their leadership in advancing this
legislation.
I urge my colleagues to support H.R.
1309.
Ms. FOXX of North Carolina. Madam
Chair, I yield myself such time as I
may consume.
Madam Chair, yesterday the Depart-
ment of Labor issued its fall 2019 regu-
latory agenda. The department an-
nounced plans to initiate a Small Busi-
ness Regulatory Enforcement Fairness
Act panel for the prevention of work-
place violence in healthcare and social
assistance in January. This is a very
positive and important development.
Unfortunately, H.R. 1309 encourages
and allows OSHA to skip this impor-
tant step of gathering feedback and ad-
vice from small businesses, all to sat-
isfy the arbitrary 1-year deadline for
issuing an interim final standard.
Shortchanging the views of small busi-
nesses at the expense of a rushed,
sweeping, and overly proscriptive
standard is not an appropriate trade-
off.
Additionally, the legislative text and
scope of H.R. 1309 are so proscriptive
that OSHA wouldn’t be able to deviate
from the mandates in the bill even if
the recommendation from the small
business panel are contrary to that of
H.R. 1309.
The Trump administration is moving
forward with the rule-making process.
Rather than pass H.R. 1309, we should
be allowing OSHA to do its work on a
comprehensive standard, including so-
liciting necessary input from small
businesses.
Madam Chair, I reserve the balance
of my time.
Mr. COURTNEY. Madam Chair, just
really quickly, it is true, yesterday
that notice went out scheduling that
panel. I would just note, that is the
third time the department has sent out
such a notice, and they have canceled
the prior panels. We will see whether or
not it actually happens in January.
We are in the third year of this ad-
ministration, after a GAO report, again
after statistics and hearings, where we
have asked questions of the depart-
ment to move on this, and frankly, we
are talking about adopting OSHA’s
own guidelines in the interim stand-
ards.
This is not some farfetched, radical
proposal. It is their own recommenda-
tions about how you can safely and ef-
fectively reduce workplace violence.
Madam Chair, I yield 2 minutes to
the gentlewoman from Oregon (Ms.
BONAMICI), a great member of the Edu-
cation and Labor Committee.
Ms. BONAMICI. Madam Chair, I rise
in strong support of H.R. 1309, the
Workplace Violence Prevention for
Healthcare and Social Service Workers
Act.
A few years ago, two workers in Or-
egon were tragically wounded in a
workplace stabbing at an organization
that provides essential support services
to youth who are facing addiction,
homelessness, and behavioral health
issues.
b 0945
Following the incident, Oregon
AFSCME members organized to im-
prove difficult working conditions that
were compromising the quality of serv-
ices for vulnerable clients as well as
the safety of employees.
Unfortunately, the experience of
these workers is too common. Accord-
ing to a November 2018 report from the
U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics,
healthcare and social service workers
face a disproportionate risk of on-the-
job violence and injuries.
The workers in Oregon, and
healthcare and social service workers
across the country, need evidence-
based workplace violence prevention
plans tailored to the needs of the popu-
lations they serve. That is why I am
proud to be an original cosponsor of
H.R. 1309, introduced by my colleague,
Congressman COURTNEY.
Healthcare and social service work-
ers help to care for our families,
friends, and loved ones. Today, we have
the chance to support their well-being
in the workplace.
Madam Chair, I include in the
RECORD a letter in support of the
Workplace Violence Prevention for
Health Care and Social Service Work-
ers Act from the National Association
of Social Workers.
Good morning: We are writing today to en-
courage your boss to vote to approve H.R.
1309, the Workplace Violence Prevention for
Health Care and Social Service Workers Act,
which is scheduled to come to the House
floor for a vote next week. This bipartisan
legislation is instrumental in promoting
safer working conditions for millions of so-
cial workers, nurses and other similar pro-
fessionals who experience unacceptably high
levels of violence on the job.
The National Association of Social Work-
ers represents the interests of over 750,000 so-
cial workers nationwide who are employed in
wide variety of settings, including hospitals,
community clinics, schools and correctional
facilities among others. Many social workers
provide services outside the four walls of an
office, such as in family homes.
As you may know, healthcare and social
service workers are nearly five times more
likely to be assaulted at work than other
professionals, and the rate of violence is
growing. Between 2007 and 2017, the rate of
violent injuries grew by 123% in hospitals,
201% in psychiatric hospitals and substance
use treatment facilities, and 28% in social
service settings. The costs of this violence
are high: in injury rates, in professionals
being driven from doing the work they love,
in workers’ compensation claims and staff
shortages. Workplace violence is also highly
problematic for patients. Safe environments
are healing environments.
Currently, there is no federal enforceable
violence prevention standard covering
healthcare and social services and federal
guidelines do not cover those working in
public facilities. H.R. 1309 would require hos-
pitals, residential treatment facilities, sub-
stance use disorder treatment centers, clin-
ics at correctional or detention facilities,
and other service facilities to develop and
implement comprehensive violence preven-
tion plans and provide whistle-blower protec-
tions for workers. These commonsense plans
can be customized to reflect the unique safe-
ty needs and concerns of each setting.
When the Workplace Violence Prevention
for Health Care and Social Service Workers
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:21 Nov 22, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K21NO7.010 H21NOPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H9132 November 21, 2019
Act comes before your boss for consider-
ation, we urge your boss to support its pas-
sage.
Thank you for your consideration and
please let me know if you have any ques-
tions.
Sincerely,
DINA L. KASTNER, MSS, MLSP,
Senior Field Organizer,
National Association of Social Workers.
Ms. BONAMICI. Madam Chair, I urge
my colleagues to support this legisla-
tion.
Ms. FOXX of North Carolina. Madam
Chair, I reserve the balance of my
time.
Mr. COURTNEY. Madam Chair, I
yield 3 minutes to the gentlewoman
from Iowa (Ms. FINKENAUER), one of our
great new freshmen.
Ms. FINKENAUER. Madam Chair, I
rise today in support of H.R. 1309, the
Workplace Violence Prevention for
Health Care and Social Service Work-
ers Act.
I also rise today to share Tina
Suckow’s story with the House of Rep-
resentatives.
Tina is my constituent, and she is a
proud Iowan, wife, mother, grand-
mother, and AFSCME member. She is
also a dedicated nurse who spent 15
years caring for those living with men-
tal health conditions.
Tragically, this tough and thick-
skinned woman, with a great sense of
humor and a natural gift for helping
people, can now no longer physically
work.
More than a year ago, Tina was hor-
ribly injured at the State of Iowa’s
Independence Mental Health Institute
in my district.
An aggressive patient triggered a call
for additional assistance. Although
Tina was working in a different section
of the campus at the time, she made
her way over to help, with about a
dozen other coworkers.
For roughly 45 minutes, the patient
was erratic and repeatedly threatened
to hurt the first person who tried to
get close to him. When nothing worked
to calm him, a supervisor grabbed a
padded shield, but nobody knew that
the facility even had this equipment,
and they weren’t trained to use it.
As her coworker approached with the
shield, Tina became trapped between it
and the patient. He hit Tina in the
head so many times that she lost con-
sciousness.
After dedicating her career and her
life to caring for others, Tina was now
the one in need. Since then, she has
been in and out of surgeries, and the
emotional damage remains. That day
was the worst day of Tina’s life.
Sadly, the State has made it worse
by denying her unpaid time off re-
quests and kicking her off the payroll.
Tina wants her story shared today so
that employees like her are protected.
I am personally upset that it is hard
to do in States like Iowa. You see, in
2017, I was a State representative in
Iowa who spent 2 days fighting back
against the gutting of collective bar-
gaining in my State, where they went
after our teachers, our corrections offi-
cers, our bus drivers, and folks like
Tina. I stood on that floor and voted
‘‘no.’’
Unfortunately, we didn’t have the
votes. That bill passed, and they gutted
the rights of folks like Tina all across
my State. Iowa’s working families are
continuing to pay the price for those
politically motivated attacks.
Nearly 1,000 jobs in our State have
been eliminated since 2011. These staff-
ing shortages, because of this and the
failure to train employees on vital
safety measures, have put lives like
Tina’s on the line.
In that same facility, several other
employees have been attacked in the
last year.
The CHAIR. The time of the gentle-
woman has expired.
Mr. COURTNEY. Madam Chair, I
yield an additional 1 minute to the
gentlewoman from Iowa.
Ms. FINKENAUER. Madam Chair, in
other facilities across the State, they
have been attacked in the last year. It
is unconscionable. This isn’t how you
treat people.
The law also created a system that
was rigged against working people,
forcing employees to go through costly
recertification processes and trying to
stop them from being able to collec-
tively bargain and being able to fight
for their rights.
Luckily for us in Iowa, our public
employees are strong. They banded to-
gether and were recertified, and I am
proud to represent them.
Today, I will be casting this vote for
Tina Suckow, who I know is watching
at home today.
This bill will require places like the
State of Iowa to stop failing their em-
ployees, by requiring workplace protec-
tions. It is a first step in protecting
Iowans on the front lines.
I am standing with our hardworking
men and women today who ask for a
safe workplace, and now I am standing
with them on the floor of the U.S.
House, proudly voting ‘‘yes’’ for them
and folks all across my State.
Madam Chair, I include in the
RECORD a letter from AFSCME in sup-
port of H.R. 1309.
AMERICAN FEDERATION OF STATE,
COUNTY AND MUNICIPAL EMPLOY-
EES, AFL-CIO,
Washington, DC, November 19, 2019.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
Washington, DC.
DEAR REPRESENTATIVE: On behalf of the
members of the American Federation of
State, County and Municipal Employees
(AFSCME), I urge you to support the ‘‘Work-
place Violence Prevention for Health Care
and Social Service Workers Act’’ (H.R. 1309),
which protects workers and their right to be
safe from violence at their workplace. H.R.
1309 requires the Occupational Safety and
Health Administration (OSHA) to issue a
standard on workplace violence prevention
in health care and social service assistance
settings.
Enactment of H.R. 1309 is needed because:
The current OSHA guidance is voluntary.
It does not require employers to address the
high risk of violence on the job for health
care workers and social service workers.
Some 70 percent of all nonfatal workplace
assaults typically occur in these two sectors
and has increased over the years.
It challenges the myth that workplace vio-
lence is random, unpreventable and just part
of the job. There is a degree of uncertainty,
but workplace violence has clear patterns
and detectable risk factors in health care
and social service settings. Actions can be
taken to reduce the risk of workplace vio-
lence.
The cost of inaction is high. It is cal-
culated in the pain, loss, suffering and the
disruption to lives, workplaces and commu-
nities caused by these incidents to workers
and their families.
We ask that you send a clear message that
Congress will not ignore the harm and suf-
fering caused to health care, behavioral
health and social service workers by work-
place violence. Please vote in support of H.R.
1309.
Sincerely,
SCOTT FREY,
Director of Federal Government Affairs.
Ms. FOXX of North Carolina. Madam
Chair, I reserve the balance of my
time.
Mr. COURTNEY. Madam Chair, I
yield 2 minutes to the gentlewoman
from Illinois (Ms. SCHAKOWSKY).
Ms. SCHAKOWSKY. Madam Chair, I
thank Mr. COURTNEY for yielding, and I
proudly rise today in support of his leg-
islation.
The frequency and scale of workplace
violence are alarmingly high, but no
statistic, even the startling ones that
we have learned about, can fully reflect
the pain, loss, and suffering that these
incidents can cause.
As we consider the bill before us
today, I ask that you remember and
honor Pamela Knight.
Pamela was an AFSCME Council 31,
Local 448 member. She worked for the
Illinois Department of Children and
Family Services as a child protection
specialist.
She had been sent to take a 2-year-
old child into protective custody from
an abusive father. As she got out of her
car, Pamela was attacked by the boy’s
father. Brutally beaten, Ms. Knight
suffered blunt force trauma to her
head.
After 11 years on the job, she suc-
cumbed to her injuries, paying the ulti-
mate price for protecting children from
abuse and neglect.
Pamela and her fellow DCFS employ-
ees are the front line of defense in pro-
tecting children in Illinois and around
the country. In this vital work, they
can encounter families in crisis stem-
ming from poverty, substance abuse,
mental illness, and domestic violence.
For two decades, OSHA has worked
with employers on voluntary guide-
lines to address workplace violence,
yet the rate of violence has gone up.
Enough is enough. Today, we can do
the right thing by Pamela Knight and
the unsung heroes in healthcare and
social services by passing this impor-
tant, critical, and necessary piece of
legislation.
Ms. FOXX of North Carolina. Madam
Chair, I continue to reserve the balance
of my time.
Mr. COURTNEY. Madam Chair, I
yield 3 minutes to the gentlewoman
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:21 Nov 22, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A21NO7.005 H21NOPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H9133
November 21, 2019
from Florida (Ms. WILSON), the chair of
the Subcommittee on Health, Employ-
ment, Labor, and Pensions.
Ms. WILSON of Florida. Madam
Chair, I am pleased to speak in support
of this important and necessary piece
of legislation.
Through my work as chairwoman of
the Subcommittee on Health, Employ-
ment, Labor, and Pensions, and as
former ranking member of the Sub-
committee on Workforce Protections, I
have worked extensively on protecting
America’s workers from unsafe condi-
tions in the workplace.
This legislation is an important step
toward protecting our healthcare and
social service workers from workplace
violence. Unfortunately, it also is a
very necessary step.
We know that healthcare and social
service workers experience the highest
rate of serious injury due to workplace
violence. They, literally, are jumped on
and beaten up by their patients at
work, thrown against walls and floors,
suffering bone fractures and brain inju-
ries.
These workers have a lost time in-
jury rate of 14.8 per 10,000 workers,
compared to 3.1 for all other workers,
according to the Bureau of Labor Sta-
tistics.
Currently, Federal efforts to protect
workers from workplace violence de-
pends solely on the use of OSHA’s gen-
eral duty clause. That part of the Occu-
pational Safety and Health Act re-
quires employers to provide a work-
place free from recognized hazards.
However, it is legally cumbersome to
apply and is mostly applied after an in-
jury occurs. What is needed are stand-
ards to prevent injuries in advance, not
after-the-fact enforcement.
While OSHA has adopted guidelines
for preventing violence against
healthcare and social service workers,
these are only temporary and vol-
untary. This legislation will codify
these guidelines and provide OSHA
with the necessary authority to require
healthcare facilities and social service
providers to develop and implement a
workplace violence prevention plan.
Madam Chair, while these changes
are important to the entire Nation,
they are even more important to my
district in Florida. Given the large pop-
ulation of senior citizens, the need for
healthcare and social service workers
is great.
Performing these jobs can be both
physically and emotionally draining,
even without the threat of being at-
tacked. The added danger of physical
violence may lead many potential
healthcare and social service workers
to seek employment elsewhere, to
leave the field altogether, or quit.
Violence in the workplace has a cas-
cading effect on everyone involved,
from the workers who bear the brunt of
the violent attacks, to the families
they serve, to the patients who witness
the violence, some in a very fragile
state.
What we do know from evidence and
research is that healthcare facilities
that have violence prevention plans
have cut the rate of injuries and re-
lated workers’ compensation costs.
The Acting CHAIR (Mr. HASTINGS).
The time of the gentlewoman has ex-
pired.
Mr. COURTNEY. Mr. Chair, I yield
an additional 30 seconds to the gentle-
woman from Florida.
Ms. WILSON of Florida. Mr. Chair,
for these reasons, I urge every Member
to vote ‘‘yes’’ on H.R. 1309, the Work-
place Violence Prevention for Health
Care and Social Service Workers Act.
Mr. Chair, I include in the RECORD a
letter in support of this legislation
from the American Federation of
Teachers.
Washington, DC, November 19, 2019.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
Washington, DC.
DEAR REPRESENTATIVE: On behalf of the 1.7
million members of the American Federation
of Teachers, including 170,000 healthcare
workers, I strongly urge you to vote YES on
H.R. 1309, the Workplace Violence Preven-
tion for Health Care and Social Service
Workers Act. I also want to thank Rep. JOE
COURTNEY (D–Conn.) for his leadership on
this bill and for his steadfast commitment to
protecting all healthcare workers.
When healthcare professionals show up to
work, they shouldn’t have to worry about
whether they are going to be injured in an
assault. Sadly, healthcare and social service
workers are nearly five times more likely to
be assaulted while on the job than the rest of
our workforce. The costs of this violence are
high: in injury rates, in professionals being
driven from doing the work they love, and in
workers’ compensation claims and staff
shortages.
H.R. 1309 would require hospitals and other
facilities to develop and implement com-
prehensive violence prevention plans and
provide whistleblower protections for nurses
and other workers facing violence. Current
federal workplace protections do not focus
on healthcare and social service workers and
don’t cover those working in public facili-
ties. This bill is a chance to make healthcare
settings safer environments for staff and pa-
tients alike. As one of the largest healthcare
unions in the country, the AFT has been
striving to address workplace violence for
years; this is our members’ top healthcare
priority.
I hear from AFT healthcare members
about violence all the time: A nurse was
choked to the point of unconsciousness last
year; a nurse was stabbed in 2017; members
have suffered bone fractures and brain inju-
ries from being thrown against walls and
floors. The House Education and Labor Com-
mittee held a hearing on the topic of work-
place violence earlier this year. In her testi-
mony, the AFT witness described being at-
tacked:
He then spun around on his back and
kicked his leg high into the air striking me
in the neck, hitting with such force to my
throat that my head snapped backward; I
heard this ‘‘bang’’ and ‘‘pop, ‘‘ and all the air
just rushed out of me. . . . Since June 2015,
I have been diagnosed with moderate to se-
vere post-traumatic stress disorder, mod-
erate anxiety, insomnia, depressive disorder
and social phobia related to this incident.
. . . I LOVED being a nurse. I have a huge
problem still calling myself a nurse. I do not
know what to call myself now. There is a
deep loss when you used to make a difference
in the lives of people, in your true calling
and with passion. Now, that space is filled
with extreme sadness and fear. . . . I lost my
career.
No one should face violence or intimida-
tion, or fear for their safety, while working
to heal others and save lives. Violence is not
just ‘‘part of the job,’’ and studies show that
prevention plans work. Many violent inci-
dents can be predicted and minimized with
the right staffing, policies and protocols, and
this legislation builds upon well-established
guidelines from the Department of Labor.
I strongly urge you to support the nurses,
social workers and other healthcare profes-
sionals in your district by voting YES on
H.R. 1309.
Sincerely,
RANDI WEINGARTEN.
President.
Ms. FOXX of North Carolina. Mr.
Chairman, I reserve the balance of my
time.
Mr. COURTNEY. Mr. Chair, I yield 2
minutes to the gentlewoman from
Texas (Ms. JACKSON LEE).
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Chair, I
thank the gentleman from Connecticut
(Mr. COURTNEY) for yielding, and I
thank him for his leadership.
I rise as a cosponsor of the Workplace
Violence Prevention for Health Care
and Social Service Workers Act.
Mr. Chair, I thank the chairman of
the full committee, Mr. SCOTT, and
chairwoman of the subcommittee, Ms.
ADAMS. I thank the complete com-
mittee for bringing this important leg-
islation to the floor.
As I have listened to testimony over
the last couple of days, I began to
frame a concept that we must do the
right thing.
As I have interacted with my con-
stituents, as I understand the work of
healthcare workers and social service
workers, they take care of the broken
of our society, some who may be ill,
some who may have necessities of life
that have not been fulfilled.
b 1000
These individuals are under enor-
mous pressure, yet our workers in the
workplace caring for these people have
the largest heart. They train to be
sympathetic and empathetic.
I am reminded of a situation in my
local hospital where an individual
broke loose because that person was
suffering from a mental challenge, ill-
ness, health need, mixed in with a pop-
ulation that was there for other rea-
sons. That person was in the mix of
healthcare workers trying to care for
others, but trying to be kind, sympa-
thetic, and caring, but that person was
in a state of crisis that was threat-
ening to the patients and threatening
to the workers.
This is a crucial act. We are at a cri-
sis moment. It is important to recog-
nize that these incidents, as have been
evidenced on the floor of the House,
happen every day, even as we speak.
Those individuals with that person
were not able to bring him to a resolve,
and law enforcement had to be en-
gaged.
Those are situations that make it
difficult. We need this interim re-
sponse, and we need it quickly. 200,000
facilities will be covered, and, as was
evidenced on the floor by Mr. COURT-
NEY, at $9,000 per facility. That is a
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:24 Nov 22, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K21NO7.014 H21NOPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H9134 November 21, 2019
worthwhile investment to stop some-
one who is injured from having a life-
long series of injuries.
The Acting CHAIR. The time of the
gentlewoman has expired.
Mr. COURTNEY. Mr. Chairman, I
yield an additional 30 seconds to the
gentlewoman from Texas.
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Coming from the
Texas Medical Center in my commu-
nity and many other hospitals and see-
ing the proliferation of health clinics,
federally qualified health clinics, and
social service agencies all attempting
to do the right thing—and the patients
who are there deserve to have the best
care possible, but they are, in many in-
stances, ill; they are, in many in-
stances, broken. In order to have the
staff continue to serve them, let’s pro-
tect those workers. Let’s stand along-
side those workers.
Mr. Chairman, I ask my colleagues to
enthusiastically support this legisla-
tion and let us begin to stand alongside
those who work with those who are
most in need.
Ms. FOXX of North Carolina. Mr.
Chairman, I continue to reserve the
balance of my time.
Mr. COURTNEY. Mr. Chairman, I
have exhausted all speakers, and I am
prepared to close on my side.
Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance
of my time.
Ms. FOXX of North Carolina. Mr.
Chairman, I am prepared to close and
yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
Mr. Chairman, as we debate the im-
pact of H.R. 1309 on healthcare pro-
viders, I note that this bill is in viola-
tion of the House’s pay-as-you-go, or
paygo, rule.
The paygo rule requires that legisla-
tion affecting direct spending not in-
crease the deficit. Any legislation pro-
jected to increase direct spending must
be offset by equivalent amounts of di-
rect spending cuts, revenue increases,
or a combination of both.
According to the nonpartisan Con-
gressional Budget Office, H.R. 1309 will
increase the deficit by $60 million be-
tween 2020 and 2029. In addition, CBO
estimates the cost of H.R. 1309 to pri-
vate entities will be at least $1.8 billion
in the first 2 years and at least $750
million annually thereafter.
Democrats wrote this particular
paygo rule months ago, and they are
already abandoning it. It is not hard to
find $60 million in savings for the tax-
payers, and the Democrats’ failure to
do so speaks volumes about their re-
gard for fiscal discipline. This signifi-
cant violation of the budget rules is
yet another reason to oppose this bill.
Madam Chair, protecting the safety
of healthcare and social service work-
ers is not a partisan issue. I reiterate
that statement. All of us here today,
regardless of our political beliefs, ap-
preciate the hard work and empathy
that healthcare workers and commu-
nity caregivers demonstrate every sin-
gle day on the job.
There is much agreement on both
sides of the aisle that these workers de-
serve protections in the workplace.
Given this bipartisan interest, it is
frustrating that the Democrats have
moved forward with the rushed and ill-
conceived legislation we are debating
today.
H.R. 1309 ignores expert and practical
input; imposes mandates that may ul-
timately harm the very people this leg-
islation intends to protect; forecloses
better, more protective and feasible so-
lutions that would result from the es-
tablished rulemaking process; fails to
allow meaningful public input; and im-
poses costly requirements on regulated
entities.
Our healthcare workers and care-
givers deserve a thoroughly vetted and
researched solution that protects them
in the workplace, but H.R. 1309 badly
fails to deliver on that front.
Madam Chair, I strongly urge a ‘‘no’’
vote, and I yield back the balance of
my time.
Mr. COURTNEY. Madam Chair, I
yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
Madam Chair, regarding the paygo
issue, just to be clear, paygo applies to
the budget impact. And the gentle-
woman is absolutely correct; CBO cal-
culated a $60 million deficit impact
over 10 years in the Medicare program.
Again, we spend over $700 billion a year
in Medicare, and, by all projections,
that is going to go up.
By the way, $60 million is for rural
hospitals. If you read the CBO note,
that is really the retroactive impact
that has caused that, really, budget
dust in terms of the impact to the
Medicare program.
Madam Chair, we have heard today
about the urgency that this emergency
requires. We understand the statistics.
Workers are uniquely vulnerable in the
healthcare setting to violence as they
care for the most vulnerable among us.
We know how to help. We know that
evidence-based practices will lower this
trend line. And we know that when
hospitals and other facilities adopt
them, rates of violence against staff go
down.
In closing, I would like to share a few
words from a letter written to me by
Gene Sausse from Louisiana about his
sister, Lynne Truxillo, who was a nurse
in Baton Rouge, Louisiana, until her
death just this past April of this year
in the hands of a patient while she
worked.
Lynne saw the patient attacking one
of her colleagues, and when she inter-
vened, the patient turned on her,
grabbed her by the back of the neck,
slammed it into a desk, and she passed
out and suffered additional injuries. A
few days later, she died from her inju-
ries.
Lynne’s brother came to Washington,
unannounced to my office, a few
months ago to share his family’s grief
and explained why we cannot wait an-
other 20 years for OSHA to act. This is
what he said:
‘‘It wasn’t until days after my sister,
Registered Nurse Lynne Sausse
Truxillo, was brutally attacked and
murdered by a patient inside of Baton
Rouge General Hospital during her
shift 6 months ago did I learn that vio-
lent workplace incident rates are four
times higher in healthcare than all
other industries. . . . As a small busi-
ness owner in New Orleans, I have first-
hand experience with the complex and
often burdensome nature of govern-
ment regulation. I get that, and I sup-
port fewer regulations in certain cir-
cumstances. However, in the 6 months
since Lynne’s death, I’ve learned how
gravely and disproportionately vulner-
able healthcare workers are to acts of
workplace violence against them. The
data, stats, and facts are undeniable on
the subject. There’s practically a news
story every day somewhere in America
about it. It is unconscionable that less
care is given for the health and well-
being of those who care for us when we
need it most. Thank you for trying to
spare other families from the kind of
grief and tragedy mine has endured
every day since we lost our beautiful
sister, mother, and daughter.’’
She should be home making Thanks-
giving dinner for her children—mother
of two. But because we don’t have a na-
tional enforceable standard to reduce
workplace violence in healthcare set-
tings and social work, this gentleman—
he is not a lobbyist; he is not a super-
PAC; he is a brother—came to Wash-
ington at his own expense, like so
many others, to talk about the fact
that we have a crisis. It is our job to
address that crisis, and that is what
this bill does.
Madam Chair, I urge a ‘‘yes’’ vote on
H.R. 1309, and I yield back the balance
of my time.
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Madam Chair, I rise to
speak in strong support of H.R. 1309, the
Workplace Violence Prevention for Health
Care and Social Service Workers Act.’’
This bill offers workplace violence protection
to our nation’s caregivers—including nurses,
social workers, and many others who dedicate
their lives to caring for those in need.
Last year, the Bureau of Labor Statistics
(BLS) reported that health care and social
service workers were nearly five times as like-
ly to suffer a serious workplace violence injury
than workers in other sectors.
Public employees, such as care givers in
state and local government, health care and
social service work, suffer particularly high
rates of workplace violence.
In 2017, state government health care and
social service workers were almost nine times
more likely to be injured by an assault than
private-sector health care workers.
Workplace violence often causes both phys-
ical and emotional harm.
Victims of these incidents often suffer ca-
reer-ending post-traumatic stress disorders
that take away their livelihoods and weaken
an already stretched health care workforce.
In 2018, the Bureau of Labor Statistics re-
ported that 707,400 Social Workers are em-
ployed in the United States.
Social worker employment is expected to
grow 16 percent between 2016 and 2026; a
much faster rate than the average career in
the United States.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:21 Nov 22, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00010 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\K21NO7.016 H21NOPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H9135
November 21, 2019
The ratio of social workers to populations
varies widely in the United States, ranging
from 80 per 100,000 people in Arkansas to
572 per 100,000 in Washington, D.C.
Northeast states tend to have high numbers
of social workers per capita, and the southern
states have fewer social workers per capita.
Social workers work in a variety of settings,
including mental health clinics, schools, child
welfare and human service agencies, hos-
pitals, settlement houses, community develop-
ment corporations, and private practices.
They generally work full time and may need
to work evenings, weekends, and holidays.
There is currently no standard from OSHA,
the federal agency created to protect workers’
safety, that requires employers to implement
violence prevention plans that would help re-
duce workplace violence injuries among health
care and social service workers.
The lack of an enforceable standard means
that OSHA has few meaningful tools to protect
health care workers from the threat of work-
place violence.
Unless Congress intervenes, it is highly un-
likely there will be any action taken to protect
health care workers in the next decade.
The Government Accountability Office esti-
mated, conservatively, that it takes OSHA at
least 7 years to issue a standard.
Two of the most significant OSHA standards
issued in recent history—crystalline silica and
beryllium, which cause irreversible lung dis-
ease—each took OSHA 20 years to finalize.
Despite OSHA promises and its obligation
to defend workers’ safety, the Trump Adminis-
tration is erecting new barriers that will prevent
OSHA from protecting caregivers from work-
place violence.
This bill is needed more now due to a shift
in the social work industry: today’s social
workers are becoming less focused on solving
problems and more focused on primary pre-
vention, providing interventions in advance to
prevent problems from ever occurring in at-risk
populations.
Social work is more than a job.
Social workers help millions of Americans
live fuller, more productive and safer lives.
They often are the primary front line of as-
sistance to 13.9 percent of Americans living
below the poverty line.
Through mentorship, social workers have
contributed to a 68 percent decline in the juve-
nile arrest rate between 1996 and 2015.
The incarceration rate in the United States
is approximately 716 per 100,000, the highest
in the world, which means that social workers
are invaluable in helping the formerly incarcer-
ated transition into community life.
Social workers provide substantial care and
services to the mentally ill.
Reports state that 1 in 4 people in the world
will be affected by mental or neurological dis-
orders at some point in their lives.
Child Protective Services and its social
workers check up on 3.2 million children each
year.
Every year, more than 3.6 million referrals
are made to child protection agencies. These
referrals involve more than 6.6 million children.
Social Workers are the first line of preven-
tion to prevent over 1.2 million students drop
outs from high school each year (one every 26
seconds).
Both Child and Family Social Worker and
Clinical Social Worker rank among the top 100
best jobs of 2019.
Professional social workers are the largest
group of mental health services providers in
the United States.
83 percent of all social workers are female.
86 percent of Master of Social Work graduates
in 2015 were female.
47 percent of social workers work in the
child, family, and school sector, 26 percent
work in healthcare, 18 percent work in mental
health and substance abuse, and 9 percent
work in other sectors.
The primary employers of social workers are
governments (41 percent), private nonprofit or
charitable organizations (34 percent), and pri-
vate-for-profit businesses (22 percent).
More than 40 percent of all disaster mental
health volunteers trained by the American Red
Cross are professional social workers.
The importance of social workers has been
recognized by Jane Addams, a social worker,
becoming one of the first women to receive a
Nobel Peace Prize in 1931.
I ask my colleagues to join me in supporting
H.R. 1309.
The CHAIR. All time for general de-
bate has expired.
Pursuant to the rule, the bill shall be
considered for amendment under the 5-
minute rule.
In lieu of the amendment in the na-
ture of a substitute recommended by
the Committee on Education and
Labor, printed in the bill, an amend-
ment in the nature of a substitute con-
sisting of the text of Rules Committee
Print 116–37, modified by the amend-
ment printed in part A of House Report
116–302, shall be considered as adopted.
The bill, as amended, shall be consid-
ered as the original bill for the purpose
of further amendment under the 5-
minute rule and shall be considered as
read.
The text of the bill, as amended, is as
follows:
H.R. 1309
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled.
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Workplace Vio-
lence Prevention for Health Care and Social
Service Workers Act’’.
SEC. 2. TABLE OF CONTENTS.
The table of contents for this Act is as follows:
Sec. 1. Short title.
Sec. 2. Table of contents.
TITLE I—WORKPLACE VIOLENCE
PREVENTION STANDARD
Sec. 101. Workplace violence prevention stand-
ard.
Sec. 102. Scope and application.
Sec. 103. Requirements for workplace violence
prevention standard.
Sec. 104. Rules of construction.
Sec. 105. Other definitions.
TITLE II—AMENDMENTS TO THE SOCIAL
SECURITY ACT
Sec. 201. Application of the workplace violence
prevention standard to certain fa-
cilities receiving Medicare funds.
TITLE I—WORKPLACE VIOLENCE
PREVENTION STANDARD
SEC. 101. WORKPLACE VIOLENCE PREVENTION
STANDARD.
(a) INTERIM FINAL STANDARD.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 1 year after
the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary
of Labor shall promulgate an interim final
standard on workplace violence prevention—
(A) to require certain employers in the health
care and social service sectors, and certain em-
ployers in sectors that conduct activities similar
to the activities in the health care and social
service sectors, to develop and implement a com-
prehensive workplace violence prevention plan
to protect health care workers, social service
workers, and other personnel from workplace vi-
olence; and
(B) that shall, at a minimum, be based on the
Guidelines for Preventing Workplace Violence
for Health care and Social Service Workers pub-
lished by the Occupational Safety and Health
Administration of the Department of Labor in
2015 and adhere to the requirements of this title.
(2) APPLICABILITY OF OTHER STATUTORY RE-
QUIREMENTS.—The following shall not apply to
the promulgation of the interim final standard
under this subsection:
(A) The requirements applicable to occupa-
tional safety and health standards under sec-
tion 6(b) of the Occupational Safety and Health
Act of 1970 (29 U.S.C. 655(b)).
(B) The requirements of chapters 5 and 6 of
title 5, United States Code, and titles 2 and 42,
United States Code.
(3) NOTICE AND COMMENT.—Notwithstanding
paragraph (2)(B), the Secretary shall, prior to
promulgating the interim final standard under
this subsection, provide notice in the Federal
Register of the interim final standard and a 30-
day period for public comment.
(4) EFFECTIVE DATE OF INTERIM STANDARD.—
The interim final standard shall—
(A) take effect on a date that is not later than
30 days after promulgation, except that such in-
terim final standard may include a reasonable
phase-in period for the implementation of re-
quired engineering controls that take effect after
such date;
(B) be enforced in the same manner and to the
same extent as any standard promulgated under
section 6(b) of the Occupational Safety and
Health Act of 1970 (29 U.S.C. 655(b)); and
(C) be in effect until the final standard de-
scribed in subsection (b) becomes effective and
enforceable.
(5) FAILURE TO PROMULGATE.—If an interim
final standard described in paragraph (1) is not
promulgated not later than 1 year of the date of
enactment of this Act, the provisions of this title
shall be in effect and enforced in the same man-
ner and to the same extent as any standard pro-
mulgated under section 6(b) of the Occupational
Safety and Health Act (29 U.S.C. 655(b)) until
such provisions are superseded in whole by an
interim final standard promulgated by the Sec-
retary that meets the requirements of paragraph
(1).
(b) FINAL STANDARD.—
(1) PROPOSED STANDARD.—Not later than 2
years after the date of enactment of this Act,
the Secretary of Labor shall, pursuant to section
6 of the Occupational Safety and Health Act (29
U.S.C. 655), promulgate a proposed standard on
workplace violence prevention—
(A) for the purposes described in subsection
(a)(1)(A); and
(B) that shall include, at a minimum, the ele-
ments contained in the interim final standard
promulgated under subsection (a).
(2) FINAL STANDARD.—Not later than 42
months after the date of enactment of this Act,
the Secretary shall promulgate a final standard
on such proposed standard that shall—
(A) provide no less protection than any work-
place violence standard adopted by a State plan
that has been approved by the Secretary under
section 18 of the Occupational Safety and
Health Act of 1970 (29 U.S.C. 667); and
(B) be effective and enforceable in the same
manner and to the same extent as any standard
promulgated under section 6(b) of the Occupa-
tional Safety and Health Act of 1970 (29 U.S.C.
655(b)).
SEC. 102. SCOPE AND APPLICATION.
In this title:
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:21 Nov 22, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00011 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 6333 E:\CR\FM\A21NO7.003 H21NOPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H9136 November 21, 2019
(1) COVERED FACILITY.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The term ‘‘covered facility’’
includes the following:
(i) Any hospital, including any specialty hos-
pital, in-patient or outpatient setting, or clinic
operating within a hospital license, or any set-
ting that provides outpatient services.
(ii) Any residential treatment facility, includ-
ing any nursing home, skilled nursing facility,
hospice facility, and long-term care facility.
(iii) Any non-residential treatment or service
setting.
(iv) Any medical treatment or social service
setting or clinic at a correctional or detention
facility.
(v) Any community care setting, including a
community-based residential facility, group
home, and mental health clinic.
(vi) Any psychiatric treatment facility.
(vii) Any drug abuse or substance use disorder
treatment center.
(viii) Any independent freestanding emer-
gency centers.
(ix) Any facility described in clauses (i)
through (viii) operated by a Federal Government
agency and required to comply with occupa-
tional safety and health standards pursuant to
section 1960 of title 29, Code of Federal Regula-
tions (as such section is in effect on the date of
enactment of this Act).
(x) Any other facility the Secretary determines
should be covered under the standards promul-
gated under section 101.
(B) EXCLUSION.—The term ‘‘covered facility’’
does not include an office of a physician, den-
tist, podiatrist, or any other health practitioner
that is not physically located within a covered
facility described in clauses (i) through (x) of
subparagraph (A).
(2) COVERED SERVICES.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The term ‘‘covered service’’
includes the following services and operations:
(i) Any services and operations provided in
any field work setting, including home health
care, home-based hospice, and home-based so-
cial work.
(ii) Any emergency services and transport, in-
cluding such services provided by firefighters
and emergency responders.
(iii) Any services described in clauses (i) and
(ii) performed by a Federal Government agency
and required to comply with occupational safety
and health standards pursuant to section 1960
of title 29, Code of Federal Regulations (as such
section is in effect on the date of enactment of
this Act).
(iv) Any other services and operations the Sec-
retary determines should be covered under the
standards promulgated under section 101.
(B) EXCLUSION.—The term ‘‘covered service’’
does not include child day care services.
(3) COVERED EMPLOYER.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The term ‘‘covered em-
ployer’’ includes a person (including a con-
tractor, subcontractor, a temporary service firm,
or an employee leasing entity) that employs an
individual to work at a covered facility or to
perform covered services.
(B) EXCLUSION.—The term ‘‘covered em-
ployer’’ does not include an individual who pri-
vately employs, in the individual’s residence, a
person to perform covered services for the indi-
vidual or a family member of the individual.
(4) COVERED EMPLOYEE.—The term ‘‘covered
employee’’ includes an individual employed by a
covered employer to work at a covered facility or
to perform covered services.
SEC. 103. REQUIREMENTS FOR WORKPLACE VIO-
LENCE PREVENTION STANDARD.
Each standard described in section 101 shall
include, at a minimum, the following require-
ments:
(1) WORKPLACE VIOLENCE PREVENTION PLAN.—
Not later than 6 months after the date of pro-
mulgation of the interim final standard under
section 101(a), a covered employer shall develop,
implement, and maintain an effective written
workplace violence prevention plan for covered
employees at each covered facility and for cov-
ered employees performing a covered service on
behalf of such employer, which meets the fol-
lowing:
(A) PLAN DEVELOPMENT.—Each Plan shall—
(i) be developed and implemented with the
meaningful participation of direct care employ-
ees, other employees, and employee representa-
tives, for all aspects of the Plan;
(ii) be tailored and specific to conditions and
hazards for the covered facility or the covered
service, including patient-specific risk factors
and risk factors specific to each work area or
unit; and
(iii) be suitable for the size, complexity, and
type of operations at the covered facility or for
the covered service, and remain in effect at all
times.
(B) PLAN CONTENT.—Each Plan shall include
procedures and methods for the following:
(i) Identification of the individual responsible
for implementation of the Plan.
(ii) With respect to each work area and unit
at the covered facility or while covered employ-
ees are performing the covered service, risk as-
sessment and identification of workplace vio-
lence risks and hazards to employees exposed to
such risks and hazards (including environ-
mental risk factors and patient-specific risk fac-
tors), which shall be—
(I) informed by past violent incidents specific
to such covered facility or such covered service;
and
(II) conducted with, at a minimum—
(aa) direct care employees;
(bb) where applicable, the representatives of
such employees; and
(cc) the employer.
(iii) Hazard prevention, engineering controls,
or work practice controls to correct hazards, in
a timely manner, applying industrial hygiene
principles of the hierarchy of controls, which—
(I) may include security and alarm systems,
adequate exit routes, monitoring systems, barrier
protection, established areas for patients and
clients, lighting, entry procedures, staffing and
working in teams, and systems to identify and
flag clients with a history of violence; and
(II) shall ensure that employers correct, in a
timely manner, hazards identified in any violent
incident investigation described in paragraph
(2) and any annual report described in para-
graph (5).
(iv) Reporting, incident response, and post-in-
cident investigation procedures, including pro-
cedures—
(I) for employees to report workplace violence
risks, hazards, and incidents;
(II) for employers to respond to reports of
workplace violence;
(III) for employers to perform a post-incident
investigation and debriefing of all reports of
workplace violence with the participation of em-
ployees and their representatives; and
(IV) to provide medical care or first aid to af-
fected employees.
(v) Procedures for emergency response, includ-
ing procedures for threats of mass casualties
and procedures for incidents involving a firearm
or a dangerous weapon.
(vi) Procedures for communicating with and
training the covered employees on workplace vi-
olence hazards, threats, and work practice con-
trols, the employer’s plan, and procedures for
confronting, responding to, and reporting work-
place violence threats, incidents, and concerns,
and employee rights.
(vii) Procedures for—
(I) ensuring the coordination of risk assess-
ment efforts, Plan development, and implemen-
tation of the Plan with other employers who
have employees who work at the covered facility
or who are performing the covered service; and
(II) determining which covered employer or
covered employers shall be responsible for imple-
menting and complying with the provisions of
the standard applicable to the working condi-
tions over which such employers have control.
(viii) Procedures for conducting the annual
evaluation under paragraph (6).
(C) AVAILABILITY OF PLAN.—Each Plan shall
be made available at all times to the covered em-
ployees who are covered under such Plan.
(2) VIOLENT INCIDENT INVESTIGATION.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—As soon as practicable after
a workplace violence incident, risk, or hazard of
which a covered employer has knowledge, the
employer shall conduct an investigation of such
incident, risk, or hazard under which the em-
ployer shall—
(i) review the circumstances of the incident,
risk, or hazard, and whether any controls or
measures implemented pursuant to the Plan of
the employer were effective; and
(ii) solicit input from involved employees, their
representatives, and supervisors about the cause
of the incident, risk, or hazard, and whether
further corrective measures (including system-
level factors) could have prevented the incident,
risk, or hazard.
(B) DOCUMENTATION.—A covered employer
shall document the findings, recommendations,
and corrective measures taken for each inves-
tigation conducted under this paragraph.
(3) TRAINING AND EDUCATION.—With respect to
the covered employees covered under a Plan of
a covered employer, the employer shall provide
training and education to such employees who
may be exposed to workplace violence hazards
and risks, which meet the following require-
ments:
(A) Annual training and education shall in-
clude information on the Plan, including identi-
fied workplace violence hazards, work practice
control measures, reporting procedures, record
keeping requirements, response procedures, and
employee rights.
(B) Additional hazard recognition training
shall be provided for supervisors and managers
to ensure they—
(i) can recognize high-risk situations; and
(ii) do not assign employees to situations that
predictably compromise the safety of such em-
ployees.
(C) Additional training shall be provided for
each such covered employee whose job cir-
cumstances have changed, within a reasonable
timeframe after such change.
(D) Applicable training shall be provided
under this paragraph for each new covered em-
ployee prior to the employee’s job assignment.
(E) All training shall provide such employees
opportunities to ask questions, give feedback on
training, and request additional instruction,
clarification, or other followup.
(F) All training shall be provided in-person
and by an individual with knowledge of work-
place violence prevention and of the Plan, ex-
cept that any annual training described in sub-
paragraph (A) provided to an employee after the
first year such training is provided to such em-
ployee may be conducted by live video if in-per-
son training is impracticable.
(G) All training shall be appropriate in con-
tent and vocabulary to the language, edu-
cational level, and literacy of such covered em-
ployees.
(4) RECORDKEEPING AND ACCESS TO PLAN
RECORDS.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Each covered employer
shall—
(i) maintain for not less than 5 years—
(I) records related to each Plan of the em-
ployer, including workplace violence risk and
hazard assessments, and identification, evalua-
tion, correction, and training procedures;
(II) a violent incident log described in sub-
paragraph (B) for recording all workplace vio-
lence incidents; and
(III) records of all incident investigations as
required under paragraph (2)(B); and
(ii)(I) make such records and logs available,
upon request, to covered employees and their
representatives for examination and copying in
accordance with section 1910.1020 of title 29,
Code of Federal Regulations (as such section is
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:21 Nov 22, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00012 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 6333 E:\CR\FM\A21NO7.030 H21NOPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H9137
November 21, 2019
in effect on the date of enactment of this Act),
and in a manner consistent with HIPAA privacy
regulations (defined in section 1180(b)(3) of the
Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1320d–9(b)(3)))
and part 2 of title 42, Code of Federal Regula-
tions (as such part is in effect on the date of en-
actment of this Act); and
(II) ensure that any such records and logs
that may be copied, transmitted electronically,
or otherwise removed from the employer’s con-
trol for purposes of this clause omit any element
of personal identifying information sufficient to
allow identification of any patient, resident, cli-
ent, or other individual alleged to have com-
mitted a violent incident (including the individ-
ual’s name, address, electronic mail address,
telephone number, or social security number, or
other information that, alone or in combination
with other publicly available information, re-
veals such individual’s identity).
(B) VIOLENT INCIDENT LOG DESCRIPTION.—
Each violent incident log shall—
(i) be maintained by a covered employer for
each covered facility controlled by the employer
and for each covered service being performed by
a covered employee on behalf of such employer;
(ii) be based on a template developed by the
Secretary not later than 1 year after the date of
enactment of this Act;
(iii) include, at a minimum, a description of—
(I) the violent incident (including environ-
mental risk factors present at the time of the in-
cident);
(II) the date, time, and location of the inci-
dent, and the names and job titles of involved
employees;
(III) the nature and extent of injuries to cov-
ered employees;
(IV) a classification of the perpetrator who
committed the violence, including whether the
perpetrator was—
(aa) a patient, client, resident, or customer of
a covered employer;
(bb) a family or friend of a patient, client,
resident, or customer of a covered employer;
(cc) a stranger;
(dd) a coworker, supervisor, or manager of a
covered employee;
(ee) a partner, spouse, parent, or relative of a
covered employee; or
(ff) any other appropriate classification;
(V) the type of violent incident (such as type
1 violence, type 2 violence, type 3 violence, or
type 4 violence); and
(VI) how the incident was abated;
(iv) not later than 7 days after the employer
learns of such incident, contain a record of each
violent incident, which is updated to ensure
completeness of such record;
(v) be maintained for not less than 5 years;
and
(vi) in the case of a violent incident involving
a privacy concern case, protect the identity of
employees in a manner consistent with section
1904.29(b) of title 29, Code of Federal Regula-
tions (as such section is in effect on the date of
enactment of this Act).
(C) ANNUAL SUMMARY.—
(i) COVERED EMPLOYERS.—Each covered em-
ployer shall prepare an annual summary of
each violent incident log for the preceding cal-
endar year that shall—
(I) with respect to each covered facility, and
each covered service, for which such a log has
been maintained, include the total number of
violent incidents, the number of recordable inju-
ries related to such incidents, and the total
number of hours worked by the covered employ-
ees for such preceding year;
(II) be completed on a form provided by the
Secretary;
(III) be posted for three months beginning
February 1 of each year in a manner consistent
with the requirements of section 1904 of title 29,
Code of Federal Regulations (as such section is
in effect on the date of enactment of this Act),
relating to the posting of summaries of injury
and illness logs;
(IV) be located in a conspicuous place or
places where notices to employees are custom-
arily posted; and
(V) not be altered, defaced, or covered by
other material.
(ii) SECRETARY.—Not later than 1 year after
the promulgation of the interim final standard
under section 101(a), the Secretary shall make
available a platform for the electronic submis-
sion of annual summaries required under this
paragraph.
(5) ANNUAL REPORT.—Not later than February
15 of each year, each covered employer shall re-
port to the Secretary, the frequency, quantity,
and severity of workplace violence, and any in-
cident response and post-incident investigation
(including abatement measures) for the inci-
dents set forth in the annual summary of the
violent incident log described in paragraph
(4)(C).
(6) ANNUAL EVALUATION.—Each covered em-
ployer shall conduct an annual written evalua-
tion, conducted with the full, active participa-
tion of covered employees and employee rep-
resentatives, of—
(A) the implementation and effectiveness of
the Plan, including a review of the violent inci-
dent log; and
(B) compliance with training required by each
standard described in section 101, and specified
in the Plan.
(7) ANTI-RETALIATION.—
(A) POLICY.—Each covered employer shall
adopt a policy prohibiting any person (includ-
ing an agent of the employer) from discrimi-
nating or retaliating against any employee for
reporting, or seeking assistance or intervention
from, a workplace violence incident, threat, or
concern to the employer, law enforcement, local
emergency services, or a government agency, or
participating in an incident investigation.
(B) PROHIBITION.—No covered employer shall
discriminate or retaliate against any employee
for—
(i) reporting a workplace violence incident,
threat, or concern to, or seeking assistance or
intervention with respect to such incident,
threat, or concern from, the employer, law en-
forcement, local emergency services, or a local,
State, or Federal government agency; or
(ii) exercising any other rights under this
paragraph.
(C) ENFORCEMENT.—This paragraph shall be
enforced in the same manner and to the same
extent as any standard promulgated under sec-
tion 6(b) of the Occupational Safety and Health
Act (29 U.S.C. 655(b)).
SEC. 104. RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
Notwithstanding section 18 of the Occupa-
tional Safety and Health Act of 1970 (29 U.S.C.
667)—
(1) nothing in this title shall be construed to
curtail or limit authority of the Secretary under
any other provision of the law; and
(2) the rights, privileges, or remedies of cov-
ered employees shall be in addition to the rights,
privileges, or remedies provided under any Fed-
eral or State law, or any collective bargaining
agreement.
SEC. 105. OTHER DEFINITIONS.
In this title:
(1) WORKPLACE VIOLENCE.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The term ‘‘workplace vio-
lence’’ means any act of violence or threat of vi-
olence, without regard to intent, that occurs at
a covered facility or while a covered employee
performs a covered service.
(B) EXCLUSIONS.—The term ‘‘workplace vio-
lence’’ does not include lawful acts of self-de-
fense or lawful acts of defense of others.
(C) INCLUSIONS.—The term ‘‘workplace vio-
lence’’ includes—
(i) the threat or use of physical force against
a covered employee that results in or has a high
likelihood of resulting in injury, psychological
trauma, or stress, without regard to whether the
covered employee sustains an injury, psycho-
logical trauma, or stress; and
(ii) an incident involving the threat or use of
a firearm or a dangerous weapon, including the
use of common objects as weapons, without re-
gard to whether the employee sustains an in-
jury, psychological trauma, or stress.
(2) TYPE 1 VIOLENCE.—The term ‘‘type 1 vio-
lence’’—
(A) means workplace violence directed at a
covered employee at a covered facility or while
performing a covered service by an individual
who has no legitimate business at the covered
facility or with respect to such covered service;
and
(B) includes violent acts by any individual
who enters the covered facility or worksite
where a covered service is being performed with
the intent to commit a crime.
(3) TYPE 2 VIOLENCE.—The term ‘‘type 2 vio-
lence’’ means workplace violence directed at a
covered employee by customers, clients, patients,
students, inmates, or any individual for whom a
covered facility provides services or for whom
the employee performs covered services.
(4) TYPE 3 VIOLENCE.—The term ‘‘type 3 vio-
lence’’ means workplace violence directed at a
covered employee by a present or former em-
ployee, supervisor, or manager.
(5) TYPE 4 VIOLENCE.—The term ‘‘type 4 vio-
lence’’ means workplace violence directed at a
covered employee by an individual who is not
an employee, but has or is known to have had
a personal relationship with such employee, or
with a customer, client, patient, student, in-
mate, or any individual for whom a covered fa-
cility provides services or for whom the employee
performs covered services.
(6) THREAT OF VIOLENCE.—The term ‘‘threat of
violence’’ means a statement or conduct that—
(A) causes an individual to fear for such indi-
vidual’s safety because there is a reasonable
possibility the individual might be physically in-
jured; and
(B) serves no legitimate purpose.
(7) ALARM.—The term ‘‘alarm’’ means a me-
chanical, electrical, or electronic device that
does not rely upon an employee’s vocalization in
order to alert others.
(8) DANGEROUS WEAPON.—The term ‘‘dan-
gerous weapon’’ means an instrument capable
of inflicting death or serious bodily injury,
without regard to whether such instrument was
designed for that purpose.
(9) ENGINEERING CONTROLS.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The term ‘‘engineering con-
trols’’ means an aspect of the built space or a
device that removes a hazard from the work-
place or creates a barrier between a covered em-
ployee and the hazard.
(B) INCLUSIONS.—For purposes of reducing
workplace violence hazards, the term ‘‘engineer-
ing controls’’ includes electronic access controls
to employee occupied areas, weapon detectors
(installed or handheld), enclosed workstations
with shatter-resistant glass, deep service
counters, separate rooms or areas for high-risk
patients, locks on doors, removing access to or
securing items that could be used as weapons,
furniture affixed to the floor, opaque glass in
patient rooms (which protects privacy, but al-
lows the health care provider to see where the
patient is before entering the room), closed-cir-
cuit television monitoring and video recording,
sight-aids, and personal alarm devices.
(10) ENVIRONMENTAL RISK FACTORS.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The term ‘‘environmental
risk factors’’ means factors in the covered facil-
ity or area in which a covered service is per-
formed that may contribute to the likelihood or
severity of a workplace violence incident.
(B) CLARIFICATION.—Environmental risk fac-
tors may be associated with the specific task
being performed or the work area, such as work-
ing in an isolated area, poor illumination or
blocked visibility, and lack of physical barriers
between individuals and persons at risk of com-
mitting workplace violence.
(11) PATIENT-SPECIFIC RISK FACTORS.—The
term ‘‘patient-specific risk factors’’ means fac-
tors specific to a patient that may increase the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:21 Nov 22, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00013 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 6333 E:\CR\FM\A21NO7.030 H21NOPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H9138 November 21, 2019
likelihood or severity of a workplace violence in-
cident, including—
(A) a patient’s treatment and medication sta-
tus, and history of violence and use of drugs or
alcohol; and
(B) any conditions or disease processes of the
patient that may cause the patient to experience
confusion or disorientation, be non-responsive
to instruction, behave unpredictably, or engage
in disruptive, threatening, or violent behavior.
(12) SECRETARY.—The term ‘‘Secretary’’ means
the Secretary of Labor.
(13) WORK PRACTICE CONTROLS.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The term ‘‘work practice
controls’’ means procedures and rules that are
used to effectively reduce workplace violence
hazards.
(B) INCLUSIONS.—The term ‘‘work practice
controls’’ includes—
(i) assigning and placing sufficient numbers of
staff to reduce patient-specific Type 2 workplace
violence hazards;
(ii) provision of dedicated and available safety
personnel such as security guards;
(iii) employee training on workplace violence
prevention methods and techniques to de-esca-
late and minimize violent behavior; and
(iv) employee training on procedures for re-
sponse in the event of a workplace violence inci-
dent and for post-incident response.
TITLE II—AMENDMENTS TO THE SOCIAL
SECURITY ACT
SEC. 201. APPLICATION OF THE WORKPLACE VIO-
LENCE PREVENTION STANDARD TO
CERTAIN FACILITIES RECEIVING
MEDICARE FUNDS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 1866 of the Social
Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395cc) is amended—
(1) in subsection (a)(1)—
(A) in subparagraph (X), by striking ‘‘and’’ at
the end;
(B) in subparagraph (Y), by striking at the
end the period and inserting ‘‘; and’’; and
(C) by inserting after subparagraph (Y) the
following new subparagraph:
‘‘(Z) in the case of hospitals that are not oth-
erwise subject to the Occupational Safety and
Health Act of 1970 (or a State occupational safe-
ty and health plan that is approved under 18(b)
of such Act) and skilled nursing facilities that
are not otherwise subject to such Act (or such a
State occupational safety and health plan), to
comply with the Workplace Violence Prevention
Standard (as promulgated under section 101 of
the Workplace Violence Prevention for Health
Care and Social Service Workers Act).’’; and
(2) in subsection (b)(4)—
(A) in subparagraph (A), by inserting ‘‘and a
hospital or skilled nursing facility that fails to
comply with the requirement of subsection
(a)(1)(Z) (relating to the Workplace Violence
Prevention Standard)’’ after ‘‘Bloodborne
Pathogens standard)’’; and
(B) in subparagraph (B)—
(i) by striking ‘‘(a)(1)(U)’’ and inserting
‘‘(a)(1)(V)’’; and
(ii) by inserting ‘‘(or, in the case of a failure
to comply with the requirement of subsection
(a)(1)(Z), for a violation of the Workplace Vio-
lence Prevention standard referred to in such
subsection by a hospital or skilled nursing facil-
ity, as applicable, that is subject to the provi-
sions of such Act)’’ before the period at the end.
(b) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments made
by subsection (a) shall apply beginning on the
date that is 1 year after the date of issuance of
the interim final standard on workplace vio-
lence prevention required under section 101.
The CHAIR. No further amendment
to the bill, as amended, shall be in
order except those printed in part B of
the report. Each such further amend-
ment may be offered only in the order
printed in the report, by a Member des-
ignated in the report, shall be consid-
ered read, shall be debatable for the
time specified in the report equally di-
vided and controlled by the proponent
and an opponent, shall not be subject
to amendment, and shall not be subject
to a demand for division of the ques-
tion.
AMENDMENT NO. 1 OFFERED BY MR. HASTINGS
The CHAIR. It is now in order to con-
sider amendment No. 1 printed in part
B of House Report 116–302.
Mr. HASTINGS. Madam Chair, I have
an amendment at the desk.
The CHAIR. The Clerk will designate
the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
Page 13, beginning on line 6, amend sub-
paragraph (C) to read as follows:
(C) AVAILABILITY OF PLAN.—
(i) IN GENERAL.—Each Plan shall be—
(I) made available at all times to the cov-
ered employees who are covered under such
Plan; and
(II) to the extent possible, emailed to each
such employee upon completion of the em-
ployee’s annual training under paragraph
(3)(A).
(ii) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.—Nothing in
this subparagraph shall be construed to serve
in lieu of training or any other requirements
under this Act.
The CHAIR. Pursuant to House Reso-
lution 713, the gentleman from Florida
(Mr. HASTINGS) and a Member opposed
each will control 5 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from Florida.
Mr. HASTINGS. Madam Chair, my
amendment No. 1 requires employers
covered by the Workplace Violence
Prevention for Health Care and Social
Service Workers Act to make their or-
ganization’s workplace violence pre-
vention plans available to their em-
ployees through email and other meth-
ods.
Before I proceed, I want to thank Mr.
COURTNEY for bringing this matter to
our attention. What I didn’t say to Mr.
COURTNEY before now is that, 27 years
ago, I came to this institution as a
Member of the House of Representa-
tives. Either the second or third meas-
ure that I proposed dealt with work-
place violence, and it is this long that
we are finally addressing this in a
meaningful way.
This is a short and simple amend-
ment that will help employees covered
under the legislation stay familiar and
comfortable with their organization’s
plans for preventing workplace vio-
lence.
H.R. 1309 requires the Department of
Labor to promulgate an occupational
safety and health standard for certain
employers in the healthcare and social
service sectors.
The standard requires them to de-
velop and implement comprehensive
plans for protecting their employees
from workplace violence. These plans
are specifically tailored to workplaces
and their employees on a case-by-case
basis and are important tools for iden-
tifying and mitigating risks.
As a part of the requirements for
these plans, H.R. 1309 requires employ-
ers to provide comprehensive training
on these plans to employees and to
make their workplace violence preven-
tion plans available to their employees
at all times.
My amendment, which is cosponsored
by my good friend and colleague, Con-
gressman DESAULNIER, expands on this
specific requirement and requires em-
ployers to share their plans with their
employees through email and other
methods, following the completion of
their annual training.
Doing so would ensure that, in addi-
tion to the other training and guidance
provided by their employers, employ-
ees have access to their own digital
copies of their organization’s violence
prevention plans. Having this access
will permit them greater flexibility to
access and review these important doc-
uments as they feel necessary.
This is a commonsense amendment
that will make it easier for covered
employees to feel comfortable with
their organization’s workplace violence
prevention plans.
Madam Chair, I urge my colleagues
to support this amendment, and I re-
serve the balance of my time.
Ms. FOXX of North Carolina. Madam
Chair, I claim the time in opposition to
the amendment.
The CHAIR. The gentlewoman from
North Carolina is recognized for 5 min-
utes.
Ms. FOXX of North Carolina. Madam
Chair, this amendment is unnecessary.
The underlying bill already mandates
that each workplace violation preven-
tion plan required by the bill ‘‘be made
available at all times’’ to covered em-
ployees. This amendment adds yet an-
other overly prescriptive requirement
on healthcare establishments.
OSHA, as it proceeds with its rule-
making, should have the ability to de-
termine the specific elements required
of each employer after analyzing their
effectiveness and potential cost.
Ultimately, H.R. 1309 circumvents
the longstanding, established OSHA
rulemaking process, which is intended
to research thoroughly the underlying
circumstances that may merit a health
and safety regulation and gather mean-
ingful stakeholder input in order to
create the most feasible and protective
safety and health standard possible.
b 1015
By dodging the established regu-
latory process, H.R. 1309 is foreclosing
other potential solutions. H.R. 1309 will
require OSHA to enforce an interim
final standard in healthcare and social
service settings within a year. The leg-
islation does not allow OSHA to con-
sider important information, such as
the experience of California which has
a brand-new standard in place, the
views of experts in the field, and the
input of workers who have invaluable
workplace experience.
H.R. 1309 discounts the complexity of
the underlying issue and the impor-
tance of the knowledge and experience
stakeholders can offer that will help
create a workable and effective solu-
tion.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:21 Nov 22, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00014 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A21NO7.030 H21NOPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H9139
November 21, 2019
Madam Chair, I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. HASTINGS. Madam Chair, I
close by reiterating that this amend-
ment is a short and uncontentious pro-
posal to help covered employees feel
comfortable with their organization’s
workplace violence prevention plans.
By requiring employers to make
their organization’s workplace violence
prevention plans available through
email and other methods, this amend-
ment would ensure that employees
have access to their own digital copies
of their organization’s plans. Having
this access will permit employees
greater flexibility to access and review
these important documents as they feel
necessary.
Madam Chair, I urge my colleagues
to support this amendment, and I yield
back the balance of my time.
The CHAIR. The question is on the
amendment offered by the gentleman
from Florida (Mr. HASTINGS).
The amendment was agreed to.
AMENDMENT NO. 2 OFFERED BY MR. DESAULNIER
The CHAIR. It is now in order to con-
sider amendment No. 2 printed in part
B of House Report 116–302.
Mr. DESAULNIER. Madam Chair, I
have an amendment at the desk.
The CHAIR. The Clerk will designate
the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
Page 11, line 23, strike ‘‘and’’.
Page 11, line 25, strike the period and in-
sert ‘‘; and’’.
Page 11, after line 25, insert the following:
(V) to provide employees with information
about available trauma and related coun-
seling.
The CHAIR. Pursuant to House Reso-
lution 713, the gentleman from Cali-
fornia (Mr. DESAULNIER) and a Member
opposed each will control 5 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from California.
Mr. DESAULNIER. Madam Chair, my
amendment requires that healthcare
workers and social service workers are
provided with information on available
mental health resources, trauma, and
related counseling.
It is appalling that those who dedi-
cate their lives to caring for people in
need suffer workplace violence at dis-
proportionately high rates across the
Nation. In 2018, healthcare and social
service workers were four times as
likely to suffer a serious workplace vi-
olence injury than workers overall.
Between 2013 and 2016, one in four
registered nurses and nursing students
reported being physically assaulted at
work by a patient or a patient’s family
member. And in 2017, State government
healthcare and social service workers
were almost 10 times more likely to be
injured by an assault than private-sec-
tor healthcare workers.
Some, tragically, do not survive
these incidents. Yesterday, I spoke
about a former constituent, Donna Kay
Gross of Concord, California, who was a
psychiatric technician at Napa State
Hospital in California.
She was brutally murdered by a pa-
tient outside the unit where she
worked. She chose to go into this field
and work as a technician because of a
history of mental health in her family,
and her mother was at Napa State Hos-
pital.
Her story, unfortunately, is not com-
pletely unique. A few years ago here in
Washington, Mindy Blandon, a reg-
istered nurse, was working in the sur-
gical oncology unit when a patient she
was treating became agitated. As
Mindy and another nurse approached
the bedside, the patient became com-
bative.
At the end of an extended scuffle, the
patient strangled Mindy with her own
stethoscope. Luckily, Mindy survived
with the support of her other staff, but
the trauma she went through will for-
ever affect her.
Workplace violence has serious phys-
ical and emotional consequences for
workers and employers alike. While
H.R. 1309 includes provisions for work-
ers’ medical care as part of the under-
lying bill, we must also address the
psychological effects of workplace vio-
lence. Survivors of workplace violence
are at an increased risk of long-term
emotional problems and post-trau-
matic stress disorders which can be de-
bilitating, lead to lost days of work,
deteriorate productivity and morale,
and sometimes even end workers’ ca-
reers.
The high turnover that results weak-
ens our Nation’s healthcare workforce
that is already stretched thin and dis-
courages good people from entering
these professions.
I am proud that California has led
the way in preventing and responding
to workplace violence against
healthcare workers, including requir-
ing the mental health service informa-
tion that this amendment provides.
There is a clear need for these serv-
ices. According to the Bureau of Labor
Statistics, 18,400 workers in the private
industry experienced trauma from
nonfatal workplace violence in 2017. Of
those victims who experience trauma
from workplace violence, 71 percent
worked in the healthcare and social as-
sistance industry.
This amendment would bring the
Workplace Violence Prevention for
Health Care and Social Service Work-
ers Act in line with the California law
by ensuring that healthcare and social
service workers are provided with crit-
ical information on trauma and related
counseling for employees after a vio-
lent incident.
Madam Chair, I urge support for the
amendment, and I reserve the balance
of my time.
Ms. FOXX of North Carolina. Madam
Chair, I claim the time in opposition to
the amendment.
The CHAIR. The gentlewoman from
North Carolina is recognized for 5 min-
utes.
Ms. FOXX of North Carolina. Madam
Chair, I yield myself such time as I
may consume.
Madam Chair, this amendment adds
yet another overly prescriptive regu-
latory requirement on healthcare pro-
viders, small and large, without going
through the established rulemaking
process.
This amendment provides no oppor-
tunity for OSHA to examine whether
the requirements listed in the amend-
ment would be beneficial and useful.
The provision in this amendment could
be examined during a small business
stakeholder panel and a public com-
ment period if OSHA were permitted to
engage in these important steps before
issuing an interim final rule.
We still need additional research and
data to identify the best ways to miti-
gate and prevent workplace violence in
healthcare and social service settings.
There have been calls for additional re-
search on the project, including from
the Government Accountability Office
and the Centers for Disease Control
and Prevention.
Democrat amendments to the bill,
such as the one we are debating, do not
change these basic facts. Democrat
window-dressing amendments that add
more red tape don’t change the fact
that H.R. 1309 fails to allow for the de-
velopment of a workable, effective, and
feasible workplace violence prevention
standard.
Madam Chair, I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. DESAULNIER. Madam Chair, I
yield 1 minute to the gentleman from
Florida (Mr. HASTINGS), my distin-
guished friend.
Mr. HASTINGS. Madam Chair, I am
pleased to rise in support of my col-
league, Mr. DESAULNIER’s amendment
to H.R. 1309.
As my good friend knows, I was plan-
ning to introduce an amendment that
was virtually identical to his, and so I
was happy to make this a combined ef-
fort and support his amendment as a
cosponsor.
As has already been explained, this
amendment would require employers to
provide information about trauma and
trauma-related counseling for employ-
ees in their reporting, incident re-
sponse, and post-incident investigation
procedures.
Doing so would ensure that employ-
ees have access to this vital informa-
tion in the wake of incidents involving
workplace violence. I think this is an
important consideration as we consider
this legislation responding to high
rates of workplace violence.
Our Nation’s caregivers, including
nurses, social workers, and many oth-
ers working in the healthcare and so-
cial service sectors, suffer workplace
violence injuries at far higher rates
than in any other profession.
Mr. DESAULNIER. Madam Chair, I
urge my colleagues to support the
amendment, and I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
The CHAIR. The question is on the
amendment offered by the gentleman
from California (Mr. DESAULNIER).
The amendment was agreed to.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:21 Nov 22, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00015 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K21NO7.021 H21NOPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H9140 November 21, 2019
AMENDMENT NO. 3 OFFERED BY MR. BYRNE
The CHAIR. It is now in order to con-
sider amendment No. 3 printed in part
B of House Report 116–302.
Mr. BYRNE. Madam Chair, I have an
amendment at the desk.
The CHAIR. The Clerk will designate
the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
Strike all after section 1 and insert the fol-
lowing:
SECTION 2. FINDINGS.
Congress finds the following:
(1) In a 2016 report entitled, ‘‘Workplace
Safety and Health: Additional Efforts Needed
to Help Protect Health Care Workers from
Workplace Violence’’, the Government Ac-
countability Office estimated over 730,000
cases of health care workplace assaults over
the 5-year span from 2009 through 2013, based
on Bureau of Justice Statistics data.
(2) The Bureau of Labor Statistics reported
the health care and social service industries
experience the highest rates of injuries
caused by workplace violence. Nurses, social
workers, psychiatric, home health, and per-
sonal care aides are all at increased risk for
injury caused by workplace violence.
(3) The Bureau of Labor Statistics reports
that health care and social service workers
suffered 71 percent of all workplace violence
injuries caused by persons in 2017 and are
more than 4 times as likely to suffer a work-
place violence injury than workers overall.
(4) According to a September 2018 survey of
3,500 American emergency physicians con-
ducted by the American College of Emer-
gency Physicians, 47 percent of emergency
room doctors have been physically assaulted
at work, and 8 in 10 report that this violence
is affecting patient care.
(5) Workplace violence in health care and
social service sectors is increasing. Bureau
of Labor Statistics data show that private
sector injury rates of workplace violence in
health care and social service sectors in-
creased by 63 percent between 2006 and 2016.
(6) Studies have found that proper staff
education and the use of evidence based
interventions (such as effective communica-
tion with patients using de-escalation tech-
niques and noncoercive use of medications)
can reduce the risks to the safety of both pa-
tients and staff, using least-restrictive meas-
ures.
(7) The Occupational Safety and Health
Administration in 2015 updated its ‘‘Guide-
lines for Preventing Workplace Violence for
Healthcare and Social Service Workers’’,
however, this guidance is not enforceable.
(8) Nine States have mandated that certain
types of health care facilities implement
workplace violence prevention programs. On
April 1, 2018, the Division of Occupational
Safety and Health of the State of California
issued a comprehensive standard (‘‘Work-
place Violence Prevention in Health Care’’)
that requires health care facilities to imple-
ment a workplace violence prevention plan.
(9) The Occupational Safety and Health
Administration (OSHA) received two peti-
tions for rulemaking in July of 2016, calling
on OSHA to promulgate a violence preven-
tion standard for health care and social serv-
ice sectors. On December 6, 2016, OSHA
issued a Request for Information (RFI) solic-
iting information on this issue. On January
10, 2017, OSHA conducted a public meeting to
receive stakeholder input and to supplement
the online comments submitted in response
to the RFI. At that meeting, OSHA an-
nounced it accepted the petitions and would
develop a Federal standard to prevent work-
place violence in health care and social serv-
ice settings. OSHA’s spring 2019 regulatory
agenda listed a Small Business Regulatory
Enforcement Fairness Act Panel for Preven-
tion of Workplace Violence in Health Care
and Social Assistance.
SEC. 3. TABLE OF CONTENTS.
The table of contents for this Act is as fol-
lows:
Sec. 1. Short title.
Sec. 2. Findings.
Sec. 3. Table of contents.
TITLE I—WORKPLACE VIOLENCE
PREVENTION STANDARD
Sec. 101. Final standard.
Sec. 102. Scope and application.
Sec. 103. Requirements for workplace vio-
lence prevention standard.
Sec. 104. Rules of construction.
Sec. 105. Other definitions.
TITLE II—AMENDMENTS TO THE SOCIAL
SECURITY ACT
Sec. 201. Application of the workplace vio-
lence prevention standard to
certain facilities receiving
Medicare funds.
TITLE I—WORKPLACE VIOLENCE
PREVENTION STANDARD
SEC. 101. FINAL STANDARD.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary of Labor
shall promulgate a final standard on work-
place violence prevention—
(1) to require certain employers in the
healthcare and social service sectors, and
certain employers in sectors that conduct
activities similar to the activities in the
healthcare and social service sectors, to de-
velop and implement a comprehensive work-
place violence prevention plan to protect
health care workers, social service workers,
and other personnel from workplace vio-
lence; and
(2) that may be based on the Guidelines for
Preventing Workplace Violence for
Healthcare and Social Service Workers pub-
lished by the Occupational Safety and
Health Administration of the Department of
Labor in 2015 and adhere to the requirements
of this title.
(b) EFFECTIVE DATE OF STANDARD.—The
final standard shall—
(1) take effect on a date that is not later
than 60 days after promulgation, except that
such final standard may include a reasonable
phase-in period for the implementation of re-
quired engineering controls that take effect
after such date; and
(2) be enforced in the same manner and to
the same extent as any standard promul-
gated under section 6(b) of the Occupational
Safety and Health Act of 1970 (29 U.S.C.
655(b)).
(c) EDUCATIONAL OUTREACH.—
(1) DURING RULEMAKING.—During the period
beginning on the date the Secretary com-
mences rulemaking under this section and
ending on the effective date of the final
standard promulgated under this section, the
Secretary of Labor shall engage in an edu-
cational campaign for covered employees
and covered employers regarding workplace
violence prevention in health care and social
service industries on the materials of the Oc-
cupational Safety and Health Administra-
tion on workplace violence prevention for
such industries.
(2) REQUIREMENTS OF FINAL STANDARD.—Be-
ginning on the date on which the final stand-
ard is promulgated under this section, the
Secretary shall engage in an educational
campaign for covered employees and covered
employers on the requirements of such final
standard.
SEC. 102. SCOPE AND APPLICATION.
In this title:
(1) COVERED FACILITY.—The term ‘‘covered
facility’’ means a facility with respect to
which the Secretary determines that re-
quirements of the final standard promul-
gated under section 101(a) would be reason-
ably necessary or appropriate, and which
may include:
(A) Any hospital, including any specialty
hospital.
(B) Any residential treatment facility, in-
cluding any nursing home, skilled nursing
facility, hospice facility, and long-term care
facility.
(C) Any medical treatment or social serv-
ice setting or clinic at a correctional or de-
tention facility.
(D) Any community-based residential facil-
ity, group home, and mental health clinic.
(E) Any psychiatric treatment facility.
(F) Any drug abuse or substance use dis-
order treatment center.
(G) Any independent freestanding emer-
gency centers.
(H) Any facility described in subparagraphs
(A) through (G) operated by a Federal Gov-
ernment agency and required to comply with
occupational safety and health standards
pursuant to section 1960 of title 29, Code of
Federal Regulations (as such section is in ef-
fect on the date of enactment of this Act).
(2) COVERED SERVICES.—The term ‘‘covered
service’’ includes the following services and
operations:
(A) Any services and operations provided
in home health care, home-based hospice,
and home-based social work.
(B) Any emergency medical services and
transport, including such services when pro-
vided by firefighters and emergency respond-
ers.
(C) Any services described in subpara-
graphs (A) and (B) performed by a Federal
Government agency and required to comply
with occupational safety and health stand-
ards pursuant to section 1960 of title 29, Code
of Federal Regulations (as such section is in
effect on the date of enactment of this Act).
(D) Any other services and operations the
Secretary determines should be covered
under the standards promulgated under sec-
tion 101.
(3) COVERED EMPLOYER.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The term ‘‘covered em-
ployer’’ includes a person (including a con-
tractor, subcontractor, or a temporary serv-
ice firm) that employs an individual to work
at a covered facility or to perform covered
services.
(B) EXCLUSION.—The term ‘‘covered em-
ployer’’ does not include an individual who
privately employs a person to perform cov-
ered services for the individual or a friend or
family member of the individual.
(4) COVERED EMPLOYEE.—The term ‘‘cov-
ered employee’’ includes an individual em-
ployed by a covered employer to work at a
covered facility or to perform covered serv-
ices.
SEC. 103. REQUIREMENTS FOR WORKPLACE VIO-
LENCE PREVENTION STANDARD.
Each standard described in section 101 may
include the following requirements:
(1) WORKPLACE VIOLENCE PREVENTION
PLAN.—Not later than 6 months after the
date of promulgation of the final standard
under section 101(a), a covered employer
shall develop, implement, and maintain a
written workplace violence prevention plan
for covered employees at each covered facil-
ity and for covered employees performing a
covered service on behalf of such employer,
which meets the following:
(A) PLAN DEVELOPMENT.—Each Plan shall—
(i) subject to subparagraph (D), be devel-
oped and implemented with the meaningful
participation of direct care employees and,
where applicable, employee representatives,
for all aspects of the Plan;
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:21 Nov 22, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00016 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K21NO7.024 H21NOPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H9141
November 21, 2019
(ii) be applicable to conditions and hazards
for the covered facility or the covered serv-
ice, including patient-specific risk factors
and risk factors specific to each work area or
unit; and
(iii) be suitable for the size, complexity,
and type of operations at the covered facility
or for the covered service, and remain in ef-
fect at all times.
(B) PLAN CONTENT.—Each Plan shall in-
clude procedures and methods for the fol-
lowing:
(i) Identification of each individual or the
job title of each individual responsible for
implementation of the Plan.
(ii) With respect to each work area and
unit at the covered facility or while covered
employees are performing the covered serv-
ice, risk assessment and identification of
workplace violence risks and hazards to em-
ployees exposed to such risks and hazards
(including environmental risk factors and
patient-specific risk factors), which may
be—
(I) informed by past violent incidents spe-
cific to such covered facility or such covered
service; and
(II) conducted with—
(aa) representative direct care employees;
(bb) where applicable, the representatives
of such employees; and
(cc) the employer.
(iii) Hazard prevention, engineering con-
trols, or work practice controls to correct, in
a timely manner, hazards that the employer
creates or controls which—
(I) may include security and alarm sys-
tems, adequate exit routes, monitoring sys-
tems, barrier protection, established areas
for patients and clients, lighting, entry pro-
cedures, staffing and working in teams, and
systems to identify and flag clients with a
history of violence; and
(II) shall ensure that employers correct, in
a timely manner, hazards identified in the
annual report described in paragraph (5) that
the employer creates or controls.
(iv) Reporting, incident response, and post-
incident investigation procedures, including
procedures—
(I) for employees to report to the employer
workplace violence risks, hazards, and inci-
dents;
(II) for employers to respond to reports of
workplace violence;
(III) for employers to perform a post-inci-
dent investigation and debriefing of all re-
ports of workplace violence with the partici-
pation of employees and their representa-
tives; and
(IV) to provide medical care or first aid to
affected employees.
(v) Procedures for emergency response, in-
cluding procedures for threats of mass cas-
ualties and procedures for incidents involv-
ing a firearm or a dangerous weapon.
(vi) Procedures for communicating with
and educating of covered employees on work-
place violence hazards, threats, and work
practice controls, the employer’s plan, and
procedures for confronting, responding to,
and reporting workplace violence threats, in-
cidents, and concerns, and employee rights.
(vii) Procedures for ensuring the coordina-
tion of risk assessment efforts, Plan develop-
ment, and implementation of the Plan with
other employers who have employees who
work at the covered facility or who are per-
forming the covered service.
(viii) Procedures for conducting the annual
evaluation under paragraph (6).
(C) AVAILABILITY OF PLAN.—Each Plan
shall be made available at all times to the
covered employees who are covered under
such Plan.
(D) CLARIFICATION.—The requirement
under subparagraph (A)(i) shall not be con-
strued to require that all direct care employ-
ees and employee representatives participate
in the development and implementation of
the Plan.
(2) VIOLENT INCIDENT INVESTIGATION.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—As soon as practicable
after a workplace violence incident, of which
a covered employer has knowledge, the em-
ployer shall conduct an investigation of such
incident, under which the employer shall—
(i) review the circumstances of the inci-
dent and whether any controls or measures
implemented pursuant to the Plan of the em-
ployer were effective; and
(ii) solicit input from involved employees,
their representatives, and supervisors, about
the cause of the incident, and whether fur-
ther corrective measures (including system-
level factors) could have prevented the inci-
dent, risk, or hazard.
(B) DOCUMENTATION.—A covered employer
shall document the findings, recommenda-
tions, and corrective measures taken for
each investigation conducted under this
paragraph.
(3) EDUCATION.—With respect to the cov-
ered employees covered under a Plan of a
covered employer, the employer shall pro-
vide education to such employees who may
be exposed to workplace violence hazards
and risks, which meet the following require-
ments:
(A) Annual education includes information
on the Plan, including identified workplace
violence hazards, work practice control
measures, reporting procedures, record keep-
ing requirements, response procedures, and
employee rights.
(B) Additional hazard recognition edu-
cation for supervisors and managers to en-
sure they can recognize high-risk situations
and do not assign employees to situations
that predictably compromise their safety.
(C) Additional education for each such cov-
ered employee whose job circumstances has
changed, within a reasonable timeframe
after such change.
(D) Applicable new employee education
prior to employee’s job assignment.
(E) All education provides such employees
opportunities to ask questions, give feedback
on such education, and request additional in-
struction, clarification, or other followup.
(F) All education is provided in-person or
online and by an individual with knowledge
of workplace violence prevention and of the
Plan.
(G) All education is appropriate in content
and vocabulary to the language, educational
level, and literacy of such covered employ-
ees.
(4) RECORDKEEPING AND ACCESS TO PLAN
RECORDS.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Each covered employer
shall—
(i) maintain at all times records related to
each Plan of the employer, including work-
place violence risk and hazard assessments,
and identification, evaluation, correction,
and education procedures;
(ii) maintain for a minimum of 5 years—
(I) a violent incident log described in sub-
paragraph (B) for recording all workplace vi-
olence incidents; and
(II) records of all incident investigations as
required under paragraph (2)(B); and
(iii) make such records and logs available,
upon request, to covered employees and their
representatives for examination and copying
in accordance with section 1910.1020 of title
29, Code of Federal Regulations (as such sec-
tion is in effect on the date of enactment of
this Act), and in a manner consistent with
HIPAA privacy regulations (defined in sec-
tion 1180(b)(3) of the Social Security Act (42
U.S.C. 1320d–9(b)(3))) and part 2 of title 42,
Code of Federal Regulations (as such part is
in effect on the date of enactment of this
part), and ensure that any such records and
logs removed from the employer’s control for
purposes of this clause omit any element of
personal identifying information sufficient
to allow identification of any patient, resi-
dent, client, or other individual alleged to
have committed a violent incident (including
the person’s name, address, electronic mail
address, telephone number, or social security
number, or other information that, alone or
in combination with other publicly available
information, reveals such person’s identity).
(B) VIOLENT INCIDENT LOG DESCRIPTION.—
Each violent incident log—
(i) shall be maintained by a covered em-
ployer for each covered facility controlled by
the employer and for each covered service
being performed by a covered employee on
behalf of such employer;
(ii) may be based on a template developed
by the Secretary not later than 1 year after
the date of promulgation of the standards
under section 101(a);
(iii) may include a description of—
(I) the violent incident (including environ-
mental risk factors present at the time of
the incident);
(II) the date, time, and location of the inci-
dent, names and job titles of involved em-
ployees;
(III) the nature and extent of injuries to
covered employees;
(IV) a classification of the perpetrator who
committed the violence, including whether
the perpetrator was—
(aa) a patient, client, resident, or customer
of a covered employer;
(bb) a family or friend of a patient, client,
resident, or customer of a covered employer;
(cc) a stranger;
(dd) a coworker, supervisor, or manager of
a covered employee;
(ee) a partner, spouse, parent, or relative of
a covered employee; or
(ff) any other appropriate classification;
(V) the type of violent incident (such as
type 1 violence, type 2 violence, type 3 vio-
lence, or type 4 violence); and
(VI) how the incident was addressed;
(iv) not later than 7 days, depending on the
availability or condition of the witness, after
the employer learns of such incident, shall
contain a record of each violent incident,
which is updated to ensure completeness of
such record;
(v) shall be maintained for not less than 5
years; and
(vi) in the case of a violent incident involv-
ing a privacy concern case as defined in sec-
tion 1904.29(b)(7) of title 29, Code of Federal
Regulations (as such section is in effect on
the date of enactment of this Act), shall pro-
tect the identity of employees in a manner
consistent with that section.
(C) ANNUAL SUMMARY.—Each covered em-
ployer shall prepare an annual summary of
each violent incident log for the preceding
calendar year that shall—
(i) with respect to each covered facility,
and each covered service, for which such a
log has been maintained, include the total
number of violent incidents, the number of
recordable injuries related to such incidents,
and the total number of hours worked by the
covered employees for such preceding year;
(ii) be completed on a form provided by the
Secretary;
(iii) be posted for three months beginning
February 1 of each year in a manner con-
sistent with the requirements of section 1904
of title 29, Code of Federal Regulations (as
such section is in effect on the date of enact-
ment of this Act), relating to the posting of
summaries of injury and illness logs;
(iv) be located in a conspicuous place or
places where notices to employees are cus-
tomarily posted; and
(v) not be altered, defaced, or covered by
other material by the employer.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:21 Nov 22, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00017 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A21NO7.033 H21NOPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H9142 November 21, 2019
(5) ANNUAL EVALUATION.—Each covered em-
ployer shall conduct an annual written eval-
uation, conducted with the full, active par-
ticipation of covered employees and em-
ployee representatives, of—
(A) the implementation and effectiveness
of the Plan, including a review of the violent
incident log; and
(B) compliance with education required by
each standard described in section 101, and
specified in the Plan.
(6) ANTI-RETALIATION.—
(A) POLICY.—Each covered employer shall
adopt a policy prohibiting any person (in-
cluding an agent of the employer) from dis-
criminating or retaliating against any em-
ployee for reporting, or seeking assistance or
intervention from, a workplace violence inci-
dent, threat, or concern to the employer, law
enforcement, local emergency services, or a
government agency, or participating in an
incident investigation.
(B) ENFORCEMENT.—Each violation of the
policy shall be enforced in the same manner
and to the same extent as a violation of sec-
tion 11(c) of the Occupational Safety and
Health Act (29 U.S.C. 660(c)) is enforced.
SEC. 104. RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
Notwithstanding section 18 of the Occupa-
tional Safety and Health Act of 1970 (29
U.S.C. 667)—
(1) nothing in this title shall be construed
to curtail or limit authority of the Secretary
under any other provision of the law; and
(2) the rights, privileges, or remedies of
covered employees shall be in addition to the
rights, privileges, or remedies provided
under any Federal or State law, or any col-
lective bargaining agreement.
SEC. 105. OTHER DEFINITIONS.
In this title:
(1) WORKPLACE VIOLENCE.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The term ‘‘workplace vio-
lence’’ means any act of violence or threat of
violence, that occurs at a covered facility or
while a covered employee performs a covered
service.
(B) EXCLUSIONS.—The term ‘‘workplace vi-
olence’’ does not include lawful acts of self-
defense or lawful acts of defense of others.
(C) INCLUSIONS.—The term ‘‘workplace vio-
lence’’ includes an incident involving the
threat or use of a firearm or a dangerous
weapon, including the use of common objects
as weapons, without regard to whether the
employee sustains an injury.
(2) TYPE 1 VIOLENCE.—The term ‘‘type 1 vio-
lence’’—
(A) means workplace violence directed at a
covered employee at a covered facility or
while performing a covered service by an in-
dividual who has no legitimate business at
the covered facility or with respect to such
covered service; and
(B) includes violent acts by any individual
who enters the covered facility or worksite
where a covered service is being performed
with the intent to commit a crime.
(3) TYPE 2 VIOLENCE.—The term ‘‘type 2 vio-
lence’’ means workplace violence directed at
a covered employee by customers, clients,
patients, students, inmates, or any indi-
vidual for whom a covered facility provides
services or for whom the employee performs
covered services.
(4) TYPE 3 VIOLENCE.—The term ‘‘type 3 vio-
lence’’ means workplace violence directed at
a covered employee by a present or former
employee, supervisor, or manager.
(5) TYPE 4 VIOLENCE.—The term ‘‘type 4 vio-
lence’’ means workplace violence directed at
a covered employee by an individual who is
not an employee, but has or is known to have
had a personal relationship with such em-
ployee.
(6) ALARM.—The term ‘‘alarm’’ means a
mechanical, electrical, or electronic device
that can alert others but does not rely upon
an employee’s vocalization in order to alert
others.
(7) ENGINEERING CONTROLS.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The term ‘‘engineering
controls’’ means an aspect of the built space
or a device that removes or minimizes a haz-
ard from the workplace or creates a barrier
between a covered employee and the hazard.
(B) INCLUSIONS.—For purposes of reducing
workplace violence hazards, the term ‘‘engi-
neering controls’’ includes electronic access
controls to employee occupied areas, weapon
detectors (installed or handheld), enclosed
workstations with shatter-resistant glass,
deep service counters, separate rooms or
areas for high-risk patients, locks on doors,
removing access to or securing items that
could be used as weapons, furniture affixed
to the floor, opaque glass in patient rooms
(which protects privacy, but allows the
health care provider to see where the patient
is before entering the room), closed-circuit
television monitoring and video recording,
sight-aids, and personal alarm devices.
(8) ENVIRONMENTAL RISK FACTORS.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The term ‘‘environmental
risk factors’’ means factors in the covered
facility or area in which a covered service is
performed that may contribute to the likeli-
hood or severity of a workplace violence in-
cident.
(B) CLARIFICATION.—Environmental risk
factors may be associated with the specific
task being performed or the work area, such
as working in an isolated area, poor illu-
mination or blocked visibility, and lack of
physical barriers between individuals and
persons at risk of committing workplace vio-
lence.
(9) PATIENT-SPECIFIC RISK FACTORS.—The
term ‘‘patient-specific risk factors’’ means
factors specific to a patient that may in-
crease the likelihood or severity of a work-
place violence incident, including—
(A) a patient’s psychiatric condition, treat-
ment and medication status, history of vio-
lence, and known or recorded use of drugs or
alcohol; and
(B) any conditions or disease processes of
the patient that may cause the patient to ex-
perience confusion or disorientation, to be
non-responsive to instruction, or to behave
unpredictably.
(10) SECRETARY.—The term ‘‘Secretary’’
means the Secretary of Labor.
(11) WORK PRACTICE CONTROLS.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The term ‘‘work practice
controls’’ means procedures and rules that
are used to effectively reduce workplace vio-
lence hazards.
(B) INCLUSIONS.—The term ‘‘work practice
controls’’ includes assigning and placing suf-
ficient numbers of staff to reduce patient-
specific Type 2 workplace violence hazards,
provision of dedicated and available safety
personnel such as security guards, employee
training on workplace violence prevention
method and techniques to de-escalate and
minimize violent behavior, and employee
training on procedures for response in the
event of a workplace violence incident and
for post-incident response.
TITLE II—AMENDMENTS TO THE SOCIAL
SECURITY ACT
SEC. 201. APPLICATION OF THE WORKPLACE VIO-
LENCE PREVENTION STANDARD TO
CERTAIN FACILITIES RECEIVING
MEDICARE FUNDS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 1866 of the Social
Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395cc) is amended—
(1) in subsection (a)(1)—
(A) in subparagraph (X), by striking ‘‘and’’
at the end;
(B) in subparagraph (Y), by striking at the
end the period and inserting ‘‘; and’’; and
(C) by inserting after subparagraph (Y) the
following new subparagraph:
‘‘(Z) in the case of hospitals that are not
otherwise subject to the Occupational Safety
and Health Act of 1970 (or a State occupa-
tional safety and health plan that is ap-
proved under 18(b) of such Act) and skilled
nursing facilities that are not otherwise sub-
ject to such Act (or such a State occupa-
tional safety and health plan), to comply
with the Workplace Violence Prevention
Standard (as promulgated under section 101
of the Workplace Violence Prevention for
Health Care and Social Service Workers
Act).’’; and
(2) in subsection (b)(4)—
(A) in subparagraph (A), by inserting ‘‘and
a hospital or skilled nursing facility that
fails to comply with the requirement of sub-
section (a)(1)(Z) (relating to the Workplace
Violence Prevention Standard)’’ after
‘‘Bloodborne Pathogens Standard)’’; and
(B) in subparagraph (B)—
(i) by striking ‘‘(a)(1)(U)’’ and inserting
‘‘(a)(1)(V)’’; and
(ii) by inserting ‘‘(or, in the case of a fail-
ure to comply with the requirement of sub-
section (a)(1)(Z), for a violation of the Work-
place Violence Prevention standard referred
to in such subsection by a hospital or skilled
nursing facility, as applicable, that is sub-
ject to the provisions of such Act)’’ before
the period at the end.
(b) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments
made by subsection (a) shall apply beginning
on the date that is 1 year after the date of
issuance of the final standard on workplace
violence prevention required under section
101.
The CHAIR. Pursuant to House Reso-
lution 713, the gentleman from Ala-
bama (Mr. BYRNE) and a Member op-
posed each will control 5 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from Alabama.
Mr. BYRNE. Madam Chair, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Let me be clear: protecting workers
from workplace violence is a policy pri-
ority that Republicans and Democrats
see eye to eye on. American workers
should be kept out of harm’s way on
the job so they can return home to
their families every day healthy and
safe.
Republicans and Democrats appre-
ciate the hard work and empathy that
healthcare workers and community
caregivers demonstrate every single
day on the job. Their dedication to car-
ing for the most vulnerable members of
our communities is extraordinary. And
these workers deserve our gratitude,
our respect, and our commitment to
ensuring that they are safe on the job.
Today, we can do right by them by
working together to address the crit-
ical need for protection and the preven-
tion of violence in the workplace.
Impactful legislation is possible in an
effective and bipartisan manner, but I
echo Ranking Member FOXX’s observa-
tion that this bill is simply the wrong
approach.
While H.R. 1309 stands no chance of
becoming law, I believe we have a real
opportunity here to advance legislation
that could be enacted and provide the
protections for workers we all desire.
The amendment that I am proposing
today recognizes that OSHA, having
noted the hazards and risks that exist
with healthcare workers, is currently
advancing the rulemaking process to
address this important issue.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:21 Nov 22, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00018 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A21NO7.033 H21NOPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H9143
November 21, 2019
This amendment would ensure that
the regulated community has an oppor-
tunity to provide meaningful com-
ments on a workplace violence preven-
tion standard which will inform an ef-
fective and workable final regulation
before the agency begins enforcement,
and it calls on OSHA to convene the al-
ready planned Small Business Regu-
latory Enforcement Fairness Act panel
before proceeding with the rulemaking
process to allow small businesses the
opportunity to comment on regulatory
text.
Finally, the amendment would re-
quire OSHA to conduct an educational
campaign on workplace violence pre-
vention in the healthcare and social
service industries.
This commonsense amendment ac-
knowledges and supports the work al-
ready underway and protects this
progress so that they can further pro-
pel solutions to workplace violence.
Addressing workplace violence pre-
vention is crucial. The Obama adminis-
tration delayed action on this issue
and first made moves to initiate a rule-
making process in the final year of
President’s Obama’s 8-year tenure.
Meanwhile, the Department of Labor
is working on workplace violence pre-
vention rulemaking as we speak, and
as I said, has initiated the panel sched-
uled for January.
We agree there is work to be done,
but H.R. 1309 is not the answer. I ask
my colleagues to support my amend-
ment so we can make real, meaningful
steps toward protecting American
workers in this industry, and I reserve
the balance of my time.
Mr. COURTNEY. Madam Chair, I rise
in opposition to the amendment.
The CHAIR. The gentleman from
Connecticut is recognized for 5 min-
utes.
Mr. COURTNEY. Madam Chair,
again, I rise in opposition to the
amendment, but certainly with great
respect for the proponent. I actually
supported making this amendment in
order because I have such high regard
for the gentleman.
However, this amendment, essen-
tially, Madam Chair, guts the bill.
The essence of this bill is to say to
the Occupational Safety and Health
Administration, who has been studying
this issue since the 1990s and has issued
commonsense guidelines—that again,
Ranking Member FOXX has touted as
an example of how this isn’t a real
problem that we need to accelerate,
but the fact of the matter is, we incor-
porate those guidelines in the under-
lying bill with a real deadline, 42
months. That has precedent.
Congress has done this before. OSHA
is an act of Congress, and we have ac-
celerated deadlines for bloodborne
pathogens back in the late 1990s, gave
them a 1-year deadline or a 6-month
deadline to implement a standard,
again, for HIV, hepatitis B, and C, in
healthcare. And thank God. We are a
safer country because Congress stepped
in and set a deadline for OSHA to act.
We did it for hazardous waste mate-
rials. We put a deadline to make them
act. Without a deadline, what we are
stuck with is OSHA’s atrocious record
of getting rules out in a timely fashion.
Beryllium, 18 years it took; silica, 19
years. If you inhale silica, you suf-
focate and get cancer; confined spaces
in construction, working in trenches,
22 years.
And, yes, yesterday, the Trump ad-
ministration, for the third time, sched-
uled a preliminary panel with the
SBREFA panel, having canceled the
prior two. We are 3 years into this ad-
ministration, and still, to this date,
nothing actually has happened other
than notices, which so far have just
been canceled over and over again.
b 1030
Madam Chair, while we were here on
the floor, one of the most credible
voices on this issue, which is the Amer-
ican College of Emergency Physi-
cians—when these unruly, agitated pa-
tients with the heroin and opioid crises
and behavioral health crises are com-
ing through the doors, they are the
ones who are really at the front line,
along with the nurses and their assist-
ants. They urge legislators to oppose
the Byrne amendment that would
eliminate the deadline for OSHA to
issue a standard.
The reason they give is that, in 2018,
they did a survey of emergency physi-
cians all across America who reported
being physically assaulted while at
work, with 60 percent of those assaults
occurring within the previous year.
This is happening in real time, and it is
accelerating. The trajectory is some-
thing that we cannot wait for OSHA to
basically go back and reinvent the
wheel that they have already issued in
terms of guidelines about how to re-
duce risk in workplaces.
That is why, in addition to other
issues in this amendment that elimi-
nate the whistleblower protection, as
well as the interim final standard,
which, again, incorporates OSHA’s al-
ready preexisting rules, that I rise in
strong opposition to this amendment.
Let’s move forward, and let’s do it in
a timely fashion for America’s
healthcare and social services work-
force.
Madam Chair, I reserve the balance
of my time.
Mr. BYRNE. Madam Chair, I return
the gentleman’s respect, and I know
that he has worked long and hard on
this. I agree with him that this is a
real problem that is getting worse, but
we are not going to make it better if
we pass something in this House that
will not get up on the floor of the Sen-
ate and won’t be signed by the Presi-
dent. We know it won’t.
I would suggest to the gentleman
that this vehicle is how we actually get
something passed and do something for
the workers that we care so much
about.
Madam Chair, I reserve the balance
of my time.
Mr. COURTNEY. Madam Chair, I
yield myself the balance of my time.
Madam Chair, the gentleman is abso-
lutely right. The Obama administra-
tion took too long to move on this.
Again, I, along with George Miller, re-
quested the GAO study back in 2013.
The results came in, in 2016. He is
right. The first regulatory step didn’t
take place until January 2017, on the
way out the door.
But we are 3 years into this adminis-
tration, and they are not setting the
world on fire in terms of addressing
this issue. That panel, which you de-
scribed, to call it a baby step is an
overstatement. It is a baby crawl, in
terms of this process. Again, we have
seen the track record—22 years, 19
years, 17 years—to get a standard out.
Our healthcare workforce cannot
wait that long. That is why H.R. 1309
should proceed without the Byrne
amendment.
Madam Chair, I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. BYRNE. Madam Chair, I yield
myself the balance of my time.
I close by saying this. We need to do
something. If we don’t enact my
amendment, we are going to end up
doing nothing, and I think something
is better than nothing.
Madam Chair, I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
The CHAIR. The question is on the
amendment offered by the gentleman
from Alabama (Mr. BYRNE).
The question was taken; and the
Chair announced that the noes ap-
peared to have it.
Mr. BYRNE. Madam Chair, I demand
a recorded vote.
The CHAIR. Pursuant to clause 6 of
rule XVIII, further proceedings on the
amendment offered by the gentleman
from Alabama will be postponed.
AMENDMENT NO. 4 OFFERED BY MR. HARDER OF
CALIFORNIA
The CHAIR. It is now in order to con-
sider amendment No. 4 printed in part
B of House Report 116–302.
Mr. HARDER of California. Madam
Chair, I have an amendment at the
desk.
The CHAIR. The Clerk will designate
the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
Page 23, line 23, strike ‘‘and’’.
Page 24, line 2, strike the period and insert
a semicolon.
Page 24, after line 2, insert the following:
(3) nothing in this Act shall be construed
to limit or prevent health care workers, so-
cial service workers, and other personnel
from reporting violent incidents to appro-
priate law enforcement.
The CHAIR. Pursuant to House Reso-
lution 713, the gentleman from Cali-
fornia (Mr. HARDER) and a Member op-
posed each will control 5 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from California.
Mr. HARDER of California. Madam
Chair, I yield myself such time as I
may consume.
Madam Chair, my amendment is
going to ensure that nothing in this act
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:21 Nov 22, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00019 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K21NO7.025 H21NOPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H9144 November 21, 2019
shall be construed to limit or prevent
healthcare workers from reporting vio-
lent incidents to appropriate law en-
forcement.
This is really critical because, obvi-
ously, this amendment is going to real-
ly put some new restrictions on work-
place violence. It is so critical to en-
sure we do that. But we also want to
make sure that there are safeguards in
place to make sure that reporting is
not only going to the law enforcement
agencies but also around the rest of the
community. That is why our amend-
ment is so critical here.
Madam Chair, I reserve the balance
of my time.
Ms. FOXX of North Carolina. Madam
Chair, I claim the time in opposition,
although I am not opposed to the
amendment.
The CHAIR. Without objection, the
gentlewoman from North Carolina is
recognized for 5 minutes.
There was no objection.
Ms. FOXX of North Carolina. Madam
Chair, this amendment underscores
two obvious points: first, that
healthcare and social service workers
should be free to report workplace vio-
lence incidents to law enforcement;
and second, that this bill was drafted
poorly.
Such a commonsense provision
should not need to be added to the un-
derlying legislation. But in the Demo-
crats’ rush to force OSHA to promul-
gate workplace violence prevention
standards, they are bypassing key ele-
ments of the established rulemaking
process that would ensure a provision
such as this amendment, if needed, is
in the regulatory text.
H.R. 1309 circumvents the long-
standing, established OSHA rule-
making process, which is intended to
gather information on the underlying
circumstances that may merit a health
and safety regulation and to receive
meaningful stakeholder input in order
to create the most feasible and protec-
tive safety and health standard pos-
sible.
By dodging the established regu-
latory process, the Democrats are ig-
noring or unaware of many key issues
like the ones addressed in this amend-
ment.
Madam Chair, I will support the
amendment, and I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. HARDER of California. Madam
Chair, I yield 1 minute to the gen-
tleman from Connecticut (Mr. COURT-
NEY).
Mr. COURTNEY. Madam Chair, I
thank the gentleman from California
(Mr. HARDER) for yielding.
Again, I want to salute his amend-
ment. For the record, there is no prohi-
bition built into OSHA that you can’t
have dual jurisdiction, in terms of
criminal investigations or prosecutions
from injuries in any setting that OSHA
covers. However, I still applaud the
Member for just sort of foot-stomping
this point to make sure that because so
many of these incidents involve as-
sault, there is absolutely a clear signal
that there is no hindrance or obstacle.
Again, for that purpose, I certainly
strongly support the amendment and
urge its adoption.
Mr. HARDER of California. Madam
Chair, I yield back the balance of my
time.
The CHAIR. The question is on the
amendment offered by the gentleman
from California (Mr. HARDER).
The question was taken; and the
Chair announced that the ayes ap-
peared to have it.
Mr. HARDER of California. Madam
Chair, I demand a recorded vote.
The CHAIR. Pursuant to clause 6 of
rule XVIII, further proceedings on the
amendment offered by the gentleman
from California will be postponed.
AMENDMENT NO. 5 OFFERED BY MR. LEVIN OF
MICHIGAN
The CHAIR. It is now in order to con-
sider amendment No. 5 printed in part
B of House Report 116–302.
Mr. LEVIN of Michigan. Madam
Chair, I have an amendment at the
desk.
The CHAIR. The Clerk will designate
the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
Page 14, line 19, insert ‘‘anti-retaliation
policies,’’ after ‘‘response procedures,’’.
The CHAIR. Pursuant to House Reso-
lution 713, the gentleman from Michi-
gan (Mr. LEVIN) and a Member opposed
each will control 5 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from Michigan.
Mr. LEVIN of Michigan. Madam
Chair, my amendment ensures that our
incredible healthcare and social service
workers are aware that they are le-
gally protected from retaliation by
their employers.
I begin by thanking my colleague,
Congressman JOE COURTNEY, for his
hard work on this outstanding bill, and
Chairman SCOTT for leading this issue
and bringing the bill to the floor today.
Healthcare and social service work-
ers are some of this country’s most
precious workers, taking care of us and
our loved ones, sometimes under some
of the most trying conditions imag-
inable.
H.R. 1309 will help protect these
workers by requiring employers in the
healthcare and social service sectors to
develop workplace violence prevention
plans. My amendment will require that
mandatory violence prevention plan
trainings include the critical informa-
tion that these workers, when faced
with any violent or unwanted behavior
in the workplace, can safely report the
incident without fear of retaliation.
Bureau of Labor Statistics data tell
us that private-sector injury rates
from workplace violence in healthcare
and social service sectors increased 63
percent between 2006 and 2016, in just a
decade. And due to underreporting, in-
jury rates and workplace violence are
widely assumed to be higher than the
reported levels.
This is a huge problem for workers
but also for those they care for, as vio-
lence in healthcare settings com-
promises quality of care. We cannot ex-
pect healthcare and social service
workers to be able to deliver essential
lifesaving services under the threat of
violence and assault and fear of reper-
cussions for reporting any incident
that may occur.
The same goes for social service
workers. A safe and violence-free work-
place is essential to a functioning so-
cial service system that will help our
communities thrive. We cannot expect
workers to come forward with reports
of violence if they fear retribution.
My straightforward amendment aims
to ensure that healthcare and social
service workers covered by this bill are
aware of their right to come forward
and report any incident of violence at
work without fear of retribution.
Madam Chair, let me add that this is
really personal for me. I don’t want to
reveal my age, but I started organizing
healthcare workers for SEIU in 1983,
and I remember my very first cam-
paign at Shore Haven Nursing Home in
Grand Haven, Michigan.
Some of the workers in the nursing
home did face violence on the job, and
they really had no way to handle it. So
Mr. COURTNEY’s bill, his leadership on
this, is so essential for all the health
and social service workers of the coun-
try.
Madam Chair, I urge my colleagues
to support this amendment, and I re-
serve the balance of my time.
Ms. FOXX of North Carolina. Madam
Chair, I rise in opposition to the
amendment.
The CHAIR. The gentlewoman from
North Carolina is recognized for 5 min-
utes.
Ms. FOXX of North Carolina. Madam
Chair, this amendment is yet another
example of Democrats assuming bad
motives on the part of American em-
ployers and handcuffing them with ad-
ditional, overly prescriptive micro-
management from Washington.
The vast majority of employers in
America follow the laws, take good
care of their employees, respect their
rights in the workplace, and do not
need more red tape imposed on them.
Yet this amendment adds additional
requirements on America’s small busi-
nesses without receiving any meaning-
ful input from them or other stake-
holders.
Democratic amendments, such as the
one we are debating, do not change the
basic fact that H.R. 1309 is already
overly prescriptive and forecloses im-
portant input from knowledgeable
stakeholders.
H.R. 1309 will require OSHA to en-
force an interim final standard in
healthcare and social service settings
within a year. This legislation does not
allow OSHA to consider important in-
formation, including the experience of
California, which has a brand-new
standard in place; the views of experts
in the field; and the input of workers
who have invaluable workplace experi-
ence. This data and evidence and the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:21 Nov 22, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00020 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K21NO7.028 H21NOPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H9145
November 21, 2019
views of stakeholders may very well
not align with the bill’s requirements.
Adopting H.R. 1309 discounts the
complexity of the underlying issue and
the importance of the knowledge and
experience stakeholders can offer.
Madam Chair, I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. LEVIN of Michigan. Madam
Chair, I am sure we can all agree that
retribution for people reporting vio-
lence in the workplace is something
that is important, that people should
not face retribution, that they should
not fear reporting when they person-
ally or their coworkers face violence
on the job. So I hope that we will have
broad support for this amendment.
Madam Chair, I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
b 1045
The CHAIR. The question is on the
amendment offered by the gentleman
from Michigan (Mr. LEVIN).
The amendment was agreed to.
Mr. COURTNEY. Madam Chair, I
move that the Committee do now rise.
The motion was agreed to.
Accordingly, the Committee rose;
and the Speaker pro tempore (Mr.
BROWN of Maryland) having assumed
the chair, Ms. JACKSON LEE, Chair of
the Committee of the Whole House on
the state of the Union, reported that
that Committee, having had under con-
sideration the bill (H.R. 1309) to direct
the Secretary of Labor to issue an oc-
cupational safety and health standard
that requires covered employers within
the health care and social service in-
dustries to develop and implement a
comprehensive workplace violence pre-
vention plan, and for other purposes,
had come to no resolution thereon.
f
SENATE ENROLLED BILLS SIGNED
The Speaker announced her signa-
ture to enrolled bills of the Senate of
the following titles:
S. 1838.—An act to amend The Hong Kong
Policy Act of 1992, and for other purposes.
S. 2710.—An act to prohibit the commercial
export of covered munitions items to the
Hong Kong Police Force.
f
WORKPLACE VIOLENCE PREVEN-
TION FOR HEALTH CARE AND
SOCIAL SERVICE WORKERS ACT
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr.
BROWN of Maryland). Pursuant to
House Resolution 713 and rule XVIII,
the Chair declares the House in the
Committee of the Whole House on the
state of the Union for the further con-
sideration of the bill, H.R. 1309.
Will the gentlewoman from Texas
(Ms. JACKSON LEE) kindly resume the
chair.
b 1047
IN THE COMMITTEE OF THE WHOLE
Accordingly, the House resolved
itself into the Committee of the Whole
House on the state of the Union for the
further consideration of the bill (H.R.
1309) to direct the Secretary of Labor
to issue an occupational safety and
health standard that requires covered
employers within the health care and
social service industries to develop and
implement a comprehensive workplace
violence prevention plan, and for other
purposes, with Ms. JACKSON LEE in the
chair.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The CHAIR. When the Committee of
the Whole rose earlier today, amend-
ment No. 5 printed in part B of House
Report 116–302 offered by the gen-
tleman from Michigan (Mr. LEVIN) had
been disposed of.
AMENDMENT NO. 6 OFFERED BY MR. GREEN OF
TEXAS
The CHAIR. It is now in order to con-
sider amendment No. 6 printed in part
B of House Report 116–302.
Mr. GREEN of Texas. Madam Chair, I
have an amendment at the desk.
The CHAIR. The Clerk will designate
the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
Page 22, line 5, after ‘‘(4)(C).’’ insert the
following: ‘‘Not later than May 15 of each
year, the Secretary shall provide to Congress
a report containing statistical data with re-
spect to, and a summary of, reports sub-
mitted to the Secretary under this para-
graph. The contents of the report of the Sec-
retary shall not disclose any confidential in-
formation.’ ’’
The CHAIR. Pursuant to House Reso-
lution 713, the gentleman from Texas
(Mr. GREEN) and a Member opposed
each will control 5 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from Texas.
Mr. GREEN of Texas. Madam Chair, I
am proud to be a sponsor of H.R. 1309
for a multiplicity of reasons, and I
thank Mr. COURTNEY for introducing
this legislation.
Madam Chair, I am proud to tell you
also that within my congressional dis-
trict in Houston, Texas, we have the
largest medical center in the world.
Madam Chair, annually, the Houston
Medical Center encounters 10 million
patients. The Houston Medical Center
also, Madam Chair, has 106,000 employ-
ees. The Houston Medical Center is 17
times larger than the average city in
the United States of America.
We understand the scope of this prob-
lem, and there is a problem. But, some-
times, problems are not best explained
with statistical information. Some-
times, the words of people can make
the difference in understanding a prob-
lem.
I have within my hand a letter from
the National Nurses United organiza-
tion. Hear now their words:
Violence on the job has become endemic
for RNs and other workers in healthcare and
social assistance settings. Nurses report
being punched, kicked, bitten, beaten, and
threatened with violence as they provide
care to others. Far too many have experi-
enced stabbing and shootings.
Madam Chair, the evidence is over-
whelming. We do have a problem. To
understand the scope of the problem,
you have to have some intelligence ac-
corded some repository so that it can
be properly assessed. The Secretary of
Labor will be the repository. We will
get the information to the Secretary.
But this is not enough, to merely
have the Secretary of Labor have the
sense of what the scope is. The buck
stops with Congress. Congress needs to
know the scope of the problem. If
changes are necessary and not being
made, the buck stops with us. We will
have to encounter this, and we will
have to take up our duty, responsi-
bility, and obligation to provide the
proper legislation.
With this understanding, we have
filed amendment No. 6. This amend-
ment understands that the Secretary
will receive the information, and then
this amendment would require the Sec-
retary to annually report to Congress
so that Congress will have the trans-
parency that the Secretary has so that
Congress may take appropriate action
when necessary. Understanding the
scope of the problem helps you under-
stand the scope of a necessary solution,
if there is one.
Madam Chair, I reserve the balance
of my time.
Ms. FOXX of North Carolina. I claim
the time in opposition, Madam Chair.
The CHAIR. The gentlewoman from
North Carolina is recognized for 5 min-
utes.
Ms. FOXX of North Carolina. Madam
Chair, it is very disturbing to me as a
citizen of this country, to hear the talk
about increasing incidents of violence.
We know that is occurring all over our
country, everywhere. However, this bill
is not going to respond to the under-
lying causes of that increased violence,
and neither will this amendment.
This amendment ignores the funda-
mental reason that employers main-
tain good recordkeeping. It allows em-
ployers to review their internal proce-
dures and determine how to improve
their safety culture. While it is very
important for facilities to keep accu-
rate records of incidents, responses to
incidents, and annual data, providing
this information annually to OSHA
will not result in greater safety bene-
fits.
Requiring the Secretary of Labor to
provide this data to Congress goes yet
another ill-advised step further. Em-
ployers utilize these records to improve
internal management processes in
order to protect their workplace. How-
ever, if they must submit these reports
to OSHA, which will, in turn, provide
them to Congress, this will discourage
the use of these records to make im-
provements, as the employer has no
guarantee the records will not be re-
leased by OSHA either intentionally or
unintentionally.
Workplace violence records must be
maintained and protected onsite as
they contain personal employee infor-
mation as well as patient-client infor-
mation. An OSHA inspector would still
have the right to review the records
upon inspection of the facility.
Again, this amendment’s provisions
and the underlying recordkeeping and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:24 Nov 22, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00021 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K21NO7.030 H21NOPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H9146 November 21, 2019
reporting provisions in H.R. 1309 should
be thoroughly vetted and discussed
during a true rulemaking process and
should not be mandated by Congress.
We definitely should be looking at the
underlying reasons that workplace vio-
lence is increasing, and neither this
bill nor this amendment will have any
impact on that.
Madam Chair, I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. GREEN of Texas. Madam Chair,
may I inquire what time is remaining.
The CHAIR. The gentleman from
Texas has 2 minutes remaining.
Mr. GREEN of Texas. Madam Chair,
the gentlewoman from North Carolina
and I are very dear friends, and I have
great respect for her. In fact, I have a
deep, abiding affinity for her human-
ity.
But, today, I am reminded of the
words of Ruth Smeltzer. Ruth Smeltzer
reminds us that:
Some measure their lives by days and
years, Others by heartthrobs, passions, and
tears; But the surest measure under the Sun,
Is what in your lifetime for others you have
done.
Madam Chair, this day provides us an
opportunity to do something for others
who are in harm’s way, who are care-
givers, and who are doing what they
can to provide the kind of healthcare
services that we need. They do it at
great risk. We are the people who can
minimize that risk. It is our responsi-
bility to do for others what we would
have others do for us. If I were a
healthcare worker, I would want Con-
gress to take this kind of appropriate
action to protect me.
I also would remind my colleagues
that if we do nothing, at some point,
we will find people reluctant to go into
this area of endeavor. Who wants to go
to work with the fear of being harmed?
I love my dear lady from North Caro-
lina, but we respectfully disagree. The
buck stops here.
Madam Chair, I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
The CHAIR. The question is on the
amendment offered by the gentleman
from Texas (Mr. GREEN).
The amendment was agreed to.
AMENDMENT NO. 7 OFFERED BY MR. BROWN OF
MARYLAND
The CHAIR. It is now in order to con-
sider amendment No. 7 printed in part
B of House Report 116–302.
Mr. BROWN of Maryland. Madam
Chair, I have an amendment at the
desk.
The CHAIR. The Clerk will designate
the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
Page 15, after line 7, insert the following:
(D) Additional training shall be provided
for each such covered employee whose job
circumstances require working with victims
of torture, trafficking, or domestic violence.
Page 15, line 8, redesignate subparagraph
(D) as subparagraph (E).
Page 15, line 11, redesignate subparagraph
(E) as subparagraph (F).
Page 15, line 15, redesignate subparagraph
(F) as subparagraph (G).
Page 15, line 23, redesignate subparagraph
(G) as subparagraph (H).
The CHAIR. Pursuant to House Reso-
lution 713, the gentleman from Mary-
land (Mr. BROWN) and a Member op-
posed each will control 5 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from Maryland.
Mr. BROWN of Maryland. Madam
Chair, I yield myself such time as I
may consume.
Madam Chair, I want first to recog-
nize the hard work of my colleague
from Connecticut, Congressman JOE
COURTNEY, on the underlying bill and
for making workplace safety a priority.
Workplace violence is a serious prob-
lem and occurs more often than we
may realize. According to the Occupa-
tional Safety and Health Administra-
tion, incidents of serious workplace vi-
olence were 12 times higher among
healthcare and social service workers,
and 70 percent of nonfatal workplace
assaults occurred in the healthcare and
social assistance sectors.
Nurses, physicians, emergency re-
sponders, medical assistance, and so-
cial workers care for our families in
our times of need, and violence against
them has reached epidemic propor-
tions.
The range of patients, clients, and
demands these workers encounter on
any given day can expose them to occu-
pational risks with little training on
what they should do if those inter-
actions turn violent.
With uneven Federal enforcement,
States are leading the way to address
this issue, establishing a process for re-
cording, responding to, and tracking
incidents of workplace violence and re-
quiring regular workplace violence pre-
vention training.
Similarly, the underlying bill ad-
dresses training needs for employees
who may be exposed to workplace vio-
lence, hazards, and risks. However,
each situation is not always the same.
Not all circumstances and patients are
the same. We must adjust our training
to reflect all communities and situa-
tions that professionals may face on
the job.
My amendment ensures additional
training for employees who work with
victims of torture, human trafficking,
and domestic violence. As a result of
trauma, many survivors develop emo-
tional and mental health problems that
require timely, comprehensive, and
compassionate treatment, even if the
situation involved physical or psycho-
logical assaults.
b 1100
These factors necessitate a different
approach from our medical profes-
sionals and must be a part of work-
place violence trainings, particularly
in healthcare settings.
Proper training on best practices like
de-escalation can help ensure the safe-
ty of both the patient and the
healthcare worker. In doing so, we can
prevent further trauma that could be
detrimental to the survivors’ recovery.
I have long been a champion for sur-
vivors of abuse and will continue to do
so. Safe work environments and qual-
ity care are mutually reinforcing; both
must be considered in order to promote
positive outcomes for patients in our
communities.
I strongly encourage my colleagues
to support this amendment and the un-
derlying legislation, and I reserve the
balance of my time.
Ms. FOXX of North Carolina. Madam
Chair, I seek time in opposition to the
amendment.
The CHAIR. The gentlewoman from
North Carolina is recognized for 5 min-
utes.
Ms. FOXX of North Carolina. Madam
Chair, while the amendment is well-in-
tentioned, there are Federal agencies
other than OSHA that would be better
equipped to handle this type of regu-
latory requirement for the education of
healthcare workers who work with the
individuals identified in the amend-
ment.
The question of whether employer
education programs governed by OSHA
are appropriate to address the objec-
tives of the amendment should be thor-
oughly vetted and discussed during the
rulemaking process before decisions
impacting employers are made.
Unfortunately, H.R. 1309 bypasses the
opportunities for that conversation to
take place, such as a small business
panel and public hearings, and this
amendment does nothing to change
that.
A question of additional education
for specific employees is exactly the
kind of issue that should be addressed
by receiving feedback from affected
stakeholders in the rulemaking proc-
ess, but this opportunity is foreclosed
by H.R. 1309.
Amendments like the one we are de-
bating don’t change the fact that H.R.
1309 fails to allow for the development
of a feasible and effective workplace vi-
olence prevention standard.
Madam Chair, I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. BROWN of Maryland. Madam
Chair, I yield the balance of my time to
the gentleman from Connecticut (Mr.
COURTNEY).
Mr. COURTNEY. Madam Chair, again
I rise in strong support of Mr. BROWN’s
amendment, which I think makes a
good bill even better and does focus on
one of the causes, which, again, it is no
big secret in terms of what is driving
this upward trajectory.
Domestic violence, in particular, is
one of those types of cases that are
coming through the emergency room
doors—agitated patients, sometimes
family members there—and that is
where, again, we know nurses, nursing
assistants, and docs are being subjected
to unprecedented levels of assault.
That is why the Emergency Room
Nurses Association just issued an en-
dorsement of H.R. 1309. Again, this is a
trade association. This is a union-af-
filiated organization. They represent
emergency room nurses all across
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:21 Nov 22, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00022 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K21NO7.033 H21NOPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H9147
November 21, 2019
America in union and nonunion set-
tings.
We have already heard earlier today
that the emergency room docs have
come out for this.
Again, what Mr. BROWN’s measure
does is focus on one of the causes that
is causing the unprecedented and unac-
ceptable levels of assault that are tak-
ing place in healthcare settings.
I just want to close by saying my
wife, Audrey, whom I have been mar-
ried to for 30 years, is a pediatric nurse
practitioner who works in a specialty
clinic at Connecticut Children’s Hos-
pital that deals with victims of child
sexual abuse and physical abuse, and
that is precisely the type of patient
that Mr. BROWN’s amendment is fo-
cused on.
Again, if you want to talk about high
tension, high-risk environment in
terms of those types of cases that come
through, which, again, is causing un-
precedented incidents out there, this
amendment helps those employees to
make sure that they are going to be
able to deal with these cases and con-
tinue to go on and be productive in the
healthcare system.
So, again, I want to thank Mr. BROWN
for offering this amendment.
Mr. BROWN of Maryland. Madam
Chair, I yield back the balance of my
time.
The CHAIR. The question is on the
amendment offered by the gentleman
from Maryland (Mr. BROWN).
The amendment was agreed to.
AMENDMENT NO. 8 OFFERED MS. GARCIA OF
TEXAS
The CHAIR. It is now in order to con-
sider amendment No. 8 printed in part
B of House Report 116–302.
Ms. GARCIA of Texas. Madam Chair,
I have an amendment at the desk.
The CHAIR. The Clerk will designate
the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
Page 22, line 16, redesignate paragraph (7)
as paragraph (8).
Page 22, after line 15, insert the following:
(7) PLAN UPDATES.—Each covered employer
shall incorporate changes to the Plan, in a
manner consistent with paragraph (1)(A)(i)
and based on findings from the most recent
annual evaluation conducted under para-
graph (6), as appropriate.
The CHAIR. Pursuant to House Reso-
lution 713, the gentlewoman from
Texas (Ms. GARCIA) and a Member op-
posed each will control 5 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from Texas.
Ms. GARCIA of Texas. Madam Chair,
I am proud to cosponsor H.R. 1309, in-
troduced by my colleague, Congress-
man JOE COURTNEY.
This bill requires the Secretary of
Labor to develop a comprehensive
workplace safety and health standard.
Ultimately, this legislation will pro-
tect the millions of workers in the
healthcare and social service industries
by implementing a violence prevention
plan.
Prevention plans and training are
critical tools to mitigate dangerous
situations if and when violent emer-
gencies occur in the workplace. Clear
and effective plans that address vio-
lence prevention benefit both the work-
ers and their patients or clients; and
violence prevention plans catered to
the respective industries, using evi-
dence-based practices, are even more
effective.
In the healthcare and social service
industries especially, workplace safety
reforms are much-needed.
Social workers, like healthcare
workers, are particularly vulnerable
and susceptible to instances of work-
place violence. Workers in both of
these professions interact daily with
people struggling with mental health,
addiction, and/or recovering from trau-
ma.
Madam Chair, let me just tell you,
personally, that I have been impacted
by this. I am a former social worker. I
will tell this quick story.
I went to make a home visit. I was a
geriatric social worker at the time. It
was in a house, a shutdown house right
down Lyons and Jensen.
I believe, Madam Chair, that is in
your district now.
I knocked on the door, and to my
surprise and shock and fear, a little old
lady—she was probably about 85 or 90—
comes out with a gun pointing right at
my face, pointing right at my face.
That is not what a social worker ex-
perts when they are coming to visit a
home to make plans for a home
healthcare aide, which is what I was
doing.
But she thought that I was there to
take a child away from her that she
had in her home and that I was a child
welfare worker, so she was defending
her son. Actually, it was a street child.
I had to convince her with every per-
suasive part of my body that I was not
there to take her child, that I was ac-
tually there to help her and give her a
home health aide to help her in her
home. And quite miraculously, I talked
her out of it, and I actually got her to
put the gun away.
Now, I was lucky, but, regrettably,
those things may still be happening
out there in America: a social worker
facing a gun, a social worker facing vi-
olence, a social worker facing harm or
injury to herself or others.
So that is what this bill is about. It
is not about what the employers will or
will not do; it is about the protection
of the workers and making sure that
the employers do have plans, much like
they do for hurricanes, that they have
plans for violence.
So all employees, regardless of the
line of work, deserve to feel safe and
not feel the fear that I did that day and
to be protected from violence in their
workplaces.
They also deserve to have peace of
mind that an informed violence preven-
tion plan is in place. With that in
mind, I am proud to offer an amend-
ment to an already excellent bill.
My amendment would ensure that
annual evaluations of violence preven-
tion plans include changes based on in-
formed findings by employers. Employ-
ers can use their personal experiences
or lessons learned to effectively update
the violence prevention plan in their
mandatory annual plan reviews.
Simply put, the goal of this amend-
ment is to enhance the participation
and protection of covered employers
and employees in the creation of updat-
ing their annual plans. This is a com-
monsense amendment intended to im-
plement best practices.
Employer input, along with employee
input, will create the best violence pre-
vention plans possible. It will also help
industries update their prevention
plans, as needed, to cater to that spe-
cific industry’s needs.
Madam Chair, I urge my colleagues
to support the amendment, and I re-
serve the balance of my time.
Ms. FOXX of North Carolina. Madam
Chair, I rise in opposition to the
amendment.
The CHAIR. The gentlewoman from
North Carolina is recognized for 5 min-
utes.
Ms. FOXX of North Carolina. First,
Madam Chair, I would like to express
my condolences to our colleague for
the situation that she found herself in
with the person she was trying to help.
No one wants to be in that kind of situ-
ation, and I am very sorry that it has
happened.
But this amendment is just another
example that H.R. 1309 was poorly
drafted, rushed, and not well thought
out. The provisions and requirements
relating to the details of maintaining a
workplace violence prevention plan
should be thoroughly vetted during the
rulemaking process.
In the established rulemaking proc-
ess, stakeholders can comment on what
provisions should be included in the
final standard. This allows for robust
evaluation of what provisions ulti-
mately help create the most feasible
and protective safety and health stand-
ard possible.
We all share in the common goal of
preventing workplace violence in
healthcare and social service settings.
We need to trust that the rulemaking
process will result in the most protec-
tive standard possible.
Healthcare professionals deserve the
right to comment on a highly complex
and new standard. This amendment
does not address the underlying con-
cerns with the bill.
Democrat amendments to the bill,
such as the one we are debating, do not
change these basic facts. This bill is
unworkable in its current form, and
this amendment doesn’t change the
fact that H.R. 1309 fails to allow for the
development of a workable, effective,
and feasible workplace violence preven-
tion standard.
Madam Chair, I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
Ms. GARCIA of Texas. Madam Chair,
I accept the condolences, but, fortu-
nately for me, I was under threat but
did not die. Regrettably, that situation
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:21 Nov 22, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00023 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K21NO7.036 H21NOPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H9148 November 21, 2019
may happen again and someone may
die, and that is what I just want to un-
derscore is that social workers,
healthcare workers, all social service
workers are put in danger many times.
This bill and this amendment would
simply make sure that we got partici-
pation and input from the employers,
the employees, and everyone concerned
to make sure that we have a good plan
and that we use best practices, be-
cause, regrettably, not much seems to
have changed since the days when I
was a social worker.
Madam Chair, I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
The CHAIR. The question is on the
amendment offered by the gentle-
woman from Texas (Ms. GARCIA).
The amendment was agreed to.
AMENDMENT NO. 9 OFFERED BY MS. WEXTON
The CHAIR. It is now in order to con-
sider amendment No. 9 printed in part
B of House Report 116–302.
Ms. WEXTON. Madam Chair, I have
an amendment at the desk.
The CHAIR. The Clerk will designate
the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
Page 23, line 23, strike ‘‘and’’.
Page 24, line 2, strike the period and insert
a semicolon.
Page 24, after line 2, insert the following:
(3) nothing in this Act shall be construed
to limit or diminish any protections in rel-
evant Federal, State, or local law related
to—
(A) domestic violence;
(B) stalking;
(C) dating violence; and
(D) sexual assault.
The CHAIR. Pursuant to House Reso-
lution 713, the gentlewoman from Vir-
ginia (Ms. WEXTON) and a Member op-
posed each will control 5 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from Virginia.
Ms. WEXTON. Madam Chair, I thank
the gentleman from Connecticut (Mr.
COURTNEY) for introducing this impor-
tant bipartisan legislation.
My amendment to H.R. 1309 is a
clarifying amendment to ensure that
nothing in this act shall be construed
to limit or diminish any existing pro-
tections in relevant Federal, State, or
local law related to domestic violence,
stalking, dating violence, or sexual as-
sault.
According to a 2016 OSHA report, ap-
proximately 75 percent of the nearly
25,000 workplace assaults reported each
year occur in healthcare and social
service settings, and workers in
healthcare settings are four times
more likely to be assaulted at work
than workers in other sectors.
These cases have led to psychological
trauma, not only for the victim, but
also for those who have witnessed these
attacks, as well as serious injury and
even death.
b 1115
With workplace violence on the rise,
it is vital that Congress address this
issue to ensure the safety of workers,
and that is why this bill is so impor-
tant.
While most incidents of workplace
violence fit the definition of simple as-
sault, a study by the Joint Commission
showed that sexual assault, rape, and
stalking are not uncommon. Approxi-
mately 38 States include rape, sexual
assault, and stalking in their definition
of domestic violence.
My amendment makes it clear that
nothing in the underlying legislation
preempts or diminishes these protec-
tions in any way.
According to the Bureau of Labor
Statistics, less than 30 percent of U.S.
workplaces have a formal program or
policy that addresses workplace vio-
lence, and 7 out of 10 workplaces do not
have formal domestic violence pro-
grams or policy. That means that more
than 70 percent of U.S. workplaces
have inadequate protections against
workplace violence.
Innova Health Systems, one of the
major healthcare providers in Northern
Virginia, recently conducted a survey
at their hospital in my district on the
incidence and cost of nurse workplace
violence perpetrated by hospital pa-
tients or patient visitors. The results
showed that 75 percent of nurses expe-
rienced violence within the past year,
with emergency nurses experiencing
significantly greater number of inci-
dents. Nurses reported many barriers
to reporting these incidents, including
unclear reporting policies, fear of re-
taliation, and the disheartening per-
ception that violence just comes with
the job.
These statistics show that the cur-
rent voluntary efforts to prevent work-
place violence are not working. The re-
sults of the Innova survey highlight a
real need for effective training and
clear, convenient reporting programs
and environments that support work-
ers who are experiencing violence. This
bill seeks to address this need.
As a former domestic violence pros-
ecutor, I have seen firsthand how laws
protect and provide valuable resources
to the more than 12 million individuals
who are survivors of violent crime. I
offer this amendment to ensure that it
is abundantly clear that workplace vio-
lence prevention plans developed under
this bill complement existing legal pro-
tections against domestic violence and
sexual assault and in no way dimin-
ishes or limit those protections.
It is crucial that our laws at the
State, Federal, and local levels con-
tinue to help and support victims of do-
mestic violence, stalking, dating vio-
lence, and sexual assault, which is pre-
cisely what my amendment does.
I urge my colleagues to support this
amendment, and I reserve the balance
of my time.
Ms. FOXX of North Carolina. Madam
Chair, I rise in opposition to the
amendment, although I am not opposed
to it.
The CHAIR. Without objection, the
gentlewoman from North Carolina is
recognized for 5 minutes.
There was no objection.
Ms. FOXX of North Carolina. Madam
Chair, this amendment is yet another
well-intentioned addition to a flawed
bill. A provision this obvious should
have been included in the underlying
text, but Democrats are unnecessarily
rushing through this legislation even
though OSHA is working on a rule-
making.
What other seemingly obvious provi-
sions or considerations are left out of
the bill that are not being offered as
amendments today? And which man-
dates included in the bill are unwork-
able, costly and ill-advised? These
questions are exactly why the estab-
lished regulatory process solicits nec-
essary feedback from stakeholders and
the public.
H.R. 1309 circumvents a longstanding
established OSHA rulemaking process,
which is intended to research thor-
oughly the underlying circumstances
and gather meaningful stakeholder
input in order to create the most fea-
sible and protective safety and health
standards possible.
By dodging the established regu-
latory process, H.R. 1309 will miss key
issues like the ones addressed in this
amendment. This bill is unworkable in
its current form, and Democrat amend-
ments don’t change the fact that H.R.
1309 fails to allow for the development
of a workable, effective, and feasible
workplace violence prevention stand-
ard.
Madam Chair, I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
Ms. WEXTON. Madam Chair, I simply
request that my colleagues support
this underlying amendment and the
underlying bill. I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
The CHAIR. The question is on the
amendment offered by the gentle-
woman from Virginia (Ms. WEXTON).
The question was taken; and the
Chair announced that the noes ap-
peared to have it.
Ms. WEXTON. Madam Chair, I de-
mand a recorded vote.
The CHAIR. Pursuant to clause 6 of
rule XVIII, further proceedings on the
amendment offered by the gentle-
woman from Virginia will be post-
poned.
AMENDMENT NO. 10 OFFERED BY MR. DELGADO
The CHAIR. It is now in order to con-
sider amendment No. 10 printed in part
B of House Report 116–302.
Mr. DELGADO. Madam Chair, I have
an amendment at the desk.
The CHAIR. The Clerk will designate
the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
Page 2, line 13, strike ‘‘and’’.
Page 2, line 20, strike the period and insert
‘‘; and’’.
Page 2, after line 20, insert the following:
(C) that provides for a period determined
appropriate by the Secretary, not to exceed
1 year, during which the Secretary shall
prioritize technical assistance and advice
consistent with section 21(d) of the Occupa-
tional Safety and Health Act of 1970 (29
U.S.C. 670(d)) to employers subject to the
standard with respect to compliance with
the standard.
The CHAIR. Pursuant to House Reso-
lution 713, the gentleman from New
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:21 Nov 22, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00024 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K21NO7.038 H21NOPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H9149
November 21, 2019
York (Mr. DELGADO) and a Member op-
posed each will control 5 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from New York.
Mr. DELGADO. Madam Chair, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
I want to first thank my colleague,
Congressman COURTNEY, for his leader-
ship on this bill, the Workplace Vio-
lence Prevention for Health Care and
Social Service Workers Act. This is
long overdue legislation to protect our
Nation’s caregivers, including nurses
and physicians and many others who
dedicate their lives to healing.
Workplace violence is far too com-
mon in facilities that are supposed to
be places of rehabilitation, treatment,
and therapy. Last year the Bureau of
Labor Statistics found that healthcare
and social service workers were over
four times as likely to suffer a serious
injury from workplace violence than
workers in other sectors.
The legislation we are considering
today would make an important im-
provement in workplace safety by de-
fining workplace violence as any act or
threat of force against an employee
that could result in physical injury,
psychological trauma, or stress and en-
sure that OSHA and employers develop
and implement comprehensive and
workplace-specific plans to prevent
such violence.
These plans will not only protect em-
ployees but also keep patients, visitors,
and those in medical facilities out of
harm’s way. We all deserve to feel pro-
tected in hospitals and social service
settings, and this bill would accom-
plish that.
However, to facilitate these plans, we
need to work in partnership with em-
ployers and businesses to ensure that
they have the proper resources and in-
formation to comply with these protec-
tion plans.
My amendment seeks to strengthen
this legislation by prioritizing tech-
nical assistance for employers during
the first year of the bill’s implementa-
tion being enacted. This business-
friendly amendment will work to en-
sure our employers are equipped with
the tools to better protect their em-
ployees and prevent workplace vio-
lence.
I encourage my colleagues on both
sides of the aisle to support our
healthcare and social service facilities
across the country and include my
amendment to strengthen the under-
lying bill.
Let’s stand with our Nation’s em-
ployees and employers to make our
workplaces safer for everyone.
Madam Chair, I reserve the balance
of my time.
Ms. FOXX of North Carolina. Madam
Chair, I rise in opposition to the
amendment.
The CHAIR. The gentlewoman from
North Carolina is recognized for 5 min-
utes.
Ms. FOXX of North Carolina. Madam
Chair, this amendment is simply more
window dressing on a flawed bill.
While technical assistance is wel-
come and appropriate, this amendment
places an arbitrary time limit that is
woefully insufficient to cope with the
flawed rule, and there is no telling how
short an unfriendly administration
might allow this needed advice period
to last.
Moreover, technical assistance after
employers are subject to a rule in
which they had no input is too little
too late. Rather than amend a flawed
bill by allowing the Department of
Labor to help businesses after they are
subject to a flawed rule, we should re-
ject this bill and instead allow OSHA
to pursue its established rulemaking
process that provides ample oppor-
tunity for feedback from stakeholders
and the public before they are subject
to another Washington regulation.
Democrat amendments to the bill,
such as the one we are debating, do not
change the basic fact that H.R. 1309 is
overly prescriptive and circumvents
the established rulemaking process,
failing to allow for the development of
a workable, effective, and feasible
workplace violence prevention stand-
ard.
This amendment should be defeated.
Madam Chair, I yield back the balance
of my time.
Mr. DELGADO. Madam Chair, I yield
1 minute to the gentleman from Con-
necticut (Mr. COURTNEY).
Mr. COURTNEY. Madam Chair,
again, I want to congratulate Mr.
DELGADO for his amendment.
And I want to point out the fact that
when we voted on the rule yesterday,
there was a self-effectuating provision
that eliminated 500,000 healthcare
workplaces from the scope of this bill.
Again, it was at the suggestion of CBO
because, frankly, it was never our in-
tention to include doctors’ offices, po-
diatrists’ offices, dentists’ offices. That
is not what this bill is about. It is
about larger healthcare facilities,
which we know are the hotspots where
this type of unfortunate activity goes
on.
OSHA, just so you know, has a free
consultation program for employers, 90
percent funded by OSHA in all 50
states, that will provide free assistance
as new rules and regulations are rolled
out.
And I want to again say, Mr.
DELGADO’s amendment, which just foot
stomps the fact that we want to
prioritize the flow of information is, in
my opinion, a very benign request and
very much sensitive to employers in fa-
cilities all across the country.
Again, we took care of the small guys
in the rule yesterday, and this amend-
ment, again, just makes sure that any-
one else will have all the help that
they need to understand the new rules.
Mr. DELGADO. Madam Chair, I just
want to piggyback on that, if I may,
and say, with over 27,000 small busi-
nesses in my district, it is a priority of
mine. As somebody who is a part of the
Small Business Committee, I take very
seriously the ways in which our gov-
ernment is able to aid and not frus-
trate the workings of our local econ-
omy.
I would like to, once again, thank
Congressman COURTNEY for introducing
this critical legislation, and I urge
Members on both sides of the aisle to
support my amendment.
Madam Chair, I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
The CHAIR. The question is on the
amendment offered by the gentleman
from New York (Mr. DELGADO).
The question was taken; and the
Chair announced that the ayes ap-
peared to have it.
Mr. DELGADO. Madam Chair, I de-
mand a recorded vote.
The CHAIR. Pursuant to clause 6 of
rule XVIII, further proceedings on the
amendment offered by the gentleman
from New York will be postponed.
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE CHAIR
The CHAIR. Pursuant to clause 6 of
rule XVIII, proceedings will now re-
sume on those amendments printed in
part B of House Report 116–302 on
which further proceedings were post-
poned, in the following order:
Amendment No. 3 by Mr. BYRNE of
Alabama.
Amendment No. 4 by Mr. HARDER of
California.
Amendment No. 9 by Ms. WEXTON of
Virginia.
Amendment No. 10 by Mr. DELGADO
of New York.
The Chair will reduce to 2 minutes
the minimum time for any electronic
vote after the first vote in this series.
AMENDMENT NO. 3 OFFERED BY MR. BYRNE
The CHAIR. The unfinished business
is the demand for a recorded vote on
the amendment offered by the gen-
tleman from Alabama (Mr. BYRNE) on
which further proceedings were post-
poned and on which the noes prevailed
by voice vote.
The Clerk will redesignate the
amendment.
The Clerk redesignated the amend-
ment.
RECORDED VOTE
The CHAIR. A recorded vote has been
demanded.
A recorded vote was ordered.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—ayes 177, noes 238,
not voting 21, as follows:
[Roll No. 637]
AYES—177
Abraham
Aderholt
Allen
Amash
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Bergman
Bilirakis
Bishop (NC)
Bishop (UT)
Bost
Brady
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Byrne
Calvert
Carter (GA)
Chabot
Cheney
Cline
Cole
Collins (GA)
Comer
Conaway
Cook
Crawford
Crenshaw
Curtis
Davidson (OH)
Davis, Rodney
DesJarlais
Diaz-Balart
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Estes
Ferguson
Fleischmann
Foxx (NC)
Fulcher
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gianforte
Gibbs
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:21 Nov 22, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00025 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K21NO7.043 H21NOPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H9150 November 21, 2019
Gohmert
Gonzalez (OH)
González-Colón
(PR)
Gooden
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Hagedorn
Harris
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Hill (AR)
Holding
Hollingsworth
Hudson
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Keller
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamborn
Latta
Lesko
Long
Loudermilk
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Marchant
Marshall
Mast
McAdams
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McHenry
McKinley
Meadows
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Mullin
Murphy (NC)
Newhouse
Norman
Nunes
Olson
Palazzo
Palmer
Pence
Perry
Posey
Ratcliffe
Rice (SC)
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rooney (FL)
Rose, John W.
Rouzer
Rutherford
Scalise
Schweikert
Scott, Austin
Sensenbrenner
Shimkus
Simpson
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smucker
Spano
Steil
Steube
Stewart
Taylor
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Tipton
Turner
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Watkins
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Wenstrup
Westerman
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yoho
Zeldin
NOES—238
Adams
Allred
Axne
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Beyer
Biggs
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brindisi
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Bustos
Butterfield
Carbajal
Carson (IN)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Cloud
Clyburn
Cohen
Connolly
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cunningham
Davids (KS)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Finkenauer
Fitzpatrick
Fletcher
Fortenberry
Foster
Frankel
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (TX)
Gosar
Gottheimer
Green (TN)
Green, Al (TX)
Grijalva
Haaland
Harder (CA)
Hartzler
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Higgins (NY)
Himes
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (TX)
Kaptur
Katko
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
King (IA)
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Lamb
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Lowenthal
Lowey
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Massie
Matsui
McBath
McCollum
McGovern
McNerney
Meeks
Meng
Moore
Morelle
Mucarsel-Powell
Murphy (FL)
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Norcross
Norton
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Perlmutter
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Plaskett
Pocan
Porter
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Reed
Rice (NY)
Rose (NY)
Rouda
Roy
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Ryan
Sablan
San Nicolas
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (NJ)
Smith (WA)
Soto
Spanberger
Speier
Stanton
Stauber
Stefanik
Stevens
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Titus
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Underwood
Upton
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watson Coleman
Welch
Wexton
Wild
Wilson (FL)
Yarmuth
Young
NOT VOTING—21
Aguilar
Bishop (GA)
Cárdenas
Carter (TX)
Cooper
Evans
Flores
Fudge
Gabbard
Griffith
Huffman
Lewis
McEachin
Moulton
Radewagen
Reschenthaler
Richmond
Serrano
Stivers
Timmons
Tlaib
b 1156
Mr. DOGGETT, Ms. PLASKETT,
Messrs. GOSAR, O’HALLERAN, Mrs.
KIRKPATRICK, Messrs. VAN DREW,
CARSON of Indiana, STANTON,
SCHRADER, LAWSON of Florida, and
ROSE of New York changed their vote
from ‘‘aye’’ to ‘‘no.’’
Mr. WALDEN and Miss GONZÁLEZ-
COLÓN of Puerto Rico changed their
vote from ‘‘no’’ to ‘‘aye.’’
So the amendment was rejected.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
AMENDMENT NO. 4 OFFERED BY MR. HARDER OF
CALIFORNIA
The CHAIR. The unfinished business
is the demand for a recorded vote on
the amendment offered by the gen-
tleman from California (Mr. HARDER)
on which further proceedings were
postponed and on which the ayes pre-
vailed by voice vote.
The Clerk will redesignate the
amendment.
The Clerk redesignated the amend-
ment.
RECORDED VOTE
The CHAIR. A recorded vote has been
demanded.
A recorded vote was ordered.
The CHAIR. This will be a 2-minute
vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—ayes 414, noes 1,
not voting 21, as follows:
[Roll No. 638]
AYES—414
Abraham
Adams
Aderholt
Allen
Allred
Amash
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Axne
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Barragán
Bass
Bera
Bergman
Beyer
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (NC)
Bishop (UT)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Bost
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brady
Brindisi
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Bustos
Butterfield
Byrne
Calvert
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Cline
Cloud
Clyburn
Cohen
Cole
Collins (GA)
Comer
Conaway
Connolly
Cook
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crawford
Crenshaw
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cunningham
Curtis
Davids (KS)
Davidson (OH)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Davis, Rodney
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
DesJarlais
Deutch
Diaz-Balart
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Estes
Ferguson
Finkenauer
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Fletcher
Fortenberry
Foster
Foxx (NC)
Frankel
Fulcher
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (OH)
González-Colón
(PR)
Gooden
Gosar
Gottheimer
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Green, Al (TX)
Griffith
Grijalva
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Haaland
Hagedorn
Harder (CA)
Harris
Hartzler
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Higgins (NY)
Hill (AR)
Himes
Holding
Hollingsworth
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Hudson
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Johnson (TX)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Kaptur
Katko
Keating
Keller
Kelly (IL)
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamb
Lamborn
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Latta
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Lesko
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Long
Loudermilk
Lowenthal
Lowey
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Marchant
Marshall
Mast
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McCollum
McGovern
McHenry
McKinley
McNerney
Meadows
Meeks
Meng
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Morelle
Mucarsel-Powell
Mullin
Murphy (FL)
Murphy (NC)
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Newhouse
Norcross
Norman
Norton
Nunes
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Olson
Palazzo
Pallone
Palmer
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Pence
Perlmutter
Perry
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Plaskett
Pocan
Porter
Posey
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Ratcliffe
Reed
Rice (NY)
Rice (SC)
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rooney (FL)
Rose (NY)
Rose, John W.
Rouda
Rouzer
Roy
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Rutherford
Ryan
Sablan
San Nicolas
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scalise
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Schweikert
Scott (VA)
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:21 Nov 22, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00026 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A21NO7.017 H21NOPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H9151
November 21, 2019
Scott, Austin
Scott, David
Sensenbrenner
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Shimkus
Simpson
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smith (WA)
Smucker
Soto
Spanberger
Spano
Speier
Stanton
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stevens
Stewart
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Taylor
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Tipton
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Turner
Underwood
Upton
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watkins
Watson Coleman
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Welch
Wenstrup
Westerman
Wexton
Wild
Williams
Wilson (FL)
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yarmuth
Yoho
Young
Zeldin
NOES—1
Massie
NOT VOTING—21
Aguilar
Beatty
Bishop (GA)
Cooper
Evans
Flores
Fudge
Gabbard
Gonzalez (TX)
Huffman
Lewis
McEachin
Moore
Moulton
Omar
Radewagen
Reschenthaler
Richmond
Serrano
Stivers
Timmons
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE CHAIR
The CHAIR (during the vote). There
is 1 minute remaining.
b 1202
So the amendment was agreed to.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
AMENDMENT NO. 9 OFFERED BY MS. WEXTON
The CHAIR. The unfinished business
is the demand for a recorded vote on
the amendment offered by the gentle-
woman from Virginia (Ms. WEXTON) on
which further proceedings were post-
poned and on which the noes prevailed
by voice vote.
The Clerk will redesignate the
amendment.
The Clerk redesignated the amend-
ment.
RECORDED VOTE
The CHAIR. A recorded vote has been
demanded.
A recorded vote was ordered.
The CHAIR. This will be a 2-minute
vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—ayes 415, noes 1,
not voting 20, as follows:
[Roll No. 639]
AYES—415
Abraham
Adams
Aderholt
Allen
Allred
Amash
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Axne
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Bergman
Beyer
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (NC)
Bishop (UT)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Bost
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brady
Brindisi
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Bustos
Butterfield
Byrne
Calvert
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Cartwright
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Cline
Cloud
Clyburn
Cohen
Cole
Collins (GA)
Comer
Conaway
Connolly
Cook
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crawford
Crenshaw
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cunningham
Curtis
Davids (KS)
Davidson (OH)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Davis, Rodney
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
DesJarlais
Deutch
Diaz-Balart
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Estes
Ferguson
Finkenauer
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Fletcher
Fortenberry
Foster
Foxx (NC)
Frankel
Fulcher
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (OH)
Gonzalez (TX)
González-Colón
(PR)
Gooden
Gosar
Gottheimer
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Green, Al (TX)
Griffith
Grijalva
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Haaland
Hagedorn
Harder (CA)
Harris
Hartzler
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Higgins (NY)
Hill (AR)
Himes
Holding
Hollingsworth
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Johnson (TX)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Kaptur
Katko
Keating
Keller
Kelly (IL)
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamb
Lamborn
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Latta
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Lesko
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Long
Loudermilk
Lowenthal
Lowey
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Marchant
Marshall
Mast
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McCollum
McGovern
McHenry
McKinley
McNerney
Meadows
Meeks
Meng
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Morelle
Mucarsel-Powell
Mullin
Murphy (FL)
Murphy (NC)
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Newhouse
Norcross
Norman
Norton
Nunes
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Olson
Omar
Palazzo
Pallone
Palmer
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Pence
Perlmutter
Perry
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Plaskett
Pocan
Porter
Posey
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Ratcliffe
Reed
Rice (NY)
Rice (SC)
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rooney (FL)
Rose (NY)
Rose, John W.
Rouda
Rouzer
Roy
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Rutherford
Ryan
Sablan
San Nicolas
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scalise
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Schweikert
Scott (VA)
Scott, Austin
Scott, David
Sensenbrenner
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Shimkus
Simpson
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smith (WA)
Smucker
Soto
Spanberger
Spano
Speier
Stanton
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stevens
Stewart
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Taylor
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Tipton
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Turner
Underwood
Upton
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watkins
Watson Coleman
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Welch
Wenstrup
Westerman
Wexton
Wild
Williams
Wilson (FL)
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yarmuth
Yoho
Young
Zeldin
NOES—1
Massie
NOT VOTING—20
Aguilar
Bishop (GA)
Case
Cooper
Evans
Flores
Fudge
Gabbard
Hudson
Huffman
Lewis
McEachin
Moore
Moulton
Radewagen
Reschenthaler
Richmond
Serrano
Stivers
Timmons
b 1208
So the amendment was agreed to.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
AMENDMENT NO. 10 OFFERED BY MR. DELGADO
The CHAIR. The unfinished business
is the demand for a recorded vote on
the amendment offered by the gen-
tleman from New York (Mr. DELGADO)
on which further proceedings were
postponed and on which the ayes pre-
vailed by voice vote.
The Clerk will redesignate the
amendment.
The Clerk redesignated the amend-
ment.
RECORDED VOTE
The CHAIR. A recorded vote has been
demanded.
A recorded vote was ordered.
The CHAIR. This will be a 2-minute
vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—ayes 242, noes 176,
not voting 18, as follows:
[Roll No. 640]
AYES—242
Adams
Allred
Axne
Bacon
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Beyer
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Bost
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brindisi
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Bustos
Butterfield
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Clyburn
Cohen
Connolly
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cunningham
Davids (KS)
Davidson (OH)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Davis, Rodney
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Finkenauer
Fitzpatrick
Fletcher
Fortenberry
Foster
Frankel
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:21 Nov 22, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00027 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A21NO7.026 H21NOPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H9152 November 21, 2019
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (TX)
Gottheimer
Graves (LA)
Green, Al (TX)
Grijalva
Grothman
Haaland
Harder (CA)
Hartzler
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Herrera Beutler
Higgins (NY)
Himes
Hollingsworth
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Hurd (TX)
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (TX)
Joyce (OH)
Kaptur
Katko
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Lamb
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Lowenthal
Lowey
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCollum
McGovern
McNerney
Meeks
Meng
Morelle
Mucarsel-Powell
Murphy (FL)
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Norcross
Norton
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Perlmutter
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Plaskett
Pocan
Porter
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Reed
Rice (NY)
Rose (NY)
Rouda
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Ryan
Sablan
San Nicolas
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (NJ)
Smith (WA)
Soto
Spanberger
Speier
Stanton
Stauber
Stefanik
Stevens
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Underwood
Upton
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watson Coleman
Welch
Wexton
Wild
Wilson (FL)
Yarmuth
NOES—176
Abraham
Aderholt
Allen
Amash
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Babin
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Bergman
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (NC)
Bishop (UT)
Brady
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Byrne
Calvert
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Cline
Cloud
Cole
Collins (GA)
Comer
Conaway
Cook
Crawford
Crenshaw
Curtis
DesJarlais
Diaz-Balart
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Estes
Ferguson
Fleischmann
Foxx (NC)
Fulcher
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Gonzalez (OH)
González-Colón
(PR)
Gooden
Gosar
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Griffith
Guest
Guthrie
Hagedorn
Harris
Hern, Kevin
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Hill (AR)
Holding
Hudson
Huizenga
Hunter
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Jordan
Joyce (PA)
Keller
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamborn
Latta
Lesko
Long
Loudermilk
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Marchant
Marshall
Massie
Mast
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McHenry
McKinley
Meadows
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Mullin
Murphy (NC)
Newhouse
Norman
Nunes
Olson
Palazzo
Palmer
Pence
Perry
Posey
Ratcliffe
Rice (SC)
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rooney (FL)
Rose, John W.
Rouzer
Roy
Rutherford
Scalise
Schweikert
Scott, Austin
Sensenbrenner
Shimkus
Simpson
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smucker
Spano
Steil
Steube
Stewart
Taylor
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Tipton
Turner
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Watkins
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Wenstrup
Westerman
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yoho
Young
Zeldin
NOT VOTING—18
Aguilar
Bishop (GA)
Cooper
Evans
Flores
Fudge
Gabbard
Huffman
Lewis
McEachin
Moore
Moulton
Radewagen
Reschenthaler
Richmond
Serrano
Stivers
Timmons
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE CHAIR
The CHAIR (during the vote). There
is 1 minute remaining.
b 1214
So the amendment was agreed to.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
The Acting CHAIR (Mr. PAYNE).
There being no further amendments
under the rule, the Committee rises.
Accordingly, the Committee rose;
and the Speaker pro tempore (Ms.
JACKSON LEE) having assumed the
chair, Mr. PAYNE, Acting Chair of the
Committee of the Whole House on the
state of the Union, reported that that
Committee, having had under consider-
ation the bill (H.R. 1309) to direct the
Secretary of Labor to issue an occupa-
tional safety and health standard that
requires covered employers within the
health care and social service indus-
tries to develop and implement a com-
prehensive workplace violence preven-
tion plan, and for other purposes, and,
pursuant to House Resolution 713, he
reported the bill, as amended by that
resolution, back to the House with sun-
dry further amendments adopted in the
Committee of the Whole.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under
the rule, the previous question is or-
dered.
Is a separate vote demanded on any
further amendment reported from the
Committee of the Whole? If not, the
Chair will put them en gros.
The amendments were agreed to.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the engrossment and
third reading of the bill.
The bill was ordered to be engrossed
and read a third time, and was read the
third time.
MOTION TO RECOMMIT
Mr. KELLY of Pennsylvania. Madam
Speaker, I have a motion to recommit
at the desk.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is the
gentleman opposed to the bill?
Mr. KELLY of Pennsylvania. I am in
its current form.
Mr. COURTNEY. Madam Speaker, I
reserve a point of order.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. A point
of order is reserved.
The Clerk will report the motion to
recommit.
The Clerk read as follows:
Mr. Kelly of Pennsylvania moves to recom-
mit the bill H.R. 1309 to the Committee on
Education and Labor with instructions to re-
port the same back to the House forthwith,
with the following amendment:
Add at the end the following:
TITLE III—SENSE OF CONGRESS
SEC. 301. SENSE OF CONGRESS.
It is the sense of the Congress that the cur-
rent House majority has failed to deliver re-
sults for the American people on critical
issues facing our Nation by prioritizing im-
peachment of the President over working
with the administration and Republicans in
Congress to enact policies such as the fol-
lowing:
(1) An Act implementing the United
States-Mexico-Canada Trade Agreement.
(2) The National Defense Authorization
Act for fiscal year 2020.
(3) The Department of Defense Appropria-
tions Act for fiscal year 2020.
(4) Legislation to secure operational con-
trol of the southern border.
(5) Bipartisan legislation to lower prescrip-
tion drug prices.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentleman from
Pennsylvania is recognized for 5 min-
utes in support of his motion.
Mr. KELLY of Pennsylvania. Madam
Speaker, as we get ready to leave the
House today and go home for Thanks-
giving, I think it has been alarming
that, as we read the newspapers, as we
listen, we find that so many families
are not going to be celebrating Thanks-
giving together because of the political
divide that is taking place, not only
here on the floor of the people’s House,
but in our homes.
It is incredible to me that we have al-
lowed our political rhetoric to divide
not only Republicans and Democrats
on the floor, but also our families back
home. This has never happened before
in the Speaker’s House. We should
never have this happening on the floor.
Now, look, I know that we have dif-
ferences of opinions. The relentless
pursuit to delegitimize the election of
Donald Trump has taken over any ac-
tivity that should be taking place on
the floor of the people’s House.
Madam Speaker, as we stand here in
the House, on the floor of the people’s
House, and we get ready to depart for
Thanksgiving celebration, it is hard to
imagine what it is that this majority
has in mind when it comes to legisla-
tion because we are not doing legisla-
tion. We have concentrated on im-
peachment.
Now, I would ask all Members to re-
commit, and recommit for the purposes
that the American people elected us: to
do legislation that makes sense, to do
legislation that is long overdue, to do
legislation that is critical, to do legis-
lation that makes sense for every sin-
gle American.
I appeal to you, not as a Republican,
but as an American.
Have we left this floor and decided
that we can no longer work together?
Because the American people are draw-
ing that conclusion.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:21 Nov 22, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00028 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A21NO7.034 H21NOPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H9153
November 21, 2019
And when I go home, they say to me:
Can’t you all agree on anything?
And I say: Yes, we can.
Madam Speaker, we have wasted pre-
cious time and millions of hardworking
American taxpayer dollars on a pursuit
of an effort to impeach a President of
the United States. We have done noth-
ing to legislate and to act in the best
interest of every American.
I would ask again that we look at
what we are doing as Americans and
not as Republicans or Democrats, be-
cause the people back home can’t un-
derstand why it is that they sent us
here to do what we are not doing today.
Why? Why are we not doing it?
Madam Speaker, at some point, I
would hope and pray that the greatest
nation the world has ever known, the
defenders of liberty and freedom all
over the world, could take a look and
see what we are doing right now and
ask: What is the message we are send-
ing to the rest of the world?
Really? America is caught up in an
effort to impeach the duly elected
President of the United States? And
why? Because we have been so con-
sumed with hate that we can no longer
see straight.
Look, why are we not passing the
United States-Mexico-Canada trade
agreement, which is a jobs bill?
Why are we not passing the National
Defense Authorization Act for fiscal
year 2020, which is critical to our safe-
ty?
Why are we not passing the Depart-
ment of Defense Appropriations Act?
Madam Speaker, I appreciate you,
but I am going to ask my colleagues to
please extend to me the same respect
that I extend to you.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Mem-
bers are reminded to address their re-
marks to the Chair.
Mr. KELLY of Pennsylvania. I would,
Madam Speaker, but I don’t think the
other side is interested in hearing what
I have to say.
Madam Speaker, we also have not
passed the Department of Defense Ap-
propriations Act. Can you believe we
are that irresponsible?
Legislation to secure operational
control of our southern border, we are
not doing that.
And we are not doing bipartisan leg-
islation to lower prescription drug
prices and handle surprise billings and
preexisting conditions.
Why are we not doing those things
that are the most important things to
our citizens back home?
I would ask that we look into what
we are doing and if we are doing it
strictly for political purposes and in a
power grab. That is not why the Amer-
ican people sent us here. That is not
why the majority on the floor of the
House changed during the last election.
But now people are seeing exactly
what happens when the majority
switches up, and when I go home, peo-
ple ask me: Why aren’t you doing
something about what is happening in
Congress today?
I say: You know what. That was
America’s choice, not ours. When we
are in the majority, we are able to gov-
ern.
Madam Speaker, I would like to sin-
cerely wish all of our colleagues a
happy Thanksgiving. God bless Amer-
ica.
I yield back the balance of my time.
POINT OF ORDER
Mr. COURTNEY. Madam Speaker, I
insist on my point of order.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tleman is recognized on his point of
order.
Mr. COURTNEY. Madam Speaker, on
behalf of America’s nurses, doctors,
and social workers who are begging for
relief from unprecedented levels of
workplace violence, I insist upon my
point of order. The motion violates
clause 7 of rule XVI, the germaneness
rule.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Does
any Member wish to be heard on the
point of order?
If not, the Chair is prepared to rule.
The gentleman from Connecticut
makes a point of order that the in-
structions proposed in the motion to
recommit offered by the gentleman
from Pennsylvania are not germane.
Clause 7 of rule XVI, the germane-
ness rule, provides that no proposition
on a subject different from that under
consideration shall be admitted under
color of amendment.
The bill addresses Department of
Labor standards for workplace violence
prevention and Medicare eligibility
based on those standards. The instruc-
tions in the motion express the sense of
Congress with respect to the
prioritization of certain legislative
items.
The amendment proposed in the mo-
tion to recommit addresses a different
subject matter than the subject matter
of workplace violence prevention as ad-
dressed by the underlying bill. Accord-
ingly, the Chair finds that the instruc-
tions propose an amendment that is
not confined to the subject matter of
the underlying bill. The amendment is
not germane and the point of order is
sustained.
Mr. KELLY of Pennsylvania. Madam
Speaker, I appeal the ruling of the
Chair.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is, Shall the decision of the
Chair stand as the judgment of the
House?
MOTION TO TABLE
Mr. HOYER. Madam Speaker, I have
a motion at the desk.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Clerk will report the motion.
The Clerk read as follows:
Mr. HOYER moves to lay the appeal
on the table.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion to table.
The question was taken; and the
Speaker pro tempore announced that
the ayes appeared to have it.
RECORDED VOTE
Mr. KELLY of Pennsylvania. Madam
Speaker, I demand a recorded vote.
A recorded vote was ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 9 of rule XX, this 5-
minute vote on the motion to table
will be followed by a 5-minute vote on
passage of the bill, if arising without
further proceedings in recommittal.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—ayes 222, noes 188,
not voting 20, as follows:
[Roll No. 641]
AYES—222
Adams
Allred
Amash
Axne
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Beyer
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brindisi
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Bustos
Butterfield
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Clyburn
Cohen
Connolly
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cunningham
Davids (KS)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Finkenauer
Fletcher
Foster
Frankel
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (TX)
Gottheimer
Green, Al (TX)
Grijalva
Haaland
Harder (CA)
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Higgins (NY)
Himes
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (TX)
Kaptur
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Lamb
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Lowenthal
Lowey
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Massie
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCollum
McGovern
McNerney
Meeks
Meng
Morelle
Mucarsel-Powell
Murphy (FL)
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Norcross
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Perlmutter
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Porter
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Rice (NY)
Rose (NY)
Rouda
Roy
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Ryan
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (WA)
Soto
Spanberger
Speier
Stanton
Stevens
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Underwood
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watson Coleman
Welch
Wexton
Wild
Wilson (FL)
Yarmuth
NOES—188
Abraham
Aderholt
Allen
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Bergman
Biggs
Bilirakis
VerDate Sep 11 2014 21:02 Feb 03, 2020 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00029 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\RECORD19\NOVEMBER\H21NO9.REC H21NO9
sradovich
on
DSKJLST7X2PROD
with
CONG-REC-ONLINE
CORRECTION
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H9154 November 21, 2019
Bishop (NC)
Bishop (UT)
Bost
Brady
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Calvert
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Cline
Cloud
Cole
Collins (GA)
Comer
Conaway
Cook
Crawford
Crenshaw
Curtis
Davidson (OH)
Davis, Rodney
DesJarlais
Diaz-Balart
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Estes
Ferguson
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Fortenberry
Foxx (NC)
Fulcher
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Gonzalez (OH)
Gooden
Gosar
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Griffith
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Hagedorn
Harris
Hartzler
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Hill (AR)
Holding
Hollingsworth
Hudson
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Keller
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamborn
Latta
Lesko
Long
Loudermilk
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Marchant
Marshall
Mast
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McHenry
McKinley
Meadows
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Mullin
Murphy (NC)
Newhouse
Norman
Nunes
Olson
Palazzo
Palmer
Pence
Perry
Posey
Ratcliffe
Reed
Rice (SC)
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rooney (FL)
Rose, John W.
Rouzer
Rutherford
Scalise
Schweikert
Scott, Austin
Sensenbrenner
Shimkus
Simpson
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smucker
Spano
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stewart
Taylor
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Tipton
Turner
Upton
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Watkins
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Wenstrup
Westerman
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yoho
Young
Zeldin
NOT VOTING—20
Aguilar
Bishop (GA)
Byrne
Cooper
Evans
Flores
Fudge
Gabbard
Huffman
Katko
Lewis
McEachin
Moore
Moulton
Reschenthaler
Richmond
Riggleman
Serrano
Stivers
Timmons
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER PRO TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore (during
the vote). There are 2 minutes remain-
ing.
b 1235
So the motion to table was agreed to.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the passage of the bill.
The question was taken; and the
Speaker pro tempore announced that
the ayes appeared to have it.
RECORDED VOTE
Ms. FOXX of North Carolina. Madam
Speaker, I demand a recorded vote.
A recorded vote was ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. This is a
5-minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—ayes 251, noes 158,
not voting 21, as follows:
[Roll No. 642]
AYES—251
Adams
Allred
Axne
Bacon
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Beyer
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Bost
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brindisi
Brooks (IN)
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Bucshon
Burgess
Bustos
Butterfield
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Clyburn
Cohen
Cole
Connolly
Cook
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cunningham
Davids (KS)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Davis, Rodney
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Finkenauer
Fitzpatrick
Fletcher
Fortenberry
Foster
Frankel
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (TX)
Gottheimer
Graves (LA)
Green, Al (TX)
Grijalva
Haaland
Harder (CA)
Hartzler
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Herrera Beutler
Higgins (NY)
Himes
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Hurd (TX)
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (TX)
Joyce (OH)
Kaptur
Katko
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
King (NY)
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Lamb
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Lesko
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Lowenthal
Lowey
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Marchant
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCollum
McGovern
McKinley
McNerney
Meeks
Meng
Morelle
Mucarsel-Powell
Murphy (FL)
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Newhouse
Norcross
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Perlmutter
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Porter
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Reed
Rice (NY)
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rose (NY)
Rouda
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Ryan
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (NJ)
Smith (WA)
Soto
Spanberger
Speier
Stanton
Stauber
Stefanik
Stevens
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Tipton
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Underwood
Upton
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Walden
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watson Coleman
Welch
Wexton
Wild
Wilson (FL)
Yarmuth
Young
Zeldin
NOES—158
Abraham
Aderholt
Allen
Amash
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Babin
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Bergman
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (NC)
Bishop (UT)
Brady
Brooks (AL)
Buchanan
Buck
Budd
Burchett
Calvert
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Cline
Cloud
Collins (GA)
Comer
Conaway
Crawford
Curtis
Davidson (OH)
DesJarlais
Diaz-Balart
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Estes
Ferguson
Fleischmann
Foxx (NC)
Fulcher
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Gonzalez (OH)
Gooden
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Griffith
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Hagedorn
Harris
Hern, Kevin
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Hill (AR)
Holding
Hollingsworth
Hudson
Huizenga
Hunter
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Jordan
Joyce (PA)
Keller
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
King (IA)
Kinzinger
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamborn
Latta
Long
Loudermilk
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Marshall
Massie
Mast
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McHenry
Meadows
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Mullin
Murphy (NC)
Norman
Nunes
Olson
Palazzo
Palmer
Pence
Perry
Posey
Ratcliffe
Rice (SC)
Riggleman
Roby
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rooney (FL)
Rose, John W.
Rouzer
Roy
Rutherford
Scalise
Schweikert
Scott, Austin
Sensenbrenner
Shimkus
Simpson
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smucker
Spano
Steil
Steube
Stewart
Taylor
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Turner
Wagner
Walberg
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Wenstrup
Westerman
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yoho
NOT VOTING—21
Aguilar
Bishop (GA)
Byrne
Cooper
Crenshaw
Evans
Flores
Fudge
Gabbard
Gosar
Huffman
Lewis
McEachin
Moore
Moulton
Reschenthaler
Richmond
Serrano
Stivers
Timmons
Watkins
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER PRO TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore (during
the vote). There are 2 minutes remain-
ing.
b 1242
So the bill was passed.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER
PRO TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair will remind all persons in the
gallery that they are here as guests of
the House and that any manifestation
of approval or disapproval of pro-
ceedings is in violation of the rules of
the House.
f
b 1245
THE TIME TO ACT IS NOW
(Mr. PAYNE asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. PAYNE. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to urge the Senate majority
leader, MITCH MCCONNELL, to bring our
bills to the floor.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:21 Nov 22, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00030 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A21NO7.037 H21NOPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H9155
November 21, 2019
My House colleagues and I have
passed 400 bills this Congress—400. Un-
fortunately, more than 300 are stuck on
MCCONNELL’s desk, including 275 bipar-
tisan bills.
These bills include things like rais-
ing the minimum wage, protecting re-
tirees, protecting consumers when they
sign contracts, and support for our vet-
erans. These are not partisan issues.
These are American issues.
Every day, we are trying to do the
will of the American people; every day,
we fight to make their lives better;
yet, every day, our public opinion
drops because the people do not see any
results.
The time to act is now. The better-
ment of every American depends on it.
f
HONORING THE LIFE OF JUDGE
DAVID TAUNTON
(Mr. DUNN asked and was given per-
mission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. DUNN. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to honor the life of Judge David
Taunton, who passed away peacefully
at the age of 80 on November 8.
As the longest serving judge in Gulf
County, Florida, Judge Taunton will be
remembered by many for his unending
dedication to children and providing
them with a second chance.
Judge Taunton and his wife, Abigail,
dedicated their lives to opening a shel-
ter for homeless children. In 1978, the
Taunton Family Children’s Home wel-
comed its first child, and since then,
over 400 children have called the Taun-
ton Family Children’s Home their own.
Abigail and the judge made sure that
each child was raised as if they were
their own child.
Judge Taunton has impacted so
many lives through his optimism, un-
conditional love, and mentorship. In
addition to serving as a judge for 20
years, David Taunton served as a
logger, a school principal, a church
pastor, and an editor of his newspaper.
Madam Speaker, please join me in
honoring the legacy and life of Judge
David Taunton. He will be missed by
many.
f
ELECTING A CERTAIN MEMBER TO
A CERTAIN STANDING COM-
MITTEE OF THE HOUSE OF REP-
RESENTATIVES
Mr. JEFFRIES. Madam Speaker, by
direction of the Democratic Caucus, I
offer a privileged resolution and ask
for its immediate consideration.
The Clerk read the resolution, as fol-
lows:
H. RES. 725
Resolved, That the following named Mem-
ber be, and is hereby, elected to the fol-
lowing standing committee of the House of
Representatives:
COMMITTEE ON OVERSIGHT AND REFORM:
Mrs. Carolyn B. Maloney of New York, Chair.
Mr. JEFFRIES (during the reading).
Madam Speaker, I ask unanimous con-
sent that the resolution be considered
as read and printed in the RECORD.
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Ms. DA-
VIDS of Kansas). Is there objection to
the request of the gentleman from New
York?
There was no objection.
The resolution was agreed to.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
TOGETHER WE FIGHT FOR THE
PEOPLE
(Mrs. MCBATH asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend her re-
marks.)
Mrs. MCBATH. Madam Speaker, I
rise today to speak on H.R. 5041, the
Family Violence Prevention and Serv-
ices Improvement Act.
Too many Americans have been in-
jured and too many families have been
torn apart by domestic violence. One in
four women and one in nine men will
experience some form of domestic vio-
lence in their lifetime. Victims and
survivors span all races, backgrounds,
genders, and income levels.
Domestic violence is not just a wom-
en’s issue. That is why I am proud to
have introduced FVPSA, with Rep-
resentatives GWEN MOORE, TOM COLE,
and JOHN KATKO.
Though there are centers around the
country doing incredible work, too
many people still are turned away each
day due to lack of resources. Our bill
will provide adequate resources for pre-
vention and treatment services.
I urge all of my colleagues to support
this vital bill. Together, we fight for
the people, help survivors of domestic
violence, and prevent such tragedies in
the future.
f
HONORING THE SERVICE OF
FLOYD ‘‘BUTCH’’ VANDIVER
(Mr. ARRINGTON asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute and to revise and extend
his remarks.)
Mr. ARRINGTON. Madam Speaker, I
rise today in recognition of a dear
friend and local leader in my district,
former Bailey County Commissioner
Floyd ‘‘Butch’’ Vandiver, who is cur-
rently battling cancer back home in
Muleshoe, Texas.
Butch is the epitome of a servant
leader, and he personifies the spirit of
west Texas through his honesty, humil-
ity, and hard work.
Having operated the family farm for
more than 35 years, Butch understands
the trials of tilling the soil, the bless-
ings of a bountiful harvest, and the
faith and freedom it requires.
During his two decades as a Bailey
County commissioner, Butch served
with excellence, always putting the in-
terests of the people he served over
himself.
I first met Butch on a flight back to
Lubbock. He was returning home from
treatment at MD Anderson. Clearly fa-
tigued from his fight against cancer, he
never once complained. Instead, he en-
couraged me.
Butch, you inspire me with your au-
thenticity, your humility, and your un-
wavering faith. I want you to know we
love you, we are praying for you and
your family, and we know you are in
God’s loving and capable hands.
God bless, and go west Texas.
f
LATINA EQUAL PAY DAY
(Ms. GARCIA of Texas asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute and to revise and extend
her remarks.)
Ms. GARCIA of Texas. Madam Speak-
er, yesterday, we observed Latina
Equal Pay Day. Latinas across the
country made our voices heard, de-
manding an end to the gender pay gap
that affects Latinas the most.
We Latinas are ‘‘luchadoras’’—fight-
ers. Yet, on average, Latinas make 53
cents to the dollar earned by White,
non-Hispanic men. We are talking
about our ‘‘madres, our abuelitas, our
hijas, y tias’’—mothers, grandmothers,
daughters, and aunts.
Hardworking Latinas deserve better.
We should not have to work 23 months
to make what White, non-Hispanic men
make in 12 months.
We must level the playing field. It is
not only the right thing to do, but
America works best when women are
empowered and treated equally.
I won’t stop fighting until Latinas
and all women receive equal pay for
equal work.
f
CELEBRATING GEORGE HYAK’S
100TH BIRTHDAY
(Mr. CLOUD asked and was given per-
mission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. CLOUD. Madam Speaker, I rise
to today to wish Mr. George Hyak of
Victoria, Texas, a heartfelt happy 100th
birthday and to thank him for his serv-
ice to our country.
George is an example of a life well
lived. He and his precious bride, Sarah,
have been married for 71 years, and
their family has flourished.
George served our Nation heroically
during World War II, storming the
beaches of Normandy on D-day, fight-
ing in the Battle of the Bulge, and lib-
erating a Nazi concentration camp.
After the war, he returned home and
continued operating the Dick’s Food
Stores in Victoria, which he cofounded.
The longevity of the store earned it the
Texas Treasure Business Award.
As we look to celebrate Thanks-
giving, we as a nation do have a lot to
be thankful for, including veterans like
George. May Mr. Hyak’s life serve as a
reminder of the price that he and oth-
ers like him paid for our freedom.
f
OUR FEDERAL FISCAL HOUSE IS
OUT OF ORDER
(Mr. CASE asked and was given per-
mission to address the House for 1
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:21 Nov 22, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00031 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K21NO7.061 H21NOPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H9156 November 21, 2019
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. CASE. Madam Speaker, can any-
one seriously dispute that our Federal
fiscal house is seriously out of order?
Our national debt stands at $23 tril-
lion, doubling in just the last decade
alone. No end is in sight, as we just
registered $1 trillion annual deficit in
the last fiscal year, and this fiscal year
looks the same or worse. Interest pay-
ments alone will exceed defense spend-
ing by 2025.
We need look no further than into
the mirror for the root cause. It is our
collective inability to face the music of
fiscal responsibility and sustainability.
We clearly need help.
H.R. 5211, the Sustainable Budget
Act, cointroduced today with my col-
league from Arkansas, the ranking
member of the Budget Committee, Mr.
WOMACK, would follow the models of
Simpson-Bowles and other such inde-
pendent commissions charged with fo-
cusing on our debt and recommending
a sustainable path forward for an up-
or-down vote by Congress.
In that, our bill is similar to other
measures I have also cointroduced:
H.R. 4907, the TRUST Act, with Rep-
resentatives GALLAGHER and MCADAMS;
and H.R. 5178, the RAFT Act, with Rep-
resentative BURCHETT. Together, they
offer a far better way forward to tack-
ling our debt crisis, and I urge their
prompt consideration and passage.
f
FUNDING FOR PUERTO RICO’S
MEDICAID PROGRAM
(Miss GONZÁLEZ-COLÓN of Puerto
Rico asked and was given permission to
address the House for 1 minute and to
revise and extend her remarks.)
Miss GONZÁLEZ-COLÓN of Puerto
Rico. Madam Speaker, today I rise, and
I am pleased to say that the continuing
resolution to keep our government
open until December 20 extends, once
again, the provision of the 2018 BBA to
provide Puerto Rico a 100 percent Fed-
eral Medical Assistance Percentage in
the Medicaid program.
However, the time available for an
extension is quickly coming to an end.
Unless Congress acts quickly to ade-
quately fund this vital program, Puer-
to Rico will face a $1 billion shortfall
as early as March of 2020, putting in
grave jeopardy the 1.1 million Amer-
ican citizens in my district who rely on
this program.
This insecurity in funding also
makes it impossible to negotiate long-
term provider contracts, and it dis-
rupts the ongoing implementation of
important transparency and integrity
measures.
Without decisive and long-term fund-
ing, the progress into stabilizing Puer-
to Rico’s Medicaid program could be
reversed as payments to providers
would once again fall close to 40 per-
cent Medicare fee schedule and accel-
erate provider exodus.
Puerto Rico will also not be able to
pay for lifesaving hepatitis C medicines
that positively impact the quality of
life, while decreasing long-term health
costs.
Puerto Rico will also not be able to
subsidize dual Medicare B premiums
and shift those healthcare costs to
Medicare, where they belong.
The lack of a solution for Puerto
Rico’s Medicaid program, such as the
one proposed by the House, could have
a ripple effect on our healthcare sys-
tem.
I urge my colleagues to act on Med-
icaid provisions.
f
HONORING THE MEMORY OF
VERNA CAMPBELL
(Mr. ROSE of New York asked and
was given permission to address the
House for 1 minute.)
Mr. ROSE of New York. Madam
Speaker, I rise today in solemn mem-
ory of Ms. Verna Campbell, a con-
stituent, beloved mother, grandmother,
and eternal fighter for the working
class.
Ms. Campbell left us on October 22
but leaves behind a powerful legacy in
my community. She was a loving
mother to 10 children and step-chil-
dren, and always worked to support her
second family, 1199 SEIU.
Ms. Verna was a long-time delegate
for 1199, where she fought for labor
rights, fair pay, and dignity for all
workers.
She devoted herself to the Staten Is-
land Democratic Association, the Stat-
en Island NAACP, the Staten Island
Women’s Political Caucus, and the
120th Precinct Council.
Ms. Verna was a founder of the Stat-
en Island African American Political
Association and, over the years, has
worked to bring African Americans
into Staten Island politics.
Ms. Verna also played key roles in
electing numerous African Americans
to public office throughout her life.
Staten Island and all of New York
City will deeply miss Ms. Verna Camp-
bell, but we are all blessed for her
membership in our community
throughout her lifetime.
f
b 1300
HOUSE DEMOCRATS ARE WORKING
FOR THE PEOPLE
(Mr. TED LIEU of California asked
and was given permission to address
the House for 1 minute.)
Mr. TED LIEU of California. Madam
Speaker, the House of Representatives
this year has had one of the most pro-
ductive sessions in U.S. history. We
have passed over 275 bipartisan bills to
the United States Senate. Let me just
say that again: We have passed over 275
bipartisan bills to the United States
Senate.
Unfortunately, the Republican-led
Senate has not gotten around to let-
ting these bills go for a vote.
Some of these bills include common-
sense legislation such as the Violence
Against Women Act reauthorization,
the Save the Internet Act, Securing
America’s Federal Elections Act, the
Gold Star Family Tax Relief Act, the
Climate Action Now Act, the Paycheck
Fairness Act, and the Raise the Wage
Act. It is time for the do-nothing Re-
publicans to start doing their jobs.
f
RECOGNIZING NATIONAL RURAL
HEALTH DAY
(Ms. PLASKETT asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend her re-
marks.)
Ms. PLASKETT. Madam Speaker,
today is National Rural Health Day.
More than 60 million Americans live
in rural areas. Unfortunately, these in-
dividuals tend to be in poorer health
than those who live in urban and sub-
urban areas. They experience greater
rates of chronic disease than the rest of
the U.S. population.
The U.S. Virgin Islands is one of
these rural areas. Like most rural
America, the VI has high rates of
chronic disease, diabetes, heart dis-
ease, stroke, and experience unique
challenges in accessing healthcare.
The Virgin Islands, however, due to
geographic distance from the contig-
uous United States and our territorial
status, face even further challenges, in-
cluding inequitable Federal funding.
Our health providers and families have
to make difficult decisions, not based
on care but on distance and funding.
All Americans deserve easy accessi-
bility to high quality healthcare. I
want to take this time to recognize the
healthcare providers in the Virgin Is-
lands for their tireless work and com-
mitment to the health and well-being
of our people.
f
RECOGNIZING LINDA LAURIA FOR
34 YEARS OF SERVICE WITH THE
SOCIAL SECURITY ADMINISTRA-
TION
(Ms. OCASIO-CORTEZ asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute and to revise and extend
her remarks.)
Ms. OCASIO-CORTEZ. Madam
Speaker, I rise today to recognize a
long-term public servant and New
York-14 constituent, Linda Lauria.
On November 30, 2019, Linda Lauria,
public affairs specialist, will retire
from the Social Security Administra-
tion. Linda’s retirement will mark the
close of a phenomenal 34-year career
that spans multiple decades of public
service.
Linda began her career with the So-
cial Security Administration in August
1973 as a claims development clerk in
the east Bronx Social Security office
as a GS–2, as she proudly notes. Linda
was subsequently promoted to posi-
tions in the field, including service rep-
resentative and claims representative.
Linda has been instrumental in the
timely resolution of several thousand
cases, eliminating barriers between our
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:21 Nov 22, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00032 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K21NO7.063 H21NOPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H9157
November 21, 2019
most vulnerable people and their essen-
tial benefits.
Linda’s outstanding contributions to
the agency have been recognized with
several awards, including the Deputy
Commissioner Citation and the New
York Regional Management Society’s
Regional Office Employee of the Year.
She has also been instrumental in help-
ing my own district team from the
very beginning.
Throughout Linda’s career, she has
brought intelligence, technical savvy,
practical knowledge, and a strong com-
mitment to excellence to every assign-
ment.
Today my staff, the Social Security
Administration, and I thank Linda for
her dedication, passion, and commit-
ment to our community.
f
RECOGNIZING ATLANTICARE
(Mr. VAN DREW asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. VAN DREW. Madam Speaker,
today I want to recognize AtlantiCare,
a major health system in south Jersey
for over one century. The group started
with one hospital in 1898 and has now
expanded to over 100 different locations
across the region to fulfill the medical
needs of our community.
AtlantiCare improves the health and
happiness of the people of south Jersey
by providing high-quality medical care,
which has recently been celebrated
with the Critical Care Gold Beacon
Award, the Emergency Nurses Associa-
tion’s Lantern Award, and many more.
Beyond health services, AtlantiCare
has been a staple to south Jersey be-
cause of their focus on community out-
reach programs, which are so very im-
portant. They have tackled a variety of
issues facing our area.
AtlantiCare has installed programs
to supply healthy school lunches to
children, to bring fresh produce to
those struggling with food insecurity,
and to provide residency opportunities
for local medical school students so
that they stay in the area.
In south Jersey we are very lucky to
have AtlantiCare’s accessible medical
services and outreach programs to bet-
ter our region. I thank AtlantiCare and
all the staff and all the volunteers for
caring about our community in south
Jersey.
f
OUR CHILDREN ARE OUR
PRIORITY
(Ms. JACKSON LEE asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute.)
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Madam Speaker,
I have worked in the area of criminal
justice and juvenile justice for as many
years as I have served in the United
States Congress.
Dealing with juveniles here in this
country and giving them a pathway of
opportunity to success has been my
dream and goal. I intend to introduce
the Omnibus Juvenile Justice Restora-
tion and Uplift Act.
There are 75 million juveniles, plus,
in the United States since 2013. That
number has grown. That means that
one in four have the possibility of
being in the juvenile delinquency sys-
tem. That should not be tolerated.
My bill will include adding more
trained social workers; giving sensi-
tivity training and special training to
our law enforcement officers, who real-
ly want to be role models; to Ban the
Box, so they do not have a lifetime of
saying, as a juvenile I was arrested;
ending solitary confinement through-
out the entire United States for juve-
niles; alternative sentencing, so that
old-fashioned juvenile detention jails
can be closed; gang intervention, so
that we can find a way for resolution
and direction and another way for gang
prevention, violence cessation, wrap-
around services, closing all juvenile
centers over a 10-year period, and fi-
nally, conflict resolution.
I encourage my colleagues to join me
in introducing this legislation. Our
children are our priority.
f
THE SENATE MUST ACT ON
LEGISLATION
(Mr. GREEN of Texas asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute and to revise and extend
his remarks.)
Mr. GREEN of Texas. Madam Speak-
er, I rise today in support of the For
the People Agenda generated by this
House, and I am antithetical to the
Senate’s provision, which is a for-the-
President agenda.
We, the Members of the House, have
passed legislation for gun safety. The
President has merely talked about it.
We have passed legislation to help
with personal and financial security for
women. The President says ugly things
about women.
We pass legislation that will help the
Dreamers. The President is about end-
ing the dream.
We have passed legislation helping
those who are being discriminated
against in the LGBTQ community. The
President ignores this community.
We passed legislation to help with
election and democracy security. The
President wants to do all that he can
to help Putin and those in Russia with
their security, ignoring ours.
In our House we have, for the people,
passed a bill to increase the minimum
wage. The President seems to be anti-
thetical to it. If we have our For the
People Agenda and we pass these bills
and send them to the Senate, the least
that the Senate can do is generate
their own version so that these bills
may go to a conference committee.
They don’t have to have a for-the-
President agenda. I am for the people.
The Senate is for the President.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Mem-
bers are reminded to refrain from en-
gaging in personalities toward the
President.
RECOGNIZING NATIONAL RURAL
HEALTH DAY
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under
the Speaker’s announced policy of Jan-
uary 3, 2019, the gentleman from Ari-
zona (Mr. O’HALLERAN) is recognized
for 60 minutes as the designee of the
majority leader.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. O’HALLERAN. Madam Speaker,
I ask unanimous consent that all Mem-
bers have 5 legislative days to revise
and extend their remarks and include
extraneous material on the subject of
my Special Order.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from Arizona?
There was no objection.
Mr. O’HALLERAN. Madam Speaker,
I rise today in honor of National Rural
Health Day.
To mark this important day, my col-
leagues and I will discuss the unique
challenges that rural America faces
when seeking quality healthcare close
to home or as close to home as rural
America has it.
I am proud to represent Arizona’s
First Congressional District in the
House of Representatives. Our district
is actually larger than the entire State
of Illinois, and it is one of the most
rural in the country.
This year, I have held 26 town halls
across this vast and diverse district. At
each and every one I hear from rural
residents struggling to access quality
healthcare, especially emergency care.
Many of my constituents must spend
hours traveling hundreds of miles to
access any kind of care, let alone spe-
cialist care or maternity care.
Since I was elected, I have worked
with my colleagues on both sides of the
aisle to identify legislative solutions to
the issues our rural residents are fac-
ing. This year I introduced the CHIME
Act, legislation to extend the Commu-
nity Health Center Fund and the Na-
tional Health Service Corps for 5 years
and increase funding for priority areas.
Community health centers are crit-
ical to serve hundreds of thousands of
patients every year just in Arizona. In
my district, and many rural areas,
community health centers are often
the primary care facility for a large
portion of the population. If funding
for community health centers in Ari-
zona were to lapse, just in my district,
tens of thousands of rural residents
would be left without access to critical
care.
My language to extend this funding
was included in this week’s continuing
resolution, but it is at risk of expiring
if we cannot come together to fund the
government. We need a long-term solu-
tion. I will continue to work with my
colleagues on both sides of the aisle to
pass this bill into law permanently, so
our communities have the support and
certainty they need.
Additionally this year, I introduced
the GME, graduate medical education
amendment, to the Lower Drug Costs
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:21 Nov 22, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00033 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K21NO7.065 H21NOPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H9158 November 21, 2019
Now Act. My amendment would in-
struct the Department of Health and
Human Services to establish a grant
program for hospitals in rural and
medically underserved areas. We must
act now to ensure that rural commu-
nities have the resources they need.
According to the Association of
American Medical Colleges, our coun-
try will suffer a shortage of over 120,000
physicians by 2032. Rural areas will be
hit especially hard. We must do what
we can now to prevent this from hap-
pening and to mitigate the effects. My
amendment would help incentivize doc-
tors to stay and practice in our rural
communities. We know very well that,
when a resident comes to a rural com-
munity or any other community, there
is a higher percentage that want to
stay in that community after their
residency.
This May, after years of work with
stakeholders, community leaders, and
veterans’ advocates, I was able to se-
cure Federal funding for the construc-
tion of veterans nursing homes in Flag-
staff, in my district, and Yuma in west-
ern Arizona. We found out during that
time that you can’t build a facility like
that on Tribal lands, so we have a bill
that is trying to change that so the
many Tribal nations in our country
and nations like the Navajo Nation
that are as big as West Virginia can
have a nursing center close to the
many veterans that they have.
For too long these rural construction
projects were unfairly penalized by an
outdated VA funding formula that left
too many families without the help
that they deserve.
b 1315
We must continue to expand access
to healthcare for rural Americans, but
I know these are merely first steps.
There is much work to be done and
many hurdles that must be crossed be-
fore we ensure that our veterans, sen-
iors, and families across rural America
have access to quality healthcare that
is close to home.
Just quickly, rural America is prob-
ably tied closer to urban America than
many people know. But the families
who we need there—who supply the
food, the water, the energy, everything
that makes urban America survive—
won’t be there if we don’t have people
who want to and are able to live there.
That means we have to have good
schools, good healthcare, and good job
opportunities.
We want our children to move back
to rural America, and we will not have
that if we do not address the appro-
priate concerns.
Madam Speaker, I yield to the gen-
tleman from New York (Mr. BRINDISI),
my colleague.
Mr. BRINDISI. Madam Speaker, I
thank the gentleman from Arizona
(Mr. O’HALLERAN), my friend, for yield-
ing to me.
Madam Speaker, I rise in honor of
National Rural Health Day.
I am proud to represent a rural dis-
trict in upstate New York. These are
strong communities of hardworking
men and women, but too often, I hear
about the challenges facing these fami-
lies.
I recently heard from farmers at a
roundtable about the stress of losing a
farm that has been in the family for
generations and the barriers to reach-
ing out for help when you are in dis-
tress.
Rural Americans too often face long
travel times to access healthcare and a
lack of adequate resources locally.
Tragically, the CDC reports that the
suicide rate in rural America is 45 per-
cent higher than in urban areas.
We need to do better.
That is why I am proud to work with
my colleagues Representative KATKO
and Representative CRAIG to introduce
the Seeding Rural Resilience Act. This
bipartisan bill will direct more re-
sources to reduce the stigma around
mental healthcare and help connect
farmers with available resources.
It shouldn’t matter if you live in New
Berlin or New York City: You deserve
access to quality, affordable
healthcare.
It is time for Congress to act to de-
liver more access to affordable
healthcare across our rural commu-
nities.
Madam Speaker, I urge consideration
and swift passage of my bill and other
actions to help address the specific
needs of rural Americans.
Mr. O’HALLERAN. Madam Speaker,
I thank the gentleman for his remarks.
Madam Speaker, I yield to the gen-
tleman from New Jersey (Mr. VAN
DREW).
Mr. VAN DREW. Madam Speaker, I
thank the gentleman for yielding.
I am honored to be joined by my col-
leagues today on National Rural
Health Day to express the importance
of rural healthcare across America.
Nearly 57 million Americans, or
about one out of five, call their com-
munities rural communities, and they
call these places their home. That in-
cludes many residents of my district in
south Jersey.
The State of New Jersey Department
of Health defines a rural community as
an area within the State that has a
population density of fewer than 500
persons per square mile. Most of these
areas tend to not only have a lack of
healthcare but more need for acces-
sible, affordable care.
The populations in rural commu-
nities tend to have more households
with people over 65 years of age, many
of whom live alone. Additionally, they
have higher rates of suicide, cancer, di-
abetes, asthma, and obesity. Most do
not have any health insurance at all.
We must act on health legislation
that not only supports the develop-
ment of community health centers and
their accessibility but also finds cre-
ative ways to support these rural com-
munities. Ultimately, we will save
their lives.
It is important that we address these
life-threatening rural health concerns
and foster available and accessible
health services for all of these rural
Americans.
Mr. O’HALLERAN. Madam Speaker,
I thank the gentleman for his com-
ments.
Madam Speaker, I yield to the gen-
tleman from California (Mr. COSTA),
my colleague.
Mr. COSTA. Madam Speaker, I thank
Congressman O’HALLERAN for leading
this Blue Dog Special Order on a very
important issue affecting rural Amer-
ica.
The Blue Dogs, obviously, represent
the breadth and width and diversity of
our country, but many of us represent
rural areas. Healthcare for every Amer-
ican is a critical need, a critical issue.
In 2010, before the Affordable Care
Act became law, in the district that I
represent in California, in the San Joa-
quin Valley, 22 percent of my constitu-
ents had no healthcare insurance what-
soever, and 17 percent were under-
insured.
The Affordable Care Act has a num-
ber of areas where we could provide im-
provements if we could get bipartisan
agreement, but the fact is that we have
the ability to protect individuals who
have preexisting conditions; children
can be on their parents’ healthcare in-
surance until the age of 25; things have
really expanded with Medicaid and
Medicare; and, what often gets over-
looked, $8 billion was provided in the
Affordable Care Act for rural
healthcare clinics across America.
What does this mean in my district,
a district that represents one of the
richest agricultural regions in the en-
tire country and the world? We have
gone, in 9 years, from 22 percent under-
insured to 10 percent underinsured. We
have cut the number of people who
have no insurance by more than half.
We have reduced the level of those who
are underinsured.
In addition, clinics in my area,
Camarena, Livingston, Golden Valley,
Clinica Sierra, to mention at least four
or five, have all expanded their rural
healthcare clinics to provide more
healthcare for people who live in rural
areas, from prenatal to elderly and ev-
erything in between.
In addition, they have done innova-
tive things like other clinics across
America. They have put healthcare
clinics in high schools and middle
schools, which has provided greater ac-
cess to healthcare.
We have made a difference. We have
improved the level of healthcare. But
the reality is this: For three decades,
the number of hospitals in rural areas
in our country has declined at a steep
pace. Among the 50 rural hospitals in
California, more than a dozen have
closed since the early 2000s.
It also has been devastating not only
to the level of healthcare but to the
residents who live in those commu-
nities, hardworking people who con-
tribute to our economy every day, part
of our farm communities.
I think it is important to note that
for every 1,000 people in the place I
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:21 Nov 22, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00034 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K21NO7.067 H21NOPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H9159
November 21, 2019
live, we have 0.9 physicians. Anywhere
else in California, for every 1,000 peo-
ple, there are 2.2 physicians, twice as
many physicians.
While this is an important part of
improving healthcare, we also need to
get medical schools. That is something
that I have worked on. I have worked
on trying to get additional medical
schools not only across the country but
in the San Joaquin Valley.
We know that if you get a medical
school there, it provides an oppor-
tunity for students who graduate from
that medical school to practice in the
area in which they have graduated.
We have proof of that. We have resi-
dency programs that I have been very
supportive of with the University of
California, San Francisco, UCSF,
which has over 280 residents who are
being trained in the valley right now.
Over half of those physicians over the
last 40 years who have graduated from
that residency program have stayed to
practice in our valley. So a medical
school is an important part of an over-
all strategy.
As Blue Dogs, we want to continue to
support expanded healthcare through-
out our rural areas. This is something
I believe Democrats and Republicans
can come together on in a bipartisan
manner.
These are many ways in which we
can work to ensure that rural America
gets reliable, affordable healthcare
that they deserve, like every other
American. That is why Blue Dogs are
speaking out on this issue today.
Since taking office, this administra-
tion, sadly, has made repeated efforts
to eliminate the Affordable Care Act
without putting anything in its place.
That makes no sense. That makes no
sense whatsoever.
Just this week, we voted on a con-
tinuing resolution to keep government
open for the next 6 weeks. We should
have a real budget in place at this
time. It is irresponsible to ever, as the
President did earlier this year, shut
down government. But in this con-
tinuing resolution, we have funding to
ensure that our community health cen-
ters keep receiving the funding they
need to stay open and serve their pa-
tients.
This year alone, Congress has voted
on 10 different proposals to improve
healthcare and stabilize the Affordable
Care Act for American families. They
are over in the Senate right now.
Sadly, instead of taking action, Sen-
ator MITCH MCCONNELL refuses to bring
up these good measures.
We could be lowering the cost of pre-
scription drugs, which affects all Amer-
icans, whether you live in rural areas
or urban areas, and ensuring that we
protect those who have preexisting
conditions, preexisting conditions of
heart disease, cancer, diabetes.
These bills, sadly, are collecting dust
on the majority leader’s desk.
I want to close by saying, as a 15-year
member of the Blue Dog Coalition, our
caucus stands together to try to im-
prove healthcare for all Americans.
For those of us who represent rural
America, like Congressman
O’HALLERAN, myself, and many others,
it is important to note that we must
improve our healthcare system for the
people who live in our rural areas.
It is time for the Senate to do their
job and pass these important bills.
We will continue to work to try to
expand access to healthcare in rural
areas with our clinics and to create
medical schools in areas that are sig-
nificantly underserved.
While we continue to patiently ask
the Senate to act, I know the Blue
Dogs will continue to advocate for poli-
cies that improve access to healthcare
for all Americans, especially for those
rural Americans we represent.
Madam Speaker, I thank the gen-
tleman for his leadership in this impor-
tant area as the legislative chair for
the Blue Dog caucus. The citizens of
Arizona are fortunate to have a good
Representative.
Mr. O’HALLERAN. Madam Speaker,
California is, too.
Mr. COSTA. Madam Speaker, I thank
the gentleman again, and I wish him a
happy Thanksgiving.
Mr. O’HALLERAN. Madam Speaker,
I thank all of my colleagues for joining
me to participate in this important
show of support by the Blue Dog caucus
for rural healthcare and access across
America today.
A couple of quick examples: First of
all, when you are traveling across the
country from urban America through
rural America, this hospital issue, this
medical issue, is your issue because the
hospitals that we have are the hos-
pitals you are going to be taken to.
The ambulances that have to take an
hour or 2 hours to get to the site where
you are at are the ambulances that you
are going to be taking, too.
People on dialysis in rural America,
whether it is a Tribal community or
another community in rural America,
some of them have to drive 2 hours one
way to get their treatment and then 2
hours back home. Sometimes they do 3
days a week, sometimes up to 4 days a
week, sick people traveling hundreds
and hundreds and hundreds of miles to
get this type of treatment so they can
live.
Cancer is the same way. Cancer pa-
tients have to find a way to get that
treatment. It is very scarce in rural
America.
Rural communities make up the very
fabric of America. Their success is our
Nation’s success.
I am committed to fighting to im-
prove access to healthcare for rural,
Tribal, and other underserved commu-
nities, for hardworking families and
veterans who often travel hundreds of
miles for basic care.
As I stated before, my district is
rural for the most part, and we have
60,000 veterans within the district.
For rural healthcare to be totally
successful, we must improve broadband
and expand it so that telemedicine is
meaningful for the people who live in
rural areas across America.
Improving access to care is not a par-
tisan issue. We must come together
across the aisle and continue to work
to identify legislative solutions to the
barriers our rural residents face.
Madam Speaker, I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
f
MESSAGE FROM THE SENATE
A message from the Senate by Ms.
Byrd, one of its clerks, announced that
the Senate has agreed to pass without
amendment a concurrent resolution of
the House of the following title:
H. Con. Res. 75. Concurrent resolution di-
recting the Clerk of the House of Representa-
tives to make a correction in the enrollment
of H.R. 3055.
The message also announced that the
Senate agrees to the amendment of the
House to the amendment of the Senate
to the bill (H.R. 3055) ‘‘An Act making
appropriations for the Departments of
Commerce and Justice, Science, and
Related Agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2020, and for
other purposes.’’.
f
b 1330
GLOBAL ENTREPRENEURSHIP
WEEK
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under
the Speaker’s announced policy of Jan-
uary 3, 2019, the gentleman from Ar-
kansas (Mr. HILL) is recognized for 60
minutes as the designee of the minor-
ity leader.
Mr. HILL of Arkansas. Madam
Speaker, today I rise to mark Global
Entrepreneurship Week, where all
across the globe cities will be hosting
events that will inspire millions to ex-
plore their potential as an entre-
preneur while fostering connections
and increasing collaborations within
their communities.
Small businesses and entrepreneurs
are the engines of our economy in Ar-
kansas and across our country. They
support millions of jobs in this Nation.
They create and support jobs within
their local communities and employ
approximately half the private-sector
workers in the United States.
As a co-chairman and founder of the
House Entrepreneurship Caucus, I am
proud to celebrate the visionary men
and women who boldly pursue their
passion to build the growth businesses
that fuel our economy.
The United States has served as a
global beacon of innovation, delivering
remarkable new products and services
that improve the lives of all Ameri-
cans. Today, over 99 percent of U.S.
employers are small businesses that
create 57 million jobs that generate 44
percent of our economic activity.
The spirit of the startup is built into
our American DNA. Our country is
home to the world’s greatest inven-
tions, companies, and technological ad-
vances because we believe that anyone
with a good idea and determination can
build a business that changes the
world.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:21 Nov 22, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00035 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K21NO7.069 H21NOPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H9160 November 21, 2019
The House Entrepreneurship Caucus
believes in empowering the pursuit of
America’s innovators by removing the
barriers that make it harder to start a
business in this country.
Over the past four decades, I have
had a long career focused on different
aspects of entrepreneurship and tech-
nology. Back in 1980, I helped start a
payment system innovator in the
banking industry, a company that be-
came PULSE, the largest shared ATM/
POS system in the Southwest. PULSE
is now owned by Discover.
I didn’t know it at the time, as a
young person, but I was an entre-
preneur. I took a leave from a public
company that I worked for and helped
start an innovative financial tech-
nology business that really changed
the face of banking in Texas in those
years.
Likewise, later in the late 1980s and
early 1990s, I served as Deputy Assist-
ant Secretary for Corporate Finance at
the Treasury. There, working with my
colleagues at the Commerce Depart-
ment, we focused on how to make
American companies more competi-
tive.
How do we lower barriers to our glob-
al competitiveness? That was a key
moment at that time, given the world
in the late 1980s, with amazing in-
creases in foreign competition from
Asia and from Europe.
Also, how do we reduce the barriers
for investment in technology compa-
nies, something that, now, America,
again, 30 years later, is so well known
for? And yet, still investing in tech-
nology, whether it is biotech or Silicon
Valley or in the worldwide web invest-
ing, that is still a challenge to come up
with the right number of dollars to
support investing in technology, where
you don’t have traditional assets.
So throughout my career, I have
tried to lead in looking for solutions to
build our entrepreneurship and build
our business ecosystem, and I have had
the pleasure to work in a variety of dif-
ferent industries.
As a chamber chairman and as a
community banker, I led the way in
my hometown of Little Rock to im-
prove our ecosystem by supporting the
BioVentures incubator at the Univer-
sity of Arkansas medical campus, sup-
port the creation of a venture center.
These are all things that I have seen
help create a spirit of entrepreneurship
in not only Little Rock, but across the
country.
Perhaps Steve Case has said it best.
By creating an environment where
there is the rise of the rest, where tech-
nology, entrepreneurship, business
startups are not limited to the West
Coast or the East Coast of the United
States, but are spread across all of our
towns and communities in a better
way, things like the innovation hub or
the program called the Conductor are
bringing to middle America the kinds
of entrepreneurship talents and abili-
ties that we need.
But the most things that a startup
business needs, more than anything
else besides capital, is to take that idea
and have a good set of mentors or ad-
visers. That is something that, again,
the Conductor and the innovation hubs
in our small business development cen-
ters across the country help create,
that local community entrepreneurship
culture.
Now, since joining Congress some 41⁄2,
almost, now, 5 years ago, I have contin-
ued to focus my work to expand the
flow of capital, reduce barriers to busi-
ness startups and business growth, and
consistently, Madam Speaker, I have
tailored my thoughts in the following
key areas that Federal policy can in-
fluence entrepreneurship:
We need to tailor regulatory regimes
for businesses. We need to be very sen-
sitive about the regulatory burden to a
startup or to a small business or to a
mom-and-pop.
We need to lower taxes for capital in-
vestment and capital gains taxation to
encourage long-term investments, and
some of the changes that we made in
the 2017 tax bill reflect that.
Lowering taxes on investment, en-
couraging investments in opportunity
zones, encouraging long-term capital
investment, returning capital to the
United States, all this creates a better
entrepreneurship environment.
We want to mitigate barriers for
companies that want to go public, that
want that ultimate recognition of rais-
ing capital on the public markets.
Over the last three decades, we have
seen the number of public companies
fall, Madam Speaker, dramatically,
and we want to know what are the bar-
riers that are causing fewer companies
to go public in our country.
We want to reward innovation.
We want to make sure Federal poli-
cies streamline efficiencies and compli-
ance for our business.
And, finally, we want to make sure
that credit is available equally across
this great country.
In furtherance of these ideals, I
would like to highlight the work of the
Kauffman Foundation and their new
report just released, ‘‘America’s New
Business Plan.’’
The Kauffman Foundation is a leader
in this field and recently formed the
‘‘Start Us Up’’ coalition, in collabora-
tion with over 100 entrepreneurship ad-
vocacy groups, to address many of the
issues that I have touched on and am
discussing today.
America’s New Business Plan out-
lines four key principles that are nec-
essary to support entrepreneurship and
business development:
Number one, opportunity: a level
playing field and less red tape. When it
comes to starting a business, entre-
preneurs need a level playing field to
compete with larger, more established
enterprises.
Number two, funding: equal access to
the right kind of capital—not just bank
loans, but also venture capital. The
idea of an innovation grant, called an
SBIR, the opportunity to raise angel
capital or venture capital.
Number three, knowledge: the know-
how to start a business, including un-
derstanding the requirements and bar-
riers that come with turning an idea
into reality.
Having been engaged in so many
emerging companies and startup com-
panies over my career, that is always
that strict assessment that an entre-
preneur, a visionary, a startup com-
pany owner really needs, perspective:
perspective on what are the require-
ments needed to start your business
and any barriers that would make it
difficult, and having a realistic plan to
deal with that.
And the fourth key area that
Kauffman outlines is support: the abil-
ity for all to take risks, while having
the proper support after becoming an
entrepreneur and leaving behind that
stability of a traditional job and that
paycheck every 2 weeks and the bene-
fits that come with it.
That is why I emphasize those four
areas are so key.
The University of Arkansas at Fay-
etteville recently established their
Startup Village to address a few of
these issues by providing students and
the community entrepreneurs with the
resources and support needed early in
the process to help them launch their
own business and pursue happiness.
I know how important it is to have a
wide range of funding options that I
have talked about. In central Arkan-
sas, I am proud to note that private eq-
uity has created over 1,600 jobs and in-
vested more than $2 billion just in the
last 5 years, demonstrating that Steve
Case is right, that all communities can
share in this prosperity if they have
that right ecosystem.
Specifically, to push some of these
ideals, I have supported different
causes and different legislation in this
House that I want to highlight during
Global Entrepreneurship Week.
First, we formed the Entrepreneur-
ship Caucus to address these issues and
have our support in the House of job
creators across this country. We did
that in conjunction with the United
States Senate, which also has started
an Entrepreneurship Caucus. It is led
by Senator KLOBUCHAR and Senator
SCOTT. I was pleased to, here in the
House, have my colleagues join me
from House Financial Services, House
Ways and Means, and House Small
Business.
To start it, we had my colleagues—
Congressmen FOSTER, CHABOT, MURPHY
of Florida, SCHWEIKERT, and VEASEY—
all coming together with an idea that
we will be a voice to create, I would
say, an ability to watch for legislation
in this House that may have either a
positive effect on capital formation
and business formation or a deleterious
effect.
Number two, we have introduced the
Enhancing Entrepreneurship for the
21st Century Act.
As a part of this caucus work, I have
introduced legislation with the co-
chairs that directs the Secretary of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:21 Nov 22, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00036 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K21NO7.071 H21NOPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H9161
November 21, 2019
Commerce to conduct a comprehensive
study into the underlying economic
factors driving the decline in rates in
entrepreneurship. Senators KLOBUCHAR
and SCOTT have introduced a Senate
companion of this bill, as well.
I also introduced with my friend,
Representative SCHWEIKERT from Ari-
zona, a bill that I saw was a big help to
people starting a business, and I call it
the Fair Investment Opportunities for
Professional Experts Act. What this
does is it changes the definition of an
accredited investor.
Right now, Madam Speaker, you
have to invest in a private business to
participate in a venture capital idea, to
go into what the SEC calls a reg D pri-
vate placement offering. You have to
be an accredited investor. You have to
have a certain net worth. You have to
have a certain income.
For many people, that discriminates
against their ability to lead a com-
pany, invest in a company in which
they have terrific expertise. So this
bill simply says that professional ex-
pertise can also count to that defini-
tion of an accredited investor, and it is
not limited to just high net worth indi-
viduals.
Additionally, I have cosponsored leg-
islation called Helping Startups Con-
tinue to Grow Act. This extends that
regulatory balance, those compliance
costs. It reduces those for emerging
growth companies from 5 years up to 10
years.
b 1345
This is where companies that are just
growing, accessing capital through the
public markets, have a lower regu-
latory burden now for 10 years rather
than 5.
So those are some of the key things
that we are doing in these first few
days of the House Entrepreneurship
Caucus. I encourage all of my col-
leagues to get involved, whether they
are entrepreneurs or not, if they have
that entrepreneurial spirit, or if they
believe that we should limit the gov-
ernment’s red tape in bogging down in-
novative Americans from starting their
business.
According to the Kauffman Founda-
tion, 79 percent of new business owners
feel they did not have that kind of sup-
port from government when they start-
ed their business.
The House Entrepreneurship Caucus
was created to attack that issue and
identify comprehensive efforts on how
to answer to these problems that have
limited business formation and make it
easier to start a business.
Working with entrepreneurs, busi-
ness leaders, and economists to iden-
tify the root causes of what the
Kauffman Foundation calls the current
startup slump is a critical step to
unleashing a new generation, a new
wave of business growth in this coun-
try.
Having effective policies in place to
encourage innovation can make all the
difference in the world for the entre-
preneur in their first few years of a
new endeavor.
I am working hard to create that en-
vironment where all Americans are
empowered to boldly pursue their pas-
sions and build a business that can
change the world. Supporting
innovators and new business founders
is a mission that is not a partisan one.
And with our voices, both Democrat
and Republican in this new caucus, it
won’t be.
COMMENDING ARKANSAS DEPARTMENT OF
HUMAN SERVICES FOR ADDRESSING MENTAL
HEALTH ISSUES
Mr. HILL of Arkansas. Madam
Speaker, I rise today to commend the
Arkansas Department of Human Serv-
ices for taking action to address the
urgent need for better mental
healthcare by establishing a support
line to connect Arkansans to low-cost
mental health and substance abuse
services.
Far too many Americans, about one
in five, are suffering from some form of
mental illness, a problem that has dis-
rupted too many families, caused too
much violence and pain, and cost far
too many lives.
Untreated, mental health disorders
and substance abuse have resulted in
countless tragedies in our country, in-
cluding over 45,000 lives lost to suicide
and 70,000 lives lost to drug overdoses,
both in 2017 alone.
We all must work together and con-
tinue to move forward in addressing
the issue of mental health and mental
health access and do what we can to
save the lives of all American citizens
and reverse this deadly trend of sui-
cides and overdoses.
The Arkansas support line is now
live. If you or a loved one need mental
health or substance abuse services,
please share this number and call the
DHS mental healthcare support line at
1–844–763–0198.
RECOGNIZING THE ARKANSAS CHAPTER OF THE
AMERICAN FOUNDATION FOR SUICIDE PREVEN-
TION
Mr. HILL of Arkansas. Madam
Speaker, I rise today to recognize the
good work of the Arkansas chapter of
the American Foundation for Suicide
Prevention and to call attention to
this topic that is so important
throughout our Nation.
Since I came to Congress, I have met
with Arkansas American Foundation
for Suicide Prevention members, their
families, and recently, Tyler West and
Christopher Epperson. This week I co-
sponsored H.R. 4194, the National Sui-
cide Hotline Designation Act, in honor
of them, and for so many like them and
their families that have been affected
by suicide and hope that we can reduce
suicides nationwide.
This bill would designate 988 as the
universal telephone number for the Na-
tional Suicide Prevention Lifeline,
making it just as simple as dialing 911
for emergency help.
I want to thank my friend and col-
league, Representative CHRIS STEWART,
for introducing this vital legislation.
We all must work together and do what
we can to save the lives of our fellow
citizens and reverse this deadly trend.
I look forward to the day we vote on
this House floor to make 988 that life-
saving number.
CONGRATULATING VINH LONG ON A NEW
MANUFACTURING FACILITY
Mr. HILL of Arkansas. Madam
Speaker, I rise to recognize and con-
gratulate Vinh Long on opening their
new manufacturing facility in
Morrilton, Arkansas.
Vinh Long Import-Export Manufac-
turing Company is headquartered in
Vinh Long, Vietnam, and was started
from a small weaving group for local
women in 1976.
It has now expanded into a multi-
million-dollar international operation.
The company has grown to become one
of Vietnam’s largest natural fiber man-
ufacturers.
The new facility in Arkansas will
have approximately 75 employees and
use local suppliers in the production of
furniture and other household goods
for retailers in North America such as
IKEA.
The company has invested more than
$10 million in the Morrilton facility,
which is the first Vietnamese-based
manufacturer to locate operations in
the United States. It is a pleasure to
visit this new facility, greet the team,
and learn about their plans for manu-
facturing in central Arkansas. I look
forward to their continued success.
RECOGNIZING BANK ON ARKANSAS PLUS
Mr. HILL of Arkansas. Madam
Speaker, I rise today to recognize Ar-
kansas’ efforts toward helping resi-
dents gain financial independence
through the Bank On Arkansas Plus
initiative. A statewide coalition of fi-
nancial institutions has partnered to
form Bank On Arkansas Plus to fight
the unbanked individual, which are in-
dividuals, citizens that don’t have ac-
cess to affordable, local banking serv-
ices.
Madam Speaker, around 27 percent of
Arkansans are considered under-
banked, and 1 in 10 Arkansas house-
holds have no bank account.
I want to thank my friend Darrin
Williams, the chief executive officer of
Southern Bancorp and a founding part-
ner in Bank On Arkansas Plus.
Darrin and other Bank On partners
provide checking accounts with no
overdraft fees, no minimum monthly
balances, and access to a debit or ATM
card for all participants.
Financial security is a freedom that
many people in the low-income areas of
our country may not be able to afford
or may not be able to have access to.
And as a former community banker in
Little Rock, I commend Darrin, his
team, and all of the participating fi-
nancial institutions for partnering to
create Bank On.
This is such a worthwhile strategy to
help all Arkansans have access and op-
portunity to build savings and build
wealth for themselves, and to have fi-
nancial independence.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:21 Nov 22, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00037 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K21NO7.072 H21NOPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H9162 November 21, 2019
CONGRATULATING HARDING UNIVERSITY
LIBRARIAN JEAN WALDROP
Mr. HILL of Arkansas. Madam
Speaker, I rise today to congratulate
Ms. Jean Waldrop, librarian of Harding
University, on receiving the Suzanne
Spurrier Academic Librarian Award.
This award is given—in memory of
Suzanne Spurrier, the former library
director at Harding University—each
year to the librarian who exemplifies
the spirit of outstanding service and is
dedicated to the professionalism that
we expect from all librarians.
Miss Waldrop has been working at
Harding’s Brackett Library since 2006
and oversaw several areas of the li-
brary before becoming its director. She
has served as the secretary for
ARKLink, a board member for Amigos,
and is currently serving on the White
County Regional Library System board
and the Searcy Public Library board.
I would like to extend my congratu-
lations to Jean Waldrop on receiving
this recognition and wish her much
continued success.
Madam Speaker, I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
f
HOUR OF MEETING ON TOMORROW
Mr. HILL of Arkansas. Madam
Speaker, I ask unanimous consent that
when the House adjourns today, it ad-
journ to meet at 1:30 p.m. tomorrow.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from Arkansas?
There was no objection.
f
IMPEACHMENT HEARINGS FIT A
PATH AND A CONTINUUM
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under
the Speaker’s announced policy of Jan-
uary 3, 2019, the Chair recognizes the
gentleman from Iowa (Mr. KING) for 30
minutes.
Mr. KING of Iowa. Madam Speaker,
it is my privilege to be recognized here
on the floor of the House of Represent-
atives, and to be recognized for 30 min-
utes here as the week closes out and we
head back to our districts for Thanks-
giving.
The scenario that has been playing
out here now for several weeks in this
Congress has been a topic across the
news, across the land, and certainly re-
verberates within the walls of this
building and the halls of the outside
buildings everywhere around this coun-
try.
I speak, of course, of the attempt to
impeach our President, President Don-
ald Trump. The circumstances around
this week and last week and the pre-
vious week are pretty fresh in our
minds, but I would like to paint the
scenario on how we got to this point
and how the effort to impeach Donald
Trump has evolved into the hearings
that we are seeing now that are taking
place before the Select Committee on
Intelligence—finally out in the open—
and the hearings and the deliberations
that I think are likely to take place on
the other side of this Thanksgiving di-
vide.
Madam Speaker, it all fits a path and
a continuum, and it is something that
one can trace back clear into as far
back, I will say, as perhaps the fall of
2015.
Being a Representative from Iowa, I
have been involved in the Presidential
selection process at the first-in-the-Na-
tion caucus. We did an event on Janu-
ary 24, 2015, that effectively launched
the Presidential campaign for the Na-
tion on that day and brought in a dozen
candidates that were eventually an-
nounced as candidates for President on
the Republican side, and a number of
other folks who we had speak that day
who we thought might enter into the
race.
There was a short handful that were
invited that didn’t come to that event.
But because of that, I found myself in
the middle of this churning of the nom-
ination process. I saw the policies and
the issues that flowed from that de-
bate, and I was in the middle of the de-
bate myself intensively for nearly a
year and a half.
At that event that we did in Des
Moines at the Hoyt Sherman Place—it
is a theater that our future President
Donald Trump spoke from the stage
that day, as did a good number of oth-
ers—as we watched this all unfold and
they saw that Donald Trump was mov-
ing closer and closer to the nomina-
tion—we didn’t know this at the time,
but we know it now—there were power-
ful forces within the departments of
government that were positioning
things against whoever the Republican
nominee would be, but certainly
against Donald Trump as he became
the nominee.
We have seen the texts that came
forth from Peter Strzok and from Lisa
Page that talked about how it could
never happen; that Donald Trump
could never beat Hillary Clinton. But
they had an insurance policy in the
event that that outside long shot actu-
ally took place.
Madam Speaker, I want people re-
minded of this because this insurance
policy is being executed right now here
in the House of Representatives in
these impeachment hearings that are
being conducted by ADAM SCHIFF, the
chairman of the Select Committee on
Intelligence.
Now, a number of things happened
that need to be investigated that were
not investigated nearly as deeply as
they should have been and that is, for
example, the mishandling of classified
information on Hillary Clinton’s serv-
er, her using a private server that she
had set up intentionally to avoid the
secure server that one would have as a
Secretary of State.
The evidence shows that it is very
likely, if not already confirmed, that
Barack Obama communicated with Hil-
lary Clinton through that server know-
ingly, and that he had an email address
that was exclusive to him, that was
certainly known by a number of people
who he communicated with on the off-
line off channel, against-the-law effort
to communicate outside the bounds of
the government secure servers.
That was going on and she, you
know, she paid for BleachBit. She hired
people to scrub those servers to get rid
of the information. There were over
30,000 emails that were the property of
the American people in the form of the
Federal Government that were de-
stroyed.
We haven’t found those, and she has
not been held accountable for that.
And the mishandling of that informa-
tion was clear. It was a stark violation
of Federal statute. In October of 2015,
and again in April of 2016, then-Presi-
dent Barack Obama said: Well, Hillary
Clinton would never intend to jeop-
ardize our national security.
And when he spoke those words, he
spoke those words into what became
later on, effectively, law. Because the
law doesn’t require that there be any
intent. Negligence, gross negligence, is
the only requirement.
She was clearly grossly negligent.
She certainly intended to circumvent
the secure servers that had been set up
for that very purpose of protecting the
classified information of all of those
emails that we got down out of An-
thony Weiner’s laptop. There was re-
ported to be 650,000. Some of them were
classified emails that went up into that
laptop of Anthony Weiner.
b 1400
But she was never taken to account
on that. There was an interview of Hil-
lary Clinton that took place July 2,
2016. That interview had in it, by testi-
mony of the then-Attorney General Lo-
retta Lynch, and also James Comey,
the director of the FBI, both testified
that there were eight agents in that
room that questioned Hillary Clinton.
They disagreed on how many were from
the Department of Justice and how
many were from the FBI.
Since the FBI is a division of the De-
partment of Justice, I think that it is
probably not as important an issue as
this is: That we don’t know their
names. But I believe they were hand-
picked to bring about the result.
The statement that was delivered 3
days later by James Comey on July 5,
that 15- to 17-minute long presentation
that sounded like an indictment of Hil-
lary Clinton until you got down to the
last few sentences of it, was written
clear back in May, and it had the words
‘‘gross negligence’’ in it. And they
changed those words from ‘‘gross neg-
ligence,’’ because that matched the
statute that would have been a clear
violation, to ‘‘extreme carelessness’’ as
opposed to ‘‘gross negligence.’’
And then James Comey said Hillary
Clinton would never intend to, and you
could not prove intent, so no serious
prosecutor would prosecute because
you couldn’t prove that she intended to
jeopardize our national security. But
the statute doesn’t require the intent.
It was Barack Obama’s words that
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:21 Nov 22, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00038 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K21NO7.074 H21NOPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H9163
November 21, 2019
plugged intent into the effect of the
language in the statute that I believe
was clearly violated by Hillary Clinton.
And furthermore, of the eight that
were in that room, the number of in-
vestigators that questioned Hillary
Clinton, and that is a number that is
again agreed to by Loretta Lynch and
by James Comey, those eight, we don’t
know who they are.
I asked her under oath who was at
the table. She said she didn’t know. In
fact, that she had never known. And I
asked a previous attorney general that
question: What are the odds that an at-
torney general under those cir-
cumstances, the highest-level inves-
tigation that the Department of Jus-
tice could ever conduct—aside from im-
peachment, by the way—was the inves-
tigation of Hillary Clinton’s mis-
handling of the emails and the classi-
fied documents, what are the odds, I
asked the former attorney general,
that Loretta Lynch wouldn’t know who
was in that room questioning Hillary
Clinton?
That former attorney general didn’t
want to go on record, so he held his
hand up. Zero is what he signaled with
his fingers, in that fashion. It looks
like an ‘‘okay,’’ for the RECORD.
Well, of course, it wasn’t okay to get
that answer. And I never believed it. I
don’t believe it today. I believe I was
lied to under oath. And when I asked
James Comey the same question under
oath as well, he gave me a similar an-
swer. He didn’t know.
What are the odds James Comey
didn’t know who was in that room
questioning Hillary Clinton?
And then I asked the question of
Peter Strzok under oath, and Peter
Strzok gave me an honest answer. He
said, ‘‘I was.’’ Well, we have seen him
in most everything that was going on,
and in fact, he was on Robert Mueller’s
investigative team as well until the
text between himself and Lisa Page
came out, and then there was no
choice, he had to be removed from the
Mueller team.
Peter Strzok showed up everywhere
that these kind of finaglings were
going on, and I believe that he was the
one that put the team together that
questioned Hillary Clinton that
brought about a result that he wanted,
and not necessarily an objective one.
So I would ask each one of them, I
want to see—this is former Attorney
General Loretta Lynch and James
Comey, Peter Strzok and others, I
want to see the videotape of the inter-
view of Hillary Clinton that took place
July 2, 2016.
Sorry, there is no videotape.
Then I want to hear the audiotape.
Sorry, there is no audiotape.
Then I want to read the transcripts.
Sorry, there is no transcript.
Well, they actually weren’t sorry. We
all know that, Madam Speaker. But
there is no videotape of that interview,
the highest-level interview that one
could imagine at the time. There is no
audiotape; there is no transcript.
What exists?
And their answer is, there is a 302 re-
port. The 302 report is compiled from
the notes of the investigators that
were in the room. But we don’t know
who those investigators were, except
for Peter Strzok. He said he was in the
room, but he wouldn’t tell me who the
others were. And so some place out
there, there are presumably eight sets
of notes.
Madam Speaker, seven other people
were there that heard the testimony of
Hillary Clinton, and they are all anon-
ymous. And if we had them before this
Congress and we were able to ask them
questions under oath, I am going to
guess that one or more of them are
going to tell us the truth about what
took place in the room that day.
But nonetheless, they went through
that process. James Comey stepped up
and delivered a 15- to 17-minute state-
ment to the press and to the public
that resulted in no further action on
the gross negligence, which is a viola-
tion of Federal statute, by Hillary
Clinton.
And, therefore, we moved on to the
Presidential election. And further,
Peter Strzok, Lisa Page—and I am
going to suggest many others—set
about trying to prevent Donald Trump
from becoming President of the United
States. And they were pumping infor-
mation into the press.
We had the Steele dossier. And you
know much of this narrative as it un-
folded, but once we got to the election,
and Donald Trump was elected Presi-
dent of the United States, he is Presi-
dent-elect on the first Tuesday after
the first Monday in November.
The following Sunday, in the Man-
darin Oriental Hotel here in Wash-
ington, D.C., the highest level of Demo-
crats in the country converged on that
hotel starting Sunday afternoon, led
by—according to a Politico article that
I checked—led by George Soros, him-
self, in that hotel. His face is front and
center on the article—in fact, several
articles that are out there that tell
about this gathering.
So the gathering was scheduled to
plan how they were going to utilize—
and I use that word kind of cautiously,
instead of what I would prefer—how
they were going to utilize the new
Presidency of Hillary Clinton. But, of
course, they had to change their plans,
Madam Speaker.
So the plans instead were, how do we
deny the ability of Donald Trump to
govern this country? What shall we do?
And out of that conference that was
that following Sunday, Monday, Tues-
day, and Wednesday morning, those
days, they planned how they would re-
sist this President, this duly-elected
President under the Constitution of the
United States with over 62 million
votes cast for him—an electoral vic-
tory—over 300 electoral votes, and they
planned on how they were going to
deny the will of the American people
under the Constitution.
And that plan started out with the
resistance movement. And almost im-
mediately, you saw protests in the cit-
ies across the country. And I know
some of those protestors were paid to
go protest, Madam Speaker. So the dis-
ruption in our society began, the re-
sistance began.
And what about the rest of the plan-
ning that likely took place there—and
I use that word carefully, too, because
a lot of this was never reported and
never spoken to, but we know they
planned the resistance movement. And
you would see demonstrations in the
street with big banners that said ‘‘re-
sist’’ or ‘‘resistance.’’
We saw also nearly a million women
came to this city that protested the in-
auguration of Donald Trump, wearing
those pink hats. And I wouldn’t repeat
into the RECORD what they named
those hats, Madam Speaker, but I met
hundreds of them. I argued with scores
of them, as a matter of fact, at a set-
ting over in one part of the city that
night.
Many of them were carrying obscene
signs, obscene symbols, and they were
there to resist the inauguration of the
President and let the world know that
they rejected President Donald Trump
as a duly-elected President of the
United States.
And other things took place, I be-
lieve, in the Mandarin Oriental Hotel.
And I believe that was when they ac-
celerated a strategy to weaponize cer-
tain words in our English language and
into the political-speak here in the
United States.
‘‘Resist’’ was one of those words that
they used, and that connotes that you
are a revolutionary group, that you are
fighting against an illegitimate gov-
ernment, that word ‘‘resist’’ or ‘‘resist-
ance.’’ And it foments friction within
the streets, and it divides Americans,
and it accentuated the differences be-
tween us.
Instead of coming together after an
election, like we want to do and need
to do, instead, we are being divided
strategically by the hierarchy of the
Democratic party in a strategy that
was put together in the Mandarin
Hotel in this town.
And then as this unfolded, other
pieces of the strategy came together,
but some of those things that I believe
happened inside that hotel were the ac-
celeration of the weaponization of
words. And I can think of one that I
know the data on from memory, and it
was this: White nationalist.
I looked this up in LexisNexis, be-
cause the question came up in front of
me in kind of an unexpected way. And
so we went back in LexisNexis, first, to
see if I had ever used those terms.
Never, from the year 2000 all the way
up until January of this year when the
New York Times misquoted me as
using it. But it was virtually unused
from the year 2000 all the way up until
2016.
And that means 1 to 200 times a year
that would show up in print somewhere
in a blog, or maybe a scholarly report
of some kind or another, the term
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:21 Nov 22, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00039 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K21NO7.076 H21NOPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H9164 November 21, 2019
white nationalist. We didn’t use those
terms as Americans. We didn’t write
about them, we didn’t speak them. It
was outside the mind of anything that
we were paying attention to collec-
tively—1 to 200 times a year.
So the graph is flat from 2000 up to
2016. And 2016, abruptly, it shoots up to
10,000 times a year—virtually unused
until 2016, 10,000 times. Many of that
was in the latter part of the year, after
the meeting in the Mandarin Hotel.
And then the following year, 2017, that
term white nationalist was used 30,000
times.
And in 2018, it was still used up there
at 20,000 times, Madam Speaker. That
was one of the words they weaponized.
They weaponized Nazi and fascism and
white supremacy altogether, and they
want to attack Western Civilization
itself.
There are other ways to divide Amer-
ica and to pit us against each other,
but they were weaponizing terms.
Other things, the insurance policy
that I mentioned earlier. Well, what is
that insurance policy? It is tying the
President up with protests, lock up ev-
erything, delay the confirmations, so
that he can’t put his government in
place. You saw that happen in the Sen-
ate over and over again, where they did
everything they could do to slow down
the confirmation of the President’s ap-
pointees and not let the President have
the team that he wanted to run this
country, and to slow down the con-
firmation of judges in our judicial sys-
tem as well.
All of that was taking place. And
that all fits within a strategy and a
plan that I believe is rooted in that
day, in that Sunday after the election,
beginning there, Sunday, Monday,
Tuesday, and Wednesday, after the
election of Donald Trump.
Furthermore, the resistance, the
weaponization of language, the delay of
confirmations, the obstruction of the
ability of the President to deploy the
people he wants within this govern-
ment—and meanwhile, then there was
a strategy that was implemented, ini-
tially, by James Comey, and also Rob-
ert Mueller. Both of them interviewed
to be the continuing director of the
FBI. And James Comey has admitted
all of this under oath, and he has told
the public this, and, I think, bragged
about it. And that is, that when he had
his meeting with President Trump, he
went out and sat in his car, and he
typed up the notes on what he remem-
bered.
He took those notes, by his own ad-
mission, to a professor at Columbia
University, who is his friend, with di-
rections for that professor to leak that
information to the New York Times.
By leaking the interpretation that was
typed up by James Comey to the New
York Times, they strategized that they
could trigger a special counsel, espe-
cially, and that special counsel needed
to be Robert Mueller. They pulled that
all off with the cooperation of the sec-
ond-in-command at the Department of
Justice, Rod Rosenstein.
And so as those recommendations un-
folded, we had Mueller as special coun-
sel, James Comey was fired by the
President—he resisted that, of course.
But the Mueller report then, as they
dug through that and spent nearly $30
million, and they had their team of
Never Trumpers to put on to inves-
tigate. And all the while, they were
going to find the smoking gun.
I am going to use the term ‘‘the blue
dress.’’ That would be the reasons that
they could impeach Donald Trump.
They never found it.
b 1415
For nearly 2 years of the Mueller in-
vestigation, Democrats in this town
and across the country were just anx-
iously waiting for: ‘‘When does this in-
formation come out that we can grab
and say gotcha?’’
Madam Speaker, when do you inves-
tigate a crime without a crime? When
you identify the person whom you
want to find guilty, and then you scour
everything you possibly can to try to
come up with something that you can
use to declare the man to be guilty
enough that you can do what they al-
ready wanted to do, which is remove
this President from office.
If they can’t remove him from office,
then they want to render him ineffec-
tive so that they can push their agenda
down on him. At the very least, they
want to wound him in such a way that
they can figure out how to beat him in
the election.
That is not speculation, Madam
Speaker. That is out of the mouth of
one of our Members who speaks on im-
peachment in this House almost every
single day, that we have to impeach
Donald Trump because we can’t beat
him in the election.
The will of the people has already
been inhibited and diminished because
of the actions of this Congress and the
actions of a complicit press, and here
we sat with that all unfolding through
the Mueller report. It finally came out
with a big flop.
If you are wondering how this all fits
together, Madam Speaker, then think
back that there were 4 to 5 weeks of
kind of silence after the Mueller report
flopped. There were some who tried to
resurrect it again to try to find a mor-
sel in it that they could grasp and em-
bellish. They just couldn’t get traction
because there was nothing there.
After those 4 to 5 weeks, then we end
up with the whistleblower, the whistle-
blower who was not privy to this tele-
phone conversation that took place on
July 25, a whistleblower who I believe
is a Democrat operative. The associa-
tions that are reported to me and many
others say that he has been under the
wing of, in the employment of, and in
cooperation with many of the highest
level people who are partisans on the
Democratic side.
This whistleblower is kind of inter-
esting. He triggers an impeachment in-
vestigation with second-, third-, and
fourth-hand information. He has no
eyes-on, hands-on, or ears-on experi-
ence or experience of any kind. He
writes a second-, third-, and fourth-
hand whistleblower report. Actually,
he didn’t write it. A team of lawyers
wrote this. He mailed it to the chair of
the Permanent Select Committee on
Intelligence on August 12.
We had ADAM SCHIFF with this whis-
tleblower report in his hands August
12, and nothing happened for weeks be-
cause they were still planning their
strategy. ADAM SCHIFF said that he
doesn’t know who the whistleblower is.
That is going to turn out to be one of
the clearest examples of untruth that
one has seen in this Congress. With a
straight face, he looks into the camera
and says: I don’t know who the whistle-
blower is, and I haven’t met with him.
I think it will be corrected eventu-
ally in the RECORD.
The whistleblower must come for-
ward. But when he filed that whistle-
blower report that was written by the
lawyers for him, and it is secondhand,
thirdhand, fourth-hand, 100 percent
hearsay information, when he filed
that, it was filed with the inspector
general in the intelligence community.
The rules on accepting whistleblower
reports require that it be firsthand in-
formation, not hearsay information.
The inspector general changed the
rules to be able to accept second-,
third-, and fourth-hand hearsay infor-
mation as a whistleblower complaint.
How far do you have to go to have to
change the rules on the spot in order
for that complaint to even be consid-
ered?
Now, the whistleblower becomes pub-
lic in front of everybody for a day or 2
or 3.
Even much of the social media, I be-
lieve, is complicit in this effort to get
rid of Donald Trump. They take down
any information that would identify
this whistleblower.
This is like the emperor has no
clothes. He is known by thousands of
people in this country. I would say tens
of thousands of people, even, at a min-
imum. He is known by, I would say, at
least half the Members on the Repub-
lican side, and I could speculate on the
Democratic side.
Half the Members on this side know
who this whistleblower is, but we can’t
speak his name because now the em-
peror has no clothes. We are going to
act like we don’t know who he is.
Somehow, his information is credible
enough, even though it is hearsay, that
you are putting America through all of
this pain, this agony, and this trying to
turn over another stone, and maybe
there will be something underneath
there that we can use to get rid of this
President.
They are trying to find the firsthand
information that has been missing, so
they bring Ambassador Sondland for-
ward. Surely, he would have firsthand
information. He testified that he un-
derstood that there was a quid pro quo.
It turns out that his understanding
was an assumption. It wasn’t nec-
essarily an experience, that he had
anything that he could point to.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:21 Nov 22, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00040 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K21NO7.077 H21NOPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H9165
November 21, 2019
But he testified just yesterday. I
thought it was pretty interesting.
The Republican attorney, Steve Cas-
tor, asked him this question: ‘‘Why
don’t you tell us, what did the Presi-
dent say to you on September 9 that
you remember?’’
‘‘What did the President say?’’ That
would be firsthand information, to an-
swer that question.
Ambassador Sondland said: ‘‘Well,
words to the effect—I decided to ask
the President the question in an open-
ended fashion because there were so
many different scenarios floating
around as to what was going on with
Ukraine. So rather than ask the Presi-
dent nine different questions: Is it this?
Is it this? Is it that?’’
He is demonstrating how he might
ask nine different questions. He said:
‘‘I just said, what do you want from
Ukraine?’’
This is exactly the quote that will
now be in the transcript of his testi-
mony yesterday. He said: ‘‘I may have
even used a four-letter word.’’ That
sounds like an honest statement, then.
Sondland, the Ambassador, testified
yesterday that the President’s answer
to that question, the question of what
do you want from Ukraine was this: ‘‘I
want nothing. I want no quid pro quo.
I just want Zelensky to do the right
thing, to do what he ran on.’’ Then he
finished up: ‘‘Or words to that effect.’’
That makes it pretty clear that the
President isn’t asking for a quid pro
quo.
If there is some kind of suspicion on
the part of disloyal bureaucrats who
are of an opposite ideology from a duly
elected President of the United States,
who don’t agree with his foreign policy,
or who try to undermine his foreign
policy and undermine the Presidency
itself and the effect of the Presidency
itself, that is what happens. They cre-
ate these scenarios. They say that,
surely, he must have wanted a quid pro
quo.
This is clear evidence that there was
not one. He stated multiple times that
he was never told by the President that
there were preconditions for the aid to
be released. He was never told that
there were preconditions.
I thank Congressman MICHAEL TUR-
NER for bringing this out yesterday in
such a clear fashion when he asked
Ambassador Sondland so directly that
question. Then Representative TURNER,
to nail this down, said to Ambassador
Sondland: ‘‘After you testified, Chair-
man SCHIFF ran out and gave a press
conference and said he gets to impeach
the President of the United States be-
cause of your testimony.’’
The understanding and the implica-
tion was that there was a quid pro quo,
is what Representative TURNER is say-
ing.
He continues the question to
Sondland: ‘‘And if you pull up CNN
today, right now, their banner says,
‘Sondland ties Trump to withholding
aid.’ Is that your testimony today, Am-
bassador Sondland, that you have evi-
dence that Donald Trump tied the in-
vestigations to the aid? Because I don’t
think you are saying that.’’
Ambassador Sondland’s response was:
‘‘I have said repeatedly, Congressman,
I was presuming. I also said that Presi-
dent Trump,’’ but Turner cut him off
and said: ‘‘So no one told you, not just
the President? Giuliani didn’t tell you?
Mulvaney didn’t tell you? Nobody—
Pompeo didn’t tell you? Nobody else on
this planet told you that Donald
Trump was tying aid to these inves-
tigations; is that correct?’’
Sondland said: ‘‘I think I already tes-
tified—‘‘
Turner cut him off again and said:
‘‘No, answer the question. Is it correct?
No one on this planet told you that
Donald Trump was tying this aid to the
investigations? Because if your answer
is yes, then the chairman is wrong, and
the headline on CNN is wrong. No one
on this planet told you that President
Trump was tying aid to investigations,
yes or no?’’
Ambassador Sondland answered
‘‘yes,’’ which means no one told him
that there was any quid pro quo. It was
all in his head, and America is all tied
up in these knots over this kind of sec-
ondhand information that is distorted
in the minds of the people who deliv-
ered it to us.
This must be firsthand information,
and it must be factual. America needs
to be released from this. There is noth-
ing here again. We are going into the
third year of this Presidency, and still,
they persist.
Madam Speaker, I appreciate being
recognized to address you here. I wish
you and everyone a very, very happy
Thanksgiving. Let’s come back happier
than I happen to be today.
Madam Speaker, I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
f
LEAVE OF ABSENCE
By unanimous consent, leave of ab-
sence was granted to:
Mr. LEWIS (at the request of Mr.
HOYER) for today.
f
SENATE ENROLLED BILLS SIGNED
The Speaker announced her signa-
ture to enrolled bills of the Senate of
the following titles:
S. 1838.—An act to amend the Hong Kong
Policy Act of 1992, and for other purposes.
S. 2710.—An act to prohibit the commercial
export of covered munitions items to the
Hong Kong Police Force.
f
ADJOURNMENT
Mr. KING of Iowa. Madam Speaker, I
move that the House do now adjourn.
The motion was agreed to; accord-
ingly (at 2 o’clock and 23 minutes
p.m.), under its previous order, the
House adjourned until tomorrow, Fri-
day, November 22, 2019, at 1:30 p.m.
EXECUTIVE COMMUNICATIONS,
ETC.
Under clause 2 of rule XIV, executive
communications were taken from the
Speaker’s table and referred as follows:
3052. A letter from the Administrator, Ag-
ricultural Marketing Service, Specialty
Crops Program, Department of Agriculture,
transmitting the Department’s final rule —
Tomatoes Grown in Florida; Modification of
Handling Regulations [Doc. No.: AMS-SC-18-
0075; SC19-966-1 FR] received November 20,
2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public
Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the
Committee on Agriculture.
3053. A letter from the Administrator, Na-
tional Organic Program, Agricultural Mar-
keting Service, Department of Agriculture,
transmitting the Department’s final rule —
National Organic Program; Amendments to
the National List of Allowed and Prohibited
Substances per April 2018 NOSB Rec-
ommendations (Crops and Handling) [Docu-
ment Number: AMS-NOP-18-0051; NOP-18-02]
(RIN: 0581 AD80) received November 20, 2019,
pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law
104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Com-
mittee on Agriculture.
3054. A letter from the Administrator, Cot-
ton and Tobacco Program, Agricultural Mar-
keting Service, Department of Agriculture,
transmitting the Department’s direct final
rule — Cotton Board Rules and Regulations:
Adjusting Supplemental Assessment on Im-
ports (2019 Amendments) [Doc. #: AMS-CN-
19-0007] received November 20, 2019, pursuant
to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121,
Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on
Agriculture.
3055. A letter from the Counsel, Legal Divi-
sion, Bureau of Consumer Financial Protec-
tion, transmitting the Bureau’s interpretive
rule — Truth in Lending (Regulation Z);
Screening and Training Requirements for
Mortgage Loan Originators With Temporary
Authority received November 20, 2019, pursu-
ant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-
121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee
on Financial Services.
3056. A letter from the Chief Counsel,
FEMA, Department of Homeland Security,
transmitting the Department’s final rule —
Suspension of Community Eligibility [Dock-
et ID: FEMA-2019-0003; Internal Agency
Docket No.: FEMA-8601] received November
18, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A);
Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to
the Committee on Financial Services.
3057. A letter from the Chief Counsel,
FEMA, Department of Homeland Security,
transmitting the Department’s final rule —
Suspension of Community Eligibility [Dock-
et ID: FEMA-2019-0003; Internal Agency
Docket No.: FEMA-8597] received November
18, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A);
Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to
the Committee on Financial Services.
3058. A letter from the Chief Counsel,
FEMA, Department of Homeland Security,
transmitting the Department’s final rule —
Suspension of Community Eligibility [Dock-
et ID: FEMA-2019-0003; Internal Agency
Docket No.: FEMA-8595] received November
18, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A);
Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to
the Committee on Financial Services.
3059. A letter from the Chief Counsel,
FEMA, Department of Homeland Security,
transmitting the Department’s final rule —
Suspension of Community Eligibility [Dock-
et ID: FEMA-2019-0003; Internal Agency
Docket No.: FEMA-8603] received November
18, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A);
Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to
the Committee on Financial Services.
3060. A letter from the Regulatory Spe-
cialist, Chief Counsel’s Office, Office of the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:21 Nov 22, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00041 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K21NO7.079 H21NOPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H9166 November 21, 2019
Comptroller of the Currency, Department of
the Treasury, transmitting the Department’s
final rule — Regulatory Capital Rule: Sim-
plifications to the Capital Rule Pursuant to
the Economic Growth and Regulatory Paper-
work Reduction Act of 1996; Revised Effec-
tive Date [Docket ID: OCC-2017-0018] (RIN:
1557-AE70) received November 19, 2019, pursu-
ant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-
121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee
on Financial Services.
3061. A letter from the Assistant General
Counsel for Regulatory Affairs, Office of the
General Counsel, U.S. Consumer Product
Safety Commission, transmitting the Com-
mission’s direct final rule — Revisions to
Safety Standards for Non-Full-Size Baby
Cribs and Play Yards [Docket No.: CPSC-
2019-0025] received November 18, 2019, pursu-
ant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-
121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee
on Energy and Commerce.
3062. A letter from the Assistant Secretary
for Export Administration, Department of
Commerce, transmitting the Department’s
final rule — Addition of Entities to the Enti-
ty List, Revision of an Entry on the Entity
List, and Removal of Entities from the Enti-
ty List [Docket No.: 191105-0076] (RIN: 0694-
AH85) received November 20, 2019, pursuant
to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121,
Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on
Foreign Affairs.
3063. A letter from the Director, Defense
Security Cooperation Agency, Department of
Defense, transmitting Transmittal No. 19-69,
pursuant to the reporting requirements of
Section 36(b)(1) of the Arms Export Control
Act, as amended; to the Committee on For-
eign Affairs.
3064. A letter from the Assistant Secretary,
Bureau of Legislative Affairs, Department of
State, transmitting Transmittal No. DDTC
19-031, pursuant to the reporting require-
ments of Section 36(c) and (d) of the Arms
Export Control Act; to the Committee on
Foreign Affairs.
3065. A letter from the Deputy Director, Of-
fice for Management Policy, Budget, and
Performance, Office for Acquisition and As-
sistance, U.S. Agency for International De-
velopment, transmitting the Agency’s final
rule — Agency for International Develop-
ment Acquisition Regulation (AIDAR): Revi-
sions to the Incentive Awards Program for
Personal Services Contractors (PSCs) (RIN:
0412-AA93) received November 18, 2019, pursu-
ant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-
121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee
on Foreign Affairs.
3066. A letter from the Acting Director, Of-
fice of Sustainable Fisheries, NMFS, Na-
tional Oceanic and Atmospheric Administra-
tion, transmitting the Administration’s tem-
porary rule — Fisheries of the Exclusive Eco-
nomic Zone Off Alaska; Reallocation of Pa-
cific Cod in the Western Regulatory Area of
the Gulf of Alaska [Docket No.: 180831813-
9170-02] (RIN: 0648-XY053) received November
18, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A);
Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to
the Committee on Natural Resources.
3067. A letter from the Acting Director, Of-
fice of Sustainable Fisheries, NMFS, Na-
tional Oceanic and Atmospheric Administra-
tion, transmitting the Administration’s tem-
porary rule — Fisheries of the Exclusive Eco-
nomic Zone Off Alaska; Reallocation of Pa-
cific Cod in the Bering Sea and Aleutian Is-
lands Management Area [Docket No.:
180713633-9174-02] (RIN: 0648-XY052) received
November 18, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Natural Re-
sources.
3068. A letter from the Acting Director, Of-
fice of Sustainable Fisheries, NMFS, Na-
tional Oceanic and Atmospheric Administra-
tion, transmitting the Administration’s tem-
porary rule — Fisheries of the Exclusive Eco-
nomic Zone Off Alaska; Several Groundfish
Species in the Bering Sea and Aleutian Is-
lands Management Area [Docket No.:
180713633-9174-02] (RIN: 0648-XY049) received
November 18, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Natural Re-
sources.
3069. A letter from the Acting Director, Of-
fice of Sustainable Fisheries, NMFS, Na-
tional Oceanic and Atmospheric Administra-
tion, transmitting the Administration’s tem-
porary rule — Fisheries of the Exclusive Eco-
nomic Zone Off Alaska; Pacific Cod by Ves-
sels Using Pot Gear in the Western Regu-
latory Area of the Gulf of Alaska [Docket
No.: 180831813-9170-02] (RIN: 0648-XY027) re-
ceived November 18, 2019, pursuant to 5
U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec.
251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on Nat-
ural Resources.
3070. A letter from the Acting Director, Of-
fice of Sustainable Fisheries, NMFS, Na-
tional Oceanic and Atmospheric Administra-
tion, transmitting the Administration’s tem-
porary rule — Fisheries of the Exclusive Eco-
nomic Zone Off Alaska; Pacific Cod by Non-
American Fisheries Act Crab Vessels Oper-
ating as Catcher Vessels Using Pot Gear in
the Western Regulatory Area of the Gulf of
Alaska [Docket No.: 180831813-9170-02] (RIN:
0648-XY028) received November 18, 2019, pur-
suant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-
121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee
on Natural Resources.
3071. A letter from the Acting Director, Of-
fice of Sustainable Fisheries, NMFS, Na-
tional Oceanic and Atmospheric Administra-
tion, transmitting the Administration’s tem-
porary rule — Fisheries of the Caribbean,
Gulf of Mexico, and South Atlantic; 2019
Commercial Accountability Measure and
Closure for South Atlantic Gray Triggerfish;
July Through December Season [Docket No.:
141107936-5399-02] (RIN: 0648-XS014) received
November 18, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Natural Re-
sources.
3072. A letter from the Acting Director, Of-
fice of Sustainable Fisheries, NMFS, Na-
tional Oceanic and Atmospheric Administra-
tion, transmitting the Administration’s no-
tification of quota transfer — Fisheries of
the Northeastern United States; Summer
Flounder Fishery; Quota Transfer From NC
to CT [Docket No.: 190312234-9412-01; RTID
0648-XX024] received November 18, 2019, pur-
suant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-
121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee
on Natural Resources.
3073. A letter from the Acting Director, Of-
fice of Sustainable Fisheries, NMFS-PIR,
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Adminis-
tration, transmitting the Administration’s
temporary rule — Pacific Island Pelagic
Fisheries; 2019 Commonwealth of the North-
ern Mariana Islands Bigeye Tuna Fishery;
Closure [Docket No.: 190325272-9537-02] (RIN:
0648-XG925) received November 18, 2019, pur-
suant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-
121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee
on Natural Resources.
3074. A letter from the Attorney-Advisor,
U.S. Coast Guard, Department of Homeland
Security, transmitting the Department’s
temporary final rule — Regulated Naviga-
tion Area; Saint Simmons Sound, GA [Dock-
et Number: USCG-2019-0803] (RIN: 1625-AA11)
received November 18, 2019, pursuant to 5
U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec.
251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on
Transportation and Infrastructure.
3075. A letter from the Attorney — Advisor,
U.S. Coast Guard, Department of Homeland
Security, transmitting the Department’s
final rule — Safety Zone; Mackinaw City
Fall Colors Fireworks, Mackinaw City, MI
[Docket Number: USCG-2019-0758] (RIN: 1625-
AA00] received November 18, 2019, pursuant
to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121,
Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on
Transportation and Infrastructure.
3076. A letter from the Attorney-Advisor,
U.S. Coast Guard, Department of Homeland
Security, transmitting the Department’s
temporary final rule — Safety Zone; Wando
Terminal Crane Movement; Charleston, SC
[Document Number: USCG-2019-0741] (RIN:
1625-AA00) received November 18, 2019, pursu-
ant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-
121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee
on Transportation and Infrastructure.
3077. A letter from the Attorney-Advisor,
U.S. Coast Guard, Department of Homeland
Security, transmitting the Department’s
temporary final rule — Safety Zones; Hum-
boldt Bay Bar and Entrance Channel, Eure-
ka, CA, Noyo River Entrance Channel, Ft.
Bragg, CA, and Crescent City Harbor En-
trance Channel, Crescent City, CA [Docket
No.: USCG-2019-0813] (RIN: 1625-AA00) re-
ceived November 18, 2019, pursuant to 5
U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec.
251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on
Transportation and Infrastructure.
3078. A letter from the Attorney-Advisor,
U.S. Coast Guard, Department of Homeland
Security, transmitting the Department’s
temporary final rule — Safety Zone; Naval
Training Operations, U.S. Naval Magazine
Indian Island, WA [Docket Number: USCG-
2019-0857] (RIN: 1625-AA00) received Novem-
ber 18, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A);
Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to
the Committee on Transportation and Infra-
structure.
3079. A letter from the Attorney-Advisor,
Office of Chief Counsel, Federal Transit Ad-
ministration, Department of Transportation,
transmitting the Department’s final rule —
Transportation Infrastructure Management
[Docket No.: FTA-2019-000X] (RIN: 2132-AB37)
received November 20, 2019, pursuant to 5
U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec.
251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on
Transportation and Infrastructure.
3080. A letter from the Attorney-Advisor,
Office of Chief Counsel, Federal Transit Ad-
ministration, Department of Transportation,
transmitting the Department’s final rule —
Clean Fuels Grant Program [Docket No.:
FTA-2019-000X] (RIN: 2132-AB36) received No-
vember 20, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Transpor-
tation and Infrastructure.
3081. A letter from the Chief, Publications
and Regulations Branch, Internal Revenue
Service, transmitting the Service’s final
regulations- Ownership Attribution for Pur-
poses of Determining Whether a Person I Re-
lated to a Controlled Foreign Corporation;
Rents Derived in the Active Conduct of a
Trade or Business [TD 9883] (RIN: 1545-BM90)
received November 18, 2019, pursuant to 5
U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec.
251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on
Ways and Means.
3082. A letter from the Chief, Publications
and Regulations Branch, Internal Revenue
Service, transmitting the Service’s final reg-
ulations — Electronic Filing of the Report of
Health Insurance Provider Information [TD
9881] (RIN: 1545-BN57) received November 18,
2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public
Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the
Committee on Ways and Means.
3083. A letter from the Chief, Publications
and Regulations Branch, Internal Revenue
Service, transmitting the Service’s IRB only
rule — Optional Standard Mileage Rates Pro-
cedures (Rev. Proc. 2019-46) received Novem-
ber 18, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A);
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:21 Nov 22, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00042 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\L21NO7.000 H21NOPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H9167
November 21, 2019
Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to
the Committee on Ways and Means.
f
REPORTS OF COMMITTEES ON
PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS
Under clause 2 of rule XIII, reports of
committees were delivered to the Clerk
for printing and reference to the proper
calendar, as follows:
Ms. WATERS: Committee on Financial
Services. H.R. 3614. A bill to amend the Fair
Credit Reporting Act to ban the use of credit
information for most employment decisions,
and for other purposes; with an amendment
(Rept. 116–305). Referred to the Committee of
the Whole House on the state of the Union.
Ms. WATERS: Committee on Financial
Services. H.R. 3618. A bill to establish re-
quirements relating to credit scores and edu-
cational credit scores, and for other pur-
poses; with an amendment (Rept. 116–306).
Referred to the Committee of the Whole
House on the state of the Union.
Ms. WATERS: Committee on Financial
Services. H.R. 3629. A bill to amend the Fair
Credit Reporting Act to establish clear Fed-
eral oversight of the development of credit
scoring models by the Bureau of Consumer
Financial Protection, and for other purposes;
with an amendment (Rept. 116–307). Referred
to the Committee of the Whole House on the
state of the Union.
f
PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS
Under clause 2 of rule XII, public
bills and resolutions of the following
titles were introduced and severally re-
ferred, as follows:
By Mr. ROSE of New York (for himself,
Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi, Ms.
CLARKE of New York, Miss RICE of
New York, Ms. UNDERWOOD, Mr.
PAYNE, and Ms. SLOTKIN):
H.R. 5209. A bill to direct the Under Sec-
retary for Science and Technology of the De-
partment of Homeland Security to design
and administer a voluntary online terrorist
content moderation exercise program, and
for other purposes; to the Committee on
Homeland Security.
By Ms. LOFGREN (for herself, Mr.
NADLER, Ms. JAYAPAL, Mr. NEGUSE,
Mr. CASTRO of Texas, Mr. CROW, Ms.
DEAN, Ms. DELAURO, Mr.
DESAULNIER, Mr. ENGEL, Ms.
ESCOBAR, Mr. ESPAILLAT, Ms. GARCIA
of Texas, Mr. GRIJALVA, Mr. HIGGINS
of New York, Mr. JOHNSON of Geor-
gia, Mr. KHANNA, Mr. LOWENTHAL,
Mr. MCGOVERN, Mrs. NAPOLITANO, Ms.
NORTON, Mr. PALLONE, Mr. PANETTA,
Mr. QUIGLEY, Mr. RASKIN, Mr. SIRES,
Mr. SMITH of Washington, Mr.
SWALWELL of California, Mrs. WAT-
SON COLEMAN, Mr. WELCH, Ms. TLAIB,
and Mr. VISCLOSKY):
H.R. 5210. A bill to provide for the admis-
sion and protection of refugees, asylum seek-
ers, and other vulnerable individuals, to pro-
vide for the processing of refugees and asy-
lum seekers in the Western Hemisphere, and
to modify certain special immigrant visa
programs, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on the Judiciary, and in addition
to the Committees on Ways and Means, the
Budget, and Foreign Affairs, for a period to
be subsequently determined by the Speaker,
in each case for consideration of such provi-
sions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned.
By Mr. CASE (for himself and Mr.
WOMACK):
H.R. 5211. A bill to establish a national
commission on fiscal responsibility and re-
form, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on the Budget, and in addition to the
Committee on Rules, for a period to be sub-
sequently determined by the Speaker, in
each case for consideration of such provi-
sions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned.
By Mr. ARRINGTON (for himself, Ms.
DELBENE, Mr. MARSHALL, and Mr.
BERA):
H.R. 5212. A bill to amend title XVIII of the
Social Security Act to improve the
benchmarking process for the Medicare
Shared Savings Program; to the Committee
on Ways and Means, and in addition to the
Committee on Energy and Commerce, for a
period to be subsequently determined by the
Speaker, in each case for consideration of
such provisions as fall within the jurisdic-
tion of the committee concerned.
By Ms. KENDRA S. HORN of Oklahoma
(for herself, Mr. BABIN, Ms. JOHNSON
of Texas, Mr. LUCAS, and Mr.
PALAZZO):
H.R. 5213. A bill to amend title 51, United
States Code, to extend the authority of the
National Aeronautics and Space Administra-
tion to enter into leases of non-excess prop-
erty of the Administration; to the Com-
mittee on Science, Space, and Technology.
By Ms. TLAIB (for herself and Mr.
MEADOWS):
H.R. 5214. A bill to amend title 5, United
States Code, to prevent fraud by representa-
tive payees; to the Committee on Oversight
and Reform.
By Ms. SHERRILL (for herself, Mr.
KING of New York, Mr. HIMES, Mrs.
HAYES, and Mr. TURNER):
H.R. 5215. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to extend expensing of en-
vironmental remediation costs; to the Com-
mittee on Ways and Means.
By Ms. SCHAKOWSKY (for herself,
Mrs. HAYES, Mr. GARAMENDI, Mr.
RYAN, Mr. CARSON of Indiana, Ms.
MOORE, Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD, Mrs.
CAROLYN B. MALONEY of New York,
Mrs. DINGELL, Ms. DELAURO, Ms.
BASS, Ms. JOHNSON of Texas, Mr.
DANNY K. DAVIS of Illinois, Mr. HAS-
TINGS, Mr. PAYNE, Ms. MATSUI, Ms.
UNDERWOOD, Ms. JAYAPAL, Ms.
PRESSLEY, Ms. JUDY CHU of Cali-
fornia, Ms. CLARKE of New York, Mr.
KHANNA, Mr. DEUTCH, Mr.
DESAULNIER, Ms. LEE of California,
and Mr. TONKO):
H.R. 5216. A bill to amend titles XVIII and
XIX of the Social Security Act to revise min-
imum nurse staffing requirements for skilled
nursing facilities under the Medicare pro-
gram and for nursing facilities under the
Medicaid program, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Ways and Means, and in
addition to the Committee on Energy and
Commerce, for a period to be subsequently
determined by the Speaker, in each case for
consideration of such provisions as fall with-
in the jurisdiction of the committee con-
cerned.
By Mr. MCCLINTOCK (for himself, Mr.
MCCARTHY, Mr. BISHOP of Utah, Mr.
CALVERT, Mr. NUNES, Mr. NEWHOUSE,
Mr. FULCHER, Mr. COOK, Mr.
LAMALFA, Mr. HUNTER, Mr. GOSAR,
and Mr. TIPTON):
H.R. 5217. A bill to provide for western
water security, reliability, modernization,
and abundance, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Natural Resources, and in
addition to the Committees on Transpor-
tation and Infrastructure, Agriculture, and
Science, Space, and Technology, for a period
to be subsequently determined by the Speak-
er, in each case for consideration of such pro-
visions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned.
By Mr. MCCLINTOCK (for himself, Mr.
GOSAR, Mr. CURTIS, Mr. LAMALFA,
Mr. CALVERT, Mr. NEWHOUSE, and Mr.
STAUBER):
H.R. 5218. A bill to direct the Secretary
concerned to coordinate with impacted par-
ties when conducting a forest management
activity, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Agriculture, and in addition to the
Committee on Natural Resources, for a pe-
riod to be subsequently determined by the
Speaker, in each case for consideration of
such provisions as fall within the jurisdic-
tion of the committee concerned.
By Mr. NADLER:
H.R. 5219. A bill to amend title 17, United
States Code, to require broadcasters to ob-
tain permission to transmit content owned
by another person, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. NORMAN (for himself, Mr.
BIGGS, Mr. PERRY, Mr. KEVIN HERN of
Oklahoma, and Mr. JOHNSON of Ohio):
H.R. 5220. A bill to amend the Congres-
sional Budget and Impoundment Control Act
of 1974 to provide for a legislative line-item
veto to expedite consideration of rescissions,
and cancellations of items of new direct
spending and limited tax benefits; to the
Committee on the Budget, and in addition to
the Committee on Rules, for a period to be
subsequently determined by the Speaker, in
each case for consideration of such provi-
sions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned.
By Mr. MCEACHIN (for himself, Ms.
HAALAND, Mrs. DINGELL, Mr. BLU-
MENAUER, Mr. TONKO, Ms. PINGREE,
Mr. PALLONE, Mr. GRIJALVA, Mr.
DEFAZIO, Mr. SCOTT of Virginia, Mr.
ENGEL, Mrs. LOWEY, Mr. NADLER, Mr.
SMITH of Washington, Ms. WATERS,
Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi, Ms.
LOFGREN, Ms. VELÁZQUEZ, Mr.
MCGOVERN, Mr. SCHIFF, Mr. TAKANO,
Mr. RUSH, Ms. ADAMS, Mr. AGUILAR,
Ms. BARRAGÁN, Ms. BASS, Mrs.
BEATTY, Mr. BERA, Mr. BEYER, Mr.
BISHOP of Georgia, Ms. BLUNT ROCH-
ESTER, Ms. BONAMICI, Mr. BRENDAN F.
BOYLE of Pennsylvania, Ms.
BROWNLEY of California, Mr.
CARBAJAL, Mr. CARSON of Indiana,
Mr. CARTWRIGHT, Mr. CASTRO of
Texas, Ms. JUDY CHU of California,
Mr. CISNEROS, Ms. CLARK of Massa-
chusetts, Ms. CLARKE of New York,
Mr. CLAY, Mr. CLEAVER, Mr. COHEN,
Mr. CONNOLLY, Mr. COOPER, Mr.
CRIST, Mr. CROW, Mr. CUNNINGHAM,
Mrs. DAVIS of California, Ms. DEAN,
Ms. DEGETTE, Ms. DELAURO, Ms.
DELBENE, Mr. DESAULNIER, Mr. DOG-
GETT, Mr. MICHAEL F. DOYLE of Penn-
sylvania, Ms. ESCOBAR, Ms. ESHOO,
Mr. ESPAILLAT, Mr. EVANS, Ms.
FRANKEL, Mr. GALLEGO, Mr.
GARAMENDI, Mr. GARCÍA of Illinois,
Mr. HASTINGS, Mrs. HAYES, Mr. HECK,
Mr. HIMES, Ms. HOULAHAN, Mr.
HUFFMAN, Ms. JAYAPAL, Mr.
JEFFRIES, Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia,
Mr. KEATING, Ms. KELLY of Illinois,
Mr. KENNEDY, Mr. KILDEE, Mr. KIL-
MER, Mrs. KIRKPATRICK, Ms. KUSTER
of New Hampshire, Mr. LANGEVIN,
Mr. LARSEN of Washington, Mr. LAR-
SON of Connecticut, Mrs. LAWRENCE,
Ms. LEE of California, Mr. LEVIN of
Michigan, Mr. LEVIN of California,
Mr. TED LIEU of California, Mr.
LIPINSKI, Mr. LOWENTHAL, Mr. LUJÁN,
Mrs. LURIA, Mr. MALINOWSKI, Ms.
MATSUI, Ms. MCCOLLUM, Mr. MCNER-
NEY, Mr. MEEKS, Ms. MENG, Mr.
MORELLE, Mr. MOULTON, Ms.
MUCARSEL-POWELL, Mrs. NAPOLITANO,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:21 Nov 22, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00043 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\L21NO7.000 H21NOPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H9168 November 21, 2019
Mr. NEGUSE, Ms. NORTON, Mr. PA-
NETTA, Mr. PAPPAS, Mr. PAYNE, Mr.
PERLMUTTER, Mr. PETERS, Mr. PHIL-
LIPS, Mr. POCAN, Ms. PORTER, Mr.
PRICE of North Carolina, Mr.
QUIGLEY, Mr. RASKIN, Ms. ROYBAL-
ALLARD, Mr. RUIZ, Mr. RYAN, Mr.
SABLAN, Ms. SÁNCHEZ, Mr. SARBANES,
Ms. SCANLON, Ms. SCHAKOWSKY, Mr.
SCHNEIDER, Mr. SCHRADER, Ms.
SCHRIER, Mr. SERRANO, Ms. SHALALA,
Ms. SHERRILL, Ms. SLOTKIN, Mr.
SOTO, Ms. SPANBERGER, Ms. SPEIER,
Mr. STANTON, Ms. STEVENS, Mr.
SUOZZI, Mr. THOMPSON of California,
Mr. TRONE, Ms. UNDERWOOD, Mr. VAN
DREW, Mr. VARGAS, Mr. VEASEY, Ms.
WASSERMAN SCHULTZ, Mrs. WATSON
COLEMAN, Mr. WELCH, Ms. WEXTON,
Ms. WILD, Ms. WILSON of Florida, Mr.
SWALWELL of California, Mrs.
TRAHAN, Mr. KHANNA, Mr. CICILLINE,
Mr. HORSFORD, and Mr. LYNCH):
H.R. 5221. A bill to declare a national goal
that the United States achieve a 100 percent
clean economy by not later than 2050, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Energy
and Commerce.
By Mr. ALLRED (for himself and Mr.
TRONE):
H.R. 5222. A bill to amend the Higher Edu-
cation Act of 1965 to establish notification
requirements for policies concerning expect-
ant and parenting students, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Education
and Labor.
By Mrs. BEATTY:
H.R. 5223. A bill to amend the Federal
Housing Enterprises Financial Safety and
Soundness Act of 1992 to adjust the afford-
able housing allocations; to the Committee
on Financial Services.
By Mr. BISHOP of North Carolina (for
himself, Mr. BUDD, Mr. WESTERMAN,
and Mr. SMUCKER):
H.R. 5224. A bill to codify certain rules re-
lated to health reimbursement arrangements
and other account-based group health plans;
to the Committee on Energy and Commerce,
and in addition to the Committees on Edu-
cation and Labor, and Ways and Means, for a
period to be subsequently determined by the
Speaker, in each case for consideration of
such provisions as fall within the jurisdic-
tion of the committee concerned.
By Ms. JUDY CHU of California (for
herself, Mr. SCOTT of Virginia, Ms.
NORTON, Mrs. NAPOLITANO, Ms. ROY-
BAL-ALLARD, Ms. GARCIA of Texas,
Mr. RASKIN, Mr. TRONE, Ms. JAYAPAL,
and Ms. BARRAGÁN):
H.R. 5225. A bill to protect victims of crime
or serious labor violations from removal dur-
ing Department of Homeland Security en-
forcement actions, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. CUNNINGHAM:
H.R. 5226. A bill to prohibit the use of offi-
cial funds for travel by Members of Congress
during a fiscal year until each of the regular
appropriations bills for such fiscal year have
been enacted into law, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on House Adminis-
tration, and in addition to the Committee on
Rules, for a period to be subsequently deter-
mined by the Speaker, in each case for con-
sideration of such provisions as fall within
the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
By Mrs. DEMINGS (for herself, Mr.
LAMB, Mr. RUTHERFORD, and Mr.
BABIN):
H.R. 5227. A bill to establish the Office of
Digital Law Enforcement within the Office
of Justice Programs, and to establish grant
programs to improve the digital evidence ca-
pacity of law enforcement personnel, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on the Ju-
diciary, and in addition to the Committee on
Homeland Security, for a period to be subse-
quently determined by the Speaker, in each
case for consideration of such provisions as
fall within the jurisdiction of the committee
concerned.
By Mr. DESJARLAIS:
H.R. 5228. A bill to direct the Comptroller
General of the United States to conduct a
study and submit a report on the Federal
Government’s ability to hire and retain Chi-
nese-language-capable employees, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Over-
sight and Reform.
By Mr. DIAZ-BALART (for himself,
Mr. DEUTCH, Mr. RUTHERFORD, and
Mrs. MURPHY of Florida):
H.R. 5229. A bill to establish the Federal
Clearinghouse on School Safety Best Prac-
tices, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Education and Labor, and in addi-
tion to the Committee on the Judiciary, for
a period to be subsequently determined by
the Speaker, in each case for consideration
of such provisions as fall within the jurisdic-
tion of the committee concerned.
By Mr. ENGEL (for himself, Mr. UPTON,
Mr. COX of California, and Mr. KING
of New York):
H.R. 5230. A bill to amend the Public
Health Service Act with regard to research
on asthma, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Energy and Commerce.
By Mr. ESPAILLAT (for himself and
Mr. LARSEN of Washington):
H.R. 5231. A bill to amend title 23, United
States Code, to improve the transportation
alternatives program, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Transportation
and Infrastructure.
By Mr. FITZPATRICK (for himself, Ms.
KUSTER of New Hampshire, and Mrs.
MURPHY of Florida):
H.R. 5232. A bill to amend titles XIX and
XXI of the Social Security Act to remove
barriers to access to residential substance
use disorder treatment services under Med-
icaid and the Children’s Health Insurance
Program (CHIP); to the Committee on En-
ergy and Commerce.
By Mr. FITZPATRICK (for himself and
Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire):
H.R. 5233. A bill to extend the temporary
scheduling order issued by Administrator of
the Drug Enforcement Administration to
schedule fentanyl-related substances under
the Controlled Substances Act; to the Com-
mittee on Energy and Commerce, and in ad-
dition to the Committee on the Judiciary,
for a period to be subsequently determined
by the Speaker, in each case for consider-
ation of such provisions as fall within the ju-
risdiction of the committee concerned.
By Mr. GALLAGHER (for himself, Mr.
PAPPAS, Mr. ROUDA, and Mr.
BALDERSON):
H.R. 5234. A bill to direct the Secretary of
Transportation to establish a Motorcyclist
Advisory Council, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Transportation and Infra-
structure.
By Mr. GROTHMAN (for himself, Mr.
NORMAN, and Mr. WILSON of South
Carolina):
H.R. 5235. A bill to amend the Food and Nu-
trition Act of 2008 to require States to in-
clude a photograph on electronic benefit
cards issued to provide supplemental nutri-
tion assistance program benefits; to the
Committee on Agriculture.
By Mr. HARDER of California (for him-
self, Mr. FITZPATRICK, Ms. BLUNT
ROCHESTER, Mr. UPTON, Mr. COLE,
and Mr. MOULTON):
H.R. 5236. A bill to establish a competitive
grant program to support out-of-school-time
youth workforce readiness programs, pro-
viding employability skills development, ca-
reer exploration, employment readiness
training, mentoring, work-based learning,
and workforce opportunities for eligible
youth; to the Committee on Education and
Labor.
By Mr. HIGGINS of New York:
H.R. 5237. A bill to amend title 36, United
States Code, to designate a flag as the Pur-
ple Heart Flag; to the Committee on the Ju-
diciary.
By Ms. HOULAHAN (for herself, Mr.
PAPPAS, Mr. CISNEROS, Ms.
SPANBERGER, Mr. KILMER, Ms.
HAALAND, Mr. MOULTON, Ms. ROYBAL-
ALLARD, Ms. SCHRIER, Mr. COOK, Mr.
PHILLIPS, and Ms. SLOTKIN):
H.R. 5238. A bill to amend title 10, United
States Code, to include digital breast
tomosynthesis as a primary and preventative
health care service under the military health
system and the TRICARE program; to the
Committee on Armed Services.
By Mr. JOYCE of Ohio:
H.R. 5239. A bill to require reporting on
prescription drug expenditures under group
health plans and on prescription drug price
changes, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Energy and Commerce.
By Mr. KIND (for himself, Mr. HOLDING,
Ms. MOORE, Mrs. WALORSKI, Mr.
SUOZZI, Mr. LAHOOD, Mr. HIGGINS of
New York, Mr. FERGUSON, Mr. LAR-
SON of Connecticut, Mr. ESTES, Ms.
SEWELL of Alabama, Mr. SCHNEIDER,
and Mr. SMITH of Missouri):
H.R. 5240. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to make the look-thru rule
for related controlled foreign corporations
permanent; to the Committee on Ways and
Means.
By Mr. KRISHNAMOORTHI:
H.R. 5241. A bill to provide consumer pro-
tections for students; to the Committee on
Education and Labor, and in addition to the
Committees on Armed Services, and Vet-
erans’ Affairs, for a period to be subse-
quently determined by the Speaker, in each
case for consideration of such provisions as
fall within the jurisdiction of the committee
concerned.
By Mr. MCKINLEY (for himself and Ms.
KAPTUR):
H.R. 5242. A bill to amend title XIX of the
Social Security Act to prohibit the Sec-
retary of Health and Human Services from
treating any Medicaid-related funds recov-
ered from one or more pharmaceutical com-
panies or drug distributors with respect to
opioid litigation as an overpayment under
such title, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Energy and Commerce.
By Ms. MENG (for herself, Mrs.
BEATTY, Ms. BLUNT ROCHESTER, Mrs.
BUSTOS, Mr. BUTTERFIELD, Ms.
CLARKE of New York, Mr. ENGEL, Mr.
ESPAILLAT, Ms. FUDGE, Mr. GONZALEZ
of Texas, Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia,
Mr. KHANNA, Mrs. LAWRENCE, Mr.
NADLER, Mr. RYAN, Mr. SABLAN, Mr.
THOMPSON of Mississippi, Ms. TLAIB,
Mr. TONKO, Ms. VELÁZQUEZ, and Mrs.
WATSON COLEMAN):
H.R. 5243. A bill to amend the National
Telecommunications and Information Ad-
ministration Organization Act to establish a
mobile hotspot grant program, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Energy and
Commerce, and in addition to the Committee
on Education and Labor, for a period to be
subsequently determined by the Speaker, in
each case for consideration of such provi-
sions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned.
By Ms. OMAR:
H.R. 5244. A bill to establish new units of
public housing and private market affordable
housing, to provide grants to combat
gentrification and neighborhood destabiliza-
tion, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Financial Services.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:21 Nov 22, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00044 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\L21NO7.100 H21NOPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H9169
November 21, 2019
By Mr. PAPPAS (for himself and Mr.
ROSE of New York):
H.R. 5245. A bill to amend title 38, United
States Code, to provide for a bar on the re-
covery of certain payments or overpayments
made by the Department of Veterans Affairs
by reason of delays in processing of certain
information, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Veterans’ Affairs.
By Mr. PASCRELL (for himself, Mr.
LEWIS, Ms. SÁNCHEZ, Mr. DANNY K.
DAVIS of Illinois, Mr. SUOZZI, Mr. PA-
NETTA, and Ms. SEWELL of Alabama):
H.R. 5246. A bill to direct the Secretary of
Health and Human Services to carry out a
Health in All Policies Demonstration
Project, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Energy and Commerce, and in ad-
dition to the Committee on Ways and Means,
for a period to be subsequently determined
by the Speaker, in each case for consider-
ation of such provisions as fall within the ju-
risdiction of the committee concerned.
By Mr. PETERS:
H.R. 5247. A bill to require prime contrac-
tors under Federal construction contracts to
notify the Government of changes in certain
subcontractors performing work under the
contract; to the Committee on Oversight and
Reform.
By Mr. SUOZZI:
H.R. 5248. A bill to award a Congressional
gold medal to the 369th Infantry Regiment,
commonly known as the ‘‘Harlem
Hellfighters’’, in recognition of their bravery
and outstanding service during World War I;
to the Committee on Financial Services, and
in addition to the Committee on House Ad-
ministration, for a period to be subsequently
determined by the Speaker, in each case for
consideration of such provisions as fall with-
in the jurisdiction of the committee con-
cerned.
By Mr. TRONE (for himself, Mr.
THOMPSON of Pennsylvania, Ms.
KUSTER of New Hampshire, and Mr.
GUTHRIE):
H.R. 5249. A bill to amend the Child Nutri-
tion Act of 1966 to support women, infants,
and children impacted by substance use dis-
order, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Education and Labor.
By Mr. WRIGHT (for himself and Mr.
BISHOP of Georgia):
H.R. 5250. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to make permanent the
work opportunity tax credit for veterans and
to allow an exemption from an employer’s
employment taxes in an amount equivalent
to the value of such credit in the case of vet-
erans; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
By Ms. GABBARD:
H. Con. Res. 77. Concurrent resolution di-
recting the President pursuant to section
5(c) of the War Powers Resolution to remove
United States Armed Forces from hostilities
in the Syrian Arab Republic that have not
been authorized by Congress; to the Com-
mittee on Foreign Affairs.
By Ms. TLAIB:
H. Res. 724. A resolution condemning the
human rights violations taking place in
Jammu and Kashmir and supporting Kash-
miri self-determination; to the Committee
on Foreign Affairs.
By Mr. JEFFRIES:
H. Res. 725. A resolution electing a certain
Member to a certain standing committee of
the House of Representatives; considered and
agreed to.
By Mrs. BROOKS of Indiana (for her-
self, Mr. CARSON of Indiana, Mr.
BUCSHON, Mr. VISCLOSKY, Mr. HOL-
LINGSWORTH, Mr. BANKS, Mr. PENCE,
Mrs. WALORSKI, and Mr. BAIRD):
H. Res. 726. A resolution expressing support
for the goals of Stomach Cancer Awareness
Month; to the Committee on Energy and
Commerce.
By Mr. GOTTHEIMER (for himself, Mr.
ZELDIN, Mr. BRINDISI, Mr. VAN DREW,
Mrs. LEE of Nevada, Mr. MCADAMS,
Mrs. LURIA, Mr. SCHNEIDER, Mrs.
MURPHY of Florida, Mr. SUOZZI, Mr.
ROSE of New York, and Mr. DEUTCH):
H. Res. 727. A resolution affirming United
States support for the State of Israel’s right
to defend itself from terrorist attacks; to the
Committee on Foreign Affairs.
By Mr. GREEN of Texas (for himself,
Ms. GARCIA of Texas, Mr. DAVID
SCOTT of Georgia, and Mr. MCGOV-
ERN):
H. Res. 728. A resolution condemning the
decision of Federal Housing Finance Agency
Director Mark A. Calabria to remove the
borrower’s preferred language question and
the housing counseling question from the
Universal Residential Loan Application; to
the Committee on Financial Services.
By Mr. HARDER of California:
H. Res. 729. A resolution encouraging the
President to expand the list of the Depart-
ment of Veterans Affairs of presumptive
medical conditions associated with exposure
to Agent Orange to include Parkinsonism,
bladder cancer, hypertension, and
hypothyroidism; to the Committee on Vet-
erans’ Affairs, and in addition to the Com-
mittee on Armed Services, for a period to be
subsequently determined by the Speaker, in
each case for consideration of such provi-
sions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned.
By Ms. VELÁZQUEZ (for herself, Mr.
CHABOT, Mr. ESPAILLAT, Mrs.
RADEWAGEN, Mr. BALDERSON, Mr.
VEASEY, Mr. KEVIN HERN of Okla-
homa, Mr. HAGEDORN, Mr. STAUBER,
Mr. BURCHETT, Mr. SPANO, Mr. JOYCE
of Pennsylvania, Ms. HOULAHAN, Mr.
EVANS, Ms. CRAIG, Ms. JUDY CHU of
California, Mr. SCHNEIDER, Mr. GOLD-
EN, Ms. DAVIDS of Kansas, Mr. KIM,
Ms. FINKENAUER, Mr. DELGADO, Mr.
CROW, Ms. MCCOLLUM, Mr. CLAY, Mrs.
AXNE, Mr. LAWSON of Florida, Mr.
BOST, Mr. DAVID SCOTT of Georgia,
Mr. FITZPATRICK, Mr. POSEY, Mr.
POCAN, Mr. LATTA, Ms. NORTON, Ms.
PINGREE, Mr. MEADOWS, Mr. HAS-
TINGS, Mr. TAKANO, Ms. BROWNLEY of
California, Mr. TIPTON, Mr. MAR-
SHALL, Mr. KELLY of Mississippi, Mr.
NORMAN, Ms. KELLY of Illinois, Mr.
LUETKEMEYER, Ms. MENG, Mr. SEAN
PATRICK MALONEY of New York, Mr.
LIPINSKI, Mr. GRAVES of Missouri,
Ms. BONAMICI, Mr. CURTIS, Mrs. MUR-
PHY of Florida, and Mr. LAHOOD):
H. Res. 730. A resolution expressing support
for the recognition and celebration of the
vital role of small businesses, along with the
efforts of the Small Business Administration
to help Americans start, build, and grow
businesses; to the Committee on Small Busi-
ness.
f
CONSTITUTIONAL AUTHORITY
STATEMENT
Pursuant to clause 7 of rule XII of
the Rules of the House of Representa-
tives, the following statements are sub-
mitted regarding the specific powers
granted to Congress in the Constitu-
tion to enact the accompanying bill or
joint resolution.
By Mr. ROSE of New York:
H.R. 5209.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1 Section 8
By Ms. LOFGREN:
H.R. 5210.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, clause 4 provides Con-
gress with the power to establish a ‘‘uniform
rule of Naturalization.’’
By Mr. CASE:
H.R. 5211.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8
By Mr. ARRINGTON:
H.R. 5212.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1 Section 8: to provide for the gen-
eral welfare of the United States
By Ms. KENDRA S. HORN of Okla-
homa:
H.R. 5213.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8 of the U.S. Constitu-
tion
By Ms. TLAIB:
H.R. 5214.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 1 of the U.S.
Constitution
By Ms. SHERRILL:
H.R. 5215.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
clause 18 of section 8 of article I of the
Constitution.
By Ms. SCHAKOWSKY:
H.R. 5216.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 3
The Congress shall have Power . . . To reg-
ulate Commerce with foreign Nations, and
among the several States, and with the In-
dian Tribes.
By Mr. MCCLINTOCK:
H.R. 5217.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clauses 1, 3, and 18 of
the Constitution of the United States.
By Mr. MCCLINTOCK:
H.R. 5218.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article IV, Section 3, Clause 2 (the Prop-
erty Clause), which confers on Congress the
power to make all needful Rules and Regula-
tions respecting the property belonging to
the United States.
By Mr. NADLER:
H.R. 5219.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
The Intellectual Property Clause, art. I,
sec. 8, cl. 8, and the Commerce Clause, art. I,
sec. 8, cl. 3.
By Mr. NORMAN:
H.R. 5220.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8
By Mr. MCEACHIN:
H.R. 5221.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8
By Mr. ALLRED:
H.R. 5222.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
The constitutional authority on which this
bill rests is the power given to Congress
under Article I of the Constitution of the
United States.
By Mrs. BEATTY:
H.R. 5223.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:21 Nov 22, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00045 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\L21NO7.100 H21NOPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H9170 November 21, 2019
Article I, Section 8, Clause 3
By Mr. BISHOP of North Carolina:
H.R. 5224.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8
By Ms. JUDY CHU of California:
H.R. 5225.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section XIII of the Constitution:
The Congress shall have power to lay and
collect taxes, duties, imposts and excises, to
pay the debts and provide for the common
defense and general welfare of the United
States
By Mr. CUNNINGHAM:
H.R. 5226.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 5, Clause 2: ‘‘Each House
may determine the Rules of its Proceedings
. . .’’
Article I, Section 8, Clause 1: ‘‘The Con-
gress shall have Power To . . . pay the Debts
and provide for the common Defence and
general Welfare of the United States; . . .’’
Article I, Section 8, Clause 18: ‘‘To make
all Laws which shall be necessary and proper
for carrying into Execution the foregoing
Powers, . . .’’
By Mrs. DEMINGS:
H.R. 5227.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Articel 1, Section 8
By Mr. DESJARLAIS:
H.R. 5228.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8 of the United States
Constitution
By Mr. DIAZ-BALART:
H.R. 5229.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the United States
Constitution
By Mr. ENGEL:
H.R. 5230.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 3
By Mr. ESPAILLAT:
H.R. 5231.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 7: ‘‘The Con-
gress shall have Power [. . .] to establish
Post Offices and Post Roads.
By Mr. FITZPATRICK:
H.R. 5232.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section VIII Clause I
By Mr. FITZPATRICK:
H.R. 5233.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section VIII Clause III
By Mr. GALLAGHER:
H.R. 5234.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8
‘‘To regulate Commerce with foreign Na-
tions, and among the several States, and
with the Indian Tribes.’’
By Mr. GROTHMAN:
H.R. 5235.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, of the Constitution of
the United States.
By Mr. HARDER of California:
H.R. 5236.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8
By Mr. HIGGINS of New York:
H.R. 5237.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, of the Constitution of
the United States
By Ms. HOULAHAN:
H.R. 5238.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, of the U.S. Constitu-
tion
By Mr. JOYCE of Ohio:
H.R. 5239.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 18
The Congress shall have Power*** To make
all Laws which shall be necessary and proper
for carrying into Execution the foregoing
Powers, and all other Powers vested by the
Constitution in the Government of the
United States, or in any Department or Of-
fice thereof.
The constitutional authority on which this
bill rests is the power of Congress to regulate
commerce with foreign nations, and mong
the several states, and with the Indian
tribes, as enumerated in Article I, Section 8,
Clause 3 of the United States Constitution.
By Mr. KIND:
H.R. 5240.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Clause 1 of Section 8 of Article I of the U.S.
Constitution
By Mr. KRISHNAMOORTHI:
H.R. 5241.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1 Section 8 of the U.S. Constitution
By Mr. MCKINLEY:
H.R. 5242.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1 Section 8
Section 8—Powers of Congress. To make
all Laws which shall be necessary and proper
for carrying into Execution the foregoing
Powers, and all other Powers vested by this
Constitution in the Government of the
United States, or in any Department or Offi-
cer thereof.
By Ms. MENG:
H.R. 5243.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the U.S. Constitu-
tion.
By Ms. OMAR:
H.R. 5244.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I Section I of the U.S. Constitution
By Mr. PAPPAS:
H.R. 5245.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 18, of the
United States Constitution states that ‘‘Con-
gress shall have the authority to make all
Laws which shall be necessary and proper for
carrying into Execution the foregoing Pow-
ers, and all other Powers vested by this Con-
stitution in the Government of the United
States, or in any Department or Officer
thereof.’’
By Mr. PASCRELL:
H.R. 5246.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 1
By Mr. PETERS:
H.R. 5247.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8.
By Mr. SUOZZI:
H.R. 5248.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the Constitution of
the United States.
By Mr. TRONE:
H.R. 5249.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 18. To make all
laws which shall be necessary and proper for
carrying into execution the foregoing pow-
ers, and all other powers vested by this Con-
stitution in the government of the United
States, or in any department or officer
thereof.
By Mr. WRIGHT:
H.R. 5250.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 1 of the Con-
stitution, which states that ‘‘the Congress
shall have power To lay and collect Taxes,
Duties, Imposts and Excises, to pay the
Debts and provide for the common Defence
and general Welfare of the United States
. . .’’
f
ADDITIONAL SPONSORS
Under clause 7 of rule XII, sponsors
were added to public bills and resolu-
tions, as follows:
H.R. 3: Mr. CASTRO of Texas, Mr. GONZALEZ
of Texas, and Ms. BASS.
H.R. 24: Mr. STEWART.
H.R. 309: Mr. SCOTT of Virginia.
H.R. 333: Mr. NEGUSE.
H.R. 350: Ms. KENDRA S. HORN of Okla-
homa.
H.R. 444: Mr. NEGUSE.
H.R. 446: Mr. SIRES.
H.R. 535: Mr. SCOTT of Virginia.
H.R. 587: Ms. STEVENS and Mr. RIGGLEMAN.
H.R. 730: Mr. PHILLIPS.
H.R. 788: Mr. RUTHERFORD.
H.R. 801: Mr. KIM.
H.R. 808: Mrs. HAYES.
H.R. 884: Ms. HAALAND and Mrs. LURIA.
H.R. 906: Mr. RESCHENTHALER and Mr.
MOONEY of West Virginia.
H.R. 912: Mr. CICILLINE, Mr. GARAMENDI,
Mr. CONNOLLY, and Ms. SPEIER.
H.R. 927: Mr. LARSEN of Washington.
H.R. 945: Ms. MENG.
H.R. 961: Mr. VEASEY.
H.R. 1055: Mr. COSTA and Ms. GARCIA of
Texas.
H.R. 1154: Mr. DOGGETT.
H.R. 1186: Mr. KILMER.
H.R. 1195: Ms. CRAIG.
H.R. 1367: Mr. BLUMENAUER, Mr. BRENDAN
F. BOYLE of Pennsylvania, Mr. MORELLE, and
Mr. PETERS.
H.R. 1377: Mr. DEUTCH.
H.R. 1400: Ms. SLOTKIN.
H.R. 1406: Mr. VAN DREW.
H.R. 1754: Mr. LEVIN of California and Mr.
MCEACHIN.
H.R. 1840: Ms. BLUNT ROCHESTER, Mr.
EMMER, and Mr. BUCHANAN.
H.R. 1869: Mr. MORELLE, Mr. SMITH of New
Jersey, and Ms. KELLY of Illinois.
H.R. 1878: Mr. TAKANO and Mr. KIND.
H.R. 1923: Mr. LARSON of Connecticut and
Ms. DAVIDS of Kansas.
H.R. 1948: Mr. SCOTT of Virginia.
H.R. 1964: Ms. MCCOLLUM.
H.R. 1981: Mr. COOPER.
H.R. 1998: Ms. HAALAND.
H.R. 2062: Mr. KIND.
H.R. 2096: Ms. PORTER, Mr. SUOZZI, and Mr.
PHILLIPS.
H.R. 2153: Ms. CRAIG.
H.R. 2168: Ms. CRAIG and Mr. KILDEE.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:21 Nov 22, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00046 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A21NO7.007 H21NOPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H9171
November 21, 2019
H.R. 2176: Mr. VISCLOSKY.
H.R. 2184: Mr. LYNCH.
H.R. 2201: Mr. FORTENBERRY, Mr. RASKIN,
and Mr. RUTHERFORD.
H.R. 2256: Mr. PHILLIPS.
H.R. 2261: Mr. PHILLIPS.
H.R. 2283: Miss RICE of New York.
H.R. 2315: Mr. KIND.
H.R. 2328: Mr. VAN DREW.
H.R. 2339: Mr. GRIJALVA, Mr. TRONE, and
Ms. PORTER.
H.R. 2382: Mr. WALDEN and Mr. GRAVES of
Missouri.
H.R. 2466: Mr. BAIRD.
H.R. 2491: Mr. KILMER, Mr. SUOZZI, and Mr.
VAN DREW.
H.R. 2508: Mr. PHILLIPS.
H.R. 2603: Mr. YOUNG.
H.R. 2651: Ms. WILD and Mr. KIND.
H.R. 2655: Mr. HUDSON, Mr. RICE of South
Carolina, Mr. DUNCAN, Mr. FLORES, Mr. CAR-
TER of Georgia, Mr. VELA, Mr. MITCHELL, Mr.
MARSHALL, Mr. WALKER, Mr. WILSON of
South Carolina, Mr. CHABOT, Mr. KELLY of
Mississippi, Ms. SLOTKIN, and Mr. LAMBORN.
H.R. 2674: Mr. BLUMENAUER and Mr. COHEN.
H.R. 2694: Mrs. LURIA and Mr. NEGUSE.
H.R. 2731: Mr. TIPTON, Mr. SHERMAN, Mr.
STAUBER, and Ms. SCHRIER.
H.R. 2771: Mr. PHILLIPS.
H.R. 2813: Mr. BLUMENAUER.
H.R. 2818: Mr. KIND, Ms. CRAIG, Mr. SHER-
MAN, and Mr. PETERS.
H.R. 2825: Mr. BACON and Mr. FERGUSON.
H.R. 2881: Ms. BLUNT ROCHESTER and Mr.
CASE.
H.R. 2952: Mrs. AXNE.
H.R. 2985: Mr. PENCE and Mrs. MURPHY of
Florida.
H.R. 3048: Mr. DAVID SCOTT of Georgia and
Mr. SHERMAN.
H.R. 3080: Mr. LOWENTHAL.
H.R. 3082: Ms. ADAMS.
H.R. 3107: Mr. ROONEY of Florida and Mrs.
KIRKPATRICK.
H.R. 3114: Mr. KHANNA, Mr. LUJÁN, Mr. PA-
NETTA, Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi, and Mr.
VISCLOSKY.
H.R. 3121: Mr. COLLINS of Georgia.
H.R. 3155: Mr. WOODALL, Mr. WITTMAN, Mr.
DAVIDSON of Ohio, Mr. STEIL, Mr. CLOUD, Mr.
KELLER, Mrs. LEE of Nevada, Mr. CARTER of
Texas, Mr. TAYLOR, Mr. SENSENBRENNER, Ms.
GRANGER, Mr. COOK, Mr. MURPHY of North
Carolina, Mr. O’HALLERAN, Mr.
FLEISCHMANN, Mr. CONAWAY, Mr. NUNES, Mr.
DUNCAN, Mr. BISHOP of Utah, Mr. NORMAN,
Mrs. BROOKS of Indiana, Mr. GRIFFITH, Mrs.
MILLER, Mr. VARGAS, Mr. SMITH of Wash-
ington, Mr. YOHO, Mrs. HARTZLER, and Mr.
LEVIN of California.
H.R. 3182: Mrs. HARTZLER.
H.R. 3197: Mr. PANETTA and Mrs. CAROLYN
B. MALONEY of New York.
H.R. 3230: Mr. COHEN.
H.R. 3235: Mr. PRICE of North Carolina.
H.R. 3250: Mr. LAHOOD.
H.R. 3280: Mr. BRENDAN F. BOYLE of Penn-
sylvania.
H.R. 3303: Mr. TIPTON.
H.R. 3373: Mr. ESPAILLAT, Mr. CARTWRIGHT,
and Mr. BEYER.
H.R. 3446: Mr. LEVIN of California and Mr.
PHILLIPS.
H.R. 3473: Mr. FOSTER.
H.R. 3522: Mr. UPTON and Mr. REED.
H.R. 3570: Mr. PERLMUTTER.
H.R. 3706: Mr. SIRES.
H.R. 3762: Mr. CUELLAR, Mr. LONG, Mr.
CORREA, and Mr. LANGEVIN.
H.R. 3789: Mr. MOULTON.
H.R. 3792: Mr. VAN DREW.
H.R. 3793: Mr. VAN DREW.
H.R. 3864: Mr. GOSAR.
H.R. 3884: Ms. KELLY of Illinois.
H.R. 3910: Mr. DANNY K. DAVIS of Illinois.
H.R. 3911: Ms. BLUNT ROCHESTER.
H.R. 3934: Mr. WITTMAN.
H.R. 3960: Mr. PERLMUTTER and Mr. BLU-
MENAUER.
H.R. 3977: Ms. MCCOLLUM.
H.R. 3990: Miss GONZÁLEZ-COLÓN of Puerto
Rico.
H.R. 4019: Mr. CORREA and Mr. TED LIEU of
California.
H.R. 4022: Ms. ESCOBAR and Mr. HASTINGS.
H.R. 4118: Mr. BRENDAN F. BOYLE of Penn-
sylvania.
H.R. 4141: Mr. FITZPATRICK and Mr. TRONE.
H.R. 4148: Mr. BLUMENAUER, Mrs. NAPOLI-
TANO, and Ms. BARRAGÁN.
H.R. 4179: Mrs. LURIA.
H.R. 4193: Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi and
Mr. CRENSHAW.
H.R. 4194: Mr. HILL of Arkansas, Mr.
TRONE, Mr. CROW, and Mr. TIPTON.
H.R. 4227: Mr. GRIFFITH.
H.R. 4229: Mr. GUTHRIE, Mr. TONKO, Mr.
GRIFFITH, Ms. ESHOO, Mr. LUJÁN, Mr. RUSH,
and Mr. O’HALLERAN.
H.R. 4230: Mr. GONZALEZ of Texas.
H.R. 4271: Ms. WILD.
H.R. 4305: Mr. ROUDA, Mr. KIND, Mr.
CUELLAR, Mr. LAMB, Mrs. RADEWAGEN, Ms.
GABBARD, Mr. JOHNSON of Louisiana, Mr. COX
of California, Mr. CLAY, Ms. HOULAHAN, Mr.
LARSEN of Washington, Ms. STEVENS, Mrs.
LURIA, Mr. KELLY of Pennsylvania, Mrs.
AXNE, Ms. ESCOBAR, Ms. SCHAKOWSKY, and
Ms. KAPTUR.
H.R. 4326: Mr. GROTHMAN, Mrs. RODGERS of
Washington, Mr. VAN DREW, Mr. ROSE of New
York, and Mrs. AXNE.
H.R. 4351: Mr. CASE.
H.R. 4371: Ms. SLOTKIN.
H.R. 4436: Mr. PRICE of North Carolina.
H.R. 4456: Ms. SLOTKIN.
H.R. 4482: Mr. ROUZER.
H.R. 4521: Mrs. LESKO.
H.R. 4526: Mrs. LURIA.
H.R. 4607: Mr. HUFFMAN.
H.R. 4672: Mr. THOMPSON of California, Mr.
SHERMAN, Ms. BARRAGÁN, Mr. COOK, Mr.
VARGAS, Ms. WATERS, Ms. PORTER, Mr. RUIZ,
Mr. COSTA, and Mr. GOMEZ.
H.R. 4674: Ms. JOHNSON of Texas and Ms.
SLOTKIN.
H.R. 4681: Mr. MOULTON.
H.R. 4704: Mr. PANETTA.
H.R. 4722: Ms. ADAMS, Mr. GARCÍA of Illi-
nois, Ms. LOFGREN, and Mr. KILDEE.
H.R. 4723: Ms. SPEIER.
H.R. 4735: Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania,
Mr. EVANS, and Mr. MCKINLEY.
H.R. 4781: Mr. KHANNA.
H.R. 4782: Mr. GONZALEZ of Texas.
H.R. 4843: Mr. LOWENTHAL.
H.R. 4864: Mr. ALLRED.
H.R. 4881: Mr. GOODEN, Ms. CHENEY, Mr.
BYRNE, and Mr. HAGEDORN.
H.R. 4890: Mr. CÁRDENAS and Mr. SIRES.
H.R. 4898: Mr. RIGGLEMAN.
H.R. 4899: Mr. RIGGLEMAN.
H.R. 4900: Mr. RIGGLEMAN.
H.R. 4903: Mr. GIBBS, Mrs. HARTZLER, and
Mr. POSEY.
H.R. 4940: Mr. WEBER of Texas.
H.R. 4986: Mr. DESAULNIER.
H.R. 4990: Mr. LIPINSKI.
H.R. 4995: Mr. FITZPATRICK and Ms. SCHA-
KOWSKY.
H.R. 5038: Mr. STEWART and Mr.
GARAMENDI.
H.R. 5041: Mr. BROWN of Maryland, Mr.
FITZPATRICK, Mr. TRONE, Ms. KUSTER of New
Hampshire, Mr. SUOZZI, and Ms. WILSON of
Florida.
H.R. 5046: Mr. KIND.
H.R. 5065: Mr. SPANO.
H.R. 5076: Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania.
H.R. 5078: Mr. SPANO.
H.R. 5086: Mrs. HARTZLER.
H.R. 5091: Mrs. NAPOLITANO, Ms. LEE of
California, Mr. DESAULNIER, and Mr. THOMP-
SON of California.
H.R. 5102: Ms. LOFGREN.
H.R. 5105: Mr. KHANNA and Ms. JUDY CHU of
California.
H.R. 5106: Mr. KHANNA and Ms. JUDY CHU of
California.
H.R. 5109: Mr. KHANNA and Ms. JUDY CHU of
California.
H.R. 5110: Mr. KHANNA and Ms. JUDY CHU of
California.
H.R. 5111: Mr. KHANNA and Ms. JUDY CHU of
California.
H.R. 5116: Mr. GOODEN, Mr. BUDD, and Mr.
JOHN W. ROSE of Tennessee.
H.R. 5150: Ms. NORTON.
H.R. 5169: Mr. KELLY of Mississippi.
H.R. 5175: Mr. WEBSTER of Florida.
H.R. 5194: Mr. LYNCH.
H.R. 5195: Mr. SERRANO.
H.J. Res. 76: Ms. SLOTKIN.
H. Res. 60: Ms. PLASKETT.
H. Res. 374: Mr. HOLDING and Mr.
DESAULNIER.
H. Res. 452: Mr. TED LIEU of California.
H. Res. 540: Ms. PORTER, Mr. KIM, Ms.
SHERRILL, Mr. LEVIN of Michigan, Mr. GREEN
of Texas, Mr. SIMPSON, Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of
Illinois, Mr. HECK, Mr. BRENDAN F. BOYLE of
Pennsylvania, Ms. JOHNSON of Texas, Mr.
LARSEN of Washington, Mr. PAPPAS, Mr.
COSTA, Mr. SCHNEIDER, Miss GONZÁLEZ-COLÓN
of Puerto Rico, Ms. GRANGER, Mr. LEWIS,
Mrs. BROOKS of Indiana, Mr. HORSFORD, Ms.
TORRES SMALL of New Mexico, Mr. GALLEGO,
Mrs. LAWRENCE, Mr. CRIST, Ms. HAALAND,
Mr. RUSH, Mr. FOSTER, Ms. STEVENS, Mr.
DEFAZIO, Mr. DELGADO, Mr. CARTWRIGHT, Mr.
VISCLOSKY, and Mr. SIRES.
H. Res. 631: Mr. WATKINS.
H. Res. 641: Mr. RUSH.
H. Res. 642: Mr. SMITH of Missouri.
H. Res. 653: Mr. MCGOVERN.
H. Res. 678: Mr. GREEN of Tennessee, Mr.
BANKS, and Mr. LUETKEMEYER.
H. Res. 682: Mr. LUJÁN.
H. Res. 687: Mr. NEGUSE.
H. Res. 688: Ms. MCCOLLUM.
H. Res. 690: Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN.
H. Res. 698: Mrs. MURPHY of Florida.
f
PETITIONS, ETC.
Under clause 3 of rule XII,
67. The SPEAKER presented a petition of
the Council of the City of New York, NY, rel-
ative to Resolution No. 977, calling upon the
United States Congress to pass, and the
President to sign H.R. 724 and S. 479, the Pre-
venting Animal Cruelty Torture Act, other-
wise known as the PACT Act; which was re-
ferred to the Committee on the Judiciary.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:21 Nov 22, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00047 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A21NO7.019 H21NOPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
Congressional Record
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
United States
of America PROCEEDINGS AND DEBATES OF THE 116th
CONGRESS, FIRST SESSION
∑ This ‘‘bullet’’ symbol identifies statements or insertions which are not spoken by a Member of the Senate on the floor.
.
S6725
Vol. 165 WASHINGTON, THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 21, 2019 No. 187
Senate
The Senate met at 10 a.m. and was
called to order by the President pro
tempore (Mr. GRASSLEY).
f
PRAYER
The Chaplain, Dr. Barry C. Black, of-
fered the following prayer:
Let us pray.
God, the fountain of every blessing,
in this Thanksgiving season, we praise
Your Holy Name. May the lives of our
lawmakers please You. Inspire them to
walk in Your ways, keeping Your pre-
cepts with such integrity that they
will glorify Your Name. Incline their
hearts to Your wisdom and provide
them with the understanding they need
to accomplish Your purposes.
Lord God, let Your mercy protect our
Senators from the dangers of this life,
as they learn to find delight in receiv-
ing Your approval. Keep them ever
mindful of life’s brevity and the great-
ness of their work.
We pray in Your sacred Name. Amen.
f
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
The President pro tempore led the
Pledge of Allegiance, as follows:
I pledge allegiance to the Flag of the
United States of America, and to the Repub-
lic for which it stands, one nation under God,
indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mrs.
HYDE-SMITH). The Senator from Iowa.
Mr. GRASSLEY. Madam President, I
ask unanimous consent to address the
Senate for 1 minute as in morning busi-
ness.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
NATIONAL ADOPTION MONTH
Mr. GRASSLEY. Madam President,
probably a lot of my colleagues know I
have had a quarter-century interest in
legislation dealing with foster care and
the foster care system. This is National
Adoption Month, and while recent data
from the Department of Health and
Human Services show improvements
for kids in foster care, it is clear that
there is still work to be done.
In 2018, the average length of stay in
foster care increased to over 19 months.
We need to take that statistic as move-
ment in the wrong direction. Less than
half of the kids who exited foster care
were reunited with their parents. Our
goal ought to be to reunite them with
their parents when it isn’t harmful to
the kids, but what I have also learned
over the last 25 years from talking to
kids who are in foster care, being
shunted from home to home, school to
school in the same school year—I have
heard from them, ‘‘I would like to have
a mom and dad,’’ and ‘‘I would like to
have a permanent home.’’
I have taken that to heart, and legis-
lation that I have worked on helps with
that issue. All children deserve a per-
manent home, and they deserve caring,
consistent adults to nurture and guide
them. As long as I serve in Congress, I
will continue to work toward that goal.
Also, during this month of November,
National Adoption Month, I hope peo-
ple will take a special concern about
kids who are in foster care.
I yield the floor.
f
RECOGNITION OF THE MAJORITY
LEADER
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The ma-
jority leader is recognized.
f
UNITED STATES-MEXICO-CANADA
AGREEMENT
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
Washington and the cable news chan-
nels have spent the week fixated on
House Democrats’ impeachment hear-
ings.
A few months ago, Speaker PELOSI
was saying she was not ‘‘for impeach-
ment’’ unless it was ‘‘bipartisan.’’ But
even after the resolution codifying the
Democrats’ unfair process received zero
Republican votes, the House plowed
ahead anyway, searching for a way to
arrive at an outcome the Democrats
literally predetermined years ago.
Meanwhile, the American people are
still waiting for Washington Democrats
to stop blocking crucial bipartisan leg-
islation. I spoke yesterday about the
USMCA, the landmark trade deal that
experts say would create 176,000 Amer-
ican jobs. For 9 months, Speaker
PELOSI has told the press every couple
of weeks that she will allow a vote
soon. Last winter, she was ‘‘opti-
mistic’’; over the summer, ‘‘We want to
pass this bill’’; this fall, ‘‘becoming
closer’’; and a couple of weeks ago, ‘‘I
think we are close.’’
We have had months of this stalling.
Now we are 1 week out from Thanks-
giving, and there is still no tangible
sign—none—of progress from the
House. If the House cannot pass the
USMCA this year, there is no way they
will be able to claim that the people’s
business has not taken a back seat to
impeachment.
f
NATIONAL DEFENSE
AUTHORIZATION ACT
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
on another matter, the USMCA is not
the only important legislation Demo-
crats are holding up. As if neglecting
the first major update to North Amer-
ican trade policy in a generation were
not enough, they are also on track to
break a nearly 60-year tradition of
passing a bipartisan Defense authoriza-
tion bill.
Passing the NDAA is one of
Congress’s most basic governing re-
sponsibilities. It authorizes and assures
the ongoing missions of our Armed
Forces and the resources the Depart-
ment of Defense needs to carry them
out.
Every year since 1961, these goals
have been enough to get Members
across the ideological spectrum to
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:45 Nov 22, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A21NO6.000 S21NOPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6726 November 21, 2019
come together and deliver a com-
prehensive, bipartisan piece of legisla-
tion—but not this year, at least not
yet.
House Democrats are so intent on
picking fights with the White House
that they decided to play partisan
games with our Armed Forces. They
passed a fully party-line NDAA—not
one Republican vote—for their House
version on the floor. I believe it is the
first time ever that either Chamber has
passed a purely partisan NDAA.
The House, on a partisan basis, also
included many provisions that aren’t
even in the jurisdiction of their Armed
Services Committee. Even in con-
ference, House Democrats are holding
germane provisions hostage in order to
secure partisan, nongermane provisions
that literally have nothing whatsoever
to do with our national security.
Their demands to treat the NDAA
like a gift basket to liberal interest
groups is imperiling the passage of this
important legislation. We are talking
about demands like a new taxpayer-
funded benefit for all Federal employ-
ees and burdening farmers, ranchers,
small businesses, local airports, and
community water utilities with expen-
sive new environmental liabilities—all
kinds of domestic policy changes that
were not in the Senate’s bipartisan
version and have no business bringing
this crucial process to a halt.
The Senate did things the right way.
We passed a bipartisan NDAA back in
June, just as we do every year. That is
a credit to Chairman INHOFE, Ranking
Member REED, and the rest of the Sen-
ate Armed Services Committee. It was
a thoroughly bipartisan product, de-
bated out in the open.
But House Democrats literally went
off the rails. The House Rules Com-
mittee afforded floor debate only on a
single substantive Republican amend-
ment while they jammed through their
own partisan priorities. They passed a
totally partisan NDAA with zero Re-
publican votes—none. Now they are
risking the entire conference com-
mittee to insist those partisan de-
mands wind up in the end product.
Enough is enough. The USMCA and
NDAA cannot be clearer examples of
bipartisan legislation that would make
our country stronger.
Our Democratic friends said that
they want to do more than just im-
peach. They say they came to Wash-
ington to do more than pick fights
with the President. Well, in the next
days and weeks, we will find out if they
mean it.
f
MEASURE PLACED ON THE
CALENDAR—S. 2920
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
I understand there is a bill at the desk
that is due for a second reading.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will read the title of the bill for
the second time.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
A bill (S. 2920) to reauthorize the Violence
Against Women Act of 1994, and for other
purposes.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
in order to place the bill on the cal-
endar under the provisions of rule XIV,
I would object to further proceedings.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Objec-
tion having been heard, the bill will be
placed on the calendar.
f
RESERVATION OF LEADER TIME
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the leadership time
is reserved.
f
CONCLUSION OF MORNING
BUSINESS
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Morning
business is closed.
f
EXECUTIVE SESSION
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the Senate will pro-
ceed to executive session to resume
consideration of the following nomina-
tion, which the clerk will report.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read the nomination of Dan R.
Brouillette, of Texas, to be Secretary
of Energy.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The ma-
jority leader.
f
LEGISLATIVE SESSION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
I move to proceed to legislative ses-
sion.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on agreeing to the motion.
The motion was agreed to.
f
EXECUTIVE SESSION
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
I move to proceed to executive session
to consider Calendar No. 347.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on agreeing to the motion.
The motion was agreed to.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the nomination.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read the nomination of Eric Ross
Komitee, of New York, to be United
States District Judge for the Eastern
District of New York.
CLOTURE MOTION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
I send a cloture motion to the desk.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clo-
ture motion having been presented
under rule XXII, the Chair directs the
clerk to read the motion.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on the nomi-
nation of Eric Ross Komitee, of New York, to
be United States District Judge for the East-
ern District of New York.
Mitch McConnell, John Boozman, John
Cornyn, Mike Crapo, Pat Roberts, Mike
Rounds, Thom Tillis, Roger F. Wicker,
Cindy Hyde-Smith, Kevin Cramer,
John Hoeven, Rob Portman, Dan Sul-
livan, Chuck Grassley, Richard Burr,
John Thune, Roy Blunt.
f
LEGISLATIVE SESSION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
I move to proceed to legislative ses-
sion.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on agreeing to the motion.
The motion was agreed to.
f
EXECUTIVE SESSION
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
I move to proceed to executive session
to consider Calendar No. 353.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on agreeing to the motion.
The motion was agreed to.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the nomination.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read the nomination of John L. Si-
natra, Jr., of New York, to be United
States District Judge for the Western
District of New York.
CLOTURE MOTION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
I send a cloture motion to the desk.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clo-
ture motion having been presented
under rule XXII, the Chair directs the
clerk to read the motion.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on the nomi-
nation of John L. Sinatra, Jr., of New York,
to be United States District Judge for the
Western District of New York.
Mitch McConnell, John Boozman, John
Cornyn, Mike Crapo, Pat Roberts, Mike
Rounds, Thom Tillis, Roger F. Wicker,
Cindy Hyde-Smith, Kevin Cramer,
John Hoeven, Rob Portman, Dan Sul-
livan, Chuck Grassley, Richard Burr,
John Thune, Roy Blunt.
f
LEGISLATIVE SESSION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
I move to proceed to legislative ses-
sion.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on agreeing to the motion.
The motion was agreed to.
f
EXECUTIVE SESSION
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
I move to proceed to executive session
to consider Calendar No. 478.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:45 Nov 22, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G21NO6.002 S21NOPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6727
November 21, 2019
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on agreeing to the motion.
The motion was agreed to.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the nomination.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read the nomination of Sarah E.
Pitlyk, of Missouri, to be United States
District Judge for the Eastern District
of Missouri.
CLOTURE MOTION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
I send a cloture motion to the desk.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clo-
ture motion having been presented
under rule XXII, the Chair directs the
clerk to read the motion.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on the nomi-
nation of Sarah E. Pitlyk, of Missouri, to be
United States District Judge for the Eastern
District of Missouri.
Mitch McConnell, John Boozman, Rich-
ard Burr, Shelley Moore Capito, John
Cornyn, Mike Crapo, John Barrasso,
Roy Blunt, John Thune, Steve Daines,
Thom Tillis, Kevin Cramer, Chuck
Grassley, Tom Cotton, Rick Scott,
Cindy Hyde-Smith, David Perdue.
f
LEGISLATIVE SESSION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
I move to proceed to legislative ses-
sion.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on agreeing to the motion.
The motion was agreed to.
f
EXECUTIVE SESSION
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
I move to proceed to executive session
to consider Calendar No. 381.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on agreeing to the motion.
The motion was agreed to.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the nomination.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read the nomination of Douglas Russell
Cole, of Ohio, to be United States Dis-
trict Judge for the Southern District of
Ohio.
CLOTURE MOTION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
I send a cloture motion to the desk.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clo-
ture motion having been presented
under rule XXII, the Chair directs the
clerk to read the motion.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on the nomi-
nation of Douglas Russell Cole, of Ohio, to be
United States District Judge for the South-
ern District of Ohio.
Mitch McConnell, John Hoeven, Steve
Daines, James E. Risch, Roger F.
Wicker, Pat Roberts, John Thune,
Mike Rounds, Roy Blunt, Mike Crapo,
John Boozman, John Cornyn, Lindsey
Graham, Thom Tillis, David Perdue,
Chuck Grassley, Rick Scott.
f
LEGISLATIVE SESSION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
I move to proceed to legislative ses-
sion.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on agreeing to the motion.
The motion was agreed to.
f
EXECUTIVE SESSION
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
I move to proceed to executive session
to consider Calendar No. 459.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on agreeing to the motion.
The motion was agreed to.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the nomination.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read the nomination of R. Austin
Huffaker, Jr., of Alabama, to be United
States District Judge for the Middle
District of Alabama.
CLOTURE MOTION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
I send a cloture motion to the desk.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clo-
ture motion having been presented
under rule XXII, the Chair directs the
clerk to read the motion.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on the nomi-
nation of R. Austin Huffaker, Jr., of Ala-
bama, to be United States District Judge for
the Middle District of Alabama.
Steve Daines, Roy Blunt, John Thune,
Richard Burr, John Cornyn, Chuck
Grassley, Tom Cotton, Rick Scott,
Mike Crapo, Shelley Moore Capito,
John Boozman, Roger F. Wicker, Cindy
Hyde-Smith, David Perdue, Mike
Rounds, John Hoeven, Mitch McCon-
nell.
f
LEGISLATIVE SESSION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
I move to proceed to legislative ses-
sion.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on agreeing to the motion.
The motion was agreed to.
f
EXECUTIVE SESSION
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
I move to proceed to executive session
to consider Calendar No. 460.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on agreeing to the motion.
The motion was agreed to.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the nomination.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read the nomination of David B. Bar-
low, of Utah, to be United States Dis-
trict Judge for the District of Utah.
CLOTURE MOTION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
I send a cloture motion to the desk.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clo-
ture motion having been presented
under rule XXII, the Chair directs the
clerk to read the motion.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on the nomi-
nation of David B. Barlow, of Utah, to be
United States District Judge for the District
of Utah.
Mitch McConnell, John Boozman, Rich-
ard Burr, Shelley Moore Capito, John
Cornyn, Mike Crapo, John Barrasso,
Roy Blunt, John Thune, Steve Daines,
Thom Tillis, Kevin Cramer, Chuck
Grassley, Tom Cotton, Rand Paul,
Roger F. Wicker, Cindy Hyde-Smith.
f
LEGISLATIVE SESSION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
I move to proceed to legislative ses-
sion.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on agreeing to the motion.
The motion was agreed to.
f
EXECUTIVE SESSION
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
I move to proceed to executive session
to consider Calendar No. 479.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on agreeing to the motion.
The motion was agreed to.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the nomination.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read the nomination of Richard Ernest
Myers II, of North Carolina, to be
United States District Judge for the
Eastern District of North Carolina.
CLOTURE MOTION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
I send a cloture motion to the desk.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clo-
ture motion having been presented
under rule XXII, the Chair directs the
clerk to read the motion.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on the nomi-
nation of Richard Ernest Myers II, of North
Carolina, to be United States District Judge
for the Eastern District of North Carolina.
Mitch McConnell, John Boozman, Rich-
ard Burr, Shelley Moore Capito, John
Cornyn, Mike Crapo, John Barrasso,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:45 Nov 22, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G21NO6.006 S21NOPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6728 November 21, 2019
Roy Blunt, John Thune, Steve Daines,
Thom Tillis, Kevin Cramer, Chuck
Grassley, Tom Cotton, Rand Paul,
Roger F. Wicker, Cindy Hyde-Smith.
f
LEGISLATIVE SESSION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
I move to proceed to legislative ses-
sion.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on agreeing to the motion.
The motion was agreed to.
f
EXECUTIVE SESSION
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
I move to proceed to executive session
to consider Calendar No. 489.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on agreeing to the motion.
The motion was agreed to.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the nomination.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read the nomination of Sherri A.
Lydon, of South Carolina, to be United
States District Judge for the District
of South Carolina.
CLOTURE MOTION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
I send a cloture motion to the desk.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clo-
ture motion having been presented
under rule XXII, the Chair directs the
clerk to read the motion.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on the nomi-
nation of Sherri A. Lydon, of South Caro-
lina, to be United States District Judge for
the District of South Carolina.
Steve Daines, Roy Blunt, John Thune,
Richard Burr, John Cornyn, Chuck
Grassley, Tom Cotton, Rick Scott,
Mike Crapo, Shelley Moore Capito,
John Boozman, Roger F. Wicker, Cindy
Hyde-Smith, David Perdue, Mike
Rounds, John Hoeven, Mitch McCon-
nell.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
I ask unanimous consent that the man-
datory quorum calls for the cloture
motions be waived.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The ma-
jority whip.
HONG KONG
Mr. THUNE. Madam President, I
would like to comment on the Hong
Kong legislation that we passed this
week. Tuesday night, the Senate
unanimously passed the Hong Kong
Human Rights and Democracy Act, led
by Senators RUBIO and CARDIN, Foreign
Relations Chairman RISCH, and Rank-
ing Member MENENDEZ, and a sup-
porting cast of colleagues. This bill is
intended to spur Hong Kong officials
and pro-Beijing constituencies to pro-
tect Hong Kong’s autonomy and its
special relationship with the United
States and to hold those committing
human rights violations in Hong Kong
accountable. It builds on the 1992
United States-Hong Kong Policy Act,
which asserts that the United States
has a ‘‘strong interest in the continued
vitality, prosperity, and stability of
Hong Kong.’’ I am grateful for the lead-
ership of the Senators who worked to
advance this bill.
The issue at hand is Hong Kong’s
right to an independent judicial system
and its unique status in a one-country,
two-system construct. The bill that
spurred the June protests in Hong
Kong—a bill pushed by the communist
Chinese central government that
sought to impose extraditions from
Hong Kong to mainland China—would
have directly undercut this judicial
independence. This bill has been with-
drawn, but a number of other griev-
ances have boiled over into protests.
Hong Kong’s autonomy is under at-
tack, and China is posturing to
‘‘mainlandize’’ their economy. Recent
educational reforms seek to undermine
Hong Kong’s culture and traditions
through compulsory Mandarin classes
instead of the Cantonese that most
Hongkongers speak. The Chinese Gov-
ernment will say that westerners have
the wrong impression of what is going
on there, that this is strictly an inter-
nal matter. We beg to differ. There are
more than 85,000 American citizens in
Hong Kong. Moreover, the human
rights of the people of Hong Kong are
directly tied to U.S. interests in Hong
Kong and Hong Kong’s economic pros-
perity.
China has threatened repercussions if
the Hong Kong Human Rights and De-
mocracy Act is enacted. I imagine
China is fearful that attention to
human rights abuses in Hong Kong will
draw increased attention to other
human rights abuses in China, such as
the estimated 1.5 million Muslim
Uighurs in forced detention in one of
China’s western provinces.
Papers leaked this week from the
government of the Communist Party
and General Secretary Xi detail the co-
ercive ‘‘reeducation’’ that goes on in
these internment camps. Christians in
China also face regular persecution and
imprisonment for following their faith
and living out their beliefs. The Hong
Kong Human Rights and Democracy
Act will help shed increased light on
Beijing’s aggression and on human
rights abuses in Hong Kong.
Last night, the House sent this Sen-
ate bill to the President’s desk with a
resounding 417-to-1 vote—a clear state-
ment that Congress stands with Hong
Kong.
THANKSGIVING
Madam President, a week from
today, we will be celebrating Thanks-
giving. Like every Thanksgiving, I will
be home in South Dakota celebrating
with my family: My wife, my daugh-
ters, my sons-in-law, and my four—
soon to be five—grandchildren. I will be
taking on my traditional job of carving
the turkey and helping with the dishes
afterward. I am looking forward to a
lot of good pie—apple pie a la mode,
pumpkin, with a lot of whipped cream,
and my favorite is anything in the
creamed-pie family.
I am looking forward to spending
time outdoors. My daughters and I tra-
ditionally go on a trail run Thanks-
giving morning. It is a good way to
work up an appetite for all that pie. We
all enjoy throwing around a football
before or after the meal. South Dako-
tans are pretty resilient when it comes
to being out in the cold. As long as we
don’t have tons of snow, we like to get
outdoors on Thanksgiving.
Like many South Dakotans, I love to
squeeze in a little pheasant hunting
over Thanksgiving, whenever I can.
Thanksgiving is one of my favorite
holidays. I love sitting down with my
whole family—and extended family—
and getting to spend time in South Da-
kota outdoors before winter really hits
us.
Thanksgiving has a long tradition in
this country. Long before the United
States was a nation, various Colonies
were celebrating days of thanksgiving.
Our current celebration of Thanks-
giving can be traced to Abraham Lin-
coln, who issued a proclamation in 1863
inviting a national celebration of
Thanksgiving on the last Thursday in
November.
In 1941, Congress codified the
Thanksgiving holiday and permanently
set the date as the fourth Thursday in
November. I don’t think it is too sur-
prising that the celebration of Thanks-
giving is a recurring part of our his-
tory. On Thanksgiving in my family,
typically, we go around the table and
say what we are thankful for. In this
country, that is a pretty long list, in-
cluding the tremendous natural riches
of this country, from great rivers to
magnificent mountains, to our wide-
open access to the sea, and the tremen-
dous freedoms that we enjoy. And in
the 21st century, we enjoy freedom of
religion, of speech, of the press, and
other freedoms, like the freedom from
unreasonable searches and seizures, or
excessive fines or cruel and unusual
punishments. All of these freedoms
that we so often take for granted are
still unknown to too many people
across the world.
The United States is not perfect, and
we don’t always get it right, but we
enjoy tremendous blessings in this
country. It is important not to take
them for granted. Thanksgiving gives
us a chance to pause and reflect on all
that we have been given.
I am grateful to God for so many
blessings this year. I am thankful for
the great blessing of my family—my
dad, Harold, a World War II aviator
who will turn 100 next month; my
brothers and sister; my wife Kimberly,
the best thing in my life; my beautiful
daughters and my sons-in-law; and our
grandchildren, pretty much the most
amazing grandchildren ever, in my own
unbiased opinion.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:45 Nov 22, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G21NO6.015 S21NOPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6729
November 21, 2019
I am thankful for the great State of
South Dakota, for our fresh air and
wide-open spaces, from the prairies of
farm country to the rugged terrain of
the Black Hills.
South Dakotans are a resilient, kind,
and gracious people, and I am thankful
every day that I am lucky enough to
call South Dakota home.
I am also tremendously grateful for
the work I get to do. Getting to rep-
resent South Dakotans in the Senate is
one of the great privileges of my life.
While it has been a contentious year
with a divided Congress, I have still
had the chance to continue to work on
important issues affecting people in
my State and around the country, like
helping our Nation’s farmers and
ranchers in this tough agriculture
economy.
I am grateful for the privilege of liv-
ing in this great country, and I am
grateful for all the men and women
who put their lives on the line every
single day to preserve the freedoms we
enjoy. Our military men and women
represent the very best of America, and
I am grateful every day for their serv-
ice and for their sacrifice.
In that 1863 proclamation of Thanks-
giving Day that I mentioned, Abraham
Lincoln, in his referring to the bless-
ings America had experienced even in
the midst of the horrors of the Civil
War, said:
No human counsel hath devised nor hath
any mortal hand worked out these great
things. They are the gracious gifts of the
Most High God, who, while dealing with us in
anger for our sins, hath nevertheless remem-
bered mercy. It has seemed to me fit and
proper that they should be solemnly, rev-
erently and gratefully acknowledged as with
one heart and one voice by the whole Amer-
ican People.
God has blessed us with very great
gifts in this country, and it is, indeed,
fit and proper that we should dedicate
a day to reverently and gratefully ac-
knowledge them.
I yield the floor.
RECOGNITION OF THE MINORITY LEADER
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
Democratic leader is recognized.
THANKSGIVING
Mr. SCHUMER. Madam President,
first, let me thank my friend from
South Dakota for his wonderful words
on Thanksgiving.
I was going to conclude with Thanks-
giving, but I will start with it. It is a
great holiday. It is a great American
holiday. I love it, and my family loves
it. I was born on Thanksgiving Day. My
new grandson was born on November
24, so he will have birthdays on
Thanksgiving as well. This year, for
the first time, the SCHUMERS will cele-
brate with four generations, because
my parents, who also served in the
Army Air Force in World War II—my
dad, 96, and my mom, 91—will be there
with their little great-grandson, Noah.
We are blessed.
Thanksgiving is family and food.
What could be better than that? They
are two great parts of the holiday. I
will not carve the turkey like THUNE
does because it would get all screwed
up, but I can dole out the mashed pota-
toes—I am good at that—which is prob-
ably what they will have me do. It is a
great holiday, and we do have a great
deal to thank God and the country for.
The wonderful thing about Thanks-
giving is, from its origins during the
Civil War—one of the worst, most hor-
rible times in America, with so much
death and mayhem and division—peo-
ple were still grateful for America, and
we are today. It is an amazing place.
My father was an exterminator, and I
am a U.S. Senator. What an amazing
country this is, and we should never
stop trying to make it better. I try to
do that every day. I am thankful that
I live in a country in which you can try
to make it better.
I am thankful for many, many
things—family, with our new addition
this year. Iris and I are so happy about
that. We have great kids and a great
daughter-in-law and son-in-law. There
is just a lot to be thankful for, and it
is nice to take a pause, amidst all the
fighting and partisanship here, to be
grateful.
IMPEACHMENT
Madam President, now, on some
more legislative, Senatorial, govern-
mental subjects, the Ambassador to
the European Union, Gordon Sondland,
provided some of the most significant
testimony yesterday in the House im-
peachment inquiry to date.
Ambassador Sondland asserted a
‘‘quid pro quo,’’ linking the offer of a
White House meeting—an official act—
in exchange for Ukrainian officials’ an-
nouncing an investigation into
Burisma and the 2016 elections. Presi-
dent Trump tried to rebut that quid
pro quo by saying he told Sondland on
the phone there was no quid pro quo.
Donald Trump is not known for telling
the truth, particularly when his own
self-interest is at stake. So it doesn’t
stand up very well compared to
Sondland’s words.
Sondland went on to testify to his
understanding that President Trump’s
suspension of military aid to Ukraine
was also conditioned on the announce-
ment of these same investigations.
Those investigations, of course, had
nothing to do with national security or
any other interests of the United
States. On the contrary, they were
solely in President Trump’s personal,
political interests.
Ambassador Sondland also testified
that Secretary Pompeo, Secretary
Perry, Chief of Staff Mulvaney, and
other senior advisers to those individ-
uals were well aware of these activities
and the connection between White
House policy and requests from the
President to have Ukraine announce
investigations that would be politi-
cally advantageous to President
Trump.
Let me repeat: Those individuals I
just mentioned—Pompeo, Perry,
Mulvaney, and a few of their senior ad-
visers—were identified by Ambassador
Sondland as having information and
knowledge of the events that are cen-
tral to this impeachment inquiry. All
of them are currently refusing to tes-
tify, are defying subpoenas from the
House of Representatives, and, in some
cases, are challenging those subpoenas
in court.
This morning, I would strongly urge
the courts that have jurisdiction over
these cases to quickly resolve them.
The individuals named in these sub-
poenas are fact witnesses in the pend-
ing House impeachment inquiry. In ad-
dition, these officials and others are
withholding evidence in the form of
documents that are, unquestionably,
material to the impeachment inquiry.
Ambassador Sondland’s testimony
demonstrated even more pointedly why
it is so essential that the witnesses
who have been summoned must comply
and why the courts should promptly
enforce House subpoenas in the pending
cases.
When I hear the courts say that in 5
weeks or in 6 weeks, they will have
court hearings or decisions—I have
never practiced in these Washington
courts; I have a law degree, but I am
not a practicing lawyer—I don’t under-
stand, and I think Americans don’t un-
derstand why the courts take so long
when there is such an important issue
before them. All of the judges have a
responsibility to make decisions quick-
ly and soon so that if they agree that
these people should be compelled to
testify—and I don’t know what the de-
cisions will be—that their testimony
would be received in a timely manner.
We have two groups of people at the
moment. One group is testifying under
oath in the House inquiry that there
was a ‘‘quid pro quo’’ and substantial
wrongdoing. Another group is denying
any wrongdoing but is refusing to com-
ply with subpoenas or to testify under
oath. If these individuals feel they have
exculpatory evidence to provide or that
the testimony provided to the House is
incorrect, they should testify under
oath. Otherwise, the American people
will rightly wonder why they refuse to
do so.
Let me just repeat what I said in the
last few days: If Donald Trump tweets
away at how wrong these witnesses are,
let him come before the committee,
under oath, and testify to what he
tweets. Speaker PELOSI has said she
would welcome President Trump’s
coming and testifying. President
Trump has not been silent on these
issues. He has been tweeting away—
ridiculing the witnesses and saying
what they have said is wrong. Well, if
he is right, has nothing to hide, and
wants to convince the American people
and the House of Representatives, let
him come under oath and tell his side
of the story. When he doesn’t come
under oath—and he can do it tomorrow
or in the next few days—the American
people will ask: Mr. President, what
are you hiding? What are you not tell-
ing the truth about?
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:45 Nov 22, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G21NO6.018 S21NOPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6730 November 21, 2019
APPROPRIATIONS
Madam President, on appropriations,
later today, the Senate is set to pass a
continuing resolution to fund the gov-
ernment through December 20, which
will send it to the President’s desk. I
am optimistic that the passage of the
continuing resolution today will be
something from which Congress can
build—a sign that appropriators from
both sides of the aisle will be ready to
work together to settle government
funding by the end of the calendar
year.
With another month’s time at our
disposal, the appropriations process
can now go down one of two paths. On
the first path, President Trump stays
out of our way and gives Congress the
space to work together and find agree-
ment. On the second path, President
Trump stomps his feet, makes impos-
sible demands, and prevents his party—
the Republicans—from coming to a fair
arrangement.
The first path leads to a bipartisan
deal on appropriations and guaranteed,
long-term funding for both Republican
and Democratic priorities. The second
path leads, as we all know, to another
Trump government shutdown. I hope
the passage of the continuing resolu-
tion will be the first step down the bi-
partisan path that will lead to success-
ful agreement by the end of the year.
HONG KONG
Madam President, on Hong Kong, 2
days ago, the Senate passed legislation,
by unanimous consent, committing the
United States to stand with the brave
citizens of Hong Kong, who are now en-
gaged in a fierce struggle to defend
their civil and human rights. Last
night, the House of Representatives
followed suit by a vote of 417 to 1. Only
a short time ago, I took part in a bipar-
tisan signing ceremony for the legisla-
tion. Now it will head straight to the
President’s desk. Congress has just
sent an unmistakable message to the
Chinese Communist Party that the
United States stands with the people of
Hong Kong.
President Xi, the U.S. Government
has spoken. This legislation represents
what America really thinks about your
policies toward Hong Kong, not what
President Trump may whisper in your
ear. This legislation shows what Amer-
icans think about the Chinese Com-
munist Party’s treatment of Hong
Kong.
I would say to President Xi and to
the Chinese leadership, the Communist
Party leadership: You cannot be a
great nation when you oppose freedom,
deny civil liberties, and brutally sup-
press your own people from one end of
China to the other, as the Chinese
Communist Party has done to the peo-
ple of Hong Kong, to the Uighurs, and
to the millions of citizens whose voices
have been silenced and whose rights
have been trampled on by the Chinese
Government.
To the people of China, we stand with
you in freedom.
To the students and young people in
Hong Kong, we stand with you.
To the Uighurs, who simply want to
practice their religion, we stand with
you.
I believe that freedom will prevail
and that the Chinese system will either
change or it will fail. History is not
kind to those who peddle in autocracy
and suppression.
I thank all of my colleagues. This
was one of the rare, fine, bipartisan
moments on the floor of the Senate.
Our colleagues on both sides of the
aisle—the Senators from Florida and
Idaho, Messrs. RUBIO and RISCH; the
Senators from Maryland and New Jer-
sey, Messrs. CARDIN and MENENDEZ; as
well as Senator MERKLEY and Senator
CORNYN—all worked hard to put to-
gether a very strong bill, and we came
together. This has been an important
bipartisan moment. It goes to show
how Congress is still capable of doing
big things.
As we enter the Thanksgiving break,
we should think about the other issues
we could debate, about the other bipar-
tisan bills on which we could vote,
those of lowering the cost of prescrip-
tion drugs, of securing our elections, of
helping our veterans, and more. Pass-
ing bipartisan legislation should be the
rule, not the exception.
It has been several weeks since we
have had a real debate and a vote on
any legislation in this Chamber. I hope
that in the final weeks of this year,
Leader MCCONNELL will begin to listen
to the pleas from both sides of the aisle
to get the Senate working again.
A happy Thanksgiving to one and all.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Arkansas.
RECOGNIZING THE ARKANSAS DEMOCRAT-
GAZETTE
Mr. COTTON. Madam President, I
come to the floor with the senior Sen-
ator from Arkansas, Mr. BOOZMAN, to
celebrate a great anniversary.
Two hundred years ago this week,
the very first newspaper in Arkansas
was published. It was called the Arkan-
sas Gazette. We know it today as the
Arkansas Democrat-Gazette. It is the
oldest paper west of the Mississippi, an
institution in our State, and a credit to
the many outstanding journalists who
have made it possible over two cen-
turies.
From its first issue, the Arkansas
Gazette was a pioneering newspaper,
published by a young man named Wil-
liam Woodruff who crossed the mighty
Mississippi into brandnew territory,
dragging behind him a wooden printing
press and other tools of the trade.
The Gazette was first published out
of a log cabin in the territorial capital,
Arkansas Post. It reflected the bold as-
pirations of American settlers moving
West to fulfill our manifest destiny on
the continent, and it reflected these
landlocked settlers’ keen awareness
that events far beyond out little plot of
soil could shape their lives in dramatic
ways.
The first story in the very first edi-
tion reported on a Navy expedition to
open the Pacific Northwest for Amer-
ican traders. It speculated with excite-
ment about the prosperity that would
flow to our Nation as Americans fol-
lowed Lewis and Clark west across the
country. ‘‘The plan may appear vision-
ary,’’ the Gazette remarked, ‘‘but that
which is now speculation will . . .
shortly become a fact, and this country
will be enriched by the overflowings of
its benefit.’’
As the Arkansas Territory grew, Ar-
kansas’s newspaper grew with it. Wood-
ruff moved the paper from Arkansas
Post to Little Rock in 1821, where it
would continue to be published for the
next 198 years with few exceptions,
such as a devastating fire in the 1850s
and military occupation during the
Civil War.
Just as Arkansas kept its rough-
hewn, pioneer character, so too did Ar-
kansas’s newspaper, whose staff were
involved in not one but two gun bat-
tles, including the last recorded duel in
Arkansas history—between, I am com-
pelled to report, the owners of the Ga-
zette and its upstart competitor, the
Democrat.
If William Woodruff was the founding
father of the Democrat-Gazette, John
Netherland Heiskell was its Lincoln,
bringing the paper triumphantly into
maturity. Heiskell became editor in
1902 and served in that position for an
incredible 70 years until his passing in
1972. The one interruption in Heiskell’s
remarkable tenure came in 1913, when
the Governor selected him to serve as a
U.S. Senator after the death of a sit-
ting Senator. He only served in this
body for 23 days before a successor was
elected, and then he hurried back to
Little Rock and to the Gazette because
the news waits for no man.
Over the next half-century, the Ga-
zette established itself as a world-class
newspaper. It was during this period
that the Gazette took a bold stand for
truth in the finest tradition of jour-
nalism by declaring its support for de-
segregation well ahead of the pack in
1957. The Gazette and its editorial writ-
er, Harry Ashmore, covered the tur-
moil surrounding Little Rock’s inte-
gration with decency and firmness, in-
sisting that Arkansas fulfill its obliga-
tion to all our citizens on an equal
basis, without regard to race. This edi-
torial crusade lost more than a few
subscriptions, but it won the Gazette
two Pulitzer Prizes ‘‘for dem-
onstrating,’’ in the words of the Pul-
itzer committee, ‘‘the highest qualities
of civic leadership, journalistic respon-
sibility, and moral courage.’’ And so
the Arkansas Gazette entered the mod-
ern era as a famous and award-winning
publication.
In 1991, after years known as ‘‘the
newspaper wars,’’ the Gazette’s old
rival, the Democrat, bought the paper
and created what we now know as the
Arkansas Democrat-Gazette. Fortu-
nately, I hasten to add, no duels were
needed this time around. Now, the
Democrat-Gazette is again changing
with the times through the capable
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:45 Nov 22, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G21NO6.021 S21NOPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6731
November 21, 2019
leadership of Walter Hussman, his fam-
ily, and David Bailey, the managing
editor. This time, the paper is trans-
forming for the digital era, moving
from paper to screen, and it is even giv-
ing away free iPads to subscribers to
ease the transition. So if you are not
already a subscriber, consider sup-
porting our local journalism in Arkan-
sas. It has a bright future ahead.
Today, unfortunately, many vener-
able newspaper have fallen on hard
times. Too many journalists can’t be
bothered to get the story right. Too
many local communities are losing
parts of their identity, which is all the
more reason to celebrate newspapers
like the Democrat-Gazette, which do
get the story right and have preserved
their distinctive character throughout
the years.
Some things may change. The Demo-
crat-Gazette of the future may be her-
alded by the bright glow of the screen
rather than the rustle of the news page.
But other, more important things stay
the same, such as integrity, impar-
tiality, and credibility. The Democrat-
Gazette holds its reporters to the high-
est standards of accuracy and ethics.
Walter Hussman publishes these high
standards that won the Gazette two
Pulitzer Prizes every day on page 2 of
the newspaper in its statement of core
values. That statement reads:
Credibility is the greatest asset of any
news medium and impartiality is the great-
est source of credibility.
The Democrat-Gazette practices
what it preaches, and for that reason,
it continues to succeed 200 years on.
There is also its Arkansas focus. As
ever, the Democrat-Gazette earnestly
pursues stories in Arkansas for the
benefit of Arkansans. It is this proud
local focus which has made the Demo-
crat-Gazette a beloved institution in
Arkansas and which will sustain it in
the years ahead. Finally, the pioneer
spirit—from the Arkansas Territory to
the frontiers of digital journalism, the
Arkansas Democrat-Gazette will travel
confidently into the future.
Today, I join Senator BOOZMAN in
congratulating the Hussman family,
the Democrat-Gazette, and all of their
many hard-working professionals and
journalists.
I yield the floor to my colleague, the
senior Senator from Arkansas.
Mr. BOOZMAN. Madam President, it
is a pleasure to be with my friend and
colleague from Arkansas to talk about
a tremendous State institution, some-
thing that is truly a true Arkansas in-
stitution, and we want to pay tribute
to it and the men and women who
made it great in the past and will con-
tinue to make it great into the future.
Newspapers have played a vital role
in our country’s history of public dis-
course, increasing our knowledge and
awareness about what takes place all
around us. The stories they print keep
us informed, while building a sense of
community and regional identity.
Newspapers drive political debates and
set the agenda, helping us make sense
of the issues impacting our world.
As one of the oldest continuously
published newspapers west of the Mis-
sissippi, the Arkansas Democrat-Ga-
zette has been a resource of informa-
tion that has kept readers connected to
community, the State, and our Nation
for 200 years.
In 1819, William E. Woodruff pub-
lished the first edition of the Arkansas
Gazette, the Arkansas Territory’s first
newspaper. There was no shortage of
news to print in those days. During its
early years, the publication encouraged
settlement to the region, shared news
of national importance, and promoted
statehood.
For generations, this publication has
been a primary source of reliable and
comprehensive news that has shaped
the way Arkansans view the world. It
has constantly challenged the status
quo and examined the decisions of
elected leaders, while pursuing trans-
parency and accountability.
The work the Gazette produced often
resulted in positive change in the Nat-
ural State. In 1957, the newspaper op-
posed Governor Orval Faubus’s deci-
sion to prevent integration of Little
Rock Central High School. For its re-
porting on the struggles of integration,
the Gazette earned two Pulitzer Prizes,
one for meritorious public service and
the other awarded to its executive edi-
tor, Harry Ashmore, for editorial writ-
ing, marking the first time a news-
paper won two Pulitzer Prizes in the
same year.
The newspaper and its spirited com-
petitor, the Arkansas Democrat, con-
tended for readers and advertisers for
decades. In 1991, the Gazette was sold
to the owners of the Arkansas Demo-
crat, who then launched the Arkansas
Democrat-Gazette, which is the only
statewide newspaper Arkansans read
today.
The importance of the Arkansas
Democrat-Gazette in today’s media
landscape cannot be overstated. In
some cases, it is the sole source of news
for many small towns in Arkansas, as
local newspapers continue to cease op-
erations, especially those serving rural
areas.
Under the leadership of Walter
Hussman, Jr., the Democrat-Gazette is
navigating the challenging industry
landscape and creating opportunities
to keep readers informed by keeping
costs manageable. Hussman and his
team are rethinking how and what
news they deliver to readers, as well as
how subscribers can and like to con-
sume it.
To cut printing and transportation
costs and combat declining advertise-
ment revenue, the paper is now using
iPads to maintain subscribers and con-
tinue providing this valuable, not-eas-
ily-replaced service to the community.
In an interview earlier this year
about efforts at the Democrat-Gazette,
Hussman noted his view that the print
model is not sustainable, but he voiced
his commitment to finding a solution
that will fill the void because, as he
says, society and our democracy will be
impeded if we don’t have newspapers.
It is a simple truth. Throughout peri-
ods of change, Hussman and the news-
paper he owns continue to believe in
the critical role that news gathering
and reporting play in informing the
public.
Every day, the Arkansas Democrat-
Gazette and the other publications
owned by the Hussman family publish
a statement of core values that include
‘‘objectivity, impartiality, integrity
and truth-seeking.’’ This clear, sensible
mantra consistently helps guide the
work done by the reporters and editors
in the paper’s newsrooms.
Journalism is a pillar of our democ-
racy. Our Founders understood the im-
portance of a free press and included
protections in the First Amendment
that safeguard and ensure the ability
of reporters and the publications they
write for to hold the powerful to ac-
count.
Earlier this year, I was proud to sup-
port the World Press Freedom Day res-
olution and recognize the sacrifices
journalists around the world make in
their effort to report the truth.
We must continue to promote a free
and open press in the United States
and around the globe. In today’s cli-
mate, we all share responsibility for
acknowledging the value and the neces-
sity of press freedom while at the same
time not shrinking away from appro-
priate scrutiny and fair criticism. The
health and well-being of our society
and civic life depends on striking the
right balance in this regard.
For 200 years, the Arkansas Demo-
crat-Gazette has kept individuals in-
formed about moments and events of
significance in Arkansas, our country,
and the world. I congratulate the news-
paper’s leaders and staff for pursuing
facts and accountability, as they have
created and sustained the publication
as a responsible and reliable source of
information.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from West Virginia.
BIPARTISAN AMERICAN MINERS ACT
Mr. MANCHIN. Madam President, I
want to first say thank you to my col-
leagues, Senate Majority Leader MITCH
MCCONNELL and Senators CAPITO,
PORTMAN, JONES, KAINE, DUCKWORTH,
BROWN, CASEY, DURBIN, WARNER,
SINEMA, VAN HOLLEN, and REED, who
have cosponsored this legislation with
me, for standing with me to protect
coal miners’ pensions and healthcare,
and specifically Senator CAPITO, who
will be joining me here on the floor
today.
Yesterday marked the 51st anniver-
sary of the Farmington No. 9 disaster,
where 78 coal miners lost their lives in
the Consolidation Coal Company’s No.
9 mine in Farmington, WV, which is
my hometown. I lost my uncle John
Gouzd in that mine explosion, I lost my
neighbor John Sopuch, and I lost sev-
eral of my classmates in that tragedy
that rocked my hometown. It seems
like only yesterday.
I have always said that one life lost
while on the job is one too many. It
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:45 Nov 22, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G21NO6.022 S21NOPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6732 November 21, 2019
shouldn’t happen. This tragedy shows
the risk our coal miners take every day
to provide our country with the energy
we need, which is why I am here today.
When coal companies go bankrupt,
coal miners’ benefits are at the bottom
of the priority list, which is how we
have ended up in this situation today,
and that is unacceptable. It should be
unacceptable to all of us.
The person who earns the wage
should be on the front end of the line
when a bankruptcy happens, and what-
ever happens, they are taken care of
first. Time is running out for our coal
miners. We need it fixed now—not in a
few weeks, not in 2020, but now. Year
after year, our coal miners risk their
lives to bring America the energy need-
ed to become the world leader that we
are today. Our coal miners made a
commitment to our country, and now,
it is our turn to uphold the commit-
ment we made to them in 1946 by secur-
ing their hard-earned pensions in
healthcare.
Let me tell you about the coal that
we have in our country and has been
mined by our hard-working coal miners
since the beginning of the 20th century.
That coal basically has fueled every
war that we have been in, helped us
win every war, helped propel us to the
industrial might that we are today,
built our factories. It has done every-
thing for us, and all we are doing now
is trying to make sure that the people
that sacrificed all these years are
taken care of.
We have 1,000 coal miners who will
lose their healthcare coverage on De-
cember 31 of this year, a little over a
month from now. We also have 12,000
more coal miners who will lose their
healthcare in March of next year, and
that is only 4 months away. This is an
issue that must be dealt with imme-
diately, and time is running out. If you
are one of those 1,000 coal miners and
one of your family members is depend-
ing on their healthcare—probably life-
supporting healthcare—and they are
thinking they are going to lose it at
the end of this month, it is unconscion-
able for us to walk out of here and not
get this piece of legislation down. With
it being so bipartisan—having the ma-
jority leader from Kentucky rep-
resenting the coal miners of Ken-
tucky—this is something that needs to
be done immediately, and I know that
we can.
But if we don’t pass this legislation
to protect our miners, the UMWA pen-
sion fund will be insolvent by this time
next year. With the largest privately
owned coal company, Murray Energy,
filing for bankruptcy 2 weeks ago, the
timeline for the UMWA pension fund
moved up 2 years. It accelerated a basi-
cally exacerbating position that we
were in to begin with. Murray Energy,
to date, has contributed over 97 percent
of the money going into the UMWA
pension fund annually because of the
size of their company, which is why its
bankruptcy has accelerated the situa-
tion we are in today with the pension
fund insolvency.
Once the UMWA pension fund would
become insolvent if we don’t do some-
thing, this crisis will snowball and im-
pact every other multi-employer pen-
sion fund in America. They will all
start tumbling, along with the PBGC,
which is a federally funded pension
guarantee. That is why it is essential
that we protect our coal miners’ pen-
sions now—not next year or the year
after that—which is why my colleagues
and I introduced the Bipartisan Amer-
ican Miners Act.
The Bipartisan American Miners Act
would amend the current Surface Min-
ing Control and Reclamation Act of
1977 to transfer funds in excess of the
amounts needed to be meet existing ob-
ligations under the Abandoned Mine
Land fund to the 1974 Pension Plan to
prevent its looming insolvency. It also
raises the cap on these funds from $490
million to $750 million to ensure that
there is sufficient funding for those
pension funds.
It also guarantees lifetime
healthcare for the 13,000 individuals,
including the 1,000 scheduled to lose
their healthcare on December 31 of this
year, by amending the Coal Act to in-
clude 2018 and 2019 bankruptcies in the
miners’ healthcare fix that passed in
2017. The funding for coal miners’ pen-
sions is already there. It just needs to
be reallocated. These actions will se-
cure the pensions of 92,000 coal miners
and their families and protect
healthcare benefits for 13,000 miners.
That is our goal, and I am proud to be
here fighting for these miners today
because they surely have fought for me
and given me the great country that I
live in today.
These miners took home less pay
every day from their paycheck with
the expectations that they will be able
to retire and provide for their families
after working for decades for our coun-
try. They have paid what they are try-
ing to receive. It is not something they
are asking for, a handout. They are not
asking for a Government handout or
taxpayer handout. They are just want-
ing the money that they invested and
paid into all of these years. It is money
they did not take out.
Workers expect the wages they have
contributed to be there when they re-
tire, as they were promised. If we pass
the Bipartisan American Miners Act as
an amendment to the continuing reso-
lution, we will protect coal miners’
pensions and healthcare now before it
is too late. The Bipartisan American
Miners Act is ready to be voted on and
has the support from both sides of the
aisles. I just read off a list of our spon-
sors.
The Bipartisan American Miners Act
is basically a piece of legislation that
needs to be done immediately. If we
don’t pass it now, 1,000 miners, as I said
before, will lose their healthcare on
December 31. Healthcare benefits will
be terminated, as we talked about, and
then by early September 2020, the pen-
sion benefits of 82,000 current pen-
sioners and 10,000 future pensioners
could be drastically reduced because of
the plan’s insolvency.
I want to remind you also that the
average pension of a coal miner is less
than $600 a month. Most of these are
widows. Their husbands have passed
on, and they are living on this as a sub-
sistence basically for their income. It
would be tremendously harmful for
them not to be able to receive this.
I believe that we can and will pass
this legislation before it is too late for
these miners as an amendment to the
CR. That is all we are asking for. It
must be done before and no later than
December 20. I am trying to get this on
now so that we can move forward.
Can you imagine being one of the
1,000 coal miners, maybe having one of
your loved ones—your wife or one of
your children—who has a serious ill-
ness and needs attention and knowing
they are not going to be able to get at-
tention basically to any healthcare
after December 31, so put yourself in
their shoes.
These are the families that deserve
the peace of mind knowing that their
pensions are going to be paid and their
paycheck—that they did not take the
money home—is going to be secure. We
can give them peace of mind today. I
look forward to passing this legislation
with all of my colleagues. It is bipar-
tisan. This is the first time we have
had something of this magnitude being
done in a bipartisan way. The good
Lord knows we need more bipartisan
efforts to work for the people.
If we are going to stand for the work-
ing men and women that made Amer-
ica, what is our purpose of being here,
and who do we stand for? So I am ask-
ing all of you, please, with the urgency
that is needed, please take up this
piece of legislation. Please take up this
amendment to the CR, and let’s take
care of the people that helped make
America as great as we are today, the
coal miners of the United Mine Work-
ers of America.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk called the roll.
Mr. MANCHIN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
SCOTT of Florida). The Senator from
West Virginia.
Mrs. CAPITO. Mr. President, I am
really pleased to be here with my fel-
low West Virginia Senator, Mr.
MANCHIN. We have joined each other on
this topic before, but he has been a real
champion for our miners, and I am
really grateful to him and others who
have participated, but I think we have
got to talk about this every day and
make sure that we underscore the ur-
gent need to pass the Bipartisan Amer-
ican Miners Act. I appreciate Senator
MANCHIN and certainly appreciate
Leader MCCONNELL who has been a
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:45 Nov 22, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G21NO6.023 S21NOPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6733
November 21, 2019
champion for our miners as well—Sen-
ator Portland as well—who have made
this retirement security a top priority.
Back in 2017, time was running out
on the healthcare benefits for 12,000 re-
tired miners. I remember it well, par-
ticularly following the Patriot Coal
bankruptcy. We came together as a bi-
partisan group to pass legislation with
the House that protected healthcare
for those men and women. While we are
in a similar situation today, which we
knew we were going to be here, the
Senate needs to act soon to save the
healthcare of 13,000 retired miners and
protect the pension benefits of 92,000
people.
Time is of the essence here because
roughly 1,000 retirees from Westmore-
land and Mission Coal will lose their
healthcare at the end of the year if we
do not act; 12,000 more could lose their
healthcare by next spring, and the pen-
sion benefits are at risk in 2020. This is
a critical, critical issue for my State
and many others.
I am going to take a brief moment to
explain how this legislation works, and
it is a bit complicated. In 2006, when we
passed the last reauthorization of the
Abandoned Mine Land Reclamation
Program, we had a capped permanent
direct appropriation that was created
for transfer of payments. That perma-
nent direct appropriation, along with
the interest on the AML—the Aban-
doned Mine Land—trust fund has been
used to fund AML payments to cer-
tified States and to provide healthcare
for our miners. What do we do to cer-
tify States? The whole point of the
AML is to do reclamation and repair of
previously mined lands all throughout
our country.
That permanent direct appropriation
has been used for the payments for the
certified States and also to provide
healthcare to our orphaned miners.
Well, for those who are not from a coal
company, what is an orphaned miner?
An orphaned miner is someone who
earned a vested right to retiree
healthcare benefits through years of
hard work but worked for a company
that either no longer exists or is no
longer financially solvent.
The Bipartisan American Miners Act
makes use of the same appropriation
that was created in 2006 to cover the
healthcare for retirees whose
healthcare would be lost due to the
bankruptcies in 2018, 2019. The bill
would provide resources to guarantee
the long-term solvency of the mine
workers’ pension fund. This is critical.
Previous versions of this bill that
many of us supported were able to ac-
complish this goal of protecting those
retirement beneficiaries without lift-
ing the cap on the direct appropriation
that was set in 2006.
Because Congress has delayed action
for so long, our current legislation
must lift the cap in order to provide
healthcare and pension benefits for our
miners. Protecting these benefits is a
top priority for me because it impacts
so many mining families and commu-
nities in West Virginia. Just last week-
end, I talked to three miners directly
impacted, just kind of randomly ran
into them in different areas of our
State.
But I think it is important to under-
stand that this bill does not place
other policy items in jeopardy. That is
a misconception. Passing this bill does
not disturb the principal balance of the
AML trust fund. That means we are
not jeopardizing funds that are used to
clean up abandoned mine sites, and
passing this bill will not cut funding
for other transfer payments that are
authorized by the law.
What the bill will do is protect re-
tirement benefits for tens of thousands
of retired miners and their families—
benefits that have been worked for,
benefits that have been earned through
the hard work in our mines; 25,451 West
Virginians received benefits from the
pension fund during 2018. They were
joined by more than 11,000 Pennsylva-
nians, 8,500 Kentuckians, and thou-
sands more from Illinois, Virginia, Ala-
bama, and Ohio. The pension benefits
of all the men and women are at risk if
Congress fails to act.
The average benefit—listen to this—
the average benefit for our miners is
$590 a month, so these are not lavish
benefits, but they are critical to our re-
tirees. One retired miner from Logan,
WV, who worked for 36 years in the
mines, wrote me and said, ‘‘Please keep
fighting to save our pension. I receive
$303.34 monthly. We need this badly to
help us pay for our food, our medicine
and other bills.’’
A miner from Richwood, WV, who
mined coal for 17 years, wrote, ‘‘My
monthly check is $192. It is not a lot of
money, but it means a lot to my abil-
ity to make ends meet.’’
I would add to both of these, these
men, these gentlemen, they worked for
these pensions. They paid into the pen-
sions. They should receive them. Pen-
sion benefits from the mine workers
plan went to individuals in all 55 West
Virginian counties, so this is truly an
issue that impacts my entire State.
But in the areas that have the largest
number of pensioners, which is Ra-
leigh, Logan, Wyoming, Marion, and
Boone Counties, cuts to the pension
and healthcare benefits of our retired
families would have significant im-
pacts on our entire community.
If these retirees face severe reduc-
tions in their pensions, it means less
money spent at the local businesses,
less money at a local restaurant, and it
would cause further economic harm to
the areas that cannot afford another
blow.
So I ask my colleagues to join me,
Senator MANCHIN, Leader MCCONNELL,
Senator PORTMAN, and many others, by
supporting the Bipartisan American
Miners Act.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Kentucky.
ORDER OF BUSINESS
Mr. PAUL. Mr. President, I ask unan-
imous consent that the cloture vote on
the Brouillette nomination occur at
1:30 p.m. today.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
AMENDMENT NO. 1250
Mr. PAUL. Mr. President, I rise to
present an amendment to this bill. My
amendment is simple, and it reflects
the kind of commonsense budgeting we
ought to be doing in Washington.
Today I offer the penny plan for infra-
structure. This plan cuts one penny, 1
percent of all spending, and puts that
money in a fund for infrastructure.
My amendment would put about $12
billion per year into a fund to fix our
roads and bridges. Every agency would
still get 99 percent of the spending they
got the previous year. Sure, they would
need to trim some fat, but they would
still be fine. A lot of businesses and or-
ganizations will tell you they have to
cut much greater than 1 percent a
year.
I visited a business recently that in
the downturn of 2008–2009 had to cut 30
percent of their expenditures. Business
men and women in America are used to
having to cut expenditures; govern-
ment never does.
Whether it is our highways or our
bridges or our waterways, our infra-
structure in America is falling behind.
Everyone knows it, but like so many
things, Washington can’t figure out
how to fix it, how to find the money to
fix it.
Politicians on both sides of the aisle
talk about trillion-dollar infrastruc-
ture plans but offer no way to pay for
it. My plan is much more modest,
doesn’t increase taxes, and doesn’t in-
crease our debt. The penny plan for in-
frastructure pays for it with money we
have already allocated.
To be clear, we do have the money.
Washington just spends it in inappro-
priate ways. Washington spends, for ex-
ample, $233 million on a single highway
in Afghanistan. We have money to pave
roads in Afghanistan, but they will not
vote to spend the money here to pave
roads.
The people in Afghanistan got $233
million for a road, but they couldn’t
even maintain it, so we gave them an-
other $22 million to maintain the road.
We spent $326 million to pave 2,000
kilometers of dirt roads in Afghani-
stan. We have enough money to spend
over $300 million to pave dirt roads in
Afghanistan, but we can’t come up
with $1 billion to help our infrastruc-
ture here. They were supposed to pave
2,000 kilometers; it turned out they
only paved 159 kilometers. They paved
less than 10 percent of what they actu-
ally promised to do with the money.
What is that equal to—$2.7 million per
mile.
It is outrageous, and it goes on year
after year after year. I think it is time
we try a new way. Just in Afghanistan,
we have spent more than the Marshall
Plan did to rebuild Europe after the
devastation of World War II, and we are
still there, spending good money after
bad. So when people come up here and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:45 Nov 22, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G21NO6.025 S21NOPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6734 November 21, 2019
say that a 1-percent cut would some-
how be a disaster, we need to remind
them that the money is there. They
just have to listen to the people and
pull the plug on this kind of crazy
spending overseas.
My amendment would move 1 percent
of current spending, and it would put
that 1 percent of the current spending
bill into infrastructure.
Supposedly, Republicans, Democrats,
and Independents all agree on infra-
structure. Yet we don’t allocate more
money to it because we are too busy
paving roads in Afghanistan. If we did
this, it would be about $12 billion. It is
not enough to fix everything in the
country. It is a modest sum. This is ac-
tually a modest proposal to move over
a few billion dollars.
Do you know what it would do?
Twelve billion dollars would pave up to
6,200 miles of a new four-lane highway,
resurface 20,000 miles of a four-lane
highway, and 2,200 miles of a six-lane
interstate. It would pay for multiple
big-ticket infrastructure projects that
are currently stuck without funding. In
my State, they have been advocating
money for the Brent Spence Bridge
across the Ohio River since before I
was elected—8 or 9 years of advocating
for a bridge for which we can’t find the
money. We have the money. Quit pav-
ing roads in Afghanistan, and let’s
start building bridges and paving roads
here.
This amendment would improve our
infrastructure, benefit our commu-
nities, eliminate government waste,
and help our economy. By cutting 1
percent of the current spending, we
will force all of government to do a
better job.
There is at least 1 percent waste.
There is probably 10 percent waste in
government. I am asking to cut 1 per-
cent of waste. Take that money you
cut by making government more effi-
cient and put it into infrastructure.
I encourage the Senate to consider
this amendment. I think we have very
few amendments come forward where
people have a chance to vote for infra-
structure.
At this point, I move to concur on
the House amendment to the Senate
amendment—
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Will the
Senator suspend?
Mr. PAUL. At this point, I am about
ready to do that.
f
LEGISLATIVE SESSION
FURTHER CONTINUING APPRO-
PRIATIONS ACT, 2020, AND FUR-
THER HEALTH EXTENDERS ACT
OF 2019
The Presiding Officer laid before the
Senate the following message from the
House of Representatives:
Resolved, That the House agree to the
amendment of the Senate to the bill (H.R.
3055) entitled ‘‘An Act making appropria-
tions for the Departments of Commerce and
Justice, Science, and Related Agencies for
the fiscal year ending September 30, 2020, and
for other purposes.’’, with an amendment to
the Senate amendment.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Kentucky.
MOTION TO CONCUR WITH AMENDMENT NO. 1250
Mr. PAUL. Mr. President, I move to
concur in the House amendment to the
Senate amendment to H.R. 3055, with a
further amendment numbered 1250.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report.
The legislative clerk read as follows:
The Senator from Kentucky [Mr. PAUL]
moves to concur in the House amendment to
the Senate amendment to H.R. 3055, with an
amendment numbered 1250.
The amendment is as follows:
(Purpose: To reduce the amount appro-
priated by 1 percent and put the savings to-
wards the Highway Trust Fund and certain
Environmental Protection Agency Infra-
structure Assistance)
At the appropriate place in division A, add
the following:
SEC. lll. REDUCTION IN RATE FOR OPER-
ATIONS.
The Continuing Appropriations Act, 2020
(division A of Public Law 116–59) is further
amended by inserting after section 150, as
added by section 101 of this division, the fol-
lowing:
‘‘SEC. 151. REDUCTION IN CONTINUING APPRO-
PRIATIONS TO PROVIDE SAVINGS
FOR THE HIGHWAY TRUST FUND
AND ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION
AGENCY INFRASTRUCTURE ASSIST-
ANCE.
‘‘(a) REDUCTION IN CONTINUING APPROPRIA-
TIONS.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in
paragraph (2), the rate for operations pro-
vided by section 101 is hereby reduced by 1
percent.
‘‘(2) EXCEPTIONS.—The rate for operations
shall not be reduced under paragraph (1) for
the following:
‘‘(A) Amounts made available from the
Highway Trust Fund established by section
9503(a) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986.
‘‘(B) Amounts for purposes described in
section 147.
‘‘(C) For the Environmental Protection
Agency, Infrastructure Assistance, amounts
made available for the following:
‘‘(i) The Clean Water State Revolving
Funds and the Drinking Water State Revolv-
ing Funds.
‘‘(ii) The Water Infrastructure Finance and
Innovation Act Program Account.
‘‘(iii) The America’s Water Infrastructure
Act Grant Programs under section 1459A of
the Safe Drinking Water Act (42 U.S.C. 300j–
19a).
‘‘(b) TRANSFER OF SAVINGS.—
‘‘(1) DETERMINATION OF SAVINGS.—The Sec-
retary of the Treasury shall determine the
amount of the reduction in amounts made
available under section 101 of this division
that is attributable to subsection (a).
‘‘(2) TRANSFER.—The Secretary of the
Treasury shall transfer from the General
Fund of the Treasury an amount equal to the
amount determined under paragraph (1), as
follows:
‘‘(A) For the Highway Trust Fund estab-
lished by section 9503(a) of the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986, 95 percent of such amount.
‘‘(B) For the Clean Water State Revolving
Funds and the Drinking Water State Revolv-
ing Funds, 3 percent of such amount.
‘‘(C) For the Water Infrastructure Finance
and Innovation Act Program Account, 1 per-
cent of such amount.
‘‘(D) For the America’s Water Infrastruc-
ture Act Grant Programs under section 1459A
of the Safe Drinking Water Act (42 U.S.C.
300j–19a), 1 percent of such amount.
‘‘(3) AVAILABILITY.—Amounts transferred
under paragraph (2) shall remain available
until expended.’’.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Alabama.
MOTION TO TABLE
Mr. SHELBY. Mr. President, I move
to table the Paul amendment, but I
just want to say a few words.
This continuing resolution before the
Senate holds spending at the fiscal 2019
levels. An arbitrary 1-percent across-
the-board cut on top of this—although
it sounds good—would be extremely
harmful to our agencies, particularly
our military.
The Senate handily defeated similar
amendments just recently, and I hope
we will do this today.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Vermont.
Mr. LEAHY. Mr. President, I will be
brief.
I agree with the distinguished senior
Senator from Alabama. The Paul
amendment imposes a 1-percent across-
the-board cut over last year’s funding
level to the vast majority of discre-
tionary spending for the duration of
the CR.
I hope all Members—Republican and
Democratic alike—will oppose it be-
cause it would mean arbitrary cuts in
defense and other national security
programs, cuts to veterans’ healthcare,
education, childcare, opioid programs,
just to name a few. It is a simplistic
tool that ignores the complexities of
our Federal budget. It is not a way we
should govern.
We have the hard work of making
hard choices to fund programs each
year based on reality. That is what we
should do. That is what the American
people deserve.
I support increased investment in our
Nation’s infrastructure. I would be
happy to work with Senator PAUL to
ensure these programs receive the re-
sources they require.
I hope he might be able to get some
support from the Trump administra-
tion, which has consistently proposed
cutting resources to improve our Na-
tion’s infrastructure. I hope he might
be able to get that kind of support, but
funding it through an across-the-board
cut on all other programs, including
veterans healthcare, national security,
and education programs is irrespon-
sible. It is not the answer.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Alabama.
Mr. SHELBY. Mr. President, I move
to table the Paul amendment and ask
for the yeas and nays.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there a
sufficient second?
There appears to be a sufficient sec-
ond.
The clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk called the roll.
Mr. THUNE. The following Senators
are necessarily absent: the Senator
from Louisiana (Mr. CASSIDY) and the
Senator from Arkansas (Mr. COTTON).
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:45 Nov 22, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00010 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G21NO6.027 S21NOPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6735
November 21, 2019
Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the
Senator from New Jersey (Mr. BOOKER),
the Senator from California (Ms. HAR-
RIS), the Senator from Minnesota (Ms.
KLOBUCHAR), the Senator from
Vermont (Mr. SANDERS), and the Sen-
ator from Massachusetts (Ms. WARREN)
are necessarily absent.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mrs.
HYDE-SMITH). Are there any other Sen-
ators in the Chamber desiring to vote?
The result was announced—yeas 73,
nays 20, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 363 Leg.]
YEAS—73
Alexander
Baldwin
Bennet
Blumenthal
Blunt
Boozman
Brown
Burr
Cantwell
Capito
Cardin
Carper
Casey
Collins
Coons
Cortez Masto
Cramer
Duckworth
Durbin
Enzi
Feinstein
Gardner
Gillibrand
Graham
Grassley
Hassan
Hawley
Heinrich
Hirono
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Inhofe
Isakson
Johnson
Jones
Kaine
King
Leahy
Manchin
Markey
McConnell
Menendez
Merkley
Moran
Murkowski
Murphy
Murray
Perdue
Peters
Portman
Reed
Roberts
Rosen
Rounds
Rubio
Schatz
Schumer
Scott (FL)
Shaheen
Shelby
Sinema
Smith
Stabenow
Tester
Thune
Toomey
Udall
Van Hollen
Warner
Whitehouse
Wicker
Wyden
Young
NAYS—20
Barrasso
Blackburn
Braun
Cornyn
Crapo
Cruz
Daines
Ernst
Fischer
Kennedy
Lankford
Lee
McSally
Paul
Risch
Romney
Sasse
Scott (SC)
Sullivan
Tillis
NOT VOTING—7
Booker
Cassidy
Cotton
Harris
Klobuchar
Sanders
Warren
The motion was agreed to.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The ma-
jority leader.
ORDER OF BUSINESS
Mr. MCCONNELL. I ask unanimous
consent that the votes following the
first vote in this series be 10 minutes in
length.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
MOTION TO CONCUR
Mr. MCCONNELL. I move to concur
in the House amendment to the Senate
amendment to H.R. 3055.
CLOTURE MOTION
I send a cloture motion to the desk
for the motion to concur.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clo-
ture motion having been presented
under rule XXII, the Chair directs the
clerk to read the motion.
The bill clerk read as follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on the mo-
tion to concur in the House amendment to
the Senate amendment to H.R. 3055, a bill
making appropriations for the Departments
of Commerce and Justice, Science, and Re-
lated Agencies for the fiscal year ending Sep-
tember 30, 2020, and for other purposes.
Mitch McConnell, Roy Blunt, Jerry
Moran, Richard C. Shelby, Lamar Alex-
ander, Susan M. Collins, John Bar-
rasso, Cindy Hyde-Smith, John Booz-
man, Lisa Murkowski, Rob Portman,
Johnny Isakson, John Thune, Chuck
Grassley, Tom Cotton, Pat Roberts.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
I ask unanimous consent that the man-
datory quorum call be waived.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
CLOTURE MOTION
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Pursuant
to rule XXII, the Chair lays before the
Senate the pending cloture motion,
which the clerk will state.
The legislative clerk read as follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on the mo-
tion to concur in the House amendment to
the Senate amendment to H.R. 3055, a bill
making appropriations for the Departments
of Commerce and Justice, Science, and Re-
lated Agencies for the fiscal year ending Sep-
tember 30, 2020, and for other purposes.
Mitch McConnell, Roy Blunt, Jerry
Moran, Richard C. Shelby, Lamar Alex-
ander, Susan M. Collins, John Bar-
rasso, Cindy Hyde-Smith, John Booz-
man, Lisa Murkowski, Rob Portman,
Johnny Isakson, John Thune, Chuck
Grassley, Tom Cotton, Pat Roberts.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. By unan-
imous consent, the mandatory quorum
call has been waived.
The question is, Is it the sense of the
Senate that debate on the motion to
concur in the House amendment to the
Senate amendment to H.R. 3055, a bill
making appropriations to the Depart-
ments of Commerce and Justice,
Science, and Related Agencies for the
fiscal year ending September 30, 2020,
and for other purposes, shall be
brought to a close?
The yeas and nays are mandatory
under the rules.
The clerk will call the roll.
The bill clerk called the roll.
Mr. THUNE. The following Senator is
necessarily absent: the Senator from
Louisiana (Mr. CASSIDY).
Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the
Senator from New Jersey (Mr. BOOKER),
the Senator from California (Ms. HAR-
RIS), the Senator from Minnesota (Ms.
KLOBUCHAR), the Senator from
Vermont (Mr. SANDERS), and the Sen-
ator from Massachusetts (Ms. WARREN)
are necessarily absent.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Are there
any other Senators in the Chamber de-
siring to vote?
The yeas and nays resulted—yeas 75,
nays 19, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 364 Leg.]
YEAS—75
Alexander
Baldwin
Barrasso
Bennet
Blumenthal
Blunt
Boozman
Brown
Burr
Cantwell
Capito
Cardin
Carper
Casey
Collins
Coons
Cornyn
Cortez Masto
Cotton
Cramer
Crapo
Duckworth
Durbin
Feinstein
Gardner
Gillibrand
Graham
Grassley
Hassan
Heinrich
Hirono
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Isakson
Johnson
Jones
Kaine
Kennedy
King
Lankford
Leahy
Manchin
Markey
McConnell
McSally
Menendez
Merkley
Moran
Murkowski
Murphy
Murray
Peters
Portman
Reed
Roberts
Rosen
Rubio
Schatz
Schumer
Scott (SC)
Shaheen
Shelby
Sinema
Smith
Stabenow
Sullivan
Tester
Thune
Udall
Van Hollen
Warner
Whitehouse
Wicker
Wyden
Young
NAYS—19
Blackburn
Braun
Cruz
Daines
Enzi
Ernst
Fischer
Hawley
Inhofe
Lee
Paul
Perdue
Risch
Romney
Rounds
Sasse
Scott (FL)
Tillis
Toomey
NOT VOTING—6
Booker
Cassidy
Harris
Klobuchar
Sanders
Warren
The PRESIDING OFFICER. On this
vote, the yeas are 75, the nays are 19.
Three-fifths of the Senators duly cho-
sen and sworn having voted in the af-
firmative, the motion is agreed to.
Under the previous order, all
postcloture time is yielded back.
The question is on agreeing to the
motion to concur.
Mr. THUNE. Madam President, I ask
for the yeas and nays.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there a
sufficient second?
There appears to be a sufficient sec-
ond.
The clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
called the roll.
Mr. THUNE. The following Senator is
necessarily absent: the Senator from
Louisiana (Mr. CASSIDY).
Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the
Senator from New Jersey (Mr. BOOKER),
the Senator from California (Ms. HAR-
RIS), the Senator from Minnesota (Ms.
KLOBUCHAR), the Senator from
Vermont (Mr. SANDERS), and the Sen-
ator from Massachusetts (Ms. WARREN)
are necessarily absent.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
YOUNG). Are there any other Senators
in the Chamber desiring to vote?
The result was announced—yeas 74,
nays 20, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 365 Leg.]
YEAS—74
Alexander
Baldwin
Barrasso
Bennet
Blumenthal
Blunt
Boozman
Brown
Burr
Cantwell
Capito
Cardin
Carper
Casey
Collins
Coons
Cornyn
Cortez Masto
Cotton
Cramer
Crapo
Duckworth
Durbin
Feinstein
Gardner
Gillibrand
Graham
Grassley
Hassan
Heinrich
Hirono
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Isakson
Johnson
Jones
Kaine
Kennedy
King
Lankford
Leahy
Manchin
Markey
McConnell
McSally
Menendez
Merkley
Moran
Murkowski
Murphy
Murray
Peters
Portman
Reed
Roberts
Rosen
Rubio
Schatz
Schumer
Shaheen
Shelby
Sinema
Smith
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:45 Nov 22, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00011 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A21NO6.025 S21NOPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6736 November 21, 2019
Stabenow
Sullivan
Tester
Thune
Udall
Van Hollen
Warner
Whitehouse
Wicker
Wyden
Young
NAYS—20
Blackburn
Braun
Cruz
Daines
Enzi
Ernst
Fischer
Hawley
Inhofe
Lee
Paul
Perdue
Risch
Romney
Rounds
Sasse
Scott (FL)
Scott (SC)
Tillis
Toomey
NOT VOTING—6
Booker
Cassidy
Harris
Klobuchar
Sanders
Warren
The motion was agreed to.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The ma-
jority leader.
f
DIRECTING THE CLERK OF THE
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
TO MAKE A CORRECTION IN THE
ENROLLMENT OF H.R. 3055
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate proceed to the immediate consider-
ation of H. Con. Res. 75, which was re-
ceived from the House.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the concurrent resolu-
tion by title.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
A concurrent resolution (H. Con. Res. 75)
directing the Clerk of the House of Rep-
resentatives to make a correction in the en-
rollment of H.R. 3055.
There being no objection, the senate
proceeded to consider the concurrent
resolution.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the reso-
lution be agreed to and the motion to
reconsider be considered made and laid
upon the table with no intervening ac-
tion or debate.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The resolution (H. Con. Res. 75) was
agreed to.
f
LEGISLATIVE SESSION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
move to proceed to legislative session.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on agreeing to the motion.
The motion was agreed to.
f
EXECUTIVE SESSION
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
move to proceed to executive session to
consider Calendar No. 386.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on agreeing to the motion.
The motion was agreed to.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the nomination.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read the nomination of Robert M. Dun-
can, of Kentucky, to be a Governor of
the United States Postal Service for a
term expiring December 8, 2025. (Re-
appointment)
CLOTURE MOTION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
send a cloture motion to the desk.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clo-
ture motion having been presented
under rule XXII, the Chair directs the
clerk to read the motion.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on the nomi-
nation of Robert M. Duncan, of Kentucky, to
be a Governor of the United States Postal
Service for a term expiring December 8, 2025.
(Reappointment)
Kevin Cramer, David Perdue, Ben Sasse,
Rob Portman, Johnny Isakson, John
Thune, Mike Rounds, Roy Blunt, Mitch
McConnell, Chuck Grassley, John
Boozman, Tom Cotton, Pat Roberts,
Richard Burr, Rick Scott, James E.
Risch, Shelley Moore Capito.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from New Jersey.
UNANIMOUS CONSENT REQUEST—S. RES. 150
Mr. MENENDEZ. Mr. President, I
come to the floor again with respect to
S. Res. 150, which I introduced with
Senator CRUZ, to recognize the Arme-
nian Genocide. I am glad that he is
with me today in a call for unanimous
consent on this resolution. We are
proud to report that we have 28 spon-
sors on this important resolution.
Last month, the House of Represent-
atives passed a version of this resolu-
tion by a vote of 405–11—405–11. That
sent a strong bipartisan message of
dedication to the truth—dedication to
historical fact, dedication to a prin-
ciple held by so many in Congress—
that genocide is genocide.
As a country, we should do whatever
we can to prevent future genocides, but
when it happens, we have an obligation
as a country to call it what it is. If not,
we operate without the facts outside of
reality. We aren’t being honest to our-
selves and to the world. This resolution
gives us that reckoning and sets the
record straight, a record that so many
administrations over the years have
sought to obscure. These administra-
tions, Republican and Democrat, have
dug their heads into the sand, despite
the words of U.S. diplomats who were
there at the time, who saw the geno-
cide with their own eyes.
Let me just share a couple of exam-
ples. Henry Morgenthau, the U.S. Am-
bassador to Turkey, from 1913 to 1916,
wrote in his memoir that, ‘‘When the
Turkish authorities gave the order for
these deportations, they were merely
giving the death warrant to a whole
race; they understood this well, and in
their conversations with me, they
made no particular attempt to conceal
this fact. I am confident that the whole
history of the human race contains no
such horrible episode as this. The great
massacres and persecutions of the past
seem almost insignificant when com-
pared to the sufferings of the Armenian
race in 1915.’’ This was Henry Morgen-
thau Ambassador’s quote.
On June 5, 1915, the United States
Consul in Aleppo, Jesse Jackson,
wrote, ‘‘There is a living stream of Ar-
menians pouring into Aleppo from the
surrounding towns and villages, the
principal ones being Marash, Zeitoun,
Hasanbeyli, Osmania, Baghtche,
Adana, Dortyol, Hadjin.
‘‘The Ottoman Government has been
appealed to by various prominent peo-
ple and even those in authority to put
an end to these conditions, under the
representations that it can only lead to
the greatest blame and reproach, but
all to no avail. It is without doubt a
carefully planned scheme to thor-
oughly extinguish the Armenian race.’’
On July 24, 1915, in a report to Am-
bassador Morgenthau, the U.S. Consul
in Harput, Leslie Davis, stated, ‘‘Any
doubt that may have been expressed in
previous reports as to the Govern-
ment’s intention in sending away the
Armenians have been removed. It has
been no secret that the plan was to de-
stroy the Armenian race as a race. Ev-
erything was apparently planned
months ago.’’
And, finally, on October 1, 1916, a
telegram to the Secretary of State
Robert Lansing, the U.S. Charge d’Af-
faires Hoffman Philip wrote, ‘‘The de-
partment is in receipt of ample details
demonstrating the horrors of the anti-
Armenian campaign. For many months
past I felt that the most efficacious
method for dealing with the situation
from an international standpoint
would be to flatly threaten to with-
draw our Diplomatic Representative
from a country where such barbarous
methods are not only tolerated but ac-
tually carried out by order of the exist-
ing Government.’’
Finally, Abram Elkus, who served as
the U.S. Ambassador to the Ottoman
Empire from 1916 to 1917, telegrammed
the Secretary of State at the time on
October 17, 1916, stating ‘‘In order to
avoid opprobrium of the civilized
world, which the continuation of mas-
sacres [of the Armenians] would
arouse, Turkish officials have now
adopted and are executing the un-
checked policy of extermination
through starvation, exhaustion, and
brutality of treatment hardly sur-
passed even in Turkish history.’’
American officials, those with the
most credible and legitimate under-
standing of what took place, made
these statements. They are part of the
historical record, and they mark one of
the prouder moments in the history of
the State Department and our diplo-
macy.
Finally, there are 27 countries in the
world that have already recognized the
Armenian genocide. Eleven of them are
NATO countries: Belgium, Canada, the
Czech Republic, France, Germany,
Greece, Italy, Lithuania, the Nether-
lands, Poland, and Slovakia. None of
them have ruptured their relationship
with Turkey. None of them have ended
their relationship with Turkey as it re-
lates to recognizing the Armenian
genocide as a historical fact.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 19:49 Jan 03, 2020 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00012 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\RECORD19\NOVEMBER\S21NO9.REC S21NO9
sradovich
on
DSKJLST7X2PROD
with
CONG-REC-ONLINE
CORRECTION
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6737
November 21, 2019
Why is the greatest country on the
face of the earth, the United States of
America, incapable—incapable—of
doing this when these 11 NATO coun-
tries haven’t? So I want to thank the
many individuals over the years, par-
ticularly the Armenian National Com-
mittee of America, the Armenian As-
sembly, and so many others, who have
worked so hard alongside me to ensure
the U.S. abides by its commitment to
the truth and to a world where geno-
cide truly never happens again.
I have had a good friend and col-
league who has been engaged with me
in this latest effort, and I want to yield
to him at this time, Senator CRUZ.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Texas.
Mr. CRUZ. Mr. President, I am proud
to join with my friend and my col-
league from New Jersey today in urg-
ing the Senate to take up and pass the
resolution affirming U.S. recognition
of the Armenian genocide. From 1915 to
1923, the Ottoman Empire carried out a
forced deportation of nearly 2 million
Armenians, of whom 1.5 million were
killed. It was an atrocious genocide.
That it happened is a reality that no
amount of political doublespeak can
cover up.
In fact, the word ‘‘genocide,’’ which
literally means the killing of an entire
people, was coined by Raphael Lemkin
to describe the horrific nature of the
Ottoman Empire’s calculated extermi-
nation of the Armenians. That is the
genesis of the word ‘‘genocide.’’
As America, we must never be silent
in response to atrocities. Over 100 years
ago, the world sat silently as the Ar-
menian people suffered and were sys-
temically murdered. Many people
today are still unaware of what hap-
pened. With this resolution—a bipar-
tisan resolution—we are saying it is a
policy of the United States to com-
memorate the Armenian genocide
through official recognition and re-
membrance.
Let me echo what my colleague from
New Jersey just said. Doing so is not
incompatible with continuing to deal
with Turkey as an ally. Just last week,
I sat down with President Erdogan and
President Trump in the oval office.
Turkey is a NATO ally and an impor-
tant one, but friends and allies can
speak the truth, and we are not hon-
oring America and who we stand for if
we are afraid to speak the truth and
willing to participate in covering it up.
We have a moral duty to acknowledge
what happened to 1.5 million innocent
souls. It is the right thing to do, and it
is my hope that the Senate will do so
in a bipartisan manner.
I yield back the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from New Jersey.
Mr. MENENDEZ. Therefore, as in
legislative session, I ask unanimous
consent that the Committee on For-
eign Relations be discharged from fur-
ther consideration of S. Res. 150 and
the Senate proceed to its immediate
consideration; I further ask that the
resolution be agreed to; the preamble
be agreed to; and the motions to recon-
sider be considered made and laid upon
the table with no intervening action or
debate.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
objection?
The Senator from Georgia.
Mr. PERDUE. I am reserving the
right to object.
Mr. President, just yesterday, Sec-
retary Pompeo joined the foreign min-
isters at NATO headquarters in Brus-
sels, including Foreign Minister
Cavusoglu from Turkey. Secretary
Pompeo had quite a lot to discuss with
him, as this administration continues
its engagement with Turkey’s leader-
ship on the heels of President Trump’s
meeting with President Erdogan last
week. In light of these diplomatic ef-
forts, I respectfully object to this reso-
lution at this time.
While the content of the legislation
before us merits undivided consider-
ation, its passage would undermine the
administration’s overcoming real chal-
lenges in our bilateral relationship
with Turkey. I look forward to working
with the administration and Senator
CRUZ and Senator MENENDEZ in holding
our NATO ally responsible for its com-
mitment made when it joined the
NATO community of like-minded na-
tions founded on the principles of de-
mocracy, individual liberty, and the
rule of law.
For those reasons, I object.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The ob-
jection is heard.
The Senator from New Jersey.
Mr. MENENDEZ. Mr. President, I am
not new to this issue. I have been pur-
suing recognition of the Armenian
genocide for the greater part of a dec-
ade, and there always seems to be some
reason why, in fact, it is not a good
moment. Well, it is like a rope-a-dope.
It is like a rope-a-dope. There is always
another reason. There is always an-
other excuse.
The 11 NATO allies have done this,
and they are still in NATO and still
working with Turkey and still have
diplomatic relationships with Turkey.
It is amazing to me the greatest power
on the face of this earth can’t just
speak truth of history. It amazes me.
And so there never seems to be a good
moment.
Now, I have been here in the Senate
long enough to know that objections to
unanimous consent work both ways, so
I am going to continue to bring this
issue to the floor. I think Armenian
Americans, the world, and history
should record who stands on the side of
recognizing genocide for what it is and
who is not, and so I am not going to
relax. If necessary, I am sure there will
be moments in which those will seek
consent on issues, and if the only way
is to get a vote on this through the ac-
tual process on the floor, then I will
force that issue because history de-
mands it. Our conscience should call
for it, and a decade of waiting to make
this happen is enough.
With that, I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Ohio.
Mr. BROWN. Mr. President, I appre-
ciate Senator MENENDEZ always speak-
ing up for human rights, regardless
who the President is, regardless of any
colleagues running for President,
whenever the President calls on them,
and Senator MENENDEZ has always
been a Senator here that stands up for
his principles on international human
rights.
BIPARTISAN AMERICAN MINERS ACT
Mr. President, thank you to Senator
MANCHIN and all of my colleagues for
coming to the floor earlier today to re-
mind this body that we need to act now
on behalf of almost 90,000 miners who
are living under the threat of massive
cuts for the pensions they earned; 1,200
miners and their families could lose
their healthcare by the end of the year
because of the Westmoreland and Mur-
ray bankruptcies. That leaves us about
a month.
The bankruptcy court could allow
these corporations to ‘‘shed their li-
abilities,’’ which is a fancy way of say-
ing they could walk away from paying
miners the benefits they have earned.
Two years ago, we worked to save
thousands of miners’ healthcare. We
have to do it again. We can’t leave
these workers behind to lose their
healthcare over the holidays just be-
cause of the date their companies filed
for bankruptcy. We have to make sure
they don’t lose their retirement secu-
rity on top of that.
All 86,000 UMWA miners are facing
crippling pension cuts. They aren’t
alone. This retirement security of hun-
dreds of thousands of teamsters and
ironworkers and carpenters and many
other retirees and workers is also at
risk. The crisis facing their pensions is
real. It is immediate. It can have ripple
effects across the country.
This week, the PBGC released a new
report showing it could run out of
money even sooner, and we should be
concerned about that. If the multi-em-
ployer system collapses, if PBGC fails,
we are looking at a potential recession.
Small businesses that have been in the
family for generations could face bank-
ruptcy. Workers will lose jobs at busi-
nesses forced to close up shop. Retirees
will face crippling cuts to their in-
come.
Congress gave Wall Street a bailout a
decade ago after they wrecked people’s
lives. These miner workers did what
they were supposed to do. They gave up
money at the bargaining table to put
money aside for healthcare and pen-
sions later. Is Congress going to aban-
don them? This is about our values.
This is about whose side you are on. It
is about the dignity of work. We should
be committed to these miners, for
these workers, these retirees. We
should not give up. We are continuing
to work for a bipartisan solution.
It comes down to the dignity of work.
When people have dignity, when work
has dignity, we honor the retirement
security they have earned.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:45 Nov 22, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00013 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G21NO6.038 S21NOPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6738 November 21, 2019
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Oregon.
Mr. WYDEN. Mr. President, I think
we are running a few minutes behind.
We have had a real crush of business
here in the last hour. I ask unanimous
consent to speak for up to 15 minutes.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
NOMINATION OF DAN R. BROUILLETTE
Mr. WYDEN. Mr. President, every
Senator knows the House is now in the
middle of an impeachment inquiry.
Here in this Chamber, the Senate has
been considering the nomination of
Dan Brouillette to be Energy Sec-
retary, replacing Rick Perry.
In my view, questions about Sec-
retary Perry’s conduct in Ukraine—and
what Mr. Brouillette may know about
that conduct—tie this nomination to
the impeachment inquiry in an impor-
tant way. I have come to believe there
are several significant unanswered
questions about Secretary Perry’s role
in changing the board of a state-owned
energy company called Naftogaz.
What Secretary Perry, his campaign
donors, and certain crooked associates
of Rudy Giuliani stood to gain from
those changes is something the Senate
ought to be digging into. We have been
hearing about Secretary Perry’s role in
Donald Trump’s scheme with respect to
withholding a meeting and military aid
until Ukrainian President Zelensky
agreed to interfere in the 2020 elections
in the United States.
The investigations seem to be piling
up. Every time a new piece of informa-
tion comes to light, it raises yet more
and more questions about schemes that
sure look, based on the facts, to be cor-
rupt. Somehow, Secretary Perry seems
to be making his way out the door
without facing much, if any, scrutiny.
Now the Senate is trying to fast-track
his replacement.
I will put it simply: Enough, enough.
It is time for the Senate to get some
answers instead of just saying every-
thing is A-OK at the Energy Depart-
ment.
I am going to take just a few minutes
to explain what this is all about. Mr.
PERRY is famously one of the ‘‘three
amigos’’ who took control of U.S. ties
with Ukraine under the direction of the
President and his personal lawyer,
Rudy Giuliani. Secretary Perry at-
tended President Zelensky’s inaugura-
tion in May. They held a private meet-
ing. It has been reported that Sec-
retary Perry pushed President
Zelensky to fire members of the board
of Naftogaz—a Ukrainian energy
giant—and replace them with Sec-
retary Perry’s own political donors.
At a second meeting with Ukrainian
government and energy sector officials,
Secretary Perry reportedly said the en-
tire board ought to be replaced. The
Associated Press reported that one per-
son who attended the meeting said that
‘‘he was floored by the American re-
quests because the person had always
viewed the U.S. government ‘as having
a higher ethical standard.’ ’’
The changes Secretary Perry was
seeking lined up with changes sought
by two shady characters named Lev
Parnas and Igor Fruman, associates of
Rudy Giuliani’s. They also wanted dif-
ferent leadership at Naftogaz.
I am going to read now from an Asso-
ciated Press report.
As Rudy Giuliani was pushing Ukrainian
officials last spring to investigate one of
Donald Trump’s main political rivals, a
group of individuals with ties to the presi-
dent and his personal lawyer were also active
in the former Soviet republic. Their aims
were profit, not politics.
This circle of businessmen and Republican
donors touted connections to Giuliani and
Trump while trying to install new manage-
ment at the top of Ukraine’s massive state
gas company. Their plan was to then steer
lucrative contracts to companies controlled
by Trump allies, according to two people
with knowledge of their plans.
Federal prosecutors are now inves-
tigating Rudy Giuliani’s role. A
Naftogaz official is reportedly cooper-
ating in the investigation, and some of
Rick Perry’s political donors did get a
lucrative oil and gas deal in Ukraine
after Perry began pressuring the
Ukrainian President for changes.
Perry admits he was in contact with
Giuliani about Ukraine. It was also re-
vealed in impeachment testimony that
Perry was seemingly made aware in
July of the Trump scheme where it
seemed like everybody was involved in
Ukraine.
To get it straight, I think this is the
bottom line: Secretary Perry has some-
how managed to stay on the fringes of
this whole scheme, but it sure looks to
me like he was right at the heart of se-
rious ethical compromises. President
Trump has claimed he made the call to
Ukraine’s President that prompted the
whistleblower’s complaint at Perry’s
request. Everywhere you look in the
Ukraine scandal, it looks like there is
crooked behavior all over.
I have a hard time believing that
Secretary Perry booked his own flight
for these meetings, sauntered out the
back door of the Energy Department,
and freelanced his own shady Ukraine
policy without anybody knowing about
it.
That brings me back to the
Brouillette nomination. Dan
Brouillette is currently the Deputy En-
ergy Secretary. He is the No. 2 person
at the Department. He is the Deputy to
the ‘‘amigo.’’
At his confirmation hearing, sitting
on the Energy and Natural Resources
Committee, which I at one time
chaired, I thought it was important to
ask Mr. Brouillette some basic ques-
tions about what I have outlined here.
What I wanted to know wasn’t real
complicated: Whom did Secretary
Perry meet with regarding Ukraine and
Naftogaz? He was a powerful guy, and
he wielded major influence over a na-
tion that is dependent on aid from the
United States as it resists aggression
by Russia. Who else was in the loop
with Secretary Perry?
Deputy Secretary Brouillette ac-
knowledged in my questions only that
there were meetings but provided no
further details about who took part in
them. In followup written questions,
again, he just wasn’t forthcoming. He
wouldn’t provide any answers.
I am sending a letter to Deputy Sec-
retary Brouillette to give him yet an-
other chance to answer basic questions:
To whom was Mr. Brouillette referring
when he acknowledged Perry held
meetings on seeking changes at
Naftogaz; when and where did those
meetings take place; to whom outside
the Department did Secretary Perry
speak regarding changes in Naftogaz
and the substance of those communica-
tions; and then, whether Department
staff were involved in meetings at
which changes to Naftogaz leadership
came up, who the staff were, and what
materials were produced.
I will make it clear, I find it implau-
sible the Secretary of Energy was
unstaffed on all this. I would think, for
an important meeting like this, Sec-
retary Perry would have individuals
from the Department of Energy who
were involved in these discussions that
Mr. Brouillette has now acknowledged
took place, but we can’t get any
names. We can’t get any answers at all.
I think it is seriously an error for the
Senate to just rush to this nomination
without getting answers to the ques-
tions I have outlined. Indictments are
flying. Investigations reveal major
wrongdoing. Every stone that gets
overturned in this process reveals a lot
more generally about a rotten scheme.
It just seems to me that Secretary
Perry is a significant figure in this
scandal, and he is just trying to get out
of dodge.
To me, this ought to be an oppor-
tunity for this body, the U.S. Senate,
to stand up and demand accountability
from the Trump administration and all
of those in the administration who can
provide information that, I think, pro-
vides a modest amount of informa-
tion—a modest amount of informa-
tion—about discussions that could very
well be relevant to this whole Ukraine
scheme.
Mr. Giuliani already had associates
indicted. Just yesterday, there were
differences of opinion in the testimony
about what Mr. PERRY’s involvement
was all about. Practically every day
there are unanswered questions about
this matter. Because I believe the Sen-
ate deserves to have answers to the
questions I have raised, because I think
this is just accountability 101 to have
this information, I will be voting no
today on cloture. My understanding is
that no matter how the Senate is re-
corded today, there will be some oppor-
tunity over the holiday break for Sen-
ators, staff, and those who are doing
investigative work on this to get more
details. I certainly think that without
the question I have been asking and
the modest amount of information
they would disclose—information,
frankly, I think Secretary Perry, the
Energy Department, and the Trump ad-
ministration could produce quite
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:45 Nov 22, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00014 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G21NO6.049 S21NOPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6739
November 21, 2019
quickly if they didn’t want to spend
the time stonewalling—I think given
that, it is not responsible to advance
this nomination through an affirma-
tive cloture vote today, so I will be
voting no. My hope is that over the
next week or so, we can start to get
some answers to these basic questions.
I will tell you, I have just gone
through five townhall meetings at
home in rural and urban areas. Every-
body I represent at home thinks there
ought to be more accountability in
Washington, DC, rather than less.
Without answers to the questions I
have outlined today, there is no ques-
tion that with respect to account-
ability, the Senate, by voting cloture
today, would be settling for less.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Alaska.
Ms. MURKOWSKI. Mr. President, I
am pleased that at any moment now,
we will move to invoke cloture on the
nomination of Dan Brouillette to be
Secretary of Energy. As folks know, he
is currently serving as our Deputy Sec-
retary of Energy. In my view, he has
excelled in that role since being con-
firmed by this body in a strong bipar-
tisan vote back in August of 2017. He
has run the Department on a daily
basis. He has been helping Secretary
Perry set an agenda that has been fo-
cused on energy security and techno-
logical innovation. He has been a good
partner of the Energy Committee—
honest, open, and responsive. I have
certainly appreciated all of his leader-
ship.
We commend him to this body. He
did very well in his nomination hearing
before the Energy and Natural Re-
sources Committee. I believe he will do
very well in his new role. I encourage
all Members to work with us to con-
firm him as soon as possible today.
f
CLOTURE MOTION
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Pursuant
to rule XXII, the Chair lays before the
Senate the pending cloture motion,
which the clerk will state.
The bill clerk read as follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on the nomi-
nation of Dan R. Brouillette, of Texas, to be
Secretary of Energy.
Mitch McConnell, John Boozman, Rich-
ard Burr, Shelley Moore Capito, John
Cornyn, Mike Crapo, John Barrasso,
Roy Blunt, John Thune, Steve Daines,
Thom Tillis, Kevin Cramer, Chuck
Grassley, Tom Cotton, Rick Scott,
Roger F. Wicker, Cindy Hyde-Smith.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. By unan-
imous consent, the mandatory quorum
call has been waived.
The question is, Is it the sense of the
Senate that debate on the nomination
of Dan R. Brouillette, of Texas, to be
Secretary of Energy, shall be brought
to a close?
The yeas and nays are mandatory
under the rule.
The clerk will call the roll.
The bill clerk called the roll.
Mr. THUNE. The following Senators
are necessarily absent: the Senator
from Louisiana (Mr. CASSIDY), the Sen-
ator from Georgia (Mr. ISAKSON), and
the Senator from Kansas (Mr. MORAN).
Further, if present and voting, the
Senator from Kansas (Mr. MORAN)
would have voted ‘‘yea.’’
Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the
Senator from New Jersey (Mr. BOOKER),
the Senator from California (Ms. HAR-
RIS), the Senator from Minnesota (Ms.
KLOBUCHAR), the Senator from
Vermont (Mr. SANDERS), and the Sen-
ator from Massachusetts (Ms. WARREN)
are necessarily absent.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Are there
any other Senators in the Chamber de-
siring to vote?
The yeas and nays resulted—yeas 74,
nays 18, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 366 Ex.]
YEAS—74
Alexander
Barrasso
Blackburn
Blunt
Boozman
Braun
Burr
Cantwell
Capito
Cardin
Carper
Casey
Collins
Coons
Cornyn
Cotton
Cramer
Crapo
Cruz
Daines
Duckworth
Durbin
Enzi
Ernst
Feinstein
Fischer
Gardner
Graham
Grassley
Hassan
Hawley
Heinrich
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Inhofe
Johnson
Jones
Kaine
Kennedy
King
Lankford
Lee
Manchin
McConnell
McSally
Murkowski
Murphy
Murray
Paul
Perdue
Peters
Portman
Risch
Roberts
Romney
Rounds
Rubio
Sasse
Scott (FL)
Scott (SC)
Shaheen
Shelby
Sinema
Smith
Stabenow
Sullivan
Tester
Thune
Tillis
Toomey
Udall
Warner
Wicker
Young
NAYS—18
Baldwin
Bennet
Blumenthal
Brown
Cortez Masto
Gillibrand
Hirono
Leahy
Markey
Menendez
Merkley
Reed
Rosen
Schatz
Schumer
Van Hollen
Whitehouse
Wyden
NOT VOTING—8
Booker
Cassidy
Harris
Isakson
Klobuchar
Moran
Sanders
Warren
The PRESIDING OFFICER. On this
vote, the yeas are 74, the nays are 18.
The motion is agreed to.
The Senator from Ohio.
NASA PLUM BROOK STATION
Mr. PORTMAN. Mr. President, I
would like to talk about a couple of
topics.
First, I thank my colleagues on the
Senate Commerce, Science, and Trans-
portation Committee for very recently
approving legislation to rename the
NASA Plum Brook Station in San-
dusky, OH, after Ohio’s own and a true
American hero—the late Neil Arm-
strong. I now, of course, urge that this
legislation be taken up by the full Sen-
ate and that we get it passed. There is
an identical bill in the House. We hope
to join both bills so that it may be sent
to the President for his signature very
soon.
The NASA Plum Brook Station is a
state-of-the-art testing facility. It is
near Sandusky, OH, and is a terrific fa-
cility that is doing a lot of the testing
right now for both NASA and some pri-
vate sector companies. It is part of the
NASA Glenn complex that is
headquartered in Cleveland, OH.
It is an impressive operation for a lot
of reasons, but the one that is most ex-
citing right now is their work on the
Artemis Project. This is, of course,
NASA’s plan to put astronauts back on
the Moon by 2024, including having the
first woman go to the Moon. This mis-
sion will also lay the groundwork for
future expeditions to the next great
leap in spaceflight—that, of course,
being a manned mission to Mars. It is
exciting stuff.
At Plum Brook, they are already
testing critical components of the
rocket engines that are scheduled to
carry Artemis astronauts into space
starting next year. Very soon, they are
going to be testing the spacecraft
itself. We hope it will arrive at Plum
Brook within the next few weeks where
it will undergo about 4 months of test-
ing.
This past summer, I and my col-
league, Ohio Senator SHERROD BROWN,
introduced this legislation to rename
the facility after Neil Armstrong, and
we did so on the occasion of the 50th
anniversary of the Apollo 11 Moon
landing, from which, of course, Neil
Armstrong became world famous for
being the first person to walk on the
surface of the Moon.
Ultimately, Neil Armstrong was a
test pilot. We think of him as an astro-
naut. Some know that he was also a
fighter pilot and that he was a veteran
of the Korean conflict. He was just an
amazing individual—humble, smart. He
was a very patriotic individual. How
appropriate and perfect that as a test
pilot, which he was during his whole
post-fighter pilot career until his time
as an astronaut, Plum Brook be named
after him.
By the way, Neil’s family agrees with
that, as does NASA, and as do others
we have talked to. So we are hoping
that this will be a fitting way to honor
a man who, for all of his accomplish-
ments, saw himself, first and foremost,
as a patriot who pushed the boundaries
of flight. Therefore, the test facility is
very dear to them.
I talked to him about this test facil-
ity. After one of my visits there, I went
to see him at his home and told him
about the progress they were making.
At that time, they were trying to re-
vamp some of the facilities there. He
was really excited about it. He was a
very modest man and did not want
things named after him. He viewed his
service to his country as the reward.
That is all he ever wanted in life. That
makes it all the more fitting that we,
in fact, do name this after him. It is a
great model for young people and, cer-
tainly, for those who are interested in
avionics and spacecraft and in being as-
tronauts. His example is one we should
all look up to.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:45 Nov 22, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00015 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G21NO6.051 S21NOPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6740 November 21, 2019
When this comes to the Senate floor
for a vote, I hope all of my colleagues
will support it, and I hope that it will
happen very soon.
THOUSAND TALENTS PLAN
Mr. President, there was a very trou-
bling report that was issued this week
by the Permanent Subcommittee on
Investigations. This is a tough subject.
In this report, it details for the very
first time how taxpayers’ dollars have
been used, really, over the past 20 years
to fund scientific research that has
then been misappropriated by one of
our global competitors—China—to fuel
its own economy and its own military
growth.
What do I mean by that? What hap-
pened?
Every year, Federal grant-making
agencies, like the National Institutes
of Health—the NIH—or the Department
of Energy’s National Labs or the Na-
tional Science Foundation, give out
taxpayers’ dollars for research—actu-
ally, about $150 billion a year.
This is a good thing for us as a coun-
try. It leads to new breakthroughs in
science and technology, healthcare,
weapons systems, and so on. Through
research grants, this money goes pri-
marily to universities and to other re-
search institutions across the United
States. This investment has been very
helpful in making the United States
the world leader in scientific innova-
tion. Again, it has resulted in some
amazing breakthroughs.
Our U.S. research is built on some
principles here in this country. One is
transparency. Another is collaboration.
Others are integrity, peer review, and a
merit-based system. In fact, the open
and collaborative nature of the re-
search that is done here in the United
States is one of the reasons we attract
some of the best and brightest sci-
entists and researchers from all around
the world. That is a good thing. Yet,
without proper protections, this re-
search is vulnerable to theft by other
countries, and that is exactly what has
happened.
The Permanent Subcommittee on In-
vestigations, which I chair, along with
Ranking Member TOM CARPER, con-
ducted an 8-month investigation into
how American taxpayer-funded re-
search has been taken by China—effec-
tively stolen—to assist its own econ-
omy and its own military. China has
been very open about its goals to sur-
pass the United States as the world
leader in science and technology by the
middle of this century.
An important part of this effort is
what China calls its talent recruitment
programs. Through talent recruitment
programs, China has strategically and
systematically acquired knowledge and
intellectual property from researchers
and scientists in the United States in
both the public and private sectors.
In the course of our investigation,
the FBI shared with us that China
plans to spend more than $2 trillion be-
tween 2008 and 2020 toward improving
its human capital, which includes re-
cruiting and developing researchers
and scientists.
The Thousand Talents Plan, which
was the focus of our investigation, is
now in its 11th year of operation, and it
is probably China’s most prominent
talent recruitment program. However,
there are about 200 or more other tal-
ent recruitment programs as well.
Launched in 2008, China designed the
Thousand Talents Plan to recruit 2,000
high-quality, overseas experts and to
get their knowledge and their expertise
and their research. By 2017, China had
exceeded that initial goal by recruiting
more than 7,000 of what they call
‘‘high-end professionals,’’ including
many from American research institu-
tions.
Some of the U.S.-based researchers,
of course, also receive taxpayer-funded
Federal grant money we talked about
earlier to do the same research right
here in the United States. In exchange
for spending part of every year working
in Chinese institutions, the Thousand
Talents Plan recruits are rewarded
with generous salaries and research
budgets, sometimes even exceeding
their pay at the American research in-
stitutions where, in practice, they are
working. These researchers also often
get access to what is called a shadow
lab in science. In other words, they
provide them not just with funding,
but they also say: We will provide you
lab space in China.
At our hearing yesterday, the De-
partment of Energy witness testified
that China offered some of his re-
searchers hundreds of thousands and
even millions of dollars to join a talent
recruitment program.
For a researcher here, the Thousand
Talents Plan might seem like a good
opportunity, but it certainly is not a
good opportunity for the United
States, especially because embedded in
the language of some of these contracts
these researchers sign are very trou-
bling provisions that prevent these re-
cruits from disclosing their participa-
tion in the Thousand Talents Plan even
though disclosing foreign payments is
required by U.S. regulations. Not only
is this dishonest, but it is also a clear
violation of the American regulations
that require researchers who apply for
these grants we are talking about—this
$150 billion of taxpayer money—to dis-
close any funding they are receiving
from a foreign source. In effect, what is
happening with the Thousand Talents
Plan is that it is incentivizing these
program members to lie on grant appli-
cations to U.S. grant-funding agencies
to avoid disclosing their funding from
Chinese institutions.
What is worse, in many of these con-
tracts, researchers are often required
to transfer to China the technological
breakthroughs—the research—that are
being developed in American labs with
American grant money. There are a lot
of examples we found in our 8-month
study. Let me talk about a couple
quickly.
In one, we learned that a Thousand
Talents Plan recruit at the Depart-
ment of Energy’s National Labs used
the intellectual property created dur-
ing his work in a National Lab to file
for a U.S. patent under the name of a
Chinese company, effectively stealing
the federally funded research and
claiming it for China.
Another Thousand Talents Plan
member illegally downloaded more
than 30,000 files from a National Lab—
this is connected with Department of
Energy funding—without authorization
right before returning to China.
Once China has it, some of this re-
search could be used to threaten the
national security of the United States.
As an example, the State Department
witness testified at our hearing yester-
day that ‘‘the Chinese Communist
Party has declared the Chinese univer-
sity system to be on the front line of
military-civilian fusion efforts for
technological acquisition for weapons
research and the expansion of key sci-
entific and engineering talent to drive
Chinese innovation.’’ That is pretty ob-
vious. That is what all of our wit-
nesses, in essence, said.
This is not a new problem. We found
out through our investigation that the
Federal Government should have
known about this issue for almost two
decades but has yet to do anything sub-
stantial to stop it. It is unacceptable
that we have allowed this to go on as
long as we have.
These talent programs are a win-win
for China and a lose-lose for the United
States. First, the Chinese Government
and their research entities are getting
research that is paid for by us. Second,
it is not used by us. That research is
used in China to improve their own
economic and military status.
So why is it taking so long for us to
do anything about this problem? I
think there are a couple of reasons.
First, a lot of the U.S. research com-
munity didn’t fully understand the
Thousand Talents Plan and the threat
it poses. Even though this one program
is more than a decade old at this point,
it wasn’t until last year that the FBI
began organizing a unified Federal re-
sponse to the threat it has been posing
to our universities and research insti-
tutions. We have been slow to focus on
this issue, and therefore it has contin-
ued.
I appreciated the FBI’s candor at the
hearing yesterday, by the way, when
the FBI Assistant Director testified
that he wished the FBI had ‘‘taken
more rapid and comprehensive action
in the past.’’ I do too.
Second, I think one reason this
hasn’t been stopped is that the coordi-
nation between the grant-making agen-
cies is almost as bad as the coordina-
tion with the Federal law enforcement
folks, meaning that they aren’t talking
to each other about problems they
have had, about particular instances
regarding some of the research that
has been taken.
As I said, we are talking about more
than $150 billion of taxpayer money
every year that goes to these agencies,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:45 Nov 22, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00016 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G21NO6.054 S21NOPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6741
November 21, 2019
but once these funds are in the agen-
cies’ hands, we found no evidence of a
unified and coordinated tracking and
monitoring process to ensure that the
money did not go toward the Thousand
Talents Plan participants or other pro-
grams. The National Science Founda-
tion, for instance, doesn’t seem to have
anyone who handles grant oversight in
this regard. These research entities
need to share information on these
issues.
But other organizations are at fault
too. We found that the State Depart-
ment is on the frontlines due to its re-
sponsibilities to vet visa applications
for visiting students and scholars, but
it very rarely denies visas under that
process.
Quite frankly, the research commu-
nity here in the United States bears
some responsibility too. There has been
a collective failure by our universities
and our research institutions to vet re-
searchers for these conflicts of interest
with other countries. Again, this is
made worse by the fact that many of
these researchers are receiving tax-
payer funds to conduct their research
here.
It is going to take a comprehensive
strategy across the Federal Govern-
ment to better protect our research
against this threat. Our report makes a
number of recommendations that, com-
bined, will go a long way toward
strengthening the security of our re-
search networks, while preserving the
shared culture of transparency and
fairness.
Of course we want to continue to be
the top place in the world for research,
and that means that we have to be able
to share and have transparency and
openness, but it also means that we
need to do a much better job of pro-
tecting this information from being
misused.
We, of course, need to do better at
getting the word out to universities,
research institutions, and the general
public about this threat being posed by
the Thousand Talents Plan and other
foreign talent recruitment plans. This
means better coordination between law
enforcement, the intelligence commu-
nity, and grant-making agencies so
that the government is on the same
page on this threat.
We also need to change the research
culture to preserve its openness and in-
novative spirit while making sure for-
eign researchers are properly vetted by
the sponsoring organizations.
NIH, NSF, and other grant-making
institutions need to standardize how
they find conflicts of interest in grant
applications. They don’t do that now.
Members of the research community
need to develop best practices for
American researchers to follow so that
they can determine whether receiving
funds from a foreign country would
compromise our principles of research
integrity and threaten our national se-
curity.
Finally, we need to help the State
Department do a better job in its visa
vetting process for foreign researchers.
We need to do a better job of deter-
mining potential conflicts of interest
before individuals who may not have
the best interests of the United States
at heart start working at our research
institutions and using our taxpayer
dollars.
In the coming months, I will intro-
duce bipartisan legislation that will
help address some of these challenges. I
look forward to working with Senator
CARPER, the ranking member on the
subcommittee, and other colleagues to
get those initiatives to the President’s
desk.
Let me conclude by saying that we
don’t want to exclude China from con-
tributing to scientific innovation—not
at all. Advancements in the fields of
robotics, medicine, energy, weapons
systems, and more are things that are
very important, and many of these can
benefit the entire globe. But we want
to have fair and transparent processes
in place as we conduct this research,
and our taxpayers don’t want to be the
ones to pick up the tab as China mis-
appropriates our research to build up
its own economy and a military de-
signed to rival ours.
My hope is that this report is the
start of a productive dialogue with
China and here in Congress on how we
can better build a more secure research
system that continues to reward those
who come to our shores to discover new
breakthroughs in science, while keep-
ing China and other nation state com-
petitors from taking that research for
their own purposes.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Maryland.
PRESIDENTIAL PARDONS
Mr. CARDIN. Mr. President, before I
start my remarks, I want to underscore
how valuable the Department of De-
fense fellows program is to our indi-
vidual offices. I can tell you firsthand
that Captain Ng’s presence in my office
has given me capacity to deal with
issues concerning appointments that I
have or issues that are pending in Con-
gress of a military nature.
For those of us who have never
served in the military service, having
someone like Captain Ng in our office
is incredibly important. I really want
to underscore that and thank all of our
Defense fellows for the services they
are performing for our country.
Mr. President, on May 22 of this year,
I stood before this body and expressed
my deep concerns about the media re-
ports that President Trump was con-
sidering granting pardons to certain
U.S. military personnel who had been
convicted of committing war crimes in
both Iraq and Afghanistan.
Now 6 months later, President Trump
has followed through with setting a
very dangerous precedent, pardoning
three military personnel of war crimes,
two who were found guilty under the
U.S. military’s Uniform Code of Mili-
tary Justice and one whose trial never
concluded.
President Trump’s pardons signifi-
cantly disrupt the foundations of our
own institutions, particularly the U.S.
military.
First, President Trump’s pardons
cause confusion for our military serv-
icemembers on what actions are ac-
ceptable on the battlefield—an already
difficult task given the complexity of
war. Second, he undermines the mili-
tary justice system. Finally, these par-
dons degrade America’s global standing
and influence.
Stephen Preston, a former General
Counsel at the Department of Defense,
wrote the following in the Department
of Defense Law of War Manual in June
of 2015:
The law of war is part of who we are. . . .
[T]he laws of war have shaped the U.S.
Armed Forces as much as they have shaped
any other armed force in the world. The law
of war is part of our military heritage, and
obeying it is the right thing to do. . . . [T]he
self-control needed to refrain from violations
of the law of war under stresses of combat is
the same good order and discipline necessary
to operate cohesively and victoriously in
battle.
The Law of War Manual goes on to
outline the five interdependent prin-
ciples that serve as the foundation of
the law of war: One, military necessity;
two, humanity; three, proportionality;
four, distinction; and five, honor.
These principles are pillars of Amer-
ican values and the guideposts we ex-
pect America’s sons and daughters to
operate within so they remain trusted
and respected by all citizens of the
world. President Trump’s ill-advised
pardons have placed those pillars on
shaky ground. He has blurred the lines
of morality for our troops and has dis-
regarded the constitutional values the
Founding Fathers set forth.
By virtue of their oath and training,
members of the U.S. military are ac-
countable for their individual and col-
lective actions through the Uniform
Code of Military Justice.
Department of Defense policy states:
Each member of the armed services has a
duty to: (1) comply with the laws of war in
good faith; and (2) refuse to comply with
clearly illegal orders to commit violations of
the law of war.
Two of these military personnel
President Trump pardoned were found
guilty of violating the law of war
through the prescribed Department of
Defense investigative and judicial proc-
esses. They violated international and
domestic law, and they failed to uphold
their constitutional oath. President
Trump’s pardons of war crimes erode
the trust, confidence, and the legal and
moral authority of the military justice
system. He never gave the military jus-
tice system a chance to work and de-
termine all the facts surrounding the
third individual whom he pardoned.
Our own Commander in Chief has
now compromised and degraded the in-
tegrity of the U.S. military judicial
system—a system America relies on to
maintain good order and discipline
within the ranks of our millions of uni-
formed servicemembers.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:45 Nov 22, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00017 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G21NO6.056 S21NOPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6742 November 21, 2019
Perhaps most important and most
damaging, President Trump’s actions
have eroded America’s moral standing
and global influence.
That erosion emboldens our adver-
saries to cite our actions in commit-
ting and justifying their own war
crimes. Have we become a country that
now justifies and embraces the type of
acts that occurred at My Lai during
Vietnam or Abu Ghraib in Iraq? Will
we continue to allow horrific acts com-
mitted by rogue actors who strategi-
cally diminish America’s global stand-
ing?
Moving forward, how will other na-
tions trust the United States to imple-
ment and enforce the law of war, as re-
quired by our own domestic laws, pol-
icy, regulations, and orders, and by the
multiple treaty obligations with other
countries?
Our Nation cannot tolerate crimes
committed by rogue actors who violate
their oaths and who turn their backs
on American laws and values. If our
government does not hold those indi-
viduals accountable for their actions,
the United States will never recover
from the strategic losses they incur.
Under no circumstance is adopting the
behavior of our worst adversaries ever
justified, ever.
Just as we seek to hold foreign actors
accountable for war crimes, we also
have an obligation to hold ourselves
accountable. We cannot willfully allow
our institutions or the individuals who
serve them to deviate from the laws
and standards of conduct that underpin
our great Nation, but that is precisely
what President Trump has done. Our
former colleague, Senator John
McCain, suffered many years of torture
at the hands of the North Vietnamese
captors. Nonetheless, he stood in this
Chamber to decry our use of the same
tactics. He said: ‘‘This question isn’t
about our enemies. It is about us. It is
about who we were, who we are, and
who we aspire to be. It is about how we
represent ourselves to the world. Our
enemies act without conscience. We
must not.’’
Senator McCain was correct. Great
power competition with our adver-
saries is not just about who wins on a
battlefield; ultimately, it is about pre-
serving international recognized norms
and values that uphold the rule of law,
individual freedoms, and human dig-
nity. If the U.S. fails to be the global
champion of current international
norms and democratic values, then our
adversaries will replace those values
with their own ideology predicated on
intimidation, fear, and violent oppres-
sion.
The United States must not willfully
commit or condone war crimes. We
must bring those who commit them to
justice, regardless of citizenship, affili-
ation, or background. Even in the fog
of war—especially in the fog of war—we
must so act. We must always endeavor
to act with moral clarity and preserve
the international norms and values
that took so long and have cost so
many American lives to establish.
Mr. President, I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
BRAUN). The Senator from Texas.
SENATE LEGISLATIVE AGENDA
Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, over the
last few months, our friend and col-
league, the minority leader, has railed
about the lack of legislative progress
here in the Senate. He believes the
Senate should spend time taking up
ultrapartisan bills that have passed the
House of Representatives, but the
truth is, we respectfully decline to
take up those bills, which, in some in-
stances, would infringe Americans’
Constitutional rights, send taxpayer
dollars to political candidates, and
move us closer and closer to socialized
medicine.
Now, our colleague likes to call these
dead-on-arrival partisan bills part of
the legislative graveyard, but our col-
league from New York has opened up a
graveyard of his own, only his isn’t full
of partisan legislation that could never
pass the Senate, let alone become the
law. No. Our friend—the Democratic
leader’s legislative graveyard exclu-
sively caters to bipartisan bills.
Now, it is full of commonsense and
critically important legislation that
would actually make the lives of the
American people better if only our
friend from New York would stand
down. Today, we had a chance to kick
the can down the road once more when
it comes to Federal funding because
our colleagues across the aisle have put
government funding bills 6 feet under.
Over the summer, as you will recall,
we came to a bipartisan agreement on
spending caps, a bicameral agreement
to guide the appropriations process. We
had a deal. It provided a roadmap for
negotiations this fall, and we all prom-
ised to work hard and in good faith and
stay away from poison pill policy rid-
ers. But, unfortunately, that promise
was not kept, and our colleagues can’t
seem to put politics aside long enough
to even fund the government.
And why? Because of a disagreement
over .3 percent of Federal spending—0.3
percent. They have twice blocked vital
funding for our military. They have
blocked funding for mental health pro-
grams, for border security, for grant
programs for schools—all over these
petty disputes. So here we are, almost
2 months into the fiscal year, and we
haven’t sent a single appropriations
bill to the President’s desk, not one.
Well, with the government set to
shut down at midnight tonight, at
least we passed a bill to keep the trains
running for 1 more month. Maybe this
was the least bad choice we had in
light of these broken promises. The
stopgap funding bill carries through
December 20 and provides another op-
portunity for our colleagues across the
aisle to make good on their August
commitments to fund the government
through the end of the fiscal year,
using the normal appropriations proc-
ess.
I hope that good faith negotiations
can resume and we can fund the re-
mainder of the fiscal year by Christmas
because the last stocking stuffer we
want to give the American people is
another government shutdown. And it
is particularly important for us to fund
our military in an increasingly dan-
gerous world where weakness is indeed
a provocation for the bullies and au-
thoritarians who want to take advan-
tage of the lack of American leader-
ship, in this case because Congress sim-
ply refuses to do its job to fund the
military.
Well, I would be wrong to say it is all
bad news. I am an optimist by nature.
It reminds me of the story of the little
boy who comes down Christmas morn-
ing and finds a pile of manure under
the Christmas tree. He asked, ‘‘Where
is the pony?’’ I am an optimist by na-
ture. Yesterday, we did manage to
make some small progress when we
unanimously passed a bipartisan bill
that I introduced with Mr. MERKLEY,
the Senator from Oregon, to ban the
sale of riot control material to the
Hong Kong police force.
As freedom-seeking protesters on the
other side of the globe risked life and
limb for the freedoms we too often take
for granted, we cannot condone police
brutality. Admittedly, this is a small
but important step to show we stand
with the people of Hong Kong, but I
find this ironic. The minority leader is
fine with passing incremental bills to
support the people of Hong Kong, but
when it comes to passing incremental
bills to support the American people,
he objects.
I think the best example is the legis-
lation that I have introduced to bring
down prescription drug prices. Last
week, I came to the Senate floor with
my friend, colleague, and cosponsor,
Senator RICHARD BLUMENTHAL of Con-
necticut, to ask that our bill to reduce
drug prices be passed. No one else had
an objection other than the Demo-
cratic leader.
The premise of the bill was pretty
simple: prevent drugmakers from gam-
ing the patent system to monopolize
the market. Our bill strikes a delicate
balance of protecting innovation while
encouraging competition, and it would
be a win for every American who has
felt the pain or sticker shock at the
pharmacy counter. This bill, amaz-
ingly, passed the Judiciary Committee
unanimously. I served on the Judiciary
Committee my entire time on the Sen-
ate, and it is famous for its
contentiousness, and we passed it
unanimously. Every Republican and
every Democrat voted for it. So you
can imagine my optimism, my hope,
that the bill would sail through the
Senate, meet up with welcoming arms
in the House, and then get to the Presi-
dent for his signature, but I guess I
should have known better.
Our Democratic colleagues have con-
tinued to throw up roadblocks for
things as critical as funding the mili-
tary, so why would they let this bill
that would bring down prescription
costs for consumers, why would they
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:45 Nov 22, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00018 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G21NO6.057 S21NOPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6743
November 21, 2019
let it pass? So right on cue, the Demo-
cratic leader came to the floor and he
objected. He was the only person out of
100 Senators to object. He did not ob-
ject because of the substance.
As a matter of fact, he called it a
well-intentioned and good bill, but he
objected. He certainly did not object
because it was a partisan bill. The bill
has six Democratic cosponsors, includ-
ing the minority whip, the Senator
from Illinois, and the ranking member
of the Health, Education, Labor, and
Pensions Committee, Senator MURRAY
from Washington State.
So the only reason I can think of
that he would object is because he
doesn’t want to see anyone whose name
happened to be on the ballot in 2020
score a win. Well, how unworthy of the
U.S. Senate is that sort of thinking?
We should not be thinking in terms of
who is going to win or lose politically
if we pass good legislation. We ought to
be doing the Nation’s work and work-
ing together in a bipartisan basis, not
trying to bring the 2020 election here to
the Senate floor.
But this bill isn’t the only one that is
subject to these kinds of politics, un-
fortunately. Critical legislation to sup-
port victims of domestic violence and
sexual assault have also gotten caught
up in this way of thinking. After
months of bipartisan negotiations to
reauthorize the Violence Against
Women Act, our Democratic colleagues
simply walked away from the negoti-
ating table. Rather than reaching a
compromise, building consensus on a
bill that could pass both Chambers and
become law, once again, our Demo-
cratic colleagues chose the partisan
path and walked away from the table.
They have introduced a near replica of
the partisan House-passed bill for
VAWA, the Violence Against Women
Act, which they know doesn’t stand a
chance of passing here in the Senate
because it is not a consensus product.
That is not news to our friends on the
other side of the aisle. They under-
stand that this is more about the issue
than it is solving the problem, the po-
litical issue. I think they turned their
back on bipartisan talks, not because
they had a better solution, which is
what we ought to be about, but because
our friend and Democratic leader
doesn’t want to give any Republican
colleagues who are leading the negotia-
tions, like the Senator from Iowa, Ms.
ERNST, allow her to get a win.
This is really, again, unworthy of the
Senate to think in those petty sorts of
terms. I think we should concentrate
on who would win if we passed the Vio-
lence Against Women Act, which would
be the many victims of domestic vio-
lence and sexual assault. We ought to
be thinking about them and whether
they would win if we passed bipartisan
legislation.
Now, I believe the Senator from Cali-
fornia, Mrs. FEINSTEIN, wants to come
back to the negotiating table. She told
me that herself yesterday, but I also
believe the Democratic leader probably
isn’t going to let that happen. Like me,
Senator ERNST is on the ballot next
year.
Again, the minority leader has dem-
onstrated his focus on politics rather
than substance and doing what actu-
ally will help the American people: no
bills to lower drug prices, no bills to
support victims of domestic violence,
nada. He can’t afford to let any Repub-
lican bills pass because it might just
hurt his chances of becoming the ma-
jority leader after the 2020 election.
I think it is a shame that the par-
tisanship in the House has now infected
the Senate and prevented us from pass-
ing bills that would make the Amer-
ican people’s lives better. I hope our
friends on the other side of the aisle
have a great Thanksgiving break, and I
hope that he will use that time to re-
consider why it is they are here in the
first place, why we are all here.
We are all here to make the Senate
work for the benefit of the American
people and not to engage in these un-
worthy petty political games leading
up to the 2020 election.
UNITED STATES-MEXICO-CANADA TRADE
AGREEMENT
Mr. President, on another matter, be-
fore election year politics completely
halt the work of the Senate, here we
are, 1 year before the election, one
item I am really hoping we can deliver
for the American people in addition to
the ones I mentioned is the USMCA,
the U.S.-Mexico-Canada Trade Agree-
ment.
This trade agreement, as we know,
will replace NAFTA, or the North
American Free Trade Agreement, and
help drive our trade relationship with
Mexico and Canada into the 21st cen-
tury. When you consider the number of
American jobs that depend on trade
with Mexico and Canada, the U.S.
Chamber of Commerce cites a figure of
13 million jobs—13 million jobs that de-
pend on that trade with Mexico and
Canada.
When you consider actions being
taken by China to counter our inter-
ests all around the world, our reliance
on North American partners is becom-
ing increasingly important. The
USMCA is not only an opportunity to
strengthen North America’s position
on the global stage, but it is impor-
tant, as I suggested, to our economy
right here in the United States.
Earlier this year, the International
Trade Commission provided some in-
sight into what we can expect to see if
this trade agreement is ratified, as it
should be. The USMCA is expected to
have a positive impact on every sector
of the U.S. economy. Within 6 years,
we are looking at 176,000 new American
jobs and an increase in American gross
domestic product of more than $68 bil-
lion. That is bigger than the proposed
Trans-Pacific Partnership trade agree-
ment.
We can also look forward to more
than a $33 billion increase in exports
and more than $31 billion in imports.
We know that many of those exports
and imports travel across the border in
Texas because we share 1,200 miles of
common border with Mexico, and we
have many ports of entry in our State.
In 2018 alone, Texas exported nearly
$110 billion in goods to Mexico and im-
ported more than $107 billion from
Mexico. With the increased trade and
travel we expect to see once the
USMCA is ratified, we need to make
sure that our ports of entry, through
which these goods flow, are prepared.
We have been working with the admin-
istration on this, and I have requested
funding to prioritize Texas’s ports and
make sure they are safe and efficient.
I am also hoping the USMCA will in-
clude provisions from a bill I intro-
duced earlier with another border
State Senator, our friend Senator
FEINSTEIN from California. This would
improve the North American Develop-
ment Bank, sometimes called the NAD
Bank, which invests in our border com-
munities and particularly in the infra-
structure.
For every one NAD Bank dollar that
has been invested in a project, that
successfully leveraged $20 in total in-
frastructure investment using public
and private sector dollars.
Throughout NAD Bank’s 25-year his-
tory, they have taken on projects that
have improved air and water quality,
updated infrastructure, and increased
cross-border trade. NAD Bank brings
Mexico and the United States together
to finance these projects to improve
trade and travel and quality of life on
both sides of the border.
This legislation that Senator FEIN-
STEIN and I have introduced would au-
thorize the Treasury Department to in-
crease its capital and provide addi-
tional authority to fund critical
projects. I have been working with my
friend and Democratic colleague from
Laredo, TX, Congressman CUELLAR, to
make sure that these provisions are in-
cluded in the final text of the USMCA.
My hope is we will be able to take
those provisions up as well as the en-
tire agreement and ratify it soon, but
it depends on Speaker PELOSI. Every-
body is waiting for her to show the
green light and for the House to act. I
am concerned that as we get closer and
closer into an election season, it is
going to be harder and harder for the
House to even pass this bipartisan
trade deal.
I read today that she is not pre-
dicting they will even be able to get it
done before the end of the year. I note
that she made that comment roughly
on the same day the House adjourned
for 10 days. The House does not appear
to be in any hurry, to be sure. In fact,
they have dragged their feet for many
months on something that is vitally
important to our economy and job cre-
ation right here in the U.S.A.
Texans enjoy a strong trading rela-
tionship with our southern neighbor,
and I am confident the USMCA will
continue to propel that relationship
forward as well as continue to grow our
economy and create jobs and more op-
portunity for the American people.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:45 Nov 22, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00019 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G21NO6.059 S21NOPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6744 November 21, 2019
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk proceeded to
call the roll.
Mr. VAN HOLLEN. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the order
for the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
DEFENSE APPROPRIATIONS
Mr. VAN HOLLEN. Mr. President,
right now, as we are gathered here on
the Senate floor, the Senate and House
conferees are in the process of trying
to negotiate a final agreement on the
NDAA. That is the National Defense
Authorization Act. One of the key
issues in the final discussions over the
NDAA involves a provision designed to
protect the integrity of American elec-
tions against outside interference from
Russia or any other adversary. It is a
provision based on bipartisan legisla-
tion that Senator RUBIO and I intro-
duced over a year ago to deter Russian
interference in a future American elec-
tion. The legislation is called the
DETER Act, the idea being: Let’s deter
Russia from attacking our democracy.
I believe it would be grossly neg-
ligent for the conferees to the National
Defense Authorization Act to bring
back to the House and the Senate a
measure that does not include a provi-
sion to defend our democracy from
Russian interference. The entire Sen-
ate must share that sentiment because
we unanimously voted on a resolution
just a short time ago to include such a
provision in the National Defense Au-
thorization Act.
I have in my hand a copy of that res-
olution. It was S. Res. 330. It instructs
the managers on the part of the Senate
on bill S. 1790—that is the National De-
fense Authorization Bill—to require
certain measures to address Federal
election interference by foreign gov-
ernments.
It goes on to instruct the Senate con-
ferees to require the appropriate offi-
cial of the executive branch, after each
Federal election, to promptly submit
to Congress a determination as to
whether the Government of the Rus-
sian Federation, or any other foreign
government, has interfered in such
election and a detailed assessment of
any such interference that identifies,
to the maximum extent practicable,
the individuals responsible for the in-
terference and to promptly impose
sanctions on any foreign government
that has been determined to have
interfered in a Federal election, includ-
ing specified individuals and entities
within the territory of the government.
That is what the U.S. Senate unani-
mously voted on to instruct our con-
ferees to the National Defense Author-
ization Act negotiations. What I just
read is the guts of the idea in the bi-
partisan DETER Act that Senator
RUBIO and I have introduced.
Here is what we know. We know that
Russia interfered in the 2016 election.
How do we know that? It was the unan-
imous verdict of the entire U.S. intel-
ligence community, including the lead-
ers of intelligence agencies appointed
by this President. It was also the bipar-
tisan verdict of the Senate Intelligence
Committee—a committee that pains-
takingly documented the fact that
election systems in all 50 States were
targeted by Russia in 2016—to different
degrees but in all 50 States. In fact,
that Senate Intelligence Committee re-
port was the first public—the first pub-
lic—acknowledgement of how extensive
the Russian efforts were to interfere in
the 2016 elections.
We know the Russians did this in
2016. We know that Vladimir Putin sees
interfering in our elections as a way to
divide us against one another. We know
that Vladimir Putin fears democratic
forms of government and wants to un-
dermine public confidence in those de-
mocracies.
How do you undermine public con-
fidence in those democracies? By at-
tacking the election process so that
people doubt the validity of the out-
come of an election. When that hap-
pens, if the public loses faith in the
outcome of our elections, then we have
really undermined the legitimacy and
confidence in our democratic system.
That was 2016.
The measure I am talking about
doesn’t relate to 2016. It relates to the
future. Here is what our intelligence
community just informed the country
about within the last few weeks. I am
holding in my hand a statement that
was released on November 5, just a few
weeks ago. It is from Attorney General
William Barr, Secretary of Defense
Mark Esper, Acting Secretary of Home-
land Security Kevin McAleenan, Act-
ing Director of National Intelligence
Joseph Maguire, FBI Director Chris
Wray, U.S. Cyber Command Com-
mander and NSA Director GEN Paul
Nakasone, CISA Director Christopher
Krebs. Here is what they said 2 weeks
ago.
Our adversaries want to undermine our
democratic institutions, influence public
sentiment and affect government policies.
Russia, China, Iran, and other foreign mali-
cious actors all will seek to interfere in the
voting process or influence voter percep-
tions. This document is not about the past;
this document is about the future, about our
future elections, including the 2020 election,
which is now less than a year away.
We know in 2016 the Russians at-
tacked our electoral process. We now
have all of the leaders of Federal Gov-
ernment intelligence agencies and law
enforcement telling us they predict
Russia will do it again in 2020.
We have a Russian missile headed for
our democracy, and the question for all
of us is, What are we going to do about
it? What are we going to do to protect
our democracy and the legitimacy of
our electoral system?
First of all, we should harden our
election system. We should make it
more difficult for Russia to break into
our voter registration files. Certainly,
we should make it more difficult for
them to break into voting machines.
We should also make sure we build
more defenses to prevent the Govern-
ment of Russia from using social media
to mislead and confuse voters. We
should do all those things to better de-
fend our election system, but I am of
the view—and a lot of folks who have
followed Russia and Vladimir Putin for
a long time—that the best defense is a
good offense. We can harden our sys-
tems here, but that doesn’t stop Russia
and Vladimir Putin from trying to
break into our election systems. It
doesn’t prevent Russia and Putin from
trying to use our social media to influ-
ence our voters. The only way to pre-
vent them from trying is to let them
know in advance that there is a big
price to pay if they get caught.
Right now it is cost-free for Russia to
interfere in our elections. In fact, it is
a net benefit because Putin divides us.
Putin leads voters and citizens to ques-
tion the legitimacy of our democracy.
He is winning in this current calculus.
We need to change his calculus. We
need to make it clear that the cost of
interfering in our elections far out-
weighs these benefits that he is gain-
ing.
That is what the DETER Act is all
about. What the DETER Act does is set
up a process whereby, if we catch Rus-
sia interfering in our future elections,
including the 2020 elections, there will
be automatic, swift, and very stiff eco-
nomic penalties—not penalties on a
couple of oligarchs but penalties that
will hurt his economy, penalties on his
banking sector, and penalties on part
of his energy sector. If we adopt this
provision, then we are making it very
clear in advance to Vladimir Putin
that if he interferes, and we catch him,
there is a very stiff price to pay.
The whole purpose of this act is not
to impose sanctions; it is to avoid sanc-
tions by making it clear upfront what
the costs will be if Putin interferes in
our elections. The whole point is to use
the threat of automatic, swift, and
tough sanctions to discourage and
deter the Russians from interfering in
the first place.
I haven’t heard anybody provide one
substantive argument for why we
should not do this to protect our de-
mocracy. I can think of no more impor-
tant place to include this provision
than the national defense authoriza-
tion bill because if the national defense
authorization bill is not about defend-
ing our democracy, I am not sure what
it is about.
So the question is, Why are we still
debating this in the conference com-
mittee for the national defense author-
ization bill? I can’t figure out who is
opposing it other than the fact that
somebody is. I was told it was the Re-
publican Senate leader and the chair-
man of the Senate Banking Committee
who are opposing this provision. If that
is the case, they really need to come to
the Senate floor and explain this be-
cause the Senate unanimously in-
structed Senate conferees to adopt just
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:45 Nov 22, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00020 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G21NO6.061 S21NOPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6745
November 21, 2019
such a provision—unanimously. That
includes the Senate majority leader
and the chairman of the Senate Bank-
ing Committee. They didn’t object. Yet
somehow now we are in the middle of a
conference committee on defending our
country, which I thought meant also
defending our democracy, and we have
these folks who don’t want their fin-
gerprints on it who are somehow trying
to defeat this measure.
Here is what I have to say. If this
provision is not included in the NDAA,
it would be grossly negligent because
we know from our own intelligence
community 2 weeks ago that the Rus-
sians are coming to attack our elec-
tions again, and we are going to pass a
defense authorization bill where we sit
on our hands and do nothing about it?
That would be outrageous.
This measure needs to be in the
NDAA bill. I will tell you, if it is not,
I am going to be here on this floor reg-
ularly asking for unanimous consent to
bring this bill up for a vote. I am going
to have the majority leader have to
come down here regularly, or whom-
ever he wants to designate, to object to
a unanimous consent agreement for a
provision to defend our elections.
I hope it is included in the Defense
authorization bill. That is the place it
should be. If it is not, I will be down
here every day, and the clock will be
ticking down day by day for the 2020
election, our Intelligence Committee
will continue to warn us about Russian
interference, and I am going to want to
hear in public—in public—why some of
our colleagues don’t want to take ac-
tion to defend the integrity of our de-
mocracy; why they want to allow Putin
to have his way cost-free. That is a
question I will be asking every day. I
hope I don’t have to ask it every day.
I hope we do what the Senate already
instructed our conferees to do, which is
to include it in the National Defense
Authorization Act.
I yield back my time.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Alaska.
TRIBUTE TO ROSIE HABEICH
Mr. SULLIVAN. Mr. President, it is
Thursday. I know the pages know this,
and many people watching know this,
but it is that time of the day in the
Senate when I come down on the Sen-
ate floor and talk about somebody who
makes my State a very unique and spe-
cial place—and it is an opportunity for
me to talk a little bit about what is
going on in Alaska right now, particu-
larly before the holidays—somebody we
refer to in Alaska and here in the Sen-
ate as the Alaskan of the Week.
Before I get into this very special
Alaskan, I will give you a little weath-
er update. A lot of people like to under-
stand what is going on. Winter has
come. It is coming to Alaska. Snow has
arrived throughout much of the State.
In Southcentral Alaska it has come.
Anchorage is covered in snow. A lot of
people are getting ready to undertake
winter. Sports and activities on Mon-
day in Utqiagvik, the northernmost
point in North America—it used to be
called Point Barrow—the Sun rose and
set for the last time until January 23.
So it is going to be dark up there, but
they are used to that. They are great
people. The community has now offi-
cially settled in for a bit of a dark Arc-
tic winter, but they have been doing
that for a millennium.
It is a winter wonderland right now
throughout Alaska. So I always en-
courage people watching, watching on
TV, to come on up. Summer, winter,
fall, spring, come on up and visit. You
will love it. It will be the trip of a life-
time.
As I mentioned before, I think I come
from the most beautiful State in the
country, but it is also a place made up
of the most important, caring, wonder-
ful, generous, and supportive people
anywhere. Some of these people have
had ancestors living in Alaska for
thousands and thousands of years. Oth-
ers arrived more recently but imme-
diately found a home in a community
that they were supportive of and was
supportive of them.
Let me introduce you to Rosemary
Habeich. Her friends call her Rosie. She
is an extraordinary Alaskan who has
done extraordinary things for our peo-
ple. She is our Alaskan of the Week.
What has she done? What is extraor-
dinary about Rosie?
Let me just mention one off the top,
which is pretty remarkable—fostering
over 50 Alaskan children with her hus-
band, Eben Hobson, Jr. I should add
here that Eben is the son of the first
mayor of Alaska’s North Slope Bor-
ough and someone who has also fought
for the rights of Alaska Natives
throughout his life. He deserves men-
tion, as well as his wife, as a legendary
Alaskan.
Not only did Rosie and Eben foster
all these children, they adopted three,
and raised five of their own children.
That is a crowded household but a
kind, loving, supportive and warm
household—a place of love.
I can say here that the recommenda-
tion for Rosie to be our Alaskan of the
Week comes from our First Alaskans
Institute fellow, Elizabeth Ahkivgak,
who is right here with me and who has
done a great job in my office.
Elizabeth is one of dozens and dozens
of children Rosie and Eben took into
their bright home and loved them so
much so they could love themselves.
Let me tell you a little bit about
Rosie, our Alaskan of the Week. She
was born in Idaho. Like too many
Americans, unfortunately, she actually
came from a broken home. Her mother
was battling an illness and sometimes
was too sick to handle Rosie and her
siblings.
It was during one of those bouts of
illness that Rosie herself briefly be-
came a foster child. That experience,
the experience of visiting her mother
in an institution, and the kindness of
neighbors who stepped up and helped
during those very difficult years would
form the basis of Rosie’s steadfast be-
lief that helping others in your com-
munity throughout your State is a
higher calling.
Eventually, Rosie moved with her
family to Fairbanks when she was just
a young girl. Those were good years for
her and her family. She thrived in
Alaska, went to college, and became a
social worker for the State. Eventu-
ally, her work took her to Utqiagvik—
as I mentioned, formerly Barrow, AK—
where she fell in love both with her
husband, Eben, and with the commu-
nity.
She found in Utqiagvik that if you
had a good idea and were willing to do
the work and see it through, you could
succeed with the help of others, and
she did succeed.
At various points during her time in
the North Slope Borough of our great
State, she worked as the director of the
city’s rec department, director of the
health department, and executive di-
rector of the Alaska Eskimo Whaling
Commission. She also sat on the board
for the Rural Alaska Community Ac-
tion Plan. She was a public health
nurse and was appointed director of the
North Slope Borough Health Depart-
ment by two different mayors. That is
an impressive resume, as you see.
She now spends much of her time in
Anchorage, where she volunteers for a
group called Friends in Serving Hu-
manity, or F.I.S.H.—a church network
that feeds the hungry. On many days,
you can find her in different commu-
nities handing out meals and food
boxes often paid for out of her own
pocket.
Rosie gives her all to everything she
does, but one of her truly lasting con-
tributions to Alaska and to her com-
munity is how she has taken in so
many children across the State who
need a home, who need support, and
who need love. She took in siblings.
She took in infants. She took in teen-
agers. She took them from all back-
grounds, from all across the State, and
she loved them. She was patient with
them. She intuitively understood what
they needed and when they needed it.
Some of the children she took in were
horribly abused, most others were
homesick, and some were confused.
In Alaska, getting running water to
households across the State has long
been a major challenge, one we are still
working on today. If you can believe
this—this is certainly one of my pas-
sions in the Senate—we have over 30
communities in Alaska with no flush
toilets, no water and sewer—in Amer-
ica. Many of the children who came to
Rosie were from these kinds of house-
holds and these kinds of communities.
Many had never flushed a toilet in
their lives.
She was sensitive to all this. One of
the first things she did when a child
came to her was to teach her how a
faucet and a bathroom and a toilet
worked. Then she fed them. Rosie’s
cooking is renowned. She listened to
them and loved them.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:45 Nov 22, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00021 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G21NO6.063 S21NOPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6746 November 21, 2019
This is how one of her former foster
children described the experience of
walking into Rosie’s home:
Imagine coming from a place with noth-
ing—absolutely nothing, [poverty]—and you
walk into a normal house, filled with normal
things that people and the rest of America
take for granted—a warm house, a flush toi-
let, food on the stove, adults who speak to
you [kindly]. It was like visiting a toy store
for the first time. It was like visiting a dif-
ferent planet. It showed us what [a good] life
could be like.
Not all of Rosie’s kids made it out of
a life of challenges and dysfunction and
abuse, but many of them have. Many
have broken the cycle of violence in
their families for the first time. Some
of them, along with their biological
children and the ones she has adopted,
are now doing great things for our
State and our country. They are suc-
cessfully running businesses. They
have joined the military. They have
worked at high levels of government.
One of them, who is sitting right here
next to me on the Senate floor, works
in my office. We are lucky to have Eliz-
abeth.
All of them, regardless of where they
are now ‘‘have a place in my heart,’’
says Rosie. Why does she do it? Why
has this woman given herself to so
many others and changed so many
lives?
She tells a story about a time when
her mother was sick and had to go
back into the institution, leaving her
to take care of her four younger sib-
lings. It was Christmastime, and Rosie
literally had nothing. So the neighbors
got together, left boxes of presents at
the door of their house, and brought
over Christmas dinner when she was
young and needed help. ‘‘That’s the
way life is supposed to be,’’ Rosie said.
‘‘You’re supposed to recognize when
people have less than you, and you are
supposed to help them out. It doesn’t
matter if you’re looking at it through
a biblical lens, or through karma, or
through Buddha. Giving is funda-
mental.’’ That is her quote: ‘‘Giving is
fundamental.’’
All the Senators here today are head-
ing home and heading back to the
great States they represent for
Thanksgiving, which we will be cele-
brating next week—a uniquely Amer-
ican holiday that all of us love and
cherish so much. I know I certainly do.
Rosie and Eben’s story and commit-
ment to others are exactly the kinds of
things we as Americans should be
thankful for as we are celebrating
Thanksgiving next week. Giving is fun-
damental. I know I am thankful for
what they have done.
Their household will be full this holi-
day season—friends, family, children.
At some point this season, she will
make her famous apple sausage stuff-
ing, a recipe she learned from her own
foster mother and one she has passed
down to foster kids all across the great
State of Alaska. It is made with love
and with kindness and with thanks-
giving.
Rosie, thank you for all you have
done. From the bottom of my heart,
thanks for your spirit, your generosity,
and your example as we head into
Thanksgiving weekend, for touching so
many lives across Alaska. Congratula-
tions on being our Alaskan of the Week
and happy Thanksgiving.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Nevada.
HEALTHCARE
Ms. CORTEZ MASTO. Mr. President,
I have spent 3 years in the U.S. Senate.
During this time, I can tell you the No.
1 issue when I am home—and I suspect
it is in your State, as well, and across
this country—is the cost of healthcare
in this country and to be sure that ev-
erybody in this country, no matter
your party, your religion, where you
live, urban or rural area, has access to
affordable healthcare not only when it
is needed but also for preventative pur-
poses to give you peace of mind.
Unfortunately, what we have seen is
high cost; inability to get access to it,
oftentimes when you are in a rural
community; and a fight here in Con-
gress. Instead of working together to
solve this problem, we are too far apart
in presenting a solution—in coming to-
gether for a solution.
It is open enrollment season for
healthcare right now, which means
Americans have an opportunity to get
new healthcare coverage or change the
coverage they have.
In Nevada, the State is running a new ex-
change website and working hard to make
sure every Nevadan gets covered at
NevadaHealthLink.com. I thank our fan-
tastic exchange director, Heather Korbulic,
and her team for all they are doing.
I want to encourage all Nevadans to
get coverage. I don’t think people real-
ize how much help there is for individ-
uals to get coverage at Nevada Health
Link. If you want healthcare, please,
please reach out by the December 15
deadline to learn more about the op-
portunities that are available to you to
be able to afford it.
Open enrollment is a good time for us
to reflect on how far we have come,
thanks to the Affordable Care Act, and
to take stock—to take stock—of the
threats to that coverage. Unfortu-
nately, I have watched in Congress as
Members of the Republican Party, par-
ticularly this administration, try to
sabotage the Affordable Care Act at
every turn.
At the end of October, the Senate
held a vote on Senator WARNER’s reso-
lution to overturn this administra-
tion’s damaging and dangerous rule ex-
panding so-called junk plans. My
Democratic colleagues voted in favor
of the resolution because they know
how important healthcare is to our
constituents. Yet, unfortunately, near-
ly all of the Senate Republicans voted
against it. They voted to allow Ameri-
cans to buy skimpy, low-benefit plans
that send us back to the dark days of
health coverage in America by allow-
ing insurers to sidestep the patient
protections in the Affordable Care Act.
These junk plans don’t cover essen-
tial services like prescription drugs,
emergency room visits, mental
healthcare, and maternity care. They
don’t prevent insurers from discrimi-
nating against people with preexisting
conditions. There are about 1.2 billion
of them in Nevada alone.
My colleagues on the other of the
aisle argue that these junk plans are
low cost. Well, they cost less than
some plans, but that doesn’t mean they
are cheap. They may have high
deductibles or exclude coverage of cost-
ly services, and, by law, more of the
money they collect in premiums can go
toward the insurers’ profits. But when
you realize that these plans provide
barely any benefits, you can see, for
most people, the plans are no savings
at all.
What is more, because insurers often
use deceptive marketing practices, peo-
ple who purchase these plans don’t al-
ways know just how skimpy their cov-
erage is. Sometimes patients don’t re-
alize that their plans leave out much
needed procedures until after they have
racked up huge bills.
Paving the way for junk plans is just
one way Republicans are undermining
the Affordable Care Act. The Trump
administration and 18 Republican
State attorneys general are trying to
get the Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals
to overturn the entire Affordable Care
Act in a case called Texas v. United
States. This is just the latest and one
of the most dangerous of over 100 Re-
publican attempts to get rid of the Af-
fordable Care Act in Congress and the
courts.
If the Fifth Circuit overturns the Af-
fordable Care Act, Americans will lose
the peace of mind and protections they
have told us so many times that they
want. The last thing Americans need is
for us to turn back the clock to a time
when they couldn’t get healthcare for
preexisting conditions or they couldn’t
get insurance to cover essential health
needs.
This summer, I met with Ashby Bel-
lows and Charlie Bell, two Nevadans
with juvenile diabetes. Both girls are
doing well now, but their parents
worry that when the girls are no longer
on their parents’ plan, they might opt
to ration their insulin. Think about
that—ration their insulin. Unfortu-
nately, it is a common practice among
people who cannot afford the often sky-
high cost of insulin, and it can be dead-
ly. In fact, one out of seven Americans
knows someone who passed away in the
last 5 years because they couldn’t af-
ford treatment for a medical condition.
Senate Republicans have told their
constituents that they will protect
Americans’ healthcare, and President
Trump has said he has a plan to pro-
vide Americans with healthcare. Well,
where is it? I mean, the only plan we
have seen is an attempt to sabotage
the Affordable Care Act and rip away
coverage from hundreds of thousands
in Nevada and millions across America.
My Democratic colleagues and I are
fighting to ensure that everyone in this
country has access to affordable
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:45 Nov 22, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00022 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G21NO6.065 S21NOPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6747
November 21, 2019
healthcare. Unfortunately, what I have
seen on the other side of the aisle and
in this administration is that they are
fighting to take it away. There is a
clear distinction between the two, and
I think the American public is tired of
it.
We all should be working in a bipar-
tisan way to make sure that everyone
in this country has access to affordable
healthcare. I will continue to vote for
comprehensive and affordable
healthcare in this country, and I will
continue pushing to strengthen the Af-
fordable Care Act and reduce prescrip-
tion drug costs for Nevadans. I will
keep fighting to ensure that Americans
stay safe and healthy, and I will assure
you that I will keep talking to my col-
leagues so that, hopefully, one day we
will be fighting for the same thing,
which is to ensure that everyone in
this country, no matter your back-
ground or where you live, has access to
affordable healthcare when you need
it—when you need that coverage and
you want to protect a loved one.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Rhode Island.
PRESIDENTIAL PARDONS
Mr. REED. Mr. President, I rise
today to express my concerns about
the President’s recent interference in
war crimes cases involving members of
the U.S. military and the President’s
inappropriate public statements re-
garding these cases.
The President has the power to par-
don, but he has a responsibility to use
that power wisely, not recklessly. The
way he has gone about it in this in-
stance does a real disservice to our
troops and the entire American mili-
tary justice system.
Good order and discipline are critical
and time-honored traits of the U.S.
military, not only to enable military
readiness and effectiveness but also to
ensure that military men and women
remain firmly tethered to our Nation’s
moral and ethical principles in the
most demanding wartime environ-
ments.
A few have argued that the President
has the authority to pardon, but that is
a false defense. The issue is that the
President’s intervention in these cases
sends a damaging message to the
world, our adversaries, and, most im-
portantly, our men and women in uni-
form. The Commander in Chief’s ac-
tions should make us safer and strong-
er in the world, but President Trump’s
actions do not.
The cases in which the President in-
tervened fall far outside of the norm.
The President’s pardon authority has
traditionally been reserved for non-
violent infractions, including draft
evasion and desertion. I am aware of no
other instance in which a President has
intervened to grant clemency for vio-
lent crimes committed while in uni-
form, especially for war crimes includ-
ing murder.
Especially concerning is the Presi-
dent’s decision to intervene in a case
prior to its even going to trial—an ac-
tion that I believe is an insult to our
entire system of military justice.
Just this morning, the President
again intervened—via tweet—to stop a
Navy administrative review process
that could have resulted in the removal
of a servicemember from the Navy
SEALs, despite the fact that the serv-
icemember was previously found guilty
of posing for photos with a dead ISIS
fighter. We must expect more from our
military men and women, especially
those in our Special Operations forces.
Regrettably, President Trump has re-
peatedly advocated for a return to tor-
ture, stating that we should ‘‘take out
the families’’ of terrorists and express-
ing his view on standards of military
conduct by saying: ‘‘You have to play
the game the way they are playing the
game.’’ The President’s statements are
reminiscent of former Vice President
Cheney’s embrace of the ‘‘dark side’’ of
counterterrorism—the very kind of
thinking that underpinned later abuses
at Abu Ghraib and the CIA’s use of tor-
ture as part of its so-called Detention
and Interrogation Program.
President Trump tweeted in October
that ‘‘we train our boys to be killing
machines, then prosecute them when
they kill!’’
No, Mr. President, the U.S. military
does not prosecute its own for carrying
out lawful missions in service to our
Nation. We do not train our troops to
kill indiscriminately. We do not train
them to attack noncombatants. We do
not train them to violate the Geneva
Convention and the rule of law because
we want our troops to be protected by
those same standards. To think or say
otherwise is to go against discipline,
the selfless service of so many, and the
history of our military.
As former Chairman of the Joint
Chiefs of Staff GEN Dempsey wrote in
May:
Absent evidence of innocence or injustice
the wholesale pardon of US servicemembers
accused of war crimes signals our troops and
allies that we don’t take the Law of Armed
Conflict seriously. Bad message. Bad prece-
dent. Abdication of moral responsibility.
Risk to us.
I couldn’t agree more.
Some have claimed that the Presi-
dent’s intervention in this case has
somehow improved the morale of our
military and given them more con-
fidence on the battlefield. On the con-
trary, President Trump’s disregard for
our military justice system risks un-
dermining the confidence of our serv-
icemembers in the rule of law—espe-
cially those who are courageous
enough to bring allegations of war
crimes to light and testify against
their teammates.
By substituting his judgment for
that of commanders and military ju-
ries, the President may also inadvert-
ently increase the risk to our U.S. per-
sonnel overseas. When we do not hold
our military personnel to appropriate
standards of conduct, it makes it more
likely that they will face similar
abuses on the battlefield and less like-
ly that we will be able to hold our en-
emies accountable.
There is no one with more credibility
and no one with the service and sac-
rifice who can say it any better or
more authentically than former Sen-
ator John McCain, who stated:
This is a moral debate. It is about who we
are. I don’t mourn the loss of any terrorist’s
life. What I do mourn is what we lose when
by official policy or official neglect we con-
fuse or encourage those who fight this war
for us to forget that best sense of ourselves.
Through the violence, chaos, and heartache
of war, through deprivation and cruelty and
loss, we are always Americans, and different,
stronger, and better than those who would
destroy us.
Those are the words of John McCain.
I believe the President’s actions min-
imize the honorable service of all U.S.
servicemembers who have served with
discipline and distinction since 9/11 and
have answered our Nation’s call
throughout the history of this country.
With that, I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The bill clerk proceeded to call the
roll.
Mrs. FISCHER. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
LEGISLATIVE SESSION
MORNING BUSINESS
Mrs. FISCHER. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the Senate
proceed to legislative session and be in
a period of morning business, with Sen-
ators permitted to speak therein for up
to 10 minutes each.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
HONDURAS
Mr. LEAHY. Mr. President, I have
spoken previously about the alarming
rates of corruption, violent crime, and
impunity in Honduras. While Honduras
is by no means unique in this regard, it
is a serious concern given the chal-
lenges it poses not only for the people
of Honduras but also for the United
States.
Every week, my office receives word
of another assassination in Honduras of
a social leader, environmental activist,
indigenous rights activist, journalist,
or trade unionist. Rarely does a week
go by that we do not hear about
threats against these individuals. Rare-
ly does a week go by that we do not re-
ceive reports of arbitrary and pro-
longed imprisonment of critics of gov-
ernment policies or practices. While
the murder of Berta Caceres on March
3, 2016, captured the world’s attention,
that outrageous crime was but one of
many targeted killings of Hondurans
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:45 Nov 22, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00023 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G21NO6.066 S21NOPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6748 November 21, 2019
who have dared to protest against cor-
ruption, infrastructure development
that threatens their land, water, farms
and communities, excessive force by
the military and police, and the lack of
access to justice.
These types of crimes are nothing
new in Honduras; in fact, they are
shockingly common. But they have no-
ticeably increased in frequency since
the conviction in a New York Federal
court on October 18 of Tony Hernandez,
a notorious drug kingpin and the
brother of President Juan Orlando Her-
nandez who was named as an
unindicted coconspirator. It begs cre-
dulity that President Hernandez was
completely unaware of the actions of
his brother or of the reported use of
profits from drug trafficking to finance
his political campaign. Honduras,
which was already among the most cor-
rupt and dangerous countries in the
world for those who have dared to chal-
lenge the dominance of a tiny elite who
continue to wield unbridled control
over the political and economic levers
of the country, has become even more
corrupt and dangerous.
Ever since President Hernandez suc-
cessfully orchestrated his reelection to
an unprecedented second term, the
country has become increasingly polar-
ized. Social and political dissent, when
the government’s consistent response
is to use force—including lethal force—
and to misuse the judicial process to si-
lence its critics, fuels instability and
violence which are among the key driv-
ers of migration. This is what we are
seeing in Honduras, and the United
States shares some of the blame as our
Embassy and the Department of De-
fense continue to publicly portray
their engagement with the Hernandez
Government as business as usual.
There is only one person who has the
authority and responsibility to lead
Honduras down a better path, a path
toward real stability and a culture of
lawfulness, and that is President Her-
nandez. The election of his successor is
only 2 years away. In the time remain-
ing, President Hernandez could use
what credibility he has left and take
decisive action to begin a process of
reconciliation aimed at uniting the
Honduran people in pursuit of the com-
mon goals of economic opportunity,
personal security, and justice. Doing so
would require a fundamental change of
attitude and approach, including in-
stalling people in key positions of gov-
ernment who have unimpeachable in-
tegrity and who represent a wide spec-
trum of Honduran society.
Absent such enlightened leadership,
Honduras will likely remain a frac-
tured society, plagued by instability,
rampant poverty, violence, and impu-
nity. Honduras’s democratic institu-
tions will continue to be corrupted and
eroded, and Hondurans will continue to
seek a better, safer life outside their
country.
ISRAELI SETTLEMENTS
Mr. LEAHY. Mr. President, I vividly
recall the feeling of optimism that peo-
ple in this country and around the
world felt on that day in Washington in
1993 when Israeli Prime Minister Rabin
and PLO Chairman Arafat signed the
Oslo Accords. For those too young to
remember, the Oslo process began as
secret negotiations in Oslo, resulting
in the recognition by the PLO of the
State of Israel and the recognition by
Israel of the PLO as the representative
of the Palestinian people for the pur-
pose of direct negotiations between the
two parties. The Oslo Accords marked
the formal start of that process, which
aimed at achieving a peace treaty
based on UN Security Council Resolu-
tions 242 and 338 and at fulfilling the
‘‘right of the Palestinian people to self-
determination.’’
The negotiations were to focus on re-
solving the key issues in dispute:
Israeli settlements, the status of Jeru-
salem, Israel’s military presence in and
control over remaining territories after
Israel’s recognition of Palestinian au-
tonomy, and the return of Palestinian
refugees. It was hoped and believed
that the signing of the Oslo Accords
was the beginning of the end of the
Israeli-Palestinian conflict and of a
process that would culminate in a two-
state solution with secure borders for
both Israel and a new Palestinian
state.
Since then, virtually nothing has oc-
curred as envisioned. Prime Minister
Rabin, a visionary leader whom I knew
and greatly respected, was assassinated
by a Jewish extremist. Over the years,
time after time, the hopes and aspira-
tions of Israelis and Palestinians have
been dashed. Israelis have suffered
countless deadly attacks by Hamas and
by other Palestinian extremists. The
Palestinians have suffered countless
humiliations and assassinations. But
despite the many setbacks, missed op-
portunities, and failures of leadership
on both sides, I have never felt that the
Oslo process was a lost cause—until
today. Today, I feel a greater sense of
sorrow and discouragement about that
once hopeful vision than I ever have be-
fore.
On Monday, Secretary of State
Pompeo announced that the adminis-
tration no longer considers Israeli set-
tlements to be contrary to inter-
national law, thereby reversing a long-
standing U.S. position that Israeli set-
tlements in the West Bank are illegal.
That position was based on adherence
to international law and UN Security
Council resolutions and was embraced
by both Democratic and Republican ad-
ministrations. Upon learning of this
change of position, I could not help but
feel that it signified the demise of the
Oslo Accords. After so many similar re-
versals of U.S. positions by this White
House on key issues that both sides had
pledged would be resolved only through
negotiations, it seems beyond dispute
that President Trump never believed in
a two-state solution.
In fact, this White House has been
consistently disingenuous about its in-
tentions in the Middle East, all the
time talking about wanting a political
settlement but acting in ways that put
it increasingly out of reach. It was just
a matter of time before they abandoned
any pretext of supporting the principle
that territorial disputes should be re-
solved through dialogue. Every step of
the way, administration officials have
insisted on the myth that they are im-
proving the prospects for peace, but 3
years later, Israelis and Palestinians
are farther from that goal than at any
time since 1993. The White House, with
the support and encouragement of the
U.S. Ambassador and the Secretary of
State, has done whatever it could to
ensure that the West Bank, home to
nearly 3 million Palestinians, is occu-
pied permanently or annexed by Israel.
Without a change of leadership with
the necessary vision and political cour-
age in the United States and in Israel,
the Palestinians will remain as second-
class citizens, subjected to a lifetime of
indignities and entitled to only limited
rights. I cannot help but wonder what
my friend Prime Minister Rabin would
be thinking today and how he would
react to this announcement. I suspect
he would be as disappointed as I am
that his courageous act more than a
quarter century ago, and the oppor-
tunity that act offered for lasting
peace for both Israelis and Palestin-
ians, has been so selfishly and reck-
lessly squandered.
(At the request of Mr. SCHUMER, the
following statement was ordered to be
printed in the RECORD.)
f
VOTE EXPLANATION
∑ Ms. HARRIS. Mr. President, I was ab-
sent but had I been present, I would
have voted no on rollcall vote No. 360,
the confirmation of Executive Calendar
No. 488, Barbara Lagoa, of Florida, to
be United States Circuit Judge for the
Eleventh Circuit.∑
f
ARMS SALES NOTIFICATION
Mr. RISCH. Mr. President, section
36(b) of the Arms Export Control Act
requires that Congress receive prior no-
tification of certain proposed arms
sales as defined by that statute. Upon
such notification, the Congress has 30
calendar days during which the sale
may be reviewed. The provision stipu-
lates that, in the Senate, the notifica-
tion of proposed sales shall be sent to
the chairman of the Senate Foreign
Relations Committee.
In keeping with the committee’s in-
tention to see that relevant informa-
tion is available to the full Senate, I
ask unanimous consent to have printed
in the RECORD the notifications which
have been received. If the cover letter
references a classified annex, then such
annex is available to all Senators in
the office of the Foreign Relations
Committee, room SD–423.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:39 Nov 22, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00024 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G21NO6.044 S21NOPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6749
November 21, 2019
There being no objection, the mate-
rial was ordered to be printed in the
RECORD, as follows:
DEFENSE SECURITY
COOPERATION AGENCY,
Arlington, VA.
Hon. JAMES E. RISCH,
Chairman, Committee on Foreign Relations,
U.S. Senate, Washington, DC.
DEAR MR. CHAIRMAN: Pursuant to the re-
porting requirements of Section 36(b)(1) of
the Arms Export Control Act, as amended,
we are forwarding herewith Transmittal No.
19–67 concerning the Navy’s proposed Let-
ter(s) of Offer and Acceptance to the Govern-
ment of Australia for defense articles and
services estimated to cost $245 million. After
this letter is delivered to your office, we plan
to issue a news release to notify the public of
this proposed sale.
Sincerely,
GREGORY M. KAUSNER,
(for Charles W. Hooper, Lieutenant
General, USA, Director).
Enclosures.
TRANSMITTAL NO. 19–67
Notice of Proposed Issuance of Letter of
Offer Pursuant to Section 36(b)(1) of the
Arms Export Control Act, as amended
(i) Prospective Purchaser: Australia.
(ii) Total Estimated Value:
Major Defense Equipment * $ 0 million.
Other $245 million.
Total $245 million.
(iii) Description and Quantity or Quan-
tities of Articles or Services under Consider-
ation for Purchase:
Major Defense Equipment (MDE):
None.
Non-MDE: Up to eight hundred fifty (850)
Joint Counter Radio-Controlled Improvised
Explosive Device Electronic Warfare Incre-
ment 1 Block 1 (JCREW 11B1) Systems (533
vehicle mounted and 317 dismounted); spare
and repair parts; support and test equip-
ment; technical exchanges, publications and
technical documentation; support equip-
ment; engineering change proposals; classi-
fied software/loadsets; training; U.S. Govern-
ment and contractor engineering, technical
and logistics support services; and other re-
lated elements of logistics support.
(iv) Military Department: Navy (AT–P–
LGA).
(v) Prior Related Cases, if any: AT–P–LFX.
(vi) Sales Commission. Fee, etc., Paid, Of-
fered, or Agreed to be Paid: None.
(vii) Sensitivity of Technology Contained
in the Defense Article or Defense Services
Proposed to be Sold: See Attached Annex.
(viii) Date Report Delivered to Congress:
November 20, 2019.
* As defined in Section 47(6) of the Arms
Export Control Act.
POLICY JUSTIFICATION
Australia—JCREW Systems and Support
The Government of Australia has re-
quested to buy up to eight hundred fifty (850)
Joint Counter Radio-Controlled Improvised
Explosive Device Electronic Warfare Incre-
ment 1 Block 1 (JCREW 11B1) Systems (533
vehicle mounted and 317 dismounted); spare
and repair parts; support and test equip-
ment; technical exchanges, publications and
technical documentation; support equip-
ment; engineering change proposals; classi-
fied software/loadsets; training; U.S. Govern-
ment and contractor engineering, technical
and logistics support services; and other re-
lated elements of logistics support. The total
estimated cost is $245 million.
This proposed sale will support the foreign
policy and national security objectives of
the United States. Australia is one of our
most important allies in the Western Pa-
cific. The strategic location of this political
and economic power contributes signifi-
cantly to ensuring peace and economic sta-
bility in the region.
The proposed sale will provide Australia
increased force protection from Radio-Con-
trolled Improvised Explosive Device threats
for its defense forces and vehicles. Australia
is interested in procuring the dismounted
and mounted variants that have a modular,
open architecture and are upgradeable in
order to maintain capability against evolv-
ing global threats. Australia will have no dif-
ficulty absorbing this equipment into its
armed forces.
The proposed sale of this equipment and
support will not alter the basic military bal-
ance in the region.
The principal contractor will be Northrop
Grumman Corporation, San Diego, Cali-
fornia. There are no known offset agree-
ments proposed in connection with this po-
tential sale.
Implementation of this proposed sale will
not require the assignment of any additional
U.S. Government or contractor representa-
tives to Australia.
There will be no adverse impact on U.S. de-
fense readiness as a result of this proposed
sale.
TRANSMITTAL NO. 19–67
Notice of Proposed Issuance of Letter of
Offer Pursuant to Section 36(b)(l) of the
Arms Export Control Act
Annex Item No. vii
(vii) Sensitivity of Technology:
1. Australia’s requirement for 850 JCREW
I1Bl systems could potentially include:
(1) Expeditionary Warfare, Force Protec-
tion, (2) Techniques for the Defeat of Radio
Controlled Improvised Explosive Devices, (3)
Force Protection, Counter Unmanned Air-
craft Systems, (4) Capabilities and Limita-
tions of Electronic Warfare Systems, and, (5)
Threat Assessment from Radio Controlled
Improvised Explosive Devices.
2. The Counter Radio-Controlled Impro-
vised Explosive Device Electronic Warfare
technical insertion development may con-
tain sensitive technology; however, defined
requirements are not known at this time and
will be assessed on a case-by-case basis.
3. A determination has been made that
Australia can provide substantially the same
degree of protection for the sensitive tech-
nology being released as the U.S. Govern-
ment. This proposed sale is necessary to fur-
ther the U.S. foreign policy and national se-
curity objectives outlined in the Policy Jus-
tification.
4. All defense articles and services listed on
this transmittal have been authorized for re-
lease and export to the Government of Aus-
tralia.
f
ARMS SALES NOTIFICATION
Mr. RISCH. Mr. President, section
36(b) of the Arms Export Control Act
requires that Congress receive prior no-
tification of certain proposed arms
sales as defined by that statute. Upon
such notification, the Congress has 30
calendar days during which the sale
may be reviewed. The provision stipu-
lates that, in the Senate, the notifica-
tion of proposed sales shall be sent to
the chairman of the Senate Foreign
Relations Committee.
In keeping with the committee’s in-
tention to see that relevant informa-
tion is available to the full Senate, I
ask unanimous consent to have printed
in the RECORD the notifications which
have been received. If the cover letter
references a classified annex, then such
annex is available to all Senators in
the office of the Foreign Relations
Committee, room SD–423.
There being no objection, the mate-
rial was ordered to be printed in the
RECORD, as follows:
DEFENSE SECURITY
COOPERATION AGENCY,
Arlington, VA.
Hon. JAMES E. RISCH,
Chairman, Committee on Foreign Relations,
U.S. Senate, Washington, DC.
DEAR MR. CHAIRMAN: Pursuant to the re-
porting requirements of Section 36(b)(1) of
the Arms Export Control Act, as amended,
we are forwarding herewith Transmittal No.
19–69 concerning the Air Force’s proposed
Letter(s) of Offer and Acceptance to the Gov-
ernment of New Zealand for defense articles
and services estimated to cost $1.4 billion.
After this letter is delivered to your office,
we plan to issue a news release to notify the
public of this proposed sale.
Sincerely,
GREGORY M. KAUSNER
(For Charles W. Hooper, Lieutenant
General, USA, Director).
Enclosures.
TRANSMITTAL NO. 19–69
Notice of Proposed Issuance of Letter of
Offer Pursuant to Section 36(b)(1) of the
Arms Export Control Act, as amended
(i) Prospective Purchaser: Government of
New Zealand.
(ii) Total Estimated Value:
Major Defense Equipment $.6 billion.
Other $.8 billion.
Total $1.4 billion.
(iii) Description and Quantity or Quan-
tities of Articles or Services under Consider-
ation for Purchase:
Major Defense Equipment (MDE):
Five (5) C–130J Aircraft.
Twenty-four (24) Rolls Royce AE–2100D3
Turboprop Engines (20 installed, 4 spares).
Fifteen (15) Embedded Global Positioning
System (GPS)/Inertial Navigation Systems
(INS) (EGIs) with GPS Security Devices, Air-
borne (10 installed, 5 spares).
Eight (8) Multi-Information Distribution
System (MIDS)/Link–16 Low Video Terminal
(LVT)–BU2 (5 installed, 3 spares).
Thirteen (13) AN/AAQ–24(V)N LAIRCM
(Large Aircraft Infrared Countermeasures)
System Processor Replacement (LSPR) (10
installed, 3 spares).
Nineteen (19) Guardian Laser Transmitter
Assembly for LAIRCM (15 installed, 4
spares).
Non-MDE: Also includes eight (8) AN/AAR–
47 Missile Warning System (MWS); eight (8)
AN/APN–241 Low Power Color Radar; eight
(8) AN/ALR–56M Missile Warning System Re-
ceiver; fifteen (15) AN/ALE–47 Counter-
measures Dispensing System; six (6) MX–
20HD Electro-Optical/Infrared Imaging Sys-
tem; forty-four (44) Missile Warning Sensor,
LAIRCM; Control Interface Unit Replace-
ment, LAIRCM; classified memory cards,
LAIRCM; Low Volume Terminal Cryp-
tographic Modules KIV–55; AN/ARC–210 RT–
1990A(C) Radio; AN/ARC–164(V) RT–1518
Radio; AN/ARC–153 Tactical Air Navigation;
AN/ARN–147 VHF Receiver; AN/ARC–190 HF
Radio; AN/ARC–222 VHF Radio w/SINCGARS;
Classified Tactical Manuals; Cartridge Acti-
vated Devices/Propellant Activated Devices;
M206 Flares; MJU–64/B Decoy; BBU–35A/B
Impulse Carts; Joint Mission Planning Sys-
tem; Classified Computer Identification
Numbers; Electronic Combat International
Security Assistance Program (ECISAP) sup-
port, support and test equipment, publica-
tions and technical documentation, per-
sonnel training and training equipment, U.S.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:20 Nov 22, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00025 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A21NO6.041 S21NOPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6750 November 21, 2019
Government and contractor engineering,
technical and logistics support services; and
other related elements of logistical and pro-
gram support.
(iv) Military Department: Air Force (NZ–
D–SAB and NZ–D–QAF).
(v) Prior Related Cases, if any: None.
(vi) Sales Commission, Fee, etc., Paid, Of-
fered, or Agreed to be Paid: None.
(vii) Sensitivity of Technology Contained
in the Defense Article or Defense Services
Proposed to be Sold: See Attached Annex.
(viii) Date Report Delivered to Congress:
November 20, 2019.
* As defined in Section 47(6) of the Arms
Export Control Act.
POLICY JUSTIFICATION
New Zealand—C–130J Aircraft
The Government of New Zealand has re-
quested to buy five (5) C–130J aircraft; twen-
ty-four (24) Rolls Royce AE–2100D3 turboprop
engines (20 installed, 4 spares); fifteen (15)
Embedded Global Positioning System (GPS)/
Inertial Navigation Systems (INS) (EGIs)
with GPS security devices, airborne (10 in-
stalled, 5 spares); eight (8) Multi-Information
Distribution System (MIDS)/Link–16 Low
Video Terminal (LVT)–BU2 (5 installed, 3
spares); thirteen (13) AN/AAQ–24(V)N
LAIRCM (Large Aircraft Infrared Counter-
measures) System Processor Replacement
(LSPR) (10 installed, 3 spares); and nineteen
(19) Guardian Laser Transmitter Assembly
for LAIRCM (15 installed, 4 spares). Also in-
cluded are eight (8) AN/AAR–47 Missile Warn-
ing System (MWS); eight (8) AN/APN–241
Low Power Color Radar; eight (8) AN/ALR–
56M Missile Warning System Receiver; fif-
teen (15) AN/ALE–47 Countermeasures Dis-
pensing System; six (6) MX–20HD Electro-Op-
tical/Infrared Imaging System; forty-four
(44) Missile Warning Sensor, LAIRCM; Con-
trol Interface Unit Replacement, LAIRCM;
classified memory cards, LAIRCM; Low Vol-
ume Terminal Cryptographic Modules KIV–
55; AN/ARC–210 RT–1990A(C) Radio; AN/ARC–
164(V) RT–1518 Radio; AN/ARC–153 Tactical
Air Navigation; AN/ARN–147 VHF Receiver;
AN/ARC–190 HF Radio; AN/ARC–222 VHF
Radio w/SINCGARS; Classified Tactical
Manuals; Cartridge Activated Devices/Pro-
pellant Activated Devices; M206 Flares;
MJU–64/B Decoy; BBU–35A/B Impulse Carts;
Joint Mission Planning System; Classified
Computer Identification Numbers; Elec-
tronic Combat International Security Assist-
ance Program (ECISAP) support, support
and test equipment, publications and tech-
nical documentation, personnel training and
training equipment, U.S. Government and
contractor engineering, technical and logis-
tics support services; and other related ele-
ments of logistical and program support. The
total estimated value is $1.40 billion.
This proposed sale will support the foreign
policy and national security of the United
States by helping to improve the security of
a major ally that is a force for political sta-
bility, and economic progress in the Asia-Pa-
cific region. The proposed sale will improve
New Zealand’s capability to meet current
and future threats by enhancing its current
airlift capability.
This proposed sale will provide the capa-
bility to support national, United Nations,
and other coalition operations. This pur-
chase also includes sensors and performance
improvements that will assist New Zealand
during extensive maritime surveillance and
reconnaissance as well as improve its search
and rescue capability. Additionally, the
extra cargo capacity and aircraft perform-
ance will greatly increase New Zealand’s
Antarctic mission capabilities while simul-
taneously increasing safety margins. New
Zealand currently operates the C–l30H air-
craft and will have no difficulty absorbing
this equipment and support into its armed
forces.
The proposed sale of this equipment and
support will not alter the basic military bal-
ance in the region.
The prime contractor will be Lockheed
Martin, Ft Worth, TX. There are no known
offset agreements proposed in connection
with this potential sale.
Implementation of this sale will require
the assignment of up to three U.S. con-
tractor representatives to New Zealand.
There will be no adverse impact on U.S. de-
fense readiness as a result of this proposed
sale.
TRANSMITTAL NO. 19–69
Notice of Proposed Issuance of Letter of
Offer Pursuant to Section 36(b)(l) of the
Arms Export Control Act
Annex Item No. vii
(vii) Sensitivity of Technology:
1. The C–130J Hercules with Rolls Royce
AE 2100D Turboprop Engines is a military
airlift aircraft that performs primarily the
tactical portion of the airlift mission. The
aircraft is capable of operating from rough,
dirt strips and is the prime transport for air
dropping troops and equipment into hostile
areas. The C–130J improvements over the C–
130E include improved maximum speed,
climb time, cruising altitude and range. The
C–130J has 55 feet of cargo compartment
length, an additional 15 feet over the original
‘‘short’’ aircraft. Hardware is UNCLASSI-
FIED. Technical data and documentation to
be provided is UNCLASSIFIED.
2. Embedded GPS–INS (EGI) LN–260 is a
sensor that combines GPS and inertial sen-
sor inputs to provide accurate location infor-
mation for navigation and targeting .
3. Multifunctional Information Distribu-
tion System (MIDS) is an advanced Link–16
command, control, communications, and in-
telligence (C3I) system incorporating high-
capacity, jam resistant, digital communica-
tion links for exchange of near real-time tac-
tical information, including both data and
voice, among air, ground, and sea elements.
The MIDS terminal hardware, publications,
performance specifications, operational ca-
pability, parameters, vulnerabilities to coun-
termeasures, and software documentation
are classified CONFIDENTIAL. The classi-
fied information to be provided consists of
that which is necessary for the operation,
maintenance, and repair (through inter-
mediate level) of the data link terminal, in-
stalled systems, and related software.
4. The AN/AAQ–24(V)N LAIRCM is a self-
contained, directed energy countermeasures
system designed to protect aircraft from in-
frared-guided surface-to-air missiles. The
system features digital technology and
micro-miniature solid-state electronics. The
system operates in all conditions, detecting
incoming missiles and jamming infrared-
seeker equipped missiles with aimed bursts
of laser energy. The LAIRCM system con-
sists of multiple Missile Warning Sensors,
Guardian Laser Turret Assemblies (GLTA),
LAIRCM System Processor Replacement
(LSPR), Control Indicator Unit Replacement
(CIUR), and a classified User Data Memory
(UDM) card containing the laser jam codes.
The UDM card is loaded into LAIRCM Sys-
tem Processor Replacement (LSPR) prior to
flight; when not in use, the UDM card is re-
moved from the LSPR and put in secure
storage. The Missile Warning Sensors (MWS)
for AN/AAQ–24 (V)N are mounted on the air-
craft exterior to provide omni-directional
protection. The MWS detects the rocket
plume of missiles and sends appropriate data
signals to the LSPR for processing. The
LSPR analyzes the data from each sensor
and automatically deploys the appropriate
countermeasure via the GLTA. The CIUR
displays the incoming threat. The LSPR also
contains Built-In-Test (BIT) circuitry.
5. The AN/ALE–47 Counter-Measures Dis-
pensing System (CMDS) is an integrated,
threat adaptive, software-programmable dis-
pensing system capable of dispensing chaff,
flares, and active radio frequency
expendables. The threats countered by the
CMDS include radar directed anti-aircraft
artillery, radar command-guided missiles,
radar homing guided missiles, and infrared
guided missiles. The system is internally
mounted and may be operated as a stand-
alone system or may be integrated with
other on-board EW and avionics systems.
The AN/ALE–47 uses threat data received
over the aircraft interfaces to assess the
threat situation and to determine a re-
sponse. Expendable routines tailored to the
immediate aircraft and threat environment
may be dispensed using one of four oper-
ational modes. Hardware is UNCLASSIFIED.
Technical data and documentation to be pro-
vided is UNCLASSIFIED.
6. The AN/AAR–47A(V)2 Missile Warning
System is a small, lightweight, passive,
electro-optic, threat warning device used to
detect surface-to-air missiles fired at heli-
copters and low-flying fixed-wing aircraft
and automatically provide countermeasures,
as well as audio and visual-sector warning
messages to the aircrew. The basic system
consists of multiple Optical Sensor Con-
verter (OSC) units, a Computer Processor
(CP) and a Control Indicator (CL). The set of
OSC units, which normally consist of four, is
mounted on the aircraft exterior to provide
omni-directional protection. The OSC de-
tects the rocket plume of missiles and sends
appropriate signals to the CP for processing.
The CP analyses the data from each OSC and
automatically deploys the appropriate coun-
termeasures. The CP also contains com-
prehensive BIT circuitry. The CI displays the
incoming direction of the threat, so that the
pilot can take appropriate action. Hardware
is UNCLASSIFIED. Technical data and docu-
mentation to be provided is UNCLASSIFIED.
7. The AN/ALR–56M Advanced Radar Warn-
ing Receiver continuously detects and inter-
cepts RF signals in certain frequency ranges
and analyzes and separates threat signals
from nonthreat signals. It contributes to
full-dimensional protection by providing in-
dividual aircraft probability of survival
through improved aircrew situational aware-
ness of the radar guided threat environment.
The ALR–56M is designed to provide im-
proved performance in a dense signal envi-
ronment and improved detection of modem
threats signals. Hardware is UNCLASSI-
FIED. Technical data and documentation to
be provided is UNCLASSIFIED.
8. Joint Mission Planning System (JMPS)
is a multi-platform PC based mission plan-
ning system. JMPS hardware is UNCLASSI-
FIED but the software is classified up to SE-
CRET.
9. The MX–20HD is a gyro-stabilized, multi-
spectral, multi field of view Electro-Optical/
Infrared (EO/IR) system. The system pro-
vides surveillance laser illumination and
laser designation through use of an exter-
nally mounted turret sensor unit and inter-
nally mounted master control. Sensor video
imagery is displayed in the aircraft real time
and may be recorded for subsequent ground
analysis.
10. This sale will involve the release of sen-
sitive and/or classified cryptographic equip-
ment for secure communications radios, pre-
cision navigation, and cryptographic appli-
ques and keying equipment. The hardware is
UNCLASSIFIED, except where systems are
loaded with cryptographic software, which
may be classified up to SECRET.
11. If a technologically advanced adversary
were to obtain knowledge of the specific
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:45 Nov 22, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00026 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A21NO6.042 S21NOPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6751
November 21, 2019
hardware and software elements, the infor-
mation could be used to develop counter-
measures that might reduce weapon system
effectiveness or be used in the development
of a system with similar or advanced capa-
bilities.
12. A determination has been made that
New Zealand can provide substantially the
same degree of protection for the sensitive
technology being released as the U.S. Gov-
ernment. This sale is necessary in further-
ance of the U.S. foreign policy and national
security objectives outlined in the Policy
Justification.
13. All defense articles and services listed
in this transmittal are authorized for release
and export to the Government of New Zea-
land.
f
NATIONAL ADOPTION MONTH
Ms. ROSEN. Mr. President, I rise
today to bring attention to a critical
and often hidden issue facing our Na-
tion. Each year, nearly 18,000 foster
children across our country age out of
the system with no permanent place to
call home. Right now, over 125,000 fos-
ter children are eligible for adoption
and waiting for their forever family.
Over 1,600 of those children live in Ne-
vada. Every single child deserves a
safe, loving, and permanent family.
November is National Adoption
Month, a time to recognize and cele-
brate the many ways that families are
created, including through adoption.
There are children in our communities,
waiting to belong, to be loved, and to
be a part of what so many of us take
for granted. Sitting down to a meal
with a parent, knowing you have a
family member in the audience at a
school event or knowing that someone
is, indeed, waiting up to make sure you
get home safe and by curfew. The very
idea that someone cares enough to
make sure homework is done, and to
listen when your day doesn’t go so well
does immeasurable good for children.
Our Nation’s foster children are in a
situation that is no fault of their own.
Most are there due to severe neglect or
abuse. They have experienced trauma.
They have been suddenly taken away
from all they know, bringing few pos-
sessions, stored in a garbage bag, with
them as they move from home to
home. The goal is always to reunite
foster children with their biological
families if it can be done safely, but
unfortunately, that isn’t always an op-
tion. For the children who remain in
our foster system, we can and must do
better.
Absolutely no child is unadoptable.
By working together, we can achieve a
future where every child in our Nation
knows without a doubt they belong and
they have a family. I encourage anyone
interested in learning more about
adoption to visit www.adoptuskids.org
or reach out to local community orga-
nizations to find out more about how
to get involved with mentoring or sup-
porting foster children in other ways.
As I hear from constituents about
the work they do to help raise aware-
ness and improve outcomes for foster
youth, I am so encouraged. I remain
committed to working with my col-
leagues in the Senate to create a
brighter future for our most vulnerable
children.
f
TRIBUTE TO ELLIS MCKENNIE
Mr. CARDIN. Mr. President, I rise
today to recognize an inspiring young
man, Ellis McKennie. I had the good
fortune of getting to know Ellis when
he was an intern in my office, first in
the summer of 2018 in my State office
and then again this past summer in
Washington. He was a diligent worker,
always searching for ways to help. He
was keen to take advantage of every
opportunity to learn. One thing that
became obvious right away is that Ellis
is an empathetic young man; in one in-
stance, as a youngster, he asked his
mother to make lunches for less fortu-
nate fellow students. I am very grate-
ful to Ellis for his service to the people
of Maryland during his internships and
for his service to the University of
Maryland as the epitome of a student
athlete. Ellis has been an offensive
lineman on the Terrapins’ football
team for the last 4 years. Perhaps more
important than his leadership on the
field, though, has been his leadership
off the field, where he has advocated
fiercely for meaningful athletic reform
in the wake of his boyhood friend and
teammate Jordan McNair’s tragic
death from heatstroke last year. Ellis
has worked hard to mobilize his team-
mates and the entire campus to become
more engaged politically. In recogni-
tion of his ability to bring people to-
gether for positive change, the student
body elected Ellis to the university
senate this year.
Somehow, among Ellis’s football ca-
reer, activism, and student governance,
he has also found time to set an exem-
plary academic record, twice earning
All-Big Ten academic honors and com-
pleting his undergraduate degree in
just 3 years. Now, while he plays his
final season for the Terrapins, he is
busy earning a graduate degree in pub-
lic policy. Next, Ellis plans to attend
law school and hopes to serve as an
elected official 1 day, perhaps here in
the Senate.
I have been so impressed by every-
thing that Ellis has been able to ac-
complish at such a young age and by
everything that he aspires to achieve
in the future. Most of all, I am proud of
his enduring commitment to building
community, helping those in need, and
fighting for what’s right. Young people
like Ellis should reassure all of us that
the future of our country is in capable
hands.
On November 20, the Baltimore Sun
ran an article by Don Markus entitled
‘‘Maryland’s Ellis McKennie found his
voice when Jordan McNair died. Now
he looks to finish his career strong.’’
The article captures the qualities that
make Ellis such a special young man. I
ask unanimous consent that the article
be printed in the RECORD.
There being no objection, the mate-
rial was ordered to be printed in the
RECORD, as follows:
MARYLAND’S ELLIS MCKENNIE FOUND HIS
VOICE WHEN JORDAN MCNAIR DIED. NOW HE
LOOKS TO FINISH HIS CAREER STRONG.
(By Don Markus)
Ellis McKennie spent his first three years
at Maryland as a nondescript reserve offen-
sive lineman, redshirting his first season
after graduating from McDonogh and serving
as a little-used backup the next two.
It took the death of Jordan McNair—a fel-
low offensive lineman who had been more
like a little brother since they grew up on
the same street in Randallstown—for
McKennie to find his voice.
It then took McKennie getting a role this
season, briefly as a versatile reserve and
then as a starter in seven games at four posi-
tions, to have the platform to use it.
‘‘As someone who’s a leader on this team.
I feel confident to express the feelings and
attitude of the team,’’ McKennie said last
week, sitting in the auditorium of the
Gossett Team House. ‘‘I’m that way to Coach
[Mike Locksley], too.
‘‘I’m on the leadership council and I’m one
of the guys coach is asking, ‘Where do you
think the team’s at?’ I’m that voice for him
and when the media comes asking the same
questions. I’m confident that I can represent
the team in a good way in the public light.’’
Going into Saturday’s senior day matchup
with Nebraska (4–6, 2–5 Big Ten), McKennie
is hoping that he can help Maryland (3–7, 1–
5) end a five-game losing streak.
‘‘I can’t stress how important it is for us to
beat Nebraska.’’ McKennie said. ‘‘I can still
remember singing the alma mater after the
Syracuse game [a 63–20 win on Sept 7] think-
ing. ‘I can’t wait to do this some more this
season.’ If that’s the last time I get to sing
the alma mater at Maryland Stadium, that’ll
be tough for me to handle. I’m going to do
whatever I can to get this win.’’
McKennie’s role as a leader for the Terps
began to evolve in the weeks and months
after the 19-year-old McNair’s death from
heatstroke in June 2018.
It was McKennie and then-sophomore cen-
ter Johnny Jordan who were designated to
speak when the still-grieving team met with
the media for the first time in late August.
It was McKennie who carried the flag with
McNair’s jersey number—79—out for the 2018
season opener at FedEx Field and waved it
after the Terps upset than-No. 23 Texas, 34–
29.
It was also McKennie who walked out with
a couple of his teammates from a team meet-
ing after former coach DJ Durkin, who had
been put on administrative leave in the
aftermath of McNair’s death, had briefly
been reinstated in late October. Durkin was
fired by university President Wallace D. Loh
the following day.
‘‘They say in the face of tragedy that peo-
ple get closer together, and that’s what hap-
pened on this team,’’ McKennie said. ‘‘We
lost a brother, but at the same time, when
you go through something like that with a
group of people and you come out the other
side, you have a different kind of relation-
ship with them. That role during that whole
time period just kind of fluidly turned into a
leadership role on the field this season.’’
Jodi McKennie wasn’t surprised that her
middle child became the de facto team
spokesman among the Maryland players.
‘‘From the time he was a little boy, he was
the most empathetic child you could meet,’’
she said last week. ‘‘He could not stand to
see anyone he thought was suffering in any
way.’’
It meant asking his mother to make extra
lunches for other kids who didn’t have food
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:20 Nov 22, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00027 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A21NO6.042 S21NOPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6752 November 21, 2019
at home to bring to school or to have her put
money on the accounts of less fortunate stu-
dents. At Maryland, it took shape McNair’s
death.
The leadership piece took over because he
is definitely led by his moral compass, and
that comes from understanding right from
wrong and what happened to Jordan was so
hard on him that he could no longer be
quiet,’’ Jodi McKennie said.
His father’s five-year stint as the boys bas-
ketball coach at Archbishop Curley also had
an impact on the younger McKennie.
‘‘I had a couple of kids who had problems
with their family and he would see Dad get
up and go and do things [for the players],’’
the elder McKennie said Monday. ‘‘It was the
same for me. When I got to college, I didn’t
realize my Dad, who was a Marine Corps
dude, was in my brain. You don’t realize
until it has to be shown.’’
Recalling when his son walked out on
Durkin, the elder McKennie said his son
called him beforehand to tell him of his in-
tentions.
‘‘I said, ‘Ellis, before you do anything, do
you want to talk about it?’ and he said, ‘Dad,
I got this,’ ’’ the elder McKennie said.
McKennie doesn’t think he would have
been any less a leader this season had he not
worked his way up the depth chart and into
a starting role.
‘‘I have a type of rapport with teammates,
they know what I’m about, and that I actu-
ally care about this team and this univer-
sity,’’ McKennie said. ‘‘Whether I’m playing.
whether I’m having a good game or a bad
game, whether I’m on scout team, it
wouldn’t make a difference, just the type of
guy that I am.’’
Said senior defensive tackle Brett Kulka:
‘‘Ellis is great. He’s definitely a leader. You
can see that in the locker room as a whole.
He’s an encouraging player. He likes to help
younger guys. He understands what it takes
to win in terms of you need everyone on the
team. He really embraces that role.’’
It has been more than 17 months since
McNair died and McKennie said it is unlikely
that he will ever get over it completely. He
had known McNair since they were kids and
McNair played Little League baseball on a
team coached by McKennie’s father.
‘‘You’re never going to feel normal. It al-
most turns into a new type of normal, it’s a
new reality you’ve got to live it,’’ McKennie
said. ‘‘I can’t lie and say I don’t think about
it every day. I get texts from his parents be-
fore every game. . . . You’re never going to
move on from it.
‘‘I think it was important that when Coach
Locks got here, he had a meeting with a
bunch of us and he said, ‘We can move on
without forgetting Jordan. We can take
steps forward, but we’ll not forget where we
came from and not forget Jordan in any sort
of way.’ ’’
Even though the patch of grass at Mary-
land Stadium with McNair’s number has
grown over, McKennie said, ‘‘Internally we
honor him every day. His locker is still in
our locker room. We pray in front of it be-
fore every game.’’
Four years later, McKennie is only one of
three players remaining from the 19 mem-
bers of the 2015 recruiting class, along with
linebacker Isaiah Davis and defensive end
Keiron Howard.
‘‘There are less than 10 guys from my class
that made it through their eligibility,’’
McKennie said. ‘‘Our class is extremely in-
teresting because it’s been filled with so
much turmoil. A lot of guys didn’t finish,
but we also had two first-round draft picks,
DJ Moore and Darnell Savage. So it’s like a
pretty big spectrum. I’ve been the only offen-
sive lineman left for two years.’’
Locksley said Tuesday that the person and
player he helped recruit to Maryland while
serving as the team’s offensive coordinator
has grown tremendously in the past five
years.
‘‘He’s a guy that’s been directly affected
with the three full-time coaches, two
interims, the loss of a former high school
teammate [and] dear friend, and this kid
continues to stand strong.’’ Locksley said at
his Tuesday news conference, where he an-
nounced that McKennie and three other sen-
iors would serve as captains for Saturday’s
game.
‘‘He’s one of the guys you can sell the Uni-
versity of Maryland with. He’s the epitome
of a student-athlete. He’s a guy that has the
right kind of habits and behaviors, where
he’s going to be really successful on the field
and off the field. Really I can’t say enough
great things about the leadership that he’s
provided, not just for the players, but even
to me as the head coach. He’s the epitome of
what a Maryland player should look like.’’
For much of his career, McKennie focused
‘‘pretty heavily’’ on the front half of his hy-
phenated position as a student-athlete, grad-
uating in three years with a degree in gov-
ernment and politics and then working on
his master’s degree in public policy, which
he will finish in the coming weeks as he gets
ready to start studying for his LSATs and a
career as a lawyer or politician.
‘‘We used to joke that he would be the first
black president and then we had [Barack]
Obama so now we’re banking on him being
the second black president,’’ his mother said.
Even with what he has accomplished off
the field—twice earning All-Big Ten aca-
demic honors, being elected to the university
senate during the 2019–20 academic year, in-
terning for U.S. Sen. Ben Cardin (D–Mary-
land) last summer—McKennie thinks of him-
self mostly as a Maryland football player.
‘‘That’s what I do every day,’’ he said.
‘‘There hasn’t been a day in the past five
years when I haven’t come to this building
aside from a few holidays. It’s going to be a
weird change. I’m looking forward to what’s
next for me, but I’m definitely going to miss
everything that has come about. I’m starting
to appreciate things differently now. I’m
going to practice not dreading practice any-
more. I’m happy to be there with my team-
mates.’’
Unlike many of his former teammates who
left long before their eligibility expired or
moved on the moment they played their
final game, McKennie said there will always
be an attachment.
‘‘I love this university and I love what it
means to be a Terrapin.’’ McKennie said. ‘‘It
means so much more to me than just playing
on Saturday. If it was about playing time, I
still wouldn’t be here. I should have gone
somewhere else and played a little bit soon-
er. It means so much to me to represent this
university and represent this state that I’ve
called home for most of my life, that’s the
most important part to me.’’
f
ADDITIONAL STATEMENTS
TRIBUTE TO GARY AND HANNA
CANADA
∑ Mr. BOOZMAN. Mr. President, I rise
today to recognize Gary and Hanna
Canada for receiving the American
Bankers Association’s Bruning Award.
This award is dedicated to bankers who
demonstrate a strong sense of leader-
ship and dedication to providing finan-
cial guidance and credit to ranchers,
farmers, and businesses in rural Amer-
ica.
The Canadas are well known
throughout southern Arkansas for
their partnership running their busi-
ness hand-in-hand, which helps explain
why, for first time in the 22-year his-
tory, the award has been presented to a
team of ag bankers.
Gary Canada began his professional
career as a teacher and coach, eventu-
ally working his way up to principal.
In 1975, Gary joined the Bank of Eng-
land and climbed the ranks to become
the chairman and president of the
bank. Over the years, Gary has served
on numerous committees and boards,
including the ABA’s Agricultural and
Rural Bankers Committee, Arkansas
Rice Council, and Bayou Metro Irriga-
tion District. In addition to his work
with the bank, Gary has farmed cotton,
rice, and wheat and run a cow and calf
operation.
Similarly, Hanna Canada began her
career as a teacher before working at
the Bank of England. Her early years
at the bank consisted of working as a
teller before transitioning to board sec-
retary assisting with policies. Hanna
currently serves as the executive vice
president of the Bank of England and
member of the board of directors.
Along with her hard work and dedica-
tion to the bank, she also serves as an
emergency medical technician.
Gary and Hanna Canada demonstrate
what it means to give back to your
community. Every opportunity they
have had to help those in need, they
have not hesitated to step in and lend
a hand. In addition, Hanna hopes to in-
spire other women to step into leader-
ship roles in the agriculture banking
community. The couple’s desire to
grow the farming community in the
State is remarkable and reveals why
they are so well-deserving of this rec-
ognition.
I would like to congratulate and
thank the Canadas for their hard work,
dedication, and leadership to the city
of England, the ag community in their
area, and the State of Arkansas. I am
grateful for their work and for the ABA
recognizing their careers and contribu-
tions with the Bruning Award.∑
f
TRIBUTE TO PARKER WALTER
∑ Mr. DAINES. Mr. President, this
week I have the honor of recognizing
Parker Walter of Madison County for
his extraordinary bravery in the face of
danger.
In late September, the American Red
Cross awarded 6-year-old Parker Wal-
ter with a Certificate of Extraordinary
Personal Action from their National
Lifesaving Award Program. This was
the first time in 20 years that a Mon-
tanan has received the distinguished
Lifesaving Award from the American
Red Cross. Parker heroically saved his
4-year-old brother Cooper from drown-
ing when he slipped into a rushing irri-
gation ditch behind their home. Parker
immediately screamed out to his moth-
er and grandmother to alert them and
quickly ran over to pull his younger
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:45 Nov 22, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00028 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A21NO6.029 S21NOPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6753
November 21, 2019
brother from the ditch. Parker’s swift
action and response saved Cooper’s life.
It is my honor to recognize Parker
for his incredible lifesaving action.
Parker has made all of Montana proud
for his bravery.∑
f
TRIBUTE TO CHRIS DINSDALE
∑ Mr. GARDNER. Mr. President, today
I rise to recognize a great Coloradan,
Chris Dinsdale, who will be inducted
into the 2020 Farm Credit Colorado Ag-
riculture Hall of Fame. Chris is a bank-
er and cattleman from Sterling, CO,
who has devoted his life to benefiting
his community.
Chris is the coowner of his own busi-
ness, while also serving on multiple
boards, and is the current cochairman
of the Bank of Colorado. No matter his
role, he works tirelessly to help our
rural communities grow and ensure our
agricultural producers are among the
most successful in the country. His
passion for Colorado can be seen in
every action he takes.
I remember commenting to Chris
about some of the new banks he was
building in several towns across east-
ern Colorado. He smiled in response
and said that he knew some of the
banks would probably never make
enough money to pay for the cost of
the building but that ‘‘the community
had been so good to them’’ that he
wanted to repay the town with a beau-
tiful new business they could be proud
of. This is the kind of person Chris is,
one who puts the community before
himself, the kind of person who makes
Colorado special.
Chris’s knowledge and expertise in
Colorado agriculture has been recog-
nized throughout the State, as Chris
has earned several coveted awards from
his community, including—Sterling’s
Business Person of the Year, Elk Busi-
nessman of the Year, and Logan Coun-
ty Chamber of Commerce’s Citizen of
the Year Award. These awards dem-
onstrate his ability to not only grow
his own business but his ability to cre-
ate a better Colorado through his in-
vestments in new infrastructure, as
well as tuition assistance and scholar-
ship opportunities throughout the
Eastern Plains. The impact Chris has
had and will continue to have will ben-
efit generations of Colorado agri-
culture.
I am proud to call Chris a friend, and
he is more than deserving of this great
honor.∑
f
TRIBUTE TO CHARLES HANAVAN
∑ Mr. GARDNER. Mr. President, today
I rise to recognize a great Coloradan,
Charles Hanavan, who will be inducted
into the 2020 Farm Credit Colorado Ag-
riculture Hall of Fame. Charles has
been a bedrock to the Colorado farming
community and has been committed to
upholding the legacy of family farm-
ing.
Charles was a longtime leader within
the Rocky Mountain Farmers Union, in
which he served as president from 1968
to 1970. Following that, he spent the
next 11 years as vice president. During
his time, he called on all residents,
smalltown businessmen, farmers, and
ranchers in rural communities to work
with one another in order to prosper. In
a memorable speech, he stated: ‘‘We
must build and not destroy our rural
towns, build and not eliminate our
independent farmers and ranchers; we
need and must have a coalition for sur-
vival.’’ In 1991, he was granted hon-
orary life membership and awarded
Meritorious Service to the Rocky
Mountain Farmers Union for his count-
less efforts to the organization and the
community.
Furthering his commitment to rural
farming communities, Charles served
with the National Association of Rural
Rehabilitation Committee Board,
which helped farmers establish them-
selves when banks would not offer
them loans. Additionally, he served on
the Colorado Highway Commission, the
Colorado Farm Service Agency State
Committee, as well as the Colorado
Rural Rehabilitation Corporation.
Through all of his roles, Charles has
continued to seek innovative practices
to improve agricultural operations in
the state.
Charles is married to Patsy, and the
two are the proud parents of 12 chil-
dren, 33 grandchildren, and 1 great-
grandchild. His father settled on a farm
south of Arapahoe in 1919, and they
still own and operate that farm today.
Charles is a true example of what it
means to be committed to family and
community, and he is extremely de-
serving of this prestigious honor.∑
f
TRIBUTE TO DON SHAWCROFT
∑ Mr. GARDNER. Mr. President, today
I rise to recognize a great Coloradan,
Don Shawcroft, who will be inducted
into the 2020 Farm Credit Colorado Ag-
riculture Hall of Fame. Don is a fourth-
generation Coloradan from the San
Luis Valley of Southern Colorado,
whose leadership has helped push the
State’s agricultural industry forward.
Don graduated from Brigham Young
University from the agricultural eco-
nomics department. From there, he
served as the State board member for
the San Luis Valley to the Colorado
Farm Bureau for many years and was
vice president for 10 of those years. In
2010, he was elected president and in
2013 was elected to serve on the Amer-
ican Farm Bureau Board of Directors.
Additionally, Don has served on the
Southern Farm Bureau Casualty
Board, a role in which he is on the
boards of all its wholly owned subsidi-
aries, which most recently include the
Colorado Farm Bureau Insurance Com-
pany.
Outside of the numerous Farm Bu-
reau roles, Don has found time to be
the director of the San Luis Valley
Health and Mountain States Legal
Foundation, further contributing his
commitment to the State of Colorado
and its communities.
The Shawcroft family has been
ranching in the San Luis Valley since
the late 1800s, and Don is continuing
the family partnership. He is the hus-
band to Ann, and the two have raised 6
children and have 17 grandchildren.
The first time I saw the family farm, I
was struck not only by the great beau-
ty of the homestead, but by the pride
and twinkle in the eye of a proud Colo-
rado farmer.
The State of Colorado is fortunate to
have Don’s continued commitment to
his community and the Colorado Farm
Bureau, and he is beyond deserving of
this honor.∑
f
RECOGNIZING KELLOGG LUMBER
∑ Mr. RISCH. Mr. President, as a mem-
ber and former chairman of the Senate
Committee on Small Business and En-
trepreneurship, each month I recognize
and celebrate the American entrepre-
neurial spirit by highlighting the suc-
cess of a small business in my home
State of Idaho. However, in honor of
Veterans Day on November 11, this
month I will honor a veteran-owned
small business for each of the 10 days
the Senate is in legislative session. The
personal sacrifices made by America’s
veterans have protected the very free-
doms and values that give each of us
and our children the ability to achieve
the American dream. The skills vet-
erans learn as members of the military
are invaluable and undoubtedly con-
tribute to Idaho’s flourishing veteran
business community. I am proud of the
sacrifices veterans have made to pro-
tect our country and that they are
choosing Idaho to call home when they
complete their service in the military.
As your U.S. Senator from the great
State of Idaho, it is my pleasure to rec-
ognize Kellogg Lumber in Kellogg as
the Veteran-owned Idaho Small Busi-
ness of the Day for November 21, 2019.
Kellogg Lumber is a retail lumber and
hardware store owned by U.S. Army
veteran Steve Bristow. Bristow’s
grandfather, Daniel Fultz, began work-
ing as a bookkeeper for the company in
1951 and worked his way to become
owner in the 1960s. Following a dev-
astating fire in 1955, Fultz rebuilt the
company and in 1989 passed it on to his
son, Ronald Bristow. Ronald Bristow’s
son, Steve, and his wife, Teirza, ac-
quired the company in 2007 and remain
its owners today.
The company sells building mate-
rials, such as plywood, paint, and
power tools, and serves clients who
seek personal or commercial construc-
tion and remodels. Kellogg Lumber
partners with well-known community
vendors to provide reliable, quality
products to their customers, who in-
clude homeowners, builders, and con-
tractors. Many customers have relied
on the company to serve their con-
struction needs for more than 25 years.
Bristow and the employees at Kellogg
Lumber’s hard work and expertise have
earned them a reputation for excep-
tional customer service in the Kellogg
community.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:45 Nov 22, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00029 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A21NO6.043 S21NOPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6754 November 21, 2019
Congratulations to Steve and Teirza
Bristow and all of the employees at
Kellogg Lumber for being selected as
the Veteran-owned Idaho Small Busi-
ness of the Day for November 21, 2019.
You make our great State proud, and I
look forward to your continued growth
and success.∑
f
MESSAGES FROM THE PRESIDENT
Messages from the President of the
United States were communicated to
the Senate by Ms. Roberts, one of his
secretaries.
f
EXECUTIVE MESSAGES REFERRED
In executive session the Presiding Of-
ficer laid before the Senate messages
from the President of the United
States submitting sundry nominations
which were referred to the appropriate
committees.
(The messages received today are
printed at the end of the Senate pro-
ceedings.)
f
MESSAGES FROM THE HOUSE
At 10:26 a.m., a message from the
House of Representatives, delivered by
Mr. Novotny, one of its reading clerks,
announced that the House has passed
the following bills, in which it requests
the concurrence of the Senate:
H.R. 182. An act to extend the authoriza-
tion for the Cape Cod National Seashore Ad-
visory Commission.
H.R. 255. An act to provide for an exchange
of lands with San Bernardino County, Cali-
fornia, to enhance management of lands
within the San Bernardino National Forest,
and for other purposes.
H.R. 263. An act to rename the Oyster Bay
National Wildlife Refuge as the Congressman
Lester Wolff Oyster Bay National Wildlife
Refuge.
H.R. 737. An act to prohibit the sale of
shark fins, and for other purposes.
H.R. 925. An act to extend the authoriza-
tion of appropriations for allocation to carry
out approved wetlands conservation projects
under the North American Wetlands Con-
servation Act through fiscal year 2024.
H.R. 1088. An act to authorize the Society
of the First Infantry Division to make modi-
fications to the First Division Monument lo-
cated on Federal Land in President’s Park in
the District of Columbia, and for other pur-
poses.
H.R. 1446. An act to require the United
States Postal Service to continue selling the
Multinational Species Conservation Funds
Semipostal Stamp until all remaining
stamps are sold, and for other purposes.
H.R. 1472. An act to rename the Homestead
National Monument of America near Bea-
trice, Nebraska, as the Homestead National
Historical Park.
H.R. 1487. An act to direct the Secretary of
the Interior to conduct a special resource
study of portions of the Los Angeles coastal
area in the State of California to evaluate al-
ternatives for protecting the resources of the
coastal area, and for other purposes.
The message also announced that
pursuant to 22 U.S.C. 276d, and the
order of the House of January 3, 2019,
the Speaker appoints the following
Member on the part of the House of
Representatives to the Canada-United
States Interparliamentary Group: Mr.
Huizenga of Michigan.
ENROLLED BILLS SIGNED
At 10:52 a.m., a message from the
House of Representatives, delivered by
Mr. Novotny, one of its reading clerks,
announced that the Speaker had signed
the following enrolled bills:
S. 1838. An act to amend the Hong Kong
Policy Act of 1992, and for other purposes.
S. 2710. An act to prohibit the commercial
export of covered munitions items to the
Hong Kong Police Force.
The enrolled bills were subsequently
signed by the President pro tempore
(Mr. GRASSLEY).
ENROLLED BILLS SIGNED
At 2:52 p.m., a message from the
House of Representatives, delivered by
Mrs. Cole, one of its reading clerks, an-
nounced that the Speaker had signed
the following enrolled bills.
S. 862. An act to extend the sunset for col-
lateral requirements for Small Business Ad-
ministration disaster loans.
H.R. 3055. An act making further con-
tinuing appropriations for fiscal year 2020,
and for other purposes.
H.R. 3889. An act to amend the Office of
National Drug Control Policy Reauthoriza-
tion Act of 1998 to make technical correc-
tions.
H.R. 4258. An act to authorize the Marshal
of the Supreme Court and the Supreme Court
Police to protect the Justices, employees,
and official guests of the Supreme Court out-
side of the Supreme Court grounds, and for
other purposes.
The enrolled bills were subsequently
signed by the President pro tempore
(Mr. GRASSLEY).
At 3:20 p.m., a message from the
House of Representatives, delivered by
Mr. Novotny, one of its reading clerks,
announced that the House has passed
the following bill, in which it requests
the concurrence of the Senate:
H.R. 1309. An act to direct the Secretary of
Labor to issue an occupational safety and
health standard that requires covered em-
ployers within the health care and social
service industries to develop and implement
a comprehensive workplace violence preven-
tion plan, and for other purposes.
f
MEASURES REFERRED
The following bills were read the first
and the second times by unanimous
consent, and referred as indicated:
H.R. 182. An act to extend the authoriza-
tion for the Cape Cod National Seashore Ad-
visory Commission; to the Committee on En-
ergy and Natural Resources.
H.R. 255. An act to provide for an exchange
of lands with San Bernardino County, Cali-
fornia, to enhance management of lands
within the San Bernardino National Forest,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Energy and Natural Resources.
H.R. 263. An act to rename the Oyster Bay
National Wildlife Refuge as the Congressman
Lester Wolff Oyster Bay National Wildlife
Refuge; to the Committee on Environment
and Public Works.
H.R. 737. An act to prohibit the sale of
shark fins, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation.
H.R. 1088. An act to authorize the Society
of the First Infantry Division to make modi-
fications to the First Division Monument lo-
cated on Federal Land in President’s Park in
the District of Columbia, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Energy and Nat-
ural Resources.
H.R. 1309. An act to direct the Secretary of
Labor to issue an occupational safety and
health standard that requires covered em-
ployers within the health care and social
service industries to develop and implement
a comprehensive workplace violence preven-
tion plan, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and
Pensions.
H.R. 1446. An act to require the United
States Postal Service to continue selling the
Multinational Species Conservation Funds
Semipostal Stamp until all remaining
stamps are sold, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Homeland Security and
Governmental Affairs.
H.R. 1472. An act to rename the Homestead
National Monument of America near Bea-
trice, Nebraska, as the Homestead National
Historical Park; to the Committee on En-
ergy and Natural Resources.
H.R. 1487. An act to direct the Secretary of
the Interior to conduct a special resource
study of portions of the Los Angeles coastal
area in the State of California to evaluate al-
ternatives for protecting the resources of the
coastal area, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Energy and Natural Re-
sources.
f
MEASURES PLACED ON THE
CALENDAR
The following bill was read the sec-
ond time, and placed on the calendar:
S. 2920. A bill to reauthorize the Violence
Against Women Act of 1994, and for other
purposes.
f
ENROLLED BILLS PRESENTED
The Secretary of the Senate reported
that on today, November 21, 2019, she
had presented to the President of the
United States the following enrolled
bills:
S. 862. An act to extend the sunset for col-
lateral requirements for Small Business Ad-
ministration disaster loans.
S. 1838. An act to amend the Hong Kong
Policy Act of 1992, and for other purposes.
S. 2710. An act to prohibit the commercial
export of covered munitions items to the
Hong Kong Police Force.
f
REPORTS OF COMMITTEES
The following reports of committees
were submitted:
By Ms. MURKOWSKI, from the Committee
on Energy and Natural Resources, with an
amendment:
S. 860. A bill to amend the Omnibus Public
Land Management Act of 2009 to modify the
terms of the Jackson Gulch rehabilitation
project in Colorado, and for other purposes
(Rept. No. 116–160).
By Ms. MURKOWSKI, from the Committee
on Energy and Natural Resources, with an
amendment in the nature of a substitute:
S. 1882. A bill to make available the con-
tinued use of Pick-Sloan Missouri Basin Pro-
gram project use power by the Kinsey Irriga-
tion Company and the Sidney Water Users
Irrigation District, and for other purposes
(Rept. No. 116–161).
By Mr. WICKER, from the Committee on
Commerce, Science, and Transportation,
without amendment:
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:39 Nov 22, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00030 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G21NO6.042 S21NOPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6755
November 21, 2019
S. 1294. A bill to require Federal agencies
with jurisdiction over broadband deployment
to enter into an interagency agreement re-
lated to certain types of funding for
broadband deployment (Rept. No. 116–162).
f
EXECUTIVE REPORTS OF
COMMITTEE
The following executive reports of
nominations were submitted:
By Mr. GRAHAM for the Committee on the
Judiciary.
Patrick J. Bumatay, of California, to be
United States Circuit Judge for the Ninth
Circuit.
Lawrence VanDyke, of Nevada, to be
United States Circuit Judge for the Ninth
Circuit.
Philip M. Halpern, of New York, to be
United States District Judge for the South-
ern District of New York.
Bernard Maurice Jones II, of Oklahoma, to
be United States District Judge for the West-
ern District of Oklahoma.
Thomas Michael O’Connor, of Texas, to be
United States Marshal for the Southern Dis-
trict of Texas for the term of four years.
Barbara Bailey Jongbloed, of Connecticut,
to be United States District Judge for the
District of Connecticut.
Ralph Ignatius Sozio, of New York, to be
United States Marshal for the Southern Dis-
trict of New York for the term of four years.
(Nominations without an asterisk
were reported with the recommenda-
tion that they be confirmed.)
f
INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND
JOINT RESOLUTIONS
The following bills and joint resolu-
tions were introduced, read the first
and second times by unanimous con-
sent, and referred as indicated:
By Mr. PAUL:
S. 2923. A bill to modify the criteria used
by the Corps of Engineers to dredge small
ports; to the Committee on Environment and
Public Works.
By Mr. HEINRICH:
S. 2924. A bill to establish the Bandelier
National Park and Preserve in the State of
New Mexico; to the Committee on Energy
and Natural Resources.
By Mr. MERKLEY (for himself and Mr.
DURBIN):
S. 2925. A bill to provide consumer protec-
tions for students; to the Committee on
Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
By Mr. WHITEHOUSE (for himself and
Mr. TOOMEY):
S. 2926. A bill to include Portugal in the
list of foreign states whose nationals are eli-
gible for admission into the United States as
E–1 and E–2 nonimmigrants if United States
nationals are treated similarly by the Gov-
ernment of Portugal; to the Committee on
the Judiciary.
By Mr. JONES (for himself and Mr.
CASSIDY):
S. 2927. A bill to amend the Public Health
Service Act to provide that the authority of
the Director of the National Institute on Mi-
nority Health and Health Disparities to
make certain research endowments applies
with respect to both current and former cen-
ters of excellence, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Health, Education, Labor,
and Pensions.
By Mr. WHITEHOUSE (for himself, Mr.
MERKLEY, Ms. ROSEN, and Mr. BOOK-
ER):
S. 2928. A bill to amend the Higher Edu-
cation Act of 1965 to reauthorize the Univer-
sity Sustainability Program; to the Com-
mittee on Health, Education, Labor, and
Pensions.
By Mr. MENENDEZ (for himself, Mr.
BLUMENTHAL, Mr. BOOKER, Ms. HAR-
RIS, Ms. CORTEZ MASTO, Mr. SANDERS,
and Mr. MERKLEY):
S. 2929. A bill to protect victims of crime
or serious labor violations from removal dur-
ing Department of Homeland Security en-
forcement actions, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. CRUZ (for himself, Mr. CORNYN,
Mr. BARRASSO, Mr. COTTON, and Mr.
CASSIDY):
S. 2930. A bill to exempt from the Lacey
Act and the Lacey Act Amendments of 1981
certain water transfers between any of the
States of Texas, Arkansas, and Louisiana,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Environment and Public Works.
By Mr. CORNYN (for himself, Mr.
WHITEHOUSE, Mr. LEE, Mr. LEAHY,
Mr. GRASSLEY, Mr. DURBIN, Mr.
TILLIS, Mr. BLUMENTHAL, Mr.
PORTMAN, Mr. COONS, Ms. ERNST, and
Mr. CRAPO):
S. 2931. A bill to establish a process for ob-
taining a Federal certificate of rehabilita-
tion, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary.
By Mrs. BLACKBURN:
S. 2932. A bill to amend title 17, United
States Code, to require broadcasters to ob-
tain permission to transmit content owned
by another person, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. BOOZMAN (for himself and Mr.
DURBIN):
S. 2933. A bill to amend the Commodity Ex-
change Act to require a review of current ex-
emptions granted to foreign entities in re-
sponse to an attempt by a foreign authority
to exercise direct supervisory authority over
a domestic derivatives clearing organization;
to the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition,
and Forestry.
By Mr. COONS (for himself, Mr. GRA-
HAM, Mr. MURPHY, and Mr. RUBIO):
S. 2934. A bill to clarify United States pol-
icy toward Libya, advance a diplomatic solu-
tion to the conflict in Libya, and support the
people of Libya; to the Committee on For-
eign Relations.
By Mr. MARKEY:
S. 2935. A bill to prohibit the appointment
of former fossil fuel executive officers and
fossil fuel lobbyists as the heads of certain
departments, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Homeland Security and Gov-
ernmental Affairs.
By Mr. LEAHY (for himself, Ms. HAR-
RIS, Mr. BOOKER, Ms. HIRONO, Mr.
MARKEY, Mrs. SHAHEEN, Mrs. GILLI-
BRAND, Mr. BLUMENTHAL, Mr. CARDIN,
Mr. WYDEN, Mrs. MURRAY, Mr. SAND-
ERS, Mr. REED, Mr. MERKLEY, Ms.
WARREN, and Ms. KLOBUCHAR):
S. 2936. A bill to provide for the admission
and protection of refugees, asylum seekers,
and other vulnerable individuals, to provide
for the processing of refugees and asylum
seekers in the Western Hemisphere, and to
modify certain special immigrant visa pro-
grams, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. SCHATZ (for himself, Mr. BOOK-
ER, and Ms. HARRIS):
S. 2937. A bill to amend the Fair Labor
Standards Act of 1938 to require employers
to allow employees to take meal, medical,
and restroom breaks, and for other purposes;
to the Committee on Health, Education,
Labor, and Pensions.
By Mr. BROWN (for himself, Mr. SCHU-
MER, and Mrs. MURRAY):
S. 2938. A bill to amend the Worker Adjust-
ment and Retraining Notification Act to
support workers who are subject to an em-
ployment loss, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and
Pensions.
By Mr. BURR (for himself and Mr.
WARNER):
S. 2939. A bill to provide an 8-year exten-
sion of certain authorities for foreign intel-
ligence and international terrorism inves-
tigations, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. PORTMAN (for himself and Mr.
BROWN):
S. 2940. A bill to amend the National Avia-
tion Heritage Area Act to reauthorize the
National Aviation Heritage Area; to the
Committee on Energy and Natural Re-
sources.
By Mr. PORTMAN (for himself, Ms.
STABENOW, Mr. WYDEN, Ms. COLLINS,
and Mr. YOUNG):
S. 2941. A bill to require the Administrator
of the Environmental Protection Agency to
establish a consumer recycling education
and outreach grant program, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Environment
and Public Works.
By Mrs. SHAHEEN (for herself, Ms.
MURKOWSKI, and Ms. HASSAN):
S. 2942. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to provide that certain con-
tributions by government entities are treat-
ed as contributions to capital; to the Com-
mittee on Finance.
By Mr. BLUMENTHAL (for himself,
Ms. KLOBUCHAR, and Mr. BOOKER):
S. 2943. A bill to amend titles XVIII and
XIX of the Social Security Act to revise min-
imum nurse staffing requirements for skilled
nursing facilities under the Medicare pro-
gram and for nursing facilities under the
Medicaid program, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Finance.
By Ms. MCSALLY (for herself, Mrs.
SHAHEEN, Mrs. BLACKBURN, Ms. HAR-
RIS, Mrs. GILLIBRAND, Ms. SINEMA,
Ms. WARREN, Mrs. CAPITO, Ms. COL-
LINS, Ms. KLOBUCHAR, and Mrs. HYDE-
SMITH):
S. 2944. A bill to amend title 10, United
States Code, to include digital breast
tomosynthesis as a primary and preventative
health care service under the military health
system and the TRICARE program; to the
Committee on Armed Services.
By Mr. YOUNG (for himself and Mr.
BRAUN):
S. 2945. A bill to designate the facility of
the United States Postal Service located at
171 South Maple Street in Dana, Indiana, as
the Ernest ‘‘Ernie’’ T. Pyle Post Office; to
the Committee on Homeland Security and
Governmental Affairs.
By Ms. HIRONO (for herself, Mrs.
GILLIBRAND, and Mr. BOOKER):
S. 2946. A bill to provide direct appropria-
tions for certain housing programs, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Bank-
ing, Housing, and Urban Affairs.
By Mr. BLUMENTHAL (for himself,
Mrs. FISCHER, and Mr. MARKEY):
S. 2947. A bill to require the Secretary of
Transportation to finalize a rule to protect
consumers from the risks of carbon mon-
oxide poisoning from keyless ignition motor
vehicles, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Commerce, Science, and Transpor-
tation.
By Mr. TILLIS (for himself, Ms.
SINEMA, Mrs. FISCHER, and Mrs. FEIN-
STEIN):
S. 2948. A bill to direct the Secretary of
Veterans Affairs to carry out a pilot pro-
gram for work therapy using service dog
training; to the Committee on Veterans’ Af-
fairs.
By Mrs. FISCHER (for herself, Mr.
BOOKER, Mr. TILLIS, Ms. MCSALLY,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:45 Nov 22, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00031 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A21NO6.008 S21NOPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6756 November 21, 2019
Mr. BROWN, Mr. CORNYN, Mr. MENEN-
DEZ, Ms. WARREN, and Mr. RUBIO):
S. 2949. A bill to direct the Secretary of
Veterans Affairs to make grants to eligible
organizations to provide service dogs to vet-
erans with severe post-traumatic stress dis-
order, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Veterans’ Affairs.
By Mr. SULLIVAN (for himself and Mr.
MANCHIN):
S. 2950. A bill to amend title 38, United
States Code, to concede exposure to airborne
hazards and toxins from burn pits under cer-
tain circumstances, and for other purposes;
to the Committee on Veterans’ Affairs.
By Mr. SCHUMER (for Ms. HARRIS
(for herself, Mr. DURBIN, and Ms.
DUCKWORTH)):
S. 2951. A bill to facilitate the development
of affordable housing, and for other purposes;
to the Committee on Banking, Housing, and
Urban Affairs.
By Mr. BROWN (for himself, Mr.
PORTMAN, Mr. SCHUMER, Mrs. GILLI-
BRAND, Mr. CASEY, Mr. MARKEY, and
Mr. BLUMENTHAL):
S. 2952. A bill to reauthorize certain Na-
tional Heritage Areas, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Energy and Nat-
ural Resources.
By Mr. MENENDEZ (for himself and
Mr. YOUNG):
S. 2953. A bill to provide congressional
oversight of United States talks with
Taliban officials and Afghanistan’s com-
prehensive peace process; to the Committee
on Foreign Relations.
By Mrs. SHAHEEN (for herself and Mr.
BOOKER):
S. 2954. A bill to establish a pilot toll cred-
it marketplace program, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Environment and
Public Works.
By Mr. MARKEY:
S. 2955. A bill to authorize the imposition
of sanctions with respect to significant ac-
tions that exacerbate climate change, to re-
inforce comprehensive efforts to limit global
average temperature rise, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Banking, Hous-
ing, and Urban Affairs.
By Mr. SCHATZ (for himself, Mr. MAR-
KEY, and Ms. CANTWELL):
S. 2956. A bill to amend the Communica-
tions Act of 1934 to direct the Federal Com-
munications Commission to conduct a public
auction of the C-band, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation.
By Mr. BLUMENTHAL (for himself,
Mr. SCHUMER, and Mr. UDALL):
S. 2957. A bill to prohibit the circumven-
tion of control measures used by Internet re-
tailers to ensure equitable consumer access
to products, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation.
By Mrs. GILLIBRAND:
S. 2958. A bill to provide the Food and Drug
Administration with authority to conduct
microbial sampling on concentrated animal
feeding operations as necessary to facilitate
a foodborne illness outbreak investigation,
determine the root cause of an outbreak of
foodborne illness, or address other public
health needs; to the Committee on Health,
Education, Labor, and Pensions.
f
SUBMISSION OF CONCURRENT AND
SENATE RESOLUTIONS
The following concurrent resolutions
and Senate resolutions were read, and
referred (or acted upon), as indicated:
By Mr. BROWN (for himself and Mr.
ISAKSON):
S. Res. 436. A resolution supporting the
goals, activities, and ideals of Prematurity
Awareness Month; to the Committee on
Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
By Mr. YOUNG (for himself, Mr.
CARDIN, and Mr. BRAUN):
S. Res. 437. A resolution expressing support
for the goals of Stomach Cancer Awareness
Month; considered and agreed to.
By Mr. BLUNT (for himself, Ms. KLO-
BUCHAR, Mrs. HYDE-SMITH, Mr.
GRASSLEY, Mr. BARRASSO, Mr. SUL-
LIVAN, Mr. LANKFORD, Mr. HAWLEY,
Mr. CRAMER, Mrs. BLACKBURN, Mr.
DAINES, Ms. COLLINS, Mr. ALEXANDER,
Mr. BRAUN, Mr. ROBERTS, Ms. BALD-
WIN, Mr. BOOKER, Mr. CASEY, Mr.
COONS, Ms. DUCKWORTH, Mrs. FEIN-
STEIN, Ms. HASSAN, Mr. JONES, Mr.
KING, Mr. MANCHIN, Mr. MARKEY, Mr.
PETERS, Ms. ROSEN, Ms. SMITH, Mr.
VAN HOLLEN, Ms. WARREN, Mr.
WYDEN, Mrs. FISCHER, Mr. SCOTT of
South Carolina, Mrs. MURRAY, Mr.
ROUNDS, and Mr. INHOFE):
S. Res. 438. A resolution expressing support
for the goals of National Adoption Month
and National Adoption Day by promoting na-
tional awareness of adoption and the chil-
dren waiting for adoption, celebrating chil-
dren and families involved in adoption, and
encouraging the people of the United States
to secure safety, permanency, and well-being
for all children; considered and agreed to.
By Mr. ISAKSON (for himself, Mr.
COONS, Mr. BURR, Mrs. CAPITO, Mr.
BOOZMAN, Mr. ALEXANDER, Mr.
WICKER, Mr. PERDUE, Mr. CARPER,
and Mr. WYDEN):
S. Res. 439. A resolution designating De-
cember 1, 2019, as ‘‘Drive Safer Sunday’’; con-
sidered and agreed to.
By Ms. COLLINS (for herself, Mr. KING,
and Ms. WARREN):
S. Res. 440. A resolution designating De-
cember 14, 2019, as ‘‘Wreaths Across America
Day’’; considered and agreed to.
By Mr. CORNYN (for himself, Ms. WAR-
REN, Mr. CASSIDY, Mr. MARKEY, Mr.
RUBIO, Mr. WARNER, Mr. ROBERTS,
Mr. BLUMENTHAL, Mrs. CAPITO, Ms.
DUCKWORTH, Mr. MORAN, Mr. JONES,
Mr. GARDNER, Mrs. SHAHEEN, Mr.
ISAKSON, Ms. HARRIS, Mr. SCOTT of
Florida, Mr. CRUZ, Mr. BROWN, Ms.
SINEMA, and Ms. CANTWELL):
S. Res. 441. A resolution celebrating the
50th anniversary of the Apollo 12 Moon land-
ing; considered and agreed to.
By Ms. DUCKWORTH (for herself, Mr.
DURBIN, Mr. SULLIVAN, Mrs. FEIN-
STEIN, Mr. SCOTT of South Carolina,
Ms. CANTWELL, Ms. MURKOWSKI, and
Mrs. MURRAY):
S. Res. 442. A resolution designating No-
vember 2019 as ‘‘National Runaway Preven-
tion Month’’; to the Committee on the Judi-
ciary.
By Mr. RUBIO (for himself, Mr.
CARDIN, Mr. PORTMAN, Ms. CANTWELL,
Mr. RISCH, Mrs. SHAHEEN, Mr. TILLIS,
Mr. BOOKER, Mr. BRAUN, Ms. HIRONO,
Mr. ALEXANDER, Ms. DUCKWORTH, Mr.
ISAKSON, Ms. ROSEN, Mr. ENZI, Mrs.
FEINSTEIN, Mr. ROBERTS, Mr. WYDEN,
Mr. HOEVEN, Mr. CARPER, Mr. BAR-
RASSO, Mr. MENENDEZ, Mr. YOUNG,
Ms. KLOBUCHAR, Mr. THUNE, Mr.
TESTER, Mr. SCOTT of South Carolina,
Mr. WHITEHOUSE, Mrs. BLACKBURN,
Mr. UDALL, Mr. ROUNDS, Mr. KING,
Mr. BOOZMAN, Mr. PETERS, Ms.
ERNST, Ms. HARRIS, Mr. KENNEDY,
Ms. HASSAN, Mr. PERDUE, Mr. DAINES,
and Mr. BLUMENTHAL):
S. Res. 443. A resolution recognizing and
celebrating on November 30, 2019, the vital
role of small businesses and the efforts of the
Small Business Administration to help peo-
ple in the United States start, build, and
grow businesses; to the Committee on Small
Business and Entrepreneurship.
By Mr. KENNEDY:
S. Res. 444. A resolution condemning the
VH1 television show Cartel Crew; to the
Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation.
f
ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS
S. 193
At the request of Mr. BLUMENTHAL,
the name of the Senator from Pennsyl-
vania (Mr. CASEY) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 193, a bill to amend chap-
ter 44 of title 18, United States Code, to
require the safe storage of firearms,
and for other purposes.
S. 430
At the request of Mr. CRAPO, the
name of the Senator from Nevada (Ms.
CORTEZ MASTO) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 430, a bill to extend the Secure
Rural Schools and Community Self-De-
termination Act of 2000.
S. 445
At the request of Mr. SCHATZ, the
name of the Senator from Nevada (Ms.
ROSEN) was added as a cosponsor of S.
445, a bill to allow veterans to use, pos-
sess, or transport medical marijuana
and to discuss the use of medical mari-
juana with a physician of the Depart-
ment of Veterans Affairs as authorized
by a State or Indian Tribe, and for
other purposes.
S. 505
At the request of Ms. DUCKWORTH,
the names of the Senator from Oregon
(Mr. WYDEN) and the Senator from
Vermont (Mr. LEAHY) were added as co-
sponsors of S. 505, a bill to ensure due
process protections of individuals in
the United States against unlawful de-
tention based solely on a protected
characteristic.
S. 514
At the request of Mr. TESTER, the
name of the Senator from Nevada (Ms.
ROSEN) was added as a cosponsor of S.
514, a bill to amend title 38, United
States Code, to improve the benefits
and services provided by the Depart-
ment of Veterans Affairs to women vet-
erans, and for other purposes.
S. 634
At the request of Mr. CRUZ, the name
of the Senator from North Carolina
(Mr. BURR) was added as a cosponsor of
S. 634, a bill to amend the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986 to establish tax
credits to encourage individual and
corporate taxpayers to contribute to
scholarships for students through eligi-
ble scholarship-granting organizations
and eligible workforce training organi-
zations, and for other purposes.
S. 639
At the request of Mr. COTTON, the
name of the Senator from Tennessee
(Mrs. BLACKBURN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 639, a bill to require the
Secretary of the Treasury to mint
coins in commemoration of the centen-
nial of the establishment of the Tomb
of the Unknown Soldier.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:45 Nov 22, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00032 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A21NO6.011 S21NOPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6757
November 21, 2019
S. 702
At the request of Mr. KING, the name
of the Senator from Arizona (Ms.
SINEMA) was added as a cosponsor of S.
702, a bill to amend the Older Ameri-
cans Act of 1965 to establish an initia-
tive, carried out by the Assistant Sec-
retary for Aging, to coordinate Federal
efforts and programs for home modi-
fications enabling older individuals and
individuals with disabilities to live
independently and safely in a home en-
vironment, and for other purposes.
S. 727
At the request of Mr. COONS, the
name of the Senator from Hawaii (Ms.
HIRONO) was added as a cosponsor of S.
727, a bill to combat international ex-
tremism by addressing global fragility
and violence and stabilizing conflict-af-
fected areas, and for other purposes.
S. 743
At the request of Mr. ISAKSON, the
names of the Senator from Colorado
(Mr. GARDNER) and the Senator from Il-
linois (Mr. DURBIN) were added as co-
sponsors of S. 743, a bill to award a
Congressional Gold Medal to the sol-
diers of the 5307th Composite Unit
(Provisional), commonly known as
‘‘Merrill’s Marauders’’, in recognition
of their bravery and outstanding serv-
ice in the jungles of Burma during
World War II.
S. 785
At the request of Mr. TESTER, the
name of the Senator from Alabama
(Mr. JONES) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 785, a bill to improve mental
health care provided by the Depart-
ment of Veterans Affairs, and for other
purposes.
S. 866
At the request of Mr. VAN HOLLEN,
the name of the Senator from Rhode Is-
land (Mr. REED) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 866, a bill to amend part B of
the Individuals with Disabilities Edu-
cation Act to provide full Federal fund-
ing of such part.
S. 962
At the request of Mr. BLUMENTHAL,
his name was added as a cosponsor of
S. 962, a bill to provide funding for fed-
erally qualified health centers and the
National Health Service Corps.
S. 976
At the request of Mrs. GILLIBRAND,
the name of the Senator from Rhode Is-
land (Mr. WHITEHOUSE) was added as a
cosponsor of S. 976, a bill to amend the
Higher Education Act of 1965 and the
Jeanne Clery Disclosure of Campus Se-
curity Policy and Campus Crime Sta-
tistics Act to combat campus sexual
assault, and for other purposes.
S. 1037
At the request of Mr. BARRASSO, the
name of the Senator from Hawaii (Ms.
HIRONO) was added as a cosponsor of S.
1037, a bill to amend title XVIII of the
Social Security Act to modernize pro-
visions relating to rural health clinics
under Medicare.
S. 1130
At the request of Mr. CASEY, the
name of the Senator from Maryland
(Mr. VAN HOLLEN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 1130, a bill to amend the
Public Health Service Act to improve
the health of children and help better
understand and enhance awareness
about unexpected sudden death in early
life.
S. 1186
At the request of Mr. CARDIN, the
name of the Senator from Hawaii (Ms.
HIRONO) was added as a cosponsor of S.
1186, a bill to promote democracy and
human rights in Burma, and for other
purposes.
S. 1203
At the request of Mrs. GILLIBRAND,
the name of the Senator from Rhode Is-
land (Mr. REED) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 1203, a bill to amend the High-
er Education Act of 1965 in order to im-
prove the public service loan forgive-
ness program, and for other purposes.
S. 1253
At the request of Mrs. FEINSTEIN, the
name of the Senator from Mississippi
(Mrs. HYDE-SMITH) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 1253, a bill to apply re-
quirements relating to delivery sales of
cigarettes to delivery sales of elec-
tronic nicotine delivery systems, and
for other purposes.
S. 1416
At the request of Mr. CORNYN, the
name of the Senator from Pennsyl-
vania (Mr. TOOMEY) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 1416, a bill to amend the
Federal Trade Commission Act to pro-
hibit anticompetitive behaviors by
drug product manufacturers, and for
other purposes.
S. 1443
At the request of Ms. ERNST, the
name of the Senator from Arizona (Ms.
SINEMA) was added as a cosponsor of S.
1443, a bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to provide a non-
refundable credit for working family
caregivers.
S. 1590
At the request of Mr. MERKLEY, the
names of the Senator from Massachu-
setts (Ms. WARREN) and the Senator
from New Mexico (Mr. HEINRICH) were
added as cosponsors of S. 1590, a bill to
amend the State Department Basic Au-
thorities Act of 1956 to authorize re-
wards for thwarting wildlife trafficking
linked to transnational organized
crime, and for other purposes.
S. 1622
At the request of Mr. JOHNSON, the
name of the Senator from Kentucky
(Mr. MCCONNELL) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 1622, a bill to amend the
Controlled Substances Act to list
fentanyl-related substances as schedule
I controlled substances.
S. 1657
At the request of Ms. COLLINS, the
name of the Senator from New Jersey
(Mr. MENENDEZ) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 1657, a bill to provide assist-
ance to combat the escalating burden
of Lyme disease and other tick and
vector-borne diseases and disorders.
S. 1714
At the request of Mr. BLUMENTHAL,
the name of the Senator from Ten-
nessee (Mrs. BLACKBURN) was added as
a cosponsor of S. 1714, a bill to amend
the charter of the Gold Star Wives of
America to remove the restriction on
the federally chartered corporation,
and directors and officers of the cor-
poration, attempting to influence leg-
islation.
S. 1820
At the request of Mrs. GILLIBRAND,
the name of the Senator from Illinois
(Mr. DURBIN) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 1820, a bill to improve the integ-
rity and safety of horseracing by re-
quiring a uniform anti-doping and
medication control program to be de-
veloped and enforced by an independent
Horseracing Anti-Doping and Medica-
tion Control Authority.
S. 1908
At the request of Mrs. GILLIBRAND,
the name of the Senator from Rhode Is-
land (Mr. REED) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 1908, a bill to amend the Rich-
ard B. Russell National School Lunch
Act to improve the efficiency of sum-
mer meals.
S. 1921
At the request of Ms. ROSEN, the
names of the Senator from New Hamp-
shire (Mrs. SHAHEEN) and the Senator
from Minnesota (Ms. SMITH) were added
as cosponsors of S. 1921, a bill to pro-
vide that primary care services pro-
vided by the National Health Service
Corps may include palliative care serv-
ices.
S. 1992
At the request of Mr. BARRASSO, the
names of the Senator from Idaho (Mr.
RISCH), the Senator from Vermont (Mr.
LEAHY) and the Senator from Missouri
(Mr. HAWLEY) were added as cosponsors
of S. 1992, a bill to amend the FAST
Act to repeal a rescission of funds.
S. 2103
At the request of Mr. DURBIN, the
name of the Senator from Arizona (Ms.
SINEMA) was added as a cosponsor of S.
2103, a bill to improve access to afford-
able insulin.
S. 2158
At the request of Ms. HASSAN, the
name of the Senator from Mississippi
(Mr. WICKER) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 2158, a bill to improve certain pro-
grams of the Department of Health and
Human Services with respect to heri-
table disorders.
S. 2160
At the request of Mr. SCOTT of South
Carolina, the names of the Senator
from Indiana (Mr. YOUNG), the Senator
from New Jersey (Mr. BOOKER), the
Senator from Florida (Mr. RUBIO) and
the Senator from Michigan (Mr.
PETERS) were added as cosponsors of S.
2160, a bill to require carbon monoxide
alarms in certain federally assisted
housing, and for other purposes.
S. 2293
At the request of Mr. CRAMER, the
name of the Senator from Nevada (Ms.
CORTEZ MASTO) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 2293, a bill to extend the au-
thority of the Export-Import Bank of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:45 Nov 22, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00033 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A21NO6.014 S21NOPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6758 November 21, 2019
the United States and to modify the
quorum requirement of the Bank, and
for other purposes.
S. 2346
At the request of Mr. WICKER, the
name of the Senator from Alaska (Ms.
MURKOWSKI) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 2346, a bill to improve the Fishery
Resource Disaster Relief program of
the National Marine Fisheries Service,
and for other purposes.
S. 2383
At the request of Ms. CORTEZ MASTO,
the name of the Senator from Wis-
consin (Ms. BALDWIN) was added as a
cosponsor of S. 2383, a bill to establish
minimum standards of disclosure by
franchises whose franchisees use loans
guaranteed by the Small Business Ad-
ministration.
S. 2427
At the request of Ms. CORTEZ MASTO,
the name of the Senator from Wis-
consin (Ms. BALDWIN) was added as a
cosponsor of S. 2427, a bill to amend
title 31, United States Code, to require
the Secretary of the Treasury to mint
and issue quarter dollars in commemo-
ration of the 19th Amendment to the
Constitution of the United States, and
for other purposes.
S. 2446
At the request of Mr. KING, his name
was added as a cosponsor of S. 2446, a
bill to provide certain coverage of audi-
ologist services under the Medicare
program, and for other purposes.
S. 2469
At the request of Mr. UDALL, the
name of the Senator from Maine (Mr.
KING) was added as a cosponsor of S.
2469, a bill to amend title 49, United
States Code, to require the use of ad-
vanced leak detection technology for
pipelines, and for other purposes.
S. 2552
At the request of Mr. BROWN, the
name of the Senator from Michigan
(Mr. PETERS) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 2552, a bill to amend title XVIII of
the Social Security Act to provide an
option for first responders age 50 to 64
who are separated from service due to
retirement or disability to buy into
Medicare.
S. 2570
At the request of Ms. SINEMA, the
names of the Senator from Connecticut
(Mr. BLUMENTHAL), the Senator from
Ohio (Mr. PORTMAN), the Senator from
Indiana (Mr. YOUNG), the Senator from
Maryland (Mr. CARDIN) and the Senator
from Nevada (Ms. ROSEN) were added as
cosponsors of S. 2570, a bill to award a
Congressional Gold Medal to Greg
LeMond in recognition of his service to
the United States as an athlete, activ-
ist, role model, and community leader.
S. 2680
At the request of Mr. RUBIO, the
names of the Senator from North Da-
kota (Mr. CRAMER) and the Senator
from Nevada (Ms. ROSEN) were added as
cosponsors of S. 2680, a bill to impose
sanctions with respect to foreign sup-
port for Palestinian terrorism, and for
other purposes.
S. 2695
At the request of Mr. SHELBY, his
name was added as a cosponsor of S.
2695, a bill to authorize the Secretary
of Agriculture to provide for the de-
fense of United States agriculture and
food through the National Bio and
Agro-Defense Facility, and for other
purposes.
At the request of Mr. ROBERTS, the
names of the Senator from Nebraska
(Mrs. FISCHER), the Senator from Indi-
ana (Mr. BRAUN), the Senator from
Kentucky (Mr. MCCONNELL), the Sen-
ator from North Dakota (Mr. HOEVEN),
the Senator from Vermont (Mr.
LEAHY), the Senator from Montana
(Mr. TESTER) and the Senator from
Idaho (Mr. CRAPO) were added as co-
sponsors of S. 2695, supra.
S. 2713
At the request of Mr. PAUL, the name
of the Senator from Iowa (Ms. ERNST)
was added as a cosponsor of S. 2713, a
bill to amend the Internal Revenue
Code of 1986 to repeal the excise tax on
indoor tanning services.
S. 2714
At the request of Mr. VAN HOLLEN,
the names of the Senator from Colo-
rado (Mr. GARDNER) and the Senator
from New Mexico (Mr. HEINRICH) were
added as cosponsors of S. 2714, a bill to
amend the America COMPETES Act to
reauthorize the ARPA–E program, and
for other purposes.
S. 2741
At the request of Mr. SCHATZ, the
names of the Senator from Delaware
(Mr. COONS) and the Senator from
Maine (Ms. COLLINS) were added as co-
sponsors of S. 2741, a bill to amend title
XVIII of the Social Security Act to ex-
pand access to telehealth services, and
for other purposes.
S. 2754
At the request of Mr. KENNEDY, the
names of the Senator from Iowa (Ms.
ERNST), the Senator from Maine (Mr.
KING), the Senator from Alaska (Ms.
MURKOWSKI) and the Senator from New
Mexico (Mr. HEINRICH) were added as
cosponsors of S. 2754, a bill to create
jobs and drive innovation and economic
growth in the United States by sup-
porting and promoting the manufac-
ture of next-generation technologies,
including refrigerants, solvents, fire
suppressants, foam blowing agents,
aerosols, and propellants.
S. 2793
At the request of Mr. KING, the name
of the Senator from Delaware (Mr.
CARPER) was added as a cosponsor of S.
2793, a bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to require coverage
without a deductible of certain pri-
mary care services by high deductible
health plans.
S. 2801
At the request of Mr. REED, the name
of the Senator from Nevada (Ms. COR-
TEZ MASTO) was added as a cosponsor of
S. 2801, a bill to strengthen the United
States Interagency Council on Home-
lessness.
S. 2833
At the request of Mr. MERKLEY, the
name of the Senator from Nevada (Ms.
CORTEZ MASTO) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 2833, a bill to amend the Truth
in Lending Act to extend the consumer
credit protections provided to members
of the Armed Forces and their depend-
ents under title 10, United States Code,
to all consumers.
S. 2862
At the request of Ms. SINEMA, the
name of the Senator from Arizona (Ms.
MCSALLY) was added as a cosponsor of
S. 2862, a bill to direct the Secretary of
Agriculture to establish a grant pro-
gram to remove nonnative plant spe-
cies that contribute to drought condi-
tions, and for other purposes.
S. 2869
At the request of Mr. INHOFE, the
name of the Senator from Wyoming
(Mr. ENZI) was added as a cosponsor of
S. 2869, a bill to amend the Immigra-
tion and Nationality Act to provide for
extensions of detention of certain
aliens ordered removed, and for other
purposes.
S. 2898
At the request of Mr. INHOFE, the
names of the Senator from Idaho (Mr.
RISCH) and the Senator from Mis-
sissippi (Mr. WICKER) were added as co-
sponsors of S. 2898, a bill to amend title
5, United States Code, to provide for a
full annuity supplement for certain air
traffic controllers.
S.J. RES. 6
At the request of Mr. CARDIN, the
names of the Senator from Oregon (Mr.
MERKLEY), the Senator from New Mex-
ico (Mr. UDALL), the Senator from
Maryland (Mr. VAN HOLLEN), the Sen-
ator from New Hampshire (Mrs. SHA-
HEEN), the Senator from Rhode Island
(Mr. REED), the Senator from New
York (Mrs. GILLIBRAND), the Senator
from Illinois (Mr. DURBIN), the Senator
from Massachusetts (Mr. MARKEY), the
Senator from Michigan (Ms. STABE-
NOW), the Senator from California (Mrs.
FEINSTEIN), the Senator from Arizona
(Ms. SINEMA), the Senator from Oregon
(Mr. WYDEN), the Senator from Con-
necticut (Mr. BLUMENTHAL) and the
Senator from New York (Mr. SCHUMER)
were added as cosponsors of S.J. Res. 6,
a joint resolution removing the dead-
line for the ratification of the equal
rights amendment.
S. CON. RES. 9
At the request of Mr. ROBERTS, the
name of the Senator from Iowa (Ms.
ERNST) was added as a cosponsor of S.
Con. Res. 9, a concurrent resolution ex-
pressing the sense of Congress that tax-
exempt fraternal benefit societies have
historically provided and continue to
provide critical benefits to the people
and communities of the United States.
S. CON. RES. 22
At the request of Mr. HEINRICH, his
name was added as a cosponsor of S.
Con. Res. 22, a concurrent resolution
expressing the sense of Congress that
there is a climate emergency which de-
mands a massive-scale mobilization to
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:45 Nov 22, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00034 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A21NO6.016 S21NOPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6759
November 21, 2019
halt, reverse, and address its con-
sequences and causes.
S. RES. 150
At the request of Mr. CRUZ, the name
of the Senator from Ohio (Mr.
PORTMAN) was added as a cosponsor of
S. Res. 150, a resolution expressing the
sense of the Senate that it is the policy
of the United States to commemorate
the Armenian Genocide through offi-
cial recognition and remembrance.
S. RES. 292
At the request of Mr. CARDIN, the
name of the Senator from Virginia (Mr.
WARNER) was added as a cosponsor of S.
Res. 292, a resolution calling on the
Government of Cameroon and armed
separatist groups to respect the human
rights of all Cameroonian citizens, to
end all violence, and to pursue an in-
clusive dialogue to resolve the conflict
in the Northwest and Southwest re-
gions.
S. RES. 343
At the request of Mrs. SHAHEEN, the
name of the Senator from Wyoming
(Mr. BARRASSO) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. Res. 343, a resolution con-
gratulating the people of the Czech Re-
public and the people of the Slovak Re-
public on the 30th anniversary of the
Velvet Revolution, the 26th anniver-
sary of the formation of the Czech Re-
public and the Slovak Republic, and
the 101st anniversary of the declaration
of independence of Czechoslovakia.
S. RES. 404
At the request of Mr. CARDIN, the
name of the Senator from Maine (Mr.
KING) was added as a cosponsor of S.
Res. 404, a resolution expressing the
sense of the Senate that the United
States should work in cooperation with
the international community and con-
tinue to exercise global leadership to
address the causes and effects of cli-
mate change, and for other purposes.
S. RES. 435
At the request of Mr. RISCH, the
names of the Senator from Delaware
(Mr. COONS), the Senator from Massa-
chusetts (Mr. MARKEY), the Senator
from Colorado (Mr. GARDNER), the Sen-
ator from Ohio (Mr. PORTMAN) and the
Senator from Oregon (Mr. MERKLEY)
were added as cosponsors of S. Res. 435,
a resolution reaffirming the impor-
tance of the General Security of Mili-
tary Information Agreement between
the Republic of Korea and Japan, and
for other purposes.
AMENDMENT NO. 1249
At the request of Mr. MANCHIN, the
name of the Senator from Ohio (Mr.
PORTMAN) was added as a cosponsor of
amendment No. 1249 intended to be pro-
posed to H.R. 3055, a bill making appro-
priations for the Departments of Com-
merce and Justice, Science, and Re-
lated Agencies for the fiscal year end-
ing September 30, 2020, and for other
purposes.
SUBMITTED RESOLUTIONS
SENATE RESOLUTION 436—SUP-
PORTING THE GOALS, ACTIVI-
TIES, AND IDEALS OF PRE-
MATURITY AWARENESS MONTH
Mr. BROWN (for himself and Mr.
ISAKSON) submitted the following reso-
lution; which was referred to the Com-
mittee on Health, Education, Labor,
and Pensions:
S. RES. 436
Whereas, according to the World Health
Organization, complications of preterm birth
are now the leading cause of death among
children under 5 years of age worldwide;
Whereas approximately 1,000,000 children
die each year due to complications of
preterm birth;
Whereas preterm birth is a global problem
that exacts a toll on families from all parts
of society in every country;
Whereas many complications of preterm
birth may have lifelong consequences for the
health, growth, and development of infants;
Whereas up to 75 percent of deaths result-
ing from preterm birth worldwide can be pre-
vented through proven cost-effective strate-
gies to promote full-term births and improve
the care of preterm infants;
Whereas countries can improve maternal
health and the survival rate of babies born
prematurely by making strategic invest-
ments in health care systems to ensure ac-
cess to high-quality pre-pregnancy care, pre-
natal care, childbirth services, emergency
obstetric care, postnatal care, and com-
prehensive care for affected newborns;
Whereas the preterm birth rate in the
United States has worsened for four consecu-
tive years, rising from 9.63 percent in 2015 to
10.02 percent in 2018;
Whereas there are significant racial and
ethnic disparities in preterm birth rates
among many communities in the United
States;
Whereas there are disparities in preterm
birth rates globally, with lower-income fami-
lies at the highest risk of having a child
preterm;
Whereas many preterm births can be pre-
vented through evidence-based public health
programs focused on reducing risk factors
such as tobacco use, closely spaced preg-
nancies, and early elective deliveries; and
Whereas, in the United States and around
the world, November is recognized as Pre-
maturity Awareness Month: Now, therefore,
be it
Resolved, That the Senate—
(1) supports the recognition of Prematurity
Awareness Month;
(2) honors individuals working domesti-
cally and internationally to reduce preterm
births; and
(3) supports efforts at home and abroad
to—
(A) reduce the impact of preterm births by
improving maternal health during and after
pregnancy;
(B) advance the care and treatment of in-
fants born preterm; and
(C) promote evidence-based strategies to—
(i) prevent preterm birth and promote full-
term births; and
(ii) improve outcomes for infants born
preterm.
SENATE RESOLUTION 437—EX-
PRESSING SUPPORT FOR THE
GOALS OF STOMACH CANCER
AWARENESS MONTH
Mr. YOUNG (for himself, Mr. CARDIN,
and Mr. BRAUN) submitted the fol-
lowing resolution; which was consid-
ered and agreed to:
S. RES. 437
Whereas stomach cancer, also known as
gastric cancer, is one of the most difficult
cancers to detect in the early stages of the
disease, which contributes to high mortality
rates;
Whereas stomach cancer occurs when can-
cer cells develop in the lining of the stom-
ach;
Whereas stomach cancer is the fifth most
common type of cancer worldwide;
Whereas, in 2019—
(1) an estimated 27,510 cases of stomach
cancer will be diagnosed in the United
States; and
(2) an estimated 11,140 people in the United
States will die from stomach cancer;
Whereas the estimated 5-year survival rate
for stomach cancer is only 31.5 percent;
Whereas, in the United States, stomach
cancer is more prevalent among racial and
ethnic minorities;
Whereas increased awareness of, and edu-
cation about, stomach cancer among pa-
tients and health care providers could im-
prove timely recognition of stomach cancer
symptoms;
Whereas more research into early diag-
nosis, screening, and treatment for stomach
cancer is needed; and
Whereas November 2019 is an appropriate
month to observe Stomach Cancer Aware-
ness Month: Now, therefore, be it
Resolved, That the Senate—
(1) supports the goals of Stomach Cancer
Awareness Month;
(2) supports efforts to increase awareness
of, and education about, stomach cancer
among the general public of the United
States;
(3) recognizes the need for additional re-
search into early diagnosis, screening, and
treatment for stomach cancer; and
(4) encourages States, territories, and lo-
calities of the United States to support the
goals of Stomach Cancer Awareness Month.
f
SENATE RESOLUTION 438—EX-
PRESSING SUPPORT FOR THE
GOALS OF NATIONAL ADOPTION
MONTH AND NATIONAL ADOP-
TION DAY BY PROMOTING NA-
TIONAL AWARENESS OF ADOP-
TION AND THE CHILDREN WAIT-
ING FOR ADOPTION, CELE-
BRATING CHILDREN AND FAMI-
LIES INVOLVED IN ADOPTION,
AND ENCOURAGING THE PEOPLE
OF THE UNITED STATES TO SE-
CURE SAFETY, PERMANENCY,
AND WELL-BEING FOR ALL CHIL-
DREN
Mr. BLUNT (for himself, Ms. KLO-
BUCHAR, Mrs. HYDE-SMITH, Mr. GRASS-
LEY, Mr. BARRASSO, Mr. SULLIVAN, Mr.
LANKFORD, Mr. HAWLEY, Mr. CRAMER,
Mrs. BLACKBURN, Mr. DAINES, Ms. COL-
LINS, Mr. ALEXANDER, Mr. BRAUN, Mr.
ROBERTS, Ms. BALDWIN, Mr. BOOKER,
Mr. CASEY, Mr. COONS, Ms. DUCKWORTH,
Mrs. FEINSTEIN, Ms. HASSAN, Mr.
JONES, Mr. KING, Mr. MANCHIN, Mr.
MARKEY, Mr. PETERS, Ms. ROSEN, Ms.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:45 Nov 22, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00035 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A21NO6.018 S21NOPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6760 November 21, 2019
SMITH, Mr. VAN HOLLEN, Ms. WARREN,
Mr. WYDEN, Mrs. FISCHER, Mr. SCOTT of
South Carolina, Mrs. MURRAY, Mr.
ROUNDS, and Mr. INHOFE) submitted the
following resolution; which was consid-
ered and agreed to:
S. RES. 438
Whereas there are far too many
unparented children in the United States;
Whereas the Adoption and Foster Care
Analysis and Reporting System Report on
fiscal year 2018 foster care and adoption pop-
ulation characteristics (referred to in this
preamble as the ‘‘AFCARS report’’) indicates
that there are approximately 437,300 children
in the foster care system in the United
States, approximately 125,400 of whom are
waiting for adoption;
Whereas the AFCARS report indicates
that—
(1) 65 percent of the children in foster care
in the United States are 10 years of age or
younger;
(2) the average length of time a child
spends in foster care is approximately 20
months;
(3) in fiscal year 2018, approximately 17,800
youth ‘‘aged out’’ of foster care by reaching
adulthood without being placed in a perma-
nent home; and
(4) in fiscal year 2018, the number of chil-
dren who—
(A) achieved permanency through adop-
tion increased for the fourth year in a row;
and
(B) entered foster care decreased for the
second year in a row;
Whereas, still, for many foster children,
the wait for a loving family in which they
are nurtured, comforted, and protected
seems endless;
Whereas a survey conducted in 2017 (re-
ferred to in this preamble as the ‘‘2017 sur-
vey’’) showed that a quarter of respondents
who had not adopted had considered adop-
tion;
Whereas the 2017 survey showed that 46
percent of respondents either somewhat or
strongly agreed that children enter the fos-
ter care system because of juvenile delin-
quency, despite the AFCARS report reveal-
ing that neglect was associated with 62 per-
cent of cases involving the removal of a
child, or approximately 163,500 cases;
Whereas the 2017 survey showed that—
(1) 39 percent of respondents believed foster
care adoption is expensive; and
(2) a majority of respondents considering
foster care adoption indicated that receiving
financial and emotional support would make
a difference in their decision to pursue adop-
tion;
Whereas the Children’s Bureau, an office of
the Administration for Children and Fami-
lies within the Department of Health and
Human Services, supports programs, re-
search, and monitoring to help eliminate
barriers to adoption and find permanent fam-
ilies for children;
Whereas, every day, loving and nurturing
families are strengthened and expanded when
committed and dedicated individuals make
an important difference in the life of a child
through adoption;
Whereas the President traditionally issues
an annual proclamation to declare the
month of November as National Adoption
Month;
Whereas National Adoption Day has been
celebrated as a collective national effort to
find permanent and loving families for chil-
dren in the foster care system; and
Whereas the Saturday before Thanksgiving
has been recognized as National Adoption
Day since at least 2000, and, in 2019, the Sat-
urday before Thanksgiving is November 23:
Now, therefore, be it
Resolved, That the Senate—
(1) supports the goals and ideals of Na-
tional Adoption Month and National Adop-
tion Day;
(2) recognizes that every child should have
a permanent and loving family; and
(3) encourages the people of the United
States to consider adoption during the
month of November and throughout the
year.
f
SENATE RESOLUTION 439—DESIG-
NATING DECEMBER 1, 2019, AS
‘‘DRIVE SAFER SUNDAY’’
Mr. ISAKSON (for himself, Mr.
COONS, Mr. BURR, Mrs. CAPITO, Mr.
BOOZMAN, Mr. ALEXANDER, Mr. WICKER,
Mr. PERDUE, Mr. CARPER, and Mr.
WYDEN) submitted the following reso-
lution; which was considered and
agreed to:
S. RES. 439
Whereas motor vehicle travel is the pri-
mary means of transportation in the United
States;
Whereas every individual traveling on
roads and highways should drive in a safe
manner so as to reduce deaths and injuries
that result from motor vehicle crashes;
Whereas, according to the National High-
way Traffic Safety Administration, wearing
a seat belt saves as many as 15,000 lives each
year; and
Whereas the Sunday after Thanksgiving is
the busiest highway traffic day of the year:
Now, therefore, be it
Resolved, That the Senate—
(1) encourages—
(A) high schools, colleges, universities, ad-
ministrators, teachers, primary schools, and
secondary schools to launch campus-wide
educational campaigns to urge students to
focus on safety when driving;
(B) national trucking firms—
(i) to alert employee drivers to be espe-
cially focused on driving safely on the Sun-
day after Thanksgiving; and
(ii) to publicize the importance of driving
safely on the Sunday after Thanksgiving on
the Citizens Band Radio Service and at truck
stops across the United States;
(C) clergies to remind congregations to
travel safely when attending services and
gatherings;
(D) law enforcement personnel to remind
drivers and passengers to drive safely, par-
ticularly on the Sunday after Thanksgiving;
(E) motorists to drive safely during the
holiday season and throughout the rest of
the year; and
(F) the people of the United States—
(i) to understand the life-saving impor-
tance of wearing a seat belt; and
(ii) to educate themselves about highway
safety; and
(2) designates December 1, 2019, as ‘‘Drive
Safer Sunday’’.
f
SENATE RESOLUTION 440—DESIG-
NATING DECEMBER 14, 2019, AS
‘‘WREATHS ACROSS AMERICA
DAY’’
Ms. COLLINS (for herself, Mr. KING,
and Ms. WARREN) submitted the fol-
lowing resolution; which was consid-
ered and agreed to:
S. RES. 440
Whereas, in 1992, the Wreaths Across
America project—
(1) began by establishing an annual tradi-
tion of donating and transporting Maine bal-
sam fir veterans’ wreaths to Arlington Na-
tional Cemetery each December and placing
those wreaths on the graves of fallen heroes
buried there; and
(2) placed 5,000 donated veterans’ wreaths
at Arlington National Cemetery;
Whereas, during the 28-year period pre-
ceding the date of adoption of this resolu-
tion, more than 7,882,300 wreaths were sent
to locations, including national cemeteries
and veterans memorials in every State and
overseas;
Whereas the mission of the Wreaths Across
America project, to ‘‘Remember, Honor,
Teach’’, is carried out in part by coordi-
nating wreath-laying ceremonies in all 50
States and overseas, including at—
(1) Arlington National Cemetery;
(2) veterans cemeteries; and
(3) other memorial locations;
Whereas the Wreaths Across America
project carries out a week-long veterans pa-
rade between the State of Maine and the
Commonwealth of Virginia, stopping along
the way to spread a message about the im-
portance of—
(1) remembering the fallen heroes of the
United States;
(2) honoring those who serve; and
(3) teaching the next generation of children
about—
(A) the service of veterans; and
(B) the sacrifices made by veterans and
the their families to preserve freedoms en-
joyed by the people of the United States;
Whereas, in 2018, approximately 1,800,000
veterans’ wreaths were delivered to 1,644 lo-
cations across the United States and over-
seas, including more than 9,300 wreaths
placed at the Normandy American Cemetery
and Memorial in Colleville-sur-Mer, France,
an increase of more than 200 locations com-
pared to the previous year;
Whereas, in December 2019, the tradition of
escorting tractor-trailers filled with donated
wreaths from Harrington, Maine, to Arling-
ton National Cemetery will be continued
by—
(1) the Patriot Guard Riders; and
(2) other patriotic escort units, including—
(A) motorcycle units;
(B) law enforcement units; and
(C) first responder units;
Whereas hundreds of thousands of individ-
uals volunteer each December to help lay
veterans’ wreaths;
Whereas, in 2019, the trucking industry in
the United States will continue to support
the Wreaths Across America project by pro-
viding drivers, equipment, and related serv-
ices to assist in the transportation of
wreaths across the United States to more
than 1,700 locations;
Whereas the Senate designated December
15, 2018, as ‘‘Wreaths Across America Day’’;
and
Whereas, on December 14, 2019, the Wreaths
Across America project will continue the
proud legacy of bringing veterans’ wreaths
to Arlington National Cemetery: Now, there-
fore, be it
Resolved, That the Senate—
(1) designates December 14, 2019, as
‘‘Wreaths Across America Day’’;
(2) honors—
(A) the Wreaths Across America project;
(B) patriotic escort units, including—
(i) motorcycle units;
(ii) law enforcement units; and
(iii) first responder units;
(C) the trucking industry in the United
States; and
(D) the volunteers and donors involved in
this worthy tradition; and
(3) recognizes—
(A) the service of veterans and members of
the Armed Forces; and
(B) the sacrifices that veterans, their fam-
ily members, and members of the Armed
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:45 Nov 22, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00036 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A21NO6.022 S21NOPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6761
November 21, 2019
Forces have made and continue to make for
the United States, a great nation.
f
SENATE RESOLUTION 441—CELE-
BRATING THE 50TH ANNIVER-
SARY OF THE APOLLO 12 MOON
LANDING
Mr. CORNYN (for himself, Ms. WAR-
REN, Mr. CASSIDY, Mr. MARKEY, Mr.
RUBIO, Mr. WARNER, Mr. ROBERTS, Mr.
BLUMENTHAL, Mrs. CAPITO, Ms.
DUCKWORTH, Mr. MORAN, Mr. JONES,
Mr. GARDNER, Mrs. SHAHEEN, Mr. ISAK-
SON, Ms. HARRIS, Mr. SCOTT of Florida,
Mr. CRUZ, Mr. BROWN, Ms. SINEMA, and
Ms. CANTWELL) submitted the following
resolution; which was considered and
agreed to:
S. RES. 441
Whereas, on May 25, 1961, before a joint
session of Congress, President John F. Ken-
nedy—
(1) declared, ‘‘Now it is time to take longer
strides—time for a great new American en-
terprise—time for this Nation to take a
clearly leading role in space achievement,
which in many ways may hold the key to our
future on Earth.’’; and
(2) with his words, set the goal of sending
astronauts to the Moon and returning them
safely to the Earth;
Whereas the National Aeronautics and
Space Administration (referred to in this
preamble as ‘‘NASA’’) mobilized and estab-
lished the Apollo space program to meet the
goal set by President Kennedy;
Whereas the Apollo space program built on
the achievements of the prior space pro-
grams of NASA, including the Mercury and
Gemini missions;
Whereas the successful Moon landing hon-
ored the tragic sacrifice of every astronaut
whose life had previously been lost in the
service of United States spaceflight research,
including—
(1) Roger B. Chaffee, Virgil ‘‘Gus’’ I.
Grissom, and Edward H. White II, the astro-
nauts who lost their lives during the pre-
flight test for Apollo 1; and
(2) Theodore C. Freeman, Charles A. Bas-
sett II, Elliot See, Jr., Robert H. Lawrence,
Jr., Michael J. Adams, and Clifton C. Wil-
liams, Jr.;
Whereas the crew of the Apollo 12 mission
consisted of—
(1) Charles ‘‘Pete’’ Conrad, Jr., Mission
Commander;
(2) Alan Bean, Lunar Module Pilot; and
(3) Richard F. Gordon, Command Module
Pilot;
Whereas the entire Apollo 12 crew con-
sisted of individuals who had served in the
Navy;
Whereas the official insignia of the mission
was the clipper ship, which increased the use
of the seas by the United States, just as the
Apollo program increased the use of space-
based knowledge and exploration;
Whereas David R. Scott, Alfred M. Worden,
and James B. Irwin stood ready to support or
stand in for the Apollo 12 crew;
Whereas, on November 14, 1969, the Apollo
12 crew launched from the John F. Kennedy
Space Center aboard a Saturn V rocket;
Whereas, on November 19, 1969, the In-
trepid Lunar Module landed on the surface of
the Moon as the second-ever crewed Moon
mission of the United States;
Whereas Apollo 12 carried the second Apol-
lo crew to the moon to build on the work of
the first crew from Apollo 11;
Whereas the crew of Apollo 12 conducted
an orbital maneuver to land in the Western
Hemisphere of the Moon to recover portions
of a previous lander that had been on the
surface of the Moon for 2 years to study the
effects of extended exposure to the surface of
the Moon;
Whereas the crew of Apollo 12 planted the
flag of the United States in lunar soil, and
images of the lunar surface indicate that the
Apollo 12 flag is still standing;
Whereas the Intrepid carried flags from 136
nations, the United Nations, and the 50
States and the territories of the United
States, representing the international co-
ordination and collaboration of space explo-
ration and the scientific intent of the Apollo
missions;
Whereas the Apollo 12 crew collected lunar
samples and conducted experiments to gain a
better understanding of the composition of
the Moon and conditions on its surface;
Whereas Apollo 12 deployed the Apollo
Lunar Surface Experiments Package, a set of
instruments left on the surface of the Moon
to gather data;
Whereas the success of the Apollo 12 Moon
landing was a result of the skill, dedication,
and collective effort of tens of thousands of
workers, scientists, engineers, and contrac-
tors of the United States;
Whereas the Apollo 12 mission further
demonstrated the focus and capability of the
scientific community of the United States
and cemented the United States as the world
leader in space exploration;
Whereas, 50 years later, the Apollo 12 Moon
landing continues to inspire national and
international scientific efforts in space, med-
icine, and other fields; and
Whereas the knowledge and experience
gained from the Apollo space program con-
tinues to inform missions to Mars, the far
reaches of the solar system, and beyond:
Now, therefore, be it
Resolved, That the Senate—
(1) celebrates the 50th anniversary of the
Apollo 12 Moon landing;
(2) honors the bravery and skill of Charles
‘‘Pete’’ Conrad, Jr., Alan Bean, and Richard
F. Gordon, the crew of Apollo 12;
(3) commends the efforts of all of the indi-
viduals of the United States who contributed
to the achievement of the Apollo 12 Moon
landing, exemplifying a cooperative effort on
a national scale that continues to inspire
scientific progress; and
(4) supports the continued leadership of the
United States in the exploration and use of
space through human spaceflight.
f
SENATE RESOLUTION 442—DESIG-
NATING NOVEMBER 2019 AS ‘‘NA-
TIONAL RUNAWAY PREVENTION
MONTH’’
Ms. DUCKWORTH (for herself, Mr.
DURBIN, Mr. SULLIVAN, Mrs. FEINSTEIN,
Mr. SCOTT of South Carolina, Ms. CANT-
WELL, Ms. MURKOWSKI, and Mrs. MUR-
RAY) submitted the following resolu-
tion; which was referred to the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary:
S. RES. 442
Whereas results from the Voices of Youth
Count national survey, as published by
Chapin Hall at the University of Chicago in
‘‘Missed Opportunities: Youth Homelessness
in America’’, indicates that an estimated
4,200,000 youth and young adults between 13
and 24 years of age experienced homelessness
during a 12-month period ending in 2017, in-
cluding—
(1) an estimated 700,000 children between 13
and 17 years of age who experienced unac-
companied homelessness; and
(2) an estimated 3,500,000 young adults be-
tween 18 and 24 years of age;
Whereas the rates of youth experiencing
homelessness are similar in rural and
nonrural areas;
Whereas runaway youth often have been
expelled from their homes by their families,
have experienced abuse and trauma, are in-
volved in the foster care system, are too poor
to secure their own basic needs, and may be
ineligible or unable to access medical or
mental health resources;
Whereas individuals without a high school
degree or general educational development
certificate are nearly 4 times more likely to
report homelessness than their peers, mak-
ing lack of education a leading risk factor
for homelessness;
Whereas youth of color and lesbian, gay,
bisexual, transgender, or queer (LGBTQ)
youth experience higher rates of homeless-
ness than their straight and White peers;
Whereas pregnant youth, parents who are
25 years of age or younger, and their children
experience higher rates of homelessness than
youth and young adults without children;
Whereas runaway and homeless youth are
at an increased risk for exploitation and be-
coming victims of sex and labor trafficking,
and between 19 percent and 49 percent of
young people who experience homelessness
will become victims of trafficking;
Whereas youth who run away from home or
from foster care are more likely to be co-
erced into participating in criminal activity,
joining a gang, or using illegal drugs, which
lead to a higher likelihood of involvement in
the criminal justice system;
Whereas preventing youth from running
away from home or from foster care and sup-
porting youth in high-risk situations is a
family, community, and national responsi-
bility;
Whereas the future well-being of the Na-
tion is dependent on the value placed on
youth and the opportunities provided for
youth to acquire the knowledge, skills, and
abilities necessary to help youth successfully
develop into safe, healthy, and productive
adults;
Whereas effective programs supporting
runaway youth and assisting youth and their
families in providing safe and stable homes
succeed because of partnerships created
among families, youth-based advocacy orga-
nizations, community-based human service
agencies, law enforcement, schools, faith-
based organizations, and businesses; and
Whereas the National Runaway Safeline
and the National Network for Youth are
leading the promotion of National Runaway
Prevention Month in November 2019—
(1) to raise awareness of the runaway and
homeless youth crisis and the issues these
young people face; and
(2) to educate the public about solutions
and the role they can play in ending youth
homelessness: Now, therefore, be it
Resolved, That the Senate—
(1) designates November 2019 as ‘‘National
Runaway Prevention Month’’; and
(2) recognizes and supports the goals and
ideals of National Runaway Prevention
Month.
f
SENATE RESOLUTION 443—RECOG-
NIZING AND CELEBRATING ON
NOVEMBER 30, 2019, THE VITAL
ROLE OF SMALL BUSINESSES
AND THE EFFORTS OF THE
SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRA-
TION TO HELP PEOPLE IN THE
UNITED STATES START, BUILD,
AND GROW BUSINESSES
Mr. RUBIO (for himself, Mr. CARDIN,
Mr. PORTMAN, Ms. CANTWELL, Mr.
RISCH, Mrs. SHAHEEN, Mr. TILLIS, Mr.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:45 Nov 22, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00037 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A21NO6.047 S21NOPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6762 November 21, 2019
BOOKER, Mr. BRAUN, Ms. HIRONO, Mr.
ALEXANDER, Ms. DUCKWORTH, Mr. ISAK-
SON, Ms. ROSEN, Mr. ENZI, Mrs. FEIN-
STEIN, Mr. ROBERTS, Mr. WYDEN, Mr.
HOEVEN, Mr. CARPER, Mr. BARRASSO,
Mr. MENENDEZ, Mr. YOUNG, Ms. KLO-
BUCHAR, Mr. THUNE, Mr. TESTER, Mr.
SCOTT of South Carolina, Mr. WHITE-
HOUSE, Mrs. BLACKBURN, Mr. UDALL,
Mr. ROUNDS, Mr. KING, Mr. BOOZMAN,
Mr. PETERS, Ms. ERNST, Ms. HARRIS,
Mr. KENNEDY, Ms. HASSAN, Mr. PERDUE,
Mr. DAINES, and Mr. BLUMENTHAL) sub-
mitted the following resolution; which
was referred to the Committee on
Small Business and Entrepreneurship:
S. RES. 443
Whereas, as of September 2019, there are
more than 30,700,000 small businesses in the
United States;
Whereas small businesses in the United
States—
(1) represent 99.9 percent of all businesses
in the United States;
(2) employ nearly 48 percent of private sec-
tor employees in the United States;
(3) constitute almost 2 of every 3 new jobs;
and
(4) constitute 97.5 percent of firms that ex-
port goods; and
Whereas November 30, 2019, is an appro-
priate day to recognize small businesses and
encourage consumers to support local small
businesses during the holiday shopping sea-
son: Now, therefore, be it
Resolved, That the Senate joins the Small
Business Administration in—
(1) celebrating the entrepreneurial spirit of
small business owners in the United States;
(2) recognizing the importance of creating
policies that promote a business-friendly en-
vironment for small business owners that is
free of unnecessary and burdensome regula-
tions and red tape;
(3) supporting and encouraging young en-
trepreneurs to pursue passions and create
more startup businesses;
(4) showing appreciation for the many
ways in which small businesses support—
(A) the communities of which small busi-
nesses are a part; and
(B) the workers who are employed by small
businesses; and
(5) celebrating the invaluable contribution
that small businesses make to the United
States as the backbone of the economy.
f
SENATE RESOLUTION 444—CON-
DEMNING THE VH1 TELEVISION
SHOW CARTEL CREW
Mr. KENNEDY submitted the fol-
lowing resolution; which was referred
to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation:
S. RES. 444
Whereas the VH1 television show Cartel
Crew glorifies drug cartels and individuals
who live in luxury as a result of the wealth
that drug cartels corruptly amass;
Whereas there is concern that youth across
the United States may watch Cartel Crew
and come to believe that crime is profitable;
Whereas the words and deeds of the cast
members of Cartel Crew suggest that those
cast members have no interest in separating
themselves from their illicit pasts;
Whereas the relatives of the cast members
of Cartel Crew are some of the worst crimi-
nals in history;
Whereas the mother of Michael Blanco,
Griselda Blanco, is better known as ‘‘Cocaine
Godmother’’, a drug lord in the Medellin Car-
tel who was responsible for nearly 200 mur-
ders while transporting cocaine from Colom-
bia to the United States in the 1990s and
early 2000s;
Whereas Michael Blanco defended his
mother when asked about her crimes, saying
that she ‘‘didn’t have a choice’’, due to the
fact that she grew up poor;
Whereas the newest addition to the cast of
Cartel Crew, Emma Coronel Aispuro (re-
ferred to in this preamble as ‘‘Aispuro’’), is
the wife of Joaquı́n Guzmán Loera (referred
to in this preamble as ‘‘El Chapo’’);
Whereas, as of the date of the adoption of
this resolution, El Chapo is the single most
dangerous individual alive, having created
the Sinaloa Cartel and led it on its destruc-
tive path of trafficking drugs and individuals
for decades;
Whereas, since establishing his crime syn-
dicate in the late 1980s, El Chapo has been re-
sponsible for the deaths of hundreds of thou-
sands of individuals, through both direct vio-
lence and the devastating impact of drug ad-
diction;
Whereas, at one point, El Chapo was on the
Ten Most Wanted Fugitive List published by
the Federal Bureau of Investigation;
Whereas Aispuro—
(1) helped El Chapo escape from a Mexican
prison; and
(2) was under investigation in the United
States as recently as April 2019; and
Whereas Aispuro clearly intends to profit
from the notoriety her cartel connections af-
ford her, as she is developing a clothing line
called ‘‘El Chapo Guzman’’: Now, therefore,
be it
Resolved, That the Senate urges VH1—
(1) to cancel Cartel Crew;
(2) to reconsider its standards when devel-
oping television shows so that victims of car-
tel bloodshed and destruction are not further
harmed; and
(3) to be a better steward of public media
by refusing to spread the erroneous message
that crime is profitable.
f
AMENDMENTS SUBMITTED AND
PROPOSED
SA 1251. Mrs. FISCHER (for Mr. LANKFORD
(for himself and Mr. PETERS)) proposed an
amendment to the bill S. 1430, to amend title
5, United States Code, to prevent fraud by
representative payees.
SA 1252. Mrs. FISCHER (for Mr. PETERS)
proposed an amendment to the bill S. 1846, to
amend the Homeland Security Act of 2002 to
provide for engagements with State, local,
Tribal, and territorial governments, and for
other purposes.
SA 1253. Mr. WICKER submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed by him to the
bill S. 1294, to require Federal agencies with
jurisdiction over broadband deployment to
enter into an interagency agreement related
to certain types of funding for broadband de-
ployment; which was ordered to lie on the
table.
f
TEXT OF AMENDMENTS
SA 1251. Mrs. FISCHER (for Mr.
LANKFORD (for himself and Mr.
PETERS)) proposed an amendment to
the bill S. 1430, to amend title 5, United
States Code, to prevent fraud by rep-
resentative payees; as follows:
On page 2, line 11, strike ‘‘appointed’’ and
insert ‘‘designated’’.
On page 2, line 23, strike ‘‘appointed’’ and
insert ‘‘designated’’.
SA 1252. Mrs. FISCHER (for Mr.
PETERS) proposed an amendment to the
bill S. 1846, to amend the Homeland Se-
curity Act of 2002 to provide for en-
gagements with State, local, Tribal,
and territorial governments, and for
other purposes; as follows:
Strike all after the enacting clause and in-
sert the following:
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘State and
Local Government Cybersecurity Act of
2019’’.
SEC. 2. AMENDMENTS TO THE HOMELAND SECU-
RITY ACT OF 2002.
Subtitle A of title XXII of the Homeland
Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 651 et seq.) is
amended—
(1) in section 2201 (6 U.S.C. 651)—
(A) by redesignating paragraphs (4), (5),
and (6) as paragraphs (5), (6), and (7), respec-
tively; and
(B) by inserting after paragraph (3) the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(4) ENTITY.—The term ‘entity’ shall in-
clude—
‘‘(A) an association, corporation, whether
for-profit or nonprofit, partnership, propri-
etorship, organization, institution, establish-
ment, or individual, whether domestic or for-
eign;
‘‘(B) a governmental agency or other gov-
ernmental entity, whether domestic or for-
eign, including State, local, Tribal, and ter-
ritorial government entities; and
‘‘(C) the general public.’’; and
(2) in section 2202 (6 U.S.C. 652)—
(A) in subsection (c)—
(i) in paragraph (10), by striking ‘‘and’’ at
the end;
(ii) by redesignating paragraph (11) as
paragraph (12); and
(iii) by inserting after paragraph (10) the
following:
‘‘(11) carry out the authority of the Sec-
retary under subsection (e)(1)(R); and’’; and
(B) in subsection (e)(1), by adding at the
end the following:
‘‘(R) To make grants to and enter into co-
operative agreements or contracts with
States, local, Tribal, and territorial govern-
ments, and other non-Federal entities as the
Secretary determines necessary to carry out
the responsibilities of the Secretary related
to cybersecurity and infrastructure security
under this Act and any other provision of
law, including grants, cooperative agree-
ments, and contracts that provide assistance
and education related to cyber threat indica-
tors, defensive measures and cybersecurity
technologies, cybersecurity risks, incidents,
analysis, and warnings.’’; and
(3) in section 2209 (6 U.S.C. 659)—
(A) in subsection (c)(6), by inserting ‘‘oper-
ational and’’ after ‘‘timely’’;
(B) in subsection (d)(1)(E), by inserting ‘‘,
including an entity that collaborates with
election officials,’’ after ‘‘governments’’; and
(C) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(n) COORDINATION ON CYBERSECURITY FOR
FEDERAL AND NON-FEDERAL ENTITIES.—
‘‘(1) COORDINATION.—The Center shall, to
the extent practicable, and in coordination
as appropriate with Federal and non-Federal
entities, such as the Multi-State Information
Sharing and Analysis Center—
‘‘(A) conduct exercises with Federal and
non-Federal entities;
‘‘(B) provide operational and technical cy-
bersecurity training related to cyber threat
indicators, defensive measures, cybersecu-
rity risks, and incidents to Federal and non-
Federal entities to address cybersecurity
risks or incidents, with or without reim-
bursement;
‘‘(C) assist Federal and non-Federal enti-
ties, upon request, in sharing cyber threat
indicators, defensive measures, cybersecu-
rity risks, and incidents from and to the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:45 Nov 22, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00038 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A21NO6.050 S21NOPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6763
November 21, 2019
Federal Government as well as among Fed-
eral and non-Federal entities, in order to in-
crease situational awareness and help pre-
vent incidents;
‘‘(D) provide notifications containing spe-
cific incident and malware information that
may affect them or their customers and resi-
dents;
‘‘(E) provide and periodically update via a
web portal and other means tools, products,
resources, policies, guidelines, controls, and
other cybersecurity standards and best prac-
tices and procedures related to information
security;
‘‘(F) work with senior Federal and non-
Federal officials, including State and local
Chief Information Officers, senior election
officials, and through national associations,
to coordinate a nationwide effort to ensure
effective implementation of tools, products,
resources, policies, guidelines, controls, and
procedures related to information security
to secure and ensure the resiliency of Fed-
eral and non-Federal information systems
and including election systems;
‘‘(G) provide, upon request, operational and
technical assistance to Federal and non-Fed-
eral entities to implement tools, products,
resources, policies, guidelines, controls, and
procedures on information security, includ-
ing by, as appropriate, deploying and sus-
taining cybersecurity technologies, such as
an intrusion detection capability, to assist
those Federal and non-Federal entities in de-
tecting cybersecurity risks and incidents;
‘‘(H) assist Federal and non-Federal enti-
ties in developing policies and procedures for
coordinating vulnerability disclosures, to
the extent practicable, consistent with inter-
national and national standards in the infor-
mation technology industry;
‘‘(I) ensure that Federal and non-Federal
entities, as appropriate, are made aware of
the tools, products, resources, policies,
guidelines, controls, and procedures on infor-
mation security developed by the Depart-
ment and other appropriate Federal depart-
ments and agencies for ensuring the security
and resiliency of civilian information sys-
tems; and
‘‘(J) promote cybersecurity education and
awareness through engagements with Fed-
eral and non-Federal entities.
‘‘(o) REPORT.—Not later than 1 year after
the date of enactment of this subsection, and
every 2 years thereafter, the Secretary shall
submit to the Committee on Homeland Secu-
rity and Governmental Affairs of the Senate
and the Committee on Homeland Security of
the House of Representatives a report on the
status of cybersecurity measures that are in
place, and any gaps that exist, in each State
and in the largest urban areas of the United
States.’’.
SA 1253. Mr. WICKER submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed by
him to the bill S. 1294, to require Fed-
eral agencies with jurisdiction over
broadband deployment to enter into an
interagency agreement related to cer-
tain types of funding for broadband de-
ployment; which was ordered to lie on
the table; as follows:
Strike all after the enacting clause and in-
sert the following:
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Broadband
Interagency Coordination Act of 2019’’.
SEC. 2. INTERAGENCY AGREEMENT.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section—
(1) the term ‘‘covered agency’’ means—
(A) the Federal Communications Commis-
sion;
(B) the Department of Agriculture; and
(C) the National Telecommunications and
Information Administration; and
(2) the term ‘‘high-cost programs’’ means—
(A) the programs for Universal Service
Support for High-Cost Areas set forth under
subpart D of part 54 of title 47, Code of Fed-
eral Regulations, or any successor thereto;
(B) the Remote Areas Fund set forth under
subpart J of part 54 of title 47, Code of Fed-
eral Regulations, or any successor thereto;
(C) the Interstate Common Line Support
Mechanism for Rate-of-Return Carriers set
forth under subpart K of part 54 of title 47,
Code of Federal Regulations, or any suc-
cessor thereto;
(D) the Mobility Fund set forth under sub-
part L of part 54 of title 47, Code of Federal
Regulations, or any successor thereto; and
(E) the High Cost Loop Support for Rate-
of-Return Carriers program set forth under
subpart M of part 54 of title 47, Code of Fed-
eral Regulations, or any successor thereto.
(b) INTERAGENCY AGREEMENT.—Not later
than 180 days after the date of enactment of
this Act, the heads of the covered agencies
shall enter into an interagency agreement
requiring coordination between the covered
agencies for the distribution of funds for
broadband deployment under—
(1) the high-cost programs;
(2) the programs administered by the Rural
Utilities Service of the Department of Agri-
culture; and
(3) the programs administered by the Na-
tional Telecommunications and Information
Administration.
(c) REQUIREMENTS.—In entering into an
interagency agreement with respect to the
programs described in subsection (b), the
heads of the covered agencies shall—
(1) require that the covered agencies share
information with each other about existing
or planned projects that have received or
will receive funds under the programs de-
scribed in subsection (b) for new broadband
deployment;
(2) provide that—
(A) subject to subparagraph (B), upon re-
quest from another covered agency with au-
thority to award or authorize any funds for
new broadband deployment in a project area,
a covered agency shall provide the other cov-
ered agency with any information the cov-
ered agency possesses regarding, with re-
spect to the project area—
(i) each entity that provides broadband
service in the area;
(ii) levels of broadband service provided in
the area, including the speed of broadband
service and the technology provided;
(iii) the geographic scope of broadband
service coverage in the area; and
(iv) each entity that has received or will
receive funds under the programs described
in subsection (b) to provide broadband serv-
ice in the area; and
(B) if a covered agency designates any in-
formation provided to another covered agen-
cy under subparagraph (A) as confidential,
the other covered agency shall protect the
confidentiality of that information;
(3) designate the Federal Communications
Commission as the entity primarily respon-
sible for—
(A) coordinating among the covered agen-
cies; and
(B) storing or maintaining access to all
broadband deployment data;
(4) consider basing the distribution of
funds for broadband deployment under the
programs described in subsection (b) on
standardized data regarding broadband cov-
erage; and
(5) provide that the interagency agreement
shall be updated periodically, except that
the scope of the agreement with respect to
the Federal Communications Commission
may not expand beyond the high-cost pro-
grams.
(d) ASSESSMENT OF AGREEMENT.—
(1) PUBLIC COMMENT.—Not later than 1 year
after entering into the interagency agree-
ment required under subsection (b), the Fed-
eral Communications Commission shall seek
public comment on—
(A) the effectiveness of the interagency
agreement in facilitating efficient use of
funds for broadband deployment;
(B) the availability of Tribal, State, and
local data regarding broadband deployment
and the inclusion of that data in interagency
coordination; and
(C) modifications to the interagency agree-
ment that would improve the efficacy of
interagency coordination.
(2) ASSESSMENT; REPORT.—Not later than 18
months after the date of enactment of this
Act, the Federal Communications Commis-
sion shall—
(A) review and assess the comments re-
ceived under paragraph (1); and
(B) submit to the Committee on Com-
merce, Science, and Transportation of the
Senate and the Committee on Energy and
Commerce of the House of Representatives a
report detailing any findings and rec-
ommendations from the assessment con-
ducted under subparagraph (A).
f
AUTHORITY FOR COMMITTEES TO
MEET
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
have 3 requests for committees to meet
during today’s session of the Senate.
They have the approval of the Majority
and Minority leaders.
Pursuant to rule XXVI, paragraph
5(a), of the Standing Rules of the Sen-
ate, the following committees are au-
thorized to meet during today’s session
of the Senate:
COMMITTEE ON ENERGY AND NATURAL
RESOURCES
The Committee on Energy and Nat-
ural Resources is authorized to meet
during the session of the Senate on
Thursday, November 21, 2019, at 10
a.m., to conduct a hearing.
COMMITTEE ON THE JUDICIARY
The Committee on the Judiciary is
authorized to meet during the session
of the Senate on Thursday, November
21, 2019, at 10 a.m., to conduct a hearing
on the following nominations of Pat-
rick J. Bumatay, of California, to be
United States Circuit Judge for the
Ninth Circuit, Lawrence VanDyke, of
Nevada, to be United States Circuit
Judge for the Ninth Circuit, Philip M.
Halpern, to be United States District
Judge for the Southern District of New
York, Bernard Maurice Jones II, to be
United States District Judge for the
Western District of Oklahoma, Barbara
Bailey Jongbloed, to be United States
District Judge for the District of Con-
necticut, and Thomas Michael O’Con-
nor, to be United States Marshal for
the Southern District of Texas, and
Ralph Ignatius Sozio, to be United
States Marshal for the Southern Dis-
trict of New York, both of the Depart-
ment of Justice.
SELECT COMMITTEE ON INTELLIGENCE
The Select Committee on Intel-
ligence is authorized to meet during
the session of the Senate on Thursday,
November 21, 2019, at 2 p.m., to conduct
a closed hearing.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:45 Nov 22, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00039 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A21NO6.054 S21NOPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6764 November 21, 2019
PRIVILEGES OF THE FLOOR
Mr. MANCHIN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that Peter Stahley
and Jordan Kahn, two legislative fel-
lows of my staff, are granted privileges
of the floor for the 116th Congress.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection.
Mr. CARDIN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that floor privi-
leges be granted to retired Army CPT
Jonathan Ng, a Department of Defense
fellow serving in my office, for the re-
mainder of this session of Congress.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
Mr. SULLIVAN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that Elizabeth
Ahkivgak, an intern in my office, be
granted floor privileges for the remain-
der of the day.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
RESOLUTIONS SUBMITTED TODAY
Mrs. FISCHER. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the Senate
now proceed to the en bloc consider-
ation of the following Senate resolu-
tions, which were submitted earlier
today: S. Res. 437, S. Res. 438, S. Res.
439, S. Res. 440, and S. Res. 441.
There being no objection, the Senate
proceeded to consider the resolutions
en bloc.
Mrs. FISCHER. I ask unanimous con-
sent that the resolutions be agreed to,
that the preambles be agreed to, and
that the motions to reconsider be con-
sidered made and laid upon the table,
all en bloc.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The resolutions (S. Res. 437, S. Res.
438, S. Res. 439, S. Res. 440, and S. Res.
441) were agreed to.
The preambles were agreed to.
(The resolutions, with their pre-
ambles, are printed in today’s RECORD
under ‘‘Submitted Resolutions.’’)
f
UNANIMOUS CONSENT
AGREEMENT—H.R. 4566
Mrs. FISCHER. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that if the Senate
receives H.R. 4566 and the text is iden-
tical to the text of S. 2592, as intro-
duced, that the Senate proceed to the
immediate consideration of H.R. 4566;
that the bill be considered read a third
time; and that the Senate vote on the
passage of the bill; finally, if passed,
that the motion to reconsider be con-
sidered made and laid upon the table
with no intervening action or debate.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
CHARGING HELPS AGENCIES RE-
ALIZE GENERAL EFFICIENCICES
ACT
Mrs. FISCHER. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the Senate
proceed to the immediate consider-
ation of Calendar No. 199, S. 2193.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the bill by title.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
A bill (S. 2193) to require the Adminis-
trator of General Services to issue guidance
to clarify that Federal agencies may pay by
charge card for the charging of Federal elec-
tric motor vehicles, and for other purposes.
There being no objection, the Senate
proceeded to consider the bill, which
had been reported from the Committee
on Homeland Security and Govern-
mental Affairs, with amendments, as
follows:
(The parts of the bill intended to be
stricken are shown in boldface brack-
ets, and the parts of the bill intended
to be inserted are shown in italics.)
S. 2193
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Charging
Helps Agencies Realize General Efficiencies
Act’’ or the ‘‘CHARGE Act’’.
SEC. 2. PAYMENT BY CHARGE CARD FOR CHARG-
ING FEDERAL ELECTRIC MOTOR VE-
HICLES.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this Act—
(1) the term ‘‘Administrator’’ means the
Administrator of General Services;
(2) the term ‘‘charge card’’—
ø(A) means a card, plate, coupon book, or
other credit device existing for the purpose
of obtaining money, property, labor, or serv-
ices on credit; and¿
(A) means a card, plate, coupon book, or other
means existing for the purpose of obtaining
money, property, labor, or services; and
(B) includes—
(i) a card issued under the GSA SmartPay
program; and
(ii) a Fleet Services card;
(3) the term ‘‘covered electric motor vehi-
cle’’ means a passenger carrier that is—
(A) a passenger motor vehicle; and
(B) an electric motor vehicle;
(4) the term ‘‘electric motor vehicle’’ has
the meaning given the term in section 601 of
the Energy Policy Act of 1992 (42 U.S.C.
13271);
(5) the term ‘‘electric motor vehicle charg-
ing station’’ means a battery-charging sta-
tion that permits the transfer of electric en-
ergy (by conductive or inductive means) to a
battery or other storage device in an electric
motor vehicle; and
(6) the terms ‘‘Federal agency’’ and ‘‘pas-
senger carrier’’ have the meanings given
those terms in section 1344(h) of title 31,
United States Code.
(b) GUIDANCE.—Not later than 180 days
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Administrator shall issue guidance to clarify
that each Federal agency may, in accordance
with section 1344 of title 31, United States
Code—
(1) charge a covered electric motor vehicle
at a commercial electric motor vehicle
charging station; and
(2) pay for a transaction described in para-
graph (1) with a charge card.
(c) ISSUANCE OF CHARGE CARDS.—Not later
than 180 days after the date of enactment of
this Act, the Administrator shall issue to
each Federal agency a charge card for each
covered electric motor vehicle of the Federal
agency that may be used by an officer or em-
ployee of the Federal agency to øcharge¿ pay
for charging the covered motor vehicle in ac-
cordance with the guidance issued under sub-
section (b).
Mrs. FISCHER. I ask unanimous con-
sent that the committee-reported
amendments be agreed to; that the bill,
as amended, be considered read a third
time and passed; and that the motion
to reconsider be considered made and
laid upon the table.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The committee-reported amendments
were agreed to.
The bill (S. 2193), as amended, was or-
dered to be engrossed for a third read-
ing, was read the third time, and
passed, as follows:
S. 2193
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Charging
Helps Agencies Realize General Efficiencies
Act’’ or the ‘‘CHARGE Act’’.
SEC. 2. PAYMENT BY CHARGE CARD FOR CHARG-
ING FEDERAL ELECTRIC MOTOR VE-
HICLES.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this Act—
(1) the term ‘‘Administrator’’ means the
Administrator of General Services;
(2) the term ‘‘charge card’’—
(A) means a card, plate, coupon book, or
other means existing for the purpose of ob-
taining money, property, labor, or services;
and
(B) includes—
(i) a card issued under the GSA SmartPay
program; and
(ii) a Fleet Services card;
(3) the term ‘‘covered electric motor vehi-
cle’’ means a passenger carrier that is—
(A) a passenger motor vehicle; and
(B) an electric motor vehicle;
(4) the term ‘‘electric motor vehicle’’ has
the meaning given the term in section 601 of
the Energy Policy Act of 1992 (42 U.S.C.
13271);
(5) the term ‘‘electric motor vehicle charg-
ing station’’ means a battery-charging sta-
tion that permits the transfer of electric en-
ergy (by conductive or inductive means) to a
battery or other storage device in an electric
motor vehicle; and
(6) the terms ‘‘Federal agency’’ and ‘‘pas-
senger carrier’’ have the meanings given
those terms in section 1344(h) of title 31,
United States Code.
(b) GUIDANCE.—Not later than 180 days
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Administrator shall issue guidance to clarify
that each Federal agency may, in accordance
with section 1344 of title 31, United States
Code—
(1) charge a covered electric motor vehicle
at a commercial electric motor vehicle
charging station; and
(2) pay for a transaction described in para-
graph (1) with a charge card.
(c) ISSUANCE OF CHARGE CARDS.—Not later
than 180 days after the date of enactment of
this Act, the Administrator shall issue to
each Federal agency a charge card for each
covered electric motor vehicle of the Federal
agency that may be used by an officer or em-
ployee of the Federal agency to pay for
charging the covered motor vehicle in ac-
cordance with the guidance issued under sub-
section (b).
f
REPRESENTATIVE PAYEE FRAUD
PREVENTION ACT OF 2019
Mrs. FISCHER. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the Senate
proceed to the immediate consider-
ation of Calendar No. 148, S. 1430.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the bill by title.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:45 Nov 22, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00040 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G21NO6.040 S21NOPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6765
November 21, 2019
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
A bill (S. 1430) to amend title 5, United
States Code, to prevent fraud by representa-
tive payees.
There being no objection, the Senate
proceeded to consider the bill, which
had been reported from the Committee
on Homeland Security and Govern-
mental Affairs, with amendments, as
follows:
(The parts of the bill intended to be
stricken are shown in boldface brack-
ets and the parts of the bill intended to
be inserted are shown in italics.)
S. 1430
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Representa-
tive Payee Fraud Prevention Act of 2019’’.
SEC. 2. REPRESENTATIVE PAYEE FRAUD.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—
(1) CSRS.—Section 8331 of title 5, United
States Code, is amended—
(A) in paragraph (31), by striking ‘‘and’’ at
the end;
(B) in paragraph (32), by striking the pe-
riod at the end and inserting ‘‘; and’’; and
(C) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(33) ‘representative payee’ means a person
(including an organization) appointed under
section 8345(e)(1) to receive payments on be-
half of a minor or an individual mentally in-
competent or under other legal disability.’’.
(2) FERS.—Section 8401 of title 5, United
States Code, is amended—
(A) in paragraph (37), by striking ‘‘and’’ at
the end;
(B) in paragraph (38), by striking the pe-
riod at the end and inserting ‘‘; and’’; and
(C) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(39) ‘representative payee’ means a person
(including an organization) appointed under
section 8466(c)(1) to receive payments on be-
half of a minor or an individual mentally in-
competent or under other legal disability.’’.
(b) EMBEZZLEMENT OR CONVERSION.—
(1) CSRS.—Subchapter III of chapter 83 of
title 5, United States Code, is amended by in-
serting after section 8345 the following:
‘‘§ 8345a. Embezzlement or conversion of pay-
ments
‘‘(a) EMBEZZLING AND CONVERSION GEN-
ERALLY.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—It shall be unlawful for a
representative payee to embezzle or in any
manner convert all or any part of the
amounts received from payments received as
a representative payee to a use other than
for the use and benefit of the minor or indi-
vidual on whose behalf such payments were
received.
ø‘‘(2) REVOCATION.—If the Office determines
that a representative payee has embezzled or
converted payments as described in para-
graph (1), the Office shall promptly revoke
payments to the representative payee.¿
‘‘(2) REVOCATION.—If the Office determines
that a representative payee has embezzled or
converted payments as described in paragraph
(1), the Office shall promptly—
‘‘(A) revoke the certification for payment of
benefits to the representative payee; and
‘‘(B) certify payment—
‘‘(i) to another representative payee; or
‘‘(ii) if the interest of the individual under
this title would be served thereby, to the indi-
vidual.
‘‘(b) PENALTY.—Any person who violates
subsection (a)(1) shall be fined under title 18,
imprisoned for not more than 5 years, or
both.’’. ømore than 5 years, or both.
‘‘(c) PRIMA FACIE EVIDENCE.—Any willful
neglect or refusal by a representative payee
to make and file proper accountings or re-
ports concerning the amounts received from
payments authorized under section 8345(e) as
required by law shall be taken to be suffi-
cient evidence prima facie of the embezzle-
ment or conversion of such amounts.’’.¿
(2) FERS.—Subchapter VI of chapter 84 of
title 5, United States Code, is amended by in-
serting after section 8466 the following:
‘‘§ 8466a. Embezzlement or conversion of pay-
ments
‘‘(a) EMBEZZLING AND CONVERSION GEN-
ERALLY.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—It shall be unlawful for a
representative payee to embezzle or in any
manner convert all or any part of the
amounts received from payments received as
a representative payee to a use other than
for the use and benefit of the minor or indi-
vidual on whose behalf such payments were
received.
ø‘‘(2) REVOCATION.—If the Office determines
that a representative payee has embezzled or
converted payments as described in para-
graph (1), the Office shall promptly revoke
payments to the representative payee.¿
‘‘(2) REVOCATION.—If the Office determines
that a representative payee has embezzled or
converted payments as described in paragraph
(1), the Office shall promptly—
‘‘(A) revoke the certification for payment of
benefits to the representative payee; and
‘‘(B) certify payment—
‘‘(i) to another representative payee; or
‘‘(ii) if the interest of the individual under
this title would be served thereby, to the indi-
vidual.
‘‘(b) PENALTY.—Any person who violates
subsection (a)(1) shall be fined under title 18,
imprisoned for not more than 5 years, or
both.’’. ømore than 5 years, or both.
‘‘(c) PRIMA FACIE EVIDENCE.—Any willful
neglect or refusal by a representative payee
to make and file proper accountings or re-
ports concerning the amounts received from
payments authorized under section 8466(c) as
required by law shall be taken to be suffi-
cient evidence prima facie of the embezzle-
ment or conversion of such amounts.’’.¿
(3) TECHNICAL AND CONFORMING AMEND-
MENTS.—
(A) The table of sections for chapter 83 of
title 5, United States Code, is amended by in-
serting after the item relating to section 8345
the following:
‘‘8345a. Embezzlement or conversion of pay-
ments.’’.
(B) The table of sections for chapter 84 of
title 5, United States Code, is amended by in-
serting after the item relating to section 8466
the following:
‘‘8466a. Embezzlement or conversion of pay-
ments.’’.
(c) DEFERRAL OF PAYMENT PENDING AP-
POINTMENT OF REPRESENTATIVE PAYEE.—
(1) CSRS.—Section 8345(e) of title 5, United
States Code, is amended—
(A) by inserting ‘‘(1)’’ after ‘‘(e)’’;
(B) in the first sentence, by inserting ‘‘(in-
cluding an organization)’’ after ‘‘person’’;
(C) in the second sentence—
(i) by inserting ‘‘(including an organiza-
tion)’’ after ‘‘any person’’; and
(ii) by inserting ‘‘and may appropriately
receive such payments on behalf of the
claimant’’ after ‘‘claimant’’ the second place
it appears; and
(D) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(2) If the Office determines that direct
payment of a benefit to an individual men-
tally incompetent or under other legal dis-
ability would cause substantial harm to the
individual, the Office may defer or suspend
direct payment of the benefit until such time
as the appointment of a representative payee
is made. The Office shall resume payment as
soon as practicable, including all amounts
due.’’.
(2) FERS.—Section 8466(c) of title 5, United
States Code, is amended—
(A) by inserting ‘‘(1)’’ after ‘‘(c)’’;
(B) in the first sentence, by inserting ‘‘(in-
cluding an organization)’’ after ‘‘person’’;
(C) in the second sentence—
(i) by inserting ‘‘(including an organiza-
tion)’’ after ‘‘any person’’; and
(ii) by inserting ‘‘and may appropriately
receive such payments on behalf of the
claimant’’ after ‘‘claimant’’ the second place
it appears; and
(D) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(2) If the Office determines that direct
payment of a benefit to an individual men-
tally incompetent or under other legal dis-
ability would cause substantial harm to the
individual, the Office may defer or suspend
direct payment of the benefit until such time
as the appointment of a representative payee
is made. The Office shall resume payment as
soon as practicable, including all amounts
due.’’.
(d) LIMITATIONS ON APPOINTMENTS OF REP-
RESENTATIVE PAYEES.—
(1) CSRS.—Section 8345 of title 5, United
States Code, is amended by inserting after
subsection (e) the following:
‘‘(f) The Office may not authorize a person
to receive payments on behalf of a minor or
individual of legal disability under sub-
section (e) if that person has been convicted
of a violation of—
‘‘(1) section 8345a or 8466a;
‘‘(2) section 208 or 1632 of the Social Secu-
rity Act (42 U.S.C. 408, øand¿ 1383a); or
‘‘(3) section 6101 of title 38.’’.
(2) FERS.—Section 8466 of title 5, United
States Code, is amended by adding at the end
the following:
‘‘(d) The Office may not authorize a person
to receive payments on behalf of a minor or
individual of legal disability under sub-
section (c) if that person has been convicted
of a violation of—
‘‘(1) section 8345a or 8466a;
‘‘(2) section 208 or 1632 of the Social Secu-
rity Act (42 U.S.C. 408, øand¿ 1383a); or
‘‘(3) section 6101 of title 38.’’.
SEC. 3. IMPLEMENTATION.
ø(a) AUTHORIZATION OF PAYMENTS.—
Amounts in the Civil Service Retirement and
Disability Fund may be used by the Office of
Personnel Management, without further ap-
propriation, for the cost of activities of the
Office relating to preventing fraud by rep-
resentative payees (as defined in section 8331
and 8401 of title 5, United States Code, as
amended by this Act).¿
(a) AUTHORIZATION OF PAYMENTS.—Section
8348(a)(1)(B) of title 5, United States Code, is
amended by inserting ‘‘in administering fraud
prevention under sections 8345, 8345a, 8466, and
8466a of this title,’’ after ‘‘8465(b) of this title,’’.
(b) REGULATIONS.—Not later than 1 year
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Office of Personnel Management—
(1) shall promulgate regulations to carry
out the amendments made by øthis Act¿ sec-
tion 2; and
(2) may promulgate additional regulations
relating to the administration of the rep-
resentative payee program.
SEC. 4. EFFECTIVE DATE.
The amendments made by øthis Act¿ sec-
tion 2—
(1) shall take effect on the date of the en-
actment of this Act; and
(2) apply on and after the effective date of
the regulations promulgated under section
3(b)(1).
Mrs. FISCHER. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the com-
mittee-reported amendments be agreed
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:45 Nov 22, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00041 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G21NO6.071 S21NOPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6766 November 21, 2019
to; that the Lankford amendment at
the desk be agreed to; and that the bill,
as amended, be considered read a third
time and passed; and that the motion
to reconsider be considered made and
laid upon the table.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The committee-reported amendments
were agreed to.
The amendment (No. 1251) is as fol-
lows:
(Purpose: To make certain corrections)
On page 2, line 11, strike ‘‘appointed’’ and
insert ‘‘designated’’.
On page 2, line 23, strike ‘‘appointed’’ and
insert ‘‘designated’’.
The bill (S. 1430), as amended, was or-
dered to be engrossed for a third read-
ing, was read the third time, and
passed as follows:
S. 1430
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Representa-
tive Payee Fraud Prevention Act of 2019’’.
SEC. 2. REPRESENTATIVE PAYEE FRAUD.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—
(1) CSRS.—Section 8331 of title 5, United
States Code, is amended—
(A) in paragraph (31), by striking ‘‘and’’ at
the end;
(B) in paragraph (32), by striking the pe-
riod at the end and inserting ‘‘; and’’; and
(C) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(33) ‘representative payee’ means a person
(including an organization) designated under
section 8345(e)(1) to receive payments on be-
half of a minor or an individual mentally in-
competent or under other legal disability.’’.
(2) FERS.—Section 8401 of title 5, United
States Code, is amended—
(A) in paragraph (37), by striking ‘‘and’’ at
the end;
(B) in paragraph (38), by striking the pe-
riod at the end and inserting ‘‘; and’’; and
(C) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(39) ‘representative payee’ means a person
(including an organization) designated under
section 8466(c)(1) to receive payments on be-
half of a minor or an individual mentally in-
competent or under other legal disability.’’.
(b) EMBEZZLEMENT OR CONVERSION.—
(1) CSRS.—Subchapter III of chapter 83 of
title 5, United States Code, is amended by in-
serting after section 8345 the following:
‘‘§ 8345a. Embezzlement or conversion of pay-
ments
‘‘(a) EMBEZZLING AND CONVERSION GEN-
ERALLY.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—It shall be unlawful for a
representative payee to embezzle or in any
manner convert all or any part of the
amounts received from payments received as
a representative payee to a use other than
for the use and benefit of the minor or indi-
vidual on whose behalf such payments were
received.
‘‘(2) REVOCATION.—If the Office determines
that a representative payee has embezzled or
converted payments as described in para-
graph (1), the Office shall promptly—
‘‘(A) revoke the certification for payment
of benefits to the representative payee; and
‘‘(B) certify payment—
‘‘(i) to another representative payee; or
‘‘(ii) if the interest of the individual under
this title would be served thereby, to the in-
dividual.
‘‘(b) PENALTY.—Any person who violates
subsection (a)(1) shall be fined under title 18,
imprisoned for not more than 5 years, or
both.’’.’’
(2) FERS.—Subchapter VI of chapter 84 of
title 5, United States Code, is amended by in-
serting after section 8466 the following:
‘‘§ 8466a. Embezzlement or conversion of pay-
ments
‘‘(a) EMBEZZLING AND CONVERSION GEN-
ERALLY.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—It shall be unlawful for a
representative payee to embezzle or in any
manner convert all or any part of the
amounts received from payments received as
a representative payee to a use other than
for the use and benefit of the minor or indi-
vidual on whose behalf such payments were
received.
‘‘(2) REVOCATION.—If the Office determines
that a representative payee has embezzled or
converted payments as described in para-
graph (1), the Office shall promptly—
‘‘(A) revoke the certification for payment
of benefits to the representative payee; and
‘‘(B) certify payment—
‘‘(i) to another representative payee; or
‘‘(ii) if the interest of the individual under
this title would be served thereby, to the in-
dividual.
‘‘(b) PENALTY.—Any person who violates
subsection (a)(1) shall be fined under title 18,
imprisoned for not more than 5 years, or
both.’’.’’
(3) TECHNICAL AND CONFORMING AMEND-
MENTS.—
(A) The table of sections for chapter 83 of
title 5, United States Code, is amended by in-
serting after the item relating to section 8345
the following:
‘‘8345a. Embezzlement or conversion of pay-
ments.’’.
(B) The table of sections for chapter 84 of
title 5, United States Code, is amended by in-
serting after the item relating to section 8466
the following:
‘‘8466a. Embezzlement or conversion of pay-
ments.’’.
(c) DEFERRAL OF PAYMENT PENDING AP-
POINTMENT OF REPRESENTATIVE PAYEE.—
(1) CSRS.—Section 8345(e) of title 5, United
States Code, is amended—
(A) by inserting ‘‘(1)’’ after ‘‘(e)’’;
(B) in the first sentence, by inserting ‘‘(in-
cluding an organization)’’ after ‘‘person’’;
(C) in the second sentence—
(i) by inserting ‘‘(including an organiza-
tion)’’ after ‘‘any person’’; and
(ii) by inserting ‘‘and may appropriately
receive such payments on behalf of the
claimant’’ after ‘‘claimant’’the second place
it appears; and
(D) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(2) If the Office determines that direct
payment of a benefit to an individual men-
tally incompetent or under other legal dis-
ability would cause substantial harm to the
individual, the Office may defer or suspend
direct payment of the benefit until such time
as the appointment of a representative payee
is made. The Office shall resume payment as
soon as practicable, including all amounts
due.’’.
(2) FERS.—Section 8466(c) of title 5, United
States Code, is amended—
(A) by inserting ‘‘(1)’’ after ‘‘(c)’’;
(B) in the first sentence, by inserting ‘‘(in-
cluding an organization)’’ after ‘‘person’’;
(C) in the second sentence—
(i) by inserting ‘‘(including an organiza-
tion)’’ after ‘‘any person’’; and
(ii) by inserting ‘‘and may appropriately
receive such payments on behalf of the
claimant’’ after ‘‘claimant’’the second place
it appears; and
(D) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(2) If the Office determines that direct
payment of a benefit to an individual men-
tally incompetent or under other legal dis-
ability would cause substantial harm to the
individual, the Office may defer or suspend
direct payment of the benefit until such time
as the appointment of a representative payee
is made. The Office shall resume payment as
soon as practicable, including all amounts
due.’’.
(d) LIMITATIONS ON APPOINTMENTS OF REP-
RESENTATIVE PAYEES.—
(1) CSRS.—Section 8345 of title 5, United
States Code, is amended by inserting after
subsection (e) the following:
‘‘(f) The Office may not authorize a person
to receive payments on behalf of a minor or
individual of legal disability under sub-
section (e) if that person has been convicted
of a violation of—
‘‘(1) section 8345a or 8466a;
‘‘(2) section 208 or 1632 of the Social Secu-
rity Act (42 U.S.C. 408, 1383a); or
‘‘(3) section 6101 of title 38.’’.
(2) FERS.—Section 8466 of title 5, United
States Code, is amended by adding at the end
the following:
‘‘(d) The Office may not authorize a person
to receive payments on behalf of a minor or
individual of legal disability under sub-
section (c) if that person has been convicted
of a violation of—
‘‘(1) section 8345a or 8466a;
‘‘(2) section 208 or 1632 of the Social Secu-
rity Act (42 U.S.C. 408, 1383a); or
‘‘(3) section 6101 of title 38.’’.
SEC. 3. IMPLEMENTATION.
(a) AUTHORIZATION OF PAYMENTS.—Section
8348(a)(1)(B) of title 5, United States Code, is
amended by inserting ‘‘in administering
fraud prevention under sections 8345, 8345a,
8466, and 8466a of this title,’’ after ‘‘8465(b) of
this title,’’.
(b) REGULATIONS.—Not later than 1 year
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Office of Personnel Management—
(1) shall promulgate regulations to carry
out the amendments made by section 2; and
(2) may promulgate additional regulations
relating to the administration of the rep-
resentative payee program.
SEC. 4. EFFECTIVE DATE.
The amendments made by section 2—
(1) shall take effect on the date of the en-
actment of this Act; and
(2) apply on and after the effective date of
the regulations promulgated under section
3(b)(1).
f
DESIGNATING THE COMMUNITY-
BASED OUTPATIENT CLINIC OF
THE DEPARTMENT OF VET-
ERANS AFFAIRS IN BOZEMAN,
MONTANA, AS THE TRAVIS W.
ATKINS DEPARTMENT OF VET-
ERANS AFFAIRS CLINIC
Mrs. FISCHER. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the Com-
mittee on Veterans’ Affairs be dis-
charged from further consideration of
S. 900 and the Senate proceed to its im-
mediate consideration.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The clerk will report the bill by title.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
A bill (S. 900) to designate the community-
based outpatient clinic of the Department of
Veterans Affairs in Bozeman, Montana, as
the ‘‘Travis W. Atkins Department of Vet-
erans Affairs Clinic’’.
There being no objection, the com-
mittee was discharged and the Senate
proceeded to consider the bill.
Mrs. FISCHER. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the bill be
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:45 Nov 22, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00042 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G21NO6.072 S21NOPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6767
November 21, 2019
considered read a third time and passed
and that the motion to reconsider be
considered made and laid upon the
table.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The bill (S. 900) was ordered to be en-
grossed for a third reading, was read
the third time, and passed, as follows:
S. 900
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. DESIGNATION OF TRAVIS W. ATKINS
DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AF-
FAIRS CLINIC IN BOZEMAN, MON-
TANA.
(a) DESIGNATION.—The community-based
outpatient clinic of the Department of Vet-
erans Affairs located at 300 North Willson
Avenue, Bozeman, Montana, shall after the
date of the enactment of this Act be known
and designated as the ‘‘Travis W. Atkins De-
partment of Veterans Affairs Clinic’’ or the
‘‘Travis W. Atkins VA Clinic’’.
(b) REFERENCE.—Any reference in any law,
regulation, map, document, paper, or other
record of the United States to the commu-
nity-based outpatient clinic referred to in
subsection (a) shall be considered to be a ref-
erence to the Travis W. Atkins Department
of Veterans Affairs Clinic.
f
DESIGNATING THE DEPARTMENT
OF VETERANS AFFAIRS COMMU-
NITY-BASED OUTPATIENT CLINIC
IN ODESSA, TEXAS, AS THE WIL-
SON AND YOUNG MEDAL OF
HONOR VA CLINIC
Mrs. FISCHER. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the Com-
mittee on Veterans’ Affairs be dis-
charged from further consideration of
H.R. 2334 and the Senate proceed to its
immediate consideration.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The clerk will report the bill by title.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
A bill (H.R. 2334) to designate the Depart-
ment of Veterans Affairs community-based
outpatient clinic in Odessa, Texas, as the
‘‘Wilson and Young Medal of Honor VA Clin-
ic’’.
There being no objection, the com-
mittee was discharged and the Senate
proceeded to consider the bill.
Mrs. FISCHER. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the bill be
considered read a third time and passed
and that the motion to reconsider be
considered made and laid upon the
table.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The bill (H.R. 2334) was ordered to a
third reading, was read the third time,
and passed.
f
THE CALENDAR
Mrs. FISCHER. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the Senate
proceed to the immediate consider-
ation of the following calendar bills en
bloc: Calendar Nos. 247 and 293 through
303.
There being no objection, the Senate
proceeded to consider the bills en bloc.
Mrs. FISCHER. I ask unanimous con-
sent that the bills be considered read a
third time and passed and the motions
to reconsider be considered made and
laid upon the table, all en bloc.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
ELIZABETH BUFFUM CHACE POST
OFFICE
The bill (H.R. 2451) to designate the
facility of the United States Postal
Service located at 575 Dexter Street in
Central Falls, Rhode Island, as the
‘‘Elizabeth Buffum Chace Post Office,’’
was ordered to a third reading, was
read the third time, and passed.
f
CAPTAIN ROBERT C. HARMON AND
PRIVATE JOHN R. PEIRSON POST
OFFICE BUILDING
The bill (S. 2712) to designate the fa-
cility of the United States Postal Serv-
ice located at 430 South Knowles Ave-
nue in New Richmond, Wisconsin, as
the ‘‘Captain Robert C. Harmon and
Private John R. Peirson Post Office
Building,’’ was ordered to be engrossed
for a third reading, was read the third
time, and passed.
(The bill is printed in the Record of
Monday, December 2, 2019)
f
JERRY C. WASHBURN POST
OFFICE BUILDING
The bill (H.R. 887) to designate the
facility of the United States Postal
Service located at 877 East 1200 South
in Orem, Utah, as the ‘‘Jerry C.
Washburn Post Office Building,’’ was
ordered to a third reading, was read the
third time, and passed.
f
MARILYN MONROE POST OFFICE
The bill (H.R. 1252) to designate the
facility of the United States Postal
Service located at 6531 Van Nuys Bou-
levard in Van Nuys, California, as the
‘‘Marilyn Monroe Post Office,’’ was or-
dered to a third reading, was read the
third time, and passed.
f
RITCHIE VALENS POST OFFICE
BUILDING
The bill (H.R. 1253) to designate the
facility of the United States Postal
Service located at 13507 Van Nuys Bou-
levard in Pacoima, California, as the
‘‘Ritchie Valens Post Office Building,’’
was ordered to a third reading, was
read the third time, and passed.
f
EVA G. HEWITT POST OFFICE
The bill (H.R. 1526) to designate the
facility of the United States Postal
Service located at 200 Israel Road
Southeast in Tumwater, Washington,
as the ‘‘Eva G. Hewitt Post Office,’’
was ordered to a third reading, was
read the third time, and passed.
f
CORPORAL ALEX MARTINEZ ME-
MORIAL POST OFFICE BUILDING
The bill (H.R. 1844) to designate the
facility of the United States Postal
Service located at 66 Grove Court in
Elgin, Illinois, as the ‘‘Corporal Alex
Martinez Memorial Post Office Build-
ing,’’ was ordered to a third reading,
was read the third time, and passed.
f
JEANNETTE RANKIN POST OFFICE
BUILDING
The bill (H.R. 1972) to designate the
facility of the United States Postal
Service located at 1100 West Kent Ave-
nue in Missoula, Montana, as the
‘‘Jeannette Rankin Post Office Build-
ing,’’ was ordered to a third reading,
was read the third time, and passed.
f
SENIOR CHIEF PETTY OFFICER
SHANNON M. KENT POST OFFICE
The bill (H.R. 2151) to designate the
facility of the United States Postal
Service located at 7722 South Main
Street in Pine Plains, New York, as the
‘‘Senior Chief Petty Officer Shannon
M. Kent Post Office,’’ was ordered to a
third reading, was read the third time,
and passed.
f
65TH INFANTRY REGIMENT POST
OFFICE BUILDING
A bill (H.R. 2325) to designate the fa-
cility of the United States Postal Serv-
ice located at 100 Calle Alondra in San
Juan, Puerto Rico, as the ‘‘65th Infan-
try Regiment Post Office Building,’’
was ordered to a third reading, was
read the third time, and passed.
f
JOSE RAMOS POST OFFICE
BUILDING
A bill (H.R. 3144) to designate the fa-
cility of the United States Postal Serv-
ice located at 8520 Michigan Avenue in
Whittier, California, as the ‘‘Jose
Ramos Post Office Building,’’ was or-
dered to a third reading, was read the
third time, and passed.
f
LAKE HAVASU CITY COMBAT VET-
ERANS MEMORIAL POST OFFICE
BUILDING
A bill (H.R. 3314) to designate the fa-
cility of the United States Postal Serv-
ice located at 1750 McCulloch Boule-
vard North in Lake Havasu City, Ari-
zona, as the ‘‘Lake Havasu City Com-
bat Veterans Memorial Post Office
Building,’’ was ordered to a third read-
ing, was read the third time, and
passed.
f
APPOINTMENTS AUTHORITY
Mrs. FISCHER. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that notwith-
standing the upcoming adjournment of
the Senate, the President of the Sen-
ate, the President pro tempore, and the
majority and minority leaders be au-
thorized to make appointments to com-
missions, committees, boards, con-
ferences, or interparliamentary con-
ferences authorized by law by concur-
rent action of the two Houses or by
order of the Senate.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 21:26 Feb 03, 2020 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00043 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\RECORD19\NOVEMBER\S21NO9.REC S21NO9
sradovich
on
DSKJLST7X2PROD
with
CONG-REC-ONLINE
CORRECTION
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6768 November 21, 2019
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
NATIONAL CYBERSECURITY PRE-
PAREDNESS CONSORTIUM ACT
OF 2019
Mrs. FISCHER. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the Senate
proceed to the immediate consider-
ation of Calendar No. 36, S. 333.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the bill by title.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
A bill (S. 333) to authorize the Secretary of
Homeland Security to work with cybersecu-
rity consortia for training, and for other pur-
poses.
There being no objection, the Senate
proceeded to consider the bill, which
had been reported from the Committee
on Homeland Security and Govern-
mental Affairs.
Mrs. FISCHER. I ask unanimous con-
sent that the bill be considered read a
third time and passed and that the mo-
tion to reconsider be considered made
and laid upon the table.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The bill (S. 333) was ordered to be en-
grossed for a third reading, was read
the third time, and passed, as follows:
S. 333
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘National Cy-
bersecurity Preparedness Consortium Act of
2019’’.
SEC. 2. DEFINITIONS.
In this Act—
(1) the term ‘‘consortium’’ means a group
primarily composed of nonprofit entities, in-
cluding academic institutions, that develop,
update, and deliver cybersecurity training in
support of homeland security;
(2) the terms ‘‘cybersecurity risk’’ and ‘‘in-
cident’’ have the meanings given those terms
in section 2209(a) of the Homeland Security
Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 659(a));
(3) the term ‘‘Department’’ means the De-
partment of Homeland Security; and
(4) the term ‘‘Secretary’’ means the Sec-
retary of Homeland Security.
SEC. 3. NATIONAL CYBERSECURITY PREPARED-
NESS CONSORTIUM.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary may work
with a consortium to support efforts to ad-
dress cybersecurity risks and incidents.
(b) ASSISTANCE TO THE NCCIC.—The Sec-
retary may work with a consortium to assist
the national cybersecurity and communica-
tions integration center of the Department
(established under section 2209 of the Home-
land Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 659)) to—
(1) provide training to State and local first
responders and officials specifically for pre-
paring for and responding to cybersecurity
risks and incidents, in accordance with ap-
plicable law;
(2) develop and update a curriculum uti-
lizing existing programs and models in ac-
cordance with such section 2209, for State
and local first responders and officials, re-
lated to cybersecurity risks and incidents;
(3) provide technical assistance services to
build and sustain capabilities in support of
preparedness for and response to cybersecu-
rity risks and incidents, including threats of
terrorism and acts of terrorism, in accord-
ance with such section 2209;
(4) conduct cross-sector cybersecurity
training and simulation exercises for enti-
ties, including State and local governments,
critical infrastructure owners and operators,
and private industry, to encourage commu-
nity-wide coordination in defending against
and responding to cybersecurity risks and in-
cidents, in accordance with section 2210(c) of
the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C.
660(c));
(5) help States and communities develop
cybersecurity information sharing programs,
in accordance with section 2209 of the Home-
land Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 659), for
the dissemination of homeland security in-
formation related to cybersecurity risks and
incidents; and
(6) help incorporate cybersecurity risk and
incident prevention and response into exist-
ing State and local emergency plans, includ-
ing continuity of operations plans.
(c) CONSIDERATIONS REGARDING SELECTION
OF A CONSORTIUM.—In selecting a consortium
with which to work under this Act, the Sec-
retary shall take into consideration the fol-
lowing:
(1) Any prior experience conducting cyber-
security training and exercises for State and
local entities.
(2) Geographic diversity of the members of
any such consortium so as to cover different
regions throughout the United States.
(d) METRICS.—If the Secretary works with
a consortium under subsection (a), the Sec-
retary shall measure the effectiveness of the
activities undertaken by the consortium
under this Act.
(e) OUTREACH.—The Secretary shall con-
duct outreach to universities and colleges,
including historically Black colleges and
universities, Hispanic-serving institutions,
Tribal Colleges and Universities, and other
minority-serving institutions, regarding op-
portunities to support efforts to address cy-
bersecurity risks and incidents, by working
with the Secretary under subsection (a).
SEC. 4. RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.
Nothing in this Act may be construed to
authorize a consortium to control or direct
any law enforcement agency in the exercise
of the duties of the law enforcement agency.
f
STATE AND LOCAL GOVERNMENT
CYBERSECURITY ACT OF 2019
Mrs. FISCHER. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the Senate
proceed to the immediate consider-
ation of Calendar No. 194, S. 1846.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The clerk will report the bill by title.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
A bill (S. 1846) to amend the Homeland Se-
curity Act of 2002 to provide for engagements
with State, local, Tribal, and territorial gov-
ernments, and for other purposes.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
objection to proceeding to the meas-
ure?
There being no objection, the Senate
proceeded to consider the bill, which
had been reported from the Committee
on Homeland Security and Govern-
mental Affairs, with an amendment as
follows:
(The part of the bill intended to be
stricken is shown in boldfaced brack-
ets.)
S. 1846
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘State and
Local Government Cybersecurity Act of
2019’’.
SEC. 2. AMENDMENTS TO THE HOMELAND SECU-
RITY ACT OF 2002.
Subtitle A of title XXII of the Homeland
Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 651 et seq.) is
amended—
(1) in section 2201 (6 U.S.C. 651)—
(A) by redesignating paragraphs (4), (5),
and (6) as paragraphs (5), (6), and (7), respec-
tively; and
(B) by inserting after paragraph (3) the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(4) ENTITY.—The term ‘entity’ shall in-
clude—
‘‘(A) an association, corporation, whether
for-profit or nonprofit, partnership, propri-
etorship, organization, institution, establish-
ment, or individual, whether domestically or
foreign owned, that has the legal capacity to
enter into agreements or contracts, assume
obligations, incur and pay debts, sue and be
sued in its own right in a court of competent
jurisdiction in the United States, and to be
held responsible for its actions;
‘‘(B) a governmental agency or other gov-
ernmental entity, including State, local,
Tribal, and territorial government entities;
and
‘‘(C) the general public.’’; and
(2) in section 2202 (6 U.S.C. 652)—
(A) in subsection (c)—
(i) in paragraph (10), by striking ‘‘and’’ at
the end;
(ii) by redesignating paragraph (11) as
paragraph (12); and
(iii) by inserting after paragraph (10) the
following:
‘‘(11) carry out the authority of the Sec-
retary under subsection (e)(1)(R); and’’; and
(B) in subsection (e)(1), by adding at the
end the following:
‘‘(R) To make grants to and enter into co-
operative agreements or contracts with
States, local governments, and other non-
Federal entities as the Secretary determines
necessary to carry out the responsibilities of
the Secretary related to cybersecurity and
infrastructure security under this Act and
any other provision of law, including grants,
cooperative agreements, and contracts that
provide assistance and education related to
cyber threat indicators, defensive measures
and cybersecurity technologies, cybersecu-
rity risks, incidents, analysis, and warn-
ings.’’; and
(3) in section 2209 (6 U.S.C. 659)—
(A) in subsection (c)(6), by inserting ‘‘oper-
ational and’’ after ‘‘timely’’;
(B) in subsection (d)(1)(E), by inserting ‘‘,
including an entity that collaborates with
election officials,’’ after ‘‘governments’’; and
(C) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(n) COORDINATION ON CYBERSECURITY FOR
FEDERAL AND NON-FEDERAL ENTITIES.—
‘‘(1) COORDINATION.—The Center shall, to
the extent practicable, and in coordination
as appropriate with Federal and non-Federal
entities, such as the Multi-State Information
Sharing and Analysis Center—
‘‘(A) conduct exercises with Federal and
non-Federal entities;
‘‘(B) provide operational and technical cy-
bersecurity training related to cyber threat
indicators, defensive measures, cybersecu-
rity risks, and incidents to Federal and non-
Federal entities to address cybersecurity
risks or incidents, with or without reim-
bursement;
‘‘(C) assist Federal and non-Federal enti-
ties, upon request, in sharing cyber threat
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:45 Nov 22, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00044 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G21NO6.076 S21NOPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6769
November 21, 2019
indicators, defensive measures, cybersecu-
rity risks, and incidents from and to the
Federal Government as well as among Fed-
eral and non-Federal entities, in order to in-
crease situational awareness and help pre-
vent incidents;
‘‘(D) provide notifications containing spe-
cific incident and malware information that
may affect them or their customers and resi-
dents;
‘‘(E) provide and periodically update via a
web portal and other means tools, products,
resources, policies, guidelines, controls, and
other cybersecurity standards and best prac-
tices and procedures related to information
security;
‘‘(F) work with senior Federal and non-
Federal officials, including State and local
Chief Information Officers, senior election
officials, and through national associations,
to coordinate a nationwide effort to ensure
effective implementation of tools, products,
resources, policies, guidelines, controls, and
procedures related to information security
to secure and ensure the resiliency of Fed-
eral and non-Federal information systems
and including election systems;
‘‘(G) provide, upon request, operational and
technical assistance to Federal and non-Fed-
eral entities to implement tools, products,
resources, policies, guidelines, controls, and
procedures on information security, includ-
ing by, as appropriate, deploying and sus-
taining cybersecurity technologies, such as
an intrusion detection capability, to assist
those Federal and non-Federal entities in de-
tecting cybersecurity risks and incidents;
‘‘(H) assist Federal and non-Federal enti-
ties in developing policies and procedures for
coordinating vulnerability disclosures, to
the extent practicable, consistent with inter-
national and national standards in the infor-
mation technology industry;
‘‘(I) ensure that Federal and non-Federal
entities, as appropriate, are made aware of
the tools, products, resources, policies,
guidelines, controls, and procedures on infor-
mation security developed by the Depart-
ment and other appropriate Federal depart-
ments and agencies for ensuring the security
and resiliency of civilian information sys-
tems; and
‘‘(J) promote cybersecurity education and
awareness through engagements with Fed-
eral and non-Federal entities.
‘‘(o) REPORT.—Not later than 1 year after
the date of enactment of this subsection, and
every 2 years thereafter, the Secretary shall
submit to the Committee on Homeland Secu-
rity and Governmental Affairs of the Senate
and the Committee on Homeland Security of
the House of Representatives a report on the
status of cybersecurity measures that are in
place, and any gaps that exist, in each State
and in the largest urban areas of the United
States.
ø‘‘(p) PILOT DEPLOYMENT OF SENSORS.—
‘‘(1) ESTABLISHMENT.—Not later than 180
days after the date of enactment of this sub-
section, the Secretary shall establish a pilot
program to deploy network sensors capable
of utilizing classified indicators for the pur-
pose of identifying and filtering malicious
network traffic.
‘‘(2) VOLUNTARY PARTICIPATION.—Activities
related to the pilot program established
under this subsection may only be carried
out on a voluntary basis in coordination
with the owner of the impacted network.
‘‘(3) EXPANSION AUTHORITY.—If, after 12
months of deployment, the Secretary deter-
mines that the network sensors deployed
pursuant to this subsection would provide
network security benefits to other critical
infrastructure sectors, the Secretary may
make additional network sensors available
to those sectors on a voluntary basis at the
request of critical infrastructure owners and
operators.
‘‘(4) REPORT.—Not later than 1 year after
the date on which the Secretary establishes
the pilot program under this subsection, the
Secretary shall submit to the Committee on
Homeland Security and Governmental Af-
fairs of the Senate and the Committee on
Homeland Security of the House of Rep-
resentatives a report on the pilot program,
which shall include—
‘‘(A) the status of the pilot program;
‘‘(B) the rate of voluntary participation in
the pilot program;
‘‘(C) the effectiveness of the pilot program
in detecting and blocking traffic that could
not have been captured without the network
sensors deployed under the pilot program;
and
‘‘(D) recommendations for expanding the
use of classified threat indicators to protect
United States critical infrastructure.’’.¿
‘‘(p) DEPLOYMENT OF ENHANCED CAPABILI-
TIES.—
‘‘(1) ESTABLISHMENT.—Not later than 180 days
after the date of enactment of this subsection,
the Secretary may establish an initiative to en-
hance efforts to deploy technical or analytic ca-
pabilities or services that utilize classified cyber
threat indicators or intelligence for the purpose
of detecting or preventing malicious network
traffic on unclassified non-Federal information
systems.
‘‘(2) VOLUNTARY PARTICIPATION.—Activities
conducted under this subsection may only be
carried out on a voluntary basis upon request of
the non-Federal entity.
‘‘(3) REPORT.—Not later than 1 year after the
date on which the Secretary establishes the ini-
tiative under this subsection, the Secretary shall
submit to the Committee on Homeland Security
and Governmental Affairs of the Senate and the
Committee on Homeland Security of the House
of Representatives a report on the initiative,
which shall include—
‘‘(A) the status of the initiative;
‘‘(B) the rate of voluntary participation in the
initiative;
‘‘(C) the effectiveness of the initiative; and
‘‘(D) recommendations for expanding the use
of classified cyber threat indicators to protect
non-Federal entities.’’.
Mrs. FISCHER. I further ask unani-
mous consent that the committee-re-
ported amendment be withdrawn; that
the Peters substitute amendment,
which is at the desk, be considered and
agreed to; that the bill, as amended, be
considered read a third time and
passed; and that the motion to recon-
sider be considered made and laid upon
the table with no intervening action or
debate.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The committee-reported amendment
was withdrawn.
The amendment (No. 1252) in the na-
ture of a substitute is as follows:
(Purpose: In the nature of a substitute)
Strike all after the enacting clause and in-
sert the following:
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘State and
Local Government Cybersecurity Act of
2019’’.
SEC. 2. AMENDMENTS TO THE HOMELAND SECU-
RITY ACT OF 2002.
Subtitle A of title XXII of the Homeland
Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 651 et seq.) is
amended—
(1) in section 2201 (6 U.S.C. 651)—
(A) by redesignating paragraphs (4), (5),
and (6) as paragraphs (5), (6), and (7), respec-
tively; and
(B) by inserting after paragraph (3) the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(4) ENTITY.—The term ‘entity’ shall in-
clude—
‘‘(A) an association, corporation, whether
for-profit or nonprofit, partnership, propri-
etorship, organization, institution, establish-
ment, or individual, whether domestic or for-
eign;
‘‘(B) a governmental agency or other gov-
ernmental entity, whether domestic or for-
eign, including State, local, Tribal, and ter-
ritorial government entities; and
‘‘(C) the general public.’’; and
(2) in section 2202 (6 U.S.C. 652)—
(A) in subsection (c)—
(i) in paragraph (10), by striking ‘‘and’’ at
the end;
(ii) by redesignating paragraph (11) as
paragraph (12); and
(iii) by inserting after paragraph (10) the
following:
‘‘(11) carry out the authority of the Sec-
retary under subsection (e)(1)(R); and’’; and
(B) in subsection (e)(1), by adding at the
end the following:
‘‘(R) To make grants to and enter into co-
operative agreements or contracts with
States, local, Tribal, and territorial govern-
ments, and other non-Federal entities as the
Secretary determines necessary to carry out
the responsibilities of the Secretary related
to cybersecurity and infrastructure security
under this Act and any other provision of
law, including grants, cooperative agree-
ments, and contracts that provide assistance
and education related to cyber threat indica-
tors, defensive measures and cybersecurity
technologies, cybersecurity risks, incidents,
analysis, and warnings.’’; and
(3) in section 2209 (6 U.S.C. 659)—
(A) in subsection (c)(6), by inserting ‘‘oper-
ational and’’ after ‘‘timely’’;
(B) in subsection (d)(1)(E), by inserting ‘‘,
including an entity that collaborates with
election officials,’’ after ‘‘governments’’; and
(C) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(n) COORDINATION ON CYBERSECURITY FOR
FEDERAL AND NON-FEDERAL ENTITIES.—
‘‘(1) COORDINATION.—The Center shall, to
the extent practicable, and in coordination
as appropriate with Federal and non-Federal
entities, such as the Multi-State Information
Sharing and Analysis Center—
‘‘(A) conduct exercises with Federal and
non-Federal entities;
‘‘(B) provide operational and technical cy-
bersecurity training related to cyber threat
indicators, defensive measures, cybersecu-
rity risks, and incidents to Federal and non-
Federal entities to address cybersecurity
risks or incidents, with or without reim-
bursement;
‘‘(C) assist Federal and non-Federal enti-
ties, upon request, in sharing cyber threat
indicators, defensive measures, cybersecu-
rity risks, and incidents from and to the
Federal Government as well as among Fed-
eral and non-Federal entities, in order to in-
crease situational awareness and help pre-
vent incidents;
‘‘(D) provide notifications containing spe-
cific incident and malware information that
may affect them or their customers and resi-
dents;
‘‘(E) provide and periodically update via a
web portal and other means tools, products,
resources, policies, guidelines, controls, and
other cybersecurity standards and best prac-
tices and procedures related to information
security;
‘‘(F) work with senior Federal and non-
Federal officials, including State and local
Chief Information Officers, senior election
officials, and through national associations,
to coordinate a nationwide effort to ensure
effective implementation of tools, products,
resources, policies, guidelines, controls, and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:45 Nov 22, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00045 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A21NO6.038 S21NOPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6770 November 21, 2019
procedures related to information security
to secure and ensure the resiliency of Fed-
eral and non-Federal information systems
and including election systems;
‘‘(G) provide, upon request, operational and
technical assistance to Federal and non-Fed-
eral entities to implement tools, products,
resources, policies, guidelines, controls, and
procedures on information security, includ-
ing by, as appropriate, deploying and sus-
taining cybersecurity technologies, such as
an intrusion detection capability, to assist
those Federal and non-Federal entities in de-
tecting cybersecurity risks and incidents;
‘‘(H) assist Federal and non-Federal enti-
ties in developing policies and procedures for
coordinating vulnerability disclosures, to
the extent practicable, consistent with inter-
national and national standards in the infor-
mation technology industry;
‘‘(I) ensure that Federal and non-Federal
entities, as appropriate, are made aware of
the tools, products, resources, policies,
guidelines, controls, and procedures on infor-
mation security developed by the Depart-
ment and other appropriate Federal depart-
ments and agencies for ensuring the security
and resiliency of civilian information sys-
tems; and
‘‘(J) promote cybersecurity education and
awareness through engagements with Fed-
eral and non-Federal entities.
‘‘(o) REPORT.—Not later than 1 year after
the date of enactment of this subsection, and
every 2 years thereafter, the Secretary shall
submit to the Committee on Homeland Secu-
rity and Governmental Affairs of the Senate
and the Committee on Homeland Security of
the House of Representatives a report on the
status of cybersecurity measures that are in
place, and any gaps that exist, in each State
and in the largest urban areas of the United
States.’’.
The bill (S. 1846), as amended, was or-
dered to be engrossed for a third read-
ing, was read the third time, and
passed.
f
REAFFIRMING THE IMPORTANCE
OF THE GENERAL SECURITY OF
MILITARY INFORMATION AGREE-
MENT BETWEEN THE REPUBLIC
OF KOREA AND JAPAN
Mrs. FISCHER. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the Foreign
Relations Committee be discharged
from further consideration and the
Senate now proceed to S. Res. 435.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The clerk will report the resolution
by title.
The legislative clerk read as follows:
A resolution (S. Res. 435) reaffirming the
importance of the General Security of Mili-
tary Information Agreement between the Re-
public of Korea and Japan, and for other pur-
poses.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
objection to proceeding to the meas-
ure?
There being no objection, the com-
mittee was discharged, and the Senate
proceeded to consider the resolution.
Mrs. FISCHER. I ask unanimous con-
sent that the resolution be agreed to,
the preamble be agreed to, and the mo-
tions to reconsider be considered made
and laid upon the table.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The resolution (S. Res. 435) was
agreed to.
The preamble was agreed to.
(The resolution, with its preamble, is
printed in the RECORD of November 20,
2019, under ‘‘Submitted Resolutions.’’)
f
EXECUTIVE SESSION
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
Mrs. FISCHER. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the Senate
proceed to executive session for the
consideration of Calendar Nos. 510
through 517 and all nominations on the
Secretary’s desk in the Air Force,
Army, Marine Corps, Navy, Foreign
Service, and Coast Guard; that the
nominations be confirmed, the motions
to reconsider be considered made and
laid upon the table with no intervening
action or debate; that no further mo-
tions be in order; that any statements
related to the nominations be printed
in the Record; and that the President
be immediately notified of the Senate’s
action.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
objection?
Without objection, it is so ordered.
The nominations considered and con-
firmed en bloc are as follows:
IN THE ARMY
The following named officers for appoint-
ment to the grade indicated in the United
States Army under title 10, U.S.C., section
624:
To be brigadier general
Col. Patrick R. Michaelis
The following named officer for appoint-
ment in the United States Army to the grade
indicated while assigned to a position of im-
portance and responsibility under title 10,
U.S.C., section 601:
To be lieutenant general
Maj. Gen Daniel L. Karbler
The following named Army National Guard
of the United States officer for appointment
in the Reserve of the Army to the grade indi-
cated under title 10, U.S.C., sections 12203
and 12211:
To be brigadier general
Col. Stephanie A. Purgerson
IN THE AIR FORCE
The following named officers for appoint-
ment in the Reserve of the Air Force to the
grade indicated under title 10, U.S.C., section
12203:
To be brigadier general
Col. Leslie A. Beavers
Col. Robert M. Blake
Col. Melissa A. Coburn
Col. Vanessa J. Dornhoefer
Col. Lynnette J. Hebert
Col. Jeffrey F. Hill
Col. Traci L. KuekerMurphy
Col. Preston F. McFarren
Col. William D. Murphy
Col. Dana N. Nelson
Col. Robert P. Palmer
Col. David A. Piffarerio
Col. Mitchell D. Richardson
Col. William A. Rock
Col. Mark V. Slominski
Col. Max J. Stitzer
Col. Robert W. VanHoy, II
Col. Adrian K. White
The following named officers for appoint-
ment in the Reserve of the Air Force to the
grade indicated under title 10, U.S.C., section
12203:
To be major general
Brig. Gen. Lee Ann T. Bennett
Brig. Gen. Jay S. Goldstein
Brig. Gen. Jeffrey S. Hinrichs
Brig. Gen. Bret C. Larson
Brig. Gen. Bryan P. Radliff
Brig. Gen. Scott A. Sauter
The following named officer for appoint-
ment in the Reserve of the Air Force to the
grade indicated under title 10, U.S.C., section
12203:
To be brigadier general
Col. Darrin D. Lambrigger
IN THE ARMY
The following named Army National Guard
of the United States officer for appointment
in the Reserve of the Army to the grade indi-
cated under title 10, U.S.C., sections 12203
and 12211:
To be major general
Brig. Gen. John C. Boyd
The following named Army National Guard
of the United States officer for appointment
in the Reserve of the Army to the grade indi-
cated under title 10, U.S.C., sections 12203
and 12211:
To be brigadier general
Col. Damon N. Cluck
NOMINATIONS PLACED ON THE SECRETARY’S
DESK
IN THE AIR FORCE
PN1115 AIR FORCE nominations
(10) beginning JEFFREY J. AUTREY, and
ending JENNIFER T. VECCHIONE, which
nominations were received by the Senate and
appeared in the Congressional Record of Sep-
tember 19, 2019.
PN1269 AIR FORCE nominations
(127) beginning THOMAS JASON ABELL,
and ending LAWRENCE NAHNO YAZZIE,
which nominations were received by the Sen-
ate and appeared in the Congressional
Record of November 12, 2019.
PN1270 AIR FORCE nomination of Joshua
B. Stierwalt, which was received by the Sen-
ate and appeared in the Congressional
Record of November 12, 2019.
IN THE ARMY
PN1205 ARMY nomination of Michael W.
Torre, which was received by the Senate and
appeared in the Congressional Record of Oc-
tober 15, 2019.
PN1206 ARMY nomination of Austin C.
Vann, which was received by the Senate and
appeared in the Congressional Record of Oc-
tober 15, 2019.
PN1257 ARMY nomination of Michael J.
Blanton, which was received by the Senate
and appeared in the Congressional Record of
October 30, 2019.
PN1258 ARMY nomination of Laina G.
Cafego, which was received by the Senate
and appeared in the Congressional Record of
October 30, 2019.
PN1259 ARMY nomination of Lyle E.
Bushong, which was received by the Senate
and appeared in the Congressional Record of
October 30, 2019.
PN1261 ARMY nomination of Garth E.
Coke, which was received by the Senate and
appeared in the Congressional Record of Oc-
tober 30, 2019.
PN1264 ARMY nomination of Brent R. Rob-
ertson, which was received by the Senate and
appeared in the Congressional Record of Oc-
tober 30, 2019.
PN1271 ARMY nomination of Gerald J.
Hall, which was received by the Senate and
appeared in the Congressional Record of No-
vember 12, 2019.
PN1272 ARMY nomination of Nicole L.
Kruse, which was received by the Senate and
appeared in the Congressional Record of No-
vember 12, 2019.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:45 Nov 22, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00046 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A21NO6.037 S21NOPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6771
November 21, 2019
IN THE COAST GUARD
* PN1226 COAST GUARD nominations (5)
beginning JOSEPH D. BROWN, and ending
MARIETT C. OGG, which nominations were
received by the Senate and appeared in the
Congressional Record of October 15, 2019.
INTHE FOREIGN SERVICE
PN606—1 FOREIGN SERVICE nominations
(15) beginning Derrick Scott Brown, and end-
ing V. Kate Somvongsiri, which nominations
were received by the Senate and appeared in
the Congressional Record of April 10, 2019.
PN788—2 FOREIGN SERVICE nomination
of Jay P. Williams, which was received by
the Senate and appeared in the Congres-
sional Record of May 21, 2019.
IN THE MARINE CORPS
PN1274 MARINE CORPS nomination of
Emma R. Shinn, which was received by the
Senate and appeared in the Congressional
Record of November 12, 2019.
PN1275 MARINE CORPS nomination of
Ryan J. Nowlin, which was received by the
Senate and appeared in the Congressional
Record of November 12, 2019.
IN THE NAVY
PN1265 NAVY nomination of John N.
Amiral, which was received by the Senate
and appeared in the Congressional Record of
October 30, 2019.
PN1273 NAVY nomination of Thomas Q.
Gallagher, which was received by the Senate
and appeared in the Congressional Record of
November 12, 2019.
f
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
Mrs. FISCHER. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the Senate
proceed to the en bloc consideration of
the following nominations: Executive
Calendar Nos. 485, 537, and 539.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The clerk will report the nomina-
tions en bloc.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read the nominations of Robert An-
thony Dixon, of the District of Colum-
bia, to be United States Marshal for
the Superior Court of the District of
Columbia for the term of four years;
Thomas Michael O’Connor, of Texas, to
be United States Marshal for the
Southern District of Texas for the term
of four years; and Ralph Ignatius Sozio,
of New York, to be United States Mar-
shal for the Southern District of New
York for the term of four years.
Thereupon, the Senate proceeded to
consider the nominations, en bloc.
Mrs. FISCHER. I ask unanimous con-
sent that the Senate vote on the nomi-
nations en bloc with no intervening ac-
tion or debate; that if confirmed, the
motions to reconsider be considered
made and laid upon the table en bloc;
that the President be immediately no-
tified of the Senate’s action; that no
further motions be in order; and that
any statements relating to the nomina-
tions be printed in the RECORD.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The question is, Will the Senate ad-
vise and consent to the Dixon, O’Con-
nor, and Sozio nominations en bloc?
The nominations were confirmed en
bloc.
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
Mrs. FISCHER. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the Senate
proceed to the consideration of the fol-
lowing nomination: Executive Calendar
No. 420.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The clerk will report the nomination.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read the nomination of E. Sequoyah
Simermeyer, of Maryland, to be Chair-
man of the National Indian Gaming
Commission for the term of three
years.
Thereupon, the Senate proceeded to
consider the nomination.
Mrs. FISCHER. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the Senate
vote on the nomination with no inter-
vening action or debate; that if con-
firmed, the motion to reconsider be
considered made and laid upon the
table; that the President be imme-
diately notified of the Senate’s action;
that no further motion be in order; and
that any statement relating to the
nomination be printed in the RECORD.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
objection?
Without objection, it is so ordered.
The question is, Will the Senate ad-
vise and consent to the Seimermeyer
nomination?
The nomination was confirmed.
f
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
Mrs. FISCHER. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the Senate
proceed to the en bloc consideration of
the following nominations: Executive
Calendar Nos. 482, 483, and 484.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The clerk will report the nomina-
tions en bloc.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read the nominations of Joshua A.
Deahl, of the District of Columbia, to
be an Associate Judge of the District of
Columbia Court of Appeals for the term
of fifteen years; Deborah J. Israel, of
the District of Columbia, to be an As-
sociate Judge of the Superior Court of
the District of Columbia for the term
of fifteen years; and Andrea L.
Hertzfeld, of the District of Columbia,
to be an Associate Judge of the Supe-
rior Court of the District of Columbia
for the term of fifteen years.
Thereupon, the Senate proceeded to
consider the nominations, en bloc.
Mrs. FISCHER. I ask unanimous con-
sent that the Senate vote on the nomi-
nations en bloc with no intervening ac-
tion or debate; that if confirmed, the
motions to reconsider be considered
made and laid upon the table en bloc;
that the President be immediately no-
tified of the Senate’s action; that no
further motions be in order; and that
any statements relating to the nomina-
tions be printed in the RECORD.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The question is, Will the Senate ad-
vise and consent to the Deahl, Israel,
and Hertzfeld nominations en bloc?
The nominations were confirmed en
bloc.
f
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
Mrs. FISCHER. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the Senate
proceed to the consideration of the fol-
lowing nomination: Executive Calendar
No. 129.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The clerk will report the nomination.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read the nomination of John Lowry III,
of Illinois, to be Assistant Secretary of
Labor for Veterans’ Employment and
Training.
Thereupon, the Senate proceeded to
consider the nomination.
Mrs. FISCHER. I ask unanimous con-
sent that the Senate vote on the nomi-
nation with no intervening action or
debate; that if confirmed, the motion
to reconsider be considered made and
laid upon the table; that the President
be immediately notified of the Senate’s
action; that no further motions be in
order; and that any statements relat-
ing to the nomination be printed in the
RECORD.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The question is, Will the Senate ad-
vise and consent to the Lowry nomina-
tion?
The nomination was confirmed.
f
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
Mrs. FISCHER. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the Senate
proceed to the en bloc consideration of
the following nominations: Executive
Calendar Nos. 456, 493, and 495.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
objection?
Without objection, it is so ordered.
The clerk will report the nomina-
tions en bloc.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read the nominations of John E. Kra-
mer, of Florida, to be Chief Financial
Officer, Department of Transportation;
Ian Paul Steff, of Indiana, to be Assist-
ant Secretary of Commerce and Direc-
tor General of the United States and
Foreign Commercial Service; and Carl
Whitney Bentzel, of Maryland, to be a
Federal Maritime Commissioner for
the term expiring June 30, 2024.
Thereupon, the Senate proceeded to
consider the nominations en bloc.
Mrs. FISCHER. I ask unanimous con-
sent that the Senate vote on the nomi-
nations en bloc, with no intervening
action or debate; that if confirmed, the
motions to reconsider be considered
made and laid upon the table en bloc;
that the President be immediately no-
tified of the Senate’s actions; that no
further motions be in order; and that
any statements relating to the nomina-
tions be printed in the RECORD.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
objection?
Without objection, it is so ordered.
The question is, Will the Senate ad-
vise and consent to the Kramer, Steff,
and Bentzel nominations en bloc?
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:45 Nov 22, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00047 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A21NO6.039 S21NOPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6772 November 21, 2019
The nominations were confirmed en
bloc.
f
LEGISLATIVE SESSION
MORNING BUSINESS
Mrs. FISCHER. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the Senate
proceed to legislative session and be in
a period of morning business, with Sen-
ators permitted to speak therein for up
to 10 minutes each.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
ORDERS FOR FRIDAY, NOVEMBER
22, THROUGH MONDAY, DECEM-
BER 2, 2019
Mrs. FISCHER. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that when the Sen-
ate completes its business today, it ad-
journ to then convene for pro forma
sessions only, with no business being
conducted, on the following dates and
times, and that following each pro
forma session, the Senate adjourn until
the next pro forma session: Friday, No-
vember 22, at 9:30 a.m.; Tuesday, No-
vember 26, at 7 a.m.; Friday, November
29, at 9:30 a.m. I further ask unanimous
consent that when the Senate adjourns
on Friday, November 29, it next con-
vene at 3 p.m. on Monday, December 2,
and that following the pledge, the
morning hour be deemed expired, the
Journal of proceedings be approved to
date, the time for the two leaders be
reserved for their use later in the day,
morning business be closed, and the
Senate proceed to executive session
and resume consideration of the
Brouillette nomination, with the
postcloture time on the nomination ex-
piring at 5:30 p.m.; further, that if con-
firmed, the motion to reconsider be
considered made and laid upon the
table and the President be immediately
notified of the Senate’s action; finally,
that notwithstanding the provisions of
rule XXII, the cloture motions filed
during today’s session ripen following
disposition of the Brouillette nomina-
tion.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
objection?
Without objection, it is so ordered.
f
ADJOURNMENT UNTIL 9:30 A.M.
TOMORROW
Mrs. FISCHER. Mr. President, if
there is no further business to come be-
fore the Senate, I ask unanimous con-
sent that it stand adjourned under the
previous order.
There being no objection, the Senate,
at 5:07 p.m., adjourned until Friday,
November 22, 2019, at 9:30 a.m.
f
NOMINATIONS
Executive nominations received by
the Senate:
ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK
JASON MYUNG–LK CHUNG, OF VIRGINIA, TO BE UNITED
STATES DIRECTOR OF THE ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK,
WITH THE RANK OF AMBASSADOR, VICE SWATI A.
DANDEKAR.
THE JUDICIARY
ANDREW LYNN BRASHER, OF ALABAMA, TO BE UNITED
STATES CIRCUIT JUDGE FOR THE ELEVENTH CIRCUIT,
VICE EDWARD E. CARNES, RETIRING.
JOHN W. HOLCOMB, OF CALIFORNIA, TO BE UNITED
STATES DISTRICT JUDGE FOR THE CENTRAL DISTRICT
OF CALIFORNIA, VICE DEAN D. PREGERSON, RETIRED .
KNUT SVEINBJORN JOHNSON, OF CALIFORNIA, TO BE
UNITED STATES DISTRICT JUDGE FOR THE SOUTHERN
DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA, VICE JOHN A. HOUSTON, RE-
TIRED.
STEVE KIM, OF CALIFORNIA, TO BE UNITED STATES
DISTRICT JUDGE FOR THE CENTRAL DISTRICT OF CALI-
FORNIA, VICE BEVERLY REID O’CONNELL, DECEASED.
JOSHUA M. KINDRED, OF ALASKA, TO BE UNITED
STATES DISTRICT JUDGE FOR THE DISTRICT OF ALASKA,
VICE RALPH R. BEISTLINE, RETIRED.
MICHELLE M. PETTIT, OF CALIFORNIA, TO BE UNITED
STATES DISTRICT JUDGE FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT
OF CALIFORNIA, VICE MICHAEL M. ANELLO, RETIRED.
TODD WALLACE ROBINSON, OF CALIFORNIA, TO BE
UNITED STATES DISTRICT JUDGE FOR THE SOUTHERN
DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA, VICE MARILYN L. HUFF, RE-
TIRED.
JENNIFER P. TOGLIATTI, OF NEVADA, TO BE UNITED
STATES DISTRICT JUDGE FOR THE DISTRICT OF NE-
VADA, VICE JAMES C. MAHAN, RETIRED.
FOREIGN SERVICE
THE FOLLOWING–NAMED CAREER MEMBERS OF THE
SENIOR FOREIGN SERVICE OF THE DEPARTMENT OF
COMMERCE FOR PROMOTION WITHIN THE SENIOR FOR-
EIGN SERVICE OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA,
CLASS OF MINISTER–COUNSELOR:
ALAN TURLEY, OF CONNECTICUT
THE FOLLOWING–NAMED CAREER MEMBERS OF THE
FOREIGN SERVICE FOR PROMOTION INTO THE SENIOR
FOREIGN SERVICE, CLASS OF COUNSELOR:
HEATHER BYRNES, OF ALASKA
BRENT OMDAHL, OF GEORGIA
SCOTT POZIL, OF WASHINGTON
ERIC WOLFF, OF NORTH CAROLINA
THE FOLLOWING–NAMED MEMBERS OF THE FOREIGN
SERVICE OF THE DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE TO BE A
CONSULAR OFFICER AND A SECRETARY IN THE DIPLO-
MATIC SERVICE OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA:
SCOTT L. ANDERSON, OF TEXAS
CAREYLOU S. ARUN, OF MARYLAND
JEFFREY P. CADY, OF FLORIDA
SANTIAGO DAVILA, OF CALIFORNIA
ROBERT D. GAINES, OF ARIZONA
BRYAN J. GOLDFINGER, OF CALIFORNIA
JOHN G. HABERSTOCK, OF NEW JERSEY
FREDERICK J. HELFRICH, OF PENNSYLVANIA
MELISSA A. HILL, OF CALIFORNIA
MICHAEL IMBROGNA, OF MASSACHUSETTS
ANTONIOS LOULOUDAKIS, OF VIRGINIA
MICHAEL A. MARANGELL, OF CALIFORNIA
HEATHER S. MCLEOD, OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA
KOLBJORN T. NELSON, OF MINNESOTA
SETH OPPENHEIM, OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA
RICHARD A. PEARSON, OF MASSACHUSETTS
CRAIG R. PHILDIUS, OF FLORIDA
DANIEL T. PINT, OF NEW YORK
IRWIN H. ROBERTS, OF NORTH CAROLINA
ADAM S. ROTH, OF NEW JERSEY
JENNIFER A. SHORE, OF FLORIDA
LEANN C. TAGWERKER, OF FLORIDA
WILLIAM J. TOERPE, OF ALABAMA
STEPHEN WILCOX, OF PENNSYLVANIA
CHRISTOPHER W. WILKEN, OF WEST VIRGINIA
DUNCAN F. WILLSON, OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA
CHRISTOPHER JB. WONG, OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA
CONRAD WP. WONG, OF VIRGINIA
THE FOLLOWING–NAMED CAREER MEMBERS OF THE
SENIOR FOREIGN SERVICE OF THE DEPARTMENT OF
COMMERCE FOR PROMOTION WITHIN THE SENIOR FOR-
EIGN SERVICE OF HE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA,
CLASS OF CAREER MINISTER:
MICHAEL LALLY, OF VIRGINIA
DALE TASHARSKI, OF VIRGINIA
THE FOLLOWING–NAMED CAREER MEMBER OF THE
FOREIGN SERVICE OF THE UNITED STATES AGENCY FOR
GLOBAL MEDIA, BROADCASTING BOARD OF GOVERNORS,
FOR PROMOTION INTO THE SENIOR FOREIGN SERVICE TO
THE CLASS INDICATED:
CAREER MEMBER OF THE SENIOR FOREIGN SERVICE,
CLASS OF COUNSELOR, AND A CONSULAR OFFICER AND A
SECRETARY IN THE DIPLOMATIC SERVICE OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA:
GUNTER E. SCHWABE, OF NORTH CAROLINA
f
CONFIRMATIONS
Executive nominations confirmed by
the Senate November 21, 2019:
DEPARTMENT OF LABOR
JOHN LOWRY III, OF ILLINOIS, TO BE ASSISTANT SEC-
RETARY OF LABOR FOR VETERANS’ EMPLOYMENT AND
TRAINING.
NATIONAL INDIAN GAMING COMMISSION
E. SEQUOYAH SIMERMEYER, OF MARYLAND, TO BE
CHAIRMAN OF THE NATIONAL INDIAN GAMING COMMIS-
SION FOR THE TERM OF THREE YEARS.
DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION
JOHN E. KRAMER, OF FLORIDA, TO BE CHIEF FINAN-
CIAL OFFICER, DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION.
THE JUDICIARY
JOSHUA A. DEAHL, OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, TO
BE AN ASSOCIATE JUDGE OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUM-
BIA COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE TERM OF FIFTEEN
YEARS.
DEBORAH J. ISRAEL, OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA,
TO BE AN ASSOCIATE JUDGE OF THE SUPERIOR COURT
OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA FOR THE TERM OF FIF-
TEEN YEARS.
ANDREA L. HERTZFELD, OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUM-
BIA, TO BE AN ASSOCIATE JUDGE OF THE SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA FOR THE TERM
OF FIFTEEN YEARS.
DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
ROBERT ANTHONY DIXON, OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUM-
BIA, TO BE UNITED STATES MARSHAL FOR THE SUPE-
RIOR COURT OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA FOR THE
TERM OF FOUR YEARS.
DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE
IAN PAUL STEFF, OF INDIANA, TO BE ASSISTANT SEC-
RETARY OF COMMERCE AND DIRECTOR GENERAL OF THE
UNITED STATES AND FOREIGN COMMERCIAL SERVICE.
FEDERAL MARITIME COMMISSION
CARL WHITNEY BENTZEL, OF MARYLAND, TO BE A FED-
ERAL MARITIME COMMISSIONER FOR THE TERM EXPIR-
ING JUNE 30, 2024.
IN THE ARMY
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICERS FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE UNITED STATES ARMY
UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 624:
To be brigadier general
COL. PATRICK R. MICHAELIS
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
IN THE UNITED STATES ARMY TO THE GRADE INDICATED
WHILE ASSIGNED TO A POSITION OF IMPORTANCE AND
RESPONSIBILITY UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 601:
To be lieutenant general
MAJ. GEN. DANIEL L. KARBLER
THE FOLLOWING NAMED ARMY NATIONAL GUARD OF
THE UNITED STATES OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT IN
THE RESERVE OF THE ARMY TO THE GRADE INDICATED
UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTIONS 12203 AND 12211:
To be brigadier general
COL. STEPHANIE A. PURGERSON
IN THE AIR FORCE
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICERS FOR APPOINTMENT
IN THE RESERVE OF THE AIR FORCE TO THE GRADE INDI-
CATED UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 12203:
To be brigadier general
COL. LESLIE A. BEAVERS
COL. ROBERT M. BLAKE
COL. MELISSA A. COBURN
COL. VANESSA J. DORNHOEFER
COL. LYNNETTE J. HEBERT
COL. JEFFREY F. HILL
COL. TRACI L. KUEKERMURPHY
COL. PRESTON F. MCFARREN
COL. WILLIAM D. MURPHY
COL. DANA N. NELSON
COL. ROBERT P. PALMER
COL. DAVID A. PIFFARERIO
COL. MITCHELL D. RICHARDSON
COL. WILLIAM A. ROCK
COL. MARK V. SLOMINSKI
COL. MAX J. STITZER
COL. ROBERT W. VANHOY II
COL. ADRIAN K. WHITE
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICERS FOR APPOINTMENT
IN THE RESERVE OF THE AIR FORCE TO THE GRADE INDI-
CATED UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 12203:
To be major general
BRIG. GEN. LEE ANN T. BENNETT
BRIG. GEN. JAY S. GOLDSTEIN
BRIG. GEN. JEFFREY S. HINRICHS
BRIG. GEN. BRET C. LARSON
BRIG. GEN. BRYAN P. RADLIFF
BRIG. GEN. SCOTT A. SAUTER
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
IN THE RESERVE OF THE AIR FORCE TO THE GRADE INDI-
CATED UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 12203:
To be brigadier general
COL. DARRIN D. LAMBRIGGER
IN THE ARMY
THE FOLLOWING NAMED ARMY NATIONAL GUARD OF
THE UNITED STATES OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT IN
THE RESERVE OF THE ARMY TO THE GRADE INDICATED
UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTIONS 12203 AND 12211:
To be major general
BRIG. GEN. JOHN C. BOYD
THE FOLLOWING NAMED ARMY NATIONAL GUARD OF
THE UNITED STATES OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT IN
THE RESERVE OF THE ARMY TO THE GRADE INDICATED
UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTIONS 12203 AND 12211:
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:45 Nov 22, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00048 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 9801 E:\CR\FM\G21NO6.081 S21NOPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6773
November 21, 2019
To be brigadier general
COL. DAMON N. CLUCK
DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
THOMAS MICHAEL O’CONNOR, OF TEXAS, TO BE UNITED
STATES MARSHAL FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF
TEXAS FOR THE TERM OF FOUR YEARS.
RALPH IGNATIUS SOZIO, OF NEW YORK, TO BE UNITED
STATES MARSHAL FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF
NEW YORK FOR THE TERM OF FOUR YEARS.
IN THE AIR FORCE
AIR FORCE NOMINATIONS BEGINNING WITH JEFFREY J.
AUTREY AND ENDING WITH JENNIFER T. VECCHIONE,
WHICH NOMINATIONS WERE RECEIVED BY THE SENATE
AND APPEARED IN THE CONGRESSIONAL RECORD ON
SEPTEMBER 19, 2019.
AIR FORCE NOMINATIONS BEGINNING WITH THOMAS
JASON ABELL AND ENDING WITH LAWRENCE NAHNO
YAZZIE, WHICH NOMINATIONS WERE RECEIVED BY THE
SENATE AND APPEARED IN THE CONGRESSIONAL
RECORD ON NOVEMBER 12, 2019.
AIR FORCE NOMINATION OF JOSHUA B. STIERWALT, TO
BE MAJOR.
IN THE ARMY
ARMY NOMINATION OF MICHAEL W. TORRE, TO BE
MAJOR.
ARMY NOMINATION OF AUSTIN C. VANN, TO BE MAJOR.
ARMY NOMINATION OF MICHAEL J. BLANTON, TO BE
LIEUTENANT COLONEL.
ARMY NOMINATION OF LAINA G. CAFEGO, TO BE
MAJOR.
ARMY NOMINATION OF LYLE E. BUSHONG, TO BE
MAJOR.
ARMY NOMINATION OF GARTH E. COKE, TO BE MAJOR.
ARMY NOMINATION OF BRENT R. ROBERTSON, TO BE
MAJOR.
ARMY NOMINATION OF GERALD J. HALL, TO BE COLO-
NEL.
ARMY NOMINATION OF NICOLE L. KRUSE, TO BE
MAJOR.
IN THE MARINE CORPS
MARINE CORPS NOMINATION OF EMMA R. SHINN, TO BE
CAPTAIN.
MARINE CORPS NOMINATION OF RYAN J. NOWLIN, TO
BE MAJOR.
IN THE NAVY
NAVY NOMINATION OF JOHN N. AMIRAL, TO BE COM-
MANDER.
NAVY NOMINATION OF THOMAS Q. GALLAGHER, TO BE
CAPTAIN.
IN THE COAST GUARD
COAST GUARD NOMINATIONS BEGINNING WITH JOSEPH
D. BROWN AND ENDING WITH MARIETT C. OGG, WHICH
NOMINATIONS WERE RECEIVED BY THE SENATE AND AP-
PEARED IN THE CONGRESSIONAL RECORD ON OCTOBER
15, 2019.
FOREIGN SERVICE
FOREIGN SERVICE NOMINATIONS BEGINNING WITH
DERRICK SCOTT BROWN AND ENDING WITH V. KATE
SOMVONGSIRI, WHICH NOMINATIONS WERE RECEIVED BY
THE SENATE AND APPEARED IN THE CONGRESSIONAL
RECORD ON APRIL 10, 2019.
FOREIGN SERVICE NOMINATION OF JAY P. WILLIAMS.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:45 Nov 22, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00049 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 9801 E:\CR\FM\A21NO6.003 S21NOPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
EXTENSIONS OF REMARKS
∑ This ‘‘bullet’’ symbol identifies statements or insertions which are not spoken by a Member of the Senate on the floor.
Matter set in this typeface indicates words inserted or appended, rather than spoken, by a Member of the House on the floor.
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E1485
November 21, 2019
RECOGNIZING THE LIFE OF STAN
JONES, TULALIP TRIBES LEADER
HON. SUZAN K. DelBENE
OF WASHINGTON
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, November 21, 2019
Ms. DELBENE. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to honor the life of Stan Jones, Sr., Scho-
Hallem, a former leader of Washington state’s
Tulalip Tribes who passed away this month at
the age of 93.
Like many Native households during the
1930s, Stan grew up poor, often without ac-
cess to running water or electricity. But Stan
persevered, and made the brave decision to
join the U.S. Marines Corps when he was 17-
years-old. He served during World War II in
the 2nd Tank Battalion, 2nd Marine Division in
the Pacific. He was sent to Nagasaki, Japan
not long after the Atomic bomb was dropped
on the city.
Upon returning home, Stan began his life’s
work improving the lives of his people. He
served on the Tulalip Board of Directors for 44
years, including 26 years as Chairman.
Stan travelled across the country and the
world representing Tulalip, teaching people
about the rich history and culture of his tribe.
During his time on the Board, Stan met with
legislators, presidents, and foreign leaders to
advocate on behalf of his people. His work
helped his community to thrive and the tribal
payroll grew from three to today’s 3,500 em-
ployees during his tenure.
As his daughter Teri said, ‘‘Dad lived and
breathed Tulalip.’’ Stan was a pillar of the
Tulalip community. His dedication and commit-
ment to his people will never be forgotten.
f
RECOGNIZING THE 550TH ANNIVER-
SARY OF THE BIRTH OF GURU
NANAK
HON. DINA TITUS
OF NEVADA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, November 21, 2019
Ms. TITUS. Madam Speaker, I rise to recog-
nize the anniversary of the birth of Guru
Nanak Dev and the contributions of Sikh
Americans to the United States.
November 12, 2019, marked the 550th birth
anniversary of the Founder of Sikhism, Guru
Nanak Dev, and is celebrated worldwide as
Guru Nanak’s Gurpurab.
Sikhism is the fifth largest religion in the
world with around 30 million followers, one
million of whom are in the United States. Sikh
Americans pursue diverse professions, includ-
ing service in the U.S. Armed Forces, agri-
culture, real estate, transportation, technology,
small business, and medicine. In their efforts,
Sikh Americans have made rich contributions
to the economic, cultural, and social land-
scape of the United States and have strength-
ened our communities by fostering respect
among all people through faith and service.
As a member of Congress, I remain com-
mitted to educating citizens about the value of
religious diversity, tolerance grounded in the
principles of the First Amendment, and a cul-
ture of mutual understanding and respect. We
are a stronger nation and community when we
embrace our diversity and afford all citizens
the opportunity to better understand our many
faiths and cultures.
Accordingly, this month let us recognize and
appreciate the rich history and culture of Sikhs
as they celebrate Gurpurab.
f
CLOSING THE HOMEWORK GAP
THROUGH MOBILE HOTSPOTS ACT
HON. GRACE MENG
OF NEW YORK
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, November 21, 2019
Ms. MENG. Madam Speaker, an estimated
12 million school-aged children lack
broadband at home. 12 million students—this
is a startling number. Before the internet be-
came ubiquitous, students completed their
homework with pencil and paper. This is no
longer the case. Today, many students have
homework that requires internet for research
or to ask their teachers questions. If a student
does not have that, they must find a venue
that provides free Wi-Fi, like libraries, cafes, or
other public venues.
Unfortunately, some of these locations are
not conducive to a study environment. They
may be noisy or have time restrictions on
internet use at a computer kiosk. Furthermore,
students, then must find transportation to and
from such establishments, creating additional
barriers to education for the students and their
families. This is a modern-day travesty that
must end.
That is why I am introducing the ‘‘Closing
the Homework Gap Through Mobile Hotspots
Act’’—a bill that would create a $100 million
grant program for libraries, schools, the terri-
tories, and federally recognized Indian Tribes
to build and sustain mobile hotspot programs
to close the ‘‘homework gap.’’
Many schools and libraries have already
created mobile hotspot programs to help stu-
dents who do not have broadband at home.
Essentially, students can ‘‘check-out’’ or bor-
row these mobile hotspots from their schools
or local libraries for a set period of time.
Funds for such programs, however, may lapse
after a few years or when funding is elimi-
nated. My bill will ensure this does not happen
and our students have internet to complete
their assignments.
Madam Speaker, the Closing the Homework
Gap Through Mobile Hotspots Act is a critical
bill that will help close the digital divide and
address the homework gap. Every child de-
serves their best chance at pursuing edu-
cation. For the sake of our children, I urge all
my colleagues to support this timely, and nec-
essary bill.
RECOGNIZING THE 90TH ANNIVER-
SARY OF THE DAUGHTERS OF
PENELOPE
HON. DINA TITUS
OF NEVADA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, November 21, 2019
Ms. TITUS. Madam Speaker, as the only
Greek woman in Congress, I rise today to rec-
ognize the 90th anniversary of the Daughters
of Penelope. This distinguished organization
was founded on November 16, 1929, in San
Francisco, with the mission of improving the
well-being of Greek women and providing
them with opportunities to make significant
contributions to American society.
Over the past 90 years, Daughters of Penel-
ope has grown into a leading international or-
ganization of women of Hellenic descent and
Philhellenes, recognized and respected world-
wide for its scholarship programs and public
advocacy.
I commend this organization for promoting
the ideals of ancient Greece: philanthropy,
education, civic responsibility, good citizen-
ship, and family and individual excellence.
Their incredible work is seen in efforts to com-
bat domestic violence in the United States and
Greece, sponsorship of affordable and dig-
nified housing for seniors, financial support for
medical research and communities affected by
natural disasters, contributions to Meals on
Wheels, and support for the rebuilding of Saint
Nicholas Greek Orthodox Church and National
Shrine at World Trade Center.
I am proud to work with them on these im-
portant issues and look forward to continuing
our partnership to empower the next genera-
tion of female Hellenic leaders.
f
OPPOSITION TO H.R. 737
HON. DANIEL WEBSTER
OF FLORIDA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, November 21, 2019
Mr. WEBSTER of Florida. Madam Speaker,
I rise today to make clear my opposition to
H.R. 737, the Shark Fin Sales Elimination Act.
Yesterday, when the House considered this
deeply flawed legislation I spoke in opposi-
tion—to express my concerns about the dev-
astating impacts the legislation will have on
shark conservation efforts and responsible
American fishermen. Many of these fishermen
come from my own district in Florida and have
made many sacrifices to rebuild and sustain
our shark populations.
I am grateful to many of my colleagues who
joined me in opposition to this measure after
listening to my concerns. Regrettably, when
the electronic vote was taken, I was recorded
incorrectly. I want to make clear that I oppose
this legislation and intended to vote NO.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:12 Nov 22, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\K21NO8.001 E21NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E1486 November 21, 2019
IN HONOR OF DR. DIETER MARTIN
GRUEN
HON. SEAN CASTEN
OF ILLINOIS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, November 21, 2019
Mr. CASTEN of Illinois. Madam Speaker, I
rise today on Dr. Dieter Martin Gruen’s 97th
birthday, in support of his nomination for the
Presidential Medal of Freedom.
On November 4th, my colleagues, Rep-
resentative BILL FOSTER and Representative
CHUCK FLEISCHMANN, joined me in supporting
Dr. Gruen’s nomination for the highest civilian
award in this country. Dr. Gruen has dedicated
his life to science and made monumental con-
tributions to shaping the United States as a
leader and world power in technology, innova-
tion, and national defense.
For nearly eight decades, Dr. Gruen has
worked to enhance American technology de-
velopment as a former Manhattan Project Sci-
entist and Argonne National Laboratory Distin-
guished Fellow. Born in 1922, Dr. Gruen is an
internationally esteemed German-American
chemist, inventor, and innovator who immi-
grated to the U.S. from Nazi Germany in
1936. Throughout his career, Dr. Gruen has
been driven by his curiosity and commitment
to science—allowing him to make critical con-
tributions to nuclear fission and fusion, solar
energy, energy storage, and conservation.
Specifically, Dr. Gruen has made several key
technological advancements such as the nu-
clear submarine reactor cooling design and
purification of uranium used to end World War
II in the Pacific theater.
Through this work and countless other self-
less endeavors, Dr. Gruen has been recog-
nized by the international scientific community
with numerous awards—including from Ar-
gonne National Laboratory, Northwestern Uni-
versity, and the Patent Law Association of
Chicago—for his pioneering research in chem-
istry, physics, along with the emerging fields of
materials and nanoscience.
I had the great pleasure of sitting down with
Dr. Gruen earlier this year at his home in
Downers Grove. What was intended to be a
thirty-minute meeting became a two-hour con-
versation where I heard countless stories
about Dr. Gruen’s work on the Manhattan
Project in Oak Ridge, Tennessee, the nuts
and bolts of nuclear fission technology, and
his unique journey to the United States. At 97,
Dr. Gruen still sees the world as a place of
vast opportunities for technological innovation.
His optimism has been a source of inspiration
and encouragement in my work as a Member
of Congress as we tackle critical issues facing
our society.
Dr. Gruen has continued his lifelong com-
mitment to science by actively funding the
building and demonstration of his novel solar
cell technology in collaboration with the Uni-
versity of Illinois at Chicago. For the reasons
mentioned here and many more, I sincerely
believe that Dr. Dieter Gruen should be
awarded the Presidential Medal of Freedom
for his lifelong contributions to science and
technology that continue today. Dr. Gruen’s
tireless efforts to solve future energy chal-
lenges have seldom been exhibited by an indi-
vidual. Humble and unpretentious, Dr. Gruen
has been and remains the embodiment of a
dedicated American and pure scientist.
I congratulate Dr. Gruen for his decades of
accomplishments and exceptional contribu-
tions to science and the national security inter-
ests of the United States. I cannot think of a
more deserving citizen for this award, and
today I wish him the happiest of birthdays.
f
RECOGNIZING MARGIE WAKEHAM
FOR THIRTY YEARS OF PUBLIC
SERVICE TO ORANGE COUNTY
HON. KATIE PORTER
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, November 21, 2019
Ms. PORTER. Madam Speaker, I am hon-
ored to recognize Ms. Margie Wakeham for
her 30 years of public service to the Orange
County community. As the CEO of Families
Forward for 26 years, Ms. Wakeham has led
the fight for families in need to achieve and
maintain self-sufficiency through wraparound
services that include career counseling, hous-
ing, and an onsite food pantry, among other
vital programs.
As a young woman, Ms. Wakeham served
as a group counselor to incarcerated youth,
and later, an investigator for the juvenile court
systems in San Diego and Orange Counties.
Ever the trailblazer, Ms. Wakeham was an ac-
tive mother who continued to be involved with
local service organizations while raising her
children. It was as a mother that she realized
the profound need for school improvements,
which inspired her candidacy and nearly two
decades of service as an Irvine Unified School
Board Member. As a champion for Irvine
schools, Ms. Wakeham was moved to action
when she learned of the serious struggles by
families in her community due to food and
housing insecurities. Through first-hand insight
into the heartbreaking stories of children grow-
ing up alongside her own children, Ms.
Wakeham knew action was needed.
In the early 1990s, Wakeham served as a
board member of the previously titled organi-
zation, Irvine Temporary Housing, which had
been helping shelter families since 1984. In
1993, Ms. Wakeham joined a team of distin-
guished leaders throughout the City of Irvine
to save the nonprofit from closing its doors.
Ms. Wakeham transformed the newly minted
Families Forward into a major success, hous-
ing thousands of families in our community
and scoring top ratings from nonprofit watch-
dogs for fiscal management. In many ways,
the renaming of Families Forward resembles a
tectonic shift in service delivery for Orange
County. Over the last three years, an astound-
ing 95 percent of the families served by Fami-
lies Forward did not reappear in the homeless
services provider system. This stands as a
testament to its steady leadership under Ms.
Wakeham.
When we end homelessness in Orange
County, it will be because of the hard work
and foundation-laying of community advocates
like Ms. Wakeham. Today, we celebrate not
only her success as a leader, but also the
bright future Families Forward to the commu-
nity. I am proud to recognize Ms. Margie
Wakeham for her commitment to serving the
45th Congressional District of California.
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. JAIME HERRERA BEUTLER
OF WASHINGTON
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, November 21, 2019
Ms. HERRERA BEUTLER. Madam Speak-
er, on Friday, November 15, 2019 I am not re-
corded on final passage of H.R. 4863, the
United States Export Finance Agency Act of
2019. I was engaged in a conversation with a
constituent from the state of Washington dis-
cussing the issue of homelessness and
mistimed the vote for final passage although I
was present.
The U.S. Export-Import Bank is critical to
the Washington state economy and its work-
ers, and I support its reauthorization. If I had
been present on final passage, I would have
voted: yes, on Roll Call 624.
f
HONORING KANSAS CITY BOARD
OF PUBLIC UTILITIES
HON. SHARICE DAVIDS
OF KANSAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, November 21, 2019
Ms. DAVIDS of Kansas. Madam Speaker, I
rise today to recognize the importance of
clean water and the dedication of the mem-
bers of the Kansas City Board of Public Utili-
ties (BPU) to their role in serving our commu-
nities. Access to clean water has become a
major national concern. With the increased
awareness of how environmental changes af-
fect our water supply, as seen in towns like
Flint, Michigan, it becomes increasingly impor-
tant that we value our water and ensure it’s
safe for the public. In that spirit, today we cel-
ebrate a department that has demonstrated
commitment to serving their community.
The Kansas City BPU has received the ‘‘10-
Year Directors Award’’ from the Partnership
for Safe Water; a program developed by EPA,
AWWA, and associated Partner organizations
to guide water suppliers towards improving
water quality by optimizing system operations.
The Partnership is a voluntary self-assess-
ment and optimization program for water treat-
ment plants and distribution system oper-
ations. More than 300 utility subscribers, col-
lectively serving more than 100 million people,
are committed to the Partnership’s goals of
providing safe, high quality drinking water
through achieving operational excellence in
water treatment. Partnership members partici-
pate in a rigorous four-phase self-assessment
and peer review process, developed by water
utility optimization experts, and are recognized
for their commitment to deliver safe water to
their communities.
The BPU plant was one of a select group of
utilities honored by the Partnership at the an-
nual conference of the American Water Works
Association, the largest and oldest worldwide
organization dedicated to safe water. I am
honored to recognize William Johnson, BPU
General Manager, as well as staff as they cel-
ebrate this outstanding award.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:12 Nov 22, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\K21NO8.006 E21NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E1487
November 21, 2019
HONORING MICHAEL CARRIGAN
HON. JANICE D. SCHAKOWSKY
OF ILLINOIS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, November 21, 2019
Ms. SCHAKOWSKY. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to honor Michael Carrigan on the occa-
sion of his retirement as the president of the
Illinois American Federation of Labor and Con-
gress of Industrial Organizations (AFL–CIO). I
have appreciated Michael’s leadership of the
Illinois AFL–CIO and his vision and hard work
towards improving the quality of life for work-
ers in Illinois and across the region and coun-
try.
Mike Carrigan served for 12 years as presi-
dent and 7 years as secretary-treasurer of the
Illinois AFL–CIO. During his 19-year tenure,
he worked on many successful initiatives that
have helped the Illinois workforce and families,
including gradually raising Illinois’ minimum
wage to $15 an hour, a $45 billion infrastruc-
ture program, the legalization of cannabis and
many legislative initiatives and programs that
improve the lives of Illinois residents.
Mike serves on the national AFL–CIO State
Federation and Central Labor Council Advi-
sory Committee and was the chairman of the
12-state AFL–CIO Midwest Labor Federation
Council. In Illinois he serves on the Workers’
Compensation Advisory Board and the Illinois
Prevailing Wage Council.
Prior to his work with the Illinois AFL–CIO,
Mike was elected to the Decatur City Council
in 1995 and served nearly four terms before
being appointed Mayor of Decatur in 2008. He
was business manager/financial secretary for
IBEW Local 146 in Decatur from 1992 to
2000; he was a journeyman wireman in Deca-
tur from 1978 to 1990 and became business
manager of the local.
Mike Carrigan is a fierce champion of the
labor movement and a fighter for worker’s
rights and his leadership will be remembered
and missed. On a personal note, I have ap-
preciated his advice and counsel, his friend-
ship and support and his steady leadership on
behalf of Illinois workers and their families.
Congratulations to Mike on his retirement, and
I thank him for his years of service.
f
HONORING THE HOMESTEAD
GRAYS
HON. ELEANOR HOLMES NORTON
OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, November 21, 2019
Ms. NORTON. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to ask the House of Representatives to join
me in honoring the Homestead Grays, a base-
ball team deeply rooted in the District of Co-
lumbia, for its legendary success in the Na-
tional Negro League.
In light of the Major League Baseball World
Series championship won by the Washington
Nationals this year, we must also remember a
team that shaped the game of baseball and
brought World Series glory to the District long
before the Nationals, the Homestead Grays. In
1948, the Grays won their third National Negro
League World Series title against the Bir-
mingham Black Barons to become one of
Washington’s most successful baseball teams.
The Homestead Grays came to D.C. in
1940, when Clark Griffith, owner of the Wash-
ington Senators, saw a lucrative opportunity
for the Grays to use Griffith Stadium while the
Senators played away games. By 1943, the
Grays, originally from Pittsburg, played over
half their games in the nation’s capital. Griffith
Stadium, located in the heart of D.C.’s African
American community and close to Howard
University, became a hub for Black baseball.
The Grays played at a time when the face
of baseball was changing in America. As the
National Negro League continued to dem-
onstrate excellence in baseball, the sport
began to integrate. It became too impossible
for white teams to ignore African-American
players. This led to the folding of the National
Negro League in 1948 but to the rise of many
African-American Major League Baseball play-
ers like Jackie Robinson.
Found on the Ring of Honor in Nationals
Park, the team’s stadium, are several names
of Homestead Grays’ most iconic players, in-
cluding Cool Papa Bell, Ray Brown, Josh Gib-
son, Buck Leonard, Cumberland Posey and
Jud Wilson. These men led the Grays to three
National Negro League World Series and 10
National Negro League pennants.
Madam Speaker, I rise today to ask the
House of Representatives to join me in hon-
oring the Homestead Grays for their enduring
place in Washington and U.S. baseball history.
f
OCTOBER VETERAN OF THE
MONTH
HON. KEVIN HERN
OF OKLAHOMA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, November 21, 2019
Mr. KEVIN HERN of Oklahoma. Madam
Speaker, I rise to honor the First District of
Oklahoma’s October Veteran of the Month,
Senior Airman Kelli Ingraham.
A Public Health Journeyman in the United
States Air Force, Senior Airman Ingraham
honorably served our nation for four years.
Upon returning home from service, Senior Air-
man Ingraham followed her passion for serv-
ice and has dedicated her life to serving her
fellow veterans.
As a Veterans Services Representative with
the Oklahoma Department of Veterans Affairs
(ODVA), Senior Airman Ingraham works with
our nation’s veterans to help them in navi-
gating the federal bureaucracy. Assisting vet-
erans with claims for service-related disabil-
ities, education opportunities, advance medical
compensation, as well as employment and
housing placement, Ingraham’s work with the
ODVA is truly admirable. Her devotion to en-
suring that our nation’s heroes receive the
benefits they deserve is honorable and she
sets an example we should all strive to follow.
In addition to working as a Veterans Serv-
ices Representative for ODVA, Ingraham is in-
volved with the Tulsa Vet Center, the Tulsa
Stand Down for Homeless Veterans com-
mittee, and the Oklahoma Women Veterans
Organization. Senior Airman Ingraham lives a
life of unmatched dedication, sacrifice, and
service to our great nation. She answered the
call to defend freedom across the globe and
sacrificed whatever was necessary in the
name of that noble cause. She continues to
serve our country, community, and her fellow
veterans at a high level on a daily basis. It is
my honor to recognize Senior Airman Kelli
Ingraham as the 1st Congressional District of
Oklahoma’s October Veteran of the Month.
f
CONGRATULATING SHELLY LUTZ
ON RECEIPT OF THE VOLUNTEER
& COMMUNITY IMPACT AWARD
HON. DANIEL MEUSER
OF PENNSYLVANIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, November 21, 2019
Mr. MEUSER. Madam Speaker, it is with
great respect that I rise today to congratulate
Shelly Lutz of Lake Harmony on being named
the recipient of the Carbon County Chamber
and Economic Development’s Volunteer &
Community Impact Award.
Shelly is both the owner and director of golf
at the Split Rock Golf Club in Lake Harmony,
Pennsylvania. Shelly oversees the operations
of a beautiful 27-hole golf course and res-
taurant. Of her many honors and accolades,
Shelly is perhaps best known for her annual
‘‘Let’s Save the Dogs’’ golf tournament, which
raises much needed funds for the NEPA Pet
Fund & Rescue, the Carbon County Animal
Shelter and the Red Rock Rescue of North-
east Pennsylvania. I applaud her hard work,
business savvy, and dedication to her commu-
nity.
On behalf of the U.S. House of Representa-
tives and the citizens of Pennsylvania’s Ninth
Congressional District, I ask my colleagues to
join me in congratulating Shelly Lutz on this
great honor.
f
HONORING THE UNIVERSITY OF
CALIFORNIA, BERKELEY: MEN’S
SWIMMING AND DIVING TEAM
HON. BARBARA LEE
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, November 21, 2019
Ms. LEE of California. Madam Speaker, I
rise today with Congressman DESAULNIER to
honor the incredible performance and achieve-
ments of the University of California, Berkeley
Golden Bear Men’s Swimming and Diving
team in the 2019 National Collegiate Athletic
Association Division I Men’s Swimming and
Diving Championships.
On March 30, 2019, the Cal Bears captured
the 2019 National Collegiate Athletic Associa-
tion Division I, swimming and diving national
championship following four impressive days
of competition at the Lee and Joe Jamail
Texas Swimming Center in Austin, Texas.
The Cal Bears have won the NCAA Men’s
Swimming and Diving National Championship
six times in program history. The champion-
ship was won in 1979, 1980, 2011, 2012,
2015, and 2019.
The Cal Bears also set a school record with
560 points accumulated at the NCAA cham-
pionships and bested runner-up Texas by an
85-point margin of victory.
I am proud of my alma mater for having ex-
tended their run of placing in the top two at
the NCAA championships to 10 consecutive
years. It also brings me great pride to recog-
nize the Cal Bears’ Head Coach, David
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:12 Nov 22, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A21NO8.001 E21NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E1488 November 21, 2019
Durden, whom will also lead the United States’
Men’s Swimming Olympic Team in competition
in Tokyo, Japan, during the 2020 Summer
Games.
Congressman DESAULNIER and I would like
to also recognize the impressive student ath-
letes of the victorious program beginning with
Senior Andrew Seliskar, the first Cal Bears
swimmer in 22 years to win three individual
NCAA titles in one NCAA swim meet. He won
the 200-yard breaststroke, the 200-yard indi-
vidual medley and the 200-yard freestyle.
Seliskar was named the 2019 College Swim-
ming and Diving Coaches Association of
America National Swimmer of the Year.
In addition, Congressman DESAULNIER and I
would like to recognize Sophomore Ryan
Hoffer for his victory of the 50-yard freestyle
NCAA title. Senior Andrew Seliskar, Junior Mi-
chael Jensen, Junior Pawel Sendyk, and
Sophomore Ryan Hoffer won the 200-yard
freestyle relay NCAA title.
Today, on behalf of California’s 13th and
11th Congressional Districts, I join Congress-
man DESAULNIER to commend the hard work,
dedication, determination, and commitment to
excellence of the student-athletes, coaches,
families, and all others involved with the Cal
Bears. Congratulations on a successful sea-
son and placing a finalist in every swimming
event at the NCAA Championships.
f
RECOGNIZING THE 100TH ANNIVER-
SARY OF AMERICAN LEGION
POST 51
HON. RICHARD HUDSON
OF NORTH CAROLINA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, November 21, 2019
Mr. HUDSON. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to recognize the 100th anniversary of Amer-
ican Legion Post 51, located in North Caro-
lina’s Eighth Congressional District. Since its
founding on November 20, 1919, Post 51 has
made countless contributions to our commu-
nity.
Over the years, Post 51 has been a fierce
advocate for veterans’ affairs and rehabilita-
tion, national security, Americanism, and our
children and youth. These Four Pillars of the
American Legion serve as a guiding light for
the organization and pervade all aspects of
Post 51’s philanthropic work.
Composed of service members, veterans,
and military families, Post 51 represents the
best our nation has to offer and I am proud to
represent a district that has a strong military
presence and is home to some of the bravest
patriots in the country. Not only did these men
and women serve our country while in uni-
form, they continue to give back to our com-
munity’s robust veteran population.
Post 51 ensures our men and women in
uniform have the resources and support they
need throughout and after their service
through local advocacy and assistance with
the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs. In
addition to these important services, Post 51
fosters a community of service for our children
through local basketball and softball programs
and the Boys & Girls Club ofAmerica.
I know I speak for our entire community in
offering my most heaitfelt gratitude to Amer-
ican Legion Post 51 for their century of serv-
ice. The exemplary men and women of Post
51 are the heart and soul of our community
and I wish them continued success as they
serve our community.
Madam Speaker, please join me today in
recognizing the 100th anniversary of American
Legion Post 51.
f
IN HONOR OF JOHN HEALY, RETIR-
ING FIRE CHIEF OF THE SAN
MATEO CONSOLIDATED FIRE DE-
PARTMENT
HON. JACKIE SPEIER
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, November 21, 2019
Ms. SPEIER. Madam Speaker, at the end of
this year, John Healy will officially step down
as the Fire Chief of the Consolidated Fire De-
partment of San Mateo. He leaves big shoes
to fill, and they’ve grown larger over the
course of his 36 year career in the fire service.
John started as a volunteer firefighter at age
19 in 1986 with the Foster City Fire Depart-
ment. He quickly turned professional as he
joined the Hillsborough Fire Department the
following year. Ten years later he was a Cap-
tain. In 2000, he crossed the bay to serve
Union City, and in 2003 he returned to his
hometown of San Mateo where he remained
for the next sixteen and a half years.
Between the days of his teens in the 1980’s
until the end of his career, his hometown of
San Mateo grew from a quiet suburb of about
77,000 to over 105,000. Growth like this pre-
sents any fire department with numerous chal-
lenges. An entirely new neighborhood at Bay
Meadows emerged. On the east side, a shop-
ping center and office developments de-
manded resources. Complex traffic patterns
and tens of thousands of additional vehicle
trips on freeways lacing the city prompted in-
creased numbers of serious medical calls
every year. The list goes on.
Importantly, over the decades the financing
of public services became more difficult as
salaries and pensions escalated steeply.
When he returned to San Mateo as a Captain
in 2003, John Healy faced a community dif-
ferent in many ways from the one in which he
grew up. However, San Mateo remained a
town that valued its public safety services.
This was vividly illustrated in 2008 when the
economy went into a steep recession and
newly-elevated Deputy Fire Chief Healy as-
sumed responsibility to enter into a shared
services agreement. By 2015, Belmont, San
Mateo and Foster City were ready to enter
into an agreement to formally create a new
and combined department. It wasn’t easy.
Now Fire Chief Healy negotiated new labor
MOUSs with three cities, jumped through flam-
ing hoops of pension contracts, axed through
byzantine State governance laws, and deliv-
ered the equivalent of a new baby in the form
of a charter amendment authorizing the new
agency. By January of this year, the San
Mateo Consolidated Fire Department was up
and running with a new governing board, an
improved cost structure, and superior service.
Chief Healy deserves the thanks of 168,000
residents in the communities that he serves.
During his career, Chief Healy served with
the San Mateo County Operations Group and
Communications Committee and built strong
relationships with the county public safety dis-
patchers and management. He noted in a re-
cent news article that, ‘‘Wearing the uniform
and the badge was the greatest honor and it’s
difficult for words to fully express what that
means to me.’’
John Healy holds a Bachelor’s in Fire Ad-
ministration and Fire Prevention Technology
from Cogswell Polytechnical College and
earned certification as Chief Officer, CICCS
Strike Team Leader, Fire Investigator I, Safety
Officer and Division Group Supervisor. Chief
Healy was aided greatly in his career by his
family, notably his wife, Stacey. The couple
have three sons. Two attend Sera High
School. One is in college.
John Healy grew up in San Mateo with
seven siblings and knows his hometown’s his-
tory like he knows his own. Ask him whatever
happened to the Borel estate and he’ll prob-
ably tell you about the development of Borel
Square and offices in its vicinity. That new li-
brary on 3rd Avenue? He’ll describe its prede-
cessor, and perhaps he even visited once or
twice in his youth. Old St. Matthew’s Church
in downtown San Mateo? A beautiful brick
building, but probably not the place a fire-
fighter would want you to be in an earthquake.
How many Fire Chiefs can claim to have re-
sponded to their first fire call in town by riding
a bicycle? I don’t know for sure if John Healy
is one of them, but it’s likely.
Today, let’s give thanks for the humor and
good nature of a San Mateo favorite son. With
honor and great distinction, John Healy is
leaving. We look forward to seeing him in
Central Park during the Christmas holidays,
perhaps skating at the annual ice rink, and
hopefully avoiding a fire service call for a med-
ical emergency.
f
CONGRATULATING THE CARBON
COUNTY COMMISSIONERS ON RE-
CEIPT OF THE ECONOMIC DEVEL-
OPMENT PROJECT OF THE YEAR
HON. DANIEL MEUSER
OF PENNSYLVANIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, November 21, 2019
Mr. MEUSER. Madam Speaker, it is with
great respect that I rise today to congratulate
the Carbon County Commissioners on receiv-
ing the Carbon County Chamber and Eco-
nomic Development Corporation’s Economic
Development Project of the Year Award.
The Economic Development Project of the
Year Award highlights an outstanding eco-
nomic development project designed to bring
jobs and economic growth to Carbon County.
Founded in 1843 and named for its large
amount of anthracite coal deposits, Carbon
County’s vibrant economy is driven by manu-
facturing, commerce, and tourism. In a shining
example of public and private cooperation, the
Carbon County Commissioners, Jim Thorpe
Borough, and the D&L National Heritage Cor-
ridor constructed the much-anticipated pedes-
trian bridge in Jim Thorpe across the Lehigh
River. The completion of this bridge allows
Pennsylvanians of every age to step out
across this beautiful gorge and appreciate the
natural beauty of our state. It’s just one more
reason to visit Jim Thorpe.
On behalf of the U.S. House of Representa-
tives and the citizens of Pennsylvania’s Ninth
Congressional District, I ask my colleagues to
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:12 Nov 22, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A21NO8.005 E21NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E1489
November 21, 2019
join me in congratulating the Carbon County
Commissioners on this great honor and thank
them for their commitment to strengthening
our community.
f
HONORING CONTRA COSTA
TELEVISION’S 25TH ANNIVERSARY
HON. MARK DeSAULNIER
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, November 21, 2019
Mr. DESAULNIER. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to recognize the contributions of Contra
Costa Television (CCTV) on its 25th anniver-
sary.
CCTV was established by the Contra Costa
County Board of Supervisors in 1994 as a
governmental and educational access cable
television channel. In addition to airing pro-
gramming twenty-four hours a day, seven
days a week on six channels, CCTV also live
streams on its website and social media to
reach over 350,000 homes in Contra Costa
County. CCTV connects, informs, and enter-
tains the community by airing Board of Super-
visor and District meetings, in addition to other
community meetings, events, public safety in-
formation, local sports, and local program-
ming.
CCTV’s award-winning programming in-
cludes Veterans’ Voices, which won the West-
ern Alliance Video Excellence award in 2016
and 2018 and the California State Association
of Counties 2015 Merit Award. Additionally,
CCTV has partnered with the Clerk-Recorder-
Elections Department and local chapters of
the League of Women Voters to provide the
Elections Preview programs. This is the only
locally produced voter education programing
for broadcast and online streaming.
CCTV’s slogan, ‘‘Making Television Part of
the Solution,’’ highlights its dedication to serv-
ing the community by providing public broad-
casting and communicating County services
for the last 25 years. In an era where local
journalism is disappearing at an alarming rate,
CCTV is a welcome presence in the Bay Area
that shares information and brings the commu-
nity together.
Please join me in honoring Contra Costa
Television’s 25th anniversary.
f
HONORING THE SERVICE OF
DAVID SKILLMAN
HON. EARL BLUMENAUER
OF OREGON
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, November 21, 2019
Mr. BLUMENAUER. Madam Speaker, this
week, friends, colleagues, supporters, and
family of David Skillman gathered to thank him
for over a dozen years of outstanding Con-
gressional service, most recently, as my Chief
Counsel and Deputy Chief of Staff.
David is the very model of professionalism.
His hard work and dedication to innovative
policy making represent the very best of the
men and women who make Congress func-
tion.
David came by his service honestly with
parents who themselves were congressional
staff early in their careers. David joked that as
an infant, he was the youngest staff member
of his fourth district Congressman.
As he rose through the ranks in our office,
he was unstinting in his work ethic, his insight,
and his integrity. Accolades have poured into
our office from his former colleagues from all
over America who were touched by his leader-
ship, mentorship, and friendship.
Together, with his wife Sara Chieffo, a sen-
ior executive at the League of Conservation
Voters, they were perhaps the Capitol’s pre-
mier ‘‘green power couple.’’ David’s finger-
prints are on dozens of major pieces of legis-
lation both from our office and the Ways and
Means Committee. For over a decade, his im-
pact has been profound and his legacy has
made a difference to us all. His innate de-
cency and intellect served as an inspiration to
me and all of his colleagues. Whatever he
does in the next phases of his career, we are
better for his service and I know that his con-
tributions will continue to make America better.
We thank him for his invaluable contribution
to our office and to Congress. I am deeply in-
debted for his service and friendship.
f
JUVENILE DIABETES RESEARCH
FOUNDATION ONE WALK
HON. JOE WILSON
OF SOUTH CAROLINA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, November 21, 2019
Mr. WILSON of South Carolina. Madam
Speaker, on Saturday, I walked in the Juvenile
Diabetes Research Foundation One Walk at
Segra Park, home of the famous Columbia
Fireflies, with members of the University of
South Carolina chapter of the Delta Tau Delta
fraternity. I am grateful to have been able to
support such an important cause and walk in
support of eradicating type 1 diabetes.
The money raised at the JDRF One Walk in
Columbia supports life-changing research that
gives hope to those impacted by type 1 diabe-
tes. It is an autoimmune disease that strikes
suddenly and is serious and stressful to fami-
lies, challenging families across our district.
Currently, there is nothing that can be done
to prevent type 1 diabetes and there is no
cure. JDRF is a leader in funding diabetes re-
search, motivated by their vision of a world
without type 1 diabetes. This organization
works tirelessly to improve the lives of those
affected by this disease by accelerating life-
changing breakthroughs to cure, prevent, and
treat diabetes.
I appreciate JDRF Palmetto Chapter Devel-
opment Director Beth McCrary for her hard
work and success in coordinating the JDRF
Walk in Columbia and for her advocacy for
ending type 1 diabetes.
In conclusion, God bless our troops, and we
will never forget September the 11th in the
Global War on Terrorism.
CONGRATULATING THE DELA-
WARE & LEHIGH NATIONAL HER-
ITAGE CORRIDOR ON RECEIPT
OF THE ECONOMIC DEVELOP-
MENT PROJECT OF THE YEAR
AWARD
HON. DANIEL MEUSER
OF PENNSYLVANIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, November 21, 2019
Mr. MEUSER. Madam Speaker, it is with
great respect that I rise today to congratulate
the Delaware & Lehigh National Heritage Cor-
ridor on receiving the Carbon County Cham-
ber and Economic Development Corporation’s
Economic Development Project of the Year
Award.
The Economic Development Project of the
Year Award highlights an outstanding eco-
nomic development project designed to bring
jobs and economic growth to Carbon County.
A nationally recognized transportation route
traversing railroads, canals, rivers and trails,
the D&L is a magnificent piece of our commu-
nity. In a shining example of a public and pri-
vate cooperation the D&L National Heritage
Corridor, Carbon County Commissioners and
Jim Thorpe Borough constructed the much-an-
ticipated pedestrian bridge in Jim Thorpe
crossing the Lehigh River. The completion of
this bridge allows Pennsylvanians of every
age to step out across this beautiful gorge and
appreciate the natural beauty of our state. It’s
just one more reason to visit Jim Thorpe.
On behalf of the U.S. House of Representa-
tives and the citizens of Pennsylvania’s Ninth
Congressional District, I ask my colleagues to
join me in congratulating the Delaware & Le-
high National Heritage Corridor on this great
honor and thank them for their commitment to
strengthening our community.
f
IN HONOR OF LINDA LAURIA FOR
HER THIRTY-FOUR YEARS OF
SERVICE TO THE AMERICAN
PEOPLE
HON. ALEXANDRIA OCASIO-CORTEZ
OF NEW YORK
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, November 21, 2019
Ms. OCASIO-CORTEZ. Madam Speaker, I
rise today to recognize a longtime public serv-
ant and NY–14 constituent, Linda Lauria.
On November 30, 2019, Linda Lauria, Pub-
lic Affairs Specialist, will retire from the Social
Security Administration. Linda’s retirement will
mark the close of a career that spans over 34
years of service.
Linda began her career with SSA in August
1973 as a Claims Development Clerk (GS–2,
as she often proudly notes) in the East Bronx
Social Security office. She was subsequently
promoted to positions in the field including
Service Representative, and Claims Rep-
resentative before leaving the agency during
February 1984 as a new mother.
Linda rejoined SSA during July 1996, as a
Service Representative in the Jamaica Tele-
service Center, and was promoted to Benefit
Authorizer at the Northeastern Program Serv-
ice Center during January 1998. She returned
to the East Bronx Social Security office as a
Claims Representative during September
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:12 Nov 22, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A21NO8.008 E21NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E1490 November 21, 2019
1998, and joined the Regional Public Affairs
Office during November 2005, serving as pri-
mary liaison between SSA and the offices of
federal, state, and local elected officials. Since
that time, Linda has been instrumental in the
timely resolution of several thousand con-
stituent inquiries, eliminating barriers between
our most vulnerable beneficiaries and their es-
sential cash benefits. She was promoted to
Public Affairs Specialist during 2015, the posi-
tion from which she will retire.
Linda’s outstanding contributions to the
Agency have been recognized with several
awards including Deputy Commissioner’s Cita-
tions, and the New York Regional Manage-
ment Society’s Regional Office Employee of
the Year.
Throughout Linda’s career, she has brought
intelligence, technical savvy, practical knowl-
edge, and a strong commitment to excellence
to every assignment.
Madam Speaker, I ask our colleagues to
join me in recognizing Ms. Linda Lauria and
her dedication to public service and her com-
munity.
f
RECOGNIZING MICKEY GANITCH
HON. ERIC SWALWELL
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, November 21, 2019
Mr. SWALWELL of California. Madam
Speaker, I rise to recognize Mickey Ganitch,
World War II (WWII) Navy veteran and sur-
vivor of the attack on Pearl Harbor, who cele-
brated his 100th birthday on November 18,
2019.
Mr. Ganitch proudly refers to his younger
self as, ‘‘just a country boy from Ohio.’’ He
was born into a large family and had 13 broth-
ers and sisters. As a young man, Mr.
Ganitch’s curiosity resulted in a close following
of world events and he began to see the dete-
rioration of the situations in Europe and Asia.
His concern about the human condition drove
him to join the Navy in January 1941, less
than 11 months before the Pearl Harbor at-
tack.
When December 6, 1941 arrived, Mr.
Ganitch was going about his business on the
USS Pennsylvania in a football jersey. He was
on the ship’s team and was supposed to play
a game against those serving on the USS Ari-
zona that day. Shortly before a practice, the
ship’s phone rang, alerting the crew of an in-
coming attack. With rounds bombarding the
ship and its crew, Mr. Ganitch climbed the
main mast to the crow’s nest. From there he
was able to alert the gunners below of further
incoming enemies, allowing them to bring
them down and saving the lives of those on
the decks beneath him.
While his experience in Pearl Harbor was
certainly a defining moment in his life, Mr.
Ganitch continued to serve throughout WWII
and the Korean War. He was later assigned to
a recruitment post in Oakland, California, right
back where his military career began, before
retiring as a Senior Chief Quartermaster on
October 10, 1963.
Mr. Ganitch is a fixture in our community.
He is immediately recognizable by his vivid
and extensive wardrobe of Hawaiian shirts
and larger-than-life smile. He was also known
for how well he ‘‘cut a rug’’ during the musical
numbers at every Veterans Day event. Even
today, Mr. Ganitch devotes his time to volun-
teering with veterans’ organizations in the Bay
Area and educating school children about the
war in an effort to never let the events at Pearl
Harbor be forgotten.
I thank Mr. Ganitch for his selfless service
to our country. I hope to continue learning
from his example of a century-long life well-
lived.
f
CELEBRATING THE ACHIEVE-
MENTS OF PROFESSOR KASTURI
RANGAN
HON. BRIAN HIGGINS
OF NEW YORK
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, November 21, 2019
Mr. HIGGINS of New York. Madam Speak-
er, today I rise to acknowledge the achieve-
ments of Professor Kasturi Rangan of the Har-
vard Business School on Thursday, November
21, 2019.
Professor Rangan began his education by
receiving a Bachelor of Technology degree
from the Indian Institute of Technology Madras
in 1971, and an MBA from the Indian Institute
of Management Ahmedabad in 1973. He then
held a number of marketing positions for large
corporations in India before receiving a Ph.D.
in marketing from Northwestern in 1983.
After receiving his Ph.D. Professor Rangan
joined the faculty of the Harvard Business
School in 1983 as a marketing professor. He
served as the chair of the Marketing Depart-
ment from 1998–2002 and is currently the
chairman of the Harvard Social Enterprise Ini-
tiative. He has taught first-year core classes,
second-year electives, and in the upper level
Advanced Management Program for senior
managers. Professor Rangan has also re-
ceived multiple academic awards over the
course of his career, including the 2002 Edi-
tors’ Prize for the Best Scholarly Paper and
the 2014 Case Centre Award in Economics,
Politics and Business Environment.
Along with his extensive teaching creden-
tials, Professor Rangan has co-authored ten
books and dozens of scholarly articles pub-
lished in academic journals. One of his recent
case studies titled ‘‘Performance Marketing in
the Digital Age’’ looks at Gupta Media, a
group started by Gogi Gupta who is a close
friend of Professor Rangan and from Western
New York. His active interest in the continual
improvement of marketing and management
strategies makes Professor Rangan an invalu-
able asset to the business community, and an
individual whose impact is felt in many com-
munities including my own.
Professor Rangan has actively researched
the role of marketing in nonprofit organiza-
tions, and often focuses on how this marketing
impacts adoption of social products and ideas.
His goal is to develop models of successful
businesses that bring value to the lowest in-
come earners in our modern economy. Spe-
cifically, he is attempting to address the needs
and wants of the 4.2 billion individuals world-
wide who live on less than $5 a day. This re-
search should be commended for its value in
uplifting the most vulnerable members of our
society.
Madam Speaker, I take this time to recog-
nize the achievements and contributions of
Professor Kasturi Rangan. We extend our best
wishes as he continues to lead the business
community in marketing research and devel-
oping solutions for economically disadvan-
taged individuals.
f
CONGRATULATING DORRIE
MERLUZZI ON RECEIPT OF THE
AMBASSADORS AWARD
HON. DANIEL MEUSER
OF PENNSYLVANIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, November 21, 2019
Mr. MEUSER. Madam Speaker, it is with
great respect that I rise today to congratulate
Dorrie Merluzzi of Palmerton on receiving the
Carbon County Chamber and Economic De-
velopment Corporation’s (CCEDC) Ambas-
sadors Award.
The Ambassadors Award recognizes an out-
standing individual dedicated to supporting the
local chamber through organizing and attend-
ing events, assisting staff, and serving as the
backbone of the organization. Ambassadors
selflessly give their time and talents to em-
body the Chamber’s tireless spirit and cultivate
a stronger community. Dorinda Merluzzi dem-
onstrates all these qualities in her service to
the Chamber and to our community. Always
willing to lend a helping hand with a cheerful
and calming presence, her leadership, direc-
tion, and motivation has set a tremendous ex-
ample for other Ambassadors.
On behalf of the U.S. House of Representa-
tives and the citizens of Pennsylvania’s Ninth
Congressional District, I ask my colleagues to
join me in congratulating Dorrie Merluzzi on
this great honor and thank her for their com-
mitment to strengthening our community.
f
HONORING THE MEMORY OF PETE
SZYMANSKI
HON. ROSA L. DeLAURO
OF CONNECTICUT
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, November 21, 2019
Ms. DELAURO. Madam Speaker, it is with a
heavy heart that I rise today to extend my
deepest sympathies to the family of Pete
Szymanski who we lost unexpectedly earlier
this year. Pete was an extraordinary soul
whose kind heart and generosity touched the
lives of many.
Pete was a dedicated member of our mili-
tary having served as a member of the Re-
serve Officer Training Corps and served on
active duty at the Detroit Arsenal in Michigan
as well as the Army Reserve. Following his
active duty service, Pete began a 33-year ci-
vilian career with the Army at the Detroit Arse-
nal before moving to the Stratford Army En-
gine Plant (SAEP) where he served for 22
years, retiring just this past February. It was
through the SAEP that I had the opportunity to
meet Pete. He was Army Installation Manger
and, though the property was closed many
years ago through a Base Realignment and
Closure process, Pete remained at the site,
hoping to see the property transferred for re-
development before his retirement. Unfortu-
nately, we are still working towards that goal.
I would be remiss if I did not extend a special
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:12 Nov 22, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A21NO8.013 E21NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E1491
November 21, 2019
note of thanks to Pete for his willingness to
work with myself and my staff over the years
as we have worked with the Army and the
Stratford community to move the transfer and
redevelopment process forward.
Pete played a unique and special role in the
closure of the SAEP. He was determined that
the site would not become just another aban-
doned eyesore. It was Pete who both envi-
sioned and executed a plan to dispose of the
excess Allied Signal machinery in a way that
garnered millions of dollars for the Army and
it was Pete that approved the use of the
SAEP as a redistribution point for the 9–11 re-
covery supplies. He carefully budgeted every
penny of the scarce budget he managed to
ensure that the property remained properly
maintained. It was also Pete who showed his
support for the community by opening the fa-
cilities for a variety of activities including K–9
training and the Viki Soto SK, an annual run
in memory of the young Stratford teacher
whose life was cut tragically short at the
school shooting in Newtown.
Pete Szymanski was an extraordinary man
whose commitment and dedication to his job
and his community earned him the respect
and admiration of friends, colleagues, and
community leaders alike. Today, I am honored
to rise to pay tribute to his memory and to ex-
tend my heartfelt condolences to his wife,
Kathryn, and their family. Pete’s passing will
leave a hole in the hearts of all those who
knew them and a void in the community that
will never quite be filled.
f
HONORING LIEUTENANT THOMAS
EVERT
HON. SAM GRAVES
OF MISSOURI
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, November 21, 2019
Mr. GRAVES of Missouri. Madam Speaker,
I want to recognize today that former Con-
gressman Petri’s father, LT Thomas Evert, the
pilot, and the crew of U.S. Navy Plane No.
63917 will be posthumously awarded medals
for their heroic actions in the sinking of a Ger-
man U-boat off the coast of the Bahamas in
World War II. On August 7, 1943, U.S. Navy
plane No. 63917, a U.S. Navy PB4Y Liberator
Bomber of Bombing Squadron 105 (VB–105)
piloted by Lt. Thomas Evert, USNR, success-
fully located German U-boat 84 and, after a
four-and-a-half-hour engagement at close
quarters in the face of hostile enemy fire, sank
the submarine.
Prior to this action, German U-boat 84, a
type VIIB Boat, was deployed off the coast of
the Bahamas and the east coast of Florida.
Hundreds of Allied naval vessels as well as,
over 3,000 Allied merchant vessels were de-
stroyed resulting in the deaths of over 70,000
aviators and seamen during the Battle of the
Atlantic. As with all U-boats, the presence of
U-boat 84 posed a serious threat to Allied war
efforts in the western hemisphere.
Following their heroic efforts, Lt. Evert and
his crew, as well as plane No. 63917 were re-
assigned to the United Kingdom. On October
22, 1943, Lt. Evert and his crew, along with
the Bomber, went down after an aerial en-
gagement with a German Blohm & Voss BV
222 Viking off the Atlantic coast of Europe.
Though long-delayed, the pilot and crew of
U.S. Navy plane No. 63917 will receive the
following posthumous awards:
LT Thomas Rudolph Evert, pilot: The Distin-
guished Flying Cross
LT David William Emmet, co-pilot: The Air
Medal
ENS James O’Hara, second pilot: The Air
Medal
ENS Edward J. Ellis, navigator, bombardier:
The Air Medal
AMM1 Kendall L. Dungey, crown turret gun-
ner: The Air Medal
AMM2 Karl J. Bertram, port waist gunner:
The Air Medal
ARM2 John F. Wagner, radio operator: The
Air Medal
ARM3 James T. Goble, radio operator: The
Air Medal
AOM3 Raymond 0. Haines, bow lookout,
bow gunner: The Air Medal
AMMC3 Edwin Emery Winship, tail turret
gunner: The Air Medal
In April 2018, I joined former Committee on
Transportation and Infrastrncture Chairman
Shuster, current Chairman DEFAZIO, Congress-
man DUNCAN HUNTER, Congressman JOHN
GARAMENDI, and former Congressman Frank
LoBiondo in urging the Navy to approve these
awards. These awards are well deserved, and
I am pleased to congratulate former Congress-
man Petri and the families of all the crew
members of the PB4Y Liberator Bomber on
receiving them.
f
CELEBRATING THE SUCCESS OF
GUPTA MEDIA GROUP AND MR.
GUPTA’S COMMITMENT TO THE
WESTERN NEW YORK COMMU-
NITY
HON. BRIAN HIGGINS
OF NEW YORK
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, November 21, 2019
Mr. HIGGINS of New York. Madam Speak-
er, today I rise to acknowledge the success of
Gupta Media and Mr. Gogi Gupta’s commit-
ment to the Western New York Community on
Thursday, November 21, 2019.
Gupta Media is a digital marketing agency
that specializes in media buying, creative de-
sign, and technology solutions. Since their
founding in 2005 by Gogi Gupta they have
consistently been on the forefront of maxi-
mizing advertising effectiveness for clients in
multiple industries. Currently, Gupta Media
represents a number of music artists signed to
both large and small record labels, including
artists who have performed and been nomi-
nated during the Grammy awards show in
past years. This October Gupta Media was in-
cluded as a case study within the Harvard
Business Review, where it was recognized as
having a successful business model which op-
timizes its clients marketing dollars with a high
degree of performance.
During his youth Mr. Gupta spent some of
his time in Pittsburgh before finishing high
school in Hamburg, NY, a suburb of Buffalo,
NY. He attended Frontier High School before
being accepted to Cornell University, where he
graduated in 2000 with a degree in public pol-
icy. He founded Gupta Media in 2005 after de-
ciding to take his marketing career into his
own hands. The companies first major suc-
cess came when they helped the music duo
Aly & AJ reach the top of MTV’s ‘‘Total Re-
quest Live’’ charts. Since then, Gupta Media
has only grown in stature and now proudly
employs more than 50 people.
Following this success Mr. Gupta did not
stop, going on to create the automated and
publicly available product smartURL in 2011.
Built to redirect online users to specific inter-
net destinations based on the country they are
accessing the site from, smartURL has been
used by professional athletes, multinational
corporations, and celebrities, and is another
example of the intelligent innovation Mr. Gupta
has fostered.
While Mr. Gupta currently lives in Boston,
MA, where he manages Gupta Media, he has
remained connected to his hometown of Buf-
falo, NY. He has adopted fandom for the local
MLB team, the Boston Red Sox, but is still
loyal to his hometown Buffalo Bills and Sa-
bers. Mr. Gogi Gupta is emblematic of the
hard work and dedication that the Western
New York community thrives on, and I am
proud that Mr. Gupta finds his roots in Buffalo.
Madam Speaker, I am certain that Mr.
Gupta will continue to be at the forefront of
change and foster innovation and creativity.
We extend our best wishes to him and Gupta
Media as they continue to lead this industry
into the future.
f
CONGRATULATING JENNY’S
SWEETS & MORE ON RECEIPT OF
THE ROOKIE BUSINESS OF THE
YEAR AWARD
HON. DANIEL MEUSER
OF PENNSYLVANIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, November 21, 2019
Mr. MEUSER. Madam Speaker, it is with
great respect that I rise today to congratulate
Jenny’s Sweets and More in Lehighton on
being named the recipient of the Carbon
County Chamber and Economic Development
Corporation’s Rookie Business of the Year
Award.
The Rookie Business of the Year recog-
nizes a business in operation less than two
years that has demonstrated enthusiasm,
community spirit and commitment to growing
in Carbon County. Jenny’s Sweets and More,
owned by Jennifer Solt-Cerato, has proven to
be an outstanding addition to the Lehighton
community. In addition to offering delicious
candies, Jenny’s Sweets and More always has
an eye to the community and places a heavy
emphasis on giving back. This business brings
joy and light to its customers, both young and
old, and represents the values of kindness
and altruism that are characteristic of our
Pennsylvania communities.
On behalf of the U.S. House of Representa-
tives and the citizens of Pennsylvania’s Ninth
Congressional District, I ask my colleagues to
join me in congratulating Jenny’s Sweets and
More on this great honor and thank her for her
commitment to our community.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:12 Nov 22, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A21NO8.017 E21NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E1492 November 21, 2019
HONORING MS. ANITA BOURN 30
YEARS AS A CONGRESSIONAL
STAFFER
HON. STEVEN M. PALAZZO
OF MISSISSIPPI
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, November 21, 2019
Mr. PALAZZO. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to recognize one of my very own, Ms. Anita
Faye Bourn, for thirty years of dedicated serv-
ice as a congressional staffer. Anita’s career
with the U.S. House of Representatives began
in 1989 when my predecessor, Gene Taylor,
won the special election. Anita was hired on
as a secretary, but quickly found her niche
through constituent services. When I first took
office in 2010, I had the opportunity to carry
over staff from the previous administration.
Anita was an obvious choice and to this day,
has proven to be one of my most trusted staff-
ers.
Anita was born and raised in Hattiesburg,
Mississippi, with family, faith, and music at her
epicenter. She would say her mother, Chris-
tine Bourn, is the heart and soul of the family.
She has two sons, and a niece, to whom she
is known as ‘‘Tee-Tee’’. Anita also claims a
host of brothers and sisters in Christ through
her church family at Shady Grove Baptist
Church. Anita is a long-time member of the
church music ministry and is deservedly con-
sidered the resident ‘‘rock star’’. I can attest to
this as I have had the privilege of hearing her
beautiful rendition of ‘‘God Bless America’’.
Anita’s musical career officially began at the
age of 12, when she started playing piano dur-
ing church services. Since then, Anita has
served as Director of the inspirational choir,
the senior adult choir, and the men’s chorus,
while also directing the annual Easter and
Christmas programs. One year, she depicted
the Christian family in Tyler Perry’s Madea
style, which was undoubtedly an audience fa-
vorite. More recently, Anita was nominated as
the Choir Director of the Year at the Gulf
Coast Gospel Music Awards. Whether she is
serving my constituents, or ministering to her
community, Anita pours her heart into each of
her endeavors.
In a few words, Anita is faith-filled, compas-
sionate, vibrant, and a true expert in her field.
I could not ask for a better representative
among my staff. To close, I would like to
share one of Anita’s favorite bible verses, Ro-
mans 8:28: ‘‘And we know that all things work
together for good to those who love God, to
those who are called according to his pur-
pose’’. Madam Speaker, I take this opportunity
to express my gratitude to Ms. Anita Bourn for
thirty exceptional years.
f
IN HONOR OF SUSAN MANHEIMER,
RETIRING POLICE CHIEF OF SAN
MATEO
HON. JACKIE SPEIER
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, November 21, 2019
Ms. SPEIER. Madam Speaker, local law en-
forcement often establishes a link with children
through use of a costumed character known
as ‘‘McGruff the Crime Dog.’’ Universally trust-
ed, McGruff makes police and their awesome
duties accessible. However, in the City of San
Mateo, McGruff is outmatched in popularity by
Police Chief Susan Manheimer. Once you
know Chief Manheimer, it’s easy to see why
many in a room give her a hug and ignore the
dog.
She is a Chief who is tough but kind, patient
with the just but impatient with the dishonor-
able, quick to draw a line in the sand when
public safety necessitates it but equally quick
to reach out to troubled youths or adults when
the security of the community and human dig-
nity require it. Many parents with troubled
teens have come to know Susan under dif-
ficult circumstances. Most would tell you her
influence was akin to a heavenly blessing
wrapped in a dark blue uniform with a badge.
Chief Manheimer is now retiring. From all
who know her, it is likely that one tear will be
shed in joy because she earned family and
recreation time and they are happy about her
future. Another will be shed because the wis-
dom she exhibited must now be found
amongst the rest of us. We wonder if we are
equal to the task.
Her mantra is ‘‘community policing.’’ The gift
of her service is that she stressed both words
equally. She first exhibited this talent as an of-
ficer in one of San Francisco’s most chal-
lenging neighborhoods, the Tenderloin. She
spearheaded a Safety Ambassador Program,
a community improvement district, homeless
outreach teams, and juvenile diversion and re-
ferral practices. Her résumé notes that she
served with the SFPD decoy unit, as well as
in violent-crime suppression and gang sup-
pression. As her star rose within the depart-
ment, it was obvious that the community trust-
ed Susan Manheimer.
In 2000, she was welcomed as the first
woman to serve as the San Mateo Police
Chief. Under her leadership, and with the
strong support of the outstanding men and
women of the San Mateo Police Department,
the community, city management, and her city
council, the department received awards for
the improved quality of life in San Mateo.
She built her department’s practices based
upon evidence about sustainable solutions
that strike at the root of neighborhood safety
and quality of life. Her department emphasizes
building legitimacy, trust and engagement be-
tween the police and the community.
This is best exhibited by remarks of one of
the past officers who managed the Police Ac-
tivities League. When that officer would see a
group of boisterous teens on a street corner,
she could often recognize each of them and
would wave. They were her team members,
not a youth gang. Chief Manheimer, joined by
an outstanding staff, built that close relation-
ship with the community. In addition to youth
sports, she also started homeless outreach
teams and sought increased resources for the
homeless. Crime was suppressed by working
with neighborhood leaders. Youth crime plum-
meted in part because sports substituted for
mischief.
Chief Manheimer’s regional, state, national,
and international professional accomplish-
ments are too numerous to mention in full.
These include serving on the Juvenile Justice
Committee of the International Association of
Chiefs of Police, serving as the first woman
President of the California Police Chief’s Asso-
ciation and the San Mateo County Chief’s and
Sheriff’s Association, and serving on the
Board of Directors of the Peninsula Conflict
Resolution Center. She holds a Bachelor’s in
Business Management from Saint Mary’s Col-
lege in Moraga and a Master’s in Educational
Leadership from San Diego State University.
It’s been a privilege to call Susan
Manheimer a friend. She can be riotously
funny and is always the spark in the room of
any gathering. When she shows up in uniform,
her shoes are polished to Marine Corps stand-
ards. Her son, Jesse, is a Captain in the
Corps. Ever competitive, Mom won’t be out-
done. Her daughter, Sarah, is an accom-
plished attorney. Susan is also the grand-
mother of Jackson, Lucas and Karina.
Madam Speaker, we were fortunate Police
Chief Susan Manheimer has led the City of
San Mateo with us. McGruff will someday
come back in his uniform. Susan will walk
amongst us in civilian attire. That’s ok. In our
childhood imaginations we adored McGruff. In
the adult world, we will always love our favor-
ite top cop. Happy retirement Police Chief
Susan Manheimer.
f
CELEBRATING THE NAVAL SERV-
ICE OF EDWIN EARL THOMPSON
HON. BRIAN BABIN
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, November 21, 2019
Mr. BABIN. Madam Speaker, I rise today to
thank a great sailor, Chief Edwin ‘‘Easy’’
Thompson, United States Navy (Retired), for
thirty years of service as an Engineman Chief
Master Diver (Frogman) in the United States
Navy.
After enlisting in the Navy in 1944, Thomp-
son served on the hospital ship USS Haven
(AH–12) and evacuated wounded from the
Marshall Islands, Guam, and other South Pa-
cific Islands. During World War II, Mr. Thomp-
son also served aboard a destroyer mine-
sweeper in the Straits of Alaska. Thompson
served on many ships during his career, but
one of his greatest highlights was serving as
a Marine Honor Guard when the Battleship
Texas (BB–35) was turned over to the state of
Texas in 1948.
From 1948 to 1952, Edwin Thompson was
stationed on the Battleship Missouri (BB–63).
On the Missouri, he participated in the battles
of Inchon and Hungnam during the Korean
War. Mr. Thompson has also pointed out that
he was on the USS Missouri both times she
ran aground.
In the 1950s, Easy joined the Underwater
Demolition Team Two, Unit 22 and served
alongside his friend, Michael Murphy who was
killed in Vietnam during an underwater explo-
sion. Michael Murphy’s grandson, Navy SEAL
Lt. Michael P. Murphy, posthumously received
the Congressional Medal of Honor for his ac-
tions during SEAL Team One’s Operation Red
Wings in Afghanistan.
On January 17, 1966, a U.S. Air Force B–
52 bomber armed with hydrogen bombs col-
lided mid-air with a tanker while refueling over
the Mediterranean Sea near Palomares,
Spain. One hundred tons of flaming wreckage
was spread over 15 square miles with one of
the bombs tumbling into the sea. Thankfully,
the three other bombs hit the ground and did
not explode.
The Chief of Naval Operations created Task
Force 65 consisting of 34 ships, 2,200 sailors,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:12 Nov 22, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A21NO8.021 E21NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E1493
November 21, 2019
130 frogmen (including Chief Edwin Thomp-
son), and 4 miniature submarines to recover
the warhead from the sea. Secretary of the
Navy Paul Ignatius later described the suc-
cessful recovery as ‘‘the largest and most dif-
ficult deep-sea search ever conducted by any
country in the world.’’ Thompson’s team of
frogmen recovered the warhead under 2,162
feet of water just a few feet from edge of a
5,000-foot abyss. The recovered warheads
were 75 times more powerful that the Atomic
Bomb dropped on Hiroshima.
Following his retirement from the Navy, Mr.
Thompson continued diving and worked for
Brown & Root for many years. He also served
as a Reserve Deputy with the Harris County
Precinct Three Constable’s Office for twenty
years. Thompson has served as Veterans of
Foreign Wars Post 912 Commander and is a
life-member of several other community orga-
nizations, including the American Legion and
Fleet Reserve Association. He is also a mem-
ber of the Shiners and Freemasons.
Edwin Thompson was married to Mrs. Mar-
garet Bell Griffin Thompson for forty-four years
until her death in 1992. Together they have
seven children: John, Tammy, Lorrie Anne,
Mary Frances, Don Marie, Sue Ellen, and
Margaret. He has 49 grandchildren, and many
other great-grandchildren. The Thompson fam-
ily has a long history of career military service
to our country spanning several generations.
Madam Speaker, I would like to thank Chief
Edwin ‘‘Easy’’ Thompson, as well as his fam-
ily, for their selfless service to this great na-
tion.
f
HONORING MARILYN GLAZER
HON. JANICE D. SCHAKOWSKY
OF ILLINOIS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, November 21, 2019
Ms. SCHAKOWSKY. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to recognize the compassionate and ef-
ficient service and valuable contributions of my
dear personal friend, Ms. Marilyn Glazer, who
is retiring from her role as Niles Township Su-
pervisor on December 31, 2019. Marilyn has
served as an effective elected official to her
community for nearly 15 years, and her lead-
ership has changed Niles Township for the
better.
Marilyn Glazer was first elected as a Niles
Township Trustee in 2005, and she held this
position until her election as Supervisor in
2014. Marilyn worked hard to make sure that
Niles Township residents had access to the
best services that the township could offer.
Marilyn helped to increase resources allo-
cated to the Niles Township food pantry and
under her leadership, the food pantry has
grown and moved into a new and larger
space. The food pantry provides a lifeline for
many township residents. Marilyn helped es-
tablish local grants available for qualifying stu-
dents to attend Oakton Community College,
and scholarships for day care and park district
day camp. She also oversaw efforts to mean-
ingfully improve and expand access to senior
legal services, immigration services, and utility
bill assistance.
My office has worked closely with Niles
Township throughout Marilyn’s tenure to en-
sure that our shared constituents receive ef-
fective and efficient assistance. My district
staff holds regular neighborhood office hours
in the township offices and works closely with
the township staff to solve constituents’ prob-
lems. Marilyn maintained excellent working re-
lationships with my staff and has always been
a fierce advocate for Niles Township resi-
dents.
Marilyn will continue her long and success-
ful career as a realtor and real estate teacher
after her retirement from the township.
Marilyn Glazer’s professional work speaks
for itself, and I deeply admire her dedicated
effort to better the lives of residents through-
out Niles Township. On behalf of the constitu-
ents of the 9th Congressional District, I thank
Marilyn for her service and tireless work over
the last 15 years.
f
CONGRATULATING JESSICA
ADAMCZYK ON RECEIPT OF THE
YOUNG PROFESSIONAL OF THE
YEAR
HON. DANIEL MEUSER
OF PENNSYLVANIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, November 21, 2019
Mr. MEUSER. Madam Speaker, it is with
great respect that I rise today to congratulate
Jessica Adamczyk of Weatherly on receiving
the Carbon County Chamber and Economic
Development Corporation’s Young Profes-
sional of the Year Award.
The Young Professional of the Year Award
highlights a Carbon County Young Profes-
sional highly involved in CCEDC events and
community programs. Jessica graduated from
Weatherly High School in 2013 and graduated
Magna Cum Laude from Kutztown University
in 2016. Currently a Marketing Associate at
Heritage Hill Senior Community, Jessica is
also incredibly engaged with the Hazelton and
Carbon County Chambers, serving on the
board of the Future Leaders of Carbon County
Community. She also volunteers with Gap Inc.
and serves as the Business Operations Man-
ager for the Weatherly Ambulance Associa-
tion. Lastly, Jessica recognizes the importance
of a health community, founding the Weatherly
Recreation Committee and participating in the
Weatherly Summer Volleyball League. Carbon
County’s future is bright with young and enthu-
siastic leaders like Jessica leading the way.
On behalf of the U.S. House of Representa-
tives and the citizens of Pennsylvania’s Ninth
Congressional District, I ask my colleagues to
join me in congratulating Jessica Adamczyk
on this great honor and thank her for her com-
mitment to our community.
f
RECOGNIZING THE RETIREMENT
OF TOM BRADLEY AFTER NEAR-
LY 30 YEARS OF DISTINGUISHED
FEDERAL SERVICE
HON. JOHN A. YARMUTH
OF KENTUCKY
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, November 21, 2019
Mr. YARMUTH. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to recognize the distinguished career
and retirement of Tom Bradley after 24 years
of service at the Congressional Budget Office.
Tom has been Chief of the Medicare Cost Es-
timates Unit for 21 of those years. He also
spent almost 6 years at the Prospective Pay-
ment Assessment Commission and the De-
partment of Health and Human Services, for a
total of nearly 30 years in federal service.
It is hard to overstate Tom’s role in ana-
lyzing the budgetary impacts of health legisla-
tion over the past two decades. Notable exam-
ples include the Balanced Budget Act of 1997
and the Medicare Access and CHIP Reauthor-
ization Act of 2015. In all of those interactions,
Tom has been instrumental in providing in-
sightful and objective estimates of the effects
of every piece of important health care legisla-
tion that the Congress has considered, de-
bated, and enacted since 1995.
Tom has worked tirelessly with Members of
Congress and our staff on both sides of the
aisle throughout the years. During many hours
of discussion and explanation, he was never
less than methodically forthright and fair, em-
bodying CBO’s commitment to nonpartisan
analysis. He helped us understand the key le-
vers to move an estimate and the need to
focus on making the language match the in-
tent.
Tom also trained numerous CBO analysts to
think harder, dig deeper, and consider all the
possible outcomes of a bill. The high stand-
ards that he set for himself and for the Medi-
care Unit will continue to be a benchmark for
CBO’s health analysis going forward.
Tom can look forward to a well-earned re-
tirement with his wife, Judith, in Florida. He
leaves CBO and Washington with the thanks
and appreciation of the Congress.
f
TRIBUTE TO VERONICA DAVILA
HON. JOAQUIN CASTRO
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, November 21, 2019
Mr. CASTRO of Texas. Madam Speaker, I
rise today to acknowledge the life of Ms.
Veronica Davila who passed away on Novem-
ber 13, 2019 at the age of 66. Ms. Davila hails
from my hometown of San Antonio, Texas and
is survived by her children, Lisa Luna, Enoch
Dı́az and Maricela Dı́az-Wells; eight grand-
children, one great-grandchild, and four sib-
lings. A life-long advocate and educator, her
contribution to the San Antonio community is
irreplaceable. She will be greatly missed.
Veronica Davila was born on December 16,
1952 to Adolfo Rodriguez, Sr. and Leonarda
Vasquez Jimenez. Early on she developed a
keen interest in family, community, and faith.
For thirty years she worked extensively in the
community and in non-profit organizations. For
decades she dedicated herself to planning and
the implementation of programs to end family
violence.
Until her untimely passing, Ms. Davila
worked with the P.E.A.C.E. Initiative, or Put-
ting An End to Abuse through Community Ef-
forts. She was also known to help at-risk
youth and victims of domestic violence.
Madam Speaker, my heart goes out to the
family and loved ones of Ms. Veronica Davila.
A true hero in our community, she forged life-
long friendships and connections with the
many people she helped. At times, victims of
domestic and family violence go unheard. Her
passion and dedication to survivors gave them
a voice. Her contribution to the San Antonio
community will never be forgotten.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:12 Nov 22, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A21NO8.023 E21NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E1494 November 21, 2019
RECOGNIZING TOM CAULFIELD
HON. JOHN JOYCE
OF PENNSYLVANIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, November 21, 2019
Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania. Madam Speak-
er, it is with great pride that I recognize Tom
Caulfield, the Founder and Director/President
of Veteran Community Initiatives, for his com-
mitment to our region’s veterans.
A U.S. Army Vietnam veteran, Mr. Caulfield
has dedicated his life to serving others. As
founder of Veteran Community Initiatives, he
and his team have touched the lives of thou-
sands of veterans in our region. Since its in-
ception in 1993, Veteran Community Initiatives
has helped nearly 9,000 veterans and their
family members in the PA Laurel Highlands
and the Southern Alleghenies.
In addition to his work with VCI, Mr.
Caulfield is active with many veteran service
organizations, including his current work on
the James E. Van Zandt VA Medical Center’s
Veterans Advisory Council, the former De-
fense Veterans Brain Injury Center—Johns-
town as Board Chairman, the Penn Highlands
Community College/John P. Murtha Scholar-
ship Committee as Chairman, and the
Cambria County Business and Education Con-
sortia.
By caring and advocating for Pennsylvania
veterans, Mr. Caulfield has established an in-
delible legacy. It is my privilege to recognize
this community leader for his lifelong dedica-
tion to our nation and to his fellow veterans.
f
HONORING DEPUTY CHIEF TERRY
CLANTON AND HIS 36-YEAR CA-
REER
HON. RICHARD HUDSON
OF NORTH CAROLINA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, November 21, 2019
Mr. HUDSON. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to honor Deputy Police Chief Terry Clanton on
his 36 years of service to our community with
the Kannapolis Police Department, located in
North Carolina’s Eighth Congressional District.
Over the last 36 years, Terry has made
countless contributions to our area. He started
his career in 1984 as a patrol officer for the
Kannapolis Police Department and retires
today as the Deputy Police Chief. His strong
character and leadership enabled him to ad-
vance within the Kannapolis Police Depart-
ment, culminating as Deputy Police Chief.
Growing up in Cabarrus and Rowan Coun-
ties, Terry knew he wanted to give back to his
community through law enforcement. Rising
through the ranks of patrol, investigations,
staff services, and support services, his out-
sized contributions to the Kannapolis Police
Department have been profound and un-
matched. Terry helped guide his office through
the transition that followed the incorporation of
the City of Kannapolis and saw the number of
police officers rise from 48 to over 100. De-
scribed by colleagues as dedicated, loyal, and
a true professional, his legacy of service will
be felt for years to come.
Terry will continue his career in law enforce-
ment as the Director of Law Enforcement
Training at Guilford Technical Community Col-
lege, where he will train our next generation of
leaders. I know I speak for everyone in the
community when I say we are truly grateful for
his unwavering service and cannot thank him
enough. I would like to offer my sincerest ap-
preciation and wish him success in his future
endeavors.
Madam Speaker, please join me today in
honoring Terry Clanton on his 36 years of
service to our community.
f
HONORING THE LIFE AND SERVICE
OF COMMANDER SAMMY L. VICK-
ERS
HON. MATT GAETZ
OF FLORIDA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, November 21, 2019
Mr. GAETZ. Madam Speaker, today I rise to
honor and remember the life of one of North-
west Florida’s most notable citizens, Com-
mander Sammy L. Vickers, who passed away
on March 29, 2018. Commander Vickers was
born in 1946, in Corpus Christi, TX, and lived
a lifetime full of impressive and dedicated
service to our nation.
Commander Vickers served heroically in the
United States Navy for 22 years. As a P–3C
Orion pilot during the tumultuous years of the
Cold War, Commander Vickers patrolled the
waters of the Pacific and Atlantic Oceans
hunting Russian submarines. His dedication to
duty helped ensure the safety of millions of
grateful Americans.
Commander Vickers was later assigned to
VP–6 in Hawaii and VP–5 in Jacksonville,
Florida. He also served aboard the USS Ei-
senhower, CVN 69. Commander Vickers’ serv-
ice in the United States military culminated as
the Executive Officer at Whiting Field in Flor-
ida, where he eventually retired.
However, Commander Vickers’ life of serv-
ice did not conclude with his retirement from
the United States Navy. In 1995, Commander
Vickers served the Santa Rosa community as
the Executive Director of the Santa Rosa
Chamber of Commerce.
Following his time with the Santa Rosa
Chamber, Commander Vickers devoted his
time to leading the Pace High School Navy
JROTC unit. He served as unit commander for
18 years, leading Pace High School to top na-
tional honors in 2003.
Even during his time as the unit leader of
the Pace High School Navy JROTC, Com-
mander Vickers continued to selflessly devote
himself to our community as he partnered with
several other community organizations. Com-
mander Vickers consistently dedicated his
time to the service of others.
Commander Vickers was revered and loved
by all who knew him. To honor his extraor-
dinary legacy, the traditional ‘‘Celebrating Our
Veterans’’ ceremony at Pace High School will
be renamed ‘‘Commander Sam Vickers Cele-
bration of America at Pace High School.’’
On behalf of the United States Congress, I
recognize and honor a remarkable man for his
selfless service to his country. I am grateful for
his lasting contributions to our community and
I ask my colleagues to join me in honoring the
life of a faithful and dedicated American hero.
SHARK FIN SALES ELIMINATION
ACT OF 2019
SPEECH OF
HON. RODNEY DAVIS
OF ILLINOIS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, November 20, 2019
Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois. Mr. Speak-
er, I want to thank Ranking Member MCCAUL
and Representative SABLAN for their leader-
ship on H.R. 737, the Shark Fin Sales Elimi-
nation Act, an important animal and wildlife
protection bill. Their efforts earned the broad
bipartisan support of nearly 290 Members of
the House who cosponsored the bill which
passed on an overwhelming bipartisan basis.
Many sharks are killed through the horrific
method of ‘‘shark finning,’’ a method of remov-
ing fins from sharks while they are still alive at
sea and discarding the rest of the shark. This
bill would expand the Shark Conservation Act,
which was passed in 2010, prohibiting the
commercial trade of shark fins and products
containing shark fins, to also prohibit taking
the fins of sharks at sea.
Currently, shark finning is illegal in U.S.
waters, but more is needed to protect these
rapidly declining shark populations. Shark fins
sold in the U.S. come from all over the world,
including locations which have no bans on fin-
ning. The United States is in the top 15 shark-
fin-importing countries in terms of volume. It is
highly likely that shark fins sold in the United
States come from sharks that have been bru-
tally finned from places that allow shark fin-
ning.
Some populations have declined by up to
90 percent in recent decades leaving almost
25 percent of shark and ray species at risk of
extinction. These global populations are cur-
rently threatened by this practice and insti-
tuting this ban will help to reduce the demand
for shark fins and conserve these species
while still allowing the sales of shark meat and
products.
My home state of Illinois has already en-
acted a law prohibiting the shark fin trade join-
ing 12 states and 3 territories that already
have laws banning the sale of shark fins, simi-
lar to this bill.
I voted yes on this bill and applaud my col-
leagues who also voted in favor of H.R. 737,
the Shark Fin Sales Elimination Act.
f
CONGRATULATING JOEY B’S BAR
& RESTAURANT ON RECEIPT OF
THE BUSINESS OF THE YEAR
AWARD
HON. DANIEL MEUSER
OF PENNSYLVANIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, November 21, 2019
Mr. MEUSER. Madam Speaker, it is with
great respect that I rise today to congratulate
Joey B’s Bar & Restaurant in Lehighton on re-
ceiving the Carbon County Chamber and Eco-
nomic Development Corporation’s Business of
the Year Award.
The Business of the Year Award recognizes
a business that has demonstrated achieve-
ment and innovation in management, work-
place excellence, and has committed to grow-
ing here in Carbon County. Established in
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:12 Nov 22, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00010 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A21NO8.028 E21NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E1495
November 21, 2019
1988 by Chip and Shari Solt to honor the
passing of a friend, Joey Barbosa, Joey B’s
has evolved into a vibrant gathering place for
those in the community. The Solt family has
been committed to continuing their tradition of
offering a warm atmosphere for friends to
gather and create memories—truly making
Joey B’s a place ‘‘Where Good Friends Meet.’’
On behalf of the U.S. House of Representa-
tives and the citizens of Pennsylvania’s Ninth
Congressional District, I ask my colleagues to
join me in congratulating Joey B’s Bar & Res-
taurant on this great honor and thank them for
their commitment to our community.
f
CRIME VICTIMS’ RIGHTS ACT
HON. JACKIE SPEIER
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, November 21, 2019
Ms. SPEIER. Madam Speaker, I include in
the RECORD the following letter I sent to the
U.S. Attorney General concerning H.R. 4729,
the Courtney Wild Crime Victims’ Rights Act.
CONGRESS OF THE UNITED STATES,
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
Washington, DC, November 21, 2019.
Hon. WILLIAM BARR,
U.S. Attorney General,
Washington, DC.
DEAR ATTORNEY GENERAL BARR: I write to
raise concerns about a court filing recently
made by prosecutors in the Department, who
cited my recent legislative efforts to support
Jeffrey Epstein’s victims as being in opposi-
tion to their currently pending petition be-
fore the Eleventh Circuit. I hope that you
will direct your prosecutors to correct the
misimpression that their inaccurate rep-
resentation has created.
I introduced H.R. 4729, the Courtney Wild
Crime Victims’ Rights Reform Act (the
‘‘CVRA Reform Act’’), in the House of Rep-
resentatives on October 17, 2019. The bill was
inspired by the challenges faced by the vic-
tims of serial sexual predator Jeffrey Ep-
stein in Florida, who were left in the dark as
prosecutors hashed out a secretive and
shockingly lenient plea deal. Among other
things, my bill would clarify the scope of
rights guaranteed by the Crime Victims’
Rights Act (‘‘CVRA’’), 18 U.S.C. § 3771(a), by
stating what the law already provides in
more explicit terms and conforming the text
to the original intent of Congress.
In an attempt to deny the rights of
Epstein’s victims in Florida, attorneys in
the Department latched onto my bill and
misrepresented its intent in a brief recently
submitted to the Eleventh Circuit. Brief of
the United States, In re Courtney Wild, No.
19–13843 (11th Cir. Oct. 31, 2019). In particular,
the Department stated that my CVRA Re-
form Act would ‘‘amend the CVRA to state
that its rights are extended to cover non-
prosecution agreements.’’ Id. at 43.
That is not what my bill would do. It
would not ‘‘extend[]’’ the CVRA’s rights to
non-prosecution agreements, since the CVRA
already covers non-prosecution agreements.
Rather, the bill would merely clarify that
the CVRA covers non-prosecution agree-
ments.
This is exactly what was said in the press
release the Department’s attorneys cited:
The Crime Victims’ Rights Reform Act
will:
Clarify that victims of federal crimes have
the right to confer with the Government and
be informed about key pre-charging develop-
ments in a case, such as . . . non-prosecution
agreements.
Press Release, Rep. Speier Introduces Bi-
partisan Courtney Wild Crime Victims’
Rights Reform Act of 2019 to Rectify Injus-
tices Faced by Epstein’s Victims (Oct. 17,
2019) (emphasis added), available at https://
speier.house.gov/media-center/press-releases/
rep-speier-introducesbipartisan-courtney-
wild-crime-victims-rights.
Your prosecutors are obviously attempting
to suggest that it is my view, and the view
of my legislative co-sponsors, that existing
law does not provide protection to Courtney
Wild and other victims. But, as the press re-
lease states, the legislation is designed to
‘‘clarify’’ what we understood to already be
existing law and Congressional intent under
the CVRA.
The CVRA already provides that crime vic-
tims have CVRA rights during the entirety
of a criminal case—at every stage, from the
initial investigation all the way through any
disposition and sentence. Earlier in the Ep-
stein case, the District Court rejected the
Department’s crabbed interpretation, relying
on numerous court opinions correctly hold-
ing that the rights guaranteed by the CVRA
‘‘extend to the pre-charge stage of criminal
investigations and proceedings.’’ Doe v.
United States, 950 F. Supp. 2d 1262, 1267 (S.D.
Fla. 2013) (collecting cases); see also In re
Dean, 527 F.3d 391, 394 (5th Cir. 2008). When
Congress enacted the CVRA, it intended to
protect crime victims throughout the crimi-
nal justice process—from the investigative
phases to the conclusion of a case. Congress
could not have been clearer in its direction
that using ‘‘best efforts’’ to enforce the
CVRA was an obligation of ‘‘[o]fficers and
employees of the Department of Justice and
other departments and agencies of the
United States engaged in the detection, in-
vestigation, or prosecution of crime.’’ 18
U.S.C. § 377l(c)(l) (emphasis added).
This is not the first time the Department
has misinterpreted legislative history in try-
ing to deny victims their rights. For exam-
ple, in 2011 Senator Kyl, one of the sponsors
of the CVRA, was compelled to put a state-
ment into the Congressional Record when
the Justice Department twisted his words.
See Letter from Jon Kyl, U.S. Sen. to Eric H.
Holder, Jr., Att’y Gen. (June 6, 2011), re-
printed in 157 Cong. Rec. S3608 (daily ed.
June 8, 2011). Senator Kyl was responding to
a 2010 Office of Legal Counsel opinion in
which the Department cited his statements
in support of the CVRA’s passage to arrive at
the (incorrect) position that CVRA rights
only ‘‘are guaranteed from the time that
criminal proceedings are initiated (by com-
plaint, information, or indictment) and cease
to be available if all charges are dismissed
either voluntarily or on the merits (or if the
Government declines to bring for-mal
charges after the filing of a complaint).’’ Of-
fice of Legal Counsel, Mem. Op., The Avail-
ability of Crime Victims’ Rights Under the
Crime Victims’ Rights Act of 2004 (Dec. 17,
2010, publicly released May 20, 2011). Congress
responded by clarifying that the CVRA in-
cludes ‘‘[t]he right to be informed in a time-
ly manner of any plea bargain or deferred
prosecution agreement.’’ Pub. L. 114–22, title
I, § 113(a), 129 Stat. 240.
Despite Congress’ clear intention to pro-
vide rights to victims throughout the crimi-
nal process, the Department has consistently
read the CVRA narrowly and shirked its
statutorily required ‘‘best efforts.’’ That is
one reason I was compelled to write the
CVRA Reform Act—to get the Department
to follow through on the CVRA’s promises. I
am displeased that my legislation and ac-
companying press release were misinter-
preted, and I trust that you will direct your
prosecutors to correct with the Eleventh Cir-
cuit their erroneous description of the pro-
posed legislation.
Sincerely,
JACKIE SPEIER.
f
CELEBRATING THE MILITARY
SERVICE OF LELAND CALVIN
BUTLER
HON. BRIAN BABIN
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, November 21, 2019
Mr. BABIN. Madam Speaker, I rise today to
thank Leland Calvin ‘‘L.C.’’ Butler, a 96 year
old World War II veteran of the United States
Marine Corps, for his service to our great na-
tion.
L.C. Butler was born in Temple, Texas on
July 19, 1923 to Ann Patton Butler. His family
moved to Houston in 1932. On August 19,
1942, Mr. Butler enlisted in the United States
Marines Corps in San Antonio, Texas. He at-
tended boot camp in San Diego, California for
seven weeks, training one week at the firing
range, and two months in Imperial Valley,
California learning how to operate the ‘‘big
guns.’’
A new anti-aircraft battalion was formed and
L.C. became part of the 2nd Airdrome Bat-
talion, which later became the 17th Defense
Battalion. Butler’s battalion’s assignment was
to provide anti-aircraft defense to airstrips se-
cured by Allied Forces and to protect them
after they were secured. As a result, he did
not see as much fighting as many of his
friends. Butler considers their assignment the
luck of the draw.
Butler’s division was sent to the Nukufetau
Atoll where he served until the summer of
1944. After Nukufetau, his battalion was sent
to Kauai for a short rest. In late summer of
1944, Mr. Butler boarded a ship to Tinian. He
remained on the ship for approximately 60
days until the island was secured. Once Tinian
was taken Butler’s battalion moved ashore
and used their anti-aircraft guns to protect the
air strips from further attacks.
Toward the end of their deployment they
discovered the Enola Gay was stationed on
Tinian Island. This B–29 Superfortress be-
came the first airplane to drop an atomic
bomb on August 6, 1945 over Hiroshima,
Japan. L.C. and his battalion were on a ship
heading back to the United States when the
second atomic bomb was dropped on Naga-
saki. The dropping of both atomic bombs ex-
pedited the end of World War II.
The Marines were sent to San Diego and
quarantined for two weeks because First Lady
Eleanor Roosevelt felt it necessary due to out-
breaks of different ailments while they were
stationed on various Pacific islands. L.C. said
she wasn’t very popular with the Marines at
that time, but that they were treated well dur-
ing the two weeks.
L.C. Butler returned home to Houston,
Texas the first week in September 1945 and
married Dorothy Nell Corgey on September 7,
1945. Mr. and Mrs. Butler took one thousand
dollars that L.C. won during a poker game on
the ship back to the United States and stayed
in a hotel in downtown Houston for a month
for their honeymoon.
Following their honeymoon, the Butlers went
to Corpus Christi for about three weeks. There
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:12 Nov 22, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00011 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A21NO8.032 E21NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E1496 November 21, 2019
he was honorably discharged from the United
States Marines Corps on October 25, 1945.
From the age of nineteen, L.C.’s life motto,
has been ‘‘Once a Marine, Always a Marine.’’
L.C. and Dorothy were married for 62 years
until she passed away on April 11, 2008. They
have two daughters, Lynn B. Lucas and Debra
Westberry, five grandchildren, four great-
grandchildren, one great-great grandchild and
another great grandchild on the way.
Madam Speaker, I thank Mr. Butler for his
selfless service to this great nation.
f
CONGRATULATING JAMES
WIMMER ESQ. ON RECEIPT OF
THE WILLIAM H. BAYER LIFE-
TIME ACHIEVEMENT AWARD
HON. DANIEL MEUSER
OF PENNSYLVANIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, November 21, 2019
Mr. MEUSER. Madam Speaker, it is with
great respect that I rise today to congratulate
James Wimmer on receiving the Carbon
County Chamber and Economic Development
Corporation’s (CCEDC) William H. Bayer Life-
time Achievement Award.
The William H. Bayer Lifetime Achievement
Award is presented by the CCEDC each year
to a CCEDC member that has demonstrated a
lifetime commitment to the community, which
Mr. Wimmer has certainly done. After grad-
uating from University of Pennsylvania Law
School in 1965, he began his career practicing
law in Palmerton and served as an Assistant
District Attorney from 1967 until 1975. In addi-
tion, he advocated on behalf of students and
families in Palmerton in his position as School
District Solicitor for over thirty years. Through-
out his legal career, Jim was also involved in
the banking industry, serving in senior leader-
ship roles at several banks, including Citizen’s
Bank in Palmerton. Jim used his banking ex-
pertise to help guide new families through the
process of buying their first home and entre-
preneurs navigate the obstacles of starting a
small business.
After nearly 50 years of serving our commu-
nity’s students, families, and businesses with
integrity and compassion, Mr. Wimmer retired
from his law practice in September. His dedi-
cated work in our community should be cele-
brated.
In addition to his law career, Mr. Wimmer
has been a devoted family man and active
member of our community, married to his wife
Linda for 56 years and spending decades vol-
unteering his time to organizations whose mis-
sions benefit those in need.
On behalf of the U.S. House of Representa-
tives and the citizens of Pennsylvania’s Ninth
Congressional District, I ask my colleagues to
join me in congratulating James Wimmer on a
lifetime of selfless commitment to our commu-
nity.
HONORING ROSIE HARRIS AND
HER OUTSTANDING CONTRIBU-
TIONS TO MODEL CONGRESS
HON. ROSA L. DeLAURO
OF CONNECTICUT
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, November 21, 2019
Ms. DELAURO. Madam Speaker, every so
often I find myself in awe of our next genera-
tion. Just recently, I had the opportunity to
read a presentation by Rosie Harris during her
pa1iicipation in the Model Congress program
as a member of the Dalton School Delegation.
It was inspiring and so I would like to share
her authorization speech as well as her legis-
lative proposal, the Menstrual Parity Act of
2019. If this is the leadership and vision we
can expect from the next generation, I believe
we are indeed in good hands.
‘‘Hello. I am Representative Harris. Friends,
colleagues, I rise to introduce the Menstrual
Parity Act of 2019. Half of our country is fe-
male and on average, female bodied people
menstruate once a month for 40 years. In this
country, women have been treated as second
class citizens since the beginning of time.
While we have mad some progress, and there
are plenty of other areas that need work. My
bill proposes one small but incredibly impor-
tant aspect of the fight towards equality—a
step towards economic equality.’’
‘‘This is simple. The Menstrual Parity Act of
2019 does the following: In any place we have
facilities open to the public (ie. parks, libraries,
you name it), where toilets or bathrooms are
made available, this act would require that if
toilet paper is provided for free, menstrual
products would be provided for free as well.
It’s simple but meaningful progress. At the fed-
eral level, we require it. At the state level, we
will reimburse the entire costs of it. And that’s
that.’’
‘‘And you might ask, well, Harris, how would
you guarantee this? Expansion of Title IX, a
federal civil rights law passed in 1972 prohib-
iting discrimination on the basis of sex in edu-
cation programs or federally funded programs.
Here are a few facts just to put this in context:
On average, women earn 80 cents on the dol-
lar to men, according to the US Census Bu-
reau’s American Community Survey, as reli-
able a source as exists; Women are 23.6 per-
cent more likely to be in poverty than men;
and it is estimated that the lifetime cost for
only menstruation is over 18,000 dollars,
which have the country doesn’t have to pay,
and is a whole lot of money for one indi-
vidual.’’
‘‘Some concerns you might have. It’s expen-
sive. The Federal annual budget is over 3 tril-
lion dollars, so in the big scheme of things,
this is really not that much money for govern-
ment. Surely the richest country in the history
of the world could afford to make basic men-
strual products available, as they do with toilet
paper, another basic hygienic product. Toilet
paper is expensive too, and it turns out, you
need toilet paper much more often than men-
strual products. It is cheaper to pay for a few
more tampons than to cover an emergency
room visit for a women suffering from Toxic
Shock Syndrome (TSS) from a lack of access
to sufficient menstrual products. You may say
this is too big government. I would argue that
it is not big government providing toilet paper,
and once we enact this law, before you know
it, it will be shocking to people that we didn’t
do this before.’’
‘‘Having access to hygienic products is a
basic sanitary need so those of us who men-
struate can stay healthy. When there is not
access to appropriate menstrual products,
often products are used for too long, which
could lead to extreme risk of contracting TSS,
or things like brown paper bags, or wash
cloths are used in their place, which is not
safe.’’
‘‘I’d ask you to consider, especially if you
are not directly affected by the measures in
this bill, what this bill might mean to your
mothers, or daughters, or partners, and
friends. Finally, this bill will be a message to
all in our country of the importance of wom-
en’s health—after all, you wouldn’t be here
without us. I ask for your support and thank
you for your consideration. I yield back the
balance of my time to the chair.’’
THE DALTON MODEL CONGRESS 2019—HOUSE
COMMITTEE ON EDUCATION AND THE WORKFORCE
Name: Rosie Harris.
Title of the Bill: The Menstrual Parity Act
of 2019.
Delegation: The Dalton School.
Committee: Education and the Workforce.
Be It Enacted by the Dalton Model Con-
gress . . .
Preamble: Whereas women make up half of
the population of the United States, whereas
women on average have their period on a
monthly basis for 40 years, whereas women
on average earn only 80 cents of every dollar
men earn for the same work, whereas 13.6%
of women live in poverty, whereas women
are 23.6% more likely to be in poverty than
men, whereas 17.5% of children Jive in pov-
erty who are disproportionately dependent
on women to raise them, whereas menstrua-
tion involves costs that generally incur
every month, whereas obtaining full equality
for women necessitates economic equality,
whereas it is estimated that the lifetime cost
of a period can be over $18,000, and whereas
toilet paper is available in every public bath-
room in the country, be it resolved, that this
committee authorizes such sums as nec-
essary so that every public bathroom that
provides toilet paper also provide appro-
priate menstrual products.
Section 1 Short Title: This Act may be
cited as the ‘‘The Menstrual Parity Act of
2019’’.
Section 2 Definitions: Accommodations in-
clude all public facilities that are accessible
to the general public, and provide access to
bathrooms with toilets.
Section 2 Federal Accommodations: Every
federal public accommodation that provides
free toilet paper must also provide free men-
strual products.
Sub-Section A: Menstrual products must
be refilled as often as toilet paper.
Section 3 State Accommodations: Every
state public accommodation that provides
free toilet paper, who also provide free men-
strual products that are made as available as
toilet paper, will be reimbursed in full for
the menstrual products.
Sub-Section A: Menstrual products must
be refilled as often as toilet paper.
Section 4 Enforcement: Title IX of the
Education Amendments Act of 1972 shall be
expanded to include enforcement of the pro-
visions from Sections 2 and 3.
Section 5 Appropriations: The Committee
on Appropriations shall provide such sums as
necessary for (1) public accommodations
that receive appropriations for toilet paper
to be able to meet this new mandate and (2)
for the Title IX expansion.
Section 6 Enactment: This bill will be en-
acted 91 days after passage.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:12 Nov 22, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00012 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A21NO8.034 E21NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E1497
November 21, 2019
CONGRATULATING ROBERT VAN
SCYOC
HON. JOHN JOYCE
OF PENNSYLVANIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, November 21, 2019
Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania. Madam Speak-
er, I rise today to congratulate Shippensburg
Fire Department’s Robert ‘‘Bobby’’ Van Scyoc,
who recently marked 50 years of service to
the Shippensburg community.
Mr. Van Scyoc first joined the Shippensburg
Vigilant Hose Company on July 14, 1969. For
half a century, he has kept a watchful eye
over his neighbors as a first responder and
community leader. In addition to his service as
a firefighter, Mr. Van Scyoc also is an EMT
and a retired Police Sergeant and Dispatcher.
Today, he continues to drive fire apparatus to
calls and works part-time at Shippensburg
Area EMS.
It is my privilege to recognize Mr. Van
Scyoc upon this remarkable milestone for his
dedication to the Shippensburg community,
and I wish him every continued success.
f
IN RECOGNITION OF MR. HERBERT
KOHN RECEIVING THE 2019
HENRY W. BLOCH HUMAN RELA-
TIONS AWARD
HON. EMANUEL CLEAVER
OF MISSOURI
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, November 21, 2019
Mr. CLEAVER. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to recognize and congratulate Mr. Her-
bert Kohn for being named the recipient of the
2019 Henry W. Bloch Human Relations
Award. This award was established in honor
of Henry W. Bloch by the Jewish Community
Relations Bureau and serves to honor a com-
munity member with a passion for community
activism and an extraordinary civic presence.
Mr. Herbert Kohn personifies the excellence
we hope for in community leaders through his
selfless character and dedication to pursuing
justice for all.
After a courageous early childhood in Eu-
rope during World War II, Mr. Kohn escaped
to the United States with his family during his
third-grade year. After surviving the Holocaust
and resettling in Kansas City, Mr. Kohn was
fully committed to his educational endeavors.
During his time at Paseo High School, Mr.
Kohn was selected by his teachers to partici-
pate in the Missouri Boys State program.
Upon graduation, he attended the University of
Michigan, earning his Bachelor of Arts in 1960
and his Juris Doctorate in 1963. Throughout
his life, Mr. Herbert Kohn has shown steadfast
bravery and devotion to academic excellence
even in the face of formidable trials.
Today, Mr. Kohn does exemplary work as a
partner at a local law firm, Bryan Cave LLP,
where he specializes in corporate law. Kohn’s
service to the community goes beyond his
work as an attorney however. In 1999, Mr.
Kohn served on the transition team for the first
female Kansas City, Missouri Mayor, Kay
Barnes, and later, on her Charter Review
Commission. His collaboration with a number
of Kansas City mayors led to a beautiful
downtown, a City Pension Plan, and improved
early childhood education. Additionally, Mr.
Kohn served as a member of the Civic Council
of Greater Kansas City and was selected by
Governor Michael Parson to serve as Chair-
man of the Missouri Gaming Commission. Mr.
Kohn’s work has resulted in extraordinary ben-
efits to our city, our state, and to countless
people from all backgrounds and walks of life.
As one can see, Mr. Kohn’s numerous ac-
complishments have left an indelible impact on
his community. His generous and benevolent
character is particularly well-reflected via his
life-long devotion to the Missouri Boys State
program. He has dedicated decades to ex-
panding, improving, and bringing national rec-
ognition to the program ever since he was a
participant. Two years ago, Missouri Boys
State re-named one of its cities to ‘‘Kohn
City.’’ Moreover, Mr. Kohn served as the
Chairman of the Kansas City Art Institute, the
Chairman of the Missouri Cancer Commission,
a Trustee of the Truman Library Institute, and
the Director of the Richard and Annette Bloch
Cancer Foundation. Throughout his extensive
career, Mr. Herbert Kohn has devoted himself
to institutions and organizations which have
tangibly improved the lives of Kansas Citians
and those throughout the region.
Madam Speaker, please join me and Mis-
souri’s Fifth Congressional District in honoring
Mr. Herbert Kohn for being named the recipi-
ent of the 2019 Henry W. Bloch Human Rela-
tions Award. I stand today to recognize and
thank Mr. Kohn for his countless contributions
to the Kansas City community and the nation
at large.
f
HONORING MSGT ENRIQUE ‘‘RICK’’
HERRERA ON HIS 23 YEARS OF
MILITARY SERVICE
HON. RICHARD HUDSON
OF NORTH CAROLINA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, November 21, 2019
Mr. HUDSON. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to honor Master Sergeant Enrique ‘‘Rick’’ Her-
rera on his 23 years of military service.
Over the years, MSgt Herrera has made im-
measurable contributions to our great nation
and continues to personify the core U.S. Air
Force values of integrity, selfless service, and
excellence. He started his career in 1996 as a
student in the Combat Patrol Pipeline and re-
tires as a Master Sergeant that has served in
many positions across the 724th Special Tac-
tics Group.
Early in his career, MSgt Herrera was de-
ployed to Bosnia in support of Operation Joint
Forge with the 22nd Special Tactics Squad-
ron. After being selected for assignment to the
24th Special Tactics Squadron at Pope Air
Force Base in North Carolina, he was de-
ployed twelve times with elite Army and Navy
Task Forces to Afghanistan and Iraq in sup-
port of Operation Enduring Freedom, Oper-
ation Iraqi Freedom, Operation New Dawn,
and Operation Inherent Resolve.
MSgt Herrera retires as a decorated military
servant and true American hero, having nota-
bly received the Bronze Star Medal with Valor,
Bronze Star Medal with three oak leaf clus-
ters, and Air Force Commendation Medal with
two oak leaf clusters. Despite all of his accom-
plishments, he never boasts of his military
achievements and instead focuses his energy
on his wife Susan and their son Noah.
As Fort Bragg’s Congressman, I know I
speak for our entire community when I say we
are truly grateful for MSgt Herrera’s extraor-
dinary service and cannot thank him enough.
I would like to offer my sincerest appreciation
and wish him success in his future endeavors.
Madam Speaker, please join me today in
honoring Master Sergeant Enrique ‘‘Rick’’ Her-
rera on his 23 years of military service.
f
CONGRATULATING NO. 9 MINE &
MUSEUM ON RECEIPT OF THE
TOURISM AND ENTERTAINMENT
BUSINESS OF THE YEAR
HON. DANIEL MEUSER
OF PENNSYLVANIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, November 21, 2019
Mr. MEUSER. Madam Speaker, it is with
great respect that I rise today to congratulate
and recognize the No. 9 Mine & Museum on
being named the Carbon County Chamber
and Economic Development’s Tourism and
Entertainment Business of the Year.
Pennsylvania has a long and robust history
of coal mining. Our anthracite coal has heated
homes across the county, fueled trains, and
gave power to industries that helped build our
nation. The No. 9 Mine and Museum helps
preserve this rich mining heritage for us and
future generations to enjoy and remember.
The No. 9 Mine was first opened in 1855 by
the Lehigh Coal and Navigation Company and
was the epicenter of mining operations in the
Panther Valley. In operation for over a cen-
tury, from 1855 to 1972, the No. 9 Mine is the
world’s oldest continuously operated anthracite
coal mine.
Today, the mine is a museum and serves
as an important reminder of our community’s
roots and of the resilience and determination
of the many mineworkers who came before
us.
The No. 9 Mine became a museum when
the Panther Creek Valley Foundation took
ownership of the property in the 1990’s.
Through their restoration efforts, the group
created a unique, historical attraction, appeal-
ing to both locals and tourists alike.
On behalf of the U.S. House of Representa-
tives and the citizens of Pennsylvania’s Ninth
Congressional District, I ask my colleagues to
join me in congratulating the No. 9 Mine and
Museum on this great honor and thank them
for their commitment to preserving the history
of our community.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:12 Nov 22, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00013 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A21NO8.037 E21NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
REMARKS
D1288
Thursday, November 21, 2019
Daily Digest
HIGHLIGHTS
Senate agreed to the motion to concur in the House amendment to the
Senate amendment to H.R. 3055, Further Continuing Appropriations
Act and Further Health Extenders Act.
Senate
Chamber Action
Routine Proceedings, pages S6725–S6773
Measures Introduced: Thirty-six bills and nine res-
olutions were introduced, as follows: S. 2923–2958,
and S. Res. 436–444. Pages S6755–56
Measures Reported:
S. 860, to amend the Omnibus Public Land Man-
agement Act of 2009 to modify the terms of the
Jackson Gulch rehabilitation project in Colorado,
with an amendment. (S. Rept. No. 116–160)
S. 1882, to make available the continued use of
Pick-Sloan Missouri Basin Program project use
power by the Kinsey Irrigation Company and the
Sidney Water Users Irrigation District, with an
amendment in the nature of a substitute. (S. Rept.
No. 116–161)
S. 1294, to require Federal agencies with jurisdic-
tion over broadband deployment to enter into an
interagency agreement related to certain types of
funding for broadband deployment. (S. Rept. No.
116–162) Pages S6754–55
Measures Passed:
Enrollment Correction: Senate agreed to H. Con.
Res. 75, directing the Clerk of the House of Rep-
resentatives to make a correction in the enrollment
of H.R. 3055. Page S6736
Stomach Cancer Awareness Month: Senate agreed
to S. Res. 437, expressing support for the goals of
Stomach Cancer Awareness Month. Page S6759
National Adoption Month and National Adop-
tion Day: Senate agreed to S. Res. 438, expressing
support for the goals of National Adoption Month
and National Adoption Day by promoting national
awareness of adoption and the children waiting for
adoption, celebrating children and families involved
in adoption, and encouraging the people of the
United States to secure safety, permanency, and well-
being for all children. Pages S6759–60
Drive Safer Sunday: Senate agreed to S. Res.
439, designating December 1, 2019, as ‘‘Drive Safer
Sunday’’. Page S6760
Wreaths Across America Day: Senate agreed to S.
Res. 440, designating December 14, 2019, as
‘‘Wreaths Across America Day’’. Pages S6760–61
Apollo 12 Moon landing 50th anniversary: Sen-
ate agreed to S. Res. 441, celebrating the 50th anni-
versary of the Apollo 12 Moon landing. Page S6761
Charging Helps Agencies Realize General Effi-
ciencies Act: Senate passed S. 2193, to require the
Administrator of General Services to issue guidance
to clarify that Federal agencies may pay by charge
card for the charging of Federal electric motor vehi-
cles, after agreeing to the committee amendments.
Page S6764
Representative Payee Fraud Prevention Act:
Senate passed S. 1430, to amend title 5, United
States Code, to prevent fraud by representative pay-
ees, after agreeing to the committee amendments,
and the following amendment proposed thereto:
Pages S6764–66
Fischer (for Lankford/Peters) Amendment No.
1251, to make certain corrections. Page S6766
Travis W. Atkins Department of Veterans Af-
fairs Clinic: Committee on Veterans’ Affairs was
discharged from further consideration of S. 900, to
designate the community-based outpatient clinic of
the Department of Veterans Affairs in Bozeman,
Montana, as the ‘‘Travis W. Atkins Department of
Veterans Affairs Clinic’’, and the bill was then
passed. Pages S6766–67
Wilson and Young Medal of Honor VA Clinic:
Committee on Veterans’ Affairs was discharged from
further consideration of H.R. 2334, to designate the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:05 Nov 22, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D21NO9.REC D21NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D1289
November 21, 2019
Department of Veterans Affairs community-based
outpatient clinic in Odessa, Texas, as the ‘‘Wilson
and Young Medal of Honor VA Clinic’’, and the bill
was then passed. Page S6767
Elizabeth Buffum Chace Post Office: Senate
passed H.R. 2451, to designate the facility of the
United States Postal Service located at 575 Dexter
Street in Central Falls, Rhode Island, as the ‘‘Eliza-
beth Buffum Chace Post Office’’. Page S6767
Captain Robert C. Harmon and Private John
R. Peirson Post Office Building: Senate passed S.
2712, to designate the facility of the United States
Postal Service located at 430 South Knowles Avenue
in New Richmond, Wisconsin, as the ‘‘Captain Rob-
ert C. Harmon and Private John R. Peirson Post Of-
fice Building’’. Page S6767
Jerry C. Washburn Post Office Building: Senate
passed H.R. 887, to designate the facility of the
United States Postal Service located at 877 East
1200 South in Orem, Utah, as the ‘‘Jerry C.
Washburn Post Office Building’’. Page S6767
Marilyn Monroe Post Office: Senate passed H.R.
1252, to designate the facility of the United States
Postal Service located at 6531 Van Nuys Boulevard
in Van Nuys, California, as the ‘‘Marilyn Monroe
Post Office’’. Page S6767
Ritchie Valens Post Office Building: Senate
passed H.R. 1253, to designate the facility of the
United States Postal Service located at 13507 Van
Nuys Boulevard in Pacoima, California, as the
‘‘Ritchie Valens Post Office Building’’. Page S6767
Eva G. Hewitt Post Office: Senate passed H.R.
1526, to designate the facility of the United States
Postal Service located at 200 Israel Road Southeast
in Tumwater, Washington, as the ‘‘Eva G. Hewitt
Post Office’’. Page S6767
Corporal Alex Martinez Memorial Post Office
Building: Senate passed H.R. 1844, to designate the
facility of the United States Postal Service located at
66 Grove Court in Elgin, Illinois, as the ‘‘Corporal
Alex Martinez Memorial Post Office Building’’.
Page S6767
Jeannette Rankin Post Office Building: Senate
passed H.R. 1972, to designate the facility of the
United States Postal Service located at 1100 West
Kent Avenue in Missoula, Montana, as the
‘‘Jeannette Rankin Post Office Building’’. Page S6767
Senior Chief Petty Officer Shannon M. Kent
Post Office: Senate passed H.R. 2151, to designate
the facility of the United States Postal Service lo-
cated at 7722 South Main Street in Pine Plains,
New York, as the ‘‘Senior Chief Petty Officer Shan-
non M. Kent Post Office’’. Page S6767
65th Infantry Regiment Post Office Building:
Senate passed H.R. 2325, to designate the facility of
the United States Postal Service located at 100 Calle
Alondra in San Juan, Puerto Rico, as the ‘‘65th In-
fantry Regiment Post Office Building’’. Page S6767
Jose Ramos Post Office Building: Senate passed
H.R. 3144, to designate the facility of the United
States Postal Service located at 8520 Michigan Ave-
nue in Whittier, California, as the ‘‘Jose Ramos Post
Office Building’’. Page S6767
Lake Havasu City Combat Veterans Memorial
Post Office Building: Senate passed H.R. 3314, to
designate the facility of the United States Postal
Service located at 1750 McCulloch Boulevard North
in Lake Havasu City, Arizona, as the ‘‘Lake Havasu
City Combat Veterans Memorial Post Office Build-
ing’’. Page S6767
National Cybersecurity Preparedness Consor-
tium Act: Senate passed S. 333, to authorize the Sec-
retary of Homeland Security to work with cybersecu-
rity consortia for training. Page S6768
State and Local Government Cybersecurity Act:
Senate passed S. 1846, to amend the Homeland Se-
curity Act of 2002 to provide for engagements with
State, local, Tribal, and territorial governments, after
withdrawing the committee amendment, and agree-
ing to the following amendment proposed thereto:
Pages S6768–70
Fischer (for Peters) Amendment No. 1252, in the
nature of a substitute. Pages S6769–70
General Security of Military Information Agree-
ment between the Republic of Korea and Japan:
Committee on Foreign Relations was discharged
from further consideration of S. Res. 435, reaffirm-
ing the importance of the General Security of Mili-
tary Information Agreement between the Republic of
Korea and Japan, and the resolution was then agreed
to. Page S6770
House Messages:
Further Continuing Appropriations Act and
Further Health Extenders Act: By 74 yeas to 20
nays (Vote No. 365), Senate agreed to McConnell
motion to concur in the amendment of the House
to the amendment Senate to H.R. 3055, making ap-
propriations for the Departments of Commerce and
Justice, Science, and Related Agencies for the fiscal
year ending September 30, 2020, after taking action
on the following motions proposed thereto:
Pages S6734–36
Rejected:
Paul motion to concur in the amendment of the
House to the amendment of the Senate to the bill,
with Paul Amendment No. 1250, to reduce the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:05 Nov 22, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D21NO9.REC D21NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D1290 November 21, 2019
amount appropriated by 1 percent and put the sav-
ings towards the Highway Trust Fund and certain
Environmental Protection Agency Infrastructure As-
sistance. (By 73 yeas to 20 nays (Vote No. 363),
Senate tabled the motion.) Pages S6734–35
During consideration of this measure today, Senate
also took the following action:
By 75 yeas to 19 nays (Vote No. 364), three-fifths
of those Senators duly chosen and sworn, having
voted in the affirmative, Senate agreed to the motion
to close further debate on McConnell motion to con-
cur in the amendment of the House to the amend-
ment Senate to the bill. Page S6735
Virginia Beach Strong Act—Agreement: A unan-
imous-consent agreement was reached providing that
if Senate receives H.R. 4566, to accelerate the in-
come tax benefits for charitable cash contributions
for the relief of the families of victims of the mass
shooting in Virginia Beach, Virginia, on May 31,
2019, and the text is identical to the text of S.
2592, to accelerate the income tax benefits for chari-
table cash contributions for the relief of the families
of victims of the mass shooting in Virginia Beach,
Virginia, on May 31, 2019, as introduced, Senate
proceed to the immediate consideration of H.R.
4566, the bill be considered read a third time, and
Senate vote on passage of the bill; and that if passed,
the motion to reconsider be considered made and
laid upon the table, with no intervening action or
debate. Page S6764
Authorizing Leadership To Make Appoint-
ments—Agreement: A unanimous-consent agree-
ment was reached providing that, notwithstanding
the upcoming adjournment of the Senate, the Presi-
dent of the Senate, the President pro tempore, and
the Majority and Minority Leaders be authorized to
make appointments to commissions, committees,
boards, conferences, or interparliamentary conferences
authorized by law, by concurrent action of the two
Houses, or by order of the Senate. Pages S6767–68
Pro Forma Sessions—Agreement: A unanimous-
consent agreement was reached providing that the
Senate adjourn, to then convene for pro forma ses-
sions only, with no business being conducted on the
following dates and times, and that following each
pro forma session, the Senate adjourn until the next
pro forma session: Friday, November 22, 2019, at
9:30 a.m.; Tuesday, November 26, 2019, at 7 a.m.;
Friday, November 29, 2019, at 9:30 a.m.; and that
when the Senate adjourns on Friday, November 29,
2019, it next convene at 3 p.m., on Monday, De-
cember 2, 2019. Page S6772
Brouillette Nomination—Agreement: Senate con-
tinued consideration of the nomination of Dan R.
Brouillette, of Texas, to be Secretary of Energy.
Pages S6726, S6739
During consideration of this nomination today,
Senate also took the following action:
By 74 yeas to 18 nays (Vote No. EX. 366), Senate
agreed to the motion to close further debate on the
nomination. Page S6739
A unanimous-consent agreement was reached pro-
viding that at approximately 3 p.m., on Monday,
December 2, 2019, Senate resume consideration of
the nomination, with the post-cloture time on the
nomination expiring at 5:30 p.m.; and that notwith-
standing the provisions of Rule XXII, the motions
to invoke cloture filed during the session of Thurs-
day, November 21, 2019, ripen following disposi-
tion of the nomination. Page S6772
Komitee Nomination—Cloture: Senate began con-
sideration of the nomination of Eric Ross Komitee,
to be United States District Judge for the Eastern
District of New York. Page S6726
A motion was entered to close further debate on
the nomination, and, in accordance with the provi-
sions of Rule XXII of the Standing Rules of the
Senate, a vote on cloture will occur upon disposition
of the nomination of Dan R. Brouillette, of Texas,
to be Secretary of Energy. Page S6726
Prior to the consideration of this nomination, Sen-
ate took the following action:
Senate agreed to the motion to proceed to Legisla-
tive Session. Page S6726
Senate agreed to the motion to proceed to Execu-
tive Session to consider the nomination. Page S6726
Sinatra Nomination—Cloture: Senate began con-
sideration of the nomination of John L. Sinatra, Jr.,
to be United States District Judge for the Western
District of New York. Page S6726
A motion was entered to close further debate on
the nomination, and, in accordance with the provi-
sions of Rule XXII of the Standing Rules of the
Senate, a vote on cloture will occur upon disposition
of the nomination of Eric Ross Komitee, to be
United States District Judge for the Eastern District
of New York. Page S6726
Prior to the consideration of this nomination, Sen-
ate took the following action:
Senate agreed to the motion to proceed to Legisla-
tive Session. Page S6726
Senate agreed to the motion to proceed to Execu-
tive Session to consider the nomination. Page S6726
Pitlyk Nomination—Cloture: Senate began consid-
eration of the nomination of Sarah E. Pitlyk, to be
United States District Judge for the Eastern District
of Missouri. Pages S6726–27
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:05 Nov 22, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D21NO9.REC D21NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D1291
November 21, 2019
A motion was entered to close further debate on
the nomination, and, in accordance with the provi-
sions of Rule XXII of the Standing Rules of the
Senate, a vote on cloture will occur upon disposition
of the nomination of John L. Sinatra, Jr., to be
United States District Judge for the Western Dis-
trict of New York. Page S6727
Prior to the consideration of this nomination, Sen-
ate took the following action:
Senate agreed to the motion to proceed to Legisla-
tive Session. Page S6726
Senate agreed to the motion to proceed to Execu-
tive Session to consider the nomination. Page S6726
Cole Nomination—Cloture: Senate began consider-
ation of the nomination of Douglas Russell Cole, to
be United States District Judge for the Southern
District of Ohio. Page S6727
A motion was entered to close further debate on
the nomination, and, in accordance with the provi-
sions of Rule XXII of the Standing Rules of the
Senate, a vote on cloture will occur upon disposition
of the nomination of Sarah E. Pitlyk, to be United
States District Judge for the Eastern District of Mis-
souri. Page S6727
Prior to the consideration of this nomination, Sen-
ate took the following action:
Senate agreed to the motion to proceed to Legisla-
tive Session. Page S6727
Senate agreed to the motion to proceed to Execu-
tive Session to consider the nomination. Page S6727
Huffaker Nomination—Cloture: Senate began con-
sideration of the nomination of R. Austin Huffaker,
Jr., to be United States District Judge for the Mid-
dle District of Alabama. Page S6727
A motion was entered to close further debate on
the nomination, and, in accordance with the provi-
sions of Rule XXII of the Standing Rules of the
Senate, a vote on cloture will occur upon disposition
of the nomination of Douglas Russell Cole, to be
United States District Judge for the Southern Dis-
trict of Ohio. Page S6727
Prior to the consideration of this nomination, Sen-
ate took the following action:
Senate agreed to the motion to proceed to Legisla-
tive Session. Page S6727
Senate agreed to the motion to proceed to Execu-
tive Session to consider the nomination. Page S6727
Barlow Nomination—Cloture: Senate began con-
sideration of the nomination of David B. Barlow, to
be United States District Judge for the District of
Utah. Page S6727
A motion was entered to close further debate on
the nomination, and, in accordance with the provi-
sions of Rule XXII of the Standing Rules of the
Senate, a vote on cloture will occur upon disposition
of the nomination of R. Austin Huffaker, Jr., to be
United States District Judge for the Middle District
of Alabama. Page S6727
Prior to the consideration of this nomination, Sen-
ate took the following action:
Senate agreed to the motion to proceed to Legisla-
tive Session. Page S6727
Senate agreed to the motion to proceed to Execu-
tive Session to consider the nomination. Page S6727
Myers Nomination—Cloture: Senate began consid-
eration of the nomination of Richard Ernest Myers
II, to be United States District Judge for the Eastern
District of North Carolina. Page S6727
A motion was entered to close further debate on
the nomination, and, in accordance with the provi-
sions of Rule XXII of the Standing Rules of the
Senate, a vote on cloture will occur upon disposition
of the nomination of David B. Barlow, to be United
States District Judge for the District of Utah.
Pages S6727–28
Prior to the consideration of this nomination, Sen-
ate took the following action:
Senate agreed to the motion to proceed to Legisla-
tive Session. Page S6727
Senate agreed to the motion to proceed to Execu-
tive Session to consider the nomination. Page S6727
Lydon Nomination—Cloture: Senate began consid-
eration of the nomination of Sherri A. Lydon, to be
United States District Judge for the District of
South Carolina. Pages S6728–34
A motion was entered to close further debate on
the nomination, and, in accordance with the provi-
sions of Rule XXII of the Standing Rules of the
Senate, a vote on cloture will occur upon disposition
of the nomination of Richard Ernest Myers II, to be
United States District Judge for the Eastern District
of North Carolina. Page S6728
Prior to the consideration of this nomination, Sen-
ate took the following action:
Senate agreed to the motion to proceed to Legisla-
tive Session. Page S6728
Senate agreed to the motion to proceed to Execu-
tive Session to consider the nomination. Page S6728
Duncan Nomination—Cloture: Senate began con-
sideration of the nomination of Robert M. Duncan,
of Kentucky, to be a Governor of the United States
Postal Service. Page S6736
A motion was entered to close further debate on
the nomination, and, in accordance with the provi-
sions of Rule XXII of the Standing Rules of the
Senate, a vote on cloture will occur upon disposition
of the nomination of Sherri A. Lydon, to be United
States District Judge for the District of South Caro-
lina. Page S6736
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:05 Nov 22, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D21NO9.REC D21NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D1292 November 21, 2019
Prior to the consideration of this nomination, Sen-
ate took the following action:
Senate agreed to the motion to proceed to Execu-
tive Session to consider the nomination. Page S6736
Nominations Confirmed: Senate confirmed the fol-
lowing nominations:
John Lowry III, of Illinois, to be Assistant Sec-
retary of Labor for Veterans’ Employment and Train-
ing.
Ian Paul Steff, of Indiana, to be Assistant Sec-
retary of Commerce and Director General of the
United States and Foreign Commercial Service.
John E. Kramer, of Florida, to be Chief Financial
Officer, Department of Transportation.
Joshua A. Deahl, of the District of Columbia, to
be an Associate Judge of the District of Columbia
Court of Appeals for the term of fifteen years.
Deborah J. Israel, of the District of Columbia, to
be an Associate Judge of the Superior Court of the
District of Columbia for the term of fifteen years.
Andrea L. Hertzfeld, of the District of Columbia,
to be an Associate Judge of the Superior Court of
the District of Columbia for the term of fifteen
years.
Carl Whitney Bentzel, of Maryland, to be a Fed-
eral Maritime Commissioner for the term expiring
June 30, 2024.
E. Sequoyah Simermeyer, of Maryland, to be
Chairman of the National Indian Gaming Commis-
sion for the term of three years.
Ralph Ignatius Sozio, of New York, to be United
States Marshal for the Southern District of New
York for the term of four years.
Robert Anthony Dixon, of the District of Colum-
bia, to be United States Marshal for the Superior
Court of the District of Columbia for the term of
four years.
Thomas Michael O’Connor, of Texas, to be United
States Marshal for the Southern District of Texas for
the term of four years.
25 Air Force nominations in the rank of general.
5 Army nominations in the rank of general.
Routine lists in the Air Force, Army, Coast
Guard, Foreign Service, Marine Corps, and Navy.
Pages S6772–73
Nominations Received: Senate received the fol-
lowing nominations:
Jason Myung-lk Chung, of Virginia, to be United
States Director of the Asian Development Bank,
with the rank of Ambassador.
Andrew Lynn Brasher, of Alabama, to be United
States Circuit Judge for the Eleventh Circuit.
John W. Holcomb, of California, to be United
States District Judge for the Central District of Cali-
fornia.
Knut Sveinbjorn Johnson, of California, to be
United States District Judge for the Southern Dis-
trict of California.
Steve Kim, of California, to be United States Dis-
trict Judge for the Central District of California.
Joshua M. Kindred, of Alaska, to be United States
District Judge for the District of Alaska.
Michelle M. Pettit, of California, to be United
States District Judge for the Southern District of
California.
Todd Wallace Robinson, of California, to be
United States District Judge for the Southern Dis-
trict of California.
Jennifer P. Togliatti, of Nevada, to be United
States District Judge for the District of Nevada.
Routine lists in the Foreign Service. Page S6772
Messages from the House: Page S6754
Measures Referred: Page S6754
Measures Placed on the Calendar: Page S6754
Enrolled Bills Presented: Page S6754
Executive Reports of Committees: Page S6755
Additional Cosponsors: Pages S6756–59
Additional Statements: Pages S6752–54
Amendments Submitted: Pages S6762–63
Authorities for Committees to Meet: Page S6763
Privileges of the Floor: Page S6764
Record Votes: Four record votes were taken today.
(Total—366) Pages S6735–36, S6739
Adjournment: Senate convened at 10 a.m. and ad-
journed at 5:07 p.m., until 9:30 a.m. on Friday, No-
vember 22, 2019. (For Senate’s program, see the re-
marks of the Acting Majority Leader in today’s
Record on page S6772.)
Committee Meetings
(Committees not listed did not meet)
FCC SPECTRUM AUCTIONS OVERSIGHT
Committee on Appropriations: Subcommittee on Finan-
cial Services and General Government concluded an
oversight hearing examine the Federal Communica-
tions Commission, focusing on the spectrum auctions
program, after receiving testimony from Julius
Knapp, Chief, Office of Engineering and Tech-
nology, and Giulia McHenry, Acting Chief, Office of
Economics and Analytics, both of the Federal Com-
munications Commission.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:05 Nov 22, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D21NO9.REC D21NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D1293
November 21, 2019
FEDERAL PAYMENTS TO LOCAL
GOVERNMENTS LEGISLATION
Committee on Energy and Natural Resources: Committee
concluded a hearing to examine Federal payments to
local governments provided through the Secure
Rural Schools and Payments in Lieu of Taxes pro-
grams, including S. 430, to extend the Secure Rural
Schools and Community Self-Determination Act of
2000, S. 1643, to amend title 36, United States
Code, to grant a Federal charter to the Forest and
Refuge County Foundation, to provide for the estab-
lishment of the Natural Resources Permanent Fund,
and S. 2108, to amend section 6903 of title 31,
United States Code, to provide for additional popu-
lation tiers, after receiving testimony from Denise
Flanagan, Director of Budget, Department of the In-
terior; Allen Rowley, Associate Deputy Chief, Na-
tional Forest System, Forest Service, Department of
Agriculture; Mayor Stephen Prysunka, Wrangell,
Alaska; and Justin M. Dilley, Pocahontas County
Board of Education, Dunmore, West Virginia.
BUSINESS MEETING
Committee on the Judiciary: Committee ordered favor-
ably reported the nominations of Patrick J. Bumatay,
of California, to be United States Circuit Judge for
the Ninth Circuit, Lawrence VanDyke, of Nevada, to
be United States Circuit Judge for the Ninth Cir-
cuit, Philip M. Halpern, to be United States District
Judge for the Southern District of New York, Ber-
nard Maurice Jones II, to be United States District
Judge for the Western District of Oklahoma, Bar-
bara Bailey Jongbloed, to be United States District
Judge for the District of Connecticut, and Thomas
Michael O’Connor, to be United States Marshal for
the Southern District of Texas, and Ralph Ignatius
Sozio, to be United States Marshal for the Southern
District of New York, both of the Department of
Justice.
h
House of Representatives
Chamber Action
Public Bills and Resolutions Introduced: 42 pub-
lic bills, H.R. 5209–5250; and 8 resolutions, H.
Con. Res. 77; and H. Res. 724–730 were intro-
duced. Pages H9167–69
Additional Cosponsors: Pages H9170–71
Reports Filed: Reports were filed today as follows:
H.R. 3614, to amend the Fair Credit Reporting
Act to ban the use of credit information for most
employment decisions, and for other purposes, with
an amendment (H. Rept. 116–305);
H.R. 3618, to establish requirements relating to
credit scores and educational credit scores, and for
other purposes, with an amendment (H. Rept.
116–306); and
H.R. 3629, to amend the Fair Credit Reporting
Act to establish clear Federal oversight of the devel-
opment of credit scoring models by the Bureau of
Consumer Financial Protection, and for other pur-
poses, with an amendment (H. Rept. 116–307).
Page H9167
Workplace Violence Prevention for Health Care
and Social Service Workers Act: The House
passed H.R. 1309, to direct the Secretary of Labor
to issue an occupational safety and health standard
that requires covered employers within the health
care and social service industries to develop and im-
plement a comprehensive workplace violence preven-
tion plan, by a recorded vote of 251 ayes to 158
noes, Roll No. 642. Pages H9127–45, H9145–54
Agreed to table the appeal of the ruling of the
chair on a point of order sustained against the Kelly
(PA) motion to recommit the bill to the Committee
on Education and Labor with instructions to report
the same back to the House forthwith with an
amendment, by a recorded vote of 222 ayes to 188
noes, Roll No. 641. Pages H9153–54
Pursuant to the Rule, an amendment in the na-
ture of a substitute consisting of the text of Rules
Committee Print 116–37, modified by the amend-
ment printed in part A of H. Rept. 116–302, shall
be considered as adopted in the House and in the
Committee of the Whole, in lieu of the amendment
in the nature of a substitute recommended by the
Committee on Education and Labor now printed in
the bill. Pages H9135–38
Agreed to:
Hastings amendment (No. 1 printed in part B of
H. Rept. 116–302) that requires covered employers
to email their organization’s workplace violence pre-
vention plan to the organization’s staff, following
completion of annual training; Pages H9138–39
DeSaulnier amendment (No. 2 printed in part B
of H. Rept. 116–302) that includes procedures to
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:05 Nov 22, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D21NO9.REC D21NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D1294 November 21, 2019
provide information about available trauma and re-
lated counseling for employees in reporting, incident
response, and post-incident investigation procedures;
Page H9139
Levin (MI) amendment (No. 5 printed in part B
of H. Rept. 116–302) that requires information
about the bill’s anti-retaliation provision to be pro-
vided in its required workplace violence and preven-
tion training; Pages H9144–45
Green (TX) amendment (No. 6 printed in part B
of H. Rept. 116–302) that requires the Secretary of
Labor to provide an annual report to Congress that
would include statistics and a summary from the an-
nual report submitted to the Secretary by employers;
Pages H9145–46
Brown (MD) amendment (No. 7 printed in part
B of H. Rept. 116–302) that states that additional
training shall be provided for covered employees who
work with victims of torture, trafficking, or domes-
tic violence; Pages H9146–47
Garcia (TX) amendment (No. 8 printed in part B
of H. Rept. 116–302) that ensures that the annual
evaluations include changes based on informed find-
ings by employers; Pages H9147–48
Harder amendment (No. 4 printed in part B of
H. Rept. 116–302) that ensures that nothing in this
Act shall be construed to limit or prevent healthcare
workers from reporting violent incidents to appro-
priate law enforcement (by a recorded vote of 414
ayes to 1 no, Roll No. 638); Pages H9143–44, H9150–51
Wexton amendment (No. 9 printed in part B of
H. Rept. 116–302) that ensures that nothing in this
Act shall be construed to limit or diminish any pro-
tections in relevant federal, state or local law related
to domestic violence, stalking, dating violence, and
sexual assault (by a recorded vote of 415 ayes to 1
no, Roll No. 639); and Pages H9148, H9151
Delgado amendment (No. 10 printed in part B of
H. Rept. 116–302) that directs OSHA to prioritize
providing technical assistance and advice to employ-
ers throughout the first year of the Act to ensure
businesses are in compliance (by a recorded vote of
242 ayes to 176 noes, Roll No. 640).
Pages H9148–49, H9151–52
Rejected:
Byrne amendment (No. 3 printed in part B of H.
Rept. 116–302) that sought to require the Occupa-
tional Safety and Health Administration to promul-
gate a final standard on workplace violence preven-
tion for health care and social service workers; re-
quire OSHA to follow the established rulemaking
process (by a recorded vote of 177 ayes to 238 noes,
Roll No. 637). Pages H9140–43, H9149–50
H. Res. 713, the rule providing for consideration
of the bill (H.R. 1309) was agreed to yesterday, No-
vember 20th.
Committee Election: The House agreed to H. Res.
725, electing a certain Member to a certain standing
committee of the House of Representatives.
Page H9155
Meeting Hour: Agreed by unanimous consent that
when the House adjourns today, it adjourn to meet
at 1:30 p.m. tomorrow, November 22nd. Page H9162
Senate Message: Message received from the Senate
today appears on page 9159.
Quorum Calls—Votes: Six recorded votes devel-
oped during the proceedings of today and appear on
pages H9149–50, H9150–51, H9151, H9151–52,
H9153–54, H9154. There were no quorum calls.
Adjournment: The House met at 9 a.m. and ad-
journed at 2:23 p.m.
Committee Meetings
THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE ORGANIC
INDUSTRIAL BASE: CHALLENGES,
SOLUTIONS AND READINESS IMPACTS
Committee on Armed Services: Subcommittee on Readi-
ness held a hearing entitled ‘‘The Department of De-
fense Organic Industrial Base: Challenges, Solutions
and Readiness Impacts’’. Testimony was heard from
Lieutenant General Duane A. Gamble, Deputy Chief
of Staff, Department of the Army; Lieutenant Gen-
eral Donald E. Kirkland, Commander, Air Force
Sustainment Center, Air Force Materiel Command,
Department of the Air Force; Vice Admiral Thomas
Moore, Commander, Naval Sea Systems Command,
Department of the Navy; Vice Admiral G. Dean
Peters, Commander, Naval Air Systems Command,
Department of the Navy; and Major General Joseph
F. Shrader, Commanding General, Marine Corps Lo-
gistics Command, Headquarters Marine Corps.
BANKING ON YOUR DATA: THE ROLE OF
BIG DATA IN FINANCIAL SERVICES
Committee on Financial Services: Task Force on Finan-
cial Technology held a hearing entitled ‘‘Banking on
Your Data: The Role of Big Data in Financial Serv-
ices’’. Testimony was heard from public witnesses.
MEMBER DAY: COMMITTEE ON HOUSE
ADMINISTRATION
Committee on House Administration: Full Committee
held a hearing entitled ‘‘Member Day: Committee on
House Administration’’. Testimony was heard from
Chairman Kilmer, Chairman Takano, and Represent-
atives Rice of North Carolina, Phillips, Graves of
Georgia, and Olson.
MISCELLANEOUS MEASURES
Committee on the Judiciary: Full Committee concluded
a markup on H.R. 5038, the ‘‘Farm Workforce
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:05 Nov 22, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D21NO9.REC D21NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D1295
November 21, 2019
Modernization Act of 2019’’; H.R. 3884, the ‘‘Mari-
juana Opportunity Reinvestment and Expungement
Act of 2019’’; H.R. 5140, the ‘‘Satellite Television
Community Protection and Promotion Act of 2019’’;
H.R. 3991, the ‘‘Affordable Prescriptions for Pa-
tients Through Improvements to Patent Litigation
Act of 2019’’; and H.R. 5133, the ‘‘Affordable Pre-
scriptions for Patients Through Promoting Competi-
tion Act of 2019’’. H.R. 5038, H.R. 3884, H.R.
5140, and H.R. 3991 were ordered reported, as
amended. H.R. 5133 was ordered reported, without
amendment.
IMPEACHMENT INQUIRY: DR. HILL AND
MR. HOLMES
Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence: Full Com-
mittee held a hearing entitled ‘‘Impeachment In-
quiry: Dr. Hill and Mr. Holmes’’. Testimony was
heard from David A. Holmes, Political Counselor,
U.S. Embassy, Kyiv, Ukraine, Department of State;
and a public witness.
Joint Meetings
No joint committee meetings were held.
f
COMMITTEE MEETINGS FOR FRIDAY,
NOVEMBER 22, 2019
(Committee meetings are open unless otherwise indicated)
Senate
No meetings/hearings scheduled.
House
No hearings are scheduled.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:05 Nov 22, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D21NO9.REC D21NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
Congressional Record The Congressional Record (USPS 087–390). The Periodicals postage
is paid at Washington, D.C. The public proceedings of each House
of Congress, as reported by the Official Reporters thereof, are
printed pursuant to directions of the Joint Committee on Printing as authorized by appropriate provisions of Title 44, United
States Code, and published for each day that one or both Houses are in session, excepting very infrequent instances when
two or more unusually small consecutive issues are printed one time. ¶ Public access to the Congressional Record is available online through
the U.S. Government Publishing Office, at www.govinfo.gov, free of charge to the user. The information is updated online each day the
Congressional Record is published. For more information, contact the GPO Customer Contact Center, U.S. Government Publishing Office.
Phone 202–512–1800, or 866–512–1800 (toll-free). E-Mail, contactcenter@gpo.gov. ¶ To place an order for any of these products, visit the U.S.
Government Online Bookstore at: bookstore.gpo.gov. Mail orders to: Superintendent of Documents, P.O. Box 979050, St. Louis, MO
63197–9000, or phone orders to 866–512–1800 (toll-free), 202–512–1800 (D.C. area), or fax to 202–512–2104. Remit check or money order, made
payable to the Superintendent of Documents, or use VISA, MasterCard, Discover, American Express, or GPO Deposit Account. ¶ Following
each session of Congress, the daily Congressional Record is revised, printed, permanently bound and sold by the Superintendent of Documents
in individual parts or by sets. ¶ With the exception of copyrighted articles, there are no restrictions on the republication of material from
the Congressional Record.
POSTMASTER: Send address changes to the Superintendent of Documents, Congressional Record, U.S. Government Publishing Office,
Washington, D.C. 20402, along with the entire mailing label from the last issue received.
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
D1296 November 21, 2019
Next Meeting of the SENATE
9:30 a.m., Friday, November 22
Senate Chamber
Program for Friday: Senate will meet in a pro forma
session.
Next Meeting of the HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
1:30 p.m., Friday, November 22
House Chamber
Program for Friday: House will meet in Pro Forma ses-
sion at 1:30 p.m.
Extensions of Remarks, as inserted in this issue
HOUSE
Babin, Brian, Tex., E1492, E1495
Blumenauer, Earl, Ore., E1489
Casten, Sean, Ill., E1486
Castro, Joaquin, Tex., E1493
Cleaver, Emanuel, Mo., E1497
Davids, Sharice, Kans., E1486
Davis, Rodney, Ill., E1494
DeLauro, Rosa L., Conn., E1490, E1496
DeSaulnier, Mark, Calif., E1489
DelBene, Suzan K., Wash., E1485
Gaetz, Matt, Fla., E1494
Graves, Sam, Mo., E1491
Hern, Kevin, Okla., E1487
Herrera Beutler, Jaime, Wash., E1486
Higgins, Brian, N.Y., E1490, E1491
Hudson, Richard, N.C., E1488, E1494, E1497
Joyce, John, Pa., E1494, E1497
Lee, Barbara, Calif., E1487
Meng, Grace, N.Y., E1485
Meuser, Daniel, Pa., E1487, E1488, E1489, E1490, E1491,
E1493, E1494, E1496, E1497
Norton, Eleanor Holmes, The District of Columbia,
E1487
Ocasio-Cortez, Alexandria, N.Y., E1489
Palazzo, Steven M., Miss., E1492
Porter, Katie, Calif., E1486
Schakowsky, Janice D., Ill., E1487, E1493
Speier, Jackie, Calif., E1488, E1492, E1495
Swalwell, Eric, Calif., E1490
Titus, Dina, Nev., E1485, E1485
Webster, Daniel, Fla., E1485
Wilson, Joe, S.C., E1489
Yarmuth, John A., Ky., E1493
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:05 Nov 22, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 0664 Sfmt 0664 E:\CR\FM\D21NO9.REC D21NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
DIGEST
