Congressional Record
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
United States
of America PROCEEDINGS AND DEBATES OF THE 116th
CONGRESS, FIRST SESSION
b This symbol represents the time of day during the House proceedings, e.g., b 1407 is 2:07 p.m.
Matter set in this typeface indicates words inserted or appended, rather than spoken, by a Member of the House on the floor.
.
H3223
Vol. 165 WASHINGTON, WEDNESDAY, APRIL 10, 2019 No. 62
House of Representatives
The House met at 9 a.m. and was
called to order by the Speaker pro tem-
pore (Mr. CISNEROS).
f
DESIGNATION OF THE SPEAKER
PRO TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore laid be-
fore the House the following commu-
nication from the Speaker:
WASHINGTON, DC,
April 10, 2019.
I hereby appoint the Honorable GILBERT
RAY CISNEROS, Jr. to act as Speaker pro tem-
pore on this day.
NANCY PELOSI,
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
f
PRAYER
Reverend Jesse Bernard Bilberry, Jr.,
Mount Pilgrim Baptist Church, Baton
Rouge, Louisiana, offered the following
prayer:
Almighty God, we come before You
with hearts full of gratitude for giving
us another day.
Your loving kindness, grace, and
mercy have blessed us with all good
and perfect gifts, which we know come
from You, and with grateful hearts we
say thank You.
You have promised to supply all of
our needs according to Your riches in
glory, and with this in mind, we thank
You for the opportunity to serve the
people of this great country.
Help us to be truly concerned about
others. Locked together, we can with-
stand the storms of life. How true of
us. We need the help of others.
We pray, especially, for the Members
of the House. Please endow them with
the wisdom they need as they work in-
dividually and collectively to accom-
plish the agendas set before them. And
this country will be wiser, stronger,
and better because they have
tabernacled here today.
Amen.
THE JOURNAL
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair has examined the Journal of the
last day’s proceedings and announces
to the House his approval thereof.
Pursuant to clause 1, rule I, the Jour-
nal stands approved.
f
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Will the
gentleman from Illinois (Mr. SCHNEI-
DER) come forward and lead the House
in the Pledge of Allegiance.
Mr. SCHNEIDER led the Pledge of
Allegiance as follows:
I pledge allegiance to the Flag of the
United States of America, and to the Repub-
lic for which it stands, one nation under God,
indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
f
WELCOMING REVEREND JESSE
BERNARD BILBERRY, JR.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Without
objection, the gentleman from Lou-
isiana (Mr. RICHMOND) is recognized for
1 minute.
There was no objection.
Mr. RICHMOND. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to honor Reverend Jesse Bernard
Bilberry, Jr.’s lifetime of service.
Reverend Bilberry has dedicated
nearly four decades of pastoral service
and educational leadership throughout
the State of Louisiana. I am proud to
have Reverend Bilberry as my con-
stituent. He just recently retired from
the historic Mount Pilgrim Baptist
Church in Scotlandville, Louisiana,
and was named pastor emeritus.
Reverend Bilberry began his career in
service as an officer in the United
States Army, and we owe him a deep
seed of gratitude for his service to our
country.
After an honorable discharge from
the Army, Reverend Bilberry spent sev-
eral years as an administrator at
Southern University, ending his tenure
there as director of admissions.
Reverend Bilberry has distinguished
himself as a well-respected community
and religious leader both at home and
abroad. From leading missionaries in
the West Indies to leading several serv-
ice-oriented organizations and his
church, Reverend Bilberry has led a life
of compassion and courage that has
resonated with the people of Baton
Rouge and throughout the State of
Louisiana.
I thank Reverend Bilberry for his
tireless contributions serving his com-
munity throughout his career in min-
istry and education.
f
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER
PRO TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair will entertain up to five further
requests for 1-minute speeches on each
side of the aisle.
f
CORPORATION FOR NATIONAL AND
COMMUNITY SERVICE CONCERNS
(Ms. MCCOLLUM asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute and to revise and extend
her remarks.)
Ms. MCCOLLUM. Mr. Speaker, Demo-
crats and Republicans support the Cor-
poration for National and Community
Service and all of its volunteer organi-
zations like AmeriCorps, VISTA, and
Senior Corps. President Trump’s 2020
budget eliminates the Corporation and
all the volunteer activities our commu-
nities rely on.
As we speak, the Corporation’s CEO
is executing a plan to close all 46 State
offices in the next 90 days, which they
are calling the Sustainability and
Transformation Plan. Contrary to its
name, this plan is a step towards ac-
complishing the administration’s ulti-
mate goal of eliminating national serv-
ice and abandoning local volunteers
and stakeholders.
Last month, the Corporation’s own
inspector general reported to Congress:
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:43 Apr 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A10AP7.000 H10APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3224 April 10, 2019
‘‘Aspects of this plan present height-
ened risks of fraud, waste, and mis-
management that warrant particularly
close oversight.’’
So now it is time for Congress to act
to protect national service, not fund a
plan that promotes fraud, waste, and
abuse. I urge my colleagues to cospon-
sor H.R. 1458, the Keep Community
Service Local Act, which prohibits the
closing of State offices.
f
ETO TESTING IN LAKE COUNTY
(Mr. SCHNEIDER asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute and to revise and extend
his remarks.)
Mr. SCHNEIDER. Mr. Speaker, last
month, I spoke on the floor about the
urgent need for EPA ambient air test-
ing at two manufacturing facilities in
Lake County that use ethylene oxide, a
known carcinogen.
As well, I and my colleagues in the
Illinois delegation have written to the
EPA urging them to undertake ambi-
ent air monitoring.
The neighbors living near these
plants, as well as the local govern-
ments, need to know that the air they
breathe is safe. Yet the EPA still re-
fuses to conduct any ambient air moni-
toring, instead insisting on using dis-
persion models based on estimates of
smokestack emissions.
Such dispersion monitoring is com-
pletely inadequate because it fails to
account for what are known as fugitive
emissions, EtO escaping into the envi-
ronment from locations other than the
smokestack.
Absent EPA leadership, the local mu-
nicipalities and the Lake County Pub-
lic Health Department have stepped up
to pursue monitoring on their own.
Good for them, but it should not have
come to this. They are only doing so
because the EPA has failed to do its
job.
Our communities deserve far better
from the EPA. This is about our fami-
lies and the public health. I urge the
EPA to do its duty and to begin this
vital testing immediately.
f
FAIRNESS FOR HIGH-SKILLED
IMMIGRANTS ACT
(Ms. DAVIDS of Kansas asked and
was given permission to address the
House for 1 minute and to revise and
extend her remarks.)
Ms. DAVIDS of Kansas. Mr. Speaker,
I rise today to voice my support for
H.R. 1044, the Fairness for High-Skilled
Immigrants Act, introduced by Con-
gresswoman LOFGREN. This bipartisan
legislation will help ease green card
backlogs for those facing the longest
wait times and help our businesses re-
tain the high-skilled staff they need to
be competitive.
Last month, I sat down with
Sunayana Dumala, who shared her
story with me.
It was only 2 years ago that our com-
munity was devastated when
Sunayana’s husband, Srinivas, was
murdered in a hate crime in Olathe,
Kansas. My predecessor helped her ob-
tain a temporary visa, but she still
faces a potentially decades-long wait
to gain citizenship. This is because,
with him gone, her status was at risk.
These green card backlogs need to be
resolved. Sunayana is not alone. Many
people have applied for permanent resi-
dency and are stuck in long backlogs
for green cards.
H.R. 1044 creates a fair and equitable
first-come, first-served system, helping
to even out green card lines and help-
ing to prevent excessive backlogs for
folks like Sunayana. It allows U.S.
companies to focus on what they do
best: hiring people with the right skills
to create products, services, and jobs.
This is a piece of a larger, more com-
prehensive reform needed to fix our
broken immigration system.
f
ADVOCATING FOR MEDICAID BILL
(Mr. RUIZ asked and was given per-
mission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. RUIZ. Mr. Speaker, I rise today
in support of my bill to help working
Americans access quality, affordable
healthcare.
Last month, I introduced the bipar-
tisan Medicaid Services Investment
and Accountability Act, which has al-
ready unanimously passed the House
and Senate. With the President’s signa-
ture, this bill will help parents coordi-
nate care for a sick child and protect
seniors from going bankrupt to pay for
their loved one’s in-home care.
My bill will also address sky-
rocketing prescription drug costs by
preventing pharmaceutical companies
from cheating State Medicaid pro-
grams.
As an emergency physician, I know
that timely access to care is critical to
helping every family live a full,
healthy, and productive life. We must
put patients first.
Mr. Speaker, I urge the President to
sign this important bill into law imme-
diately.
f
IN HONOR OF DERRICK NELSON
(Mr. MALINOWSKI asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute and to revise and extend
his remarks.)
Mr. MALINOWSKI. Mr. Speaker,
today I rise to honor a hero in my dis-
trict who passed away this week.
Mr. Derrick Nelson was the principal
of the high school in Westfield, New
Jersey. He was known to students, to
parents, and to teachers for his gen-
erosity and selflessness.
Mr. Nelson dedicated his life to serv-
ing his country and community. He
spent 20 years in the U.S. Army Re-
serves, including a deployment in the
Middle East.
He began his career in New Jersey
education in 2002 and joined the West-
field school system in 2010, officially
becoming principal in 2017. Students
and teachers said he always had a
smile on his face, and his energy was
infectious.
It was this kindness of spirit that led
Mr. Nelson to donate his bone marrow
to a 14-year-old boy in France. He did
not know the boy, he just wanted to
give something of himself to save a
child’s life.
He suffered a complication from the
procedure. He never woke up.
Mr. Speaker, with the passing of Der-
rick Nelson, we have lost a leader in
our community and a great and good
man. I extend my deepest condolences
to his family, and I hope they find com-
fort in knowing that the extraordinary
legacy he leaves behind will continue
to inspire and guide the people who had
the privilege to know him.
f
SAVE THE INTERNET ACT OF 2019
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr.
STANTON). Pursuant to House Resolu-
tion 294 and rule XVIII, the Chair de-
clares the House in the Committee of
the Whole House on the state of the
Union for the further consideration of
the bill, H.R. 1644.
Will the gentleman from California
(Mr. CISNEROS) kindly take the chair.
b 0915
IN THE COMMITTEE OF THE WHOLE
Accordingly, the House resolved
itself into the Committee of the Whole
House on the state of the Union for the
further consideration of the bill (H.R.
1644) to restore the open internet order
of the Federal Communications Com-
mission, with Mr. CISNEROS (Acting
Chair) in the chair.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The Acting CHAIR. When the Com-
mittee of the Whole rose on Tuesday,
April 9, 2019, a request for a recorded
vote on amendment No. 6 printed in
House Report 116–37 offered by the gen-
tlewoman from Virginia (Ms. WEXTON)
had been postponed.
AMENDMENT NO. 7 OFFERED BY MS. DAVIDS OF
KANSAS
The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order
to consider amendment No. 7 printed in
part A of House Report 116–37.
Ms. DAVIDS of Kansas. Mr. Chair, I
rise today to offer an amendment.
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will
designate the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
Add at the end the following:
SEC. 4. GAO REPORT ON BROADBAND INTERNET
ACCESS SERVICE COMPETITION.
Not later than 1 year after the date of the
enactment of this Act, the Comptroller Gen-
eral shall submit to the Committee on En-
ergy and Commerce of the House of Rep-
resentatives and the Committee on Com-
merce, Science, and Transportation of the
Senate a report that—
(1) examines the efforts by the Federal
Communications Commission to assess com-
petition for providers of broadband Internet
access service (as defined in section 8.2 of
title 47, Code of Federal Regulations) in the
market;
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:43 Apr 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K10AP7.003 H10APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3225
April 10, 2019
(2) describes how the Commission can bet-
ter assess competition; and
(3) includes a description of the steps, if
any, the Commission can take to better in-
crease competition among providers of
broadband Internet access service (as defined
in section 8.2 of title 47, Code of Federal Reg-
ulations) in the market.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
House Resolution 294, the gentlewoman
from Kansas (Ms. DAVIDS) and a Mem-
ber opposed each will control 5 min-
utes.
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from Kansas.
Ms. DAVIDS of Kansas. Mr. Chair-
man, I rise today to offer an amend-
ment to the Save the Internet Act that
helps the American consumer.
This amendment requires the Gov-
ernment Accountability Office to
produce a report examining the FCC’s
efforts to assess competition in the
wireline and wireless broadband inter-
net access markets, and to tell us how
the FCC can better assess competition
in the future.
Driving competition in the tele-
communications industry is good for
innovation, consumer pricing, and
availability of service. It only makes
sense then that we should receive an
accurate assessment of the FCC’s cur-
rent efforts to promote that competi-
tion and to ask the GAO how they
might do it better.
I urge support for this amendment,
and I reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. WALDEN. Mr. Chairman, I claim
the time in opposition to the amend-
ment, although I am not opposed to the
amendment itself.
The Acting CHAIR. Without objec-
tion, the gentleman from Oregon is rec-
ognized for 5 minutes.
There was no objection.
Mr. WALDEN. Mr. Chair, I support
the goal of this amendment in assess-
ing the broadband marketplace and
how the government can increase com-
petition, lower prices, and improve the
quality of service. This is a worthy
subject for GAO to look into, and I
think we can gain valuable insights.
This is something we could have ap-
proved in the Energy and Commerce
Committee had it been brought to us,
but we accept it here on the floor.
But if we were really looking for
ways to increase competition, Mr.
Chairman, in the wireless broadband
marketplace, then I am baffled why
Democrats did not find the need to ex-
amine how 5G networks will be se-
verely threatened by their bill.
Numerous reports from entities not
even in the tech space indicate that
title II, this overreaching government
takeover and the incredible power
being given to the FCC to take charge
of the internet, presents serious chal-
lenges to 5G deployment and its amaz-
ing potential for technical improve-
ments.
These reports come from Barclays,
which focuses on investment and bank-
ing, Oracle, and even the IEEE, which
is the Institute of Electrical and Elec-
tronics Engineers, so it is not a bunch
of politicians talking about this, Mr.
Chairman. These are certified smart
people, otherwise known as the real en-
gineers, that we went to.
To quote their analysis, ‘‘5G net-
works face the challenge of being de-
veloped in a context of high uncer-
tainty, where most of the services that
underpin 5G business models appear to
be unlawful under current rules.’’
One example of the efficiencies that
can be realized in a 5G network is net-
work slicing which will allow operators
to provide different services with dif-
ferent performance characteristics to
address specific use cases. Because 5G
is being designed for a wider range of
use cases than prior technologies, it is
critical that quality of service manage-
ment be employed.
Applying net neutrality to these new
5G networks would cripple the perform-
ance of this incredible new technology.
Mr. GUTHRIE, a Republican from Ken-
tucky, offered an amendment to ad-
dress our serious concerns about the
impact of the Democrats’ bill on 5G,
but that amendment to preserve the
growth of 5G was not given an oppor-
tunity to be part of today’s vote.
Sadly, we can’t even debate it. It is not
here.
New 5G wireless networks will not
only one day support apps and web
pages, and texts, and chats, and video
streams, but will also support a wide
range of new technologies, from auton-
omous vehicles, augmented reality, in-
novations in healthcare delivery and
education, to all other kinds of new ad-
vances, Mr. Chairman.
These new innovations, let alone the
innovations beyond 5G to come, would
be simply impossible, we now believe,
and I think others believe independent
of us, with these heavy-handed pro-
posals that will result from title II
power being given to bureaucrats in
Washington. That is what the under-
lying bill would do.
It is worth remembering that until
2015, the Federal Communications
Commission treated wireless networks
differently when regulating net neu-
trality, because it did not want to im-
pede the growth of a nascent tech-
nology. If we were to apply that same
logic today, we should not burden de-
veloping 5G networks with onerous and
outdated regulations, as these 5G net-
works are even more in their infancy
than wireless was back in 2010, Mr.
Chairman.
So we need to make sure that we
don’t handicap this next generation of
technology with rules designed for ro-
tary telephones that could cause us to
delay or lose a global race to widely de-
ploy 5G.
Mr. Chairman, those are my remarks.
I support the underlying amendment,
the Davids amendment, and I reserve
the balance of my time.
Ms. DAVIDS of Kansas. Mr. Chair-
man, I yield 11⁄2 minutes to the gentle-
woman from Texas (Ms. JACKSON LEE).
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Chair, I
thank the gentlewoman from Kansas
for this outstanding complementary
amendment to a very important issue.
I am, I believe, very much sup-
portive, and I am supportive of the idea
of the GAO producing a report exam-
ining the FCC’s efforts to assess com-
petition. That is an important record
that we in the Congress need, and it
complements the Save the Internet Act
which represents true net neutrality
protections that are designed for today
and tomorrow without loopholes.
The Save the Internet Act includes
enhanced transparency protections and
enacts specific rules against blocking,
throttling, and paid prioritization.
Additionally, the Save the Internet
Act empowers the FCC to stop internet
service providers from undermining the
net neutrality principles through new
and harmful mechanisms, but we want
to work with those providers.
My colleague just mentioned 5G.
Nothing that we do here is going to in-
hibit, I believe, the opportunity for us
to work together.
Ms. DAVIDS’ amendment is a vital
and important contribution to the idea
of competition, and the idea of serving
your area, and making sure that we un-
derstand how the competition is in-
creased in wireline and wireless
broadband internet access to many
markets.
I thank the gentlewoman for yield-
ing. I support her amendment, and I
support the underlying bill, which is
the Save the Internet Act, and I thank
Mr. DOYLE for his leadership over the
years in this legislation.
Mr. WALDEN. Mr. Chairman, I don’t
have any other speakers, I don’t be-
lieve. I will continue to reserve the bal-
ance of my time.
Ms. DAVIDS of Kansas. Mr. Chair-
man, I yield such time as he may con-
sume to the gentleman from Pennsyl-
vania (Mr. MICHAEL F. DOYLE).
Mr. MICHAEL F. DOYLE of Pennsyl-
vania. Mr. Chair, I thank the gentle-
woman for yielding.
It is interesting to hear my good
friend talk about 5G. When the major-
ity talks about government control of
the internet, they should turn their
eyes to the White House and the Presi-
dent’s plan to nationalize 5G.
The only socialist plan to take over
the internet is the one coming from the
Trump administration and their plan
to nationalize 5G. I have documents for
the RECORD talking about numerous ar-
ticles where the Trump administration
proposes to nationalize 5G, and the
plan coming from the administration
to secure 5G.
The gentleman keeps saying that
this bill is a government takeover of
the internet, but the only government
takeover I see is the one that the
White House keeps proposing.
Now, the amendment that is before
us would ask the GAO to examine how
the FCC assesses competition, includ-
ing making recommendations on how
to improve their assessment and how
to increase competition in these vital
markets. This is a key question for so
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:43 Apr 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A10AP7.002 H10APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3226 April 10, 2019
many consumer protections online, not
just net neutrality.
This bill is about consumers, small
business, and democratic values like
competition. This is a good amend-
ment. I support this amendment, and I
urge all of my colleagues to support it
as well.
Mr. WALDEN. Mr. Chair, how much
time do I have remaining?
The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman
from Oregon has 11⁄2 minutes remain-
ing.
Mr. WALDEN. Mr. Chair, I yield my-
self the balance of my time.
Mr. Chair, I would recommend that
my friend from Pennsylvania read this
Barclays piece on what the bill likely
could do to diminish the growth in 5G
build-out, which I include in the CON-
GRESSIONAL RECORD.
[From Barclays, U.S. Cable, Telecom &
Internet, March 25, 2019]
NET NEUTRALITY: BLUNT TOOL FOR A FAST-
CHANGING ECOSYSTEM
More heat than light in present Net Neu-
trality debate: While Net Neutrality and re-
lated issues have evoked strong passions
since the early 2000s, very little of the dis-
cussion has evolved despite significant tech-
nological and economic shifts. The issue has
come back into focus with House Democrats
introducing a new bill to reinstate the 2015
Internet Order which was repealed by the
FCC post the election of President Trump.
The issue is also making its way through the
courts with 20+ states and tech companies
predictably suing against the FCC’s repeal.
Therefore, this issue is likely to remain in
the headlines especially given elections next
year.
Reinstating 2015 Open Internet Order may
make it tough to realize full potential of 5G:
We believe that Net Neutrality formulations
as proposed in Congress are blunt tools to
deal with a fast-changing technological land-
scape. The entire premise of 5G is the ability
to enable different network capabilities for
different applications. The 5G standards de-
velopment body, 3GPP, has outlined three
major use cases for the technology: enhanced
Mobile Broadband, Massive IoT, and ultra-re-
liable low latency. While all three are likely
to be used for consumer-facing applications,
two of the three major use cases are also
being targeted at industrial users. Dimen-
sions of data use will also be more varied
than just speed or volume. Some applica-
tions will need to transmit small amounts of
data at constant periods (e.g. smart meters)
while others will need bursts of high band-
width consuming traffic (e.g. fixed wireless).
Therefore, if implemented, the 2015 Open
Internet Order framework (ban on paid
prioritization and throttling) without ac-
counting for emerging technological capa-
bilities and applications is likely to become
a roadblock to 5G monetization.
Title II could have a bigger operational im-
pact than Net Neutrality: While the Open
Internet Order has implications for future
business models, if adopted as law, a more
immediate concern for Internet service pro-
viders will be the push to redefine broadband
as a Title II service. Operationally, this
could constrain the degrees of freedom
around variables such as pricing a lot more
than the Open Internet Order itself.
Overall, while the need for some frame-
work on Net Neutrality is agreed to by both
sides of the political divide, the current set
of proposals are, in our view, inadequate
with material limitations on future business
models. The issue requires a comprehensive
look at the entire value chain including the
edge, but divided regulatory jurisdictions
and a split Congress make this difficult to
achieve. Therefore, for now, we believe the
issue will be resolved by courts and is likely
be a headline risk for telecom and cable com-
panies.
While Net Neutrality evokes strong pas-
sions politically, very little of the discussion
has evolved despite significant technological
and economic shifts. We believe that Net
Neutrality formulations as they exist today
are blunt tools to deal with a fast-changing
technological landscape.
For instance, the entire premise of 5G is
the ability to enable different network capa-
bilities for different applications. The 5G
standard development body has outlined
three major use cases for the technology. en-
hanced Mobile Broadband (eMBB), Massive
IoT (mIoT) and ultra-reliable low latency
(URLLC). While all three are likely to be
used for consumer facing applications, two of
the three major use cases are also being tar-
geted at industrial users (mIoT and URLLC).
Data use across these applications is likely
to be quite varied. For instance, smart me-
ters will need to transmit small amounts of
data at constant periods while consumer
broadband works on bursts of high band-
width consuming traffic such as video. Appli-
cations such as autonomous cars and remote
surgery may value lower latency and higher
edge computing capacity compared to, for
example, checking email or watching video.
This is quite different from previous gen-
erations of wireless standards which thus far
have been largely focused on consumer appli-
cations. The way Congress appears to be
looking at Net Neutrality today or the way
the FCC has looked at this in the past would
effectively result in operators being forced
to provide the same level of service to every
application which will not only result in
waste but also limit the impact of 5G. In
fact, if the promise of 5G is realized the way
it has been outlined by operators globally,
the whole meaning of what a telecom ‘serv-
ice’ means (is it latency? is it speed? it is
edge compute?) and how it is measured is
likely to change meaningfully.
Some conditions included in the 2015 Order
such as paid prioritization and throttling
could in theory make it impossible to deploy
and monetize some of the features that make
5G a bigger shift than prior generations. In a
5G world, this would make it impossible in
theory to prioritize latency for, as an exam-
ple, a driverless car versus somebody watch-
ing Netflix. Of course regulators can fine-
tune these definitions but that is not what
the House bill seeks to do. It effectively
passes this judgment to an administrative
body—the FCC. Given that FCC decisions on
this issue have been split along political af-
filiations of the Commissioners, every re-
gime at the FCC could make opposing deci-
sions making the implementation of any pol-
icy next to impossible. This opens up the en-
tire issue to a lot of uncertainty which is
likely to limit the ability of service pro-
viders to formulate go-to-market plans for
5G.
We also believe that the Net Neutrality
framework as of today (no prioritization, no
blocking and no throttling) is without any
nuance to deal with what might be legiti-
mate and consumer-friendly use cases. For
instance, Netflix alone consumes ∼ 19% of
downstream bandwidth (wireless and wired)
in the US today. In the early days of cable,
when bandwidth in the cable pipe was lim-
ited due to analog signals, content networks
had to pay cable companies for carriage.
This allowed a market-based mechanism for
viable networks to effectively ‘buy’ band-
width and scale their services based on how
widely they were distributed. Netflix how-
ever doesn’t have to worry about this dy-
namic. It can make its technology decisions
independent of the investment needs of the
network. In theory, Netflix can decide to
stream all its videos in 4K and suck up even
more bandwidth, which will be to the det-
riment of other applications on the Internet
and force cable and wireless companies to in-
crease their network investment. At the
same time, cable companies will have to deal
with broadband price monitoring by the FCC
(which the 2015 Open Internet Order enables),
limiting their ability to pass through price
to the consumer or to Netflix (due to a ban
on paid prioritization).
Overall, while the need for some frame-
work on Net Neutrality is unquestionable,
the move by the House to just pass the buck
back to the FCC to deal with the details is
not the right answer in our opinion. This
needs a legislative solution on the scale of
the 1996 Telecommunications Act but this is
almost impossible in the current environ-
ment. As a result, we believe this issue is
likely to remain unresolved for a long time
to come. Near-term, however, if this legisla-
tion were to pass, it could have a bigger im-
pact on wireless 5G plans than on wireline
operators.
Mr. WALDEN. Mr. Chair, I would
also point out, actually, that the bill
would regulate 5G. We had a vote in
committee to prevent that from hap-
pening, and every Democrat on the
committee voted to regulate 5G
through this legislation and give the
FCC that authority, and every Repub-
lican voted the other way, because we
actually vote for open and free internet
and markets.
I know that the gentleman, my
friend, was pretty busy when the Presi-
dent’s people made their statement. I
commented that day that I didn’t
think that was a good approach. So I
have been on record, and I think most
of my colleagues have as well. That is
kind of an argument that, Mr. Chair-
man, I don’t think holds much water.
What we do know is, we are legis-
lating today, and the Democrats’ legis-
lation will regulate 5G, and the people
who evaluate the effect of that say
that is going to harm development,
rollout, and probably investment as
well.
Mr. Chair, the underlying amend-
ment is good, and I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
Ms. DAVIDS of Kansas. Mr. Chair, I
yield back the balance of my time.
The Acting CHAIR. The question is
on the amendment offered by the gen-
tlewoman from Kansas (Ms. DAVIDS).
The amendment was agreed to.
AMENDMENT NO. 8 OFFERED BY MR. STANTON
The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order
to consider amendment No. 8 printed in
part A of House Report 116–37.
Mr. STANTON. Mr. Chairman, I have
an amendment at the desk.
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will
designate the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
Add at the end the following:
SEC. 4. ENGAGEMENT AND OUTREACH IN INDIAN
COUNTRY REGARDING THE IMPOR-
TANCE OF ADDRESSING THE
UNIQUE BROADBAND INTERNET AC-
CESS SERVICE CHALLENGES.
(a) ENGAGEMENT WITH TRIBAL COMMUNITIES
TO ADDRESS BROADBAND INTERNET ACCESS
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:43 Apr 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K10AP7.007 H10APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3227
April 10, 2019
SERVICE NEEDS.—Not later than 3 months
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Federal Communications Commission
shall engage with and obtain feedback from
Tribal stakeholders and providers of
broadband Internet access service (as defined
in section 8.2 of title 47, Code of Federal Reg-
ulations) on the effectiveness of the Commis-
sion’s obligation to consult with Indian
Tribes to determine whether the Commission
needs to clarify the Commission’s Tribal en-
gagement statement and ensure accessible
and affordable broadband Internet access
service (as defined in section 8.2 of title 47,
Code of Federal Regulations) in the Tribal
lands and areas through the engagement and
outreach.
(b) FINDINGS.—The Congress finds the fol-
lowing:
(1) According to an estimate from the U.S.
Census Bureau, just 53% of Native Americans
living on Tribal lands have access to high-
speed internet service.
(2) The Government Accountability Office
has found that the Federal Communications
Commission data has overstated broadband
availability and access on Tribal lands in the
United States.
(3) A Federal court recently vacated a Fed-
eral Communications Commission order that
limited Federal subsidies for wireless pro-
viders serving Tribal lands.
(4) The United States Government, indus-
try, and non-governmental organizations
should do more to identify and address the
unique broadband access challenges faced by
individuals living on reservations and Tribal
lands.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
House Resolution 294, the gentleman
from Arizona (Mr. STANTON) and a
Member opposed each will control 5
minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from Arizona.
Mr. STANTON. Mr. Chairman, access
to high-speed internet is absolutely es-
sential in today’s economy. It is the
key component to our Nation’s innova-
tion infrastructure.
Yet, on Tribal lands across this coun-
try, a digital divide exists. According
to the estimate from the U.S. Census
Bureau, only 53 percent of Native
Americans living on Tribal lands have
access to high-speed internet, com-
pared to 82 percent of households na-
tionally.
A recent report by the Government
Accountability Office examined how
the Federal Communications Commis-
sion collects, validates, and uses data
on broadband availability. It found
that the FCC overstates the avail-
ability of broadband internet service
on Tribal lands.
For example, if a service provider re-
ports that it could provide broadband
service internet access to at least one
location in a census block, the FCC
considers broadband to be ‘‘available’’
in that census block. That doesn’t
make much sense, and the GAO agreed.
It found that the FCC’s available sta-
tus is applied too broadly, sometimes
including communities without infra-
structure that connects homes to a
service provider’s network.
It also found that the FCC does not
collect information on factors such as
affordability, quality, and denials of
service. FCC data that accurately cap-
tures the availability of broadband is
critical because the Federal Govern-
ment relies on the data to make impor-
tant investments.
Without accurate data, the Federal
Government will have difficulties iden-
tifying the true needs and cannot make
appropriate investments. Part of the
challenge in the lack of reliable data
stems from the lack of meaningful con-
sultation and engagement with Tribal
Nations.
Tribal consultation is more than just
checking a box. It is important for the
FCC to not only listen to Tribes, but to
actively engage and learn from them.
Only by doing so will we be better able
to get information on where the needs
are. That will lead to better decisions
and better outcomes.
My amendment would implement one
of the GAO’s recommendations. It
would direct the FCC to seek feedback
from Tribal stakeholders and providers
on the effectiveness of its Tribal con-
sultation, as well as ensure accessible
and affordable broadband on Tribal
lands.
Mr. Chair, I urge my colleagues to
support this amendment, and I reserve
the balance of my time.
b 0930
Mr. WALDEN. Mr. Chair, I claim the
time in opposition to the amendment,
although I am not opposed to the
amendment.
The Acting CHAIR. Without objec-
tion, the gentleman from Oregon is rec-
ognized for 5 minutes.
There was no objection.
Mr. WALDEN. Mr. Chairman, I share
similar concerns to Mr. STANTON about
promoting broadband deployment on
Tribal lands. I have visited a number of
reservations around the country, in-
cluding in Arizona, as well as, of
course, in my own State of Oregon and
elsewhere.
This is a big issue, and the data are
not complete. I agree with you that we
need to do better. In fact, that is true,
and I think we would all agree that the
data the FCC gets, has, and uses has
been a problem for a very long time.
We have to get better so that when we
allocate these funds to do the build-out
and everything else, we are getting
funds to the people who really need
them. That is especially a problem
with our Native American friends.
In fact, while I was presiding over the
Energy and Commerce Committee last
Congress, we accomplished landmark
legislation with the enactment of RAY
BAUM’S Act. That reauthorized the
FCC, and it included language to im-
prove services on Tribal lands, Mr.
Chairman.
We need to make sure that the poli-
cies we impose on the internet support
broadband deployment, especially de-
ployment in Tribal, rural, and very
rural areas. Oftentimes, the Tribal
areas consist of rural areas where we
have very small internet service pro-
viders providing access to the internet,
and they are desperately trying to find
funding to expand their service foot-
print.
I was a small business owner with my
wife for more than 20 years. I will tell
you, you are trying to grow your small
business, and then the government
comes in and says: Oh, we want more
information. We want more require-
ments. And we are going to regulate
you more.
Mr. Chairman, all that does is take
your money and your plan to invest
and diverts it. You don’t get to do as
much as you had planned to do. That is
why I supported an amendment to the
underlying bill that would have specifi-
cally protected a small business from
the heavy hand of overreporting.
That amendment would have in-
cluded the language of my bill on small
businesses that was passed unani-
mously by the House in each of the last
two Congresses—unanimously, right
here on this floor. It would have ex-
tended the exemption for small ISPs
from President Obama’s FCC’s en-
hanced transparency rules for 5 years
and expanded the exemption to include
businesses with 250,000 subscribers or
less.
This was based on a bipartisan com-
promise that the FCC’s original exemp-
tion was not enough to protect small
ISPs. We all agreed to that. We nego-
tiated that and twice passed that
unanimously in the House.
I agree that all consumers should be
protected, but the enhanced trans-
parency rules could deter broadband
from being deployed further on Tribal
lands and reaching consumers in the
first place. That is because these en-
hanced disclosures place an unneces-
sary regulatory burden on small busi-
nesses and distract them from working
to bring broadband internet access to
customers across the country, espe-
cially on Tribal lands.
As a reminder, my amendment would
not have let ISPs skirt transparency.
It did not do that. We are just talking
about really costly reporting require-
ments. Instead, they would follow the
less onerous transparency rules adopt-
ed by the FCC back in 2010 so con-
sumers would still have access to infor-
mation needed to make informed deci-
sions about their internet service, and
ISPs could focus on providing service
rather than cumbersome regulatory re-
quirements.
There is bipartisan consensus in im-
proving broadband deployment to Trib-
al lands and, I think, our rural areas
and our urban areas that are under-
served. But it seems my colleagues
across the aisle don’t support this as
much as we claim and they claim. Oth-
erwise, I would have expected the
amendment I had, which reflected ex-
actly what we twice agreed to, to be
part of the underlying bill. It is not,
and that is unfortunate. But Mr. STAN-
TON’s work is valuable, and I support
it.
Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance
of my time.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:43 Apr 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A10AP7.003 H10APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3228 April 10, 2019
Mr. STANTON. Mr. Chairman, I ap-
preciate the comments from Congress-
man WALDEN.
I would say, in this particular case
with this particular amendment, this is
not the government asking for infor-
mation from entities that don’t want
to provide it. Just the opposite, the
Tribal communities in my State and
across the United States of America
want to provide this information and
want this very detailed consultation
with the FCC so that we can provide
better investments on Tribal lands.
This is a situation where government
involvement is very much welcomed by
the entities that we are asking the FCC
to better consult with. This is welcome
government intervention.
Mr. Chairman, I yield the balance of
my time to the gentleman from Penn-
sylvania (Mr. MICHAEL F. DOYLE).
Mr. MICHAEL F. DOYLE of Pennsyl-
vania. Mr. Chairman, I thank the gen-
tleman for yielding.
I would say to my good friend, Mr.
WALDEN, and he is my good friend, that
if you think the President’s plan to na-
tionalize 5G is a bad idea—and I kind of
recall the gentleman saying that. As
recently as yesterday, the administra-
tion in its campaign is still talking
about nationalizing 5G. Perhaps it is
time to get on the phone or to stand up
here on the House floor publicly and
talk about some action that we can
take as a Congress to make sure that
the White House doesn’t nationalize
5G.
With the amendment before us,
bridging the digital divide is one of the
great challenges the FCC faces today.
The Save the Internet Act is going to
give the FCC new tools to address that
digital divide.
Although broadband technologies
keep getting better, they are not
reaching everyone, especially those in
remote areas, like Native Americans
living on Tribal lands. These popu-
lations face unique challenges in get-
ting high-speed internet access service.
That is why it is critical that the FCC
focus on identifying and addressing ob-
stacles to getting high-speed internet
onto reservations and Tribal lands.
This amendment would instruct the
FCC to work more closely with Native
Americans to help connect Tribal
lands. This amendment is particularly
important because of the Trump FCC’s
illegal attempt to reduce support for
the Lifeline program to Tribal commu-
nities. This decision was ultimately
found to be illegal by the courts. How-
ever, it is critical that the Commission
talk and listen to the people who un-
derstand the problems and represent
the communities lacking broadband.
Mr. Chairman, I support this com-
monsense amendment.
Mr. WALDEN. Mr. Chairman, I will
be brief here. The only effort to nation-
alize 5G and to fully regulate 5G is con-
tained in the Democrats’ bill. That is
where it is happening.
We had an amendment in the Rules
Committee to prevent that, and the
Democrats who control the Rules Com-
mittee by a 2-to-1 margin refused to
even allow us to debate that amend-
ment here on the floor.
Finally, the President never said he
was going to nationalize 5G. Somebody
leaked a memo out of the White House
that said that is a good idea. I oppose
that. Right that same day, within
hours, they had been clear on that.
Let’s be clear here. The facts of the
matter are that this legislation nation-
alizes and regulates 5G like it has
never been done before and threatens
innovation and development of this ex-
citing new opportunity for American
consumers.
Mr. Chairman, I yield 1 minute to the
gentleman from the great State of
California (Mr. MCCARTHY), who is the
Republican leader.
Mr. MCCARTHY. Mr. Chairman, I
thank the gentleman for yielding.
Mr. Chairman, I rise to ask a simple
yet important question, a question
more and more Americans are begin-
ning to ask: What have the Democrats
done with their majority?
This Friday marks the 100th day of
the new Democratic majority, 100 days
of Democratic disappointment.
Today, we were supposed to debate
the Democrats’ shell budget, but
Speaker PELOSI pulled it. So here we
are, debating another bill that is dead
on arrival in the Senate.
The numbers speak for themselves.
At this point in the last Congress, Re-
publicans had passed 141 bills out of
committee and 132 out of the House.
We all believe in accountability, so
what do the numbers say now? By con-
trast, Democrats have passed 68 bills
out of committee and 97 out of the
House, considerably fewer bills out of
this House than before.
But think about this: Democrats
have passed more bills out of the House
than they have out of the committee.
So much for doing the job of the peo-
ple’s House. No. It is whatever leader-
ship decides.
Mr. Chairman, we have been lectured
countless times by Speaker PELOSI
over the years, and you all know the
comments: Show us your budget, show
us your values.
It hasn’t been said once, it has been
said hundreds of times: Show us your
budget, show us your values.
The Speaker and I have disagree-
ments, but I agree that passing a budg-
et is the fundamental responsibility of
the majority. That is not what we are
doing today. Unfortunately, it looks
like we will never know the true values
of this majority because there is no
budget.
Mr. Chairman, the problem goes be-
yond the Democrats’ lack of results. As
a majority, the Democrats have fo-
cused on three principles above all else:
resolutions, radicalism, and resistance.
One in five votes in this House that
has been taken since the end of Janu-
ary were nonbinding messaging resolu-
tions. Just last week, we wasted time
debating a symbolic resolution on
healthcare. Imagine for a moment if we
had instead spent one-fifth of our time
actually working to lower premiums,
expand choice, or improve quality.
Imagine all that we could have
achieved.
Right now, we have a humanitarian
crisis along our southern border. What
if we spent one-fifth of our time work-
ing to improve border security and fix
the loopholes in our immigration sys-
tem?
No, Mr. Chairman. Democrats would
rather consider another nonbinding
resolution.
I have never known anybody who has
run for office who was asked to make
sure you go to Congress to waste time
on votes that do not matter. They send
us here to deliver solutions, not resolu-
tions.
Mr. Chairman, the American people
deserve better.
Perhaps the Democratic majority is
so focused on resolutions because they
don’t want the American people to un-
derstand the consequences of their rad-
ical, extremist policies.
The Wall Street Journal wrote:
‘‘Democrats are embracing policies
that include government control of
ever-larger chunks of the private
American economy.’’
Or, as I like to say, if you like the
welfare state, you will love the Demo-
cratic agenda.
Take the Green New Deal. Under the
guise of fighting climate change, it will
lead to government control over nearly
every element of our lives. What it
wouldn’t do is make housing more
available or even energy more afford-
able for hardworking families.
How about Medicare for All? How do
you like a one-size-fits-all healthcare
system where government bureaucrats,
not consumers, decide what benefits
you are going to receive?
Mr. Chairman, do you know that
more than 100 Democrats in the major-
ity have cosponsored this bill? So not
only do they support it, they crave it
to come to the floor.
What would it do? It would end pri-
vate insurance. That means 158 million
Americans would lose their insurance.
And everybody on Medicare Advan-
tage? Gone.
That is what they worked on these
first 100 days.
Your doctor? Gone.
Your hospital? Gone.
Your healthcare plan? Gone.
On issue after issue, Democrats seem
to have but one solution: more spend-
ing, more bureaucracy, and more gov-
ernment control.
Mr. Chairman, the American public
deserves better.
Finally, you can learn a lot about
this majority by seeing the bills they
refused to consider these first 100 days.
After spending weeks unwilling to
condemn anti-Semitic remarks, you
would think House Democrats would
rush to schedule real legislation. We
have a bill sitting at the Speaker’s
desk right now that would take con-
crete steps to counter the growing boy-
cott, divestment, sanctions movement
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:43 Apr 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K10AP7.011 H10APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3229
April 10, 2019
against our greatest ally in the Middle
East, Israel. You would think that, Mr.
Chairman, but that would be wrong.
You would think that after the Vir-
ginia Governor made comments that
seemed to support infanticide, House
Democrats would rush to schedule the
Born-Alive Abortion Survivors Protec-
tion Act. Remember, this bill simply
ensures that all babies, regardless of
when they are born, receive the med-
ical care they deserve as human beings.
Yet for the 31st time—no exaggeration,
31 times we have asked on this floor for
unanimous consent to bring that bill
up—Democrats have refused.
That is what they spent 100 days on.
They refuse to defend newborns from
infanticide because they are beholden
to the most extreme factions of their
own party.
Mr. Chairman, the American people
deserve better.
The only unifying theme of the
Democrats’ 100 days has been their
nonstop resistance to President Trump.
For 2 years, Democrats insisted that
the President colluded with Russia to
win the 2016 election. Their own chair-
man of the House Permanent Select
Committee on Intelligence, the one
who is supposed to see and protect us,
told the American public in 2017 that
there was more than circumstantial
evidence to prove it.
Yet when the Mueller report found no
evidence of collusion, Democrats re-
fused to accept the conclusion. They
refused to do anything to ADAM SCHIFF
who had lied to the American public
for the last 2 years. They didn’t apolo-
gize for misleading the public either.
No, without missing a beat and aided
by the liberal media, they simply
opened up new investigations. That is
what they did for their 100 days.
Who pays for these endless investiga-
tions? You, the hardworking taxpayer.
The Democrats are happy to continue
to run up the tab and never bring a
budget to the floor to show their val-
ues.
b 0945
Mr. Chair, the American public de-
serves better.
Today, the Democrats are leaving for
their Member retreat and then a 2-
week spring break. Let’s hope they
come back with more than a tan. Let’s
hope they come back with a new game
plan. Let’s hope they come back ready
to work for the common good, not sim-
ply to appease their extremist, radical
base.
Now, we are ready and eager to work
with Democrats. We are ready to work
with Democrats to secure our border.
We are ready to work with Democrats
to upgrade our infrastructure. We are
ready to work with Democrats to lower
the cost of prescription drugs and ad-
dress the opioid crisis.
We stand ready to work with anyone
to solve the problems our country
faces, in the next 100 days and beyond.
After 100 days, please, Mr. Chair, let’s
get to work. The American people de-
serve nothing less.
Mr. WALDEN. Mr. Chair, I yield back
the balance of my time.
Mr. STANTON. Mr. Chair, I yield
back the balance of my time.
The Acting CHAIR (Mr. NEGUSE). The
question is on the amendment offered
by the gentleman from Arizona (Mr.
STANTON).
The amendment was agreed to.
AMENDMENT NO. 9 OFFERED BY MR. TRONE
The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order
to consider amendment No. 9 printed in
part A of House Report 116–37.
Mr. TRONE. Mr. Chairman, I have an
amendment at the desk.
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will
designate the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
Add at the end the following:
SEC. 4. ACCURACY OF DATA UNDERLYING
BROADBAND DEPLOYMENT RE-
PORTS.
(a) FINDINGS.—Congress finds the fol-
lowing:
(1) The Commission has released reports on
its inquiries under section 706(b) of the Tele-
communications Act of 1996 (47 U.S.C.
1302(b)) that detail the state of the deploy-
ment of broadband service in the United
States.
(2) Congress and the Commission have re-
lied upon the accuracy of such reports to de-
velop broadband policy.
(3) The findings of such reports have been
particularly important to fostering rural
broadband deployment and broadband de-
ployment to schools and classrooms.
(b) REQUIREMENTS.—The Commission—
(1) may not release a report on an inquiry
under section 706(b) of the Telecommuni-
cations Act of 1996 (47 U.S.C. 1302(b)) based
on broadband deployment data that the
Commission knows to be inaccurate; and
(2) shall use its best efforts to accurately
detail broadband deployment in the United
States and correct inaccuracies in state-
ments made by the Commission prior to the
release of a report about the report.
(c) COMMISSION DEFINED.—In this section,
the term ‘‘Commission’’ means the Federal
Communications Commission.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
House Resolution 294, the gentleman
from Maryland (Mr. TRONE) and a
Member opposed each will control 5
minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from Maryland.
Mr. TRONE. Mr. Chair, I yield myself
such time as I may consume.
In 21st century America, having reli-
able, high-speed internet broadband
isn’t a luxury; it is a necessity. Just
like running water or electricity, it is
part of our essential infrastructure, yet
millions of Americans in rural commu-
nities, including some in my district in
western Maryland, remain discon-
nected from the internet.
That lack of connectivity leads to
homework gaps, healthcare gaps, and
economic development gaps. It is our
job in Congress to eliminate those
gaps.
The Federal Communications Com-
mission is required to report accurate
data to the public so that we can make
effective decisions about rural
broadband infrastructure policy and in-
vestment.
But there is strong evidence that the
percentage of Americans without
broadband access is much higher than
the FCC’s numbers indicate.
In order to justify Chairman Pai’s de-
regulation agenda, the FCC released
highly flawed and misleading data that
paints a false picture of broadband de-
ployment in rural America.
We now know the FCC’s data was
based on a massive error that was
brought to his attention before the
FCC disseminated the press release
touting their success. That kind of de-
ception could lead to millions of our
neighbors in rural America being
locked out of this critical good.
This amendment seeks to address
this issue by, one, prohibiting the FCC
from releasing a report based on infor-
mation it knows to be inaccurate; and,
two, specifying the Commission must
use its best efforts to ensure all future
reports are accurate, and they must
correct past inaccuracies prior to the
release of new data on broadband de-
ployment.
It is pretty simple. We need accurate
information to make the best decisions
regarding broadband deployment. Let’s
ensure we get that from the FCC mov-
ing forward, and then let’s ensure
every American has access to reliable
high-speed broadband.
Mr. Chair, I urge my colleagues to
support this amendment, and I reserve
the balance of my time.
Mr. WALDEN. Mr. Chairman, I claim
the time in opposition to the amend-
ment, but I am not opposed to the
amendment.
The Acting CHAIR. Without objec-
tion, the gentleman from Oregon is rec-
ognized for 5 minutes.
There was no objection.
Mr. WALDEN. Mr. Chairman, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Chair, I appreciate my col-
league’s concern about the accuracy of
the FCC’s reports on deployment. I
share those. And with his broader con-
cern about broadband generally, I
agree with that.
In fact, many Members on both sides
of the aisle share these concerns, espe-
cially when it comes to the unserved
Americans in our most rural areas, like
my district that would stretch from
the Atlantic to Ohio. It is a big dis-
trict.
So, I will support this amendment.
However, I would ask my colleagues to
seriously consider, Mr. Chairman, the
negative impacts of giving the FCC
power to regulate rates on rural
broadband deployment.
Mr. KINZINGER’s amendment to block
any sort of rate regulation was actu-
ally blocked by the majority from
being considered today, and that is un-
fortunate.
At the full committee markup, Mr.
KINZINGER highlighted a memo from
the Congressional Research Service
that noted there is nothing permanent
to the forbearance that the majority
claims to be doing when it comes to
controlling the prices providers charge
consumers.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:43 Apr 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K10AP7.013 H10APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3230 April 10, 2019
So, we could get into rate regulation
through the FCC, and every ISP would
have to come back here and beg and ex-
plain their rate structure and every-
thing else. And we have got thousands
of them.
The majority attempted to remedy
this flaw with some additional lan-
guage purporting to lock in the FCC’s
forbearance on this matter, but the ac-
tual effect of that language is still un-
clear.
Most importantly, they left open the
broad authority of sections 201 and 202
of the Communications Act and other
authority that gives the Federal Com-
munications Commission, all five
unelected officials, plenty of leeway to
regulate rates under title II.
The legislation we have before us
clearly leaves the door open to rate
regulation. If this were not the case,
then the Kinzinger amendment, I
would think, would be before the House
today or would have been approved in
committee when we had a chance to do
that.
This is no way to conduct business in
the internet age. These title II regula-
tions were originally implemented for
railroad monopolies in the 19th cen-
tury. So, if you really believe in a com-
petitive, open marketplace and a com-
petitive, open internet, you don’t turn
it over to unelected bureaucrats in
Washington to micromanage.
As they were applied in their original
incarnation, the requirements of just
and reasonable practices under section
201(b) and no unreasonable discrimina-
tion under 202(a)—which, by the way,
sound perfect—provided sufficient au-
thority to impose price controls on
railroads.
So, by opening the door with title II
and these other sections of law, you are
now giving this vast power to basically
three unelected officials at the FCC.
You just need a majority to decide how
the whole internet runs. I think that is
a problem.
Mr. Chair, I support the amendment,
and I reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. TRONE. Mr. Chairman, I thank
the gentleman for his comments.
Mr. Chairman, good policy simply
needs good data. We need accurate, re-
liable information to target our poli-
cies and resources as effectively as pos-
sible.
This amendment simply ensures re-
ports issued by the FCC are accurate,
and we should all be able to agree on
that. And I thank the gentleman for
that.
Mr. Chair, I urge my colleagues to
support this amendment, and I reserve
the balance of my time.
Mr. WALDEN. Mr. Chairman, I have
no other speakers, and I reserve the
balance of my time.
Mr. TRONE. Mr. Chair, I yield the
balance of my time to the gentleman
from Pennsylvania (Mr. MICHAEL F.
DOYLE).
Mr. MICHAEL F. DOYLE of Pennsyl-
vania. Mr. Chair, the Save the Internet
Act will ensure net neutrality and help
bring the internet to parts of the coun-
try that don’t yet have it.
I would say to my friend from Or-
egon, the bill is crystal clear on rate
regulation. The language clearly pro-
hibits any rate regulation, so rural
folks need not worry about that.
Through the act, the FCC will have
the authority to accelerate deployment
of broadband by removing barriers to
infrastructure investment and by pro-
moting competition. And, furthering
that goal, Congress requires that the
FCC report on the state of broadband
deployment nationwide.
The results, every year, are particu-
larly important because they are used
to figure out where to best direct funds
for rural broadband deployment. And
to name a few, that is important for
consumers, schools, libraries, and hos-
pitals that they get the connections
they need.
And we need to know that the FCC’s
data is accurate. We expect the FCC to
use its best efforts to ensure that the
data is up to date and error free before
releasing their reports.
Recently, the traditional diligence of
the FCC has been called into question.
According to news reports, the FCC is
preparing a report that contains data
that an internet service provider has
told the FCC is wrong. The carrier re-
ported that it provided high-speed
broadband to everyone in 10 states
when its actual service area was a frac-
tion of that.
This serious oversight seriously al-
ters the state of broadband deployment
in this country and calls into question
data used by this administration to
justify other policies.
Despite that internet service pro-
vider coming forward, the FCC has not
even corrected a press statement that
was, in part, based on that erroneous
data entitled ‘‘America’s Digital Di-
vide Narrows Substantially.’’
As the expert agency regulating
broadband, it cannot knowingly put
out false information that misleads the
public. This amendment will help rem-
edy that. That is why I support it, and
that is why I think we should all vote
for it.
Mr. WALDEN. Mr. Chair, may I in-
quire how much time I have remaining.
The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman
from Oregon has 21⁄2 minutes remain-
ing.
Mr. WALDEN. Mr. Chairman, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Again, I appreciate the gentleman’s
amendment. As I said, I intend to sup-
port it. We need the facts here, and I
support getting the facts.
We know the reporting data we often
get is not accurate. And, if people are
lying about their data, then we should
hold them accountable, and I’ll join
you in that effort. That is not accept-
able.
On the issue of rate regulation, that
is what title II is all about. That is
what this bill gives the FCC the au-
thority to do.
While you can argue that adopting
the forbearances that the FCC did
under title II when they had that au-
thority may preclude rate regulation
there, by giving them this enormous
authority, your own counsel testified
in answer to our question, that they
could go through a standard rule-
making process and use sections 201
and 202 to do their own rate regulation.
You see, you may close the front
door, but you left the back door open.
Actually, you created a back door.
That is where I am concerned, and
my side is concerned that you are em-
powering the FCC with these incredible
authorities designed for monopoly rail-
roads and designed for monopoly com-
munications systems that could really
hamper future investment in things
like 5G and provide all this micro-
management of the internet and harm
consumers. That is why so many of us
oppose this particular provision.
I keep seeing Republicans on this
floor, Mr. Chairman, accept the Demo-
crats’ amendments in almost every
case. They blocked some of ours from
being able to be considered.
But, when it comes to this funda-
mental issue of turning the internet
over to the Federal Government and
three unelected people to do incredible
things that aren’t good for the long-
term benefit of consumers and new
technologies, we have to remain op-
posed.
Mr. Chair, I yield back the balance of
my time.
Mr. TRONE. Mr. Chair, I yield back
the balance of my time.
The Acting CHAIR. The question is
on the amendment offered by the gen-
tleman from Maryland (Mr. TRONE).
The amendment was agreed to.
AMENDMENT NO. 10 OFFERED BY MR. BRINDISI
The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order
to consider amendment No. 10 printed
in part A of House Report 116–37.
Mr. BRINDISI. Mr. Chair, I have an
amendment at the desk.
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will
designate the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
Add at the end the following:
SEC. 4 GAO REPORT ON HIGH-SPEED INFRA-
STRUCTURE.
(a) REPORT.—Not later than 1 year after
the date of the enactment of this Act, the
Comptroller General of the United States
shall submit to Congress and the Federal
Communications Commission a report that
contains—
(1) a list of ways the Federal Government
can promote the deployment of broadband
Internet access service, especially the build-
out of such service to rural areas and areas
without access to such service at high
speeds; and
(2) recommendations with respect to poli-
cies and regulations to ensure rural areas are
provided affordable access to broadband
Internet access service.
(b) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) BROADBAND INTERNET ACCESS SERVICE.—
The term ‘‘broadband Internet access serv-
ice’’ has the meaning given such term in sec-
tion 8.2 of title 47, Code of Federal Regula-
tions.
(2) RURAL AREA.—The term ‘‘rural area’’
means any area other than—
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:43 Apr 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K10AP7.016 H10APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3231
April 10, 2019
(A) a city, town, or incorporated area that
has a population of more than 20,000 inhab-
itants; or
(B) an urbanized area contiguous and adja-
cent to a city or town that has a population
of more than 50,000 inhabitants.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
House Resolution 294, the gentleman
from New York (Mr. BRINDISI) and a
Member opposed each will control 5
minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from New York.
Mr. BRINDISI. Mr. Chair, I yield my-
self such time as I may consume.
Mr. Chair, I would like to thank the
gentleman from Pennsylvania for his
leadership on this important topic.
The free market is the cornerstone of
America’s economy, and this bill would
ensure that free-market competition is
protected on the internet.
However, for many Americans living
in small towns, basic internet access
remains out of reach. Too many homes
in rural areas are not connected at all
to high-speed broadband, and those
that are online suffer from slow speeds
and constant interruptions in service.
Customers see their bills go up
month after month, and service just
gets worse and worse.
Internet access is essential in today’s
economy, and we need to do more to
connect rural areas to high-speed
broadband.
My amendment would direct the Gov-
ernment Accountability Office to issue
recommendations on how to expand
broadband internet service in rural and
other underserved areas. This informa-
tion will help guide our work on how to
best expand broadband access in rural
communities.
I urge adoption of my amendment,
and I, again, thank the gentleman from
Pennsylvania for his leadership on this
bill and urge our colleagues to pass the
underlying legislation.
Mr. Chair, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. WALDEN. Mr. Chairman, I claim
the time in opposition to the amend-
ment, although I am not opposed to the
amendment.
The Acting CHAIR. Without objec-
tion, the gentleman from Oregon is rec-
ognized for 5 minutes.
There was no objection.
b 1000
Mr. WALDEN. Mr. Chairman, again, I
support this amendment to require the
GAO to look into ways to promote de-
ployment of broadband to our most
rural and underserved areas. It is a
very worthy subject and one on which
I think we can find some really broad
bipartisan agreement. It is a top pri-
ority of mine and has been, so I won’t
oppose the amendment.
We are obviously delegating a lot of
authority to the GAO, which is a won-
derful organization, but we all have
had hearings and know what really
needs to happen, I think, going forward
to get broadband built out. However, if
you are really concerned about deploy-
ment to rural and underserved areas,
you should be extremely concerned
about the impact the underlying bill is
going to have on our ability to get
broadband out to these areas and close
the digital divide.
Title II is a proven investment killer,
period, hard stop. This is shown not
only in the overall nationwide invest-
ment numbers going down during the
only 2-year blip these rules were in ef-
fect. Remember, my colleague from
New York, these internet rules you are
about only existed for less than about
2 years. That is it.
The whole growth, the expansion of
the internet and broadband occurred
during the period of the 1990s to 2015.
Then the internet order was put in and
investment went down, and then the
internet order was repealed and invest-
ment is going up.
The head of the Eastern Oregon
Telecom Company, Joe Franell, came
back to Washington and testified be-
fore our subcommittee and said, under
title II, his investors lost interest;
deals dried up; the bank wouldn’t even
give him a loan. It was an extremely
compelling story from somebody who is
on the front lines of getting broadband
built out to the very areas you and I
would agree need service.
And we heard from many other small
rural ISPs as well with the same sto-
ries. They are the ones that take the
worst hit under title II that is in this
bill you support.
Now, I submitted an amendment to
the Rules Committee to do something
real to address the worst uncertainties
that these small carriers have to deal
with under title II.
Title II opens the door to government
control of private networks. It opens
the door to government taxation of the
internet. It opens the door to govern-
ment regulation of speech online.
My amendment would have closed all
of those doors. Unfortunately, the
Democrats, again, who control the
Rules Committee, Mr. Chairman, 2 to 1,
would not find a way to even allow us
to bring that amendment here for a
vote or debate.
I have to say, under title II, our
smallest rural ISPs would have a really
tough time, and we have seen a lot of
evidence of this in the past. So I hope
my friends will consider that, when we
are voting on this underlying bill, we
are actually going to cause those small
ISPs more harm than good, and that
will delay deployment into unserved
and underserved communities.
A GAO study on deployment will
have no impact whatsoever on deploy-
ment-killing excesses of title II, but it
will give us some ideas about how to
build out broadband, so I won’t oppose
the amendment.
I reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. BRINDISI. Mr. Chairman, I yield
to the gentleman from Pennsylvania.
Mr. MICHAEL F. DOYLE of Pennsyl-
vania. Mr. Chairman, I thank the gen-
tleman for yielding.
We keep hearing this talk about how
investment plummeted after the 2015
order. Well, we all know that is not
true, and the proof is in the pudding.
Investment data shows an aggregate
increase in investment following the
FCC’s February 2015 vote to adopt the
open internet rules compared to the 2
years following the repeal of the 2015
order, when investment actually de-
creased.
The same is true of most ISPs’ indi-
vidual investments. The majority of
publicly traded broadband providers re-
ported investment increases after the
2015 order was adopted. In the first year
following adoption of the 2015 rules,
census data showed a $3.5 billion jump
in capital spending in data processing,
hosting, and related services.
Moreover, the repeal of the 2015 order
did not result in a use boost to infra-
structure spending, as the Trump FCC
asserted would happen. Instead, invest-
ment actually decreased.
This amendment before us is impor-
tant. Though many of our constituents
enjoy easy access to high-speed
broadband, there are still many pock-
ets of this country that aren’t served
by high-speed broadband. Or, as my
good friend PETER WELCH from the
great State of Vermont says about the
promises of 5G: ‘‘Some of us have no
Gs.’’
The Save the Internet Act is going to
restore net neutrality throughout the
country, and it is going to give the
FCC key authorities that buttress crit-
ical programs, such as the Connect
America Fund that provides money to
build high-speed broadband out to
areas where it would not be economic
to do so without the funding.
The Save the Internet Act also gives
internet service providers nondiscrim-
inatory access to rights of way and
poles, which will facilitate build-out in
rural areas.
Unless we connect our rural commu-
nities, the people in them cannot fully
be active participants in the 21st cen-
tury economy. They are missing out on
education and workforce opportunities
that are so often now delivered online.
That is why much of the rural
broadband deployment in this country
is funded by the Connect America
Fund.
This amendment would require GAO
to examine these issues and to provide
a report with recommendations about
how the government can promote
build-out to hard-to-reach or otherwise
overlooked communities. This is such
an important policy issue and such an
important part of saving the internet.
I look forward to joining my col-
leagues in supporting this amendment.
Mr. BRINDISI. Mr. Chairman, I again
urge adoption of the amendment, and I
yield back the balance of my time.
Mr. WALDEN. Mr. Chair, may I in-
quire as to how much time remains.
The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman
from Oregon has 21⁄4 minutes remain-
ing.
Mr. WALDEN. Mr. Chair, I appreciate
both my colleagues’ comments, but the
nationwide numbers of investment ob-
scure what happens in our smallest in-
vestors, among those that are out
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:43 Apr 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A10AP7.009 H10APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3232 April 10, 2019
there, like Joe Franell in Eastern Or-
egon trying to build out.
What we do know is he came back
and testified to the problem he encoun-
tered individually as one who is very
progressive and active, trying to con-
nect really difficult places to get to
with the highest speed broadband pos-
sible.
I have met with him before; I have
met with him during; I have met with
him afterwards. He came back on his
own dime to make the case that, when
these rules were in effect, he had dif-
ficulty getting loans; he had difficulty
building out; he was burdened more
than he had ever been before, and that
diminished his ability to build out.
His numbers probably are dust in
terms of investment that the big com-
panies have, but that is who I care
about are the little operators that are
so pushed down by this heavy hand of
government overregulation. So that is,
I think, what we have to maintain our
focus on.
Again, title II gives these vast un-
precedented powers to the FCC to regu-
late the internet like it has never been
regulated before. People who have no
Gs need our help, but people waiting
for 5G don’t need us to pass legislation
that will screw it up and diminish in-
novation, and that is one of the reasons
I am opposing this version of net neu-
trality.
We could agree on no throttling and
no blocking and the paid prioritization
issue as well.
The other thing I found interesting,
Mr. Chairman, is, throughout the
course of all of our hearings, there
wasn’t a witness panel of people who
had faced all of these parade of
horribles we have heard about from
ISPs.
There weren’t any witnesses. They
didn’t bring anybody. I don’t know if
they are out there or not. They didn’t
bring anybody who has been affected
by the edge providers, however, and
that is another subject for our con-
versation going forward.
Mr. Chairman, I support the amend-
ment, and I yield back the balance of
my time.
The Acting CHAIR. The question is
on the amendment offered by the gen-
tleman from New York (Mr. BRINDISI).
The amendment was agreed to.
AMENDMENT NO. 11 OFFERED BY MS.
SPANBERGER
The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order
to consider amendment No. 11 printed
in part A of House Report 116–37.
Ms. SPANBERGER. Mr. Chairman, I
have an amendment at the desk.
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will
designate the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
Add at the end the following:
SEC. 4. GAO REPORT ON CHALLENGES TO ACCU-
RATE MAPPING.
(a) REPORT.—Not later than 1 year after
the date of the enactment of this Act, the
Comptroller General of the United States
shall—
(1) determine the accuracy and granularity
of the maps produced by the Federal Commu-
nications Commission that depict wireline
and wireless broadband Internet access serv-
ice deployment in the United States; and
(2) submit to Congress a report that—
(A) identifies—
(i) any program of the Federal Commu-
nications Commission under a rule restored
under section 2(b) that relies on such maps,
including any funding program; and
(ii) any action of the Federal Communica-
tions Commission taken under a rule re-
stored under section 2(b) that relies on such
maps, including any assessment of competi-
tion in an industry; and
(B) provides recommendations for how the
Federal Communications Commission can
produce more accurate, reliable, and granu-
lar maps that depict wireline and wireless
broadband Internet access service deploy-
ment in the United States.
(b) BROADBAND INTERNET ACCESS SERVICE
DEFINED.—In this section, the term
‘‘broadband Internet access service’’ has the
meaning given such term in section 8.2 of
title 47, Code of Federal Regulations.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
House Resolution 294, the gentlewoman
from Virginia (Ms. SPANBERGER) and a
Member opposed each will control 5
minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from Virginia.
Ms. SPANBERGER. Mr. Chair, I rise
in support of my commonsense
broadband mapping amendment to H.R.
1644, the Save the Internet Act of 2019.
The digital gap between our rural
and urban communities is real, and I
hear about it from the people I serve
every day.
According to the FCC’s 2018
Broadband Deployment Report, more
than 30 percent of rural Americans
lack access to high-speed fixed
broadband, compared to only 2 percent
of urban Americans. This disparity has
long-term implications for the eco-
nomic strength and security of our
country.
In rural America, a lack of reliable
broadband internet makes it harder for
businesses to find customers and at-
tract new employees. Without reliable
broadband internet, communities
across this country face challenges at-
tracting new businesses and invest-
ment.
In rural America, farmers have a
tougher time using the latest precision
agriculture technology, and in places
without reliable broadband internet,
kids find it difficult to complete their
homework assignments.
In our district in central Virginia,
farmers and producers are disadvan-
taged because the lack of broadband
makes doing business harder. In our
district, constituents drive their kids
to McDonald’s or to neighboring coun-
ties so that they can complete their re-
search projects for school. And what is
happening in our district is happening
nationwide.
Today, we are considering a critical
piece of legislation to champion the
idea of a free and open internet.
There is no question that rural
broadband internet access should be a
part of this conversation, as this bill
would also include a provision to re-
store the FCC’s authority to fund the
expansion of broadband access across
our rural communities. But right now,
there are many questions surrounding
the accuracy of the FCC’s broadband
internet maps, which detail which
areas in the United States have high-
speed internet coverage and which do
not.
These maps have important implica-
tions for our rural communities,
schools, and businesses. These maps
are used to award funding and subsidies
to expand broadband coverage to areas
that don’t have it, and, in many cases,
these efforts have led to great success.
However, these maps have been found
to be inaccurate, incomplete, or unreli-
able. Often a map will claim an entire
area is covered by high-speed
broadband when, in reality, only a
small portion of that area has reliable
coverage.
This trend should not be the status
quo in our digital age because it leaves
so many rural families underserved.
Areas where the FCC’s maps incor-
rectly say there is high-speed rural
broadband connectivity are often ineli-
gible for funding to expand broadband,
and these inaccuracies greatly dis-
advantage our rural communities.
Erroneous information in these maps
could be the difference between a sen-
ior citizen being able to access life-
saving telemedicine services or not; it
could be the difference between a farm-
er who can keep up with market fluc-
tuations halfway across the world or
not; and it could control the ability of
a young, aspiring student to access on-
line information, college applications,
and research materials.
My amendment to the Save the
Internet Act would address a lack of
reliable broadband internet
connectivity in our rural communities,
and it would begin to fix the errors in
our current broadband maps.
My amendment would require the
Government Accountability Office to
produce a full report that examines the
accuracy and quality of the FCC’s
broadband mapping. This report would
also identify what the FCC should do
to produce more accurate, reliable, and
high-quality maps.
Additionally, the GAO report re-
quired by my amendment would help
identify the scope of the broadband
mapping problem and actually suggest
solutions. With this new information,
the FCC would be better able to update
its maps so that we can properly target
our broadband expansion efforts to the
rural towns, townships, and commu-
nities across our district.
Better maps of broadband coverage
are a critical first step toward getting
high-speed internet to every household,
something we should aim to do in our
globalized, digitally-focused economy.
As we are having important discussions
about protecting and expanding reli-
able access to the internet, I urge my
colleagues to support this amendment
to H.R. 1644.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:43 Apr 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00010 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K10AP7.021 H10APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3233
April 10, 2019
Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance
of my time.
Mr. WALDEN. Mr. Chairman, I claim
the time in opposition to the amend-
ment, although I don’t think I am op-
posed to the amendment.
The Acting CHAIR. Without objec-
tion, the gentleman from Oregon is rec-
ognized for 5 minutes.
There was no objection.
Mr. WALDEN. Mr. Chairman, I don’t
disagree with my colleague from Vir-
ginia that the maps showing broadband
deployment in the United States can
and must be improved. That is why,
when Republicans held the majority for
the Energy and Commerce Committee,
we held numerous hearings on how to
do that, how to improve broadband
mapping at the FCC.
We also shared legislation with our
Democratic—then minority—col-
leagues to bring in the expertise of the
National Telecommunications and In-
formation Administration to aggregate
granular data beyond the carrier data
that the FCC uses for its maps.
Unfortunately, our colleagues on the
other side of the aisle didn’t want to
work with us to improve mapping last
Congress. I am more hopeful this time
that we can engage—we are ready, will-
ing, and able to do so—and that we can
address this matter.
Mapping is clearly important—I
think we all agree on that—and it is
where we should focus our limited Fed-
eral money on broadband support. But
rather than help spur broadband de-
ployment and provide more granular
data, the underlying legislation would
make it more difficult on broadband
providers to deploy broadband.
We just discussed how investment in
broadband, especially for our small
providers, suffered under title II. They
came and testified to that.
But my reservation on this amend-
ment, Mr. Chairman, has to do with
the conflict that I see between the
Wexton amendment, No. 5, and the
Spanberger amendment, No. 11. I won-
der if the gentlewoman from Virginia
would care to comment about that, and
I would be happy to yield. I didn’t have
a chance to talk with her. It may not
be fair.
The issue here is the Wexton amend-
ment, which we did not oppose, re-
quires the Federal Communications
Commission to submit to Congress,
within 30 days, a plan for how the Com-
mission will evaluate and address prob-
lems with the collection of form 477
data.
b 1015
I believe those are the same data we
are talking about with your amend-
ment to have the GAO do this inves-
tigation and report to Congress as well.
The conflict I see is, on the one hand,
we are telling the FCC to go do its
work and report back in 30 days, but in
your amendment, we are telling the
GAO to go do its work and tell us even-
tually where the problems are. They
can do that, but we have already told
the FCC to report back its answers.
I am not going to oppose the amend-
ment, but it seems like there is kind of
a conflict here, potentially. Because we
want to get it right, it seems like we
would wait to have the FCC report
back until the GAO had completed its
work. Then we could work with the
FCC to say, okay, now that we know
what the GAO has found and informed
us on, then, FCC, go and report back.
I might have structured this a little
differently had we had time to work
out some of that.
I am not going to oppose the gentle-
woman’s amendment. We have to get
the data right. We have to get the map-
ping right.
When the stimulus came out in the
Obama administration, I argued this
very point in the committee. We were
in the minority then, so of course, I
lost. But they were spending money
that was being set aside in the stim-
ulus to build out broadband in America
before they had the maps to figure out
where people were underserved and
unserved.
It seemed kind of backward then, and
I think it was. We didn’t get the maps
until after the money was allocated.
The time to do the audits and evalua-
tions of how that money was spent, the
money for that ran out before the
build-out was finished, so we had to
come back to look at that. Then we did
find limited cases of fraud and abuse,
not much, frankly, but enough. It is
taxpayer dollars.
I won’t oppose the gentlewoman’s
amendment. I think we can work out
these things if this bill were to move
forward, but the timing is the issue
that I have some reservations on.
Mr. Chair, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Ms. SPANBERGER. Mr. Chair, may I
inquire how much time I have remain-
ing?
The Acting CHAIR. The gentlewoman
from Virginia has 1 minute remaining.
Ms. SPANBERGER. Mr. Chair, I
yield the balance of my time to the
gentleman from Pennsylvania (Mr. MI-
CHAEL F. DOYLE).
Mr. MICHAEL F. DOYLE of Pennsyl-
vania. Mr. Chair, I thank the gentle-
woman for yielding.
Mr. Chair, I would say to my friend,
I think what we are trying to do in
these two amendments is, we need the
FCC to get on this as soon as possible,
but we need the GAO to continue to
look at this. But I understand what the
gentleman is saying.
Look, we know these maps are
wrong. I mean, nobody is arguing about
that, and it is unacceptable. What the
gentlewoman’s amendment would do is
ask the GAO to do a report to examine
the current mapping processes for both
wireless and wired line services.
They would also be asked to identify
what FCC programs and actions rely on
maps and to make recommendations on
how the FCC could produce more reli-
able maps.
I think this is an important amend-
ment. I support it, and I urge all my
colleagues to support it also.
Ms. SPANBERGER. Mr. Chair, I
yield back the balance of my time.
Mr. WALDEN. Mr. Chair, I yield my-
self such time as I may consume.
Mr. Chair, I appreciate the gentle-
woman’s amendment and the gentle-
man’s comments. We can figure out
how to work this out, I think. But
clearly, we have to fix the maps.
Even the industry has told me, at
least—they admit the data, the way it
is collected and everything else, is not
an accurate representation. They
would like our help in this as well.
Hopefully, we can move forward on
an NTIA reauthorization as well. We
marched through a number of agency
reauthorizations and programmatic re-
authorizations that hadn’t been done
in decades in the last 2 years. We
should continue that important work
as well. We stand ready as Republicans
to join our colleagues to get that done.
Mr. Chair, I yield back the balance of
my time.
The Acting CHAIR. The question is
on the amendment offered by the gen-
tlewoman from Virginia (Ms.
SPANBERGER).
The amendment was agreed to.
AMENDMENT NO. 12 OFFERED BY MR. MCADAMS
The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order
to consider amendment No. 12 printed
in part A of House Report 116–37.
Mr. MCADAMS. Mr. Chair, I have an
amendment at the desk.
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will
designate the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
Add at the end the following:
SEC. 4. LAWFUL CONTENT.
(a) IN GENERAL.—As described in the Re-
port and Order on Remand, Declaratory Rul-
ing, and Order in the matter of protecting
and promoting the open internet that was
adopted by the Federal Communications
Commission on February 26, 2015 (FCC 15–
24)—
(1) nothing in this Act prohibits providers
of broadband Internet access service from
blocking content that is not lawful, such as
child pornography or copyright-infringing
materials; and
(2) nothing in this Act imposes any inde-
pendent legal obligation on providers of
broadband Internet access service to be the
arbiter of what is lawful content.
(b) BROADBAND INTERNET ACCESS SERVICE
DEFINED.—In this section, the term
‘‘broadband Internet access service’’ has the
meaning given such term in section 8.2 of
title 47, Code of Federal Regulations.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
House Resolution 294, the gentleman
from Utah (Mr. MCADAMS) and a Mem-
ber opposed each will control 5 min-
utes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from Utah.
Mr. MCADAMS. Mr. Chair, I rise
today to offer an amendment to H.R.
1644, the Save the Internet Act.
As the father of four children, I
worry about what my kids see on social
media and online, and I know firsthand
how important it is that illegal con-
tent doesn’t pollute the internet.
My amendment would affirm that
this bill preserves broadband internet
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:43 Apr 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00011 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K10AP7.023 H10APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3234 April 10, 2019
service providers’ ability to block un-
lawful content, including disturbing
and harmful materials like child por-
nography.
We are here today to vote on legisla-
tion to protect the internet as an en-
gine of innovation and open commu-
nication free from undue restrictions,
such as blocking legal content and
services, throttling service, and paid
prioritization of content. While the bill
does not, as currently written, revoke
service providers’ ability to block ille-
gal content, I believe the House can
agree that we should nonetheless af-
firm our commitment to stopping un-
lawful behaviors, such as viewing child
pornography and copyright infringe-
ment.
My amendment does not impose addi-
tional or onerous legal requirements on
service providers to act as an arbiter of
lawfulness but, rather, ensures pro-
viders can continue working with con-
sumer watchdogs and law enforcement
to keep our internet free from illegal
content and to make it safe for our
families.
Let me reiterate this amendment
also does not grant ISPs any new
rights to block content that is lawful
or decide what is lawful on the inter-
net. My amendment simply stands for
the proposition that unlawful content
is not protected by net neutrality
rules.
It is one thing to say ISPs can block
content subject to a valid court order
and quite another to let ISPs make de-
cisions about the lawfulness of content
for themselves. This amendment
strikes that balance.
We have bipartisan consensus on the
tremendous value of the internet’s con-
tribution to our society’s innovation
and communication, and I also know
that there is bipartisan concern about
severe illegal misuses of the internet’s
power. I believe my amendment offers
us an opportunity to confirm our sup-
port once again for a free internet with
unfettered access to legal content and
to our vehement opposition to child
pornography.
Mr. Chair, I thank the members of
the committee for their work on this
legislation, and I urge a ‘‘yes’’ vote on
my amendment.
Mr. Chair, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. WALDEN. Mr. Chairman, I claim
the time in opposition to the amend-
ment, even though I am not opposed to
it.
The Acting CHAIR. Without objec-
tion, the gentleman from Oregon is rec-
ognized.
There was no objection.
Mr. WALDEN. Mr. Chairman, I agree
with my colleague across the aisle, Mr.
MCADAMS, that ISPs should be able to
block unlawful content, and I support
his amendment.
In fact, even when the FCC imposed
the heavy-handed title II regulations,
it recognized in paragraph 113 of its
order that the ban on blocking did not
‘‘prevent or restrict a broadband pro-
vider from refusing to transmit unlaw-
ful material, such as child pornography
or copyright-infringing materials.’’
This was similar to the FCC’s earlier
nonblocking rule, which was also af-
firmed, that ISPs could block material
that was unlawful.
It strikes me as interesting that you
have to have this amendment to appar-
ently clarify an ambiguity some must
feel exists in the underlying bill, but
we will support it if it is necessary to
do that.
I firmly support net neutrality that
allows Americans to enjoy the lawful
content on the internet and applica-
tions of their choosing.
I would point out to my friend from
Utah that the concerns about social
media, and I share them, are not cov-
ered by this legislation. Those big plat-
forms are completely exempt, as near
as we can tell, so that is another area
where I think we all share a common
bond, that there is concern about what
goes on in social media, things that
aren’t legal, things that are fake. I
mean, you name it.
Under title II, the FCC could police
internet content, as it currently does
with content broadcasts over television
or radio. I was a radio broadcaster for
21 years, owned and operated stations,
and that concerns me a bit if we are
going to get the FCC being the Na-
tion’s speech police. By making further
rules on the ISPs, you might be able to
end up there. That is a concern.
This is a really broad, open-ended au-
thority that you all are giving to the
Federal Communications Commission.
That is because the FCC did not fore-
bear from some content-specific provi-
sions of title II, such as section 223.
That would give the FCC authority to
impose content-based restrictions if it
found it to be ‘‘just and reasonable.’’
That goes well beyond just the legal
content, I think.
I am not burdened with a law degree,
but I have some really good lawyers
that counsel me on these matters.
This is why we offered an amendment
that would have put certain protec-
tions in place for consumers’ freedom
of speech online because that is also
something we all swear to uphold, our
First Amendment rights of religion and
speech.
Rather than talk about how we can
prevent the FCC from someday abusing
the expansive authority that the ma-
jority is about to give it, we are here
discussing something that has been
universally agreed upon by all parties
to this debate.
Mr. Chair, we appreciate the gentle-
man’s perfecting amendment to this
legislation. I intend to support it.
Mr. Chair, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. MCADAMS. Mr. Chair, how much
time do I have remaining?
The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman
has 3 minutes remaining.
Mr. MCADAMS. Mr. Chair, I yield to
the gentleman from Pennsylvania (Mr.
MICHAEL F. DOYLE) for the purpose of a
colloquy.
Mr. MICHAEL F. DOYLE of Pennsyl-
vania. Mr. Chair, I would ask the Con-
gressman, my understanding of his
amendment is that it simply restates
what is already in the 2015 Open Inter-
net Order, namely, that nothing in this
bill would prohibit ISPs from blocking
unlawful content and that nothing in
this act adds any additional require-
ment or right for an ISP to decide what
is lawful content?
Mr. MCADAMS. Mr. Chair, yes, that
is correct. Nothing in this amendment
grants any sort of new rights to an
ISP. Rather, this amendment simply
stands for the proposition that unlaw-
ful content is not protected by net neu-
trality rules. In other words, blocking
unlawful content does not violate net
neutrality.
Mr. MICHAEL F. DOYLE of Pennsyl-
vania. Mr. Chair, I thank the gen-
tleman for clarifying that. I support
the gentleman’s amendment.
Since this is the last of the amend-
ments to be offered, I wanted to take
this time to thank my friend and the
Republican side for a vigorous debate
not only in our committee but here on
the floor.
Mr. Chair, I would be remiss if I
didn’t thank our staffs, namely Alex
Hoehn-Saric, Jerry Leverich, Jennifer
Epperson, AJ Brown, Dan Miller, Ken-
neth Degraff, and my telecom staff,
Philip Murphy. Without him, I
wouldn’t sound as intelligent as I do on
these matters. I thank all of the Demo-
cratic staff. They worked very hard,
and they deserve our thanks.
Mr. Chair, this has been a vigorous
debate, as it should be, but we are com-
ing to a close now, and I thank my
friend for his participation.
Mr. WALDEN. Mr. Chair, I thank the
gentleman for his comments, and I
yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
I again thank the gentleman from
Utah for bringing this amendment. I
guess my suspicions were right: It is
merely restating what is already in the
2015 order, which is what this bill basi-
cally reinstates into law.
Mr. Chair, I thank my staff as well
for the great job they have done. I ap-
preciate both sides as we work together
on these complicated and sometimes
controversial issues.
I would point out that, under sec-
tions 223 and 201, you are again opening
the door to vast new regulation of
speech and content, I believe and our
attorneys believe, by giving the FCC
this authority.
I am a First Amendment guy. I have
a degree in journalism. I believe in free
speech. Sometimes, I don’t like that
speech. Sometimes, I find it offensive.
The stuff that is illegal, you bet, we
are all together on. But there are some
interesting stories coming out around
Europe and elsewhere where countries
now, especially some of those in the
more authoritarian parts of the world,
are using this argument to crack down
on political speech they find offensive.
I think we have to be very careful as
Republicans, as Democrats, as all
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:43 Apr 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00012 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K10AP7.027 H10APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3235
April 10, 2019
Americans to try to find that balance
between the obvious and the speech
that really is about protecting the
powerful. I think we can find common
ground on that, but I do wince a bit
that we are opening the door, or you
all are with your bill, to giving the
FCC the power to tax the internet, the
power to regulate speech on the inter-
net by going through a rulemaking.
I think that heads us in a little more
dangerous direction and, meanwhile,
does not address some of the issues I
hear in townhalls. I have done 20 of
them in every county in my district
this year. When people begin to step up
and have issues, it is not the ISPs they
are complaining about, other than
speeds and connectivity, that sort of
thing. It is what is happening on some
of the social media platforms, which
are not addressed by this bill.
Mr. Chairman, I support the gentle-
man’s amendment, and I yield back the
balance of my time.
Mr. MCADAMS. Mr. Chair, I yield
back the balance of my time.
The Acting CHAIR. The question is
on the amendment offered by the gen-
tleman from Utah (Mr. MCADAMS).
The question was taken; and the Act-
ing Chair announced that the ayes ap-
peared to have it.
Mr. MICHAEL F. DOYLE of Pennsyl-
vania. Mr. Chair, I demand a recorded
vote.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
clause 6 of rule XVIII, further pro-
ceedings on the amendment offered by
the gentleman from Utah will be post-
poned.
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE ACTING CHAIR
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
clause 6 of rule XVIII, proceedings will
now resume on those amendments
printed in part A of House Report 116–
37 on which further proceedings were
postponed, in the following order:
Amendment No. 4 by Mr. DELGADO of
New York.
Amendment No. 6 by Ms. WEXTON of
Virginia.
Amendment No. 12 by Mr. MCADAMS
of Utah.
The Chair will reduce to 2 minutes
the minimum time for any electronic
vote after the first vote in this series.
b 1030
AMENDMENT NO. 4 OFFERED BY MR. DELGADO
The Acting CHAIR. The unfinished
business is the demand for a recorded
vote on the amendment offered by the
gentleman from New York (Mr.
DELGADO) on which further proceedings
were postponed and on which the ayes
prevailed by voice vote.
The Clerk will redesignate the
amendment.
The Clerk redesignated the amend-
ment.
RECORDED VOTE
The Acting CHAIR. A recorded vote
has been demanded.
A recorded vote was ordered.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—ayes 363, noes 60,
not voting 14, as follows:
[Roll No. 163]
AYES—363
Adams
Aderholt
Aguilar
Allred
Armstrong
Arrington
Axne
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Barr
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Beyer
Bilirakis
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Bost
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brady
Brindisi
Brooks (IN)
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Buchanan
Bucshon
Burgess
Bustos
Butterfield
Byrne
Calvert
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Carter (TX)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Chu, Judy
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Cloud
Clyburn
Cohen
Cole
Collins (GA)
Collins (NY)
Comer
Connolly
Cook
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crawford
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cummings
Cunningham
Curtis
Davids (KS)
Davidson (OH)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Diaz-Balart
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Duffy
Dunn
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Estes
Evans
Finkenauer
Fitzpatrick
Fletcher
Flores
Fortenberry
Foster
Foxx (NC)
Frankel
Fudge
Gabbard
Gallagher
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Gianforte
Gibbs
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (OH)
Gonzalez (TX)
González-Colón
(PR)
Gottheimer
Granger
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Green (TX)
Griffith
Grijalva
Grothman
Guthrie
Haaland
Hagedorn
Harder (CA)
Hartzler
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Herrera Beutler
Higgins (LA)
Higgins (NY)
Hill (AR)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Holding
Hollingsworth
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Hudson
Huffman
Huizenga
Hurd (TX)
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (TX)
Joyce (OH)
Kaptur
Katko
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kelly (PA)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
Lamb
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Latta
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Long
Loudermilk
Lowenthal
Lowey
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Mast
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McCollum
McGovern
McHenry
McKinley
McNerney
Meadows
Meeks
Meng
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Mullin
Murphy
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Newhouse
Norcross
Norton
Nunes
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Palazzo
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Pence
Perlmutter
Perry
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Plaskett
Pocan
Porter
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Reed
Reschenthaler
Richmond
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rose (NY)
Rose, John W.
Rouda
Rouzer
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Sablan
San Nicolas
Sarbanes
Scalise
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Scott (VA)
Scott, Austin
Scott, David
Sensenbrenner
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Shimkus
Simpson
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smith (WA)
Smucker
Soto
Spanberger
Spano
Speier
Stanton
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Stevens
Stewart
Stivers
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Taylor
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Turner
Underwood
Upton
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walorski
Waltz
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watkins
Watson Coleman
Wenstrup
Westerman
Wexton
Wild
Wilson (FL)
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Yarmuth
Young
NOES—60
Allen
Amash
Banks
Bergman
Biggs
Bishop (UT)
Brooks (AL)
Buck
Budd
Burchett
Carter (GA)
Cline
Conaway
Crenshaw
Davis, Rodney
DesJarlais
Duncan
Emmer
Ferguson
Fleischmann
Fulcher
Gaetz
Gohmert
Gooden
Gosar
Graves (GA)
Guest
Harris
Hern, Kevin
Hice (GA)
Hunter
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (SD)
Jordan
Joyce (PA)
Kelly (MS)
LaMalfa
Lamborn
Lesko
Marchant
Marshall
Massie
Meuser
Mooney (WV)
Norman
Palmer
Posey
Ratcliffe
Rice (SC)
Roy
Rutherford
Schweikert
Steube
Walker
Webster (FL)
Williams
Woodall
Wright
Yoho
Zeldin
NOT VOTING—14
Abraham
Amodei
Babin
Cicilline
Cooper
McEachin
Olson
Radewagen
Rice (NY)
Rooney (FL)
Ryan
Sánchez
Weber (TX)
Welch
b 1055
Messrs. BROOKS of Alabama, FER-
GUSON, and RICE of South Carolina
changed their vote from ‘‘aye’’ to ‘‘no.’’
Messrs. WENSTRUP, WESTERMAN,
SCALISE, WATKINS, Mrs. RODGERS
of Washington, Messrs. KELLY of
Pennsylvania, and BARR changed their
vote from ‘‘no’’ to ‘‘aye.’’
So the amendment was agreed to.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
AMENDMENT NO. 6 OFFERED BY MS. WEXTON
The Acting CHAIR. The unfinished
business is the demand for a recorded
vote on the amendment offered by the
gentlewoman from Virginia (Ms.
WEXTON) on which further proceedings
were postponed and on which the ayes
prevailed by voice vote.
The Clerk will redesignate the
amendment.
The Clerk redesignated the amend-
ment.
RECORDED VOTE
The Acting CHAIR. A recorded vote
has been demanded.
A recorded vote was ordered.
The Acting CHAIR. This will be a 2-
minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—ayes 376, noes 46,
not voting 15, as follows:
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:43 Apr 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00013 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K10AP7.028 H10APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3236 April 10, 2019
[Roll No. 164]
AYES—376
Adams
Aderholt
Aguilar
Allen
Allred
Amash
Armstrong
Arrington
Axne
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Bergman
Beyer
Bilirakis
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Bost
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brady
Brindisi
Brooks (IN)
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Buchanan
Bucshon
Burgess
Bustos
Butterfield
Byrne
Calvert
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Cheney
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Cloud
Clyburn
Cohen
Cole
Collins (GA)
Collins (NY)
Comer
Connolly
Cook
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crawford
Crenshaw
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cummings
Cunningham
Curtis
Davids (KS)
Davidson (OH)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Davis, Rodney
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Diaz-Balart
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Duffy
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Evans
Ferguson
Finkenauer
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Fletcher
Flores
Fortenberry
Foster
Foxx (NC)
Frankel
Fudge
Fulcher
Gabbard
Gallagher
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Gianforte
Gibbs
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (OH)
Gonzalez (TX)
González-Colón
(PR)
Gooden
Gottheimer
Granger
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Green (TX)
Griffith
Grijalva
Guest
Guthrie
Haaland
Hagedorn
Harder (CA)
Hartzler
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Herrera Beutler
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Higgins (NY)
Hill (AR)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Holding
Hollingsworth
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Hudson
Huffman
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Johnson (TX)
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Kaptur
Katko
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kelly (PA)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamb
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Latta
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Lowenthal
Lowey
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Marchant
Marshall
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McCollum
McGovern
McKinley
McNerney
Meadows
Meeks
Meng
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Mullin
Murphy
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Newhouse
Norcross
Norton
Nunes
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Palazzo
Pallone
Palmer
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Pence
Perlmutter
Perry
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Plaskett
Pocan
Porter
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Richmond
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rose (NY)
Rose, John W.
Rouda
Rouzer
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Sablan
San Nicolas
Sarbanes
Scalise
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Scott (VA)
Scott, Austin
Scott, David
Sensenbrenner
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Shimkus
Simpson
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smith (WA)
Smucker
Soto
Spanberger
Spano
Speier
Stanton
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Stevens
Stewart
Stivers
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Taylor
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Turner
Underwood
Upton
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walorski
Waltz
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watkins
Watson Coleman
Wenstrup
Wexton
Wild
Wilson (FL)
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Young
Zeldin
NOES—46
Banks
Barr
Biggs
Bishop (UT)
Brooks (AL)
Buck
Budd
Burchett
Chabot
Cline
Conaway
DesJarlais
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Estes
Gaetz
Gohmert
Gosar
Graves (GA)
Grothman
Harris
Hern, Kevin
Jordan
Kelly (MS)
Lamborn
Lesko
Long
Loudermilk
Massie
Mast
McHenry
Mooney (WV)
Norman
Posey
Rice (SC)
Roy
Rutherford
Schweikert
Steube
Walker
Webster (FL)
Westerman
Williams
Wright
Yoho
NOT VOTING—15
Abraham
Amodei
Babin
Cooper
Langevin
McEachin
Olson
Radewagen
Rice (NY)
Rooney (FL)
Ryan
Sánchez
Weber (TX)
Welch
Yarmuth
b 1102
Mr. FERGUSON changed his vote
from ‘‘no’’ to ‘‘aye.’’
So the amendment was agreed to.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
Stated for:
Mr. LANGEVIN. Mr. Chair, I was unavoid-
ably detained. Had I been present, I would
have voted ‘‘yea’’ on rollcall No. 164.
AMENDMENT NO. 12 OFFERED BY MR. MCADAMS
The Acting CHAIR. The unfinished
business is the demand for a recorded
vote on the amendment offered by the
gentleman from Utah (Mr. MCADAMS)
on which further proceedings were
postponed and on which the ayes pre-
vailed by voice vote.
The Clerk will redesignate the
amendment.
The Clerk redesignated the amend-
ment.
RECORDED VOTE
The Acting CHAIR. A recorded vote
has been demanded.
A recorded vote was ordered.
The Acting CHAIR. This will be a 2-
minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—ayes 423, noes 0,
not voting 14, as follows:
[Roll No. 165]
AYES—423
Adams
Aderholt
Aguilar
Allen
Allred
Amash
Armstrong
Arrington
Axne
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Bergman
Beyer
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Bost
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brady
Brindisi
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Bustos
Butterfield
Byrne
Calvert
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Cline
Cloud
Clyburn
Cohen
Cole
Collins (GA)
Collins (NY)
Comer
Conaway
Connolly
Cook
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crawford
Crenshaw
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cummings
Cunningham
Curtis
Davids (KS)
Davidson (OH)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Davis, Rodney
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
DesJarlais
Deutch
Diaz-Balart
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Duffy
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Estes
Evans
Ferguson
Finkenauer
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Fletcher
Flores
Fortenberry
Foster
Foxx (NC)
Frankel
Fudge
Fulcher
Gabbard
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (OH)
Gonzalez (TX)
González-Colón
(PR)
Gooden
Gosar
Gottheimer
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Green (TX)
Griffith
Grijalva
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Haaland
Hagedorn
Harder (CA)
Harris
Hartzler
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Higgins (NY)
Hill (AR)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Holding
Hollingsworth
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Hudson
Huffman
Huizenga
Hunter
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Johnson (TX)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Kaptur
Katko
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamb
Lamborn
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Latta
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Lesko
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Long
Loudermilk
Lowenthal
Lowey
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Marchant
Marshall
Massie
Mast
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McCollum
McGovern
McHenry
McKinley
McNerney
Meadows
Meeks
Meng
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Mullin
Murphy
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Newhouse
Norcross
Norman
Norton
Nunes
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:43 Apr 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00014 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A10AP7.011 H10APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3237
April 10, 2019
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Palazzo
Pallone
Palmer
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Pence
Perlmutter
Perry
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Plaskett
Pocan
Porter
Posey
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (SC)
Richmond
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rose (NY)
Rose, John W.
Rouda
Rouzer
Roy
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Rutherford
Ryan
Sablan
San Nicolas
Sarbanes
Scalise
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Schweikert
Scott (VA)
Scott, Austin
Scott, David
Sensenbrenner
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Shimkus
Simpson
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smith (WA)
Smucker
Soto
Spanberger
Spano
Speier
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stevens
Stewart
Stivers
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Taylor
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Turner
Underwood
Upton
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watkins
Watson Coleman
Webster (FL)
Wenstrup
Westerman
Wexton
Wild
Williams
Wilson (FL)
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yarmuth
Yoho
Young
Zeldin
NOT VOTING—14
Abraham
Amodei
Babin
Bishop (UT)
Hurd (TX)
McEachin
Olson
Radewagen
Rice (NY)
Rooney (FL)
Sánchez
Stanton
Weber (TX)
Welch
b 1110
So the amendment was agreed to.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
The Acting CHAIR (Ms. ESCOBAR).
The question is on the amendment in
the nature of a substitute, as amended.
The amendment was agreed to.
The Acting CHAIR. Under the rule,
the Committee rises.
Accordingly, the Committee rose;
and the Speaker pro tempore (Mr.
NEGUSE) having assumed the chair, Ms.
ESCOBAR, Acting Chair of the Com-
mittee of the Whole House on the state
of the Union, reported that that Com-
mittee, having had under consideration
the bill (H.R. 1644) to restore the open
internet order of the Federal Commu-
nications Commission, and, pursuant
to House Resolution 294, she reported
the bill back to the House with an
amendment adopted in the Committee
of the Whole.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under
the rule, the previous question is or-
dered.
Is a separate vote demanded on any
amendment to the amendment re-
ported from the Committee of the
Whole?
If not, the question is on the amend-
ment in the nature of a substitute, as
amended.
The amendment was agreed to.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the engrossment and
third reading of the bill.
The bill was ordered to be engrossed
and read a third time, and was read the
third time.
MOTION TO RECOMMIT
Mr. WALDEN. Mr. Speaker, I have a
motion to recommit and it is at the
desk.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is the
gentleman opposed to the bill?
Mr. WALDEN. Oh, my gosh, Mr.
Speaker, in its current form, yes.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Clerk will report the motion to recom-
mit.
The Clerk read as follows:
Mr. Walden moves to recommit the bill
H.R. 1644 to the Committee on Energy and
Commerce with instructions to report the
same back to the House forthwith with the
following amendment:
Add at the end the following:
SEC. 4. RULE OF CONSTRUCTION REGARDING
INTERNET TAX FREEDOM ACT.
Nothing in this Act shall be construed to
modify, impair, supersede, or authorize the
modification, impairment, or supersession of
the Internet Tax Freedom Act (47 U.S.C. 151
note).
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tleman from Oregon is recognized for 5
minutes.
b 1115
Mr. WALDEN. Mr. Speaker, this
amendment is actually pretty simple,
and Members have a clear choice today
on the floor: Are you for taxing the
internet or not? That is the question.
As we have discussed at the Energy
and Commerce Committee and again
on the House floor today, Mr. Speaker,
no one fully understands the implica-
tions of the underlying legislation. In
fact, we have adopted amendments
that the sponsor indicates aren’t really
necessary but do reinforce what is al-
ready in the bill. The scope of what it
entails is still unclear, however, and
the impact it could have on consumers
is still uncertain.
Now, Democrats claim their bill per-
manently forbears from many of the
heavy-handed regulations that the Fed-
eral Communications Commission
could impose through this government
takeover of the internet. It is impor-
tant to note that nothing in the under-
lying bill would prevent the Federal
Communications Commission from im-
posing similar regulations in the future
or through other provisions in statute.
Now, my colleagues never could
produce the list of 700 forbearances
they claim the FCC engaged in that
they are going to lock in statute today.
That is what you are voting on, among
other things. We never could get that
list of 700 forbearances.
We have offered amendments in the
committee and in the Rules Committee
to ensure that consumers are protected
and to ensure that the Democrats’
rhetoric about their bill actually
matches the substance. These amend-
ments were all rejected on party-line
votes in committee.
What is clear is that the Democrats
want a government takeover of the
internet. They want to open up the
floodgates to a Federal, State, and
local cash grab through taxation and
fees that could be put on by local gov-
ernments, State governments, and even
the Federal Government.
Now, they will argue: Oh, no, there is
nothing in the underlying bill, no, no,
no. It does not touch the Internet Tax
Freedom Act.
That might be true. It doesn’t have
to because the underlying bill opens
the floodgates to section 201 and sec-
tion 202 and other provisions that
would allow local, State, and Federal
governments to tax the internet. They
can’t do that today.
So, again, your vote is pretty simple:
tax the internet or don’t tax the inter-
net.
Once you classify internet services
under the utility-style services, tax ad-
ministrators are going to do what they
do best, and that is find a way to
charge fees and taxes on this category
since they understand how to get milk
from every cow that walks by. Guess
who is getting milked. It is the con-
sumers.
So if you have any doubt, Mr. Speak-
er, just check your monthly phone bill.
Your internet subscription is the new
target. We are seeing all kinds of
things in this bill. They are doubling,
potentially, use of fees for the use of
some facilities and poles, even altru-
istic-sounding ones on telecommuni-
cations relay services and 911.
But guess what. Just ask New York
residents how much of their monthly
911 charges are being diverted from
their 911 call centers. According to the
Federal Communications Commission’s
10th annual report to Congress on how
States collect and use 911 fees, a stag-
gering 90.35 percent of the money New
Yorkers pay for 911 services gets di-
verted. For my friends in New Jersey,
77.26 percent gets diverted.
So these tax collectors know how to
tax; they just haven’t had the oppor-
tunity to tax the internet, but they
may well get it under this bill if it
were to become law.
So, Mr. Speaker, this is pretty sim-
ple. Republicans want to close the door
on taxation of the internet. Will Demo-
crats join us or not?
If you vote for the motion to recom-
mit, Mr. Speaker, you vote to close the
tax and freedom door. A ‘‘no’’ vote
leaves that door wide open for taxation
of the internet.
Do you want your consumers to pay
higher bills every month for their
internet service or not?
Say ‘‘no’’ to higher taxes and fees
and ‘‘yes’’ to this amendment to pro-
tect those who actually pay the bill.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back balance of
my time.
Mr. MICHAEL F. DOYLE of Pennsyl-
vania. Mr. Speaker, I rise in opposition
to the motion to recommit.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tleman is recognized for 5 minutes.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:14 Apr 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00015 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A10AP7.012 H10APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3238 April 10, 2019
Mr. MICHAEL F. DOYLE of Pennsyl-
vania. Mr. Speaker, colleagues, pay
close attention this. This proposal is
completely unnecessary. Let me tell
you why.
The bill simply restores the 2015 Open
Internet Order that the FCC adopted
and was upheld by the courts. Nothing
in that order could or did give the FCC
the authority to modify, impair, or su-
persede Federal law. To the contrary,
the order said specifically that it did
not impose new taxes or impact the
Internet Tax Freedom Act.
The Internet Tax Freedom Act is
Federal law. Nothing in this order al-
lows the FCC to modify, impair, or su-
persede Federal law.
This is a complete nonissue, nothing
you need to be worried about; and,
frankly, it is just a last-ditch effort to
delay and confuse people on net neu-
trality.
Now, let’s get down to what this bill
really does. What this bill does, basi-
cally, is three things:
First, the three we all agree on: no
blocking, no throttling, and no paid
prioritization. Republicans and Demo-
crats say we all agree with that.
But, colleagues, that is not the end of
the ball game, because we have already
seen discriminatory practices by ISPs
that aren’t covered by blocking, throt-
tling, and paid prioritization.
What my friends over here are saying
is, sure, the three things we caught
them red-handed on that they have al-
ready pled guilty to, we are not going
to allow that anymore, but any new
discriminatory behavior, any new un-
just or unreasonable behavior, we don’t
want a cop on the beat to police that.
We don’t want to be able to give con-
sumers the right to go to the FCC and
get relief from that. It is like locking
the front door and leaving the back-
door wide open.
Now, let’s talk about another thing,
too.
Two years ago, the Trump FCC re-
pealed the Open Internet Order. What
did it replace it with? Nothing. Nada.
Zip. Crickets. They did nothing. It is
the Wild, Wild West. Let the ISPs do
anything they want and consumers be
damned. That is what they did.
For 2 years, they could have brought
their so-called version of light-touch
net neutrality to the body. They con-
trolled the House. They controlled the
Senate. They got a Republican Presi-
dent. They did nothing because they
don’t believe in net neutrality, and
they don’t believe in protecting con-
sumers.
Well, I have got news for my friends
on this side of the aisle: You are not in
charge here anymore. This is a new
day. We didn’t come to Washington,
D.C., to represent companies. We came
here to represent the American people.
May I tell my colleagues, whether
they are Republicans, Democrats, or
Independents, 86 percent of the Amer-
ican people say they want these rules
restored.
Colleagues, this is your first and only
chance to tell the American people
where you stand on net neutrality and
whether you believe that the FCC
should protect consumers. This is your
chance to be on the right side of his-
tory, on the side of the angels, and on
the side of the American people.
Let’s defeat this motion to recommit
and pass this bill.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Mem-
bers are reminded to address their re-
marks to the Chair.
Without objection, the previous ques-
tion is ordered on the motion to recom-
mit.
There was no objection.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion to recommit.
The question was taken; and the
Speaker pro tempore announced that
the noes appeared to have it.
RECORDED VOTE
Mr. WALDEN. Mr. Speaker, I demand
a recorded vote.
A recorded vote was ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 9 of rule XX, the Chair
will reduce to 5 minutes the minimum
time for any electronic vote on the
question of passage.
This is a 5-minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—ayes 204, noes 216,
not voting 11, as follows:
[Roll No. 166]
AYES—204
Aderholt
Allen
Amash
Armstrong
Arrington
Axne
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Bergman
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (UT)
Bost
Brady
Brindisi
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Byrne
Calvert
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Cline
Cloud
Cole
Collins (GA)
Collins (NY)
Comer
Conaway
Cook
Craig
Crawford
Crenshaw
Cunningham
Curtis
Davidson (OH)
Davis, Rodney
Delgado
DesJarlais
Diaz-Balart
Duffy
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Estes
Ferguson
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Flores
Fortenberry
Foxx (NC)
Fulcher
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Golden
Gonzalez (OH)
Gooden
Gosar
Gottheimer
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Griffith
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Hagedorn
Harris
Hartzler
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Hill (AR)
Holding
Hollingsworth
Horn, Kendra S.
Hudson
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Katko
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamborn
Latta
Lesko
Long
Loudermilk
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Marchant
Marshall
Massie
Mast
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McHenry
McKinley
Meadows
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Mullin
Newhouse
Norman
Nunes
Palazzo
Palmer
Pence
Perry
Posey
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (SC)
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rose, John W.
Rouzer
Roy
Rutherford
Scalise
Schrader
Schweikert
Scott, Austin
Sensenbrenner
Sherrill
Shimkus
Simpson
Slotkin
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smucker
Spanberger
Spano
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stewart
Stivers
Taylor
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Turner
Upton
Van Drew
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Watkins
Webster (FL)
Wenstrup
Westerman
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yoho
Young
Zeldin
NOES—216
Adams
Aguilar
Allred
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Beyer
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Bustos
Butterfield
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Clyburn
Cohen
Connolly
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cummings
Davids (KS)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Evans
Finkenauer
Fletcher
Foster
Frankel
Fudge
Gabbard
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Gomez
Gonzalez (TX)
Green (TX)
Grijalva
Haaland
Harder (CA)
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Higgins (NY)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (TX)
Kaptur
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Lamb
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Lowenthal
Lowey
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCollum
McGovern
McNerney
Meeks
Meng
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Murphy
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Norcross
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Perlmutter
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Porter
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Richmond
Rose (NY)
Rouda
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Ryan
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrier
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sires
Smith (WA)
Soto
Speier
Stanton
Stevens
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Underwood
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watson Coleman
Wexton
Wild
Wilson (FL)
Yarmuth
NOT VOTING—11
Abraham
Amodei
Babin
Huffman
McEachin
Olson
Rice (NY)
Rooney (FL)
Sánchez
Weber (TX)
Welch
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:43 Apr 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00016 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K10AP7.038 H10APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3239
April 10, 2019
b 1130
So the motion to recommit was re-
jected.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the passage of the bill.
The question was taken; and the
Speaker pro tempore announced that
the ayes appeared to have it.
Mr. WALDEN. Mr. Speaker, on that I
demand the yeas and nays.
The yeas and nays were ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. This
will be a 5-minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—yeas 232, nays
190, not voting 10, as follows:
[Roll No. 167]
YEAS—232
Adams
Aguilar
Allred
Axne
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Beyer
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brindisi
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Bustos
Butterfield
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Clyburn
Cohen
Connolly
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cummings
Cunningham
Davids (KS)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Evans
Finkenauer
Fletcher
Foster
Frankel
Fudge
Gabbard
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (TX)
Gottheimer
Green (TX)
Grijalva
Haaland
Harder (CA)
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Higgins (NY)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Huffman
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (TX)
Kaptur
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Lamb
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Lowenthal
Lowey
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCollum
McGovern
McNerney
Meeks
Meng
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Murphy
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Norcross
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Pelosi
Perlmutter
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Porter
Posey
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Richmond
Rose (NY)
Rouda
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Ryan
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (WA)
Soto
Spanberger
Speier
Stanton
Stevens
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Underwood
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watson Coleman
Wexton
Wild
Wilson (FL)
Yarmuth
NAYS—190
Aderholt
Allen
Amash
Armstrong
Arrington
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Bergman
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (UT)
Bost
Brady
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Byrne
Calvert
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Cline
Cloud
Cole
Collins (GA)
Collins (NY)
Comer
Conaway
Cook
Crawford
Crenshaw
Curtis
Davidson (OH)
Davis, Rodney
DesJarlais
Diaz-Balart
Duffy
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Estes
Ferguson
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Flores
Fortenberry
Foxx (NC)
Fulcher
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Gonzalez (OH)
Gooden
Gosar
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Griffith
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Hagedorn
Harris
Hartzler
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Hill (AR)
Holding
Hollingsworth
Hudson
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Katko
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamborn
Latta
Lesko
Long
Loudermilk
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Marchant
Marshall
Massie
Mast
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McHenry
McKinley
Meadows
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Mullin
Newhouse
Norman
Nunes
Palazzo
Palmer
Pence
Perry
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (SC)
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rose, John W.
Rouzer
Roy
Rutherford
Scalise
Schweikert
Scott, Austin
Sensenbrenner
Shimkus
Simpson
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smucker
Spano
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stewart
Stivers
Taylor
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Turner
Upton
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Watkins
Webster (FL)
Wenstrup
Westerman
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yoho
Young
Zeldin
NOT VOTING—10
Abraham
Amodei
Babin
McEachin
Olson
Rice (NY)
Rooney (FL)
Sánchez
Weber (TX)
Welch
b 1144
So the bill was passed.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
Stated for:
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
Miss RICE of New York. Mr. Speaker, I re-
grettably missed the following vote. Had I
been present, I would have voted ‘‘yea’’ on
rollcall No. 167.
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
Mr. WELCH. Mr. Speaker, due to a family
emergency, I was unable to vote on Roll Call
157, 158, 159, 160, 161, 162, 163, 164, 165,
166, and 167. I would include in the RECORD
how I would have voted on each had I been
present.
rollcall 157: ‘‘Aye’’, rollcall 158: ‘‘Aye’’, roll-
call 159: ‘‘Aye’’, rollcall 160: ‘‘Aye’’, rollcall
161: ‘‘Aye’’, rollcall 162: ‘‘Aye’’, rollcall 163:
‘‘Aye’’, rollcall 164: ‘‘Aye’’, rollcall 165: ‘‘Aye’’,
rollcall 166: ‘‘Nay’’, and rollcall 167: ‘‘Aye’’.
f
MESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT
A message in writing from the Presi-
dent of the United States was commu-
nicated to the House by Mr. Brian
Pate, one of his secretaries.
f
REQUEST TO CONSIDER H.R. 962,
BORN-ALIVE ABORTION SUR-
VIVORS PROTECTION ACT
Mr. HARRIS. Mr. Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary be discharged
from further consideration of H.R. 962,
the Born-Alive Abortion Survivors Pro-
tection Act, and ask for its immediate
consideration in the House.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under
guidelines consistently issued by suc-
cessive Speakers, as recorded in sec-
tion 956 of the House Rules and Man-
ual, the Chair is constrained not to en-
tertain the request unless it has been
cleared by the bipartisan floor and
committee leaderships.
Mr. HARRIS. Mr. Speaker, I urge the
Speaker to immediately schedule this
important bill to save the lives of these
babies who are born alive after an abor-
tion attempt. This bill is exceedingly
important and should be brought to the
floor.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tleman is not recognized for debate.
f
ADJOURNMENT FROM WEDNES-
DAY, APRIL 10, 2019, TO FRIDAY,
APRIL 12, 2019
Ms. GARCIA of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I
ask unanimous consent that when the
House adjourns today, it adjourn to
meet at 2:30 p.m. on Friday, April 12,
2019.
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr.
ESPAILLAT). Is there objection to the
request of the gentlewoman from
Texas?
There was no objection.
f
THE TRUMP ADMINISTRATION’S
ATTACKS ON THE AFFORDABLE
CARE ACT
(Ms. GARCIA of Texas asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute.)
Ms. GARCIA of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I
rise today to condemn the Trump ad-
ministration’s new attacks on the Af-
fordable Care Act.
Over 4.5 million non-elderly Texans
have preexisting conditions that could
keep them from getting insurance if
the administration gets its wishes in
Federal court. This is truly out-
rageous.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:08 Apr 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00017 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K10AP7.041 H10APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3240 April 10, 2019
No family should have to choose be-
tween lifesaving care and going bank-
rupt. And we cannot forget how impor-
tant this is for Latinos, there are many
in my district, who already have the
highest uninsured rate of any group in
the United States.
Regardless of the language you
speak, or the color of your skin,
healthcare is a right, and we will de-
fend it for everyone.
The well-being of our families and
their health is the top priority of
House Democrats, and I can assure you,
Mr. Speaker, we will do everything in
our power to make sure this adminis-
tration does not strip away the access
to healthcare for our loved ones.
Yes, we can, and we will.
f
100 DAYS OF DISARRAY
(Mr. MITCHELL asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. MITCHELL. Mr. Speaker, Friday
is the 100th day of Democrat control of
the House; 100 days of disarray.
In the first 3 months, 97 bills have
passed the House. In the first quarter
of last session, 132 bills had passed.
There are 97 bills that have passed
the House, which is far more than have
cleared committees; that number is
only 68. So much for regular order; so
much for hearings; so much for amend-
ments.
They have passed far fewer bipartisan
bills, it is no surprise, yet they con-
tinue to take up and pass resolutions
that are literally useless. We have
spent 20 percent of our time on non-
meaningful, nonbinding resolutions.
Instead of working on the items we
promised the American people, like fix-
ing our infrastructure, healthcare, and
workforce issues, let me recap some of
the things that have been accomplished
here:
The House failed to speak out strong-
ly against anti-Semitism.
Democrats have failed to produce a
budget and said they won’t. They can’t
even agree on budget caps.
They have ignored the humanitarian
crisis at the border that continues to
grow.
And they refuse to bring to the floor
the Born-Alive Abortion Survivors Pro-
tection Act, which has 198 supporters.
f
RESTORING NET NEUTRALITY
(Ms. LEE of California asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute and to revise and extend
her remarks.)
Ms. LEE of California. Mr. Speaker, I
rise in strong support of H.R. 1664, the
Save the Internet Act, which just
passed the House this morning. This
important bill would restore net neu-
trality by reinstating FCC regulations
that were repealed under the Trump
administration.
Now, let me be clear. Net neutrality
protects America’s access to open, free,
and fair internet. It also prevents
internet companies from blocking
websites or slowing down their load
time simply because they disagree with
what the website says.
Your ZIP Code, income, or geography
should not determine the quality of ac-
cess to the internet that every Amer-
ican should have. That is why this leg-
islation is so important. It empowers
the FCC to stop abusive corporate
practices online, promotes competition
and innovation, and supports
broadband access and adoption for low-
income communities.
Mr. Speaker, we need net neutrality
because consumers, not service pro-
viders, should control what you can ac-
cess online. So it is time to give power
back to the people once and for all.
I am pleased that the House passed
H.R. 1644 today, and I hope that the
Senate will take up this bill imme-
diately.
f
RECOGNIZING AMERICANS WHO
GIVE BACK TO THEIR COMMU-
NITIES
(Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania
asked and was given permission to ad-
dress the House for 1 minute and to re-
vise and extend his remarks.)
Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today, during Na-
tional Volunteer Week, to acknowledge
the many Americans who generously
give their time and talents to help im-
prove the lives of others.
Since the founding of the United
States, Americans have always been
committed to serving others and work-
ing for the common good. During Na-
tional Volunteer Week, we celebrate
that spirit and generosity that inspires
Americans to make our communities
safer, healthier, and stronger.
Mr. Speaker, right here in the House,
I am proud to be working with Con-
gressman JIM PANETTA creating a cau-
cus to empower and promote the goals
of national service organizations. Soon,
we will launch the National Service Or-
ganization Caucus, which will support
the many organizations that are dedi-
cated to giving back to their commu-
nities. I encourage my colleagues to
join this important caucus.
The gift of time is priceless. Every
day Americans are helping students,
caring for seniors, working to support
our veterans, aiding those impacted by
natural disasters, and so much more.
There is always an opportunity to vol-
unteer, and I am grateful that so many
Americans make it a part of their daily
lives.
f
CONGRESS IS TACKLING MANY OF
AMERICA’S CENTRAL CHALLENGES
(Ms. DEAN asked and was given per-
mission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend her re-
marks.)
Ms. DEAN. Mr. Speaker, over the last
100 days, this Congress has tackled
many of America’s central challenges.
That starts, of course, with cleaning up
our election system itself, and our vote
on H.R. 1 is a giant step in the right di-
rection.
We have also tackled America’s gun
violence epidemic by requiring uni-
versal background checks and closing
the Charleston loophole.
We have passed H.R. 7, to ensure that
equal work means equal pay; and we
have passed the Violence Against
Women Reauthorization Act, expand-
ing protections for young victims, sur-
vivors, those in shelters, and LGBTQ
people as well. On all of these, we await
the Senate’s vote.
Now we are advancing more of the
public’s priorities: H.R. 4, to restore
and protect America’s voting rights;
H.R. 5, to protect LGBTQ Americans’
rights; and H.R. 6, to defend Dreamers
and TPS recipients.
In addition, we are holding hearings
on climate change, infrastructure, and
lowering prescription drug costs.
Finally, we are fulfilling our obliga-
tion of oversight, defending our con-
stitutional and democratic norms.
Since January, we have worked to
stand up for our fellow citizens and
build a more decent, humane, and car-
ing society.
f
PROTECTING UNITED STATES
BUSINESSES ABROAD
(Mr. CURTIS asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. CURTIS. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to introduce the Protecting
United States Businesses Abroad Act.
This legislation will provide critical
protection against corruption by au-
thorizing the President, through the
advice of Congress or the State Depart-
ment, to revoke the visas of those en-
gaging in corruption targeting Ameri-
cans doing business in emerging mar-
kets around the world. This includes,
soliciting bribes, extorting payments
or assets, manipulating law enforce-
ment, and more.
Many businesses, and especially
small businesses, do not have the re-
sources to combat this type of corrup-
tion overseas. This bill will provide a
critical tool for small businesses to in-
vest safely, benefiting our economy
and developing markets around the
world.
I would like to give special thanks to
Ranking Member MCCAUL of the House
Foreign Affairs Committee, the Salt
Lake Chamber of Commerce, and
Rendeavour, a company that has been
directly impacted by this type of cor-
ruption overseas.
f
HONORING THOSE WHO LOST
THEIR LIVES IN THE RECENT
AFGHANISTAN ATTACK
(Ms. JACKSON LEE asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute and to revise and extend
her remarks.)
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:51 Apr 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00018 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K10AP7.044 H10APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3241
April 10, 2019
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker, I
am reminded of the creation of the
Homeland Security Committee and the
Department of Homeland Security. It
was in the aftermath of the heinous
acts of 9/11, of which I was a Member of
the United States Congress, and the de-
scription and actions are seared in my
memory.
We organized the Homeland Security
Department to be the front lines of se-
curity, to recognize, and to determine
what would be the best way to func-
tion.
I will be introducing legislation
about the security of the Homeland Se-
curity Department. The precipitous
firings and resignations are putting
this Nation in jeopardy and putting the
men and women on the front lines for
the work that they are doing, it is un-
dermining that very important work.
So today I rise as a cofounder and co-
chair of the Afghanistan Caucus, to ask
my colleagues to salute those who just
lost their lives in battle in Afghani-
stan, soldiers from across the Nation.
Their families are mourning, and we
owe them a recognition that they wear
the uniform and they are able or will-
ing to sacrifice for us.
I would ask my colleagues to take a
moment of silence for those who died
in the recent IED incident in Afghani-
stan. I ask now for a moment of silence
for those soldiers who have fallen in
battle.
f
HONORING THE PASSING OF THE
LAST WORLD WAR II DOOLITTLE
RAIDER
(Mr. CHABOT asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Mr. CHABOT. Mr. Speaker, when I
was reading the Cincinnati Enquirer
online this morning, an article head-
line grabbed my attention: ‘‘Last WW
II Doolittle Raider dies.’’ Lieutenant
Colonel Dick Cole was 103 when he
passed away Tuesday in Texas.
There were 80 Raiders, and the fifth
last to survive was Tom Griffin, from
my Cincinnati, Ohio, district, who was
96 when he died a couple of years ago.
I had the honor of getting to know
Tom well over the years. He was a won-
derful guy, and, yes, he was a hero.
That is a term that gets used quite
frequently nowadays; but Tom Griffin,
and Dick Cole, and the other 78 brave
Americans who took off that night
from the USS Hornet truly were heroes.
Only months after the devastating
attack on Pearl Harbor, their daring
feat gave America a much-needed shot
in the arm that was a first and major
step in winning that war.
Now these 80 courageous, gallant, pa-
triotic Doolittle Raiders are all gone,
but they will never be forgotten.
f
b 1200
NATIONAL DAY OF SILENCE
(Mr. PANETTA asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. PANETTA. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to recognize the National Day of
Silence that is going to happen this
Friday, April 12. That is a day when
people around the country and in my
community on the central coast of
California take a vow of silence to
raise awareness about the issues faced
by lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender,
and queer students.
One of those students will be Oliver
Cantrell, who lives in Santa Cruz and is
transgender and bisexual. As president
of the queer-straight alliance at Harbor
High, Oliver works to build bridges be-
tween students and school staff
through education and outreach.
When Oliver transferred to Harbor
High, he was met with support. How-
ever, we know there are students at
other schools who may not be so lucky.
That is exactly why Oliver is taking a
vow of silence to highlight the struggle
for acceptance by LGBTQ youth.
Many students will take that vow of
silence this Friday. That is why we as
leaders should continue to speak up
and step up every day to ensure that
all Americans are respected and appre-
ciated for who they are.
f
HONORING CARL LAMM
(Mr. ROUZER asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. ROUZER. Mr. Speaker, after 72
years on the air, Carl Lamm, whom
many know as the voice of Johnston
County, retired as America’s longest
continuous radio broadcaster on Fri-
day, March 29.
Mr. Carl, as many of us affection-
ately call him, has been co-owner and
operator of WTSB-AM radio in Smith-
field, North Carolina, since 1958. His
daily programming was revered by mil-
lions throughout the State, Nation,
and world who listened to him on the
radio and online throughout the course
of his career.
In more than seven decades on air, he
brought some of the greatest musi-
cians, top athletes, professionals of all
stripes, and national political figures
and commentators into the homes and
businesses of his listeners to discuss
current events and politics, to preach
the Word of God, and much more.
He has witnessed the evolution of
radio from the glory days of the Grand
Ole Opry to the digital age of the 21st
century.
Mr. Carl’s many notable recognitions
include North Carolina’s highest civil-
ian honor, The Order of the Long Leaf
Pine, as well as membership in the
North Carolina Broadcasters Hall of
Fame. However, what I admire most is
his loyal faith in our creator.
Suffice it to say, we will all miss lis-
tening to Mr. Carl on the air at WTSB
radio. It is not often that you get to
know a legend in their own time. Mr.
Carl is just that and a very dear friend
to many as well.
As he enters this new chapter of life
known as retirement, may God always
continue to bless his path.
f
HONORING MAYOR RAYMOND
BAGSHAW
(Mrs. DEMINGS asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend her re-
marks.)
Mrs. DEMINGS. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to honor the life of Mayor Ray-
mond Bagshaw, who passed away
March 10.
Mayor Bagshaw’s service to our com-
munity and to helping small businesses
was unwavering. As the mayor of the
city of Edgewood, he brought what was
called boundless ingenuity to his city
where he started numerous projects,
including transforming a vacant, deso-
late lot into a beautiful park. Today,
the park, which bears his name, hosts
numerous events and family-filled ac-
tivities.
A true public servant, Mayor
Bagshaw was never afraid to roll up his
sleeves and work in the trenches. Dur-
ing natural disasters, it was natural for
him to pitch in to clean up debris or di-
rect traffic around downed power lines.
Mr. Speaker, I join Mayor Bagshaw’s
family, the city council, and citizens of
Edgewood in celebrating his life and
legacy and thanking him for a job well
done.
f
CONGRESS’ SUPPORT FOR ISRAEL
(Mr. SPANO asked and was given per-
mission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. SPANO. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to recognize and congratulate
the nation of Israel for holding its na-
tional elections yesterday.
As the sole democracy in the Middle
East, it not only sets an example to its
neighbors, but it is a key ally in
spreading peace, democracy, and pros-
perity throughout the world.
I also want to recognize the thou-
sands of people who traveled to Wash-
ington recently for this year’s AIPAC
conference.
It has been an honor to work with so
many of my colleagues on legislation
that will not only help secure Israel
militarily but also allow it to thrive
economically. Countries in the region
should take note of what is possible
when they work in good faith and,
most importantly, seek peace.
As NATO’s Secretary General Jens
Stoltenberg said in this Chamber last
week, it is good to have friends. I am
honored to count Israel as one of our
closest and greatest friends.
I look forward to working with a
united Congress to support the Jewish
state and to spread democracy wher-
ever tyranny exists.
f
HONORING NIPSEY HUSSLE
(Ms. BASS asked and was given per-
mission to address the House for 1
minute.)
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:51 Apr 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00019 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K10AP7.046 H10APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3242 April 10, 2019
Ms. BASS. Mr. Speaker, I rise today
on the floor of the House of Represent-
atives to formally recognize and honor
the legacy of Ermias Asghedom, known
to his community and the neighbor-
hoods of south Los Angeles and beyond
as Nipsey Hussle.
As noted in the record I will be sub-
mitting shortly, Nipsey Hussle used
the platform he created with his music
to lift our community as he climbed.
In his business ventures, his invest-
ments, his philanthropy, his commu-
nity engagement, every step of the
way, he had a sole purpose of bettering
the community he came from.
A humble visionary, he saw the over-
looked and welcomed the dismissed. He
reminded our community that the
power we hold is the power of where we
come from and that awareness of that
power can never be taken from us.
He will be remembered by south Los
Angeles as a protector, an inspirator, a
father, a brother, and an unabashed son
of south Los Angeles.
For all he was given, he gave back.
And for that legacy, south Los Angeles
has been changed forever.
Mr. Speaker, I will now be submit-
ting this record honoring his legacy.
f
CONFIRM DAVID BERNHARDT
(Mr. GOSAR asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. GOSAR. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today in strong support of David Bern-
hardt’s nomination to be the next Sec-
retary of the Interior.
Members of the Western Caucus
strongly support his nomination.
David Bernhardt loves his country
and has served her well as a model pub-
lic servant for over 15 years. David has
already been confirmed twice by the
U.S. Senate, once to be the solicitor
and the top legal mind of the country
on these issues and the second time to
be the Deputy Secretary. Just last
week, the Senate Energy and Natural
Resources Committee advanced his
nomination by a strong bipartisan vote
of 14–6.
During his tenure with DOI, David
has worked diligently to increase hunt-
ing and fishing access, ensure clean
water for future generations, and em-
power local decisionmaking. David is a
champion for sportsmen and rural com-
munities.
Mr. Bernhardt is the most qualified
candidate we have ever had as the Sec-
retary of the Interior. Simply put,
David Bernhardt is the leader the De-
partment and the American people de-
serve.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues in
the Senate to vote tomorrow based on
David’s credentials, leadership, and
principles. If that occurs, I have no
doubt he will be confirmed with a
strong bipartisan vote.
Confirm Bernhardt.
CELEBRATING FIRST-EVER IMAGE
OF BLACK HOLE
(Mr. CASE asked and was given per-
mission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Mr. CASE. Mr. Speaker, I rise today
to recognize the groundbreaking con-
tributions of the James Clerk Maxwell
Telescope and Submillimeter Array, lo-
cated on the 13,803-foot summit of
Mauna Kea on my home island in Ha-
waii, and to celebrate their contribu-
tions to a truly international effort
producing the first-ever image of a
black hole.
Part of the Event Horizon Telescope
Collaboration, the JCMT and SMA
joined six other telescopes around the
globe to form an Earth-sized telescope
of unprecedented power and resolution
able to photograph the supermassive
black hole in the M87 galaxy. Hawaii’s
key contribution was to place world-
class telescopes in the middle of the
Pacific Ocean.
Astronomers partnered with re-
nowned Hawaiian language and cul-
tural practitioner Dr. Larry Kimura to
suggest the Hawaiian name ‘‘Powehi,’’
meaning embellished dark source of
unending creation.
These Hawaii observatories pioneered
the study of black holes, and thanks to
powerful new capabilities, perfect con-
ditions atop Mauna Kea, and dedicated
personnel, we can all look forward to
more of JCMT and SMA’s cutting-edge
discoveries in the future, in addition to
the continued growth and reputation of
Hawaii as a world leader in exploring
our heavens.
f
RECOGNIZING THE VOGELPOHL
FAMILY, ARKANSAS FOREST
STEWARDS
(Mr. HILL of Arkansas asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute and to revise and extend
his remarks.)
Mr. HILL of Arkansas. Mr. Speaker, I
rise today to recognize the efforts of
Ray and Theresa Vogelpohl, who were
recently named 2018 Arkansas Forest
Stewards of the Year by the Arkansas
Agriculture Department’s Forestry
Commission.
The Forestry Stewardship Program
recognizes and rewards landowners who
are managing privately owned forest
land for multiple uses. Arkansas is
home to more than 1,200 certified forest
stewardship landowners. The
Vogelpohls first enrolled in the Forest
Stewardship Program in 1996 and later
became certified as forest stewards in
2016.
They operate the Diamond TR
Ranch, a 350-acre working ranch on the
Perry-Pulaski county line. Their forest
management efforts include prescribed
burns, tree plantings along the
Maumelle River, forest thinning, and
planting of native grasses.
Ray and Theresa’s dedication to for-
estry and environmental conservation
has safeguarded Arkansas forestland
for generations to come.
I join all Arkansans in congratu-
lating them.
f
SUPPORTING UNITED STATES-
REPUBLIC OF KOREA ALLIANCE
(Mr. SUOZZI asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Mr. SUOZZI. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today in support of H. Res. 301, which
expresses the importance of our coun-
try’s alliance with the Republic of
Korea.
A hundred years ago, the Republic of
Korea declared itself sovereign, formed
a provisional government, and set the
wheels in motion for it to become the
vibrant, prosperous, and free society
that it is today.
The United States and South Korea
have developed a special bond formed
in shared strategic interests and ce-
mented by a commitment to demo-
cratic values. Our alliance is central to
advancing democracy, free markets,
human rights, and the rule of law in
the Asia-Pacific region and throughout
the world.
South Korea is now home to around
30,000 American military personnel who
are sworn by our mutual defense treaty
to help our ally defend herself from ex-
ternal aggression. South Korea is also
one of our largest trading partners.
Trade and security are not the only
cornerstones of our relationship. Near-
ly 2 million Korean Americans live
across our country, enriching all as-
pects of the fabric of our society.
Mr. Speaker, I call on my colleagues
to continue to strengthen the diplo-
matic, economic, and security ties be-
tween the U.S. and our vital ally,
South Korea.
f
CONFIRM DAVID BERNHARDT
(Mr. LAMBORN asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. LAMBORN. Mr. Speaker, I rise
to express my strong support for the
nomination of Mr. David Bernhardt as
the next Secretary of the Interior.
Mr. Bernhardt is uniquely prepared
to ascend to this position after a career
spent leading several of the Depart-
ment’s wings as chief of staff to the
Secretary, as director of congressional
and legislative affairs, and as a Senate-
confirmed solicitor under President
Bush. These positions encompass the
policy, managerial, intergovernmental,
and oversight roles any sitting Sec-
retary needs to master.
He is ready to hit the ground running
as one of the most knowledgeable and
upstanding Secretaries in the Depart-
ment’s history.
As a Colorado native, Mr. Bernhardt
has repeatedly demonstrated a capac-
ity to translate his vast knowledge of
water, public lands, and other Western
resources into policies that work in our
home State and throughout the West.
He understands our issues, and I know
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:51 Apr 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00020 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K10AP7.048 H10APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3243
April 10, 2019
he will continue to fight for what is
best for Colorado and the whole coun-
try.
f
EQUALITY FOR RESIDENTS OF
NATION’S CAPITAL
(Ms. NORTON asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend her re-
marks.)
Ms. NORTON. Mr. Speaker, D.C.
makes a big deal of Emancipation Day.
That is the day that Abraham Lincoln
freed the slaves in the Nation’s Capital
9 months before the Emancipation
Proclamation freed the rest.
You will forgive us if we say that it
is hardly enough that more than 150
years later, the residents of your Na-
tion’s Capital, White and Black, are
number one in Federal taxes paid to
support this Republic but have no final
vote, like the vote just cast in this
House on the House floor, and no Sen-
ators whatsoever.
Emancipation Day will mark the day
when we will celebrate H.R. 51 to make
the District of Columbia the 51st State.
Lincoln freed the slaves in the Dis-
trict of Columbia. Congress must pass
H.R. 51 to make freedom mean equality
for the residents of your Nation’s Cap-
ital with all other Americans.
f
b 1215
HONORING BAYLOR UNIVERSITY
LADY BEARS BASKETBALL TEAM
(Mr. FLORES asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. FLORES. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to congratulate Coach Kim
Mulkey and her Baylor University
Lady Bears for winning the 2019 NCAA
Women’s National Basketball Cham-
pionship, their third national cham-
pionship in 14 years.
‘‘Together to Tampa’’ was the adopt-
ed slogan for the team, and that is ex-
actly what they did: they played to-
gether as a team to get to Tampa and
they won together as a team in Tampa.
The Lady Bears played an incredible
season, ending with an overall record
of 37 and 1, and a 29-game winning
streak.
It was also a monumental season for
Coach Mulkey, who eclipsed the 550 ca-
reer wins mark and is now only the
third women’s basketball coach to win
at least three national championships.
Congratulations to Coach Mulkey,
the Lady Bears Basketball Team,
Baylor University, and all of Baylor
Nation on another national champion-
ship.
Sic ‘em, Bears.
f
HONORING WAYNE LLOYD VAN
RIPER
(Mr. FULCHER asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. FULCHER. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to honor the life and service of
Wayne Lloyd Van Riper to this great
country.
Wayne Van Riper is a veteran of
World War II and is celebrating his 95th
birthday on April 16. During his service
in the U.S. Army from 1943 to 1945, his
efforts were instrumental in providing
support to the 293rd Combat Engineer
Battalion, A Company.
Wayne was born in the State of
Washington in 1924. After enlisting
after high school, Wayne served in
George S. Patton’s Third Army. Enter-
ing Active Duty in 1943, Wayne served
valiantly in England, France, Ger-
many, and was on his way to Japan,
but Japan surrendered before he ar-
rived there in 1945.
After the war, Wayne attended Or-
egon State University, and purchased a
pear and apple orchard in Oregon.
There he met the love of his life,
Wanda Johnson, and married her in
August of 1948. They have a daughter,
Teresa Rae Lash, and a son, Kevin
Wayne Van Riper. Later he retired and
moved to McCall, Idaho.
On behalf of the people of Idaho and
America, I thank Wayne for his mili-
tary service and wish him all the best
on his 95th birthday.
f
SUPPORT DAVID BERNHARDT AS
SECRETARY OF THE INTERIOR
(Mr. BISHOP of Utah asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute.)
Mr. BISHOP of Utah. Mr. Speaker,
the Obama administration’s notori-
ously rocky relationship with Con-
gress, and even his own party, meant
that he had to resort to overregula-
tions to get stuff done. His pen and a
phone approach resulted in consider-
able executive branch overreach.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today to support a
nominee for Secretary of the Interior
who is the exact opposite. David Bern-
hardt is a lawyer who understands ex-
actly what powers and authorities his
department is granted under the law
and will never overstep those authori-
ties.
During the shutdown, for example, he
expertly used the authorities under
FLREA—whatever those initials rep-
resent—to keep many of America’s
parks open, even as other agencies
were closed for business. It is this kind
of thinking—putting Americans and
those who visit public lands first dur-
ing tough times—that makes David a
talented public servant. He will be an
incredible Secretary of the Interior,
and I urge the Senate to speedily con-
firm him.
f
CONTINUATION OF THE NATIONAL
EMERGENCY WITH RESPECT TO
SOMALIA—MESSAGE FROM THE
PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED
STATES (H. DOC. NO. 116–27)
The SPEAKER pro tempore laid be-
fore the House the following message
from the President of the United
States; which was read and, together
with the accompanying papers, referred
to the Committee on Foreign Affairs
and ordered to be printed:
To the Congress of the United States:
Section 202(d) of the National Emer-
gencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1622(d)) provides
for the automatic termination of a na-
tional emergency unless, within 90
days before the anniversary date of its
declaration, the President publishes in
the Federal Register and transmits to
the Congress a notice stating that the
emergency is to continue in effect be-
yond the anniversary date. In accord-
ance with this provision, I have sent to
the Federal Register for publication the
enclosed notice stating that the na-
tional emergency declared in Executive
Order 13536 of April 12, 2010, with re-
spect to Somalia is to continue in ef-
fect beyond April 12, 2019.
The United States is strongly com-
mitted to Somalia’s stabilization, and
it is important to maintain sanctions
against persons undermining its sta-
bility. The situation with respect to
Somalia continues to pose an unusual
and extraordinary threat to the na-
tional security and foreign policy of
the United States. Therefore, I have de-
termined that it is necessary to con-
tinue the national emergency declared
in Executive Order 13536 with respect
to Somalia.
DONALD J. TRUMP.
THE WHITE HOUSE, April 10, 2019.
f
NET NEUTRALITY
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under
the Speaker’s announced policy of Jan-
uary 3, 2019, the gentleman from Texas
(Mr. GOHMERT) is recognized for 60 min-
utes as the designee of the minority
leader.
Mr. GOHMERT. Mr. Speaker, I yield
to the gentleman from North Carolina
(Mr. HOLDING).
CONGRATULATING STEVEN KANDARIAN
Mr. HOLDING. Mr. Speaker, I thank
the gentleman from Texas for yielding.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize
and congratulate Steven Kandarian on
his retirement from MetLife after serv-
ing as chairman of the board, presi-
dent, and chief executive officer for the
last 8 years.
After Steve Kandarian earned his un-
dergraduate degree from Clark Univer-
sity, his JD from Georgetown Univer-
sity, and his MBA from Harvard Busi-
ness School, he began his career as an
investment banker before founding and
serving as managing partner of Orion
Partners, a private equity firm based
in Boston.
Mr. Speaker, between 2001 and 2004,
Mr. Kandarian was executive director
of the Pension Benefit Guaranty Cor-
poration, the PBGC. During his time at
the PBGC, he made the case for com-
prehensive reform of the pension fund-
ing rules to put the defined benefit sys-
tem and the PBGC on a sound financial
footing. His efforts helped lay the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:51 Apr 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00021 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K10AP7.050 H10APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3244 April 10, 2019
groundwork for the enactment of the
Pension Protection Act of 2006.
In 2005, Kandarian joined MetLife as
executive vice president and chief in-
vestment officer. And from 2007 to 2012,
he led MetLife’s enterprise-wide strat-
egy.
Under Mr. Kandarian’s leadership
during this time, MetLife identified
the housing bubble early and reduced
its exposure to the 2008 financial crisis.
His efforts helped MetLife emerge from
the credit crisis with the financial
strength to complete the company’s
$16.4 billion purchase of Alico from
AIG. This cemented the company’s po-
sition as a leading U.S.-based global
life insurer.
When Mr. Kandarian became Presi-
dent and CEO of MetLife in 2011, and
later chairman of the board of direc-
tors in 2012, his leadership saw the
company expand into North Carolina,
my home State. And, in fact, MetLife
expanded and became a leading com-
pany in my part of North Carolina be-
cause of Mr. Kandarian’s efforts. With
its growing presence in Cary, North
Carolina, MetLife now employs many
of my constituents at their Global
Technology and Operations hub. In
fact, over 2,000 North Carolinians go to
work every day in MetLife in Cary,
North Carolina.
And MetLife also has had a long his-
tory of giving back to the community
in North Carolina. Since they began
hiring in Cary in 2013, employees have
contributed thousands of volunteer
hours to local service projects like
Habitat for Humanity. And the MetLife
Foundation has made grants exceeding
$2 million to support a number of com-
munity programs, like those that serve
disabled veterans, as well as serving
emerging innovations with local tech-
nology engineers. None of that would
have been possible without Steve
Kandarian’s leadership at MetLife.
Mr. Kandarian has also been a leader
in the policy realm, championing tax
reform that resisted the status quo and
in pursuing financial services regula-
tion that targeted risky activities
rather than entities. His successful
challenge of MetLife’s designation as a
systemically important financial insti-
tution was emblematic of the worth-
while quest to find the right regulatory
balance, not regulation at any cost.
Mr. Speaker, I congratulate Mr.
Kandarian on his long and successful
career, and I wish him and his family
well in his retirement from MetLife.
Mr. GOHMERT. Mr. Speaker, I appre-
ciate my friend from North Carolina’s
words.
Today, we voted on a bill referred to
as net neutrality. It is a position that
was taken up by the Federal Commu-
nications Commission back during the
Obama administration. It was quite in-
teresting. During the Obama adminis-
tration, President Obama had said he
would not allow the FCC to take over
control of the internet, and then appar-
ently was convinced otherwise and
eventually made clear to the FCC they
would take over control of the inter-
net.
I know the bill is referred to as net
neutrality, but it is anything but neu-
tral. It is government control of the
internet. And, yes, I realize that the
internet has produced some billionaires
who are tremendous contributors to
the Democratic Party, but, to me and
to my colleagues on the Republican
side of the aisle, it is more an issue of
independence of this incredible inven-
tion of the internet. If it creates more
billionaires that happen to become
Democrats, so be it. But let’s leave the
internet free.
Net neutrality does not leave it free.
It is government controlled. And that
is what the new chairman, Chairman
Pai, undid. He said: We are backing off.
This is an executive position taken by
the executive branch during the Obama
administration and we are now, as an
executive branch, taking our hands off
of the internet so that people are free
to become billionaires, but we are not
going to pick and choose winners,
which means the government chooses
losers, as well.
There was a good article by James
Gattuso on March 11, 2019. He said:
‘‘Just over 1 year ago, the Federal
Communications Commission voted 3–2
to repeal the network neutrality rules
it adopted in 2015.’’
That is such a misnomer, net neu-
trality.
‘‘However, the FCC regulation could
make a comeback if House Democrats
have their way.
‘‘Lawmakers in the House and Senate
introduced legislation Thursday to re-
store the rule.’’
That is from last week.
‘‘Sponsored by Senator Ed Markey, a
Democrat from Massachusetts, and
Representative Mike Doyle, a Demo-
crat from Pennsylvania, the 3-page bill
makes no attempt to modify or im-
prove the 2015 rule. It simply declares
that the 2017 order repealing net neu-
trality ‘shall have no force or effect.’
‘‘Formally titled the ‘Open Internet
Order,’ the FCC imposed the rule 4
years ago under its Democratic chair-
man, Tom Wheeler. But the political
battle over net neutrality has gone on
close to 17 years.
‘‘A Columbia University law pro-
fessor, Tim Wu, coined the term ‘net
neutrality’ in 2002. Wu argued that be-
cause internet service providers such
as Comcast and AT&T enjoy near-bot-
tleneck control over the traffic going
to web users, they should be prohibited
from favoring any web content over an-
other.
‘‘In other words, according to Wu,
internet service providers should be re-
quired to treat content providers neu-
trally.
‘‘But regulation can make problems
of its own. Today’s market for internet
access is not perfectly competitive, but
it is also clearly not a monopoly. Most
Americans have the ability to choose
from at least two service providers.’’
And this gets critical here. It says:
‘‘In addition, net neutrality would do
nothing to increase the number of com-
panies that compete in the market for
access. In fact, it could make it harder
for new entrants to compete effectively
with existing market leaders.
‘‘That’s because one of the best ways
to get a foothold in a market is to dif-
ferentiate your service.’’
It is called competition. This goes on
to say:
‘‘For instance, T-Mobile to differen-
tiate itself in its struggle to compete
with industry leaders AT&T and
Verizon, pioneered ‘zero rating’ pricing
plans that allow free access to content
from participating content providers
without incurring a charge against
your data cap.’’
b 1230
‘‘T-Mobile’s free-data option has
made wireless broadband available to
millions at affordable rates. Zero-rat-
ing, nevertheless, has been condemned
by many as a violation of net neu-
trality and could be banned, should
Congress restore the rule.’’
Now, that is what is so amazing
about this term, ‘‘net neutrality.’’ It
means the government could, and prob-
ably would, say to somebody like T-
Mobile—and I don’t have their service.
I don’t have a dog in that fight. But
they could say to an entity like T-Mo-
bile: Look, we are not going to let you
have a no-charge access to data
through your plan, through your wire-
less plan. No, that won’t work. You
have to charge something.
If this net neutrality—so-called,
which, when you hear ‘‘net neutrality,’’
it ought to mean, in your mind, gov-
ernment-controlled, because it is actu-
ally antithetical to what it says it is.
It is government-controlled.
But that would say to somebody who
is trying to break into the market,
they would say: Okay. We would give
you free access, no cost, no data cap, so
that we could get into the market, de-
velop customers. They would be loyal
to us.
No, the government wants net neu-
trality/government control to be back
in place. They can say: You can’t do
that. We are not going to let you be-
come competitive with the two compa-
nies that control the lion’s share of the
internet.
The government shouldn’t be in that
business. Let it be competitive.
It just seems every time the govern-
ment gets its hands on something that
has been as productive as the internet,
it chokes it; it overwhelms it with reg-
ulation. That has been one of the beau-
ties of the internet.
So, as this article says: ‘‘Net neu-
trality’’—government-controlled—‘‘is
not needed to save the internet but, in
fact, could jeopardize it.
‘‘The FCC was right to reject the net
neutrality’’—or government-con-
trolled—‘‘rules completely. Congress
should do the same.’’
Even though it has passed the House,
13 Democrats voted with the Repub-
licans, who said: Look, let’s at least
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:17 Apr 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00022 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K10AP7.052 H10APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3245
April 10, 2019
add a provision to this bill that forbids
the government from taxing, just com-
pletely forbids it, so you can’t tax the
internet. For internet service, you’re
not going to tax internet service.
And so that was bipartisan. We had 13
Democrats vote with us. We don’t want
to tax the internet service.
But, unfortunately, it was narrowly
defeated by a majority, being all
Democrats voted to allow the potential
to tax the internet.
So that ought to tell you, basically,
what you need to know about net neu-
trality. It is going to be a way, number
one, for government control and, num-
ber two, to eventually get around to
providing revenue—that means taxes—
on what has not been taxed so far.
GREG WALDEN, who is managing this
bill, had a good article. He said: ‘‘Net
neutrality is a bipartisan issue in Con-
gress. Despite the overheated rhetoric
and the political talking points, Demo-
crats actually agree with me and my
Republican colleagues on the key net
neutrality parameters that protect a
free and open internet for consumers.
‘‘Democrats agree with Republicans
that internet traffic should not be
blocked. There is bipartisan support for
prohibiting the blocking of illegal con-
tent on the internet.
‘‘Democrats agree with Republicans
that internet service providers should
not be allowed to impair or degrade
lawful internet traffic on the basis of
content’’—as long as it is legal—‘‘a
process known as throttling. There is
bipartisan support for prohibiting the
throttling of illegal content on the
internet.’’
But it goes on to say: ‘‘Democrats,
however, believe that net neutrality
can only be achieved by regulating the
internet as if it were a utility under
title II of the Communications Act,
which was originally used to govern
monopoly telephone companies in the
1930s. The ‘Save the Net Act,’ imposes
the heavy hand of Washington’s regu-
latory bureaucracy over the single
most important driver of economic
growth, job creation, and a better qual-
ity of life for all Americans. This will
do everything but save the internet.
‘‘ ‘Title II’ sounds inconsequential,
but layering this new national govern-
ance over the web’’—over the inter-
net—‘‘would give the Federal Commu-
nications Commission unbridled regu-
latory authority’’ over the internet.
‘‘The government would have the
power to tax the internet’’—because
most of the Democrats voted to allow
taxing the internet—and it would allow
them to ‘‘dictate where and when new
broadband networks can be deployed
and take over the management of pri-
vate networks.’’
In a rural district like his in eastern
Oregon, ‘‘title II inhibited the ability
of small internet service providers to
expand broadband to underserved com-
munities, saddling these small busi-
nesses with onerous reporting require-
ments that shifted their focus from
their customers to new, expensive reg-
ulatory interference. Nationwide, title
II had a chilling effect on internet in-
vestment, which declined for the first
time since the dawn of the internet
age, decreasing consumer choice and
increasing the digital divide.’’
As GREG WALDEN says: ‘‘Fortunately,
we do not need title II to achieve real
net neutrality. Republicans have put
forth serious proposals—a menu of op-
tions—that would keep the internet
open and free, so it can continue to be
a driver of opportunity for all.’’
But that means, since it just passed
the House, we are going to need to
count on the Senate not to take up
more government control of the inter-
net but, instead, to take up a bill that
does keep things fair instead of having
more government control and poten-
tially taxing the internet usage.
I shift to another topic, since Attor-
ney General Barr testified this week,
may be testifying again. It is inter-
esting, as more information comes roll-
ing out about the Muellergate.
This article from the Daily Caller,
from Chuck Ross, ‘‘Cambridge Aca-
demic Reflects on Interactions with
‘Spygate’ Figure.’’ Her name is
Svetlana Lokhova. She says she ‘‘did
not get along with Stefan Halper,
which is what she says made a dinner
invitation to the Cambridge University
professor’s home in January 2016 all
the more peculiar.
‘‘ ‘Halper was a lurking presence with
a horrible aura—I avoided him,’ said
Lokhova, a Cambridge postgraduate
student who studies Soviet-era espio-
nage.
‘‘Lokhova dodged the invitation to
Halper’s home, which she said was sent
to her by Christopher Andrew, a Cam-
bridge professor and official historian
for MI5, the British domestic intel-
ligence service. But the past 3 years
have revealed new details about Halper
and other activities that went on at
Cambridge that have caused Lokhova
to question why she was asked to that
dinner at Halper’s.
‘‘For one, a series of stories that ap-
peared in the press in early 2017 heavily
implied Lokhova was a Russian agent
who tried to suborn Michael Flynn at a
dinner hosted at Cambridge on Feb-
ruary 28, 2014. Flynn served at the time
as Director of the Defense Intelligence
Agency.
‘‘A year after those stories appeared,
The Daily Caller News Foundation re-
ported Halper cozied up to three Trump
campaign advisers: Carter Page, Sam
Clovis, and George Papadopoulos.’’
Isn’t that interesting? Those are the
ones—particularly Carter Page and
George Papadopoulos. Those are the
people that the Department of Justice
and FBI used to claim there were some
kind of ties to Russia when, now, we
are finding out it was Fusion GPS. It
was Bruce Ohr at the FBI, his wife Nel-
lie Ohr, working with Fusion GPS and
working with foreign agents, former
foreign agent, also, we know, from MI6.
But, apparently, they are working
with the British Government in trying
to create reasons that the FBI could go
before the Foreign Intelligence Sur-
veillance Court, FISA’s secret Star
Chamber, and get warrants to spy on
the Trump campaign.
It all started to come out. This is
somebody who is now described—or has
been, in the last 2 years: Oh, this was a
Russian agent. It turns out, she was
being manipulated by MI5 and by peo-
ple, as we will be finding out, with the
Justice Department, FBI, Clinton cam-
paign, to try to set up so that they
could go after the Trump campaign of-
ficials, spy on them, and potentially
bring down the Trump campaign as an
insurance policy just in case the un-
thinkable happened and Donald Trump
were elected President.
The article goes on: ‘‘A year after
those stories appeared,’’ as it says,
‘‘Halper cozied to three Trump cam-
paign advisers. . . . In May 2018, Halper
was revealed as a longtime CIA and
FBI informant, a revelation that led
President Donald Trump to accuse the
FBI of planting a spy in his campaign.
The Republican coined the term
‘Spygate’ to describe the alleged scan-
dal.
‘‘After Halper’s links to American in-
telligence were revealed, The New
York Times and The Washington Post
reported he and another Cambridge lu-
minary, former MI6 chief Richard
Dearlove, raised concerns about
Lokhova’s contacts with Flynn that
were subsequently passed to American
and British intelligence.’’
Far bigger than Watergate, because
Watergate concerned people hired by
the committee to reelect Richard
Nixon, when this involves the spies
owned, controlled, and former spies of
the British Government working in
collusion with the FBI, the Clinton
campaign, Fusion GPS.
It says: ‘‘Lokhova blames Halper for
distorting her brief interaction with
Flynn into, ‘an international espionage
scandal’ in which she wound up as col-
lateral damage.
‘‘What Halper staged is a textbook
‘black-op’ to dirty up the reputation of
a political opponent. He needed an in-
nocuous social event to place Flynn in
a room with a woman who was eth-
nically Russian’’—I was unlucky to be
picked.
‘‘Lokhova, a dual Russian and Brit-
ish citizen, has spoken out before about
Halper and the allegations about her in
the media. She accused Halper of mak-
ing ‘false’ and ‘absurd’ claims about
her in 2018 interviews with TheDCNF.
She has also taken to Twitter to criti-
cize the reporters who published allega-
tions about her and Flynn.’’
b 1245
‘‘The Guardian’s Luke Harding is one
target of Lokhova’s ire. She has criti-
cized the British reporter for a March
31, 2017, story that contained thinly
veiled allegations she tried to com-
promise Flynn.
‘‘According to the report, which was
based on anonymous sources, American
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:17 Apr 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00023 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K10AP7.054 H10APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3246 April 10, 2019
and British intelligence developed con-
cerns about Lokhova’s interactions
with Flynn at the February 2014 din-
ner, which was hosted by the Cam-
bridge Intelligence Seminar. Halper,
Dearlove, and Andrew are co-conveners
of the seminar, which hosts events for
current and former spies.’’
Halper, Dearlove, and Andrew, they
appear to be the ones who should have
been spied on, but, instead, they are
the ones being used by British intel-
ligence, working together with the
FBI, the Department of Justice, Fusion
GPS, Bruce Ohr, Nellie Ohr, and the
Clinton campaign, to come after Don-
ald Trump.
‘‘The Wall Street Journal also pub-
lished an innuendo-laden story March
18, 2017, about Flynn and Lokhova. The
hook for the story was that Flynn had
failed to report his contact with
Lokhova to the Defense Intelligence
Agency.
‘‘Lokhova, who has lived in the U.K.
since 1998, vehemently denies the in-
sinuations in the articles that she is a
Russian agent or that she tried to se-
duce Flynn. She has provided emails
and photographs to TheDCNF to help
back up her case. She also notes that
all of the allegations about her have
been made anonymously.
‘‘Dan O’Brien, a Defense Intelligence
Agency official who accompanied
Flynn to the Cambridge event, told
TheWSJ he saw nothing untoward in-
volving Lokhova. Lokhova’s partner,
David North, has told TheDCNF he
picked Lokhova up after the event.
‘‘Since learning more about Halper,
Lokhova has reflected back on the few
interactions she had with him over the
years at Cambridge.
‘‘A veteran of three Republican ad-
ministrations, Halper joined Cam-
bridge in 2001. From his perch at the
stories university, Halper wrote books
about American politics and the geo-
political threat that China poses to the
West. He also received over $1 million
in contracts from the Pentagon’s Office
of Net Assessment to write studies on
Russia, China, and Afghanistan.’’
It is interesting, as an aside, but
Adam Lovinger was working for the
Defense Department, and his job was to
look for improprieties within the De-
fense Department. He noticed these
million-dollar contracts going to Ste-
fan Halper and said: Wait a minute. We
are paying this guy $1 million? We are
not getting anything for it. What is
this about?
And for that, the Obama administra-
tion crushed Adam Lovinger. He was
an honest whistleblower. He wasn’t
even a whistleblower. He was doing his
job, which was to look for impropri-
eties. He found things that raised ques-
tions. He raised the questions about:
Why is Stefan Halper being paid all of
this money? We are not getting any-
thing from this guy that helped the
Pentagon. Why is he getting a million
bucks from the Pentagon?
Well, unfortunately, for Adam
Lovinger, he stepped on a land mine,
and the Obama administration set out
to get him fired and to destroy him for
noticing the impropriety—at least, it
appeared to be an impropriety; that is
why he brought it up—that involved
Stefan Halper that was used by the
Obama administration Justice Depart-
ment, FBI, Fusion GPS to help them
set up the Trump campaign.
‘‘Lokhova says she first remembers
seeing Halper in November 2013, when
she gave a talk about her research on
Soviet-era spy archives.’’
She said: ‘‘ ‘The guy looks at us like
we’re completely horrible people, and
then gets up and sits across the room.’
‘‘Lokhova also said she learned from
a Cambridge faculty member that
Halper was spreading rumors that she
was linked to Russian intelligence.’’
Anyway, it just shows how out-
rageous the conduct has been that we
are now beginning to find out about.
And, certainly, it was high time, after
2 years of finding nothing for which the
Mueller special counsel office was set
up, hiring people who hated Trump,
they couldn’t find anything. They
couldn’t find evidence that they could
take to a grand jury and get an indict-
ment.
And that is just probable cause. That
is not beyond a reasonable doubt stand-
ard.
And, certainly, because Mueller
couldn’t stand the man who—24 hours
before Mueller was offered the special
counsel job, he had been begging Presi-
dent Trump to make him the Director
of the FBI again. President Trump
turned him down. Twenty-four hours
later, he jumps at the chance, although
he certainly should have recused him-
self. He was conflicted in far too many
ways to be a special counsel on some-
thing involving Russia. He jumped at
the chance to investigate the guy who
refused to hire him.
Another article from Catherine
Herridge. And Catherine Herridge has
done extraordinary work looking into
these different issues.
She points out that: ‘‘Russian woman
claims she was manipulated into
entrapping General Flynn.’’
‘‘A Russian-born academic who was
at the center of attention in 2017 for
past contact with former National Se-
curity Adviser Michael Flynn told FOX
News in an exclusive interview that she
is not a spy for Moscow—and, to the
contrary, believes she was ‘used’ to
smear Flynn.’’
She said: ‘‘I think there’s a high
chance that it was coordinated, and I
believe it needs to be properly inves-
tigated.’’
So Catherine has done good work on
that.
And then an article from Jason Beale
from The Federalist, entitled: ‘‘How
Obama Holdover Sally Yates Helped
Sink Michael Flynn.’’
And of course, we know Sally Yates
was working as the Deputy Attorney
General, and she refused to defend con-
stitutional activity by the Trump ad-
ministration, so she was fired. Unfortu-
nately, there were people who were to-
tally devoted to Sally Yates, couldn’t
stand Trump, some of whom are still at
the Department of Justice under-
mining the Trump administration.
But this goes on to say, ‘‘ . . . Deputy
Attorney General Sally Yates made a
couple of urgent trips from the Depart-
ment of Justice building to the White
House, carrying information she be-
lieved to be critical to U.S. national se-
curity.
‘‘Yates was aware, likely through
intercepts of Russian Ambassador
Sergey Kislyak’s communications, that
the newly seated national security ad-
visor, retired Lieutenant General Mi-
chael Flynn, had discussed with
Kislyak Russia’s response to the
Obama administration imposition of
sanctions for Russia’s attempts to
meddle in the 2016 elections. According
to news reports, Flynn had asked
Kislyak to wait a few weeks and allow
the incoming Trump administration a
chance to review the issue before Rus-
sia retaliated. Flynn’s conversations
with Kislyak occurred on December 29,
the day Obama announced the sanc-
tions.
‘‘Recall that this period between the
election of Trump in early November
and his inauguration in late January
was characterized by a frenzy of ques-
tionable and as-yet unexplained ac-
tions taken by the Obama White
House, intelligence agencies, and the
State Department. The Steele dossier
was in circulation at various levels of
government and media officialdom;
Carter Page’s communications—and
those of anyone with whom he commu-
nicated, and anyone with whom they
communicated—were being monitored
by the Federal Bureau of Investigation
and National Security Agency.
‘‘The great unmasking had also
begun, with unprecedented numbers of
requests forwarded from various
Obama administration officials to the
NSA to reveal the identities of Amer-
ican citizens otherwise protected in
their reporting and transcribing of
intercepts of foreign official commu-
nications. Distribution regulations
were relaxed to allow wider access to
these NSA intercepts, and the word
went out throughout the halls of every
government agency to get everything
into the system, lest these barbarians
coming into office destroy evidence
and deny their roles as Russian agents.
‘‘It was inevitable, then, that David
Ignatius of The Washington Post would
publish a column on January 12 de-
scribing Flynn’s December 29 phone
calls with Kislyak, information he at-
tributed to ‘a senior U.S. Government
official.’ Ignatius’ column began thus-
ly:
‘‘ ‘Something is rotten in the state of
Denmark,’ mutters Marcellus as ghosts
and mad spirits haunt Elsinore castle
in the first act of Shakespeare’s ‘Ham-
let.’
‘‘After this past week of salacious
leaks about foreign espionage plots and
indignant denials, people must be won-
dering if something is rotten in the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:13 Apr 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00024 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K10AP7.056 H10APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3247
April 10, 2019
state of our democracy. How can we
dispel the dark rumors that, as Hamlet
says, ‘shake our disposition’?
‘‘The ‘senior U.S. Government offi-
cial’ who leaked both the name of a
U.S. citizen captured in an intercept of
a foreign government official’s commu-
nications, and the fact that the foreign
official was under NSA surveillance,
has not been identified. Nor has there
been any indication that a thorough in-
vestigation has been, or is being, car-
ried out in search of his or her iden-
tity.’’
It is a crime. What happened to
smear Flynn and the Trump campaign
involved crimes by senior DOJ offi-
cials. Perhaps it was Sally Yeats who
committed the crime, perhaps others,
but it needs to be investigated, and
there was no way in this world that
Robert Mueller was going to inves-
tigate anything to do with corruption
in the Obama administration.
There it was, all of these leaks that
were clear, most of them. Each of them
would have been a crime. There is plen-
ty of evidence there to support that.
But, instead, Special Counsel Robert
Mueller pursued things and got indict-
ments for things that made clear we
didn’t need a special counsel to do
what Bob Mueller was doing.
If you look back, there is nothing he
did, nothing he produced that could not
have been done without a special coun-
sel’s office. In fact, he ended up having
to pass some stuff off to the U.S. attor-
ney for the Southern District of New
York.
Even as badly compromised as Bob
Mueller was from even being special
counsel, he recognized he had gone be-
yond his limits, as broad as they were,
and needed to pass some of those
things off.
There is another article here from
Brooke Singman, ‘‘DOJ Watchdog Re-
portedly Scrutinizing Role of FBI In-
formant in the Russia Probe.’’
It talks about: ‘‘ . . . Inspector Gen-
eral Michael Horwitz is looking into in-
formant Stefan Halper’s work during
the Russia probe, as well as his work
with the FBI prior to the start of that
probe.’’
And the article goes on to talk about
Halper. I mean, he was used to try to
set up Michael Flynn. He was used to
try to set up Papadopoulos. He was
used to try to set up Sam Clovis.
That was the insurance policy that
Peter Strzok and Lisa Page texted, lov-
ingly, back and forth about, although,
to the ignorance of Peter Strzok’s wife.
Some people think, when I asked
Peter Strzok in our Judiciary Com-
mittee hearing about him having that
same smirk the hundreds of times he
lied to his wife, that that was inappro-
priate; it violated the rules.
Well, the rules in our committees are
extremely relaxed compared to rules in
a jury trial of which I have had many
as a litigant and as a judge. I know the
rules.
b 1300
I know the rules, and I heard him in
his deposition talk about how he never
lies, he just always tells the truth. I
knew he was lying when he said basi-
cally that he remembered Frank
Rucker, the investigator for the intel-
ligence inspector general, coming over
and advising about something, but he
didn’t remember what it was about.
I guarantee you, he was lying when
he said that because Frank Rucker
went over—and it is now public. I knew
at the time, but it has now been made
public. It was China, and the intel-
ligence inspector general knew China
was getting every email going in and
out of Hillary Clinton’s private server.
Since Strzok and others apparently
had protected information about what
happened with her server, here comes
the intelligence inspector general’s in-
vestigator who discovered the fact that
her private server had been com-
promised. He rushes over with Janette
McMillan from the intelligence com-
munity. She was an attorney.
They briefed Dean Chappell, who was
the FBI liaison with intel, and the
FBI’s head of counterintelligence,
Peter Strzok, and he tells him: Look,
we now have proof positive Hillary
Clinton’s private server was hacked.
We found this anomaly in there.
As I dug in to figure out what this
thing is, it was an embedded placement
in the server that directed every email
coming in and every email going out of
Hillary Clinton’s private server, which
we also know contained classified in-
formation, and directed it to go to a
known front organization for the Chi-
nese Government.
Peter Strzok, after all the protection
he tried to afford Hillary Clinton, is
going to sit there and lie and say: Well,
I remember Frank Rucker coming over
and telling us something, but I don’t
really remember what it was.
He remembered very well what Frank
Rucker said. That was a lie. Since he
has said previously that he told the
truth, then any time he had ever told a
lie, it would have been admissible in
front of a jury. Even with the more re-
stricted rules of evidence, you could
have asked about every time he ever
lied. I just chose to make one blanket
question about the hundreds of times
he lied to his wife. He does not always
tell the truth. He is a liar, and he lied
there under oath.
That wasn’t the only thing. Yes,
David Ignatius participated as a recipi-
ent of criminal—of a crime, really—
sending him leaked information from
either the Justice Department, FBI, or
NSA. Any one of them that submitted
information to him committed a crime.
We need to know who it was. We need
to know how deep and how far these
crimes committed by our people who
are supposed to be investigating
crimes, not committing them, how far
this goes.
Now that Mueller will be out of the
picture, I think we have a chance to
get those things determined. As long as
he was there, then these folks were
protected. But now that he is finished
wasting America’s money and time, we
can start getting down to investigating
the real crimes that occurred.
I want to finish. I got a copy of a
wonderful book, really interesting,
called ‘‘Dark Agenda’’ by David Horo-
witz. I was in his presence once, and I
introduced him as—he was a former so-
cialist. David Horowitz turned 80 this
year. He said: No, I was a communist.
I was a complete communist. I was one
of those rebelling in the sixties. I was
part of the riots and all those things.
He came to understand that com-
munism doesn’t work. It never has. So-
cialism doesn’t work. Margaret
Thatcher said that the reason it
doesn’t work is that, eventually, you
run out of other people’s money.
I would submit that the answer I got
at a Russian—well, Ukrainian—collec-
tive farm back in the seventies. I said:
Why aren’t you out working in the
field? It is midmorning.
The farmer says: I make the same
number of rubles if I am out there in
the sun as I do in the shade, so I stay
in the shade.
Those who are crazy enough to work
while others are getting paid the same
as them eventually quit working, and
the whole system falls. It always does.
It sounds wonderful, share and share
alike. Isn’t that socialism and com-
munism? Isn’t that wonderful? Share
and share alike.
A Christian ought to be in favor of
that, except it requires in this world a
totalitarian government strong enough
and powerful enough to take from
those who earn and give to those who
don’t and strong enough to suppress
anybody who objects.
Eventually, it falls. It can’t work. It
never will work. It never has worked.
But David Horowitz deals with an-
other subject here in ‘‘Dark Agenda,’’
and I think it is worth hearing his
words themselves.
The first chapter is named ‘‘Religion
Must Die.’’
He starts: ‘‘On Sunday morning, No-
vember 5, 2017, a gunman walked into
the First Baptist Church in Sutherland
Springs, Texas. He wore tactical gear
and a black face mask marked with a
white skull, and he carried a semiauto-
matic rifle. He shot and killed two peo-
ple outside the church, then went in-
side, walking up and down the aisle,
cursing and shooting people in the
pews. He reloaded again and again,
emptying 15 magazines of ammunition.
‘‘When the gunman emerged from the
church, he found an armed citizen fac-
ing him from across the street, a
former NRA firearms instructor named
Stephen Willeford. The two men ex-
changed fire, and Willeford hit the gun-
man in the leg and upper body. The
wounded shooter limped to his car and
sped away. He was later found at the
wheel of his crashed car, killed by a
self-inflicted gunshot to the head.
‘‘The attack killed 26 people, ages 5
to 72, and wounded 20. The killer had
been court-martialed in the Air Force
for domestic violence. He had beaten
his wife and cracked the skull of his in-
fant stepson. The Air Force failed to
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:17 Apr 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00025 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K10AP7.057 H10APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3248 April 10, 2019
report his conviction to the FBI’s
crime information database.’’
Parenthetically, we didn’t need new
laws. We just needed for people to obey
the laws we had. The Air Force vio-
lated the law, and this guy got his gun
as a result. The Air Force failed to
obey the law and report this to the
FBI’s crime information database. He
got a gun and did destruction.
Horowitz said: ‘‘The slaughter of un-
armed Christians in a church sanc-
tuary was a cowardly attack on one
church. But what happened after the
church shooting was part of a wider
war by the political left against Chris-
tians and Christianity.
‘‘As news of the shooting broke,
prominent Christians took to Twitter
and urged fellow believers to pray.
Speaker of the House Paul Ryan, a de-
vout Roman Catholic, tweeted, ‘Re-
ports out of Texas are devastating. The
people of Sutherland Springs need our
prayers right now.’
‘‘From Hollywood to New York and
Washington, the left responded with a
chorus of jeers and insults. Former
MSNBC political commentator Keith
Olbermann suggested in a tweet that
Speaker Ryan should proctologize him-
self with his prayers.
‘‘Seattle Democrat Representative
PRAMILA JAYAPAL tweeted, ‘They were
praying when it happened. They don’t
need our prayers. They need us to ad-
dress gun violence.’ Comedian Paula
Poundstone sneered, ‘If prayers were
the answer’ to mass shootings,
‘wouldn’t people at a church service be
safe?’ Actor Wil Wheaton tweeted, ‘The
murdered victims were in a church. If
prayers did anything, they would still
be alive, you worthless sack of. . . . ’
‘‘These and other comments from the
secular left displayed not only a smug
disdain for Christians but an amazing
ignorance of how religious Christians
view prayer.’’
Mr. Speaker, keep in mind that
David Horowitz has been an atheist—he
is Jewish—and he is writing this book.
Amazing.
‘‘Christians don’t view prayer as a
magic incantation to make themselves
bulletproof. Christians believe in the
teachings of Christ who warned them:
‘In the world ye shall have tribulation.’
In the Garden of Gethsemane, Christ
prayed to be delivered from the agony
of the cross, but He ended His prayer,
‘Nevertheless not my will, but Thine,
be done.’ The answer to Christ’s prayer
was silence, and He was later crucified
on a Roman cross.
‘‘In her commentary on the church
shooting, MSNBC host Joy-Ann Reid
tweeted that ‘when Jesus of Nazareth
came upon thousands of hungry peo-
ple,’ He didn’t pray. He fed the people.’’
Horowitz said: ‘‘She is simply wrong.
Matthew 14:19 records that, before
Jesus fed the people, He looked heaven-
ward and prayed. Jesus prayed and He
acted. That is how His followers still
view prayer. They pray and they act.
‘‘At around the same time Joy-Ann
Reid was tweeting, the Billy Graham
Rapid Response Team was already in
action, rolling into Sutherland Springs
with 16 chaplains to comfort grieving
families and help meet their material
needs. Two days after the shooting, the
Southern Baptist Convention an-
nounced it would pay all funeral ex-
penses for the 26 slain churchgoers.
‘‘Because this is a world made by
flawed human beings, it will continue
to be a world of tribulations. There will
be more shootings, attacks, fires,
floods, earthquakes, and other trage-
dies. Christians will call for prayer,
and leftists will mock them for it,
imagining there are solutions that can
perfect this life and regarding Chris-
tians as the enemies of that perfection.
‘‘Since its birth in the fires of the
French Revolution, the political left
has been at war with religion and with
the Christian religion in particular.’’
Again, Mr. Speaker, this is really in-
teresting coming from an atheist Jew-
ish individual.
Horowitz said: ‘‘In a symbolic revolu-
tionary act, the Jacobin leaders of the
French Revolution changed the name
of the Cathedral of Notre Dame to the
‘Temple of Reason.’ Then, in the name
of ‘reason,’ they proceeded to massacre
the inhabitants of the Vendee region of
west-central France because its citi-
zens were Catholics.
‘‘This has been called the first mod-
ern genocide, but it was far from the
last. Karl Marx famously described re-
ligion as ‘the opium of the people’ and
‘the sigh of the oppressed.’ Inspired by
his hatred ever since, revolutionaries
have regarded religion as the enemy of
progress and the mask of oppression.
‘‘In Russia, Marx’s disciples removed
religious teaching from the schools,
outlawed criticism of atheists and ag-
nostics, and burned 100,000 churches.
When priests demanded freedom of reli-
gion, they were sentenced to death. Be-
tween 1917 and 1935, 130,000 Russian Or-
thodox priests were arrested, 95,000 of
whom were executed by firing squad.
‘‘Radicals in America today don’t
have the political power to execute re-
ligious people and destroy their houses
of worship. Yet they openly declare
their desire to obliterate religion. In
their own minds, their intentions are
noble. They want to save the human
race from the social injustice and op-
pression that religion allegedly inflicts
on humanity.
‘‘’Religion must die in order for man-
kind to live,’ proclaimed left-wing
commentator and comedian Bill Maher
in ‘Religulous,’ the most-watched docu-
mentary feature of 2008. Both title and
script were transparent attempts to
stigmatize religious people as dan-
gerous morons whose views could not
be taken seriously.
‘‘Throughout the film, Maher travels
to Jerusalem, the Vatican, and Salt
Lake City, as well as other centers of
religion, interviewing believers and
making them appear foolish. How did
he gain interviews with his victims? He
lied to them, saying he was making a
film called ‘A Spiritual Journey.’
‘‘According to Maher, ‘The irony of
religion is that because of its power to
divert man to destructive courses, the
world could actually come to an end.’
He predicts the destruction of the
human race as a result of ‘religion-in-
spired nuclear terrorism.’ Hence the
need for religion to die if mankind is to
live.
‘‘Maher’s views accurately reflect the
attitudes of a movement called the
‘New Atheism,’ whose leaders are
prominent scientists and best-selling
authors, far superior in intellect to
Maher but equally contemptuous of re-
ligion and religious believers.’’
b 1315
‘‘Like Maher’s film, the New Atheism
movement seeks to discredit all reli-
gious belief by caricaturing its adher-
ents as simpletons, and worse. The
stated goal of the New Atheism is to
delegitimize and extinguish the reli-
gious point of view.
‘‘Maher’s suggestion that religion—
and evidently religion alone—threatens
the existence of the human race is sim-
ply malicious. Both he and the New
Atheists are blind to all the positive
influences religion has had on human
behavior, and they ignore all the athe-
ist-inspired genocides of the last 250
years. In the 20th century alone, Com-
munist atheists slaughtered more than
100 million people in Russia, China, and
Indochina. Not even the bloodthirsty
jihadists of radical Islam have killed
innocents on anything close to such a
scale.
‘‘It’s striking that Maher and the
New Atheists ignore the appalling body
count of Marxism—an ideology that is
explicitly atheistic, whose atrocities
were committed in the name of social
justice. According to Maher, it is reli-
gious people who are ‘irrationalists,’
and dangerous because they ‘steer the
ship of state not by a compass, but by
the equivalent of reading the entrails
of a chicken.’ Yet civilization was built
and improved by such irrationalists—
believers like Locke, Newton, Wash-
ington, Wilberforce, Sojourner Truth,
and Abraham Lincoln. For the five mil-
lennia of recorded history, with few ex-
ceptions the most rational, compas-
sionate, and successful decision-mak-
ers, both military and civilian, have
been people guided by a belief in God,
including some whose spiritual com-
pass took the form of reading the en-
trails of a chicken.’’
That is David Horowitz’ sense of
humor.
‘‘Near the end of Maher’s rant, he
pauses to address any religionist who
may have unwittingly strayed into the
cinema where ‘Religulous’ was playing:
‘Look in the mirror and realize that
the solace and comfort that religion
brings you actually comes at a terrible
price. If you belonged to a political
party or a social club that was tied to
as much bigotry, misogyny,
homophobia, violence, and sheer igno-
rance as religion is, you’d resign in
protest.’’’
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:17 Apr 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00026 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K10AP7.058 H10APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3249
April 10, 2019
Horowitz says: ‘‘How myopic. And
the crimes and horrors committed by
atheism? From the French Revolution
to the Bolshevik, from the Vendee to
Vietnam, the bigotries and atrocities
committed by the forces of godlessness
match and even outweigh those com-
mitted by the forces of godliness. If a
history of violence, persecution, and
murder serves to discredit an ideology,
why hasn’t Maher resigned in protest
from the party of atheism?’’
I appreciate those brilliant, insight-
ful observations by an atheist Jew, who
is a friend. Amazing from a man who is
an overt, unapologetic, rebellious com-
munist, to now having written a good
account of the war to destroy Christian
America.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
f
APPOINTMENT OF MEMBERS TO
BE AVAILABLE TO SERVE ON IN-
VESTIGATIVE SUBCOMMITTEES
OF THE COMMITTEE ON ETHICS
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair announces the Speaker’s ap-
pointment, pursuant to clause 5(a)4(A)
of rule X, and the order of the House of
January 3, 2019, of the following Mem-
bers of the House to be available to
serve on investigative subcommittees
of the Committee on Ethics for the
116th Congress:
Ms. BONAMICI, Oregon
Mr. HIGGINS, New York
Mr. KEATING, Massachusetts
Mr. KRISHNAMOORTHI, Illinois
Mr. PERLMUTTER, Colorado
Mr. RASKIN, Maryland
Ms. SEWELL, Alabama
Mr. SOTO, Florida
Ms. TITUS, Nevada
f
COMMUNICATION FROM THE
REPUBLICAN LEADER
The SPEAKER pro tempore laid be-
fore the House the following commu-
nication from the Honorable KEVIN
MCCARTHY, Republican Leader:
CONGRESS OF THE UNITED STATES,
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
Washington, DC, April 9, 2019.
Hon. NANCY PELOSI,
Speaker of the House,
Washington, DC.
DEAR MADAM SPEAKER: Pursuant to Clause
5(a)(4)(A) of rule X, I am pleased to appoint
the following Republican Members of the
House to be available to serve on investiga-
tive subcommittees of the Committee on
Ethics for the 116th Congress:
The Honorable BILL FLORES of Texas.
The Honorable JOHN W. ROSE of Tennessee.
The Honorable PETE OLSON of Texas.
The Honorable ANN WAGNER of Missouri.
The Honorable JOHN KATKO of New York.
The Honorable BEN CLINE of Virginia.
The Honorable BILL HUIZENGA of Michigan.
The Honorable DAVID ROUZER of North
Carolina.
The Honorable JOHN H. RUTHERFORD of
Florida.
The Honorable VICKY HARTZLER of Mis-
souri.
Thank you for your attention to this mat-
ter.
Sincerely,
KEVIN MCCARTHY,
Republican Leader.
f
ENROLLED BILLS SIGNED
Cheryl L. Johnson, Clerk of the
House, reported and found truly en-
rolled bills of the House of the fol-
lowing titles, which were thereupon
signed by the Speaker:
H.R. 1839. An act to amend title XIX to ex-
tend protection for Medicaid recipients of
home and community-based services against
spousal impoverishment, establish a State
Medicaid option to provide coordinated care
to children with complex medical conditions
through health homes, prevent the
misclassification of drugs for purposes of the
Medicaid drug rebate program, and for other
purposes.
H.R. 2030. An act to direct the Secretary of
the Interior to execute and carry out agree-
ments concerning Colorado River Drought
Contingency Management and Operations,
and for other purposes.
f
ADJOURNMENT
Mr. GOHMERT. Mr. Speaker, I move
that the House do now adjourn.
The motion was agreed to; accord-
ingly (at 1 o’clock and 20 minutes
p.m.), under its previous order, the
House adjourned until Friday, April 12,
2019, at 2:30 p.m.
h
EXPENDITURE REPORTS CONCERNING OFFICIAL FOREIGN TRAVEL
Reports concerning the foreign currencies and U.S. dollars utilized for Official Foreign Travel during the fourth quar-
ter of 2018 and the first quarter of 2019, pursuant to Public Law 95–384, are as follows:
REPORT OF EXPENDITURES FOR OFFICIAL FOREIGN TRAVEL, DANIEL SADLOSKY, EXPENDED BETWEEN FEB. 16 AND FEB. 22, 2019
Name of Member or employee
Date
Country
Per diem 1 Transportation Other purposes Total
Arrival Departure
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Daniel Sadlosky ....................................................... 2/18 2/20 United Arab Emirates ........................... .................... 1,111.89 .................... *11,858.39 .................... .................... .................... ....................
2/20 2/22 Saudi Arabia ......................................... .................... 957.32 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 13,927.60
Committee total ......................................... ............. ................. ............................................................... .................... 2,069.21 .................... 11,858.39 .................... .................... .................... 13,927.60
1 Per diem constitutes lodging and meals.
2 If foreign currency is used, enter U.S. dollar equivalent; if U.S. currency is used, enter amount expended.
*Total air.
MR. DANIEL SADLOSKY, March 25, 2019.
REPORT OF EXPENDITURES FOR OFFICIAL FOREIGN TRAVEL, COMMITTEE ON FOREIGN AFFAIRS, HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, EXPENDED BETWEEN OCT. 1 AND DEC. 31, 2018
Name of Member or employee
Date
Country
Per diem 1 Transportation Other purposes Total
Arrival Departure
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar equiva-
lent or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar equiva-
lent or U.S.
currency 2
Hon. John Curtis ........................................... 10/1 10/2 Germany ....................................... .................... 292.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 292.00
10/2 10/4 Rwanda ........................................ .................... 578.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 578.00
10/4 10/7 Botswana ..................................... .................... 693.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 693.00
10/7 10/8 Angola .......................................... .................... 480.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 480.00
10/8 10/9 Tunisia ......................................... .................... 179.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 179.00
10/9 10/10 Portugal ....................................... .................... 322.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 322.00
Matthew Zweig ............................................. 10/21 10/23 United Kingdom ........................... .................... 925.18 .................... 4,234.04 .................... .................... .................... 5,159.22
10/23 10/26 Israel ............................................ .................... 1,460.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,460.00
10/26 10/29 Bahrain ........................................ .................... 900.53 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 900.53
Mira Resnick ................................................. 10/25 10/29 Bahrain ........................................ .................... 1,697.89 .................... 2,969.43 .................... .................... .................... 4,667.32
Janice Kaguyutan ......................................... 10/20 10/23 Japan ........................................... .................... 1,362.00 .................... 7,241.11 .................... .................... .................... 8,603.11
10/23 10/26 South Korea ................................. .................... 992.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 992.00
Amy Porter .................................................... 10/20 10/23 Japan ........................................... .................... 1,378.31 .................... 6,220.86 .................... .................... .................... 7,599.17
10/23 10/26 South Korea ................................. .................... 1,002.32 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,002.32
Douglas Anderson ......................................... 10/20 10/23 Japan ........................................... .................... 1,362.31 .................... 6,220.86 .................... .................... .................... 7,583.17
10/23 10/26 South Korea ................................. .................... 985.52 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 985.52
Megan Gallagher .......................................... 11/5 11/10 Niger ............................................ .................... 688.21 .................... 6,771.14 .................... .................... .................... 7,459.35
Mark Iozzi ..................................................... 11/5 11/10 Niger ............................................ .................... 688.21 .................... 6,771.14 .................... .................... .................... 7,459.35
Kimberly Stanton .......................................... 11/21 11/24 Switzerland .................................. .................... 1,325.17 .................... 1,034.88 .................... .................... .................... 2,360.05
Hon. Norma Torres ........................................ 10/22 10/24 Guatemala ................................... .................... .............................. .................... 1,120.63 .................... .................... .................... 1,120.63
Eric Jacobstein ............................................. 10/22 10/24 Guatemala ................................... .................... .............................. .................... 531.63 .................... .................... .................... 531.63
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:51 Apr 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00027 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 8634 E:\CR\FM\K10AP7.060 H10APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3250 April 10, 2019
REPORT OF EXPENDITURES FOR OFFICIAL FOREIGN TRAVEL, COMMITTEE ON FOREIGN AFFAIRS, HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, EXPENDED BETWEEN OCT. 1 AND DEC. 31, 2018—
Continued
Name of Member or employee
Date
Country
Per diem 1 Transportation Other purposes Total
Arrival Departure
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar equiva-
lent or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar equiva-
lent or U.S.
currency 2
Sajit Gandhi ................................................. 10/21 10/24 India ............................................ .................... 986.85 .................... 9,417.90 .................... .................... .................... 10,404.75
10/24 10/25 Afghanistan ................................. .................... 33.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 33.00
Oren Adaki .................................................... 11/2 11/4 Serbia .......................................... .................... 537.00 .................... 3,515.73 .................... .................... .................... 4,052.73
11/4 11/6 Czech Republic ............................ .................... 883.42 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 883.42
*Hon. Ted Poe .............................................. 11/2 11/4 Serbia .......................................... .................... 537.00 .................... *6,803.13 .................... 959.00 .................... 8,299.13
11/4 11/6 Czech Republic ............................ .................... 883.42 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 883.42
Leah Campos ................................................ 11/30 12/2 Mexico .......................................... .................... 723.90 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 723.90
Hon. Ileana Ros-Lehtinen ............................. 10/18 10/21 Jordan .......................................... .................... 1,065.05 .................... 9,602.44 .................... .................... .................... 10,667.49
10/21 10/24 Israel ............................................ .................... 1,630.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,630.00
10/24 10/27 Morocco ........................................ .................... 870.29 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 870.29
10/27 10/28 Spain ........................................... .................... 233.52 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 233.52
Nathan Gately ............................................... 10/18 10/21 Jordan .......................................... .................... 1,065.05 .................... 12,099.74 .................... .................... .................... 13,164.79
10/21 10/24 Israel ............................................ .................... 1,630.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,630.00
10/24 10/27 Morocco ........................................ .................... 870.29 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 870.29
10/27 10/28 Spain ........................................... .................... 233.52 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 233.52
Gabriella Boffelli .......................................... 10/18 10/21 Jordan .......................................... .................... 1,065.05 .................... 12,099.74 .................... .................... .................... 13,164.79
10/21 10/24 Israel ............................................ .................... 1,630.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,630.00
10/24 10/27 Morocco ........................................ .................... 870.29 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 870.29
10/27 10/28 Spain ........................................... .................... 233.52 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 233.52
Hon. Norma Torres ........................................ 9/29 9/30 Honduras ..................................... .................... 226.43 .................... 1,558.49 .................... .................... .................... 1,784.92
9/30 10/2 Guatem ........................................ .................... 357.83 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 357.83
**Hon. Tom Garrett ...................................... 10/12 10/20 Moldova ....................................... .................... ** .................... ** .................... ** .................... **
10/12 10/20 Ukraine ........................................ .................... ** .................... ** .................... ** .................... **
10/12 10/20 Belarus ........................................ .................... ** .................... ** .................... ** .................... **
10/12 10/20 Latvia ........................................... .................... ** .................... ** .................... ** .................... **
Russell Solomon ........................................... 10/27 10/30 Egypt ............................................ .................... 819.00 .................... 2,900.73 .................... .................... .................... 3,719.73
10/30 11/2 Tunisia ......................................... .................... 547.52 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 547.52
Emily Cottle .................................................. 10/27 10/30 Egypt ............................................ .................... 745.00 .................... 2,970.63 .................... .................... .................... 3,715.63
10/30 11/2 Tunisia ......................................... .................... 497.52 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 497.52
Cory Fritz ...................................................... 10/21 10/27 South Africa ................................. .................... 1,475.95 .................... 13,180.43 .................... .................... .................... 14,656.38
Thomas Sheehy ............................................. 10/21 10/27 South Africa ................................. .................... 1,475.95 .................... 13,180.43 .................... .................... .................... 14,656.38
*Hon. Edward Royce ..................................... 10/21 10/27 South Africa ................................. .................... 1,475.95 .................... *13,406.73 .................... 2,290.52 .................... 17,173.20
***Hon. Lee Zeldin ...................................... 12/21 12/27 Poland .......................................... .................... *** .................... *** .................... 883.27 .................... 883.27
12/25 12/26 Kuwait .......................................... .................... 213.00 .................... (3) .................... 1,643.00 .................... 1,856.00
12/26 12/27 Sicily ............................................ .................... 252.41 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 252.41
12/27 12/28 Spain ........................................... .................... 132.75 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 132.75
Hon. Brian Fitzpatrick .................................. 12/25 12/26 Kuwait .......................................... .................... 213.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 213.00
12/26 12/27 Sicily ............................................ .................... 227.98 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 227.98
12/27 12/28 Spain ........................................... .................... 132.75 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 132.75
Committee total .............................. ............. ................. ...................................................... .................... 42,085.86 .................... 143,851.84 .................... 5,775.79 .................... 191,713.49
1 Per diem constitutes lodging and meals.
2 If foreign currency is used, enter U.S. dollar equivalent; if U.S. currency is used, enter amount expended.
3 Military air transportation.
* Indicates Delegation costs.
** Indicates a cancelled mission.
*** Indicates Delegation costs due to a cancelled mission.
HON. ELIOT L. ENGEL, March 20, 2019.
REPORT OF EXPENDITURES FOR OFFICIAL FOREIGN TRAVEL, DELEGATION TO BELGIUM, EXPENDED BETWEEN FEB. 16 AND FEB. 21, 2019
Name of Member or employee
Date
Country
Per diem 1 Transportation Other purposes Total
Arrival Departure
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Hon. Michael Turner ................................................ 2/16 2/21 Belgium ................................................ .................... 1,474.59 .................... 1,739.83 .................... .................... .................... 3,214.42
Hon. Filemon Vela ................................................... 2/18 2/20 Belgium ................................................ .................... 1,338.59 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,338.59
Hon. Gerald Connolly ............................................... 2/16 2/21 Belgium ................................................ .................... 1,474.59 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,474.59
Hon. Joe Wilson ....................................................... 2/16 2/21 Belgium ................................................ .................... 1,429.05 .................... 1,053.80 .................... .................... .................... 2,482.85
Kate Knudson .......................................................... 2/16 2/21 Belgium ................................................ .................... 1,474.59 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,474.59
Collin Davenport ...................................................... 2/16 2/21 Belgium ................................................ .................... 1,610.59 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,610.59
Edmund Rice ........................................................... 2/16 2/21 Belgium ................................................ .................... 1,610.59 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,610.59
Hon. Brett Guthrie ................................................... 2/16 2/21 Belgium ................................................ .................... 1,610.59 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,610.59
Hon. James Costa .................................................... 2/16 2/20 Belgium ................................................ .................... 1,224.97 .................... 4,472.72 .................... .................... .................... 5,697.69
Hon. John Shimkus .................................................. 2/16 2/21 Belgium ................................................ .................... 1,610.59 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,610.59
Hon. Rick Larsen ..................................................... 2/16 2/21 Belgium ................................................ .................... 1,610.59 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,610.59
Committee total ......................................... ............. ................. ............................................................... .................... 16,469.33 .................... 7,266.35 .................... .................... .................... 23,735.68
1 Per diem constitutes lodging and meals.
2 If foreign currency is used, enter U.S. dollar equivalent; if U.S. currency is used, enter amount expended.
HON. GERALD E. CONNOLLY, March 25, 2019.
h
EXECUTIVE COMMUNICATIONS,
ETC.
Under clause 2 of rule XIV, executive
communications were taken from the
Speaker’s table and referred as follows:
680. A letter from the Acting Secretary,
Department of Defense, transmitting a letter
on the approved retirement of General Curtis
M. Scaparrotti, United States Army, and his
advancement to the grade of general on the
retired list, pursuant to 10 U.S.C. 1370(c)(1);
Public Law 96-513, Sec. 112 (as amended by
Public Law 104-106, Sec. 502(b)); (110 Stat.
293); to the Committee on Armed Services.
681. A letter from the Under Secretary,
Army, Department of Defense, transmitting
the Annual Report to Congress on the Ac-
tivities of the Western Hemisphere Institute
for Security Cooperation for 2018, pursuant
to 10 U.S.C. 343(i); Public Law 106-398, Sec. 1
(as amended by Public Law 107-314, Sec.
932(a)(1)); (116 Stat. 2625); to the Committee
on Armed Services.
682. A letter from the Chairman, Federal
Financial Institutions Examination Council,
transmitting the Council’s 2018 Annual Re-
port to Congress, pursuant to 12 U.S.C. 3305;
to the Committee on Financial Services.
683. A letter from the Chairman, National
Credit Union Administration, transmitting
the Administration’s 2018 Annual Report,
pursuant to 12 U.S.C. 1752a(d); June 26, 1934,
ch. 750, title I, Sec. 102(d) (as amended by
Public Law 95-630, Sec. 501); (92 Stat. 3680); to
the Committee on Financial Services.
684. A letter from the Assistant Secretary,
Bureau of Legislative Affairs, Department of
State, transmitting the Department’s Fleet
Alternative Fuel Vehicle (AFV) Program Re-
port for FY 2018, pursuant to 42 U.S.C.
13218(b)(1); Public Law 102-486, Sec. 310 (as
amended by Public Law 109-58, Sec. 705); (119
Stat. 817); to the Committee on Energy and
Commerce.
685. A letter from the Assistant Secretary,
Bureau of Legislative Affairs, Department of
Defense, transmitting Transmittal No.
DDTC 17-078, pursuant to the reporting re-
quirements of Section 36(c) of the Arms Ex-
port Control Act, as amended, pursuant to 22
U.S.C. 2776(c)(2)(A); Public Law 90-629, Sec.
36(c) (as added by Public Law 104-164, Sec.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:17 Apr 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00028 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A10AP7.022 H10APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3251
April 10, 2019
141(c)); (110 Stat. 1431); to the Committee on
Foreign Affairs.
686. A letter from the Assistant Secretary,
Bureau of Legislative Affairs, Department of
State, transmitting the Department’s An-
nual Report of Interdiction of Aircraft En-
gaged in Illicit Drug Trafficking, pursuant to
22 U.S.C. 2291-4(a)(2); Public Law 103-337, Sec.
1012(a)(2); (108 Stat. 2837); to the Committee
on Foreign Affairs.
687. A letter from the Assistant Secretary,
Bureau of Legislative Affairs, Department of
State, transmitting Transmittal No. DDTC
18-053, pursuant to the reporting require-
ments of Section 36(c) of the Arms Export
Control Act, pursuant to 22 U.S.C.
2776(c)(2)(C); Public Law 90-629, Sec. 36(c) (as
added by Public Law 94-329, Sec. 211(a)); (82
Stat. 1326); to the Committee on Foreign Af-
fairs.
688. A letter from the Assistant Secretary,
Bureau of Legislative Affairs, Department of
State, transmitting Transmittal No. DDTC
18-001, pursuant to the reporting require-
ments of Section 36(c) of the Arms Export
Control Act, as amended, pursuant to 22
U.S.C. 2776(c)(2)(A); Public Law 90-629, Sec.
36(c) (as added by Public Law 104-164, Sec.
141(c)); (110 Stat. 1431); to the Committee on
Foreign Affairs.
689. A letter from the Assistant Secretary,
Bureau of Legislative Affairs, Department of
State, transmitting Transmittal No. DDTC
18-081, pursuant to the reporting require-
ments of Section 36(c) of the Arms Export
Control Act, as amended, pursuant to 22
U.S.C. 2776(c)(2)(A); Public Law 90-629, Sec.
36(c) (as added by Public Law 104-164, Sec.
141(c)); (110 Stat. 1431); to the Committee on
Foreign Affairs.
690. A letter from the Assistant Secretary,
Bureau of Legislative Affairs, Department of
State, transmitting Transmittal No. DDTC
18-057, pursuant to the reporting require-
ments of Section 36(c) of the Arms Export
Control Act, as amended, pursuant to 22
U.S.C. 2776(c)(2)(A); Public Law 90-629, Sec.
36(c) (as added by Public Law 104-164, Sec.
141(c)); (110 Stat. 1431); to the Committee on
Foreign Affairs.
691. A letter from the Assistant Secretary,
Bureau of Legislative Affairs, Department of
State, transmitting Transmittal No. DDTC
18-101, pursuant to the reporting require-
ments of Section 36(c) and (d) of the Arms
Export Control Act, pursuant to 22 U.S.C.
2776(c)(2)(A); Public Law 90-629, Sec. 36(c) (as
added by Public Law 104-164, Sec. 141(c)); (110
Stat. 1431); to the Committee on Foreign Af-
fairs.
692. A letter from the Assistant Secretary,
Bureau of Legislative Affairs, Department of
State, transmitting a Report to Congress on
the International Atomic Energy Agency’s
Programs and Projects in Burma, Cuba, Iran,
North Korea, and Syria in 2018, pursuant to
22 U.S.C. 2021 note; Public Law 105-277, Sec.
2809(c)(2); (112 Stat. 2681-850); to the Com-
mittee on Foreign Affairs.
693. A letter from the Director, Defense Se-
curity Cooperation Agency, Department of
Defense, transmitting Transmittal No. 19-27,
pursuant to the reporting requirements of
Section 36(b)(1) of the Arms Export Control
Act, as amended; to the Committee on For-
eign Affairs.
694. A letter from the Secretary, Depart-
ment of Commerce, transmitting a letter
pursuant to the resolution of advice and con-
sent to ratification of the Convention on the
Prohibition of the Development, Production,
Stockpiling and Use of Chemical Weapons
and on Their Destruction (Convention); to
the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
695. A letter from the Director, Defense Se-
curity Cooperation Agency, Department of
Defense, transmitting Transmittal No. 19-04,
pursuant to the reporting requirements of
Section 36(b)(1) of the Arms Export Control
Act, as amended; to the Committee on For-
eign Affairs.
696. A letter from the Director, Depart-
ment of Defense, Defense Security Coopera-
tion Agency, transmitting Transmittal No.
19-15, pursuant to the reporting requirements
of Section 36(b)(1) of the Arms Export Con-
trol Act, as amended; to the Committee on
Foreign Affairs.
697. A letter from the Assistant Secretary,
Bureau of Legislative Affairs, Department of
State, transmitting Transmittal No. DDTC
18-087, pursuant to Section 36(c) of the Arms
Export Control Act; to the Committee on
Foreign Affairs.
698. A letter from the Assistant Secretary,
Bureau of Legislative Affairs, Department of
State, transmitting a Determination pursu-
ant to Sec. 451 of the Foreign Assistance Act
of 1961 for the use of funds to support South
Sudan; to the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
699. A letter from the Chief Executive Offi-
cer and Chief Operating Officer, Armed
Forces Retirement Home, Department of De-
fense, transmitting the Armed Forces Re-
tirement Home Performance and Account-
ability Report and Senior Medical Advisor
Report for fiscal year 2018, pursuant to 24
U.S.C. 411(h); Public Law 101-510, Sec. 1511 (as
added by Public Law 107-107, Sec. 1403); (115
Stat. 1259); to the Committee on Oversight
and Reform.
700. A letter from the Director, Office of
Diversity and Inclusion, Board of Governors
of the Federal Reserve System, transmitting
the Board’s FY 2018 No FEAR Act report,
pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 2301 note; Public Law
107-174, 203(a) (as amended by Public Law 109-
435, Sec. 604(f)); (120 Stat. 3242); to the Com-
mittee on Oversight and Reform.
701. A letter from the Assistant Secretary
for Legislative Affairs, Department of Home-
land Security, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s FY 2018 Federal Information Security
Modernization Act and Agency Privacy Man-
agement Report, pursuant to Public Law 113-
283, 44 U.S.C. 3554(c); to the Committee on
Oversight and Reform.
702. A letter from the Chief Financial Offi-
cer, Department of Homeland Security,
transmitting the Department’s Annual Per-
formance Report for Fiscal Years 2018-2020,
pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 1115(b); Public Law 111-
352, Sec. 3; (124 Stat. 3867); to the Committee
on Oversight and Reform.
703. A letter from the Assistant Secretary
for Congressional and Intergovernmental Re-
lations, Department of Housing and Urban
Development, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s FY 2020 Annual Performance Plan
and FY 2018 Annual Performance Report,
pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 1115(b); Public Law 111-
352, Sec. 3; (124 Stat. 3867); to the Committee
on Oversight and Reform.
704. A letter from the Presidential Ap-
pointments, Department of State, transmit-
ting sixteen (16) notifications of a vacancy,
designation of acting officer, nomination, ac-
tion on nomination, or discontinuation of
service in acting role, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
3349(a); Public Law 105-277, 151(b); (112 Stat.
2681-614); to the Committee on Oversight and
Reform.
705. A letter from the Secretary, Railroad
Retirement Board, transmitting the Board’s
FY 2018 No FEAR Act report, pursuant to 5
U.S.C. 2301 note; Public Law 107-174, 203(a)
(as amended by Public Law 109-435, Sec.
604(f)); (120 Stat. 3242); to the Committee on
Oversight and Reform.
706. A letter from the Assistant Attorney
General, Office of Legislative Affairs, De-
partment of Justice, transmitting the Attor-
ney General’s First Quarterly Report of FY
2019 on the Uniformed Services Employment
and Reemployment Rights Act of 1994, pursu-
ant to 38 U.S.C. 4332(b)(2); Public Law 103-353,
Sec. 2(a) (as added by Public Law 110-389,
Sec. 312(c)); (122 Stat. 4165); jointly to the
Committees on the Judiciary and Veterans’
Affairs.
f
PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS
Under clause 2 of rule XII, public
bills and resolutions of the following
titles were introduced and severally re-
ferred, as follows:
By Mr. PAPPAS (for himself, Mr.
DELGADO, Mr. FITZPATRICK, and Ms.
KUSTER of New Hampshire):
H.R. 2195. A bill to require the Secretary of
Veterans Affairs to establish and maintain a
registry for certain individuals who may
have been exposed to per- and
polyfluoroalkyl substances due to the envi-
ronmental release of aqueous film-forming
foam on military installations; to the Com-
mittee on Veterans’ Affairs, and in addition
to the Committee on Armed Services, for a
period to be subsequently determined by the
Speaker, in each case for consideration of
such provisions as fall within the jurisdic-
tion of the committee concerned.
By Mr. BARR (for himself, Mr. LEVIN of
California, and Mr. DAVID P. ROE of
Tennessee):
H.R. 2196. A bill to amend title 38, United
States Code, to reduce the credit hour re-
quirement for the Edith Nourse Rogers
STEM Scholarship program of the Depart-
ment of Veterans Affairs; to the Committee
on Veterans’ Affairs.
By Mr. DEFAZIO (for himself, Ms.
TITUS, Mr. GRAVES of Missouri, and
Mr. MEADOWS):
H.R. 2197. A bill to amend the John F. Ken-
nedy Center Act to authorize appropriations
for the John F. Kennedy Center for the Per-
forming Arts, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Transportation and Infra-
structure.
By Mr. DEFAZIO:
H.R. 2198. A bill to amend the Natural Gas
Act with respect to application of the right
to exercise eminent domain in construction
of pipelines for the exportation of natural
gas, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Energy and Commerce.
By Mr. CARBAJAL (for himself, Ms.
BROWNLEY of California, Mr. PA-
NETTA, Ms. JUDY CHU of California,
Mr. HUFFMAN, and Ms. HILL of Cali-
fornia):
H.R. 2199. A bill to designate certain Fed-
eral land in the State of California as wilder-
ness, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Natural Resources.
By Mr. WESTERMAN (for himself, Mr.
CUNNINGHAM, Mr. BRENDAN F. BOYLE
of Pennsylvania, Mr. THOMPSON of
California, Ms. KUSTER of New Hamp-
shire, Mr. FITZPATRICK, Mr. TIPTON,
and Ms. STEFANIK):
H.R. 2200. A bill to amend title 38, United
States Code, to ensure that certain diseases
are covered by the presumption of service
connection relating to the exposure to herbi-
cides by certain veterans who served in the
Republic of Vietnam, and for other purposes;
to the Committee on Veterans’ Affairs.
By Mr. WESTERMAN (for himself, Mr.
TIPTON, Mr. CUNNINGHAM, Mr.
MCCLINTOCK, Mr. PANETTA, Mr.
GIANFORTE, Mr. PERLMUTTER, Mr.
GALLAGHER, Ms. SPEIER, Mr.
FITZPATRICK, Mr. KILMER, Mr. JOHN-
SON of Georgia, Ms. VELÁZQUEZ, Ms.
BLUNT ROCHESTER, Mr. HILL of Ar-
kansas, Mrs. DEMINGS, Mr. DEUTCH,
and Mr. THOMPSON of California):
H.R. 2201. A bill to modify the presumption
of service connection for veterans who were
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:17 Apr 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00029 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\L10AP7.000 H10APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3252 April 10, 2019
exposed to herbicide agents while serving in
the Armed Forces in Thailand during the
Vietnam era, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Veterans’ Affairs.
By Mr. LIPINSKI (for himself and Mr.
REED):
H.R. 2202. A bill to establish a coordinated
Federal initiative to accelerate artificial in-
telligence research and development for the
economic and national security of the United
States, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Science, Space, and Technology.
By Ms. ESCOBAR (for herself, Mr. CAS-
TRO of Texas, Mr. ESPAILLAT, and Ms.
GARCIA of Texas):
H.R. 2203. A bill to increase transparency,
accountability, and community engagement
within the Department of Homeland Secu-
rity, provide independent oversight of border
security activities, improve training for
agents and officers of U.S. Customs and Bor-
der Protection and U.S. Immigration and
Customs Enforcement, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Homeland Secu-
rity, and in addition to the Committees on
the Judiciary, and Ways and Means, for a pe-
riod to be subsequently determined by the
Speaker, in each case for consideration of
such provisions as fall within the jurisdic-
tion of the committee concerned.
By Mr. WALTZ (for himself and Mr.
DIAZ-BALART):
H.R. 2204. A bill to prohibit contracting
with persons that have business operations
with the Maduro regime, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Oversight and
Reform.
By Mr. MCKINLEY (for himself, Mr.
GIANFORTE, Mr. GIBBS, Mr. LAMALFA,
Ms. CHENEY, Mr. STAUBER, and Mr.
KEVIN HERN of Oklahoma):
H.R. 2205. A bill to amend the Federal
Water Pollution Control Act to make
changes with respect to water quality cer-
tification, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Transportation and Infra-
structure.
By Mr. STANTON (for himself and Mr.
GALLEGO):
H.R. 2206. A bill to direct the Secretary of
the Army, acting through the Chief of Engi-
neers, to establish a program to provide en-
vironmental assistance to non-Federal inter-
ests in Arizona; to the Committee on Trans-
portation and Infrastructure.
By Mr. KIND (for himself, Mr. ABRA-
HAM, Mr. ADERHOLT, Mr. AGUILAR,
Mr. ALLEN, Mr. AMASH, Mr. AMODEI,
Mr. ARMSTRONG, Mr. ARRINGTON, Mr.
BABIN, Mr. BACON, Mr. BAIRD, Mr.
BALDERSON, Mr. BANKS, Mr. BARR,
Ms. BARRAGÁN, Mr. BERA, Mr.
BERGMAN, Mr. BIGGS, Mr. BILIRAKIS,
Mr. BISHOP of Utah, Mr. BOST, Mr.
BRENDAN F. BOYLE of Pennsylvania,
Mr. BRINDISI, Mrs. BROOKS of Indiana,
Mr. BROOKS of Alabama, Ms.
BROWNLEY of California, Mr.
BUCHANAN, Mr. BUCK, Mr. BUCSHON,
Mr. BUDD, Mr. BURCHETT, Mr. BUR-
GESS, Mrs. BUSTOS, Mr. BYRNE, Mr.
CALVERT, Mr. CÁRDENAS, Mr. CARTER
of Georgia, Mr. CHABOT, Ms. CHENEY,
Mr. CLINE, Mr. CLOUD, Mr. COLE, Mr.
COLLINS of New York, Mr. COLLINS of
Georgia, Mr. COMER, Mr. CONAWAY,
Mr. COOK, Mr. CORREA, Mr. COX of
California, Mrs. CRAIG, Mr.
CRAWFORD, Mr. CRENSHAW, Mr. CRIST,
Mr. CURTIS, Mr. DAVIDSON of Ohio,
Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois, Ms.
DEAN, Ms. DELBENE, Mr. DESJARLAIS,
Mr. DIAZ-BALART, Mr. DUFFY, Mr.
DUNCAN, Mr. DUNN, Mr. EMMER, Mr.
ESTES, Mr. FERGUSON, Mr.
FITZPATRICK, Mr. FLEISCHMANN, Mr.
FLORES, Mr. FORTENBERRY, Ms. FOXX
of North Carolina, Mr. GAETZ, Mr.
GALLAGHER, Mr. GIANFORTE, Mr.
GIBBS, Mr. GOHMERT, Mr. GONZALEZ
of Ohio, Mr. GONZALEZ of Texas, Mr.
GOODEN, Mr. GOSAR, Mr. GOTTHEIMER,
Mr. GRAVES of Louisiana, Mr. GRAVES
of Missouri, Mr. GREEN of Tennessee,
Mr. GRIFFITH, Mr. GROTHMAN, Mr.
GUEST, Mr. HAGEDORN, Mrs.
HARTZLER, Mr. KEVIN HERN of Okla-
homa, Ms. HERRERA BEUTLER, Mr.
HICE of Georgia, Mr. HIGGINS of Lou-
isiana, Mr. HILL of Arkansas, Mr.
HOLDING, Mr. HOLLINGSWORTH, Ms.
HOULAHAN, Mr. HUDSON, Mr. HUNTER,
Mr. HURD of Texas, Mr. HUIZENGA,
Mr. JOHNSON of Ohio, Mr. JOHNSON of
Louisiana, Mr. JOHNSON of South Da-
kota, Mr. JORDAN, Mr. JOYCE of Ohio,
Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania, Mr.
KATKO, Mr. KELLY of Pennsylvania,
Mr. KELLY of Mississippi, Mr.
KHANNA, Mr. KILMER, Mr. KING of
New York, Mr. KING of Iowa, Mr.
KINZINGER, Mr. KRISHNAMOORTHI, Ms.
KUSTER of New Hampshire, Mr.
KUSTOFF of Tennessee, Mr. LAHOOD,
Mr. LAMALFA, Mr. LAMBORN, Mr.
LATTA, Mrs. LEE of Nevada, Mrs.
LESKO, Mr. TED LIEU of California,
Mr. LONG, Mr. LOUDERMILK, Mr.
LUETKEMEYER, Mr. LYNCH, Mr. SEAN
PATRICK MALONEY of New York, Mr.
MARCHANT, Mr. MARSHALL, Mr.
MASSIE, Mr. MAST, Mr. MCADAMS,
Mrs. MCBATH, Mr. MCCAUL, Mr.
MCCLINTOCK, Mr. MCHENRY, Mr.
MCKINLEY, Mrs. RODGERS of Wash-
ington, Mr. MEADOWS, Mr. MEUSER,
Mrs. MILLER, Mr. MITCHELL, Mr.
MOONEY of West Virginia, Mr.
MOULTON, Mr. MULLIN, Mr.
NEWHOUSE, Mr. NORMAN, Mr. NUNES,
Mr. O’HALLERAN, Mr. OLSON, Mr.
PALAZZO, Mr. PALMER, Mr. PAPPAS,
Mr. PENCE, Mr. PERRY, Mr. PETERS,
Mr. PETERSON, Mr. PHILLIPS, Ms.
PORTER, Mr. POSEY, Mr. RATCLIFFE,
Mr. REED, Mr. RESCHENTHALER, Miss
RICE of New York, Mr. RIGGLEMAN,
Mrs. ROBY, Mr. DAVID P. ROE of Ten-
nessee, Mr. ROGERS of Kentucky, Mr.
ROGERS of Alabama, Mr. ROUDA, Mr.
ROUZER, Mr. RUIZ, Mr. RUTHERFORD,
Mr. SCALISE, Mr. SCHNEIDER, Ms.
SCHRIER, Mr. SCHWEIKERT, Mr. AUS-
TIN SCOTT of Georgia, Mr. SENSEN-
BRENNER, Ms. SEWELL of Alabama,
Mr. SHIMKUS, Mr. SIMPSON, Mr. SMITH
of Missouri, Mr. SMITH of New Jersey,
Mr. SMITH of Nebraska, Mr. SMUCKER,
Ms. SPEIER, Mr. STAUBER, Ms.
STEFANIK, Mr. STEIL, Mr. STEUBE, Mr.
STEWART, Mr. STIVERS, Mr. SUOZZI,
Mr. SWALWELL of California, Mr.
TAYLOR, Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsyl-
vania, Mr. THORNBERRY, Mr. TIPTON,
Mrs. TORRES of California, Mr. TUR-
NER, Mr. UPTON, Mr. VAN DREW, Mr.
VEASEY, Mrs. WAGNER, Mr. WALBERG,
Mr. WALDEN, Mr. WALKER, Mrs.
WALORSKI, Mr. WATKINS, Mr. WEBER
of Texas, Mr. WEBSTER of Florida,
Mr. WENSTRUP, Mr. WESTERMAN, Mr.
WILLIAMS, Mr. WILSON of South Caro-
lina, Mr. WITTMAN, Mr. WRIGHT, Mr.
YOHO, Mr. YOUNG, Mr. ZELDIN, Mr.
GUTHRIE, and Mr. MOOLENAAR):
H.R. 2207. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to repeal the excise tax on
medical devices; to the Committee on Ways
and Means.
By Mr. GARAMENDI:
H.R. 2208. A bill to improve the safety of
the air supply on commercial aircraft, and
for other purposes; to the Committee on
Transportation and Infrastructure.
By Mr. MEADOWS:
H.R. 2209. A bill to establish the position of
Chief Pharmaceutical Negotiator in the Of-
fice of the United States Trade Representa-
tive responsible for conducting trade nego-
tiations and enforcing trade agreements re-
lated to acts, policies, and practices of for-
eign governments that fail to appropriately
reward United States innovation with re-
spect to pharmaceuticals, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
By Mr. LARSON of Connecticut (for
himself, Mr. MARCHANT, Mr. BLU-
MENAUER, Mr. DANNY K. DAVIS of Illi-
nois, Mr. HOLDING, Mr. HORSFORD,
Mr. KIND, Mr. LAHOOD, Mr. PAS-
CRELL, Mr. SUOZZI, and Mrs.
WALORSKI):
H.R. 2210. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to repeal certain provisions
applicable to foreign investment in United
States real property; to the Committee on
Ways and Means.
By Ms. SCHAKOWSKY (for herself, Mr.
MCNERNEY, Mr. SOTO, and Mr. RUSH):
H.R. 2211. A bill to require the Consumer
Product Safety Commission to promulgate a
consumer product safety rule for free-stand-
ing clothing storage units to protect chil-
dren from tip-over related death or injury,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Energy and Commerce.
By Mr. CARTWRIGHT (for himself and
Mr. HIGGINS of New York):
H.R. 2212. A bill to amend title 28, United
States Code, to protect the right of a claim-
ant in a civil action before a Federal court to
retain a structured settlement broker to ne-
gotiate the terms of payment of an award,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
the Judiciary.
By Mr. THOMPSON of California (for
himself, Mr. REED, Mr. PASCRELL, Mr.
RICE of South Carolina, and Mr.
SUOZZI):
H.R. 2213. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to make the work oppor-
tunity credit permanent; to the Committee
on Ways and Means.
By Ms. JUDY CHU of California (for
herself, Mr. PALLONE, Ms. ESHOO, Ms.
CLARKE of New York, Mr. BLU-
MENAUER, Ms. STEVENS, Mrs. WATSON
COLEMAN, Mrs. NAPOLITANO, Miss
RICE of New York, Ms. VELÁZQUEZ,
Mr. KILDEE, Mr. DESAULNIER, Ms.
DELBENE, Mr. POCAN, Mr. EVANS,
Mrs. LAWRENCE, Ms. PRESSLEY, Mr.
LEVIN of Michigan, Mr. DAVID SCOTT
of Georgia, Mr. GRIJALVA, Mr. BROWN
of Maryland, Mr. NADLER, Ms. LOF-
GREN, Mr. CARSON of Indiana, Mr.
BEYER, Ms. OMAR, Mr. KHANNA, Ms.
JAYAPAL, Ms. TLAIB, Ms. NORTON, Ms.
SCHAKOWSKY, Mr. ROSE of New York,
Mr. ESPAILLAT, Mr. GOMEZ, Mrs. DIN-
GELL, Mr. RUSH, Mr. SMITH of Wash-
ington, Mr. CÁRDENAS, Ms. SHALALA,
Mr. CORREA, Ms. OCASIO-CORTEZ, Ms.
LEE of California, Mr. MALINOWSKI,
Ms. SPANBERGER, Mr. MCGOVERN, Mr.
COHEN, Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia, Mr.
RUPPERSBERGER, Ms. MENG, Mr.
TONKO, Mrs. TRAHAN, Mr. KENNEDY,
Mr. MOULTON, Ms. ADAMS, Mr. CUM-
MINGS, Mr. CONNOLLY, Ms. ROYBAL-
ALLARD, Mr. LEWIS, Mrs. KIRK-
PATRICK, Mr. SIRES, Ms. SLOTKIN, Mr.
GREEN of Texas, Ms. MCCOLLUM, and
Mr. DOGGETT):
H.R. 2214. A bill to transfer and limit Exec-
utive Branch authority to suspend or re-
strict the entry of a class of aliens; to the
Committee on the Judiciary, and in addition
to the Committees on Foreign Affairs, Home-
land Security, and Intelligence (Permanent
Select), for a period to be subsequently de-
termined by the Speaker, in each case for
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:17 Apr 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00030 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\L10AP7.100 H10APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3253
April 10, 2019
consideration of such provisions as fall with-
in the jurisdiction of the committee con-
cerned.
By Ms. JUDY CHU of California (for
herself, Mrs. NAPOLITANO, Mr. SCHIFF,
Mr. CÁRDENAS, Ms. HILL of Cali-
fornia, Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD, Ms.
SÁNCHEZ, Mr. CISNEROS, Ms.
BARRAGÁN, Mr. GOMEZ, Mr. TED LIEU
of California, Mr. CARBAJAL, and Mr.
HUFFMAN):
H.R. 2215. A bill to establish as a unit of
the National Park System the San Gabriel
National Recreation Area in the State of
California, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Natural Resources.
By Mr. BURCHETT (for himself, Mr.
DAVID P. ROE of Tennessee, and Mr.
DESJARLAIS):
H.R. 2216. A bill to direct the Secretary of
Health and Human Services to establish a
grant program for States that provide flexi-
bility in licensing for health care providers
who offer services on a volunteer basis; to
the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
By Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ (for
herself, Ms. OMAR, Ms. NORTON, Ms.
SCHAKOWSKY, Ms. JACKSON LEE, Mr.
BLUMENAUER, Ms. OCASIO-CORTEZ, Ms.
JAYAPAL, Ms. BARRAGÁN, Mr.
AGUILAR, Mr. CARSON of Indiana, Ms.
CLARKE of New York, Mr. COHEN, Ms.
DELAURO, Mr. HASTINGS, Mr. NADLER,
Mr. PRICE of North Carolina, Mr.
DEUTCH, Mr. SERRANO, Mr. SMITH of
Washington, Ms. WILSON of Florida,
Ms. FRANKEL, Ms. BASS, Mr. RUIZ,
Mr. DESAULNIER, Mrs. CAROLYN B.
MALONEY of New York, Ms. LOFGREN,
and Mr. PERLMUTTER):
H.R. 2217. A bill to reduce the ability of
U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement
to engage in inappropriate civil immigration
enforcement actions that harm unaccom-
panied alien children and to ensure the safe-
ty and welfare of unaccompanied alien chil-
dren; to the Committee on the Judiciary,
and in addition to the Committee on Appro-
priations, for a period to be subsequently de-
termined by the Speaker, in each case for
consideration of such provisions as fall with-
in the jurisdiction of the committee con-
cerned.
By Mrs. WALORSKI (for herself and
Ms. BROWNLEY of California):
H.R. 2218. A bill to require the Secretary of
Transportation to conduct research on and
implement certain safety measures and pro-
grams to prevent illegal passing of school
buses, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Transportation and Infrastruc-
ture, and in addition to the Committee on
Education and Labor, for a period to be sub-
sequently determined by the Speaker, in
each case for consideration of such provi-
sions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned.
By Mr. YOHO (for himself, Ms. TITUS,
Mr. COHEN, Mr. FITZPATRICK, Mr.
YOUNG, Mr. NORMAN, Mr. PRICE of
North Carolina, and Mr. MCGOVERN):
H.R. 2219. A bill to promote United States-
Mongolia trade by authorizing duty-free
treatment for certain imports from Mon-
golia, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Ways and Means.
By Mr. BABIN (for himself, Mr. JOHN-
SON of Louisiana, Mr. ABRAHAM, Mr.
GUEST, Mr. PALAZZO, Mr. BRADY, Mr.
CONAWAY, Mr. FLORES, Mr. WILLIAMS,
Mr. CARTER of Texas, and Mr. WEBER
of Texas):
H.R. 2220. A bill to amend the Intermodal
Surface Transportation Efficiency Act of
1991 with respect to high priority corridors
on the National Highway System, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Trans-
portation and Infrastructure.
By Mr. BILIRAKIS (for himself and Mr.
LEVIN of California):
H.R. 2221. A bill to amend title 38, United
States Code, to expand eligibility for the Ma-
rine Gunnery Sergeant John David Fry
Scholarship to children and spouses of cer-
tain deceased members of the Armed Forces,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Veterans’ Affairs.
By Mr. BRENDAN F. BOYLE of Penn-
sylvania (for himself, Mr.
FITZPATRICK, Mr. RUTHERFORD, Ms.
BONAMICI, and Mrs. DINGELL):
H.R. 2222. A bill to require a review of
women and lung cancer, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Energy and Com-
merce.
By Ms. BROWNLEY of California:
H.R. 2223. A bill to amend title 38, United
States Code, to make permanent certain pro-
grams that assist homeless veterans and
other veterans with special needs, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Vet-
erans’ Affairs.
By Ms. BROWNLEY of California:
H.R. 2224. A bill to amend title 38, United
States Code, to direct the Secretary of Labor
to prioritize the provision of services to
homeless veterans with dependent children
in carrying out homeless veterans reintegra-
tion programs, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Veterans’ Affairs.
By Ms. BROWNLEY of California:
H.R. 2225. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to provide a refundable
credit against tax for landlords of veterans
receiving rental assistance under the Vet-
erans Affairs Supported Housing program; to
the Committee on Ways and Means.
By Mr. BUCHANAN (for himself and
Mr. MOULTON):
H.R. 2226. A bill to impose sanctions with
respect to foreign traffickers of illicit
opioids, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Foreign Affairs, and in addition to
the Committees on Financial Services, Over-
sight and Reform, the Judiciary, Intelligence
(Permanent Select), Armed Services, and
Ways and Means, for a period to be subse-
quently determined by the Speaker, in each
case for consideration of such provisions as
fall within the jurisdiction of the committee
concerned.
By Mrs. BUSTOS (for herself, Mr.
WENSTRUP, Ms. BROWNLEY of Cali-
fornia, Miss GONZÁLEZ-COLÓN of
Puerto Rico, Mr. CROW, Mr. GOLDEN,
Mr. CISNEROS, and Mr. PAPPAS):
H.R. 2227. A bill to amend the
Servicemembers Civil Relief Act to author-
ize spouses of servicemembers who incur a
catastrophic injury or illness or die while in
military service to terminate leases of prem-
ises and motor vehicles, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Veterans’ Af-
fairs.
By Mr. BUTTERFIELD:
H.R. 2228. A bill to offer persistent poverty
counties and political subdivisions of such
counties the opportunity to have their rural
development loans restructured; to the Com-
mittee on Agriculture, and in addition to the
Committees on Financial Services, and En-
ergy and Commerce, for a period to be subse-
quently determined by the Speaker, in each
case for consideration of such provisions as
fall within the jurisdiction of the committee
concerned.
By Mr. CHABOT (for himself, Mr.
BRENDAN F. BOYLE of Pennsylvania,
Mr. WEBER of Texas, Mr. CONNOLLY,
Mr. LAMALFA, Mr. BEYER, Mr.
GRAVES of Louisiana, Mr. DEUTCH,
Mr. POSEY, Mr. LOWENTHAL, Mr.
JOHNSON of Ohio, Mr. MCGOVERN, Mr.
SCHWEIKERT, Mrs. DINGELL, Ms. JACK-
SON LEE, and Mr. SWALWELL of Cali-
fornia):
H.R. 2229. A bill to waive the passport fees
for first responders proceeding abroad to aid
a foreign country suffering from a natural
disaster; to the Committee on Foreign Af-
fairs.
By Mr. CISNEROS:
H.R. 2230. A bill to amend title 38, United
States Code, to authorize the Secretary of
Veterans Affairs to pay educational assist-
ance or subsistence allowances to certain in-
dividuals during school term, quarter, or se-
mester breaks, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Veterans’ Affairs.
By Ms. CLARKE of New York:
H.R. 2231. A bill to direct the Federal
Trade Commission to require entities that
use, store, or share personal information to
conduct automated decision system impact
assessments and data protection impact as-
sessments; to the Committee on Energy and
Commerce.
By Mr. CUMMINGS:
H.R. 2232. A bill to amend the Second
Chance Act of 2007 to require identification
for returning citizens, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. DANNY K. DAVIS of Illinois
(for himself and Mr. EVANS):
H.R. 2233. A bill to require that States re-
lease persons charged with a misdemeanor
on non-monetary conditions only prior to
court adjudication; to the Committee on the
Judiciary.
By Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois (for
himself, Mr. WALKER, and Mr.
LOUDERMILK):
H.R. 2234. A bill to increase funding for the
10-Year Pediatric Research Initiative Fund
by eliminating taxpayer financing of presi-
dential election campaigns; to the Com-
mittee on Ways and Means, and in addition
to the Committees on Energy and Com-
merce, and House Administration, for a pe-
riod to be subsequently determined by the
Speaker, in each case for consideration of
such provisions as fall within the jurisdic-
tion of the committee concerned.
By Ms. DEGETTE (for herself, Mr.
JOHNSON of Ohio, Mr. FLEISCHMANN,
Mr. LUJÁN, Ms. MATSUI, Mrs.
WALORSKI, Mr. WENSTRUP, Mr. YAR-
MUTH, Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois,
Mr. SMITH of New Jersey, Mrs. DIN-
GELL, and Mr. DESJARLAIS):
H.R. 2235. A bill to amend title XIX of the
Social Security Act to cover physician serv-
ices delivered by podiatric physicians to en-
sure access by Medicaid beneficiaries to ap-
propriate quality foot and ankle care, to
amend title XVIII of such Act to modify the
requirements for diabetic shoes to be in-
cluded under Medicare, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Energy and Com-
merce, and in addition to the Committee on
Ways and Means, for a period to be subse-
quently determined by the Speaker, in each
case for consideration of such provisions as
fall within the jurisdiction of the committee
concerned.
By Mrs. DINGELL (for herself, Mr.
MAST, Mr. CARTWRIGHT, Mr. LONG,
Mr. UPTON, and Mr. HUFFMAN):
H.R. 2236. A bill to improve the manage-
ment of forage fish; to the Committee on
Natural Resources.
By Mr. ESPAILLAT:
H.R. 2237. A bill to direct the Secretary of
Transportation to establish a bollard instal-
lation grant program, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Transportation
and Infrastructure.
By Mr. ESPAILLAT (for himself and
Mr. ROGERS of Kentucky):
H.R. 2238. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to extend certain tax bene-
fits related to empowerment zones; to the
Committee on Ways and Means.
By Ms. FRANKEL (for herself and Mr.
YOHO):
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:17 Apr 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00031 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\L10AP7.100 H10APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3254 April 10, 2019
H.R. 2239. A bill to amend the Tariff Act of
1930 to provide for a deferral of the payment
of a duty upon the sale of certain used ves-
sels, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Ways and Means.
By Mr. FULCHER (for himself, Mr. TIP-
TON, Mr. NORMAN, Mr. GOSAR, Mr.
MEADOWS, Mr. BROOKS of Alabama,
Mr. MASSIE, and Mr. POSEY):
H.R. 2240. A bill to end the practice of in-
cluding more than one subject in a single bill
by requiring that each bill enacted by Con-
gress be limited to only one subject, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on the Ju-
diciary.
By Miss GONZÁLEZ-COLÓN of Puerto
Rico:
H.R. 2241. A bill to amend title XIX of the
Social Security Act to treat Puerto Rico as
one of the 50 States for purposes of calcu-
lating the Federal medical assistance per-
centage under the Medicaid program; to the
Committee on Energy and Commerce.
By Miss GONZÁLEZ-COLÓN of Puerto
Rico:
H.R. 2242. A bill to amend the Robert T.
Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency As-
sistance Act to include certain services in
the definition of critical services, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Trans-
portation and Infrastructure.
By Miss GONZÁLEZ-COLÓN of Puerto
Rico (for herself, Ms. PLASKETT, Mrs.
RADEWAGEN, and Mr. SAN NICOLAS):
H.R. 2243. A bill to exempt health insur-
ance of residents of United States territories
from the annual fee on health insurance pro-
viders; to the Committee on Ways and
Means, and in addition to the Committee on
Energy and Commerce, for a period to be
subsequently determined by the Speaker, in
each case for consideration of such provi-
sions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned.
By Mr. GOSAR (for himself, Mr.
BROOKS of Alabama, Mr. RIGGLEMAN,
and Mr. STEUBE):
H.R. 2244. A bill to amend the Higher Edu-
cation Act of 1965 to require the disclosure of
agreements between institutions of higher
education and certain foreign sources, and
for other purposes; to the Committee on
Education and Labor.
By Mr. GRIJALVA (for himself, Mr.
BRENDAN F. BOYLE of Pennsylvania,
Mr. CARTWRIGHT, Mr. COHEN, Ms.
NORTON, Mr. TED LIEU of California,
Mr. LOWENTHAL, Mr. LYNCH, Mrs.
NAPOLITANO, and Mr. MOULTON):
H.R. 2245. A bill to amend the Endangered
Species Act of 1973 to prohibit import and ex-
port of any species listed or proposed to be
listed under such Act as a threatened species
or endangered species, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Natural Re-
sources, and in addition to the Committees
on Foreign Affairs, and Ways and Means, for
a period to be subsequently determined by
the Speaker, in each case for consideration
of such provisions as fall within the jurisdic-
tion of the committee concerned.
By Mr. GUEST:
H.R. 2246. A bill to designate the facility of
the United States Postal Service located at
201 West Cherokee Street in Brookhaven,
Mississippi, as the ‘‘Deputy Donald William
Durr, Corporal Zach Moak, and Patrolman
James White Memorial Post Office Build-
ing’’; to the Committee on Oversight and Re-
form.
By Mr. HECK (for himself and Mr. KIL-
MER):
H.R. 2247. A bill to amend the Federal
Water Pollution Control Act to provide as-
sistance for programs and activities to pro-
tect the water quality of Puget Sound, and
for other purposes; to the Committee on
Transportation and Infrastructure.
By Mr. HIGGINS of Louisiana:
H.R. 2248. A bill to terminate the prohibi-
tions on the exportation and importation of
natural gas, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Energy and Commerce, and in
addition to the Committee on Foreign Af-
fairs, for a period to be subsequently deter-
mined by the Speaker, in each case for con-
sideration of such provisions as fall within
the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
By Mr. HILL of Arkansas (for himself,
Mr. CLEAVER, Mr. GRAVES of Mis-
souri, and Ms. HOULAHAN):
H.R. 2249. A bill to require the review of
the service of certain members of the Armed
Forces during World War I to determine if
such members should be awarded the Medal
of Honor, to authorize the award of the
Medal of Honor based on the results of the
review, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Armed Services.
By Mr. HUFFMAN (for himself, Mr.
CARBAJAL, and Ms. JUDY CHU of Cali-
fornia):
H.R. 2250. A bill to provide for restoration,
economic development, recreation, and con-
servation on Federal lands in Northern Cali-
fornia, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Natural Resources.
By Mr. HUNTER (for himself and Mr.
YOUNG):
H.R. 2251. A bill to amend chapter 44 of
title 18, United States Code, to provide that
a member of the armed forces and the spouse
of that member shall have the same rights
regarding the receipt of firearms at the loca-
tion of any duty station of the member; to
the Committee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. KILDEE (for himself and Ms.
SPEIER):
H.R. 2252. A bill to direct the Secretary of
Defense to establish a policy relating to lead
testing on military installations; to the
Committee on Armed Services.
By Mr. KILDEE (for himself and Ms.
SPEIER):
H.R. 2253. A bill to prohibit the Secretary
concerned from discouraging the inspection
of military housing for lead-based paint or
other sources of lead, and for other purposes;
to the Committee on Armed Services.
By Mr. KILDEE (for himself and Ms.
SPEIER):
H.R. 2254. A bill to amend titles 10 and 37,
United States Code, to ensure that children
covered by the TRICARE program are
screened and tested for lead levels, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Armed
Services.
By Mr. KILDEE (for himself and Ms.
SPEIER):
H.R. 2255. A bill to direct the Secretaries of
the military departments to submit certifi-
cation and a report each year to the Secre-
taries of Defense and Housing and Urban De-
velopment regarding whether housing under
the jurisdiction of the Secretaries of the
military departments is in compliance with
requirements relating to lead-based paint; to
the Committee on Armed Services.
By Mr. KILDEE (for himself, Mr. BLU-
MENAUER, Mr. HIGGINS of New York,
Ms. SEWELL of Alabama, Mr. BEYER,
Mr. SUOZZI, Mr. PANETTA, Mrs. MUR-
PHY, Mr. GOMEZ, and Mr. DANNY K.
DAVIS of Illinois):
H.R. 2256. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to modify limitations on
the credit for plug-in electric drive motor ve-
hicles, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Ways and Means.
By Mr. KILDEE (for himself and Ms.
SPEIER):
H.R. 2257. A bill to require lead testing in
Department of Defense Education Activity
schools, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Armed Services, and in addition to
the Committee on Education and Labor, for
a period to be subsequently determined by
the Speaker, in each case for consideration
of such provisions as fall within the jurisdic-
tion of the committee concerned.
By Mr. KIND (for himself, Mr. SMITH of
Missouri, Mr. BLUMENAUER, Mr.
KELLY of Pennsylvania, Mr. REED,
and Mr. PASCRELL):
H.R. 2258. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 and the Small Business Act
to expand the availability of employee stock
ownership plans in S corporations, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Ways
and Means, and in addition to the Commit-
tees on Education and Labor, and Small
Business, for a period to be subsequently de-
termined by the Speaker, in each case for
consideration of such provisions as fall with-
in the jurisdiction of the committee con-
cerned.
By Mr. KING of Iowa:
H.R. 2259. A bill to amend the National
Labor Relations Act to clarify employer
rights with regard to hiring; to the Com-
mittee on Education and Labor.
By Mr. KING of Iowa:
H.R. 2260. A bill to require the Secretary of
Homeland Security to impose e-bonding re-
quirements on certain nonimmigrant visa
applicants, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. KING of New York (for himself,
Mr. MEEKS, Mr. FOSTER, Mr. WELCH,
Mr. VELA, and Mr. GONZALEZ of
Texas):
H.R. 2261. A bill to amend title 11 of the
United States Code, to allow full subroga-
tion, including subrogation to the priority
rights of the United States, of claims for the
payment of customs duties; to the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary.
By Mrs. LAWRENCE (for herself, Mr.
CARTWRIGHT, Ms. JAYAPAL, Mr.
RASKIN, and Mr. COHEN):
H.R. 2262. A bill to prioritize educating and
training for existing and new environmental
health professionals; to the Committee on
Energy and Commerce, and in addition to
the Committee on Education and Labor, for
a period to be subsequently determined by
the Speaker, in each case for consideration
of such provisions as fall within the jurisdic-
tion of the committee concerned.
By Mrs. LESKO (for herself, Mr. BIGGS,
Mr. GOSAR, and Mr. SCHWEIKERT):
H.R. 2263. A bill to allow a State to submit
a State management decision to the Sec-
retary of Education to combine certain funds
to improve the academic achievement of stu-
dents; to the Committee on Education and
Labor.
By Mr. TED LIEU of California (for
himself, Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illi-
nois, Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire,
and Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania):
H.R. 2264. A bill to conserve global bear
populations by prohibiting the importation,
exportation, and interstate trade of bear
viscera and items, products, or substances
containing, or labeled or advertised as con-
taining, bear viscera, and for other purposes;
to the Committee on Natural Resources, and
in addition to the Committees on Foreign
Affairs, and Ways and Means, for a period to
be subsequently determined by the Speaker,
in each case for consideration of such provi-
sions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned.
By Mrs. LURIA:
H.R. 2265. A bill to enhance the ability of
Federal agencies to deliver relocation man-
agement services to the Federal Govern-
ment, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Oversight and Reform.
By Mr. MEADOWS (for himself, Mr.
WEBER of Texas, Mr. GOSAR, Mr.
GAETZ, Mr. DAVID P. ROE of Ten-
nessee, Mr. BANKS, Mr. BUDD, and Mr.
MARSHALL):
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:17 Apr 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00032 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\L10AP7.100 H10APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3255
April 10, 2019
H.R. 2266. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to provide a child tax cred-
it for pregnant moms with respect to their
unborn children; to the Committee on Ways
and Means.
By Ms. MENG (for herself and Ms.
KUSTER of New Hampshire):
H.R. 2267. A bill to amend the Federal
Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act to treat infant
formula as adulterated if its use by date has
passed; to the Committee on Energy and
Commerce.
By Ms. MENG:
H.R. 2268. A bill to amend the Federal
Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act to treat cer-
tain menstrual products as misbranded if
their labeling does not list each ingredient
or component of the product, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Energy and
Commerce.
By Ms. MENG:
H.R. 2269. A bill to require the Comptroller
General of the United States to conduct a
study and submit a report on the effects of
food additives on children’s health; to the
Committee on Energy and Commerce.
By Mr. MITCHELL (for himself, Mr.
BACON, and Mr. CARBAJAL):
H.R. 2270. A bill to amend the Higher Edu-
cation Act of 1965 to require assurances by
recipients of assistance under section 402B or
402C of that Act with respect to activities for
homeless children and youths and foster care
children and youth, and for other purposes;
to the Committee on Education and Labor.
By Ms. MOORE (for herself, Mr. COLE,
Ms. HERRERA BEUTLER, Mr.
GOTTHEIMER, Ms. CLARKE of New
York, Mrs. RODGERS of Washington,
Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ, Mr. GRI-
JALVA, Mr. KHANNA, Ms. NORTON, Mr.
KING of New York, Ms. MCCOLLUM,
Mr. CARTWRIGHT, and Ms. DELBENE):
H.R. 2271. A bill to amend the Public
Health Service Act to improve the health of
children and help better understand and en-
hance awareness about unexpected sudden
death in early life; to the Committee on En-
ergy and Commerce.
By Mr. NADLER (for himself, Mrs.
LOWEY, and Mr. SUOZZI):
H.R. 2272. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to provide for adjustments
in the individual income tax rates to reflect
regional differences in the cost-of-living; to
the Committee on Ways and Means.
By Mr. NADLER:
H.R. 2273. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to provide an increasingly
larger earned income credit for families with
more than 3 children; to the Committee on
Ways and Means.
By Mr. NEGUSE (for himself and Mr.
RUIZ):
H.R. 2274. A bill to require the Secretary of
Veterans Affairs to establish a veterans con-
servation corps, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Veterans’ Affairs, and in
addition to the Committees on Transpor-
tation and Infrastructure, the Judiciary, and
Science, Space, and Technology, for a period
to be subsequently determined by the Speak-
er, in each case for consideration of such pro-
visions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned.
By Ms. NORTON:
H.R. 2275. A bill to amend title 11, District
of Columbia Official Code, to prohibit the ex-
clusion of individuals from service on a Dis-
trict of Columbia jury on account of sexual
orientation or gender identity; to the Com-
mittee on Oversight and Reform.
By Mr. PAPPAS:
H.R. 2276. A bill to amend title 14, United
States Code, to direct the Coast Guard to
submit a report to Congress on efforts to in-
crease gender diversity, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Transportation
and Infrastructure.
By Mr. POCAN (for himself, Ms.
MOORE, Mr. KIND, Mr. GALLAGHER,
Mr. GROTHMAN, Mr. STEIL, and Mr.
SENSENBRENNER):
H.R. 2277. A bill to designate the facility of
the United States Postal Service located at
1715 Linnerud Drive in Sun Prairie, Wis-
consin, as the ‘‘Fire Captain Cory Barr Post
Office Building’’; to the Committee on Over-
sight and Reform.
By Mr. ROONEY of Florida (for him-
self, Mr. DUNCAN, Mr. GAETZ, Mr.
BROOKS of Alabama, Mr. GOSAR, and
Mr. PERRY):
H.R. 2278. A bill to amend the Immigration
and Nationality Act to establish a skills-
based immigration points system, to focus
family-sponsored immigration on spouses
and minor children, to eliminate the Diver-
sity Visa Program, to set a limit on the
number of refugees admitted annually to the
United States, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. RUIZ (for himself and Mr.
WENSTRUP):
H.R. 2279. A bill to amend the Employee
Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 to
require a group health plan (or health insur-
ance coverage offered in connection with
such a plan) to provide an exceptions process
for any medication step therapy protocol,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Education and Labor.
By Mr. RUIZ:
H.R. 2280. A bill to authorize assistance
and training to increase maritime security
and domain awareness of foreign countries
bordering the Persian Gulf, the Arabian Sea,
or the Mediterranean Sea in order to deter
and counter illicit smuggling and related
maritime activity by Iran, including illicit
Iranian weapons shipments; to the Com-
mittee on Armed Services, and in addition to
the Committee on Foreign Affairs, for a pe-
riod to be subsequently determined by the
Speaker, in each case for consideration of
such provisions as fall within the jurisdic-
tion of the committee concerned.
By Mr. RUIZ:
H.R. 2281. A bill to direct the Attorney
General to amend certain regulations so that
practitioners may administer not more than
3 days’ medication to a person at one time
when administering narcotic drugs for the
purpose of relieving acute withdrawal symp-
toms; to the Committee on Energy and Com-
merce, and in addition to the Committee on
the Judiciary, for a period to be subse-
quently determined by the Speaker, in each
case for consideration of such provisions as
fall within the jurisdiction of the committee
concerned.
By Mr. RUIZ (for himself, Mr.
BUCSHON, Mr. KIND, and Mr. MARCH-
ANT):
H.R. 2282. A bill to amend title XVIII of the
Social Security Act to modernize the physi-
cian self-referral prohibitions to promote
care coordination in the merit-based incen-
tive payment system and to facilitate physi-
cian practice participation in alternative
payment models under the Medicare pro-
gram, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Energy and Commerce, and in ad-
dition to the Committee on Ways and Means,
for a period to be subsequently determined
by the Speaker, in each case for consider-
ation of such provisions as fall within the ju-
risdiction of the committee concerned.
By Ms. SÁNCHEZ (for herself, Mr.
LAHOOD, Ms. MATSUI, and Mrs. ROD-
GERS of Washington):
H.R. 2283. A bill to provide better care and
outcomes for Americans living with Alz-
heimer’s disease and related dementias and
their caregivers while accelerating progress
toward prevention strategies, disease modi-
fying treatments, and, ultimately, a cure; to
the Committee on Energy and Commerce,
and in addition to the Committee on Ways
and Means, for a period to be subsequently
determined by the Speaker, in each case for
consideration of such provisions as fall with-
in the jurisdiction of the committee con-
cerned.
By Mr. SMITH of Nebraska (for him-
self, Mr. BACON, Mr. FORTENBERRY,
Mrs. AXNE, Mr. LOEBSACK, Mr. KING
of Iowa, and Ms. FINKENAUER):
H.R. 2284. A bill to provide disaster tax re-
lief for certain disasters occurring in 2019; to
the Committee on Ways and Means.
By Mr. SMITH of New Jersey:
H.R. 2285. A bill to require the Secretary of
Health and Human Services to revise the
Mandatory Guidelines for Federal Workplace
Drug Testing Programs to include testing for
methadone use and to require Secretary of
Transportation to issue regulations to in-
clude testing for methadone use in Depart-
ment of Transportation drug tests; to the
Committee on Oversight and Reform, and in
addition to the Committee on Transpor-
tation and Infrastructure, for a period to be
subsequently determined by the Speaker, in
each case for consideration of such provi-
sions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned.
By Ms. STEFANIK (for herself, Mr.
TURNER, Mr. WENSTRUP, Mr. STEW-
ART, Mr. CRAWFORD, Mr. HURD of
Texas, Mr. RATCLIFFE, Mr. CONAWAY,
and Mr. NUNES):
H.R. 2286. A bill to amend the National Se-
curity Act of 1947 to direct the Director of
the Federal Bureau of Investigation to pro-
vide to the congressional intelligence com-
mittees briefings regarding counterintel-
ligence activities of the Bureau, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on the Ju-
diciary, and in addition to the Committee on
Intelligence (Permanent Select), for a period
to be subsequently determined by the Speak-
er, in each case for consideration of such pro-
visions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned.
By Mr. THORNBERRY:
H.R. 2287. A bill to clarify the definition of
navigable waters, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Transportation and Infra-
structure.
By Mr. TONKO (for himself, Mr. HIG-
GINS of New York, Mr. COLLINS of
New York, Mr. MORELLE, and Mr.
NADLER):
H.R. 2288. A bill to increase the total au-
thorization of appropriations for the Erie
Canalway National Heritage Corridor; to the
Committee on Natural Resources.
By Mr. VEASEY (for himself, Ms.
ESCOBAR, Ms. CLARKE of New York,
Mr. SOTO, Mr. CORREA, Ms. GARCIA of
Texas, Mr. ESPAILLAT, Mr. AGUILAR,
Ms. OCASIO-CORTEZ, Mrs. NAPOLITANO,
Mr. VARGAS, Ms. NORTON, Ms. ROY-
BAL-ALLARD, Mr. GRIJALVA, Ms.
VELÁZQUEZ, and Mr. MCGOVERN):
H.R. 2289. A bill to amend section
240(c)(7)(C) of the Immigration and Nation-
ality Act to eliminate the time limit on the
filing of a motion to reopen a removal pro-
ceeding if the basis of the motion is fraud,
negligence, misrepresentation, or extortion
by, or the attempted, promised, or actual
practice of law without authorization on the
part of, a representative; to the Committee
on the Judiciary.
By Ms. WEXTON:
H.R. 2290. A bill to require the Federal fi-
nancial regulators to issue guidance encour-
aging financial institutions to work with
consumers and businesses affected by a Fed-
eral Government shutdown, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Financial
Services.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:17 Apr 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00033 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\L10AP7.100 H10APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3256 April 10, 2019
By Mr. YOUNG (for himself, Mr. KELLY
of Pennsylvania, Mr. LOEBSACK, and
Mr. WESTERMAN):
H.R. 2291. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to provide tax incentives
for the donation of wild game meat; to the
Committee on Ways and Means.
By Mr. AMASH:
H.J. Res. 56. A joint resolution directing
the President to terminate the use of the
United States Armed Forces with respect to
the military intervention led by Saudi Ara-
bia in the Republic of Yemen; to the Com-
mittee on Foreign Affairs.
By Mrs. TORRES of California (for her-
self, Mr. FITZPATRICK, Ms. ESHOO, Mr.
KHANNA, Mrs. DAVIS of California,
Mr. GRIJALVA, Mr. RUIZ, and Mr. COO-
PER):
H. Con. Res. 33. Concurrent resolution sup-
porting the goals and ideals of National Pub-
lic Safety Telecommunicators Week; to the
Committee on Energy and Commerce.
By Mr. MCGOVERN (for himself and
Mr. BLUMENAUER):
H. Res. 302. A resolution embracing the
goals and provisions of the Treaty on the
Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons; to the Com-
mittee on Foreign Affairs, and in addition to
the Committee on Armed Services, for a pe-
riod to be subsequently determined by the
Speaker, in each case for consideration of
such provisions as fall within the jurisdic-
tion of the committee concerned.
By Ms. STEVENS (for herself, Mr.
KELLY of Mississippi, and Ms. JACK-
SON LEE):
H. Res. 303. A resolution expressing support
for the designation of April 11, 2019, as ‘‘Re-
manufacturing Day’’; to the Committee on
Oversight and Reform.
By Mr. GREEN of Tennessee (for him-
self, Mr. JORDAN, Mr. COMER, Mr.
NORMAN, Mr. HIGGINS of Louisiana,
Mr. CLOUD, Mr. GROTHMAN, Mr.
MEADOWS, Mr. GOSAR, Mr. STEUBE,
Mr. GIBBS, Mr. HICE of Georgia, Mr.
ARMSTRONG, and Mr. ROY):
H. Res. 304. A resolution raising a question
of the privileges of the House; to the Com-
mittee on Rules.
By Miss RICE of New York (for herself,
Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of New
York, Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD, and Mr.
PAYNE):
H. Res. 305. A resolution expressing support
for designation of April 2019 as ‘‘Alcohol Re-
sponsibility Month’’ and supporting the
goals and ideals of responsible decisions re-
garding alcohol; to the Committee on Energy
and Commerce.
By Mr. GAETZ:
H. Res. 306. A resolution expressing the
sense of the House of Representatives that
Congressman Adam Schiff should be removed
from the Permanent Select Committee on
Intelligence of the House and that his secu-
rity clearance should be revoked imme-
diately; to the Committee on Ethics.
By Mr. GOSAR:
H. Res. 307. A resolution congratulating
the people and Government of the Republic
of Slovenia on the 28th anniversary of the
country’s independence; to the Committee
on Foreign Affairs.
By Ms. LEE of California:
H. Res. 308. A resolution supporting the
goals and ideals of National Youth HIV &
AIDS Awareness Day; to the Committee on
Energy and Commerce.
By Mr. LOWENTHAL (for himself, Mr.
JOHNSON of Georgia, Mr. CORREA,
Mrs. DAVIS of California, Mr.
KHANNA, Mr. CISNEROS, Ms. LEE of
California, Mr. ROUDA, and Ms. LOF-
GREN):
H. Res. 309. A resolution recognizing the
44th anniversary of the Fall of Saigon on
April 30, 1975; to the Committee on Foreign
Affairs, and in addition to the Committee on
Armed Services, for a period to be subse-
quently determined by the Speaker, in each
case for consideration of such provisions as
fall within the jurisdiction of the committee
concerned.
By Mr. MAST (for himself and Mr.
SHERMAN):
H. Res. 310. A resolution reaffirming the
unique collaboration among United States
nongovernmental organizations (NGOs), in-
cluding faith-based organizations, and the
Israel Defense Forces to deliver humani-
tarian assistance to Syrians; to the Com-
mittee on Foreign Affairs.
By Mr. NADLER (for himself, Mrs.
CAROLYN B. MALONEY of New York,
Ms. JACKSON LEE, Mr. COHEN, Ms.
VELÁZQUEZ, Mr. ENGEL, Mr. SCHIFF,
Mr. TONKO, Mr. PASCRELL, Mr.
LOWENTHAL, Mr. PAYNE, Mr. HIGGINS
of New York, Mr. SUOZZI, Ms. CLARKE
of New York, Mr. SIRES, Mr. PAL-
LONE, Ms. DELAURO, Ms. MENG, Mr.
SEAN PATRICK MALONEY of New York,
Ms. PINGREE, Mr. TAKANO, Mr.
SERRANO, Mr. ESPAILLAT, and Mr.
JEFFRIES):
H. Res. 311. A resolution expressing the
sense of the House of Representatives that
the Citizens’ Stamp Advisory Committee, as
an entity of the United States Postal Serv-
ice, should issue a commemorative stamp in
honor of the 150th anniversary of the Metro-
politan Museum of Art; to the Committee on
Oversight and Reform.
By Ms. PINGREE (for herself and Ms.
BONAMICI):
H. Res. 312. A resolution expressing support
for designation of the weeks of April 14, 2019,
through April 27, 2019, as National Young Au-
diences Arts for Learning Weeks; to the
Committee on Education and Labor.
By Ms. SLOTKIN (for herself, Miss
RICE of New York, and Mr. KING of
New York):
H. Res. 313. A resolution designating April
24, 2019, as ‘‘Meningitis B Awareness Day’’;
to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
By Mr. ZELDIN (for himself and Mr.
KUSTOFF of Tennessee):
H. Res. 314. A resolution providing for the
consideration of the bill (H.R. 336) to make
improvements to certain defense and secu-
rity assistance provisions and to authorize
the appropriation of funds to Israel, to reau-
thorize the United States-Jordan Defense Co-
operation Act of 2015, and to halt the whole-
sale slaughter of the Syrian people, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Rules.
f
CONSTITUTIONAL AUTHORITY
STATEMENT
Pursuant to clause 7 of rule XII of
the Rules of the House of Representa-
tives, the following statements are sub-
mitted regarding the specific powers
granted to Congress in the Constitu-
tion to enact the accompanying bill or
joint resolution.
By Mr. DELGADO:
H.R. 2142.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1 Section 8, Clause 1 of the Con-
stitution of the United States.
By Mr. PAPPAS:
H.R. 2195.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Sec. 8, Clause 1, of the United
States Constitution states that ‘‘Congress
shall have power to lay and collect taxes, du-
ties, imposts and excises, to pay the debts
and provide for the common defense and gen-
eral welfare of the United States.’’ [Page
H473]
By Mr. BARR:
H.R. 2196.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, clauses 12 and 13,
which gives Congress the power ‘‘To raise
and support Armies,’’ and ‘‘To provide and
maintain a Navy.
By Mr. DEFAZIO:
H.R. 2197.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 1, Clause 3, and
Clause 18 of the Constitution.
By Mr. DEFAZIO:
H.R. 2198.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 18 (relating to
the power to make all laws necessary and
proper for carrying out the powers vested in
Congress)
By Mr. CARBAJAL:
H.R. 2199.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article IV, Section 3 and Article I, Section
8
By Mr. WESTERMAN:
H.R. 2200.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8
By Mr. WESTERMAN:
H.R. 2201.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8
By Mr. LIPINSKI:
H.R. 2202.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8
By Ms. ESCOBAR:
H.R. 2203.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
The Congress shall have power . . . To
make all laws which shall be necessary and
proper for carrying into execution the fore-
going powers, and all other powers vested by
this Constitution in the government of the
United States, or in any department or offi-
cer thereof.
By Mr. WALTZ:
H.R. 2204.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Clause 1 of Section 8 of Article I of the
United States Constitution, which provides
Congress with the ability to enact legisla-
tion necessary and proper to effectuate its
purposes in taxing and spending.
By Mr. MCKINLEY:
H.R. 2205.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1 Section 8
Section 8—Powers of Congress. To make
all Laws which shall be necessary and proper
for carrying into Execution the foregoing
Powers, and all other Powers vested by this
Constitution in the Government of the
United States, or in any Department or Offi-
cer thereof.
By Mr. STANTON:
H.R. 2206.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I Section 8
By Mr. KIND:
H.R. 2207.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 7
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:17 Apr 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00034 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\L10AP7.100 H10APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3257
April 10, 2019
By Mr. GARAMENDI:
H.R. 2208.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 18 of the U.S.
Constitution
By Mr. MEADOWS:
H.R. 2209.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 3
By Mr. LARSON of Connecticut:
H.R. 2210.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I Section 8 of the U.S. Constitu-
tion, which gives Congress the ‘‘power to lay
and collect taxes, duties, imposts and ex-
cises.’’
By Ms. SCHAKOWSKY:
H.R. 2211.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 3
The Congress shall have Power . . . To
regulate Commerce with foreign Nations,
and among the several States, and with the
Indian Tribes.
By Mr. CARTWRIGHT:
H.R. 2212.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I; Section 8; Clause 3 of the Con-
stitution states The Congress shall have the
power to regulate Commerce with foreign
Nations, and among the several States, and
with the Indian Tribes.
By Mr. THOMPSON of California:
H.R. 2213.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I
By Ms. JUDY CHU of California:
H.R. 2214.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Clause I of Section 8 of Article I of the
United States Constitution.
By Ms. JUDY CHU of California:
H.R. 2215.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8: The Congress shall
have Power To lay and collect Taxes, Duties,
Imposts and Excises, to pay the Debts and
provide for the common Defence and general
Welfare of the United States.
By Mr. BURCHETT:
H.R. 2216.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article IV,
Section 3, Clause 2. The Congress shall
have Power to dispose of and make all need-
ful Rules and Regulations respecting the
Territory or other Property belonging to the
United States; and nothing in this Constitu-
tion shall be so construed as to Prejudice
any Claims of the United States, or of any
particular State.
By Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ:
H.R. 2217.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, clause 4
Article I, Section 8, clause 3
Article I, Section 8, clauses 11–16
By Mrs. WALORSKI:
H.R. 2218.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 18 of the United
States Constitution
By Mr. YOHO:
H.R. 2219.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 3 of the United
States Constitution.
By Mr. BABIN:
H.R. 2220.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 3
By Mr. BILIRAKIS:
H.R. 2221.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
This bill is enacted pursuant to Article I,
Section 8, Clause 1 of the Constitution of the
United States and Article I, Section 8,
Clause 7 of the Constitution of the United
States.
Article I, section 8 of the United State
Constitution, which grants Congress the
power to raise and support an Army; to pro-
vide and maintain a Navy; to make rules for
the government and regulation of the land
and naval forces; and provide for organizing,
arming, and disciplining the militia.
By Mr. BRENDAN F. BOYLE of Penn-
sylvania:
H.R. 2222.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, section 8 of the U.S. Constitution
which grants Congress the power to ‘‘lay and
collect Taxes, Duties, Imposts, and Excises,
to pay the Debts and provide for the common
defense and general Welfare of the United
States.’’
By Ms. BROWNLEY of California:
H.R. 2223.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8 of the Constitution
By Ms. BROWNLEY of California:
H.R. 2224.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8 of the Constitution
By Ms. BROWNLEY of California:
H.R. 2225.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8 of the Constitution
By Mr. BUCHANAN:
H.R. 2226.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8
By Mrs. BUSTOS:
H.R. 2227.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
This bill is enacted pursuant to the power
granted to Congress under Article I, Section
8, Clause 18 of the United States Constitu-
tion.
By Mr. BUTTERFIELD:
H.R. 2228.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Under Article I, Section 8, Clause 3 of the
Constitution, Congress has the power to col-
lect taxes and expend funds to provide for
the general welfare of the United States.
Congress may also make laws that are nec-
essary and proper for carrying into execution
their powers enumerated under Article I.
By Mr. CHABOT:
H.R. 2229.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, section 8 of the Constitution of
the United States
By Mr. CISNEROS:
H.R. 2230.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, of the U.S. Constitu-
tion
By Ms. CLARKE of New York:
H.R. 2231.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 3
By Mr. CUMMINGS:
H.R. 2232.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause I of the United
States Constitution related to general wel-
fare of the United States.
By Mr. DANNY K. DAVIS of Illinois:
H.R. 2233.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I of the Constitution and its subse-
quent amendments and further clarified and
interpreted by the Supreme Court of the
United States.
By Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois:
H.R. 2234.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 8 of the United
States Constitution; Article I, Section 9,
Clause 7 of the United States Constitution;
and Amendment XVI to the United States
Constitution. Additionally, since the Con-
stitution does not provide Congress with the
power to provide financial support to U.S.
political parties, the general repeal of the
Presidential Election Campaign Fund for
this purpose is consistent with the powers
that are reserved to the States and to the
people as expressed in Amendments IX and X
to the United States Constitution. Further,
Article I Section 8 defines the scope and pow-
ers of Congress and does not include this
concept of taxation in furtherance of funding
U.S. political parties within the expressed
powers.
By Ms. DEGETTE:
H.R. 2235.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
clause 3 of section 8 of article I of the Con-
stitution.
By Mrs. DINGELL:
H.R. 2236.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
The Constitutional authority of Congress
to enact this legislation is provided by Arti-
cle I, Section 8 of the United States Con-
stitution.
By Mr. ESPAILLAT:
H.R. 2237.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 7: ‘‘Congress
shall have Power [. . .] to establish Post Of-
fices and Post Roads.’’
By Mr. ESPAILLAT:
H.R. 2238.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article One of the United States Constitu-
tion, Section 8, Clause 1
By Ms. FRANKEL:
H.R. 2239.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clauses 1, 3, and 18 of
the United States Constitution, which re-
spectively grants Congress the power to lay
and collect duties and imposts, to regulate
commerce with foreign nations, and to make
all laws which shall be necessary and proper
for the execution of those powers.
By Mr. FULCHER:
H.R. 2240.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 1 that all legislative
Powers herein granted shall be vested in a
Congress of the United States, which shall
consist of a Senate and House of Representa-
tives.
By Miss GONZÁLEZ-COLÓN of Puerto
Rico:
H.R. 2241.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:05 Apr 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00035 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A10AP7.030 H10APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3258 April 10, 2019
The Congress has the power to enact this
legislation pursuant to Article I, Section 8,
Clauses 1 and 18 of the U.S. Constitution,
which provide as follows:
The Congress shall have Power To lay and
collect Taxes, Duties, Imposts and Excises,
to pay the Debts and provide for the common
Defence and general Welfare of the United
States; but all Duties, Imposts and Excises
shall be uniform throughout the United
States; [. . .]—And
To make all laws which shall be necessary
and proper for carrying into Execution the
foregoing Powers, and all other Powers vest-
ed by this Constitution in the Government of
the United States, or in any Department or
Officer thereof.
Moreover, the Congress has the power to
enact this legislation pursuant to Article IV,
Section 3, which provides, in relevant part,
as follows:
The Congress shall have Power to dispose
of and make all needful Rules and Regula-
tions respecting the Territory or other Prop-
erty belonging to the United States; and
nothing in this Constitution shall be so con-
strued as to Prejudice any Claims of the
United States, or of any particular State.
By Miss GONZÁLEZ-COLÓN of Puerto
Rico:
H.R. 2242.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
The Congress has the power to enact this
legislation pursuant to Article I, Section 8,
Clauses 1 and 18 of the U.S. Constitution,
which provide as follows:
The Congress shall have Power To lay and
collect Taxes, Duties, Imposts and Excises,
to pay the Debts and provide for the common
Defence and general Welfare of the United
States; [. . .]—And
To make all laws which shall be necessary
and proper for carrying into Execution the
foregoing Powers, and all other Powers vest-
ed by this Constitution in the Government of
the United States, or in any Department or
Officer thereof.
By Miss GONZÁLEZ-COLÓN of Puerto
Rico:
H.R. 2243.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
The Congress has the power to enact this
legislation pursuant to Article I, Section 8,
Clauses 1 and 18 of the U.S. Constitution,
which provide as follows:
The Congress shall have Power To lay and
collect Taxes, Duties, Imposts and Excises,
to pay the Debts and provide for the common
Defence and general Welfare of the United
States; but all Duties, Imposts and Excises
shall be uniform throughout the United
States; [. . .]—And
To make all laws which shall be necessary
and proper for carrying into Execution the
foregoing Powers, and all other Powers vest-
ed by this Constitution in the Government of
the United States, or in any Department or
Officer thereof.
Moreover, the Congress has the power to
enact this legislation pursuant to Article IV,
Section 3, which provides, in relevant part,
as follows:
The Congress shall have Power to dispose
of and make all needful Rules and Regula-
tions respecting the Territory or other Prop-
erty belonging to the United States; and
nothing in this Constitution shall be so con-
strued as to Prejudice any Claims of the
United States, or of any particular State.
By Mr. GOSAR:
H.R. 2244.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
The constitutional authority of Congress
to enact this legislation is provided by Arti-
cle I, section 8 of the United States Constitu-
tion, specifically clause 18 (relating to the
power to make all laws necessary and proper
for carrying out the powers vested in Con-
gress).
By Mr. GRIJALVA:
H.R. 2245.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
U.S. Const. art. I, sec. 8, cl. 3
To regulate Commerce with foreign Na-
tions, and among the several States, and
with the Indian tribes;
U.S. Const. art. IV, sec. 3, cl. 2, sen. a
The Congress shall have Power to dispose
of and make all needful Rule and Regula-
tions respecting the Territory of other Prop-
erty belonging to the United States;
By Mr. GUEST:
H.R. 2246.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the Constitution of
the United States
By Mr. HECK:
H.R. 2247.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, of the United States
Constitution.
By Mr. HIGGINS of Louisiana:
H.R. 2248.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Clause 18, Section 8, of Article 1 of the
Constitution
By Mr. HILL of Arkansas:
H.R. 2249.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, section 8 of the United States
Constitution
By Mr. HUFFMAN:
H.R. 2250.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article IV, Section 3, clause 2
By Mr. HUNTER:
H.R. 2251.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 18. To make all
Laws which shall be necessary and proper for
carrying into Execution the foregoing Pow-
ers, and all other Powers vested by this Con-
stitution in the Government of the United
States, or in any Department or Officer
thereof.
By Mr. KILDEE:
H.R. 2252.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8
By Mr. KILDEE:
H.R. 2253.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8
By Mr. KILDEE:
H.R. 2254.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8
By Mr. KILDEE:
H.R. 2255.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8
By Mr. KILDEE:
H.R. 2256.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8
By Mr. KILDEE:
H.R. 2257.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8
By Mr. KIND:
H.R. 2258.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Pursuant to Clause I of Section 8 of Article
I of the United States Constitution, specifi-
cally Clause 1 (relating to providing for the
general welfare of the United States) and
Clause 18 (relating to the power to make all
laws necessary and proper for carrying out
the powers vested in Congress), and Article
IV, Section 3, Clause 2 (relating to the power
of Congress to dispose of and make all need-
ful rules and regulations respecting the ter-
ritory or other property belonging to the
United States).
By Mr. KING of Iowa:
H.R. 2259.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
This legislation contains a clarification
that is intended to limit the scope of an ex-
isting statute. As such, this bill makes spe-
cific changes to existing law in a manner
that returns power to the States and to the
People, in accordance with Amendment X of
the United States Constitution.
By Mr. KING of Iowa:
H.R. 2260.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I Section 8 Clause 4 of the Con-
stitution
By Mr. KING of New York:
H.R. 2261.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8
By Mrs. LAWRENCE:
H.R. 2262.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Clause 18, Section 8: The Con-
gress shall have Power . . . To make all
Laws which shall be necessary and proper for
carrying into Execution the foregoing Pow-
ers, and all other Powers vested by this Con-
stitution in the Government of the United
States, or in any Department or Officer
thereof.
By Mrs. LESKO:
H.R. 2263.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1 Section 8 of the Constitution of
the United States.
By Mr. TED LIEU of California:
H.R. 2264.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8
By Mrs. LURIA:
H.R. 2265.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Clause 5 of Section 8 of Article 1 of the
Constitution.
By Mr. MEADOWS:
H.R. 2266.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 1
The Congress shall have Power To lay and
collect Taxes, Duties, Imposts and Excises,
to pay the Debts and provide for the common
Defence and general Welfare of the United
States; but all Duties, Imposts and Excises
shall be uniform throughout the United
States
By Ms. MENG:
H.R. 2267.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the U.S. Constitu-
tion.
[Page H10170]
By Ms. MENG.
H.R. 2268.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:04 Apr 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00036 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A10AP7.035 H10APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3259
April 10, 2019
Article I, Section 8 of the U.S. Constitu-
tion.
[Page H10170]
By Ms. MENG:
H.R. 2269.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the U.S. Constitu-
tion.
[Page H10170]
By Mr. MITCHELL:
H.R. 2270.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 18 to make all
Laws which shall be necessary and proper for
carrying into Execution the foregoing Pow-
ers.
By Ms. MOORE:
H.R. 2271.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8
By Mr. NADLER:
H.R. 2272.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 1
By Mr. NADLER:
H.R. 2273.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 1
By Mr. NEGUSE:
H.R. 2274.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8 of the U.S. Constitu-
tion
By Ms. NORTON:
H.R. 2275.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
clause 17 of section 8 of article I of the
Constitution.
By Mr. PAPPAS:
H.R. 2276.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
The Congress enacts this bill pursuant to
Article I, Section 8, clause 18; Article I, Sec-
tion 8, clause 3; and Article I, Section 8,
clause 14 of the United States Constitution.
By Mr. POCAN:
H.R. 2277.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the United States
Constitution.
By Mr. ROONEY of Florida:
H.R. 2278.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8
By Mr. RUIZ:
H.R. 2279.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, section 8, Clauses 1 and 18 of the
United States Constitution, to provide for
the general welfare and make all laws nec-
essary and proper to carry out the powers of
Congress.
By Mr. RUIZ:
H.R. 2280.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, section 8, Clauses 1 and 18 of the
United States Constitution, to provide for
the general welfare and make all laws nec-
essary and proper to carry out the powers of
Congress.
By Mr. RUIZ:
H.R. 2281.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, section 8, Clauses 1 and 18 of the
United States Constitution, to provide for
the general welfare and make all laws nec-
essary and proper to carry out the powers of
Congress.
By Mr. RUIZ:
H.R. 2282.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, section 8, Clauses 1 and 18 of the
United States Constitution, to provide for
the general welfare and make all laws nec-
essary and proper to carry out the powers of
Congress.
By Ms. SÁNCHEZ:
H.R. 2283.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
U.S. Const. art. I, §7, cl. 18.
By Mr. SMITH of Nebraska:
H.R. 2284.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 1 of the Con-
stitution of the United States.
By Mr. SMITH of New Jersey:
H.R. 2285.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 1 of the Con-
stitution.
By Ms. STEFANIK:
H.R. 2286.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 1 of the United
States Constitution
By Mr. THORNBERRY:
H.R. 2287.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 3 of the United
States Constitution.
By Mr. TONKO:
H.R. 2288.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause I
Provides Congress with the power to ‘‘lay
and collect Taxes, Duties, Imposts and Ex-
cises’’ in order to ‘‘provide for the . . . gen-
eral Welfare of the United States.’’
By Mr. VEASEY:
H.R. 2289.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8
By Ms. WEXTON:
H.R. 2290.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 18
By Mr. YOUNG:
H.R. 2291.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 1 of the Con-
stitution of the United States.
By Mr. AMASH:
H.J. Res. 56.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 14 of the Con-
stitution (authorizing Congress to ‘‘make
Rules for the Government and Regulation of
the land and naval Forces’’). Article I, Sec-
tion 8, Clause 11 of the Constitution author-
izes Congress to ‘‘declare War.’’ Congress did
not declare war or authorize the use of the
Armed Forces in the conflict in Yemen, and
this resolution takes corrective action.
f
ADDITIONAL SPONSORS
Under clause 7 of rule XII, sponsors
were added to public bills and resolu-
tions, as follows:
H.R. 9: Mrs. LURIA, Mr. VELA, Mr. DANNY
K. DAVIS of Illinois, Mr. PHILLIPS, Ms.
SLOTKIN, Mr. COX of California, Mrs. KIRK-
PATRICK, Mr. DEUTCH, Ms. TLAIB, and Mrs.
LEE of Nevada.
H.R. 24: Mr. GRAVES of Georgia and Mr.
ESTES.
H.R. 35: Mrs. CRAIG.
H.R. 216: Mr. NUNES and Mr. KATKO.
H.R. 218: Mr. JORDAN, Mr. COOK, and Mr.
REED.
H.R. 230: Mrs. DAVIS of California.
H.R. 250: Mr. WITTMAN.
H.R. 303: Ms. HERRERA BEUTLER.
H.R. 336: Mr. KUSTOFF of Tennessee.
H.R. 366: Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD.
H.R. 369: Mr. GUTHRIE.
H.R. 372: Mr. LARSEN of Washington.
H.R. 481: Mr. GAETZ.
H.R. 500: Ms. BROWNLEY of California, Ms.
WILD, Mr. SENSENBRENNER, Mr. ADERHOLT,
Mr. MARCHANT, Mr. DESJARLAIS, Mr. RUTH-
ERFORD, Mr. JOYCE of Ohio, Mr. WESTERMAN,
Mr. ROUZER, and Mr. RUSH.
H.R. 510: Ms. HERRERA BEUTLER.
H.R. 550: Mr. HIMES, Mr. GALLEGO, Ms.
ESCOBAR, Mrs. BUSTOS, Mr. BERA, Ms. ESHOO,
Mr. RESCHENTHALER, Ms. VELÁZQUEZ, Mr.
BABIN, Ms. DELAURO, Mr. LOWENTHAL, Miss
RICE of New York, Mr. LAMALFA, Mrs.
RADEWAGEN, Mr. LUJÁN, Mr. KHANNA, Mr.
RYAN, and Mrs. KIRKPATRICK.
H.R. 569: Mr. SMITH of New Jersey.
H.R. 587: Mr. BUDD and Mr. CUMMINGS.
H.R. 635: Mr. CUMMINGS.
H.R. 647: Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD.
H.R. 677: Mr. SMITH of Washington.
H.R. 693: Ms. BARRAGÁN, Mr. MCNERNEY,
Mr. THOMPSON of California, Mrs. CAROLYN B.
MALONEY of New York, Ms. CLARK of Massa-
chusetts, and Ms. STEFANIK.
H.R. 763: Mr. HECK.
H.R. 764: Mr. POSEY.
H.R. 816: Ms. PRESSLEY, Mrs. WALORSKI,
and Mr. COOPER.
H.R. 837: Mr. WATKINS.
H.R. 864: Mr. DESAULNIER.
H.R. 884: Mr. KILMER and Mr. GIANFORTE.
H.R. 891: Mr. WITTMAN.
H.R. 906: Mr. SCHNEIDER, Ms. NORTON, and
Mr. CASE.
H.R. 938: Mr. MCADAMS.
H.R. 945: Mr. MULLIN and Ms. LEE of Cali-
fornia.
H.R. 951: Mr. ALLRED.
H.R. 961: Ms. JACKSON LEE and Mr. RASKIN.
H.R. 965: Mr. MCADAMS and Mr. SCHRADER.
H.R. 987: Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ.
H.R. 1006: Mr. COLE.
H.R. 1035: Mr. DOGGETT.
H.R. 1044: Mr. BAIRD and Mr. BROWN of
Maryland.
H.R. 1049: Mr. RIGGLEMAN, Ms. KELLY of Il-
linois, Mr. CASE, Mr. MALINOWSKI, Ms.
KUSTER of New Hampshire, and Mr.
CÁRDENAS.
H.R. 1086: Mr. LARSEN of Washington.
H.R. 1094: Mr. POCAN.
H.R. 1096: Mr. SMITH of New Jersey.
H.R. 1128: Ms. DAVIDS of Kansas and Mr.
ARMSTRONG.
H.R. 1135: Mr. ARMSTRONG.
H.R. 1139: Ms. SHERRILL.
H.R. 1140: Mr. COX of California, Mr. HIMES,
Mr. HECK, and Ms. MENG.
H.R. 1175: Mrs. DAVIS of California, Mr.
AMODEI, and Mr. DESJARLAIS.
H.R. 1185: Mr. SHERMAN.
H.R. 1195: Mr. KIM, Mr. BRENDAN F. BOYLE
of Pennsylvania, and Mr. BRINDISI.
H.R. 1199: Mr. BANKS.
H.R. 1200: Mrs. LEE of Nevada, Mr. CASE,
and Ms. ESCOBAR.
H.R. 1210: Mr. SHERMAN.
H.R. 1228: Mr. COLLINS of Georgia and Mr.
MALINOWSKI.
H.R. 1236: Mr. PETERS, Mr. MCGOVERN, and
Mr. CRIST.
H.R. 1237: Mr. PAPPAS, Mr. DEFAZIO, Ms.
SPEIER, Mr. SIRES, and Ms. BROWNLEY of
California.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:04 Apr 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00037 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A10AP7.038 H10APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3260 April 10, 2019
H.R. 1238: Mr. GRAVES of Louisiana.
H.R. 1328: Mrs. LURIA and Mrs. CRAIG.
H.R. 1336: Mrs. NAPOLITANO.
H.R. 1337: Mr. SCHIFF.
H.R. 1360: Mr. MEADOWS.
H.R. 1370: Mr. RUSH.
H.R. 1379: Mr. DESAULNIER, Mr. RUIZ, and
Ms. SEWELL of Alabama.
H.R. 1384: Mr. CUMMINGS.
H.R. 1411: Mr. MCGOVERN.
H.R. 1417: Mr. HIMES, Mr. MICHAEL F.
DOYLE of Pennsylvania, and Ms. BASS.
H.R. 1421: Ms. MCCOLLUM.
H.R. 1423: Ms. SHERRILL.
H.R. 1434: Mr. BAIRD, Mr. LUETKEMEYER,
and Mr. DAVID P. ROE of Tennessee.
H.R. 1454: Mr. CARBAJAL, Ms. DEGETTE, Mr.
DESAULNIER, Ms. ESCOBAR, Mr. EVANS, Ms.
MCCOLLUM, Mr. PASCRELL, Mr. RUSH, and Ms.
SPEIER.
H.R. 1508: Mr. PENCE.
H.R. 1576: Mr. BRENDAN F. BOYLE of Penn-
sylvania.
H.R. 1579: Mr. KILMER and Mr. LYNCH.
H.R. 1595: Mr. NORCROSS and Mr. UPTON.
H.R. 1622: Mrs. LEE of Nevada.
H.R. 1629: Ms. ESHOO.
H.R. 1673: Mr. TIPTON and Mr. ROGERS of
Alabama.
H.R. 1679: Mr. BRENDAN F. BOYLE of Penn-
sylvania.
H.R. 1680: Mr. PETERS, Mr. FITZPATRICK,
Mr. BILIRAKIS, Ms. PINGREE, Mr. CHABOT, and
Mr. BAIRD.
H.R. 1702: Mr. MOONEY of West Virginia.
H.R. 1709: Mr. FOSTER, Mrs. DINGELL, Ms.
DELAURO, Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD, Mr. RYAN,
Mr. KHANNA, Mr. COOPER, Mr. ENGEL, Ms.
MOORE, Mr. NEAL, Ms. VELÁZQUEZ, Ms. MAT-
SUI, Mr. PERLMUTTER, Ms. SPEIER, Ms. LEE of
California, Mr. DEFAZIO, Ms. CLARKE of New
York, Mr. TAKANO, Mr. PALLONE, Mr. RUSH,
Ms. CASTOR of Florida, Mr. LUJÁN, Mr. LAR-
SON of Connecticut, and Mr. PANETTA.
H.R. 1716: Mr. GOLDEN, Mr. CRIST, and Ms.
GABBARD.
H.R. 1753: Mr. SCHWEIKERT.
H.R. 1757: Mr. LIPINSKI.
H.R. 1770: Mr. SENSENBRENNER.
H.R. 1776: Mr. DEFAZIO and Mr. WATKINS.
H.R. 1826: Mr. CORREA and Mr. GAETZ.
H.R. 1830: Ms. BASS, Mr. SCHIFF, Mr. LAMB,
Mr. MCNERNEY, Mr. PAPPAS, and Mr. SCHNEI-
DER.
H.R. 1832: Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire.
H.R. 1837: Mr. STAUBER, Mr. GONZALEZ of
Texas, and Mr. GROTHMAN.
H.R. 1846: Mr. DESAULNIER, Mr. RASKIN,
Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia, and Ms. SHALALA.
H.R. 1857: Mr. KENNEDY.
H.R. 1864: Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD.
H.R. 1865: Ms. BROWNLEY of California, Mr.
WATKINS, Mr. ABRAHAM, Mr. LONG, Mr.
PAYNE, Mr. DEFAZIO, Mr. LAMALFA, and Mr.
KING of Iowa.
H.R. 1868: Ms. MCCOLLUM and Ms. SCANLON.
H.R. 1878: Ms. SCANLON, Mr. LOWENTHAL,
Mr. LIPINSKI, Ms. DELBENE, Mr. CONNOLLY,
Mr. COHEN, Mr. CARBAJAL, Mr. KHANNA, Ms.
JAYAPAL, Ms. NORTON, Miss RICE of New
York, Mr. WELCH, Mrs. NAPOLITANO, Ms.
BROWNLEY of California, Ms. BONAMICI, Mr.
LARSON of Connecticut, Ms. MOORE, and Mr.
THOMPSON of California.
H.R. 1911: Ms. HOULAHAN.
H.R. 1917: Mr. MALINOWSKI.
H.R. 1959: Ms. HERRERA BEUTLER.
H.R. 1992: Mr. PAPPAS and Mr.
FLEISCHMANN.
H.R. 2002: Mr. WATKINS, Mr. SMITH of New
Jersey, and Mr. HOLDING.
H.R. 2009: Mr. POCAN.
H.R. 2010: Mr. LUETKEMEYER.
H.R. 2012: Mr. COHEN, Mr. PERLMUTTER, and
Mr. CROW.
H.R. 2036: Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ, Ms.
OCASIO-CORTEZ, Ms. MOORE, and Mr.
CÁRDENAS.
H.R. 2039: Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD.
H.R. 2050: Mr. RASKIN and Mr. MALINOWSKI.
H.R. 2060: Mr. HUDSON.
H.R. 2067: Mr. MCCAUL.
H.R. 2070: Mr. RYAN.
H.R. 2075: Mr. LUJÁN, Mr. FITZPATRICK, Ms.
CLARKE of New York, Mr. COX of California,
Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois, Mr. SERRANO,
Ms. SLOTKIN, Mr. DELGADO, and Ms. SCHA-
KOWSKY.
H.R. 2076: Mr. FITZPATRICK and Mr. BANKS.
H.R. 2089: Mr. GUTHRIE, Ms. WILSON of Flor-
ida, and Mr. JOHNSON of South Dakota.
H.R. 2137: Mr. PAPPAS.
H.R. 2147: Mr. LUJÁN.
H.R. 2148: Ms. NORTON, Ms. CLARKE of New
York, Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ, Mr. LEVIN of
Michigan, Ms. SCHAKOWSKY, Mr. MEEKS, and
Ms. LEE of California.
H.R. 2180: Mr. FITZPATRICK.
H.R. 2181: Mr. LOWENTHAL.
H.R. 2186: Mr. MCGOVERN.
H.J. Res. 38: Mr. PHILLIPS.
H. Con. Res. 27: Mr. BRENDAN F. BOYLE of
Pennsylvania.
H. Res. 23: Mr. LUETKEMEYER and Mrs.
WATSON COLEMAN.
H. Res. 33: Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania and
Ms. SCHRIER.
H. Res. 60: Mr. LYNCH and Mr. KIND.
H. Res. 149: Mr. WITTMAN.
H. Res. 190: Mr. VISCLOSKY.
H. Res. 231: Ms. FUDGE.
H. Res. 246: Mr. BOST, Mr. SOTO, Mr.
THOMPSON of Pennsylvania, Ms. CLARKE of
New York, Mr. O’HALLERAN, Mr. COLLINS of
Georgia, Ms. SÁNCHEZ, Mr. HIMES, Mr. BROWN
of Maryland, Mr. BACON, Mr. CARBAJAL, Mr.
ARRINGTON, Mr. KUSTOFF of Tennessee, and
Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD.
H. Res. 251: Mr. RASKIN and Ms. KUSTER of
New Hampshire.
H. Res. 254: Mr. WATKINS.
H. Res. 255: Mr. CALVERT, Mr. BUCK, and
Mr. SENSENBRENNER.
H. Res. 289: Ms. MOORE and Ms. HAALAND.
H. Res. 296: Mr. VISCLOSKY, Mr. FORTEN-
BERRY, and Mr. KENNEDY.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:27 Apr 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00038 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A10AP7.025 H10APPT1
Congressional Record
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
United States
of America PROCEEDINGS AND DEBATES OF THE 116th
CONGRESS, FIRST SESSION
∑ This ‘‘bullet’’ symbol identifies statements or insertions which are not spoken by a Member of the Senate on the floor.
.
S2349
Vol. 165 WASHINGTON, WEDNESDAY, APRIL 10, 2019 No. 62
Senate
The Senate met at 9:45 a.m. and was
called to order by the Honorable MAR-
SHA BLACKBURN, a Senator from the
State of Tennessee.
f
PRAYER
The Chaplain, Dr. Barry C. Black, of-
fered the following prayer:
Let us pray.
God of grace and glory, we bless Your
Holy Name. Give us a hunger and thirst
for Your righteousness. Lord, we con-
fess that we often fall short of Your
high standards for living. Create in us
clean hearts, O God, and renew a right
spirit within us. Continue to bless our
Senators. Give them the fulfillment
that comes from knowing they are
doing Your will. Protect them from
dangers as You guide them through the
myriad challenges they must face to
keep this Nation strong. Work through
them to fulfill Your purposes for our
Nation and world.
We pray in Your Holy Name. Amen.
f
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
The Presiding Officer led the Pledge
of Allegiance, as follows:
I pledge allegiance to the Flag of the
United States of America, and to the Repub-
lic for which it stands, one nation under God,
indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
f
APPOINTMENT OF ACTING
PRESIDENT PRO TEMPORE
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will please read a communication
to the Senate from the President pro
tempore (Mr. GRASSLEY).
The legislative clerk read the fol-
lowing letter:
U.S. SENATE,
PRESIDENT PRO TEMPORE,
Washington, DC, April 10, 2019.
To the Senate:
Under the provisions of rule I, paragraph 3,
of the Standing Rules of the Senate, I hereby
appoint the Honorable MARSHA BLACKBURN, a
Senator from the State of Tennessee, to per-
form the duties of the Chair.
CHUCK GRASSLEY,
President pro tempore.
Mrs. BLACKBURN thereupon as-
sumed the Chair as Acting President
pro tempore.
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tem-
pore. The Senator from Iowa.
Mr. GRASSLEY. Madam President, I
ask unanimous consent to speak to the
Senate for 1 minute as in morning busi-
ness.
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tem-
pore. Without objection, it is so or-
dered.
f
CLINTON INVESTIGATION
Mr. GRASSLEY. On Monday, I spoke
about the Clinton investigation, and I
want to reiterate one very serious
issue. The FBI apparently had highly
classified information potentially rel-
evant to the Clinton investigation in
its possession.
The FBI drafted a memo in May of
2016 to get access to the information.
That memo said review of the informa-
tion was necessary to complete the in-
vestigation. Sadly, that memo was
never sent.
How could the FBI finish the inves-
tigation of the Clintons if they never
got access to all of the potentially rel-
evant information?
Congress needs to know what hap-
pened in that instance.
I yield the floor.
f
RECOGNITION OF THE MAJORITY
LEADER
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tem-
pore. The majority leader is recog-
nized.
f
MEASURE PLACED ON THE
CALENDAR—H.R. 1585
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
I understand there is a bill at the desk
due a second reading.
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tem-
pore. The clerk will read the bill by
title for the second time.
The legislative clerk read as follows:
A bill (H.R. 1585) to reauthorize the Vio-
lence Against Women Act of 1994, and for
other purposes.
Mr. MCCONNELL. In order to place
the bill on the calendar under the pro-
visions of rule XIV, I object to further
proceedings.
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tem-
pore. Objection having been heard, the
bill will be placed on the calendar.
f
NOMINATIONS
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
the Senate continues to build on last
week’s progress in restoring our nor-
mal tradition regarding lower level
nominations. We are moving several
well-qualified nominees more promptly
through floor consideration. We are
clearing the considerable backlog of
those who had been mired for months
in our Democratic colleagues’ across-
the-board obstruction campaign.
Make no mistake, there is still a very
long way to go. There are still too
many vacancies on the President’s
team. There are still too many would-
be public servants waiting for partisan
barriers to fall. But this body should be
proud of the progress we are already
making and the healthier precedent we
are setting for the future.
Yesterday the Senate voted to con-
firm both Daniel Domenico, the Presi-
dent’s choice to serve as U.S. District
Judge for the District of Colorado, and
Patrick Wyrick to be a district judge
in the Western District of Oklahoma.
Today we will turn our attention to
Cheryl Stanton’s nomination to lead
the Labor Department’s Wage and
Hour Division. It has been 1 year, 7
months, and 5 days since Ms. Stanton’s
nomination arrived in the Senate. In
that time the nomination has been fa-
vorably reported by the HELP Com-
mittee not once, not twice, but three
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:31 Apr 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A10AP6.000 S10APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2350 April 10, 2019
times—three times through committee
for this graduate of Williams College
and the University of Chicago Law
School and two times sent back to the
President for the former executive di-
rector of the South Carolina Depart-
ment of Employment and Workforce.
Well, hopefully the third time will be
the charm, and we can finally do the
prudent thing on the Senate floor. I
hope each of my colleagues will join
me in support of the Stanton nomina-
tion later this week.
Later this week, as I noted yester-
day, we will finish with the nomination
of David Bernhardt to join President
Trump’s Cabinet as Secretary of the
Interior. Speaking of procedures com-
ing in threes, this would be the third
time Mr. Bernhardt will have been con-
firmed by the Senate. He served pre-
viously as the Department’s Solicitor
and as its Deputy Secretary. According
to the American Farm Bureau Federa-
tion, his ‘‘proven leadership’’ in these
roles ‘‘has helped restore the multiple
use of America’s public lands.’’
They are not alone. Over his tenure,
Mr. Bernhardt developed a reputation
among sportsmen, conservation groups,
and western Native American Tribes as
a strong leader and partner in their ef-
forts. So once again, I hope each of my
colleagues will join me in voting to
confirm David Bernhardt later this
week.
f
MEDICARE
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
on a completely different matter, for
some time now, my colleagues and I
have been speaking out about the
Democrats’ parade of fantastical new
proposals—plans to spend unprece-
dented sums of Americans’ money in
order to seize unprecedented control
over Americans’ lives.
Just a few weeks ago, the Senate
voted on the so-called Green New Deal.
It was Washington Democrats’ plan to
power down the U.S. economy and have
the Federal Government intrude on ba-
sically every economic transaction and
personal life choice in radically un-
precedented ways. The specifics of the
proposal, limited as they were, painted
enough of a picture for outside experts
to roughly estimate the price tag at as
much as $93 trillion, which is more
money than the Federal Government
has spent in its entire history, in ex-
change for the systematic dismantling
of American prosperity.
It advocated for the abolition of the
most affordable and plentiful domestic
energy resources available to American
families and a hog-tied American econ-
omy that our competitors would leave
in the dust.
So it should come as no surprise that
for the sequel we see and hear that
Senate Democrats may soon officially
introduce their proposed Washington,
DC, takeover of health insurance—the
plan I call ‘‘Medicare for None.’’
It is a fitting name for a proposal
that would gut the Medicare Program
as American seniors know it, reuse the
label on a new, government-run, one-
size-fits-all arrangement, and remove
180 million Americans from the private
insurance they have chosen in order to
funnel them into a system without
choice.
What is especially ironic is that my
Democratic colleagues are choosing to
agitate for this pivot toward socialism
during this particularly important eco-
nomic period—at this particular mo-
ment, with more job openings than
Americans looking for work for the
first time since recordkeeping started,
when we have seen unemployment
reach a 49-year low and wages growing
faster than they have in a decade. It is
the kind of economy where a single
mom in Mississippi says: ‘‘It’s amazing
that I’m getting paid almost $20 an
hour to learn how to weld.’’
It is the kind of economy where ga-
rage door installers in Nevada say they
are literally afraid to let potential new
hires walk out the door because Amer-
ican workers are in such high demand.
Let’s remember that this trans-
formation is being helped along by Sen-
ate Republican ideas and policies that
are the polar opposite—totally oppo-
site—of what our Democratic friends
are now calling for.
Here is how Republican pro-growth
and pro-opportunity policies helped us
get where we are: by encouraging job
creators to invest here at home instead
of penalizing success; by recognizing
that working families know best how
to spend their paychecks, not Wash-
ington; and by creating conditions for
an economic surge that touches every
corner of our country.
Now all of America is reaping the
benefits. This isn’t like the last admin-
istration, where 75 percent of new jobs
and 90 percent of the population
growth flowed into the very largest
metropolitan areas. This time it is an
all-American comeback, and all kinds
of communities are benefiting from
more jobs, more opportunities, and
more growth in pay.
Monday is tax day. It is not exactly
a time many of us look forward to, but
this year marks the first time Ameri-
cans are filing under the new Repub-
lican tax reform law that has helped
them keep more of their paychecks and
has helped to create the outstanding
economy we see today. Democrats may
be working overtime to bring this
bright chapter to an end, but over here,
on this side of the aisle, we will keep
making sure that this is still just the
beginning of these brighter days for the
American people.
f
RESERVATION OF LEADER TIME
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tem-
pore. Under the previous order, the
leadership time is reserved.
f
CONCLUSION OF MORNING
BUSINESS
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tem-
pore. Morning business is closed.
EXECUTIVE SESSION
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR—Resumed
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tem-
pore. Under the previous order, the
Senate will proceed to executive ses-
sion to resume consideration of the fol-
lowing nomination, which the clerk
will report.
The legislative clerk read the nomi-
nation of Cheryl Marie Stanton, of
South Carolina, to be Administrator of
the Wage and Hour Division, Depart-
ment of Labor.
Mr. MCCONNELL. I suggest the ab-
sence of a quorum.
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tem-
pore. The clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk proceeded to
call the roll.
Mr. MENENDEZ. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
CRAMER). Without objection, it is so or-
dered.
NOMINATION OF JOHN P. ABIZAID
Mr. MENENDEZ. Mr. President, I
rise in strong support of General
Abizaid’s confirmation to be our Am-
bassador to the Kingdom of Saudi Ara-
bia. It took this administration nearly
2 years to even nominate someone to
this critical position, and, unfortu-
nately, we have seen the results of the
absence of serious, experienced U.S.
leadership.
I was pleased that the Senate For-
eign Relations Committee expedi-
tiously moved his nomination. In the
past 2 years, we have seen Saudi lead-
ership take actions that have seriously
strained the U.S.-Saudi relationship
and that have run fundamentally
counter to basic international norms.
Saudi Arabia has detained and re-
portedly tortured members of its own
royal family and has effectively ab-
ducted the Lebanese Prime Minister. In
Yemen, the Crown Prince’s coalition
has led an offensive that has been re-
sponsible not just for breeding the
world’s worst humanitarian crisis but
also for potentially opening the door to
more malign Iranian influence. To this
day, we still also seek accountability
for the brutal murder of American resi-
dent and journalist Jamal Khashoggi.
With the White House’s having con-
ducted freelance diplomacy, the Amer-
ican people have had little faith that
there has been serious pressure on the
Saudi leadership for it to correct
course. Worse, we continue to learn
that the administration appears to be
rewarding the Kingdom with secret
side deals in support of its nuclear pro-
gram—far outside the scope of legally
prescribed processes.
Amidst all of this, we must find a
way to get the U.S.-Saudi relationship
back on course, for we do continue to
share some common challenges and in-
terests. Yet U.S. alliances are strong-
est with partners with whom we share
values and with whom we can have
honest conversations.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:31 Apr 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G10AP6.002 S10APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2351
April 10, 2019
General Abizaid faces a tall chal-
lenge, but I believe he is up to the job.
He has the experience and leadership
necessary to both manage a large mis-
sion and get the currently fraught rela-
tionship with Saudi Arabia back on
track in a way that advances our secu-
rity interests and stays true to our
ideals.
I urge my colleagues to support Gen-
eral Abizaid’s confirmation. His leader-
ship, deep regional expertise, manage-
ment skills, knowledge of Arabic, and
experience in having served in conflict
areas will make him an effective U.S.
Ambassador to Saudi Arabia.
CONFIRMATION OF PATRICK R. WYRICK
Mr. President, I want to spend a mo-
ment on the issue of judicial nomi-
nees—specifically the President’s
nominee for the U.S. District Court for
the Western District of Oklahoma, Mr.
Patrick Wyrick.
Mr. Wyrick’s record suggests he is
little more than a rightwing crusader
in the war against the reproductive
rights of women. In 2014, he spear-
headed an amicus in the Sebelius v.
Hobby Lobby Stores, Inc., case, argu-
ing that corporations’ religious rights
were violated by the Affordable Care
Act’s requirement that employers’
health plans cover birth control. By a
5-to-4 margin, the Supreme Court
agreed. Likewise, while representing
Oklahoma in Pruitt v. Nova Health
Systems, Mr. Wyrick defended a law
mandating that women who seek abor-
tions first submit to having
ultrasounds. Fortunately, the Okla-
homa Supreme Court struck down that
law.
I could go on, but the bottom line is
that Mr. Wyrick embodies President
Trump’s pledge to only nominate
judges who are committed to rolling
back reproductive rights even if they
are seriously unqualified for lifetime
appointments.
Let’s be honest about why the Repub-
licans seek to confirm these judicial
nominations at record speed. After
being punished at the polls for their as-
sault on affordable healthcare, they
want our courts to do their dirty work
for them. How convenient it is that the
Republicans can confirm judges who
have hostile records on healthcare even
as they distance themselves from the
Trump administration’s reckless deci-
sion to declare the entire Affordable
Care Act as unconstitutional, including
the law’s protections for patients with
preexisting conditions, the tax credits
that help families to afford premiums,
the expansion of Medicaid, and so much
more.
I am tired of watching the majority
stack our courts in favor of wealthy
special interests even as they know full
well that Americans overwhelmingly
oppose their morally bankrupt agenda.
Once again, Americans oppose letting
health insurance companies discrimi-
nate against people with preexisting
conditions. They oppose their plan to
end Medicaid as we know it and their
trillion-dollar tax cuts for big corpora-
tions. They oppose this President’s as-
sault on the rights of consumers, work-
ers, students, and women.
Democracy is supposed to be a battle
of ideas, but when it comes to
healthcare or student loan debt or cli-
mate change, the Republican Party
does not have any. When you can’t win
on the merits, what do you do? You tip
the scales of justice in your favor.
Well, I, for one, will not stay silent. I
will continue to speak out against un-
qualified nominees like Patrick
Wyrick, and I will continue to vote
against judges whose views are grossly
out of step with the views of the vast
majority of Americans on everything
from the environment to women’s re-
productive rights to healthcare for all.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Mr. THUNE. I ask unanimous con-
sent that the order for the quorum call
be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
TAX REFORM
Mr. THUNE. Mr. President, tax day is
not anyone’s favorite day, but thanks
to the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, millions
of American families are facing a less
painful tax bill this year. They are also
seeing a lot of economic opportunity.
When Republicans took office after
President Trump’s election, we were
determined to make things better for
American families. Under the Obama
administration, the economy had stag-
nated, wages barely grew, job growth
was weak, business investment growth
was low.
Republicans knew that if we wanted
to make life better for families, we had
to turn that around. American families
can’t thrive if the economy isn’t thriv-
ing. You need a strong, growing econ-
omy to give Americans access to good
wages, good jobs, and real opportuni-
ties.
So we got right to work. We repealed
burdensome regulations that were act-
ing as a drag on economic growth, and
we passed a comprehensive reform of
our Nation’s outdated Tax Code.
Why the Tax Code? Well, the Tax
Code has a huge effect on our economy.
A small business owner facing a huge
tax bill is unlikely to be able to expand
her business or to hire a new employee.
In fact, if her tax burden is heavy
enough, she may not even be able to
keep her business open.
Similarly, a large business is going
to find it pretty hard to create jobs or
improve benefits for employees if it is
struggling to stay competitive against
foreign businesses that are paying
much less in taxes.
Prior to the passage of the Tax Cuts
and Jobs Act, our Tax Code was not
helping our economy. In fact, it was
doing the opposite, and so we made re-
forming our Tax Code a priority.
Our goal with the Tax Cuts and Jobs
Act was twofold: put more money in
Americans’ pockets immediately and
get the economy going again to give
Americans access to good jobs, good
wages, and opportunities for the long
term, and that is exactly what we did.
To put more money in Americans’
pockets right away, we cut tax rates
for American families, doubled the
child tax credit, and nearly doubled the
standard deduction, and now families
are seeing the effects.
The liberal Tax Policy Center reports
that under the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act,
90 percent of middle-class families are
seeing a tax cut. For 2018, the typical
family of four saw a tax break of more
than $2,000. That is more money every
month to put toward a family vaca-
tion, a home or car repair, or a kid’s
braces, or to tuck away in savings for
a rainy day.
That is not all. As I said earlier, fam-
ilies aren’t just seeing a lower tax bill;
they are also seeing more economic op-
portunity thanks to the economic
growth spurred by the Tax Cuts and
Jobs Act.
The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act lowered
tax rates across the board for owners of
small- and medium-size businesses,
farms, and ranches. It lowered our Na-
tion’s massive corporate tax rate,
which up until January 1 of last year
was the highest corporate tax rate in
the developed world. It expanded busi-
ness owners’ ability to recover the cost
of investments they make in their
businesses, which frees up cash they
can reinvest in their operations and in
their workers. It brought the U.S.
international tax system into the 21st
century so that American businesses
are not operating at a competitive dis-
advantage relative to their foreign
counterparts.
Those measures have done exactly
what they were supposed to do: Get our
economy going again. Economic
growth is up. Job creation is up. Wages
are up. Personal income is up. Business
investment is up. Unemployment is
down.
Since tax reform was enacted, job
growth has averaged 215,000 jobs per
month. That is almost twice—almost
twice—the monthly average during the
Obama administration.
In 2018, for the first time ever, the
number of jobs outnumbered the num-
ber of jobseekers; 2018 was the first
time ever.
The Department of Labor reports
that the number of jobs available has
now exceeded the number of those
looking for work for 12 straight
months. Unemployment has now been
at or below 4 percent for 13 months. In
the last week of March, the number of
jobless claims hit its lowest level in 50
years.
U.S. manufacturing, which saw thou-
sands of job losses during the Obama
years, is booming. Since tax reform
was passed 15 months ago, the manu-
facturing industry has added thousands
of jobs.
Wages have been growing at or above
3 percent for 8 straight months. Since
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:31 Apr 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G10AP6.003 S10APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2352 April 10, 2019
wages are growing faster than infla-
tion, that is translating to a real in-
crease in purchasing power for Amer-
ican consumers.
Business investment is up. Since the
passage of tax reform, business invest-
ment growth has averaged 7 percent,
almost twice—almost twice—what it
averaged during the Obama adminis-
tration.
What do all of these numbers mean?
They mean more and better jobs for
jobseekers. They mean more money in
your paycheck to spend or save for the
future. They mean more and better op-
portunities to advance in your career.
Thanks to tax reform, more families
can afford to pay that orthodontist bill
and still save some money for a family
vacation. More families can afford to
cover that unexpected car repair or
plumber’s bill. More families can afford
to put a little extra away each month
for the kids’ education or for their re-
tirement.
I am proud that tax reform is making
life better for American families. Re-
publicans will continue working to se-
cure the gains that we have made for
the long term and to expand opportuni-
ties for hard-working Americans even
further.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
RECOGNITION OF THE MINORITY LEADER
The Democratic leader is recognized.
NOMINATION OF DAVID BERNHARDT
Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, later
this week the Senate will vote on the
confirmation of David Bernhardt, a
longtime lobbyist, to the position of
Interior Secretary. An oil and gas lob-
byist will be entrusted with our sa-
cred—sacred—inheritance, the great
lands of America.
I urge Senators to oppose this nomi-
nation.
The Department of the Interior is the
Agency entrusted with protecting our
Nation’s public lands, our water sup-
plies, our wildlife, and our energy re-
sources. It grapples directly with some
of the biggest questions our country
faces: how to respond to climate
change, how to protect endangered spe-
cies, and how to care for our precious
natural resources. Yet to lead our Inte-
rior Department, President Trump has
nominated Mr. Bernhardt, an oil and
gas lobbyist who has made a career
harming the environment, subverting
environmental protections, and helping
polluters sidestep Federal regulation.
As former Secretary Zinke’s deputy,
he has paved the way for even more
polluters to run rampant without ac-
countability. Under his watch, the De-
partment of the Interior has already
opened a colossal 17 million acres of
Federal land for oil and gas leases, gen-
erating millions in revenue for energy
companies, all while Bernhardt reck-
lessly managed our national parks dur-
ing the government shutdown.
I am especially troubled this morning
because POLITICO reported that under
Mr. Bernhardt’s watch, the Depart-
ment of the Interior might even
greenlight offshore drilling off the
coasts of Florida—a prospect both par-
ties in the State say they oppose. This
should be a wake-up call to my col-
leagues all up and down the coast—At-
lantic, Pacific, and the gulf. If they
can’t find a reason to oppose this nomi-
nee based on the other serious and
troubling issues that have been raised,
maybe this is reason enough for them.
It is hard to imagine someone whose
background is so at odds with the De-
partment’s mission as Bernhardt’s. For
all his talk of draining the swamp,
President Trump wants to add yet an-
other Washington swamp creature lob-
byist to his Cabinet.
By the way, our resources—our oil
and gas resources—are large. The moti-
vation here to spoil public lands for oil
and gas drilling—it is the power of the
oil companies. It has nothing to do
with the plan for natural resources.
Bernhardt is an exemplary example of
the power of these oil companies.
Gravely troubling is the long list of
conflicting interests that Bernhardt
brings to Trump’s Cabinet. Up to 20 of
his former clients have lobbied the De-
partment of the Interior since his ar-
rival, and the New York Times re-
ported last week that he very likely
has been less than forthcoming about
when he stopped lobbying. No other
Cabinet-level nominee in the Trump
era has so many conflicts of interest,
and that is a low bar. It is a distinction
no one should be proud to hold.
Worst of all, Bernhardt is a hardened
enemy of climate science. If you are a
lobbyist for oil and gas companies, you
would say that climate change isn’t
real too. The Washington Post reported
he attended a session of administration
officials that ‘‘debated how best to es-
tablish a group of researchers that
could scrutinize recent federal climate
reports.’’ Translation: Bernhardt is ac-
tively working to set up the White
House’s fake panel to deny basic
science.
I have already introduced legislation
to prohibit any funding from going to
this fake climate panel, but knowing
Mr. Bernhardt’s role in setting it up
should send shivers down the spines of
every American who is worried about
the impact of our changing climate on
their families, their farms, and future
generations.
We cannot entrust our public lands
to someone known to wage a campaign
of censorship against facts and reason.
Now, later today, I am going to be able
to meet with Mr. Bernhardt to discuss
his qualifications. I am letting him
know now that I will ask him the same
three questions I have asked my Re-
publican colleagues in this Chamber.
One, does Mr. Bernhardt agree that cli-
mate change is real; two, does he agree
it is a product of human action; and
three, should the Federal Government
have a role in combating its effects?
His record suggests his answer to all
these questions is no, but let’s see what
he says today.
Caring for our planet and being good
stewards of our natural resources are
the most important responsibilities we
owe to future generations, so I am
gravely concerned about Bernhardt’s
nomination to the Department of the
Interior, and I urge my colleagues to
vote no on his confirmation.
One final point. It still amazes me
that Donald Trump campaigns on
cleaning up the swamp, and he does ex-
actly the opposite when in office. An
oil and gas lobbyist is head of the De-
partment of the Interior? My God, that
is an example of the swampiness of
Washington, if there ever was one.
When are Donald Trump’s supporters
going to understand this; that what he
promised them, in so many different
instances, he is not delivering. It is be-
fuddling. It is a sign of the weakness of
our democracy that someone can walk
into the Presidency promising so many
things and then just immediately do
the opposite and still a large chunk of
Americans say they support him. It is
amazing to me.
H.R. 268
Mr. President, for months, American
citizens have been reeling from natural
disasters and are in desperate need of
Federal aid. Parenthetically, I remind
Mr. Bernhardt that a lot of these disas-
ters, scientists believe, are because the
climate is warmer, and the weather is
changing, but rather than work with us
to provide the much needed aid to large
chunks of America, our Republican col-
leagues have once again decided to fol-
low President Trump and refuse to
compromise. They are so afraid of him
that even when he proposes something
they know is wrong and irrational,
they do a 180-degree hairpin turn and
support what he is doing.
Now, that would be just politics, ex-
cept millions are awaiting aid and need
help. Their homes, their farms, their
offices, and their factories are under-
water, literally, in a lot of places still.
Just yesterday, House Democrats of-
fered a solution. We said: Let’s provide
disaster relief not to some Americans
but to all Americans struggling to re-
cover and rebuild from natural disas-
ters.
Their new proposal that the House
offered includes an additional $3 bil-
lion—this is House Democrats, not
Senate Democrats, by the way. Their
new proposal includes an additional $3
billion to address urgent needs fol-
lowing the floods in the Midwest and
the tornadoes in the South. This plus-
up includes $1.5 billion for the Army
Corps of Engineers to support flood
risk reduction so crucial in the Mis-
souri River Valley, $1 billion in CDBG
for long-term recovery needs, and $500
million in agriculture funding to help
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:31 Apr 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G10AP6.005 S10APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2353
April 10, 2019
the farmers and ranchers rehabilitate
farmland damaged by natural disasters
and replace some of the farm animals
that have been lost.
Yesterday’s House bill comes in addi-
tion to the proposals Senator LEAHY
and I offered last week—and it is simi-
lar to them—and in addition to the
work Senator LEAHY did last month.
So, again and again, Democrats pre-
sented option after option for disaster
funding that helps the Midwest, helps
the coasts, helps the South, and helps
Puerto Rico and other territories. None
of our offers are either-or, help this but
not that.
Enough excuses from our Republican
colleagues. We have had enough of the
slow playing, but, more important, the
people who need this help have had
enough. The bottom line is very sim-
ple. The aid we seek is what Americans
have always done. When there is a dis-
aster, we all come together and aid
those areas in a disaster because we
know when a huge natural disaster hits
from God, an area can’t deal with it on
their own. They don’t have the re-
sources or the ability, and they are,
many times, in trouble because of the
disaster itself.
We say: Come to the aid, but all of a
sudden Donald Trump goes into the Re-
publican lunch a week and a half ago
and says: I don’t want any aid for Puer-
to Rico. He falsely claims they have
gotten $91 billion—not true—and then
all our Republican friends go along.
Well, we are not. The House will not.
Senate Democrats will not. Plain and
simple, we don’t believe you should
pick and choose. Why did President
Trump single out Puerto Rico, which
are American citizens like everybody
else? A lot of theories, but regardless of
what your theory is, that is not the
way to govern as President, and, frank-
ly, it is not the way we should govern
as Senators. It is bewildering that our
Republican colleagues have caved to
President Trump’s—what can we call
it—temper tantrum, even though they
are well aware of the problems and
were ready to help Puerto Rico before
he threw that temper tantrum.
Some say: Well, Puerto Rico is get-
ting a little money. They are getting
food stamp aid.
Well, great. Then let’s just give food
stamp aid to everybody else. Let’s give
it to everyone else. Now, what about
all the farms that are underwater?
What about all the homes that are
flooded and needing help? If you give
food stamp aid, that doesn’t help them.
So let’s be fair. Let’s treat each area
the same. Let’s do what we have done
in the American tradition: Come to-
gether, when there is a disaster, to help
Americans. Let’s not be so afraid of
Donald Trump that when you know he
is wrong, you just go along.
The idea that Puerto Rico should be
treated differently from the rest of
America is insulting. It is against our
American values and a betrayal of the
promise to look after all American
citizens, not because of their politics
and not because of what their last
names might sound like; as American
citizens, we come together during
times of need.
Democrats will not yield in our re-
sponsibility to all American citizens,
and I tell that to all my friends from
the farm States, even those who voted
against aid to New York when we had
our hurricane. I never even considered
not voting for aid to any other place in
the country. I always have.
I say to my friends: Let’s treat every-
one fairly, and we can get the much
needed disaster aid out there quickly.
NOMINATIONS
Mr. President, finally, on chaos. Over
the past 12 days, the President has
sought to fix his broken policies by
breaking down his administration
piece by piece. Even in an administra-
tion where we have become used to see-
ing extremism and illogic rule the day,
a government of whim, a government
of erraticism, a government of temper
tantrums, the last few days has
reached a new low in dysfunction, and
all of this has a simple root cause.
Every time President Trump faces a
new challenge, he just keeps pointing
his fingers and blaming others—blame
her, blame him, fire this one, and fire
that one.
Mr. President—President Trump, you
are not a TV host. You are the Presi-
dent. Work to fix it. Don’t keep firing.
Don’t keep changing policies from one
day to the next and then abandoning
them. Roll up your sleeves, bring in the
experts, and work to fix it. You are the
President—but the President seems to
much more enjoy blaming people,
whether they are in his own adminis-
tration, people of our political party,
and everyone else in between, than ac-
tually solving the problems.
He says he wants to keep Americans
safe, but President Trump fires the
DHS Secretary and Secret Service Di-
rector on a whim and provokes shut-
downs that cripple our airports and our
ports of entry. The President says he
wants to strengthen America’s stand-
ing in the world. Yet no President has
done more to undermine the work of
diplomacy and the State Department
than Donald Trump. He says Repub-
licans will be the party of healthcare.
Yet he sues to devastate our healthcare
system, with no plans to replace it.
In this administration, chaos reigns,
and the source of the chaos comes only
from one place, the President of the
United States and his erratic, vacil-
lating, often vindictive attitudes to-
ward personnel and policies. When will
President Trump learn that the biggest
problem is not the personnel executing
his agenda; it is the extreme irrational
policies that are abhorrent to Amer-
ican values and sometimes against the
law, but he insists on it. Every day
that President Trump treats the most
consequential job in the world like it is
some kind of reality TV show is an-
other day that America’s security, sta-
bility, and long-term prosperity is fur-
ther in peril.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
SASSE). The clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk proceeded to
call the roll.
Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
DEBBIE SMITH ACT
Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, I would
like to start by sharing a story about
one of my personal heroes, Debbie
Smith. Debbie Smith is living proof
that one person can change the world if
they have the courage to tell their
story and fight for justice.
In 1989, Debbie was at home doing
laundry. Her husband Rob, a police of-
ficer, was asleep upstairs after working
a night shift.
Suddenly a masked man entered her
home and threatened to kill her if she
screamed. He blindfolded and abducted
Debbie and took her outside to a wood-
ed area behind her home, where he
robbed and repeatedly raped her. The
man threatened her over and over, say-
ing: Remember, I know where you live,
and I will come back to kill you if you
tell anyone.
After he finally left, Debbie ran up-
stairs to tell her husband. She begged
him not to make her go to the police.
But he, as a police officer, insisted that
she report the crime and go to the
emergency room for a sexual assault
forensic exam, sometimes called a rape
kit exam.
Debbie did go for that examination
and did report the crime. But for
Debbie and millions of other survivors
there are no immediate answers. Be-
cause of the nationwide backlog of un-
tested rape kits, it would be years be-
fore she was able to identify her assail-
ant and find any sort of peace.
Although the exact numbers are hard
to estimate, experts believe that hun-
dreds of thousands of rape kits remain
untested in the United States, and, of
course, each one of them represents a
unique story of a sexual assault victim
and holds the key to apprehending a
violent criminal.
Waiting for that evidence to be test-
ed can be excruciating. Debbie said
that fear took over her life. She was
haunted by the man’s voice threat-
ening to kill her. She was terrified for
herself and her family, and she even be-
came suicidal for a time.
It wasn’t until 61⁄2 years later that
Debbie finally got the answer she had
been looking for when a DNA cold hit
revealed the identity of her rapist. She
later said in an interview that DNA
gave her back her life.
Debbie chose to harness her pain and
to use it to save others from living
through years of uncertainty as she
did. She has become the fiercest advo-
cate in the Nation for eliminating the
rape kit backlog. She has devoted her
life to making a difference for victims
of sexual violence.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:31 Apr 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G10AP6.006 S10APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2354 April 10, 2019
The aptly named Debbie Smith Act
was originally signed into law in 2004
to provide State and local crime labs
the resources they need to end the
backlog of untested DNA evidence from
unsolved crimes through additional
funding and increased capacity. Under
this law, Congress has provided more
than $1 billion since then in vital fund-
ing to forensic labs for analyzing crime
scene DNA evidence, uploading the re-
sults into the CODIS database, which is
what happens to the test after it is
completed, and identifying violent fu-
gitives and taking these violent crimi-
nals off the street.
Not only does this sort of testing pro-
vide relief for victims like Debbie and
justice for their attackers, but the evi-
dence is also effective in assisting in-
vestigations for other crimes. This is
important because violent offenders
will often commit many different types
of crimes in many different jurisdic-
tions. For example, if a criminal com-
mits a burglary in one State, DNA evi-
dence from that burglary case can be
used later to connect this offender to
an unsolved rape case in another State.
The States, thankfully, are following
suit. Texas, I am proud to say, has led
the Nation in passing mandatory rape
kit testing laws, conducting audits of
the backlog, and using Debbie Smith
funds to analyze untested sexual as-
sault evidence. I am proud to report
that over the last 7 years we have re-
duced our statewide rape kit backlog
from more than 20,000 to just over 2,000.
This is an astounding achievement, and
thankfully it is being replicated all
across the Nation because of this im-
portant legislation and because of the
courage of one woman, Debbie Smith.
By ensuring the Debbie Smith Act
funds can be used to analyze evidence
from all types of crime scenes, we can
help forensic labs address their sys-
temic backlogs and holistically target
the cycle of violence. The Debbie
Smith Act of 2019 will reauthorize the
Debbie Smith Act program to continue
the testing of DNA evidence from un-
solved crimes nationwide, including
rape kits. It will also reauthorize DNA
training and education for law enforce-
ment, correctional personnel, and
court officers, as well as forensic
nurses who take this DNA evidence
during these rape kit collections to
make sure that all of them are pre-
pared to gather the evidence and to
test it. Since 2005, Debbie Smith Act
funding has led to the creation of 43
percent of all forensic CODIS profiles.
Again, this is the FBI database, where
the rape kit information can be entered
to see if it matches previously entered
DNA profiles.
Let me say that again. Since 2005,
Debbie Smith Act funding has led to
the creation of 43 percent of all foren-
sic CODIS profiles as well as 20 percent
of all offender samples in CODIS.
In total, Debbie Smith DNA grants
are responsible for 45 percent of all
matches made in CODIS, which is truly
remarkable. Reauthorizing this legisla-
tion once again is a top priority for me
as we work to continue chipping away
at the nationwide rape kit backlog and
provide these victims with the answers
and relief they need.
Over the years, I have had the pleas-
ure of meeting and working with
Debbie several times, and we have been
fortunate to have her share her per-
spective before the Judiciary Com-
mittee on multiple occasions.
I have also worked with two other in-
spiring victims from Texas—Lavinia
Masters and Carol Bart, who, like
Debbie, had the courage to come for-
ward and talk about a very difficult
event in their lives, but to use their
pain as a way to help others. Lavinia
and Carol have also lent their voices in
advocating for reforms to reduce the
rape kit backlog.
I am grateful to these and countless
other survivors who bravely share their
stories and ideas as we work together
to eliminate the backlog once and for
all. I hope the Debbie Smith Act of 2019
will soon be reported out of the Judici-
ary Committee and will quickly make
its way to the Senate floor, pass in
Congress, and make its way to the
President for his signature without
delay.
H.R. 1585
Mr. President, on another matter,
earlier this week the House passed a
bill to reauthorize the Violence
Against Women Act. Our Democratic
colleagues keep saying how important
it is to quickly pass this legislation to
restore funding to VAWA as it is
known, but I think it is important to
back up for a moment and remember
why that funding lapsed in the first
place.
Earlier this year our Democratic col-
leagues allowed VAWA to get caught in
the crosshairs of our funding debates,
and they insisted we should not fund
this vital program because it was over-
due for updates. Their argument was
this: We want to reform or update
VAWA, so we are going to let funding
for it lapse. It just didn’t make any
sense at all.
It is no secret that folks on the other
side of the aisle think it is time we
made some changes to the program. It
is something I support, but we don’t
need to let the funding lapse in order
to do it.
This is an issue that our friend and
colleague Senator ERNST continues to
champion here in the Senate. But the
approach taken by our Democratic col-
leagues to get those changes is a head-
scratcher, to say the least.
There were, as I see it, two options
on how to solve the problem. One was
to provide an extension for the pre-
vious funding to the end of the fiscal
year. That would have allowed us to
work on the long-term reauthorization
under the regular processes in the Sen-
ate, which, in my experience, is always
the preferred action to take.
The second option our Democratic
colleagues chose was to do nothing and
let this important legislation expire
without a plan to replace it. For what-
ever reason, that was the option that
Democrats in the House chose.
In the nearly 2 months since, we have
tried to negotiate a short-term exten-
sion to fund these vital programs. As
recently as last week, our Democratic
colleagues had a chance to support the
restoration of funding while our nego-
tiations continued.
The supplemental appropriations bill
introduced by Senator SHELBY would
have funded the Violence Against
Women Act through the end of the fis-
cal year—again, giving us time to ne-
gotiate changes in the law that Demo-
crats obviously want. But our Demo-
cratic colleagues simply refuse to sup-
port even a procedural vote that would
have allowed us to get on the bill and
debate it and then amend it. It seems
increasingly clear to me that rather
than providing the funding for victims
of sexual assault and other violence,
rather than finding solutions, what is
happening here is that politics is creep-
ing in and rearing its ugly head.
It is clear to me that this isn’t about
finding a solution; this is about polit-
ical game playing. Now, rather than
going through regular order to create a
long-term reauthorization that in-
cludes feedback from both sides, House
Democrats are trying to jam a one-
sided piece of legislation through the
House and then through the Senate. I
think this is very shameful.
Our Democratic colleagues first re-
fused to fund the Violence Against
Women Act. They allowed it to expire,
and now they are using victims of vio-
lence as leverage to push through their
rushed, one-sided piece of legislation.
Throwing a temper tantrum and hold-
ing the Violence Against Women’s Act
hostage until you get what you want is
not a responsible way to legislate.
I would encourage our colleagues
across the aisle to put politics aside for
just a moment and work with us to
pass a short-term extension for VAWA
while we use the regular order to dis-
cuss long-term solutions.
There is a good way and a bad way to
do this, and, unfortunately, our Demo-
cratic colleagues have chosen the bad
way, but we would ask them to recon-
sider and work with us—not for us, but
for the victims of domestic violence
who are suffering as a result of their
game playing.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk proceeded to
call the roll.
Mrs. BLACKBURN. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the order
for the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
All time has expired.
The question is, Will the Senate ad-
vise and consent to the Stanton nomi-
nation?
Mrs. BLACKBURN. Mr. President, I
ask for the yeas and nays.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:31 Apr 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G10AP6.008 S10APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2355
April 10, 2019
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there a
sufficient second?
There appears to be a sufficient sec-
ond.
The clerk will call the roll.
The bill clerk called the roll.
Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the
Senator from New Jersey (Mr. BOOKER)
and the Senator from Minnesota (Ms.
KLOBUCHAR) are necessarily absent.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
LANKFORD). Are there any other Sen-
ators in the Chamber desiring to vote?
The result was announced—yeas 53,
nays 45, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 70 Ex.]
YEAS—53
Alexander
Barrasso
Blackburn
Blunt
Boozman
Braun
Burr
Capito
Cassidy
Collins
Cornyn
Cotton
Cramer
Crapo
Cruz
Daines
Enzi
Ernst
Fischer
Gardner
Graham
Grassley
Hawley
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Inhofe
Isakson
Johnson
Kennedy
Lankford
Lee
McConnell
McSally
Moran
Murkowski
Paul
Perdue
Portman
Risch
Roberts
Romney
Rounds
Rubio
Sasse
Scott (FL)
Scott (SC)
Shelby
Sullivan
Thune
Tillis
Toomey
Wicker
Young
NAYS—45
Baldwin
Bennet
Blumenthal
Brown
Cantwell
Cardin
Carper
Casey
Coons
Cortez Masto
Duckworth
Durbin
Feinstein
Gillibrand
Harris
Hassan
Heinrich
Hirono
Jones
Kaine
King
Leahy
Manchin
Markey
Menendez
Merkley
Murphy
Murray
Peters
Reed
Rosen
Sanders
Schatz
Schumer
Shaheen
Sinema
Smith
Stabenow
Tester
Udall
Van Hollen
Warner
Warren
Whitehouse
Wyden
NOT VOTING—2
Booker Klobuchar
The nomination was confirmed.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the motion to re-
consider is considered made and laid
upon the table. The President will be
immediately notified of the Senate’s
action.
f
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the Abizaid nomina-
tion.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read the nomination of John P.
Abizaid, of Nevada, to be Ambassador
Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of
the United States of America to the
Kingdom of Saudi Arabia.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is, Will the Senate advise and
consent to the Abizaid nomination?
Mr. RISCH. I ask for the yeas and
nays.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there a
sufficient second?
There appears to be a sufficient sec-
ond.
The clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
called the roll.
Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the
Senator from New Jersey (Mr. BOOKER)
is necessarily absent.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Are there
any other Senators in the Chamber de-
siring to vote?
The result was announced—yeas 92,
nays 7, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 71 Ex.]
YEAS—92
Alexander
Baldwin
Barrasso
Bennet
Blackburn
Blumenthal
Blunt
Boozman
Braun
Brown
Burr
Cantwell
Capito
Cardin
Carper
Casey
Cassidy
Collins
Coons
Cornyn
Cortez Masto
Cotton
Cramer
Crapo
Cruz
Daines
Duckworth
Durbin
Enzi
Ernst
Feinstein
Fischer
Gardner
Graham
Grassley
Hassan
Hawley
Heinrich
Hirono
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Inhofe
Isakson
Johnson
Jones
Kaine
Kennedy
King
Klobuchar
Lankford
Leahy
Lee
Manchin
McConnell
McSally
Menendez
Moran
Murkowski
Murphy
Murray
Paul
Perdue
Peters
Portman
Reed
Risch
Roberts
Romney
Rosen
Rounds
Rubio
Sasse
Schatz
Schumer
Scott (FL)
Scott (SC)
Shaheen
Shelby
Sinema
Smith
Stabenow
Sullivan
Tester
Thune
Tillis
Toomey
Van Hollen
Warner
Whitehouse
Wicker
Wyden
Young
NAYS—7
Gillibrand
Harris
Markey
Merkley
Sanders
Udall
Warren
NOT VOTING—1
Booker
The nomination was confirmed.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the motion to re-
consider is considered made and laid
upon the table and the President will
be immediately notified of the Senate’s
action.
f
CLOTURE MOTION
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Pursuant
to rule XXII, the Chair lays before the
Senate the pending cloture motion,
which the clerk will state.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on the nomi-
nation of Holly A. Brady, of Indiana, to be
United States District Judge for the North-
ern District of Indiana.
Mitch McConnell, Johnny Isakson, Roger
F. Wicker, John Boozman, John Cor-
nyn, Mike Crapo, Shelley Moore Cap-
ito, Pat Roberts, Roy Blunt, Deb Fisch-
er, David Perdue, Todd Young, John
Thune, Mike Rounds, Steve Daines,
John Hoeven, Thom Tillis.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
mandatory quorum call has been
waived.
The question is, Is it the sense of the
Senate that debate on the nomination
of Holly A. Brady, of Indiana, to be
United States District Judge for the
Northern District of Indiana, shall be
brought to a close?
The yeas and nays are mandatory
under the rule.
The clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant bill clerk called
the roll.
Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the
Senator from New Jersey (Mr. BOOKER)
is necessarily absent.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. ROM-
NEY). Are there any other Senators in
the Chamber desiring to vote?
The yeas and nays resulted—yeas 56,
nays 43, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 72 Ex.]
YEAS—56
Alexander
Barrasso
Blackburn
Blunt
Boozman
Braun
Burr
Capito
Cassidy
Collins
Cornyn
Cotton
Cramer
Crapo
Cruz
Daines
Enzi
Ernst
Fischer
Gardner
Graham
Grassley
Hawley
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Inhofe
Isakson
Johnson
Jones
Kennedy
Lankford
Lee
Manchin
McConnell
McSally
Moran
Murkowski
Paul
Perdue
Portman
Risch
Roberts
Romney
Rounds
Rubio
Sasse
Scott (FL)
Scott (SC)
Shelby
Sinema
Sullivan
Thune
Tillis
Toomey
Wicker
Young
NAYS—43
Baldwin
Bennet
Blumenthal
Brown
Cantwell
Cardin
Carper
Casey
Coons
Cortez Masto
Duckworth
Durbin
Feinstein
Gillibrand
Harris
Hassan
Heinrich
Hirono
Kaine
King
Klobuchar
Leahy
Markey
Menendez
Merkley
Murphy
Murray
Peters
Reed
Rosen
Sanders
Schatz
Schumer
Shaheen
Smith
Stabenow
Tester
Udall
Van Hollen
Warner
Warren
Whitehouse
Wyden
NOT VOTING—1
Booker
The PRESIDING OFFICER. On this
vote, the yeas are 56, and the nays are
43.
The motion is agreed to.
f
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the nomination.
The legislative clerk read the nomi-
nation of Holly A. Brady, of Indiana, to
be United States District Judge for the
Northern District of Indiana.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Iowa.
30TH ANNIVERSARY OF THE WHISTLEBLOWER
PROTECTION ACT
Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President,
today marks the 30th anniversary of a
very important law—the Whistleblower
Protection Act. It is very important
because people in government ought to
listen to whistleblowers. They are very
patriotic people.
The law is a critical foundation for
the whistleblower protections we have
in place today. The Whistleblower Pro-
tection Act has helped to usher in a
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:31 Apr 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G10AP6.010 S10APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2356 April 10, 2019
new era at our Federal Agencies. Gov-
ernment employees who are aware of
waste, fraud, and abuse can now step
forward and do the right thing, and
they can do it with the law on their
side.
As one of the original cosponsors of
the Whistleblower Protection Act, I re-
member what things were like before
that law was passed. I will give some
examples, and these examples aren’t
pretty.
Back in the 1980s, I used to say that
the whistleblower’s only hope was like
the desperate Charge of the Light Bri-
gade. There were rarely any survivors.
At the time, the executive branch saw
whistleblowers not as patriots but as
threats. Agencies wouldn’t even ver-
bally acknowledge the importance of
whistleblowers in making government
accountable to the people. Our whistle-
blower laws had no teeth, so there was
nothing to stop it from happening and
nothing to provide any relief at all to
the patriotic whistleblowers who were
then experiencing retaliation.
To give an idea of just how bad
things were, let’s start in 1984. A study
conducted by the Merit Systems Pro-
tection Board found that nearly 70 per-
cent of government employees who
knew of fraud and impropriety
wouldn’t even report it and wouldn’t
say what they knew about it. They be-
lieved that no corrections would result
if they did, and their No. 1 reason for
nonreporting was fear of reprisal.
The sitting special counsel from 1982
to 1986 said that if he were an attorney
advising whistleblowers, he would tell
them this: ‘‘Don’t put your head up, be-
cause it will get blown off.’’ At the
time, the Office of Special Counsel was
part of a bigger organization that we
refer to as the Merit Systems Protec-
tion Board. Instead of protecting whis-
tleblowers, it protected the merit sys-
tem—not individual employees, and,
let me emphasize, certainly not whis-
tleblowers. The special counsel’s office
would pursue only those cases it
thought it could win. If a whistle-
blower came to it with a retaliation
case that was difficult to prove, the
whistleblower was simply out of luck.
So the Whistleblower Protection Act,
30 years old, addressed all of these
problems and then some. That law
made the Office of Special Counsel into
a separate body, and it firmly estab-
lished that the Office of Special Coun-
sel was there solely to protect employ-
ees, especially whistleblowers.
In doing so, it gave whistleblowers a
new and important ally. The law also
established that the Office of Special
Counsel should act, not just when it
had an open and shut case but when-
ever it was likely that a prohibited per-
sonnel practice had occurred against a
whistleblower. It made the Office of
Special Counsel a chief defender of em-
ployees subject to prohibited personnel
practices. The law addressed other
problems as well.
I remember back in the 1980s, the Of-
fice of Special Counsel had developed a
disturbing practice of providing infor-
mation on whistleblowers to Federal
Agencies conducting personnel inquir-
ies; as an example, people like Elaine
Mittleman. Elaine worked at the
Treasury Department. She went to the
Office of Special Counsel alleging re-
prisal against her whistleblowing.
When her case was rejected, she
learned that the Office of Special Coun-
sel had leaked negative information
about her to the Office of Personnel
Management to do her damage. The old
Office of Special Counsel effectively
ensured that Elaine was blacklisted
from any other Federal employment.
Thankfully, the Whistleblower Pro-
tection Act stopped that practice and
stopped it cold. The act prohibited the
Office of Special Counsel from respond-
ing to Agency personnel inquiries
about Federal employees except in the
most limited of circumstances. It also
expanded the definition of a protected
disclosure and made it easier for em-
ployees to show reprisal. Of course, the
1989 law wasn’t perfect, and in the time
since it was passed, Congress expanded
it and strengthened the Whistleblower
Protection Act in very important
ways.
In 2012, I was proud to serve as one of
the original cosponsors of the Whistle-
blower Protection Enhancement Act.
That legislation plugged several holes
in the original law and made it clear
that the executive branch can’t use
nondisclosure agreements to prevent
whistleblowers from making protected
disclosures. If Federal employees are
required to sign a nondisclosure agree-
ment, specific language has to be in-
cluded in that agreement making it
clear that whistleblowers can still re-
port waste, fraud, and abuse. Wouldn’t
the taxpayers expect a Federal em-
ployee who knows about waste, fraud,
and abuse to report that as a responsi-
bility to their office and then not to be
reprised against because they did?
It is safe to say that, taken together,
the Whistleblower Protection Act and
the 2012 amendments have had a trans-
formative effect on our Federal Agen-
cies. Things are still hard for our whis-
tleblowers in too many instances, and
we still have a long way to go, but we
have come a very long way since I first
started working on these issues. By the
numbers, more whistleblowers now re-
port waste, fraud, and abuse, and they
have the ability to fight retaliation. I
hate to say this, but too often whistle-
blowers are retaliated against, even
with respect or even in consideration of
the Whistleblower Protection Act.
In fiscal year 2017, to show progress
and to show that the bill has made a
difference, the Office of Special Coun-
sel obtained 323 favorable actions, in-
cluding stays, corrective actions, dis-
ciplinary actions, and systemic
changes to Agency practices. That is
an Agency record and a 16-percent in-
crease over the previous year. Of those,
241 involved instances of whistleblower
retaliation, and 44 involved stays with
Agencies to protect employees from
premature or improper personnel ac-
tions against them.
One of those retaliation cases in-
volved a Federal worker who reported
an Agency official to her management
and to the Office of Inspector General
for suspected theft. In exchange for dis-
closure, the official who was reported
demoted the worker to the lowest pos-
sible position she could.
That is just one example to show you
how patriotic people in the Federal em-
ployment who are whistleblowers—who
just want government to do what the
law requires or spend the money ac-
cordingly—get shafted as a result of
just doing what you ought to do as a
Federal employee: report waste, fraud,
and abuse and stealing.
This person had some help because,
as I said, she was demoted to the low-
est possible position that she could;
that is, until the worker filed a com-
plaint and the Office of Special Counsel
investigated. Following the investiga-
tion of the Office of Special Counsel,
the complainant was not only rein-
stated but given backpay and compen-
satory damages. Faced with punitive
actions, including temporary suspen-
sion and a reassignment, the Agency
official who had engaged in the retalia-
tion decided to resign. That is just one
example of how the Whistleblower Pro-
tection Act has made a difference. I
could, of course, list many others.
The Whistleblower Protection Act
and its amendments have also had an
important effect on congressional over-
sight. Whistleblowers are the eyes and
ears inside the executive branch. In
fact, when people come to my office ex-
plaining why they ought to be con-
firmed by the Senate, there are a cou-
ple of things I always tell them: No. 1,
either you run your Department or it
runs you; No. 2, you ought to listen to
the whistleblower. Whether you are a
little Agency with a couple of thousand
employees or whether you are the Vet-
erans’ Administration with 350,000-
some employees, you can’t know what
is going on down underneath you. When
people tell you something is wrong,
you ought to listen. Like I said, I have
found it very helpful with congres-
sional oversight.
My own oversight efforts would not
be possible without the courageous ac-
tion taken by whistleblowers. For ex-
ample, whistleblowers contacted my
office during the Obama administra-
tion about criminals who should be in-
eligible for DACA but, due to an over-
sight by the Department, were still re-
ceiving benefits like work authoriza-
tion. Scrutiny of the program led to
more thorough recurrent vetting of the
U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Serv-
ices.
I worked with a number of whistle-
blowers at the Department of Veterans
Affairs who had the courage—and it
takes courage—to stand up and do
what is right.
More recently, my office worked with
Brandon Coleman after he was put on
administrative leave for more than a
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:31 Apr 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G10AP6.015 S10APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2357
April 10, 2019
year and kept from running an addic-
tion treatment program for veterans.
It happens that Brandon’s only ‘‘mis-
take’’ was to point out poor treatment
of suicidal veterans. Eventually, after
a concerted effort by my office, Sen-
ator JOHNSON’s office, and the Office of
Special Counsel, Brandon was provided
a new position within the VA’s Office
of Accountability and Whistleblower
Protection. That is how it should be
done.
Without the protections established
by the Whistleblower Protection Act,
Brandon’s story might have turned out
very differently. Without these protec-
tions, who knows how many other in-
stances of waste, fraud, and abuse that
we have been able to find and repair
thanks to whistleblowers would be con-
tinuing now unabated?
Now, make no mistake, we still have
a ways to go to ensure that whistle-
blowers are valued as they should be
valued and supported as they should be
supported. I still hear from far too
many whistleblowers who have done
the right thing only to experience re-
taliation from their Agencies as a re-
sult.
We in Congress, including this Sen-
ator, shouldn’t be hearing those things
at all. That is why continued oversight
by Congress is so very important.
Whistleblowers depend on us—you and
me. All of our colleagues in this body
ought to be listening to them. We
ought to be supporting them and hon-
oring them by following up on their
concerns and taking action to fix seri-
ous problems when they bring them to
our attention.
I thank the whistleblowers who
worked with my office over the years.
They are truly patriots willing to put
their job on the line, willing to put
their profession on the line. We have
come a long way since the Whistle-
blower Protection Act first passed in
1989. We owe it to them to build on the
progress we made and to continue to
improve upon our whistleblower laws
for years to come.
You can rest assured that I will be
part of those ongoing efforts on this
important anniversary of the Whistle-
blower Protection Act. I encourage my
colleagues to reflect on the important
role whistleblowers play in our govern-
ment and to renew their commitment
to the same.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk proceeded to
call the roll.
Mr. SHELBY. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
REMEMBERING FRITZ HOLLINGS
Mr. SHELBY. Mr. President, I rise
this afternoon in honor of my good
friend from South Carolina, the late
Senator Fritz Hollings, who spent
many, many years right here in this
Chamber.
As we mourn his passing today, we
remember the great impact Fritz Hol-
lings had both in the Senate and in his
home State of South Carolina, where
he served as Governor, as Lieutenant
Governor, as a member of the State
legislature, and so forth. From 1966 to
2005, which was nearly four decades, he
also represented South Carolina in
Washington—right here in this body.
Born and raised in Charleston, SC,
Fritz Hollings was a distinguished
graduate of the Citadel and served as
an Army artillery officer during World
War II, for which he was awarded,
among other things, the Bronze Star.
For 36 years, Fritz Hollings served
alongside Strom Thurmond in the Sen-
ate, whom the Presiding Officer will re-
member. He was the junior Senator of
his State for six terms, which made
him the longest serving junior Senator
in the history of the Senate. Through-
out his tenure, Fritz served as a senior
member of the Appropriations Com-
mittee, where I served with him. He
was also the chairman of the Budget
Committee and the chairman of the
Commerce Committee. He was a skilled
legislator and statesman.
In terms of influential policy, Fritz
made quite a mark. He was instru-
mental in the creation of the National
Oceanic and Atmospheric Administra-
tion, which we know as NOAA. When
he was chairman of the Commerce
Committee, he also helped to enact
laws to alleviate childhood hunger and
to expand competition in telecommuni-
cations during the early stages of the
internet.
He may have spent nearly 39 years in
the Senate, but his time in Washington
was not all that made up his career.
Fritz Hollings served three terms in
the South Carolina House of Represent-
atives. He won his first election in 1948
at the age of 26. He went on to serve as
South Carolina’s Lieutenant Governor
and then as its Governor at the age of
36. In 1984, while he was a sitting Sen-
ator here, he ran for President of the
United States. He was a true public
servant. He devoted his entire life to
the betterment of his country, to his
State, and to his people.
As we honor his lasting impact and
achievements throughout his career,
we are reminded that Fritz was what
we would call a southern gentleman.
With a distinguished Charlestonian
southern drawl and a quick wit, Fritz
was courteous and well mannered. He
built his seniority with patience and
respect.
I am grateful for his friendship and
camaraderie over the last 40 years. An-
nette and I join his family as we mourn
his passing and celebrate his life and
the legacy he leaves behind in the U.S.
Senate.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk proceeded to
call the roll.
Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
VENEZUELA
Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, last year
I made my first trip to Venezuela just
1 month before a Presidential election
that by all accounts was about to be
rigged by the incumbent, Maduro. His
criminal regime was increasingly iso-
lated by its neighbors in the world.
The Venezuelan people are suffering
horribly—malnutrition, hyperinflation,
levels of disease seen only in war zones
around the world. As a result, 3 million
Venezuelans have fled the country.
Neighbors in Colombia and Ecuador
showed and continue to show incredible
compassion to the hundreds of thou-
sands of desperate Venezuelans who are
pouring across their borders. In fact,
my staff was just in Cucuta, Colombia,
on the Venezuelan border, and my staff
saw firsthand the humanity and pa-
tience of the Colombian people helping
their Venezuelan brothers and sisters
showing up desperate for food and safe-
ty, all amid the stark cruelty of barri-
caded bridges deliberately blocking aid
trucks.
I might just add parenthetically—
what a sharp contrast: the suffering in
Venezuela and the people in Colombia,
their neighbors who are trying to help,
and what we are doing on our southern
border when it comes to those who are
suffering in Honduras and El Salvador
and Guatemala. What a contrast.
During my visit to Venezuela last
year, I told Maduro that if he went
ahead with his stolen election, he
would find himself isolated in the eyes
of the world, and the Venezuelan peo-
ple would suffer even greater hardship.
I told him that in Washington both po-
litical parties don’t agree on much, but
they do on Venezuela.
Tragically, he ignored me and pro-
ceeded with this discredited election.
As a result, when the region’s gov-
ernments on both the left and the right
decided to recognize the Venezuelan
National Assembly President Juan
Guaido as the country’s interim Presi-
dent, as provided for under the coun-
try’s Constitution, I promptly agreed.
In fact, I called Guaido immediately,
spoke to him personally, and came to
the floor of the Senate to offer my sup-
port for his ascendency as the leader of
Venezuela.
I had met him in Caracas last year at
a dinner that was kind of a secret din-
ner since he was in the opposition, and
I remember at that dinner that five
members of the National Assembly
said: If you come back here in 2019 and
look for the five of us, two of us will be
exiled, two will be in prison, and one
will disappear. That is what happened
in Venezuela.
The courage they showed at that
meeting and afterward should not be
ignored by the American people.
As President Trump made his case
that the world needed to act in Ven-
ezuela, in part because of the horrible
situation and danger the Venezuelan
people found themselves in, I joined in
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:31 Apr 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G10AP6.017 S10APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2358 April 10, 2019
bipartisan agreement. The danger and
fear are well-placed and well-docu-
mented—armed vigilante groups, some
in motorcycle gangs, that harass and
beat innocent civilians; extended power
outages, leaving already desperate
medical care even more perilous; and
arbitrary arrest and torture for those
peacefully demonstrating against the
Maduro regime.
Just the other week, interim Presi-
dent Guaido’s Chief of Staff, Roberto
Morrero, was arrested by the Maduro
regime, and it is feared that he is en-
during torture at the present time.
Judge Maria Afiuni, already cruelly
jailed at a previous time and assaulted
for making a judicial ruling against
the Chavez regime, has now found her-
self facing another 5-year sentence
under the Maduro regime.
Five dual U.S.-Venezuelan citizens
and a U.S. permanent resident who are
CITGO employees have been cruelly
held hostage in a basement prison for
more than a year after being tricked
into going to Venezuela for a business
meeting.
So amid the administration’s accu-
rate description of the misery and the
danger that Venezuelans face, this ad-
ministration still refuses to grant to
the estimated 72,000 Venezuelans on
visas in the United States—some of
them students in my home State of Il-
linois—temporary protected status.
This would be an obviously humani-
tarian move that would allow them to
stay here until Venezuela is safe and
stabilized.
In Illinois, where many Venezuelans
are studying in our colleges and uni-
versities, I have heard repeatedly of
their desperation. Their visas are about
to expire, and unless the President—
and he has the power to do it—extends
their protected status in this country,
they will be forced to go back to Ven-
ezuela, a country our government
warns people to stay away from.
I held a townhall meeting in Illinois
with my Venezuelan friends. They are
heartbroken and worried about their
families who are still in Venezuela to
this day, and they worry about the
danger and violence they are going to
face. Is it any wonder, then, that many
of them who are students or visitors
here want to stay in the safety of the
United States until this stabilizes?
I would say to the President: I know
your opinion of immigrants, and I
know your opinion of refugees, but
don’t give us a speech one day telling
us how dangerous it is in Venezuela
and then the next day refuse to allow
these people who are here to stay safe-
ly.
Temporary protected status is not
permanent. It is a short-term humani-
tarian measure. We ought to do it.
This temporary protected status can
be granted to nationals of another
country who are in the United States if
returning to their country would pose
a serious threat to their personal safe-
ty.
Do you know what the official line of
the Trump administration is about
Americans who want to visit Venezuela
now? Let me read it to you. Here is
what the State Department says:
Do not travel to Venezuela due to crime,
civil unrest, poor health infrastructure, and
arbitrary arrest and detention of U.S. citi-
zens. . . . Violent crime, such as homicide,
armed robbery, kidnapping, and carjacking
is common. . . . There are shortages of food,
electricity, water, medicine, and medical
supplies through much of Venezuela.
That is the official line of our gov-
ernment, warning people not to go to
Venezuela. Yet even weeks after Sen-
ator RUBIO and I have requested it, the
administration still refuses to give the
Venezuelans in the United States pro-
tected status so that they are not
forced to face the same thing.
Recent power outages have left the
country even more desperate for basic
water. Look at this photograph here.
This shows people collecting water fall-
ing from a leaky pipeline along the
banks of a river in Caracas. That is the
desperation these people face.
How can we force people to return to
Venezuela when our own State Depart-
ment says it is too dangerous to travel
there?
In fact, last month Senators Rubio,
Menendez, and I—and 21 other Senate
Democrats—sent a bipartisan letter to
President Trump, urging him to take
the obvious step that would match his
rhetoric on Venezuela.
I have also raised this directly with
Vice President PENCE and National Se-
curity Advisor Bolton.
Let me again urge here on the Senate
floor that President Trump take action
to grant TPS status to the Venezuelans
in the United States. This would be a
concrete measure that President
Trump could take this afternoon with
the stroke of a pen to protect tens of
thousands of innocent people.
At a time when some have questioned
America’s real intentions toward Ven-
ezuela, this action by President Trump
of granting TPS status to Venezuelan
visitors in the United States would
demonstrate that our true focus is on
the safety and well-being of these inno-
cent people.
This is not only the right thing to do,
but it would fully align the President
with his speeches.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Iowa.
TAX REFORM
Ms. ERNST. Mr. President, as we ap-
proach tax day, America’s roaring
economy keeps on speeding ahead as
we continue to see the positive impact
that the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act is hav-
ing throughout Iowa and the rest of our
country.
Last week, yet another outstanding
jobs report was released, showing that
the economy added 196,000 jobs in
March—well above expectations.
Just think, since tax reform was
passed, 3.2 million jobs have been cre-
ated. And year-over-year wage growth
remains strong at 3.2 percent in March.
After years of stagnant wage growth,
we have now had 8 consecutive months
in which it exceeded 3 percent.
Under the leadership of Governor
Kim Reynolds, Iowa’s unemployment
rate is the lowest in the country and is
tied for the lowest rate ever recorded
in our State. I have seen the effects of
tax reform firsthand in my home State,
and they are paying off big time.
Thanks to Senate Republican pro-
growth tax reform, a business owner in
Pella, IA, has saved tens of thousands
in taxes, allowing her to increase the
wages of her employees, purchase new
semi-trailers, and upgrade her facili-
ties.
A small brewery in central Iowa has
been able to hire a new full-time em-
ployee and purchase an additional fer-
menter, increasing their production by
17 percent.
In a survey of Iowa businesses last
month, 87 percent of folks said they
plan to make capital expenditures this
quarter, and the vast majority expects
sales to grow over the next year.
By lowering tax rates and doubling
the standard deduction and child tax
credit, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act has
also helped families throughout Iowa
keep more of their hard-earned dollars.
In 2018 alone, Iowans saved an esti-
mated $1.8 billion in Federal taxes. A
single mother earning $30,000 a year is
saving over $1,000 in taxes. Iowans
earning between $40,000 and $80,000 are
receiving an average tax cut of $1,128
dollars.
These savings are certainly not pen-
nies, as some of our Democratic col-
leagues have suggested. These tax cuts
are allowing families to get ahead and
save for their future.
Iowans are feeling the strong effects
of the pro-growth tax cuts that Repub-
licans passed. Folks are keeping more
of their own money, and at the same
time, the rising tide of our economy is
lifting wages.
A couple of years ago, we were in the
midst of the most sluggish economic
recovery in our history. Folks, it
wasn’t much of a recovery. Today,
thanks to tax reform, Americans are
able to keep more of their own hard-
earned money, our economy is boom-
ing, wages are finally rising, and unem-
ployment is at a near 50-year low.
Tax reform has created a more com-
petitive tax system while providing
much needed relief for hard-working
Iowans and job creators of all sizes.
And folks, this really is only the begin-
ning.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
PERDUE). The Senator from Missouri.
Mr. BLUNT. Mr. President, as we
said when we began to talk about tax
reform months ago now, the purpose of
tax reform was stronger families and
expanding opportunities for every
American. I think the facts are clear
that that is exactly what happened.
Over the past year, most people saw
bigger paychecks. Many of those people
saw bigger paychecks because they had
less money taken out of their checks.
Ninety percent of middle-class Ameri-
cans received a tax cut. Pay increases
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:31 Apr 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00010 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G10AP6.019 S10APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2359
April 10, 2019
for lots of other Americans set new
standards in recent years. I think the
pay increases of slightly less than 4
percent in the last year are higher than
at any time in recent memory.
Under the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, the
child tax credit doubled from $1,000 to
$2,000 per child. That credit is available
to many more families than before and
obviously is twice as big as before.
People are able to keep more of what
they earn.
We have an economy right now where
people actually believe for the first
time in a decade that the chance they
are going to get a promotion is greater
than the chance they are going to lose
their job. They have also stopped wor-
rying about their neighbor losing their
job or someone else in their family los-
ing their job. At this time, we have an
economy where people who want to go
to work can go to work with con-
fidence.
Unemployment last month was at a
49-year low. Around a year ago, for the
first time, more jobs were available
than people looking for work. That had
never happened before since keeping
these statistics, that there were more
jobs available than people looking for
work. When it happened the next
month, it was the second month in a
row that it had ever happened because
it had never happened before the first
month. I think we are now 11 months
into that statistic where there are
more jobs than people looking for
work.
In 2018, we had the strongest eco-
nomic growth that we had seen since
before the financial crisis about a dec-
ade ago.
According to the Department of
Labor, average hourly earnings have
increased by 3.4 percent year over year.
That is the largest increase in a dec-
ade. Job openings increased to 7.6 mil-
lion at the beginning of the year. That
is the third highest job-opening num-
ber in a long time. As I said earlier, for
the 12th straight month, the number of
job openings has exceeded the number
of jobseekers.
There is no doubt that the Tax Cuts
and Jobs Act has been part of the eco-
nomic turnaround and will continue to
be. One of the ways it will do that is by
promoting new investment in areas
where they need it most, through what
we call in the tax bill opportunity
zones.
In Missouri, there are 161 areas that
have been designated as opportunity
zones, making them eligible for the in-
vestment incentives under the new Tax
Cuts and Jobs Act.
I want to thank my friend from
South Carolina, our colleague from
South Carolina, Senator SCOTT, for all
of his hard work in making sure this
provision not only makes sense to peo-
ple but making sure we fought hard to
see that it was included in the tax bill.
The majority of these zones were re-
quired to have an average poverty rate
of at least 20 percent and a median
family income of no more than 80 per-
cent of the statewide median income.
So obviously there are areas where
something needs to happen to improve
those areas.
It is predicted that $100 billion of pri-
vate capital will go into those oppor-
tunity zones. These are places where,
even unlike the 1031 exchange, you can
take an asset that is no longer working
for you or you are no longer excited
about having and you can get rid of
that asset and put it in an opportunity
zone. It doesn’t have to be a like-kind
exchange. There is a difference in focus
and focusing where people need it.
Attracting new investments to dis-
tressed urban and rural communities
with high poverty rates and slow job
growth is a challenge. This is one of
the things that the tax cut is beginning
to do and that the new tax bill is begin-
ning to do, bringing in that investment
and creating more opportunities for
families.
Just recently, Housing and Urban De-
velopment Secretary Ben Carson came
to St. Louis to highlight opportunity
zones. Here is what the Secretary of
Housing and Urban Development said:
‘‘The Opportunity Zones present an in-
credible opportunity for people to take
unrealized capital gains that would
normally be invested into more tradi-
tional vehicles and focus them on areas
that are traditionally neglected.’’
The opportunity zones are another
example of how tax reform is working
to benefit Missourians and people all
over the country. I think the goal of a
tax plan that would benefit families
and benefit individuals is clearly being
realized as we approach the day that
none of us are ever excited about—tax
day. It is not the most popular day in
the year, but over the past year, people
have been able to keep more of the
money they earn, and maybe just as
important, they have been earning
more money than they earned before
even if they didn’t benefit directly
from the new Tax Code.
While this is not the most favorite
day of the year, it is a day that has
been better for American families than
this day has been for a long time, and
hopefully it will be even better a year
from now.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Indiana.
Mr. YOUNG. Mr. President, I rise
today to speak about our booming
economy and the stellar jobs report we
saw on Friday, thanks in part to tax
reform.
With tax day just around the corner,
I would like to briefly highlight the
many benefits American families,
workers, and job creators have experi-
enced as a result of lower tax rates.
Since Republicans passed the Tax
Cuts and Jobs Act, 3.2 million new jobs
have been created. Our 3.8 percent un-
employment rate is near a 50-year low.
The unemployment rate for women in
particular matches the lowest rate
since 1953. Ninety percent of middle-
class workers have experienced a tax
cut, and jobless claims have recently
dropped to the lowest level since 1969.
Additionally, in 2018, manufacturing
job creation was the highest it has
been in over 20 years.
As the most manufacturing-intensive
State in the Nation, Indiana particu-
larly benefits from this tax cut bill.
Last year, in conjunction with tax
day, I spoke on the Senate floor about
the many stories that have already
poured into my office from Indiana
businesses that are paying their work-
ers more and constituents who are
earning more. This year, I am proud to
say these stories continue.
My guest to last year’s State of the
Union, Chelsee Hatfield, is a prime ex-
ample. When tax reform was signed
into law, Chelsee, a young mother of
three, was working as a teller at a
rural bank, First Farmers Bank and
Trust Company in Tipton, IN. She re-
ceived a raise and a bonus as a result of
tax reform. This additional income
helped Chelsee go back to school to
earn her associate’s degree, and it en-
abled her to put money away for her
children’s future college education. I
am proud to say that this summer,
Chelsee graduated with her degree, and
she has been promoted to a commercial
loan administrative assistant position.
What a powerful story.
I recently had the opportunity to
visit with a third-generation small
business owner in Fort Wayne. Dan
Parker is the owner of Parker Towing
& Recovery. He was able to purchase
several new trucks thanks in part to
tax reform. This means more trucks
will be available to assist Hoosiers who
have been in a car accident or have had
their cars break down. Parker also re-
cently expanded the company’s office
space and gave his staff raises. Parker
said: ‘‘As a result, we have less turn-
over now.’’
Another Indiana employer, Cardinal
Manufacturing Company in Indianap-
olis, rewarded its team members with
bonuses and pay raises.
Albanese Confectionery, a candy
manufacturing company in
Merrillville, provided bonuses that it
says will happen annually as long as
the tax reform bill stays in effect.
Lastly, I would note that this new
Tax Code incentivizes new investment
into distressed rural and urban commu-
nities to help the least among us
through the creation of tax-advantaged
opportunity zones around the State of
Indiana.
The bottom line is that Hoosiers con-
tinue to benefit from the Tax Cuts and
Jobs Act. Workers are taking home
more of their hard-earned money, and
businesses of all sizes are expanding,
hiring, and investing in their employ-
ees.
I look forward to working with my
colleagues to continue supporting poli-
cies like tax reform that have our
economy booming.
Thank you.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Oklahoma.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:31 Apr 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00011 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G10AP6.021 S10APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2360 April 10, 2019
Mr. LANKFORD. Mr. President, I
want to join several of my colleagues
today who are noting that we are ap-
proaching tax day. It is not a day
Americans look forward to, but it is
part of our responsibilities. The old
joke about the two things that are cer-
tain—death and taxes—is still certain
for all of us.
This year, it is interesting to ap-
proach this tax season in the first year
of everyone filing under the new tax
law. It has been fascinating to read
some of the stories about what some of
the media—the national media in par-
ticular—is saying about the tax law.
They are so desperate to find anything
to criticize. It is fascinating to me to
read the headlines versus the stories.
The headline in this story in par-
ticular is ‘‘This is going to wipe us
out,’’ in reference to the new tax law.
When you read through the story and
find out who they say is going to get
wiped out, here is their illustration of
the person: a person moving from a
$400,000 house this past year to one val-
ued at $1.1 million. He concedes he has
a first-world problem of his taxes going
up, but he says that owing more in
taxes is ‘‘a little disheartening’’—as he
moves from a $400,000 house to a $1.1
million home. I am excited for him and
his new home. I am sure it is beautiful.
But that was their illustration of who
is going to get hard hit by the tax
changes.
This article from a national source
said: ‘‘Is a Tax Refund Ahead in Your
2019? Some Taxpayers Received a Tax
Bill Instead.’’ You go to the middle of
the story, and they make this one lit-
tle note: ‘‘Only about 5% of taxpayers
. . . are expected to pay more under
the new law.’’ In other words, 95 per-
cent of Americans—even in this story
that is a negative story about the
taxes, they hide the simple fact that 95
percent of Americans will pay the same
or less. The vast majority of those will
pay less in their taxes for the next
year.
How about this one. Here is another
national story that came out. ‘‘Small
business owners struggling to under-
stand Trump’s new tax law.’’ When you
get down to literally the last line of
the story, it ends like this, with the
same small business owner:
I don’t know [yet] if it’s going to impact
my cash flow, the way I have to put money
aside for this year, because I’m not sure. I
may even do better [under the tax law], I
don’t know [yet].
That was their whole story to say
that people are struggling under this
tax law—it was just the uncertainty.
What am I finding in Oklahoma? I am
finding more jobs and more oppor-
tunity across the State. This is not
some accident of history; this is the di-
rect result of a change in the tax law.
I am quite confident that my liberal
colleagues have all been very excited
to find something to complain about
through this process, but they overlook
the simple fact that this one story
buries 95 percent of Americans who do
the same or better under the tax law
and that the vast majority of those are
doing better under the tax law.
It was interesting. There was a Vox
tweet that came out from a news
source from one of the reporters who
made this one comment this past week,
saying: ‘‘Nobody likes to give them-
selves credit for this kind of messaging
success, but progressive groups did a
really good job of convincing people
that Trump raised their taxes when the
facts say a clear majority got a tax
cut.’’
My favorite: The left-leaning Tax
Policy Center had to begrudgingly
study the tax cut and what is actually
happening and say: Middle-class taxes
actually went down. Families kept al-
most $1,000 more, which would have
previously gone into government cof-
fers.
What happened as a result of that, as
a result of people keeping their own
money and the withholding tables
changing this past year so that each
month, people are actually keeping
more of their own money? Here is what
happened: Our GDP grew at 3 percent a
year—a dramatic increase from what
we have had in the past; inflation-ad-
justed business investment has gone up
7 percent just since the tax cuts; and
215,000 new jobs have started on aver-
age every month since the tax cuts.
Those are very strong numbers across
the country. Unemployment has gone
to 3.9 percent since the enactment of
tax reform. Beginning in April of last
year, the number of job openings in the
national economy has exceeded the
number of unemployed Americans—
something that had not been recorded
prior to April since records have been
kept.
So starting this past year, there are
literally more people searching to find
other opportunities than there are op-
portunities out there because there are
so many jobs open. So many companies
are still trying to hire and are looking
for people that people have the oppor-
tunity to stay at their same job, get
better pay, or switch to a new job and
get opportunities. That is providing
more opportunities for more people to
transition to a new job or make more
money at their own job.
Well, what has happened on wages?
As a result of what is happening in the
economy, wages have gone up 2.9 per-
cent just since the tax cut; that is, in-
dividual wages have gone up. What
happened to income during that time
period? Let me go back to the Obama
time period. When President Obama
was President, on average, income
went up 1.8 percent; that is, total take-
home. Since the tax reform, income
has gone up 4 percent for each Amer-
ican. That is double the amount during
the Obama administration. Again, this
is not an accident of history; this is the
result of the tax reform. This is what
happens when people are allowed to
keep more of their own money and
spend it. More companies are doing
better. There is more investment hap-
pening, more job opportunities, more
opportunity to get a different job or to
get a raise at your current job, and
take-home pay has increased.
What has happened in people’s taxes?
Well, early on this year, the stories, as
I referenced before, were all about how
tax returns were down. They searched
to find anyone who had tax returns
that were down. All those stories dis-
appeared in late February, when the
IRS brought out the latest numbers,
not from January and early February
but from February and March, and
said: Actually, tax returns are up this
year from what they were in the pre-
vious year.
As of the latest number, April 5, tax
returns for individuals almost are dead
even, exactly as they were last year. So
the stories have disappeared from head-
lines that their tax returns changed be-
cause the IRS continues to report the
facts. Actually, the returns are almost
exactly what they were from the pre-
vious time.
So what has happened to actually
help people in their paying of their
taxes? Well, I started asking some of
my team in Oklahoma to just ask peo-
ple. When you are traveling around the
State and when you are visiting people,
just ask them how their taxes have
gone and what has happened because
people are filing now—just find out
what is going on.
One of the dry cleaners in Enid let
our team know that he is doing better
in his small business taxes this year,
and he is actually going to be able to
put a downpayment now on some brand
new equipment at his dry cleaner in
Enid.
With another one we talked to—he is
in his early thirties, married, he and
his wife both work. They said they
saved enough on their taxes this year
from last year that they are going to
start paying off some of their student
loans and start paying down their car
loan faster.
We spoke to one other gentleman
who is also in his late thirties. They
have one child who was born this past
year. They said they have saved
enough in their taxes from the previous
year that they are going to be able to
take care of some healthcare costs
they have, and they are going to start
setting aside some money to allow his
wife to start a Roth IRA account.
Starting their savings for their retire-
ment in their thirties, when you should
start saving for your retirement, they
are able do this year because of the
change in the Tax Code.
With another gentleman we talked to
who works in Oklahoma City, he re-
ported that with his withholding
changes that happened, he is now actu-
ally in a—he was in a 25-percent tax
bracket and has now moved to the 22-
percent tax bracket, and he is using his
savings to take care of some of the
issues he had in his own personal debt.
We have a married couple in Davis,
OK, down in South-Central Oklahoma.
Their income actually went up $4,000
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:31 Apr 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00012 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G10AP6.022 S10APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2361
April 10, 2019
this last year. When they finished all
their tax payments, their tax actually
decreased by $700 from one year to the
next, even though their income went
up.
Another couple down the street from
Davis in Sulphur, OK, own a small
farm. Their income went up $7,000 last
year from the previous year, and they
were panicked about what would hap-
pen with their taxes. Well, their taxes
actually decreased $1,400 from the year
before.
We have a police officer in Norman,
OK, just south of Oklahoma City. He
actually—he and his family, after they
finished filing all their taxes, he said
this:
I now bring home more in my check every
2 weeks because of the change in the Tax
Code. It is making things so much simpler
for us to be able to make ends meet.
There was a teacher in an elementary
school. She noted, as simple as this
may sound, that she has received $10
more every single time a paycheck
came out, and that made a difference
for her as a first-year teacher just get-
ting started.
There is a farmer with two kids. He
was able to use the new child tax cred-
its, and although his income was high-
er than the year before, his tax burden
was $3,000.
There is a pilot married to a nurse in
our State. Their income actually in-
creased in the past year as well, but he
said with the lower tax rates and the
child tax credits, their tax burden also
decreased by $1,000 from the year be-
fore.
All these are real-life stories of what
is really going on in the State. As I
hear all the different stories that come
out, people lose track of the fact of
what is really happening. While some
of my colleagues have been so focused
on trying to find some way to be able
to damage the effect of tax cuts, fami-
lies in my State know the difference.
One of the families we encountered
this past week made a comment that
they had a child born in 2018. That
child was born in 2018 but actually very
premature. Their medical bills racked
up pretty quickly because the child
was in the ICU. Then they started fil-
ing their taxes this year as their med-
ical bills were coming in—by the way,
their child is doing well and healthy.
As they started filling out all their
forms and were thinking about some of
their bills, being able to cover their de-
ductible, their tax bill came back in,
and they saw their taxes are lower, and
they are using their higher return this
year to offset the medical costs from
the early delivery of their child.
This is what tax reform looks like.
Some of my colleagues try to spend all
of their time saying tax reform is all
about big corporations and Wall Street.
Interestingly enough, most of the high-
income folks in my State have said, ac-
tually, their taxes went up a little bit
this year, not down. They are part of
that 5 percent of Americans who didn’t
end up with a tax change. For the vast
majority of Americans who are work-
ing and putting ends together and tak-
ing care of their family, in my State
and in other States, they are finding
that tax reform is not some theory to
them. It was a real help to their family
in paying off debt, starting retirement,
taking care of medical costs, taking
care of their family, getting going on
with life, and as the police officer in
Norman said, ‘‘just making things a
little simpler.’’
Tax reform is determined to help our
economy, to get us growing, to get us
going as a nation and provide more op-
portunities, and I am grateful, even in
all the complexity of filling out tax
forms, it is showing a real result in
pragmatic ways to Americans.
This past weekend, I stopped and
filled out my tax information—going
through all the details and gathering
all the forms and filling everything
out. It is still a pain, and it is still not
the most pleasant experience in all of
life filling out your tax forms, but at
the end of it, I reflected on some of
these direct stories and realized there
are people who really do feel the real
effects of what is going on. Under-
standing all the frustration of filling
out taxes, which is a pain for every-
body, there is some real benefit this
year versus the year before and I hope
for the years to come.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Wyoming.
Mr. BARRASSO. Mr. President, you
have heard the quote: ‘‘In this world,
nothing can be said to be certain ex-
cept death and taxes.’’ Of course, that
was from Benjamin Franklin back in
1789.
Well, just as Franklin predicted, the
tax man cometh on Monday. This year,
tax day follows a very strong March
jobs report. Our booming economy re-
mains an incredible boon for U.S.
workers. Employers added 196,000 jobs
last month. It beat all expectations.
U.S. unemployment is right now at his-
toric lows. It has remained at or below
4 percent now for over a year. Weekly
jobless claims have fallen to a 50-year
low—50 years. It has never been lower,
and the unemployment rate for women
is now the lowest since 1953.
Wages have increased by more than 3
percent, the fastest growth in a decade,
and it is worth noting that in recent
months, the biggest pay increases have
gone to lower income workers. Bigger
paychecks mean a higher standard of
living. Bigger paychecks mean the me-
dian household income continues to
rise and is, today, at the highest level
ever in the United States.
There are currently 7.6 million jobs
open. We actually have more open jobs
in America today than we have people
to fill them. Small businesses recently
set hiring records, and 60 percent of
small businesses have additional plans
to hire more people. You would have to
go back 20 years—two decades—to find
as many new manufacturing jobs as we
have added last year.
So this solid jobs news reflects an
American economic renaissance
brought about by Republican tax re-
form. Republicans reduced tax rates
across the board. We have done it for
individuals and have done it for busi-
nesses starting in 2018. We lowered tax
rates for small businesses, as well as
for family farms and family ranches,
which is certainly a big thing for me in
Wyoming. We nearly doubled the
standard deduction. We cut our exces-
sively high corporate tax rate as well
so U.S. companies are able to compete
better globally. We made it easier for
business owners to recoup the cost of
their investments because we want
them to invest and hire more people in
the process.
As a result of Republican leadership,
American workers have abundant op-
portunity. The Washington Post re-
ports that due to the strong labor mar-
ket, economists, they say, now foresee
‘‘almost no risk of an imminent reces-
sion.’’ According to the Post article,
‘‘As long as hiring remains strong and
wages are climbing, the economy is
likely to continue growing, experts
say, because people typically spend
more when they are not worried about
losing their job.’’
Our economy is strong. Our economy
is healthy. Our economy is growing.
The U.S. GDP has risen 3 percent year
over year. Lower tax rates have freed
job creators, giving companies the con-
fidence to invest, to grow, and to hire.
Employers have created more than 3
million jobs since tax reform passed
and 5.5 million new jobs since Presi-
dent Trump took office. With faster job
growth and better profits, businesses
can invest more in their workers.
Last year, a number of Wyoming em-
ployers boosted pay and benefits due to
tax reform. Darden Restaurants, with
locations nationwide, including in
Cheyenne and in Casper, invested $20
million in its workforce. Kroger gro-
cery stores and convenience stores,
with more than 1,400 employees in Wy-
oming, well, they invested $500 million
to boost worker pay. Kroger plans to
add, actually, 11,000 more jobs.
Many companies in Wyoming have
made similar investments. I hear about
them every weekend. Our utility com-
pany in Wyoming, Rocky Mountain
Power, has rewarded our customers as
well. It decreased its electricity rates
last year by 3 percent, and, they say, as
of course other utilities have across
the country, it is a direct result of tax
reform.
Democrats, on the other hand, are
threatening to reverse these gains and
dramatically increase taxes with their
extreme socialist agenda. Democrats
want to take over all of healthcare in
this country and eliminate insurance
from 180 million Americans. That bill
was introduced today by the Senator
from Vermont and cosponsored by, I
assume, just about every Democrat
who is running for President who is a
Member of the Senate.
Medicare for All, let’s be clear, is
government-run healthcare. It has an
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:31 Apr 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00013 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G10AP6.023 S10APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2362 April 10, 2019
estimated 10-year price tag of over $32
trillion, meaning massive tax hikes for
American families.
Democrats also want to control our
energy sector. It is called the Green
New Deal. Its estimated 10-year price
tag is $93 trillion. This unaffordable,
unworkable plan would destroy our
economy and dramatically increase
taxes.
Far-left Democrats are touting tax-
the-rich plans that would punish suc-
cess. These include raising the top
marginal tax rate to 70 percent, impos-
ing a 2-percent annual ‘‘wealth tax,’’
and raising the top estate tax rate to 77
percent on farmers, ranchers, and busi-
ness owners.
Republicans dramatically reduced
the estate tax or the ‘‘death tax’’ as a
result of tax reform. This tax is double-
taxation. It taxes money that has pre-
viously been taxed already. It hurts
family-owned businesses, and it hurts
ranchers and farmers and should be
fully repealed.
Clearly, Democrats have taken a
sharp left turn. Their policies will send
our strong, healthy, and growing econ-
omy careening over the liberal cliff.
Republicans’ pro-growth tax relief
has produced a booming economy with
millions of new jobs and larger pay-
checks. We freed job creators to hire
again. We put Americans back to work.
We raised the standard of living.
Thanks to Republican tax reform,
America is back in business.
So I say, we must come together. We
must do it now. We must embrace com-
monsense policies that will continue
our progress. Republicans have pro-
vided successful solutions. Democrats
are now promoting the failure and the
horrors of socialism.
Thank you, Mr. President.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Delaware.
SOCIALISM
Mr. CARPER. Mr. President, thanks
very much. Before I talk about the
auto industry, the strength of our
economy, and climate change, I want
to say a word about socialism.
I am a Democrat. I am not a social-
ist. I was a naval flight officer for 23
years, plus 4 years as a midshipman be-
fore that. I had three tours in South-
east Asia, and I am the last Vietnam
veteran standing.
I have no interest in supporting a so-
cialist agenda—none at all, none at all.
In fact, I don’t know if many of my col-
leagues feel that way, either.
I do know this, though. I know an
election was held in November of 2008.
We were in the worst recession since
the Great Depression. Banks stopped
lending money. The unemployment
rate reached 10 percent. Banks were
not lending money to people to go to
school, to start businesses, to buy cars.
It was a terrible time.
We had an election. The voters of
this country decided to change horses,
and Barack Obama succeeded George
W. Bush. Joe Biden was elected Vice
President.
They started at the bottom. It hadn’t
been that bad in this country in terms
of our economy since the Great Depres-
sion. Eight years later, we had another
election, and the new administration
inherited the longest running economic
expansion in the history of this coun-
try.
I will say that again. The Trump ad-
ministration inherited in January of
2017 the longest running economic ex-
pansion since the Great Depression.
Add to that the tax bill that pumps
up the economy, and now we are 10
years into an economic recovery. That
is the good news. It has been 10 years.
The unemployment rate is low. I
think one of our earlier speakers said
that GDP growth from last year was 3
percent. That was actually a little bit
under 3 percent. He said it hadn’t been
that low for a long time. I think that
low was reached maybe in a couple of
quarters of the last year or so of the
Obama administration.
But what I am concerned about are
two things. One, a lot of money that
goes to businesses through the tax
bill—a lot of it—has been used for
stock buybacks. It pumps up the value
of stocks. It pumps up the value of the
stock exchange, and it gives us a feel-
ing of elation and jubilation. But we
need to temper that a little bit with
something else, and that ‘‘it’’ is called
a deficit.
We had 4 years of a balanced budget.
We hadn’t been able to balance our
budget from 1968 to about 1998. We
couldn’t balance our budget. The last 4
years of the Clinton administration, we
had four balanced budgets in a row.
We also had a great recovery from an
economic recession inherited in 1993,
beginning with the Clinton administra-
tion, and we turned over a strong, ro-
bust economy to the George W. Bush
administration in 2001. He also turned
over to him a balanced budget—about
four in a row.
Eight years later, we didn’t have a
balanced budget anymore. We had a
huge deficit, and we were in the worst
recession since the Great Depression.
Sometimes we reimagine history. I
just want to set the record straight.
I used to be the treasurer for the
State of Delaware when we had the
worst credit rating in the country. We
were at 29. We couldn’t balance our
budgets for nothing. We had the worst
credit rating, tied with Puerto Rico.
We were dead last. The people in Puer-
to Rico were embarrassed to be in the
same shoes as us in terms of our credit
rating. So I have some idea of what it
is like to be in debt and some idea of
how to get out of debt.
We are looking at debt right now in
this country, coming off of the debts of
the last fiscal year, of $750 billion—
‘‘billion’’ dollars. This year’s deficit is
expected to reach $850 billion—‘‘bil-
lion’’ dollars. Next year, it is expected
to reach almost $1 trillion in 1 year—in
1 year.
That is no way to run a business, no
way to run a government.
As a guy who is the senior Democrat
on the Homeland Security Committee
and viewing what is going on at the De-
partment of Homeland Security, when
we worked so long on a bipartisan basis
to stabilize that Department and to en-
able them to do their job and to have
the resources they need, to see the
kind of turmoil that is going on in that
Department breaks my heart. It breaks
my heart.
That is the bad news.
The good news is that we had a
markup today in the Environment and
Public Works Committee. My colleague
SHELDON WHITEHOUSE was there. We
passed three pieces of legislation, all
with bipartisan support. I think all of
them passed unanimously.
One is called the Diesel Emissions
Reduction Act. What does it do? It re-
duces emissions from diesel engines.
The good thing about diesel engines is
that they are in cars, trucks, vans,
trains, boats, and locomotives. There
are probably several million diesel en-
gines in this country. They last a long
time. A lot of them are really old, and
a lot of them put out a lot of pollution.
Did you ever watch a diesel truck at
a stoplight? The light changes and the
diesel truck starts out, and black
plumes of smoke come out of the back
of the diesel truck. That is called par-
ticulate matter, and some of that par-
ticulate matter is called black carbon.
What does that black carbon do? It is
about 1,000 times worse for our climate
and our atmosphere than carbon diox-
ide. There is actually an American-
made technology that will reduce emis-
sions from those diesel trucks by as
much as 90 percent.
If we are serious about doing some-
thing about climate change and reduc-
ing the impacts of climate change—ex-
treme weather and all kinds of things—
and if we are interested in doing that,
we can reduce black carbon. Again,
unanimously, our committee supported
bipartisan legislation to do just that.
We have been doing this since 2005—
using American technology and cre-
ating American jobs to do good things
for our climate and our atmosphere.
Those are the kinds of things we can do
and we ought to do. Those are the
things we can do and we ought to do.
It shouldn’t all be blaming one side
or the other. Let’s find things we can
work on together. I think for me the
Holy Grail in terms of public policy, as
the senior Democratic Senator serving
with Mr. WHITEHOUSE and JOHN BAR-
RASSO, our chairman, is this: How do
we clean up our air? How do we clean
up our water? How do we do good
things for climate change and reduce
the extreme weather?
How do we do those things and create
jobs? By doing those three things, we
do create jobs. Today in this country
about 157 million people went to work.
Three or four million of them went to
work on jobs that have something to
do with sustainable energy, clean en-
ergy, climate change, and holes in the
ozone—prohibiting them and fixing
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:31 Apr 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00014 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G10AP6.026 S10APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2363
April 10, 2019
them. Three to four million people
went to work on those kinds of jobs.
That is a good thing.
The point I am trying to make is, Is
it possible to do good things for our
planet? Well, President Macron of
France, down the hall about 1 year ago,
spoke to a joint session of Congress and
he said these words: We only get one
planet. There is no planet B.
He was right. This is our planet, and
it is going to belong to these young
people—these pages sitting down in
front of me this afternoon. It is your
planet. It is already. We want to make
sure that we turn it over to you in bet-
ter shape than we found it.
CLIMATE CHANGE
Mr. President, now let me talk a lit-
tle bit about climate change and why it
might be of some interest to us in
Delaware. Delaware is the First
State—the first State to ratify in the
Nation, on September 7, 1787. Before
any other State had ratified the Con-
stitution, we did. For 1 week, Delaware
was the entire United States of Amer-
ica. We let in Maryland, and we let in
Pennsylvania and about 47 others. I
think it has turned out all right, until
now. We will see. Hopefully, it will
turn out for a much longer period of
time.
But the First State is also the lowest
lying State in America. Think about
that. It sits right on the Atlantic
ocean, halfway between Maine and
Florida. Our State is sinking and the
oceans are rising. That is not a good
combination, especially if you are as
small as we are. So we have a personal
interest in climate change, global
warming, and sea level rise.
We don’t believe it is esoteric. We
don’t believe it is scientific dogma. We
think it is real, and it faces—maybe
not my generation so much, although
we are seeing bad things happen be-
cause of sea level rise and climate
change—my kids and their kids some-
day. The chickens will come home to
roost.
The question is, Can we do anything
about it? And the answer is yes, we can
do a lot.
Where should we start?
Well, we should start on a lot of
places where carbon comes from. For
me, one of the things we do is to make
sure that we protect, if you will, the
carbon-free sources of electricity gen-
eration to the extent that we can. As it
turns out, 60 percent to 70 percent of
the electricity in this country that is
generated without creating carbon is
from nuclear powerplants.
There is technology and research
going on—advanced technology and ad-
vanced nuclear reactors—to see if there
are ways we can build on nuclear power
and reduce the amount of spent fuel.
Some people call it waste. I call it
spent fuel rods.
What can we do through new tech-
nology? There is actually reason to be
encouraged. There is a lot we can do
and we need to do.
What else can we do? Well, we can
pass our Diesel Emissions Reduction
Act and build on the legacy of the last
13 or 14 years. I am encouraged that we
are going to do that.
We have nascent technology. I think
that Europe is a little further ahead on
this than we are, but we have the abil-
ity to not just take carbon dioxide out
of a smokestack—say, out of a coal-
fired plant generating electricity—but
to literally pull carbon dioxide out of
the air. It is ambient carbon dioxide,
out of the air—to pull it out of the air
and turn it into something useful.
While those are, I think, promising
technologies, there is something else
that is right before us that is a lot
more effective, and that is our cars,
trucks, and vans. Why do I mention
them? The greatest sources of carbon
dioxide emissions come from our mo-
bile sources—our cars, trucks, and
vans. It wasn’t always that way. It
used to be coal-fired plants, utility
plants. It could have been cement
plants or other manufacturing plants
that emitted emissions, including car-
bon dioxide.
Today the largest source of CO2 emis-
sions on our planet are mobile
sources—cars, trucks and vans. That is
the bad news. The good news is that we
can actually reduce that.
I was at the Detroit Auto Show. I
have been going to the Detroit Auto
Show for a long time. There was a time
not that many years ago—a decade
ago—when Delaware actually built
more cars, trucks, and vans per capita
than any other State. We had a huge
interest in making sure our GM plant
stayed in business and a huge interest
in making sure that our Chrysler plant
stayed in business.
As the Governor of Delaware, I
worked hard to make sure that those
plants stayed in business. We had 3,000,
4,000 employees in each of those plants.
For a little State like Delaware, that is
a lot. At the bottom of the great reces-
sion, GM went into bankruptcy. We
lost them both. Thousands of jobs were
gone just like that.
In any event, I still have a huge in-
terest in automotives. One of the rea-
sons I have a huge interest in the auto-
mobile industry is because of carbon
dioxide emissions, and the largest
source is in our cars, trucks, and
vans—the automotive industry.
I went to the Detroit Auto Show
again this past January and the Janu-
ary before, and I was there 11 years
ago. Eleven years ago at the Detroit
Auto Show, the Car of the Year was a
car called the Chevrolet Volt, a hybrid.
The first 30, 40 miles ran on battery,
and after that, it was a gasoline en-
gine.
It was the Car of the Year. It got
only about 38 miles on a charge of elec-
tricity—a fully charged battery. Fast
forward 10 years, and about a year ago,
at the Detroit Auto Show, the Car of
the Year was a Chevrolet Bolt. It got
140 miles on a charge. It was all elec-
tric, not a hybrid. The Chevrolet Volt
went from 38 miles on a charge 11 years
ago, and 10 years later, the Chevrolet
Bolt goes 140 miles. That is pretty good
progress.
I was at the Detroit Auto Show this
year, and I saw close to a dozen dif-
ferent vehicles and manufacturers from
this country and around the world that
have all-electric car vehicles, and they
are getting about 240 to 250 miles on a
charge. Think about that. Eleven years
ago, the Chevrolet Volt was getting 38
miles on a charge; a year and a half
ago, the Chevrolet Bolt was getting 140
miles on a charge. This year, there are
a number of cars getting 250 miles on a
charge—off their battery. It is only
going to get better.
We have the ability to create propul-
sion for our vehicles by using hydrogen
in conjunction with fuel cells to create
electricity to power our vehicles. What
is the waste product? Let me see—
water. The waste product of the hydro-
gen-powered fuel cell vehicles is H20. It
is so clean, you can drink it. That is
where the future is for automotive
transportation in this country—bat-
tery-powered vehicles and those that
are powered by hydrogen in conjunc-
tion with fuel cells.
In our committee, Senator BAR-
RASSO, some of our colleagues, and I
are getting to work on the highway
bill. It is not just the highway bill; it
is roads, highways, bridges, transit. We
do this about every 5 years. We are
starting to work on the next follow-on
reauthorization of the transportation
bill. The current bill expires on Sep-
tember 30 of next year.
We are getting a head start on it this
year. We want to make sure, as we pre-
pare for the next 5 years in transpor-
tation, that we build roads, highways,
bridges, and transit systems in ways in
which we realize we have a real chal-
lenge on this planet with too much car-
bon in the air and make sure we build
into our roads, highways, and bridges
the ability to recharge batteries.
Come 2030, half of the vehicles that
are expected to be built and sold in this
country will be battery-powered elec-
tric vehicles or they will be hydrogen-
powered fuel cell vehicles. If we are
smart about it, when we take up and
legislate and build on past legislation
to build roads, highways, bridges, and
transit going forward, we will do it in
a way that creates corridors where peo-
ple traveling major roads in our coun-
try can easily stop and recharge their
vehicle’s battery or refuel hydrogen.
That has to be part of our legislation.
Since much of our carbon dioxide is
coming from mobile sources, we want
to make sure that, when we build
roads, highways, and bridges, we do it
in a way in which we reduce emissions
in smart ways, if you will, and the in-
frastructure is more sustainable. These
are some of the things we need to do.
The other thing I want to say is that,
for me, the Holy Grail of public policy
right now, given the threat we face
from climate change, extreme weath-
er—I will give you a hint. We had too
much rain in Delaware. We raise a lot
of soybeans, a lot of corn, a lot of lima
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:31 Apr 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00015 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G10AP6.027 S10APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2364 April 10, 2019
beans, and a lot of chickens. If you
asked a lot of farmers in Southern
Delaware last year how things went,
they will tell you that they got a whole
lot of rain. We got a whole lot of rain
last spring. You don’t want to have too
little rain, but you don’t want too
much. A lot of our farmers planted
their crops last spring, and it rained,
and it rained, and it rained. The crops
did not come up. They plowed under
and replanted, and it rained, and it
rained, and it rained. Too many of our
farmers didn’t get a crop.
The folks in the Midwest—Nebraska,
South Dakota, and other places—right
now are going through even more ex-
treme weather than that because they
are getting a lot of rain all at once. I
talked to one of our colleagues here in
the Senate about his State this morn-
ing, and this is happening again, I
think, maybe this week. That extreme
weather is caused by too much carbon
in the air. There is a great need to do
something about it.
The good news is this. We can do
something about it and create jobs.
How would that work in the auto-
motive area? Right now, our friends in
the automotive industry would like to
build a lot more fuel cell-powered vehi-
cles and a lot of electric-powered vehi-
cles. They plan to. They want to make
sure that, when they do that and they
are on the roads and highways across
the country, people get their electric
vehicles recharged and their hydrogen
vehicles refueled.
We need to put into our transpor-
tation legislation provisions that make
those charging stations and those fuel-
ing stations a reality. Our auto indus-
try needs certain predictability. Most
businesses will tell you that, of all
things, they need certainty and pre-
dictability. It is at the top of the list.
Right now, the current administration
is not interested, unfortunately, in pro-
viding the certainty and predictability
that folks need in the auto industry.
There is a 50-State deal to be made in
terms of fuel efficiency standards going
forward. It looks something like this:
The Trump administration wants to
have almost no increase in fuel effi-
ciency standards between 2021 and
2025—almost nothing, almost flatline,
and absolutely nothing beyond 2025.
The current regulation in place by the
last administration—the Obama ad-
ministration—calls for, between 2021
and 2025, annual increases in fuel effi-
ciency standards by roughly 5 percent.
That is pretty steep. That doesn’t
sound like much, but after 5 years in a
row, it is a big increase.
The auto industry is saying that they
would like to have some near-term
flexibility between 2021 and 2025 in fuel
efficiency standards. They are ready to
ramp it up going forward.
I think the current administration
might be willing to agree on a com-
promise of fuel efficiency standards
going up 1 percent a year between 2021
and 2025, but they don’t want to do
anything more after 2025. We will be
making a bunch of vehicles that get
maybe 300, maybe 400 miles on a
charge. I think there might be a num-
ber between a 1-percent increase in fuel
efficiency standards between 2021 and
2025 and a 5-percent increase. There
may be some middle ground between a
1-percent-a-year and a 5-percent in-
crease in what the Obama rules call
for. Maybe it is 3 percent. So rather
than making no progress in fuel effi-
ciency standards, you have a 3-percent
increase. The auto industry may not be
crazy about it, but they can live with
it. They can live with a good deal more
than 3 percent after 2025. We ought to
do that.
If we do that kind of thing, we will
make sure we don’t spend the next 5, 6
years with the auto industry in legal
battles in California and 13 other
States, including Delaware and Rhode
Island. The auto industry has a certain
predictability that they need. If they
build these vehicles, we will be com-
petitive on the world stage and have a
strong economy as a result, and we will
have done good things for our planet.
Why wouldn’t we do that? Really, why
wouldn’t we do that?
My dad was a big ‘‘common sense’’
guy. We can all probably remember
things our parents said to us from time
to time. Among other things, after my
sister and I had done some bone-headed
stunt, my dad would say: Just use com-
mon sense. He was an old chief petty
officer in the Navy—tough as nails. He
didn’t say it that nicely, but he said
‘‘just use common sense’’ a lot.
We need to use some common sense.
In doing that, we will create a great
bunch of jobs and make ours a competi-
tive nation on the world stage in one of
the most important industries we have;
that is, the building, design, and devel-
opment of vehicles. We will do good
things for our planet and for those who
are going to inherit this planet from
us.
That is pretty much what I wanted to
say today.
I want to take a minute to say some-
thing as a bigger State talking to an-
other big State—I like to tell people
Delaware is the 49th largest State. We
are about a couple of acres larger than
Rhode Island. These are two States
that I think the Senator from Rhode
Island will agree with—I will say this
to our pages here. I don’t know if you
have heard the term used in boxing
when you have a smaller fighter fight-
ing against a bigger fighter. When the
little boxer wins over the much bigger
boxer, you say the smaller boxer
‘‘punches above his weight.’’ When it
comes to climate change and trying to
figure out the right thing to do for our
planet, our country, our people, I
would like to say that in Rhode Island
and Delaware, we punch above our
weight. This may not be a heavyweight
title bout, but this is a big one. Where
they have world championships, in
terms of issues, this is a world cham-
pionship issue. This is one we can win.
I want to thank my friend Senator
WHITEHOUSE for taking a great leader-
ship role in all of this, including today.
He knows, as most of us on this floor
and I think on our planet know, that it
is time to wake up, or as my friend
Congresswoman LISA ROCHESTER likes
to say: Stay woke.
Thank you, sir.
I yield the floor.
Mr. WHITEHOUSE. Thank you very
much. It is not often that the distin-
guished ranking member on the EPW
Committee gets to say he is from a big-
ger State and give his advice in those
terms. I appreciate that we from Rhode
Island were able to give him this mo-
ment.
I also want to thank him for his lead-
ership in trying to fight for strong fuel
economy and greenhouse gas emission
standards for our automobiles.
The story of what is going on cannot
be properly understood without under-
standing the oil industry’s role in all of
this. They are up to their usual mis-
chief.
Our offices obtained a draft letter to
the Deputy Administrator of the Na-
tional Highway Traffic Safety Admin-
istration, urging her to weaken the
auto emission standards. Well, we were
able to look at the metadata on this
document, and guess who wrote it. It
was written by one of Marathon Petro-
leum’s in-house lobbyists.
Marathon shopped this letter, which
their lobbyist wrote, around to Mem-
bers of Congress, convincing several to
send similar letters in favor of weak-
ening the standards. We took those let-
ters, and we ran them through plagia-
rism software, and this is what we got.
The red text is the text that is iden-
tical to the language of the Marathon
lobbyist’s letter. The black is where, in
this case, Members of the Pennsylvania
delegation added a little local informa-
tion about Pennsylvania. It is an 80-
percent match in the plagiarism soft-
ware to the letter written by the Mara-
thon Oil company lobbyist.
Marathon and the oil industry
weren’t just recruiting Members of
Congress to copy their lobbyist lan-
guage into letters to the Trump admin-
istration; they got their trade associa-
tions involved as well. The American
Fuel and Petrochemical Manufacturers
Association lobbied, for instance, to
weaken the standards, according to
their lobbying disclosure reports. It is
always better to have your trade asso-
ciation do your dirty work. What com-
pany really wants the public to know it
lobbied to lower fuel economy stand-
ards so that consumers could pay more
at the pump? It is not a good look.
In addition to cranking up its trade
associations, the fossil fuel industry
also cranked up its constellation of
front groups that it has developed and
funded over the years to kill laws and
regulations that would reduce the car-
bon pollution that is driving climate
change. The industry launched those
front groups against the fuel economy
and greenhouse gas emission auto
standards. These front groups provide a
veneer of fake public support for the oil
industry’s anti-climate campaign.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:31 Apr 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00016 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G10AP6.028 S10APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2365
April 10, 2019
Take Americans for Prosperity, for
instance. It is a lovely, benign-sound-
ing name. Who could possibly be
against prosperity? Yet, in reality,
Americans for Prosperity is a front
group that is funded by the fossil fuel
billionaire Koch brothers, whose com-
pany, by the way, also lobbied against
the standards. Americans for Pros-
perity doesn’t disclose its donors. It is
a secretive organization. So what little
we know about its funders comes
thanks to the hard work of a few
muckraking, investigative journalists.
We do know that both ExxonMobil
and the fossil fuel industry’s flagship
trade association, the American Petro-
leum Institute, give the AFP money,
and they give them big money. Since
the Citizens United decision, the AFP
has spent about $70 million on Federal
elections. It is throwing its weight
around.
To oppose the auto standards, the
AFP created an elaborate online decep-
tion campaign that was centered on
this petition against the standards. Un-
fortunately, for them, the public was
not buying its nonsense. Despite an on-
slaught of online advertising, only 231
people signed up. It looks like no one
wanted to spend more on gas and that
no amount of fossil fuel lies could con-
vince them otherwise.
FreedomWorks is yet another front
group that has received millions in
funding from the Koch brothers and
fossil fuel interests like the American
Petroleum Institute. It also started an
online campaign against the standards,
and that, too, bombed. There is a word
for this stuff. It is called astroturf. It is
fake grassroots. Real grassroots orga-
nizations don’t need tens of millions of
dollars from fossil fuel front groups.
Real grassroots organizations thrive on
the engagement and the passion of citi-
zens, not on millions in special inter-
est, dark money.
In having flopped at astroturfing, the
oil industry organized its front groups
to write directly to Trump administra-
tion officials and lobby them to repeal
the standards. Here is one of these let-
ters, and a dozen phony front groups
signed it. Like I said, they built a con-
stellation of these phony front groups,
and a dozen signed this letter. These
groups together have received—like I
said, mostly of secret money—a min-
imum of $196 million from fossil fuel
industry interests, including from the
Koch brothers, API, ExxonMobil, and
Chevron.
This $196 million did a lot of talking,
for this letter found its way to an eager
audience in the Trump administration,
which is stuffed with fossil fuel lobby-
ists and flunkies. So they gave the oil
industry exactly what it wanted—a
proposal to freeze the auto emission
standards and to challenge California
and other States, like mine, our au-
thority to set our own standards.
What is strange about this is that
this proposal isn’t what the auto indus-
try says it wanted. Once the oil indus-
try jumped into the fray, the auto in-
dustry let Big Oil take over, or it got
shoved aside by Big Oil. Big Oil barged
in and got exactly what it wanted—
weakened standards that would allow
it to sell—hold your breath here—up to
$1 trillion in extra gasoline. For a mere
expenditure of $196 million through
these 12 phony front groups, they got
to sell $1 trillion in extra gasoline.
That is how you make big money—by
renting out the U.S. Government.
That, by the way, is $1 trillion that
comes out of consumers’ pockets and
goes into Big Oil’s. No wonder Big Oil
is hiding behind front groups.
In the press, unnamed auto industry
lobbyists have complained that the
proposed freeze isn’t what they asked
for. Well, that is not good enough.
Auto industry executives need to step
up and tell President Trump and Sec-
retary Chao and Administrator Wheel-
er that their oily proposal is not ac-
ceptable.
This car rule saga that we have seen
play out is a microcosm of the climate
change problem that we face. The fossil
fuel industry, through its armada of
phony front groups, fights to defend its
own massive sales and massive, mas-
sive taxpayer subsidies for its product.
The IMF has estimated that the fossil
fuel industry receives a $700 billion—
with a ‘‘b’’—annual subsidy in the
United States alone. So it has every in-
centive to spend whatever it takes to
control things in Washington, like giv-
ing $196 million to these front groups.
Meanwhile, the rest of corporate Amer-
ica, including car companies that
claim to support reducing carbon pollu-
tion, just don’t show up.
One side lobbies Congress against cli-
mate action, and the other side doesn’t
show up. One side spends tens of mil-
lions on attack ads against candidates
who support climate action, and the
other side doesn’t show up. One side
pours hundreds of millions of dollars
into trade associations and phony front
groups, and the other side doesn’t show
up. The result is entirely predictable—
money talks, unfortunately, around
here, and big money commands.
Things would change a bit if the rest
of corporate America would challenge
the fossil fuel industry’s money and in-
fluence to help our colleagues on the
other side get something done on cli-
mate change.
I close by pointing out that democ-
racy and the free market are the twin
pillars of our American example. What
does it say for them as institutions
when one industry—the fossil fuel in-
dustry—can simultaneously capture
our democracy and pervert the free
market with its massive subsidies? It is
not a good story.
America’s strength has always been
our example. Our inaction on climate
change—one of the foremost challenges
of the world—sullies our American ex-
ample. For the good of our country, for
the good of those institutions, for the
good of our American example, it is
time to wake up.
I yield the floor.
Mr. MORAN. Mr. President, I know
of no further debate on this nomina-
tion.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. COT-
TON). Is there further debate?
If not, the question is, Will the Sen-
ate advise and consent to the Brady
nomination?
Mr. MORAN. Mr. President, I ask for
the yeas and nays.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there a
sufficient second?
There appears to be a sufficient sec-
ond.
The clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk called the roll.
Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the
Senator from New Jersey (Mr. BOOKER)
and the Senator from California (Ms.
HARRIS) are necessarily absent.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Are there
any other Senators in the Chamber de-
siring to vote?
The result was announced—yeas 56,
nays 42, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 73 Ex.]
YEAS—56
Alexander
Barrasso
Blackburn
Blunt
Boozman
Braun
Burr
Capito
Cassidy
Collins
Cornyn
Cotton
Cramer
Crapo
Cruz
Daines
Enzi
Ernst
Fischer
Gardner
Graham
Grassley
Hawley
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Inhofe
Isakson
Johnson
Jones
Kennedy
Lankford
Lee
Manchin
McConnell
McSally
Moran
Murkowski
Paul
Perdue
Portman
Risch
Roberts
Romney
Rounds
Rubio
Sasse
Scott (FL)
Scott (SC)
Shelby
Sinema
Sullivan
Thune
Tillis
Toomey
Wicker
Young
NAYS—42
Baldwin
Bennet
Blumenthal
Brown
Cantwell
Cardin
Carper
Casey
Coons
Cortez Masto
Duckworth
Durbin
Feinstein
Gillibrand
Hassan
Heinrich
Hirono
Kaine
King
Klobuchar
Leahy
Markey
Menendez
Merkley
Murphy
Murray
Peters
Reed
Rosen
Sanders
Schatz
Schumer
Shaheen
Smith
Stabenow
Tester
Udall
Van Hollen
Warner
Warren
Whitehouse
Wyden
NOT VOTING—2
Booker Harris
The nomination was confirmed.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The ma-
jority leader.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that with re-
spect to the Brady nomination, the mo-
tion to reconsider be considered made
and laid upon the table and the Presi-
dent be immediately notified of the
Senate’s action.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
CLOTURE MOTION
Mr. MCCONNELL. I ask unanimous
consent that the mandatory quorum
call be waived.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:31 Apr 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00017 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G10AP6.031 S10APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2366 April 10, 2019
Pursuant to rule XXII, the Chair lays
before the Senate the pending cloture
motion, which the clerk will state.
The legislative clerk read as follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on the nomi-
nation of David Steven Morales, of Texas, to
be United States District Judge for the
Southern District of Texas.
Mitch McConnell, Johnny Isakson, Roger
F. Wicker, John Boozman, John Cor-
nyn, Mike Crapo, Shelley Moore Cap-
ito, Steve Daines, Roy Blunt, Deb
Fischer, David Perdue, Todd Young,
John Thune, Mike Rounds, John
Hoeven, Thom Tillis, Lindsey Graham.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
mandatory quorum call has been
waived.
The question is, Is it the sense of the
Senate that debate on the nomination
of David Steven Morales, of Texas, to
be United States District Judge for the
Southern District of Texas, shall be
brought to a close?
The yeas and nays are mandatory.
The clerk will call the roll.
The bill clerk called the roll.
Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the
Senator from New Jersey (Mr. BOOKER)
and the Senator from California (Ms.
HARRIS) are necessarily absent.
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tem-
pore. Are there any other Senators in
the Chamber wishing to vote or to
change their vote?
The yeas and nays resulted—yeas 57,
nays 41, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 74 Ex.]
YEAS—57
Alexander
Barrasso
Blackburn
Blunt
Boozman
Braun
Burr
Capito
Cassidy
Collins
Cornyn
Cotton
Cramer
Crapo
Cruz
Daines
Enzi
Ernst
Fischer
Gardner
Graham
Grassley
Hawley
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Inhofe
Isakson
Johnson
Jones
Kaine
Kennedy
Lankford
Lee
Manchin
McConnell
McSally
Moran
Murkowski
Paul
Perdue
Portman
Risch
Roberts
Romney
Rounds
Rubio
Sasse
Scott (FL)
Scott (SC)
Shelby
Sinema
Sullivan
Thune
Tillis
Toomey
Wicker
Young
NAYS—41
Baldwin
Bennet
Blumenthal
Brown
Cantwell
Cardin
Carper
Casey
Coons
Cortez Masto
Duckworth
Durbin
Feinstein
Gillibrand
Hassan
Heinrich
Hirono
King
Klobuchar
Leahy
Markey
Menendez
Merkley
Murphy
Murray
Peters
Reed
Rosen
Sanders
Schatz
Schumer
Shaheen
Smith
Stabenow
Tester
Udall
Van Hollen
Warner
Warren
Whitehouse
Wyden
NOT VOTING—2
Booker Harris
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tem-
pore. On this vote, the yeas are 57, the
nays are 41.
The motion is agreed to.
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tem-
pore. The clerk will report the nomina-
tion.
The bill clerk read the nomination of
David Steven Morales, of Texas, to be
United States District Judge for the
Southern District of Texas.
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tem-
pore. The Senator from Montana.
HEALTHCARE
Mr. DAINES. Madam President, 2
years ago, I exposed the Democrats’
plan for socialized medicine and al-
lowed every Senator here to take a
clear stand and reject this disastrous
idea once and for all. Unfortunately,
very few Senate Democrats were will-
ing to oppose socialized medicine then.
Well, they are back at it again today.
So now I am here again to shed some
much needed light on what seems to be
a never-ending game to score political
points and, even worse, to set the stage
for terrible policy—a continuing call
for socialized medicine.
We are seeing this false narrative of
‘‘free socialized medicine’’ making
headlines, but you see, it is not actu-
ally free; somebody has to pay for it. In
fact, every single one of us and our
kids and our grandkids will be paying
for it for a long time if this nonsensical
plan becomes reality.
Montanans face enough hardships
with rising prescription drug costs and
rising premiums. The Democrats’ so-
cialized medical scheme will cost the
American taxpayer $32 trillion over 10
years—$32 trillion—not to mention
that this scheme would kick millions
off their healthcare plan and eliminate
private health insurance.
In combination with the left’s absurd
Green New Deal, what we are seeing
here today is a pattern when it comes
to the Democrats’ very liberal and left-
ist agenda. They don’t blink an eye
when their liberal policies cost the tax-
payers trillions of dollars, and they
aren’t coming up with feasible solu-
tions.
In fact, too many Montanans are
faced with the very tough choice of
choosing between health and putting
food on the table. Prescription drug
prices are out of control. Montanans
are sick and tired of being sick and
tired. They want Congress to do some-
thing. They want results. They want
outcomes. That is why I have been
fighting for a commonsense solution
like my bill, the CREATES Act, which
addresses high prescription drug costs
and improves access to care in our
rural communities.
The left’s pie-in-the-sky proposal
promises a great deal, but we all know
the extent of empty promises in this
town. These proposals do nothing but
throw hard-working Montanans under
the bus, foot the massive tax bill to the
taxpayers, and prop up failed policies
just to appease a radicalizing base
across this country in the Democratic
Party. The people of Montana want
better than this. They deserve better
than this.
To my colleagues who are attempting
to make a hard run to the left to score
some points within your base, I simply
ask this: Will you please put your
country over your party? Will you put
the interests of the people over your
own self-political interests, or will you
continue to peddle the lie of socialized
medicine to the American people?
I think it is time we get to work,
hunker down and roll up our sleeves
and produce real results that the peo-
ple of Montana and across our Nation
deserve. They deserve serious answers,
and they deserve serious solutions, and
it is long overdue that we give them
that.
Thank you.
I yield the floor.
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tem-
pore. The Senator from Virginia.
NOMINATION OF JOHN P. ABIZAID
Mr. KAINE. Madam President, I rise
to speak today about the vote we cast
earlier confirming GEN John Abizaid,
Retired, to be U.S. Ambassador to
Saudi Arabia.
I was proud to vote for him. I think
he is very well qualified for that posi-
tion. The position has been vacant
since 2017. Other critical countries in
this most important region are without
Ambassadors—Egypt, Jordan, and
Pakistan.
General Abizaid has his work cut out
for him, and I want to speak specifi-
cally about some of the challenges in
Saudi Arabia now.
I believe there is a great day of reck-
oning that is now pending in the U.S.-
Saudi relationship.
Last week, the House of Representa-
tives passed a Senate resolution order-
ing the President to stop U.S. military
action in support of Saudi Arabia’s
intervention in Yemen’s civil war. The
Senate had earlier acted on that bill in
2018. It went to the House and died. The
Senate took up the bill again recently,
and the House passed it. The bill is now
on its way to the President’s desk.
The President has indicated that he
is likely to veto the bill, to continue
U.S. support for Saudi military activ-
ity in Yemen. If that happens, the bill
will come back to the Senate, and the
Senate will then have the opportunity
to vote on whether that veto should be
overridden.
The House vote to withdraw U.S. sup-
port for this military activity was 247
to 175. The Senate vote was 54 to 46.
The Yemen civil war has been a hu-
manitarian disaster. Many of my col-
leagues have spoken at length about
this, so I will not speak at length. Just
to underline key points, it has been a
humanitarian disaster, and the United
States should not be involved. Saudi
intervention has made it worse.
As of November 2018, nearly 7,000 ci-
vilians have been killed, nearly 11,000
had been wounded—the majority by
Saudi Arabia-led coalition airstrikes,
many of which are targeted and pros-
ecuted in amateurish ways. Those sta-
tistics are according to the Office of
the U.N. High Commissioner for
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:31 Apr 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00018 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G10AP6.032 S10APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2367
April 10, 2019
Human Rights. The actual human cas-
ualties are actually much higher be-
cause the war has led to famine and
disease outbreaks that have killed
many more. Thousands have been dis-
placed by fighting, and millions are
suffering from shortages of food and
medical care, with the country on the
brink of famine. There are 12 to 13 mil-
lion civilians at risk of starvation
largely because of the effects of this
civil war.
In addition to the poor prosecution of
this military activity by Saudi Arabia,
there are other issues we have to grap-
ple with.
A Virginia resident who is a Saudi
citizen, Jamal Khashoggi, who was a
journalist for the Washington Post,
criticized the Saudi policy in Yemen.
For his advocacy against the war, the
Government of Saudi Arabia lured him
into their consulate in Istanbul and
then tortured and assassinated him,
dismembering his body with a bone
saw. Then the Saudi Government en-
gaged in a massive misinformation and
disinformation campaign, lying to the
United States and to the world about
what had happened, saying that he had
left the Embassy on his own, saying
that it had been an accident, coming
up with all manner of excuses before
the even cursory investigation dem-
onstrated that he had been assas-
sinated.
The U.S. intelligence community is
unified in their assessment of what
happened to this Virginia resident—a
gross violation of human rights to as-
sassinate a journalist, especially in a
safe haven, which is what a consulate
is supposed to be.
In addition to the brutal murder of
Jamal Khashoggi, Saudi Arabia has
been arresting civil rights activists for
years, including, recently, two Virginia
residents—Aziza al-Youssef, who is a
Saudi citizen who studied at Virginia
Commonwealth University in Rich-
mond and then went to back to Saudi
Arabia to teach women computer
science. Her son, Salah al-Haidar, also
has been arrested for advocating for
women’s rights. What rights are they
advocating for? The right of women to
drive. The right of women to make
some of their own decisions under
Saudi law. Decisions by women cannot
be made independently but must gen-
erally be agreed to by a father or a hus-
band. Simply for advocating that
women be treated as equal, with equal
rights, these Virginia residents and
many others have been jailed and tor-
tured.
One would think that the United
States would be up in arms about the
assassination of a U.S. resident jour-
nalist, about the arrest of U.S. resi-
dents, including U.S. citizens advo-
cating for women’s rights, but that is
not the case. The President refuses to
submit a report determining whether
Jamal Khashoggi’s murder was a
human rights violation.
The Magnitsky Act was designed to
promote cooperation between the legis-
lative and the executive branches.
When Congress has information that
suggests there is a significant human
rights violation by a foreign govern-
ment, we write a letter to the Presi-
dent. The President has 120 days to in-
vestigate and then offer a determina-
tion as to whether there was a human
rights violation. It is a cooperative dia-
logue. We wrote the letter, 120 days
passed, and President Trump and the
administration will not answer it.
They will not say there was a human
rights violation. They will not say
there wasn’t a human rights violation.
I am not aware of their doing this for
any other nation. For Saudi Arabia,
they are ignoring the clear require-
ments of the Magnitsky Act. President
Trump said: ‘‘It could very well be that
the Crown Prince had knowledge of
this event—maybe he did and maybe he
didn’t.’’ That comment is at odds with
the assessment of the U.S. intelligence
community that this assassination was
an official act of the Saudi Arabian
Government that would not have hap-
pened without the knowledge of the
Crown Prince, M.B.S.
The relationship following these ar-
rests and this assassination has not
been downgraded or suffered repercus-
sions within this administration—in
fact, to the contrary. Two weeks ago,
right before an Armed Services Com-
mittee hearing where Secretary of En-
ergy Rick Perry was testifying, we
learned that the Trump administration
has approved secret transfers of nu-
clear technical information from
American companies to Saudi Arabia
on seven occasions since 2017. These
transfers are called Part 810 authoriza-
tions. They require an approval of the
Department of Energy. Under my
cross-examination, Secretary Perry
was forced to confirm that, yes, the ad-
ministration has authorized on seven
occasions transfers of this nuclear
know-how to Saudi Arabia.
In the past, when these transfers
were approved, they were made public
so that the American public and Con-
gress could exercise oversight on which
nations in the world are being given
nuclear technology, but in this in-
stance and possibly others in this ad-
ministration, the approvals were kept
secret.
Why are they secret now? We know
that Saudi Arabia is intent on building
a nuclear program. That is well cov-
ered. But they haven’t agreed to the
nonproliferation rules that would pre-
vent the development of nuclear weap-
ons. The Nuclear Non-Proliferation
treaty is a bedrock principle of inter-
national law that the United States
has supported for a very long time.
The principle is simple. We would not
want countries to get nuclear tech-
nology unless they give us guarantees
that technology is only for peaceful
use, medical research, power produc-
tion but not to produce nuclear weap-
ons.
We are transferring this technical
know-how to the Saudi Arabian Gov-
ernment secretly, without yet requir-
ing that they sign on to the important
safety protections in the NPT. It is
only logical that Congress would want
to know more about these approvals to
make sure they don’t spark a nuclear
arms race in the Middle East.
In the recent hearing, I asked Sec-
retary Perry about whether the secret
approvals of nuclear information trans-
fer occurred before or after the October
2018 murder of Jamal Khashoggi. He
claimed not to know. He has indicated
he would provide that information in
response to written questions. I sub-
mitted the written questions. He has
still not provided the information. It is
wrong to do these transfers without
letting Congress know; it is wrong to
do these transfers when Saudi Arabia
has not yet agreed to the principles
that would disallow nuclear prolifera-
tion; and it would certainly be wrong
to agree to transfers of this kind of in-
formation after the assassination of
Jamal Khashoggi, but as of yet the ad-
ministration hasn’t given us the data.
Beyond just the timing, who is get-
ting these secret approvals? Secretary
Perry said the approvals were secret
because there is proprietary informa-
tion. Companies might not want to
have information that they have devel-
oped through their own research avail-
able to all, but that doesn’t explain it.
You don’t have to give the proprietary
information to indicate what company
has gotten an approval on what day to
do the transfer.
Who is getting these secret approv-
als? One major nuclear firm, Westing-
house, has been reported as a
frontrunner in the competitive effort
to do nuclear reactor construction in
Saudi Arabia. Westinghouse is owned
by the same investors who bailed White
House adviser Jared Kushner out of a
bad real estate deal. Remember, Jared
Kushner was originally denied a secu-
rity clearance in the White House due
to concerns about foreign influence and
personal financial conflicts. Additional
reporting connects disgraced National
Security Advisor Michael Flynn—who
has been convicted for lying about his
ties to and communication with for-
eign governments—to the push for the
Saudi nuclear deal.
Finally, earlier today, I asked Sec-
retary Pompeo in a Foreign Relations
Committee hearing about public re-
ports in The National Interest, in Sep-
tember of 2018, that say the Saudis
have a robust anti-ballistic missile pro-
gram that has been largely built on
Chinese missiles—missiles from China
that were constructed originally to
carry nuclear warheads—but that the
Saudis have apparently used with non-
nuclear payloads or outfitted with non-
nuclear payloads.
The National Interest article that I
entered into the RECORD, dated Sep-
tember 21, 2018, indicated that, in
Saudi Arabia, these missiles have been
arranged so some of them would be di-
rected toward Tehran and others would
be directed toward Israel. All of these
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:31 Apr 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00019 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G10AP6.036 S10APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2368 April 10, 2019
issues are on the table: poor prosecu-
tion of a civil war leading to humani-
tarian disaster, the murder of a U.S.
resident journalist, the arrest of U.S.
residents for women’s rights activism,
secret transfers of nuclear technology
without letting Congress know, and
then the story I asked Secretary
Pompeo about today. The buildup of an
anti-ballistic missile program based
significantly on Chinese missiles leads
me to ask: Why would we help Saudi
Arabia in a disastrous war in Yemen?
Why would we turn a blind eye to
Saudi human rights abuses? Why would
we transfer nuclear know-how and plan
for a nuclear deal with Saudi Arabia
when they haven’t agreed to non-
proliferation rules that we expect other
Nations to agree to in a way that
would possibly spark an arms race in
the Middle East? My final question is,
who in the United States is benefiting
from this?
When I asked the Secretary of State
this morning, again, on the dates of the
nuclear approvals and did they occur
before or after the assassination of
Jamal Khashoggi, I am sure he knew I
was going to ask him that question. I
asked Secretary Perry the question 2
weeks ago. I submitted that question
for the record. He knew I was going to
ask him that question, and he said he
couldn’t give me any information
about the approvals; he would have to
get back to me about them.
Congress is not a student govern-
ment. Congress is supposed to, as the
article I branch, exercise oversight
over important matters. There is hard-
ly anything more important than the
spread of nuclear technologies that
could be used to proliferate weapons of
mass destruction anywhere in the
world, especially in a region as dan-
gerous as the Middle East.
These are the items that Ambassador
Abizaid will need to deal with in his
new role, but we need to exercise prop-
er congressional oversight of this rela-
tionship because there are so many
problems with it right now that are not
being addressed by this administration.
I think only Congress can address
them. I hope my colleagues will join
me with that oversight.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Oregon.
NOMINATION OF DAVID BERNHARDT
Mr. WYDEN. Madam President, the
Senate is just hours away from voting
on whether to confirm David Bernhardt
to head the Interior Department. He
would replace Ryan Zinke, who was
forced from office in the eye of an eth-
ical hurricane. I am here tonight to put
the Senate on notice that I believe, if
David Bernhardt is confirmed as Inte-
rior Secretary, another ethical storm
will be on us in the very near future.
The Zinke ethics hurricane was bad
enough. America should not be harmed
again if it is followed by a Bernhardt
ethical typhoon.
I believe the Bernhardt nomination
ought to be stopped in its tracks right
here, right now. At a minimum, the
Senate ought to put on hold this whole
matter until we can gather more infor-
mation so an informed decision can be
based on all the facts.
At this moment, with the debate hur-
tling possibly toward an end, there are
four pending requests by a dozen Sen-
ators, including myself, for inspector
general investigations of the issues in-
volving Mr. Bernhardt. In the other
body, there are a host of requests for
investigations as well. There has been
a lot of speculation about how all of
these issues have been aired.
This is old news, say some. The fact
is, that is not right. This doesn’t go
back months. My concerns aren’t infor-
mation that has been sitting out in
public view for years. The prospect of
an investigation is developing in real
time right now. I am going to run
through some of the basic facts before
getting into deeper details.
First, according to the Office of Gov-
ernment Ethics, Mr. Bernhardt has 27
different former clients who are posing
a potential of unlimited numbers of
conflicts of interests—oil clients, coal
clients, water clients, major ag and re-
sources clients. All of them have busi-
ness before the Department that the
Interior Secretary is supposed to be
running for the benefit of the public,
not for special interests.
My sense is, with all of these con-
flicts, Mr. Bernhardt would have basi-
cally two choices; one, he could comply
with the ethics pledge and pretty much
recuse himself from everything. Lord
knows what he would be doing all day
because he would have to recuse him-
self; or two, he would basically do busi-
ness and just violate the ethical prin-
ciples.
Lately, he seems to have been on
what seems like a victory parade on
Capitol Hill, touting what he says is a
record of being a champion of ethics,
but if you take a look at that record
and take a look at what was said dur-
ing his confirmation hearing, as my
son William Peter Wyden, age 11—pic-
tures available on my iPhone after my
presentation—would say, that Bern-
hardt statement was one big whopper.
Mr. Bernhardt served as Deputy Sec-
retary to Ryan Zinke. All through this
parade of environmental horrors that
were visited upon us, Mr. Bernhardt
was the key man in that office. There
is not one shred of evidence that Mr.
Bernhardt objected to Ryan Zinke’s
corruption. There is no evidence of it.
Just think about it. He is always de-
scribed as the guy who made the Inte-
rior Department run and that he was
the key to all of these pieces. Ryan
Zinke is out there with flagrant con-
flicts of interest and the like. Yet there
is no evidence that Mr. Bernhardt—the
self-styled expert on ethics—ever ob-
jected to anything.
Second, not even 2 weeks ago, Mr.
Bernhardt came before the Energy and
Natural Resources Committee for his
nomination. He admitted that he had a
role in blocking a landmark scientific
report on toxic pesticides—the kind of
report that career, nonpartisan sci-
entists and staff spend years devel-
oping in close consultation with De-
partment lawyers. Mr. Bernhardt’s ex-
cuse for blocking the report was that it
needed to be ‘‘read by the lawyers,’’
and he gave the impression to the En-
ergy and Natural Resources Committee
and the country—people were following
it on C–SPAN—he gave the impression,
when he said it needed to be read by
the lawyers, as though that was not al-
ready the routine. His claim doesn’t
pass the smell test. I believe he lied to
the Energy and Natural Resources
Committee.
Third, let’s talk about his lobbying.
Mr. Bernhardt deregistered as a lob-
byist to join the Trump transition
team before the President’s inaugura-
tion. There is evidence he kept right on
lobbying, nonetheless, in violation of
the law. There is a whole lot of talk
about mislabeled invoices and simple
errors that attempted to explain it all
the way. The fact is, there were mul-
tiple cases in which Mr. Bernhardt was
engaged in activities that made him
the de facto lobbyist, carrying on with
the same job he had been doing all
along.
So you have a pattern of unethical
behavior right in front of our eyes. He
said he had to do this lawyering. There
hadn’t been any lawyering. Then we go
back and look at the rules, and they
say that in these situations, there is
lawyering all the way through the
process. That is why I am very trou-
bled about his trustworthiness.
After Ryan Zinke’s departure, every
Senator ought to be interested in re-
storing integrity and honor to the Inte-
rior Department. Yet the Trump ad-
ministration has double downed on its
commitment to graft by nominating
David Bernhardt for this job. As I men-
tioned, there are pending requests for
inspector general investigations. I have
also called for an investigation by the
U.S. attorney. Neither of those has had
adequate time to respond, but the ma-
jority leader has rushed this nomina-
tion to the floor.
To indicate how fast the nomination
is moving, the President obviously
nominated Mr. Bernhardt to lead the
Interior Department less than a month
ago. Less than 2 weeks ago, the Senate
Energy and Natural Resources Com-
mittee held the confirmation hearing
on his nomination. Exactly a week
later, the committee voted to approve
it. One week after that, the Senate
may choose to vote on his final con-
firmation. I just think it is a grave
mistake to be moving forward with so
many serious unanswered questions,
and let me go through the history
about why.
The Interior Department is still reel-
ing from Ryan Zinke and what I call
this self-generated ethical hurricane.
In addition to overseeing the largest
rollback of Federal land protections in
American history, Ryan Zinke trig-
gered so many Federal inquiries and in-
vestigations before he resigned in
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:31 Apr 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00020 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G10AP6.037 S10APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2369
April 10, 2019
shame that you can’t even easily track
them. By most public reporting, he
triggered at least 17 different Federal
inquiries before he officially left office
at the start of the year: the inappro-
priate censorship of scientific reports,
the wasting of tens of thousands—if not
hundreds of thousands—of dollars on
office doors and chartered flights, and
of cutting potentially illegal land deals
with oil industry executives. His rap
sheet basically goes on and on. It is as
long as the Columbia River. In his brief
tenure, Ryan Zinke demonstrated that
he was better at corrupt self-dealing
than he was at protecting our treas-
ured public lands.
I mentioned David Bernhardt was Mr.
Zinke’s Deputy, and he was the Solic-
itor for the Interior Department during
the Bush administration. He knows a
lot about how the Department works.
I want to say this to my colleagues:
If this is a guy who is hands on and if
he really understands the Department
of the Interior, I think you have to
wonder why Mr. Bernhardt never seems
to have objected to any of Mr. Zinke’s
corrupt activities.
The Interior Department, unfortu-
nately, isn’t new to scandal, and I am
going to take a brief moment to look
back at one particular scandal that re-
lates to these matters—Julie Mac-
Donald, a notoriously corrupt Interior
official during the George W. Bush ad-
ministration who was forced to resign.
In December of 2006, after an anony-
mous complaint sparked an investiga-
tion, the inspector general released a
report showing that Ms. MacDonald
had given internal Department docu-
ments to industry lobbyists and that
she had run roughshod over career De-
partment staff who tried to stand in
her way.
I had serious concerns about the re-
port and what was happening at the
Department. So, literally, more than a
decade ago, I placed a hold on a nomi-
nee to the Interior Department, pend-
ing some accountability for these fla-
grant abuses by Ms. MacDonald. The
next day, which was months after the
original report became public, she fi-
nally resigned. Later that year, I re-
quested an expanded probe into Inte-
rior decisions related to the Endan-
gered Species Act that Ms. MacDonald
had been involved in.
There was evidence of her meddling
having directly affected species in the
Pacific Northwest. The Interior’s in-
spector general released a report. Ac-
cording to the New York Times, it
found ‘‘Ms. MacDonald’s zeal to ad-
vance her agenda has caused consider-
able harm to the integrity of the En-
dangered Species Act program and to
the morale and reputation of the Fish
and Wildlife Service, as well as poten-
tial harm to individual species.’’
I bring this up because here is where
David Bernhardt figures into the story.
A few weeks ago, I was surprised that
Mr. Bernhardt requested to meet with
me in my office. I said I would be glad
to do it. When nominees come by, I
usually just start with the questions:
Why should I vote for you? Why should
I be supportive? It is kind of an easy
way for the nominee to get into it.
That is why I do it.
What Mr. Bernhardt said was that he
was a big ethics champion.
He said: Hey, do you remember Julie
MacDonald? I am captain ethics. I ad-
vised Julie MacDonald to clean up her
act.
I didn’t ask Mr. Bernhardt about
Julie MacDonald. He brought it up.
I have met with a lot of nominees,
and I have heard a lot of reasons as to
why they deserve my vote, but this
meeting was certainly a head-scratch-
er. A nominee who had been present for
Ryan Zinke’s reign of corruption and
conflict and who had seemed not to do
anything about it had shown up, at his
request, to tout his own ethics.
A few hours after the meeting in my
office with Mr. Bernhardt, I decided I
would look at his record for myself. In-
terior Department documents that had
been obtained through a Freedom of In-
formation Act request showed he had
recently blocked the release of a Fish
and Wildlife report about the effects of
dangerous, toxic pesticides.
Career staff at the Fish and Wildlife
Service, an Interior Department Agen-
cy, were on the brink of completing a
comprehensive report on the impact of
three pesticides on, potentially, hun-
dreds of endangered species. This was a
report by career staff. It was not put
together by people who were political
appointees. It defined pesticides that
were so dangerous and so toxic that
they jeopardized the continued exist-
ence of more than 1,000 species. This re-
port, had it been made public, would
have had profound consequences for
pesticide manufacturers in the busi-
nesses that had used them.
The dedicated team of career staff at
the Fish and Wildlife Service that had
worked so long on this in order to
make sure they really dug into the
science—and they took years to be fas-
tidious about it—wanted to make it
public. The team was working rapidly
to submit its findings to the Environ-
mental Protection Agency for its re-
view.
The documents show that before this
landmark report could make it into
public view, Mr. Bernhardt came along
and pushed himself into the middle of
the process. The documents show his
emails on the pesticide report. He de-
manded briefings from these career sci-
entists. They show meetings with
White House officials and others about
the specific section of the law that gov-
erns the role of Fish and Wildlife in
these types of assessments. There is
even included an email in which Mr.
Bernhardt edited the letter that Inte-
rior officials used to block the release
of the pesticide report. There were dig-
ital fingerprints everywhere.
I have to say that I looked at this,
and I said: This sure sounds like Julie
MacDonald all over again. The guy who
said: ‘‘Hey, I was the one who pushed
Julie MacDonald to clean up her act,’’
looked like he was meddling with the
science just the way Julie MacDonald
was. Ms. MacDonald was found by the
inspector general to have meddled with
the scientific conclusions, and now
there is David Bernhardt, who has been
alleged to have manipulated the proc-
ess and blocked the release of an En-
dangered Species Act report.
So Mr. Bernhardt came to say that
his ethics were unimpeachable and that
he was above reproach. Yet I will tell
you, for my colleagues who are think-
ing about this, if you read the docu-
ments I read from the Freedom of In-
formation Act, they make him sound
like another Julie MacDonald. I
worked through all of these documents,
and they left me with the impression
that Mr. Bernhardt had lied to me
about his ethics during our one-on-one
meeting as well. It left me wondering
why he would go out of his way to talk
up his ethics when he must have known
the truth was going to come out even-
tually.
During his confirmation hearing, he
claimed he would strive to bring a cul-
ture of ethical compliance. He said he
hoped to overhaul the ethics of the
Ryan Zinke period and the Julie Mac-
Donald experience. Senators called his
qualifications unparalleled and claimed
that the allegations of ethical mis-
conduct against him were false. I re-
spect those colleagues who have their
opinions. I have my own, and my opin-
ions are going to be based on the docu-
ments.
The document I entered into the
record at his confirmation hearing
showed that the pesticide industry re-
peatedly asked political appointees at
the Interior Department and at the En-
vironmental Protection Agency to in-
tervene in the scientific analysis. It
showed that Mr. Bernhardt eventually
did so.
According to documents that had
been made public by the Freedom of In-
formation Act, a pesticide industry at-
torney wrote to then-Secretary Zinke
and then-Administrator Scott Pruitt
on April 13 of 2017. The pesticide indus-
try was asking for changes to the En-
dangered Species Act. The industry fol-
lowed it up very shortly with a request
to meet with the Environmental Pro-
tection Agency’s staff. At that time, a
pesticide industry executive called an
attorney of the Interior Department
for a meeting as well. Another official
from a pesticide trade association
reached out to the same Interior De-
partment attorney to discuss the En-
dangered Species Act.
Other supporting documentation con-
sisted of an email that was dated Octo-
ber 5, 2017, from Mr. Bernhardt to Gary
Frazer, the Fish and Wildlife Service’s
Assistant Director, who handles these
endangered species. He ‘‘was the top of-
ficial overseeing the assessment of the
impact,’’ according to the press, while
looking at the implications of these
pesticides. In this email, Mr. Bernhardt
asked Mr. Frazer for a briefing the fol-
lowing week. Additional documents
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:31 Apr 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00021 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G10AP6.039 S10APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2370 April 10, 2019
show that Mr. Bernhardt held a series
of meetings with Mr. Frazer over the
next 3 weeks.
On October 30, according to the cal-
endar released by the Freedom of Infor-
mation Act, Mr. Bernhardt met with
White House officials to discuss Endan-
gered Species Act provisions. It is
called section 7. That is the section
that pertains to the role that the Fish
and Wildlife plays in ensuring other
Agencies aren’t jeopardizing species.
An email from November of 2017
shows Mr. Bernhardt edited the draft of
a letter from career Fish and Wildlife
Service staff to the EPA. It announced
the Interior Department wouldn’t be
delivering the Fish and Wildlife’s as-
sessment to the Agency as planned.
This, colleagues, is where Mr. Bern-
hardt put the brakes on this important
Fish and Wildlife report about the pes-
ticides.
According to a New York Times re-
port, the pesticide analysis was
blocked in conjunction with a ‘‘radical
shift’’ in how the Fish and Wildlife
analyzes the effects of these pesticides.
The change greatly increased the bur-
den of proof the Agency is required to
meet to demonstrate pesticide effects
on species. According to that article in
the Times, it would likely result in
fewer new restrictions on pesticide use.
CropLife and RISE—two trade associa-
tions that represent the pesticide com-
panies—were very much in favor of
this. They were praising it.
Based on the documents, at the hear-
ing, I asked Mr. Bernhardt why he
would come to my office and sell me on
ethics when the reports and the docu-
ments I just read showed otherwise. He
had no response.
At the hearing, I asked Mr. Bern-
hardt specifically why he would come
to the office and make these claims. He
had no response at the hearing but
took a long sip of water as though he
had meant to go on awhile. Mr. Bern-
hardt made the claim that career Fish
and Wildlife staff ‘‘clearly’’ didn’t com-
plete any legal review on the pesticide
report, which is why he stepped in.
During the hearing and while under
oath, I believe Mr. Bernhardt con-
firmed allegations that he interfered
with the release of an Endangered Spe-
cies Act report. He didn’t, however, ac-
knowledge that his involvement was
inappropriate political meddling.
Following the hearing and with seri-
ous questions remaining about whether
he had lied under oath to the com-
mittee, I wrote the Interior Depart-
ment’s inspector general for her help in
getting to the bottom of the matter.
Here are the facts I included:
On March 28, 2019, Mr. Bernhardt ap-
peared before the U.S. Senate Com-
mittee on Energy and Natural Re-
sources for his confirmation hearing to
become Secretary of the Department of
the Interior. I questioned him about
these documents and his role in block-
ing the Fish and Wildlife’s analyses. He
confirmed to me that he had reviewed
the analyses. He claimed he believed
the analyses had not been subject to
legal review and made the determina-
tion to delay the report.
Second, Mr. Bernhardt’s response:
You’re dealing with some of the most dif-
ficult consultations on the planet, and when
I read the document, my reaction to it was
this is really an interesting draft. But it
clearly didn’t have any legal review, and in
our world you can’t ignore the law and come
up with a scheme.
He continued:
And so what we decided is that the ap-
proach needed to be readdressed.
Mr. Bernhardt’s answer is totally off
base with respect to the way legal
analyses work.
Under standard procedure, there
would be legal analysis through the de-
velopment of this kind of fish and wild-
life report. It would involve lawyers at
Fish and Wildlife, Interior Department,
or both.
So I am especially troubled by what
appears to be a political appointee
meddling in the scientific process with
respect to a report that revealed the
extraordinary danger of toxic pes-
ticides.
I am the senior member on the En-
ergy and Natural Resources Com-
mittee, a former chairman of the com-
mittee. I cannot recall ever having this
kind of exchange with a nominee.
That is why I had to request that the
Office of Inspector General investigate
the following: What role did Mr. Bern-
hardt and other political appointees at
the Interior Department play in delay-
ing or obstructing the Fish and Wild-
life Service pesticide report? What role
did he play in changing Fish and Wild-
life policy with regard to this key sec-
tion in the Endangered Species Act?
What role did other political ap-
pointees—Agriculture Senior Advisor,
former CropLife lobbyist, Ms. Adcock—
play in the Interior Department and
Fish and Wildlife Service’s decision
making? Whether, as Mr. Bernhardt al-
leged to me under oath on March 28,
2019, the Fish and Wildlife draft anal-
ysis ‘‘clearly didn’t have any legal re-
view’’ and whether, as Mr. Bernhardt
alleged to me, career lawyers at the In-
terior Department agreed with his
analysis—these are all questions that
haven’t been answered.
I would just say to the Senate, if you
need more evidence that there are too
many questions to allow this nomina-
tion to move forward, the story just
gets more complicated.
After Mr. Bernhardt demonstrated
that he simply was going to dance
around the truth, the Senate has to
question his basic understanding of the
law.
So on Monday, I asked the U.S. At-
torney for the District of Columbia to
thoroughly investigate potential civil
and criminal violations of the Lob-
bying Disclosure Act of 1995 by Mr.
Bernhardt, as well as his former lob-
bying firm.
By the way, again, a newspaper re-
ports—this time the Washington Post—
that Mr. Bernhardt’s ex-firm has quad-
rupled its business, earning nearly $5
million to lobby the Interior Depart-
ment since he has taken his most re-
cent spin through the Interior Depart-
ment revolving door.
So here is what I said to the U.S. at-
torney: Lobbying Disclosure Act filings
show Mr. Bernhardt registered to lobby
for his law firm on behalf of the
Westlands Water District on March 30,
2011. Westlands is the largest agricul-
tural water district in the United
States, in central California. Public re-
porting indicates Mr. Bernhardt ran his
former lobby firm’s natural resources
department.
That lobby firm filed its 2016 fourth
quarter report on November 18, 2016—1
week after the 2016 Presidential elec-
tion—terminating Mr. Bernhardt’s lob-
bying status as of that day.
Public reporting at the time indi-
cates Mr. Bernhardt ‘‘delisted himself
as a lobbyist in November after Trump
won the election to avoid running afoul
of the new President’s ban on lobbyists
joining his administration.’’
Public reporting and documents ob-
tained via public records show that Mr.
Bernhardt maintained his relationship
with Westlands after his lobbyist
deregistration on November 18, 2016.
Furthermore, he may have repeatedly
engaged in activity that would require
him to continue registering as a Fed-
eral lobbyist. So he claimed he was no
longer a lobbyist, but it sure looks as
though he went right on lobbying.
The Lobbying Disclosure Act is pret-
ty clear. I will read from public guid-
ance provided by the U.S. House of
Representatives. A lobbyist can termi-
nate their registration ‘‘only when the
individual’s lobbying activities on be-
half of that client did not constitute at
the end of the quarter . . . 20 percent of
the time that such employee is engaged
in total activities for that client; or
that individual doesn’t reasonably ex-
pect to make further lobbying con-
tacts.’’
What does the law mean by ‘‘lob-
bying contacts?’’ That is pretty clear
too. The same guidance says it is ‘‘any
oral, written, or electronic commu-
nication to a covered Federal official
that is made on behalf of a client’’ with
regard to Federal legislation, rule-
making, executive orders and the like.
‘‘Covered Federal officials’’ include all
Members of Congress and their staff.
The evidence I included in my re-
quest to the U.S. Attorney for the Dis-
trict of Columbia included several
emails showing Mr. Bernhardt may
have engaged in repeated, regulated
lobbying contacts with covered Federal
legislative branch officials.
The first time, according to the in-
formation that is already public, ap-
pears to be on November 22, 2016, just a
few days after he deregistered as a lob-
byist. Mr. Bernhardt agreed to join a
conference call with Westlands and the
offices of Representative DEVIN NUNES
and former Representative Valadao to
discuss upcoming legislation.
The second and third times are cov-
ered in a complaint filed with the U.S.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:31 Apr 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00022 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G10AP6.041 S10APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2371
April 10, 2019
attorney’s office in 2017. That com-
plaint included copies of emails docu-
menting Mr. Bernhardt’s role in 2016
and 2017 as an intermediary for con-
gressional staff and Westlands. It also
appeared to include a trip to California
for Mr. Bernhardt, paid for by
Westlands.
So here is what it appears happened:
Mr. Bernhardt provided his client,
Westlands, with information about leg-
islative efforts in 2016 and 2017. His old
lobbying firm also disclosed lobbying
on behalf of Westlands on those same
legislative efforts over the same time-
frame.
Another new report shows that Mr.
Bernhardt was also in contact in De-
cember 2016 with a Senate employee
covered by lobbying regulations.
On March 8, 2017, his old lobby firm
sent Westlands an invoice for more
than $27,000 for ‘‘Federal lobbying.’’ It
included an itemized list of expenses
related to Mr. Bernhardt’s January 2017
travel to California for a ‘‘Westlands’’
trip.
On April 20, 2017, the lobbying firm
filed its 2017 first quarter disclosure
that is required by the Lobbying Dis-
closure Act. It showed Westlands paid
the firm $70,000 for lobbying services
related to H.R. 1769, a bill involving the
San Luis unit drainage district, among
other measures. It was a longstanding
priority for Westlands—a money-
making opportunity. It was sponsored
by then-Representative Valadao, one of
the Congressmen Mr. Bernhardt ap-
pears to have been in contact with on
November 22, 2016, and January 2, 2017.
The lobby firm’s 2017 first quarter
disclosure was filed shortly after the
firm sent Westlands the March invoice
for Mr. Bernhardt’s February 2017
‘‘Federal lobbying’’ activity.
According to a media report in July
of 2017, a Westlands representative
claimed Bernhardt ceased all lobbying
activity ‘‘the moment he deregistered
as a lobbyist.’’ In May of 2017, during
his confirmation process to be Deputy
Secretary, Mr. Bernhardt also claimed
in writing to the committee he had
‘‘not engaged in regulated lobbying on
behalf of Westlands Water District
after November 18, 2016.’’
These Bernhardt claims simply do
not line up with the documents. Per-
haps that is why he refused when one of
my colleagues requested he provide
complete records relating to any com-
munications he had with covered legis-
lative branch officials after the date of
his deregistration.
Let me repeat that.
When one of the Senators on the En-
ergy and Natural Resources Committee
asked Mr. Bernhardt to provide docu-
ments that would help the committee
get to the bottom of this issue, he just
stonewalled. He just refused.
The Lobbying Disclosure Act isn’t
that burdensome. The firm and Mr.
Bernhardt could have chosen to dis-
close his lobbying activity on behalf of
Westlands. They chose not to do so, so
everybody is going to ask why.
The U.S. attorney’s office is respon-
sible for enforcement of the Lobbying
Disclosure Act of 1995. So this week I
wrote to the U.S. attorney, requesting
a thorough investigation.
I have spent this time highlighting
some of the major reasons that make
me feel strongly that Mr. Bernhardt’s
nomination should not move forward
at this time. Chief among them are
that I have two pending requests for in-
vestigations at this time, neither of
which have been responded to because
it has been a short time and the major-
ity leader is interested in steamrolling
this flawed nominee by the American
people.
I am just going to conclude my re-
marks by summarizing a couple of Mr.
Bernhardt’s greatest hits with respect
to why he is thoroughly unqualified to
be Secretary of the Department of In-
terior.
The first is the matter of the con-
flicts. He is a former oil lobbyist. In
fact, at one point, I was going to say
that he was the oil industry’s guy, but
the oil industry lobbyists beat me to it.
A secret tape came out, and they were
quoted as saying: We are glad he is our
guy. Dozens of his ex-clients have busi-
ness before Interior. According to his
ethics pledge, he should be conflicted
out of working on those issues. If he re-
mains involved, he will be flagrantly
violating his ethics pledge. So if he fol-
lows the rules and stays out of all of
these issues his clients have before the
Department, I will tell you, for the life
of me, I can’t figure out what he is
going to do all day because he is going
to be conflicted out of all of these mat-
ters that are going to be before the De-
partment.
Just last week, Mr. Bernhardt’s pre-
viously unrevealed calendars were par-
tially made public. To nobody’s sur-
prise, many of those secret meetings
have been with industry. This is yet
another item that Congress, including
the other body, has asked for more in-
formation about.
So the damage has been done. The
conflicts are clear. He has already
taken actions that benefit his former
clients and former employers.
He has taken steps specifically to
weaken the Endangered Species Act—
worked to weaken wildlife protections
for a California fish species, according
to another investigation. This weak-
ening of protections for the California
fish species is a policy change that one
of Mr. Bernhardt’s former clients—
Westlands Water District—had been
pushing for for years.
Mr. Bernhardt’s Interior announced
that the Agency is basically going to
stop holding oil companies accountable
for oilspills by ending enforcement of
the Migratory Bird Treaty Act. This
move has been long supported by yet
another energy lobby, another one of
Mr. Bernhardt’s former clients.
Mr. Bernhardt’s Interior Department
increased drilling and mining access on
millions of acres of sage-grouse habitat
across five Western States. That drill-
ing will be conducted by companies,
again, linked to Mr. Bernhardt. It
could make the sage-grouse an endan-
gered species, and it could endanger
the livelihoods of ranching families on
the rural frontier who are just hoping
to preserve their traditional way of
life.
Mr. Bernhardt continues delivering
for the oil and gas industry. A CNN re-
port found the Agency has advanced at
least 15 policies supported by his
former clients during his time at Inte-
rior Department—everything from the
elimination of BLM’s methane reduc-
tion rules and gutting safety rules for
natural gas drilling on public lands, to
risking the lives of workers by reduc-
ing safety standards for offshore drill-
ing. I don’t think it is any big surprise
why those oil executives were cheering
about Mr. Bernhardt’s nomination and
calling him, literally, their guy.
During the longest government shut-
down on record, when national parks
were unstaffed and overflowing with
human waste, Mr. Bernhardt even re-
called Interior employees to specifi-
cally approve hundreds of drilling per-
mits. Certainly, the oil and gas giants
are getting their money’s worth.
To cap off my list, Mr. Bernhardt’s
Interior Department even proposed
opening up the entire U.S. coastline for
offshore oil drilling.
I am heading home. I am sure my col-
league from North Dakota and other
Senators are also. I am having town
meetings and listening to people. There
isn’t going to be anybody who comes to
my town meetings starting in the next
couple of days who wants to see the Or-
egon coastline up for offshore drilling
or who wants to see the oil derricks at
Haystack Rock, and they don’t want to
be standing on our beaches holding oil-
soaked sponges.
The entire time Mr. Bernhardt has
been at the Interior Department, his
former lobbying firm has just been rak-
ing in the cash. So the question really
becomes: Has he already broken the
law? My bottom line is that the Senate
ought to take the time to actually look
into that issue. It isn’t some trivial
matter after the self-generated Zinke
ethical hurricane.
Shouldn’t we say, after that ethics
horror show, that it is the job of every
Member in the Senate—every Demo-
crat and every Republican—to work for
policies that bring honor and credi-
bility back to the Interior Depart-
ment? I just don’t think that is going
to be the case if this body confirms
David Bernhardt.
We will be voting, at least tonight,
on the procedure, and depending on
how that goes, we may be voting on
final passage.
I will just tell you that I don’t want
to be back on this floor in a matter of
months talking about yet another Inte-
rior leader, like Ryan Zinke, forced
from office as the result of a grotesque
scandal. The Senate doesn’t have to
leave the door of the Interior Depart-
ment wide open for more conflicted in-
dividuals to waltz into positions of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:31 Apr 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00023 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G10AP6.042 S10APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2372 April 10, 2019
power where they can work against the
interests of the American people. I be-
lieve that is exactly what America will
get from David Bernhardt.
I urge my colleagues to join me in
opposing this nomination.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
CRAMER). The clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk proceeded to
call the roll.
Mr. UDALL. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
Mr. UDALL. Mr. President, I rise
today to oppose this rush to confirm
David Bernhardt to serve as the 53rd
Secretary of the Interior.
The Secretary of the Interior is the
chief steward of nearly 500 million
acres of public lands and 1.7 billion
acres of the Outer Continental Shelf.
The Interior Secretary is charged with
managing the public’s natural re-
sources and protecting our Nation’s
most iconic spaces for now and for gen-
erations to come, and the Secretary
has the duty of making sure that our
trust and treaty responsibilities to
American Indians and Alaska Natives
are met. It is essential to have the
right individual serving in this posi-
tion—someone who has a record of hon-
oring these critical responsibilities and
someone who will approach the solemn
duties with only the interests of the
American people at the top of his or
her agenda.
After considering the whole of Mr.
Bernhardt’s record, especially the open
questions about his actions that have
benefited his former clients, I cannot
vote to confirm this nominee. His poli-
cies are too slanted toward private in-
terests, and as a former lobbyist for
many of these interests, his conflicts
are too many. Any discussion of this
nomination must begin there—by ad-
dressing the serious conflicts of inter-
est that Mr. Bernhardt brings to this
role and by addressing the ethical
cloud that is plainly hanging over this
nomination.
I am rising today to call on the Re-
publican leadership to put a halt to
this nomination until that ethical
cloud can be cleared, and if that cloud
cannot be cleared, then, Mr. Bernhardt
should be withdrawn.
The concerns that have been raised
are serious. Let’s talk about a few of
them.
Much has been made of Mr. Bern-
hardt’s ethics pledge and whether he
has complied with the letter of the law,
but we all know that he certainly has
not complied with the spirit of the law.
The Interior Department has begun or
completed at least 19 policy actions re-
quested or supported by at least 16 of
Mr. Bernhardt’s former clients since he
came to Interior, according to just 1
analysis.
Mr. Bernhardt’s ethics pledge didn’t
stop him from trying to divert water to
his former client, Westlands Water Dis-
trict in California’s Central Valley, one
of the largest agricultural water users
in the county. On their behalf, Mr.
Bernhardt sought to weaken protec-
tions for endangered fish species so
that his client could pump more water.
While an Interior official ‘‘verbally’’
ruled that he could participate in the
matter, outside ethics experts dis-
agreed. Mr. Bernhardt is clearly mak-
ing a decision that directly benefits
one of his former clients.
Last month, I wrote to the DOI in-
spector general requesting an inves-
tigation into this matter. The Senate
should know the outcome of such re-
views before considering a Cabinet
nominee. Otherwise, we are flying blind
when it comes to a nominee’s fitness
for office.
Just last week, it came to light that
Mr. Bernhardt continued to work with
Westlands after he filed notice that he
was no longer lobbying on its behalf.
He filed his notice on November 2016,
but invoices from Mr. Bernhardt’s firm
show that he worked with his client all
the way up to his nomination for Dep-
uty Secretary.
A spokeswoman claims that the work
was not technically ‘‘lobbying,’’ but
the fact is that Mr. Bernhardt’s actions
are benefiting his former clients.
Westlands is getting the relief from the
Endangered Species Act that they have
sought for years.
Once again, we need to know the full
truth before we can vote on a nominee
of such consequence.
Americans deserve to have con-
fidence in the impartiality of public of-
ficials, but how can they when the
Trump administration has become a re-
volving door of lobbyists and industry
advocates?
As an attorney and lobbyist, Mr.
Bernhardt built a profitable career try-
ing to open public lands for develop-
ment for his clients, and he spent years
attacking the foundation of the Endan-
gered Species Act. The problem is that
since assuming his role as Deputy Sec-
retary, he has continued to advocate
for policies that benefit these same
special interests.
He helped to open millions of acres of
public lands to oil and gas drilling,
while looking to limit public input,
and helped to gut protections that
would mitigate the environmental
harm of such development.
He has tried to manipulate and bury
the science of toxic pesticides that
threaten endangered species. He has
largely ignored the science of climate
change. None of this is a personal at-
tack on the Deputy Secretary, but we
simply should not install private indus-
try’s representatives to run the De-
partment of the Interior, because when
we do, the American people pay the
price.
Just look at the policy outcomes.
Climate change, for instance, is an ex-
istential issue—the most pressing issue
facing our planet. The Department of
the Interior oversees 20 percent of the
lands in our Nation. These lands and
their ecosystems and wildlife are
threatened by a changing climate:
drought and wildfires in the South-
west, wildfires and flooding in Cali-
fornia, and hurricanes in the South-
east.
Mr. Bernhardt has been clear that
climate science will take a backseat to
the President’s politics. Under Mr.
Bernhardt’s guidance, the Department
is blatantly ignoring the science of cli-
mate change. The Department took
down its climate change web page, re-
scinded orders and policies aimed at
addressing the impacts of climate
change, and gutted the methane emis-
sion control rule at the behest of the
worst performers in the oil and gas in-
dustry.
Mr. Bernhardt now has the audacity
to claim that there are no laws on the
books that require Interior to act on
climate change, all because his admin-
istration has attempted to dismantle
every rule or regulation that requires
the Department to take action.
Very concerning is Mr. Bernhardt’s
role as the Trump administration’s ar-
chitect of opening public lands for un-
fettered energy development. In the
last 2 years, Interior has auctioned off
more than 16.8 million acres of public
land for oil and gas drilling. In the first
quarter of 2019, nearly 2.3 million more
acres were put on the auction block.
That includes potential lease sales
within striking distance of the Chaco
Culture National Historical Park, a
UNESCO world heritage site sacred to
the Tribes. That is why I just intro-
duced legislation to permanently es-
tablish a 10-mile buffer surrounding
Chaco so that we can enjoy this cul-
turally significant area for generations
to come without the constant threat of
development.
The Department has tried to open up
nearly all coastal waters for offshore
drilling and is speeding toward selling
leases to drill in the coastal plain of
the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge—
home to Native American Tribes and
an area that supports a diversity of
wildlife in a wild and untamed setting
unlike any other on this planet. There
are nearly 250 species, from caribou and
grizzly bears to wolves and migratory
birds. Yet this administration, under
Mr. Bernhardt, is racing toward an out-
come that could decimate this unique,
grand, and biologically rich place.
The Endangered Species Act stands
as the Nation’s commitment to protect
wildlife from extinction. Protecting
biodiversity is more important now
than ever, as we see animal and plant
species dying off in record numbers due
to the loss of habitat and climate
change.
Mr. Bernhardt has had the ESA in his
sights for a long time. Under his lead-
ership, Interior has now proposed al-
lowing economic considerations to
override wildlife protections. Extinc-
tion is becoming just another cost of
doing business.
As I mentioned, on behalf of his
former client Westlands, Mr. Bernhardt
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:31 Apr 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00024 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G10AP6.044 S10APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2373
April 10, 2019
sought to weaken protections for en-
dangered fish species, the delta smelt,
and the Chinook salmon so that
Westlands could pump more water. Mr.
Bernhardt has looked to implement the
very same policies he lobbied for, from
within the walls of the Department. As
Deputy Secretary, Mr. Bernhardt also
dismantled a landmark agreement
among bipartisan western Governors to
protect the greater sage-grouse, open-
ing up millions of acres of its habitat
to oil and gas drilling without protec-
tions.
The Endangered Species Act should
be classified as ‘‘endangered’’ under
Mr. Bernhardt’s client-friendly Interior
Department.
Let’s talk about another extinction
risk: chlorpyrifos. Chlorpyrifos is not
yet a household name like DDT, but it
will be. It is a dangerous neurotoxin
used in agriculture throughout the
United States. It is linked to brain
damage in children and can cause seri-
ous harm to human health and wildlife.
In 2016, scientists from the EPA rec-
ommended a ban on all uses of this
toxic pesticide. One of Scott Pruitt’s
first actions as EPA Administrator was
to rescind that proposed ban. One of
Mr. Bernhardt’s early actions as Dep-
uty Secretary was to bury a scientific
study concluding that chlorpyrifos and
another pesticide could ‘‘jeopardize the
continued existence’’ of more than 1,200
endangered birds, fish, and other ani-
mals and plants. Let me repeat. More
than 1,200 birds, fish, and other species
are at risk of extinction from two toxic
pesticides. Mr. Bernhardt reportedly
ordered the staff to go back to the
drawing board to block the release of
this report.
I have been working to get
chlorpyrifos off the market with legis-
lation, and the Federal courts have or-
dered EPA to move forward with the
ban. There is no good reason
chlorpyrifos is still in use except that
it is manufactured by a powerful
DowDuPont company. Mr. Bernhardt’s
withdrawal of the scientific study
serves Big Chemical’s interests, not the
public’s.
One of the most egregious anti-con-
servation actions of this administra-
tion is the unprecedented attacks on
the Antiquities Act, which has stood
since President Theodore Roosevelt.
The President reduced Bears Ears Na-
tional Monument by 85 percent and
Grand Staircase-Escalante by over 45
percent—the largest rollback of protec-
tions for our collective Federal lands
in history and an unlawful Presidential
action, in my view.
Each of these monuments is home to
ruggedly beautiful lands that are at
risk. The Bears Ears designation was
the result of many years of hard work
and collaboration by five Tribes who
trace their ancestry to this remarkable
area. Now the Department is pushing
to open up the land outside their
boundaries for coal and mineral mining
corporations.
Last month, I led 16 Democratic Sen-
ators in a letter to Mr. Bernhardt seek-
ing his commitment to leave existing
boundaries of other national monu-
ments intact. So far, we have received
no assurance from Mr. Bernhardt that
any other monuments won’t meet the
same fate as Bears Ears and Grand
Staircase.
The pattern is clear: From the Arctic
Refuge to California’s Central Valley,
from the Atlantic coast to Bears Ears,
Mr. Bernhardt’s Interior Department
places profits over people.
The American public deserves an In-
terior Secretary they can trust to look
out for their interests—protecting pub-
lic land, species, the air, and the
water—but Mr. Bernhardt has not dem-
onstrated that he has the necessary
independence from his former clients.
He has made them very happy. He has
shut out scientists, Native Americans,
conservationists, and the American
people. He is tangled with conflicts.
The Senate should stop the rush to
confirm Deputy Secretary Bernhardt
while these fundamental ethics and
conflicts of interest questions are
under review. If we move forward, I
will vote no on this nomination.
Before I conclude, I would like to
offer one final point. I made my con-
cerns with Mr. Bernhardt clear, but if
Mr. Bernhardt is confirmed, one of his
most important duties will be honoring
our trust responsibility to Native
Americans. On this count, I hope he
will do better than what the Trump In-
terior Department has shown us so far.
As the vice chair of the Senate Com-
mittee on Indian Affairs, I want to en-
sure that the Department respects
Tribes’ sovereignty and self-determina-
tion and engages in meaningful con-
sultation with Tribes. The Trump ad-
ministration’s record with Tribes and
Native communities is, to put it light-
ly, lacking. The Tribes in New Mexico
do not believe they are being properly
consulted as leasing pushes ahead close
to Chaco Canyon.
For 3 years running, the administra-
tion has proposed budgets that would
significantly cut BIA and BIE funding.
Those are education budgets and budg-
ets that help Native Americans on
their reservations.
Congress has historically worked
across party lines on Native issues.
Congress rejected the administration’s
proposed cuts for fiscal years 2018 and
2019, and I fully expect it to do so again
for 2020.
If confirmed, I would like to see Mr.
Bernhardt follow suit and commit to
do better on Tribal issues, commit to
meet with Tribal leaders to understand
their priorities and demonstrate in ac-
tion that he respects Tribal sov-
ereignty and that he commits the
Agency to consult with Tribes when-
ever their interests are affected.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk proceeded to
call the roll.
Mr. BROWN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
LIVING WILLS
Mr. BROWN. Mr. President, today on
the other side of this building, the
CEOs of the biggest Wall Street banks
face tough questions about the way
their banks have scammed and broken
laws and gotten away with it, as every
American knows. Our Banking Com-
mittee staff analyzed the data, and it is
pretty clear that these banks are
breaking the laws over and over and
over.
Watchdogs will take enforcement ac-
tions against a bank only to find out
the same bank is breaking the rules in
an entirely different way in a different
part of the bank at the same time. We
need to hold these banks and the cor-
porate executives who run them ac-
countable for their actions, which we
have simply not done. Trump regu-
lators haven’t done it, and the Senate
majority hasn’t done it. We simply
haven’t done it. Hard-working Ameri-
cans face real consequences when they
break the law, and so should Wall
Street banks.
The chair of the House Financial
Services Committee, MAXINE WATERS,
is doing the right thing in the House
calling in these CEOs. We need to be
doing the same thing in the Senate. I
have called on my counterpart on the
Banking Committee, Chairman CRAPO,
to hold a hearing so we can question
big bank executives about their law-
breaking.
There are plenty of actions the Presi-
dent and his administration could take
on their own to punish these banks
when they break the rules, but instead
this administration and this majority
leader do exactly the opposite. Last
year, Congress passed and President
Trump signed legislation rolling back
laws protecting working families from
Wall Street greed. The big banks, of
course, ask for weaker rules. They have
forgotten what happened. Well, they
haven’t forgotten, but they hope the
public has. Certainly, the Senate Re-
publicans have forgotten what hap-
pened 10 years ago to this country. So
Congress passed and the President
signed legislation rolling back laws
protecting working families from Wall
Street greed. As I said, the big banks
wanted weaker rules and they got
them, even though that puts millions
of families at risk of losing their jobs
and losing their homes again. Presi-
dent Trump said: OK, let’s do what the
big banks want.
We know that the White House looks
like a retreat half the time for Wall
Street executives, and we know the
President of the United States does the
bidding of Wall Street over and over.
The year before weakening these
rules, Congress passed and President
Trump signed a $1.5 trillion—that is
1,000 billion, $1.5 trillion—tax cut for
corporations, big banks, and the rich-
est Americans. Since the Republican
tax bill passed, corporations have
bought back $900 billion of their own
stock.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:31 Apr 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00025 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G10AP6.045 S10APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2374 April 10, 2019
I was in the White House one day
with a group of Senators, meeting with
the President of the United States, and
he said that this tax bill they were
about to pass—that he hoped would
pass—would mean that the corpora-
tions would invest all these dollars
into higher wages for workers and new
factories and growing the economy.
Well, what happened with a lot of this
money was they used this money for
stock buybacks.
Of the eight companies with the most
stock buybacks—with billion dollars of
stock buybacks—half of them were
Wall Street banks. We know Wall
Street can never get enough—never
enough power, never enough money.
They always want more. One bank lob-
byist said: We don’t want a seat at the
table; we want the whole table.
And this Congress and this President
think that is just fine.
The tax giveaways, letting banks
haggle over their stress test results,
and taking away customers’ rights to
have their day in court when the banks
scam them, apparently, just wasn’t
enough for Wall Street. Two days ago,
the Fed announced that they are going
to roll back more rules on foreign
megabanks. These are not just U.S.
banks with U.S. employees. These are
foreign megabanks. We are talking
about banks that have broken U.S. law
over and over and over. I am not going
to document all of those. But there are
many, many cases of these foreign
megabanks breaking U.S. law—banks
like Santander, which illegally repos-
sess servicemen’s cars. So when men
and women are overseas protecting our
country, Santander, a Spanish-owned
bank doing business in the United
States, actually repossessed these serv-
icemembers’ cars.
Deutsche Bank has laundered money.
We know Deutsche Bank is about the
only big bank in the world that will fi-
nance the President because he has a
history and a habit of cheating banks
and not paying back loans. So because
of the relationship that Deutsche Bank
and President Trump have, Deutsche
Bank is doing just fine. We also know
that Deutsche Bank laundered money,
breaking U.S. law. Not even counting
the President’s insidious activities
with them, Deutsche Bank broke U.S.
law by laundering money. But do you
know what? The Fed gives them roll-
back rules because we don’t want to be
too tough on the foreign megabanks.
Last year, when the President signed
his big bank bill, I warned that it
would mean looser rules on those big,
foreign banks. They all said: No, that
is not going to happen. Federal Reserve
Chairman J. Powell himself said it
wouldn’t happen; they are not going to
weaken the rules on the foreign banks.
Well, either they were naive at the
time—I think J. Powell is an honest
man. I guess I didn’t know he was this
naive. But he and others would say:
They are not going to weaken foreign
bank rules.
Well, now they have.
When the Fed made the announce-
ment of its plan to go easy on foreign
banks, they said—I am not kidding;
this is a quote: ‘‘This proposal should
look familiar because it shares the
same basic framework as the domestic
proposal.’’ It is as if that is a good
thing, as if they are bragging that we
are treating the foreign banks the
same way as domestic banks, but these
foreign banks happen to break the law
over and over—Deutsche Bank,
Santander, and other banks.
That is not even the only good news
for megabanks this week. We got word
that the Fed and President Trump’s ap-
pointees are going to let the biggest
Wall Street banks off the hook on an-
other rule, but one that requires some-
thing called living wills. Now, living
wills doesn’t sound like much. It
doesn’t mean much to Members of this
Senate and to the general public, un-
less they are in the Banking Com-
mittee and they spend a lot of time on
this.
Living wills are blueprints from
banks that are supposed to prove they
will not wreck the economy and cost
taxpayers billions of dollars if they go
bankrupt. Now, pretty much the way it
works is like this. The Federal Reserve
goes to these banks and they require
these banks to show what would hap-
pen if there were a significant down-
turn in the economy like there was a
decade-plus ago.
When the economy went south in
2007, 2008, and 2009, for these banks—be-
cause they weren’t strong enough, be-
cause they hadn’t had these stress
tests, and because they hadn’t gone
through these rules because it wasn’t
Federal law at the time—it wasn’t
clear that these banks would be able to
withstand that kind of plummeting of
the economy when demand shrinks and
all the things that happen in a reces-
sion. They weren’t. So that is why gov-
ernment bailed them out. That is why
the lobbyists lined up in Leader
MCCONNELL’s office—then, I guess, it
was Leader Fritz’s office or Leader
Lott’s office—and got so much of what
they wanted from Senate Republicans
in those days.
The whole point of these living wills
is that banks can show, through a se-
ries of complicated tests, that even if
the economy goes bad, these banks
aren’t going to tank, these banks
aren’t going to go out of business, and
these banks aren’t going to need a Fed-
eral bailout. That is the whole pur-
pose—a big part of the purpose—of
Dodd-Frank, the Wall Street reform
bill.
Again, these living wills are blue-
prints from banks that would prove
they will not wreck the economy and
cost taxpayers billions if they go bank-
rupt. Under the bill that passed a dec-
ade ago to fix this, they had to go
through a stress test every year. Well,
this bill the President signed said that,
well, they will not have to go through
it quite every year. The debate was—I
said I didn’t think we should do it. My
Republican colleagues said: Well, it
will probably be every other year.
Maybe that is not so bad.
I said: Well, probably it is. It ought
to be every year.
Now the Federal Reserve has said it
is just going to be once for every Presi-
dential 4-year term—once every 4
years. Nobody saw that coming. I guess
the banks saw it coming because the
banks had a lot of influence with them.
So the Wall Street reform law re-
quired them to file these plans every
year, and now they require them only
every 4 years. It is said that if those
plans didn’t look credible and if the
banks failed their stress tests—in other
words, they weren’t strong enough to
withstand a recession—then, the Fed-
eral Reserve and others would have the
power to go in and make these problem
banks simpler and smaller. In other
words, if the banks couldn’t withstand
a bad economy and if these banks were
too fragile and caused too much dam-
age to the economy if they didn’t pass
the stress tests, these banks, then,
could be broken up into smaller units,
making them stronger. But now finan-
cial watchdogs only have to check into
those plans just once a Presidential
term, every 4 years. A lot can change
and a lot can go wrong in 4 years. Just
ask any family or anyone how their in-
come or rent or savings change. They
may not be the same month-to-month
let alone every 4 years.
The people in this town, especially
Republicans on the Senate Banking
Committee, have this collective amne-
sia. They may have forgotten what the
financial crisis and the housing crisis
meant. The families who lost their
homes, lost their jobs, lost their retire-
ment savings and their college funds
haven’t forgotten. They haven’t recov-
ered from the financial crisis. They
haven’t recovered from decades of bad
trade policy and bad tax policy that
make it harder and harder for their
work to pay off.
I don’t think Members of this body—
there is a wonderful quote from Presi-
dent Lincoln when he said to his staff:
I need to go out and get my public
opinion back. I need to go out and lis-
ten to what people are saying and look
at how they are living and talk about
their lives.
It is not something people around
here do much of, especially when it is
people who might be vulnerable to los-
ing their homes.
I live in Cleveland, OH, Connie and I.
We live in ZIP Code 44105. There were
more foreclosures in my ZIP Code than
in any ZIP Code in the United States of
America. You can still see the urban
blight and the residue in what is left—
the remains of those foreclosures.
Think about what it means to a fam-
ily personally. The first thing they
have to do is get rid of their pet. Their
pet costs too much money, no matter
how close their son or daughter or they
themselves may be to their dog or cat.
Then they have to make all kinds of
decisions: We are going to have to
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:31 Apr 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00026 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G10AP6.047 S10APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2375
April 10, 2019
move. We are going to have to go to a
new school district—all the kinds of
heartache when your life has been
turned upside down because you are
foreclosed on.
I am not an alarmist or predicting
anything in the next few months, but if
we keep going down this path, weak-
ening Federal banking law, doing the
bidding of Wall Street, if the lobbyists
continue to go in and out of the office
of Senator MCCONNELL, the Republican
leader’s office, and the bank lobbyists
who go in and out of there and get
their way—if that happens and con-
tinues to happen, who knows what will
happen again in the next 2, 3, 5, 10
years.
The more we roll back these rules on
Wall Street, the more we give breaks
to foreign megabanks, the greedier the
big banks get, the more risk they take
on, and the higher the chance that one
of their big risks doesn’t pay off.
Mr. President, you know who is pay-
ing the price when Wall Street bets
don’t pay off. It is you, it is the work-
ers, families, and taxpayers. It is your
money, the American people’s money
they are gambling with. So instead of
making it easier for Wall Street to
make big bets and break the law with-
out reaping consequences, why don’t
we make it easier for families to afford
healthcare? Why don’t we make it easi-
er for working parents to afford
childcare? Why don’t we make it easier
for workers to save for retirement?
Why don’t we make it easier for stu-
dents to pay for college? Why don’t we
honor the dignity of work and make
sure hard work pays off for everyone,
whether you swipe a badge or punch a
clock or work for tips or work for a sal-
ary or whether you are taking care of
children or an aging parent? Why don’t
we make it easier for them with a tax
code and trade policy that works? In-
stead, all our efforts and all of the ad-
ministration’s efforts—as I said, the
White House looks like a retreat for
Wall Street executives. So much of
their efforts are to make it easier for
corporations and to make it easier for
the big banks.
It is time we listened a little more to
the Americans we serve, a little less to
the biggest Wall Street banks that
have gotten enough handouts already.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The bill clerk proceeded to call the
roll.
Mr. LEE. Mr. President, I ask unani-
mous consent that the order for the
quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
Mr. LEE. Mr. President, we have no
further debate on the nominee.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
further debate?
If not, the question is, Will the Sen-
ate advise and consent to the Morales
nomination?
Mr. LEE. Mr. President, I ask for the
yeas and nays.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The yeas
and nays have been ordered.
The clerk will call the roll.
The bill clerk called the roll.
Mr. THUNE. The following Senator is
necessarily absent: the Senator from
Georgia (Mr. PERDUE).
Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the
Senator from New Jersey (Mr. BOOKER)
and the Senator from California (Ms.
HARRIS) are necessarily absent.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Are there
any other Senators in the Chamber
wishing to vote or to change their
vote?
The result was announced—yeas 56,
nays 41, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 75 Ex.]
YEAS—56
Alexander
Barrasso
Blackburn
Blunt
Boozman
Braun
Burr
Capito
Cassidy
Collins
Cornyn
Cotton
Cramer
Crapo
Cruz
Daines
Enzi
Ernst
Fischer
Gardner
Graham
Grassley
Hawley
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Inhofe
Isakson
Johnson
Jones
Kaine
Kennedy
Lankford
Lee
Manchin
McConnell
McSally
Moran
Murkowski
Paul
Portman
Risch
Roberts
Romney
Rounds
Rubio
Sasse
Scott (FL)
Scott (SC)
Shelby
Sinema
Sullivan
Thune
Tillis
Toomey
Wicker
Young
NAYS—41
Baldwin
Bennet
Blumenthal
Brown
Cantwell
Cardin
Carper
Casey
Coons
Cortez Masto
Duckworth
Durbin
Feinstein
Gillibrand
Hassan
Heinrich
Hirono
King
Klobuchar
Leahy
Markey
Menendez
Merkley
Murphy
Murray
Peters
Reed
Rosen
Sanders
Schatz
Schumer
Shaheen
Smith
Stabenow
Tester
Udall
Van Hollen
Warner
Warren
Whitehouse
Wyden
NOT VOTING—3
Booker Harris Perdue
The nomination was confirmed.
The Senator from Tennessee.
Mr. ALEXANDER. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that with re-
spect to the Morales nomination, the
motion to reconsider be considered
made and laid upon the table and that
the President be immediately notified
of the Senate’s action.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
objection?
Without objection, it is so ordered.
Mr. ALEXANDER. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the man-
datory quorum call be waived.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
CLOTURE MOTION
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Pursuant
to rule XXII, the Chair lays before the
Senate the pending cloture motion,
which the clerk will state.
The bill clerk read as follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on the nomi-
nation of David Bernhardt, of Virginia, to be
Secretary of the Interior.
Mitch McConnell, Mike Crapo, John
Thune, John Barrasso, Johnny Isakson,
Pat Roberts, John Cornyn, Lindsey
Graham, Thom Tillis, Roy Blunt, John
Boozman, James E. Risch, Roger F.
Wicker, John Hoeven, Mike Rounds,
Steve Daines, Shelley Moore Capito.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. By unan-
imous consent, the mandatory quorum
call has been waived.
The question is, Is it the sense of the
Senate that debate on the nomination
of David Bernhardt, of Virginia, to be
Secretary of the Interior, shall be
brought to a close?
The yeas and nays are mandatory
under the rule.
The clerk will call the roll.
The bill clerk called the roll.
Mr. THUNE. The following Senator is
necessarily absent: the Senator from
Georgia (Mr. PERDUE).
Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the
Senator from New Jersey (Mr. BOOKER)
and the Senator from California (Ms.
HARRIS) are necessarily absent.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Are there
any other Senators in the Chamber de-
siring to vote?
The yeas and nays resulted—yeas 56,
nays 41, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 76 Ex.]
YEAS—56
Alexander
Barrasso
Blackburn
Blunt
Boozman
Braun
Burr
Capito
Cassidy
Collins
Cornyn
Cotton
Cramer
Crapo
Cruz
Daines
Enzi
Ernst
Fischer
Gardner
Graham
Grassley
Hawley
Heinrich
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Inhofe
Isakson
Johnson
Kennedy
King
Lankford
Lee
Manchin
McConnell
McSally
Moran
Murkowski
Paul
Portman
Risch
Roberts
Romney
Rounds
Rubio
Sasse
Scott (FL)
Scott (SC)
Shelby
Sinema
Sullivan
Thune
Tillis
Toomey
Wicker
Young
NAYS—41
Baldwin
Bennet
Blumenthal
Brown
Cantwell
Cardin
Carper
Casey
Coons
Cortez Masto
Duckworth
Durbin
Feinstein
Gillibrand
Hassan
Hirono
Jones
Kaine
Klobuchar
Leahy
Markey
Menendez
Merkley
Murphy
Murray
Peters
Reed
Rosen
Sanders
Schatz
Schumer
Shaheen
Smith
Stabenow
Tester
Udall
Van Hollen
Warner
Warren
Whitehouse
Wyden
NOT VOTING—3
Booker Harris Perdue
The PRESIDING OFFICER. On this
vote, the yeas are 56, the nays are 41.
Three-fifths of the Senators duly cho-
sen and sworn having voted in the af-
firmative, the motion is agreed to.
f
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the nomination.
The bill clerk read the nomination of
David Bernhardt, of Virginia, to be
Secretary of the Interior.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:31 Apr 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00027 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G10AP6.048 S10APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2376 April 10, 2019
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Wyoming.
f
LEGISLATIVE SESSION
MORNING BUSINESS
Mr. BARRASSO. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the Senate re-
sume legislative session and be in a pe-
riod of morning business, with Sen-
ators permitted to speak therein for up
to 10 minutes each.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
BUDGET SCOREKEEPING REPORT
Mr. ENZI. Mr. President, I rise to
submit to the Senate the budget
scorekeeping report for April 2019. The
report compares current-law levels of
spending and revenues with the
amounts the Senate agreed to in the
Bipartisan Budget Act of 2018, BBA18.
This information is necessary for the
Senate Budget Committee to deter-
mine whether budgetary points of
order lie against pending legislation.
The Republican staff of the Budget
Committee and the Congressional
Budget Office, CBO, prepared this re-
port pursuant to section 308(b) of the
Congressional Budget Act, CBA.
This is my third scorekeeping report
this year. My last filing can be found in
the CONGRESSIONAL RECORD for Feb-
ruary 27, 2019. The information in-
cluded in this report is current through
April 8, 2019.
Since my last filing, three bills with
significant budgetary effects cleared
Congress, the Pesticide Registration
Improvement Extension Act of 2018,
P.L. 116–8; the John D. Dingell, Jr. Con-
servation, Management, and Recre-
ation Act, P.L. 116–9; and the Medicaid
Services Investment and Account-
ability Act of 2019, H.R. 1839.
Budget Committee Republican staff
prepared Tables 1–3.
Table 1 gives the amount by which
each Senate authorizing committee ex-
ceeds or is below its allocation for
budget authority and outlays under the
fiscal year 2019 enforceable levels filing
required by BBA18. This information is
used for enforcing committee alloca-
tions pursuant to section 302 of the
CBA. Over the current 10-year enforce-
able window, authorizing committees
have increased outlays by a combined
$3.4 billion. For this reporting period,
as in my last report, 8 of the 16 author-
izing committees are not in compliance
with their allocations. One of these
committees, Finance, further exacer-
bated its violations this work period
with the passage of the Medicaid Serv-
ices Investment and Accountability
Act. CBO estimates that this measure
will increase mandatory spending for
all enforceable periods, including an in-
crease in outlays of $27 million over
the Fiscal Year 2019–2028 period. The
Agriculture Committee reduced the
size of its violations with the passage
of the Pesticide Registration Improve-
ment Extension Act, which CBO scores
as reducing outlays by $5 million in
Fiscal Year 2019 and by $23 million over
the Fiscal Year 2019–2023 period. The
Energy and Natural Resources Com-
mittee, which was not in breach of its
allocation for the last reporting cycle,
continued to reduce spending with the
passage of the John D. Dingell, Jr. Con-
servation, Management, and Recre-
ation Act. CBO estimates that this
measure will reduce spending by $10
million over both the 5- and 10-year en-
forceable windows. This savings is
credited to its allocation, as shown in
the table.
Tables 2 provides the amount by
which the Senate Committee on Appro-
priations is below or exceeds the statu-
tory spending limits. This information
is used to determine points of order re-
lated to the spending caps found in sec-
tions 312 and 314 of the CBA. Appropria-
tions for Fiscal Year 2019, displayed in
this table, show that the Appropria-
tions Committee is compliant with
spending limits for Fiscal Year 2019.
Those limits for regular discretionary
spending are $647 billion for accounts
in the defense category and $597 billion
for accounts in the nondefense cat-
egory of spending.
The Fiscal Year 2018 budget resolu-
tion contained points of order limiting
the use of changes in mandatory pro-
grams in appropriations bills, CHIMPs.
Table 3, which tracks the CHIMP limit
of $15 billion for Fiscal Year 2019,
shows the Appropriations Committee
has enacted $15 billion worth of full-
year CHIMPs for Fiscal Year 2019.
In addition to the tables provided by
Budget Committee Republican staff, I
am submitting CBO tables, which I will
use to enforce budget totals approved
by Congress.
For Fiscal Year 2019, CBO estimates
that current-law levels are $2.9 billion
above and $3.3 billion below enforceable
levels for budget authority and out-
lays, respectively. Revenues are $426
million below the level assumed in the
budget resolution. Further, Social Se-
curity revenues are at the levels as-
sumed for Fiscal Year 2019, while So-
cial Security outlays are $4 million
above assumed levels for the budget
year.
CBO’s report also provides informa-
tion needed to enforce the Senate pay-
as-you-go, PAYGO, rule. The PAYGO
scorecard shows deficit increases in
Fiscal Year 2019 of $1,957 million—$427
million revenue loss, $1,530 million out-
lay increase; over the Fiscal Year 2018–
2023 period of $3,373 million—$894 mil-
lion revenue loss, $2,479 million outlay
increase; and over the Fiscal Year 2018–
2028 period of $442 million, $634 million
revenue loss, $192 million outlay de-
crease.
This submission also includes a table
tracking the Senate’s budget enforce-
ment activity on the floor since the en-
forcement filing on May 7, 2018. Since
my last report, no new budgetary
points of order were raised.
All years in the accompanying tables
are fiscal years.
I ask unanimous consent that the ac-
companying tables be printed in the
RECORD.
There being no objection, the mate-
rial was ordered to be printed in the
RECORD, as follows:
TABLE 1.—SENATE AUTHORIZING COMMITTEES—ENACTED
DIRECT SPENDING ABOVE (+) OR BELOW (¥) BUDGET
RESOLUTIONS
[In millions of dollars]
2019
2019–
2023
2019–
2028
Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry
Budget Authority ............................... 2 414 4,249 3,123
Outlays .............................................. 1,401 1,797 70
Armed Services
Budget Authority ............................... 0 0 0
Outlays .............................................. 0 0 0
Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs
Budget Authority ............................... 21 285 382
Outlays .............................................. 20 285 382
Commerce, Science, and Transportation
Budget Authority ............................... 41 77 91
Outlays .............................................. 11 74 90
Energy and Natural Resources
Budget Authority ............................... 0 ¥10 ¥24
Outlays .............................................. 0 ¥10 ¥24
Environment and Public Works
Budget Authority ............................... 2 4 ¥333
Outlays .............................................. 2 4 ¥333
Finance
Budget Authority ............................... 378 1,128 ¥889
Outlays .............................................. 159 1,120 ¥892
Foreign Relations
Budget Authority ............................... 0 ¥5 ¥20
Outlays .............................................. 0 ¥5 ¥20
Homeland Security and Governmental Af-
fairs
Budget Authority ............................... 0 2 4
Outlays .............................................. 43 48 49
Judiciary
Budget Authority ............................... 13 209 497
Outlays .............................................. 13 205 492
Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions
Budget Authority ............................... 0 ¥36 ¥84
Outlays .............................................. 0 ¥36 ¥84
Rules and Administration
Budget Authority ............................... 0 0 0
Outlays .............................................. 0 0 0
Intelligence
Budget Authority ............................... 0 0 0
Outlays .............................................. 0 0 0
Veterans’ Affairs
Budget Authority ............................... 4 3 ¥729
Outlays .............................................. 4,402 4,400 3,668
Indian Affairs
Budget Authority ............................... 0 0 0
Outlays .............................................. 0 0 0
Small Business
Budget Authority ............................... 0 0 0
Outlays .............................................. 0 0 0
Total
Budget Authority ...................... 2,873 5,906 2,018
Outlays ..................................... 6,051 7,882 3,398
TABLE 2.—SENATE APPROPRIATIONS COMMITTEE—
ENACTED REGULAR DISCRETIONARY APPROPRIATIONS 1
[Budget authority, in millions of dollars]
2019
Security 2 Nonsecurity 2
Statutory Discretionary Limits .............. 647,000 597,000
Amount Provided by Senate Appropriations Subcommittee
Agriculture, Rural Development, and
Related Agencies .............................. 0 23,042
Commerce, Justice, Science, and Re-
lated Agencies .................................. 5,499 58,619
Defense ................................................. 606,340 129
Energy and Water Development ............ 22,440 22,200
Financial Services and General Govern-
ment ................................................. 31 23,392
Homeland Security ................................ 2,058 47,353
Interior, Environment, and Related
Agencies ........................................... 0 35,552
Labor, Health and Human Services,
Education and Related Agencies ..... 0 178,076
Legislative Branch ................................ 0 4,836
Military Construction and Veterans Af-
fairs, and Related Agencies ............. 10,332 86,804
State Foreign Operations, and Related
Programs .......................................... 0 46,218
Transportation and Housing and Urban
Development, and Related Agencies 300 70,779
Current Level Total ............. 647,000 597,000
Total Enacted Above (+) or Below
(¥) Statutory Limits .............. 0 0
1 This table excludes spending pursuant to adjustments to the discre-
tionary spending limits. These adjustments are allowed for certain purposes
in section 251(b)(2) of BBEDCA.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:55 Apr 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00028 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G10AP6.052 S10APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2377
April 10, 2019
2 Security spending is defined as spending in the National Defense budg-
et function (050) and nonsecurity spending is defined as all other spending.
TABLE 3.—SENATE APPROPRIATIONS COMMITTEE—EN-
ACTED CHANGES IN MANDATORY SPENDING PROGRAMS
(CHIMPS)
[Budget authority, millions of dollars]
2019
CHIMPS Limit for Fiscal Year 2019 ........................................... 15,000
Senate Appropriations Subcommittees
Agriculture, Rural Development, and Related Agencies ........... 0
Commerce, Justice, Science, and Related Agencies ................. 7,285
Defense ...................................................................................... 0
Energy and Water Development ................................................. 0
Financial Services and General Government ............................. 0
Homeland Security ..................................................................... 0
Interior, Environment, and Related Agencies ............................ 0
Labor, Health and Human Services, Education and Related
Agencies ................................................................................ 7,715
Legislative Branch ..................................................................... 0
Military Construction and Veterans Affairs, and Related Agen-
cies ........................................................................................ 0
State Foreign Operations, and Related Programs ..................... 0
Transportation and Housing and Urban Development, and Re-
lated Agencies ....................................................................... 0
Current Level Total .................................................. 15,000
Total CHIMPS Above (+) or Below (¥) Budget Resolu-
tion ............................................................................... 0
U.S. CONGRESS,
CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE,
Washington, DC, April 10, 2019.
Hon. MIKE ENZI,
Chairman, Committee on the Budget,
U.S. Senate, Washington, DC.
DEAR MR. CHAIRMAN: The enclosed report
shows the effects of Congressional action on
the fiscal year 2019 budget and is current
through April 8, 2019. This report is sub-
mitted under section 308(b) and in aid of sec-
tion 311 of the Congressional Budget Act, as
amended.
The estimates of budget authority, out-
lays, and revenues are consistent with the
allocations, aggregates, and other budgetary
levels printed in the Congressional Record on
May 7, 2018, pursuant to section 30103 of the
Bipartisan Budget Act of 2018 (Public Law
115–123).
Since our last letter dated February 27,
2019, the Congress has cleared and the Presi-
dent has signed the Pesticide Registration
Improvement Extension Act of 2018 (Public
Law 116–8). The Congress has also cleared the
Medicaid Services Investment and Account-
ability Act of 2019 (H.R. 1839) for the Presi-
dent’s signature. Those acts would have sig-
nificant effects on outlays in fiscal year 2019.
Sincerely,
KEITH HALL,
Director.
Enclosure.
TABLE 1.—SENATE CURRENT LEVEL REPORT FOR SPEND-
ING AND REVENUES FOR FISCAL YEAR 2019, AS OF
APRIL 8, 2019
[In billions of dollars]
Budget
Resolution
Current
Level
Current
Level
Over/Under
(¥)
Resolution
On-Budget
Budget Authority ............. 3,639.3 3,642.2 2.9
Outlays ............................ 3,550.0 3,546.7 ¥3.3
Revenues ......................... 2,590.5 2,590.1 ¥0.4
Off-Budget
Social Security Outlays a 908.8 908.8 0.0
Social Security Revenues 899.2 899.2 0.0
Source: Congressional Budget Office.
a Excludes administrative expenses paid from the Federal Old-Age and
Survivors Insurance Trust Fund and the Federal Disability Insurance Trust
Fund of the Social Security Administration, which are off-budget, but are
appropriated annually.
TABLE 2.—SUPPORTING DETAIL FOR THE SENATE CURRENT LEVEL REPORT FOR ON-BUDGET SPENDING AND REVENUES FOR FISCAL YEAR 2019, AS OF APRIL 8, 2019
[In millions of dollars]
Budget
Authority
Outlays Revenues
Previously Enacted: a,b,c
Revenues ................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... n.a. n.a. 2,590,496
Permanents and other spending legislation ............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ 2,271,360 2,169,258 n.a.
Authorizing and Appropriation legislation ................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ 1,886,507 1,949,120 ¥302
Offsetting receipts .................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... ¥890,012 ¥890,015 n.a.
Total, Previously Enacted ................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 3,267,855 3,228,363 2,590,194
Enacted Legislation:
Authorizing Legislation:
Medicaid Extenders Act of 2019 (P.L. 116–3) ......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 120 8 0
Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2019 (P.L. 116–6, Division H) d ......................................................................................................................................................................................................... 2 2 1
Pesticide Registration Improvement Extension Act of 2018 (P.L. 116–8) .............................................................................................................................................................................................. 0 ¥5 0
Subtotal, Authorizing Legislation ..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 122 5 1
Appropriation Legislation: b
Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2019 (Divisions A–G, P.L. 116–6) b,c ................................................................................................................................................................................................. 480,297 311,586 ¥125
Passed, Pending Signature:
Medicaid Services Investment and Accountability Act of 2019 (H.R. 1839) .......................................................................................................................................................................................... 52 32 0
Total, Enacted Legislation ............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 480,471 311,623 ¥124
Entitlements and Mandatories ¥106,128 6,756 0
Total Current Level c ................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 3,642,198 3,546,742 2,590,070
Total Senate Resolution e ......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 3,639,324 3,550,009 2,590,496
Current Level Over Senate Resolution ............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 2,874 n.a. n.a.
Current Level Under Senate Resolution ........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... n.a. 3,267 426
Memorandum:
Revenues, 2019–2028:
Senate Current Level ................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ n.a. n.a. 33,272,518
Senate Resolution e ................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... n.a. n.a. 33,273,213
Current Level Over Senate Resolution ............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. n.a. n.a. n.a.
Current Level Under Senate Resolution ........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... n.a. n a. 695
Source: Congressional Budget Office.
n.a. = not applicable; P.L. = Public Law.
a Includes the budgetary effects of legislation enacted by Congress during the 115th Congress.
b Sections 1001–1004 of the 21st Century Cures Act (P.L. 114–255) require that certain funding provided for 2017 through 2026 to the Department of Health and Human Services—in particular the Food and Drug Administration and
the National Institutes of Health—be excluded from estimates for the purposes of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 (Deficit Control Act) or the Congressional Budget and Impoundment Control Act of 1974
(Congressional Budget Act). Therefore, the amounts shown in this report do not include $771 million in budget authority, and $767 million in estimated outlays
c For purposes of enforcing section 311 of the Congressional Budget Act in the Senate, the resolution, as approved by the Senate, does not include budget authority, outlays, or revenues for off-budget amounts. As a result, current level
does not include those items.
d The Continuing Appropriations Act, 2019 (P.L. 116–5), as amended, extended several immigration programs through February 15, 2019, that would otherwise have expired at the end of fiscal year 2018. The estimated budgetary effects
of those previously enacted extensions are charged to the Committee on Appropriations, and are included in the budgetary effects of P.L. 116–6 shown in the ″Appropriation Legislation″ portion of this report. In addition, division H of P.L.
116–6 further extended those same programs through the end of fiscal year 2019. Consistent with the language in title III of division H of P.L. 116–6, and at the direction of the Senate Committee on the Budget, the budgetary effects of
extending those immigration programs for the remainder of the fiscal year are charged to the relevant authorizing committees, and are shown in the ″Authorizing Legislation″ portion of this report.
e Section 30103 of the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2018 requires the Chair of the Senate Committee on the Budget publish the aggregate spending and revenue levels for fiscal year 2019; those aggregate levels were first published in the
Congressional Record on May 7, 2018. The Bipartisan Budget Act of 2018 also allows the Chair of the Senate Committee on the Budget to revise the budgetary aggregates:
Budget
Authority
Outlays Revenues
Original Aggregates Printed on May 7, 2018: .................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 3,547,094 3,508,052 2,590,496
Revisions:
Pursuant to sections 311 and 314(a) of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974 ........................................................................................................................................................................ 921 0 0
Pursuant to sections 311 and 314(a) of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974 ........................................................................................................................................................................ 69,464 38,556 0
Pursuant to sections 311 and 314(a) of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974 ........................................................................................................................................................................ 0 ¥214 0
Pursuant to sections 311 and 314(a) of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974 ........................................................................................................................................................................ 1,680 25 0
Pursuant to sections 311 and 314(a) of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974 ........................................................................................................................................................................ 20,165 3,590 0
Revised Senate Resolution ................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ 3,639,324 3,550,009 2,590,496
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:46 Apr 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00029 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A10AP6.053 S10APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2378 April 10, 2019
TABLE 3.—SUMMARY OF THE SENATE PAY-AS-YOU-GO
SCORECARD AS OF APRIL 8, 2019
[In millions of dollars]
2018 2019
2018–
2023
2018–
2028
Beginning Balance a ................ 0 0 0 0
Enacted Legislation: b,c
A joint resolution pro-
viding for congres-
sional disapproval
under chapter 8 of
title 5, United States
Code, of the rule sub-
mitted by Bureau of
Consumer Financial
Protection relating to
‘‘Incident Auto Lend-
ing and Compliance
with the Equal Credit
Opportunity Act’’ (S.J.
Res. 57, P.L. 115–
172) ........................... * * * *
Economic Growth, Regu-
latory Relief, and Con-
sumer Protections Act
(S. 2155, P.L. I15–
174) d ......................... * 22 329 490
Trickett Wendler, Frank
Mongiello, Jordan
McLinn, and Matthew
Bellina Right to Try
Act of 2017 (S. 204,
P.L. 115–176) ............ * * * *
An Act to amend title
38, United States
Code, to authorize the
Secretary of Veterans
Affairs to furnish as-
sistance for adapta-
tions of residences of
veterans in rehabilita-
tion programs under
chapter 31 of such
title, and for other
purposes (H.R. 3562,
P.L. 115–177) ............ * * * *
VA MISSION Act of 2018
(S. 2372, P.L. 115–
182) e ......................... * * * *
Whistleblower Protection
Coordination Act (S.
1869, P.L. 115–192) * * * *
All Circuit Review Act
(H.R. 2229, P.L. 115–
195) ........................... * * * *
American Innovation $1
Coin Act (H.R. 770,
P.L. 115–197) ............ 0 3 3 0
Small Business 7(a)
Lending Oversight Re-
form Act of 2018 (H.R
4743, P.L. 115–189) * * * *
Northern Mariana Islands
U.S. Workforce Act of
2018 (H.R. 5956, P.L.
115–218) ................... 0 0 0 ¥3
KIWI Act (S. 2245, P.L.
115–226) ................... * * * *
To make technical
amendments to cer-
tain marine fish con-
servation statutes,
and for other pur-
poses (H.R. 4528, P.L.
115–228) ................... * * * *
John S. McCain National
Defense Authorization
Act for Fiscal Year
2019 (H.R. 5515, P.L.
115–232) ................... * * * *
Miscellaneous Tariff Bill
Act of 2018 (H.R.
4318, P.L. 115–239) 0 304 690 ¥118
Tribal Social Security
Fairness Act of 2018
(H R. 6124, P.L. 115–
243) ........................... 0 * ¥1 ¥3
Departments of Labor,
Health and Human
Services, and Edu-
cation, and Related
Agencies Appropria-
tions Act, 2019 (H.R.
6157, Division B, P.L.
115–245, Division B) 0 0 18 18
Nuclear Energy Innova-
tion Capabilities Act
of 2017 (S. 97, P.L.
115–248) ................... * * * *
Department of Veterans
Affairs Expiring Au-
thorities Act of 2018
(S. 3479, P.L. 115–
251) ........................... * 2 * ¥3
Elkhom Ranch and White
River National Forest
Conveyance Act of
2017 (H.R. 698, P.L.
115–252) ................... * * * *
FAA Reauthorization Act
of 2018 (H.R. 302,
P.L. 115–54) f ............ * 44 42 26
TABLE 3.—SUMMARY OF THE SENATE PAY-AS-YOU-GO
SCORECARD AS OF APRIL 8, 2019—Continued
[In millions of dollars]
2018 2019
2018–
2023
2018–
2028
Patient Right To Know
Drug Act of 2018 (S.
2554, P.L. 115–263) * * ¥11 ¥52
Orrin G. Hatch-Bob
Goodlatte Music Mod-
ernization Act (H.R.
1551, P.L. 115–264) 0 0 13 ¥24
Congressional Award
Program Reauthoriza-
tion Act of 2018 (S.
3509, P.L. 115–268) 0 * 2 4
America’s Water Infra-
structure Act of 2018
(S. 3021, P.L. 115–
270) ........................... 0 2 16 ¥230
SUPPORT for Patients
and Communities Act
(H.R. 6, P.L. 115–
271) g ......................... 0 * * *
Hizballah International
Financing Prevention
Amendments Act of
2017 (S. 1595, P.L.
115–272) ................... 0 * * *
To authorize the National
Emergency Medical
Services Memorial
Foundation to estab-
lish a commemorative
work in the District of
Columbia and its en-
virons, and for other
purposes (H.R. 1037,
P.L. 115–275) ............ 0 * * *
Gulf Islands National
Seashore Land Ex-
change Act (H.R.
2615, P.L. 115–279) 0 * * *
Frank LoBiondo Coast
Guard Authorization
Act of 2018 (S. 140,
P.L. 115–282) ............ 0 10 34 0
Making further con-
tinuing appropriations
for fiscal year 2019,
and for other pur-
poses (H.J. Res. 143,
P.L. 115–298) ............ 0 * * *
Amy, Vicky, and Andy
Child Pornography
Victim Assistance Act
of 2018 (S. 2152, P.L.
115–299) ................... 0 * * *
A bill to establish a pro-
cedure for the convey-
ance of certain Fed-
eral property around
the Dickinson Res-
ervoir in the State of
North Dakota (S. 440,
P.L. 115–306) ............ 0 0 0 ¥4
A bill to establish a pro-
cedure for the convey-
ance of certain Fed-
eral property around
the Jamestown Res-
ervoir in the State of
North Dakota, and for
other purposes (S.
2074, P.L. 115–308) 0 0 0 ¥7
Anwar Sadat Centennial
Celebration Act (H.R.
754, P.L. 115–310) ... 0 * * *
Larry Doby Congressional
Gold Medal Act (H.R.
1861, P.L. 115–322) 0 * * *
Reciprocal Access to
Tibet Act of 2018
(H.R. 1872, P.L. 115–
330) ........................... 0 * * *
Protecting Access to the
Courts for Taxpayers
Act (H.R. 3996, P.L.
115–332) ................... 0 * * *
Agriculture Improvement
Act of 2018 (H.R. 2,
P.L. 115–334) ............ 0 1,399 1,785 0
Nicaragua Human Rights
and Anticorruption Act
of 2018 (H.R. 1918,
P.L. 115–335) ............ 0 * * *
21st Century Integrated
Digital Experience Act
(H.R. 5759, P.L. 115–
336) ........................... 0 * * *
Chinese-American World
War II Veteran Con-
gressional Gold Medal
Act (S. 1050, P.L.
115–337) ................... 0 * * *
USS Indianapolis Con-
gressional Gold Medal
Act (S. 2101, P.L.
115–338) ................... 0 * * *
TABLE 3.—SUMMARY OF THE SENATE PAY-AS-YOU-GO
SCORECARD AS OF APRIL 8, 2019—Continued
[In millions of dollars]
2018 2019
2018–
2023
2018–
2028
Naismith Memorial Bas-
ketball Hall of Fame
Commemorative Coin
Act (H. R. 1235, P.L.
115–343) ................... 0 0 0 0
Sanctioning the Use of
Civilians as Defense-
less Shields Act (H.R.
3342, P.L. 115–348) 0 * * *
Correcting Miscalcula-
tions in Veterans’
Pensions Act (H.R.
4431, P.L. 115–352) 0 * * *
Strengthening Coastal
Communities Act of
2018 (H.R. 5787, P.L.
115–358) ................... 0 * * *
Walnut Grove Land Ex-
change Act (H.R.
5923, P.L. 115–361) 0 * * *
To amend the Federal
Election Campaign
Act of 1971 to extend
through 2023 the au-
thority of the Federal
Election Commission
to impose civil money
penalties on the basis
of a schedule of pen-
alties established and
published by the
Commission (H.R.
7120, P.L. 115–386) 0 * * *
First Step Act of 2018
(S. 756, P.L. 115–
391) ........................... 0 11 120 317
Abolish Human Traf-
ficking Act of 2017
(S. 1311, P.L. 115–
392) ........................... 0 * * *
CENOTE Act of 2018 (S.
2511, P.L. 115–394) 0 * * *
NASA Enhanced Use
Leasing Extension Act
of 2018 (S. 7, P.L.
115–403) ................... 0 0 5 5
Veterans Benefits and
Transition Act of 2018
(S. 2248, P.L. 115–
407) ........................... 0 * * *
Stephen Michael Gleason
Congressional Gold
Medal Act (S. 2652,
P.L. 115–415) ............ 0 * * *
Veterans Small Business
Enhancement Act of
2018 (S. 2679, P.L.
115–416) ................... 0 * * *
Forever GI Bill Housing
Payment Fulfillment
Act of 2018 (S. 3777,
P.L. 115–422) ............ 0 * * *
National Integrated
Drought Information
System Reauthoriza-
tion Act of 2018 (S.
2200, P.L. 115–423) 0 * * *
To authorize early repay-
ment of obligations to
the Bureau of Rec-
lamation within the
Northport Irrigation
District in the State of
Nebraska (H.R. 4689,
P.L. 115–429) ............ 0 * * *
75th Anniversary of
World War II Com-
memoration Act (S.
3661, P.L. 115–433) 0 * * *
Chemical Facility Anti-
Terrorism Standards
Program Extension Act
(H.R. 251, P.L. 116–2) 0 * * *
Medicaid Extenders Act
of 2019 (H.R. 259,
P.L. 116–3) ................ 0 8 63 *
Further Additional Con-
tinuing Appropriations
Act, 2019 (H.J. Res.
28, P.L. 116–5) ......... 0 * * *
Consolidated Appropria-
tions Act, 2019 (H.J.
Res. 31, P.L. 116–6) h 0 125 229 9
Pesticide Registration
Improvement Exten-
sion Act of 2018 (S.
483, P.L. 116–8) ....... 0 ¥5 ¥23 0
John D. Dingell, Jr. Con-
servation, Manage-
ment, and Recreation
Act (S. 47, P.L. 116–
9) ............................... 0 0 ¥10 ¥10
Medicaid Services Invest-
ment and Account-
ability Act of 2019
(H.R. 1839) ................ 0 32 69 27
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:46 Apr 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00030 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A10AP6.056 S10APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2379
April 10, 2019
TABLE 3.—SUMMARY OF THE SENATE PAY-AS-YOU-GO
SCORECARD AS OF APRIL 8, 2019—Continued
[In millions of dollars]
2018 2019
2018–
2023
2018–
2028
Impact on Deficit * 1,957 3,373 442
Total Change in Outlays * 1,530 2,479 ¥192
Total Change in Revenues * ¥427 ¥894 ¥634
Source. Congressional Budget Office
Notes: P.L. = Public Law, * = between ¥$500,000 and $500,000.
a On May 7, 2018, the Chairman of the Senate Committee on the Budget
reset the Senate’s Pay-As-You-Go Scorecard to zero for all fiscal years.
b The amounts shown represent the estimated effect of the public laws on
the deficit.
c Excludes off-budget amounts.
d Pursuant to section 232(b) of H.C. Res. 290 (106th Congress), the Con-
current Budget Resolution for Fiscal Year 2001, the budgetary effects related
to the Federal Reserve’s surplus funds are excluded. As a result, the
amounts shown do not include estimated increases in revenues of $655 mil-
lion in fiscal year 2019, $570 million over the 2019–2023 period, and $454
million over the 2019–2028 period.
e The budgetary effects of this Act are excluded from the Senate’s PAYGO
scorecard, pursuant to section 512 of the Act.
f Division I of P.L. 115–254 contains the Supplemental Appropriations for
Disaster Relief Act, 2018, which provided $1,680 million in supplemental
appropriations for fiscal year 2019, and designated as an emergency re-
quirement pursuant to section 251 of the Deficit Control Act. At the direction
of the Committees on the Budget, and consistent with the language in sec-
tion 1701, those amounts are shown as discretionary spending.
g The budgetary effects of this Act are excluded from the Senate’s PAYGO
scorecard, pursuant to section 8231 of the Act.
h The budgetary effects of title I of division H are excluded from the Sen-
ate’s PAYGO scorecard, pursuant to title lll of division H of the Act.
ENFORCEMENT REPORT OF POINTS OF ORDER RAISED SINCE THE FY 2019 ENFORCEMENT FILING
Vote Date Measure Violation Motion to Waive Result
127 June 18, 2018 .................... H.R. 5515—John S. McCain National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year
2019.
4106(a)-Senate-Pay-As-You-Go Violation 1 .................... Sen. McConnell (R–KY) 2 ... 81–14, waived
192 August 23, 2018 ................ S. Amdt. #3695 to H.R. 6157, the Defense, Labor, HHS, and Education Appropria-
tions Act 3.
314(a) CHIMP with Net-Costs ........................................ Sen. Leahy (D–VT) ............. 68–24, waived
1 Senator Sanders raised a section 4106(a) of H. Con. Res. 71 (115th Congress) point of order against the bill because the bill would increase the on-budget deficit.
2 By unanimous consent the Senate proceeded to a roll call vote to waive the point of order.
3 This surgical point of order would have struck lines 7–8 of page 270 in Division B (Title III) of the substitute amendment, which was related to the Pell Grant program. This provision was a Change in Mandatory Program (CHIMP) esti-
mated to increase spending by $390 million over 10 years.
NOMINATION OF DAVID
BERNHARDT
Mr. VAN HOLLEN. Mr. President,
President Trump has nominated David
Bernhardt to be Secretary of the Inte-
rior.
The Department of the Interior has
broad management responsibilities
over our public lands and waters, wild-
life, and is also responsible for main-
taining the trust responsibilities on be-
half of the United States with Indian
Country. They also have over 70,000
Federal employees.
There have been significant questions
raised about Mr. Bernhardt’s decisions
and priorities in his position as Deputy
Secretary and Acting Secretary that
have directly benefitted his former cli-
ents, while harming our public lands
and wildlife.
There are a number of troubling
issues with Mr. Bernhardt’s record on
the critical issues before the Depart-
ment of the Interior, but there are two
that are of particular concern to me.
First, I am particularly concerned
about Mr. Bernhardt’s role in the So-
licitor’s Opinion, M–37050, on the Mi-
gratory Bird Treaty Act, MBTA. The
Solicitor’s Opinion, or M-Opinion, on
the MBTA was released on December
22, 2017, without any public or sci-
entific input or environmental anal-
ysis, abruptly removing longstanding
protections for migratory birds. These
protections have been implemented in
a bipartisan manner from every admin-
istration since the early 1970s. It is
likely that millions of birds have been
saved thanks to this law and the lead-
ership of the Department. The MBTA
has significantly reduced the number
of birds killed from oil waste pits and
other threats, and it has provided ac-
countability and recovery funds after
oil spills such as Deepwater Horizon.
This change has been opposed by 17
former Interior officials from every Re-
publican and Democratic administra-
tion since the early 1970s, as well as
Flyway Councils representing nearly
every State wildlife agency in the
country.
In letters exchanged between me and
the Department of the Interior, they
have admitted that due to the M-Opin-
ion on the MBTA, they will no longer
be able to secure fines or penalties for
violations of the MBTA from compa-
nies responsible for an oil spill that
non-intentionally kills migratory birds
similar to the British Petroleum (BP)
Deepwater Horizon disaster of 2010,
which killed an estimated 1,000,000 mi-
gratory birds.
Furthermore, despite the MBTA’s
strong record in saving birds through
reasonable enforcement, one of Mr.
Bernhardt’s former clients, the Inde-
pendent Petroleum Association of
America, IPAA, urged the Department
of the Interior to gut the MBTA and re-
move protections for birds and any re-
quirements to take actions to mini-
mize impacts to birds from their ac-
tivities.
Just this week, we learned that there
have been at least three oil spills re-
cently that appear to have killed mi-
gratory birds, in which the Department
of the Interior admitted in internal
emails they can’t respond to due to the
MBTA M-Opinion.
So in the case of the MBTA, we see a
dramatic change in the Department of
the Interior’s legal interpretation of a
key wildlife law that appears to have
benefited a former client of Mr. Bern-
hardt.
The second issue of critical concern
to me is offshore drilling. I hail from a
coastal State and a State that is firmly
opposed to any oil and gas drilling off
of our coastline. Mr. Bernhardt has
overseen the Bureau of Ocean Energy
Management’s, BOEM, development of
an oil and gas leasing plan that dra-
matically expands risky offshore drill-
ing and that has prompted bipartisan
criticism at all levels of government.
The Department of the Interior, under
Mr. Bernhardt’s leadership, has simul-
taneously been working to weaken off-
shore drilling safety standards put in
place in response to the Deepwater Ho-
rizon oil spill and at the recommenda-
tion of a bipartisan commission that
investigated the disaster.
I have serious questions about wheth-
er Mr. Bernhardt can do his job with-
out confronting conflicts of interest at
every turn, and I fear that he will put
powerful special interests before the
public interest.
For these reasons, I opposed David
Bernhardt’s nomination as Secretary
of the Interior.
f
VOTE EXPLANATION
Ms. HARRIS. Mr. President, I was ab-
sent for vote No. 76 the motion to in-
voke cloture on Executive Calendar No.
200, the nomination of David Bernhardt
to be Secretary of the Interior. Had I
been present, I would have voted no on
the motion to invoke cloture.
f
COLORADO RIVER DROUGHT CON-
TINGENCY PLAN AUTHORIZA-
TION ACT
Ms. MCSALLY. Mr. President, on
Monday, the Senate passed my bill, and
yesterday, we passed identical House
legislation to ensure this went to the
President as quickly as possible. I
would like to take a few minutes to
thank those involved with these agree-
ments and again highlight the impor-
tance of this historic achievement.
The Colorado River Drought Contin-
gency Plan, also known as the DCP,
was negotiated between the seven Colo-
rado River Basin States to respond to
this prolonged drought. It is designed
to protect Lakes Mead and Powell from
reaching certain critical water ele-
vations that would trigger severe water
supply and hydropower impacts, in-
cluding the risk of reaching crisis lev-
els where operational control of the
Colorado River System is lost.
The set of five agreements that
makes up the DCP builds off of the
tools and water saving commitments
made by the basin States in the 2007 In-
terim Guidelines for Lower Basin
Shortages and Coordinated Operations
for Lakes Powell and Mead to further
address water security and respond to
actual water conditions as demanded
by responsible water resource manage-
ment. These added savings bring the
risk of the Mead hitting 1,000 feet over
the next 7 years to near zero.
I am especially proud of the work
done on these agreements in Arizona,
which takes the biggest and most im-
mediate reduction in water supply
under the DCP. Through inclusive,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:46 Apr 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00031 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A10AP6.056 S10APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2380 April 10, 2019
good-faith negotiations, cities, farm-
ers, tribes, and conservations groups
came together to make the tough deci-
sions required to improve long-term
water security and avert the looming
water supply crisis.
I would like to thank and congratu-
late Governor Doug Ducey and his
staff, the Arizona State legislature,
Tom Buschatzke and his team at the
Department of Water Resources, the
CAWCD board, Ted Cooke and the CAP
staff, Gila River Indian Community
Governor Stephen Lewis and the Gila
River Indian Community Tribal Coun-
cil, Colorado River Indian Tribes
Chairman Dennis Patch and the CRIT
Tribal Council, and the dozens and doz-
ens of ag, water, municipal, NGO, and
other stakeholders, including the en-
tire Arizona DCP Steering Committee,
involved on this outstanding achieve-
ment that will improve Arizona’s water
security for years to come.
Work on the DCP has been underway
for nearly 6 years. It has spanned the
terms of two Presidents, three Interior
Secretaries, and 13 Governors. The ef-
fort has seamlessly transitioned be-
tween Republican and Democrat ad-
ministrations, both here in DC and out
in the States, and I am proud of the
swift action taken by Congress to au-
thorize this agreement.
The Colorado River DCP Authoriza-
tion Act was developed in a bipartisan
and bicameral manner, and involved
the Governors’ representatives for each
of the seven basin States. Responding
to concerns of some in the House and
Senate about potential unintended con-
sequences of the legislative language
proposed as part of the DCP agree-
ments, several changes were made to
provide assurances that the Nationals
Environmental Policy Act applies to
future Federal actions outside the
scope of existing environmental anal-
ysis and compliance done in the Upper
and Lower Basins.
I would like to thank Senators COR-
TEZ MASTO, GARDNER, and BARRASSO,
along with House Natural Resources
Chairman RAÚL GRIJALVA and Ranking
Member ROB BISHOP for working with
me to reach this compromise legisla-
tion.
This exact statutory language is
crafted to ensure water conservation
activities in the Colorado River Basin
can begin in 2019 and be built in to the
Annual Operations Plans for 2020. Once
the Colorado River Drought Contin-
gency Plan Authorization Act is en-
acted, execution and implementation
of the DCP can and should begin imme-
diately, as all of the actions in the
agreements authorized by this bill are
well within the scope of existing NEPA
and Endangered Species Act compli-
ance in the Upper and Lower Basins.
Specifically, the actions to be under-
taken are within the analyses and
range of effects reviewed in the 2007
final environmental impact statement
on Colorado River Interim Guidelines
for Lower Basin Shortages and Coordi-
nated Operations for Lakes Powell and
Mead, and the EISs and ESA docu-
ments prepared for operation of the
Colorado River Storage Project Act
initial storage unit reservoirs. Addi-
tional environmental compliance is
only applicable should future Federal
actions be undertaken that are outside
the range of effects analyzed in those
documents or the applicable Records of
Decision.
In closing, I am proud to have led my
colleagues from the seven basin States
to get this DCP Authorization Act
passed through Congress as quickly as
possible, and I thank them for their
hard work and support. The Colorado
River DCP Act chooses the path of
water conservation, compromise, and
proactive water management over and
litigation, conflict, and creation of a
zero sum game on the River. I under-
stand that there will be more work to
be done after we have authorized the
DCP, but we have made important
progress in passing this critical legisla-
tion.
f
CORPS OF ENGINEERS FISCAL
YEAR 2020 BUDGET REQUEST
Mr. ALEXANDER. Mr. President I
ask unanimous consent that a copy of
my opening statement at the Sub-
committee on Energy and Water Devel-
opment’s budget hearing for the Corps
of Engineers and Bureau of Reclama-
tion’s fiscal year 2020 budget request be
printed in the RECORD.
There being no objection, the mate-
rial was ordered to be printed in the
RECORD, as follows:
CORPS OF ENGINEERS FISCAL YEAR 2020
BUDGET REQUEST
Mr. ALEXANDER. First, I would like to
thank our witnesses for being here today,
and also Senator Feinstein, with whom I
have the pleasure to work with again this
year to draft the Energy and Water Appro-
priations bill.
Our witnesses today include: R.D. James,
Assistant Secretary of the Army for Civil
Works; Lieutenant General Todd Semonite,
Chief of Engineers for the U.S. Army Corps
of Engineers; Brenda Burman, Commissioner
for the Bureau of Reclamation at the Depart-
ment of the Interior; and Timothy R. Petty,
Ph.D., Assistant Secretary for Water and
Science at the Department of the Interior.
Based on the number of appropriations re-
quests we receive each year, the Corps of En-
gineers is the federal government’s most
popular agency. Because this is so important
to many Senators, Senator Feinstein and I
have provided record level funding in a reg-
ular appropriations bill for the last four
years.
The U.S. Army Corps of Engineers touches
the lives of almost every American. The
Corps maintains our inland waterways, it
deepens and keeps our ports open, and its
dams provide emission-free, renewable hy-
droelectric energy. The Corps also manages
river levels to help prevent flooding. This
year record rainfall caused the Missouri
River to experience historic flooding, dev-
astating parts of Iowa, Nebraska and Mis-
souri.
I can recall when, after the Missouri and
Mississippi rivers flooded in 2011, a room full
of Senators showed up at a Senate Environ-
ment and Public Works Committee hearing
to ask what went wrong and what went right
with disaster relief efforts. So, there’s a real
interest in what the Corps does.
So, last year, Senator Feinstein and I
worked together to provide record funding
for the Corps of Engineers—a total of $7 bil-
lion. However, this year, the president’s
budget request only includes $4.8 billion for
the Corps—a dramatic reduction in spending.
In my opinion, we should spend more, not
less, on our nation’s water infrastructure.
Today I will focus my questions on four
main areas:
1. Making our nation’s water infrastruc-
ture a priority and properly funding our in-
land waterways system;
2. Adequately funding our nation’s ports
and harbors;
3. Making sure the Corps has the resources
it needs to respond to flooding and make re-
pairs so they can continue to manage river
levels, and;
4. Using a more common-sense approach to
making decisions about which projects re-
ceive funding by looking at the ‘‘remaining
benefit to cost ratio’’ of an ongoing project.
Today, because of Office of Management and
Budget rules, the Corps has to pretend a
project is not already under construction
when the Corps decides which projects will
receive funding each year. This does not
make any sense, and makes it harder to com-
plete projects on time and on budget.
In 2012, Senator Graham, Senator Fein-
stein, and I said, ‘‘Let’s ask what would a
great country, the United States, want from
its ports, locks, dams, and waterways in
order to fully maximize them for our eco-
nomic growth.’’
We asked everyone to focus first on what
needed to be done and not get bogged down
in the difficulties of how to pay for it. From
these discussions, Congress took three im-
portant steps, focusing on properly funding
our inland waterways system.
First, Congress passed a law that reduced
the amount of money that comes from the
Inland Waterways Trust Fund to replace
Olmsted Lock, a project in Illinois and Ken-
tucky that was soaking up almost all of the
money that was available for inland water-
way projects.
Second, we worked with the commercial
waterways industry to establish a priority
list for projects that needed to be funded, on
which Chickamauga ranks near the top, in
fourth place.
And third, we enacted a user fee increase
that commercial barge owners asked to pay
in order to provide additional funds to re-
place locks and dams across the country, in-
cluding Chickamauga Lock.
These steps increased the amount of fund-
ing that was available for inland waterways
projects from about $85 million in fiscal year
2014 to $105 million in fiscal year 2020. And
Congress has followed through by appro-
priating all of the user fees that have been
collected in the last five years. The user fees
that are paid into the Inland Waterways
Trust Fund by waterway users are matched
with federal dollars, which allow the Corps of
Engineers to make significant progress to
address the backlog of work on our inland
waterways.
But despite knowing the Inland Waterways
Trust Fund would have $105 million available
for fiscal year 2020, the Administration’s
budget is only proposing to spend $55.5 mil-
lion—which leaves 47% of these funds sitting
unspent in a Treasury account. Then we
would not be spending the money for the in-
tended purpose. And despite not spending the
entire $105 million in user fees from commer-
cial barges, the administration’s budget also
includes a new user fee for inland waterways
that would raise another $1.8 billion over a
10-year window.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:55 Apr 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00032 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A10AP6.041 S10APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2381
April 10, 2019
I do not think this is a responsible ap-
proach. It makes no sense to ask barge own-
ers to pay more in fees when the administra-
tion is not even proposing to spend all the
fees we are collecting today. The budget also
only proposes to fund a single project using
Inland Waterways Trust Fund revenues, the
Lower Monongahela, and eliminates funding
for the other two projects that have been
funded for construction for the last five
years—Kentucky Lock and Chickamauga
Lock.
I can’t count the number of times that the
head of the Corps—including General
Semonite—has told me that it makes no
sense to start and stop construction. It’s not
an efficient way to build projects and it is a
waste of taxpayer money. Replacing Chicka-
mauga Lock is important to all of Tennessee
and if Chickamauga Lock closes, it will
throw 150,000 more trucks onto 1–75. Funding
for construction of the new Chickamauga
Lock has been provided for the past five
years so it does not make sense for the ad-
ministration to not include the project in
the budget request. This year’s budget pro-
posal is a huge step backwards for our na-
tion’s inland waterways.
We have done a good job providing record
level funding over the last five years to ade-
quately fund our nation’s harbors, including
Mobile Harbor in Alabama; Savannah Harbor
in Georgia; and Long Beach Harbor in Cali-
fornia; and many others across the country.
Six years ago, Congress took a look at the
need to provide more funding for our na-
tion’s ports and harbors to ensure we can
compete with other harbors around the
world. We realized that the government was
spending only a fraction of the taxes each
year that were collected in the Harbor Main-
tenance Trust Fund for our ports and har-
bors, resulting in billions of dollars of
unspent funds just sitting in a bank account
that got bigger and bigger each year.
In fact, unlike the Inland Waterways Trust
Fund—which has virtually no balance in the
trust fund—the Harbor Maintenance Trust
Fund has an unspent balance of over $9 bil-
lion today. To provide more funding for our
ports and harbors, Congress enacted spend-
ing targets for the Harbor Maintenance
Trust Fund in the Water Resources Reform
and Development Act of 2014 that were
meant to make us spend a little more each
year on harbor maintenance projects.
We have met these targets for the last five
years in the Energy and Water Development
Appropriations bill. The target for fiscal
year 2020 is about $1.595 billion. However, the
administration’s budget only proposes to
spend $965 million, $585 million less than
what Congress appropriated last year and
$630 million below the target. So I will ask
the witnesses how they plan to sufficiently
fund our ports and harbors without request-
ing adequate resources to do it.
Several members of this subcommittee are
interested in making sure the Corps has the
resources it needs to deal with the recent
flooding in the Midwest and along the Mis-
souri and Mississippi Rivers. I look forward
to hearing from the witnesses about what re-
sources they need so that we can make sure
they are included in the disaster supple-
mental appropriation bill.
I’d also like to recognize Brenda Burman,
Commissioner from the Bureau of Reclama-
tion and Dr. Timothy Petty, Assistant Sec-
retary for Water and Science at the Depart-
ment of the Interior. The Bureau of Rec-
lamation delivers water to one of every five
farmers in the West, irrigating more than 10
million acres of some of the most productive
agricultural land in the country. Although
Reclamation doesn’t manage water resources
in Tennessee, I know of its deep importance
to Senator Feinstein and other Senators on
this subcommittee, and we look forward to
hearing your testimony.
f
STRENGTHENING ACCOUNT-
ABILITY TO PROTECT STUDENTS
AND TAXPAYERS
Mr. ALEXANDER. Mr. President I
ask unanimous consent that a copy of
my opening statement at the Senate
Health, Education, Labor and Pensions
Committee be printed in the RECORD.
There being no objection, the mate-
rial was ordered to be printed in the
RECORD, as follows:
STRENGTHENING ACCOUNTABILITY TO PROTECT
STUDENTS AND TAXPAYERS
Mr. ALEXANDER. When I was president of
the University of Tennessee, I asked David
Gardner, who was then president of the Uni-
versity of California, why his university was
considered one of the best in the world. He
told me: First, autonomy. We basically have
four branches of government, he said, and
one of them is the University of California.
Second, competition and choice—large
amounts of state and federal money fol-
lowing students to the campus of their
choice. Third, a commitment to excellence
by institutional leaders and faculty.
As a former university president, I am very
much aware that despite that autonomy, our
country’s 6,000 colleges and universities re-
port to a lot of bosses—they are accountable
to a great many individuals, boards, govern-
ments and other entities.
First, they are accountable to the students
who may take their federal and state grants
and loans to any accredited institution that
will admit them; next, to 44 federally recog-
nized accrediting agencies whose certifi-
cation of quality is necessary before institu-
tions are allowed to accept students who
bring $30 billion in new Pell grants and $100
billion in in federal student loans each year;
to ensure that these billions of dollars are
spent wisely, the federal government meas-
ures how many students default on their
loans; for the 80 percent of students who at-
tend public colleges and universities, states
have governors, state legislators, laws, and
state higher education authorities; every in-
stitution, public or private, also has its own
board of trustees or directors; and in addi-
tion, there are specific federal rules for the
for-profit institutions, which about five per-
cent of students attend, in order to stop
fraud against students and taxpayers; and
when making a list of bosses, no former uni-
versity president should leave out the fac-
ulty—most faculty members I have known
take great pride in maintaining institutional
excellence.
So any president of an American higher
education institution has a lot of bosses and
a lot of people to whom he or she is account-
able. And that has been a mostly successful
approach. Most surveys show that the United
States has most of the best colleges and uni-
versities in the world. The dream of many of
the best students from around the world is to
attend American colleges and universities.
Still, I hear often from students asking if
college is worth their time and money.
I believe there are steps we can take to
make our higher education institutions more
accountable—to provide those students, and
the taxpayers backing their loans, with a
clear yes, college is worth it.
In March, at our first bipartisan hearing
during this Congress on updating the Higher
Education Act, we looked at how to simplify
how 20 million families apply for federal stu-
dent aid. Last week, we held a bipartisan
hearing about how to create a safe environ-
ment for students attending college.
Today’s hearing will be looking at ways to
ensure that students are earning degrees
worth their time and money and that tax-
payers are paid back the hundreds of billions
that they have loaned students to earn de-
grees.
To hold colleges accountable for the $130
billion a year in grants and loans, in 1990,
Congress created the Cohort Default Rate,
which applies to all colleges and univer-
sities. This measure makes a college ineli-
gible to receive federal student aid if, for
three consecutive years, more than 30 per-
cent of its borrowers are in default or over 40
percent in any one year. However this cohort
default rate has proven to be a poor instru-
ment of accountability, since it does not
take into account the one third of borrowers
who are not yet in default but don’t make
payments on time. Over the last decade, only
20 schools have become ineligible for federal
student aid under the Cohort Default Rate,
according to the Congressional Research
Service.
And then there are two federal account-
ability rules that apply only to for-profit in-
stitutions. One, the 90–10 rule, which requires
that at least ten percent of a for-profit’s rev-
enue come from nonfederal sources; and two,
the Gainful Employment Rule, which looks
at how much debt a graduate has compared
to his or her salary. This comparison of debt
to salary has proved to be a confusing and
ineffective measure of accountability be-
cause it is too complex and does not account
for students who take out loans but do not
complete their degrees. So we need a more
effective measure of accountability.
But I do not want the federal government
acting as a sort of National School Board for
Colleges—telling states and accreditors and
boards of directors at institutions how to
manage the 6,000 colleges and universities.
Four years ago, this Committee passed the
Every Student Succeeds Act, which reversed
the trend towards a national school board for
elementary and secondary education. For
the same reasons, Washington should resist
the urge to send thousands of federal bureau-
crats to evaluate our colleges and univer-
sities, which would, in effect, create a na-
tional school board for colleges.
Instead, Congress should create a new
measure of accountability that looks at
whether students are actually repaying their
loans. This would be a more effective and
simpler way to ensure that taxpayers aren’t
financing degrees that are priced so high and
worth so little that students are never able
to pay back their loans. This proposal is
much like the Gainful Employment Rule—
but it would apply to every program at every
college—public, private, and for-profit and
would include students who took out loans
but dropped out before graduating. For some
programs, this new measure should provide
colleges with an incentive to lower tuition
and help their students stay in school to fin-
ish their degrees and find a job so they can
repay their loans.
A second step to improve accountability
would be for the federal government to make
the data it collects from colleges more useful
to students and families. The Department
has struggled for years under all administra-
tions to make such information easily acces-
sible to students and families. As we work on
updating the Higher Education Act, we first
need to identify what information schools
actually need to report, and second to pro-
vide direction to the Department on how to
make that information accessible and useful
to students.
And third, we should strengthen the 44 fed-
erally recognized accrediting agencies upon
which we rely for certifying that students
are receiving a quality education. For exam-
ple, instead of requiring that accreditors
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:55 Apr 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00033 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A10AP6.045 S10APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2382 April 10, 2019
have a standard of ‘‘student achievement,’’
Congress could more clearly require that
accreditors measure whether students are
both learning and succeeding, but leave the
specific ways of measuring those to
accreditors and institutions.
Our goal needs to be to help students know
that their degrees are going to be worth
their time and money and to help taxpayers
know that the federal government isn’t fi-
nancing programs that do not provide stu-
dents with a valuable education.
f
30TH ANNIVERSARY OF THE WHIS-
TLEBLOWER PROTECTION ACT
Mr. WYDEN. Mr. President, 30 years
ago today, the Whistleblower Protec-
tion Act was signed into law. To call it
a triumph doesn’t do justice to the
sheer number of years and people it
took on both sides of the aisle to over-
come numerous obstacles and enact
Federal protections for Federal Gov-
ernment employees who step forward
and do what we all should do: expose
wrongdoings in order to hold govern-
ment officials and agencies account-
able.
Congressional efforts to protect whis-
tleblowers date back to at least 1912
with the enactment of the Lloyd-La
Follette Act. This act guaranteed the
right of Federal employees to commu-
nicate with Members of Congress with-
out the oversight of their employer and
prohibited compensation to managers
who retaliated against employees at-
tempting to disclose whistleblower
matters.
However, empowering Federal em-
ployees to speak up and speak the
truth was and continues to be an ongo-
ing struggle, one that has often pitted
Congress against the executive branch.
When President George H.W. Bush
signed the Whistleblower Protection
Act into law that April morning in
1989, it came after his predecessor
President Ronald Reagan had vetoed a
similar bill despite the fact that it had
been unanimously adopted by both the
Senate and the House.
The Whistleblower Protection Act,
itself, was first introduced by Rep-
resentative Pat Schroeder of Colorado
as an amendment to the Civil Service
Reform Act of 1978 and then as a stand-
alone bill in 1982. The principal purpose
of the bill was to block retaliation
against employees who came forward, a
never-ending problem. The bill would
have allowed ‘‘a person claiming to be
aggrieved by a prohibited personnel
practice to: (1) bring a civil action in a
U.S. district court against the em-
ployee or agency involved (respondent);
or (2) seek corrective action through
the (Merit Systems Protection)
Board.’’
While that particular bill ultimately
died after receiving unfavorable com-
ments from the U.S. Government Ac-
countability Office—GAO—and the
Merit Systems Protection Board,
which adjudicates whistleblower com-
plaints, its failure didn’t deter our col-
leagues.
By the time 1989 rolled around, Mem-
bers of both the House and the Senate,
including Senator Carl Levin of Michi-
gan, who spearheaded efforts in the
Senate, had worked together for years
to find a compromise and pass legisla-
tion that protected those employees
whose disclosures revealed waste,
fraud, or abuse. Between May of 1982
and September of 1989, 28 bills and reso-
lutions with whistleblower protections
built into them were introduced, many
of them with dozens and dozens of co-
sponsors.
Since the passage of the Whistle-
blower Protection Act 30 years ago,
Congress has continued to improve pro-
tections for whistleblowers, notably
with the passage of the Intelligence
Community Whistleblower Protection
Act of 1998; the Whistleblower Protec-
tion Enhancement Act of 2012; the De-
partment of Veterans Affairs Account-
ability and Whistleblower Protection
Act of 2017; and more recently the Dr.
Chris Kirkpatrick Whistleblower Pro-
tection Act of 2017.
Unfortunately, despite all of these ef-
forts, becoming a whistleblower is still
a perilous path. In its latest budget
justification, the Office of Special
Counsel, the agency that investigates
retaliation against Federal whistle-
blowers, reported that, in fiscal year
2018, that agency received over 4,100
complaints of retaliation, otherwise
known as prohibited personnel prac-
tices. This, according to OSC, is a new
agency record. That is not a record
that anyone should be proud of.
As much as today is a celebration of
the Whistleblower Protection Act and
the work of the many people it took to
make those protections law, it is a
greater celebration of the courage
whistleblowers embody when they step
forward to shine a light on waste,
fraud, abuse, and mismanagement in
the government. Their bravery and sac-
rifice is invaluable, and for that, we
thank them. Unfortunately, coming
forward to do what is right still re-
quires too much of both.
Consequently, Congress still has
more work to do to protect whistle-
blowers, and I call on my colleagues to
remember the value of citizens being
able to blow the whistle. As Represent-
ative Schroeder said early on in her ef-
forts to help whistleblowers: ‘‘If we in
Congress are going to act as effective
checks on excesses in the executive
branch, we have to hear about such
matters.’’
f
ADDITIONAL STATEMENTS
ROTARY CLUB OF CASPER
CENTENNIA CELEBRATION
∑ Mr. BARRASSO. Mr. President,
today I wish to celebrate the Centen-
nial of the Rotary Club of Casper, Wyo-
ming, a club which holds special impor-
tance for my wife, Bobbi and me.
On Saturday, May 4, 2019, the Rotary
Club of Casper will recognize their
100th anniversary at a special celebra-
tion. Rotary organized in Casper, WY
on March 12, 1919, just 14 years after
the first Rotary club was formed in
Chicago, and 28 years after Wyoming’s
admission to the Union.
At a luncheon on March 12, 1919, 15
businessmen, representing all walks of
Casper life, met and elected their lead-
ership—President James T. Gratiot,
Directors Loui McMahon, Steve
Starrett, George Nelson, Billy John-
son, Carl Shumaker, and Otis Walker.
With a shared mission and sense of
duty, these charter members laid the
groundwork for a century to come.
The Casper Daily Tribune noted Ro-
tary’s founding in an article the fol-
lowing day, March 13, 1919, ‘‘The pur-
pose of the club is to encourage busi-
ness and social relations and its by-
laws define the policies of the club in a
way that marks various departures
from other clubs or societies.’’ With
this in mind, the club hit the ground
running, impacting the Casper commu-
nity in positive and distinct ways.
Within their first years of forming,
Casper Rotary’s commitment to the
community was proven and acknowl-
edged. As early as 1920–21, with memo-
ries of WWI fresh in their minds, they
voted to support and donate funds to
the construction of an air base near
Casper. This air base, established in
1942, would come to fruition as the Cas-
per Army Air Field. Governor Bryant
B. Brooks, who would join the club and
become president, noticed their initia-
tive and addressed the club early on.
This began a pattern with the club
hosting a great number of Wyoming
Governors, U.S. Senators and Congress-
men, and local officials.
The Rotary Club of Casper always re-
alized the importance of the youth of
their community. From the beginning,
the club sponsored the Boy and Girl
Scouts. They established a student
loan fund for students wishing to fur-
ther their education and engaged with
high school students to encourage their
ambition. They were part of the effort
to bring a junior college to Casper, lob-
bying the State legislature in Chey-
enne. Their efforts were rewarded in
1945, when Casper College was estab-
lished as Wyoming’s first junior col-
lege.
Countless dollars and volunteer
hours were donated and continue to be
given to the creation of parks, camps,
playgrounds, and swimming pools for
the community. The most well-known
is Rotary Park on Casper Mountain.
Popular since the early 1940s, Rotary
Park contains the picturesque Garden
Creek Falls and Bridle Trail. Addition-
ally, each August, Rotary helps host
Casper’s Riverfest and the Great Duck
Derby. Rubber ducks fill the North
Platte River with the proceeds going to
the area’s trail systems. The club’s
continuing engagement and investment
in future projects ensure these areas
are enjoyed for generations to come.
The history of Casper’s Rotary Club
is a microcosm of the history of Cas-
per. Professionals encompassing the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:55 Apr 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00034 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A10AP6.044 S10APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2383
April 10, 2019
entire Casper community worked to-
gether throughout the years to pro-
mote good will, service, and character.
For the club’s 40th anniversary cele-
bration in 1959, Rotarian M. E.
‘‘Monte’’ Robertson wrote, ‘‘We can all
be justly proud of our Casper Rotary
Club, of the pioneers who constituted
its membership in the beginning, and
the character and quality of those
members who have carried on until the
present day.’’ These words hold true
today with the leadership of President
Dick Jay, President Elect John Grif-
fith, President Elect Nominee Lisa
Scroggins, and Centennial Committee
Chair Barry Johnson.
It is a high honor for me to rise in
recognition of this significant mile-
stone for the Rotary Club of Casper. I
have seen firsthand the important
work the club does, as Bobbi and I have
been fortunate to call ourselves Rotar-
ians. Since my days as an orthopedic
surgeon in Casper, I have been involved
with Casper Rotary for 36 years. We
made countless lifelong friendships
along the way and continue to appre-
ciate the dedication of our fellow mem-
bers.
It is a great privilege to recognize
this incredible service organization and
their dedication to the betterment of
their Wyoming community. Bobbi joins
me in extending our congratulations
and deep gratitude to the Rotary Club
of Casper on their centennial celebra-
tion.∑
f
MESSAGES FROM THE PRESIDENT
Messages from the President of the
United States were communicated to
the Senate by Ms. Ridgway, one of his
secretaries.
f
EXECUTIVE MESSAGES REFERRED
In executive session the Presiding Of-
ficer laid before the Senate messages
from the President of the United
States submitting sundry nominations
and a withdrawal which were referred
to the appropriate committees.
(The messages received today are
printed at the end of the Senate pro-
ceedings.)
f
PRESIDENTIAL MESSAGE
REPORT ON THE CONTINUATION
OF THE NATIONAL EMERGENCY
ORIGINALLY DECLARED IN EX-
ECUTIVE ORDER 13536 ON APRIL
12, 2010 WITH RESPECT TO SOMA-
LIA—PM 9
The PRESIDING OFFICER laid be-
fore the Senate the following message
from the President of the United
States, together with an accompanying
report; which was referred to the Com-
mittee on Banking, Housing, and
Urban Affairs:
To the Congress of the United States:
Section 202(d) of the National Emer-
gencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1622(d)) provides
for the automatic termination of a na-
tional emergency unless, within 90
days before the anniversary date of its
declaration, the President publishes in
the Federal Register and transmits to
the Congress a notice stating that the
emergency is to continue in effect be-
yond the anniversary date. In accord-
ance with this provision, I have sent to
the Federal Register for publication the
enclosed notice stating that the na-
tional emergency declared in Executive
Order 13536 of April 12, 2010, with re-
spect to Somalia is to continue in ef-
fect beyond April 12, 2019.
The United States is strongly com-
mitted to Somalia’s stabilization, and
it is important to maintain sanctions
against persons undermining its sta-
bility. The situation with respect to
Somalia continues to pose an unusual
and extraordinary threat to the na-
tional security and foreign policy of
the United States. Therefore, I have de-
termined that it is necessary to con-
tinue the national emergency declared
in Executive Order 13536 with respect
to Somalia.
DONALD J. TRUMP.
THE WHITE HOUSE, April 10, 2019.
f
MESSAGES FROM THE HOUSE
At 9:56 a.m., a message from the
House of Representatives, delivered by
Mrs. Cole, one of its reading clerks, an-
nounced that the House has passed the
following bills, in which it requests the
concurrence of the Senate:
H.R. 1759. An act to amend title III of the
Social Security Act to extend reemployment
services and eligibility assessments to all
claimants for unemployment benefits, and
for other purposes.
H.R. 1957. An act to amend the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986 to modernize and im-
prove the Internal Revenue Service, and for
other purposes.
The message also announced that the
House has agreed to the following con-
current resolution, without amend-
ment:
S. Con. Res. 7. Concurrent resolution au-
thorizing the printing of the 26th edition of
the pocket version of the Constitution of the
United States.
The message further announced that
the House has agreed to the following
concurrent resolution, in which it re-
quests the concurrence of the Senate:
H. Con. Res. 31. Concurrent resolution au-
thorizing the use of Emancipation Hall for a
ceremony as part of the commemoration of
the days of remembrance of victims of the
Holocaust.
ENROLLED BILLS SIGNED
At 1:29 p.m., a message from the
House of Representatives, delivered by
Mr. Novotny, one of its reading clerks,
announced that the Speaker has signed
the following enrolled bills:
H.R. 1839. An act to amend title XIX to ex-
tend protection for Medicaid recipients of
home and community-based services against
spousal impoverishment, establish a State
Medicaid option to provide coordinated care
to children with complex medical conditions
through health homes, prevent the
misclassification of drugs for purposes of the
Medicaid drug rebate program, and for other
purposes.
H.R. 2030. An act to direct the Secretary of
the Interior to execute and carry out agree-
ments concerning Colorado River Drought
Contingency Management and Operations,
and for other purposes.
The enrolled bills were subsequently
signed by the President pro tempore
(Mr. GRASSLEY).
ENROLLED JOINT RESOLUTION SIGNED
The President pro tempore (Mr.
GRASSLEY) announced that on today,
April 10, 2019, he has signed the fol-
lowing enrolled joint resolution, which
was previously signed by the Speaker
of the House:
S.J. Res. 7. Joint resolution to direct the
removal of United States Armed Forces from
hostilities in the Republic of Yemen that
have not been authorized by Congress.
f
MEASURES PLACED ON THE
CALENDAR
The following bill was read the sec-
ond time, and placed on the calendar:
H.R. 1585. An act to reauthorize the Vio-
lence Against Women Act of 1994, and for
other purposes.
f
EXECUTIVE AND OTHER
COMMUNICATIONS
The following communications were
laid before the Senate, together with
accompanying papers, reports, and doc-
uments, and were referred as indicated:
EC–920. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘2-Hydroxypropyl Starch; Exemption
from the Requirement of a Tolerance’’ (FRL
No. 9991–13–OCSPP) received during adjourn-
ment of the Senate in the Office of the Presi-
dent of the Senate on April 5, 2019; to the
Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and
Forestry.
EC–921. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Flonicamid; Pesticide Tolerances’’
(FRL No. 9990–52–OCSPP) received during ad-
journment of the Senate in the Office of the
President of the Senate on April 5, 2019; to
the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition,
and Forestry.
EC–922. A communication from the Deputy
Secretary of the Commodity Futures Trad-
ing Commission, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Financial
Surveillance Examination Program Require-
ments for Self-Regulatory Organizations’’
(RIN3038–AE73) received in the Office of the
President of the Senate on April 8, 2019; to
the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition,
and Forestry.
EC–923. A communication from the Sec-
retary of the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission, transmitting, pursuant to law,
the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Segregation of
Assets Held as Collateral in Uncleared Swap
Transactions’’ (RIN3038–AE78) received in
the Office of the President of the Senate on
April 8, 2019; to the Committee on Agri-
culture, Nutrition, and Forestry.
EC–924. A communication from the Assist-
ant Secretary of Defense (Legislative Af-
fairs), transmitting legislative proposals rel-
ative to the ‘‘National Defense Authoriza-
tion Act for Fiscal Year 2020’’; to the Com-
mittee on Armed Services.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:55 Apr 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00035 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A10AP6.043 S10APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2384 April 10, 2019
EC–925. A communication from the Assist-
ant Secretary of Defense (Legislative Af-
fairs), transmitting legislative proposals rel-
ative to the ‘‘National Defense Authoriza-
tion Act for Fiscal Year 2020’’; to the Com-
mittee on Armed Services.
EC–926. A communication from the Assist-
ant Secretary of the Army (Manpower and
Reserve Affairs), transmitting, pursuant to
law, a report on the mobilizations of selected
reserve units, received during adjournment
of the Senate in the Office of the President
of the Senate on April 5, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Armed Services.
EC–927. A communication from the Senior
Official performing the duties of the Under
Secretary of Defense (Personnel and Readi-
ness), transmitting the report of three (3) of-
ficers authorized to wear the insignia of the
grade of brigadier general in accordance with
title 10, United States Code, section 777, this
will not cause the Department to exceed the
number of frocked officers authorized; to the
Committee on Armed Services.
EC–928. A communication from the Senior
Official performing the duties of the Under
Secretary of Defense (Personnel and Readi-
ness), transmitting the report of an officer
authorized to wear the insignia of the grade
of rear admiral (lower half) in accordance
with title 10, United States Code, section 777,
this will not cause the Department to exceed
the number of frocked officers authorized; to
the Committee on Armed Services.
EC–929. A communication from the Sec-
retary of Commerce, transmitting, pursuant
to law, a report on the continuation of a na-
tional emergency declared in Executive
Order 13222 with respect to the lapse of the
Export Administration Act of 1979; to the
Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban
Affairs.
EC–930. A communication from the Sec-
retary of the Treasury, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the six-month periodic report on
the national emergency with respect to the
threat of foreign interference in United
States elections that was declared in Execu-
tive Order 13848 of September 12, 2018; to the
Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban
Affairs.
EC–931. A communication from the Sec-
retary of the Treasury, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the six-month periodic report on
the national emergency with respect to Ven-
ezuela that was declared in Executive Order
13692 of March 8, 2015; to the Committee on
Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs.
EC–932. A communication from the Assist-
ant Secretary for Congressional and Inter-
governmental Relations, Department of
Housing and Urban Development, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the Department’s fis-
cal year 2018 Annual Performance Report
and fiscal year 2020 Annual Performance
Plan; to the Committee on Banking, Hous-
ing, and Urban Affairs.
EC–933. A communication from the Attor-
ney-Advisor, Office of General Counsel, De-
partment of Transportation, transmitting,
pursuant to law, a report relative to a va-
cancy for the position of Administrator, Fed-
eral Transit Administration, Department of
Transportation, received during adjourn-
ment of the Senate in the Office of the Presi-
dent of the Senate on April 5, 2019; to the
Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban
Affairs.
EC–934. A communication from the General
Counsel of the National Credit Union Admin-
istration, transmitting, pursuant to law, the
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Loans to Members
and Lines of Credit to Members’’ (RIN3133–
AE88) received during adjournment of the
Senate in the Office of the President of the
Senate on April 5, 2019; to the Committee on
Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs.
EC–935. A communication from the Assist-
ant Secretary, Legislative Affairs, Depart-
ment of State, transmitting, pursuant to
law, a report relative to the Department’s
Alternative Fuel Vehicle (AFV) program for
fiscal year 2018; to the Committee on Energy
and Natural Resources.
EC–936. A communication from the General
Counsel, Federal Energy Regulatory Com-
mission, transmitting, pursuant to law, the
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Interlocking Offi-
cers and Directors; Requirements for Appli-
cants and Holders’’ ((RIN1902–AF53) (Docket
No. RM15–18–000)) received in the Office of
the President of the Senate on April 9, 2019;
to the Committee on Energy and Natural Re-
sources.
EC–937. A communication from the Assist-
ant Secretary of the Army (Civil Works),
transmitting, pursuant to law, a report rel-
ative to the Navigational Improvement
Project for the Port of Seattle, Washington;
to the Committee on Environment and Pub-
lic Works.
EC–938. A communication from the Attor-
ney-Advisor, Office of General Counsel, De-
partment of Transportation, transmitting,
pursuant to law, a report relative to a va-
cancy for the position of Administrator, Fed-
eral Highway Administration, Department of
Transportation, received during adjourn-
ment of the Senate in the Office of the Presi-
dent of the Senate on April 5, 2019; to the
Committee on Environment and Public
Works.
EC–939. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Air Plan Approval; Florida; 2008 8-
hour Ozone Interstate Transport’’ (FRL No.
9991–96–Region 4) received during adjourn-
ment of the Senate in the Office of the Presi-
dent of the Senate on April 5, 2019; to the
Committee on Environment and Public
Works.
EC–940. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Air Plan Approval; Kentucky: Jeffer-
son County Prevention of Significant Dete-
rioration’’ (FRL No. 9991–95–Region 4) re-
ceived during adjournment of the Senate in
the Office of the President of the Senate on
April 5, 2019; to the Committee on Environ-
ment and Public Works.
EC–941. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Air Plan Approval; Kentucky; Re-
gional Haze Plan and Prong 4 (Visibility) for
the 1997 Ozone, 2010 NO2, 2010 SO2, and 2012
PM2.5 NAAQS’’ (FRL No. 9991–82–Region 4)
received during adjournment of the Senate
in the Office of the President of the Senate
on April 5, 2019; to the Committee on Envi-
ronment and Public Works.
EC–942. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Air Plan Approval; North Carolina;
Miscellaneous Rules’’ (FRL No. 9991–94–Re-
gion 4) received during adjournment of the
Senate in the Office of the President of the
Senate on April 5, 2019; to the Committee on
Environment and Public Works.
EC–943. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Air Plan Approval; OR; Update to
Materials Incorporated by Reference’’ (FRL
No. 9990–80–Region 10) received during ad-
journment of the Senate in the Office of the
President of the Senate on April 5, 2019; to
the Committee on Environment and Public
Works.
EC–944. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Approval and Promulgation of Air
Quality Implementation Plans; Wyoming;
Interstate Transport for the 2008 Ozone Na-
tional Ambient Air Quality Standard’’ (FRL
No. 9991–74–Region 8) received during ad-
journment of the Senate in the Office of the
President of the Senate on April 5, 2019; to
the Committee on Environment and Public
Works.
EC–945. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Clean Data Determination; Provo,
Utah 2006 Fine Particulate Matter Standards
Nonattainment Area’’ (FRL No. 9991–76–Re-
gion 8) received during adjournment of the
Senate in the Office of the President of the
Senate on April 5, 2019; to the Committee on
Environment and Public Works.
EC–946. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Significant New Use Rules on Certain
Chemical Substances’’ (FRL No. 9991–19–
OCSPP) received during adjournment of the
Senate in the Office of the President of the
Senate on April 5, 2019; to the Committee on
Environment and Public Works.
EC–947. A communication from the Regula-
tions Coordinator, Centers for Medicare and
Medicaid Services, Department of Health
and Human Services, transmitting, pursuant
to law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Med-
icaid; Revisions to State Medicaid Fraud
Control Unit Rules’’ (RIN0936–AA07) received
during adjournment of the Senate in the Of-
fice of the President of the Senate on April
5, 2019; to the Committee on Finance.
EC–948. A communication from the Regula-
tions Coordinator, Centers for Medicare and
Medicaid Services, Department of Health
and Human Services, transmitting, pursuant
to law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Med-
icaid Program; Covered Outpatient Drug;
Line Extension Definition; and Change to
the Rebate Calculation for Line Extension
Drugs’’ (RIN 0938–AT09) received during ad-
journment of the Senate in the Office of the
President of the Senate on April 5, 2019; to
the Committee on Finance.
EC–949. A communication from the Assist-
ant Secretary, Legislative Affairs, Depart-
ment of State, transmitting, pursuant to
law, two reports relative to the Treaty Be-
tween the United States of America and the
Russian Federation on Measures for the Fur-
ther Reduction and Limitation of Strategic
Offensive Arms (the New START Treaty); to
the Committee on Foreign Relations.
EC–950. A communication from the Assist-
ant Secretary, Legislative Affairs, Depart-
ment of State, transmitting, pursuant to
section 36(c) of the Arms Export Control Act,
the certification of a proposed license for the
export of defense articles, including tech-
nical data and defense services, to Turkey,
Poland, and the United Kingdom for the
manufacture, inspection, test, delivery, and
repair of machined parts, machined assem-
blies, and components for the H–60/S–70, H–
53, and H–92 model helicopters in the amount
of $100,000,000 or more (Transmittal No.
DDTC 18–021); to the Committee on Foreign
Relations.
EC–951. A communication from the Assist-
ant Secretary, Legislative Affairs, Depart-
ment of State, transmitting, pursuant to
section 36(c) of the Arms Export Control Act,
the certification of a proposed license for the
export of defense articles, including tech-
nical data and defense services, to Qatar to
support the manufacture of the fusion rifle
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:55 Apr 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00036 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A10AP6.021 S10APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2385
April 10, 2019
scope/target illuminator system in the
amount of $1,000,000 or more (Transmittal
No. DDTC 18–067); to the Committee on For-
eign Relations.
EC–952. A communication from the Assist-
ant Secretary, Legislative Affairs, Depart-
ment of State, transmitting, pursuant to
section 36(c) of the Arms Export Control Act,
the certification of a proposed license for the
export of firearms abroad controlled under
Category I of the U.S. Munitions Lists of
7.62mm rifles and suppressors to the Phil-
ippines for end use by the Department of Na-
tional Defense in the amount of $1,000,000 or
more (Transmittal No. DDTC 18–092); to the
Committee on Foreign Relations.
EC–953. A communication from the Deputy
Director, Office of the Assistant Secretary
for Health, Department of Health and
Human Services, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Compli-
ance with Statutory Program Integrity Re-
quirements’’ (RIN0937–AA07) received in the
Office of the President of the Senate on April
9, 2019; to the Committee on Health, Edu-
cation, Labor, and Pensions.
EC–954. A communication from the Direc-
tor of Regulations and Policy Management
Staff, Food and Drug Administration, De-
partment of Health and Human Services,
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of
a rule entitled ‘‘Reinstatement of Color Ad-
ditive Listing for Lead Acetate’’ (Docket No.
FDA–2017–C–1951) received during adjourn-
ment of the Senate in the Office of the Presi-
dent of the Senate on April 5, 2019; to the
Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and
Pensions.
EC–955. A communication from the Direc-
tor of Regulations and Policy Management
Staff, Food and Drug Administration, De-
partment of Health and Human Services,
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of
a rule entitled ‘‘Medical Devices; Orthopedic
Devices; Classification of Posterior Cervical
Screw Systems’’ ((RIN0910–AI00) (Docket No.
FDA–2015–N–3785)) received during adjourn-
ment of the Senate in the Office of the Presi-
dent of the Senate on April 5, 2019; to the
Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and
Pensions.
EC–956. A communication from the Direc-
tor of Regulations and Policy Management
Staff, Food and Drug Administration, De-
partment of Health and Human Services,
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of
a rule entitled ‘‘Microbiology Devices; Clas-
sification of In Vitro Diagnostic Devices for
Bacillus Species Detection’’ ((RIN0910–AH98)
(Docket No. FDA–2011–N–0103)) received dur-
ing adjournment of the Senate in the Office
of the President of the Senate on April 5,
2019; to the Committee on Health, Education,
Labor, and Pensions.
EC–957. A communication from the Direc-
tor of Regulations and Policy Management
Staff, Food and Drug Administration, De-
partment of Health and Human Services,
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of
a rule entitled ‘‘Medical Devices; Technical
Amendment’’ (Docket No. FDA–2019–N–1345)
received during adjournment of the Senate
in the Office of the President of the Senate
on April 5, 2019; to the Committee on Health,
Education, Labor, and Pensions.
EC–958. A communication from the Direc-
tor of Regulations and Policy Management
Staff, Food and Drug Administration, De-
partment of Health and Human Services,
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of
a rule entitled ‘‘Removal of Certain Time of
Inspection and Duties of Inspector Regula-
tions for Biological Products’’ ((RIN0910–
AH49) (Docket No. FDA–2017–N–7007)) re-
ceived during adjournment of the Senate in
the Office of the President of the Senate on
April 5, 2019; to the Committee on Health,
Education, Labor, and Pensions.
EC–959. A communication from the Acting
Secretary of the Commission, Bureau of
Competition, Federal Trade Commission,
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of
a rule entitled ‘‘Revised Jurisdictional
Thresholds for Section 7A of the Clayton
Act’’ received in the Office of the President
of the Senate on April 8, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary.
EC–960. A communication from the Acting
Secretary of the Commission, Bureau of
Competition, Federal Trade Commission,
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of
a rule entitled ‘‘Revised Jurisdictional
Thresholds for Section 8 of the Clayton Act’’
received in the Office of the President of the
Senate on April 8, 2019; to the Committee on
the Judiciary.
EC–961. A communication from the Admin-
istrator, National Aeronautics and Space Ad-
ministration (NASA), transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, three (3) reports relative to va-
cancies in the National Aeronautics and
Space Administration (NASA), received in
the Office of the President of the Senate on
April 8, 2019; to the Committee on Com-
merce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–962. A communication from the Attor-
ney-Advisor, Office of General Counsel, De-
partment of Transportation, transmitting,
pursuant to law, a report relative to a va-
cancy for the position of Assistant Secretary
for Research & Technology, Office of the
Secretary, Department of Transportation,
received during adjournment of the Senate
in the Office of the President of the Senate
on April 5, 2019; to the Committee on Com-
merce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–963. A communication from the Acting
Secretary of the Commission, Bureau of Con-
sumer Protection, Federal Trade Commis-
sion, transmitting, pursuant to law, the re-
port of a rule entitled ‘‘Deceptive Adver-
tising as to Sizes of Viewable Pictures
Shown by Television Receiving Sets’’ (16
CFR Part 410) received in the Office of the
President of the Senate on April 8, 2019; to
the Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation.
EC–964. A communication from the Deputy
Assistant Administrator for Regulatory Pro-
grams, National Marine Fisheries Service,
Department of Commerce, transmitting, pur-
suant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Magnuson-Stevens Act Provisions; Fish-
eries of the Northeastern United States;
Northeast Multispecies Fishery; 2018 Sector
Operations Plans and Allocation of North-
east Multispecies Annual Catch Entitle-
ments’’ (RIN0648–XG051) received in the Of-
fice of the President of the Senate on April
9, 2019; to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation.
EC–965. A communication from the Deputy
Assistant Administrator for Regulatory Pro-
grams, National Marine Fisheries Service,
Department of Commerce, transmitting, pur-
suant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘International Fisheries; Western and Cen-
tral Pacific Fisheries for Highly Migratory
Species’ Bigeye Tuna Catch Limits in
Longline Fisheries for 2017’’ (RIN0648–BG78)
received in the Office of the President of the
Senate on April 9, 2019; to the Committee on
Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–966. A communication from the Deputy
Assistant Administrator for Regulatory Pro-
grams, National Marine Fisheries Service,
Department of Commerce, transmitting, pur-
suant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Fisheries of the Caribbean, Gulf of Mexico,
and South Atlantic; Reef Fish Fishery of the
Gulf of Mexico; Modifications to the Number
of Unrigged Hooks Carried on Board Bottom
Longline Vessels’’ (RIN0648–BG92) received in
the Office of the President of the Senate on
April 9, 2019; to the Committee on Com-
merce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–967. A communication from the Deputy
Assistant Administrator for Regulatory Pro-
grams, National Marine Fisheries Service,
Department of Commerce, transmitting, pur-
suant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Fisheries of the Exclusive Economic Zone
Off Alaska; Electronic Reporting Require-
ments’’ (RIN0648–AP66) received in the Office
of the President of the Senate on April 9,
2019; to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation.
EC–968. A communication from the Deputy
Assistant Administrator for Regulatory Pro-
grams, National Marine Fisheries Service,
Department of Commerce, transmitting, pur-
suant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Pacific Coast Groundfish Fishery; Frame-
work for Treaty Tribe Harvest of Pacific
Groundfish and 1996 Makah Whiting Alloca-
tion’’ (RIN0648–AH84) received in the Office
of the President of the Senate on April 9,
2019; to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation.
f
REPORTS OF COMMITTEES
The following reports of committees
were submitted:
By Mr. JOHNSON, from the Committee on
Homeland Security and Governmental Af-
fairs, with an amendment:
S. 195. A bill to require the Director of the
Government Publishing Office to establish
and maintain a website accessible to the
public that allows the public to obtain elec-
tronic copies of all congressionally man-
dated reports in one place, and for other pur-
poses (Rept. No. 116–31).
By Mr. JOHNSON, from the Committee on
Homeland Security and Governmental Af-
fairs, with amendments:
S. 196. A bill to save taxpayer money and
improve the efficiency and speed of
intragovernmental correspondence, and for
other purposes (Rept. No. 116–32).
By Mr. JOHNSON, from the Committee on
Homeland Security and Governmental Af-
fairs, with an amendment:
S. 387. A bill to prohibit Federal agencies
and Federal contractors from requesting
that an applicant for employment disclose
criminal history record information before
the applicant has received a conditional
offer, and for other purposes (Rept. No. 116–
33).
By Mr. BARRASSO, from the Committee
on Environment and Public Works , without
amendment:
S. 383. A bill to support carbon dioxide uti-
lization and direct air capture research, to
facilitate the permitting and development of
carbon capture, utilization, and sequestra-
tion projects and carbon dioxide pipelines,
and for other purposes.
S. 747. A bill to reauthorize the diesel emis-
sions reduction program, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 1061. A bill to amend the John F. Ken-
nedy Center Act to authorize appropriations
for the John F. Kennedy Center for the Per-
forming Arts, and for other purposes.
f
INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND
JOINT RESOLUTIONS
The following bills and joint resolu-
tions were introduced, read the first
and second times by unanimous con-
sent, and referred as indicated:
By Mr. RUBIO (for himself and Ms.
SINEMA):
S. 1101. A bill to ensure that only licensed
health care providers furnish disability ex-
aminations under a certain Department of
Veterans Affairs pilot program for use con-
tract physicians for disability examinations,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:55 Apr 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00037 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A10AP6.023 S10APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2386 April 10, 2019
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Veterans’ Affairs.
By Mr. MENENDEZ (for himself and
Mr. RUBIO):
S. 1102. A bill to promote security and en-
ergy partnerships in the Eastern Mediterra-
nean, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Foreign Relations.
By Mr. COTTON (for himself, Mr.
PERDUE, and Mr. HAWLEY):
S. 1103. A bill to amend the Immigration
and Nationality Act to establish a skills-
based immigration points system, to focus
on family-sponsored immigration on spouses
and minor children, to eliminate the Diver-
sity Visa Program, to set a limit on the
number of refugees admitted annually to the
United States, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. KENNEDY (for himself and Mr.
CRAMER):
S. 1104. A bill to prohibit the General Serv-
ices Administration from awarding contracts
to certain insured depository institutions
that avoid doing business with certain com-
panies that are engaged in lawful commerce
based solely on social policy considerations;
to the Committee on Homeland Security and
Governmental Affairs.
By Mrs. SHAHEEN (for herself, Mr.
ROUNDS, and Ms. HASSAN):
S. 1105. A bill to require the Secretary of
Veterans Affairs to establish and maintain a
registry for certain individuals who may
have been exposed to per- and
polyfluoroalkyl substances due to the envi-
ronmental release of aqueous film-forming
foam on military installations; to the Com-
mittee on Veterans’ Affairs.
By Ms. HARRIS (for herself, Mr.
BLUMENTHAL, and Ms. HASSAN):
S. 1106. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to allow for a credit
against tax for rent paid on the personal res-
idence of the taxpayer; to the Committee on
Finance.
By Mr. RUBIO (for himself, Mrs. FEIN-
STEIN, Mrs. CAPITO, and Mr.
MANCHIN):
S. 1107. A bill to require a review of women
and lung cancer, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Health, Education, Labor,
and Pensions.
By Mr. WYDEN (for himself and Mr.
BOOKER):
S. 1108. A bill to direct the Federal Trade
Commission to require entities that use,
store, or share personal information to con-
duct automated decision system impact as-
sessments and data protection impact assess-
ments; to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation.
By Ms. HARRIS (for herself and Mrs.
FEINSTEIN):
S. 1109. A bill to establish as a unit of the
National Park System the San Gabriel Na-
tional Recreation Area in the State of Cali-
fornia, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Energy and Natural Resources.
By Ms. HARRIS (for herself and Mrs.
FEINSTEIN):
S. 1110. A bill to provide for restoration,
economic development, recreation, and con-
servation on Federal lands in Northern Cali-
fornia, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Energy and Natural Resources.
By Ms. HARRIS (for herself and Mrs.
FEINSTEIN):
S. 1111. A bill to designate certain Federal
land in the State of California as wilderness,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Energy and Natural Resources.
By Mr. BLUMENTHAL (for himself,
Mr. MARKEY, and Mrs. FEINSTEIN):
S. 1112. A bill to improve the safety of the
air supply on commercial aircraft, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Com-
merce, Science, and Transportation.
By Mrs. SHAHEEN:
S. 1113. A bill to protect and enhance core
diplomatic capabilities at the Department of
State; to the Committee on Foreign Rela-
tions.
By Mr. DAINES (for himself and Mr.
KING):
S. 1114. A bill to amend title XVIII of the
Social Security Act to eliminate a provision
under the Medicare Advantage program that
inadvertently penalizes Medicare Advantage
plans for providing high quality care to
Medicare beneficiaries; to the Committee on
Finance.
By Mr. BURR (for himself, Mr. ISAK-
SON, Mr. ROBERTS, and Mr. ENZI):
S. 1115. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to prohibit the Commis-
sioner of the Internal Revenue Service from
rehiring any employee of the Internal Rev-
enue Service who was involuntarily sepa-
rated from service for misconduct; to the
Committee on Finance.
By Mrs. BLACKBURN:
S. 1116. A bill to require providers of
broadband internet access service and edge
services to clearly and conspicuously notify
users of the privacy policies of those pro-
viders, to give users opt-in or opt-out ap-
proval rights with respect to the use of, dis-
closure of, and access to user information
collected by those providers based on the
level of sensitivity of the information, and
for other purposes; to the Committee on
Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
By Ms. HASSAN (for herself, Mr.
YOUNG, Mr. KAINE, and Mr. GARD-
NER):
S. 1117. A bill to establish a career pathway
grant program; to the Committee on Health,
Education, Labor, and Pensions.
By Ms. WARREN (for herself, Mr.
PORTMAN, Ms. SINEMA, Mr. TILLIS,
and Mr. REED):
S. 1118. A bill to amend the
Servicemembers Civil Relief Act to author-
ize spouses of servicemembers who incur a
catastrophic injury or illness or die while in
military service to terminate leases of prem-
ises and motor vehicles, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Veterans’ Af-
fairs.
By Mr. UDALL (for himself, Ms. COL-
LINS, Mr. CASEY, Mr. GARDNER, Ms.
SMITH, Mr. HEINRICH, Mr.
BLUMENTHAL, Mr. MURPHY, Mr.
LEAHY, Mr. WYDEN, Mr. BOOKER, Ms.
HIRONO, Mr. VAN HOLLEN, and Mrs.
GILLIBRAND):
S. 1119. A bill to amend the Richard B. Rus-
sell National School Lunch Act to prohibit
the stigmatization of children who are un-
able to pay for meals; to the Committee on
Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry.
By Mr. LANKFORD (for himself, Mr.
GRASSLEY, Mr. RISCH, Mr. ROBERTS,
and Mr. HOEVEN):
S. 1120. A bill to amend chapter 6 of title 5,
United States Code (commonly known as the
‘‘Regulatory Flexibility Act’’), to ensure
complete analysis of potential impacts on
small entities of rules, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Homeland Secu-
rity and Governmental Affairs.
By Ms. ERNST (for herself and Mr.
KING):
S. 1121. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code 1986 to exclude major professional
sports leagues from qualifying as tax-exempt
organizations; to the Committee on Finance.
By Ms. SMITH (for herself, Ms. HAS-
SAN, Mr. MURPHY, Mr. WHITEHOUSE,
and Mr. WYDEN):
S. 1122. A bill to amend the Public Health
Service Act to revise and extend projects re-
lating to children and to provide access to
school-based comprehensive mental health
programs; to the Committee on Health, Edu-
cation, Labor, and Pensions.
By Mr. COONS (for himself, Mrs. FEIN-
STEIN, Mr. VAN HOLLEN, Mr.
BLUMENTHAL, Mr. MARKEY, Ms. HAR-
RIS, Mr. DURBIN, Ms. WARREN, Mrs.
MURRAY, Mr. LEAHY, Mr. MENENDEZ,
Ms. KLOBUCHAR, Mr. BOOKER, Mr.
CARDIN, Mr. KAINE, Mr. SCHUMER,
Mrs. SHAHEEN, Ms. HIRONO, Ms. STA-
BENOW, Mr. MERKLEY, Mr. BENNET,
Mr. SANDERS, Mr. CARPER, Ms.
DUCKWORTH, Mr. BROWN, Mrs. GILLI-
BRAND, Mr. MURPHY, Ms. SMITH, Mr.
CASEY, Mr. WHITEHOUSE, Ms. HASSAN,
and Mr. PETERS):
S. 1123. A bill to transfer and limit Execu-
tive Branch authority to suspend or restrict
the entry of a class of aliens; to the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. TESTER:
S. 1124. A bill to require the establishment
of a working group to evaluate the food safe-
ty threat posed by beef and poultry imported
from Brazil, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Finance.
By Mr. TILLIS (for himself, Mr. ALEX-
ANDER, Mr. GRASSLEY, Mr. CASSIDY,
Mr. PORTMAN, Mr. PERDUE, Ms.
ERNST, Mr. CORNYN, Mr. CRAMER, Mr.
ISAKSON, Mr. WICKER, Mrs. CAPITO,
Mr. KENNEDY, Mr. BARRASSO, Mr.
SCOTT of Florida, Mr. BURR, Mr.
YOUNG, Mr. COTTON, and Ms.
MCSALLY):
S. 1125. A bill to amend the Health Insur-
ance Portability and Accountability Act; to
the Committee on Health, Education, Labor,
and Pensions.
By Mrs. CAPITO (for herself, Ms. STA-
BENOW, Mr. WICKER, and Mr. MENEN-
DEZ):
S. 1126. A bill to provide better care for
Americans living with Alzheimer’s disease
and related dementias and their caregivers,
while accelerating progress toward preven-
tion strategies, disease modifying treat-
ments, and, ultimately, a cure; to the Com-
mittee on Finance.
By Mr. MARKEY (for himself, Mr.
RUBIO, Mr. KAINE, and Mr. YOUNG):
S. 1127. A bill to amend the Atomic Energy
Act of 1954 to require the Secretary of En-
ergy to report to Congress regarding applica-
tions for authorizations to engage or partici-
pate in the development or production of
special nuclear material outside the United
States, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Foreign Relations.
By Mr. WHITEHOUSE (for himself, Mr.
SCHATZ, Mr. HEINRICH, and Mrs.
GILLIBRAND):
S. 1128. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to provide for carbon diox-
ide and other greenhouse gas emission fees,
provide tax credits to workers, deliver addi-
tional benefits to retired and disabled Amer-
icans, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Finance.
By Mr. SANDERS (for himself, Ms.
BALDWIN, Mr. BLUMENTHAL, Mr.
BOOKER, Mrs. GILLIBRAND, Ms. HAR-
RIS, Mr. LEAHY, Mr. MARKEY, Mr.
MERKLEY, Mr. SCHATZ, Mr. UDALL,
Ms. WARREN, Mr. WHITEHOUSE, Ms.
HIRONO, and Mr. HEINRICH):
S. 1129. A bill to establish a Medicare-for-
all national health insurance program; to
the Committee on Finance.
By Mr. CASEY (for himself, Mr. ISAK-
SON, Mr. BROWN, and Mr. JONES):
S. 1130. A bill to amend the Public Health
Service Act to improve the health of chil-
dren and help better understand and enhance
awareness about unexpected sudden death in
early life; to the Committee on Health, Edu-
cation, Labor, and Pensions.
By Mr. MERKLEY (for himself and Mr.
ROUNDS):
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:55 Apr 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00038 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A10AP6.010 S10APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2387
April 10, 2019
S. 1131. A bill to establish family and med-
ical leave banks to provide paid leave for em-
ployees of the Department of Defense, and
for other purposes; to the Committee on
Homeland Security and Governmental Af-
fairs.
By Ms. HIRONO (for herself, Ms. SMITH,
Mrs. GILLIBRAND, and Mr. MERKLEY):
S. 1132. A bill to amend title II of the So-
cial Security Act and the Internal Revenue
Code of 1986 to make improvements in the
old-age, survivors, and disability insurance
program, and to provide for Social Security
benefit protection; to the Committee on Fi-
nance.
By Mrs. FISCHER (for herself, Ms.
ERNST, Mr. SASSE, and Mr. GRASS-
LEY):
S. 1133. A bill to provide disaster tax relief
for certain disasters occurring in 2019; to the
Committee on Finance.
By Mr. CRAMER (for himself and Mr.
CARDIN):
S. 1134. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to provide for an invest-
ment tax credit related to the production of
electricity from nuclear energy; to the Com-
mittee on Finance.
By Mr. SULLIVAN:
S. 1135. A bill to protect Federal, State,
and local public safety officers; to the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. HOEVEN (for himself, Mr.
BOOZMAN, Mr. CRAMER, and Mr.
LEAHY):
S. 1136. A bill to amend title 10, United
States Code, to authorize concurrent use of
Department of Defense Tuition Assistance
and Montgomery GI Bill-Selected Reserve
benefits, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Armed Services.
By Ms. STABENOW:
S. 1137. A bill to prioritize education and
training for current and future members of
the environmental health workforce; to the
Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and
Pensions.
By Mr. BROWN (for himself, Mr. BEN-
NET, Mr. DURBIN, Ms. BALDWIN, Mr.
BLUMENTHAL, Mr. BOOKER, Ms. CANT-
WELL, Mr. CARDIN, Mr. CARPER, Mr.
CASEY, Mr. COONS, Ms. CORTEZ
MASTO, Ms. DUCKWORTH, Mrs. FEIN-
STEIN, Mrs. GILLIBRAND, Ms. HARRIS,
Ms. HASSAN, Mr. HEINRICH, Ms.
HIRONO, Mr. JONES, Mr. KAINE, Mr.
KING, Ms. KLOBUCHAR, Mr. LEAHY,
Mr. MANCHIN, Mr. MARKEY, Mr.
MENENDEZ, Mr. MERKLEY, Mr. MUR-
PHY, Mrs. MURRAY, Mr. PETERS, Mr.
REED, Ms. ROSEN, Mr. SANDERS, Mr.
SCHATZ, Mr. SCHUMER, Mrs. SHAHEEN,
Ms. SMITH, Ms. STABENOW, Mr.
TESTER, Mr. UDALL, Mr. VAN HOLLEN,
Mr. WARNER, Ms. WARREN, Mr.
WHITEHOUSE, and Mr. WYDEN):
S. 1138. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to expand the earned in-
come and child tax credits, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Finance.
By Mr. CARDIN (for himself, Mr. CAS-
SIDY, Mr. CARPER, Ms. STABENOW, Mr.
WHITEHOUSE, and Mr. UDALL):
S. 1139. A bill to reauthorize and amend the
National Fish and Wildlife Foundation Es-
tablishment Act; to the Committee on Envi-
ronment and Public Works.
f
SUBMISSION OF CONCURRENT AND
SENATE RESOLUTIONS
The following concurrent resolutions
and Senate resolutions were read, and
referred (or acted upon), as indicated:
By Mr. LANKFORD (for himself and
Mr. CASEY):
S. Res. 153. A resolution reaffirming the
unique collaboration among United States
nongovernmental organizations (NGOs), in-
cluding faith-based organizations, and the
Israel Defense Forces to deliver humani-
tarian assistance to Syrians; to the Com-
mittee on Foreign Relations.
By Ms. HARRIS (for herself, Ms. BALD-
WIN, Mr. DURBIN, Mr. WYDEN, Ms.
KLOBUCHAR, Mr. MERKLEY, Mrs.
GILLIBRAND, Ms. STABENOW, Mr.
BROWN, Mrs. FEINSTEIN, Ms. HIRONO,
Mr. BLUMENTHAL, Mr. BOOKER, Mrs.
MURRAY, Ms. DUCKWORTH, Mr. MAR-
KEY, and Mr. VAN HOLLEN):
S. Res. 154. A resolution recognizing the
week of April 11 through April 17, 2019, as
‘‘Black Maternal Health Week’’ to bring na-
tional attention to the maternal health cri-
sis in the Black community and the impor-
tance of reducing maternal mortality and
morbidity among Black women; to the Com-
mittee on Health, Education, Labor, and
Pensions.
By Mr. GRAHAM (for himself and Mr.
SCOTT of South Carolina):
S. Res. 155. A resolution relative to the
death of the Honorable Ernest F. Hollings,
former United States Senator for the State
of South Carolina; considered and agreed to.
By Mr. BURR (for himself, Ms. SMITH,
and Mr. TILLIS):
S. Res. 156. A resolution supporting the
goals and ideals of Take Our Daughters And
Sons To Work Day; considered and agreed to.
By Mr. ISAKSON (for himself and Ms.
STABENOW):
S. Res. 157. A resolution supporting the
designation of April 2019 as ‘‘Parkinson’s
Awareness Month’’; considered and agreed
to.
By Ms. KLOBUCHAR (for herself and
Mr. BLUNT):
S. Res. 158. A resolution authorizing the
use of the atrium in the Philip A. Hart Sen-
ate Office Building for the National Prescrip-
tion Drug Take Back Day, a semiannual
event of the Drug Enforcement Administra-
tion; considered and agreed to.
f
ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS
S. 64
At the request of Ms. KLOBUCHAR, the
name of the Senator from Illinois (Mr.
DURBIN) was added as a cosponsor of S.
64, a bill to prohibit brand name drug
companies from compensating generic
drug companies to delay the entry of a
generic drug into the market, and to
prohibit biological product manufac-
turers from compensating biosimilar
and interchangeable companies to
delay the entry of biosimilar biological
products and interchangeable biologi-
cal products.
S. 151
At the request of Mr. THUNE, the
names of the Senator from Oklahoma
(Mr. LANKFORD), the Senator from Mis-
sissippi (Mrs. HYDE-SMITH), the Senator
from Oregon (Mr. WYDEN) and the Sen-
ator from Missouri (Mr. BLUNT) were
added as cosponsors of S. 151, a bill to
deter criminal robocall violations and
improve enforcement of section 227(b)
of the Communications Act of 1934, and
for other purposes.
S. 227
At the request of Ms. CORTEZ MASTO,
the names of the Senator from New
York (Mrs. GILLIBRAND) and the Sen-
ator from Minnesota (Ms. SMITH) were
added as cosponsors of S. 227, a bill to
direct the Attorney General to review,
revise, and develop law enforcement
and justice protocols appropriate to ad-
dress missing and murdered Indians,
and for other purposes.
S. 287
At the request of Mr. TOOMEY, the
name of the Senator from South Caro-
lina (Mr. SCOTT) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 287, a bill to amend the Trade
Expansion Act of 1962 to impose limita-
tions on the authority of the President
to adjust imports that are determined
to threaten to impair national secu-
rity, and for other purposes.
S. 362
At the request of Mr. WYDEN, the
names of the Senator from California
(Mrs. FEINSTEIN) and the Senator from
Tennessee (Mrs. BLACKBURN) were
added as cosponsors of S. 362, a bill to
amend the Internal Revenue Code of
1986 to reform taxation of alcoholic
beverages.
S. 371
At the request of Mrs. FISCHER, the
names of the Senator from Maine (Mr.
KING) and the Senator from Georgia
(Mr. PERDUE) were added as cosponsors
of S. 371, a bill to provide regulatory
relief to charitable organizations that
provide housing assistance, and for
other purposes.
S. 427
At the request of Mr. MENENDEZ, the
names of the Senator from Minnesota
(Ms. SMITH) and the Senator from Ar-
kansas (Mr. BOOZMAN) were added as
cosponsors of S. 427, a bill to amend the
Public Health Service Act to enhance
activities of the National Institutes of
Health with respect to research on au-
tism spectrum disorder and enhance
programs relating to autism, and for
other purposes.
S. 460
At the request of Mr. WARNER, the
name of the Senator from Arizona (Ms.
MCSALLY) was added as a cosponsor of
S. 460, a bill to amend the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986 to extend the ex-
clusion for employer-provided edu-
cation assistance to employer pay-
ments of student loans.
S. 504
At the request of Ms. SINEMA, the
name of the Senator from Indiana (Mr.
YOUNG) was added as a cosponsor of S.
504, a bill to amend title 36, United
States Code, to authorize The Amer-
ican Legion to determine the require-
ments for membership in The Amer-
ican Legion, and for other purposes.
S. 518
At the request of Ms. CANTWELL, the
names of the Senator from Delaware
(Mr. CARPER) and the Senator from
South Dakota (Mr. ROUNDS) were added
as cosponsors of S. 518, a bill to amend
title XVIII of the Social Security Act
to provide for Medicare coverage of
certain lymphedema compression
treatment items as items of durable
medical equipment.
S. 598
At the request of Mr. PETERS, the
name of the Senator from Montana
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:55 Apr 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00039 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A10AP6.012 S10APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2388 April 10, 2019
(Mr. DAINES) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 598, a bill to amend title 38,
United States Code, to increase certain
funeral benefits for veterans, and for
other purposes.
S. 599
At the request of Mr. COTTON, the
name of the Senator from Louisiana
(Mr. KENNEDY) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 599, a bill to amend the Immi-
gration and Nationality Act with re-
spect to aliens associated with crimi-
nal gangs, and for other purposes.
S. 600
At the request of Mr. HOEVEN, the
name of the Senator from Tennessee
(Mr. ALEXANDER) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 600, a bill to require the
Secretary of Transportation to estab-
lish a working group to study regu-
latory and legislative improvements
for the livestock, insect, and agricul-
tural commodities transport indus-
tries, and for other purposes.
S. 605
At the request of Ms. KLOBUCHAR, the
name of the Senator from Maine (Mr.
KING) was added as a cosponsor of S.
605, a bill to assist States in carrying
out projects to expand the child care
workforce and child care facilities in
the States, and for other purposes.
S. 622
At the request of Mr. JONES, the
names of the Senator from New Jersey
(Mr. BOOKER), the Senator from New
Mexico (Mr. HEINRICH) and the Senator
from Nevada (Ms. CORTEZ MASTO) were
added as cosponsors of S. 622, a bill to
amend title 10, United States Code, to
repeal the requirement for reduction of
survivor annuities under the Survivor
Benefit Plan by veterans’ dependency
and indemnity compensation, and for
other purposes.
S. 634
At the request of Mr. CRUZ, the name
of the Senator from Indiana (Mr.
YOUNG) was added as a cosponsor of S.
634, a bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to establish tax cred-
its to encourage individual and cor-
porate taxpayers to contribute to
scholarships for students through eligi-
ble scholarship-granting organizations
and eligible workforce training organi-
zations, and for other purposes.
S. 651
At the request of Mr. CASEY, the
name of the Senator from Alaska (Ms.
MURKOWSKI) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 651, a bill to amend the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986 to increase the
age requirement with respect to eligi-
bility for qualified ABLE programs.
S. 665
At the request of Mrs. GILLIBRAND,
the name of the Senator from New
Mexico (Mr. HEINRICH) was added as a
cosponsor of S. 665, a bill to reduce the
number of preventable deaths and inju-
ries caused by underride crashes, to im-
prove motor carrier and passenger
motor vehicle safety, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 666
At the request of Mr. BENNET, the
name of the Senator from Arizona (Ms.
SINEMA) was added as a cosponsor of S.
666, a bill to require the Secretary of
Labor to award grants to organizations
for the provision of transition assist-
ance to members and former members
of the Armed Forces who are separated,
retired, or discharged from the Armed
Forces, and spouses of such members,
and for other purposes.
S. 703
At the request of Mrs. FEINSTEIN, the
name of the Senator from Hawaii (Mr.
SCHATZ) was added as a cosponsor of S.
703, a bill to amend title 10, United
States Code, to address health, safety,
and environmental hazards at private
military housing units, to prohibit the
payment by members of the Armed
Forces of deposits or other fees relat-
ing to such housing units, and for other
purposes.
S. 726
At the request of Mrs. FEINSTEIN, the
names of the Senator from New Hamp-
shire (Mrs. SHAHEEN) and the Senator
from New York (Mrs. GILLIBRAND) were
added as cosponsors of S. 726, a bill to
amend the Federal Food, Drug, and
Cosmetic Act to ensure the safety of
cosmetics.
S. 742
At the request of Mr. JOHNSON, the
name of the Senator from Indiana (Mr.
BRAUN) was added as a cosponsor of S.
742, a bill to protect children through
eliminating visa loopholes.
S. 758
At the request of Ms. DUCKWORTH,
the name of the Senator from Cali-
fornia (Mrs. FEINSTEIN) was added as a
cosponsor of S. 758, a bill to ensure af-
fordable abortion coverage and care for
every woman, and for other purposes.
S. 800
At the request of Mr. CASSIDY, the
name of the Senator from Pennsyl-
vania (Mr. CASEY) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 800, a bill to establish a
postsecondary student data system.
S. 820
At the request of Mr. CORNYN, the
name of the Senator from Louisiana
(Mr. KENNEDY) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 820, a bill to strengthen pro-
grams authorized under the Debbie
Smith Act of 2004.
S. 824
At the request of Ms. STABENOW, the
names of the Senator from Minnesota
(Ms. SMITH) and the Senator from
Oklahoma (Mr. INHOFE) were added as
cosponsors of S. 824, a bill to increase
the number of States that may conduct
Medicaid demonstration programs to
improve access to community mental
health services.
S. 880
At the request of Ms. STABENOW, the
names of the Senator from Rhode Is-
land (Mr. WHITEHOUSE), the Senator
from Mississippi (Mrs. HYDE-SMITH)
and the Senator from Oklahoma (Mr.
INHOFE) were added as cosponsors of S.
880, a bill to provide outreach and re-
porting on comprehensive Alzheimer’s
disease care planning services fur-
nished under the Medicare program.
S. 901
At the request of Ms. COLLINS, the
name of the Senator from Rhode Island
(Mr. WHITEHOUSE) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 901, a bill to amend the
Older Americans Act of 1965 to support
individuals with younger onset Alz-
heimer’s disease.
S. 903
At the request of Ms. MURKOWSKI, the
names of the Senator from Alabama
(Mr. JONES) and the Senator from
North Dakota (Mr. CRAMER) were added
as cosponsors of S. 903, a bill to direct
the Secretary of Energy to establish
advanced nuclear goals, provide for a
versatile, reactor-based fast neutron
source, make available high-assay,
low-enriched uranium for research, de-
velopment, and demonstration of ad-
vanced nuclear reactor concepts, and
for other purposes.
S. 983
At the request of Mr. COONS, the
names of the Senator from West Vir-
ginia (Mr. MANCHIN) and the Senator
from Alaska (Ms. MURKOWSKI) were
added as cosponsors of S. 983, a bill to
amend the Energy Conservation and
Production Act to reauthorize the
weatherization assistance program,
and for other purposes.
S. 998
At the request of Mr. HAWLEY, the
name of the Senator from Delaware
(Mr. COONS) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 998, a bill to amend the Omnibus
Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of
1968 to expand support for police officer
family services, stress reduction, and
suicide prevention, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 1033
At the request of Mr. WHITEHOUSE,
the name of the Senator from Massa-
chusetts (Mr. MARKEY) was added as a
cosponsor of S. 1033, a bill to amend the
Public Health Service Act to establish
a public health insurance option, and
for other purposes.
S. 1037
At the request of Mr. BARRASSO, the
name of the Senator from Mississippi
(Mrs. HYDE-SMITH) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 1037, a bill to amend title
XVIII of the Social Security Act to
modernize provisions relating to rural
health clinics under Medicare.
S. 1068
At the request of Mr. CARDIN, the
name of the Senator from New Jersey
(Mr. MENENDEZ) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 1068, a bill to secure the Fed-
eral voting rights of persons when re-
leased from incarceration.
S. RES. 85
At the request of Mr. BROWN, the
names of the Senator from Maryland
(Mr. VAN HOLLEN), the Senator from
Michigan (Ms. STABENOW) and the Sen-
ator from Washington (Ms. CANTWELL)
were added as cosponsors of S. Res. 85,
a resolution recognizing the 100th anni-
versary of the founding of Easterseals,
a leading advocate and service provider
for children and adults with disabil-
ities, including veterans and older
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:55 Apr 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00040 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A10AP6.019 S10APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2389
April 10, 2019
adults, and their caregivers and fami-
lies.
S. RES. 128
At the request of Mrs. MURRAY, the
names of the Senator from West Vir-
ginia (Mrs. CAPITO) and the Senator
from New Hampshire (Ms. HASSAN)
were added as cosponsors of S. Res. 128,
a resolution commemorating the 100th
anniversary of the National Parks Con-
servation Association.
f
STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED
BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS
By Mr. WYDEN (for himself and
Mr. BOOKER):
S. 1108. A bill to direct the Federal
Trade Commission to require entities
that use, store, or share personal infor-
mation to conduct automated decision
system impact assessments and data
protection impact assessments; to the
Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation.
Mr. WYDEN. Mr. President, today I,
along with my colleague Senator BOOK-
ER of New Jersey, are introducing the
Algorithmic Accountability Act. This
bill is a critical first step to address
the use of biased or discriminatory al-
gorithmic decisions impacting Amer-
ican consumers. It is a bicameral ef-
fort, led in the House of Representa-
tives by Congresswoman YVETTE
CLARKE, vice chair of the Energy and
Commerce Committee.
Today’s biggest companies are in-
creasingly using algorithms to make
decisions about consumers. The use by
companies of algorithms can often ben-
efit consumers, and these technologies
have been critical in the creation of
thousands of American companies.
Alongside this beneficial proliferation,
algorithms have become entrenched in
the most life-changing of decisions. Al-
gorithms can now determine whether
Americans are hired for a dream job,
are approved for a home mortgage, or
even sent to jail.
But, as history has shown, a win for
the corporation is not always a win for
the consumer. And, in this case, when
consumers lose, all too often they are a
woman or an American of color.
Though an innovation critical for fu-
ture growth, algorithms can be as dis-
criminatory as the humans they have
begun to replace.
The issue is a simple one: While algo-
rithms come to conclusions based on
calculations, these calculations are
created by humans or use data col-
lected and supplied by humans. And,
unfortunately, we humans can be bi-
ased, whether we know it or not, or we
can created algorithms that, in time,
create biases of their own.
Thanks to a flood of news reports and
investigations detailing algorithms-
gone-wrong, these issues are coming to
light. Yet, American companies and
the U.S. government are doing far too
little to assess whether their own algo-
rithms depend on biased assumptions,
have created biases assumptions, and
have the effect of increasing discrimi-
nation in the U.S.
Senator BOOKER and I intend to
change that by ensuring that today’s
racial, social, and gender biases do not
become entrenched in the automation
of tomorrow.
Our bill has four main components.
First, it authorizes the Federal Trade
Commission to create regulations re-
quiring companies under its jurisdic-
tion to conduct impact assessments of
highly sensitive algorithms. This re-
quirement would apply not only to new
algorithmic systems, but also those
that are both new and already in exist-
ence.
Second, it requires companies to as-
sess their use of algorithms—including
any relevant training data—for im-
pacts on accuracy, fairness, bias, dis-
crimination, privacy, and security.
Third, it requires companies to
evaluate how their information sys-
tems protect the privacy and security
of consumers’ personal information.
And, finally, it requires companies to
correct any issues they discover during
the impact assessments.
This legislation is in no way intended
to hinder the adoption by American
companies of advanced technologies
like algorithms. Automated decision
systems are out there, and they are
being adopted into commercial deci-
sion-making processes.
What we are seeking to do with this
bill is to ensure that companies take a
hard look at their own technologies to
ensure that they address any unin-
tended side effects.
Mr. President, it is time for Congress
to get involved by requiring companies
to address biases and unintended dis-
criminatory effects in their automated
decision systems.
I thank my colleague Senator BOOK-
ER for his efforts on this bill, and I
hope the Senate will promptly consider
and pass this critical legislation.
By Ms. HIRONO (for herself, Ms.
SMITH, Mrs. GILIBRAND, and Mr.
MERKLEY):
S. 1132. A bill to amend title II of the
Social Security Act and the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986 to make improve-
ments in the old-age, survivors, and
disability insurance program, and to
provide for Social Security benefit pro-
tection; to the Committee on Finance.
Ms. HIRONO. Mr. President, I come
to the floor today to express my sup-
port for the Protecting and Preserving
Social Security Act, which I was proud
to reintroduce earlier this afternoon
with Senators SMITH, GILLIBRAND and
MERKLEY, and Congressman DEUTCH—
who introduced the bill in the House.
Social Security serves as a critical
lifeline for millions of individuals and
families in Hawaii and throughout the
United States. For seniors, the pro-
gram is fundamental to retirement se-
curity, and for families, it provides
economic security. Countless individ-
uals rely on Social Security as a key
source of income, so we must continue
fighting to protect the program and
make sure beneficiaries receive the
hard-earned benefits they deserve. The
Protecting and Preserving Social Secu-
rity Act does two things.
First, the bill restores fairness in So-
cial Security payroll taxes by elimi-
nating the contribution cap on taxable
income—gradually, over seven years.
What does this mean? Currently,
most Americans contribute 6.2 percent
of their incomes toward Social Secu-
rity payroll taxes. However, because of
the contribution cap on taxable in-
come, higher income earners will stop
contributing to Social Security after
their first $132,900 of income for 2019.
This means that many working and
middle class families will contribute
more of their income toward Social Se-
curity, while wealthy families will con-
tribute less.
In fact, for the highest income earn-
ers, those in the ‘‘top 1 percent’’, this
week marks the point in the year when
they will stop contributing to the pro-
gram altogether for 2019. That does not
seem fair, so our bill makes sure that
everyone contributes their fair share to
Social Security for the entire year, and
that the wealthiest individuals and
families in our country do not receive
a tax break at the expense of working
and middle class families.
Second, the bill provides an updated
measure of inflation to reflect what
seniors and other beneficiaries actually
pay for things like medical care, pre-
scription drugs, and energy costs, and
increases their benefits based on this
measure. The Social Security Adminis-
tration has indicated that these
changes, taken together, would in-
crease Social Security benefits and ex-
tend the life of the combined Social Se-
curity trust fund by another 19 years—
from 2034 to 2053.
These are modest but important
steps that we can take to improve the
program for current and future bene-
ficiaries.
Locally in Hawaii, we recognize that
whatever hurts the most vulnerable in
our communities, hurts all of us. We
each have a role to play in supporting
our communities. That is why my col-
leagues and I have reintroduced this
legislation to strengthen Social Secu-
rity. We will continue fighting for
working and middle class families who
rely on Social Security and similar
programs, and we will continue to op-
pose cuts to Social Security—which
would be devastating for millions of
Americans. We will continue fighting
to make sure everyone contributes
their fair share so that Social Security
can deliver on its promise to the Amer-
ican people.
I thank my colleagues for joining me
in reintroducing this important legisla-
tion as we continue our work to
strengthen Social Security. I yield the
floor.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:55 Apr 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00041 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A10AP6.020 S10APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2390 April 10, 2019
SUBMITTED RESOLUTIONS
SENATE RESOLUTION 153—RE-
AFFIRMING THE UNIQUE COL-
LABORATION AMONG UNITED
STATES NONGOVERNMENTAL OR-
GANIZATIONS (NGOS), INCLUDING
FAITH-BASED ORGANIZATIONS,
AND THE ISRAEL DEFENSE
FORCES TO DELIVER HUMANI-
TARIAN ASSISTANCE TO SYR-
IANS
Mr. LANKFORD (for himself and Mr.
CASEY) submitted the following resolu-
tion; which was referred to the Com-
mittee on Foreign Relations:
S. RES. 153
Whereas the Syrian civil war, now in its
eighth year, has forced 14,000,000 Syrians to
flee, more than half of the country’s pre-war
population, with 6,500,000 internally dis-
placed people (IDPs) still within the country;
Whereas ‘‘Operation Good Neighbor’’ is a
program of the Israel Defense Forces to pro-
vide humanitarian relief to Syrians;
Whereas Operation Good Neighbor worked
with United States nongovernmental organi-
zations (NGOs) to help forge unprecedented
partnerships between the Israel Defense
Forces (IDF) and Syrian NGOs, which opened
a new channel for the delivery of humani-
tarian assistance;
Whereas, as a result, food, fuel, medicine,
ambulances, and medical supplies were flow-
ing cross-border from Israel into southern
Syria;
Whereas this new channel permitted these
goods to arrive at Israeli ports, and be
trucked by the IDF through Israel to the
border with Syria;
Whereas, at the border, the IDF trans-
ferred these containers to Syrian NGOs for
transport and distribution to IDPs and local
residents in previously hard-to-reach loca-
tions in southern Syria;
Whereas United States NGOs, including
faith-based organizations, facilitated the re-
lationships between the Syrian NGOs and
the IDF by providing overall coordination
and support for this regional cooperation to
help promote regional peace through a
multifaceted humanitarian relief operation;
Whereas the program initially reached
only villages along the border, but expanded
to a broader area of southern Syria, and as
deliveries continued on a sustained basis, the
initiative ultimately reached an even great-
er population; and
Whereas, in addition to the value of the
humanitarian relief itself, the Syrian/Israeli
partnerships, created and reinforced through
the success of the new channel, dem-
onstrated the value of cooperation and con-
tinues to serve as a role model for strength-
ened positive relations between Syrians and
Israelis: Now, therefore, be it
Resolved, That the Senate hereby reaffirms
the unique collaboration between United
States nongovernmental organizations
(NGOs), including faith-based organizations,
and Syrian NGOs and the Israel Defense
Forces (IDF) for having provided vital aid to
internally displaced people and local resi-
dents in southern Syria while also coun-
tering generations of hostility, promoting
dialogue between neighbors, and ultimately
advancing long-term stability in the region.
SENATE RESOLUTION 154—RECOG-
NIZING THE WEEK OF APRIL 11
THROUGH APRIL 17, 2019, AS
‘‘BLACK MATERNAL HEALTH
WEEK’’ TO BRING NATIONAL AT-
TENTION TO THE MATERNAL
HEALTH CRISIS IN THE BLACK
COMMUNITY AND THE IMPOR-
TANCE OF REDUCING MATERNAL
MORTALITY AND MORBIDITY
AMONG BLACK WOMEN
Ms. HARRIS (for herself, Ms. BALD-
WIN, Mr. DURBIN, Mr. WYDEN, Ms. KLO-
BUCHAR, Mr. MERKLEY, Mrs. GILLI-
BRAND, Ms. STABENOW, Mr. BROWN, Mrs.
FEINSTEIN, Ms. HIRONO, Mr.
BLUMENTHAL, Mr. BOOKER, Mrs. MUR-
RAY, Ms. DUCKWORTH, Mr. MARKEY, and
Mr. VAN HOLLEN) submitted the fol-
lowing resolution; which was referred
to the Committee on Health, Edu-
cation, Labor, and Pensions:
S. RES. 154
Whereas, according to the Centers for Dis-
ease Control and Prevention, Black mothers
in the United States are 3 to 4 times more
likely than White mothers to die from preg-
nancy-related causes;
Whereas Black women in the United States
suffer from life-threatening pregnancy com-
plications, known as ‘‘maternal
morbidities’’, twice as often as White
women;
Whereas maternal mortality rates in the
United States are—
(1) among the highest in the developed
world; and
(2) increasing rapidly;
Whereas the United States has the highest
maternal mortality rate among affluent
countries, in part because of the dispropor-
tionate mortality rate of Black mothers;
Whereas Black women are 49 percent more
likely than White women to deliver pre-
maturely;
Whereas the high rates of maternal mor-
tality among Black women span across—
(1) income levels;
(2) education levels; and
(3) socioeconomic status;
Whereas structural racism, gender oppres-
sion, and the social determinants of health
inequities experienced by Black women in
the United States significantly contribute to
the disproportionately high rates of mater-
nal mortality and morbidity among Black
women;
Whereas racism and discrimination play a
consequential role in maternal health care,
experiences, and outcomes;
Whereas a fair distribution of resources,
especially with regard to reproductive health
care services and maternal health program-
ming, is critical to closing the maternal
health racial disparity gap;
Whereas, even as there is growing concern
about improving access to mental health
services, Black women are least likely to
have access to mental health screenings,
treatment, and support before, during, and
after pregnancy;
Whereas justice-informed, culturally con-
gruent models of care are beneficial to Black
women; and
Whereas an investment must be made in—
(1) maternity care for Black women; and
(2) policies that support and promote af-
fordable, comprehensive, and holistic mater-
nal health care that is free from gender and
racial discrimination: Now, therefore, be it
Resolved, That the Senate recognizes—
(1) that Black women are experiencing
high, disproportionate rates of maternal
mortality and morbidity in the United
States;
(2) that the alarmingly high rates of ma-
ternal mortality among Black women are
unacceptable;
(3) that, in order to better mitigate the ef-
fects of systemic and structural racism, Con-
gress must work toward ensuring that the
Black community has—
(A) adequate housing;
(B) transportation equity;
(C) nutritious food;
(D) clean water;
(E) environments free from toxins;
(F) fair treatment within the criminal jus-
tice system;
(G) safety and freedom from violence;
(H) a living wage;
(I) equal economic opportunity; and
(J) comprehensive, affordable health care;
(4) that, in order to improve maternal
health outcomes, Congress must fully sup-
port and encourage policies grounded in the
human rights and reproductive justice
frameworks that address Black maternal
health inequity;
(5) that Black women must be active par-
ticipants in the policy decisions that impact
their lives;
(6) that ‘‘Black Maternal Health Week’’ is
an opportunity—
(A) to raise national awareness of the state
of Black maternal health in the United
States;
(B) to amplify the voices of Black women,
families, and communities;
(C) to serve as a national platform for—
(i) entities led by Black women; and
(ii) efforts on maternal health; and
(D) to enhance community organizing on
Black maternal health; and
(7) the significance of April 11 through
April 17, 2019, as ‘‘Black Maternal Health
Week’’.
f
SENATE RESOLUTION 155—REL-
ATIVE TO THE DEATH OF THE
HONORABLE ERNEST F. HOL-
LINGS, FORMER UNITED STATES
SENATOR FOR THE STATE OF
SOUTH CAROLINA
Mr. GRAHAM (for himself and Mr.
SCOTT of South Carolina) submitted
the following resolution; which was
considered and agreed to:
S. RES. 155
Whereas the Honorable Ernest F. Hollings
was born in Charleston, South Carolina, in
1922 and graduated from The Citadel and the
University of South Carolina School of Law;
Whereas the Honorable Ernest F. Hollings
served his country during World War II as an
artillery officer in the Army, earning a
Bronze Star;
Whereas the Honorable Ernest F. Hollings
was elected to the South Carolina House of
Representatives in 1949;
Whereas the Honorable Ernest F. Hollings
was elected Governor of South Carolina in
1959 and oversaw the establishment of the
nationally recognized South Carolina Tech-
nical College System;
Whereas the Honorable Ernest F. Hollings
served South Carolina with devotion and
dedication in the United States Senate for 38
years;
Whereas the Honorable Ernest F. Hollings
served the Senate as Chairman of the Com-
mittee on the Budget and Chairman of the
Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation;
Whereas the Honorable Ernest F. Hollings
fought tirelessly to combat hunger in the
United States and was a strong advocate for
a robust national defense;
Whereas the Honorable Ernest F. Hollings
championed fiscal restraint throughout his
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:55 Apr 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00042 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A10AP6.032 S10APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2391
April 10, 2019
career and was the unheralded force behind
the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit
Control Act of 1985 (2 U.S.C. 900 et seq.);
Whereas the Honorable Ernest F. Hollings
was a devoted husband, father, grandfather,
and great-grandfather;
Whereas the service of the Honorable Er-
nest F. Hollings on behalf of the people of
South Carolina and all people of the United
States earned him the respect and devotion
of his colleagues; and
Whereas the death of the Honorable Ernest
F. Hollings has deprived South Carolina and
the United States of one of the most out-
standing Senators: Now, therefore, be it
Resolved, That—
(1) the Senate has heard with profound sor-
row and deep regret the announcement of the
death of the Honorable Ernest F. Hollings,
former Senator for the State of South Caro-
lina; and
(2) the Secretary of the Senate commu-
nicate this resolution to the House of Rep-
resentatives and transmit an enrolled copy
thereof to the family of the Honorable Er-
nest F. Hollings.
f
SENATE RESOLUTION 156—SUP-
PORTING THE GOALS AND
IDEALS OF TAKE OUR DAUGH-
TERS AND SONS TO WORK DAY
Mr. BURR (for himself, Ms. SMITH,
and Mr. TILLIS) submitted the fol-
lowing resolution; which was consid-
ered and agreed to:
S. RES. 156
Whereas the Take Our Daughters To Work
program was created in New York City as a
response to research that showed that, by
the 8th grade, many girls were dropping out
of school, had low self-esteem, and lacked
confidence;
Whereas, in 2003, the name of the program
was changed to ‘‘Take Our Daughters And
Sons To Work’’ so that boys who face many
of the same challenges as girls could also be
involved in the program;
Whereas, in 2019, the mission of the pro-
gram, to develop ‘‘innovative strategies that
empower girls and boys to overcome societal
barriers to reach their full potential’’, fully
reflects the addition of boys;
Whereas the Take Our Daughters And Sons
To Work Foundation, a nonprofit organiza-
tion, has grown to be one of the largest pub-
lic awareness campaigns, with more than
40,000,000 participants annually in more than
3,500,000 organizations and workplaces rep-
resenting each State;
Whereas, in 2007, the Take Our Daughters
To Work program transitioned to Elizabeth
City, North Carolina, became known as the
Take Our Daughters And Sons To Work
Foundation, and received national recogni-
tion for its dedication to future generations;
Whereas, every year, mayors, Governors,
and other private and public officials sign
proclamations and lend support to Take Our
Daughters And Sons To Work Day;
Whereas the fame of the Take Our Daugh-
ters And Sons To Work program has spread
overseas, with requests and inquiries being
made from around the world on how to oper-
ate the program;
Whereas 2019 marks the 26th anniversary of
the Take Our Daughters And Sons To Work
program;
Whereas Take Our Daughters And Sons to
Work Day will be observed on Thursday,
April 25, 2019; and
Whereas, by offering opportunities for chil-
dren to experience activities and events,
Take Our Daughters And Sons To Work Day
is intended to continue helping millions of
girls and boys on an annual basis to examine
their opportunities and strive to reach their
fullest potential: Now, therefore, be it
Resolved, That the Senate—
(1) recognizes the goals of introducing
daughters and sons to the workplace; and
(2) commends all participants of Take Our
Daughters And Sons To Work Day for—
(A) the ongoing contributions that the par-
ticipants make to education; and
(B) the vital role that the participants play
in promoting and ensuring a brighter,
stronger future for the United States.
f
SENATE RESOLUTION 157—SUP-
PORTING THE DESIGNATION OF
APRIL 2019 AS ‘‘PARKINSON’S
AWARENESS MONTH’’
Mr. ISAKSON (for himself and Ms.
STABENOW) submitted the following
resolution; which was considered and
agreed to:
S. RES. 157
Whereas Parkinson’s disease is a chronic,
progressive neurological disease and the sec-
ond most common neurodegenerative disease
in the United States;
Whereas, although there is inadequate data
on the incidence and prevalence of Parkin-
son’s disease, the disease is estimated to af-
fect between 500,000 and 1,000,000 individuals
in the United States, with that number ex-
pected to more than double by 2040;
Whereas, according to the Centers for Dis-
ease Control and Prevention, Parkinson’s
disease is the 14th leading cause of death in
the United States;
Whereas millions of individuals in the
United States are greatly impacted by Par-
kinson’s disease, including the caregivers,
family members, and friends of individuals
living with Parkinson’s disease;
Whereas research suggests that the cause
of Parkinson’s disease is a combination of
genetic and environmental factors, but the
exact cause of the disease in most individ-
uals is still unknown;
Whereas, as of March 2019, there is no ob-
jective test or biomarker with which to diag-
nose Parkinson’s disease;
Whereas there is no known cure or drug to
slow or halt the progression of Parkinson’s
disease, and available treatments are limited
in their ability to address the medical needs
of patients and remain effective over time;
Whereas the symptoms of Parkinson’s dis-
ease vary from person to person and may in-
clude—
(1) tremors;
(2) slowness of movement and rigidity;
(3) problems with gait and balance;
(4) disturbances in speech and swallowing;
(5) cognitive impairment and dementia;
(6) mood disorders; and
(7) a variety of other nonmotor symptoms;
Whereas volunteers, researchers, care-
givers, and medical professionals are work-
ing to improve the quality of life of—
(1) individuals living with Parkinson’s dis-
ease; and
(2) the families of those individuals; and
Whereas increased research, education, and
community support services are needed—
(1) to find more effective treatments; and
(2) to provide access to quality care to in-
dividuals living with Parkinson’s disease:
Now, therefore, be it
Resolved, That the Senate—
(1) designates April 2019 as ‘‘Parkinson’s
Awareness Month’’;
(2) supports the goals and ideals of Parkin-
son’s Awareness Month;
(3) continues to support research to find
better treatments and a cure for Parkinson’s
disease;
(4) recognizes the individuals living with
Parkinson’s disease who participate in vital
clinical trials to advance the knowledge of
the disease; and
(5) commends the dedication of the organi-
zations, volunteers, researchers, and millions
of individuals across the United States who
are working to improve the quality of life
of—
(A) individuals living with Parkinson’s dis-
ease; and
(B) the families of those individuals.
f
SENATE RESOLUTION 158—AU-
THORIZING THE USE OF THE
ATRIUM IN THE PHILIP A. HART
SENATE OFFICE BUILDING FOR
THE NATIONAL PRESCRIPTION
DRUG TAKE BACK DAY, A SEMI-
ANNUAL EVENT OF THE DRUG
ENFORCEMENT ADMINISTRATION
Ms. KLOBUCHAR (for herself and Mr.
BLUNT) submitted the following resolu-
tion; which was considered and agreed
to:
S. RES. 158
Resolved,
SECTION 1. USE OF THE ATRIUM IN THE HART
SENATE OFFICE BUILDING FOR
TAKE BACK DAY.
(a) AUTHORIZATION.—The atrium in the
Philip A. Hart Senate Office Building is au-
thorized to be used on April 24, 2019, for the
National Prescription Drug Take Back Day,
a semiannual event of the Drug Enforcement
Administration.
(b) PREPARATIONS.—Physical preparations
for the conduct of the event described in sub-
section (a) shall be carried out in accordance
with such conditions as may be prescribed by
the Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper of the
Senate.
f
AUTHORITY FOR COMMITTEES TO
MEET
Mr. BARRASSO. Mr. President, I
have 14 requests for committees to
meet during today’s session of the Sen-
ate. They have the approval of the Ma-
jority and Minority leaders.
Pursuant to rule XXVI, paragraph
5(a), of the Standing Rules of the Sen-
ate, the following committees are au-
thorized to meet during today’s session
of the Senate:
COMMITTEE ON AGRICULTURE, NUTRITION, AND
FORESTRY
The Committee on Agriculture, Nu-
trition, and Forestry is authorized to
meet during the session of the Senate
on Wednesday, April 10, 2019, at 10 a.m.,
to conduct a hearing on child nutrition
reauthorization.
COMMITTEE ON COMMERCE, SCIENCE, AND
TRANSPORTATION
The Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation is author-
ized to meet during the session of the
Senate on Wednesday, April 10, 2019, at
10 a.m., to conduct a hearing on
broadband.
COMMITTEE ON ENVIRONMENT AND PUBLIC
WORKS
The Committee on Environment and
Public Works is authorized to meet
during the session of the Senate on
Wednesday, April 10, 2019, at 10 a.m., to
conduct a hearing.
COMMITTEE ON FINANCE
The Committee on Finance is author-
ized to meet during the session of the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:55 Apr 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00043 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A10AP6.029 S10APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2392 April 10, 2019
Senate on Wednesday, April 10, 2019, at
10:15 a.m., to conduct a hearing.
COMMITTEE ON FOREIGN RELATIONS
The Committee on Foreign Relations
is authorized to meet during the ses-
sion of the Senate on Wednesday, April
10, 2019, at 9:15 a.m., to conduct a hear-
ing.
COMMITTEE ON HEALTH, EDUCATION, LABOR,
AND PENSIONS
The Committee on Health, Edu-
cation, Labor, and Pensions is author-
ized to meet during the session of the
Senate on Wednesday, April 10, 2019, at
10 a.m., to conduct a hearing.
COMMITTEE ON INDIAN AFFAIRS
The Committee on Indian Affairs is
authorized to meet during the session
of the Senate on Wednesday, April 10,
2019, at 2:30 p.m., to conduct a closed
hearing.
COMMITTEE ON THE JUDICIARY
The Committee on the Judiciary is
authorized to meet during the session
of the Senate on Wednesday, April 10,
2019, at 10 a.m., to conduct a hearing on
the following nominations: Jeffrey A.
Rosen, of Virginia, to be Deputy Attor-
ney General, Department of Justice;
and Jeffrey Vincent Brown, to be
United States District Judge for the
Southern District of Texas, Stephanie
L. Haines, to be United States District
Judge for the Western District of Penn-
sylvania, and Brantley Starr, to be
United States District Judge for the
Northern District of Texas.
COMMITTEE ON SMALL BUSINESS AND
ENTREPRENEURSHIP
The Committee on Small Business
and Entrepreneurship is authorized to
meet during the session of the Senate
on Wednesday, April 10, 2019, at 2:30
p.m., to conduct a hearing on SBA’s
international trade programs.
COMMITTEE ON VETERANS’ AFFAIRS
The Committee on Veterans’ Affairs
is authorized to meet during the ses-
sion of the Senate on Wednesday, April
10, 2019, at 2:30 p.m., to conduct a hear-
ing entitled ‘‘VA Mission Act’’.
SUBCOMMITTEE ON CYBERSECURITY
The Subcommittee on Cybersecurity
of the Committee on Armed Services is
authorized to meet during the session
of the Senate on Wednesday, April 10,
2019, at 2:30 p.m., to conduct a closed
hearing.
SUBCOMMITTEE ON SEAPOWER
The Subcommittee on Seapower of
the Committee on Armed Services is
authorized to meet during the session
of the Senate on Wednesday, April 10,
2019, at 10 a.m., to conduct a hearing.
SUBCOMMITTEE ON TRANSPORTATION AND
SAFETY
The Subcommittee on Transpor-
tation and Safety of the Committee on
Commerce, Science, and Transpor-
tation is authorized to meet during the
session of the Senate on Wednesday,
April 10, 2019, at 2:30 p.m., to conduct a
hearing.
SUBCOMMITTEE ON THE CONSTITUTION
The Subcommittee on the Constitu-
tion of the Committee on the Judiciary
is authorized to meet during the ses-
sion of the Senate on Wednesday, April
10, 2019, at 2:30 p.m., to conduct a hear-
ing.
f
PRIVILEGES OF THE FLOOR
Mr. WYDEN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the following
individuals be granted floor privileges
for the remainder of the Congress: El-
liot Eichen, Marisa Morin, Pamela
Reed, Katherine Rudell, Jackson
Shawn-Hays, Sarah Harvey, Stephanie
Bell, Sarah Christ, Roberta Daghir,
Mattie Wheeler, Alec Camhi, Ebony
Smith, Kristen Lunde, Briana Hauss,
and Rachel Swindle.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
RELATIVE TO THE DEATH OF THE
HONORABLE ERNEST F. HOL-
LINGS, FORMER UNITED STATES
SENATOR FOR THE STATE OF
SOUTH CAROLINA
Mr. BARRASSO. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the Senate
proceed to the consideration of S. Res.
155, submitted earlier today.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the resolution by
title.
The bill clerk read as follows:
A resolution (S. Res. 155) relative to the
death of the Honorable Ernest F. Hollings,
former United States Senator for the State
of South Carolina.
There being no objection, the Senate
proceeded to consider the resolution.
Mr. BARRASSO. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the resolution
be agreed to, the preamble be agreed
to, and the motions to reconsider be
considered made and laid upon the
table with no intervening action or de-
bate.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The resolution (S. Res. 155) was
agreed to.
The preamble was agreed to.
(The resolution, with its preamble, is
printed in today’s RECORD under ‘‘Sub-
mitted Resolutions.’’)
f
RESOLUTIONS SUBMITTED TODAY
Mr. BARRASSO. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the Senate
now proceed to the en bloc consider-
ation of the following Senate resolu-
tions which were submitted earlier
today: S. Res. 156, S. Res. 157, and S.
Res. 158.
There being no objection, the Senate
proceeded to consider the resolutions
en bloc.
Mr. BARRASSO. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the resolu-
tions be agreed to, the preambles be
agreed to, and the motions to recon-
sider be considered made and laid upon
the table, all en bloc.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The resolutions (S. Res. 156 and S.
Res. 157) were agreed to.
The preambles were agreed to.
(The resolutions, with their pre-
ambles, are printed in today’s RECORD
under ‘‘Submitted Resolutions.’’)
The resolution (S. Res. 158) was
agreed to.
(The resolution is printed in today’s
RECORD under ‘‘Submitted Resolu-
tions.’’)
f
AUTHORIZING THE USE OF THE
CAPITOL GROUNDS FOR THE NA-
TIONAL PEACE OFFICERS MEMO-
RIAL SERVICE AND THE NA-
TIONAL HONOR GUARD AND PIPE
BAND EXHIBITION
Mr. BARRASSO. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the Senate
proceed to the immediate consider-
ation of H. Con. Res. 16, which was re-
ceived from the House.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the concurrent resolu-
tion by title.
The bill clerk read as follows:
A concurrent resolution (H. Con. Res. 16)
authorizing the use of the Capitol Grounds
for the National Peace Officers Memorial
Service and the National Honor Guard and
Pipe Band Exhibition.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
objection to proceeding to the meas-
ure?
There being no objection, the Senate
proceeded to consider the concurrent
resolution.
Mr. BARRASSO. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the resolution
be agreed to and the motion to recon-
sider be considered made and laid upon
the table with no intervening action or
debate.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The concurrent resolution (H. Con.
Res. 16) was agreed to.
f
AUTHORIZING THE USE OF THE
CAPITOL GROUNDS FOR THE
GREATER WASHINGTON SOAP
BOX DERBY
Mr. BARRASSO. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the Senate
proceed to the immediate consider-
ation of H. Con. Res. 19, which was re-
ceived from the House.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the concurrent resolu-
tion by title.
The bill clerk read as follows:
A concurrent resolution (H. Con. Res. 19)
authorizing the use of the Capitol Grounds
for the Greater Washington Soap Box Derby.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
objection to proceeding to the meas-
ure?
There being no objection, the Senate
proceeded to consider the concurrent
resolution.
Mr. BARRASSO. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the resolution
be agreed to and the motion to recon-
sider be considered made and laid upon
the table with no intervening action or
debate.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:55 Apr 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00044 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A10AP6.036 S10APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2393
April 10, 2019
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The concurrent resolution (H. Con.
Res. 19) was agreed to.
f
TARGET PRACTICE AND MARKS-
MANSHIP TRAINING SUPPORT
ACT
Mr. BARRASSO. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the Senate
proceed to the immediate consider-
ation of Calendar No. 18, S. 94.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the bill by title.
The bill clerk read as follows:
A bill (S. 94) to amend the Pittman-Robert-
son Wildlife Restoration Act to facilitate the
establishment of additional or expanded pub-
lic target ranges in certain States.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
objection to proceeding to the meas-
ure?
There being no objection, the Senate
proceeded to consider the bill.
Mr. BARRASSO. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the bill be
considered read a third time.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The bill was ordered to be engrossed
for a third reading and was read the
third time.
Mr. BARRASSO. Mr. President, I
know of no further debate on the bill.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. If there
is no further debate, the bill having
been read the third time, the question
is, Shall the bill pass?
The bill (S. 94) was passed, as follows:
S. 94
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Target Prac-
tice and Marksmanship Training Support
Act’’.
SEC. 2. FINDINGS; PURPOSE.
(a) FINDINGS.—Congress finds that—
(1) the use of firearms and archery equip-
ment for target practice and marksmanship
training activities on Federal land is al-
lowed, except to the extent specific portions
of that land have been closed to those activi-
ties;
(2) in recent years preceding the date of en-
actment of this Act, portions of Federal land
have been closed to target practice and
marksmanship training for many reasons;
(3) the availability of public target ranges
on non-Federal land has been declining for a
variety of reasons, including continued popu-
lation growth and development near former
ranges;
(4) providing opportunities for target prac-
tice and marksmanship training at public
target ranges on Federal and non-Federal
land can help—
(A) to promote enjoyment of shooting, rec-
reational, and hunting activities; and
(B) to ensure safe and convenient locations
for those activities;
(5) Federal law in effect on the date of en-
actment of this Act, including the Pittman-
Robertson Wildlife Restoration Act (16
U.S.C. 669 et seq.), provides Federal support
for construction and expansion of public tar-
get ranges by making available to States
amounts that may be used for construction,
operation, and maintenance of public target
ranges; and
(6) it is in the public interest to provide in-
creased Federal support to facilitate the con-
struction or expansion of public target
ranges.
(b) PURPOSE.—The purpose of this Act is to
facilitate the construction and expansion of
public target ranges, including ranges on
Federal land managed by the Forest Service
and the Bureau of Land Management.
SEC. 3. DEFINITION OF PUBLIC TARGET RANGE.
In this Act, the term ‘‘public target range’’
means a specific location that—
(1) is identified by a governmental agency
for recreational shooting;
(2) is open to the public;
(3) may be supervised; and
(4) may accommodate archery or rifle, pis-
tol, or shotgun shooting.
SEC. 4. AMENDMENTS TO PITTMAN-ROBERTSON
WILDLIFE RESTORATION ACT.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—Section 2 of the Pittman-
Robertson Wildlife Restoration Act (16
U.S.C. 669a) is amended—
(1) by redesignating paragraphs (2) through
(8) as paragraphs (3) through (9), respec-
tively; and
(2) by inserting after paragraph (1) the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(2) the term ‘public target range’ means a
specific location that—
‘‘(A) is identified by a governmental agen-
cy for recreational shooting;
‘‘(B) is open to the public;
‘‘(C) may be supervised; and
‘‘(D) may accommodate archery or rifle,
pistol, or shotgun shooting;’’.
(b) EXPENDITURES FOR MANAGEMENT OF
WILDLIFE AREAS AND RESOURCES.—Section
8(b) of the Pittman-Robertson Wildlife Res-
toration Act (16 U.S.C. 669g(b)) is amended—
(1) by striking ‘‘(b) Each State’’ and insert-
ing the following:
‘‘(b) EXPENDITURES FOR MANAGEMENT OF
WILDLIFE AREAS AND RESOURCES.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in
paragraph (2), each State’’;
(2) in paragraph (1) (as so designated), by
striking ‘‘construction, operation,’’ and in-
serting ‘‘operation’’;
(3) in the second sentence, by striking
‘‘The non-Federal share’’ and inserting the
following:
‘‘(3) NON-FEDERAL SHARE.—The non-Federal
share’’;
(4) in the third sentence, by striking ‘‘The
Secretary’’ and inserting the following:
‘‘(4) REGULATIONS.—The Secretary’’; and
(5) by inserting after paragraph (1) (as des-
ignated by paragraph (1) of this subsection)
the following:
‘‘(2) EXCEPTION.—Notwithstanding the lim-
itation described in paragraph (1), a State
may pay up to 90 percent of the cost of ac-
quiring land for, expanding, or constructing
a public target range.’’.
(c) FIREARM AND BOW HUNTER EDUCATION
AND SAFETY PROGRAM GRANTS.—Section 10 of
the Pittman-Robertson Wildlife Restoration
Act (16 U.S.C. 669h–1) is amended—
(1) in subsection (a), by adding at the end
the following:
‘‘(3) ALLOCATION OF ADDITIONAL AMOUNTS.—
Of the amount apportioned to a State for
any fiscal year under section 4(b), the State
may elect to allocate not more than 10 per-
cent, to be combined with the amount appor-
tioned to the State under paragraph (1) for
that fiscal year, for acquiring land for, ex-
panding, or constructing a public target
range.’’;
(2) by striking subsection (b) and inserting
the following:
‘‘(b) COST SHARING.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in
paragraph (2), the Federal share of the cost
of any activity carried out using a grant
under this section shall not exceed 75 percent
of the total cost of the activity.
‘‘(2) PUBLIC TARGET RANGE CONSTRUCTION OR
EXPANSION.—The Federal share of the cost of
acquiring land for, expanding, or con-
structing a public target range in a State on
Federal or non-Federal land pursuant to this
section or section 8(b) shall not exceed 90
percent of the cost of the activity.’’; and
(3) in subsection (c)(1)—
(A) by striking ‘‘Amounts made’’ and in-
serting the following:
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in
subparagraph (B), amounts made’’; and
(B) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(B) EXCEPTION.—Amounts provided for ac-
quiring land for, constructing, or expanding
a public target range shall remain available
for expenditure and obligation during the 5-
fiscal-year period beginning on October 1 of
the first fiscal year for which the amounts
are made available.’’.
SEC. 5. SENSE OF CONGRESS REGARDING CO-
OPERATION.
It is the sense of Congress that, consistent
with applicable laws and regulations, the
Chief of the Forest Service and the Director
of the Bureau of Land Management should
cooperate with State and local authorities
and other entities to carry out waste re-
moval and other activities on any Federal
land used as a public target range to encour-
age continued use of that land for target
practice or marksmanship training.
Mr. BARRASSO. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the motion to
reconsider be considered made and laid
upon the table.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
SUPPORTING DEMOCRATIC PRIN-
CIPLES AND STANDARDS IN BO-
LIVIA AND THROUGHOUT LATIN
AMERICA
Mr. BARRASSO. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the Senate
proceed to the immediate consider-
ation of Calendar No. 58, S. Res. 35.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the resolution by
title.
The bill clerk read as follows:
A resolution (S. Res. 35) supporting demo-
cratic principles and standards in Bolivia
and throughout Latin America.
There being no objection, the Senate
proceeded to consider the resolution
which had been reported from the Com-
mittee on Foreign Relations, without
amendment, and with an amendment
to the preamble, as follows:
Whereas the nation of Bolivia proclaimed
independence from Spain on August 6, 1825,
with Simón Bolı́var as its president;
Whereas Bolivia endured more than a century
of fragile governance and instability, with more
than 150 changes of leadership since it gained
independence;
Whereas Bolivia experienced a succession of
military coups that resulted in the irregular
transfer of power between presidents and mili-
tary juntas during the period of 1964 to 1982;
Whereas a transition to civilian democracy oc-
curred in 1982, after the ruling military junta
handed over power to a civilian government,
which managed to maintain control despite
major economic upheavals and painful market
reforms;
Whereas elected President Gonzalo Sanchez
de Lozada and his successor Carlos Mesa both
resigned in the face of destabilizing protests in
2003 and 2005, respectively;
Whereas, in 2005, Evo Morales won his first
term as president, becoming Bolivia’s first indig-
enous citizen elected to the office;
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:50 Apr 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00045 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 6333 E:\CR\FM\G10AP6.054 S10APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2394 April 10, 2019
Whereas Bolivia’s historically marginalized
indigenous peoples represent approximately 41
percent of the country’s population, according
to the 2012 Bolivian census;
Whereas, in 2006, the people of Bolivia elected
a constituent assembly to write a new constitu-
tion recognizing greater political and economic
rights for the country’s indigenous population,
while key opposition parties boycotted the con-
stituent assembly election;
Whereas, in 2008, a recall referendum on
President Morales was rejected by 67 percent of
voters in Bolivia;
Whereas, in 2008, amidst growing protests in
the country and rising tensions between Bolivia
and the United States, President Morales ex-
pelled the United States ambassador to Bolivia;
Whereas, in 2009, Bolivians approved, by a
vote of more than 60 percent in a nationwide
referendum, a new constitution that included a
limit of two five-year presidential terms;
Whereas, in 2009, President Morales won re-
election to a second term with more than 60 per-
cent of the vote;
Whereas, in 2013, President Morales’ loyalists
in Bolivia’s Legislative Assembly approved legis-
lation allowing him to run for a third term—a
law that President Morales’ political allies in
the Bolivian Constitutional Tribunal affirmed,
ruling that the two-term limit in the country’s
new constitution did not apply because Presi-
dent Morales’ first term was under the old con-
stitution;
Whereas, in 2013, President Morales expelled
the United States Agency for International De-
velopment for trying to ‘‘conspire against Bo-
livia’’;
Whereas, in 2014, President Morales won his
third term as president, with 60 percent of the
vote;
Whereas, in 2016, the Government of Bolivia
called a national referendum to modify the con-
stitution in order to allow for an additional term
for Morales;
Whereas, that same year, more than half of
voters in Bolivia rejected the proposed lifting of
presidential term limits that would have allowed
President Morales to run for a fourth term and
serve at least 19 years in office;
Whereas, after the referendum, the Morales
Administration increased its troubling rhetoric
against opposition media and advanced a nar-
rative suggesting a plot to prevent President
Morales from staying in power;
Whereas, in 2017, President Morales’ loyalists
on the Bolivian Constitutional Tribunal lifted
constitutional term limits arguing that they vio-
lated the candidates’ human rights, citing the
American Convention of Human Rights, adopted
at San Jose November 22, 1969, the main human
rights treaty in the Americas, as the legal foun-
dation for its decision;
Whereas the Convention states that political
rights can only be limited under very specific
circumstances, a provision which, when drafted
in 1969, was intended to prevent abusive govern-
ments from arbitrarily barring opposition can-
didates and not to impede constitutional reelec-
tion limits designed to reduce corruption and
abuse of power given Latin America’s long his-
tory of violent and prolonged dictatorship;
Whereas the Bolivian Constitutional Tribu-
nal’s ruling rendered Bolivia one of a very small
number of countries in the Western Hemisphere
that does not place limits on presidential reelec-
tion;
Whereas the Secretary General of the Organi-
zation of American States said the cited clause
‘‘does not mean the right to perpetual power
. . . Besides, presidential re-election was re-
jected by popular will in a referendum in 2016.’’;
Whereas, in March 2018, a report commis-
sioned by the Organization of American States
specifically related to this issue stated that—
(1) ‘‘There is no specific and distinct human
right to re-election.’’;
(2) ‘‘Term limits. . .are a reasonable limit to
the right to be elected because they prevent an
unlimited exercise of power in the hands of the
President.’’; and
(3) ‘‘The limits on a president’s re-election do
not therefore unduly restrict his/her human and
political rights.’’; and
Whereas the Morales era has seen many social
and economic gains, but also a weakening and
undermining of key democratic institutions in
order to favor the ruling party: Now, therefore,
be it
Resolved, That the Senate—
(1) supports the important transitions to
democracy and the regular peaceful transfers
of power through elections that have taken
place in the majority of Latin American and
Caribbean countries in recent decades;
(2) recognizes the historic significance of
Bolivia’s 2005 election;
(3) expresses concern for efforts to cir-
cumvent presidential term limits in the Bo-
livian constitution;
(4) supports presidential term limits preva-
lent in Latin America as reasonable checks
against a history of coups, corruption, and
abuses of power;
(5) expresses the belief that the 2016 ref-
erendum vote to maintain presidential term
limits reflected the legitimate will of the
majority of voters in Bolivia;
(6) agrees with the Organization of Amer-
ican States Secretary General’s interpreta-
tion of the American Convention of Human
Rights as not applicable to presidential term
limits;
(7) calls on the Government of Bolivia to
respect, and where necessary restore, the
independence of key electoral and governing
bodies and administer the October 2019 elec-
tion in adherence with international demo-
cratic norms and its own constitutional lim-
its on presidential terms; and
(8) calls on Latin American democracies to
continue to uphold democratic norms and
standards among members states.
Mr. BARRASSO. Mr. President, I
know of no further debate.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. If there
is no further debate, the question is on
agreeing to the resolution.
The resolution (S. Res. 35) was agreed
to.
Mr. BARRASSO. Mr. President, I fur-
ther ask unanimous consent that the
committee-reported amendment to the
preamble be agreed to, the preamble,
as amended, be agreed to, and the mo-
tions to reconsider be considered made
and laid upon the table with no inter-
vening action or debate.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The committee-reported amendment
to the preamble was agreed to.
The preamble, as amended, was
agreed to.
The resolution with its preamble, as
amended, reads as follows:
S. RES. 35
Whereas the nation of Bolivia proclaimed
independence from Spain on August 6, 1825,
with Simón Bolı́var as its president;
Whereas Bolivia endured more than a cen-
tury of fragile governance and instability,
with more than 150 changes of leadership
since it gained independence;
Whereas Bolivia experienced a succession
of military coups that resulted in the irreg-
ular transfer of power between presidents
and military juntas during the period of 1964
to 1982;
Whereas a transition to civilian democracy
occurred in 1982, after the ruling military
junta handed over power to a civilian gov-
ernment, which managed to maintain con-
trol despite major economic upheavals and
painful market reforms;
Whereas elected President Gonzalo San-
chez de Lozada and his successor Carlos Mesa
both resigned in the face of destabilizing pro-
tests in 2003 and 2005, respectively;
Whereas, in 2005, Evo Morales won his first
term as president, becoming Bolivia’s first
indigenous citizen elected to the office;
Whereas Bolivia’s historically
marginalized indigenous peoples represent
approximately 41 percent of the country’s
population, according to the 2012 Bolivian
census;
Whereas, in 2006, the people of Bolivia
elected a constituent assembly to write a
new constitution recognizing greater polit-
ical and economic rights for the country’s
indigenous population, while key opposition
parties boycotted the constituent assembly
election;
Whereas, in 2008, a recall referendum on
President Morales was rejected by 67 percent
of voters in Bolivia;
Whereas, in 2008, amidst growing protests
in the country and rising tensions between
Bolivia and the United States, President Mo-
rales expelled the United States ambassador
to Bolivia;
Whereas, in 2009, Bolivians approved, by a
vote of more than 60 percent in a nationwide
referendum, a new constitution that in-
cluded a limit of two five-year presidential
terms;
Whereas, in 2009, President Morales won re-
election to a second term with more than 60
percent of the vote;
Whereas, in 2013, President Morales’ loyal-
ists in Bolivia’s Legislative Assembly ap-
proved legislation allowing him to run for a
third term—a law that President Morales’
political allies in the Bolivian Constitu-
tional Tribunal affirmed, ruling that the
two-term limit in the country’s new con-
stitution did not apply because President
Morales’ first term was under the old con-
stitution;
Whereas, in 2013, President Morales ex-
pelled the United States Agency for Inter-
national Development for trying to ‘‘con-
spire against Bolivia’’;
Whereas, in 2014, President Morales won
his third term as president, with 60 percent
of the vote;
Whereas, in 2016, the Government of Bo-
livia called a national referendum to modify
the constitution in order to allow for an ad-
ditional term for Morales;
Whereas, that same year, more than half of
voters in Bolivia rejected the proposed lift-
ing of presidential term limits that would
have allowed President Morales to run for a
fourth term and serve at least 19 years in of-
fice;
Whereas, after the referendum, the Morales
Administration increased its troubling rhet-
oric against opposition media and advanced
a narrative suggesting a plot to prevent
President Morales from staying in power;
Whereas, in 2017, President Morales’ loyal-
ists on the Bolivian Constitutional Tribunal
lifted constitutional term limits arguing
that they violated the candidates’ human
rights, citing the American Convention of
Human Rights, adopted at San Jose Novem-
ber 22, 1969, the main human rights treaty in
the Americas, as the legal foundation for its
decision;
Whereas the Convention states that polit-
ical rights can only be limited under very
specific circumstances, a provision which,
when drafted in 1969, was intended to prevent
abusive governments from arbitrarily bar-
ring opposition candidates and not to impede
constitutional reelection limits designed to
reduce corruption and abuse of power given
Latin America’s long history of violent and
prolonged dictatorship;
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:50 Apr 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00046 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A10AP6.048 S10APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2395
April 10, 2019
Whereas the Bolivian Constitutional Tri-
bunal’s ruling rendered Bolivia one of a very
small number of countries in the Western
Hemisphere that does not place limits on
presidential reelection;
Whereas the Secretary General of the Or-
ganization of American States said the cited
clause ‘‘does not mean the right to perpetual
power . . . Besides, presidential re-election
was rejected by popular will in a referendum
in 2016.’’;
Whereas, in March 2018, a report commis-
sioned by the Organization of American
States specifically related to this issue stat-
ed that—
(1) ‘‘There is no specific and distinct
human right to re-election.’’;
(2) ‘‘Term limits. . .are a reasonable limit
to the right to be elected because they pre-
vent an unlimited exercise of power in the
hands of the President.’’; and
(3) ‘‘The limits on a president’s re-election
do not therefore unduly restrict his/her
human and political rights.’’; and
Whereas the Morales era has seen many so-
cial and economic gains, but also a weak-
ening and undermining of key democratic in-
stitutions in order to favor the ruling party:
Now, therefore, be it
Resolved, That the Senate—
(1) supports the important transitions to
democracy and the regular peaceful transfers
of power through elections that have taken
place in the majority of Latin American and
Caribbean countries in recent decades;
(2) recognizes the historic significance of
Bolivia’s 2005 election;
(3) expresses concern for efforts to cir-
cumvent presidential term limits in the Bo-
livian constitution;
(4) supports presidential term limits preva-
lent in Latin America as reasonable checks
against a history of coups, corruption, and
abuses of power;
(5) expresses the belief that the 2016 ref-
erendum vote to maintain presidential term
limits reflected the legitimate will of the
majority of voters in Bolivia;
(6) agrees with the Organization of Amer-
ican States Secretary General’s interpreta-
tion of the American Convention of Human
Rights as not applicable to presidential term
limits;
(7) calls on the Government of Bolivia to
respect, and where necessary restore, the
independence of key electoral and governing
bodies and administer the October 2019 elec-
tion in adherence with international demo-
cratic norms and its own constitutional lim-
its on presidential terms; and
(8) calls on Latin American democracies to
continue to uphold democratic norms and
standards among members states.
f
EXPRESSING THE SENSE OF THE
SENATE ON THE IMPORTANCE
AND VITALITY OF THE UNITED
STATES ALLIANCES WITH JAPAN
AND THE REPUBLIC OF KOREA
Mr. BARRASSO. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the Senate
proceed to the immediate consider-
ation of Calendar No. 59, S. Res. 67.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the resolution by
title.
The bill clerk read as follows:
A resolution (S. Res. 67) expressing the
sense of the Senate on the importance and
vitality of the United States alliances with
Japan and the Republic of Korea, and our
trilateral cooperation in the pursuit of
shared interests.
There being no objection, the Senate
proceeded to consider the resolution
which had been reported from the Com-
mittee on Foreign Relations, without
amendment, and with an amendment
to the preamble, as follows:
Whereas the governments and the people of
the United States, Japan, and the Republic of
Korea share comprehensive and dynamic part-
nerships and personal friendships rooted in
shared interests and the common values of free-
dom, democracy, and free market economies;
Whereas the United States, Japan, and the
Republic of Korea are all free societies com-
mitted to the principles of inclusive democracy,
respect for human potential, and the belief that
the peaceful spread of these principles will re-
sult in a safer and brighter future for all of
mankind;
Whereas the United States, Japan, and the
Republic of Korea are indispensable partners in
tackling global challenges and have pledged sig-
nificant support for efforts to counter violent
extremism, combat the proliferation of weapons
of mass destruction, prevent piracy, improve
global health and energy security, promote
human rights, address climate change, con-
tribute to economic development around the
world, and assist the victims of conflict and dis-
aster worldwide;
Whereas the governments and the people of
the United States, Japan, and the Republic of
Korea all share a commitment to free and open
markets, high standards for the free flow of
commerce and trade, and the establishment of
an inclusive, transparent, and sustainable ar-
chitecture for regional and global trade and de-
velopment;
Whereas the United States-Japan and the
United States-Republic of Korea alliances are
the foundation of regional stability in Asia, in-
cluding against the threat posed by the regime
in Pyongyang;
Whereas cooperation between and among our
nations spans economic, energy, diplomatic, se-
curity, and cultural spheres;
Whereas the United States and Japan estab-
lished diplomatic relations on March 31, 1854,
with the signing of the Treaty of Peace and
Amity;
Whereas the relationship between the peoples
of the United States and the Republic of Korea
stretches back to Korea’s Chosun Dynasty,
when the United States and Korea established
diplomatic relations under the 1882 Treaty of
Peace, Amity, Commerce, and Navigation;
Whereas 2019 marks the 74th anniversary of
the end of World War II, a conflict in which the
United States and Japan were enemies, and the
strength of the United States-Japan alliance is a
testament to the ability of great countries to
overcome the past and to work together to create
a more secure and prosperous future;
Whereas the United States-Korea alliance was
forged in blood, with United States military cas-
ualties during the Korean War of approximately
36,574 killed and more than 103,284 wounded,
and with Republic of Korea casualties of more
than 217,000 soldiers killed, more than 429,000
soldiers wounded, and 1,000,000 civilians killed
or missing;
Whereas, for the past 70 years, the partner-
ship between the United States and Japan has
played a vital role, both in Asia and globally, in
ensuring peace, stability, and economic develop-
ment;
Whereas, approximately 54,000 United States
military personnel serve in Japan, along with
some of the United States most advanced de-
fense assets, including the 7th Fleet and the
USS Ronald Reagan, the only United States air-
craft carrier to be homeported outside the
United States;
Whereas, since the Mutual Defense Treaty
Between the United States and the Republic of
Korea, signed in Washington on October 1, 1953,
and ratified by the Senate on January 26, 1954,
United States military personnel have main-
tained a continuous presence on the Korean Pe-
ninsula, and approximately 28,500 United States
troops are stationed in the Republic of Korea in
2019;
Whereas the United States and the Republic
of Korea have stood alongside each other in the
four major wars the United States has fought
outside Korea since World War II—in Vietnam,
the Persian Gulf, Afghanistan, and Iraq;
Whereas Japan is the fourth-largest United
States trading partner and together with the
United States represents 30 percent of global
Gross Domestic Product, and Japanese firms
have invested approximately $498,000,000,000 in
the United States;
Whereas, the economic relationship between
the United States and its sixth-largest trading
partner, the Republic of Korea, has been facili-
tated by the United States-Korea Free Trade
Agreement (KORUS), which entered into force
on March 15, 2012, and was amended as of Jan-
uary 1, 2019, includes 358,000 jobs in the United
States that are directly related to exports to the
Republic of Korea, and has resulted in approxi-
mately $51,800,000,000 in investments by Korean
firms in the United States;
Whereas Japan and the Republic of Korea
stand as strong partners of the United States in
efforts to ensure maritime security and freedom
of navigation, commerce, and overflight and to
uphold respect for the rule of law and to oppose
the use of coercion, intimidation, or force to
change the regional or global status quo, includ-
ing in the maritime domains of the Indo-Pacific,
which are among the busiest waterways in the
world;
Whereas the United States, Japan, and the
Republic of Korea are committed to working to-
gether towards a world where the Democratic
People’s Republic of Korea (in this preamble re-
ferred to as the ‘‘DPRK’’) does not threaten
global peace and security with its weapons of
mass destruction, missile proliferation, and il-
licit activities, and where the DPRK respects
human rights and its people can live in freedom;
Whereas section 211 of the North Korea Sanc-
tions and Policy Enhancement Act of 2016 (22
U.S.C. 9231; Public Law 114–122) expresses the
sense of Congress that the President ‘‘should
seek to strengthen high-level trilateral mecha-
nisms for discussion and coordination of policy
toward North Korea between the Government of
the United States, the Government of South
Korea, and the Government of Japan’’;
Whereas the Asia Reassurance Initiative Act
of 2018 (Public Law 115–409) underscores the im-
portance of trilateral defense cooperation and
enforcement of multilateral sanctions against
North Korea and calls for regular consultation
with Congress on the status of such efforts;
Whereas the United States, Japan, and the
Republic of Korea have made great strides in
promoting trilateral cooperation and defense
partnership, including ministerial meetings, in-
formation sharing, and cooperation on ballistic
missile defense exercises to counter North Ko-
rean provocations;
Whereas Japanese Americans and Korean
Americans have made invaluable contributions
to the security, prosperity, and diversity of our
Nation, including service as our elected rep-
resentatives in the Senate and in the House of
Representatives; and
Whereas the United States Government looks
forward to continuing to deepen our enduring
partnerships with Japan and the Republic of
Korea on economic, security, and cultural
issues, as well as embracing new opportunities
for bilateral and trilateral partnerships and co-
operation on emerging regional and global chal-
lenges: Now, therefore, be it
Resolved, That the Senate reaffirms the im-
portance of—
(1) the vital role of the alliances between
the United States and Japan and the United
States and the Republic of Korea in pro-
moting peace, stability, and security in the
Indo-Pacific region, including through
United States extended deterrence, and reaf-
firms the commitment of the United States
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:50 Apr 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00047 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A10AP6.047 S10APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2396 April 10, 2019
to defend Japan, including all areas under
the administration of Japan, under Article V
of the Treaty of Mutual Cooperation and Se-
curity Between the United States of America
and Japan, and to defend the Republic of
Korea under Article III of the Mutual De-
fense Treaty Between the United States and
the Republic of Korea;
(2) a constructive and forward-looking re-
lationship between Japan and the Republic
of Korea for United States diplomatic, eco-
nomic, and security interests and for open
and inclusive architecture to support the de-
velopment of a secure, stable, and prosperous
Indo-Pacific region;
(3) strengthening and broadening diplo-
matic, economic, security, and people-to-
people ties between and among the United
States, Japan, and the Republic of Korea;
(4) developing and implementing a strategy
to deepen the trilateral diplomatic and secu-
rity cooperation between the United States,
Japan, and the Republic of Korea, including
through diplomatic engagement, regional de-
velopment, energy security, scientific and
health partnerships, educational and cul-
tural exchanges, missile defense, intel-
ligence-sharing, space, cyber, and other dip-
lomatic and defense-related initiatives;
(5) trilateral cooperation with members of
the United Nations Security Council and
other Member States to fully and effectively
enforce sanctions against the Democratic
People’s Republic of Korea (in this resolu-
tion referred to as the ‘‘DPRK’’) and evalu-
ate additional and meaningful new measures
toward the DPRK under Article 41 of the
United Nations Charter;
(6) trilateral cooperation to support and
uphold a rules-based trade and economic
order in the Indo-Pacific region, including
the empowerment of women, which is vital
for the prosperity of all our nations;
(7) supporting the expansion of academic
and cultural exchanges among the three na-
tions, especially efforts to encourage Japa-
nese and Korean students to study at univer-
sities in the United States, and vice versa, to
deepen people-to-people ties; and
(8) continued cooperation among the gov-
ernments of the United States, Japan, and
the Republic of Korea to promote human
rights.
Mr. BARRASSO. Mr. President, I
know of no further debate.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. If there
is no further debate, the question is on
agreeing to the resolution.
The resolution (S. Res. 67) was agreed
to.
Mr. BARRASSO. Mr. President, I fur-
ther ask that the committee-reported
amendment to the preamble be agreed
to, the preamble, as amended, be
agreed to, and the motions to recon-
sider be considered made and laid upon
the table with no intervening action or
debate.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The committee-reported amendment
to the preamble was agreed to.
The preamble, as amended, was
agreed to.
The resolution with its preamble, as
amended, reads as follows:
S. RES. 67
Whereas the governments and the people of
the United States, Japan, and the Republic
of Korea share comprehensive and dynamic
partnerships and personal friendships rooted
in shared interests and the common values of
freedom, democracy, and free market econo-
mies;
Whereas the United States, Japan, and the
Republic of Korea are all free societies com-
mitted to the principles of inclusive democ-
racy, respect for human potential, and the
belief that the peaceful spread of these prin-
ciples will result in a safer and brighter fu-
ture for all of mankind;
Whereas the United States, Japan, and the
Republic of Korea are indispensable partners
in tackling global challenges and have
pledged significant support for efforts to
counter violent extremism, combat the pro-
liferation of weapons of mass destruction,
prevent piracy, improve global health and
energy security, promote human rights, ad-
dress climate change, contribute to eco-
nomic development around the world, and
assist the victims of conflict and disaster
worldwide;
Whereas the governments and the people of
the United States, Japan, and the Republic
of Korea all share a commitment to free and
open markets, high standards for the free
flow of commerce and trade, and the estab-
lishment of an inclusive, transparent, and
sustainable architecture for regional and
global trade and development;
Whereas the United States-Japan and the
United States-Republic of Korea alliances
are the foundation of regional stability in
Asia, including against the threat posed by
the regime in Pyongyang;
Whereas cooperation between and among
our nations spans economic, energy, diplo-
matic, security, and cultural spheres;
Whereas the United States and Japan es-
tablished diplomatic relations on March 31,
1854, with the signing of the Treaty of Peace
and Amity;
Whereas the relationship between the peo-
ples of the United States and the Republic of
Korea stretches back to Korea’s Chosun Dy-
nasty, when the United States and Korea es-
tablished diplomatic relations under the 1882
Treaty of Peace, Amity, Commerce, and
Navigation;
Whereas 2019 marks the 74th anniversary of
the end of World War II, a conflict in which
the United States and Japan were enemies,
and the strength of the United States-Japan
alliance is a testament to the ability of great
countries to overcome the past and to work
together to create a more secure and pros-
perous future;
Whereas the United States-Korea alliance
was forged in blood, with United States mili-
tary casualties during the Korean War of ap-
proximately 36,574 killed and more than
103,284 wounded, and with Republic of Korea
casualties of more than 217,000 soldiers
killed, more than 429,000 soldiers wounded,
and 1,000,000 civilians killed or missing;
Whereas, for the past 70 years, the partner-
ship between the United States and Japan
has played a vital role, both in Asia and
globally, in ensuring peace, stability, and
economic development;
Whereas, approximately 54,000 United
States military personnel serve in Japan,
along with some of the United States most
advanced defense assets, including the 7th
Fleet and the USS Ronald Reagan, the only
United States aircraft carrier to be
homeported outside the United States;
Whereas, since the Mutual Defense Treaty
Between the United States and the Republic
of Korea, signed in Washington on October 1,
1953, and ratified by the Senate on January
26, 1954, United States military personnel
have maintained a continuous presence on
the Korean Peninsula, and approximately
28,500 United States troops are stationed in
the Republic of Korea in 2019;
Whereas the United States and the Repub-
lic of Korea have stood alongside each other
in the four major wars the United States has
fought outside Korea since World War II—in
Vietnam, the Persian Gulf, Afghanistan, and
Iraq;
Whereas Japan is the fourth-largest United
States trading partner and together with the
United States represents 30 percent of global
Gross Domestic Product, and Japanese firms
have invested approximately $498,000,000,000
in the United States;
Whereas, the economic relationship be-
tween the United States and its sixth-largest
trading partner, the Republic of Korea, has
been facilitated by the United States-Korea
Free Trade Agreement (KORUS), which en-
tered into force on March 15, 2012, and was
amended as of January 1, 2019, includes
358,000 jobs in the United States that are di-
rectly related to exports to the Republic of
Korea, and has resulted in approximately
$51,800,000,000 in investments by Korean
firms in the United States;
Whereas Japan and the Republic of Korea
stand as strong partners of the United States
in efforts to ensure maritime security and
freedom of navigation, commerce, and over-
flight and to uphold respect for the rule of
law and to oppose the use of coercion, in-
timidation, or force to change the regional
or global status quo, including in the mari-
time domains of the Indo-Pacific, which are
among the busiest waterways in the world;
Whereas the United States, Japan, and the
Republic of Korea are committed to working
together towards a world where the Demo-
cratic People’s Republic of Korea (in this
preamble referred to as the ‘‘DPRK’’) does
not threaten global peace and security with
its weapons of mass destruction, missile pro-
liferation, and illicit activities, and where
the DPRK respects human rights and its peo-
ple can live in freedom;
Whereas section 211 of the North Korea
Sanctions and Policy Enhancement Act of
2016 (22 U.S.C. 9231; Public Law 114–122) ex-
presses the sense of Congress that the Presi-
dent ‘‘should seek to strengthen high-level
trilateral mechanisms for discussion and co-
ordination of policy toward North Korea be-
tween the Government of the United States,
the Government of South Korea, and the
Government of Japan’’;
Whereas the Asia Reassurance Initiative
Act of 2018 (Public Law 115–409) underscores
the importance of trilateral defense coopera-
tion and enforcement of multilateral sanc-
tions against North Korea and calls for reg-
ular consultation with Congress on the sta-
tus of such efforts;
Whereas the United States, Japan, and the
Republic of Korea have made great strides in
promoting trilateral cooperation and defense
partnership, including ministerial meetings,
information sharing, and cooperation on bal-
listic missile defense exercises to counter
North Korean provocations;
Whereas Japanese Americans and Korean
Americans have made invaluable contribu-
tions to the security, prosperity, and diver-
sity of our Nation, including service as our
elected representatives in the Senate and in
the House of Representatives; and
Whereas the United States Government
looks forward to continuing to deepen our
enduring partnerships with Japan and the
Republic of Korea on economic, security, and
cultural issues, as well as embracing new op-
portunities for bilateral and trilateral part-
nerships and cooperation on emerging re-
gional and global challenges: Now, therefore,
be it
Resolved, That the Senate reaffirms the im-
portance of—
(1) the vital role of the alliances between
the United States and Japan and the United
States and the Republic of Korea in pro-
moting peace, stability, and security in the
Indo-Pacific region, including through
United States extended deterrence, and reaf-
firms the commitment of the United States
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:50 Apr 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00048 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A10AP6.049 S10APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2397
April 10, 2019
to defend Japan, including all areas under
the administration of Japan, under Article V
of the Treaty of Mutual Cooperation and Se-
curity Between the United States of America
and Japan, and to defend the Republic of
Korea under Article III of the Mutual De-
fense Treaty Between the United States and
the Republic of Korea;
(2) a constructive and forward-looking re-
lationship between Japan and the Republic
of Korea for United States diplomatic, eco-
nomic, and security interests and for open
and inclusive architecture to support the de-
velopment of a secure, stable, and prosperous
Indo-Pacific region;
(3) strengthening and broadening diplo-
matic, economic, security, and people-to-
people ties between and among the United
States, Japan, and the Republic of Korea;
(4) developing and implementing a strategy
to deepen the trilateral diplomatic and secu-
rity cooperation between the United States,
Japan, and the Republic of Korea, including
through diplomatic engagement, regional de-
velopment, energy security, scientific and
health partnerships, educational and cul-
tural exchanges, missile defense, intel-
ligence-sharing, space, cyber, and other dip-
lomatic and defense-related initiatives;
(5) trilateral cooperation with members of
the United Nations Security Council and
other Member States to fully and effectively
enforce sanctions against the Democratic
People’s Republic of Korea (in this resolu-
tion referred to as the ‘‘DPRK’’) and evalu-
ate additional and meaningful new measures
toward the DPRK under Article 41 of the
United Nations Charter;
(6) trilateral cooperation to support and
uphold a rules-based trade and economic
order in the Indo-Pacific region, including
the empowerment of women, which is vital
for the prosperity of all our nations;
(7) supporting the expansion of academic
and cultural exchanges among the three na-
tions, especially efforts to encourage Japa-
nese and Korean students to study at univer-
sities in the United States, and vice versa, to
deepen people-to-people ties; and
(8) continued cooperation among the gov-
ernments of the United States, Japan, and
the Republic of Korea to promote human
rights.
f
RECOGNIZING THE 198TH ANNIVER-
SARY OF THE INDEPENDENCE OF
GREECE AND CELEBRATING DE-
MOCRACY IN GREECE AND THE
UNITED STATES
Mr. BARRASSO. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the Senate
proceed to the immediate consider-
ation of Calendar No. 60, S. Res. 95.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the resolution by
title.
The bill clerk read as follows:
A bill (S. Res. 95) recognizing the 198th an-
niversary of the independence of Greece and
celebrating democracy in Greece and the
United States
There being no objection, the Senate
proceeded to consider the resolution.
Mr. BARRASSO. Mr. President, I fur-
ther ask unanimous consent that the
resolution be agreed to, the preamble
be agreed to, and the motions to recon-
sider be considered made and laid upon
the table with no intervening action or
debate.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The resolution (S. Res. 95) was agreed
to.
The preamble was agreed to.
(The resolution, with its preamble, is
printed in the RECORD of March 5, 2019,
under ‘‘Submitted Resolutions.’’)
f
ORDERS FOR THURSDAY, APRIL
11, 2019
The PRESIDING OFFICER. I ask
unanimous consent that when the Sen-
ate completes its business today, it ad-
journ until 10 a.m., Thursday, April 11;
further, that following the prayer and
pledge, the morning hour be deemed
expired, the Journal of proceedings be
approved to date, the time for the two
leaders be reserved for their use later
in the day, morning business be closed,
and the Senate proceed to executive
session and resume consideration of
the Bernhardt nomination; finally,
that all time during recess, adjourn-
ment, morning business, and leader re-
marks count postcloture on the Bern-
hardt nomination.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
ORDER FOR ADJOURNMENT
Mr. BARRASSO. Mr. President, if
there is no further business to come be-
fore the Senate, I ask unanimous con-
sent that it stand adjourned under the
previous order, following the remarks
of Senator HIRONO, and under the pro-
visions of S. Res. 155, and do so as a
further mark of respect for the late
Fritz Hollings, former Senator from
South Carolina.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The Senator from Hawaii.
f
NOMINATION OF DAVID
BERNHARDT
Ms. HIRONO. Mr. President, time and
again over the past 2 years, we have
seen a clear pattern in the types of peo-
ple Donald Trump nominates to serve
in his Cabinet.
They have extensive conflicts of in-
terest. If confirmed, they work to ad-
vance the interest of former clients and
special interests, and in doing so, they
are often hostile to the very mission of
the very Department they have been
nominated to lead.
We have seen this time and again
with the same disastrous results—from
Scott Pruitt at the Environmental
Protection Agency and Ryan Zinke at
the Department of Interior to Andy
Puzder at the Department of Labor and
Tom Price at Health and Human Serv-
ices.
Today, the majority leader and Sen-
ate Republicans are forcing through
the nomination of David Bernhardt to
serve as Secretary of the Interior—an-
other person who fits Trump’s pattern
for conflicted, unethical Cabinet nomi-
nees.
Bernhardt brings so many conflicts
of interest to the job that he has to
carry a list around in his pocket to re-
mind himself of what they are. I am
putting up this graphic poster that
shows a card he carries around in his
pocket to remind himself of the people
he is not supposed to be interacting
with or helping.
In normal times, a President would
not nominate someone with David
Bernhardt’s background as a superlob-
byist who represented interests before
the Department he was nominated to
lead. In normal times, the majority
party would push back against a nomi-
nee who brings so many obvious con-
flicts of interest to the job. But these
are not normal times, and the Senate
is moving in an all-fired rush to con-
firm someone who shouldn’t have been
nominated in the first place.
During his tenure as Deputy Sec-
retary of the Interior, Mr. Bernhardt
was well-placed to deliver results for
the special interests who paid his firm
millions of dollars to lobby on their be-
half over the past decade.
Mr. Bernhardt, for example, spent
years lobbying on behalf of an organi-
zation with a misleading name—the
Center for Environmental Science, Ac-
curacy & Reliability, or CESAR. Far
from being a nonpartisan group,
CESAR is an industry front group dedi-
cated to, among other things, attack-
ing and weakening the Endangered
Species Act, the ESA.
As a lobbyist at Brownstein Hyatt
Farber Schreck, Bernhardt spear-
headed CESAR’s efforts to gut the ESA
through a disingenuous shell campaign
to list the American eel as a threat-
ened or endangered species.
Here is what they did. First, CESAR
petitioned the Fish and Wildlife Serv-
ice and National Marine Fisheries
Service to designate the American
eel—a species whose habitat spans the
entire east coast of the United States—
as a threatened or endangered species.
These Agencies are required to com-
plete their review of such a position
within 90 days. Both Agencies were un-
able to complete their review on such a
short timeline, and CESAR filed a law-
suit in DC District Court.
CESAR did not undertake this cam-
paign with the objective of protecting a
threatened or endangered species. In-
stead, as an E&E News report made
clear, CESAR tried to undermine the
law by making it nearly impossible to
enforce.
Why was this the case? Because the
American eel has habitat all along the
eastern seaboard and to make a listing
and to conduct critical habitat des-
ignations would be a paralyzing under-
taking that might force Congress to
undergo a rewrite of the ESA.
Mr. Bernhardt did not just represent
CESAR, but he has also served on their
board for many years. It was reason-
able to conclude, therefore, that his
sustained personal advocacy on behalf
of his client to undermine the ESA
would carry over to his work at the De-
partment of the Interior, and, indeed,
it has.
Last summer, the National Marine
Fisheries Service and the Fish and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:55 Apr 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00049 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A10AP6.050 S10APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2398 April 10, 2019
Wildlife Service proposed some of the
most drastic changes to the ESA in 30
years. These changes include allowing
economic estimates during the listing
process, changing the definition of
‘‘foreseeable future’’ to not allow for
the consideration of climate change
when determining whether to list a
species and removing a blanket rule
that protects threatened species.
It certainly doesn’t seem like a coin-
cidence that the Department is consid-
ering such radical changes to the ESA
under the leadership of Mr. Bern-
hardt—someone who was paid by his
clients to challenge it.
Over the past few weeks, we have
also learned from reporting in the New
York Times about Mr. Bernhardt’s ef-
forts to suppress a Fish and Wildlife
Service report on the impacts of cer-
tain pesticides on endangered species.
This report was due to be released
more than 11⁄2 years ago, and despite
documents indicating that the Depart-
ment had completed the report on
time, it has yet to be released.
Last week, I, along with several of
my colleagues, sent a letter to the De-
partment’s deputy inspector general,
requesting that she open an investiga-
tion into these allegations. Based on
Mr. Bernhardt’s industry priorities and
past attempts to weaken the ESA, I
think it is prudent that we get to the
bottom of what is going on at the De-
partment before confirming him.
If the Department of the Interior’s
mission is to ‘‘provide scientific and
other information about natural re-
sources,’’ then isn’t it Mr. Bernhardt’s
job to ensure that scientific reports on
the impacts of chemicals on endan-
gered species are released in a timely
manner, especially knowing that these
species are threatened or endangered?
Yet this report has been kept back for
over 1 year.
Unfortunately, I don’t think he con-
siders that a priority of his job. In-
stead, he seems to prioritize moving
the levers within the Department that
he was unsuccessful in moving while
representing his clients as a lobbyist.
This pattern of activity also extends
to his former clients in the oil and gas
industry. During the government shut-
down, for example, Mr. Bernhardt re-
called furloughed DOI employees in
order to have them process and approve
267 offshore oil drilling permits and 16
leases for drilling on public land. His
decisive action on behalf of oil and gas
interests came as thousands of employ-
ees went without pay and critical Fed-
eral services were shuttered for over 1
month.
Is it really any wonder that execu-
tives from the Independent Petroleum
Association of America were caught on
tape bragging about the unprecedented
access they have to Mr. Bernhardt at
the Department?
The American people deserve an Inte-
rior Secretary devoted to the mission
of the Department, not the narrow spe-
cial interests of his former lobbyist cli-
ents.
I urge my colleagues to oppose this
nomination and await the IG report be-
fore voting on this nomination.
One would hope that with all of these
conflicts he has to carry around in his
pocket, surely we can come up with
someone to lead this Department who
actually has the mission of the Depart-
ment as his calling. That is not the
case with Mr. Bernhardt.
I yield the floor.
f
ADJOURNMENT UNTIL 10 A.M.
TOMORROW
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order and pursuant to S.
Res. 155, the Senate stands adjourned
until 10 a.m. on Thursday, April 11, and
does so as a further mark of respect for
Ernest ‘‘Fritz’’ Hollings, former Sen-
ator from South Carolina.
Thereupon, the Senate, at 7:14 p.m.,
adjourned until Thursday, April 11,
2019, at 10 a.m.
f
NOMINATIONS
Executive nominations received by
the Senate:
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
KATE MARIE BYRNES, OF FLORIDA, A CAREER MEMBER
OF THE SENIOR FOREIGN SERVICE, CLASS OF MINISTER-
COUNSELOR, TO BE AMBASSADOR EXTRAORDINARY AND
PLENIPOTENTIARY OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
TO THE REPUBLIC OF NORTH MACEDONIA.
IN THE AIR FORCE
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
IN THE UNITED STATES AIR FORCE TO THE GRADE INDI-
CATED WHILE ASSIGNED TO A POSITION OF IMPORTANCE
AND RESPONSIBILITY UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION
601:
To be general
LT. GEN. ARNOLD W. BUNCH, JR.
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
IN THE UNITED STATES AIR FORCE TO THE GRADE INDI-
CATED UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 624:
To be brigadier general
COL. DAVID A. HARRIS, JR.
IN THE NAVY
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
AS CHIEF OF NAVAL OPERATIONS AND APPOINTMENT IN
THE UNITED STATES NAVY TO THE GRADE INDICATED
WHILE ASSIGNED TO A POSITION OF IMPORTANCE AND
RESPONSIBILITY UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTIONS 601
AND 8033:
To be admiral
ADM. WILLIAM F. MORAN
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
AS VICE CHIEF OF NAVAL OPERATIONS AND APPOINT-
MENT IN THE UNITED STATES NAVY TO THE GRADE INDI-
CATED WHILE ASSIGNED TO A POSITION OF IMPORTANCE
AND RESPONSIBILITY UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTIONS
601 AND 8035:
To be admiral
VICE ADM. ROBERT P. BURKE
IN THE MARINE CORPS
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
IN THE UNITED STATES MARINE CORPS TO THE GRADE
INDICATED WHILE ASSIGNED TO A POSITION OF IMPOR-
TANCE AND RESPONSIBILITY UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C.,
SECTION 601:
To be lieutenant general
LT. GEN. HERMAN S. CLARDY III
FOREIGN SERVICE
THE FOLLOWING-NAMED MEMBER OF THE FOREIGN
SERVICE OF THE OFFICE OF THE UNITED STATES TRADE
REPRESENTATIVE TO BE A SECRETARY IN THE DIPLO-
MATIC SERVICE OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA:
LISA ANNE RIGOLI, OF FLORIDA
THE FOLLOWING–NAMED CAREER MEMBERS OF THE
SENIOR FOREIGN SERVICE OF THE UNITED STATES
AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT FOR PRO-
MOTION WITHIN THE SENIOR FOREIGN SERVICE OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA, CLASS OF CAREER MIN-
ISTER:
JENNIFER M. ADAMS, OF VIRGINIA
JEFFREY N. BAKKEN, OF MINNESOTA
SUSAN F. FINE, OF VIRGINIA
SUSAN KOSINSKI FRITZ, OF WASHINGTON
LAWRENCE HARDY II, OF WASHINGTON
SARAH–ANN LYNCH, OF MARYLAND
THE FOLLOWING–NAMED CAREER MEMBERS OF THE
SENIOR FOREIGN SERVICE OF THE UNITED STATES
AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT FOR PRO-
MOTION WITHIN THE SENIOR FOREIGN SERVICE OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA, CLASS OF MINISTER–
COUNSELOR:
DERRICK SCOTT BROWN, OF FLORIDA
MICHAEL JOSEPH GREENE, OF MARYLAND
GARY C. JUSTE, OF VIRGINIA
MARK A. MEASSICK, OF FLORIDA
ELIZABETH B. WARFIELD, OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUM-
BIA
CLINTON D. WHITE, OF MARYLAND
THE FOLLOWING–NAMED CAREER MEMBERS OF THE
FOREIGN SERVICE FOR PROMOTION INTO THE SENIOR
FOREIGN SERVICE, CLASS OF COUNSELOR:
KAYA D. ADAMS, OF LOUISIANA
MAURA E. BARRY BOYLE, OF MARYLAND
IDRIS M. DIAZ, OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA
BETH PENNOCK DUNFORD, OF MARYLAND
NATALIE J. FREEMAN, OF VIRGINIA
JONATHAN T. KAMIN, OF MARYLAND
LESLIE C. MARBURY, OF FLORIDA
MICHAEL RICHARD MCCORD, OF CALIFORNIA
MIKAELA SAWTELLE MEREDITH, OF VIRGINIA
V. KATE SOMVONGSIRI, OF VIRGINIA
THE FOLLOWING–NAMED MEMBERS OF THE FOREIGN
SERVICE OF THE UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF AG-
RICULTURE TO BE A FOREIGN SERVICE OFFICER, A CON-
SULAR OFFICER, AND A SECRETARY IN THE DIPLOMATIC
SERVICE OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA:
TIMOTHY RYAN HARRISON, OF CALIFORNIA
ELIZABETH VIVIAN LEONARDI, OF CALIFORNIA
LAZARO SANDOVAL, OF CALIFORNIA
J. BRET TATE, OF TEXAS
RACHEL LYNNE VANDERBERG, OF VIRGINIA
THE FOLLOWING–NAMED CAREER MEMBER OF THE
FOREIGN SERVICE OF THE UNITED STATES AGENCY FOR
GLOBAL MEDIA, BROADCASTING BOARD OF GOVERNORS,
FOR PROMOTION INTO THE SENIOR FOREIGN SERVICE TO
THE CLASS INDICATED:
CAREER MEMBER OF THE SENIOR FOREIGN SERVICE,
CLASS OF COUNSELOR, AND A CONSULAR OFFICER AND A
SECRETARY IN THE DIPLOMATIC SERVICE OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA:
WILLIAM S. MARTIN, OF CALIFORNIA
THE FOLLOWING–NAMED CAREER MEMBER OF THE
FOREIGN SERVICE OF THE UNITED STATES AGENCY FOR
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT, OFFICE OF INSPECTOR
GENERAL, FOR PROMOTION WITHIN THE SENIOR FOR-
EIGN SERVICE OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA,
CLASS OF MINISTER–COUNSELOR:
CHRISTINE BYRNE, OF VIRGINIA
THE FOLLOWING–NAMED CAREER MEMBERS OF THE
FOREIGN SERVICE FOR PROMOTION INTO THE SENIOR
FOREIGN SERVICE, AS A CAREER MEMBER OF THE SEN-
IOR FOREIGN SERVICE OF THE UNITED STATES OF
AMERICA, CLASS OF COUNSELOR:
ROBERT MASON, OF VIRGINIA
f
CONFIRMATIONS
Executive nominations confirmed by
the Senate April 10, 2019:
THE JUDICIARY
DAVID STEVEN MORALES, OF TEXAS, TO BE UNITED
STATES DISTRICT JUDGE FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT
OF TEXAS.
HOLLY A. BRADY, OF INDIANA, TO BE UNITED STATES
DISTRICT JUDGE FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF INDI-
ANA.
DEPARTMENT OF LABOR
CHERYL MARIE STANTON, OF SOUTH CAROLINA, TO BE
ADMINISTRATOR OF THE WAGE AND HOUR DIVISION, DE-
PARTMENT OF LABOR.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
JOHN P. ABIZAID, OF NEVADA, TO BE AMBASSADOR EX-
TRAORDINARY AND PLENIPOTENTIARY OF THE UNITED
STATES OF AMERICA TO THE KINGDOM OF SAUDI ARA-
BIA.
f
WITHDRAWAL
Executive Message transmitted by
the President to the Senate on April 10,
2019 withdrawing from further Senate
consideration the following nomina-
tion:
KATE MARIE BYRNES, OF FLORIDA, A CAREER MEMBER
OF THE SENIOR FOREIGN SERVICE, CLASS OF MINISTER–
COUNSELOR, TO BE AMBASSADOR EXTRAORDINARY AND
PLENIPOTENTIARY OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
TO THE REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA, WHICH WAS SENT TO
THE SENATE ON JANUARY 16, 2019.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 19:23 Apr 11, 2019 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00050 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 9801 J:\CRONLINE\2019-BATCH-APR\URGENT-CXS\RECFILE\S10AP9.REC S10AP9
CORRECTION
EXTENSIONS OF REMARKS
∑ This ‘‘bullet’’ symbol identifies statements or insertions which are not spoken by a Member of the Senate on the floor.
Matter set in this typeface indicates words inserted or appended, rather than spoken, by a Member of the House on the floor.
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E441
April 10, 2019
GET ADDITIVES OUT ACT
HON. GRACE MENG
OF NEW YORK
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, April 10, 2019
Ms. MENG. Madam Speaker, I rise today to
announce the introduction of the Get Additives
Out Act. This legislation would require a GAO
report on the physical and behavioral health
risks of food additives on children.
As a mom of two boys, I am committed to
ensuring more transparency in the foods that
we eat. The effects of food additives, both in
food products and in the packaging that touch-
es food products, are dramatically under stud-
ied, particularly the impact on children as they
enter critical stages of development.
I urge my colleagues to join me in calling for
more accountability on the foods that we con-
sume and that we feed to our children. I urge
my colleagues to join me in supporting the Get
Additives Out Act.
f
RECOGNIZING CHRIS MCGUIGAN OF
PLAINS
HON. GREG GIANFORTE
OF MONTANA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, April 10, 2019
Mr. GIANFORTE. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to honor Chris McGuigan of Plains
whose work with the Sanders County Fair and
Rodeo has attracted the world’s top profes-
sional competitors.
After years of volunteering at the fair, Chris
began serving on the Sanders County Fair
Board in 2001 and became its chairman a
decade later. In 2017, Chris was appointed
fair manager, a position from which he re-
cently stepped down. Over the years, he esti-
mates he has volunteered at least 1,000 hours
to help make the fair and rodeo a success.
A retired Sanders County sheriff’s deputy
with 25 years of service, Chris helped lead
many improvements to the fairgrounds, includ-
ing upgrading the livestock facilities, improving
the rodeo surface, constructing a 4-H horse
arena and crow’s nest, and making the arena
ADA accessible.
The vision and accomplishments of the
Sanders County Fair Board under Chris’s
leadership have brought the fair and rodeo
wide acclaim for its excellence. In fact, the
Women’s Professional Rodeo Association
seven times recognized the rodeo arena sur-
face as having the best footing in the region.
‘‘Hands down, the Sanders County Rodeo is
one of the top-notch rodeos in Montana, and
Chris has been the right-hand man there for
years,’’ said Lori Franzen, co-owner of Powder
River Rodeo, which produces the rodeo in
Plains as well as 90 professional rodeo events
across the country. ‘‘Last year in the bull riding
event alone, 10 of the top 15 cowboys in the
professional circuit were competing in Plains.’’
Madam Speaker, for his more than two dec-
ades of service and outstanding dedication to
improving the Sanders County Fair and
Rodeo, I recognize Chris McGuigan for his
spirit of Montana.
f
THIRTIETH ANNIVERSARY OF THE
WHISTLEBLOWER PROTECTION
ACT OF 1989
HON. ELIJAH E. CUMMINGS
OF MARYLAND
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, April 10, 2019
Mr. CUMMINGS. Madam Speaker, thirty
years ago today, on April 10, 1989, one of the
most critically important federal ethics laws in
our history, the Whistleblower Protection Act
(WPA), was enacted. As we mark the anniver-
sary of the WPA, I would like to give special
recognition to this federal statute that has em-
powered Congressional oversight and assisted
our work over the years.
The WPA protects whistleblowers who work
for the federal government from retaliation for
reporting activity constituting a violation of law,
rules, or regulations, or mismanagement,
fraud, waste, and abuse, or substantial danger
to public health and safety. A federal agency
violates the WPA if it takes or threatens to
take a retaliatory personnel action against an
employee who makes a protected disclosure.
On this 30th anniversary of the WPA, we
honor the contributions of the brave men and
women who report wrongdoing despite great
risks to their careers and personal lives as a
result of retaliation.
Without the WPA, very few whistleblowers
would be willing to come forward. Congress
relies on the WPA to fulfill its Constitutional
duty to provide checks and balances on the
Executive Branch—the very root of our de-
mocracy. This past February, my Committee
issued an interim staff report raising serious
concerns about White House efforts to rush
the transfer of highly sensitive U.S. nuclear
technology to Saudi Arabia in potential viola-
tion of the Atomic Energy Act and without
Congressional review as required by law. The
Committee’s investigation was based on infor-
mation that we received from multiple whistle-
blowers.
We also rely on the WPA to help safeguard
our national security. Recently, a whistle-
blower working inside the White House Secu-
rity Office was interviewed by the Committee
about the dysfunctions in the White House
that presented dangers to national security.
This whistleblower ‘‘informed the Committee
that during the Trump Administration, she and
other career officials adjudicated denials of
dozens of applications for security clearances
that were later overturned.’’ She explained the
reason she came forward, stating: ‘‘I would not
be doing a service to myself, my country, or
my children if I sat back knowing that the
issues that we have could impact national se-
curity.’’
My Committee would not have been able to
conduct these oversight investigations without
these whistleblowers, and these whistle-
blowers would not have come forward if they
did not have the protections of the WPA.
We have made significant progress in pro-
tecting public servants who shine a light on
corruption in the federal government, but we
are not satisfied with the status quo. Congress
must continue to ensure that agencies are fol-
lowing the existing law and also identify ways
to improve the law to better serve the needs
of our country.
f
HONORING DAN HAIFLEY
HON. JIMMY PANETTA
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, April 10, 2019
Mr. PANETTA. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to recognize Mr. Dan Haifley for his decades
of service to the Santa Cruz community as the
Executive Director of O’Neill Sea Odyssey,
and to congratulate him on his retirement. Mr.
Haifley has been at the helm of O’Neill Sea
Odyssey, a cornerstone of the Santa Cruz
community and maritime education, since
1999. Through his years of dedication to envi-
ronmental education and our environment, Mr.
Haifley made an immeasurable impact on our
community on the central coast of California.
During his tenure of twenty years with
O’Neill Sea Odyssey, the organization grew
into a pillar of the Santa Cruz community as
it offered free oceanography and ecology pro-
grams for grade school children, often from
economically disadvantaged backgrounds. Mr.
Haifley also championed the integration of
oceanography into formal educational institu-
tions, making the subject matter accessible to
youth of diverse backgrounds.
Under Mr. Haifley’s direction, over one hun-
dred thousand children had the opportunity to
receive hands on marine biology, ecology, and
navigation lessons aboard Team O’Neill’s
‘Catamaran’ yacht. Mr. Haifley’s leadership
was intrinsic to the extraordinary performance
of O’Neill Sea Odyssey, which has received
numerous awards and recognition on multiple
occasions for outstanding environmental lead-
ership and education.
Mr. Haifley’s conservation efforts did not
begin with O’Neill, but rather span throughout
his career. He was also the executive director
of Save Our Shores, where he played a vital
role in the creation of the Monterey Bay Na-
tional Marine Sanctuary. In addition, he led a
successful campaign against offshore oil drill-
ing throughout California and actively writes
columns about the importance of our oceans.
Mr. Dan Haifley exemplifies what it means
to be a conscientious and engaged citizen of
the Central Coast. Mr. Haifley influenced gen-
erations of citizens to cherish and preserve
the environment and through them he leaves
a legacy of respect and admiration for our
planet. Madam Speaker, it is my pleasure to
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:18 Apr 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\K10AP8.001 E10APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E442 April 10, 2019
stand here today in recognition of Mr. Dan
Haifley’s accomplished career. I have no
doubt that he will continue serving his commu-
nity and giving a voice to our oceans.
f
RECOGNIZING THE NATIONAL 4–H
COUNCIL’S 2019 YOUTH IN ACTION
AWARD RECIPIENT
HON. JAMIE RASKIN
OF MARYLAND
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, April 10, 2019
Mr. RASKIN. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to recognize the important work of the Na-
tional 4–H Council, our country’s largest youth
development organization, as well as Clyde
Van Dyke, the national winner of the 2019 4–
H Youth in Action Award. Clyde, who also won
the 4–H Youth in Action STEM Pillar Award,
was honored at the National 4–H Council’s
Legacy Awards in Washington, D.C., and is
being awarded $10,000 in scholarships for
higher education.
The 4–H Youth in Action Award recognizes
Clyde for his resilience and commitment to
using technology to spark community change.
Clyde faced many challenges during his child-
hood, including the loss of his mother at a
young age. He was further discouraged in ele-
mentary school when he was told that most
kids with his background ‘‘wouldn’t succeed.’’
These feelings of defeat led him to put forth
little effort in school. Everything changed for
Clyde when a friend invited him to a 4–H tech-
nology club meeting. Not only did the 4–H pro-
gram provide Clyde with access and exposure
to technology, it also helped him develop im-
portant life skills that altered his perspective
and boosted his drive to succeed.
4–H empowers nearly 6 million young peo-
ple like Clyde across the United States
through experiences that develop critical life
and career skills. Through a network of 110
public universities and more than 3,000 local
extension offices, 4–H serves every county
and parish in the United States. Globally, 4–
H collaborates with independent programs to
empower approximately 1 million young peo-
ple in 50 countries. Young people who take
part in the research-backed 4–H experience
are four times more likely as their peers to
contribute to their communities; twice as likely
to make healthier life choices; twice as likely
to be civically active; and twice as likely to
participate in STEM programs.
I commend 4–H for its ongoing work to edu-
cate and engage our young people and I sa-
lute Clyde Van Dyke for his exemplary perse-
verance, civic engagement, and ingenuity.
f
CONGRESSIONAL TEACHERS
AWARDS, FL 16
HON. VERN BUCHANAN
OF FLORIDA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, April 10, 2019
Mr. BUCHANAN. Madam Speaker, I rise
today in recognition of outstanding public
school teachers in Florida’s 16th Congres-
sional District.
I was once told that children are 25 percent
of the population, but they are 100 percent of
the future. And it’s true. The education of a
child is an investment, not only in that student,
but in the future of our country.
Therefore, I established the Congressional
Teacher Awards to honor educators for their
ability to teach and inspire students.
An independent panel has chosen the fol-
lowing teachers from Manatee and Sarasota
counties for Florida’s 16th District 2019 Con-
gressional Teacher Award for their accom-
plishments as educators: Marissa Dobbert for
her accomplishments as a 7th Grade Math
Teacher at Sarasota Military Academy Prep;
Elizabeth Harris for her accomplishments as a
3rd, 4th, and 5th Grade Interventionist at
Myakka City Elementary School; Chris King
for his accomplishments as a 6th-9th Grade
Special Education Teacher at Haile Middle
School; Kate Kramer for her accomplishments
as an Exceptional Student Education Liaison
for PK and Autism at Fruitville Elementary
School; Kari McMillan for her accomplish-
ments as a Math Teacher at Palmetto High
School; Ashlee Middleton for her accomplish-
ments as an 11th and 12th Grade English and
Reading Teacher at Sarasota High School;
Nancy Miller for her accomplishments as a 3rd
Grade Teacher at Ballard Elementary School;
Kymberli Rivers for her accomplishments as a
Literature and English Teacher at Manatee
High School; Maria Underhill for her accom-
plishments as an 8th Grade Reading Teacher
at Braden River Middle School.
On behalf of the people of Florida’s 16th
District, I congratulate each of these out-
standing teachers and offer my sincere appre-
ciation for their service and dedication.
f
HONORING THE BELLWOOD-ANTIS
GIRLS’ BASKETBALL TEAM ON
THEIR PIAA CLASS 2A STATE
CHAMPIONSHIP
HON. JOHN JOYCE
OF PENNSYLVANIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, April 10, 2019
Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania. Madam Speak-
er, I rise today to honor the Bellwood-Antis
High School girls’ basketball team who se-
cured their second consecutive PIAA Class 2A
state championship with a 66–57 victory over
West Middlesex.
The Lady Blue Devils started the game
down 0–7, but with the help of Alli Campbell’s
game high 24 points which included four of
the team’s extraordinary twelve three-points,
they were able to come out on top.
Winning one state championship is no easy
task, and winning back-to-back titles is an
even more impressive fete. I am incredibly
proud of these girls.
Please join me in congratulating the Lady
Blue Devils.
f
RECOGNIZING JEAN BYE
HON. JIM HAGEDORN
OF MINNESOTA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, April 10, 2019
Mr. HAGEDORN. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to recognize Jean Bye, President and
CEO of Dotson Iron Castings in Mankato, Min-
nesota. Jean began her career with Dotson
Iron Castings in the 1970s. With her strong
work ethic, commitment to excellence and
keen technical knowledge, she advanced in
her career and held various management po-
sitions. In 2010, she became Dotson’s Presi-
dent/CEO; the first woman and non-family
member to run this century old manufacturer.
Today, over 100 tons of ductile iron castings
are melted daily, with 1,500 different metal
castings produced for over 150 customers
across the world.
In April, Jean was presented with The Man-
ufacturing Institute’s Science, Technology, En-
gineering and Production (STEP) Ahead
Award, which recognizes women who have
demonstrated excellence and leadership in
their careers and serve as role models in in-
spiring young women to pursue careers in
manufacturing.
Jean is known within the metalcasting in-
dustry. Since 2011, she has served on the
Board of Directors of the American Foundry
Society (AFS), the industry’s trade association
and will be concluding her successful term as
AFS President at the end of April. She be-
came the first woman in the association’s over
100-year history to be chosen by her peers to
serve in this role.
Madam Speaker, please join me today in
congratulating Jean Bye on receiving the 2019
STEP Ahead Award and completing her term
leading the metalcasting industry trade asso-
ciation. I wish her continued success.
f
IN HONOR OF KARL B. MCMILLEN
HON. DUNCAN HUNTER
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, April 10, 2019
Mr. HUNTER. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to honor Karl B. McMillen, a Marine, a suc-
cessful business owner and entrepreneur, and
a generous philanthropist. Karl’s life can be
broken down into 3 distinct parts. The first part
was to study hard and get educated. Then
came working hard and building a successful
business; and now he’s giving back.
Karl McMillen was born September 19,
1928, in Miami, Arizona. In 1929, when Karl
was just a year old, his family moved to Cali-
fornia, seeking relief from the Great Depres-
sion. In the years that followed, Karl’s father
Mac instilled a strong work ethic in his son—
through his childhood and teen years, Karl
helped Mac with odd jobs, mining and other
pursuits.
After graduating from Pasadena Junior Col-
lege in 1946, Karl joined the Marine Corps.
After two years with the Marines he left the
service and began work at a plumbing com-
pany to earn some money. Seeking to ad-
vance his education, in the Fall of 1949, Karl
enrolled at the University of New Mexico
(UNM). One summer, during a break back
home to Pasadena, he met a young woman
named Thelma Mastraight. After a 3 month
courtship Karl knew that Thelma was the
woman for him, and they married in the fall of
1950. From there, the married couple went
back and forth from Southern California and
New Mexico for Karl to continue his education
at UNM. During breaks, both worked hard to
earn a decent living.
Over the next couple years, Karl became a
water-softening wizard and started a small
VerDate Sep 11 2014 22:53 Jul 01, 2019 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\RECORD19\APRIL\E10AP9.REC E10AP9
CORRECTION
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E443
April 10, 2019
business with his fraternity brother installing
lawn sprinklers. He eventually transferred to
the University of Southern California (USC) for
his junior year in 1952, where he gained the
necessary tools to run his plumbing business
with the mentality of a businessman. Karl
graduated from USC in 1954 with a B.S. in Fi-
nance. From there, he worked at Kohler and
then created Cobabe Plumbing. By 1964, the
company employed 150 journeymen, operated
a fleet of 76 trucks, and was performing 7,000
jobs a year in Southern California.
In 1968, Karl started a new plumbing supply
business with his friend Ralph Todd called
Todd Pipe & Supply. Their winning theory was
simple: treat your customers as people. This
golden touch playbook led to the small com-
pany in Hawthorne, California growing to nine
highly-respected facilities in California and Ne-
vada, including San Diego. Karl’s success as
a businessowner was the result of hard work,
honesty, integrity, and respect for others. Karl
served as Co-Founder and Chairman of the
company before he sold it in 2004. It still suc-
cessfully operates in Los Angeles, Riverside,
Orange, and San Diego Counties.
Karl’s amazing story of business success is
counterbalanced by the emotional deaths of
his first wife to alcohol and cancer, and both
his sons who lost both of their lives to sub-
stance abuse. Karl, too, has struggled with al-
coholism and proudly has over 20 years sobri-
ety today.
When Karl retired from the plumbing indus-
try, he knew he was not done making an im-
pact. Karl’s golden touch playbook continued
and his persistency to help others made an
even greater turn. More determined than ever
in his war against addiction, Karl established
the Thelma McMillen Center for Alcohol and
Drug Treatment, named in memory of his late
wife, at Torrance Memorial Medical Center.
His gift to the hospital greatly expanded their
existing program, including the creation of a
teen outpatient program, which was important
to him after what happened to his sons.
Karl and his new wife Carol also started the
McMillen Family Foundation. The foundation
made an immediate impact in the Southern
California community and the fight against
substance abuse. To date the foundation has
helped over 60 organizations and has donated
millions of dollars. Organizations that have
benefited include the Thelma McMillen Center
at Torrance Memorial Medical Center, the
House of Hope, Pathways to Independence,
the Friendly House, the Beacon House, 1st
Step, Lynn House, the Shawl House and 2
Alano Clubs.
Karl has seen to it the foundation will go on
in perpetuity, by giving 20 percent of all profits
from his existing business as well as all his
current assets to the foundation upon his
death.
Karl’s persistency to help his family, employ-
ees, customers, and those in need highlight
his courage and dedication in changing lives
for the better. Karl is no regular guy. He’s a
champion of Southern California and who we
are as Californians.
HONORING AMERICAN LEGION
NEW JERSEY COMMANDER RAY
MILLER
HON. CHRISTOPHER H. SMITH
OF NEW JERSEY
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, April 10, 2019
Mr. SMITH of New Jersey. Madam Speaker,
Raymond A. Miller, of Ocean County, N.J. is
a dedicated, decorated American hero who
has served our country in wartime and peace.
Ray donned the uniform first as a member
of the U.S. Air Force to serve and protect his
country. After success in the military, Ray put
on a different uniform that was no less impor-
tant—serving and protecting the citizens of
New Jersey during a long and distinguished
career in law enforcement, all-the-while and
even to this very day, never forgetting his fel-
low veterans.
Born in Jersey City and raised in Trenton,
N.J., Ray went on to join the Air Force in
1963, completing both basic training and Air
Police School as part of four years of active
duty in Germany, as well as two years in the
reserves. He entered the State Police Acad-
emy in 1969, and after 30 years as a New
Jersey State Trooper, he retired as a lieuten-
ant. Ray continues to work for the NJ State
Police as a part-time background investigator
of applicants to law enforcement.
Ray married his loving wife Laurinda in
1971, and together they raised two wonderful
daughters, Kimberley and Natalie in Man-
chester Township, N.J. in my district. Laurinda
has served the Unit 129 Auxiliary for 28 years
and is the current president of the Ocean
County American Legion Auxiliary. Ray and
Laurinda have four grandchildren: Kailee Lynn,
Kyle, MacKenzie and Brooke. Today Ray and
Laurinda live in Island Heights, Ocean County,
N.J.
As a trooper Ray was decorated for valor
twice: first for helping apprehend a murderer
who killed two police officers and permanently
maimed another in Mount Holly, N.J., and later
for selflessly and courageously saving a West-
field police officer who was being assaulted by
two escaped murderers.
A dedicated Airman and trooper, Ray’s serv-
ice was complemented by his tireless efforts
to aid his fellow veterans—the core of the mis-
sion of the American Legion.
I have known Ray Miller for a long time. He
is a friend. One of our many, many meetings
was last year at the New Jersey American Le-
gion’s Centennial Gala in Point Pleasant, N.J.,
where we kicked off the celebration of the suc-
cessful and awesome history of the Legion.
This coming September 16, 2019 will mark
the 100th anniversary since Congress passed
the Charter for the American Legion.
It has been a good 100 years for the Le-
gion, and Ray has the honor of leading legion-
naires in the State of New Jersey during this
special century anniversary.
Since its founding, the American Legion has
become the largest wartime veterans’ organi-
zation, counting nearly two million members
across the U.S.A. with more than 12,000
posts. Established by an act of Congress, the
Legion—with leaders like Ray and his prede-
cessors at the helm locally, statewide and na-
tionally—was instrumental in getting the origi-
nal GI Bill through Congress and the creation
of the Department of Veterans Affairs, today
known as the Veterans Administration.
A nonpartisan, not-for-profit organization
with legendary leadership and strong organi-
zational structure built on its grass-roots in-
volvement in the legislative process, every
member in the House and Senate seeks the
advice of the American Legion, which always,
always has the interest of veterans and their
families at heart.
As the former chairman of the House Vet-
erans’ Committee, I can attest to the influence,
commitment and hard work of the American
Legion. Its leaders like Ray Miller were indis-
pensable when I wrote such laws as the
Homeless Veterans Comprehensive Assist-
ance Act (P.L. 107–95), and the Veterans
Education and Benefits Expansion Act (P.L.
107–103)—i.e. the GI Bill expansion—just to
name a few.
Before taking the reins of the American Le-
gion Department of New Jersey last year as
the State Commander, Ray served various po-
sitions at his hometown post, Post 129 in Is-
land Heights, including twice as Post Com-
mander.
Last year, the American Legion began cele-
brating 100 years since it first gathered on the
Jersey Shore so many years ago. Representa-
tives from chapters all across the state have
held the American Legion Convention at Wild-
woods Convention Center since 1918.
To honor the upcoming centennial mile-
stone, local and state legionnaires buried a
time capsule in Wildwood, NJ in front of Amer-
ican Legion Post 184 last June. Since 1918,
the American Legion has held its annual con-
vention in Wildwood.
The Cape May County Herald reported the
capsule, filled with 100 years of historical
items from different posts and counties within
the Garden State, will remain buried for 25
years. On June 8, 2043, it will be unearthed
by Ray’s grandchildren.
Across my District, across the great State of
New Jersey, and across this great nation, the
traditions and legacy of the Legion have be-
come a legacy of wholesome Americana:
American Legion baseball, Boys State, Troop
and Family Support, educational scholarships,
and many other activities sponsored by the
Legion.
This Saturday, his fellow veterans, friends
and family, will honor Ray for a lifetime of
service that continues today. And, 25 years
from now, Ray’s grandchildren will unearth the
memories and history of the New Jersey
American Legion—a history that is replete with
the outstanding contributions and leadership of
American Legionnaire Ray Miller.
I thank Ray, and may God bless him and
his family and all servicemember and vet-
erans.
f
RELEASE OF SECOND DAY OF
JAMES BAKER TRANSCRIPT
HON. DOUG COLLINS
OF GEORGIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, April 10, 2019
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Madam Speaker,
I have released several transcripts of inter-
views from the Judiciary Committee’s inves-
tigation into the apparent wrongdoing at the
FBI and Justice Department. Today, I am re-
leasing another.
The American people deserve transparency.
They deserve to know what transpired in the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:18 Apr 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\K10AP8.012 E10APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E444 April 10, 2019
highest levels of the FBI at the origin of the
probe of President Trump’s campaign.
Madam Speaker, I include in the RECORD
the link, www.dougcollins.house.gov/
jamesbaker, so the American people can re-
view the transcript of day two of James
Baker’s interview.
Out of an abundance of caution, this tran-
script has a limited number of narrowly tai-
lored redactions, relating only to confidential
sources and methods, non-public information
about ongoing investigations, and non-material
personal information.
I will continue to work to release as many
transcripts as possible. The American people
deserve the truth
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. DINA TITUS
OF NEVADA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, April 10, 2019
Ms. TITUS. Madam Speaker, I was absent
April 8, 2019. If I were present, I would have
voted on the following: Roll no. 157—H. Con.
Res. 19, On motion to suspend the rules and
agree to the resolution: ‘‘yea’’; Roll no. 158—
H.R. 1331, On motion to suspend the rules
and pass the bill: ‘‘yea’’; and Roll no. 159—
JOURNAL, On Approving the Journal: ‘‘yea’’.
f
HONORING THE BERLIN
BROTHERSVALLEY GIRLS’ BAS-
KETBALL TEAM ON THEIR PIAA
CLASS 1A STATE CHAMPIONSHIP
HON. JOHN JOYCE
OF PENNSYLVANIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, April 10, 2019
Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania. Madam Speak-
er, I rise today to honor the Berlin
Brothersvalley High School girls’ basketball
team who won their first PIAA Class 1A state
championship.
The Lady Mountaineers emerged victorious
over Lourdes Regional 41–32. The Lady
Mountaineers got ahead early, ending the first
quarter with an 11–0 lead.
Alexis Yanosky had a team high 12 points
and Zoie Smith added another 10 points. The
hard work the girls put in during the season
paid off in Hershey.
High school athletics is a great way for stu-
dents to build character and form a lasting
bond with teammates.
Please join me in congratulating the Lady
Mountaineers.
f
IN RECOGNITION OF BGSU HOCK-
EY’S NCAA TOURNAMENT AP-
PEARANCE
HON. ROBERT E. LATTA
OF OHIO
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, April 10, 2019
Mr. LATTA. Madam Speaker, I rise to rec-
ognize the Bowling Green State University
Hockey team for earning a bid to the 2019
NCAA Men’s Hockey National Championship
Tournament. Their admittance to this year’s
‘‘Big Dance’’ follows a 29-year absence and
marked the program’s 10th appearance.
While this year’s campaign saw the Falcons’
fourth consecutive 20+ win season and fifth
consecutive winning season, it was the first
tournament appearance in nearly three dec-
ades. The team ranked in the top ten in scor-
ing in the country, while also maintaining an
impressive defense—ranking second in goals
allowed in the NCAA.
The Falcons made the school, the city, and
the entire community proud. Once again, con-
gratulations to the Falcons on their NCAA
Tournament appearance. Great job, Bowling
Green Hockey.
f
REMEMBRANCE OF MICHAEL
PRATT
HON. RODNEY DAVIS
OF ILLINOIS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, April 10, 2019
Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois. Madam
Speaker, I rise today to honor the life of Mi-
chael ‘‘Mike’’ Pratt, who passed away on
March 30th of this year. Mike Pratt worked as
a Logistics and Support Specialist under the
Chief Administrative Officer since November
2006. During those years, he worked diligently
throughout the U.S. Capitol in his support role
providing special event and furniture moving
services to the Capitol and the Capitol Visitor
Center.
Mike was a well-known face throughout the
Capitol for his superior work supporting major
events, such as multiple State of the Union
Addresses, Presidential Inaugurations, Con-
gressional Gold Medal Ceremonies, Congres-
sional Transitions, and various other events
that took place here in our nation’s capital.
However, what ingratiated Mike to the many
offices and employees in the Capitol was his
commitment to his day-to-day tasks.
It is the dedicated service of Mike and his
colleagues that allow the U.S. House of Rep-
resentatives to function seamlessly on a daily
basis. Mike is survived by his long-time
girlfriend, Renika Bridges and son, Caliea
‘‘Spunky’’ Hill. We remember him as a true
professional and remain grateful for his many
years of service to Congress. I extend my
deepest condolences to his family, friends,
and co-workers. He will be missed.
f
VIOLENCE AGAINST WOMEN
REAUTHORIZATION ACT OF 2019
SPEECH OF
HON. KENDRA S. HORN
OF OKLAHOMA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, April 3, 2019
The House in Committee of the Whole
House on the state of the Union had under
consideration the bill (H.R. 1585) to reauthor-
ize the Violence Against Women Act of 1994,
and for other purposes:
Ms. KENDRA S. HORN of Oklahoma. Mr.
Chair, I am honored to have supported the
2019 reauthorization of the Violence Against
Women Act (VAWA). This vitally important leg-
islation continues and expands critical protec-
tions for families and women facing abuse.
As an Oklahoman and member of the Na-
tive American Caucus, I am grateful this legis-
lation expands protection for our Native
women, children, and law enforcement. House
Resolution 1585 improves tribal access to fed-
eral crime information databases. It creates
new mechanisms that let us hold non-Native
abusers of Natives accountable. It reaffirms
that tribal governments can prosecute those
non-Natives in cases of domestic and intimate
partner violence, and it expands those protec-
tions to children. Native children are 50 times
more likely to be abused, according to the Na-
tional Congress of American Indians, and 60
percent of the non-Native-on-Native abuse
crimes tried since 2013 have involved chil-
dren.
Health care is one of the most important
issues in my district. H.R. 1585 creates more
opportunities and access to survivors. It reau-
thorizes critical grants providers use to treat
patients, and it broadens the reach of these
grants to develop services to address the
safety, medical, and mental health needs of
survivors, while maintaining the grants’ local
focus on providing funds to state domestic and
sexual violence coalitions.
We need to work every day to support sur-
vivors and provide the services they and their
families need. When we work with survivors,
though, we must examine the root of the prob-
lem and study long-term effects. We, as pol-
icymakers, understand survivors have under-
gone trauma, but we do not focus enough on
the lasting effect trauma can have on health—
both mental and physical. We need to ac-
knowledge Adverse Childhood Experiences
(ACEs).
ACE scores are determined through a ten-
question quiz that is based on a list of experi-
ences people might see or undergo before
turning 18. It includes sexual abuse, neglect,
and incarceration of a parent or family mem-
ber.
If a person has experienced four or more of
these adverse experiences, they are 700 per-
cent more likely to be diagnosed with depres-
sion. They are more likely to have attempted
suicide. Severe obesity, diabetes, cancer, and
stroke all become more likely the higher one’s
ACEs score. Oklahoma’s average score is 4.8.
It is no coincidence that we rank poorly for
health outcomes.
I am proud of local providers in my own dis-
trict including the Palomar Family Justice Cen-
ter, that use ACEs data to interrupt the cycle
of abuse. I am also proud of the Potts Family
Foundation, which has been a leader in our
community on the conversation about trauma.
We must take an evidence-based approach.
We must understand the nature and impact of
trauma to best serve those who have suffered.
f
COMMEMORATING NATIONAL
WEEK OF CONVERSATION
HON. STEVE STIVERS
OF OHIO
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, April 10, 2019
Mr. STIVERS. Madam Speaker, I rise today
on behalf of the citizens of Ohio’s 15th Con-
gressional District to commemorate the Na-
tional Week of Conversation, a week that
seeks to encourage all individuals to have
meaningful conversations with one another,
and to respect differing opinions.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 22:57 Jul 01, 2019 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\RECORD19\APRIL\E10AP9.REC E10AP9
CORRECTION
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E445
April 10, 2019
There are 300 million people in our country
who are struggling with a tumultuous time and
how to communicate with each other when
they disagree. Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. once
said: ‘‘We must live together as brothers, or
perish together as fools.’’ It is that example of
compassion and respect that Congresswoman
JOYCE BEATTY (D–OH) and I strive to dem-
onstrate as Founders and Co-Chairs of the Ci-
vility and Respect Caucus.
We created our caucus not to change peo-
ple’s opinions, beliefs, or political affiliation,
but to show that by coming together, we can
find solutions that lead to better policy. From
combatting youth homelessness and human
trafficking, to supporting our veterans and pro-
moting financial literacy—every issue that we
have collaborated on begins with a conversa-
tion.
That is why I am honored to commemorate
the National Week of Conversation. Vilifying
one another or attacking another’s motives will
not solve problems, but conversation and dis-
cussion alone can make us better. As Dr. King
also said, ‘‘people fail to get along because
they fear each other; they fear each other be-
cause they do not know each other, and the
do not know each other because they have
not communicated with each other.
In the spirit of the National Week of Con-
versation, I would encourage everyone to
have a conversation with someone new, and
to show that it is possible to disagree without
being disagreeable.
f
CELEBRATING THE 150TH ANNI-
VERSARY OF MT. RONA MIS-
SIONARY BAPTIST CHURCH
HON. JAMES E. CLYBURN
OF SOUTH CAROLINA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, April 10, 2019
Mr. CLYBURN. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to pay tribute to the legacy of Mt. Rona
Missionary Baptist Church in Effingham, South
Carolina. This historic church has served its
faithful congregation and the community for
150 years. During its remarkable history, Mt.
Rona has seen tremendous change and
growth and provided extraordinary service to
those in need.
The founders of Mt. Rona began meeting in
the small community of Friendfield under a
bush arbor in 1869. The congregants contin-
ued this tradition until in 1905 when they were
given the former Mt. Hebron Church as its
congregation moved to a new sanctuary. Rev-
erend J.R. Brooks led the transition to Mt.
Rona’s new home, and the congregation flour-
ished.
Over the years physical improvements were
made to the church. Reverend Frank Ham
oversaw the installation of a steeple and bell
tower with a chime. He also added new pews
and electricity. Reverend James Hall, Jr., cre-
ated the first pastor’s study and an inside bap-
tismal pool. Reverend J.L. Lewis and Rev-
erend James Anderson led the bricking of the
church, and installed carpet and an intercom
system.
When Reverend Tart became the church’s
leader, he changed the worship service from
twice monthly to every Sunday. The church
purchased additional land, built the T.C. Tart
Fellowship Hall, added stained glass windows,
paved the parking lot, and added new rest-
rooms. His vision was to build a new church,
and in July 2010 construction began. Rev-
erend Tart passed away before he saw the
church completed, and Pastor Parrish Brown
saw the project through to completion and be-
came the first to serve as the leader of the
new Mt. Rona. It was dedicated on April 10,
2011.
Throughout the physical and leadership
changes Mt. Rona Missionary Baptist Church
has held true to its mission to be an outreach
ministry that provides support and relief to the
disheartened, disadvantaged, and
disenfranchised.
I ask that my colleagues join me in cele-
brating the tremendous role Mt. Rona Mis-
sionary Baptist Church plays in the community
and in the lives of its parishioners. The
church’s dedication to help the least of these
is a reflection of the Biblical teaching that
‘‘faith without works is dead.’’ I congratulate
the Mount Rona Missionary Baptist Church on
this landmark 150th anniversary and know that
the church will continue to be a beacon in
Florence for many years to come.
f
CABIN AIR SAFETY ACT OF 2019
HON. JOHN GARAMENDI
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, April 10, 2019
Mr. GARAMENDI. Madam Speaker, today I
introduce the ‘‘Cabin Air Safety Act of 2019,’’
to protect commercial airline passengers and
crew from toxic air onboard commercial air-
craft.
All Americans have the right to expect safe,
clean air when travelling or reporting to work.
I am deeply concerned by the documented
cases where pilots, flight attendants, and other
airline crewmembers have been incapacitated
or even hospitalized following exposure to
toxic cabin air.
The ‘‘Cabin Air Safety Act’’ takes common-
sense steps to protect airline passengers and
crew, including installing carbon monoxide de-
tectors in commercial aircraft. I thank Senator
BLUMENTHAL (D–CT) for leading this bill last
Congress and look forward to working with
him to advance this critical legislation.
‘‘Toxic fume’’ events occur when air con-
taminated by engine exhaust, fuel fumes, deic-
ing fluids, and ozone enters the aircraft cabin
through the jet-engine intake. Exposure to
even low levels of these contaminants can in-
capacitate passengers and crew and long-
term exposure could lead to serious, debili-
tating health issues.
Our bicameral legislation would better pro-
tect airline passengers and crew by: man-
dating training regarding toxic fumes on air-
craft, requiring the Federal Aviation Adminis-
tration (FAA) to record and monitor reports of
toxic fume events, ensuring that investigations
occur following toxic fume events, and install-
ing carbon monoxide sensors on aircraft.
Senator BLUMENTHAL’s and my legislation is
endorsed by the Air Line Pilots Association
International, Association of Flight Attendants,
Allied Pilots Association, Association of Pro-
fessional Flight Attendants, International Union
of Teamsters, National Consumers League,
Southwest Airlines Pilots’ Association, and
International Association of Machinists and
Aerospace Workers.
Madam Speaker, I urge all Members to co-
sponsor the ‘‘Cabin Air Safety Act.’’
f
INTRODUCTION OF THE ENVIRON-
MENTAL INFRASTRUCTURE AS-
SISTANCE ACT
HON. GREG STANTON
OF ARIZONA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, April 10, 2019
Mr. STANTON. Madam Speaker, in its most
recent annual infrastructure report card, the
American Society of Civil Engineers gives our
nation’s drinking water and wastewater sys-
tems a grade of D and D¥ respectively,
meaning they are in fair to poor condition. For
the state of Arizona, drinking water and waste-
water systems rank slightly better, C¥ and C
respectively.
Over the next 20 years, Arizona will have
$1.93 billion in drinking water and $6.77 billion
in wastewater infrastructure needs. Unfortu-
nately, small and rural communities across Ar-
izona often lack the financial resources to do
the necessary repairs and replacement of their
aging infrastructure. To help address these in-
frastructure challenges, I am introducing the
Environmental Infrastructure Assistance Act to
provide federal assistance through the U.S.
Army Corps of Engineers for the communities
in Arizona.
The bill would provide financial assistance
to public entities, in the form of design and
construction for water-related environmental
infrastructure, and resource protection and de-
velopment projects. Projects could include:
wastewater treatment and related facilities;
water supply, storage, treatment and related
facilities; environmental restoration; and sur-
face water resource protection and develop-
ment. Additionally, funds could be used for
technical assistance for water planning and
access to water resources.
The Environmental Infrastructure Assistance
Act would provide another resource for com-
munities to use to meet their water infrastruc-
ture needs, and I am pleased to have the sup-
port of the Rural Water Association of Arizona
and the Arizona Water Association for this leg-
islation.
It is my hope that as we focus on infrastruc-
ture this Congress that we make sure invest-
ments are not only made in our roads, bridges
and airports, but that we also address water
infrastructure needs of communities in Arizona
and across the country.
f
IN MEMORY OF DR. BETTYE
MYERS
HON. MICHAEL C. BURGESS
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, April 10, 2019
Mr. BURGESS. Madam Speaker, I rise
today in memory of Bettye Myers, an invalu-
able member of the Texas Woman’s Univer-
sity community. Dr. Myers, a longtime Denton
resident, taught at TWU as a Professor of Ki-
nesiology for more than half a century. She re-
cently passed away at the age of 92.
Before she was a professor, Myers began
her time at the university as a student. After
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:18 Apr 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A10AP8.007 E10APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E446 April 10, 2019
completing the 11th grade, she enrolled at
TWU and earned her bachelor’s degree in
Health, Physical Education & Recreation, with
a minor in Government-Sociology, in 1946.
The following year, she completed a master’s
degree at TWU and in 1960 earned a Ph.D.
in counseling psychology from the University
of Michigan. Dr. Myers returned to TWU as a
faculty member in 1961. After completing 54
years of faithful service to the university, she
retired in 2015. In honor of her service, TWU
dedicated the Dr. Bettye Myers Butterfly Gar-
den in 2016.
Throughout her career, Dr. Myers was an
involved and beloved member of the Denton
community. She was actively involved in many
organizations, including the TWU Alumnae As-
sociation, the Kiwanis, AIDS Services of North
Texas, the United Way of Denton County, and
the Denton Independent School District Board
of Trustees. In recognition of her service and
contributions, the City of Denton declared
September 26, 2006, her 80th birthday, as
‘‘Bettye Myers Day.’’
Dr. Myers received more than 30 awards for
education and civic participation; however, she
is most remembered for her kindness and
dedication. Her legacy will continue on at
Myers Middle School, where generations of
North Texans will learn about her lifelong dedi-
cation to education as students at the school
that bears her name.
I am grateful for Dr. Myers’ many contribu-
tions to TWU and Denton. A true North Texas
legend, she will be remembered by those
whose lives she touched. I offer my condo-
lences to her many friends and family upon
this great loss.
f
INFANT FORMULA PROTECTION
ACT OF 2019
HON. GRACE MENG
OF NEW YORK
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, April 10, 2019
Ms. MENG. Madam Speaker, I rise today to
announce the introduction of the Infant For-
mula Protection Act.
As a mom, I know the fear and the pressure
that comes with caring for a newborn; all a
new parent wants is to make sure their baby
is healthy. Busy parents need to be able to
rely on the safety of products, like formula,
that they buy in grocery stores to make sure
their newborns are well-fed and healthy. Gro-
cery stores that stock expired formula—even
by just a few days—pose real health risks to
infants.
Although regulations require expiration
dates to be placed on formula, there is no fed-
eral law that prohibits the sale of the product
after it has expired. As a result, many stores
continue to keep the expired items on their
shelves even though the products are out-
dated.
That is why I have introduced the Infant For-
mula Protection Act of 2019, which would cat-
egorize expired infant formula as ‘‘adulter-
ated.’’ A grocery store that stocks an adulter-
ated substance can incur fines and other pen-
alties. Parents must be able to trust the safety
of the products they buy in their stores.
Madam Speaker, we cannot take any
chances with what we feed our babies, I urge
my colleagues to join me and pass the Infant
Formula Protection Act.
COMMEMORATING THE 160TH ANNI-
VERSARY OF THE CHURCH OF
ST. MICHAEL THE ARCHANGEL
HON. JAMES R. LANGEVIN
OF RHODE ISLAND
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, April 10, 2019
Mr. LANGEVIN. Madam Speaker, this year
marks the 160th anniversary of the founding of
the Church of St. Michael the Archangel in
Providence, Rhode Island. St. Michael’s parish
reflects the vibrancy and diversity of Rhode Is-
land, and its social programs continue to make
a positive impact in the community.
In 1859, St. Bernard’s Parish, which would
become St. Michael’s, was founded in Rhode
Island. Within a year, it became the home of
the St. Vincent de Paul Society, serving Irish
immigrants who fled the Great Famine. This
was the start of St. Michael’s dedication to
community service, a tradition that has contin-
ued for 160 years.
Since its founding, St. Michael’s has pro-
vided a welcoming and inclusive community
for the successive waves of immigrants who
have arrived in Rhode Island. Beginning with
Irish, Italian, Portuguese, and other Western
European immigrant populations, the St. Mi-
chael’s community has expanded to include
members of more than 40 nationalities or
countries of origin, with mass celebrated in
five different languages. The multicultural, mul-
tilingual community exemplifies Rhode Island’s
founding principles of inclusion, acceptance,
respect, religious tolerance, and the celebra-
tion of our common humanity.
St. Michael’s mission of service has long
brought parishioners together to meet the
needs of its members and of the broader com-
munity. Through their tireless advocacy, com-
mitment to service, and partnerships with local
nonprofits and other faith-based organizations,
the people of St. Michael’s have helped count-
less individuals and made an indelible mark
on the state.
St. Michael’s 160th anniversary is an incred-
ible milestone for one of the spiritual and char-
itable pillars of Rhode Island, and I look for-
ward to congratulating the parish on many
more anniversaries to come.
f
HONORING THE CAREER AND AC-
COMPLISHMENTS OF MS. MARY
ANN MELCHERS
HON. ELAINE G. LURIA
OF VIRGINIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, April 10, 2019
Mrs. LURIA. Madam Speaker, I rise today to
honor the career and accomplishments of
Mary Ann Melchers. Mary Ann Melchers has
been a female pioneer during the 54 years
that she has been an active member and vol-
unteer in the credit union movement. She
began her relationship with credit unions as a
volunteer with Norfolk Naval Base Federal
Credit Union following a merger with Amphib-
ious Base Federal Credit Union in Hampton
Roads, Virginia. Today, the credit union is
known as ABNB Federal Credit Union and is
the largest community credit union in South-
eastern Virginia.
Her credit union volunteer career is well
documented. In 1965, she became a member
of the Credit Committee at Naval Base Norfolk
Federal Credit Union. This was an especially
significant achievement considering that
women were unable to obtain credit in their
own name at that time in history. Despite
those obstacles, she began her lifelong quest
to ensure that all people of modest means re-
gardless of gender, race or creed have access
to credit and the other vital financial services
they need.
In succeeding years, deregulation dramati-
cally changed the face of the financial services
industry. In the late 1970’s, Mary Ann guided
the credit union’s evolution by recognizing and
then expanding the growth of products and
services offered to members from simple sav-
ings accounts and small loans to full-service fi-
nancial offerings. Through her leadership, she
also made history as the first woman elected
to the office of Chairperson of the Board of Di-
rectors at Naval Base Federal Credit Union.
This achievement came at a time when
women were rarely participants in American
business boardrooms let alone serving in lead-
ership roles. As chair she was instrumental in
successfully consummating the 1996 merger
of Naval Base and Amphibious Base Federal
Credit Unions, resulting in what is now known
as ABNB Federal Credit Union.
At ABNB Federal Credit Union, Mary Ann
has held numerous leadership positions serv-
ing as Vice Chair of the Board from 1996 to
1998. In 1999, she was elected Chair of the
ABNB FCU Board, beginning a 20-year volun-
teer career as chair and only the second
woman to hold that position in ABNB’s history.
Under her leadership ABNB grew from 32,615
to 59,469 members and from $182 million to
well over $57 million in assets.
Through her stewardship, the credit union
also expanded its field of membership from
solely serving military personnel on the Naval
Base and Amphibious Base into the largest
full-service community credit union. Today, the
credit union serves over 60,000 members
across Hampton Roads and Northeastern
North Carolina with 18 branches and 24 sur-
charge-free ATM’s. In addition, she was the
2016 recipient of the Virginia Credit Union
League’s highest honor, the James P. Kirsch
Lifetime Achievement Award. This award is
given annually to recognize individuals who
have made significant contributions to the
credit union movement over the course of their
career.
In summary, Mary Ann was able to deliver
on her promise ensuring that people of mod-
est means have access to credit and other af-
fordable financial services. During her 54-year
volunteer career she was instrumental in guid-
ing a credit union that would eventually serve
everyone in Hampton Roads and beyond with
low cost and high-quality financial services.
f
CELEBRATING GENOA HIGH
SCHOOL WRESTLING FOR WIN-
NING DUAL MEET AND TEAM
STATE TITLES
HON. ROBERT E. LATTA
OF OHIO
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, April 10, 2019
Mr. LATTA. Madam Speaker, I rise to rec-
ognize the Genoa High School Comets for
winning the Ohio School Athletic Association
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:18 Apr 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A10AP8.012 E10APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E447
April 10, 2019
Division III State Dual Title and Team Title.
This is the second consecutive year in which
the Comets are state champions in both
events.
In the state dual meet, the Comets fought
back after losing three out of their first four
matches to secure a 52–23 victory over Milan
Edison. Individually, Oscar Sanchez, Julian
Sanchez, Dustin Morgillo, Kevin Contos, and
James Limongi all won state titles. The Com-
ets cruised to the title by setting a D–III record
by scoring 162 points.
The Genoa community should be proud of
the effort from these student-athletes and the
dedication, hard-work, and mental fortitude it
takes to compete at such a high level. Con-
gratulations to Coach Bob Bergman and the
Comets on the state titles. Well done, Genoa
wrestling.
f
SAVE THE INTERNET ACT OF 2019
SPEECH OF
HON. ZOE LOFGREN
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, April 9, 2019
The House in Committee of the Whole
House on the state of the Union had under
consideration the bill (H.R. 1644) to restore
the open internet order of the Federal Com-
munications Commission:
Ms. LOFGREN. Madam Chair, the Federal
Communications Commission’s (FCC’s) par-
tisan vote to rollback net neutrality regulations
implemented under the Obama Administration
was extremely troubling and quite wrong. Al-
lowing internet service providers (ISPs) to
charge for ‘‘fast lanes’’ would alter the internet
significantly.
The idea that broadband internet access is
an information service, rather than a tele-
communications service, was a convenient
legal-fiction in the 90s when broadband was in
an infancy, to help speed its adoption. But
classifying broadband as anything other than
telecommunication service today is intellectu-
ally empty.
The argument the FCC puts forward that
broadband is an information service because it
offers domain name resolution is laughable.
According to the FCC, you aren’t buying inter-
net access you are buying a DNS service,
something I’m willing to bet 98 percent of
broadband customers have never heard of.
It must be a triumph of marketing genius
that broadband providers have sold 98 percent
of their customers something that they have
never heard of, or even knew they had. Under
this logic, I guess telephone lines aren’t tele-
communication services, but phonebook infor-
mation services.
Likewise, the FCC’s argument that some-
how net neutrality has harmed broadband de-
ployment has not only been directly contra-
dicted for years by broadband providers’ state-
ments to shareholders, one only needs to look
at Comcast for an example of how wrong the
FCC is.
Because of the consent decree it agreed to
for its purchase of NBC Universal, Comcast
was subject to net neutrality longer than any
other broadband provider, from 2011 to 2018.
In those 7 years, the average Comcast
broadband connection went from 18 megabits
per second to 69 megabits per second. In
2017, Comcast had the fastest national Speed
Score according to internet speed test com-
pany Ookla.
As for the concerns around the reclassifica-
tion itself, the FCC never attempted to use
any of the Title II authorities that broadband
companies were allegedly concerned about. In
fact, the FCC barred themselves from doing
so in the original net neutrality order.
By voting in favor of H.R. 1644, we will be
codifying this forbearance, effectively pre-
venting any future FCC from undoing that for-
bearance without Congress.
The Internet has become an indispensable
part of all aspects of modern life. And our reli-
ance on it as a neutral gateway will only in-
crease. It would be irresponsible of Congress
not to protect the openness and freedom of
the Internet that has made so much possible.
I can’t fathom why this isn’t a bipartisan
issue, but to quote Wade Randlett, founder of
TechNet: ‘‘The GOP seems to think that Or-
wellian language is going to work on the
world’s smartest people, . . . . If you say net
neutrality is government regulation—and if you
think there’s anyone in the valley who thinks
that’s a true statement—you’re already dead
in the water. They would be better off just say-
ing, ‘We respectfully disagree.’ ’’
I am a proud original cosponsor of H.R.
1644, the Save the Internet Act, and urge my
colleagues to vote in favor.
f
CELEBRATING THE 40TH ANNIVER-
SARY OF THE AMERICAN INSTI-
TUTE IN TAIWAN
HON. EDDIE BERNICE JOHNSON
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, April 10, 2019
Ms. JOHNSON of Texas. Madam Speaker,
forty years ago today, President Carter signed
the Taiwan Relations Act, which established a
new chapter in the United States relationship
with Taiwan. The Taiwan Relations Act al-
lowed the people of the United States and Tai-
wan to continue commercial, cultural, and
other relations even after the United States
government had changed its diplomatic rec-
ognition from Taipei to Beijing earlier that
year.
One of the most integral parts of this legisla-
tion was the establishment of the American In-
stitute in Taiwan. This organization’s directive
was to carry out programs, transactions and
any other forms of relations by the United
States government with respect to Taiwan.
Today, I want to recognize the hard work
done by the personnel at the American Insti-
tute in Taiwan, past and present. The AIT has
served a unique role for the past four decades
in regards to United States diplomacy in East
Asia. Staffed by employees from various
agencies throughout the U.S. government, AIT
manages the day-to-day security and defense,
economic and commercial, and people-to-peo-
ple aspects of our close relationship with Tai-
wan.
As the United States-Taiwan relationship
continues to grow, I hope the American Insti-
tute in Taiwan will continue to play an impor-
tant role in strengthening our friendship with
Taiwan.
HONORING THE LEGACY OF
ERMIAS JOSEPH ASGHEDOM,
KNOWN ALSO AS NIPSEY
HUSSLE, AND HIS CONTRIBU-
TIONS TO SOUTH LOS ANGELES
HON. KAREN BASS
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, April 10, 2019
Ms. BASS. Madam Speaker, may this entry
serve as enduring recognition of the legacy
lived and left by Ermias Joseph Asghedom,
known to his community and the neighbor-
hoods of South Los Angeles and beyond, as
Nipsey Hussle.
Nipsey Hussle was born in the Hyde Park
neighborhood of South Los Angeles in 1985.
His father was the only member of his own
family in Eritrea to move to the United States,
where he met Nipsey Hussle’s mother. As a
teen, Nipsey attended Alexander Hamilton
High School, as did I, as did many in South
Los Angeles. He went on to pursue a music
career that would touch millions, culminating in
national recognition for his studio album ‘‘Vic-
tory Lap’’.
An innovator, entrepreneur and community
investor, Nipsey Hussle used the platform he
created with his music to further demonstrate
not only his business savvy, but his love and
pride for where he came from in addition to
showing the importance of community owner-
ship and reinvestment. In the same way he
went from selling mixtapes on the corner of
Crenshaw and Slauson to owning the masters
of his GRAMMY-nominated album, Nipsey
Hussle went from trademarking his clothing
line, to owning the stores selling his
trademarked clothing line, to owning the shop-
ping plaza where the store selling his clothing
line was located.
Marathon Clothing is a technologically
ground-breaking store that could have been
opened anywhere. Nipsey Hussle opened it on
Slauson and Crenshaw. South Los Angeles
was where he invested; opening a barbershop
and two restaurants in that same intersection,
reopening the World on Wheels skating rink in
Mid-City, and partnering with Vector 90, one of
the first work spaces and incubators in South
L.A. designed to support black and brown en-
trepreneurship locally. He also worked with the
Los Angeles City Council on Destination Cren-
shaw, a project to be built for, by, and in
honor of our community in celebration of the
historical and contemporary contributions of
Black L.A. and the Crenshaw community.
Throughout his projects, Nipsey Hussle
brought the neighborhood with him. In working
to ensure that the community was knowledge-
able about their economic power, Nipsey
Hussle made sure to give jobs to residents in
the neighborhood who were struggling, some
of which were homeless and formerly incarcer-
ated. He once provided a pair of shoes to
every student at 59th Street Elementary
School and also donated to renovate the
school’s playground and basketball courts. He
inspired many others in the entertainment in-
dustry to actively invest in South Los Angeles
neighborhoods as well.
A humble visionary, Nipsey Hussle initiated
peace in a community where experiences of
systematic injustices appear in the form of po-
lice brutality and gang violence. He saw the
overlooked and welcomed the dismissed. He
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:18 Apr 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A10AP8.004 E10APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E448 April 10, 2019
was an activist working to reduce gun violence
in the community, hosting demonstrations and
symposiums over the years. He was slated to
meet with the Los Angeles Police Department
about reducing gun violence in the community
the day after he was murdered.
He taught and reminded our community that
the power we hold is the power we come from
and that awareness of our power is something
no one can take from us. Nipsey Hussle will
be remembered as a visionary, as a protector,
as an inspiration, as a philanthropist, as a fa-
ther, as a brother and as an unabashed son
of South Los Angeles. For all he was given,
he gave back. And for that legacy, South Los
Angeles has been changed forever.
f
CELEBRATING THE 150TH ANNI-
VERSARY OF TRINITY BAPTIST
CHURCH
HON. JAMES E. CLYBURN
OF SOUTH CAROLINA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, April 10, 2019
Mr. CLYBURN. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to pay tribute to Trinity Baptist Church in
Florence, South Carolina as it celebrates its
150th anniversary and to congratulate Rev-
erend Dr. Calvin E. Robinson, Jr. and his con-
gregation on this significant milestone in the
life of the church and congregation. This his-
toric congregation was founded during the Re-
construction Era and throughout its history has
been a beacon in times of joy and sorrow for
the Florence community.
Trinity Baptist Church had its humble begin-
nings in a home on Front Street. Thereafter a
group of faithful Christians came together and
purchased the lot adjoining the present edifice
and the first framed building was constructed.
The structure allowed the church to continue
to grow and flourish under the leadership of
Reverend Wesley J. Parnell.
After a period of significant growth, the
church moved to its current location where
membership nearly doubled in the first few
years. On one occasion two hundred mem-
bers were baptized on the same day.
Under the pastorate of Reverend Charles T.
Taylor the church organized the Missionary
Society and an outstanding field effort to es-
tablish Morris College in 1908, which is owned
by the Baptist Educational and Missionary
Convention of South Carolina—an organiza-
tion that Trinity Baptist helped to found and or-
ganize. I am particularly pleased with this ef-
fort because both my parents obtained de-
grees from Morris.
Under the leadership of a previous pastor,
Reverend William P. Diggs, the church experi-
enced unprecedented growth, greatly increas-
ing its giving to missions, benevolences and
education. In 1968, the church was expanded
to include an education building and the sanc-
tuary was extensively renovated. This new
renovation and expansion helped the church
to grow its education mission. It also provided
the church with a choir room and a fellowship
hall. The church has grown other missions in-
cluding the Junior Missionary Society, Gospel
Choir, Sunday School, and the Young Wom-
en’s Auxiliary.
Madam Speaker, I invite you and my col-
leagues to join me in commending Trinity Bap-
tist Church for one hundred fifty years of faith-
ful service. Its members continue to be bea-
cons of hope in Florence, providing compas-
sion and care for, not only its members, but
also the least among us. I congratulate Trinity
Baptist Church for its rich history and look for-
ward to continue witnessing the good works of
the church as it continues to grow and serve.
f
GLASS-STEAGALL
HON. MARCY KAPTUR
OF OHIO
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, April 10, 2019
Ms. KAPTUR. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to introduce the Return to Prudent Banking
Act of 2019, a bill to reinstate the Glass-
Steagall Act. In the wake of the Great Depres-
sion, the 1933 Glass-Steagall Act was passed
in order to separate commercial and invest-
ment banks, and prevent Wall Street from
gambling with the head-earned money of the
American people.
Tragically, the big banks and their crony lob-
byists pushed Congress to repeal the law in
1999. This deeply misguided deregulation may
have benefitted a few wealthy bankers. How-
ever, it opened the floodgates to the growth of
financial institutions that are too big to fail and
encouraged the type of risky behaviors that
led to the crash of the American financial sys-
tem in 2008.
Although we made significant progress with
the Dodd-Frank Act, large commercial and in-
vestment banks are still tied together in an in-
stitutional risk which poses dramatic systemic
risk to the financial well-being of our country.
I urge my colleagues to join me in passing the
Prudent Banking Act to reimplement the vital
protections of the Glass-Steagall Act that
serve to ensure the security and stability of
our financial system.
f
IN RECOGNITION OF THE
REVEREND DR. MARCUS J. GIBSON
HON. SANFORD D. BISHOP, JR.
OF GEORGIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, April 10, 2019
Mr. BISHOP of Georgia. Madam Speaker, I
rise today to honor an outstanding Man of
God and friend of longstanding, Reverend Dr.
Marcus J. Gibson, who will celebrate his 20th
anniversary as the distinguished pastor of
Greater Shady Grove Missionary Baptist
Church in Columbus, Georgia. Anniversary
worship services will be held on Sunday, April
14, 2019, at the church.
Rev. Gibson is a native of Pine Bluff, Arkan-
sas, who served our nation honorably as a
U.S. Army officer from 1995 to 1999, after
graduating from Watson Chapel High School.
He went on to earn a Bachelor of Science de-
gree from the University of Arkansas at Pine
Bluff, a Master of Divinity degree from the
Morehouse School of Religion, and a Doc-
torate of Ministry in Preaching from the
McCormick Theological Seminary. Over the
years, he has continued to encourage others
to pursue advanced education through his
service as an Adjunct Professor of Biblical and
Religious Studies at the Beulah Heights Uni-
versity Columbus extension site.
Always seeking to improve the craft of
Christian ministry and discipleship, Rev. Gib-
son has served as President of the Mt. Cal-
vary Missionary Baptist Association Congress
of Christian Education, President of the Metro-
Columbus Interdenominational Ministerial Alli-
ance, and Dean of the General Missionary
Baptist Convention of Georgia Congress of
Christian Education.
Not one to rest on his laurels, Rev. Gibson
is an active member of many civic organiza-
tions where he continuously devotes his time
and energy to his community. He is a member
of Alpha Phi Alpha Fraternity, Inc. and is a
Master Mason in Electric Light Lodge No. 45,
Arkansas Jurisdiction (Prince Hall Affiliation).
Furthermore, Rev. Gibson has served as a
member of the Muscogee County (Georgia)
Sheriff’s Advisory Board; a member of the
Mayor’s Commission on Unity, Diversity, and
Prosperity; a member of the Citizens Trust
Bank Columbus Advisory Board; and has
worked with numerous other community-based
organizations within the Columbus, Georgia
area.
Rev. Gibson has achieved much in his life,
but none of it would be possible but for the
Grace of God and the love and the support of
his son, MarDarius; and his daughter,
MarKayla.
Madam Speaker, today I ask my colleagues
to join my wife, Vivian; and me, along with the
congregation of Greater Shady Grove Mis-
sionary Baptist Church and more than 730,000
residents of Georgia’s Second Congressional
District, in extending our sincerest congratula-
tions to Reverend Dr. Marcus J. Gibson on
this joyous occasion. A man of great accom-
plishment, he is an outstanding mentor, strong
leader, and prominent community activist, but
above all, he is a faithful servant of God.
f
MENSTRUAL PRODUCTS RIGHT TO
KNOW ACT OF 2019
HON. GRACE MENG
OF NEW YORK
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, April 10, 2019
Ms. MENG. Madam Speaker, I rise today to
announce the introduction of the Menstrual
Products Right to Know Act. This legislation
would make menstrual hygiene products safer
by ensuring that women know what they are
putting in their bodies. This bill would require
manufacturers of commonly used menstrual
hygiene products, such as scented and
unscented pads, cups, and scented and
unscented tampons, to label the ingredients in
these items, and list them in descending order
of concentration.
We can easily see the ingredients used in
the shampoo we put in our hair; these same
transparency requirements should apply to
products that touch, or are inserted to, sen-
sitive female anatomy. Consumers are being
denied access to crucial information, which af-
fects their safety and impacts their ability to
make informed choices.
I urge my colleagues to join me in sup-
porting the Menstrual Products Right to Know
Act.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:18 Apr 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A10AP8.018 E10APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E449
April 10, 2019
HONORING LAURA HABR ON BEING
NAMED FIRST CITIZEN OF VIR-
GINIA BEACH
HON. ELAINE G. LURIA
OF VIRGINIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, April 10, 2019
Mrs. LURIA. Madam Speaker, I rise today to
honor and recognize Laura Habr on being
named the First Citizen of Virginia Beach. This
is an amazing accomplishment.
This award recognizes Laura’s lifetime of
service and commitment to the welfare of our
community. Laura’s commitment to her busi-
ness, Croc’s, and her role as a civic leader is
inspiring to many. Her business and leader-
ship are well known in Virginia Beach. Addi-
tionally, her input on boards and committees—
such as the Old Beach Farmers Market,
Green Resort Ecofriendly Neighbors, and the
Resort Advisory Commission—is invaluable.
Laura’s dedication to inclusion and to
strengthening the community is truly inspiring.
I am proud to honor and recognize Laura for
her leadership and the role she plays in mak-
ing our community a better place. Virginia
Beach has significantly benefited from her
presence.
f
CONGRATULATING DR. STEPHEN
MITROS ON HIS RETIREMENT
AFTER FOUR DECADES OF SERV-
ICE
HON. JACKIE WALORSKI
OF INDIANA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, April 10, 2019
Mrs. WALORSKI. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to congratulate Dr. Stephen Mitros on
his retirement from his orthopaedic surgery
practice after 43 years.
Dr. Mitros has served the South Bend com-
munity for generations. His commitment to ex-
cellent care goes beyond treatment and recov-
ery. He has always shown his patients he truly
cares about each individual and wants to treat
their pain in a way that works best for them.
The team at Mitros Orthopaedics in South
Bend, a true family practice, demonstrates un-
paralleled expertise, compassion, and dedica-
tion to their work. Family has always been
central to Dr. Mitros’s practice. His wife, Janet,
was the office manager and a registered
nurse, and their daughter Kellye was a med-
ical assistant. He shared the lessons his fa-
ther, Dr. Paul Mitros, taught him about caring
for patients, and I have no doubt this legacy
will continue far into the future.
Dr. Mitros has been a leader in addressing
the opioid epidemic by focusing on a non-nar-
cotic approach. He began to see a vast dif-
ference in his patients’ health and well-being,
as well as in their rate of recovery. He has
been a guiding light in the orthopaedic com-
munity, and he has devoted time and energy
outside of his practice to researching new
techniques and training physicians across the
country. Though Dr. Mitros said he ‘‘did not do
it with any crusading idea about cutting down
on my contribution to the opioid crisis,’’ his
leadership in promoting non-opioid alternatives
to pain management truly did transform his
practice and made a lasting difference in peo-
ple’s lives.
On behalf of 2nd District Hoosiers, I am
grateful to Dr. Mitros for his years of dedicated
service and for the innovative approach he
took to caring for each patient and identifying
comprehensive treatment options that put their
health and well-being first. I look forward to
continuing to work with providers like Dr.
Mitros to address the opioid epidemic by ad-
vocating for patient-centered care.
Madam Speaker, I ask my colleagues to join
me in congratulating Dr. Mitros and thanking
him for all he has done to improve lives and
advance the practice of orthopaedic medicine.
f
INTRODUCTION OF THE DISTRICT
OF COLUMBIA LOCAL JUROR
NON-DISCRIMINATION ACT OF
2019
HON. ELEANOR HOLMES NORTON
OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, April 10, 2019
Ms. NORTON. Madam Speaker, today, I in-
troduce the District of Columbia Local Juror
Non-Discrimination Act of 2019. This bill would
clarify that D.C. residents may not be ex-
cluded or disqualified from jury service in the
D.C. Superior Court based on sexual orienta-
tion or gender identity. Specifically, my bill
would clarify that ‘‘sex,’’ which is a protected
class under the non-discrimination law that
currently applies to local D.C. jurors, includes
sexual orientation and gender identity. Under
the Home Rule Act, Congress has exclusive
jurisdiction over Title 11 of the D.C. Code (re-
lating to organization and jurisdiction of the
local D.C. courts).
The District has one of the strongest non-
discrimination laws in the country, including
protecting individuals based on sexual orienta-
tion and gender identity. However, under the
Home Rule Act, the District does not have the
authority to make this non-discrimination law
applicable to local jurors. Therefore, until the
District is given complete control over the ju-
risdiction and organization of its local courts,
an act of Congress is required to make this
important change to protect the rights of all
D.C. residents. I will soon be introducing a bill
to give the District local control of its courts. In
the meantime, however, the District of Colum-
bia Local Juror Non-Discrimination Act of 2019
is necessary to protect D.C. jurors from dis-
crimination.
My bill is based on H.R. 874, the Juror Non-
Discrimination Act of 2019 (H.R. 874), which
would make the same changes to federal jury
law. I am a proud original cosponsor of that
bill.
I urge my colleagues to support this impor-
tant bill.
f
HONORING THE CAREER OF MARY
MACKBEE
HON. BETTY McCOLLUM
OF MINNESOTA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, April 10, 2019
Ms. MCCOLLUM. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to honor Mary Mackbee on a remark-
able 53-year career in public education as she
prepares to retire as principal of Saint Paul’s
Central High School. Mary is a highly gifted
educator, and far more—a civic leader in Min-
nesota’s Capital City, a mentor to students,
teachers, and parents alike and a model of
what it means to be an engaged and caring
member of the community.
Growing up in New Orleans, Mary attended
segregated schools. Her teachers became
vital to her life, so much so that by the time
she was in 9th grade she knew that being a
public educator was her life’s calling. After at-
tending Xavier University of Louisiana where
she studied Social Studies and English, Mary
was recruited to begin her teaching career
here in Minnesota. So it was in September of
1966 that she embarked on what would be-
come a career spanning more than five dec-
ades, primarily in Saint Paul, Minnesota.
Mary began as a classroom teacher before
moving to positions as principal and district
administrator in the Saint Paul Public Schools.
She ultimately returned to the role she loved
more than any other in 1993. As principal of
Saint Paul’s Central High School, the oldest
continuously operating high school in the state
of Minnesota, she has overseen the education
of an estimated 13,000 students during her
tenure. She has earned a reputation as an ar-
dent advocate for the arts and extracurricular
programs, and is a frequent attendee of Cen-
tral’s various arts and athletic events beyond
regular school hours.
Principal Mackbee has demonstrated resil-
ient leadership through tumultuous changes in
technology, demographics and traumatic
events in the community and the ‘‘Central fam-
ily.’’ When difficult situations affect students
and teachers at Central, she sets the tone by
listening and leaning into what she believes is
her school’s strength—the diversity of the
community. Mary notes that, ‘‘It (Central High
School) always drew a very, very diverse pop-
ulation, from the black community of Rondo,
the Jewish community of Highland, the rich
community of Summit Avenue . . . I think
that’s what makes us strong.’’ Through it all,
Central High School has been successful in
recruiting and retaining excellent teachers and
maintaining outstanding academic, athletic and
fine arts programs. This would not have been
possible without the leadership and strong ad-
vocacy Mary has provided. The results show
that this playbook is working—Central High
School consistently ranks among the top high
schools in the state for academic achievement
and graduation rates.
Mary often starts her days at 6:30 in the
morning and often doesn’t leave campus until
after eight o’clock. Staff and former students
often remark about how there is no task too
small for her to do when it comes to Central.
Whether it be attending meetings with parents
or students to wiping down cafeteria tables,
Mary Mackbee knows what it takes to keep
Central High School running and strong. Be-
cause of Mary, generations of students re-
ceived outstanding instruction in a vibrant and
supportive environment at Saint Paul’s Central
High School.
Madam Speaker, please join me in honoring
the remarkable 53-year career of one of our
communities most respected and beloved
leaders, Principal Mary Mackbee.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:18 Apr 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A10AP8.015 E10APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E450 April 10, 2019
IN RECOGNITION OF MRS. PATRI-
CIA ‘‘PATTY’’ PARKER CULLEN
HON. SANFORD D. BISHOP, JR.
OF GEORGIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, April 10, 2019
Mr. BISHOP of Georgia. Madam Speaker, it
is my honor and pleasure to extend my per-
sonal congratulations and best wishes to an
exceptional community leader and outstanding
citizen, Mrs. Patricia ‘‘Patty’’ Parker Cullen, on
the occasion of her retirement as the Execu-
tive Director of the River Valley Regional
Commission.
A native of Phenix City, Alabama, Patty re-
ceived both her bachelor’s degree in Home
Economics and her master’s degree in Com-
munity Planning from Auburn University.
For almost four decades, she has been a
well-respected leader in the community devel-
opment industry in the Chattahoochee Valley
region. She has built quite an impressive ca-
reer, which began with her position as an Eco-
nomic/Energy Planner for the Lower Chat-
tahoochee Area Planning and Development
Commission. During her extensive tenure in
the community development industry, Patricia
has held several leadership roles within the
Lower Chattahoochee Area Planning and De-
velopment Commission, the Lower Chattahoo-
chee Regional Development Center, and the
River Valley Regional Commission. Patty has
done a tremendous job in upholding the high-
est standards of achievement, service and
public distinction.
Throughout her career, Patty has served on
a number of boards and was affiliated with
several associations including the Advisory
Council at Auburn University; the American
Planning Association; the Georgia Association
of Regional Commissions; the Georgia Plan-
ning Association; and Kappa Kappa Gamma
Alumni Association.
Patty has accomplished much throughout
her life, but none of this would have been pos-
sible without the Grace of God and the love
and support of her late husband, George; and
her stepdaughter, Sally.
Sir Winston Churchill often said: ‘‘You make
your living by what you get; you make your life
by what you give.’’ The Lower Chattahoochee
Valley area is a better place because Patty
Cullen gave so much to so many to make our
community stronger. As a woman of great in-
tegrity, her efforts, her dedication, and her ex-
pertise are unparalleled, but her heart for help-
ing others utilizing these qualities has made
her life’s work truly special.
Madam Speaker, I ask my colleagues to join
my wife, Vivian; and me, along with the more
than 730,000 citizens of Georgia’s Second
Congressional District, in extending our sin-
cerest appreciation and best wishes to Patricia
‘‘Patty’’ Parker Cullen upon the occasion of
her retirement from an outstanding career of
public service.
IN RECOGNITION OF THE INAU-
GURATION OF DR. ADELA DE LA
TORRE
HON. SUSAN A. DAVIS
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, April 10, 2019
Mrs. DAVIS of California. Madam Speaker,
I rise to recognize an important milestone in
the history of San Diego as Dr. Adela de la
Torre is set to be inaugurated as San Diego
State University’s (SDSU) ninth President on
April 11, 2019.
Her inauguration is taking place at a unique
juncture in the history of San Diego State Uni-
versity and has the potential to impart a sig-
nificant impact on higher education throughout
San Diego County.
SDSU is, and always will be, a major driver
of San Diego’s economy. With an annual eco-
nomic impact of over $5.67 billion dollars, it is
important that we continue to support SDSU
and the thousands of students who graduate
from the institution every year; more than 60
percent of whom stay in San Diego and put
their degrees to work in our local communities.
Dr. de la Torre is a graduate of UC Berke-
ley, and holds a master’s degree and Ph.D. in
agricultural and resource economics. She has
been a dedicated leader in the higher edu-
cation space for over 30 years.
Dr. de la Torre was appointed as SDSU’s
first woman president in June of 2018.
Throughout her first year in this position, she
has spent significant time ‘‘listening and learn-
ing’’ to stakeholders in the region and em-
barked on a listening tour throughout San
Diego County to ensure she has an intimate
understanding of the unique needs of the stu-
dents SDSU serves.
As she assumes control of SDSU, Dr. de la
Torre has an opportunity to establish her vi-
sion for the future. At a time when the Univer-
sity is planning a major expansion in Mission
Valley, it is important that its leaders clearly
articulate their plans for growth and develop-
ment.
Under Dr. de la Torre’s leadership, SDSU
embarks on a journey to increase its local
footprint and establish the infrastructure nec-
essary to support students over the next cen-
tury. By engaging with the community, she
has positioned herself well for success.
As I reflect on Dr. de la Torre’s past accom-
plishments, and on her vision for the future, I
am inspired by her dedication to social justice,
and to improving higher education for the
good of all students. I believe that her experi-
ence has prepared her well for achievement of
SDSU’s lofty goals.
I am pleased to be able to welcome Dr. de
la Torre as SDSU’s new president, and look
forward to seeing her vision for SDSU take
shape. Under her guidance, SDSU stands
poised and ready to greatly expand its impact,
and emerge as a mecca for innovative higher
education in California and beyond.
I extend my congratulations to her on her
appointment and inauguration. In the short
time she has been in San Diego orienting her-
self to every opportunity here, she has epito-
mized the future of our community. Dr. de la
Torre is SDSU and will surely touch lives.
TRIBUTE TO CORPORAL ROBERT
HENDRIKS
HON. THOMAS R. SUOZZI
OF NEW YORK
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, April 10, 2019
Mr. SUOZZI. Madam Speaker, I rise to ex-
press my deepest sympathy and sorrow in the
passing of Corporal Robert Hendriks. The son
of Erik Hendriks and Felicia Biondo-Arculeo,
Robert was a United States Marine who died
this week while bravely serving his country in
Afghanistan. This was his second deployment.
Robert grew up in Locust Valley, New York,
next to my hometown of Glen Cove. Almost
immediately after graduating from Locust Val-
ley High School in 2012, Robert joined the
United Marine Corps Reserves, and was as-
signed to the Site Support 2nd Battalion, 25th
Marine Regiment in Garden City, NY.
On Monday, April 8th, Robert, along with
the members of his unit were driving in a con-
voy near Baghram Air Base when an impro-
vised explosive device was detonated near his
Humvee. Robert, along with two other mem-
bers of his unit were killed in this attack.
Known for his selflessness and commitment
to duty, his friends and family also knew him
as a kind and gentle person. ‘‘He was the kind
of kid you just want to hug,’’ said his aunt.
Robert’s brother, Joseph, also a Marine, ar-
rived in Afghanistan last week to begin his
tour. Joseph is now escorting his brother’s re-
mains back home to their family.
Robert Hendriks is an American hero who
reflects the best of the United States of Amer-
ica, the United States Marine Corps, and the
Third Congressional District of New York. May
God bless Robert Hendriks, and grant peace
and strength to his family.
f
CLEAN FUELS NATIONAL AND THE
CLEAN FUELS NATIONAL FUEL
SUMMIT
HON. JIM BANKS
OF INDIANA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, April 10, 2019
Mr. BANKS. Madam Speaker, I rise today to
celebrate Clean Fuels National and the Clean
Fuels National Fuel Summit held in Fort
Wayne, Indiana. Hundreds of attendees span-
ning from Washington State to Pennsylvania
will participate in this invitation-only forum.
Business leaders will discuss important issues
facing the industry, such as natural disaster
preparation, card skimming and UST regula-
tions.
This forum would not be possible without
the hard work of Clean Fuels National and the
Vanover Family. Kas, Mike, and Gregg
Vanover founded Clean Fuels National in
2000, on the idea of providing exceptional fuel
filtration and tank cleaning services to North-
east Indiana. Nineteen years later, Clean
Fuels National is the largest fuel filtration and
tank cleaning company in the United States.
However, its roots remain grounded in North-
east Indiana. The bedrock of Clean Fuels Na-
tional lies in the close-knit support of the sur-
rounding community and its loyal customers.
Today, Clean Fuels National employs over 60
individuals from Northeast Indiana and is con-
stantly expanding.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:18 Apr 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00010 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A10AP8.029 E10APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E451
April 10, 2019
I offer my congratulations to Clean Fuels
National on all of their achievements, and best
wishes for continued success in the years to
come.
f
HONORING THE 150TH ANNIVER-
SARY OF EMINENCE, MISSOURI
HON. JASON SMITH
OF MISSOURI
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, April 10, 2019
Mr. SMITH of Missouri. Madam Speaker, I
rise today to honor the Sesquicentennial of
Eminence, Missouri. Located in Shannon
County, Eminence began as a small settle-
ment along the Current River near Round
Spring. In 1868, after the courthouse was
burned in the Civil War, it was determined the
town and county seat should be moved to a
more centrally-located area. County Judges
Alfred Deatherage, Thomas J. Chilton, and
William Mahan commissioned William S.
Chilton to find the new location. Utilizing the
help of his brother, Thomas J. Chilton, they
moved the town to its current location.
The early structures in Eminence were con-
structed out of log and plain lumber. The first
businesses in town, a saloon, store, and post
office, were constructed by Colonel Thomas
Freeman and A.J.P. Deatherage.
Today, Eminence is known for its canoeing,
trail riding, hunting, fishing, and camping. It is
also the home of former astronaut Tom Akers,
a veteran of four space shuttle missions and
former Principal of Eminence High School.
The people of Eminence have shown their
resiliency through the years by overcoming
fires, floods, and other obstacles. This resil-
iency has made Eminence what it is today. It
is my honor to acknowledge this historic birth-
day before the United States House of Rep-
resentatives.
f
CONGRATULATING DAVE AND
KATHLEEN SPARKS ON 50 YEARS
AT MCDONALD’S
HON. JACKIE WALORSKI
OF INDIANA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, April 10, 2019
Mrs. WALORSKI. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to congratulate Dave and Kathleen
Sparks on 50 years of growth, innovation, and
leadership at McDonald’s.
Dave began his career at McDonald’s as a
cashier while in college. In the beginning, he
needed strong math skills, good customer
service, and knowledge of the menu. These
skills taught Dave the lessons that would stay
with him through the launch of his career and
would help shape his success as an owner-
operator. His continued commitment to our
community has helped grow our economy and
provide good jobs for hardworking Hoosiers
for decades. Dave’s contributions to our
state’s workforce and franchise economy have
been invaluable, and his entrepreneurial spirit
and exceptional drive are inspirational to fu-
ture generations.
Dave and his wife Kathleen have not only
transformed the lives of their employees and
other McDonald’s owner-operators across the
state, they have also been intimately involved
with the northern Indiana Ronald McDonald
House Charities. Their teamwork, leadership,
and business acumen exemplify the strong
Hoosier values that move our state forward,
and they display the compassion that con-
nects us all.
It is truly a privilege to represent Hoosier job
creators like Dave and Kathleen, who never
stop building opportunities for others and mak-
ing Indiana a better place to live, work, and
thrive.
Madam Speaker, I ask my colleagues to join
me in congratulating Dave Sparks on his 50th
anniversary at McDonald’s, and in thanking
him for setting a positive example for business
owners and franchisees across the country. I
look forward to the incredible things that lie
ahead for Dave, his family, and our nation’s
love of McDonald’s, and I wish him all the best
in this next chapter.
f
IN RECOGNITION OF BISHOP C.
JAMES KING, JR.
HON. SANFORD D. BISHOP, JR.
OF GEORGIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, April 10, 2019
Mr. BISHOP of Georgia. Madam Speaker, I
rise today to recognize an outstanding Man of
God, Bishop C. James King, Jr., the Presiding
Bishop of the Fourth Episcopal District of the
Christian Methodist Episcopal Church, which
spans the state of Alabama. On Thursday,
April 11, 2019, Bishop King will be the distin-
guished preacher for the Ecumenical Service
at St. James AME Church located at 1002
Sixth Avenue in Columbus, Georgia.
Bishop Charles James King, Jr. was born
on May 15, 1948, to the union of the late Mr.
Charles James King, Sr. and Mrs. Ruthie Mae
Middlebrooks King. The Columbus, Georgia
native is the eldest of 12 children and was
reared by his grandparents. He received his
Bachelor of Arts degree in History from Paine
College in 1974, his Master of Divinity degree
in the Old Testament from The Interdenomina-
tional Theological Center in 1979, and his
Doctor of Ministry degree in Educational Ad-
ministration with a special concentration in
Program Development from Ashland Theo-
logical Seminary in 1994.
During his career, Bishop King has pastored
several congregations including Murray Memo-
rial CME Church in Georgia; Bunton Institu-
tional CME Church in Washington, D.C.;
Brown Memorial CME Church in Kentucky;
Trinity Church and Murchison Tabernacle
CME Church in Indiana; as well as Peoples
Community CME Church, Phillips Memorial
CME Church, and St. Phillips CME Church in
Ohio. He has also played a leading role in
several religious and community-based organi-
zations including Presiding Elder of the Cin-
cinnati-Dayton-Indianapolis District in the
Ohio-Central Indiana Region; the Episcopal
Director of Faith-Based and Community-Based
Ministries in the Second Episcopal District
covering churches from Maryland, District of
Columbia, Virginia, and North Carolina; and a
member and vice chair of The General Board
of Personnel Services for the CME Church,
before being elected the 63rd Bishop of the
Christian Methodist Episcopal Church in 2014.
Bishop King has always been a staunch ad-
vocate for helping economically disadvantaged
adolescents and youth. As the President,
CEO, and Founder of Project One, Inc., a
faith-based non-profit corporation, he has
helped over 15,000 youth become engaged in
meaningful summer employment and after-
school programs. He has also raised substan-
tial amounts of funding to support youth
through Project One programs like The Annual
Summer Jobs Campaign; The Summer Earn-
ing and Enrichment Program; The Fatherhood
Program; The Talented and Gifted Scholars
(TAG) Program; and The After School Univer-
sity at the Alice Lucille Martin Educational
Academy. Bishop King is the first C.M.E.
preacher to serve as the Chair of the Board of
Trustees for The Interdenominational Theo-
logical Center and has used his position to
raise funds for the growth and expansion of
the school.
Madam Speaker, today I ask my colleagues
to join my wife, Vivian, and me, along with the
congregation of St. James AME Church and
the more than 730,000 residents of Georgia’s
Second Congressional District, in recognizing
and commending a Columbus native son,
Bishop C. James King, Jr., for his outstanding
accomplishments in the ministry and his serv-
ice to humankind. He is a man of great ac-
complishment, an outstanding mentor, and a
prominent community leader, but above all, he
is a faithful servant of God.
f
SENATE COMMITTEE MEETINGS
Title IV of Senate Resolution 4,
agreed to by the Senate of February 4,
1977, calls for establishment of a sys-
tem for a computerized schedule of all
meetings and hearings of Senate com-
mittees, subcommittees, joint commit-
tees, and committees of conference.
This title requires all such committees
to notify the Office of the Senate Daily
Digest—designated by the Rules Com-
mittee—of the time, place and purpose
of the meetings, when scheduled and
any cancellations or changes in the
meetings as they occur.
As an additional procedure along
with the computerization of this infor-
mation, the Office of the Senate Daily
Digest will prepare this information for
printing in the Extensions of Remarks
section of the CONGRESSIONAL RECORD
on Monday and Wednesday of each
week.
Meetings scheduled for Thursday,
April 11, 2019 may be found in the Daily
Digest of today’s RECORD.
MEETINGS SCHEDULED
MAY 20
4 p.m.
Committee on Armed Services
Subcommittee on Readiness and Manage-
ment Support
Closed business meeting to markup those
provisions which fall under the sub-
committee’s jurisdiction of the pro-
posed National Defense Authorization
Act for fiscal year 2020.
SR–232A
5 p.m.
Committee on Armed Services
Subcommittee on Airland
Closed business meeting to markup those
provisions which fall under the sub-
committee’s jurisdiction of the pro-
posed National Defense Authorization
Act for fiscal year 2020.
SR–232A
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:18 Apr 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00011 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A10AP8.026 E10APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E452 April 10, 2019
5:30 p.m.
Committee on Armed Services
Subcommittee on Strategic Forces
Closed business meeting to markup those
provisions which fall under the sub-
committee’s jurisdiction of the pro-
posed National Defense Authorization
Act for fiscal year 2020.
SR–232A
MAY 21
9:30 a.m.
Committee on Armed Services
Subcommittee on Cybersecurity
Closed business meeting to markup those
provisions which fall under the sub-
committee’s jurisdiction of the pro-
posed National Defense Authorization
Act for fiscal year 2020.
SR–232A
11 a.m.
Committee on Armed Services
Subcommittee on SeaPower
Closed business meeting to markup those
provisions which fall under the sub-
committee’s jurisdiction of the pro-
posed National Defense Authorization
Act for fiscal year 2020.
SR–232A
2:30 p.m.
Committee on Armed Services
Subcommittee on Personnel
Business meeting to markup those provi-
sions which fall under the subcommit-
tee’s jurisdiction of the proposed Na-
tional Defense Authorization Act for
fiscal year 2020.
SD–G50
3:30 p.m.
Committee on Armed Services
Subcommittee on Emerging Threats and
Capabilities
Closed business meeting to markup those
provisions which fall under the sub-
committee’s jurisdiction of the pro-
posed National Defense Authorization
Act for fiscal year 2020.
SR–232A
MAY 22
9 a.m.
Committee on Armed Services
Closed business meeting to markup the
proposed National Defense Authoriza-
tion Act for fiscal year 2020.
SR–222
MAY 23
12 noon
Committee on Armed Services
Closed business meeting to markup the
proposed National Defense Authoriza-
tion Act for fiscal year 2020.
SR–222
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:18 Apr 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00012 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\M10AP8.000 E10APPT1
D386
Wednesday, April 10, 2019
Daily Digest
Senate
Chamber Action
Routine Proceedings, pages S2349–S2398
Measures Introduced: Thirty-nine bills and six res-
olutions were introduced, as follows: S. 1101–1139,
and S. Res. 153–158. Pages S2385–87
Measures Reported:
S. 195, to require the Director of the Government
Publishing Office to establish and maintain a
website accessible to the public that allows the pub-
lic to obtain electronic copies of all congressionally
mandated reports in one place, with an amendment.
(S. Rept. No. 116–31)
S. 196, to save taxpayer money and improve the
efficiency and speed of intragovernmental cor-
respondence, with amendments. (S. Rept. No.
116–32)
S. 387, to prohibit Federal agencies and Federal
contractors from requesting that an applicant for em-
ployment disclose criminal history record informa-
tion before the applicant has received a conditional
offer, with an amendment. (S. Rept. No. 116–33)
S. 383, to support carbon dioxide utilization and
direct air capture research, to facilitate the permit-
ting and development of carbon capture, utilization,
and sequestration projects and carbon dioxide pipe-
lines.
S. 747, to reauthorize the diesel emissions reduc-
tion program.
S. 1061, to amend the John F. Kennedy Center
Act to authorize appropriations for the John F. Ken-
nedy Center for the Performing Arts. Page S2385
Measures Passed:
Relative to the death of former Senator Ernest
F. Hollings: Senate agreed to S. Res. 155, relative
to the death of the Honorable Ernest F. Hollings,
former United States Senator for the State of South
Carolina. Page S2392
Take Our Daughters And Sons To Work Day:
Senate agreed to S. Res. 156, supporting the goals
and ideals of Take Our Daughters And Sons To
Work Day. Page S2392
Parkinson’s Awareness Month: Senate agreed to
S. Res. 157, supporting the designation of April
2019 as ‘‘Parkinson’s Awareness Month’’. Page S2392
National Prescription Drug Take Back Day:
Senate agreed to S. Res. 158, authorizing the use of
the atrium in the Philip A. Hart Senate Office
Building for the National Prescription Drug Take
Back Day, a semiannual event of the Drug Enforce-
ment Administration. Page S2392
Authorizing the use of the Capitol Grounds:
Senate agreed to H. Con. Res. 16, authorizing the
use of the Capitol Grounds for the National Peace
Officers Memorial Service and the National Honor
Guard and Pipe Band Exhibition. Page S2392
Authorizing the use of the Capitol Grounds:
Senate agreed to H. Con. Res. 19, authorizing the
use of the Capitol Grounds for the Greater Wash-
ington Soap Box Derby. Pages S2392–93
Target Practice and Marksmanship Training
Support Act: Senate passed S. 94, to amend the Pitt-
man-Robertson Wildlife Restoration Act to facilitate
the establishment of additional or expanded public
target ranges in certain States. Page S2393
Bolivia and Latin America: Senate agreed to S.
Res. 35, supporting democratic principles and stand-
ards in Bolivia and throughout Latin America.
Pages S2393–95
United States alliances with Japan and the Re-
public of Korea: Senate agreed to S. Res. 67, ex-
pressing the sense of the Senate on the importance
and vitality of the United States alliances with Japan
and the Republic of Korea, and our trilateral co-
operation in the pursuit of shared interests.
Pages S2395–97
198th anniversary of the independence of
Greece: Senate agreed to S. Res. 95, recognizing the
198th anniversary of the independence of Greece and
celebrating democracy in Greece and the United
States. Page S2397
Message from the President: Senate received the
following message from the President of the United
States:
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:19 Apr 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D10AP9.REC D10APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D387
April 10, 2019
Transmitting, pursuant to law, a report on the
continuation of the national emergency originally de-
clared in Executive Order 13536 on April 12, 2010
with respect to Somalia; which was referred to the
Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs.
(PM–9) Page S2383
Bernhardt Nomination—Agreement: Senate re-
sumed consideration of nomination of David Bern-
hardt, of Virginia, to be Secretary of the Interior.
Pages S2375–76
During consideration of this nomination today,
Senate also took the following action:
By 56 yeas to 41 nays (Vote No. EX. 76), Senate
agreed to the motion to close further debate on the
nomination. Page S2375
A unanimous-consent agreement was reached pro-
viding for further consideration of the nomination,
post-cloture, at approximately 10 a.m., on Thursday,
April 11, 2019; and that all time during recess, ad-
journment, morning business and Leader remarks
count post-cloture on the nomination. Page S2397
Nominations Confirmed: Senate confirmed the fol-
lowing nominations:
By 53 yeas to 45 nays (Vote No. EX. 70), Cheryl
Marie Stanton, of South Carolina, to be Adminis-
trator of the Wage and Hour Division, Department
of Labor. Pages S2350–55, S2398
By 92 yeas to 7 nays (Vote No. EX. 71), John P.
Abizaid, of Nevada, to be Ambassador to the King-
dom of Saudi Arabia. Pages S2355, S2398
By 56 yeas to 42 nays (Vote No. EX. 73), Holly
A. Brady, of Indiana, to be United States District
Judge for the Northern District of Indiana.
Pages S2355–65, S2398
During consideration of this nomination today,
Senate also took the following action:
By 56 yeas to 43 nays (Vote No. EX. 72), Senate
agreed to the motion to close further debate on the
nomination. Page S2355
By 56 yeas to 41 nays (Vote No. EX. 75), David
Steven Morales, of Texas, to be United States Dis-
trict Judge for the Southern District of Texas.
Pages S2366–75, S2398
During consideration of this nomination today,
Senate also took the following action:
By 57 yeas to 41 nays (Vote No. EX. 74), Senate
agreed to the motion to close further debate on the
nomination. Pages S2365–66
Nominations Received: Senate received the fol-
lowing nominations:
Kate Marie Byrnes, of Florida, to be Ambassador
to the Republic of North Macedonia.
2 Air Force nominations in the rank of general.
1 Marine Corps nomination in the rank of general.
2 Navy nominations in the rank of admiral.
Routine lists in the Foreign Service. Page S2398
Nomination Withdrawn: Senate received notifica-
tion of withdrawal of the following nomination:
Kate Marie Byrnes, of Florida, to be Ambassador
to the Republic of Macedonia, which was sent to the
Senate on January 16, 2019. Page S2398
Messages from the House: Page S2383
Measures Placed on the Calendar:
Pages S2349, S2383
Executive Communications: Pages S2383–85
Additional Cosponsors: Pages S2387–89
Statements on Introduced Bills/Resolutions:
Page S2389
Additional Statements: Pages S2382–83
Authorities for Committees to Meet:
Pages S2391–92
Privileges of the Floor: Page S2392
Record Votes: Seven record votes were taken today.
(Total—76) Pages S2355, S2365, S2366, S2375
Adjournment: Senate convened at 9:45 a.m. and
adjourned, as a further mark of respect to the mem-
ory of the late former Senator Ernest F. Hollings, of
South Carolina, in accordance with S. Res. 155, at
7:14 p.m., until 10 a.m. on Thursday, April 11,
2019. (For Senate’s program, see the remarks of the
Acting Majority Leader in today’s Record on page
S2397.)
Committee Meetings
(Committees not listed did not meet)
CHILD NUTRITION REAUTHORIZATION
Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry: Com-
mittee concluded a hearing to examine perspectives
on child nutrition reauthorization, after receiving
testimony from Brandon Lipps, Acting Deputy
Under Secretary of Agriculture, Food, Nutrition and
Consumer Services, Administrator, Food and Nutri-
tion Service; Kathryn A. Larin, Director, Education,
Workforce, and Income Security, Government Ac-
countability Office; Joshua Mathiasmeier, Kansas
Public Schools, Kansas City; Michael J. Halligan,
God’s Pantry Food Bank, Inc., Lexington, Kentucky;
Lauren Waits, Atlanta Community Food Bank, At-
lanta, Georgia; Kati Wagner, National CACFP
Sponsors Association, Round Rock, Texas; and
Olanrewaju Falusi, American Academy of Pediatrics,
Washington, D.C.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:19 Apr 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D10AP9.REC D10APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D388 April 10, 2019
APPROPRIATIONS: DEPARTMENT OF
JUSTICE
Committee on Appropriations: Subcommittee on Com-
merce, Justice, Science and Related Agencies con-
cluded a hearing to examine proposed budget esti-
mates and justification for fiscal year 2020 for the
Department of Justice, after receiving testimony
from William P. Barr, Attorney General, and Lee
Lofthus, Chief Financial Officer, both of the Depart-
ment of Justice.
APPROPRIATIONS: NATIONAL GUARD
AND RESERVE
Committee on Appropriations: Subcommittee on Defense
concluded a hearing to examine proposed budget es-
timates and justification for fiscal year 2020 for the
National Guard and Reserve, after receiving testi-
mony from General Joseph L. Lengyel, Chief of the
National Guard Bureau, Lieutenant General Charles
D. Luckey, Chief of the Army Reserve, Lieutenant
General Richard W. Scobee, Chief of the Air Force
Reserve, Vice Admiral Luke M. McCollum, Chief of
the Navy Reserve, and Major General Bradley S.
James, Commander of the Marine Corps Forces Re-
serve, all of the Department of Defense.
APPROPRIATIONS: GOVERNMENT
ACCOUNTABILTY OFFICE AND
CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE
Committee on Appropriations: Subcommittee on Legisla-
tive Branch concluded a hearing to examine pro-
posed budget estimates and justification for fiscal
year 2020 for the Government Accountability Office
and Congressional Budget Office, after receiving tes-
timony from Gene Dodaro, Comptroller General of
the United States, Government Accountability Of-
fice; and Keith Hall, Director, Congressional Budget
Office.
APPROPRIATIONS: DEPARTMENT OF
INTERIOR
Committee on Appropriations: Subcommittee on Energy
and Water Development concluded a hearing to ex-
amine proposed budget estimates and justification
for fiscal year 2020 for the U.S. Army Corps of En-
gineers and the Bureau of Reclamation within the
Department of Interior, after receiving testimony
from R.D. James, Assistant Secretary of the Army
for Civil Works, and Lieutenant General Todd T.
Semonite, Chief of Engineers, Army Corps of Engi-
neers, both of the Department of Defense; and Bren-
da Burman, Commissioner, Bureau of Reclamation,
and Timothy R. Petty, Assistant Secretary for Water
and Science, both of the Department of the Interior.
DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION REQUEST AND
FUTURE YEARS DEFENSE PROGRAM
Committee on Armed Services: Subcommittee on
SeaPower concluded a hearing to examine Marine
Corps ground modernization and naval aviation pro-
grams in review of the Defense Authorization Re-
quest for fiscal year 2020 and Future Years Defense
Program, after receiving testimony from James F.
Geurts, Assistant Secretary of the Navy for Research,
Development, and Acquisition, Lieutenant General
David H. Berger, USMC, Commanding General,
Marine Corps Combat Development Command,
Deputy Commandant for Combat Development and
Integration, Lieutenant General Steven R. Rudder,
USMC, Deputy Commandant for Aviation, Head-
quarters United States Marine Corps, and Rear Ad-
miral Scott D. Conn, USN, Director, Air Warfare,
Office of the Chief of Naval Operations, all of the
Department of Defense.
DEFENSE INDUSTRIAL BASE
CYBERSECURITY POLICY
Committee on Armed Services: Subcommittee on Cyber-
security concluded a closed hearing to examine de-
fense industrial base cybersecurity policy, after re-
ceiving testimony from Kevin M. Fahey, Assistant
Secretary for Acquisition, James F. Geurts, Assistant
Secretary of the Navy for Research, Development,
and Acquisition, Garry P. Reid, Director for Defense
Intelligence (Intelligence and Security), Office of the
Under Secretary for Intelligence, and Major General
Thomas E. Murphy, USAF, Director, Protecting
Critical Technology Task Force, Office of the Sec-
retary, all of the Department of Defense.
BROADBAND MAPPING
Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation:
Committee concluded a hearing to examine
broadband mapping, focusing on challenges and so-
lutions, after receiving testimony from Tim Dono-
van, Competitive Carriers Association, and Jonathan
Spalter, USTelecom, both of Washington, D.C.;
Mike McCormick, Mississippi Farm Bureau Federa-
tion, Jackson; Mike Oblizalo, Hood Canal Commu-
nications, Shelton, Washington; and Chip Strange,
Ookla, LLC, Seattle, Washington.
PIPELINE SAFETY
Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation: Sub-
committee on Transportation and Safety concluded a
hearing to examine pipeline safety, focusing on Fed-
eral oversight and stakeholder perspectives, after re-
ceiving testimony from Howard Elliott, Adminis-
trator, Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Ad-
ministration, Department of Transportation; Robert
Sumwalt, Chairman, National Transportation Safety
Board; Paul R. Amato, Iroquois Pipeline Operating
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:19 Apr 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D10AP9.REC D10APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D389
April 10, 2019
Company, Shelton, Connecticut, on behalf of the
Interstate Natural Gas Association of America; and
Robin Rorick, American Petroleum Institute, Wash-
ington, D.C.
BUSINESS MEETING
Committee on Environment and Public Works: Com-
mittee ordered favorably reported the following busi-
ness items:
S.383, to support carbon dioxide utilization and
direct air capture research, to facilitate the permit-
ting and development of carbon capture, utilization,
and sequestration projects and carbon dioxide pipe-
lines;
S.747, to reauthorize the diesel emissions reduc-
tion program;
An original bill entitled, ‘‘John F. Kennedy Cen-
ter Reauthorization Act of 2019’’; and
8 General Services Administration resolutions.
TAX FILING SEASON
Committee on Finance: Committee concluded a hearing
to examine the 2019 tax filing season and the 21st
century Internal Revenue Service, after receiving tes-
timony from Charles P. Rettig, Commissioner, Inter-
nal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE BUDGET
Committee on Foreign Relations: Committee concluded
a hearing to examine the President’s proposed budg-
et request for fiscal year 2020 for the Department of
State, after receiving testimony from Mike Pompeo,
Secretary of State.
HIGHER EDUCATION ACT
REAUTHORIZATION
Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions:
Committee concluded a hearing to examine reauthor-
izing the Higher Education Act, focusing on
strengthening accountability to protect students and
taxpayers, after receiving testimony from Tressie Mc-
Millan Cottom, Virginia Commonwealth University,
Richmond; Adam Looney, Brookings Institution
Center on Regulation and Markets, Washington,
D.C.; David A. Tandberg, State Higher Education
Executive Officers, Boulder, Colorado; and Belle
Wheelan, Southern Association of Colleges and
Schools Commission on Colleges, Decatur, Georgia.
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT IN INDIAN
COUNTRY
Committee on Indian Affairs: Committee concluded a
hearing to examine building out Indian country, fo-
cusing on tools for community development, after
receiving testimony from Tara Mac Lean Sweeney,
Assistant Secretary of the Interior for Indian Affairs;
Jodie Harris, Director, Community Development Fi-
nancial Institutions Fund, Department of the Treas-
ury; Henry Childs II, National Director, Minority
Business Development Agency, Department of Com-
merce; Jacki Ponti-Lazaruk, Chief Innovation Officer,
Rural Development, Department of Agriculture; and
Mark Thompson, Acoma Pueblo, Albuquerque, New
Mexico, on behalf of the Indian Pueblo Cultural
Center and Indian Pueblos Marketing, Inc.
NOMINATIONS
Committee on the Judiciary: Committee concluded a
hearing to examine the nominations of Jeffrey A.
Rosen, of Virginia, to be Deputy Attorney General,
Department of Justice, who was introduced by Sen-
ator Portman; and Jeffrey Vincent Brown, to be
United States District Judge for the Southern Dis-
trict of Texas, Stephanie L. Haines, to be United
States District Judge for the Western District of
Pennsylvania, who was introduced by Senator
Toomey, and Brantley Starr, to be United States
District Judge for the Northern District of Texas,
after the nominees testified and answered questions
in their own behalf.
FREE SPEECH
Committee on the Judiciary: Subcommittee on the Con-
stitution concluded a hearing to examine free speech,
focusing on technological censorship and the public
discourse, after receiving testimony from Carlos
Monje, Twitter, Inc., Washington, D.C.; Neil Potts,
Facebook, Menlo Park, California; Chuck
Konzelman, Unplanned, Los Angeles, California;
Francesca Tripodi, James Madison University, Harri-
sonburg, Virginia; Marilyn Musgrave, Susan B. An-
thony List, Fort Morgan, Colorado; Eugene
Kontorovich, George Mason University Antonin
Scalia School of Law, Arlington, Virginia; and Rob-
ert Parker, Brush Prairie, Washington.
SBA’S INTERNATIONAL TRADE PROGRAM
Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship: Com-
mittee concluded a hearing to examine reauthoriza-
tion of the Small Business Administration’s inter-
national trade programs, after receiving testimony
David M. Glaccum, Associate Administrator, Office
of International Trade, Small Business Administra-
tion; Manny Mencia, Enterprise Florida, on behalf of
the State International Development Organizations,
and Daniel J. Pische, First American Bank, both of
Coral Gables, Florida; Signe Pringle, Maryland De-
partment of Commerce, Baltimore, on behalf of the
State International Development Organizations; and
Scott Gornall, BAON Enterprises, LLC, Chester-
town, Maryland.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:19 Apr 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D10AP9.REC D10APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D390 April 10, 2019
VA MISSION ACT
Committee on Veterans’ Affairs: Committee concluded a
hearing to examine VA MISSION Act, focusing on
implementing the Veterans Community Care Pro-
gram, after receiving testimony from Richard A.
Stone, Executive in Charge, Kameron Matthews,
Deputy Under Secretary for Health for Community
Care, and Jennifer MacDonald, VA MISSION Act
Lead, all of the Veterans Health Administration, De-
partment of Veterans Affairs; Sharon M. Silas, Act-
ing Director, Health Care, Government Account-
ability Office; Adrian Atizado, Disabled American
Veterans, Washington, D.C.; and Merideth Randles,
Milliman, Inc., Seattle, Washington.
h
House of Representatives
Chamber Action
Public Bills and Resolutions Introduced: 97 pub-
lic bills, H.R. 2195–2291; and 15 resolutions, H.J.
Res. 56; H. Con. Res. 33; and H. Res. 302–314
were introduced. Pages H3251–56
Additional Cosponsors: Pages H3259–60
Reports Filed: There were no reports filed today.
Speaker: Read a letter from the Speaker wherein she
appointed Representative Cisneros to act as Speaker
pro tempore for today. Page H3223
Guest Chaplain: The prayer was offered by the
Guest Chaplain, Rev. Jesse Bernard Bilberry, Jr.,
Mount Pilgrim Baptist Church, Baton Rouge, LA.
Page H3223
Save the Internet Act of 2019: The House passed
H.R. 1644, to restore the open internet order of the
Federal Communications Commission, by a yea-and-
nay vote of 232 yeas to 190 nays, Roll No. 167.
Consideration began yesterday, April 9th.
Pages H3224–39
Rejected the Walden motion to recommit the bill
to the Committee on Energy and Commerce with
instructions to report the same back to the House
forthwith with an amendment, by a recorded vote of
204 ayes to 216 noes, Roll No. 166. Pages H3237–39
Agreed to:
Davids (KS) amendment (No. 7 printed in part A
of H. Rept. 116–37) that requires that within 1 year
of enactment, the GAO shall produce a report exam-
ining the FCC’s efforts to assess competition in the
wireline and wireless broadband internet access mar-
kets, and how the FCC can better assess competition,
and what steps, if any the FCC can take to better
increase competition in the wireless and wireline
broadband internet access markets; Pages H3224–26
Stanton amendment (No. 8 printed in part A of
H. Rept. 116–37) that directs the Chairman of the
Federal Communications Commission to engage trib-
al stakeholders and providers to ensure accessible and
affordable broadband on tribal lands; Pages H3226–29
Trone amendment (No. 9 printed in part A of H.
Rept. 116–37) that finds that annual FCC reports on
the state of broadband deployment are important to
fostering further deployment and that Congress relies
on the accuracy of these reports; requires that 1) the
FCC may not release such a report based on informa-
tion it knows to be inaccurate and 2) the Commis-
sion use its best efforts to ensure all future reports
are accurate and to correct past inaccuracies prior to
the report’s release; Pages H3229–30
Brindisi amendment (No. 10 printed in part A of
H. Rept. 116–37) that requires the GAO to produce
a report about the ways in which the U.S. govern-
ment can promote the deployment of broadband
Internet access service, especially to rural areas and
areas currently unserved by high-speed broadband
access; Pages H3230–32
Spanberger amendment (No. 11 printed in part A
of H. Rept. 116–37) that requires the GAO to de-
termine the accuracy and granularity of broadband
maps produced by the FCC, and to submit to Con-
gress a report that identifies programs and actions
restored under 2(b) that rely on these maps and that
makes recommendations for how the FCC can
produce more accurate maps; Pages H3232–33
Delgado amendment (No. 4 printed in part A of
H. Rept. 116–37) that was debated on April 9th
that requires GAO to produce a report, within 1
year, reviewing the benefits to consumers of
broadband internet access providers offering
broadband internet access service on a standalone
basis and what steps Congress can take to increase
the availability of standalone broadband internet ac-
cess service to consumers, particularly those living in
rural areas (by a recorded vote of 363 ayes to 60
noes, Roll No. 163); Page H3235
Wexton amendment (No. 6 printed in part A of
H. Rept. 116–37) that was debated on April 9th
that requires the Federal Communications Commis-
sion to submit to Congress within 30 days a plan
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:19 Apr 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D10AP9.REC D10APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D391
April 10, 2019
for how the Commission will evaluate and address
problems with the collection on Form 477 of data
regarding the deployment of broadband Internet ac-
cess service (by a recorded vote of 376 ayes to 46
noes, Roll No. 164); and Pages H3235–36
McAdams amendment (No. 12 printed in part A
of H. Rept. 116–37) that affirms that ISPs can still
block unlawful content, such as child pornography or
copyright-infringing materials (by a recorded vote of
423 ayes with none voting ‘‘no’’, Roll No. 165).
Pages H3233–35, H3236–37
H. Res. 294, the rule providing for consideration
of the bills (H.R. 1644) and (H.R. 2021) was agreed
to yesterday, April 9th.
Meeting Hour: Agreed by unanimous consent that
when the House adjourns today, it adjourn to meet
at 2:30 p.m. on Friday, April 12th. Page H3239
Investigative Subcommittees of the Committee
on Ethics—Appointment: The Chair announced
the Speaker’s appointment of the following Members
of the House to be available to serve on investigative
subcommittees of the Committee on Ethics for the
116th Congress: Representatives Bonamici, Higgins
(NY), Keating, Krishnamoorthi, Perlmutter, Raskin,
Sewell (AL), Soto and Titus. Page H3249
Investigative Subcommittees of the Committee
on Ethics—Appointment: Read a letter from Rep-
resentative McCarthy, Minority Leader, in which he
appointed the following Members of the House to be
available to serve on investigative subcommittees of
the Committee on Ethics for the 116th Congress:
Representatives Flores, Rose (TN), Olson, Wagner,
Katko, Cline, Huizenga, Rouzer, Rutherford and
Hartzler. Page H3249
Presidential Message: Read a message from the
President wherein he notified Congress that the na-
tional emergency with respect to Somalia that was
declared on April 12, 2010 is to continue in effect
beyond April 12, 2019—referred to the Committee
on Foreign Affairs and ordered to be printed (H.
Doc. 116–27). Page H3243
Quorum Calls—Votes: One yea-and-nay vote and
four recorded votes developed during the proceedings
of today and appear on pages H3235, H3236,
H3236–37, H3238–39, and H3239. There were no
quorum calls.
Adjournment: The House met at 9 a.m. and ad-
journed at 1:20 p.m.
Committee Meetings
MEMBER DAY
Committee on Appropriations: Subcommittee on Defense
held a hearing entitled ‘‘Member Day’’. Testimony
was heard from Chairman McGovern, and Represent-
atives Escobar, Carter of Georgia, Johnson of Lou-
isiana, Williams, Scanlon, Khanna, and Rouda.
ECONOMIC OPPORTUNITIES FOR FARMERS
THROUGH SUSTAINABLE AGRICULTURAL
PRACTICES
Committee on Appropriations: Subcommittee on Agri-
culture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Admin-
istration, and Related Agencies held a hearing enti-
tled ‘‘Economic Opportunities for Farmers through
Sustainable Agricultural Practices’’. Testimony was
heard from Kevin Norton, Acting Associate Chief,
Natural Resources Conservation Service, Department
of Agriculture; and public witnesses.
APPROPRIATIONS—DEPARTMENT OF
TRANSPORTATION
Committee on Appropriations: Subcommittee on the De-
partments of Transportation, and Housing and
Urban Development, and Related Agencies held a
budget hearing on the Department of Transpor-
tation. Testimony was heard from Elaine L. Chao,
Secretary, Department of Transportation.
THE FISCAL YEAR 2020 NATIONAL
DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION BUDGET
REQUEST FOR THE DEPARTMENT OF THE
NAVY
Committee on Armed Services: Full Committee held a
hearing entitled ‘‘The Fiscal Year 2020 National De-
fense Authorization Budget Request for the Depart-
ment of the Navy’’. Testimony was heard from Rich-
ard Spencer, Secretary of the Navy, U.S. Navy; Ad-
miral John Richardson, Chief of Naval Operations,
U.S. Navy; and General Robert Neller, Com-
mandant, U.S. Marine Corps.
EXAMINING THE POLICIES AND
PRIORITIES OF THE U.S. DEPARTMENT OF
EDUCATION
Committee on Education and Labor: Full Committee
held a hearing entitled ‘‘Examining the Policies and
Priorities of the U.S. Department of Education’’.
Testimony was heard from Betsy DeVos, Secretary,
Department of Education.
INVESTING IN AMERICA’S ENERGY
INFRASTRUCTURE: IMPROVING ENERGY
EFFICIENCY AND CREATING A DIVERSE
WORKFORCE
Committee on Energy and Commerce: Subcommittee on
Energy held a hearing entitled ‘‘Investing in Amer-
ica’s Energy Infrastructure: Improving Energy Effi-
ciency and Creating a Diverse Workforce’’. Testi-
mony was heard from Daniel R. Simmons, Assistant
Secretary, Office of Energy Efficiency and Renewable
Energy, Department of Energy; and James E.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:19 Apr 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D10AP9.REC D10APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D392 April 10, 2019
Campos, Director, Office of Economic Impact and
Diversity, Department of Energy.
PRICED OUT OF A LIFESAVING DRUG:
GETTING ANSWERS ON THE RISING COST
OF INSULIN
Committee on Energy and Commerce: Subcommittee on
Oversight and Investigations held a hearing entitled
‘‘Priced Out of a Lifesaving Drug: Getting Answers
on the Rising Cost of Insulin’’. Testimony was heard
from public witnesses.
HOLDING MEGABANKS ACCOUNTABLE: A
REVIEW OF GLOBAL SYSTEMICALLY
IMPORTANT BANKS 10 YEARS AFTER THE
FINANCIAL CRISIS
Committee on Financial Services: Full Committee held
a hearing entitled ‘‘Holding Megabanks Account-
able: A Review of Global Systemically Important
Banks 10 years after the Financial Crisis’’. Testimony
was heard from public witnesses.
THE IMPORTANCE OF U.S. ASSISTANCE TO
CENTRAL AMERICA
Committee on Foreign Affairs: Full Committee held a
hearing entitled ‘‘The Importance of U.S. Assistance
to Central America’’. Testimony was heard from
public witnesses.
EXAMINING THE SPENDING PRIORITIES
AND MISSIONS OF THE U.S. FOREST
SERVICE AND THE BUREAU OF LAND
MANAGEMENT
Committee on Natural Resources: Subcommittee on Na-
tional Parks, Forests, and Public Lands held a hear-
ing entitled ‘‘Examining the Spending Priorities and
Missions of the U.S. Forest Service and the Bureau
of Land Management’’. Testimony was heard from
Victoria Christiansen, Chief, U.S. Forest Service, De-
partment of Agriculture; and Brian Steed, Deputy
Director, Policy and Programs, Bureau of Land Man-
agement, Department of the Interior.
SBA 7(A) BUDGET PROPOSAL AND THE
IMPACT OF FEE STRUCTURE CHANGES
Committee on Small Business: Subcommittee on Eco-
nomic Growth, Tax, and Capital Access held a hear-
ing entitled ‘‘SBA 7(a) Budget Proposal and the Im-
pact of Fee Structure Changes’’. Testimony was heard
from Tim Gribben, Chief Financial Officer and Asso-
ciation Administrator for Performance Management,
U.S. Small Business Administration; and public wit-
nesses.
THE COST OF DOING NOTHING: WHY
FULL UTILIZATION OF THE HARBOR
MAINTENANCE TRUST FUND AND
INVESTMENT IN OUR NATION’S
WATERWAYS MATTER
Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure: Sub-
committee on Water Resources and Environment
held a hearing entitled ‘‘The Cost of Doing Nothing:
Why Full Utilization of the Harbor Maintenance
Trust Fund and Investment in our Nation’s Water-
ways Matter’’. Testimony was heard from Rick
Goche, Commissioner, Port of Bandon, Oregon; Eu-
gene Seroka, Executive Director, Port of Los Angeles,
San Pedro, California; and public witnesses.
COMPREHENSIVE LEGISLATIVE PROPOSALS
TO ENHANCE SOCIAL SECURITY
Committee on Ways and Means: Subcommittee on So-
cial Security held a hearing entitled ‘‘Comprehensive
Legislative Proposals to Enhance Social Security’’.
Testimony was heard from Stephen C. Goss, Chief
Actuary, Social Security Administration; and public
witnesses.
Joint Meetings
No joint committee meetings were held.
f
COMMITTEE MEETINGS FOR THURSDAY,
APRIL 11, 2019
(Committee meetings are open unless otherwise indicated)
Senate
Committee on Appropriations: Subcommittee on Agri-
culture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administra-
tion, and Related Agencies, to hold hearings to examine
proposed budget estimates and justification for fiscal year
2020 for the Department of Agriculture, 10 a.m.,
SD–192.
Subcommittee on Departments of Labor, Health and
Human Services, and Education, and Related Agencies, to
hold hearings to examine proposed budget estimates and
justification for fiscal year 2020 for the National Insti-
tutes of Health, 10 a.m., SD–124.
Committee on Armed Services: to hold hearings to examine
the proposal to establish a United States Space Force,
9:30 a.m., SD–G50.
Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation: Sub-
committee on Communications, Technology, Innovation,
and the Internet, to hold hearings to examine illegal
robocalls, 10 a.m., SH–216.
Committee on Energy and Natural Resources: to hold hear-
ings to examine opportunities for energy innovation and
other potential solutions to help address global climate
change, 10 a.m., SD–366.
Committee on Foreign Relations: to hold hearings to exam-
ine the nominations of Kate Marie Byrnes, of Florida, to
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:19 Apr 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D10AP9.REC D10APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D393
April 10, 2019
be Ambassador to the Republic of North Macedonia, Ed-
ward F. Crawford, of Ohio, to be Ambassador to Ireland,
and David Michael Satterfield, of Missouri, to be Ambas-
sador to the Republic of Turkey, all of the Department
of State, 2:30 p.m., SD–419.
House
No hearings are scheduled.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:19 Apr 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D10AP9.REC D10APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
Congressional Record The Congressional Record (USPS 087–390). The Periodicals postage
is paid at Washington, D.C. The public proceedings of each House
of Congress, as reported by the Official Reporters thereof, are
printed pursuant to directions of the Joint Committee on Printing as authorized by appropriate provisions of Title 44, United
States Code, and published for each day that one or both Houses are in session, excepting very infrequent instances when
two or more unusually small consecutive issues are printed one time. ¶ Public access to the Congressional Record is available online through
the U.S. Government Publishing Office, at www.govinfo.gov, free of charge to the user. The information is updated online each day the
Congressional Record is published. For more information, contact the GPO Customer Contact Center, U.S. Government Publishing Office.
Phone 202–512–1800, or 866–512–1800 (toll-free). E-Mail, contactcenter@gpo.gov. ¶ To place an order for any of these products, visit the U.S.
Government Online Bookstore at: bookstore.gpo.gov. Mail orders to: Superintendent of Documents, P.O. Box 979050, St. Louis, MO
63197–9000, or phone orders to 866–512–1800 (toll-free), 202–512–1800 (D.C. area), or fax to 202–512–2104. Remit check or money order, made
payable to the Superintendent of Documents, or use VISA, MasterCard, Discover, American Express, or GPO Deposit Account. ¶ Following
each session of Congress, the daily Congressional Record is revised, printed, permanently bound and sold by the Superintendent of Documents
in individual parts or by sets. ¶ With the exception of copyrighted articles, there are no restrictions on the republication of material from
the Congressional Record.
POSTMASTER: Send address changes to the Superintendent of Documents, Congressional Record, U.S. Government Publishing Office,
Washington, D.C. 20402, along with the entire mailing label from the last issue received.
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
D394 April 10, 2019
Next Meeting of the SENATE
10 a.m., Thursday, April 11
Senate Chamber
Program for Thursday: Senate will continue consider-
ation of the nomination of David Bernhardt, of Virginia,
to be Secretary of the Interior, post-cloture.
Next Meeting of the HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
2:30 p.m., Friday, April 12
House Chamber
Program for Friday: House will meet in Pro Forma ses-
sion at 2:30 p.m.
Extensions of Remarks, as inserted in this issue
HOUSE
Banks, Jim, Ind., E450
Bass, Karen, Calif., E447
Bishop, Sanford D., Jr., Ga., E448, E450, E451
Buchanan, Vern, Fla., E442
Burgess, Michael C., Tex., E445
Clyburn, James E., S.C., E445, E448
Collins, Doug, Ga., E443
Cummings, Elijah E., Md., E441
Davis, Rodney, Ill., E444
Davis, Susan A., Calif., E450
Garamendi, John, Calif., E445
Gianforte, Greg, Mont., E441
Hagedorn, Jim, Minn., E442
Horn, Kendra S., Okla., E444
Hunter, Duncan, Calif., E442
Johnson, Eddie Bernice, Tex., E447
Joyce, John, Pa., E442, E444
Kaptur, Marcy, Ohio, E448
Langevin, James R., R.I., E446
Latta, Robert E., Ohio, E444, E446
Lofgren, Zoe, Calif., E447
Luria, Elaine G., Va., E446, E449
McCollum, Betty, Minn., E449
Meng, Grace, N.Y., E441, E446, E448
Norton, Eleanor Holmes, The District of Columbia,
E449
Panetta, Jimmy, Calif., E441
Raskin, Jamie, Md., E442
Smith, Christopher H., N.J., E443
Smith, Jason, Mo., E451
Stanton, Greg, Ariz., E445
Stivers, Steve, Ohio, E444
Suozzi, Thomas R., N.Y., E450
Titus, Dina, Nev., E444
Walorski, Jackie, Ind., E449, E451
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:19 Apr 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 0664 Sfmt 0664 E:\CR\FM\D10AP9.REC D10APPT1
