Congressional Record
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
United States
of America PROCEEDINGS AND DEBATES OF THE 115th
CONGRESS, SECOND SESSION
b This symbol represents the time of day during the House proceedings, e.g., b 1407 is 2:07 p.m.
Matter set in this typeface indicates words inserted or appended, rather than spoken, by a Member of the House on the floor.
.
H10611
Vol. 164 WASHINGTON, THURSDAY, JANUARY 3, 2019 No. 208
House of Representatives
The House met at 11 a.m. and was
called to order by the Speaker pro tem-
pore (Mr. WOMACK).
f
DESIGNATION OF THE SPEAKER
PRO TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore laid be-
fore the House the following commu-
nication from the Speaker:
WASHINGTON, DC,
January 3, 2019.
I hereby appoint the Honorable STEVE
WOMACK to act as Speaker pro tempore on
this day.
PAUL D. RYAN,
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
f
PRAYER
The Chaplain, the Reverend Patrick
J. Conroy, offered the following prayer:
God of the universe, we give You
thanks for giving us another day.
In the final hour of the 115th Con-
gress, we give You thanks for Your
faithfulness to our Nation. There have
been many struggles, many sorrows,
and yet we are still here and able to
give You thanks that millions of our
citizens live free.
May the work of the new Congress
issue forth with legislation to the ben-
efit of our Nation and its citizens, and
where the efforts of the 115th Congress
have fallen short, we ask Your forgive-
ness and the forgiveness of all Ameri-
cans.
May all that is done this day be for
Your greater honor and glory.
Amen.
f
THE JOURNAL
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to section 2(a) of House Resolution
1180, the Journal of the last day’s pro-
ceedings is approved.
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair will lead the House in the Pledge
of Allegiance.
The SPEAKER pro tempore led the
Pledge of Allegiance as follows:
I pledge allegiance to the Flag of the
United States of America, and to the Repub-
lic for which it stands, one nation under God,
indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
f
RECESS
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 12(a) of rule I, the Chair
declares the House in recess subject to
the call of the Chair.
Accordingly (at 11 o’clock and 2 min-
utes a.m.), the House stood in recess.
f
b 1155
AFTER RECESS
The recess having expired, the House
was called to order by the Speaker pro
tempore (Mr. WOMACK) at 11 o’clock
and 55 minutes a.m.
f
BILLS PRESENTED TO THE
PRESIDENT
Karen L. Haas, Clerk of the House,
reported that on January 2, 2019, she
presented to the President of the
United States, for his approval, the fol-
lowing bills:
H.R. 7318. To amend the Federal Assets
Sale and Transfer Act of 2016 to ensure that
the Public Buildings Reform Board has ade-
quate time to carry out the responsibilities
of the Board, and for other purposes.
H.R. 7319. To amend the Federal Assets
Sale and Transfer Act of 2016 to provide
flexibility with respect to the leaseback of
certain Federal real property, and for other
purposes.
H.R. 7279. To amend the Federal Water Pol-
lution Control Act to provide for an inte-
grated planning process, to promote green
infrastructure, and for other purposes.
H.R. 6602. To reauthorize the New Jersey
Coastal Heritage Trail Route, and for other
purposes.
H.R. 5636. To designate additions to the
Flatside Wilderness on the Ouachita Na-
tional Forest, and for other purposes.
H.R. 4689. To authorize early repayment of
obligations to the Bureau of Reclamation
within the Northport Irrigation District in
the State of Nebraska.
H.R. 4174. To amend titles 5 and 44, United
States Code, to require Federal evaluation
activities, improve Federal data manage-
ment, and for other purposes.
H.R. 672. To require continued and en-
hanced annual reporting to Congress in the
Annual Report on International Religious
Freedom on anti-Semitic incidents in Eu-
rope, the safety and security of European
Jewish communities, and the efforts of the
United States to partner with European gov-
ernments, the European Union, and civil so-
ciety groups, to combat anti-Semitism, and
for other purposes.
f
SINE DIE ADJOURNMENT
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the 20th Amendment to the Con-
stitution of the United States, the
Chair declares the 115th Congress ad-
journed sine die.
Thereupon (at 11 o’clock and 56 min-
utes a.m.), the House adjourned.
f
EXECUTIVE COMMUNICATIONS,
ETC.
7383. Under clause 2 of rule XIV, a let-
ter from the Chief, Publications and
Regulations Branch, Internal Revenue
Service, transmitting the Service’s IRB
only rule — 2019 Standard Mileage [No-
tice 2019-2] received December 21, 2018,
pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public
Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868),
was taken from the Speaker’s table, re-
ferred to the Committee on Ways and
Means.
f
REPORTS OF COMMITTEES ON
PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS
Under clause 2 of rule XIII, reports of
committees were delivered to the Clerk
for printing and reference to the proper
calendar, as follows:
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:58 Jan 04, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 4634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A03JA7.000 H03JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H10612 January 3, 2019
[Submitted on January 2, 2019]
Mr. MCCAUL: Committee on Homeland Se-
curity. Legislative and Oversight Activities
of the Committee on Homeland Security
115th Congress (Rept. 115–1127). Referred to
the Committee of the Whole House on the
state of the Union.
Mr. BISHOP of Utah: Committee on Natural
Resources. Report on the Activities of the
Committee on Natural Resources U.S. House
of Representatives for the 115th Congress
(Rept. 115–1128). Referred to the Committee
of the Whole House on the state of the
Union.
[Submitted on January 3, 2019]
Mr. SMITH of Texas: Committee on Science,
Space, and Technology. S. 141. An act to im-
prove understanding and forecasting of space
weather events, and for other purposes; with
amendments (Rept. 115–1129, Pt. 1). Referred
to the Committee of the Whole House on the
state of the Union.
DISCHARGE OF COMMITTEE
Pursuant to clause 2 of rule XIII, the
Committees on Armed Services, Trans-
portation and Infrastructure, Foreign
Affairs, and Intelligence (Permanent
Select) discharged from further consid-
eration. S. 141 referred to the Com-
mittee of the Whole House on the state
of the Union.
f
ADDITIONAL SPONSORS
Under clause 7 of rule XII, sponsors
were added to public bills and resolu-
tions, as follows:
H.R. 2449: Mr. CARTWRIGHT.
H.R. 6887: Mr. VISCLOSKY.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:58 Jan 04, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 4634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A03JA7.009 H03JAPT1
Congressional Record
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
United States
of America PROCEEDINGS AND DEBATES OF THE 115th
CONGRESS, SECOND SESSION
∑ This ‘‘bullet’’ symbol identifies statements or insertions which are not spoken by a Member of the Senate on the floor.
.
S8065
Vol. 164 WASHINGTON, THURSDAY, JANUARY 3, 2019 No. 208
Senate
The Senate met at 11:50 and 5 seconds
a.m. and was called to order by the
Honorable DEB FISCHER, a Senator
from the State of Nebraska.
f
APPOINTMENT OF ACTING
PRESIDENT PRO TEMPORE
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will please read a communication
to the Senate from the President pro
tempore (Mr. HATCH).
The legislative clerk read the fol-
lowing letter:
U.S. SENATE,
PRESIDENT PRO TEMPORE,
Washington, DC, January 3, 2019.
To the Senate:
Under the provisions of rule I, paragraph 3,
of the Standing Rules of the Senate, I hereby
appoint the Honorable DEB FISCHER, a Sen-
ator from the State of Nebraska, to perform
the duties of the Chair.
ORRIN G. HATCH,
President pro tempore.
Mrs. FISCHER thereupon assumed
the Chair as Acting President pro tem-
pore.
f
RECOGNITION OF THE MAJORITY
LEADER
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tem-
pore. The majority leader is recog-
nized.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
I ask unanimous consent that it be in
order to make a unanimous consent re-
quest.
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tem-
pore. Without objection, it is so or-
dered.
f
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
I ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate proceed to the following nomina-
tion, Executive Calendar No. 1048.
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tem-
pore. Without objection, it is so or-
dered.
The clerk will report the nomination.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read the nomination of William
Charles McIntosh, of Michigan, to be
an Assistant Administrator of the En-
vironmental Protection Agency.
Thereupon, the Senate proceeded to
consider the nomination.
Mr. MCCONNELL. I ask unanimous
consent that the Senate vote on the
nomination with no intervening action
or debate; that if confirmed, the mo-
tion to reconsider be considered made
and laid upon the table en bloc; that
the President be immediately notified
of the Senate’s action; that no further
motions be in order; and that any
statements relating to the nomination
be printed in the RECORD.
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tem-
pore. Is there objection?
Without objection, it is so ordered.
The question is, Will the Senate ad-
vise and consent to the McIntosh nomi-
nation?
The nomination was confirmed.
f
ADJOURNMENT UNTIL 12 NOON
TODAY
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
I ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate stand adjourned under the previous
order.
There being no objection, the Senate,
at 11:52 and 3 seconds a.m., adjourned
until Thursday, January 3, 2019, at 12
noon.
f
CONFIRMATION
Executive nomination confirmed by
the Senate January 3, 2019:
ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY
WILLIAM CHARLES MCINTOSH, OF MICHIGAN, TO BE AN
ASSISTANT ADMINISTRATOR OF THE ENVIRONMENTAL
PROTECTION AGENCY.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 23:49 Jan 03, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 9801 E:\CR\FM\A03JA6.000 S03JAPT1
EXTENSIONS OF REMARKS
∑ This ‘‘bullet’’ symbol identifies statements or insertions which are not spoken by a Member of the Senate on the floor.
Matter set in this typeface indicates words inserted or appended, rather than spoken, by a Member of the House on the floor.
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E1745
January 3, 2019
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. RON KIND
OF WISCONSIN
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, January 3, 2019
Mr. KIND. Mr. Speaker, I was unable to
have my votes recorded on the House floor
from Wednesday, December 19 through Fri-
day, December 21, 2018. Had I been present,
I would have supported all bills considered
under a suspension of the rules, with the fol-
lowing exceptions:
I would have voted no on S. 1934 as I feel
that it is important that environmental stand-
ards in remote areas must be strengthened
whenever possible to preserve natural land-
scapes.
I would have voted against H.R. 7388.
While I support long term reforms to the Na-
tional Flood Insurance Program, I feel that it is
important to avoid any lapse in the program to
ensure continuity for homeowners and those
looking to purchase a home. To that end, this
bill would have been counterproductive by cre-
ating uncertainty about the NFIP by sending
the extension back to the Senate at the 11th
hour.
I would also like to add a few comments on
a couple bills that I would have supported:
In particular, as an original cosponsor of the
Codifying Useful Regulatory Definitions
(CURD) Act, I would have voted yes on final
passage of S. 2322. This bill would give real
Wisconsin cheese makers the certainty they
need to produce a special natural product.
I also would have voted yes on the Space
Frontier Act of 2018, despite serious concerns
about process. Just as Ranking Member of
the House Science, Space, and Technology
Committee BERNICE JOHNSON stated on the
floor, I support NASA’s mission and thus
would have supported this bill.
Additionally, I would have opposed the fol-
lowing bills considered under a rule:
I would have voted against H.R. 88. A $100
billion boondoggle, H.R. 88 would have arbi-
trarily extended some important credits but not
others, leave some communities suffering from
disasters out in the cold and inject unneces-
sary social politics into our tax code. As I said
on the floor on November 29th, the first time
this bill was brought to the floor, I would have
opposed the package.
I would have voted against H.R. 695, as
amended. Rather than providing pay for dedi-
cated public servants over the holidays, par-
ticularly TSA agents working to protect Ameri-
cans traveling to see loved ones over the holi-
days, House leadership rejected a unanimous
agreement in the Senate to keep the govern-
ment open. Instead, they passed a blatantly
partisan package that had no chance of pas-
sage in the Senate and virtually ensured a
government shutdown.
RECOGNIZING SHERIFF KEITH
ROYAL
HON. TOM McCLINTOCK
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, January 3, 2019
Mr. McCLINTOCK. Mr. Speaker, I rise to
recognize Sheriff Keith Royal, who is retiring
from the Nevada County Sheriff’s Office after
more than 40 years in law enforcement.
Sheriff Royal is a life-long public servant
dedicated to protecting and serving his com-
munity. His father Kenneth, a Deputy with the
Sacramento County Sheriff’s Office, was killed
in the line of duty while attempting to appre-
hend a robbery suspect. His two brothers, Ken
and Patrick, and nephew Steven all served in
the Sacramento County Sheriff’s Office, where
his son-in-law Jeff is currently a Deputy.
Keith was born and raised in Northern Cali-
fornia and remains an active member of his
community. After graduating from Cal State
Sacramento with a degree in Criminal Justice,
he served as a California DMV Investigator,
shortly after which he began training at the
Sacramento Sheriff’s Academy. As an Execu-
tive Lieutenant, he served in various roles with
the Sacramento Sheriff’s Office, including as a
Jail Manager, Reserve Coordinator, and Vice
Detail.
First elected as Nevada County Sheriff in
1998, Royal’s leadership led to an overall drop
in the crime rate. He worked to modernize the
dispatch center, expand the Neighborhood
Watch and Volunteer programs, and establish
the School Resource Officer Program. Addi-
tionally, Sheriff Royal amassed $8 million in
special revenue funds for the Sheriff’s Office,
implemented computerized jail management
and high-band radio systems, and obtained a
new evidence facility and DNA lab. During this
time, he also served as President of the Cali-
fornia State Sheriffs’ Association, and as Chair
of its Undersheriff’s Committee.
These are just a handful of the things that
Sheriff Royal was able to accomplish over his
tenure, which has created a safer and more
prosperous community for the residents of Ne-
vada County.
Having been the second-longest serving
Sheriff in the history of Nevada County, Sheriff
Royal is now ready to spend more time with
his daughters and granddaughters. Along with
teaching them to fish, he hopes to spend time
maintaining his garden, golfing, and enjoying
some much-needed down time.
Sheriff Royal’s service has left a lasting im-
pact on Nevada County, and I thank him for
his service and wish him the best in his future
endeavors.
CONGRATULATING THE HERMANN
BEARCATS VOLLEYBALL TEAM
FOR WINNING THE 2018 MISSOURI
CLASS 2 STATE VOLLEYBALL
CHAMPIONSHIP
HON. BLAINE LUETKEMEYER
OF MISSOURI
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, January 3, 2019
Mr. LUETKEMEYER. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to ask my colleagues to join me in con-
gratulating the Hermann Bearcats Volleyball
team for winning the 2018 Missouri Class 2
State Volleyball Championship.
This team and Coach Linda Lampkin should
be commended for all of their hard work
throughout this past year and for bringing
home the state championship to their school
and community.
I ask you to join me in recognizing the Her-
mann Bearcats Volleyball team for a job well
done.
f
FARM BILL CONFERENCE REPORT
HON. JIM COSTA
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, January 3, 2019
Mr. COSTA. Mr. Speaker, as a member of
the House Agriculture Committee and a mem-
ber of the Farm Bill Conference Committee, I
am pleased that the Conference report will
strengthen the existing SNAP Employment
and Training program by facilitating better con-
nections between existing workforce develop-
ment efforts and employers in local commu-
nities. Specifically, conferees rejected the one-
size-fits-all approach to training programs that
H.R. 2 had initially adopted, as these pro-
grams have consistently proven to be ineffec-
tive—too often failing to match low-income
adults with the types of training and job oppor-
tunities they need. Instead, the Farm Bill con-
ference report supports collaboration between
workforce development programs and employ-
ers already tackling this job in their commu-
nities to better serve SNAP participants—a
win for both participants and for local employ-
ers.
I am also pleased that the Conference re-
port includes several provisions that will im-
prove the types of programs that SNAP em-
ployment and training can provide. The con-
ference report reinforces the requirement that
states properly assess clients and assign them
to programs appropriate to their needs and
skills. It also recognizes the important role
case management services can play in help-
ing to address barriers to work by requiring
states to provide these types of services. Ad-
ditionally, conferees prioritized the funding of
innovative employment and training pilot pro-
grams, including pilot programs that serve
specific groups with known barriers to work.
These types of smart investments will have a
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:13 Jan 04, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\K03JA8.001 E03JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E1746 January 3, 2019
demonstrated impact on improving client out-
comes, as opposed to spending billions on the
creation of large new bureaucracies to track
monthly work tests for millions of SNAP par-
ticipants as the House passed bill would have
done.
I am also pleased that the conferees ad-
dress a long-standing problem—when a SNAP
participant is referred to a training program,
and the program determines that the services
they provide are not well matched to the
needs of the participant. States have long
been required to do meaningful assessments
in order to properly assign clients. We believe
the expanded investment in case management
should improve this capacity. And, this bill em-
phasized that reassessment is important as
well. But sometimes, when the state refers
someone to a local training provider the pro-
vider—after doing their own assessment—de-
termines that their services aren’t appropriate
for the individual. Under current law, that
leaves the individual out of luck and even at
risk of losing SNAP benefits and wastes the
time and services of the training provider. The
bill and report make clear that states must re-
assess and reassign the participant if appro-
priate. Participants will no longer lose benefits
because states are doing a poor job of assign-
ing them to programs that don’t work for them.
The primary role of employment and training
programs should always be to transition peo-
ple to sustained self-reliance rather than to
find reasons to cut them off from benefits.
f
DEPARTURE OF BARBARA ANGUS
FROM THE HOUSE WAYS AND
MEANS COMMITTEE
HON. KEVIN BRADY
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, January 3, 2019
Mr. BRADY of Texas. Mr. Speaker, it is with
a deep sentiment of gratitude that I rise today
to recognize Barbara Angus, Chief Tax Coun-
sel for the Ways and Means Committee, as
she departs our Committee staff.
Whenever I travel Texas and the country,
folks often ask me when I knew that tax re-
form was going to be a reality. Without a
doubt, that moment hit me when Barbara
interviewed for the position of Chief Tax Coun-
sel.
Holding degrees from two Ivy League Insti-
tutions, and with decades of experience at the
Treasury Department and within the private
sector, few in Washington match Barbara’s in-
telligence, leadership, and work ethic. Barbara
understands our tax code almost better than
anyone else. Which is why she understood
that it was time for a rewrite, to get rid of its
uncompetitive and unfair nature.
Mr. Speaker, Barbara’s efforts changed his-
tory. With her guidance and expertise, we
were able to create a tax code that finally
works for families and Main Street businesses.
For the first time in over 30 years, we did
what many said was impossible. We lowered
rates while broadening the base; we closed
special-interest loopholes that riddled the sys-
tem for far too long; we gave families first say
over their hard-earned money; and we gave
our job creators a tax code that allows them
to compete and win here at home instead of
abroad. None of this would have been pos-
sible without Barbara Angus.
On behalf of our entire Committee, I want to
say thank you to Barbara for her three years
of service to the people’s House. I am so
thankful for her guidance and friendship. My
Chairmanship has been benefited greatly be-
cause of Barbara and it has been an honor to
work with her.
We wish her all the best as she moves on
to the next chapter of her storied career. Bar-
bara will be missed dearly by our Committee
staff, and she will always be part of our Ways
and Means family.
f
CONGRATULATING THE EUREKA
WILDCATS VOLLEYBALL TEAM
FOR WINNING THE 2018 MISSOURI
CLASS 4 STATE VOLLEYBALL
CHAMPIONSHIP
HON. BLAINE LUETKEMEYER
OF MISSOURI
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, January 3, 2019
Mr. LUETKEMEYER. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to ask my colleagues to join me in con-
gratulating the Eureka Wildcats Volleyball
team for winning the 2018 Missouri Class 4
State Volleyball Championship.
This team and Coach Jodie Fowler should
be commended for all of their hard work
throughout this past year and for bringing
home the state championship to their school
and community.
I ask you to join me in recognizing the Eure-
ka Wildcats Volleyball team for a job well
done.
f
TRIBUTE TO THOMAS G. HUNGAR
HON. GREGG HARPER
OF MISSISSIPPI
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, January 3, 2019
Mr. HARPER. Mr. Speaker, on behalf of my-
self and Mr. BRADY of Pennsylvania, the Rank-
ing Member of the Committee on House Ad-
ministration, I would like to take this oppor-
tunity to recognize Thomas G. Hungar for his
distinguished service as General Counsel to
the House of Representatives.
Drawing on his mastery of constitutional law
and broad litigation experience, Mr. Hungar
has provided thoughtful and effective legal ad-
vice to Members, Committees, and staff on a
host of legal matters, without regard to political
affiliation. As the House’s top lawyer, Mr.
Hungar has employed his considerable exper-
tise and sound judgment to protect and
strengthen the institutional prerogatives of the
House, rightfully earning him the respect and
admiration of the entire House community.
Of particular importance to the Committee
on House Administration, Mr. Hungar has skill-
fully counseled the Committee’s Members and
staff on a wide range of significant matters
with far-reaching institutional implications. Mr.
Hungar has also been a trusted advisor to the
Chief Administrative Officer of the House. Mr.
Hungar has been a source of tremendous
leadership and legal advice to the Committee
and the House.
On behalf of the Members of the Committee
on House Administration and the Committee
staff, we thank Mr. Hungar for his service to
the House and wish him the very best as he
takes the next step in his illustrious career.
f
RECOGNIZING JASON EVERETT
FOR HIS SERVICE TO THE JUDI-
CIARY COMMITTEE
HON. JERROLD NADLER
OF NEW YORK
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, January 3, 2019
Mr. NADLER. Mr. Speaker, today, I rise,
along with HANK JOHNSON, Chair of the Sub-
committee on Courts, Intellectual Property,
and the Internet; and SHEILA JACKSON LEE,
Chair of the Subcommittee on Crime, Ter-
rorism, Homeland Security, and Investiga-
tions—to thank Jason Everett for nearly a dec-
ade of service to the House Judiciary Com-
mittee.
Growing up in Alexandria, Virginia, Jason
attended college at Duke University and law
school at William and Mary, before returning
to the Washington, D.C. area. He began his
career on Capitol Hill as a Legislative Aide to
Senator Barbara Boxer, and he later worked
for Congressman Mel Watt as a Legislative
Assistant covering Judiciary Committee
issues. He joined the House Judiciary Com-
mittee in 2009 as a Counsel, working on intel-
lectual property and other issues, and he later
rose to become Chief Counsel of the Sub-
committee on Courts, Intellectual Property,
and the Internet, as well as a Deputy Chief
Counsel of the Full Committee, overseeing the
Intellectual Property and Crime Subcommit-
tees.
As Chief Counsel of the Intellectual Property
Subcommittee, Jason was responsible for
handling highly complex patent, copyright,
trademark, and courts issues, among other
matters. Many Members and staff relied heav-
ily on his ability to explain, in a clear and un-
derstandable manner, the often complicated
and highly technical matters that moved
through his Subcommittee. He also deftly bal-
anced his substantive expertise with a keen
appreciation of the various stakeholders’ inter-
ests in each issue, and an ability to find con-
sensus among these sometimes divergent in-
terests.
Jason’s efforts were vital to enacting signifi-
cant reforms to the intellectual property eco-
system that will promote innovation and pro-
tect the creative community. For example, he
worked tirelessly to pass the Defend Trade
Secrets Act, which helps firms keep propri-
etary information—which, if disclosed, could
be ruinous to them—from being made public.
This legislation will save the American econ-
omy many billions of dollars, and preserve
many thousands of jobs.
Jason was also a critical player in the Com-
mittee’s lengthy review of the Copyright laws,
leading to passage of the Music Modernization
Act, historic bipartisan legislation to reform the
music licensing system. He spent countless
hours working with a vast array of stake-
holders to craft legislation that will better serve
music creators and digital music providers,
and ultimately consumers. He was also instru-
mental in passing legislation to promote great-
er diversity among patent holders, passing
legislation to ensure that visually impaired indi-
viduals have access to published works, and
developing hearings to oversee the implemen-
tation of the America Invents Act.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:13 Jan 04, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A03JA8.001 E03JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E1747
January 3, 2019
In each of these matters, Jason not only
worked with various parties to achieve con-
sensus, but he also worked closely with his
Republican counterparts to find a bipartisan
solution. Jason’s cooperative spirit and excel-
lent sense of humor helped pave the way for
legislation that ultimately garnered near unani-
mous support.
In addition to Jason’s work on the Intellec-
tual Property Subcommittee, as a Deputy
Chief Counsel for the Full Committee, he also
worked closely with his colleagues on the
Crime Subcommittee. In this role, he helped
navigate many thorny issues in pursuit of
criminal justice reform, and his efforts paid off
with passage of the First Step Act. He has
also been involved in a range of other criminal
justice issues, such as the Violence Against
Women Act and gun safety.
Jason is universally well-liked and respected
among Democrats and Republicans, Members
and staff, both on the Hill and off. His positive
attitude and hard work will be greatly missed
by everyone who worked with him, but we
wish him all the best in his future endeavors,
and we thank him for his service to the Judici-
ary Committee, to the Congress, and to the
country.
f
CONGRATULATING THE FATIMA
COMETS BOYS CROSS COUNTRY
TEAM FOR WINNING THE 2018
MISSOURI CLASS 2 CROSS COUN-
TRY CHAMPIONSHIP
HON. BLAINE LUETKEMEYER
OF MISSOURI
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, January 3, 2019
Mr. LUETKEMEYER. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to ask my colleagues to join me in con-
gratulating the Fatima Comets Boys Cross
Country team for winning the 2018 Missouri
Class 2 Cross Country Championship.
This team and Coach Marc Bridges should
be commended for all of their hard work
throughout this past year and for bringing
home the state championship to their school
and community.
I ask you to join me in recognizing the Fat-
ima Comets Boys Cross Country team for a
job well done.
f
HONORING THE CONGRESSIONAL
BLACK CAUCUS DURING THE
115TH CONGRESS
HON. CEDRIC L. RICHMOND
OF LOUISIANA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, January 3, 2019
Mr. RICHMOND. Mr. Speaker, I rise to
honor the work of the Congressional Black
Caucus during the 115th Congress.
The Congressional Black Caucus (CBC)
spent the 115th Congress fighting against at-
tempts to return this country to darker days by
being fearless in telling our truth. Black Ameri-
cans, who helped build the very Capitol in
which we stand, are once again witnessing
our own government set the wheels in motion
to turn against us. This Congress, led by a
group of people cozier with the one percent
than with the forgotten man or woman, has
worked with this Presidential administration to
turn back the clock. The CBC has stood up for
our values time and time again to say that we
will not go back to those dark days. We have
been unrelenting in standing against this tide
and will not shy away from this battle.
The CBC has worked tirelessly to infuse
morality into the legislative debates during the
115th Congress and perform tireless oversight
into the harmful policies of this Presidential
administration. Since this President took office,
he has led efforts to reverse substantive poli-
cies that have helped black Americans and
failed to stem the tide of hatred and racism
that made a strong resurgence during this divi-
sive tenure. The lack of moral leadership has
endangered disenfranchised communities and
policy decisions have eroded critical eco-
nomic, health and education programming.
The Caucus has taken every opportunity to lift
every voice to object to hurtful and immoral
lawmaking while engaging the public in con-
versations about the stakes we were facing.
The CBC had to fight for our values from
the earliest days of this Congress, with an in-
coming President nominating a number of un-
qualified people to lead his cabinet agencies,
including then Senator Jefferson Beauregard
Sessions, who the President wanted to ap-
point to the Department of Justice. I rep-
resented the Caucus alongside my colleagues
Senator BOOKER and living legend Represent-
ative JOHN LEWIS in speaking out against Ses-
sions’ lifetime of support for troubling policies
that impeded the progress of black Americans.
The President wasted no time in partnering
with his allies in this Congress to advance an
agenda that carried water for billionaires while
ignoring the nation’ s most vulnerable citizens.
The Caucus once again reprised its role as
the Conscience of the Congress by opposing
this Congress and this White House as they
worked in concert to attack vulnerable commu-
nities by neutering programming that served
them.
When the White House planned a national
voter suppression and intimidation effort, the
Congressional Black Caucus criticized the Ad-
ministration’s sham ‘‘Voter Integrity Commis-
sion’’ for seeking to solve a voter fraud issue
that was clearly non-existent. In a few short
weeks, the states themselves rose up against
this effort and it mercifully perished due to a
strong resistance against its undemocratic
underpinnings. When the President dem-
onstrated an uncomfortable coziness with
Russian operatives the Caucus performed
oversight. When the Department of Justice re-
energized the war on drugs the Caucus stood
firm in its opposition to restoring policies that
unfairly targeted black citizens in law enforce-
ment activity feeding an unsustainable mass
incarceration machine. When the President
asked the Caucus and black communities
‘‘What the Hell do You Have to Lose’’, the
Caucus went to the White House with a 130
page policy document educating this President
about issues facing black America. We pro-
vided dozens of policy options that a serious
White House could have leveraged to improve
the lives of Americans of all colors who face
challenges. We haven’t heard back.
The CBC responded to the White House’s
immoral budget request with its own budget,
infused with morality and justice. The Caucus’
budget proposal invested in education, jobs
and healthcare while asking the wealthiest
among us to pay their fair share. The budget
received strong support in a floor vote and we
are going to continue to introduce spending
plans that invest in the important things in this
nation in a responsible fashion.
The CBC stood up against the injustice
sought by this Congress when it planned to
cut taxes for billionaires while robbing health
care from struggling families. This crisis of mo-
rality in Congress was compounded by an ad-
ministration that was sabotaging affordable
health care at every turn. Facing a moral crisis
and the potential for enduring pain, the CBC
called on everyone to think twice before hurt-
ing tens of millions of Americans. We raised
our voices against the injustice of failing to in-
vest in new jobs for hard working Americans
while Congress handed corporate giants bil-
lions of dollars in tax breaks. All the while the
President sought historic cuts to programs that
seniors, children and families rely on to live.
We have pointed out repeatedly that these
morally bankrupt policies will also endanger
the country, impairing future investments in
our human capital and other important re-
sources to all of our eventual detriment.
The CBC has been actively fighting against
a steady stream of increased hate crimes and
public racism. When this President failed to
condemn white supremacists and Nazis, the
CBC called for racists to be purged from this
White House, and within weeks, most of the
most odious and hateful people around the
President were gone. We also called for white
supremacist figures to be purged from Con-
gressional spaces and for Confederate sym-
bols and statues to be removed. We have also
continued to fight for a more fair criminal jus-
tice system that gives ex-offenders a second
chance while holding wayward police depart-
ments accountable for unconstitutional policing
practices. Our members have been on the
front lines of pushing for deserving non-violent
offenders to re-enter our community and for
police departments to restore humanity to their
interactions with our neighborhoods.
When the FBI made up a new term to de-
scribe politically engaged black Americans,
‘‘black identity extremists’’, the Caucus spoke
truth to power, meeting with FBI Director
Christopher Wray to demand that the FBI pro-
vide more insights into the origins of this
harmful term and explain how it might impact
their investigations. We made it clear that we
expected the FBI to not target Americans sim-
ply due to their physical characteristics and
political views. This felt like a throwback to an
earlier, darker period in our history, when the
FBI surveilled black Americans it found objec-
tionable. We told Director Wray that the CBC
would not stand for a COINTELPRO 2.0 and
that his investigations needed to be done ab-
sent the stain of a poorly worded term such as
‘‘black identity extremist’’. The Caucus also re-
peatedly stood up against inept and unquali-
fied attorneys and jurists being offered up for
lifetime appointments to the federal judiciary.
Thanks in large part to the work of the Cau-
cus, some of the most horrific institutional rac-
ists are not on the bench today. And this will
stand as a testament to the work of the Cau-
cus infusing morality into the deliberations of
legislators in this Capitol.
When African and Caribbean countries were
disrespectfully referenced by being called
‘‘shithole countries’’ the Caucus called for
those remarks to be censured. At the first
state of the union, this Caucus stared the
hateful policies in the face and showed the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:13 Jan 04, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A03JA8.004 E03JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E1748 January 3, 2019
world that we would not let a hurtful adminis-
tration impose an ounce of fear upon us.
In addition to performing robust oversight,
this Caucus set out to introduce legislation
that would protect vulnerable communities
while investing in the future. Our members put
significant work into addressing a host of
issues that would improve outcomes for black
families and for all Americans that yearn for
better. The Caucus’ 1300-page bill, the Jobs
and Justice Act of 2018, is a blueprint for seri-
ous legislators that want to bring change to
this country in an inclusive way. I hope that
the next Congress leverages the work this
Caucus has done by implementing much of
the bill in the important legislation that is to
come.
This Caucus also worked to hold corporate
America accountable for ensuring that all of
America was represented in its ranks and to
ensure that their businesses were not being
leveraged to harm communities of color. We
called on the largest companies and investors
in America to diversity their boards, c-suites
and supply chains. We also called on powerful
social media companies to invest in more di-
verse workforces to better identify attempts to
weaponize platforms to inflame racial tensions.
In addition, we called on technology compa-
nies to better address implicit bias in the de-
velopment of new artificial intelligence tools to
ensure that these new tools demonstrated
more promise than peril.
When the history books are written, this
Congress will be cited as a failure. Instead of
serving as a constitutional check and balance
against a historically corrupt President with re-
pressive instincts, this Republican led Con-
gress enabled and emboldened an unqualified
executive to run roughshod over civil liberties
and the rights of underserved and struggling
communities. It is no surprise that several
members of this Caucus have been some of
the earliest voices to examine whether the
constitutional remedy of impeachment is an
appropriate tool to address the dangers this
President poses to our republic. This Con-
gress has been an embarrassment and has
failed American families time and time again.
But like a phoenix rising, Americans have
chosen a different direction. The House of
Representatives will be under new leadership
in just a few short days, ushering in a new era
of oversight and morally infused legislating
with members of the CBC in key positions to
deliver better outcomes for Americans of all
kinds from all races and from all parties. Mem-
bers of the Congressional Black Caucus are
members of the human race who care for their
fellow man and woman. We come from com-
munities that have been long forgotten over
the broad sweep of American history. These
same communities have bred hope and prom-
ise during these same times. Our optimism
and faith has never wavered, even at the
darkest times. We have come this far by faith.
And we have miles left to go before we sleep.
The members of this Caucus will continue to
lead in the debates that matter.
It has been an honor to serve as the chair-
man of this incredible group of legislators. I
pray that in our service, the 48 members of
this bi-partisan, bi-cameral caucus have made
our ancestors proud and our constituents
eager to continue to work with us to advance
the interests of all communities that seek to be
led by men and women of conscience. We
walk in the footsteps of our ancestors and
have not yet completed the journeys that they
started when they were first forced off over-
crowded slave ships onto the shores of this
nation. This has been an imperfect union, but
it is one that is worth fighting to preserve.
As I yield the chairmanship of the CBC to
incoming chair KAREN BASS of California, I
wish her strength and resolve for the fights to
come. I pray the Lord will guide her steps to
continue the work of our ancestors and the
work of the 13 Founders of the CBC, who
came together in 1971 to raise their voices to
confront the massive challenges that faced
them at that time. Many of our challenges are
the same though the times have changed
around us. I know that Representative BASS
will continue to lead this Caucus with intel-
ligence, integrity and courage. I wish her well
and I thank my colleagues for the opportunity
to serve them as chairman.
Mr. Speaker, I celebrate the Congressional
Black Caucus during the 115th Congress.
f
CONGRATULATING THE FATIMA
GIRLS CROSS COUNTRY TEAM
FOR WINNING THE 2018 MISSOURI
GIRLS CLASS 2 STATE CROSS
COUNTRY CHAMPIONSHIP
HON. BLAINE LUETKEMEYER
OF MISSOURI
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, January 3, 2019
Mr. LUETKEMEYER. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to ask my colleagues to join me in con-
gratulating the Fatima Girls Cross Country
team for winning the 2018 Missouri Girls Class
2 State Cross Country Championship.
This team and Coach Bridges should be
commended for all their hard work throughout
this past year and for bringing home the state
championship to their school and community.
I ask you to join me in recognizing the Fat-
ima Girls Cross Country team for a job well
done.
f
REPORT ON WORKPLACE RIGHTS
AND RESPONSIBILITIES EDU-
CATION
HON. GREGG HARPER
OF MISSISSIPPI
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, January 3, 2019
Mr. HARPER. Mr. Speaker, this report is
submitted in satisfaction of Section 3 of the
Committee on House Administration Resolu-
tion dated December 19, 2017.
The Committee on House Administration di-
rected the Chief Administrative Officer on Jan-
uary 8, 2018 to develop a strategy to procure
and deliver Workplace Rights and Responsibil-
ities Education training for the House of Rep-
resentatives.
The Committee approved the proposed cur-
riculum and delivery schedule on April 27,
2018. The curriculum met all requirements set
forth by Committee resolution. Delivery began
on April 30, 2018 and continued through De-
cember 31, 2018.
The Committee is satisfied that all current
eligible Members and employees of the House
have completed the required training in 2018,
as administered by the Chief Administrative
Officer.
CONGRATULATING FESTUS TIGERS
BOYS CROSS COUNTRY TEAM
FOR WINNING THE 2018 MISSOURI
BOYS CLASS 3 STATE CROSS
COUNTRY CHAMPIONSHIP
HON. BLAINE LUETKEMEYER
OF MISSOURI
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, January 3, 2019
Mr. LUETKEMEYER. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to ask my colleagues to join me in con-
gratulating the Festus Tigers Boys Cross
Country team for winning the 2018 Missouri
Boys Class 3 State Cross Country Champion-
ship.
This team and Coach Bryant Wright should
be commended for all of their hard work
throughout this past year and for bringing
home the state championship to their school
and community.
I ask you to join me in recognizing the
Festus Tigers Boys Cross Country team for a
job well done.
f
REFLECTIONS ON THE 115TH
CONGRESS
HON. GRACE MENG
OF NEW YORK
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, January 3, 2019
Ms. MENG. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to
speak about the 115th Congress. While I am
disappointed that the current spending im-
passe could not be resolved this Congress, I
am hopeful that we will remedy our current
predicament after the swearing-in of the new
Democratic majority. The historic House take-
over by a once-in-a-generation incoming
Democratic class of lawmakers is nothing
short of inspiring. I wish them all the luck in
the world.
This Congress, Mr. Speaker, it was an
honor to be named the 8th Most Effective
Democrat in the House by the Center for Ef-
fective Lawmaking at the University of Virginia.
It was also an honor to receive 100 percent
ratings from the ACLU, the Human Rights
Campaign, and Planned Parenthood. I am
proud of the fact that, according to Govtrack,
the legislation I introduced in 2017—we are
still awaiting the results for 2018—placed me
in the top 10 percent of all Members with re-
spect to the number of cosponsors secured,
and the top 20 percent of all Members with re-
spect to the number of bipartisan cosponsors
secured.
Additionally, Mr. Speaker, it was also a
pleasure serving on the House Appropriations
Committee this Congress, particularly under
the leadership of my good friend, Ranking
Member LOWEY. The work that went into
crafting legislation totaling more than $1.2 tril-
lion in discretionary spending each year was
staggering, as was my own learning curve on
my two subcommittees—the Commerce, Jus-
tice, Science Subcommittee and the Sub-
committee on State and Foreign Operations.
Drafting measures on those subcommittees
that accounted for a combined $109 billion in
discretionary federal spending each year was
an unforgettable experience, as was securing
$1.4 billion for personal spending priorities.
I would like to take this opportunity to in-
clude in the RECORD some of the legislative
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:13 Jan 04, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A03JA8.005 E03JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E1749
January 3, 2019
achievements that were signed into law this
Congress as the result of work performed by
my office on behalf of the people of the Sixth
Congressional District of New York:
1) H.R. 423, the ‘‘Anti-Spoofing Act of
2017’’, which criminalizes acts of spoofing
(the practice of disguising one’s phone num-
ber) during the commission of crimes, as sec-
tion 503 of Division P of Public Law 115–141,
the ‘‘Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2018’’.
2) H.R. 7043, the ‘‘Better Airplanes Noise
Standards Act’’, which requires the Federal
Aviation Administration to complete evalua-
tions of alternative aircraft noise measure-
ment metrics within one year, as section 173
of Public Law 115–254, the ‘‘FAA Reauthor-
ization Act of 2018’’ (via amendment no. 90 to
H.R. 4).
3) H.R. 7044, the ‘‘Unmanned Aircraft Sys-
tems Collegiate Training Initiative Program
Act’’, which authorized the Collegiate Train-
ing Initiative Program for Unmanned Air-
craft Systems, as section 632 of Public Law
115–254, the ‘‘FAA Reauthorization Act of
2018’’ (submitted as amendment no. 66 to
H.R. 4 to the House Rules Committee).
4) H.R. 7045, the ‘‘Aircraft Avionics Sys-
tems Cybersecurity Act’’, which requires the
Federal Aviation Administration to consider
and address cybersecurity concerns for avi-
onics systems—including software compo-
nents, as section 506 of Public Law 115–254,
the ‘‘FAA Reauthorization Act of 2018’’ (sub-
mitted as amendment no. 65 to H.R. 4 to the
House Rules Committee).
5) H.R. 754, the ‘‘Anwar Sadat Centennial
Celebration Act’’, which I co-authored with
Rep. Chris Stewart from Utah, awarded a
Congressional Gold Medal to Anwar Sadat
and permitted it to be presented to his
widow, Jehan Sadat, and a representative of
the government of Egypt.
6) Section 407 of Public Law 115–254, the
‘‘FAA Reauthorization Act of 2018’’, which
requires the Government Accountability Of-
fice to review airlines’ training policies for
employees and contractors regarding racial,
ethnic, and religious nondiscrimination and
requires the Secretary of Transportation to
develop and disseminate best practices based
upon the findings of the report (via amend-
ment no. 37 to H.R. 4).
7) Section 182 of Public Law 115–254, the
‘‘FAA Reauthorization Act of 2018’’, which
requires the FAA to review the North Shore
Helicopter Route to address the noise impact
on affected communities, improve altitude
enforcement, and assess alternative routes
that include an all-water route over the At-
lantic Ocean (via Zeldin, Meng, Suozzi H.
AMDT. 568 to H.R. 4).
8) Section 188 of Public Law 115–254, the
‘‘FAA Reauthorization Act of 2018’’, which
requires a new FAA study—in addition to on-
going studies—of alternative aircraft noise
metrics (via Panetta, Meng, et al. amend-
ment no. 62 to H.R. 4).
9) Section 612 of Public Law 115–254, the
‘‘FAA Reauthorization Act of 2018’’, which
created the FAA Women in Aviation Advi-
sory Board to promote organizations and
programs that provide education, training,
mentorship, outreach, and recruitment of
women into the aviation industry (via Esty,
Meng, et al. amendment no. 58 to H.R. 4).
10) Section 558 of Public Law 115–91, the
‘‘National Defense Authorization Act for Fis-
cal Year 2018’’, which improved childcare
services for military families by enhancing
the hours of operation at DOD childcare cen-
ters and established childcare coordinators
for military installations (via amendment
no. 39 to H.R. 2810).
11) Section 544 of Public Law 115–91, the
‘‘National Defense Authorization Act for Fis-
cal Year 2018’’, which extended the Yellow
Ribbon Reintegration Program, a suicide
prevention and resilience initiative for mem-
bers of the National Guard and Reserves, for
two years (submitted as amendment no. 429
to H.R. 2810 to the House Rules Committee).
12) $500 million for U.S.-Israel missile de-
fense programs funded by Section 8070 of
Public Law 115–245, the ‘‘Department of De-
fense and Labor, Health and Human Serv-
ices, and Education Appropriations Act,
2019’’. These funds will be used for the Iron
Dome defense system, David’s Sling system
components, and the Arrow-3 system.
13) $373.8 million for Israeli Cooperative
Programs with the U.S. Department of De-
fense, which appears on page 85D of the Joint
Explanatory Statement for Division C of
H.R. 1625, the ‘‘Consolidated Appropriations
Act, 2018’’.
14) $269 million for USAID Biodiversity
Conservation Programs, which is provided in
section 7060(c)(2)(A) of Public Law 115–141,
the ‘‘Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2018’’.
15) $130 million for small business develop-
ment under Entrepreneurial Development
Programs provided for on page 233 of Public
Law 115–141, the ‘‘Consolidated Appropria-
tions Act, 2018’’. This increase in funding
will allow the establishment of a new Small
Business Development Center (SBDC) to be
opened in New York’s Sixth Congressional
District.
16) $90.7 million for programs to combat
wildlife trafficking, which appears on page 68
of the Joint Explanatory Statement for Divi-
sion K accompanying Public Law 115–141, the
‘‘Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2018’’.
17) $1 million for programs to combat anti-
Semitism abroad, which appears on page 44
of the Joint Explanatory Statement for Divi-
sion K accompanying Public Law 115–141, the
‘‘Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2018’’.
18) $300,000 increase for the Smithsonian
Asian Pacific American Center, which ap-
pears on page 56 of the Joint Explanatory
Statement for Division G accompanying
Public Law 115–31, the ‘‘Consolidated Appro-
priations Act, 2017’’. These funds more than
tripled the Center’s resources to develop pro-
grams and expand outreach to promote a
better understanding of the Asian Pacific
American experience.
19) A conference report provision accom-
panying Public Law 115–91, the ‘‘National
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year
2018’’, which directs DOD to review the de-
sign, material, sizing, price, availability,
quality, and utility of maternity uniforms
for pregnant members of the military (con-
sistent with amendment no. 28 to H.R. 2810).
20) Page 26 of House Report 115–673—’’Vet-
erans who participated in nuclear clean-up
activities in Palomares, Spain and on
Enewetak Atoll.’’ (Incorporated by reference
into the Joint Explanatory Statement ac-
companying H.R. 5895, the ‘‘Energy and
Water, Legislative Branch, and Military
Construction and Veterans Affairs Appro-
priations Act, 2019’’). This provision directs
the VA to determine, using scientific and
medical data, whether 38 CFR 3.309(d) should
be modified in order to allow veterans who
participated in nuclear clean-up activities in
Palomares, Spain and on Enewetak Atoll in
the Marshall Islands to be presumed to be ex-
posed to radiation for disability benefits pur-
poses.
21) Page 27 of House Report 115–673—
‘‘Cholangiocarcinoma.’’ (Incorporated by ref-
erence into the Joint Explanatory State-
ment accompanying H.R. 5895, the ‘‘Energy
and Water, Legislative Branch, and Military
Construction and Veterans Affairs Appro-
priations Act, 2019’’). This provision directs
the VA to report to Congress on its current
research into this rare cancer that appears
in Vietnam veterans at higher rates than the
general population, and to explain why less
than one-third of the claims for service con-
nected disabilities related to the disease
have been granted by the VA.
22) Page 36 of House Report 115–673—‘‘Fe-
male medical staff.’’ (Incorporated by ref-
erence into the Joint Explanatory State-
ment accompanying H.R. 5895, the ‘‘Energy
and Water, Legislative Branch, and Military
Construction and Veterans Affairs Appro-
priations Act, 2019’’). This provision directs
the VA to report to Congress on the number
of female health care professionals hired by
the Veterans Health Administration each
year over the last five years, including infor-
mation pertaining to job type and employ-
ment location, so that additional female
health care professionals can be hired in
order to provide the growing number of fe-
male veterans greater opportunities to
choose the gender of their health care pro-
vider.
23) Page 93 of House Report 115–697—‘‘Car-
bon Capture.’’ (Incorporated by reference
into the Joint Explanatory Statement ac-
companying H.R. 5895, the ‘‘Energy and
Water, Legislative Branch, and Military
Construction and Veterans Affairs Appro-
priations Act, 2019’’). This provision directs
the Department of Energy to ‘‘explore car-
rying out a prize competition to advance the
research, development, or commercialization
of technologies that capture, sequester, or
utilize carbon.’’
24) Page 97 of House Report 115–697—‘‘En-
ergy Information Administration, Puerto
Rico.’’ (Incorporated by reference into the
Joint Explanatory Statement accompanying
H.R. 5895, the ‘‘Energy and Water, Legisla-
tive Branch, and Military Construction and
Veterans Affairs Appropriations Act, 2019’’).
This provision urges the Energy Information
Administration to publish information for
Puerto Rico and other territories in its state
profiles section in a manner that is con-
sistent with the information furnished for
states.
25) Page 150 of House Report 115–862—‘‘Free
Application for Federal Student Aid.’’ (In-
corporated by reference into the Joint Ex-
planatory Statement accompanying H.R.
6157, the ‘‘Department of Defense and Labor,
Health and Human Services, and Education
Appropriations Act, 2019’’). This provision
encourages the Secretary of Education to
translate the Free Application for Federal
Student Aid into additional foreign lan-
guages.
26) Page 55 of House Report 115–862—
‘‘Gynecologic Cancer Clinical Trials.’’ (In-
corporated by reference into the Joint Ex-
planatory Statement accompanying H.R.
6157, the ‘‘Department of Defense and Labor,
Health and Human Services, and Education
Appropriations Act, 2019’’). This provision di-
rects the National Cancer Institute to pro-
vide Congress with information on access to
gynecologic cancer clinical trials in order to
increase future access to these life-saving
trials.
27) Page 156 of House Report 115–862-’’Data
for Puerto Rico.’’ (Incorporated by reference
into the Joint Explanatory Statement ac-
companying H.R. 6157, the ‘‘Department of
Defense and Labor, Health and Human Serv-
ices, and Education Appropriations Act,
2019’’). This provision directs the National
Center for Education Statistics to collect
and publish data for Puerto Rico in the same
manner it collects and publishes data for
states so that Puerto Rico has meaningful
data that can be used to compare its stu-
dents’ academic progress with students
across the rest of the United States.
28) Page 58 of House Report 115–862—‘‘Hepa-
titis B (1).’’ (Incorporated by reference into
the Joint Explanatory Statement accom-
panying H.R. 6157, the ‘‘Department of De-
fense and Labor, Health and Human Serv-
ices, and Education Appropriations Act,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:13 Jan 04, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A03JA8.007 E03JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E1750 January 3, 2019
2019’’). This provision directs the National
Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kid-
ney Diseases (NIDDK) to pursue improved
treatments and a cure for Hepatitis B and to
report to Congress on its progress in the 2020
Congressional Budget Justification sub-
mitted by the agency.
29) Page 70 of House Report 115–862—‘‘Hep-
atitis B (2).’’ (Incorporated by reference into
the Joint Explanatory Statement accom-
panying H.R. 6157, the ‘‘Department of De-
fense and Labor, Health and Human Serv-
ices, and Education Appropriations Act,
2019’’). This provision directs the National
Institute on Minority Health and Health Dis-
parities (NIMHD) to fund research into
model programs that increase Hepatitis
awareness, knowledge, testing, and treat-
ment among disproportionately impacted
communities such as Asian Americans and
Pacific Islanders.
30) Page 37 of House Report 115–862—‘‘Viral
Hepatitis.’’ (Incorporated by reference into
the Joint Explanatory Statement accom-
panying H.R. 6157, the ‘‘Department of De-
fense and Labor, Health and Human Serv-
ices, and Education Appropriations Act,
2019’’). This provision directs the Centers for
Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) to re-
port to Congress within 90 days its plan to
achieve the goal of elimination of Hepatitis
B and C—particularly within opioid users.
31) Page 67 of House Report 115–232—
‘‘Feminine Hygiene Cosmetics.’’ (Incor-
porated by reference into the Joint Explana-
tory Statement accompanying H.R. 1625, the
‘‘Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2018’’).
This provision strongly urges the FDA to
issue appropriate guidance to consumers on
the use of unsafe colorants by manufacturers
in feminine hygiene cosmetic products.
32) Page 16 of House Report 115–769—‘‘Mi-
nority Outreach and Officer Accessions.’’ (In-
corporated by reference into the Joint Ex-
planatory Statement accompanying H.R.
6157, the ‘‘Department of Defense and Labor,
Health and Human Services, and Education
Appropriations Act, 2019 and Continuing Ap-
propriations Act, 2019’’). This provision di-
rects the Secretary of Defense to improve di-
versity among military officers.
33) Page 285 of House Report 115–219—
‘‘Military Medical Professionals and the De-
partment of Veterans Affairs.’’ (Incorporated
by reference into the Joint Explanatory
Statement accompanying H.R. 1625, the
‘‘Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2018’’) .
This provision directs DOD to work with the
VA to encourage DOD medical professionals
who are being discharged or are separating
from the military to pursue employment
with the Veterans Health Administration.
34) Page 30 of House Report 115–230—‘‘Con-
tinuing Authorities Program (CAP).’’ (Incor-
porated by reference into the Joint Explana-
tory Statement accompanying H.R. 1625, the
‘‘Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2018’’).
This provision encourages the Army Corps of
Engineers to pursue projects to address ice
floes in regions comprised of cities whose
historic flooding has been predominately
caused by winter snowmelt—cities such as
those in Western and upstate New York.
35) Page 83 of the Joint Explanatory State-
ment accompanying H.R. 1625, the ‘‘Consoli-
dated Appropriations Act, 2018’’—‘‘Asian Pa-
cific American Initiatives and Outreach.’’
This provision continues the previous year’s
Congressional support for the Smithsonian
Institution’s Asian American and Pacific Is-
lander outreach and programming.
36) Page 17 of House Report 115–199—‘‘Ex-
panded Availability of Tours in Foreign Lan-
guages’’ (Incorporated by reference into the
Joint Explanatory Statement accompanying
H.R. 1625, the ‘‘Consolidated Appropriations
Act, 2018’’). This provision encourages the
Capitol Visitor Center to explore the feasi-
bility of making listening devices used for
Capitol tours available in additional foreign
languages.
37) Page 55 of House Report 115–188—‘‘VA
Retail Immunization Care Coordination Pro-
gram’’ (Incorporated by reference into the
Joint Explanatory Statement accompanying
H.R. 1625, the ‘‘Consolidated Appropriations
Act, 2018’’). This provision encourages the
VA to build upon the success of the flu im-
munization program at retail locations and
to expand the program to also cover immuni-
zations such as pneumococcal and zoster vac-
cines.
38) Page 14 of House Report 115–253—‘‘De-
mocracy, Human Rights, and Labor (DRL)’’
(Incorporated by reference into the Joint Ex-
planatory Statement accompanying H.R.
1625, the ‘‘Consolidated Appropriations Act,
2018’’). This provision urges the Secretary of
State to appoint a Special Envoy to Monitor
and Combat Anti-Semitism as quickly as
possible given the global rise in anti-Semitic
incidents.
39) Page 49 of House Report 115–253—
‘‘Water, Sanitation, and Hygiene (WASH)’’
(Incorporated by reference into the Joint Ex-
planatory Statement accompanying H.R.
1625, the ‘‘Consolidated Appropriations Act,
2018’’). This provision directs the USAID Ad-
ministrator to submit a report to Congress
within 90 days outlining how the provision of
feminine hygiene products is included in
both the design and implementation of
WASH programs. This report will allow addi-
tional directed work to be pursued to address
this important issue in the lives of vulner-
able women and girls.
40) Page 14 of House Report 115–237—‘‘Noise
Health Effects Research’’ (Incorporated by
reference into the Joint Explanatory State-
ment accompanying H.R. 1625, the ‘‘Consoli-
dated Appropriations Act, 2018’’). This provi-
sion resulted from a joint Quiet Skies Cau-
cus (which I am proud to have co-founded
and chaired) appropriations request letter. It
directs the FAA to continue to prioritize the
research being conducted at the Center of
Excellence for Alternative Jet Fuel and En-
vironment, the Aviation Sustainability Cen-
ter (ASCENT) on the impact of aviation
noise on both sleep and cardiovascular
health.
As Appropriations Taskforce Chair for the
Congressional Asian Pacific American Caucus
(CAPAC), I was proud to lead joint appropria-
tions request letters for the Caucus that re-
sulted in the following provisions being signed
into law:
41) Page 31 of House Report 115–231—
‘‘Profiling.’’ (Incorporated by reference into
the Joint Explanatory Statement accom-
panying H.R. 1625, the ‘‘Consolidated Appro-
priations Act, 2018’’). This provision ex-
presses Congress’s concern about reports of
Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders being
profiled by Department of Justice investiga-
tors and prosecutors on the basis of race and
national origin, including in espionage and
trade secret cases. It directs an Office of In-
spector General investigation be conducted
into the matter.
42) Page 32 of House Report 115–231—‘‘Civil
Rights Division, Voting Section.’’ (Incor-
porated by reference into the Joint Explana-
tory Statement accompanying H.R. 1625, the
‘‘Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2018’’).
This provision requires the submission of a
report by the Voting Section of the Civil
Rights Division of the Department of Justice
to Congress containing the number of sec-
tion 203 cases investigated in the past year
broken out by language, including the num-
ber of such investigations opened and the
number closed—as well as the reasons for
closure.
43) Page 15 of House Report 115–234—
‘‘CDFIs in U.S. Insular Areas.’’ (Incorporated
by reference into the Joint Explanatory
Statement accompanying H.R. 1625, the
‘‘Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2018’’).
This provision notes the absence of Commu-
nity Development Financial Institutions
(CDFI) serving American Samoa, the North-
ern Mariana Islands, and other insular areas,
and recommends that the CDFI Fund use its
Capacity Building Initiative to expand serv-
ice to these areas.
Additionally, I am proud to have secured
passage of the following legislation through
the U.S. House of Representatives prior to
today, and will continue to fight to secure pas-
sage of these provisions into law in the future:
1) H.R. 382, the ‘‘100 Years of Women in
Congress Act’’, which seeks to rename the
Women and Minorities in STEM Fields Pro-
gram at the U.S. Department of Agriculture
the ‘‘Jeannette Rankin Women and Minori-
ties in STEM Fields Program’’ in honor of
the 100 year anniversary of the election of
the first woman to Congress—Jeannette
Rankin.
2) Section 1(5) of H.R. 6846, ‘‘To require the
United States Postal Service to establish
new Zip codes, and for other purposes,’’
which would designate a single, unique ZIP
Code for Glendale, New York. This section
stems from my bill H.R. 803, ‘‘To direct the
United States Postal Service to designate a
single, unique ZIP Code for Glendale, New
York’’, an effort that originated with
former-Representative, and Vice Presi-
dential candidate, Geraldine Ferraro almost
40 years ago.
3) Section 7(a)(2) of H.R. 6199, ‘‘Restoring
Access to Medication and Modernizing
Health Savings Accounts Act of 2018’’, which
would permit the purchase of menstrual hy-
giene products with health flexible spending
accounts.
4) Section 504 of H.R. 5515, the ‘‘John S.
McCain National Defense Authorization Act
for Fiscal Year 2019’’, which would allow any
member of the armed forces who gives birth
to be exempt from deployment for up to 12
months following childbirth.
5) Section 566 of H.R. 5515, the ‘‘John S.
McCain National Defense Authorization Act
for Fiscal Year 2019’’, which would require
the Secretary of Defense to permit military
parents flexible (non-continuous) maternity
and paternity leave, allowing this time off to
be spread out over time instead of being used
all at once.
6) Section 717 of H.R. 5515, the ‘‘John S.
McCain National Defense Authorization Act
for Fiscal Year 2019’’, which would authorize
the Secretary of Defense to develop a burn
patient transfer system. This system would
include military and civilian burn centers
that could be used in mass casualty events.
7) Section 220F of H.R. 5515, the ‘‘John S.
McCain National Defense Authorization Act
for Fiscal Year 2019’’, which would authorize
the Jet Noise Reduction Program within the
U.S. Navy’s Office of Naval Research in order
to reduce noise produced by high perform-
ance military jets.
8) Section 595 of H.R. 5515, the ‘‘John S.
McCain National Defense Authorization Act
for Fiscal Year 2019’’, which would require
the Department of Defense to create exit
surveys on attrition levels for members of
the military in order to better understand
why attrition rates are higher for women
than for men.
9) Section 921(b)(3) of H.R. 5515, the ‘‘John
S. McCain National Defense Authorization
Act for Fiscal Year 2019’’, which sought to
add oversight responsibilities to the DOD Ar-
tificial Intelligence and Machine Learning
Policy and Oversight Council. The newly cre-
ated Council currently has no oversight re-
quirement in its mandate. The Council will
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:13 Jan 04, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A03JA8.008 E03JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E1751
January 3, 2019
be responsible for overseeing the research,
development, and deployment of artificial
intelligence and autonomous machines used
by the military. The provision was cospon-
sored by Rep. Darren Soto of Florida.
10) Section 3(a)(7) of H.R. 1638, the ‘‘Ira-
nian Leadership Asset Transparency Act’’,
which would require an assessment of the ef-
fectiveness of U.S. economic sanctions
against Iran.
11) Section 2 of H.R. 1367, ‘‘To improve the
authority of the Secretary of Veterans Af-
fairs to hire and retain physicians and other
employees of the Department of Veterans Af-
fairs and for other purposes’’, which would
assist the VA Secretary in filling Veterans
Health Administration positions for which
there are severe staffing shortages. Under
current law, the Inspector General (IG) of
the VA must issue an annual report on which
positions within the agency are severely
understaffed. The VA Secretary is then
granted expedited hiring authority to fill
those positions. This provision would have
permitted the IG to report on additional
shortages than those currently allowed by
law so that the VA Secretary could fill those
positions more quickly as well.
12) Section 13 of H.R. 1367, ‘‘To improve the
authority of the Secretary of Veterans Af-
fairs to hire and retain physicians and other
employees of the Department of Veterans Af-
fairs and for other purposes’’, which would
require the Secretary of the VA to establish
a program that encourages members of the
Armed Forces serving as health professionals
to pursue jobs with the Veterans Health Ad-
ministration (VHA) upon their discharge or
separation from the military.
Mr. Speaker, there is no greater honor than
serving my neighbors, family, and friends in
the United States Congress. I thank them for
the opportunity during the 115th Congress. I
wish you well in your retirement.
f
CONGRATULATING KENDALL
HALLER OF THE FATIMA COM-
ETS FOR WINNING THE 2018 MIS-
SOURI GIRLS CLASS 2 STATE
CROSS COUNTRY CHAMPIONSHIP
HON. BLAINE LUETKEMEYER
OF MISSOURI
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, January 3, 2019
Mr. LUETKEMEYER. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to ask my colleagues to join me in con-
gratulating Kendall Haller of the Fatima Com-
ets for winning the 2018 Missouri Girls Class
2 State Cross Country Championship.
Kendall and Coach Marc Bridges should be
commended for all of their hard work through-
out this past year and for bringing home the
state championship to their school and com-
munity.
I ask you to join me in recognizing Kendall
Haller for a job well done.
CONGRATULATING MAXWELL
MCDANIEL OF THE FESTUS TI-
GERS FOR WINNING THE 2018
MISSOURI BOYS CLASS 3 STATE
CROSS COUNTRY CHAMPIONSHIP
HON. BLAINE LUETKEMEYER
OF MISSOURI
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, January 3, 2019
Mr. LUETKEMEYER. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to ask my colleagues to join me in con-
gratulating Maxwell McDaniel of the Festus Ti-
gers for winning the 2018 Missouri Boys Class
3 State Cross Country Championship.
Maxwell and Coach Bryant Wright should be
commended for all of their hard work through-
out this past year and for bringing home the
state championship to their school and com-
munity.
I ask you to join me in recognizing Maxwell
McDaniel for a job well done.
f
CONGRATULATING LOGAN
SHELFAUT OF THE FRANCIS
HOWELL NORTH KNIGHTS FOR
WINNING THE 2018 MISSOURI
CLASS 2 STATE DIVING CHAM-
PIONSHIP
HON. BLAINE LUETKEMEYER
OF MISSOURI
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, January 3, 2019
Mr. LUETKEMEYER. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to ask my colleagues to join me in con-
gratulating Logan Shelfaut of the Francis How-
ell North Knights for winning the 2018 Missouri
Class 2 State Diving Championship.
Logan and Coach Chris Pape should be
commended for all of their hard work through-
out this past year and for bringing home the
state championship to their school and com-
munity.
I ask you to join me in recognizing Logan
Shelfaut for a job well done.
f
CONGRATULATING THE FT.
ZUMWALT SOUTH BULLDOGS
BOYS SOCCER TEAM FOR WIN-
NING THE 2018 MISSOURI CLASS 3
STATE SOCCER CHAMPIONSHIP
HON. BLAINE LUETKEMEYER
OF MISSOURI
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, January 3, 2019
Mr. LUETKEMEYER. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to ask my colleagues to join me in con-
gratulating the Ft. Zumwalt South Bulldogs
Boys Soccer team for winning the 2018 Mis-
souri Class 3 State Soccer Championship.
This team and Coach Jim Layne should be
commended for all of their hard work through-
out this past year and for bringing home the
state championship to their school and com-
munity.
I ask you to join me in recognizing the Ft.
Zumwalt South Bulldogs Boys Soccer team for
a job well done.
f
THE LIFE AND LEGACY OF DALE
GOLIGHTLY
HON. DAVID YOUNG
OF IOWA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, January 3, 2019
Mr. YOUNG of Iowa. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to bring remembrance to a great
Iowan—Dale Golightly.
Dale was a man who loved and worked
hard for his family. He had a huge and com-
passionate heart who brought a quick quip
and smile to all he met. Dale was a man of
integrity who gave sage advice and wisdom
who all could trust.
When you met or talked to Dale, you felt
special. You knew you had a true friend in
Dale Golightly, he always had your back.
Dale loved his wife, Vera, dearly. He was
devoted to his children—Brad, Randy, Dan,
and Jean. His grandchildren and great-grand-
children brought him great joy. They will all
carry on the good name and legacy he left
them—a legacy of loving God, country, nature
and agriculture, the friend, and the stranger.
May God bless his soul. May Dale forever
rest in his Saviour’s arms in heaven.
Sanford Dale Golightly was born June 18,
1933 at home in Madison County, Iowa, the
son of Jerome and Ethel (Reigle) Golightly.
He graduated from Van Meter High School in
1952 and served in the United States Army
during the Korean Conflict. He married Vera
Jamison on June 19, 1955 at the Trinity Lu-
theran Church in Van Meter.
Dale came home from the service and
started farming, never really retiring. He
was a member of the Trinity Lutheran
Church where he held various offices. He was
on the Van Meter School Board, the
Booneville Co-op Board and the Madison
County Fair Board. Dale was a collector and
enjoyed attending flea markets and auctions.
He enjoyed fishing with his children, gar-
dening and watching Iowa State basketball
and football. Above all else, Dale cherished
spending time with family, especially with
his grandchildren.
Dale died Tuesday, November 13, 2018 at
Spurgeon Manor in Dallas Center. He was 85
years old.
Dale is survived by his wife of 63 years,
Vera Golightly of Van Meter; four children,
Brad (Shelly) Golightly of Perry, Randy
(Anna) Golightly of Van Meter, Dan
(Michelle) Golightly of Waukee, and Jean
(J.R.) Hall of Urbandale; five grandchildren,
Jana Ferguson, Austin (Brittney) Golightly,
Karlee Golightly, Jason (Angela) Mickelson
and Nathan Mickelson; three great-grand-
children, extended family and friends.
He was preceded in death by his parents,
Jerome and Ethel Golightly and a grandson,
Bret Golightly.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:13 Jan 04, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A03JA8.009 E03JAPT1
D1337
Thursday, January 3, 2019
Daily Digest
Senate
Chamber Action
The Senate met at 11:50:05 a.m. in pro forma ses-
sion, and adjourned at 11:52:03 a.m. until 12 noon,
on the same day.
Nomination Confirmed: Senate confirmed the fol-
lowing nomination:
William Charles McIntosh, of Michigan, to be an
Assistant Administrator of the Environmental Pro-
tection Agency. Page S8065
Committee Meetings
No committee meetings were held.
h
House of Representatives
Chamber Action
Public Bills and Resolutions Introduced: There
were no Public Bills or Resolutions introduced in to-
day’s Record.
Additional Cosponsors: Page H10612
Reports Filed: Reports were filed on January 2,
2019 as follows:
Legislative and Oversight Activities of the Com-
mittee on Homeland Security 115th Congress (H.
Rept. 115–1127); and
Report on the Activities of the Committee on
Natural Resources U.S. House of Representatives for
the 115th Congress (H. Rept. 115–1128).
A report was filed today as follows:
S. 141, to improve understanding and forecasting
of space weather events, and for other purposes, with
amendments (H. Rept. 115–1129, Part 1).
Pages H10611–12
Speaker: Read a letter from the Speaker wherein he
appointed Representative Womack to act as Speaker
pro tempore for today. Page H10611
Recess: The House recessed at 11:02 a.m. and re-
convened at 11:55 a.m. Page H10611
Quorum Calls—Votes: There were no yea and nay
votes, and there were no recorded votes. There were
no quorum calls.
Adjournment: The House met at 11 a.m. and at
11:56 a.m. the Chair declared the One Hundred Fif-
teenth Congress adjourned sine die, pursuant to the
20th amendment to the Constitution of the United
States.
Committee Meetings
No hearings were held.
Joint Meetings
No joint committee meetings were held.
f
COMMITTEE MEETINGS FOR THURSDAY,
JANUARY 3, 2019
(Committee meetings are open unless otherwise indicated)
Senate
No meetings/hearings scheduled.
House
No hearings are scheduled.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:33 Jan 04, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D03JA9.REC D03JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
Congressional Record The Congressional Record (USPS 087–390). The Periodicals postage
is paid at Washington, D.C. The public proceedings of each House
of Congress, as reported by the Official Reporters thereof, are
printed pursuant to directions of the Joint Committee on Printing as authorized by appropriate provisions of Title 44, United
States Code, and published for each day that one or both Houses are in session, excepting very infrequent instances when
two or more unusually small consecutive issues are printed one time. ¶ Public access to the Congressional Record is available online through
the U.S. Government Publishing Office, at www.govinfo.gov, free of charge to the user. The information is updated online each day the
Congressional Record is published. For more information, contact the GPO Customer Contact Center, U.S. Government Publishing Office.
Phone 202–512–1800, or 866–512–1800 (toll-free). E-Mail, contactcenter@gpo.gov. ¶ To place an order for any of these products, visit the U.S.
Government Online Bookstore at: bookstore.gpo.gov. Mail orders to: Superintendent of Documents, P.O. Box 979050, St. Louis, MO
63197–9000, or phone orders to 866–512–1800 (toll-free), 202–512–1800 (D.C. area), or fax to 202–512–2104. Remit check or money order, made
payable to the Superintendent of Documents, or use VISA, MasterCard, Discover, American Express, or GPO Deposit Account. ¶ Following
each session of Congress, the daily Congressional Record is revised, printed, permanently bound and sold by the Superintendent of Documents
in individual parts or by sets. ¶ With the exception of copyrighted articles, there are no restrictions on the republication of material from
the Congressional Record.
POSTMASTER: Send address changes to the Superintendent of Documents, Congressional Record, U.S. Government Publishing Office,
Washington, D.C. 20402, along with the entire mailing label from the last issue received.
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
D1338 January 3, 2019
Next Meeting of the SENATE
12 noon, Thursday, January 3
Senate Chamber
Program for Thursday: Senate will convene the first
session of the 116th Congress.
Next Meeting of the HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
12 noon, Thursday, January 3
House Chamber
Program for Thursday: House will convene the First
Session of the One Hundred Sixteenth Congress.
Extensions of Remarks, as inserted in this issue
HOUSE
Brady, Kevin, Tex., E1746
Costa, Jim, Calif., E1745
Harper, Gregg, Miss., E1746, E1748
Kind, Ron, Wisc., E1745
Luetkemeyer, Blaine, Mo., E1745, E1746, E1747, E1748,
E1748, E1751, E1751, E1751, E1751
McClintock, Tom, Calif., E1745
Meng, Grace, N.Y., E1748
Nadler, Jerrold, N.Y., E1746
Richmond, Cedric L., La., E1747
Young, David, Iowa, E1751
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:33 Jan 04, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0664 Sfmt 0664 E:\CR\FM\D03JA9.REC D03JAPT1
