Congressional Record
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
United States
of America PROCEEDINGS AND DEBATES OF THE 116th
CONGRESS, FIRST SESSION
b This symbol represents the time of day during the House proceedings, e.g., b 1407 is 2:07 p.m.
Matter set in this typeface indicates words inserted or appended, rather than spoken, by a Member of the House on the floor.
.
H2925
Vol. 165 WASHINGTON, MONDAY, APRIL 1, 2019 No. 56
House of Representatives
The House met at noon and was
called to order by the Speaker pro tem-
pore (Mr. GOMEZ).
f
DESIGNATION OF SPEAKER PRO
TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore laid be-
fore the House the following commu-
nication from the Speaker:
WASHINGTON, DC,
April 1, 2019.
I hereby appoint the Honorable JIMMY
GOMEZ to act as Speaker pro tempore on this
day.
NANCY PELOSI,
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
f
MESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT
A message in writing from the Presi-
dent of the United States was commu-
nicated to the House by Ms. Mariel
Ridgway, one of his secretaries.
f
MORNING-HOUR DEBATE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the order of the House of Janu-
ary 3, 2019, the Chair will now recog-
nize Members from lists submitted by
the majority and minority leaders for
morning-hour debate.
The Chair will alternate recognition
between the parties. All time shall be
equally allocated between the parties,
and in no event shall debate continue
beyond 1:50 p.m. Each Member, other
than the majority and minority leaders
and the minority whip, shall be limited
to 5 minutes.
f
REMEMBERING MIKE FALCONITE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Kentucky (Mr. COMER) for 5 minutes.
Mr. COMER. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to honor the life of my good
friend, Mike Falconite of Kentucky,
who passed away on Friday, March 29,
2019, at the age of 62.
Mike was born to the late Joe
Falconite and Betty Lou Falconite and
grew up in Cairo, Illinois. Mike’s father
owned and operated a heavy equipment
company, which Mike took control of
and moved to Paducah with his family
in the 1980s.
Mike was a great friend of mine who
will be remembered for his work ethic,
generosity, big heart, and passion for
the outdoors.
Mike expanded his company to mul-
tiple States and employed hundreds of
people before selling it in 1995 and set-
ting his sights on real estate in Padu-
cah, starting up Falconite Develop-
ment. I admired Mike’s vision for Pa-
ducah and his enthusiasm for devel-
oping and expanding the community.
Mike’s motto was, ‘‘The more you
build, the more you learn.’’ He lived
that motto in many aspects of his life.
When Mike was not looking for the
next real estate venture, he enjoyed
boating at Kentucky Lake and hunt-
ing, which took him on many adven-
tures across the United States and
other countries in search of prized
game.
He loved spending time with his fam-
ily, including his two children, Nicki
Roof and Joe Falconite, plus seven
grandchildren.
Mike was a humble, fair, and pas-
sionate man who was always willing to
help others in need. Giving the benefit
of the doubt to anyone he encountered,
he will, undoubtedly, be remembered
by those who loved him as hard-
working, charitable, and incredibly
passionate. I join with all of Mike’s
friends and family today in honoring
his life, legacy, and love for others.
CONGRATULATING BRANDON GARNETT
Mr. COMER. Mr. Speaker, I rise to
congratulate Brandon Garnett of Chris-
tian County for recently receiving the
2019 Friend of Agriculture award.
Brandon Garnett has proved to be a
strong advocate for agriculture and the
farmers of western Kentucky. He has
facilitated a number of important ag-
related activities in the community,
including the Christian County Cattle-
men’s rodeo scholarships for local
youth and the soon-to-be ag expo cen-
ter. Brandon is regional vice president
for Farm Credit of Mid-America and
serves on several boards throughout
the city of Hopkinsville.
In receiving the Friend of Agri-
culture award, Brandon shared the role
his father played in shaping his out-
look on being a friend to agriculture
and how ‘‘to always know that agri-
culture was a way of life and some-
thing that would always provide well if
you put your heart into it.’’
I am proud to know we have individ-
uals like Brandon who work tirelessly
to advocate on behalf of our agri-
culture community, serving, teaching,
and always offering a helping hand.
Again, I congratulate my good friend,
Brandon Garnett, on being named the
2019 Friend of Agriculture, and I look
forward to his continued success in
Christian County and beyond.
f
CONGRATULATING CASEY
DITTRICH
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Nebraska (Mr. SMITH) for 5 minutes.
Mr. SMITH of Nebraska. Mr. Speak-
er, I rise to highlight the efforts of
Casey Dittrich, road superintendent of
Antelope County, Nebraska, to repair
the many roads damaged by the storms
and flooding that battered our State
and much of the Midwest last month.
Even before the floodwaters had
crested, Casey was actively formu-
lating plans to repair the roads, having
contracted outside employees and a
large fleet of equipment to commence
repairs as soon as possible.
Through his efforts, Antelope County
has made steps toward reopening its
more than 1,000 miles of gravel roads
and 180 miles of paved roads for stu-
dents to attend schools and livestock
producers to continue their daily busi-
ness, as well as many others.
In his 3 years working for Antelope
County, Casey’s efforts have garnered
respect from his coworkers, and his
work throughout this flood has greatly
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:39 Apr 03, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\RECORD19\APRIL\H01AP9.REC H01AP9
abonner
on
DSKBCJ7HB2PROD
with
CONG-REC-ONLINE CORRECTION
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2926 April 1, 2019
helped the county along its long way to
recovery.
Please join me in thanking Casey
Dittrich for his proactive and diligent
service to Antelope County, Nebraska.
f
RECESS
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 12(a) of rule I, the Chair
declares the House in recess until 2
p.m. today.
Accordingly (at 12 o’clock and 6 min-
utes p.m.), the House stood in recess.
f
b 1215
AFTER RECESS
The recess having expired, the House
was called to order by the Speaker pro
tempore (Mr. KRISHNAMOORTHI) at 2
p.m.)
f
PRAYER
The Chaplain, the Reverend Patrick
J. Conroy, offered the following prayer:
Dear Lord, we give You thanks for
giving us another day.
We use this moment to be reminded
of Your presence and to tap the re-
sources needed by the men and women
of this assembly to do their work as
well as it can be done.
May they be led by Your holy spirit
in the decisions they make. May they
possess Your power as they steady
themselves amid the pressures of per-
sistent problems.
The issues facing our Nation this
week are monumental to us but a part
of the long history of political and pol-
icy debate that have created a great
narrative of participative democracy.
Send Your spirit of wisdom to the
justices and upon the Members who
serve in this people’s House, that the
bills that lead forward might prove to
be beneficial to our Nation and its peo-
ple.
And may all that is done this day be
for Your greater honor and glory.
Amen.
f
THE JOURNAL
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair has examined the Journal of the
last day’s proceedings and announces
to the House his approval thereof.
Pursuant to clause 1, rule I, the Jour-
nal stands approved.
Mr. WILSON of South Carolina. Mr.
Speaker, pursuant to clause 1, rule I, I
demand a vote on agreeing to the
Speaker’s approval of the Journal.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the Speaker’s approval
of the Journal.
The question was taken; and the
Speaker pro tempore announced that
the ayes appeared to have it.
Mr. WILSON of South Carolina. Mr.
Speaker, I object to the vote on the
ground that a quorum is not present
and make the point of order that a
quorum is not present.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8, rule XX, further pro-
ceedings on this question will be post-
poned.
The point of no quorum is considered
withdrawn.
f
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Will the
gentleman from Texas (Mr. VELA) come
forward and lead the House in the
Pledge of Allegiance.
Mr. VELA led the Pledge of Alle-
giance as follows:
I pledge allegiance to the Flag of the
United States of America, and to the Repub-
lic for which it stands, one nation under God,
indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
f
GERALDINE PENA CELEBRATES
100TH BIRTHDAY
(Mr. VELA asked and was given per-
mission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Mr. VELA. Mr. Speaker, it is an
honor to recognize Geraldine Pena of
La Feria, Texas, as she celebrates her
centennial birthday today. She was
born on April 1, 1919, in Tucson, Ari-
zona.
Geraldine, affectionately called
Gerry, dropped out of high school to
support her single mother and four
younger siblings. After marrying her
husband, Ralph, the couple relocated to
his hometown of La Feria. There, she
devoted her time to raising six chil-
dren.
As her children grew older, Mrs. Pena
was able to become more actively in-
volved in the community, always lend-
ing a hand when possible. She was also
an active member of the American Le-
gion Auxiliary Post 409, and her in-
volvement included local, State, and
national conventions in Texas and Ha-
waii.
She is the proud grandmother of 13
grandchildren and 13 great-grand-
children, with more expected in the
coming years.
I am pleased to honor Geraldine Pena
for her legacy of unselfishness and gen-
erosity. Her devotion to her family and
community is admirable, and I hope
her 100th birthday celebration is filled
with love and happiness. She is joined
by family traveling from California, Il-
linois, Arizona, and across Texas.
I ask my colleagues to join me in
wishing Geraldine Pena a happy birth-
day and wishing her good health and
prosperity.
f
RECOGNIZING LINCOLN HEIGHTS
AS A NATIONAL HISTORIC PLACE
(Ms. FOXX of North Carolina asked
and was given permission to address
the House for 1 minute.)
Ms. FOXX of North Carolina. Mr.
Speaker, I rise to recognize an historic
moment for North Carolina’s Fifth Dis-
trict last week, when Lincoln Heights
School in Wilkesboro joined the Na-
tional Register of Historic Places.
From 1913 to 1927, Julius Rosenwald
and Booker T. Washington built nearly
5,000 schools in African American com-
munities by matching seed funds pro-
vided by public and private entities.
Lincoln Heights is among the few of
these schools remaining. Constructed
in 1924, students attended from six sur-
rounding counties after facing dis-
crimination and lacking educational
opportunities near their homes.
As a National Historic Place, Lincoln
Heights reminds us of the disgraceful
history of segregation in our country,
but our country is not defined by this
injustice. Rather, as a nation, we are
shaped by brave men and women who
stand for justice when society fails.
f
CONGRATULATIONS TO MICHAEL
KRATSIOS
(Mr. WILSON of South Carolina
asked and was given permission to ad-
dress the House for 1 minute and to re-
vise and extend his remarks.)
Mr. WILSON of South Carolina. Mr.
Speaker, South Carolinians are grate-
ful that President Donald Trump has
nominated Michael Kratsios, son of
John and Maria Kratsios of Columbia,
to be the U.S. Chief Technology Offi-
cer. He is a very successful and quali-
fied leader to develop technology ini-
tiatives for the White House.
Under Michael’s leadership, the
White House has been able to develop
plans for artificial intelligence, quan-
tum computing, 5G, STEM education,
and advanced manufacturing. Michael
is a global leader and has proven that
he is the best person to serve our coun-
try in this position.
Among many accomplishments, Mi-
chael led the American Artificial Intel-
ligence Initiative, which secures Amer-
ican leadership and artificial intel-
ligence research and development and
opens the door for greater innovation.
Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross has
praised the nomination of Michael
Kratsios as putting a ‘‘knowledgeable
leader at the helm of American tech-
nology.’’
In conclusion, God bless our troops,
and we will never forget September the
11th in the global war on terrorism.
f
COMMUNICATION FROM THE
CLERK OF THE HOUSE
The SPEAKER pro tempore laid be-
fore the House the following commu-
nication from the Clerk of the House of
Representatives:
OFFICE OF THE CLERK,
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
Washington, DC, April 1, 2019.
Hon. NANCY PELOSI,
The Speaker, House of Representatives,
Washington, DC.
DEAR MADAM SPEAKER: Pursuant to the
permission granted in Clause 2(h) of Rule II
of the Rules of the U.S. House of Representa-
tives, the Clerk received the following mes-
sage from the Secretary of the Senate on
April 1, 2019, at 11:20 a.m.:
That the Senate passed without amend-
ment H.R. 276.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:28 Apr 02, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K01AP7.002 H01APPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2927
April 1, 2019
Appointment:
Board of Visitors of the U.S. Military
Academy.
With best wishes, I am
Sincerely,
CHERYL L. JOHNSON.
f
CONTINUATION OF THE NATIONAL
EMERGENCY WITH RESPECT TO
SOUTH SUDAN—MESSAGE FROM
THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED
STATES (H. DOC. NO. 116–25)
The SPEAKER pro tempore laid be-
fore the House the following message
from the President of the United
States; which was read and, together
with the accompanying papers, referred
to the Committee on Foreign Affairs
and ordered to be printed:
To the Congress of the United States:
Section 202(d) of the National Emer-
gencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1622(d)) provides
for the automatic termination of a na-
tional emergency unless, within 90
days before the anniversary date of its
declaration, the President publishes in
the Federal Register and transmits to
the Congress a notice stating that the
emergency is to continue in effect be-
yond the anniversary date. In accord-
ance with this provision, I have sent to
the Federal Register for publication the
enclosed notice stating that the na-
tional emergency declared in Executive
Order 13664 of April 3, 2014, with respect
to South Sudan, is to continue in effect
beyond April 3, 2019.
The situation in and in relation to
South Sudan, which has been marked
by activities that threaten the peace,
security, or stability of South Sudan
and the surrounding region, including
widespread violence and atrocities,
human rights abuses, recruitment and
use of child soldiers, attacks on peace-
keepers, and obstruction of humani-
tarian operations, continues to pose an
unusual and extraordinary threat to
the national security and foreign pol-
icy of the United States. For this rea-
son, I have determined that it is nec-
essary to continue the national emer-
gency declared in Executive Order 13664
with respect to South Sudan.
DONALD J. TRUMP.
THE WHITE HOUSE, April 1, 2019.
f
RECESS
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 12(a) of rule I, the Chair
declares the House in recess until ap-
proximately 4 p.m. today.
Accordingly (at 2 o’clock and 9 min-
utes p.m.), the House stood in recess.
f
b 1605
AFTER RECESS
The recess having expired, the House
was called to order by the Speaker pro
tempore (Mr. SHERMAN) at 4 o’clock
and 5 minutes p.m.
f
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER
PRO TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, the Chair
will postpone further proceedings
today on motions to suspend the rules
on which a recorded vote or the yeas
and nays are ordered, or votes objected
to under clause 6 of rule XX.
The House will resume proceedings
on postponed questions at a later time.
f
DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SE-
CURITY MORALE, RECOGNITION,
LEARNING AND ENGAGEMENT
ACT OF 2019
Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi. Mr.
Speaker, I move to suspend the rules
and pass the bill (H.R. 1433) to amend
the Homeland Security Act of 2002 to
improve morale within the Department
of Homeland Security workforce by
conferring new responsibilities to the
Chief Human Capital Officer, estab-
lishing an employee engagement steer-
ing committee, requiring action plans,
and authorizing an annual employee
award program, and for other purposes,
as amended.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 1433
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Department
of Homeland Security Morale, Recognition,
Learning and Engagement Act of 2019’’ or
the ‘‘DHS MORALE Act’’.
SEC. 2. CHIEF HUMAN CAPITAL OFFICER RE-
SPONSIBILITIES.
Section 704 of the Homeland Security Act
of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 344) is amended—
(1) in subsection (b)—
(A) in paragraph (1)—
(i) by inserting ‘‘, including with respect to
leader development and employee engage-
ment,’’ after ‘‘policies’’;
(ii) by striking ‘‘and in line’’ and inserting
‘‘, in line’’; and
(iii) by inserting ‘‘and informed by best
practices within the Federal government and
the private sector,’’ after ‘‘priorities,’’;
(B) in paragraph (2), by striking ‘‘develop
performance measures to provide a basis for
monitoring and evaluating’’ and inserting
‘‘use performance measures to evaluate, on
an ongoing basis,’’;
(C) in paragraph (3), by inserting ‘‘that, to
the extent practicable, are informed by em-
ployee feedback’’ after ‘‘policies’’;
(D) in paragraph (4), by inserting ‘‘includ-
ing leader development and employee en-
gagement programs,’’ before ‘‘in coordina-
tion’’;
(E) in paragraph (5), by inserting before the
semicolon at the end the following: ‘‘that is
informed by an assessment, carried out by
the Chief Human Capital Officer, of the
learning and developmental needs of employ-
ees in supervisory and non-supervisory roles
across the Department and appropriate
workforce planning initiatives’’;
(F) by redesignating paragraphs (9) and (10)
as paragraphs (12) and (13), respectively; and
(G) by inserting after paragraph (8) the fol-
lowing new paragraphs:
‘‘(9) maintain a catalogue of available em-
ployee development opportunities, including
the Homeland Security Rotation Program
pursuant to section 844, departmental leader-
ship development programs, interagency de-
velopment programs, and other rotational
programs;
‘‘(10) ensure that employee discipline and
adverse action programs comply with the re-
quirements of all pertinent laws, rules, regu-
lations, and Federal guidance, and ensure
due process for employees;
‘‘(11) analyze each Department or Govern-
ment-wide Federal workforce satisfaction or
morale survey not later than 90 days after
the date of the publication of each such sur-
vey and submit to the Secretary such anal-
ysis, including, as appropriate, recommenda-
tions to improve workforce satisfaction or
morale within the Department;’’;
(2) by redesignating subsections (d) and (e)
as subsections (e) and (f), respectively;
(3) by inserting after subsection (c) the fol-
lowing new subsection:
‘‘(d) CHIEF LEARNING AND ENGAGEMENT OF-
FICER.—The Chief Human Capital Officer
may designate an employee of the Depart-
ment to serve as a Chief Learning and En-
gagement Officer to assist the Chief Human
Capital Officer in carrying out this section.’’;
and
(4) in subsection (e), as so redesignated—
(A) by redesignating paragraphs (2), (3),
and (4) as paragraphs (5), (6), and (7), respec-
tively; and
(B) by inserting after paragraph (1) the fol-
lowing new paragraphs:
‘‘(2) information on employee development
opportunities catalogued pursuant to para-
graph (9) of subsection (b) and any available
data on participation rates, attrition rates,
and impacts on retention and employee sat-
isfaction;
‘‘(3) information on the progress of Depart-
ment-wide strategic workforce planning ef-
forts as determined under paragraph (2) of
subsection (b);
‘‘(4) information on the activities of the
steering committee established pursuant to
section 711(a), including the number of meet-
ings, types of materials developed and dis-
tributed, and recommendations made to the
Secretary;’’.
SEC. 3. EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT STEERING
COMMITTEE AND ACTION PLAN.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Title VII of the Homeland
Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 341 et seq.) is
amended by adding at the end the following
new section:
‘‘SEC. 711. EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT.
‘‘(a) STEERING COMMITTEE.—Not later than
120 days after the date of the enactment of
this section, the Secretary shall establish an
employee engagement steering committee,
including representatives from operational
components, headquarters, and field per-
sonnel, including supervisory and non-super-
visory personnel, and employee labor organi-
zations that represent Department employ-
ees, and chaired by the Under Secretary for
Management, to carry out the following ac-
tivities:
‘‘(1) Identify factors that have a negative
impact on employee engagement, morale,
and communications within the Department,
such as perceptions about limitations on ca-
reer progression, mobility, or development
opportunities, collected through employee
feedback platforms, including through an-
nual employee surveys, questionnaires, and
other communications, as appropriate.
‘‘(2) Identify, develop, and distribute ini-
tiatives and best practices to improve em-
ployee engagement, morale, and communica-
tions within the Department, including
through annual employee surveys, question-
naires, and other communications, as appro-
priate.
‘‘(3) Monitor efforts of each component to
address employee engagement, morale, and
communications based on employee feedback
provided through annual employee surveys,
questionnaires, and other communications,
as appropriate.
‘‘(4) Advise the Secretary on efforts to im-
prove employee engagement, morale, and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 23:37 Apr 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A01AP7.002 H01APPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2928 April 1, 2019
communications within specific components
and across the Department.
‘‘(5) Conduct regular meetings and report,
not less than once per quarter, to the Under
Secretary for Management, the head of each
component, and the Secretary on Depart-
ment-wide efforts to improve employee en-
gagement, morale, and communications.
‘‘(b) ACTION PLAN; REPORTING.—The Sec-
retary, acting through the Chief Human Cap-
ital Officer, shall—
‘‘(1) not later than 120 days after the date
of the establishment of the employee engage-
ment steering committee under subsection
(a), issue a Department-wide employee en-
gagement action plan, reflecting input from
the steering committee and employee feed-
back provided through annual employee sur-
veys, questionnaires, and other communica-
tions in accordance with paragraph (1) of
such subsection, to execute strategies to im-
prove employee engagement, morale, and
communications within the Department; and
‘‘(2) require the head of each component
to—
‘‘(A) develop and implement a component-
specific employee engagement plan to ad-
vance the action plan required under para-
graph (1) that includes performance meas-
ures and objectives, is informed by employee
feedback provided through annual employee
surveys, questionnaires, and other commu-
nications, as appropriate, and sets forth how
employees and, where applicable, their labor
representatives are to be integrated in devel-
oping programs and initiatives;
‘‘(B) monitor progress on implementation
of such action plan; and
‘‘(C) provide to the Chief Human Capital
Officer and the steering committee quarterly
reports on actions planned and progress
made under this paragraph.
‘‘(c) TERMINATION.—This section shall ter-
minate on the date that is five years after
the date of the enactment of this section.’’.
(b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of
contents in section 1(b) of the Homeland Se-
curity Act of 2002 is amended by inserting
after the item relating to section 710 the fol-
lowing new item:
‘‘Sec. 711. Employee engagement.’’.
(c) SUBMISSIONS TO CONGRESS.—
(1) DEPARTMENT-WIDE EMPLOYEE ENGAGE-
MENT ACTION PLAN.—The Secretary of Home-
land Security, acting through the Chief
Human Capital Officer of the Department of
Homeland Security, shall submit to the
Committee on Homeland Security of the
House of Representatives and the Committee
on Homeland Security and Governmental Af-
fairs of the Senate the Department-wide em-
ployee engagement action plan required
under subsection (b)(1) of section 711 of the
Homeland Security Act of 2002 (as added by
subsection (a) of this section) not later than
30 days after the issuance of such plan under
such subsection (b)(1).
(2) COMPONENT-SPECIFIC EMPLOYEE ENGAGE-
MENT PLANS.—Each head of a component of
the Department of Homeland Security shall
submit to the Committee on Homeland Secu-
rity of the House of Representatives and the
Committee on Homeland Security and Gov-
ernmental Affairs of the Senate the compo-
nent-specific employee engagement plan of
each such component required under sub-
section (b)(2) of section 711 of the Homeland
Security Act of 2002 not later than 30 days
after the issuance of each such plan under
such subsection (b)(2).
SEC. 4. ANNUAL EMPLOYEE AWARD PROGRAM.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Title VII of the Homeland
Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 341 et seq.), as
amended by section 3 of this Act, is further
amended by adding at the end the following
new section:
‘‘SEC. 712. ANNUAL EMPLOYEE AWARD PROGRAM.
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary may es-
tablish an annual employee award program
to recognize Department employees or
groups of employees for significant contribu-
tions to the achievement of the Depart-
ment’s goals and missions. If such a program
is established, the Secretary shall—
‘‘(1) establish within such program cat-
egories of awards, each with specific criteria,
that emphasizes honoring employees who are
at the non-supervisory level;
‘‘(2) publicize within the Department how
any employee or group of employees may be
nominated for an award;
‘‘(3) establish an internal review board
comprised of representatives from Depart-
ment components, headquarters, and field
personnel to submit to the Secretary award
recommendations regarding specific employ-
ees or groups of employees;
‘‘(4) select recipients from the pool of
nominees submitted by the internal review
board under paragraph (3) and convene a
ceremony at which employees or groups of
employees receive such awards from the Sec-
retary; and
‘‘(5) publicize such program within the De-
partment.
‘‘(b) INTERNAL REVIEW BOARD.—The inter-
nal review board described in subsection
(a)(3) shall, when carrying out its function
under such subsection, consult with rep-
resentatives from operational components
and headquarters, including supervisory and
non-supervisory personnel, and employee
labor organizations that represent Depart-
ment employees.
‘‘(c) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.—Nothing in
this section may be construed to authorize
additional funds to carry out the require-
ments of this section or to require the Sec-
retary to provide monetary bonuses to re-
cipients of an award under this section.’’.
(b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of
contents in section 1(b) of the Homeland Se-
curity Act of 2002, as amended by section 3 of
this Act, is further amended by inserting
after the item relating to section 711 the fol-
lowing new item:
‘‘Sec. 712. Annual employee award pro-
gram.’’.
SEC. 5. INDEPENDENT INVESTIGATION AND IM-
PLEMENTATION PLAN.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 120 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Comptroller General of the United States
shall investigate whether the application in
the Department of Homeland Security of dis-
cipline and adverse actions are administered
in an equitable and consistent manner that
results in the same or substantially similar
disciplinary outcomes across the Depart-
ment for misconduct by a non-supervisory or
supervisor employee who engaged in the
same or substantially similar misconduct.
(b) CONSULTATION.—In carrying out the in-
vestigation described in subsection (a), the
Comptroller General of the United States
shall consult with the Under Secretary for
Management of the Department of Homeland
Security and the employee engagement
steering committee established pursuant to
subsection (b)(1) of section 711 of the Home-
land Security Act of 2002 (as added by sec-
tion 3(a) of this Act).
(c) ACTION BY UNDER SECRETARY FOR MAN-
AGEMENT.—Upon completion of the investiga-
tion described in subsection (a), the Under
Secretary for Management of the Depart-
ment of Homeland Security shall review the
findings and recommendations of such inves-
tigation and implement a plan, in consulta-
tion with the employee engagement steering
committee established pursuant to sub-
section (b)(1) of section 711 of the Homeland
Security Act of 2002, to correct any relevant
deficiencies identified by the Comptroller
General of the United States in such inves-
tigation. The Under Secretary for Manage-
ment shall direct the employee engagement
steering committee to review such plan to
inform committee activities and action
plans authorized under such section 711.
SEC. 6. IMPACTS OF SHUTDOWN.
Not later than 90 days after the date of the
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of
Homeland Security shall report to the Com-
mittee on Homeland Security of the House of
Representatives and the Committee on
Homeland Security and Governmental Af-
fairs of the Senate regarding the direct and
indirect impacts of the lapse in appropria-
tions between December 22, 2018, and Janu-
ary 25, 2019, on—
(1) Department of Homeland Security
human resources operations;
(2) the Department’s ability to meet hiring
benchmarks; and
(3) retention, attrition, and morale of De-
partment personnel.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentleman from
Mississippi (Mr. THOMPSON) and the
gentleman from Mississippi (Mr.
GUEST) each will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from Mississippi (Mr. THOMPSON).
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi. Mr.
Speaker, I ask unanimous consent that
all Members have 5 legislative days to
revise and extend their remarks and to
include extraneous material on this
measure.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from Mississippi?
There was no objection.
Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi. Mr.
Speaker, I yield myself such time as I
may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R.
1433, the DHS MORALE Act.
Mr. Speaker, every day, the Depart-
ment of Homeland Security’s work-
force carries out dozens of critical mis-
sions, which are as diverse as pre-
venting terrorism, securing cyberspace,
transportation security, and disaster
recovery.
These 240,000 men and women deserve
to have their contributions to keeping
the Nation secure valued by not only
the American people but also by DHS
itself. Yet, even before the President’s
35-day partial government shutdown
earlier this year, morale within DHS
was a persistent problem. In fact, for
the past 7 years, DHS has ranked dead
last among all large Federal agencies
in the Partnership for Public Service’s
annual ‘‘Best Places to Work in the
Federal Government’’ survey.
This is unacceptable. Senior DHS
leadership, most especially the Sec-
retary of Homeland Security, needs to
prioritize improving morale within the
DHS workforce. In the Obama adminis-
tration, then-DHS Secretary Jeh John-
son began to address this operational
imperative through a range of pro-
grams under the unity of effort um-
brella. Unfortunately, the current ad-
ministration largely abandoned those
promising efforts.
I have long been committed to im-
proving conditions for the DHS work-
force. To that end, I reintroduced H.R.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:28 Apr 02, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A01AP7.004 H01APPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2929
April 1, 2019
1433, the DHS MORALE Act, a bill that
passed the House unanimously and re-
ceived tremendous support from the
labor organizations representing the
DHS labor force.
The DHS MORALE Act requires DHS
to develop and implement policies re-
lated to leadership development, em-
ployee engagement, career progression,
and employee recommendations.
This Congress, two new provisions
were added to the bill. The first directs
the DHS Chief Human Capital Officer
to analyze government-wide Federal
workforce satisfaction or morale sur-
veys to inform efforts to improve mo-
rale. The second provision requires a
report to Congress on the impact of the
recent government shutdown on DHS
human resources and morale. Both of
these measures would be a step toward
fixing the longstanding morale prob-
lems at DHS.
Mr. Speaker, I urge the passage of
H.R. 1433, and I reserve the balance of
my time.
MR. GUEST. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Today, I rise in support of H.R. 1433,
the DHS MORALE Act. The bill seeks
to address an issue that has plagued
the Department of Homeland Security
since its creation: low employee mo-
rale.
DHS has consistently reported low
employee morale on the ‘‘Federal Em-
ployee Viewpoint Survey’’ and today
remains dead last out of large agencies
in employee satisfaction.
These numbers are troubling. DHS
must find ways to improve employee
morale. The Department’s mission is
too important for these issues to be ig-
nored. H.R. 1433 will address the morale
problem at DHS by improving leader-
ship development, workforce planning,
and employee engagement programs.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
support H.R. 1433 to improve morale
throughout DHS and its components,
and I yield back the balance of my
time.
Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi. Mr.
Speaker, I yield myself such time as I
may consume.
Mr. Speaker, H.R. 1433 would help im-
prove morale among the Department’s
240,000 employees by creating and cata-
loging leadership development opportu-
nities, identifying and addressing fac-
tors that impact employee engage-
ment, and recognizing employee con-
tributions.
The DHS MORALE Act continues to
have the support of the National Bor-
der Patrol Council, National Treasury
Employees Union, and American Fed-
eration of Government Employees. En-
actment of the bill will help DHS ex-
amine the root cause of the long-
standing morale concerns and deter-
mine the best strategy to move the De-
partment forward in a positive direc-
tion.
Mr. Speaker, I ask for my colleagues’
support, and I yield back the balance of
my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentleman from Mississippi (Mr.
THOMPSON) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, H.R. 1433, as
amended.
The question was taken; and (two-
thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the bill, as
amended, was passed.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
COORDINATING AND LEVERAGING
ACTIVITIES FOR SCHOOL SECU-
RITY ACT
Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi. Mr.
Speaker, I move to suspend the rules
and pass the bill (H.R. 1593) to amend
the Homeland Security Act of 2002 to
establish a school security coordi-
nating council, and for other purposes,
as amended.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 1593
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Coordi-
nating and Leveraging Activities for School
Security Act’’ or the ‘‘CLASS Act of 2019’’.
SEC. 2. SCHOOL SECURITY COORDINATING COUN-
CIL.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Title VII of the Homeland
Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 341 et seq.) is
amended by adding at the end the following
new section:
‘‘SEC. 711. SCHOOL SECURITY COORDINATING
COUNCIL.
‘‘(a) ESTABLISHMENT.—There is established
in the Department a coordinating council to
ensure that, to the maximum extent prac-
ticable, activities, plans, and policies to en-
hance the security of an early childhood edu-
cation program, elementary school, high
school, or secondary schools against an act
of terrorism are coordinated.
‘‘(b) COMPOSITION.—The members of the
council established pursuant to subsection
(a) shall include the following:
‘‘(1) The Under Secretary for Strategy,
Policy, and Plans.
‘‘(2) The Director of the Cybersecurity and
Infrastructure Security.
‘‘(3) The Administrator of the Federal
Emergency Management Agency.
‘‘(4) The Director of the Secret Service.
‘‘(5) The Executive Director of the Office of
Academic Engagement.
‘‘(6) The Assistant Secretary for Public Af-
fairs.
‘‘(7) Any other official of the Department
the Secretary determines appropriate.
‘‘(c) LEADERSHIP.—The Secretary shall des-
ignate a member of the council to serve as
chair of the council.
‘‘(d) REPORTS.—Not later than January 30,
2021, and annually thereafter, the Secretary
shall submit to the Committee on Homeland
Security of the House of Representatives and
the Committee on Homeland Security and
Governmental Affairs of the Senate a report
regarding the council’s activities during the
preceding year, including information on any
metrics regarding the efficacy of such activi-
ties and any engagement with stakeholders
outside of the Federal Government.
‘‘(e) DEFINITIONS.—In this section, the
terms ‘early childhood education program’,
‘elementary school’, ‘high school’, and ‘sec-
ondary school’ have the meanings given such
terms in section 8101 of the Elementary and
Secondary Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C.
7801).’’.
(b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of
contents in section 1(b) of the Homeland Se-
curity Act of 2002 is amended by inserting
after the item relating to section 710 the fol-
lowing new item:
‘‘Sec. 711. School security coordinating
council.’’.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentleman from
Mississippi (Mr. THOMPSON) and the
gentleman from Mississippi (Mr.
GUEST) each will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from Mississippi (Mr. THOMPSON).
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi. Mr.
Speaker, I ask unanimous consent that
all Members have 5 legislative days to
revise and extend their remarks and to
include extraneous material on this
measure.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from Mississippi?
There was no objection.
b 1615
Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi. Mr.
Speaker, I yield myself such time as I
may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R.
1593, the Coordinating and Leveraging
Activities for School Security Act.
Mr. Speaker, school violence con-
tinues to devastate communities and
take the lives of so many young people.
In 2018, we saw a record number of
school shootings across the country. In
response, Congressman DONALD PAYNE,
Jr., introduced H.R. 1593, the Coordi-
nating and Leveraging Activities for
School Security Act, known as the
CLASS Act.
H.R. 1593 seeks to ensure that the De-
partment of Homeland Security orga-
nizes itself to help bolster school secu-
rity. Specifically, the CLASS Act es-
tablishes a standing body within DHS
to coordinate the Department’s school
security initiatives, activities, plans,
and policies. Additionally, to help en-
sure that DHS gives school security
adequate attention, H.R. 1593 requires
the Department to report to Congress
on the work of the council.
Mr. Speaker, this is an important
bill. I urge my colleagues to support
H.R. 1593, and I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. GUEST. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self such time as I may consume.
Today I rise in support of H.R. 1593,
the CLASS Act.
While the Department of Homeland
Security already coordinates its poli-
cies relating to school security and
safety across the Department, codi-
fying this council into law will ensure
important channels for information
sharing and coordination are main-
tained during changes in administra-
tion.
Currently, DHS utilizes a number of
tools to assist in the protection of our
Nation’s children. For example, the
United States Secret Service National
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:00 Apr 02, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K01AP7.008 H01APPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2930 April 1, 2019
Threat Assessment Center has created
an operational guide to provide action-
able steps that schools can take to de-
velop specific violence prevention plans
for their students.
Additionally, DHS’ Office of Aca-
demic Engagement, or OAE, supports
the Department’s mission by building,
improving, and leveraging relation-
ships with the academic community.
OAE’s work focuses on outreach, en-
gagement, and resiliency by supporting
institutions of higher learning and the
K–12 community in preparing for, re-
sponding to, and recovering from
threats and hazards that pose the
greatest risk.
OAE offers a Campus Resilience Pro-
gram Resource Library, which provides
the academic community with access
to guidelines, strategies, and resources
to address the risks and vulnerabilities
on their campus. The library is orga-
nized into categories according to a
specific threat or hazard as outlined in
the Federal Emergency Management
Agency’s National Preparedness Goal.
While numerous DHS components
and agencies provide resources and rec-
ommendations with regard to school
security, it is imperative that the work
be done in unison and there is coordi-
nation across all relevant agencies
within DHS.
Mr. Speaker, I urge all Members to
join me in supporting this bill, and I
reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi. Mr.
Speaker, I yield such time as he may
consume to the gentleman from New
Jersey (Mr. PAYNE), who is the author
of this legislation.
Mr. PAYNE. Mr. Speaker, I want to
thank the gentleman for yielding.
Mr. Speaker, school shootings are
dreadful atrocities that are plaguing
our Nation. Nearly 20 years have
passed since the horrendous shooting
at Columbine High School in Littleton,
Colorado, where 13 people lost their
lives, yet schools and universities con-
tinue to be soft targets for deadly at-
tacks.
Last year, between the months of
January and May 2018, there was the
Marjory Stoneman Douglas shooting
that claimed the lives of 17 individuals,
but there were also shootings nearly
every week at our Nation’s schools.
As history has shown us, there is no
profile for a school likely to be tar-
geted. This tragedy can happen at any
school.
In 2012, after the horrific shooting at
Sandy Hook Elementary School in
Newtown, Connecticut, the Depart-
ment of Homeland Security conducted
an internal review of actions that its
components were taking to help im-
prove school security. Today, I under-
stand that multiple DHS components
currently have programs underway to
address school security, but the degree
to which there is coordination is un-
clear.
The Coordinating and Leveraging Ac-
tivities for School Security, or CLASS,
Act will establish a standing council
within the Department of Homeland
Security to coordinate school security
activities, plans, and policies. The co-
ordinating council would include all
the key players in school security at
the Department. They include the DHS
Under Secretary for Strategy, Policy,
and Plans; the Director of Cybersecu-
rity and Infrastructure Protection; the
FEMA Administrator; the Secret Serv-
ice Director; and the heads of DHS’ Of-
fices of Academic Engagement and
Public Affairs.
This legislation was not developed in
a vacuum. Inspiration for this legisla-
tion came directly from experiences of
those impacted by school violence and
from the input of New Jerseyans.
Last July, my subcommittee held a
school security field hearing in New-
ark. At the hearing, the subcommittee
heard from the New Jersey State Po-
lice, the New Jersey Department of
Education, the New Jersey Association
of School Resource Officers, and the
New Jersey Office of Homeland Secu-
rity about the security risks the
schools face and how Congress can pro-
vide support.
At the hearing and subsequently
through our outreach and oversight, we
came to understand there needs to be
better coordination of school security
activities within DHS to bolster co-
ordination and minimize fragmenta-
tion.
As a leader in developing school secu-
rity best practices and policies, it is
important for DHS to have a formal
school security body so that it can pro-
vide an example to those on the State
and local levels on how to coordinate
the protection of schools.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my House col-
leagues to support this legislation.
Mr. GUEST. Mr. Speaker, in closing,
I urge adoption of this bill, and I yield
back the balance of my time.
Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi. Mr.
Speaker, school shootings have
claimed the lives of too many young
people. Passage of the CLASS Act
would ensure that the Department of
Homeland Security is positioned to be
impactful in its efforts to address the
escalating risk to school security.
I commend the gentleman from New
Jersey (Mr. PAYNE) for his leadership
on this issue.
Mr. Speaker, I ask for my colleagues’
support, and I yield back the balance of
my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentleman from Mississippi (Mr.
THOMPSON) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, H.R. 1593, as
amended.
The question was taken.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. In the
opinion of the Chair, two-thirds being
in the affirmative, the ayes have it.
Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi. Mr.
Speaker, on that I demand the yeas
and nays.
The yeas and nays were ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, further pro-
ceedings on this motion will be post-
poned.
f
TERRORIST AND FOREIGN FIGHT-
ER TRAVEL EXERCISE ACT OF
2019
Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi. Mr.
Speaker, I move to suspend the rules
and pass the bill (H.R. 1590) to require
an exercise related to terrorist and for-
eign fighter travel, and for other pur-
poses, as amended.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 1590
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Terrorist
and Foreign Fighter Travel Exercise Act of
2019’’.
SEC. 2. EXERCISE ON TERRORIST AND FOREIGN
FIGHTER TRAVEL.
(a) IN GENERAL.—In addition to, or as part
of exercise programs currently carried out
by the Department of Homeland Security, to
enhance domestic preparedness for and col-
lective response to terrorism, promote the
dissemination of homeland security informa-
tion, and test the security posture of the
United States, the Secretary of Homeland
Security, through appropriate offices and
components of the Department and in co-
ordination with the heads of appropriate
Federal departments and agencies, shall de-
velop and conduct an exercise related to the
detection and prevention of terrorist and for-
eign fighter travel.
(b) EXERCISE REQUIREMENTS.—The exercise
required under subsection (a) shall include—
(1) a scenario involving—
(A) persons traveling from the United
States to join or provide material support or
resources to a terrorist organization abroad;
and
(B) terrorist infiltration into the United
States, including by United States citizens
and foreign nationals;
(2) coordination with appropriate Federal
departments and agencies, foreign govern-
ments, and State, local, Tribal, and terri-
torial agencies, including law enforcement
agencies and representatives from the Na-
tional Network of Fusion Centers; and
(3) coordination with appropriate private
sector and community stakeholders.
(c) REPORT.—Not later than 60 days after
the completion of the exercise required
under subsection (a), the Secretary of Home-
land Security shall, consistent with the pro-
tection of classified information, submit to
the Committee on Homeland Security of the
House of Representatives and the Committee
on Homeland Security and Governmental Af-
fairs of the Senate an after-action report
presenting the initial findings of such exer-
cise, plans for quickly incorporating lessons
learned into future operations of the Depart-
ment of Homeland Security, and any pro-
posed legislative changes informed by such
exercise.
(d) DEFINITION.—In this section, the term
‘‘material support or resources’’ has the
meaning given such term in section 2339A of
title 18, United States Code.
SEC. 3. EMERGING THREATS IN THE NATIONAL
EXERCISE PROGRAM.
Clause (i) of section 648(b)(2)(A) of the
Post-Katrina Emergency Management Re-
form Act of 2006 (6 U.S.C. 748(b)(2)) is amend-
ed by inserting ‘‘and emerging’’ after ‘‘cred-
ible’’.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentleman from
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:00 Apr 02, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K01AP7.011 H01APPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2931
April 1, 2019
Mississippi (Mr. THOMPSON) and the
gentleman from Mississippi (Mr.
GUEST) each will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from Mississippi (Mr. THOMPSON).
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi. Mr.
Speaker, I ask unanimous consent that
all Members have 5 legislative days to
revise and extend their remarks and in-
clude extraneous material on the meas-
ure.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from Mississippi?
There was no objection.
Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi. Mr.
Speaker, I yield myself such time as I
may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R.
1590, the Terrorist and Foreign Fighter
Travel Exercise Act of 2019.
Mr. Speaker, in the almost 18 years
since the September 11 terrorist at-
tacks, threats to the American public
have become increasingly complex and
today include threats posed by foreign
fighters.
In 2015, the Committee on Homeland
Security’s Task Force on Combating
Terrorism and Foreign Fighter Travel
issued a bipartisan report that included
a number of recommendations.
H.R. 1590 requires the Department of
Homeland Security to develop and con-
duct a foreign fighter exercise that
could be built into existing DHS do-
mestic preparedness exercises. Impor-
tantly, after the exercise, DHS is re-
quired to submit an after-action report
to Congress detailing the initial find-
ings, plans for incorporating lessons
learned, and any legislative changes in-
formed by this exercise.
A very similar version of this legisla-
tion passed the full House last Con-
gress. I am pleased that, through the
markup process, modest modifications
were made to improve the measure.
Mr. Speaker, I urge the passage of
H.R. 1590, and I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. GUEST. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong
support of my bill, H.R. 1590, the Ter-
rorist and Foreign Fighter Travel Ex-
ercise Act of 2019. This legislation
seeks to better position the United
States Government and relevant State,
local, and private-sector agencies to
detect and prevent terrorist and for-
eign fighter travel.
In 2015, the Committee on Homeland
Security developed a bipartisan task
force to investigate the threat from in-
dividuals leaving the United States to
join terrorist groups abroad. The task
force reported that nearly 4,500 individ-
uals from Western countries, with over
250 from the United States, traveled to
join Islamic terrorist groups. It goes on
to detail 32 findings and over 50 rec-
ommendations to address this national
security issue.
During both the 114th Congress and
the 115th Congress, former Representa-
tive and now Senator MARTHA
MCSALLY introduced this legislation.
Both times, the bill passed unani-
mously in the House.
Senator MCSALLY previously stated:
‘‘The abilities of these hardened fight-
ers to return to the United States is a
legitimate security concern to the
homeland. Catching individuals who
are looking to join the ranks and train
with ISIS and other terrorist organiza-
tions prior to their initial departure is
equally important and should be a goal
for law enforcement as well.’’
Mr. Speaker, these words still ring
true today. Just last year, an Ohio man
was arrested at the John Glenn Inter-
national Airport trying to fly to
Kazakhstan. His intent was to be smug-
gled into Afghanistan to train with
ISIS with the possibility of conducting
terrorist projects in the United States.
According to an FBI release on this
matter, when the terrorist was asked
what sort of training he wished to re-
ceive, he allegedly stated that he want-
ed to receive ‘‘weapons experts train-
ing, planning, executing, hit and run,
capturing high-value targets, ways to
break into homes and avoid security.’’
The ability of these foreign fighters
to return to the United States is a le-
gitimate security concern. Preventing
their initial departure should be a law
enforcement priority as well.
Furthermore, last year, the White
House released the National Strategy
to Combat Terrorist Travel. It ‘‘out-
lines how the United States Govern-
ment will expand coordination and
maximize the full capabilities of Fed-
eral departments and agencies to iden-
tify, detect, and deter terrorists from
transiting international borders.’’
One of the Strategy’s primary goals
is to identify and deter terrorists be-
fore they travel, to enhance intel-
ligence gathering and analysis, and to
improve the sharing of terrorist-re-
lated identity data.
b 1630
H.R. 1590 complements and supports
these efforts.
The bill requires the Secretary of
Homeland Security, in coordination
with the appropriate Federal, State,
local, Tribal, and territorial agencies,
foreign governments, and appropriate
private-sector entities, to develop and
conduct an exercise related to the de-
tection and prevention of terrorist and
foreign fighter travel.
The bill also requires the Secretary
to produce an after-action report to
Congress, presenting the findings of the
exercise and to quickly incorporate
those lessons learned into future oper-
ations of the department.
Finally, it requires that the National
Exercise Program be designed to in-
clude emerging threats.
I cannot stress enough the impor-
tance of H.R. 1590. This bill represents
continued action in combating ter-
rorism and ensuring the safety of our
Nation. As the threats of terrorism
continue to evolve, we must remain
vigilant in our resolve to combat our
enemies.
Our Nation’s law enforcement, of all
jurisdictions, whether it be Federal or
local, need to have access to the valu-
able information and resources that
this bill would provide so that our com-
munities can be protected from ter-
rorist activity.
Mr. Speaker, I urge all Members to
join me in supporting this bipartisan
and commonsense bill. I urge the adop-
tion of this bill, and I yield back the
balance of my time.
Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi. Mr.
Speaker, before I close, let me com-
pliment the gentleman on the passage
of this bill. This is, I believe, his maid-
en bill before the House of Representa-
tives, and, from one Mississippian to
another, I want to congratulate him
for that.
Mr. Speaker, because terrorists are
constantly seeking new ways to cause
harm and spread fear, we must con-
tinuously work to keep pace with the
evolving threat landscape.
H.R. 1590 seeks to strengthen the Na-
tion’s abilities to close the gaps in how
we identify and assess threats from ter-
rorist foreign fighters. As such, I sup-
port it and ask my colleagues to sup-
port it as well.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentleman from Mississippi (Mr.
THOMPSON) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, H.R. 1590, as
amended.
The question was taken.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. In the
opinion of the Chair, two-thirds being
in the affirmative, the ayes have it.
Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi. Mr.
Speaker, on that I demand the yeas
and nays.
The yeas and nays were ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, further pro-
ceedings on this motion will be post-
poned.
f
CBRN INTELLIGENCE AND INFOR-
MATION SHARING ACT OF 2019
Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi. Mr.
Speaker, I move to suspend the rules
and pass the bill (H.R. 1589) to amend
the Homeland Security Act of 2002 to
establish chemical, biological, radio-
logical, and nuclear intelligence and
information sharing functions of the
Office of Intelligence and Analysis of
the Department of Homeland Security
and to require dissemination of infor-
mation analyzed by the Department to
entities with responsibilities relating
to homeland security, and for other
purposes, as amended.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 1589
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘CBRN Intel-
ligence and Information Sharing Act of
2019’’.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:00 Apr 02, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K01AP7.014 H01APPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2932 April 1, 2019
SEC. 2. CHEMICAL, BIOLOGICAL, RADIOLOGICAL,
AND NUCLEAR INTELLIGENCE AND
INFORMATION SHARING.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Subtitle A of title II of
the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C.
121 et seq.) is amended by inserting after sec-
tion 210E the following new section:
‘‘SEC. 210F. CHEMICAL, BIOLOGICAL, RADIO-
LOGICAL, AND NUCLEAR INTEL-
LIGENCE AND INFORMATION SHAR-
ING.
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—The Office of Intel-
ligence and Analysis of the Department of
Homeland Security shall—
‘‘(1) support homeland security-focused in-
telligence analysis of terrorist actors, their
claims, and their plans to conduct attacks
involving chemical, biological, radiological,
or nuclear materials against the United
States, including critical infrastructure;
‘‘(2) support homeland security-focused in-
telligence analysis of global infectious dis-
ease, public health, food, agricultural, and
veterinary issues;
‘‘(3) support homeland security-focused
risk analysis and risk assessments of the
homeland security hazards described in para-
graphs (1) and (2), including the transpor-
tation of chemical, biological, nuclear, and
radiological materials, by providing relevant
quantitative and nonquantitative threat in-
formation;
‘‘(4) leverage existing and emerging home-
land security intelligence capabilities and
structures to enhance early detection, pre-
vention, protection, response, and recovery
efforts with respect to a chemical, biologi-
cal, radiological, or nuclear attack;
‘‘(5) share information and provide tailored
analytical support on such threats to State,
local, Tribal, and territorial authorities, and
other Federal agencies, as well as relevant
national biosecurity and biodefense stake-
holders, as appropriate; and
‘‘(6) perform other responsibilities, as as-
signed by the Secretary.
‘‘(b) COORDINATION.—Where appropriate,
the Office of Intelligence and Analysis shall
coordinate with other relevant Department
components, including the Countering Weap-
ons of Mass Destruction Office and the Na-
tional Biosurveillance Integration Center,
agencies within the intelligence community,
including the National Counter Proliferation
Center, and other Federal, State, local, Trib-
al, and territorial authorities, including offi-
cials from high-threat urban areas, State
and major urban area fusion centers, and
local public health departments, as appro-
priate, and enable such entities to provide
recommendations on optimal information
sharing mechanisms, including expeditious
sharing of classified information, and on how
such entities can provide information to the
Department.
‘‘(c) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
‘‘(1) INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY.—The term
‘intelligence community’ has the meaning
given such term in section 3(4) of the Na-
tional Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3003(4)).
‘‘(2) NATIONAL BIOSECURITY AND BIODEFENSE
STAKEHOLDERS.—The term ‘national biosecu-
rity and biodefense stakeholders’ means offi-
cials from Federal, State, local, Tribal, and
territorial authorities and individuals from
the private sector who are involved in efforts
to prevent, protect against, respond to, and
recover from a biological attack or other
phenomena that may have serious health
consequences for the United States, includ-
ing infectious disease outbreaks.’’.
(b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of
contents in section 1(b) of the Homeland Se-
curity Act of 2002 is amended by inserting
after the item relating to section 201E the
following new item:
‘‘Sec. 210F. Chemical, biological, radio-
logical, and nuclear intel-
ligence and information shar-
ing.’’.
(c) REPORT.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than one year
after the date of the enactment of this Act
and annually thereafter for each of the fol-
lowing four years, the Secretary of Home-
land Security shall report to the appropriate
congressional committees on the following:
(A) The intelligence and information shar-
ing activities under section 210F of the
Homeland Security Act of 2002 (as added by
subsection (a) of this section) and of all rel-
evant entities within the Department of
Homeland Security to counter the threat
from attacks using chemical, biological, ra-
diological, or nuclear materials.
(B) The Department’s activities in accord-
ance with relevant intelligence strategies.
(2) ASSESSMENT OF IMPLEMENTATION.—The
reports required under paragraph (1) shall in-
clude the following:
(A) An assessment of the progress of the
Office of Intelligence and Analysis of the De-
partment of Homeland Security in imple-
menting such section 210F.
(B) A description of the methods estab-
lished to carry out such assessment.
(3) DEFINITION.—In this subsection, the
term ‘‘appropriate congressional commit-
tees’’ means the Committee on Homeland
Security of the House of Representatives and
the Committee on Homeland Security and
Governmental Affairs of the Senate and any
committee of the House of Representatives
or the Senate having legislative jurisdiction
under the rules of the House of Representa-
tives or Senate, respectively, over the mat-
ter concerned.
SEC. 3. DISSEMINATION OF INFORMATION ANA-
LYZED BY THE DEPARTMENT TO
STATE, LOCAL, TRIBAL, TERRI-
TORIAL, AND PRIVATE ENTITIES
WITH RESPONSIBILITIES RELATING
TO HOMELAND SECURITY.
Paragraph (6) of section 201(d) of the Home-
land Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 121(d)) is
amended by striking ‘‘and to agencies of
State’’ and all that follows through the pe-
riod at the end and inserting ‘‘to State,
local, tribal, territorial, and private entities
with such responsibilities, and, as appro-
priate, to the public, in order to assist in
preventing, deterring, or responding to acts
of terrorism against the United States.’’.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentleman from
Mississippi (Mr. THOMPSON) and the
gentleman from Mississippi (Mr.
GUEST) each will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from Mississippi (Mr. THOMPSON).
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi. Mr.
Speaker, I ask unanimous consent that
all Members may have 5 legislative
days in which to revise and extend
their remarks and to include extra-
neous material on this measure.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from Mississippi?
There was no objection.
Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi. Mr.
Speaker, I yield myself such time as I
may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R.
1589, the Chemical, Biological, Radio-
logical, and Nuclear Intelligence and
Information Sharing Act of 2019.
In the last two Congresses, the Com-
mittee on Homeland Security has held
several hearings on Federal, State, and
local capabilities to prevent, identify,
and respond to a chemical, biological,
radiological, or nuclear attack.
At those hearings, State and local
stakeholders, including public health
professionals, emergency managers,
and first responders, expressed general
awareness of the evolving CBRN
threat, but expressed frustration with
the level of information sharing about
such threats.
H.R. 1589 seeks to facilitate improved
CBRN information sharing by directing
DHS to analyze CBRN-related terrorist
threats and share relevant threat infor-
mation with Federal, State, and local
stakeholders.
These activities could help improve
situational awareness at all levels of
government and help DHS grant recipi-
ents better target their limited re-
sources.
Prior versions of this measure passed
the House overwhelmingly in the last
two Congresses.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
support the measure once again, and I
reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. GUEST. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support
of H.R. 1589. We all know that terrorist
groups have long sought to develop ca-
pabilities to attack our Nation with
chemical, biological, radiological, and
nuclear materials.
H.R. 1589 would address this threat
by requiring the Office of Intelligence
and Analysis within the Department of
Homeland Security to conduct analysis
of terrorist capabilities relating to
chemical, biological, radiological, and
nuclear materials, as well as threats to
the homeland from global and infec-
tious diseases.
To improve coordination with local
law enforcement, H.R. 1589 requires the
Office of Intelligence and Analysis to
share threat information not only with
Federal entities, but also State, local,
Tribal, and territorial agencies.
I commend my colleague, Mr. WALK-
ER of North Carolina, for introducing
this important legislation, and I urge
all Members to support it.
Mr. Speaker, I urge adoption of the
bill, and I yield back the balance of my
time.
Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi. Mr.
Speaker, effective information sharing
is essential to prevent and respond to
threats posed by bad actors. H.R. 1589
will facilitate information sharing in
the CBRN space where new threats are
constantly emerging.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
support H.R. 1589, and I yield back the
balance of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentleman from Mississippi (Mr.
THOMPSON) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, H.R. 1589, as
amended.
The question was taken; and (two-
thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the bill, as
amended, was passed.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:00 Apr 02, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A01AP7.007 H01APPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2933
April 1, 2019
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
RECESS
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 12(a) of rule I, the Chair
declares the House in recess until ap-
proximately 6:30 p.m. today.
Accordingly (at 4 o’clock and 39 min-
utes p.m.), the House stood in recess.
f
b 1830
AFTER RECESS
The recess having expired, the House
was called to order by the Speaker pro
tempore (Mr. NORCROSS) at 6 o’clock
and 30 minutes p.m.
f
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER
PRO TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pro-
ceedings will resume on questions pre-
viously postponed.
Votes will be taken in the following
order:
Motions to suspend the rules and
pass:
H.R. 1593 and
H.R. 1590; and
Agreeing to the Speaker’s approval of
the Journal, if ordered.
The first electronic vote will be con-
ducted as a 15-minute vote. Pursuant
to clause 9 of rule XX, remaining elec-
tronic votes will be conducted as 5-
minute votes.
f
COORDINATING AND LEVERAGING
ACTIVITIES FOR SCHOOL SECU-
RITY ACT
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, the unfin-
ished business is the vote on the mo-
tion to suspend the rules and pass the
bill (H.R. 1593) to amend the Homeland
Security Act of 2002 to establish a
school security coordinating council,
and for other purposes, as amended, on
which the yeas and nays were ordered.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentleman from Mississippi (Mr.
THOMPSON) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, as amended.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—yeas 384, nays 18,
not voting 29, as follows:
[Roll No. 137]
YEAS—384
Adams
Aderholt
Aguilar
Allen
Allred
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Axne
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Bergman
Beyer
Bilirakis
Bishop (GA)
Bishop (UT)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Bost
Brady
Brindisi
Brooks (IN)
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Bustos
Butterfield
Byrne
Calvert
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cline
Cloud
Clyburn
Cohen
Cole
Collins (NY)
Comer
Connolly
Cook
Cooper
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crawford
Crenshaw
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cummings
Cunningham
Curtis
Davids (KS)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Rodney
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
DesJarlais
Deutch
Diaz-Balart
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Duffy
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Estes
Evans
Ferguson
Finkenauer
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Fletcher
Flores
Fortenberry
Foster
Foxx (NC)
Frankel
Fudge
Fulcher
Gallagher
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Gianforte
Gibbs
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (OH)
Gooden
Gottheimer
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Green (TX)
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Haaland
Hagedorn
Harder (CA)
Hartzler
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Higgins (NY)
Hill (AR)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Holding
Hollingsworth
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Hudson
Huffman
Huizenga
Hurd (TX)
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Johnson (TX)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Kaptur
Katko
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamb
Lamborn
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Latta
Lawrence
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Lesko
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Lofgren
Long
Lowenthal
Lowey
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Marshall
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McCollum
McGovern
McHenry
McKinley
McNerney
Meadows
Meng
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Mullin
Murphy
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Newhouse
Norcross
Norman
Nunes
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Olson
Omar
Pallone
Palmer
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Pence
Perlmutter
Perry
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Porter
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Reschenthaler
Rice (NY)
Rice (SC)
Richmond
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rose (NY)
Rose, John W.
Rouda
Rouzer
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scalise
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Schweikert
Scott (VA)
Scott, Austin
Scott, David
Sensenbrenner
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Simpson
Slotkin
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smith (WA)
Smucker
Soto
Spanberger
Spano
Speier
Stanton
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Stevens
Stewart
Stivers
Suozzi
Takano
Taylor
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Turner
Underwood
Upton
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watkins
Watson Coleman
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Welch
Wenstrup
Westerman
Wexton
Wild
Williams
Wilson (FL)
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yarmuth
Young
Zeldin
NAYS—18
Amash
Biggs
Brooks (AL)
Burgess
Conaway
Davidson (OH)
Gaetz
Gohmert
Gosar
Griffith
Harris
Hunter
Loudermilk
Marchant
Massie
Ratcliffe
Roy
Steube
NOT VOTING—29
Abraham
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Buchanan
Cleaver
Collins (GA)
Correa
Davis, Danny K.
Gabbard
Gonzalez (TX)
Grijalva
Jeffries
Lawson (FL)
Loebsack
Luján
Mast
McEachin
Meeks
Palazzo
Posey
Reed
Rooney (FL)
Rush
Rutherford
Ryan
Shimkus
Sires
Swalwell (CA)
Trone
Yoho
b 1856
Messrs. GOODEN and PALMER
changed their vote from ‘‘nay’’ to
‘‘yea.’’
So (two-thirds being in the affirma-
tive) the rules were suspended and the
bill, as amended, was passed.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
TERRORIST AND FOREIGN FIGHT-
ER TRAVEL EXERCISE ACT OF
2019
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, the unfin-
ished business is the vote on the mo-
tion to suspend the rules and pass the
bill (H.R. 1590) to require an exercise
related to terrorist and foreign fighter
travel, and for other purposes, as
amended, on which the yeas and nays
were ordered.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentleman from Mississippi (Mr.
THOMPSON) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, as amended.
This is a 5-minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—yeas 394, nays 7,
not voting 30, as follows:
[Roll No. 138]
YEAS—394
Adams
Aderholt
Aguilar
Allen
Allred
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Axne
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Bergman
Beyer
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (GA)
Bishop (UT)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Bost
Brady
Brindisi
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Buck
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:36 Apr 02, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K01AP7.018 H01APPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2934 April 1, 2019
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Bustos
Byrne
Calvert
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cline
Cloud
Clyburn
Cohen
Cole
Collins (NY)
Comer
Conaway
Connolly
Cook
Cooper
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crawford
Crenshaw
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cummings
Cunningham
Curtis
Davids (KS)
Davidson (OH)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Rodney
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
DesJarlais
Deutch
Diaz-Balart
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Duffy
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Estes
Evans
Ferguson
Finkenauer
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Fletcher
Flores
Fortenberry
Foster
Foxx (NC)
Frankel
Fudge
Fulcher
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (OH)
Gooden
Gosar
Gottheimer
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Green (TX)
Griffith
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Haaland
Hagedorn
Harder (CA)
Harris
Hartzler
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Higgins (NY)
Hill (AR)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Holding
Hollingsworth
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Hudson
Huffman
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Johnson (TX)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Kaptur
Katko
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamb
Lamborn
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Latta
Lawrence
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Lesko
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Lofgren
Long
Loudermilk
Lowenthal
Lowey
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Marchant
Marshall
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McCollum
McGovern
McHenry
McKinley
McNerney
Meadows
Meng
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Mullin
Murphy
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Newhouse
Norcross
Norman
Nunes
O’Halleran
Olson
Palazzo
Pallone
Palmer
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Pence
Perlmutter
Perry
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Porter
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Ratcliffe
Reschenthaler
Rice (NY)
Rice (SC)
Richmond
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rose (NY)
Rose, John W.
Rouda
Rouzer
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scalise
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Schweikert
Scott (VA)
Scott, Austin
Scott, David
Sensenbrenner
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Simpson
Slotkin
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smith (WA)
Soto
Spanberger
Spano
Speier
Stanton
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stevens
Stewart
Stivers
Suozzi
Takano
Taylor
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Titus
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Turner
Underwood
Upton
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watkins
Watson Coleman
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Welch
Wenstrup
Westerman
Wexton
Wild
Williams
Wilson (FL)
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yarmuth
Young
Zeldin
NAYS—7
Amash
Massie
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pressley
Roy
Tlaib
NOT VOTING—30
Abraham
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Buchanan
Butterfield
Cleaver
Collins (GA)
Correa
Davis, Danny K.
Gabbard
Gonzalez (TX)
Grijalva
Jeffries
Lawson (FL)
Loebsack
Luján
Mast
McEachin
Meeks
Posey
Reed
Rooney (FL)
Rush
Rutherford
Ryan
Shimkus
Sires
Smucker
Swalwell (CA)
Trone
Yoho
b 1906
So (two-thirds being in the affirma-
tive) the rules were suspended and the
bill, as amended, was passed.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
THE JOURNAL
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, the unfin-
ished business is the question on agree-
ing to the Speaker’s approval of the
Journal, which the Chair will put de
novo.
The question is on the Speaker’s ap-
proval of the Journal.
The question was taken; and the
Speaker pro tempore announced that
the ayes appeared to have it.
RECORDED VOTE
Mr. DOGGETT. Mr. Speaker, I de-
mand a recorded vote.
A recorded vote was ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. This is a
5-minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—ayes 207, noes 181,
answered ‘‘present’’ 1, not voting 42, as
follows:
[Roll No. 139]
AYES—207
Adams
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Bacon
Banks
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bergman
Beyer
Bilirakis
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Brady
Brown (MD)
Budd
Bustos
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Carter (TX)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Clyburn
Cohen
Cooper
Courtney
Crist
Cummings
Curtis
Davidson (OH)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Rodney
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
DesJarlais
Deutch
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Evans
Fleischmann
Fortenberry
Foster
Fudge
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Gomez
Granger
Grothman
Haaland
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Higgins (LA)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Hollingsworth
Horn, Kendra S.
Hoyer
Huffman
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (TX)
Joyce (OH)
Kaptur
Kennedy
Kildee
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kuster (NH)
Lamb
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lawrence
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Lofgren
Long
Lowenthal
Lowey
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
McBath
McCarthy
McClintock
McCollum
McGovern
McNerney
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Moore
Morelle
Murphy
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Newhouse
Norcross
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Panetta
Pascrell
Payne
Perlmutter
Perry
Peterson
Phillips
Pocan
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Reschenthaler
Richmond
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrier
Schweikert
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Serrano
Shalala
Sherman
Simpson
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smith (WA)
Soto
Speier
Stanton
Stauber
Steil
Stewart
Stivers
Suozzi
Takano
Taylor
Thompson (MS)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Titus
Tlaib
Trahan
Underwood
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wagner
Walden
Waltz
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watkins
Webster (FL)
Welch
Wenstrup
Wilson (FL)
Wilson (SC)
Yarmuth
NOES—181
Aderholt
Aguilar
Allen
Allred
Amash
Axne
Babin
Baird
Balderson
Barr
Bera
Biggs
Bost
Brindisi
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Brownley (CA)
Buck
Bucshon
Burchett
Burgess
Byrne
Calvert
Carter (GA)
Chabot
Cheney
Cisneros
Cline
Cloud
Cole
Collins (NY)
Comer
Conaway
Connolly
Cook
Costa
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crawford
Crenshaw
Crow
Cuellar
Cunningham
Davids (KS)
Diaz-Balart
Duffy
Duncan
Emmer
Estes
Ferguson
Finkenauer
Fitzpatrick
Fletcher
Flores
Foxx (NC)
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gianforte
Gibbs
Golden
Gonzalez (OH)
Gooden
Gosar
Gottheimer
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Green (TX)
Griffith
Guest
Guthrie
Hagedorn
Harder (CA)
Harris
Hartzler
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Hice (GA)
Hill (AR)
Holding
Horsford
Houlahan
Hudson
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Jordan
Joyce (PA)
Katko
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
Khanna
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
Kinzinger
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kustoff (TN)
LaMalfa
Lamborn
Latta
Lesko
Loudermilk
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Maloney, Sean
Marchant
Marshall
Massie
Matsui
McAdams
McCaul
McHenry
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:36 Apr 02, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00010 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A01AP7.009 H01APPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2935
April 1, 2019
McKinley
Meng
Meuser
Miller
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Mullin
Norman
Nunes
Olson
Palazzo
Palmer
Pappas
Pence
Peters
Porter
Ratcliffe
Rice (NY)
Rice (SC)
Riggleman
Roby
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rose (NY)
Rose, John W.
Rouda
Rouzer
Roy
Scalise
Schrader
Scott, Austin
Sensenbrenner
Sewell (AL)
Sherrill
Slotkin
Smith (MO)
Spanberger
Spano
Stefanik
Stevens
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (PA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Turner
Upton
Van Drew
Walberg
Walker
Walorski
Watson Coleman
Weber (TX)
Westerman
Wexton
Wild
Williams
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Young
Zeldin
ANSWERED ‘‘PRESENT’’—1
Tonko
NOT VOTING—42
Abraham
Bishop (UT)
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Buchanan
Butterfield
Cleaver
Collins (GA)
Correa
Davis, Danny K.
Dunn
Frankel
Fulcher
Gabbard
Gohmert
Gonzalez (TX)
Grijalva
Higgins (NY)
Jeffries
LaHood
Lawson (FL)
Loebsack
Luján
Mast
McEachin
Meadows
Meeks
Mooney (WV)
Pingree
Posey
Reed
Rooney (FL)
Rush
Rutherford
Ryan
Shimkus
Sires
Smucker
Steube
Swalwell (CA)
Torres (CA)
Trone
Yoho
b 1917
So the Journal was approved.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
f
REPORT ON RESOLUTION PRO-
VIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF
S.J. RES. 7, DIRECTING THE RE-
MOVAL OF UNITED STATES
ARMED FORCES FROM HOS-
TILITIES IN THE REPUBLIC OF
YEMEN THAT HAVE NOT BEEN
AUTHORIZED BY CONGRESS;
PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION
OF H. RES 271, CONDEMNING THE
TRUMP ADMINISTRATION’S
LEGAL CAMPAIGN TO TAKE
AWAY AMERICANS’ HEALTH
CARE; AND PROVIDING FOR CON-
SIDERATION OF MOTIONS TO
SUSPEND THE RULES
Mr. MCGOVERN, from the Com-
mittee on Rules, submitted a privi-
leged report (Rept. No. 116–28) on the
resolution (H. Res. 274) providing for
consideration of the joint resolution
(S.J. Res. 7) to direct the removal of
United States Armed Forces from hos-
tilities in the Republic of Yemen that
have not been authorized by Congress;
providing for consideration of the reso-
lution (H. Res. 271) Condemning the
Trump Administration’s Legal Cam-
paign to Take Away Americans’ Health
Care; and providing for consideration
of motions to suspend the rules, which
was referred to the House Calendar and
ordered to be printed.
f
REQUEST TO CONSIDER H.R. 962,
BORN-ALIVE ABORTION SUR-
VIVORS PROTECTION ACT
Mr. JOHNSON of South Dakota. Mr.
Speaker, I rise this evening to request
unanimous consent that the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary be discharged
from any further consideration of H.R.
962, the Born-Alive Abortion Survivor
Protection Act, and I ask that it be
taken up for immediate consideration
by this body.
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr.
CASE). Under guidelines consistently
issued by successive Speakers, as re-
corded in section 956 of the House
Rules and Manual, the Chair is con-
strained not to entertain the request
unless it has been cleared by the bipar-
tisan floor and committee leaderships.
Mr. JOHNSON of South Dakota. Mr.
Speaker, if the unanimous consent can-
not be entertained, I would then urge
the Speaker and the majority leader to
immediately——
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tleman has not been recognized for de-
bate.
f
HONORING ELDER THYSON T.
HALLEY
(Mr. PAYNE asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. PAYNE. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to honor Elder Thyson T. Halley
for his advocacy and service on behalf
of the deaf community.
At age 2, Elder Halley was diagnosed
with spinal meningitis. Doctors said he
would never again walk or talk.
Despite losing his hearing, Elder Hal-
ley has dedicated his life to helping the
deaf community. Elder Halley got his
associates degree in deaf studies, then
went on to become a certified deaf in-
terpreter.
His career as a deaf interpreter was
inspired by a Biblical Scripture that
says ‘‘go ye therefore and teach.’’
Over the years, Elder Halley has led
deaf ministries throughout Newark,
Jersey City, and across my district. He
is the founder of His Hands Deaf and
signing language and interpreter min-
istry of Chosen Generation Ministry in
Newark. Through his ministry, Elder
Halley has assisted with taking more
than 1,500 underprivileged youth and
parents to Disney World.
Mr. Speaker, I ask that my col-
leagues join me in honoring Elder
Thyson T. Halley’s service to the peo-
ple of my district.
f
IN RECOGNITION OF DICK
WILLIAMS
(Mr. CARTER of Georgia asked and
was given permission to address the
House for 1 minute and to revise and
extend his remarks.)
Mr. CARTER of Georgia. Mr. Speak-
er, I rise today to recognize Mr. Dick
Williams, who retired last month from
Fox 5’s ‘‘The Georgia Gang’’ in At-
lanta.
The brother of Representative ROGER
WILLIAMS of Texas, Mr. Dick Williams
is truly one of the stalwarts of news in
the State of Georgia. He has worked for
53 total years across various types of
journalism, including TV, radio, and
print. For the last 25 years, he has been
the moderator of ‘‘The Georgia Gang,’’
Georgia’s longest running public affairs
broadcast.
Mr. Williams and ‘‘The Georgia
Gang’’ covered seemingly every topic
imaginable, ranging from local poli-
tics, the 1996 Summer Olympics in At-
lanta, scandals at city hall, missing
children, and so much more.
The final taping of ‘‘The Georgia
Gang’’ was March 5, but Mr. Williams
will always be remembered as one of
the most trusted figures in Georgia
journalism.
Thank you, Mr. Williams, for your
work in keeping our State informed.
f
LOTTIE GARCIA’S STORY
(Ms. MUCARSEL-POWELL asked and
was given permission to address the
House for 1 minute.)
Ms. MUCARSEL-POWELL. Mr.
Speaker, I rise to share Lottie Garcia’s
story from The Hammocks, Miami.
After 29 radiation treatments and six
sessions of chemotherapy, Lottie has
beaten cancer. But, sadly, on a day
that should be filled with joy and hap-
piness, she felt deflated and petrified.
Why?
Even though Lottie is now living
cancer free, she, like more than 300,000
people in my community, has a pre-
existing condition. Every day, she and
her husband, Richard, battle insurance
companies for her care. She hears,
every single day, President Trump and
the Republican Party’s nonstop at-
tacks on the Affordable Care Act and
its protections for people with pre-
existing conditions.
Last week, Democrats took a stand.
We introduced legislation that would
prevent the administration from ap-
proving short-term health plans that
are not required to comply with any of
the Affordable Care Act’s consumer
protections. These are known as junk
plans.
I stand here to reaffirm my commit-
ment that I will fight to protect Lottie
and every single Floridian who is living
today with a preexisting condition.
f
IN RECOGNITION OF RON
EMERSON
(Mr. JOHNSON of Ohio asked and
was given permission to address the
House for 1 minute and to revise and
extend his remarks.)
Mr. JOHNSON of Ohio. Mr. Speaker,
I rise today to recognize Yorkville Vil-
lage, Ohio, Council Member Ron Emer-
son for his commitment to the commu-
nity and for the years he has served as
a public servant.
Mr. Emerson has served the people of
Yorkville, Ohio, for 56 years. He was
first elected to the Yorkville Village
Council in 1963 and worked tirelessly to
help the people of his hometown.
During his tenure, he has supported
many civic improvements, secured new
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:47 Apr 02, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00011 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A01AP7.008 H01APPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2936 April 1, 2019
equipment for the police and fire de-
partments, and even helped secure a
World War II cannon for the local war
memorial.
When Mr. Emerson is not serving the
people of Yorkville, he can often be
found at Ohio Stadium cheering on the
Ohio State Buckeyes football team.
Yorkville will be better off for gen-
erations to come thanks to Mr. Emer-
son’s service, and I am proud to call
him not only a constituent, but a
friend.
I applaud Mr. Emerson’s commit-
ment to making a difference in his
community, and I urge my colleagues
to join me in acknowledging his serv-
ice.
f
JOHN LYNCH OF
THUMBSUP4KINDNESS AND THE
LUNCH WITH LYNCH FOUNDA-
TION
(Mr. VAN DREW asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. VAN DREW. Mr. Speaker, I rise
to honor an outstanding member of
New Jersey.
John Lynch has made it his life’s
work to give to the youth of South Jer-
sey, including creating learning experi-
ences in schools and helping children
with life-threatening illnesses.
He established the Lunch With Lynch
Foundation to help facilitate edu-
cational opportunities and learning ex-
periences for the children of Wild-
woods, New Jersey. As well, he estab-
lished a ThumbsUp4Kindness organiza-
tion to change the world one random
act of kindness at a time.
For his outstanding community serv-
ice, Lynch received the Presidential
Community Service Lifetime Achieve-
ment Award after 30 years and 4,000
hours of serving his community.
Thank you, Mr. Lynch. Thank you
for what you do for our community.
South Jersey is honored to have you.
Let’s all take a page out of John’s
book and try to be a little kinder to
each other in this House, in this coun-
try, and in this world.
f
b 1930
WELCOMING ALZHEIMER’S
AMBASSADORS TO WASHINGTON
(Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania
asked and was given permission to ad-
dress the House for 1 minute and to re-
vise and extend his remarks.)
Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today to welcome
Alzheimer’s ambassadors to Wash-
ington, D.C., for the Alzheimer’s Im-
pact Movement Advocacy Forum.
Alzheimer’s is the sixth leading cause
of death in the United States, and it
has reached crisis proportions. There is
no effective treatment, no means of
prevention, and no method for slowing
the progression of the disease. Sadly,
one in three seniors will die with the
disease.
But this week, more than 1,000 advo-
cates from across the country will
gather for the 3-day event to help ad-
vance policies to improve the lives of
all individuals affected by dementia.
Alzheimer’s has a devastating impact
upon those who are diagnosed with the
disease, their caregivers, and their
loved ones. More than 60 million Amer-
icans provide unpaid care to family and
friends living with Alzheimer’s and
other dementias.
Mr. Speaker, I look forward to meet-
ing with Alzheimer’s ambassadors from
my district this week. I admire their
advocacy and commitment to raising
awareness about Alzheimer’s disease
and their determination to never stop
searching for a cure.
f
APRIL FOOLS AND THE MUELLER
REPORT
(Mr. COHEN asked and was given per-
mission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. COHEN. Mr. Speaker, the Amer-
ican public very much wants to see the
full Mueller report. The Congress
wants to see the full Mueller report.
They want to know what is in there
about the Russians interfering with
our elections and if there is anything
in there that shows obstruction of jus-
tice, which Mr. Trump, according to
Mr. Mueller, was not exonerated for.
I am here to tell you, President
Trump has said he wants the American
people to see the entire report
unredacted. He thinks the American
public deserves to see everything in it
about what the Russians did and
whether or not he or any people in his
administration talked to Russians or
knew about Russian activity, whether
there was even a scintilla of collusion,
and whether there was any possibility
of obstruction of justice.
That is President Trump today.
April Fools.
f
EXPRESSING CONCERN OVER HAN-
DLING OF VIOLENCE AGAINST
WOMEN ACT
(Mr. LAMALFA asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. LAMALFA. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to express my concerns over the
handling of the Violence Against
Women Act, known as VAWA, by the
Democratic leadership.
A few weeks ago, Democratic leader-
ship intentionally let the Violence
Against Women Act expire when nego-
tiating the reopening of the Federal
Government during the shutdown rath-
er than simply reauthorizing VAWA.
That is because, instead, as we see now,
they want to tack on additional par-
tisan provisions, like gun control and
many other ideas that have little to do
with violence against women and this
act.
We need to extend this program. We
need to do a clean version of it that
would be noncontroversial and that is
respectful to women and respectful to
girls who are to be protected by this,
which we could have done in the pre-
vious spending bill.
They want to use it, instead, to in-
fringe upon our Second Amendment
rights and do other things in a social
agenda. That is not what that bill is or
should be about. Piggybacking inappro-
priate and nongermane issues onto this
bill is harmful to the women and girls
we are trying to protect.
This legislation will make it more
difficult for women to protect them-
selves with a firearm, for example. How
does that make sense to anybody? We
need a clean version of this bill.
f
HONORING THE LIFE OF JOHNNY
KEITH WALLACE
(Mr. TAYLOR asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. TAYLOR. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to honor the memory of Johnny
Keith Wallace, who passed away on
March 30, 2019.
Johnny Wallace was born on July 7,
1950, in Farmersville, Texas, and mar-
ried his true love, Linda Ann Roland,
on May 4, 1973. He valiantly served his
country in the United States Army and
served in Vietnam.
He returned to Texas and served 26
years as a member of the McKinney
Fire Department, ultimately reaching
the position of captain.
While I never had the privilege of
knowing Johnny, his loved ones re-
member his commitment to his coun-
try, involvement in his community,
and dedication to his family.
Mr. Speaker, I ask that the House
spend a brief moment of silence in
memory of Johnny Keith Wallace and
that my colleagues keep his family and
loved ones in their prayers during this
difficult time.
f
HOUSE BILLS AND JOINT RESOLU-
TIONS APPROVED BY THE PRESI-
DENT
The President notified the Clerk of
the House that on the following dates
he had approved and signed bills and
joint resolutions of the following titles:
January 18, 2019:
H.R. 251. An Act to extend by 15 months
the Chemical Facility Anti-Terrorism Stand-
ards Program of the Department of Home-
land Security, and for other purposes.
January 24, 2019:
H.R. 259. An Act to extend the Medicaid
Money Follows the Person Rebalancing dem-
onstration, to extend protection for Medicaid
recipients of home and community-based
services against spousal impoverishment,
and for other purposes.
H.R. 430. An Act to extend the program of
block grants to States for temporary assist-
ance for needy families and related programs
through June 30, 2019.
January 25, 2019:
H.J. Res. 28. A joint resolution making fur-
ther continuing appropriations for fiscal
year 2019, and for other purposes.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:36 Apr 02, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00012 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K01AP7.026 H01APPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2937
April 1, 2019
February 15, 2019:
H.J. Res. 31. A joint resolution making
consolidated appropriations for the fiscal
year ending September 30, 2019, and for other
purposes.
February 21, 2019:
H.R. 439. An Act to amend the charter of
the Future Farmers of America, and for
other purposes.
f
SENATE BILLS APPROVED BY THE
PRESIDENT
The President notified the Clerk of
the House that on the following dates
he had approved and signed bills of the
Senate of the following titles:
January 16, 2019:
S. 24. An Act to provide for the compensa-
tion of Federal and other government em-
ployees affected by lapses in appropriations.
March 8, 2019:
S. 483. An Act to enact into law a bill by
reference.
March 12, 2019:
S. 47. An Act to provide for the manage-
ment of the natural resources of the United
States, and for other purposes.
March 21, 2019:
S. 49. An Act to designate the outstation of
the Department of Veterans Affairs in North
Ogden, Utah, as the Major Brent Taylor Vet
Center Outstation.
f
LEAVE OF ABSENCE
By unanimous consent, leave of ab-
sence was granted to:
Mr. DANNY K. DAVIS of Illinois (at the
request of Mr. HOYER) for today.
f
JOINT RESOLUTION PRESENTED
TO THE PRESIDENT
Cheryl L. Johnson, Clerk of the
House, reported that on March 14, 2019,
she presented to the President of the
United States, for his approval, the fol-
lowing joint resolution:
H.J. Res. 46. Relating to a national emer-
gency declared by the President on February
15, 2019.
f
ADJOURNMENT
Mr. TAYLOR. Mr. Speaker, I move
that the House do now adjourn.
The motion was agreed to; accord-
ingly (at 7 o’clock and 34 minutes
p.m.), under its previous order, the
House adjourned until tomorrow, Tues-
day, April 2, 2019, at 10 a.m. for morn-
ing-hour debate.
f
EXECUTIVE COMMUNICATIONS,
ETC.
Under clause 2 of rule XIV, executive
communications were taken from the
Speaker’s table and referred as follows:
581. A letter from the Director, Regulatory
Management Division, Environmental Pro-
tection Agency, transmitting the Agency’s
final rule — Air Plan Approval; Massachu-
setts; Regional Haze Five-Year Progress Re-
port State Implementation Plan [EPA-R01-
OAR-2018-0791; FRL-9991-35-Region 1] re-
ceived March 27, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Energy and
Commerce.
582. A letter from the Director, Regulatory
Management Division, Environmental Pro-
tection Agency, transmitting the Agency’s
final rule — Air Plan Approval; District of
Columbia, Maryland, and Virginia; Maryland
and Virginia Redesignation Requests and
District of Columbia, Maryland, and Virginia
Maintenance Plan for the Washington, DC-
MD-VA 2008 Ozone Standard Nonattainment
Area [EPA-R03-OAR-2018-0215; FRL-9991-44-
Region 3] received March 27, 2019, pursuant
to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121,
Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on
Energy and Commerce.
583. A letter from the Director, Regulatory
Management Division, Environmental Pro-
tection Agency, transmitting the Agency’s
final rule — Approval and Promulgation of
Implementation Plans; New York Ozone Sec-
tion 185 [EPA-R02-OAR-2017-0094; FRL-9991-
50-Region 2] received March 27, 2019, pursu-
ant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-
121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee
on Energy and Commerce.
584. A letter from the Director, Regulatory
Management Division, Environmental Pro-
tection Agency, transmitting the Agency’s
final rule — Air Plan Approval; Connecticut;
Motor Vehicle Inspection and Maintenance
Program Certification [EPA-R01-OAR-2016-
0168; FRL-9991-34-Region 1] received March
27, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A);
Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to
the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
585. A letter from the Director, Regulatory
Management Division, Environmental Pro-
tection Agency, transmitting the Agency’s
final rule — Sulfometuron-methyl; Pesticide
Tolerance [EPA-HQ-OPP-2017-0194; FRL-9989-
65] received March 27, 2019, pursuant to 5
U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec.
251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on En-
ergy and Commerce.
586. A letter from the Director, Regulatory
Management Division, Environmental Pro-
tection Agency, transmitting the Agency’s
final rule — Approval and Promulgation of
Air Quality Implementation Plans; North
Dakota; Revisions to Air Pollution Control
Rules [EPA-R08-OAR-2018-0026; FRL-9991-25-
Region 8] received March 27, 2019, pursuant
to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121,
Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on
Energy and Commerce.
587. A letter from the Acting Commis-
sioner, Social Security Administration,
transmitting the Administration’s FY 2018
No FEAR Act report, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
2301 note; Public Law 107-174, 203(a) (as
amended by Public Law 109-435, Sec. 604(f));
(120 Stat. 3242); to the Committee on Over-
sight and Reform.
f
REPORTS OF COMMITTEES ON
PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS
Under clause 2 of rule XIII, reports of
committees were delivered to the Clerk
for printing and reference to the proper
calendar, as follows:
Mr. MCGOVERN: Committee on Rules.
House Resolution 274. Resolution providing
for consideration of the joint resolution (S.J.
Res. 7) to direct the removal of United
States Armed Forces from hostilities in the
Republic of Yemen that have not been au-
thorized by Congress; providing for consider-
ation of the resolution (H. Res. 271) Con-
demning the Trump Administration’s Legal
Campaign to Take Away Americans’ Health
Care; and providing for consideration of mo-
tions to suspend the rules (Rept. 116–28). Re-
ferred to the House Calendar.
f
PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS
Under clause 2 of rule XII, public
bills and resolutions of the following
titles were introduced and severally re-
ferred, as follows:
By Mr. JEFFRIES (for himself and
Mrs. ROBY):
H.R. 1999. A bill to amend the Trademark
Act of 1946 to provide for the registration of
marks consisting of the flag, coat of arms, or
other official insignia of the United States,
any State or municipality of the United
States, or any foreign nation; to the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. DELGADO (for himself, Mr.
LARSON of Connecticut, and Mr. HIG-
GINS of New York):
H.R. 2000. A bill to establish a public
health plan; to the Committee on Energy
and Commerce, and in addition to the Com-
mittee on Ways and Means, for a period to be
subsequently determined by the Speaker, in
each case for consideration of such provi-
sions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned.
By Mr. STIVERS (for himself and Mr.
LOEBSACK):
H.R. 2001. A bill to amend the McKinney-
Vento Homeless Assistance Act to meet the
needs of homeless children, youth, and fami-
lies, and honor the assessments and prior-
ities of local communities; to the Committee
on Financial Services, and in addition to the
Committee on Education and Labor, for a pe-
riod to be subsequently determined by the
Speaker, in each case for consideration of
such provisions as fall within the jurisdic-
tion of the committee concerned.
By Mr. MCCAUL (for himself, Mr.
ENGEL, Mr. YOHO, Mr. SHERMAN, Mr.
DIAZ-BALART, and Mr. CONNOLLY):
H.R. 2002. A bill to foster security in Tai-
wan, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Foreign Affairs.
By Mr. CUMMINGS (for himself, Mr.
CONNOLLY, Mr. MEADOWS, Ms. CLARK
of Massachusetts, Mr. YOUNG, and
Mr. TAYLOR):
H.R. 2003. A bill to amend title 5, United
States Code, to clarify that during a lapse in
appropriations certain services relating to
the Federal Employees Health Benefits Pro-
gram are excepted services under the Anti-
Deficiency Act, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Oversight and Reform.
By Mr. CUMMINGS (for himself, Mr.
CONNOLLY, Mr. MEADOWS, Ms. CLARK
of Massachusetts, Mr. YOUNG, and
Mr. TAYLOR):
H.R. 2004. A bill to amend title 5, United
States Code, to continue supplemental den-
tal and vision benefits and long-term care in-
surance coverage for Federal employees af-
fected by a Government shutdown, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Over-
sight and Reform.
By Ms. UNDERWOOD (for herself, Ms.
SCHAKOWSKY, Mr. NORCROSS, and Ms.
BONAMICI):
H.R. 2005. A bill to amend the Employee
Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 to
provide for greater spousal protection under
defined contribution plans, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Education
and Labor, and in addition to the Committee
on Financial Services, for a period to be sub-
sequently determined by the Speaker, in
each case for consideration of such provi-
sions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned.
By Ms. SHALALA:
H.R. 2006. A bill to amend the Higher Edu-
cation Act of 1965 to provide capacity-build-
ing assistance to institutions of higher edu-
cation to examine and address inequities in
college student access and success, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Edu-
cation and Labor.
By Mr. BLUMENAUER (for himself and
Mr. MCHENRY):
VerDate Sep 11 2014 22:43 Jul 01, 2019 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00013 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\RECORD19\APRIL\H01AP9.REC H01AP9
CORRECTION
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2938 April 1, 2019
H.R. 2007. A bill to require the Secretary of
the Treasury to establish a program for the
automated disclosure of taxpayer informa-
tion for third-party income verification, and
for other purposes; to the Committee on
Ways and Means.
By Mr. BURCHETT:
H.R. 2008. A bill to prohibit the installa-
tion or display of art in any United States
embassy, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Foreign Affairs.
By Ms. CLARKE of New York (for her-
self and Mr. UPTON):
H.R. 2009. A bill to amend titles XVIII and
XIX of the Social Security Act to provide
equal coverage of in vitro specific IgE tests
and percutaneous tests for allergies under
the Medicare and Medicaid programs, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Energy
and Commerce, and in addition to the Com-
mittee on Ways and Means, for a period to be
subsequently determined by the Speaker, in
each case for consideration of such provi-
sions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned.
By Mr. CONAWAY:
H.R. 2010. A bill to ensure that a woman
seeking a chemical abortion is informed that
it may be possible to reverse the intended ef-
fects of the abortion if the woman changes
her mind, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Energy and Commerce.
By Ms. DEGETTE (for herself, Mr.
REED, Ms. SCHRIER, and Mr. GUTH-
RIE):
H.R. 2011. A bill to amend the Public
Health Service Act with respect to the treat-
ment under section 351(k)(7) of such Act (re-
lating to exclusivity for reference products)
of certain products deemed to have a bio-
logics license pursuant to section 7002 of the
Biologics Price Competition and Innovation
Act of 2009; to the Committee on Energy and
Commerce.
By Ms. DEGETTE:
H.R. 2012. A bill to amend the Controlled
Substances Act to provide that Federal law
shall not preempt State law; to the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary, and in addition to
the Committee on Energy and Commerce, for
a period to be subsequently determined by
the Speaker, in each case for consideration
of such provisions as fall within the jurisdic-
tion of the committee concerned.
By Ms. DELBENE (for herself, Miss
RICE of New York, and Mr. SUOZZI):
H.R. 2013. A bill to require the Federal
Trade Commission to promulgate regula-
tions related to sensitive personal informa-
tion, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Energy and Commerce.
By Mr. HARRIS (for himself, Mr. FOR-
TENBERRY, Mr. PALMER, Mr. MEAD-
OWS, Mr. ADERHOLT, Mr. WEBER of
Texas, Mr. GAETZ, Mr. DUNCAN, Mr.
SCALISE, Mr. WALKER, Mr. SMITH of
New Jersey, Mr. LONG, Mr. DAVID P.
ROE of Tennessee, Mr. WESTERMAN,
Mrs. HARTZLER, Mr. GROTHMAN, Mr.
BYRNE, Mr. COLLINS of Georgia, Mr.
NORMAN, Mr. ABRAHAM, Mrs.
WALORSKI, Mr. FLORES, Mr. LATTA,
Mr. AMASH, Mr. MOONEY of West Vir-
ginia, Mr. ALLEN, Mr. BANKS, Mr.
HUIZENGA, Mr. GIANFORTE, Mr. WIL-
SON of South Carolina, Mr. ROY, Mr.
BACON, Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois,
Mr. GALLAGHER, Mr. DUFFY, Mr.
GIBBS, Mr. NEWHOUSE, Mr. WALBERG,
Mr. CHABOT, Mr. BABIN, Mr. JOYCE of
Pennsylvania, Mr. JOHNSON of Lou-
isiana, Mr. BARR, Mr. HICE of Geor-
gia, Mr. RATCLIFFE, Mr. JORDAN, Mr.
WITTMAN, Mr. GRAVES of Missouri,
Mr. HILL of Arkansas, Mr. WILLIAMS,
Mr. LUETKEMEYER, Mr. OLSON, Mr.
HUDSON, Mr. MITCHELL, Mr. BUCSHON,
Mr. BUDD, Mr. KELLY of Pennsyl-
vania, Mr. LAMALFA, Mr. COLLINS of
New York, Mr. POSEY, Mr. GRIFFITH,
Mr. JOHN W. ROSE of Tennessee, Mr.
STEWART, Mr. LAMBORN, Mr.
BERGMAN, Mr. MARCHANT, Mr. AUSTIN
SCOTT of Georgia, Mr. KING of Iowa,
Mr. JOHNSON of Ohio, Mr.
RESCHENTHALER, Mr. HIGGINS of Lou-
isiana, Mr. GUTHRIE, Mr. BRADY, Mr.
COLE, Mr. SMITH of Nebraska, Mr.
WATKINS, Mr. CLOUD, Mr. STEUBE, Mr.
YOHO, Mr. RUTHERFORD, and Mr.
PALAZZO):
H.R. 2014. A bill to amend the Public
Health Service Act to prohibit governmental
discrimination against providers of health
services that are not involved in abortion; to
the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
By Mr. KUSTOFF of Tennessee (for
himself, Mr. BRINDISI, and Mr.
SMUCKER):
H.R. 2015. A bill to deter criminal robocall
violations and improve enforcement of sec-
tion 227(b) of the Communications Act of
1934, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Energy and Commerce.
By Mr. TED LIEU of California:
H.R. 2016. A bill to modify the authorized
uses of certain property conveyed by the
United States in Los Angeles, California; to
the Committee on Armed Services, and in
addition to the Committee on Financial
Services, for a period to be subsequently de-
termined by the Speaker, in each case for
consideration of such provisions as fall with-
in the jurisdiction of the committee con-
cerned.
By Mr. O’HALLERAN (for himself, Ms.
HAALAND, Mr. COLE, and Mr. MULLIN):
H.R. 2017. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to make permanent the In-
dian employment credit; to the Committee
on Ways and Means.
By Mr. SMITH of New Jersey:
H.R. 2018. A bill to amend the Small Busi-
ness Act to allow small business concerns,
homeowners, or nonprofit entities to use cer-
tain Superstorm Sandy grant funds or other
disaster assistance received to repay certain
disaster assistance provided by the Small
Business Administration, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Small Business,
and in addition to the Committees on Finan-
cial Services, and Transportation and Infra-
structure, for a period to be subsequently de-
termined by the Speaker, in each case for
consideration of such provisions as fall with-
in the jurisdiction of the committee con-
cerned.
By Mr. ENGEL (for himself, Mr.
MCCAUL, Mr. SHERMAN, Mr. YOHO,
Mr. CONNOLLY, Mr. CHABOT, Mr.
SIRES, and Mr. DIAZ-BALART):
H. Res. 273. A resolution reaffirming the
United States commitment to Taiwan and to
the implementation of the Taiwan Relations
Act; to the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
By Mrs. BEATTY (for herself and Mr.
STIVERS):
H. Res. 275. A resolution supporting the
goals and ideals of ‘‘Financial Literacy
Month’’; to the Committee on Oversight and
Reform.
By Ms. JUDY CHU of California (for
herself, Ms. NORTON, Ms. MCCOLLUM,
Mr. SWALWELL of California, Mrs.
WATSON COLEMAN, Mrs. LAWRENCE,
Mr. KHANNA, Mr. CORREA, Mr. BEYER,
Mr. RYAN, Mr. KRISHNAMOORTHI, Ms.
JAYAPAL, Ms. SÁNCHEZ, Mr. PALLONE,
Mr. CARSON of Indiana, and Ms.
OMAR):
H. Res. 276. A resolution recognizing Amer-
ican Muslims’ history and contributions to
our Nation; to the Committee on Oversight
and Reform.
By Mrs. LOWEY (for herself and Mr.
CHABOT):
H. Res. 277. A resolution affirming the im-
portance of access to safe, quality education,
including protection from attacks on edu-
cation, for children in conflict settings; to
the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
By Ms. MOORE (for herself, Ms.
HAALAND, Ms. DAVIDS of Kansas, Mr.
YOUNG, Mr. GRIJALVA, and Mr. COLE):
H. Res. 278. A resolution expressing the
sense of the House of Representatives to rec-
ognize the crisis of violence against Native
women; to the Committee on Natural Re-
sources.
By Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD (for herself,
Mr. MCGOVERN, Mr. WITTMAN, Mr.
CÁRDENAS, Mr. CISNEROS, Ms. CLARKE
of New York, Mr. COX of California,
Mrs. DAVIS of California, Mrs. DIN-
GELL, Mr. ESPAILLAT, Mr. GRIJALVA,
Mr. HASTINGS, Ms. MOORE, Mr.
RASKIN, Mr. SABLAN, and Mr. SCHIFF):
H. Res. 279. A resolution supporting the
goals and ideals of National Public Health
Week; to the Committee on Energy and Com-
merce.
f
MEMORIALS
Under clause 3 of rule XII,
14. The SPEAKER presented a memorial of
the Senate of the State of Ohio, relative to
Senate Resolution No. 41, urging the Con-
gress of the United States, as expeditiously
as possible, to enact a Born-Alive Abortion
Survivors Protection Act; which was referred
to the Committee on the Judiciary.
f
CONSTITUTIONAL AUTHORITY
STATEMENT
Pursuant to clause 7 of rule XII of
the Rules of the House of Representa-
tives, the following statements are sub-
mitted regarding the specific powers
granted to Congress in the Constitu-
tion to enact the accompanying bill or
joint resolution.
By Mr. JEFFRIES:
H.R. 1999.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 3 (Commerce
Clause)
By Mr. DELGADO:
H.R. 2000.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I of the Constitution
By Mr. STIVERS:
H.R. 2001.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, section 8, clause 1 (relating to
the general welfare of the United States) and
clause 3 (relating to the power to regulate
interstate commerce).
By Mr. MCCAUL:
H.R. 2002.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8 of the United States
Constitution
By Mr. CUMMINGS:
H.R. 2003.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 18 of the Con-
stitution of the United States grants Con-
gress the power to enact this law.
By Mr. CUMMINGS:
H.R. 2004.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 18 of the Con-
stitution of the United States grants Con-
gress the power to enact this law.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:47 Apr 02, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00014 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\L01AP7.100 H01APPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2939
April 1, 2019
By Ms. UNDERWOOD:
H.R. 2005.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8 of the United States
Constitution.
By Ms. SHALALA:
H.R. 2006.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
to lay and collect Taxes, Duties, Imposts,
and Excises, to pay the Debts, and provide
for the common Defence and general Welfare
of the United States; but all Duties, Imposts
and Excises shall be uniform throughout the
United States.
By Mr. BLUMENAUER:
H.R. 2007.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
This bill is enacted pursuant to the power
granted to the Congress under Article I, Sec-
tion 8, clauses 1 and 18 of the Constitution.
By Mr. BURCHETT:
H.R. 2008.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article IV,
Section 3, Clause 2. The Congress shall
have Power to dispose of and make all need-
ful Rules and Regulations respecting the
Territory or other Property belonging to the
United States; and nothing in this Constitu-
tion shall be so construed as to Prejudice
any Claims of the United States, or of any
particular State.
By Ms. CLARKE of New York:
H.R. 2009.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
the power granted to Congress under Arti-
cle I of the United States Constitution and it
subsequent amendments, and further clari-
fied and interpreted by the Supreme Court of
the United States.
By Mr. CONAWAY:
H.R. 2010.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8
By Ms. DEGETTE:
H.R. 2011.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 3—Commerce
Clause
By Ms. DEGETTE:
H.R. 2012.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Amendment X to the Constitution of the
United States of America
By Ms. DELBENE:
H.R. 2013.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the United States
Constitution
By Mr. HARRIS:
H.R. 2014.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
This bill makes specific changes to exist-
ing law in a manner that provides conscience
protection in accord with the 1st Amend-
ment of the United States Constitution.
By Mr. KUSTOFF of Tennessee:
H.R. 2015.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Under Article I, Section 8, the Necessary
and Proper Clause. Congress shall have
power to make all Laws which shall be nec-
essary and proper for carrying into Execu-
tion the foregoing Powers and all Powers
vested by this Constitution in the Govern-
ment of the United States, or in any Depart-
ment or Officer thereof.
By Mr. TED LIEU of California:
H.R. 2016.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8
By Mr. O’HALLERAN:
H.R. 2017.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
—Article I, Section 8, Clause 18
By Mr. SMITH of New Jersey:
H.R. 2018.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 1 of the Con-
stitution
f
ADDITIONAL SPONSORS
Under clause 7 of rule XII, sponsors
were added to public bills and resolu-
tions, as follows:
H.R. 6: Mr. LOEBSACK.
H.R. 9: Mr. PAPPAS, Mr. VARGAS, Mr.
DELGADO, Mr. CONNOLLY, Mr. THOMPSON of
Mississippi, Mr. GOLDEN, Mr. HECK, Ms.
SHALALA, Mr. BERA, Mr. QUIGLEY, Mr.
RASKIN, Mr. ESPAILLAT, Ms. KELLY of Illi-
nois, Mr. MICHAEL F. DOYLE of Pennsylvania,
Ms. ESHOO, Ms. SCANLON, Mr. VEASEY, and
Mr. GARAMENDI.
H.R. 38: Mr. KATKO and Mrs. ROBY.
H.R. 41: Ms. CLARKE of New York, Mr.
JOHNSON of Georgia, and Ms. OCASIO-CORTEZ.
H.R. 101: Mrs. DEMINGS, Mr. ROONEY of
Florida, and Mr. MAST.
H.R. 132: Mr. MCCAUL.
H.R. 141: Mrs. AXNE.
H.R. 230: Mr. GALLEGO.
H.R. 312: Ms. DAVIDS of Kansas and Ms.
HAALAND.
H.R. 333: Mr. KILMER, Mr. COLE, Mr. DEFA-
ZIO, Mr. VELA, Ms. BROWNLEY of California,
Mrs. DAVIS of California, and Ms. DELBENE.
H.R. 375: Mr. CALVERT, Mr. LARSEN of
Washington, and Mr. CÁRDENAS.
H.R. 500: Mr. COHEN, Mr. CONAWAY, Mr.
WILLIAMS, and Mrs. WAGNER.
H.R. 511: Mr. SCHNEIDER.
H.R. 540: Ms. DELBENE and Mr. TAYLOR.
H.R. 553: Mrs. AXNE, Mr. KING of New York,
and Mr. HECK.
H.R. 600: Mrs. LESKO.
H.R. 613: Mr. KIM and Mr. DESJARLAIS.
H.R. 647: Mr. KING of New York.
H.R. 677: Ms. FRANKEL.
H.R. 683: Mr. RASKIN and Mr. ESPAILLAT.
H.R. 689: Ms. JACKSON LEE.
H.R. 692: Mr. PERRY, Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of
Illinois, and Mr. FLORES.
H.R. 693: Mr. SCHWEIKERT and Mr. UPTON.
H.R. 712: Mr. KIM.
H.R. 721: Mr. MOOLENAAR and Mr. GOLDEN.
H.R. 729: Mr. LARSEN of Washington.
H.R. 808: Mr. MEEKS.
H.R. 827: Mr. TIPTON.
H.R. 832: Mr. GROTHMAN.
H.R. 837: Mr. BERGMAN.
H.R. 838: Mr. VELA, Mr. PALMER, Ms. JACK-
SON LEE, and Mr. HUDSON.
H.R. 864: Mr. UPTON.
H.R. 865: Mr. PAPPAS, Mr. ROUDA, and Ms.
PORTER.
H.R. 874: Ms. LOFGREN.
H.R. 921: Mr. HUFFMAN, Mr. CISNEROS, and
Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN.
H.R. 935: Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia and Mr.
LUJÁN.
H.R. 943: Mr. CRENSHAW.
H.R. 956: Mr. GOODEN.
H.R. 965: Mr. TONKO, Mr. GOHMERT, and Mr.
VAN DREW.
H.R. 969: Mr. HOLLINGSWORTH.
H.R. 986: Mr. VAN DREW.
H.R. 987: Mr. VAN DREW.
H.R. 989: Mr. COMER and Mr. THOMPSON of
California.
H.R. 997: Mr. BYRNE.
H.R. 1002: Ms. JACKSON LEE, Mr. UPTON,
and Ms. PORTER.
H.R. 1018: Mr. SMITH of Washington.
H.R. 1034: Mr. GOHMERT.
H.R. 1042: Mr. UPTON.
H.R. 1044: Mr. HORSFORD.
H.R. 1058: Mr. ROSE of New York, Mr.
POCAN, and Mr. RUPPERSBERGER.
H.R. 1108: Mr. BRENDAN F. BOYLE of Penn-
sylvania, Mr. CICILLINE, Mr. FERGUSON, Mr.
MEUSER, Mr. PASCRELL, Mr. PETERS, Ms.
PRESSLEY, and Mr. SIMPSON.
H.R. 1154: Mrs. WAGNER, Mr. RUIZ, Mr.
CARBAJAL, Mr. VISCLOSKY, Ms. BROWNLEY of
California, Mrs. AXNE, and Mr. HIGGINS of
New York.
H.R. 1174: Mr. KILMER, Ms. HAALAND, Mrs.
LURIA, Mr. PAPPAS, Mr. SWALWELL of Cali-
fornia, Ms. NORTON, Mrs. TRAHAN, Mr. TUR-
NER, and Mr. KIM.
H.R. 1184: Mr. HUFFMAN.
H.R. 1236: Mr. DESAULNIER, Mr. MCNERNEY,
Mr. SHERMAN, Mr. BERA, Ms. HOULAHAN, Ms.
SCHRIER, Mr. HIMES, Mr. ROUDA, Ms.
SHALALA, Mr. CISNEROS, Mrs. DAVIS of Cali-
fornia, and Mr. GARAMENDI.
H.R. 1237: Mrs. LURIA and Mr. CASE.
H.R. 1244: Ms. SCANLON and Ms. FRANKEL.
H.R. 1301: Mr. SMITH of Nebraska, Ms. GAR-
CIA of Texas, Mr. GOLDEN, Ms. SEWELL of Ala-
bama, and Mr. KING of Iowa.
H.R. 1317: Ms. CLARKE of New York, Ms.
JACKSON LEE, Mr. SAN NICOLAS, Mr. VAN
DREW, Mr. GRIJALVA, and Mr. CASE.
H.R. 1322: Ms. DAVIDS of Kansas and Mr.
COHEN.
H.R. 1327: Mrs. FLETCHER and Ms.
FINKENAUER.
H.R. 1342: Mr. GIANFORTE.
H.R. 1345: Mrs. LURIA.
H.R. 1364: Mrs. CRAIG, Mr. CLEAVER, Mr.
KILDEE, and Mr. DAVID SCOTT of Georgia.
H.R. 1366: Mr. CRENSHAW and Mr.
GOTTHEIMER.
H.R. 1398: Mr. COLE, Mr. ESTES, Mr. CRIST,
Mr. GOHMERT, and Mr. HUDSON.
H.R. 1421: Ms. LOFGREN.
H.R. 1497: Ms. MOORE, Ms. TITUS, Mrs.
CRAIG, and Mr. MALINOWSKI.
H.R. 1499: Mr. VAN DREW and Ms. CLARKE of
New York.
H.R. 1507: Ms. BROWNLEY of California.
H.R. 1517: Ms. JACKSON LEE, Ms. DEAN, and
Ms. BROWNLEY of California.
H.R. 1520: Mr. BURGESS and Ms. MATSUI.
H.R. 1534: Mr. LOWENTHAL.
H.R. 1549: Mr. PAPPAS.
H.R. 1553: Mr. GOHMERT.
H.R. 1554: Mr. FITZPATRICK.
H.R. 1557: Ms. FINKENAUER.
H.R. 1595: Mrs. LURIA.
H.R. 1597: Mr. RIGGLEMAN, Mr. LOWENTHAL,
Mr. WALBERG, and Mr. RYAN.
H.R. 1605: Mr. KUSTOFF of Tennessee and
Mr. MARSHALL.
H.R. 1622: Mr. WELCH.
H.R. 1629: Ms. DEGETTE, Mr. MCKINLEY, Ms.
KUSTER of New Hampshire, and Mr. GREEN of
Tennessee.
H.R. 1638: Mr. COLE.
H.R. 1641: Mr. MEADOWS.
H.R. 1643: Ms. FRANKEL.
H.R. 1644: Mr. CARTWRIGHT, Ms.
WASSERMAN SCHULTZ, Mr. PERLMUTTER, Mr.
TED LIEU of California, and Ms. TITUS.
H.R. 1687: Ms. GABBARD.
H.R. 1694: Ms. DELAURO.
H.R. 1695: Mr. KIND and Mrs. CRAIG.
H.R. 1741: Mrs. RODGERS of Washington,
Mr. HILL of Arkansas, Mr. WALTZ, Mr. SMITH
of Nebraska, Mr. MOOLENAAR, Mr. BUCSHON,
Mr. WESTERMAN, Ms. HERRERA BEUTLER, Mr.
FLORES, Mr. OLSON, Mr. BACON, Mr.
BUCHANAN, Mr. WOMACK, Mr. KING of New
York, Mr. MCCAUL, and Mr. BALDERSON.
H.R. 1749: Mr. SEAN PATRICK MALONEY of
New York and Mr. GOSAR.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:36 Apr 02, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00015 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A01AP7.020 H01APPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2940 April 1, 2019
H.R. 1753: Mr. LUETKEMEYER.
H.R. 1769: Mrs. CRAIG and Mr. FULCHER.
H.R. 1770: Mr. POCAN.
H.R. 1771: Mr. BEYER.
H.R. 1777: Mrs. DAVIS of California, Mrs.
CRAIG, Ms. PINGREE, Ms. KUSTER of New
Hampshire, and Mr. QUIGLEY.
H.R. 1786: Ms. BASS, Mr. GARCÍA of Illinois,
Mr. GALLEGO, Ms. SHALALA, Mr. HIGGINS of
New York, and Mr. KING of New York.
H.R. 1826: Ms. DEAN and Mr. MICHAEL F.
DOYLE of Pennsylvania.
H.R. 1830: Mr. HORSFORD.
H.R. 1837: Mr. HARRIS, Mr. FITZPATRICK,
Mrs. WAGNER, Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois,
Mr. ALLRED, Mr. CRENSHAW, Ms. KELLY of Il-
linois, Mr. SARBANES, Mrs. RADEWAGEN, Mr.
TRONE, Mr. LONG, Mr. THORNBERRY, Mr. WIL-
LIAMS, Mr. COLLINS of New York, Mrs.
NAPOLITANO, Mr. DAVID P. ROE of Tennessee,
and Mr. GIANFORTE.
H.R. 1840: Mr. FITZPATRICK, Mr. RUSH, and
Ms. KELLY of Illinois.
H.R. 1841: Mr. WATKINS.
H.R. 1850: Mr. FLORES.
H.R. 1857: Mrs. CRAIG and Ms. FRANKEL.
H.R. 1860: Mr. BILIRAKIS.
H.R. 1863: Mr. BROWN of Maryland and Ms.
KUSTER of New Hampshire.
H.R. 1893: Ms. BARRAGÁN.
H.R. 1896: Mr. KIM, Mr. CARTER of Texas,
and Mr. CROW.
H.R. 1899: Ms. MENG.
H.R. 1921: Mr. FITZPATRICK.
H.R. 1935: Mr. BACON and Mr. MOOLENAAR.
H.R. 1943: Ms. KELLY of Illinois, Mr. GON-
ZALEZ of Texas, Mr. BRENDAN F. BOYLE of
Pennsylvania, and Mr. VELA.
H.R. 1944: Mr. GREEN of Tennessee and Mr.
KING of Iowa.
H.R. 1948: Mr. MARSHALL, Mr. JOHNSON of
Ohio, Mr. TED LIEU of California, Mr.
SCHWEIKERT, Ms. SPEIER, Mr. BERGMAN, Mr.
MCKINLEY, Mr. AUSTIN SCOTT of Georgia, and
Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of New York.
H. Con. Res. 25: Ms. SCHAKOWSKY.
H. Res. 23: Mrs. CRAIG, Mr. KIM, Mr. CAR-
SON of Indiana, Mr. DESAULNIER, Ms.
JAYAPAL, Mr. CLAY, Ms. JACKSON LEE, Ms.
DAVIDS of Kansas, and Mr. LEVIN of Cali-
fornia.
H. Res. 60: Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois,
Ms. JAYAPAL, Ms. JACKSON LEE, and Mr.
STANTON.
H. Res. 107: Mrs. HARTZLER.
H. Res. 171: Mr. CARSON of Indiana and Ms.
FINKENAUER.
H. Res. 231: Mr. CISNEROS, Mr. COHEN, Ms.
CLARKE of New York, Mr. GRIJALVA, Ms.
MOORE, Mrs. NAPOLITANO, and Ms. TITUS.
H. Res. 246: Mr. AMODEI, Mr. ALLRED, Mr.
CRENSHAW, Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois, Mr.
SARBANES, Mr. BUCHANAN, Mr. LAMB, Mr.
RESCHENTHALER, Mr. PALLONE, Mr. TRONE,
Mr. LONG, Mr. THORNBERRY, Mr. SCHIFF, Mr.
LUJÁN, Mr. CHABOT, Mr. COHEN, Mr. WIL-
LIAMS, Mrs. NAPOLITANO, Mr. CICILLINE, Mr.
SCHWEIKERT, Ms. VELÁZQUEZ, Ms. JUDY CHU
of California, and Mr. PANETTA.
H. Res. 268: Mr. KING of Iowa.
H. Res. 270: Mr. HIMES and Mr. CARTER of
Texas.
f
CONGRESSIONAL EARMARKS, LIM-
ITED TAX BENEFITS, OR LIM-
ITED TARIFF BENEFITS
Under clause 9 of rule XXI, lists or
statements on congressional earmarks,
limited tax benefits, or limited tariff
benefits were submitted as follows:
OFFERED BY MR. ENGEL
The provisions that warranted a referral to
the Committee on Foreign Affairs in S.J.
Res. 7 do not contain any congressional ear-
marks, limited tax benefits, or limited tariff
benefits as defined in clause 9 of rule XXI.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:36 Apr 02, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00016 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A01AP7.017 H01APPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
Congressional Record
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
United States
of America PROCEEDINGS AND DEBATES OF THE 116th
CONGRESS, FIRST SESSION
∑ This ‘‘bullet’’ symbol identifies statements or insertions which are not spoken by a Member of the Senate on the floor.
.
S2105
Vol. 165 WASHINGTON, MONDAY, APRIL 1, 2019 No. 56
Senate
The Senate met at 3 p.m. and was
called to order by the President pro
tempore (Mr. GRASSLEY).
f
PRAYER
The Chaplain, Dr. Barry C. Black, of-
fered the following prayer:
Let us pray.
Eternal God, You have been our
home through all the generations. Be-
fore the mountains were created, You
are God, without beginning or end. Re-
ceive our prayers today and grant our
lawmakers the mature wisdom to act
as servants of this Nation that You
have blessed with freedom. Inspire our
Senators to be kind but firm, compas-
sionate but resolute, possessed of quiet
hearts, clear minds, and sound judg-
ment. Lord, show them Your approval
and give them success. Provide them
with the strength and courage of those
whose minds are focused on You.
We pray in Your Holy Name. Amen.
f
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
The President pro tempore led the
Pledge of Allegiance, as follows:
I pledge allegiance to the Flag of the
United States of America, and to the Repub-
lic for which it stands, one nation under God,
indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
f
RESERVATION OF LEADER TIME
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
HAWLEY). Under the previous order, the
leadership time is reserved.
f
CONCLUSION OF MORNING
BUSINESS
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Morning
business is closed.
f
SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS
ACT, 2019—Resumed
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the Senate will re-
sume consideration of H.R. 268, which
the clerk will report.
The legislative clerk read as follows:
A bill (H.R. 268) making supplemental ap-
propriations for the fiscal year ending Sep-
tember 30, 2019, and for other purposes.
Pending:
Shelby amendment No. 201, in the nature
of a substitute.
McConnell amendment No. 213 (to amend-
ment No. 201), to change the enactment date.
McConnell amendment No. 214 (to amend-
ment No. 213), of a perfecting nature.
McConnell amendment No. 215 (to the lan-
guage proposed to be stricken by amendment
No. 201), to change the enactment date.
McConnell amendment No. 216 (to amend-
ment No. 215), of a perfecting nature.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Iowa.
Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent to speak as in
morning business for 3 minutes for
three different short remarks.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
H.R. 268
Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President, the
Senate will soon vote on the disaster
spending bill. That bill contains funds
for the 2018 hurricanes and wildfires
and renews the extra funds for nutri-
tion assistance in Puerto Rico, which
is about to expire.
The Senate amendment also expands
eligibility to include ongoing Midwest
floods like we presently have in Mis-
souri, Kansas, Iowa, and Nebraska, but
other States will have it as well.
At a time when some families in Iowa
have everything that they own under-
water and the people of Puerto Rico
are facing a funding cliff, now is not
the time to play politics with the dis-
aster relief bill.
To my colleagues across the aisle
who have been spending a lot of time in
Iowa lately as Presidential candidates,
if you vote against moving forward
with the Shelby amendment, how are
you going to look Iowans in the eye
and justify a vote against moving this
disaster relief bill ahead?
TARIFFS
Mr. President, now I will talk about
trade. I am calling on the administra-
tion, specifically on President Trump,
to promptly remove section 232 tariffs
on steel and aluminum imports from
Canada and Mexico. This will help to
clear the path for the USMCA agree-
ment and have it ratified not just in
the Congress of the United States but
in all three countries.
These tariffs and the retaliations are
having a negative impact on Ameri-
cans. The agreement for Mexico, Can-
ada, and the United States is supposed
to be a free trade agreement, but we
don’t have free trade with these tariffs
in place.
As Finance Committee chairman, I
look forward to helping the President
with this important task. I had a
chance to be at the White House with
several other Senators on that very
same issue. I said to the President
something like this: You said you put
the tariffs on because Mexico and Can-
ada weren’t going to negotiate. They
have negotiated. Mr. President, you
say that you have a good agreement,
and I agree that you do have a good
agreement. They negotiated in good
faith. Then, wouldn’t you think that
the right thing to do would be to re-
move the tariffs so we can move ahead?
Now, one of the important things
about this is the situation in Canada
more than in the United States. Their
House of Commons will adjourn in
June for their elections in October.
This must be done in the next 2
months. Well, I guess now you would
say in the next 3 months, if this is
going to be done this year, and I would
think the President would want to get
it done this year.
HOLDS DISCLOSURE REQUIREMENTS
Mr. President, this is my last 1-
minute comment. All Senators now
have a copy of my letter sent with Sen-
ator WYDEN’s signature explaining the
holds on nominations and bills and the
disclosure of those holds and the re-
quirements that come with such holds.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:18 Apr 02, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A01AP6.000 S01APPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2106 April 1, 2019
After many years of working on the
issue, the two of us, meaning Senator
GRASSLEY and Senator WYDEN, worked
in good faith with the leadership of
both parties to craft a measure every-
one could accept, and it passed the
Senate overwhelmingly in 2011.
The last I checked—and this is sad to
say—Senator WYDEN and I are the only
ones that have holds listed in the cal-
endar. Surely, we aren’t the only ones
who are holding up nominations or leg-
islation.
I urge all Senators to comply with
the holds disclosure requirements. I
also want to remind our leaders, mean-
ing my colleague from Kentucky and
my colleague from New York, that
anyone with a hold, meaning any of the
100 Senators with a hold, must give
permission to object in their name.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk proceeded to
call the roll.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the order
for the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
RECOGNITION OF THE MAJORITY LEADER
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The ma-
jority leader is recognized.
H.R. 268
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, for
almost a week, the Senate has been
considering an urgent priority: aid
funding for communities across the
country that have been literally rav-
aged by natural disasters, like last
year’s powerful hurricane season,
which carried torrential downpours and
gale-force winds across the coasts of
Florida and the Carolinas and left fam-
ilies sorting through literally billions
of dollars of damage; the fierce
wildfires that consumed millions of
acres in California and across the West,
damaging or destroying tens of thou-
sands of homes and businesses in their
path; the tornadoes that tore through
communities in East Alabama and
West Georgia; and the heavy rains and
flooding that impacted part of Ken-
tucky.
As Puerto Rico continues to get back
on its feet following Hurricane Maria,
an especially urgent concern today is
funding for the nutrition assistance
program. Hundreds of thousands of
residents have already felt the impacts
of dwindling food aid on the island.
Preventing further serious reductions
will take prompt Federal action. Even
as we speak, communities across the
Midwest are still underwater, trying to
combat the severe floods that washed
away homes and livelihoods.
From coast to coast and beyond, we
have Americans rebuilding their com-
munities, their local infrastructure,
their livelihoods, and in some cases
their own homes. Here in Congress, it
is time to finish the good work our col-
leagues from Georgia have started and
pass legislation to provide a helping
hand.
I was encouraged last week when 90
Senators took the first step and al-
lowed the full Senate to turn to dis-
aster funding on the floor. Yet it has
been unsettling to hear behind the
scenes that our Democratic colleagues
may now be toying with the idea of op-
posing Chairman SHELBY’s comprehen-
sive substitute amendment.
This is no time for our colleagues
across the aisle to prioritize a political
fight with the President ahead of the
urgent needs of communities across
our country. Chairman SHELBY has
carefully assembled a comprehensive
proposal that our Democratic friends
ought to jump at the chance to sup-
port. It ensures that no affected region
would be left behind. That includes $600
million to immediately shore up dis-
aster nutrition assistance for the vul-
nerable people in Puerto Rico.
Unlike the underlying House bill,
which does not address this year’s dis-
asters, it would provide for a signifi-
cant downpayment on relief and re-
building in the flood-damaged Midwest.
The House bill has nothing for the Mid-
west flooding, so it is a nonstarter for
that reason and also because the White
House has indicated the President
would not support that legislation be-
cause of policy decisions made by
House Democrats.
Chairman SHELBY’s amendment is
the only game in town. It is our only
sure path to making a law with any-
where near the urgency these Ameri-
cans deserve; it is the only bill on the
table with any provision for the Mid-
west flooding; and it is the only bill on
the table that could earn a Presidential
signature in time to deliver urgent re-
lief on the nutrition assistance needed
in Puerto Rico.
In my view, this does not need to be
a difficult partisan decision. Indeed, I
can hardly put it better than my
Democratic colleagues explained it
themselves just a few weeks ago. As re-
cently as the end of February, 11 of our
Democratic colleagues wrote to all 4
congressional leaders to insist that
this subject could not wait. They said:
‘‘Providing desperately needed relief to
impacted communities should be a bi-
partisan, bicameral priority and con-
tinued inaction is unacceptable.’’
They said Congress had to fund dis-
aster recovery and rebuilding ‘‘imme-
diately.’’
Well, this afternoon, our colleagues
will have the opportunity to make
good on their words and vote to ad-
vance Chairman SHELBY’s legislation.
It is our way to help all the affected
communities, including the Midwest,
which the House bill would simply
leave behind.
It is our path to securing hundreds of
millions in nutrition aid for Puerto
Rico and doing so promptly. It is our
shot at exactly the kind of bipartisan
action that a number of our Demo-
cratic colleagues have actually been
clamoring for, so let’s vote to advance
it later today.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk preceded to call
the roll.
Mr. ALEXANDER. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the order
for the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. ROM-
NEY). Without objection, it is so or-
dered.
S. RES. 50
Mr. ALEXANDER. Mr. President, my
Democratic friends from the other side
of the aisle often come to me and ask
me to cosponsor bills so they will be bi-
partisan, making it more likely we will
get a result. Sometimes they come to
me on a difficult issue, and they ask
me, in their words, ‘‘to rise above poli-
tics’’ and support the institution and
the Constitution, and often I do that. I
think my reputation for that here is
pretty secure.
So I have an offer, an invitation I
made earlier to my Democratic friends
to invite them to join me in rising
above politics—it will be a harder vote
for them than it will be for me—and
help us change the Senate rules in the
correct way to restore the Presidential
nomination process to the stature that
it deserves and work together to try to
achieve what we did in 2011, 2012, and
2013.
On March 14, the Democratic leader
came to the floor, and he said the fol-
lowing words:
There are times when loyalty to America,
to our Constitution, to our principles, and to
what has made this country great should
lead Members to rise above and rise to the
occasion.
He was talking about the vote on the
national emergency declaration Presi-
dent Trump made.
The Democratic leader continued:
I hope and I pray that this moment is one
of those times when Members choose country
over party and when Members rise above pol-
itics for the sake of fidelity to our constitu-
tional principles and this great United
States of America.
That was the Democratic leader, the
Senator from New York.
The next day, 12 of us did just that.
We voted for the resolution to overturn
the declaration of emergency, or, as I
have explained to many of my con-
stituents who have said something to
me about it, I voted for the Constitu-
tion.
A month or so earlier, we were en-
couraged by the Democratic leader and
our friends on the other side to vote to
open the government. It was the same
sort of speech, the same opportunity to
rise above politics. Six of us did—six of
us on this side of the aisle.
In 2011, 2012, and 2013, when Barack
Obama was President and Harry Reid
was the leader of the Democratic ma-
jority in the Senate, it occurred to me
and others that the Presidential nomi-
nating process was in shambles. It was
embarrassing to ask distinguished
Americans to be nominated for a posi-
tion and then say ‘‘You are innocent
until you are nominated’’ or drag
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:18 Apr 02, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G01AP6.001 S01APPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2107
April 1, 2019
things out for a long period of time. It
was a bad process.
The President of the United States
has 1,200 nominations to make to Fed-
eral appointees—1,200 today, but then,
it was more like 1,400. One of the most
important and perhaps the best known
function of the Senate is advice and
consent. Our advice and consent to the
Presidential nominations is a crucial
part of the checks and balances in our
constitutional system that was estab-
lished to keep one part of our govern-
ment from having too much power. In
other words, if the President wants
somebody and we don’t, that is it. If he
does and we confirm, then that person
knows us, knows this body, and knows
about article I, and when he or she
wants money for their Department,
they have to come to the Congress
elected by the people. That is the Pres-
idential nominating process. That is
why it is so important to the Senate
and to the people of this country.
So in 2011, 2012, and 2013, Senators
Reid, MCCONNELL, SCHUMER, BARRASSO,
Levin, McCain, Kyl, CARDIN, COLLINS,
Lieberman, and I all, along with some
others, worked to change the Senate
rules to make it easier for President
Obama and his successors to gain con-
firmation of Presidential nominees. As
a Republican Senator during a Demo-
cratic administration, I spent dozens of
hours on that project to make it easier
for that Democratic President, with a
Senate majority that was Democratic,
to form a government.
We changed the rules the right way.
In other words, we followed the rules,
and the Senate passed standing orders,
with large, bipartisan margins, to do a
number of things. We ended secret
holds. We removed 163 major positions
from the necessity of advice and con-
sent. We removed 3,163 minor positions
from advice and consent. We created
272 positions that are Presidential
nominations and made them privileged
so they could come to the floor and
then go on to be voted on if no one ob-
jected or required them to go to com-
mittee. We made it easier to bring leg-
islation to the floor. We made it easier
to go to conference. We simplified the
forms you have to fill out if you are a
nominee. We did all that in a bipar-
tisan way.
One more thing: By a vote of 78
votes, we decided we would reduce the
postcloture debate time for sub-Cabi-
net members to 8 hours and for district
judges to 2 hours. As a practical mat-
ter, that means if the majority leader
brings up a sub-Cabinet member on
Monday, we have to wait an inter-
vening day—that is Tuesday—and then
we vote on cutting off debate on
Wednesday. And how many more hours
do we need to debate it? Then it was 30.
Today it is 30. We said: Then let’s make
it 8 for sub-Cabinet members and 2 for
district judges. That expired at the end
of President Obama’s time because we
made it for just one Congress, but that
is what we did.
I might add, Republicans did not in-
sist that these new rules should be de-
layed until after the next Presidential
election, when there might be a Repub-
lican President. You might say we rose
above politics.
I might also add that today some
people say: Well, they don’t want to
vote for anything that might seem to
support President Trump because he is
not popular in the Democratic pri-
mary. I can tell you that in 2013, Presi-
dent Obama was not all that popular in
the Republican primary in Tennessee
or in any other of the primaries, but we
thought it was more important to de-
fend this institution and preserve its
traditional and constitutional role of
advice and consent.
So, on February 25 of this year, I
came to the floor and, in effect, invited
my colleagues on the other side of the
aisle to rise above politics—the same
thing they often say to me. I invited
them to work with me, Senator
LANKFORD, and Senator BLUNT to speed
up the confirmation of Presidential
nominees, to rise above partisanship
and to rise above politics for the ben-
efit of the institution. It was a pretty
easy ask, I might say, because I am ba-
sically inviting them to do what 78 of
us agreed to do in 2013, which is to re-
duce the amount of postcloture debate
time for sub-Cabinet members and dis-
trict judges.
I don’t think rising above politics
ought to be a one-way street. At a time
when many complained that the Execu-
tive has too much power, the Senate is
deliberately weakening itself when we
undermine our advice and consent role.
What is the result of that?
Well, it diminishes our constitutional
role to advise and consent because
what happens in the executive branch
is it just is loaded up with acting ap-
pointees who have never had to go
through our confirmation process.
President Trump is probably pretty
happy with that. He could just put an
acting person in a particular position.
That person doesn’t have to go through
the process and doesn’t have to answer
a lot of questions. He or she is just
there and immediately there. Such as
John Ryder, the TVA board member
from my State, who doesn’t have to an-
swer a lot of questions or such as two
district judges from my State—excel-
lent individuals—who waited 10 months
to be confirmed or such as the U.S.
marshal for the Middle District of Ten-
nessee, who had already been the U.S.
marshal before, who had to wait more
than 1 year. There was none of that.
Just put in an acting person and run
the government without regard to the
Senate.
As the Democratic leader said to me
2 weeks ago and 6 weeks ago, I would
ask him and others to rise above poli-
tics for the benefit of this institution
and change the rules the right way to
speed up the confirmation process.
The Senate Rules Committee gave us
the right way. They adopted a resolu-
tion in the regular order. Basically, it
is the same resolution, with a few dif-
ferences, that we passed with 78 votes
in 2013.
In my February 25 speech, I said to
my friends on the other side: If you
don’t like it in exactly the form it is,
please suggest something reasonable
back. That is the way we do things.
Let’s amend it. Let’s do it exactly the
way we did it before in 2013.
I have been encouraged by some dis-
cussion by some Members on the other
side of the aisle but nothing certain.
The proposal offered by Senator BLUNT
and Senator LANKFORD would not re-
duce the number of hours we debate
Supreme Court Justices, wouldn’t re-
duce the number of hours we debate
Cabinet members or certain Board
nominations, but it would divide the 30
hours of postcloture debate equally be-
tween Republicans and Democrats. Ba-
sically, it would put the Senate back in
the place where the Senate has always
been throughout the history of the
Senate.
Nominations have been decided by 51
votes—not 60 or 67 but by 51—and they
have been decided reasonably prompt-
ly. Sometimes they were defeated, but
they were decided. The Blunt-Lankford
resolution would do just that. Nomina-
tions would be decided by 51 votes, and
they could be decided reasonably
promptly so we would not be dimin-
ishing the advice and consent role of
the Senate.
Everyone in this body knows what
the problem is. One hundred and twen-
ty-eight times the majority leader has
had to file a motion to cut off debate—
we call that cloture—in order to ad-
vance a nomination. Let’s say it is for
a Tennessee Valley Authority part-
time board member. So he will file the
motion on Monday. We don’t do any-
thing on Tuesday. Nothing would
change with that. We vote on cloture
on Wednesday—that is 51 votes—and
then we have 30 hours of debate. Now it
is Thursday. So we could take a whole
week dealing with a part-time TVA
board member. That has been done 128
times. That was almost never done for
previous Presidents.
We are faced with a truly miserable
choice. We know this has to change.
Our friends on the other side know it
has to change. They know if they have
a Democratic President in 18 or 20
months, there will be at least one Re-
publican Senator who will do to them
what they are doing to President
Trump. The Democratic President will
not be able to form a government, and
so we will further diminish the Senate
in its role. So we have a truly miser-
able choice: either we continue to di-
minish the constitutional advice and
consent role of the Senate—we could do
that—or we use what we call the Harry
Reid precedent to change the rules of
the Senate by a majority vote.
The problem with the Harry Reid
precedent is, it doesn’t really change
the rules. It just says the rules don’t
mean what they say. It is as if the ref-
eree said: Well, the rule book says first
down is 10 yards, but I am going to rule
that it is 9. It is a Senate precedent,
and the majority may do it, but we
should avoid that if we possibly can.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:18 Apr 02, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G01AP6.003 S01APPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2108 April 1, 2019
I don’t like the Harry Reid precedent.
I believe it presents a truly miserable
option, but even more miserable is con-
tinuing this debasement of the advice
and consent role of the Senate—one I
worked to do more about in 2011, 2012,
and 2013 with the distinguished Demo-
cratic leader, the Republican leader,
and so many Senators.
As my friend the Democratic leader,
who I see has now come to the floor,
said to me and other Republicans 2
weeks ago: ‘‘I understand the politics
are difficult—much harder for you than
for me—but our nation, our Constitu-
tion, the beauty of this government,
demands that we rise to the occasion.’’
Well, on the declaration of the national
emergency on that occasion, 12 of us
did; and on reopening the government a
few weeks earlier, 6 of us did; and in
2011, 2012, and 2013, 78 of us voted to re-
duce the postcloture time for sub-Cabi-
net nominees.
I know it can be a difficult vote in
the Democratic caucus, but I earnestly
hope that between now and the time we
vote this week, that we will not be pre-
sented with this truly miserable choice
of continuing to debase the advice and
consent tradition of the Senate or
using the Harry Reid precedent to
change the Senate rules by majority
vote.
If some of us can rise above partisan-
ship on article I to vote against the
declaration of emergency, to vote to
reopen the government, and to remove
the delay in Presidential nominees
when there is a Democratic President
and a Democratic leader of the Senate,
it is my hope that some of my Demo-
cratic friends will agree to do that this
week and help us avoid what I have de-
scribed as a truly miserable choice.
I thank the Presiding Officer.
I yield the floor.
RECOGNITION OF THE MINORITY LEADER
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mrs.
CAPITO). The Democratic leader is rec-
ognized.
Mr. SCHUMER. Madam President, I
will be speaking about rules changes in
a minute, but I heard my friend from
Tennessee when he said we will be
faced with a terrible choice.
I would simply say that that choice
is being foisted on us by Leader
MCCONNELL and none other. You can’t
brag about passing more judges than
ever before and then say the process is
broken, and we have to change the
rules. There is a total, total—there is a
word that begins with ‘‘h’’ that I will
not quite say. It ends in ‘‘y.’’
H.R. 268
Madam President, on Puerto Rico, as
the Senate takes up the disaster pack-
age, I want to implore my friends on
the Republican side to remember that
Puerto Rico is still recovering from
Hurricanes Irma and Maria. From city
to countryside, the entire island has
been decimated. Yet the administra-
tion’s response to this catastrophe can
be summed up in two words. The ad-
ministration’s response to Puerto Rico
can be summed up in two words: cruel
and nasty.
The administration has yet to dis-
burse $20 billion in recovery and miti-
gation funds for Puerto Rico that were
already appropriated, and this is more
than a year after they were appro-
priated by Congress. There is $20 bil-
lion sitting there as people suffer.
Bureaucracy has similarly delayed
crucial rebuilding projects at hospitals
and schools and stoked real concerns
that the administration is not inter-
ested in helping the island rebuild the
way Congress intended.
It should hardly bear repeating, but
every single American citizen deserves
a Congress and a President fully com-
mitted to providing every resource nec-
essary to rebuild in the wake of a nat-
ural disaster. Our fellow citizens in
Puerto Rico are every bit as much
American citizens—that is by law—as
we are. Yet the President seems to
want to treat them differently, cruelly,
and nastily.
Now Republican Senators are at-
tempting to strip away recovery funds
from Puerto Rico and other territories
from the disaster package that passed
the House. They have even rejected a
Democratic effort to speed up the re-
lease of the billions in already allo-
cated funding. Those are no new appro-
priations. They have already rejected
our efforts to speed up the release of
the billions in already allocated fund-
ing that the Trump administration has
locked away in the U.S. Treasury.
Now, because the House passed their
disaster bill back in January, it didn’t
include any aid to assist those affected
by the recent devastated flooding in
the Midwest, but my friend Senator
LEAHY is planning to offer an amend-
ment to the House bill that would pro-
vide much needed aid to survivors of
those recent disasters because they too
deserve the aid they need to recover.
They said Emperor Nero fiddled while
Rome burned. President Trump tweets
while Puerto Rico suffers. I hope my
Republican colleagues will join us in
supporting this amendment and voting
yes on the House bill to support all
communities that need to rebuild.
HEALTHCARE
Madam President, on another mat-
ter, last week we were reminded of an
evergreen truth: The Republican Party
is still trying to take away the
healthcare of millions of Americans.
They are just sick and tired of being
blamed for it, even though the blame
falls right on their shoulders.
Just this morning, we read that some
of my colleagues from across the aisle
have begged Attorney General Barr to
reverse the administration’s wild deci-
sion to declare our current healthcare
law unconstitutional—a decision that
would throw the future of preexisting
conditions and healthcare coverage for
millions into doubt.
I have a better idea. If Republican
colleagues truly oppose this decision,
they can work with their leadership
and come down and offer some solu-
tions. Stop with the backroom phone
calls. Stop waiting for someone else to
bail you out. Stop whispering: Oh,
President Trump, don’t do it and then
be afraid to buck him publicly because
Americans are depending on their
healthcare.
This is a fiasco that Republicans
spent years in making as they tried to
keep voting on repeal and replace and
couldn’t come up with a replace. Ev-
eryone knows it. It helped shape the
elections of 2018. It will be on the
minds of voters in 2020.
You know, facts are stubborn things.
If the Republican Party is truly sick of
getting blamed for standing between
Americans and their healthcare, maybe
they shouldn’t have voted again and
again to repeal the Affordable Care
Act. Maybe they shouldn’t have voted
to allow the President to sabotage,
piece after piece, the healthcare net we
have provided for people.
If our Republican colleagues are sick
of blame, maybe they shouldn’t have
given this administration the green
light to sabotage the exchanges and
cut funding for programs that help peo-
ple get covered and protect them from
preexisting conditions.
If Republicans are really sick of get-
ting blamed for sabotaging the Amer-
ican healthcare system, then, let me
provide some friendly advice from
across the aisle: Stop sabotaging the
American people’s healthcare.
Republicans can try to hide from
their record, but the American people
aren’t fooled. Healthcare has been a de-
fining issue for Republicans for genera-
tions. In the same way that the party
has sworn fealty to tax cuts for the
rich and handicapping the government,
the modern Republican Party now
swears fidelity to the cause of higher
healthcare costs and diminished cov-
erage for tens of millions of American
citizens.
Tomorrow Senate Democrats will
join our colleagues in the House to
take action for ourselves against the
Department of Justice’s war on
healthcare. We will set the record
straight on the Republican’s effort to
steamroll American families who enjoy
coverage for the first time thanks to
this law. We will make clear that un-
less Republicans join us in taking ac-
tion, they will continue to own this
mess—and a sorry mess it is—when
people’s lives and health are at stake
and our Republican colleagues do noth-
ing—nothing—but make it worse.
NOMINATIONS
Madam President, on another mat-
ter, one of the Senate’s core respon-
sibilities is vetting any and all of the
President’s nominees. Unfortunately, if
we have learned anything in the last 2
years, it is that this administration
seems far too often willing to put
nominees forward to the Senate with-
out performing due diligence and care-
ful background checks.
Just last week, we learned that the
President’s choice for the Federal Re-
serve Board of Governors may have se-
rious personal financial issues. That is
just the latest in a long line of red
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:18 Apr 02, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G01AP6.004 S01APPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2109
April 1, 2019
flags in the records of Trump nomi-
nees. It is clear that we cannot falter
in our role as a check on the adminis-
tration.
So I was bemused this morning to
read the Republican leader’s case that
the Senate needs to speed up President
Trump’s nominees to an even faster
pace. Is this the majority leader’s idea
of an April fool’s joke? Was his op-ed
his April fool’s joke on the Senate, on
bipartisanship, and on America? It is
the most ridiculous thing in print since
Sidd Finch.
This is the double standard to trump
all double standards. It is simply gall-
ing—galling—for the Republican leader
to say that we aren’t moving fast
enough. When Barack Obama was
President, qualified nominees lan-
guished to the detriment of our govern-
ment. Take the example of Richard
Cordray. For no good reason, he waited
729 days, more than 2 years, to be con-
firmed to lead the Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau, and he was hardly
an exception.
Of course, because of Republican ob-
struction in what the Republican lead-
er called one of his ‘‘proudest mo-
ments,’’ the Republican-led Senate re-
fused to even consider Merrick Gar-
land’s nomination to the Supreme
Court for nearly a calendar year.
But now, under President Trump,
Leader MCCONNELL has sung a different
tune. Overnight, he has become a re-
former in the cause of Trumpism.
Working hand-in-hand with the Fed-
eralist Society, the Republican leader
became, in the words of his own ad-
viser, the principal enabler of the
Trump agenda. At Leader MCCONNELL’s
command, Republicans ended the blue
slip rules for circuit court nominees
and even refused to confirm Demo-
cratic nominees for bipartisan Boards
and Commissions like the SEC and the
NLRB. With these moves, the Repub-
lican leader has driven a stake further
into the heart of comity and biparti-
sanship in the Senate.
Now, despite openly bragging about
the number of Trump judges that he
has led the Senate to confirm, Leader
MCCONNELL demands that the rules of
the Senate be changed to speed up con-
firmation. On the one hand, there is
too much obstruction. On the other, we
proved we supported a record amount
of judges and gotten them through.
Leader MCCONNELL, you can’t have it
both ways. You can’t have it both
ways. Everyone sees through that.
The Senate needs to do its job. We
should not be a conveyor belt for Presi-
dent Trump’s radical and unqualified
judicial nominees. So let’s call this for
what it is. This rules change is yet an-
other power grab by Leader MCCON-
NELL, the Republican Party, and its
rightwing allies. It is a transparent at-
tempt to further politicize our courts
by packing them with President
Trump’s hard-right, ideological, and
too-often unqualified nominees, and we
will not be complicit in the Republican
leader’s games, which sacrifice much of
the comity and bipartisanship that this
Senate used to represent.
SECURITY CLEARANCES
Madam President, on a final matter,
I was extremely troubled to see yet an-
other report that this administration
repeatedly overruled career officials to
provide security clearances to Trump
officials, despite concerns about even
blackmail and foreign influence.
Our Nation’s intelligence must be
protected. That is why 3 weeks ago
Vice Chairman WARNER and Ranking
Members FEINSTEIN, MENENDEZ, and
REED called for a thorough review of
compliance with security clearance
policies and procedures. The Trump ad-
ministration has flouted these rules
again and again. The American people
deserve some answers.
Where are the leaders of our intel-
ligence community? Where is the in-
spector general of the intelligence
community? Why would our Repub-
lican counterparts not let us confirm
the Nation’s top counterintelligence
official? Director Coats and the rel-
evant inspector general must inves-
tigate these allegations immediately
and take whatever steps are necessary
to protect our national security. This
cannot wait a moment longer.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Georgia is recognized.
Mr. ISAKSON. Madam President, I
appreciate the remarks of the majority
leader. If he would wait 1 minute, I just
want to make a little offer to him. I
am not going to get into an argument
with him, but he brought up more
things than I like to bring up in one
speech, anyway.
I did want to remind him that I was
one of the six that voted in the shut-
down, and a day later we solved the
problem that you couldn’t have done
unless the six of us who did vote for it
in the Republican Conference voted for
it.
I just want everybody that listens to
this and watches it on TV to know that
everything he said is not always true.
He did speak to us obliquely on recog-
nizing the fact that we did that. I just
want you to know I was one of them. I
am only telling him that now because
I want a chip tomorrow on his vote,
and I am going to try to impress that
on him.
Mr. SCHUMER. Will my colleague
yield for a brief comment?
Mr. ISAKSON. Absolutely.
Mr. SCHUMER. I have every con-
fidence that if my friend from Georgia
were running the Senate, we wouldn’t
be in this pickle.
I yield to him.
H.R. 268
Mr. ISAKSON. Thank you. I appre-
ciate that, I think.
Madam President, I am not going to
talk about judges and appointments
and things of that nature. I could talk
about them. That is a big issue for us
coming up. I want to talk about peo-
ple—American citizens, farmers, ranch-
ers, people who make our food supply
happen, people who make our country
happen and our economy happen, et
cetera.
Georgia is one of a number of States
that supposedly had gotten some kind
of disaster benefit some time back. We
have had hurricanes, floods, and
storms. California has had great fires.
We had an earthquake in Alaska. We
had volcanoes in Hawaii. This has been
one of the most devastating years—and
the past couple of years now—we have
ever had, and, historically, we have al-
ways passed disaster bills to help our
citizens who are put out of business,
basically, by disaster to at least get
their feet back under them.
We have helped people get
healthcare. We have helped people get
housing benefits. We have helped peo-
ple do a lot of things just to get their
families put back together—people like
these folks right here.
I just want to remind myself from
this picture here that we have the Moss
family. We have others who are here
who raise cotton, raise peanuts, and
raise pecans. Georgia is now No. 1 in
the U.S. of pecans. Pecans are a huge
cash crop for us. Of course, Savannah,
in my State, ships ton after ton all
year long.
A pecan is an interesting nut, so to
speak, because the tree has a lifecycle
of about 12 years before it can make or
produce pecans. When you invest in a
pecan farmer, you are not investing
like in a watermelon farmer. You get a
watermelon the first year you plant
them. You are investing in something
that is going to take 12 years to ma-
ture and begin production. We had 50
percent of our pecan crop completely
destroyed a few months ago now in
southeast Georgia, and you can’t re-
claim it. It is difficult to finance.
It is an unusual tree, and it is un-
usual wood because it is not as strong
as you would like to have it. Therefore,
when it gets really mature and really
produces, it produces so much weight
on itself. Unless you are really doing a
good job, you are going to lose some of
them just because of the weight it pro-
duces on its own limbs.
Peanuts, everybody knows, because
we serve those peanuts back in the
cloakroom all the time to curb your
appetite—Georgia peanuts. They are
all laughing and looking at me. They
know how good they are. That helps all
of us make it for another day, until we
get to another meal.
We do all kinds of things in here
about this. Agriculture is 21 percent of
my State’s economy, but it is all of
America’s economy—a lot of it. Most
importantly, it is what we all have to
do—to eat three times a day. There is
only 90 days’ worth of food supply
available at any one given point in
time in the world. I mean, as food
grows, you consume it, and you replant
and you grow again.
We have a number of people from
east coast to west and from north of
the northern border and west of the
west border who are in pineapples or
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:18 Apr 02, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G01AP6.016 S01APPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2110 April 1, 2019
pecans or peanuts or whatever—cot-
ton—and who need some relief that
they have earned and need.
What is happening is that we have
had multiple attempts in the last 5
months to pass a disaster relief pack-
age. It will be offered as an amendment
that basically Senator PERDUE and I
have offered as well in the past. It just
takes those people in our country who
have been hurt, who are eligible for
programs that exist in the law, and
gets that money out the door. For
some of us, if we don’t get it done in
the next 2 weeks, it is just not going to
get done. We have farmers who will go
out of business.
You know, everybody says all farm-
ers are all rich. Well, they are dirt
poor. That is what they are. I was a
real estate guy. I know how you do
that. You make a great balance sheet
on the value of the real estate, but all
of a sudden, if you lose the value of the
real estate and you don’t have any-
thing to offset the liability that you
created to buy the real estate, you get
in trouble. We have a lot of that in
Georgia, a lot of it in Alabama, a lot of
it in California because of the fire, and
a lot of other places.
We need to get it straight, and the
best thing we can do is to get these
farmers in a position where they know
this year, if they get their money in
time to plant, they can make the
money they need to pay the bank back
rather than tell the government to give
them a check for a disaster.
So we are not only talking about
helping the farmer. We are talking
about helping us. Every time we get
the farmer back on his or her feet in
order to go back into production,
planting, and doing their job, then,
they will produce income for that, and
they will pay these loans off. Yes, they
are not going to be as rich as they were
before, but they will not be out of busi-
ness. Some of these farms are 200 years
or more in the family—post-Civil War
farms. There are lots of people in our
State who are just dying because of
what happened.
Our cotton crop was killed. It was
probably the best. We think it was
going to be the best crop we ever had
because the week before the storm
started hitting, we did some picking,
but then the storms came through, and
in 1 day, one hurricane wiped out the
cotton in Georgia.
It took out about 70 percent of the
pecan trees in Georgia. It took out our
blueberries—yes, blueberries. Every-
body says Michigan produces the most
blueberries, or Maine does. No, they
don’t. Georgia does. Agriculture is an
entrepreneurial business in our State,
but it takes the ability to raise the
money to plant it, produce it, sell it,
take the crop to market, and reinvest
it. We are not talking about people get-
ting rich. We are talking about people
taking the risk of doing business like
you have always done business.
So I am going to talk about this
amendment for just a second. It is so
important. There is some misinforma-
tion out there. Leader SCHUMER ob-
liquely referred to a whole lot of misin-
formation. I am going to correct one of
them that he said in just a minute.
It is important to know what we are
doing tomorrow. We are going to tell
Renee Moss, Greg Mims, and Casey
Cox—these families right here—that
help is on the way for their cotton,
their pecans, their peanuts, and their
farms. It is help not to give them a
handout but to give them a hand up
and tell their bankers that we are
going to stick with them so they can
work overtime to make the money
back to pay the bank back and also pay
us back. That is what we ought to do,
and that is what we should do, but if
we don’t do it before the month is over,
we are dead.
As many of you know in here, the
SNAP money ends this month. The
SNAP money fix is in this. You are not
going to have student nutrition pro-
grams if you don’t get it added into the
legislation and get it passed. They run
out, technically, on March 31, and we
have 14 days until that is passed, which
will be April 14, to finally restore it.
We have to restore it as fast as we can.
We have to get it done. This bill does
that.
Let me tell you what the bill does.
You heard about Puerto Rico. I love
Puerto Rico. When I was in the Air
Force, we did field trainings at Ramey
Air Force Base. I was a load master.
We did runs down there to the east
coast all the time. I love the people
down there. I love the food down there.
I love the beaches down here and the
great folks. They have already gotten a
number of millions of dollars that they
talked about in a speech today. They
want $600 million that were now ap-
proved in this bill. Now, $600 million is
a lot of money.
They already got $40 billion and
haven’t spent all of that. We need to
make sure everybody gets their fair
share for the disasters that took place
and does not take the disaster money
and use it as a payoff somewhere down
the line.
Puerto Rico should be helped, but the
rest of the country shouldn’t be held
hostage because of Puerto Rico. We
have Florida, Alabama, North Caro-
lina, and South Carolina with hurri-
cane damage, California with the
wildfires, Alaska with the earthquake,
Hawaii with the volcanoes, and also in-
clude $600 million for Puerto Rico.
There is no money for CDBG, like some
of them wanted, but the rest of the
money for the SNAP program. That is
what their votes are going to be about.
The Democrats are going to say, just
as Mr. SCHUMER did—he was for this a
while back. I don’t know what hap-
pened. I guess he got upset about some-
thing; I don’t know what it is. This
says we are going to take care of peo-
ple who had disasters that they didn’t
want and lost lots of money they
couldn’t afford to lose. They are going
to go out of business, which we don’t
want them to do. It is going to com-
pound their problems in their States.
I know the Senator from Arkansas,
the Presiding Officer, knows exactly
what I am talking about. Rice is the
main product in Arkansas, as well as
other agricultural products. It is key
to their economy. So we have to get
them safe while we can.
It is about those crops. It is about
their insurance. It is also about their
economy. I wanted to bring this up. It
is about global warming. It is about
climate change. It is about a lot of
things we don’t ever brag about around
this place. I am going to brag about it
simply because people think these
things are about one simple subject.
This is a report out of the Appropria-
tions subcommittee that does a num-
ber of things to fix things that are bro-
ken, things that people around here
talk a lot about wanting to do, things
like $20 million for the CDC to con-
tinue its research on epidemics, which
saved us with Ebola when it hit us a
couple of years ago, and it will save us
again with measles. We are on the cusp
of an outbreak of measles—an outbreak
like we have never seen before. It is not
there yet, and I don’t want somebody
to run out and say: He said it is there.
But it is coming if we don’t react to it
or respond to it. It is critical that we
do and see to it that we do it as fast as
possible.
It is about $600 million for Puerto
Rico.
It is about emergency forest restora-
tion programs where our forests have
been destroyed by storms.
It is about nutrition assistance for
the Commonwealth of the Northern
Mariana Islands, a province of the
United States of America where people
are starving right now and going into
malnutrition.
It is about American Samoa, Puerto
Rico, and market facilitation programs
for AGI waivers.
It is about the economic development
assistance programs that are not work-
ing right now because they are not
funded, and if we don’t get them fund-
ed, they are not going to work for the
betterment of our economy.
It is about $200 million to repair the
damage caused by Hurricane Florence
to Marine Corps installations at Ma-
rine Corps Base Camp Lejeune. I think
you and I agree that the Marine Corps
is very important. You might say,
what emergency do they have? They
were wiped out by the storm. If we
don’t rebuild these things as quickly as
possible, we will have our marines
without a place to bivouac, a place to
sleep or a place to eat. We don’t want
that to happen.
That is what this is about. It is not
about giving out perk money; it is
about absolute essentials to the de-
fense of our country, the food of our
country, et cetera.
So I want to appeal to Senator SCHU-
MER. I listened to his remarks. Now,
unfortunately, the Senator from
Vermont has come. He didn’t know I
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:18 Apr 02, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G01AP6.017 S01APPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2111
April 1, 2019
was talking, I guess. I will talk about
him a little bit too. Mr. LEAHY is a fine
gentleman and a great friend of mine,
but he has kind of let me down on this
one. I want to talk about that. I am
hoping maybe I can change his mind
and maybe yours as well, Mr. Presi-
dent. We don’t have a second chance at
this. We had two chances that didn’t
make it. We voluntarily got off the
other bills because we didn’t have
enough money to get on them, so we
had to get something else passed. One
of them was restoring the cuts before
the shutdown—which, by the way, we
got off of the shutdown vote to allow
this to pass so we could cut out one of
the arguments. I wanted to throw that
in as well.
I see he is leaving already. He didn’t
want to hear what I had to say. He told
me—and I will try to phrase this cor-
rectly—he told me: I have always voted
for emergency money.
I have always voted for emergency
money, too, for Yankees, for south-
erners, westerners, and northerners,
because when we have an emergency in
this country, it is America’s emer-
gency; it is not just an emergency for
one region.
We don’t want to bleed ourselves to
death or wastefully spend this money,
but by golly, if we become a country
where we cannot depend on ourselves
to help ourselves when times are
tough—I don’t know.
Senator ROMNEY and I talked before
this a little bit ago about how we real-
ly ought to have a sinking fund and
create a funding source that over time
can accumulate money as a hedge
against future disasters. We know we
are going to have them; we always do.
We know they are going to come; they
always do. At least have more money
in the bank to be prepared for them so
we don’t get into political battles like
we are in now where we have tangen-
tial issues that we are debating all be-
cause of the amendment, et cetera.
So with the senior Senator from
Vermont on the floor, I am going to
cut some of my remarks short so he
will have plenty of time to say what-
ever he has to say, but I want him to
hear what I have to say.
This is about Puerto Rico. They are
getting $600 million, and they have al-
ready gotten some money. They aren’t
going to get everything they want, but
they are getting everything they
should get out of this particular bill,
including SNAP.
The farmers in the South are going
to get a chance to replant, a chance to
borrow, and a chance to make the
money to pay back over time. Other-
wise, it is going to be on our backs
anyway, so if we don’t help them, we
are going to be stuck. It is about doing
the right thing at the right time for
the right people. The right thing is to
restore the commonsense bills we have
passed that will allow them to farm or
whatever it is they do. That is No. 1.
No. 2, we need to do it without argu-
ing about regions or people or what
they do. We ought to do it as American
citizens supporting other American
citizens and what they do for their
livelihood, and they pay their taxes be-
cause of that.
Lastly, there are times when we have
great debates over things that are po-
litical in nature or funny in nature. I
am serious as a heart attack about
this. I told MITCH MCCONNELL, who was
mentioned by Senator SCHUMER a
minute ago, I told MITCH—I said: I
can’t go home this weekend and tell
them the same thing I told them the
last four weekends. I have to tell them
we got the job done for them, or we are
going to fail them.
I don’t want to fail them. I want to
vote for the amendment tomorrow that
Senator SHELBY offered. If it loses, I
am going to vote for the one the Demo-
crats will offer, which will give us a
chance to get something back in the
conference committee. If both of those
lose, we may as well go home. We will
wake up one day in the next few
months and say: What did we do? Why
did we do that? We lost our perspec-
tive.
It is not just about Georgia; it is
about America. It is not just about
farming; it is about a lot of things. It
is time for us to do what is right, what
we should have done on the two bills
before—that we approved. Let’s make
it happen the way we have always
done, and let’s do the right thing at the
right time for the right people, for the
citizens of the United States for Amer-
ica.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
BOOZMAN). The Senator from Vermont.
UNANIMOUS CONSENT REQUEST—AMENDMENT
NO. 205 TO AMENDMENT NO. 201
Mr. LEAHY. Mr. President, while my
friend is still here on the floor, he was
absolutely correct when he pointed me
out as saying that I have long sup-
ported disasters, whatever State is in-
volved, whether it is a red State, blue
State, or purple State. I believe in
helping Americans. We are all part of
the United States of America.
I think we do waste time sometimes
in having debates on things we should
not. For example, when the Repub-
licans controlled the House of Rep-
resentatives and the Senate and we had
a bill to keep our government open and
to fund part of the barriers along the
Mexican border, both the Senator and I
voted the same way. We voted for the
bill. It would have given $1.4 billion
that the Executive could use toward se-
curity. The President threaten to ve-
toed that, saying it was not enough
even though the vast majority of Re-
publicans and Democrats had voted for
it in the House and the Senate. So he
shut down the government for 35 days,
which caused unprecedented hurt to
Americans of all political persuasions
all over this country. I believe the CBO
said it cost the country about $11 bil-
lion.
What did he then sign? The new bill
we came up with, which had $1.3 bil-
lion. He rejected the bill the Repub-
licans and Democrats had supported
that had $1.4 billion, shut down the
government, ruined the lives of many
hundreds of thousands of Americans,
cost our economy over $10 billion, and
then signed a bill to get $100 million
less.
I worry we are in somewhat the same
situation now. We seem to be deciding
which Americans are going to be
helped based on a tweet. I believe all
Americans should be helped, and I
voted for disaster relief for the States
of every Senator who is on the floor
presently. I have never asked what
their priorities were or what their po-
litical background was; if they had a
disaster, I voted for it. I think it is the
responsibility of the Federal Govern-
ment to stand with American commu-
nities in crisis.
I praised Chairman SHELBY and his
staff for their efforts to move this proc-
ess forward. I know communities in
Senator SHELBY’s State recently expe-
rienced their own natural disaster. As
vice chairman of the Appropriations
Committee, as a U.S. Senator, and as a
Vermonter, I am ready to stand with
the people of Alabama because that is
what we Americans do.
When Tropical Storm Irene dev-
astated my State in 2011, Members of
this body came to me not as Repub-
licans or Democrats but as American
citizens eager to help their neighbor.
When disasters have hit other parts of
the country, I have done exactly the
same.
But now we should know that for
more than 1 year, one of our neighbors
has been in crises. In 2017, Puerto Rico
was hit by two back-to-back category 5
hurricanes. It is an almost unprece-
dented disaster—two back-to-back cat-
egory 5 hurricanes. At first, the admin-
istration was saying: Well, there is
only a handful of people who died. Well,
it turns out that we estimated that
2,975 Americans lost their lives. That is
one heck of a handful. Their homes
were demolished. Their communities
were destroyed. This was more than 1
year ago.
Today, if you fly over Puerto Rico,
the landscape will still be specked with
blue plastic tarps that serve as tem-
porary roofs and shelters. From the
ground, you see that the wear and tear
of a year and a half has frayed that
plastic. The boards haphazardly hold-
ing up these plastic roofs have warped,
and they appear ready to collapse.
The New York Times wrote a story
on the 1-year anniversary of the
storms. The stories told are heart-
breaking.
One woman, Martina Cruz Sanchez,
described her hurried routine every
time it rains. First, she has to climb a
ladder to where her roof used to be be-
fore 100-plus-mile-an-hour winds ripped
it off and scattered it around the is-
land. Then, using a hose, she has to
manually siphon off the accumulating
puddles to keep the roof from leaking
on what little she has left.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:18 Apr 02, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G01AP6.006 S01APPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2112 April 1, 2019
Ms. Cruz’s situation is not unique. On
a different part of the island, Pablo
Figueroa is forced to live in the only
corner of his small home that still has
a roof. Two others described living out
of a tent attached to their neighbor’s
garage. A fallen tree remains from
where it first crashed through Paula
Cruz Ortiz’s home. Julia Rivera, a
mother of nine, laments that she has
‘‘lost everything’’ except her ‘‘faith in
God.’’
Across the island, water-logged walls
have gone unrepaired and have begun
to rot. A hospital that was flooded was
overtaken by toxic mold—a hospital. A
hospital that was flooded was over-
taken by toxic mold. A year after the
storm, it remained closed.
The mold in 82-year-old Leomida
Uniel’s home has stained the walls
black. This 82-year-old person had a
lung infection as a result.
When Carmen Cruz was asked about
losing her home, she said: It was a lit-
tle house—two bedrooms—but for me,
it was a castle.
I tell these stories because these are
American citizens. I would tell the
same story if they were Vermonters or
whatever other State they might be
from. They are American citizens.
These are our neighbors. These are
human beings. Let’s treat them as
such. To do any less is an embarrass-
ment to our country, this body, and
our humanity. This was an extraor-
dinary disaster and requires an ex-
traordinary response.
What has happened? Let’s be very
frank. Let’s be very honest about what
has happened. Instead of standing with
our neighbors, our fellow Americans,
the President has chosen to hold petty
grudges, which is way beneath the Of-
fice of the Presidency. He wants to
pick winners and losers by deciding
who gets assistance based on his own
arbitrary standards. That is wrong.
This Senator says that is un-American.
I know firsthand that the Federal
Government is a critical partner in the
effort to recover and rebuild. North
Carolina, South Carolina, Florida,
California, Texas, Hawaii, Puerto Rico,
and the U.S. Virgin Islands just to
name a few are all counting on us to
get this bill across the finish line. I
have urged Senate Republicans to take
up and pass the House bill, H.R. 268,
since the House first passed it in Janu-
ary. The Republican leadership has re-
fused. So they have forced Puerto Rico
to begin to cut back nutrition assist-
ance weeks ago.
I am glad to see that the Republican
substitute amendment finally includes
money for Puerto Rico’s nutrition as-
sistance program. We should get that
money to the island soon, but nutrition
assistance is not enough. Puerto Rico
needs to rebuild. I have offered a com-
promise path forward from what the
House passed, but it would address the
needs of Puerto Rico. It would unlock
billions of dollars in additional assist-
ance for the mainland. Keep in mind
that billions of these dollars are just
sitting there.
If Senate Republicans would accept
this proposal, we could quickly pass
this disaster bill. Even though it is dif-
ferent than the House bill, we could
pass it in the Senate, and I believe the
House would pass it and forego the
need for a conference and get assist-
ance to the people who need it sooner
rather than later.
I agree with my distinguished col-
league and friend that we should do
that this week. We could do that today.
In a moment—and I alert my col-
leagues on the other side—I will ask
unanimous consent to take up and
adopt this amendment, but if the
amendment is not adopted, I will vote
against the cloture motion on the Re-
publican substitute.
We cannot advance a bill that picks
and chooses among Americans and says
that some Americans are lesser than
others. We cannot advance a bill that
does not address these critical needs.
H.R. 268, the underlying House-passed
bill, is a good bill. It provides for much
needed relief of victims of Hurricane
Florence, victims of Hurricane Mi-
chael, and the Hawaii volcanoes, and
California wildfires, just to name a few
of the disasters. It also continues crit-
ical assistance to Puerto Rico.
Today I filed an amendment to ex-
tend relief to the victims of the recent
tornadoes in the Southeast and the
flooding in the Midwest. H.R. 268 was
drafted before that flooding occurred.
My amendment would ensure that they
receive assistance, as well.
I am about to ask unanimous consent
that this amendment to the House bill
be adopted, as well. I believe that it is
the responsibility of the Federal Gov-
ernment not to pick and choose which
Americans are really Americans. It is
the responsibility of the Federal Gov-
ernment to stand with all American
communities in crisis. We have to do it
now. The needs are pressing. The peo-
ple are waiting. When somebody serves
in the Armed Forces—whether they are
from Puerto Rico, Alabama, or
Vermont—they don’t pick and choose
and say: Well, I will go to bat if this
matter tells me to, but not this one.
I alert my colleagues that I ask
unanimous consent that it be in order
to offer amendment No. 205 to Shelby
amendment No. 201 and that the
amendment be agreed to with no inter-
vening action or debate.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
BOOZMAN). Is there objection?
Mr. ISAKSON. Reserving the right to
object and I will yield to the Senator
from Alabama.
I want everybody to listen closely.
Senator, please listen to me closely.
You are a great friend. I love you to
death. But do you know what you just
did? When you read off the States that
deserved money and ought to get it,
and you read them one by one, you left
out one—Georgia. That is why I am
down here.
Mr. LEAHY. I said these are among
other States, if you look at what I said.
Mr. ISAKSON. I am not saying it to
be ugly. Facts are facts, and I am
scared that a Freudian slip—which I
am sure that probably was or some-
thing like that—might be something
that causes us to get lost again. No. 1,
I want to point out that in your own
remarks, from your own memory or
from your own notes, that is exactly
what was said.
Mr. LEAHY. If the Senator would
yield.
Mr. ISAKSON. Absolutely.
Mr. LEAHY. I said in there, ‘‘just to
name a few.’’ I did not leave anybody
out.
Mr. ISAKSON. I don’t want to cut
anybody out, but I want to make that
point.
I yield to Senator SHELBY.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
CRAPO). The Senator from Alabama.
Mr. SHELBY. I want to follow the
distinguished Senator from Georgia. I
also reserve the right to object here,
and in the proper time, I will object.
If my colleagues are interested in
supporting legislation here today that
helps the people who are impacted by
the 2019 storms and legislation that
can actually be signed into law, then, I
would say they should vote to invoke
cloture on my amendment No. 201
today.
I am afraid they are not going to do
that, but I will speak on my amend-
ment in greater detail shortly, if I am
permitted to.
At the moment, I object to the unan-
imous consent request offered by the
distinguished Senator from Vermont.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The ob-
jection is heard.
UNANIMOUS CONSENT REQUEST—AMENDMENT
NO. 234
Mr. LEAHY. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that it be in order
to offer amendment No. 234 to the lan-
guage proposed to be stricken and that
the amendment be agreed to with no
intervening action or debate.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
objection?
Mr. SHELBY. Mr. President, I re-
serve the right to object. I will object.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The ob-
jection is heard.
Mr. LEAHY. Mr. President, I suggest
the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk proceeded to
call the roll.
Mr. SHELBY. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The Senator from Alabama.
Mr. SHELBY. Mr. President, this
afternoon I rise to urge my colleagues
to vote for cloture on the pending
Shelby amendment on the floor.
My amendment provides critical re-
sources to those impacted by a wide
range of natural disasters in 2018—
fires, earthquakes, volcanoes, hurri-
canes, and tornadoes, among others. It
also includes funding to begin to ad-
dress some of the 2019 disaster damage.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:18 Apr 02, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G01AP6.007 S01APPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2113
April 1, 2019
This funding, I believe, is essential to
aid our fellow Americans who are
working to pick up the pieces and move
on. There is a broad agreement, basi-
cally, on both sides of the aisle—Demo-
crat and Republican—that this legisla-
tion should address 2019 disasters, and,
both, my amendment and the under-
lying bill, do this.
There are, however, two glaring dif-
ferences that I would like to discuss
briefly. First, the Shelby amendment
provides assistance to those affected by
the 2019 disasters. The underlying bill
does not. Secondly, the Shelby amend-
ment has the support of the President.
The underlying bill does not.
This assistance is not just for those
whose lives were destroyed by the tor-
nado that recently hit my home State
of Alabama. It is also for those whose
homes, crops, and livestock have been
swept away by catastrophic flooding in
the Midwest that we all witnessed re-
cently.
Thus far, my Democratic colleagues
have been unwilling to help these peo-
ple unless their demands are met. What
are their demands? Not more resources
for 2018 or 2019 disasters, which is what
the thrust of this bill is about. No, in-
stead they demand nearly $1 billion
more for Puerto Rico. We all agree that
Puerto Rico was devastated in 2017 by
Hurricane Maria. That is why Congress
provided Puerto Rico billions of dollars
in aid in a supplemental last March
right here in the Congress. Yet much of
the funding that we provided has not
been spent yet—billions of dollars. In
fact, the Department of Housing and
Urban Development recently reported
that Puerto Rico has $1.5 billion in
community development block grant
funding available but has only spent
$42,000. Think about that.
Why, then, are my Democratic col-
leagues seeking to include $431 million
more for community development
block grants for Puerto Rico but not $1
for folks in the Midwest who continue
to watch the floodwaters rise as we
speak?
The one piece of Puerto Rican fund-
ing we agree is essential—in fact, it is
urgent—is nutrition assistance. They
need it, and they need it now. That is
why my amendment includes $600 mil-
lion to provide the people of Puerto
Rico the food safety net they need now.
I believe we need to move forward
with this disaster package so that
those who have thus far received noth-
ing from this Congress and those in
desperate need of assistance can move
on with their lives. We should not fur-
ther delay, I believe, this assistance.
Those in need must not be forced to
wait any longer.
I also wholeheartedly agree with my
colleagues who said in a recent letter
to Senate and House leadership: ‘‘Pro-
viding desperately needed relief to im-
pacted communities should be a bipar-
tisan, bicameral priority and continued
inaction is unacceptable.’’
I hope we will all join together to
provide assistance to those who ur-
gently need it today, regardless of
whether the State we represent has
been struck by disasters covered in this
bill.
Only one of the two options before
the Senate seeks to help everyone im-
pacted by disasters and can be signed
into law, and that is the Shelby amend-
ment. Again, I urge my colleagues to
vote yes on cloture.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk proceeded to
call the roll.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Mississippi.
Mr. WICKER. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
CLOTURE MOTION
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Pursuant
to rule XXII, the Chair lays before the
Senate the pending cloture motion,
which the clerk will state.
The legislative clerk read as follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on Senate
amendment No. 201 to H.R. 268, making sup-
plemental appropriations for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2019, and for other pur-
poses.
Mitch McConnell, Roy Blunt, Richard C.
Shelby, Johnny Isakson, Pat Roberts,
Steve Daines, Mike Rounds, David
Perdue, Rick Scott, Lamar Alexander,
John Barrasso, John Hoeven, John
Thune, John Boozman, Shelley Moore
Capito, Tom Cotton, Rob Portman.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. By unan-
imous consent, the mandatory quorum
call has been waived.
The question is, Is it the sense of the
Senate that debate on Senate amend-
ment No. 201, offered by the Senator
from Alabama, Mr. SHELBY, to H.R. 268,
making supplemental appropriations
for the fiscal year ending September 30,
2019, and for other purposes, shall be
brought to a close?
The yeas and nays are mandatory
under the rule.
The clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk called the roll.
Mr. THUNE. The following Senators
are necessarily absent: the Senator
from North Carolina (Mr. BURR), the
Senator from Louisiana (Mr. CASSIDY),
the Senator from Utah (Mr. LEE), the
Senator from Arizona (Ms. MCSALLY),
the Senator from Alaska (Mr. SUL-
LIVAN), and the Senator from Pennsyl-
vania (Mr. TOOMEY).
Further, if present and voting, the
Senator from Louisiana (Mr. CASSIDY)
would have voted ‘‘yea’’ and the Sen-
ator from Utah (Mr. LEE) would have
voted ‘‘nay.’’
Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the
Senator from California (Ms. HARRIS) is
necessarily absent.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
BOOZMAN). Are there any other Sen-
ators in the Chamber desiring to vote?
The yeas and nays resulted—yeas 44,
nays 49, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 55 Leg.]
YEAS—44
Alexander
Barrasso
Blackburn
Blunt
Boozman
Capito
Collins
Cornyn
Cotton
Cramer
Crapo
Cruz
Daines
Ernst
Fischer
Gardner
Graham
Grassley
Hawley
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Inhofe
Isakson
Johnson
Jones
Kennedy
Lankford
Moran
Murkowski
Perdue
Portman
Risch
Roberts
Romney
Rounds
Rubio
Sasse
Scott (FL)
Scott (SC)
Shelby
Thune
Tillis
Wicker
Young
NAYS—49
Baldwin
Bennet
Blumenthal
Booker
Braun
Brown
Cantwell
Cardin
Carper
Casey
Coons
Cortez Masto
Duckworth
Durbin
Enzi
Feinstein
Gillibrand
Hassan
Heinrich
Hirono
Kaine
King
Klobuchar
Leahy
Manchin
Markey
McConnell
Menendez
Merkley
Murphy
Murray
Paul
Peters
Reed
Rosen
Sanders
Schatz
Schumer
Shaheen
Sinema
Smith
Stabenow
Tester
Udall
Van Hollen
Warner
Warren
Whitehouse
Wyden
NOT VOTING—7
Burr
Cassidy
Harris
Lee
McSally
Sullivan
Toomey
The PRESIDING OFFICER. On this
vote, the yeas are 44, and the nays are
49.
Three-fifths of the Senators duly cho-
sen and sworn not having voted in the
affirmative, the motion is not agreed
to.
The majority leader is recognized
Mr. MCCONNELL. I move to recon-
sider the vote.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The mo-
tion is entered.
CLOTURE MOTION
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Pursuant
to rule XXII, the Chair lays before the
Senate the pending cloture motion,
which the clerk will state.
The legislative clerk read as follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on H.R. 268,
making supplemental appropriations for the
fiscal year ending September 30, 2019, and for
other purposes.
Mitch McConnell, Josh Hawley, John
Thune, Shelley Moore Capito, Johnny
Isakson, Mike Crapo, Richard Burr,
James Lankford, Tom Cotton, Roy
Blunt, David Perdue, Mike Rounds, Bill
Cassidy, John Cornyn, Rob Portman,
Steve Daines, John Kennedy.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. By unan-
imous consent, the mandatory quorum
call has been waived.
The question is, Is it the sense of the
Senate that debate on H.R. 268, a bill
making supplemental appropriations
for the fiscal year ending September 30,
2019, and for other purposes, shall be
brought to a close?
The yeas and nays are mandatory
under the rule.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:54 Apr 02, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G01AP6.009 S01APPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2114 April 1, 2019
The clerk will call the roll.
The bill clerk called the roll.
Mr. THUNE. The following Senators
are necessarily absent: the Senator
from North Carolina (Mr. BURR), the
Senator from Utah (Mr. LEE), the Sen-
ator from Arizona (Ms. MCSALLY), the
Senator from Alaska (Mr. SULLIVAN),
and the Senator from Pennsylvania
(Mr. TOOMEY).
Further, if present and voting, the
Senator from Utah (Mr. LEE) would
have voted ‘‘nay.’’
Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the
Senator from California (Ms. HARRIS) is
necessarily absent.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
DAINES). Are there any other Senators
in the Chamber desiring to vote?
The yeas and nays resulted—yeas 46,
nays 48, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 56 Leg.]
YEAS—46
Baldwin
Bennet
Blumenthal
Booker
Brown
Cantwell
Cardin
Carper
Casey
Coons
Cortez Masto
Duckworth
Durbin
Feinstein
Gillibrand
Hassan
Heinrich
Hirono
Jones
Kaine
King
Klobuchar
Leahy
Manchin
Markey
Menendez
Merkley
Murphy
Murray
Peters
Reed
Rosen
Sanders
Schatz
Schumer
Shaheen
Sinema
Smith
Stabenow
Tester
Udall
Van Hollen
Warner
Warren
Whitehouse
Wyden
NAYS—48
Alexander
Barrasso
Blackburn
Blunt
Boozman
Braun
Capito
Cassidy
Collins
Cornyn
Cotton
Cramer
Crapo
Cruz
Daines
Enzi
Ernst
Fischer
Gardner
Graham
Grassley
Hawley
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Inhofe
Isakson
Johnson
Kennedy
Lankford
McConnell
Moran
Murkowski
Paul
Perdue
Portman
Risch
Roberts
Romney
Rounds
Rubio
Sasse
Scott (FL)
Scott (SC)
Shelby
Thune
Tillis
Wicker
Young
NOT VOTING—6
Burr
Harris
Lee
McSally
Sullivan
Toomey
The PRESIDING OFFICER. On this
vote, the yeas are 46, the nays are 48.
Three-fifths of Senators duly chosen
and sworn having not voted in the af-
firmative, the motion is rejected.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
enter a motion to reconsider the vote.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The mo-
tion is entered.
f
EXECUTIVE SESSION
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
move to proceed to executive session to
consider Calendar No. 8.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on agreeing to the motion.
The motion was agreed to.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the nomination.
The legislative clerk read the nomi-
nation of Jeffrey Kessler, of Virginia,
to be an Assistant Secretary of Com-
merce.
CLOTURE MOTION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
send a cloture motion to the desk.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clo-
ture motion having been presented
under rule XXII, the Chair directs the
clerk to read the motion.
The legislative clerk read as follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on the nomi-
nation of Jeffrey Kessler, of Virginia, to be
an Assistant Secretary of Commerce.
Mitch McConnell, Steve Daines, John
Thune, John Cornyn, James M. Inhofe,
Pat Roberts, Mike Crapo, Chuck Grass-
ley, Richard Burr, John Barrasso,
Jerry Moran, Roy Blunt, Shelley
Moore Capito, John Boozman, Johnny
Isakson, Thom Tillis, John Hoeven.
f
LEGISLATIVE SESSION
Mr. MCCONNELL. I move to proceed
to legislative session.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on agreeing to the motion.
The motion was agreed to.
f
EXECUTIVE SESSION
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
move to proceed to executive session to
consider Calendar No. 32.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on agreeing to the motion.
The motion was agreed to.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the nomination.
The legislative clerk read the nomi-
nation of Roy Kalman Altman, of Flor-
ida, to be United States District Judge
for the Southern District of Florida.
f
CLOTURE MOTION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
send a cloture motion to the desk.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clo-
ture motion having been presented
under rule XXII, the Chair directs the
clerk to read the motion.
The legislative clerk read as follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on the nomi-
nation of Roy Kalman Altman, of Florida, to
be United States District Judge for the
Southern District of Florida.
Mitch McConnell, Johnny Isakson, Roger
F. Wicker, Chuck Grassley, John Booz-
man, John Cornyn, Mike Crapo, Shel-
ley Moore Capito, Pat Roberts, Roy
Blunt, Deb Fischer, David Perdue,
Todd Young, John Thune, Rick Scott,
Mike Rounds, Marco Rubio.
f
LEGISLATIVE SESSION
MORNING BUSINESS
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate proceed to legislative session for a
period of morning business, with Sen-
ators permitted to speak therein for up
to 10 minutes each.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
BICENTENNIAL ANNIVERSARY OF
THE BIRTH OF RABBI ISAAC
MAYER WISE
Mr. PORTMAN. Mr. President, I rise
today with my colleague from Ohio,
SHERROD BROWN, to mark the bicenten-
nial anniversary of the birth of Rabbi
Isaac Mayer Wise. Rabbi Isaac Mayer
Wise founded the Central Conference of
American Rabbis in 1889, and this year,
its members are celebrating the 130th
anniversary of its establishment at
their annual convention in my home-
town of Cincinnati, OH. Rabbi Isaac
Mayer Wise is widely acknowledged as
one of the fathers of American Reform
Judaism. We would like to recognize
the bicentennial anniversary of Rabbi
Isaac Mayer Wise’s birth, as well as his
extraordinary professional achieve-
ments, which have had an indelible ef-
fect on the religious life of the Amer-
ican nation.
He created three major American in-
stitutions, all still vibrant today: the
Union of American Hebrew Congrega-
tions, now the Union for Reform Juda-
ism, in 1873; the Hebrew Union College,
HUC, in 1875; and the Central Con-
ference of American Rabbis, CCAR, in
1889. As founding president and faculty
member of HUC for 25 years, Wise
shaped and established Jewish semi-
nary education in America. As CCAR
president, he guided a fledgling Amer-
ican rabbinate to take its place within
the broader American clergy as equal
partners. Celebrating the 130th anni-
versary of its founding in 2019, the
CCAR is today the world’s oldest and
largest rabbinical association.
In 1854, Wise founded and edited a
weekly newspaper, the Israelite—later,
The American Israelite—in Cincinnati.
The following year, Wise founded and
edited a German language newspaper,
‘‘Die Deborah.’’ Wise was also a scholar
and educator. He authored over a dozen
volumes, both fiction and nonfiction,
many of which dealt with intergroup
relations and the place of the Jew
within American society.
It is a deep source of pride to us and
so many Ohioans that the roots of Re-
form Judaism run through Cincinnati
and endure there. We are so proud of
Hebrew Union College and all who
serve there and learn there now, and
we know that all leads back to the man
we honor today, Rabbi Isaac Mayer
Wise.
Isaac Mayer Wise was an American
icon. His writings have been studied by
scholars of many disciplines and back-
grounds and we are proud to recognize
him today.
Mr. BROWN. Mr. President, I join my
friend and colleague, Senator
PORTMAN, in rising to recognize the
200th anniversary of the birth of one of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:54 Apr 02, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00010 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G01AP6.015 S01APPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2115
April 1, 2019
the giants of American religious life,
Rabbi Isaac Mayer Wise. Rabbi Wise
adopted Ohio as his home and is recog-
nized as the father of American Reform
Judaism. His ideas and teachings and
the many great institutions he founded
have had a profound effect on Amer-
ican Judaism and on people of faith
throughout our country and around the
world.
Rabbi Wise believed in liberty, in
life, and in faith; he wanted to ensure
that his ancient religious tradition,
which had sustained people for mil-
lennia, remained relevant in a new and
fast-changing nation. He pioneered
ideas like men and women sitting to-
gether during services and choral sing-
ing and gave so many a new way to un-
derstand and practice their faith.
The groundbreaking institutions he
founded left an indelible mark on Juda-
ism and remain an integral part of our
country’s religious life to this day: the
Central Conference of American Rab-
bis—CCAR—the Union of American He-
brew Congregations, today known as
the Union for Reform Judaism, and He-
brew Union College in Cincinnati.
Rabbi Wise made Cincinnati his
home, and in large part because of the
institutions he created, Cincinnati be-
came central to the fabric of American
Judaism. HUC is a center of Jewish
thought, and this year, the CCAR will
celebrate its 130th anniversary in the
Queen City. The weekly newspaper
Rabbi Wise founded, the Israelite, was
based in Cincinnati, and that paper
helped shape Reform Judaism.
Senator PORTMAN and I join the peo-
ple of Ohio in remembering this great
Ohioan on the bicentennial of his birth.
Rabbi Wise and his legacy are a great
source of pride for so many Ohioans; we
are honored to recognize his incredible
contributions to Judaism, to Ohio, and
to our country.
f
ADDITIONAL STATEMENTS
TRIBUTE TO 2019 STATE FFA
DEGREE RECIPIENTS
∑ Mr. DAINES. Mr. President, Future
Farmers of America, FFA, is a note-
worthy educational program that
makes a difference in the lives of
young Montanans by helping members
navigate their future careers and en-
hancing their leadership skills and per-
sonal growth. FFA isn’t only for those
who want to end up in production agri-
culture, but for those who want to be-
come teachers, businessowners, and
leaders in their communities. I have
had the privilege of meeting many FFA
members over the last several years
and have enjoyed hearing about their
experiences. It is my pleasure to honor
the 205 members receiving their State
FFA Degree this year. The State De-
gree is the highest degree that can be
given and requires members to com-
plete several critical benchmarks, in-
cluding 360 hours of agricultural edu-
cation in high school, 10 procedures of
parliamentary law, more than 25 hours
of community service, and they must
serve as a chapter officer or a com-
mittee chair. Receiving the State De-
gree underscores a member’s dedica-
tion to learning to do, doing to learn,
earning to live and living to serve.
Congratulations to the 205 FFA Mem-
bers receiving their State FFA Degree
this year: Wilson Paytyn of Bainville,
Bradly Kallevig of Baker, Sean
Loutzenhiser of Baker, Brayden
Hankinson of Beaverhead, Harleigh
Johnson of Beaverhead, Terye Noble of
Beaverhead, Anthony Tatarka of Bel-
grade, Joe Tatarka of Belgrade, Kaydee
Ann TeSelle of Belgrade, Grace Finke
of Big Sandy, Bailey Gasvoda of Big
Sandy, Tyler Schwarzbach of Big
Sandy, Erin Taylor of Big Sandy, Geor-
gia Wortman of Big Sandy, Laramie
Haug of Big Horn, Makiko Reisig of Big
Horn, Jacob Husman of Big Horn,
Tayden Gee of Broadus, Beau
Kuhbacher of Broadus, Erick
McConnon of Broadus, Bailey Smith of
Broadus, Callie Williams of Broadus,
Trenton Braaten of Broadwater, An-
drew Ferrat of Broadwater, Caleb Fix
of Carter County, Tori Tooke of Carter
County, Jean Blackman of Cascade,
Kyle Evans of Cascade, Kolton Lynn of
Cascade, Mackenzie Wombold of Cas-
cade, Ryle Elliot of Chinook, Rachel
Gunderson of Chinook, Kendra
McMaster of Chinook, Cord Schneider
of Chinook, Alden Johnson of Choteau,
Caroline Roeder of Choteau, Garret
Yeager of Choteau, Jessica Adkins of
Clarksfork, Desiree Jones of
Clarksfork, Tristan Phillips of
Clarksfork, Stephanie Skorupa of
Clarksfork, Jessly Howard of Colum-
bus, Amber LeBrun of Columbus, Rich-
ard Ratzburg of Conrad, Megan Brad-
shaw of Corvallis, Lacey Gregorie of
Corvallis, Michael McKay of Corvallis,
Emily Seifert of Corvallis, Tristan
Labatte of Culbertson, Carter Nickoloff
of Culbertson, Noah Nickoloffof
Culbertson, Lucas Oelkers of
Culbertson, Augustus Spradley of
Culbertson, Kai Underdahl of
Culbertson, Jordan Calloway of Custer,
Deanna Stieber of Custer, Shane
Trusty of Custer, Hans Lampert of
Deer Lodge, Kaleb Starr of Deer Lodge,
Jessica Ayers of Denton, Kein Car-
penter of Denton, Parker Donaldson of
Denton, Morgan Ward of Denton, Mor-
gan Zuidema of Electric City, Berit
Bedord of Fairfield, Emily Evans of
Fairfield, Rachel Foster of Fairfield,
Jason Gibson of Fairfield, Trace Gulick
of Fairfield, Walker Heckman of Fair-
field, Levi Wipf of Fairfield, Jaycie
Rau of Fairview, Alex Young of Fair-
view, Chloe Arndt of Fergus, Grace
Holzer of Fergus, Chistopher Fourtner
of Forsyth, Mckenzie Mork of Forsyth,
Brandon Schnug of Forsyth, Christaen
McKelvy of Fort Benton, Mackenzie
Dethman of Froid, Hunter Krogedal of
Froid, Haley Labatte of Froid, Boone
Foos of Fromberg, Maxine Rysavy of
Fromberg, Tyler Wilm of Fromberg,
Joey Hale of Geraldine, Bentley
McCullough of Geraldine, Caleb Meeks
of Geraldine, Ryan Seaman of Geral-
dine, Grant Finkbeiner of Grass Range,
Reata Smith of Grass Range, Mattea
Tucek of Grass Range, Sarah Boucher
of Hinsdale, Chaykota Christensen of
Hinsdale, John McColly of Hinsdale,
Claire Stevenson of Hobson, Kristen
Vincent of Hobson, Dawson Bender of
Huntley Project, Codie Bowen of Hunt-
ley Project, Colton Hawkins of Huntley
Project, Brooke Johnson of Huntley
Project, Leslie Lile of Huntley Project,
Jacob Siewert of Huntley Project,
James White Huntley Project, Walker
Anttila of Joliet, Justin Harris of Jo-
liet, Lauren Hoines of Joliet, Brianna
King of Joliet, Noah Salo of Joliet,
Mallory Simons of Joliet, Kerstin
Sweet of Joliet, Ella Thompson of Jo-
liet, Kallie Zinne of Joliet, Thomas
Bailey of Kalispell, Sophie Desch of
Kalispell, Julie Duffie of Kalispell, Cole
Dykhuizen of Kalispell, Jordan Horn of
Kalispell, Morgan Kelly of Kalispell,
Whitney Levanen of Kalispell, Bethany
Lyford of Kalispell, Layton Praxel of
Kalipsell, Kayla Praxel of Kalispell,
Cassandra Praxel of Kalispell, Amber
Reiner of Kalispell, Mabry Shepard of
Kalispell, Lynde Shriver of Kalispell,
Madeline Sutton of Kalispell, Elizabeth
Hill of Lambert, Seth Prevost of Lam-
bert, Tyler Thiessen of Lambert,
Jacalyn Wright of Lambert, Ashley
Gee of Laurel, Anna Kraft of Laurel,
Ryan Robertus of Laurel, Bethany
Holm of Malta, Shelby Jones of Malta,
Charlee Rhodes of Malta, Thomas
DeJaegher of Melstone, Harry Griswold
of Melstone, Abby Hansen of Melstone,
Matson McClure of Misson Valley,
Kylee Billingsley of Missoula, Jarrett
Bowman of Missoula, Brianna Bergum
of Moore, Josie Jesson of Park, Sidni
Payne of Park, Andee Baker of Park
City, Jerrica Bursik of Park City,
Megan Flemmer of Park City, Kayla
Hagan of Plentywood, Randy Heppner
of Plentywood, Riley Hilyard of
Plentywood, Bryce Osksa of
Plentywood, Brenna Osksa of
Plentywood, Kacie Wacker of
Plentywood, Tyler Weeks of
Plentywood, Shayna Ellis of Red
Lodge, Katherine Jacobsen of
Redlodge, Brylee Brost of Richey,
Chase Brown of Richey, Kyler Brown of
Richey, Haley Olson of Richey, Abbie
Smith of Richey, Leotie Whitehead of
Richey, Andrew Beeler of Rosebud,
Austin Quinlan of Rosebud, Tyler
Eliasson of Roundup, Cassie Hull of
Roundup, Rebecca Nelson of Roundup,
Renee Parsons of Roundup, Cooper
Shaw of Roundup, Victoria Tirado of
Roundup, Irene Johnson of Roy, John
Gilman of Ruby Valley, Tyler Haag of
Ruby Valley, Emma Hill of Saint
Regis, Ryan Van Tine of Shelby, Molly
Engle of Shields Valley, Rodie Keyes of
Shields Valley, Tanner Lykins of
Shields Valley, Jack Marshall of
Shields Valley, Kade Anderson of Sid-
ney, Emma Torgerson of Sidney, Han-
nah Silva of Stevensville, Raelynne
Barnett of Stillwater Valley, Shea
Ostrum of Stillwater Valley, Dylan
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:18 Apr 02, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00011 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A01AP6.004 S01APPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2116 April 1, 2019
Young of Stillwater Valley, Cody Han-
son of Sweet Grass Hills, Lane Lerum
of Sweet Grass Hills, Dylan Postma of
Sweet Grass Hills, Raelynne Hagan of
Three Forks, Enola McDonald of Three
Forks, Ashley Rauser of Three Forks,
Taylor Rochford of Three Forks, Ayden
Anderson of Twin Bridges, Cole Escott
of Twin Bridges, Aaron Grabil of Twin
Bridges, Ashleigh Guinnane of Twin
Bridges, Brooke Mehlhoff of Twin
Bridges, Kenna Millhouse of Twin
Bridges, Joseph Peterson of Twin
Bridges, Wyatt Day of Victor, Teasha
Johnson of Victor, Anna Slivka of
Winifred.∑
f
RECOGNIZING SUNSHINE PEANUT
COMPANY
∑ Mr. RUBIO. Mr. President, as chair-
man of the Committee on Small Busi-
ness and Entrepreneurship, each week I
recognize a small business that exem-
plifies the unique American entrepre-
neurial spirit. It is my privilege to
honor a Florida small business that has
worked so diligently to expand oppor-
tunity within their community, prov-
ing that small businesses are the back-
bone of our economy and the heartbeat
of Main Street. This week it is my
privilege to honor Sunshine Peanut
Company of Jacksonville, FL, as the
Senate Small Business of the Week.
Founded in 2005, Sunshine Peanut
Company is Florida’s only peanut but-
ter producer and processes more than
10 million pounds of peanut butter each
year. Sunshine Peanut Company,
owned by CEO Jeff Turbeville and his
brother David, completes every phase
of production, from roasting to pack-
aging, entirely in house.
Focusing on competitive cost, high
quality, and timely delivery and with
the help of the Jacksonville Small
Business Development Center, Sun-
shine Peanut Company has become a
leader in the peanut processing indus-
try. Through the utilization of their
Small Business Administration
HUBZone certification, Sunshine Pea-
nut Company has been awarded con-
tracts to sell their high-quality peanut
butter to hospitals, schools, univer-
sities, and correctional facilities.
Sunshine Peanut Company’s work
with the Florida Department of Correc-
tions goes far beyond just supplying
peanut butter. Jeff employs a number
of rehabilitated offenders, and David, a
former police officer, understands first-
hand the criminal justice system and
the support that parolees need. Jeff
takes his role as an employer and com-
munity sponsor seriously, and his dedi-
cation to provide dignified work to the
members of his community that need it
the most is an outstanding example of
community support. Sunshine Peanut
Company’s efforts have resulted in re-
duced recidivism and increased oppor-
tunity within his community.
Jeff’s efforts and Sunshine Peanut
Company’s success has not gone unno-
ticed. He was recently honored as the
2019 Florida Small business Person of
the Year by the Small Business Admin-
istration. This distinction is awarded
to an entrepreneur who represents di-
versity, hard work, and perseverance.
Jeff’s commitment to both his com-
pany and his community have made
him a clear choice for this award. He
will be honored this year in Wash-
ington, DC, at the beginning of Na-
tional Small Business Week.
Sunshine Peanut Company is a great
example of how dignified work can lead
to community engagement and busi-
ness expansion, while changing lives
for the better. I commend Jeff and the
Sunshine Peanut Company on their
dedication to their community and am
honored to name them as the Senate
Small Business of the Week. I wish
them good luck and look forward to
watching their continued growth and
success.∑
f
RECOGNIZING TREASURE COUNTY
∑ Mr. TESTER. Mr. President, today I
wish to recognize one of Montana’s
smallest but greatest counties.
Treasure County in southcentral
Montana celebrates its 100th anniver-
sary this year. ‘‘Montana’s Hidden
Treasure,’’ Treasure County is bor-
dered by the Yellowstone River and
contains rolling hills, pastures, and
sugar beet farms.
It is also home to some of Montana’s
most unique buildings, including the
Yucca Theatre in Hysham, a 1931 Span-
ish Mission-style beauty that David
and Jim Manning built to give resi-
dents hope during the Great Depres-
sion.
The folks in Treasure County are
used to fighting for recognition. At the
time of its inception, neighboring
counties thought the citizens were try-
ing to syphon tax revenue from larger
counties surrounding it.
But the residents of Treasure County
were adamant their county be recog-
nized, and in 1919, Hysham was named
the county seat.
Since, Treasure County has been
home to thousands of farmers, ranch-
ers, Montana’s longest serving legis-
lator, and even NASA astronaut Frank
Borman, as well as the deer, antelope,
pheasants, geese, turkeys, grouse, sage
hens, and ducks that have called this
area home for millennia and that add
to the natural splendor of this beau-
tiful place.
I wish to honor Treasure County and
all its people, to congratulate them on
100 great years. I know the next 100 will
be even better.∑
f
TRIBUTE TO ANDY SILINS
∑ Ms. WARREN. Mr. President, I would
like to offer my congratulations to Mr.
Andy Silins as he retires from the
United Brotherhood of Carpenters and
Joiners of America, where he has
served as the general secretary treas-
urer since 2000. He began his distin-
guished career in the U.S. Marine
Corps and served honorably during the
Vietnam war. He furthered his commit-
ment to service through his decades of
work in the labor movement, fighting
to ensure all of our workers get a fair
shot at economic opportunity and re-
spect, dignity, and a voice on the job.
He joined the Carpenters Union Local
67 in 1968, and in 1979, the Boston Dis-
trict Council of Carpenters elected him
as the general agent and executive sec-
retary. He was elected the council’s
president in 1989 before moving on to
work with the United Brotherhood of
Carpenters and Joiners of America. His
dedication to the labor movement
helped the Carpenters secure good jobs,
fair wages, and strong safety standards
for its members. In addition to his
labor efforts, he was one of the found-
ers of First Trade Union Savings Bank
and also served as a board member of
the Massachusetts Housing Authority.
I once again offer my gratitude to
Andy Silins for his lifelong commit-
ment to America’s working families,
for all he has done for workers across
the Commonwealth of Massachusetts,
and for his tireless fight to strengthen
our labor unions. I congratulate him on
his retirement and wish him the best of
luck in the next chapter.∑
f
MESSAGES FROM THE PRESIDENT
Messages from the President of the
United States were communicated to
the Senate by Ms. Ridgway, one of his
secretaries.
f
EXECUTIVE MESSAGES REFERRED
As in executive session the Presiding
Officer laid before the Senate messages
from the President of the United
States submitting sundry nominations
which were referred to the appropriate
committees.
(The messages received today are
printed at the end of the Senate pro-
ceedings.)
f
PRESIDENTIAL MESSAGE
NOTICE OF THE CONTINUATION OF
THE NATIONAL EMERGENCY
WITH RESPECT TO SOUTH
SUDAN THAT WAS DECLARED IN
EXECUTIVE ORDER 13664 OF
APRIL 3, 2014—PM 8
The PRESIDING OFFICER laid be-
fore the Senate the following message
from the President of the United
States, together with an accompanying
report, which was referred to the Com-
mittee on Banking, Housing, and
Urban Affairs:
To the Congress of the United States:
Section 202(d) of the National Emer-
gencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1622(d)) provides
for the automatic termination of a na-
tional emergency unless, within 90
days before the anniversary date of its
declaration, the President publishes in
the Federal Register and transmits to
the Congress a notice stating that the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:54 Apr 02, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00012 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A01AP6.006 S01APPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2117
April 1, 2019
emergency is to continue in effect be-
yond the anniversary date. In accord-
ance with this provision, I have sent to
the Federal Register for publication the
enclosed notice stating that the na-
tional emergency declared in Executive
Order 13664 of April 3, 2014, with respect
to South Sudan, is to continue in effect
beyond April 3, 2019.
The situation in and in relation to
South Sudan, which has been marked
by activities that threaten the peace,
security, or stability of South Sudan
and the surrounding region, including
widespread violence and atrocities,
human rights abuses, recruitment and
use of child soldiers, attacks on peace-
keepers, and obstruction of humani-
tarian operations, continues to pose an
unusual and extraordinary threat to
the national security and foreign pol-
icy of the United States. For this rea-
son, I have determined that it is nec-
essary to continue the national emer-
gency declared in Executive Order 13664
with respect to South Sudan.
DONALD J. TRUMP.
THE WHITE HOUSE, April 1, 2019.
f
MESSAGE FROM THE HOUSE
RECEIVED DURING ADJOURNMENT
ENROLLED BILL SIGNED
Under the authority of the order of
the Senate of January 3, 2019, the Sec-
retary of the Senate, on March 29, 2019,
during the adjournment of the Senate,
received a message from the House of
Representatives announcing that the
Speaker had signed the following en-
rolled bill:
S. 863. An act to amend title 38, United
States Code, to clarify the grade and pay of
podiatrists of the Department of Veterans
Affairs.
f
MESSAGE FROM THE HOUSE
ENROLLED BILL SIGNED
The President pro tempore (Mr.
GRASSLEY) announced that on today,
April 1, 2019, he has signed the fol-
lowing enrolled bill, which was pre-
viously signed by the Speaker of the
House:
S. 863. An act to amend title 38, United
States Code, to clarify the grade and pay of
podiatrists of the Department of Veterans
Affairs.
f
ENROLLED BILL PRESENTED
The Secretary of the Senate reported
that on today, April 1, 2019, she had
presented to the President of the
United States the following enrolled
bill:
S. 863. An act to amend title 38, United
States Code, to clarify the grade and pay of
podiatrists of the Department of Veterans
Affairs.
f
EXECUTIVE AND OTHER
COMMUNICATIONS
The following communications were
laid before the Senate, together with
accompanying papers, reports, and doc-
uments, and were referred as indicated:
EC–809. A communication from the Acting
Secretary of Defense, transmitting a report
on the approved retirement of General Curtis
M. Scaparrotti, United States Army, and his
advancement to the grade of general on the
retired list; to the Committee on Armed
Services.
EC–810. A communication from the Direc-
tor of Legislative Affairs, Federal Deposit
Insurance Corporation, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Dis-
closure of Financial and Other Information
by FDIC–Insured State Nonmember Banks’’
(RIN3064–AE65) received in the Office of the
President of the Senate on March 27, 2019; to
the Committee on Banking, Housing, and
Urban Affairs.
EC–811. A communication from the Direc-
tor of Legislative Affairs, Federal Deposit
Insurance Corporation, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Loans in Areas Having Special Flood Haz-
ards’’ (RIN3064–AE50) received in the Office
of the President of the Senate on March 27,
2019; to the Committee on Banking, Housing,
and Urban Affairs.
EC–812. A communication from the General
Counsel of the National Credit Union Admin-
istration, transmitting, pursuant to law, the
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Loans in Areas
Having Special Flood Hazards’’ (RIN3133–
AE64) received in the Office of the President
of the Senate on March 27, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Af-
fairs.
EC–813. A communication from the Board
of Trustees, National Railroad Retirement
Investment Trust, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the annual management report relative
to its operations and financial condition for
fiscal year 2018; to the Committee on Health,
Education, Labor, and Pensions.
EC–814. A communication from the Acting
Commissioner, Social Security Administra-
tion, transmitting, pursuant to law, the Ad-
ministration’s fiscal year 2018 annual report
relative to the Notification and Federal Em-
ployee Antidiscrimination and Retaliation
Act of 2002 (No FEAR Act); to the Committee
on Homeland Security and Governmental Af-
fairs.
EC–815. A communication from the Attor-
ney-Advisor, U.S. Coast Guard, Department
of Homeland Security, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Se-
curity Zone; Potomac River, Montgomery
County, MD’’ ((RIN1625–AA87) (Docket No.
USCG–2017–0448)) received in the Office of the
President of the Senate on March 27, 2019; to
the Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation.
EC–816. A communication from the Attor-
ney-Advisor, U.S. Coast Guard, Department
of Homeland Security, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Safety Zone; Delaware River, Philadelphia,
PA’’ ((RIN1625–AA00) (Docket No. USCG–
2019–0122)) received in the Office of the Presi-
dent of the Senate on March 27, 2019; to the
Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation.
EC–817. A communication from the Attor-
ney-Advisor, U.S. Coast Guard, Department
of Homeland Security, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Safety Zone; Delaware River, Philadelphia,
PA’’ ((RIN1625–AA00) (Docket No. USCG–
2019–0109)) received in the Office of the Presi-
dent of the Senate on March 27, 2019; to the
Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation.
f
REPORTS OF COMMITTEES
The following reports of committees
were submitted:
By Ms. MURKOWSKI, from the Committee
on Energy and Natural Resources:
Special Report entitled ‘‘History, Jurisdic-
tion, and a Summary of Activities of the
Committee on Energy and Natural Resources
During the 115th Congress’’ (Rept. No. 116–
25).
By Mr. ALEXANDER, from the Committee
on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions:
Special Report entitled ‘‘Report on Legis-
lative Activities of the Committee on
Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions’’
(Rept. No. 116–26).
By Mr. ENZI, from the Committee on the
Budget, without amendment:
S. Con. Res. 12. An original concurrent res-
olution setting forth the congressional budg-
et for the United States Government for fis-
cal year 2020 and setting forth the appro-
priate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2021
through 2024.
By Mr. RUBIO, from the Committee on
Small Business and Entrepreneurship, with-
out amendment:
S. 771. A bill to amend section 21 of the
Small Business Act to require cyber certifi-
cation for small business development center
counselors, and for other purposes.
By Mr. RUBIO, from the Committee on
Small Business and Entrepreneurship, with
an amendment in the nature of a substitute:
S. 772. A bill to require an annual report on
the cybersecurity of the Small Business Ad-
ministration, and for other purposes.
f
EXECUTIVE REPORTS OF
COMMITTEE
The following executive reports of
nominations were submitted:
By Mr. ROBERTS for the Committee on
Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry.
*Heath P. Tarbert, of Maryland, to be
Chairman of the Commodity Futures Trad-
ing Commission.
*Heath P. Tarbert, of Maryland, to be a
Commissioner of the Commodity Futures
Trading Commission for a term expiring
April 13, 2024.
*Nomination was reported with rec-
ommendation that it be confirmed sub-
ject to the nominee’s commitment to
respond to requests to appear and tes-
tify before any duly constituted com-
mittee of the Senate.
f
INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND
JOINT RESOLUTIONS
The following bills and joint resolu-
tions were introduced, read the first
and second times by unanimous con-
sent, and referred as indicated:
By Mrs. SHAHEEN (for herself, Mr.
TESTER, Mr. KING, and Ms. HARRIS):
S. 961. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to expand eligibility for the
refundable credit for coverage under a quali-
fied health plan; to the Committee on Fi-
nance.
By Mr. SANDERS (for himself, Ms.
HARRIS, Ms. WARREN, and Mrs. GILLI-
BRAND):
S. 962. A bill to provide funding for Feder-
ally qualified health centers and the Na-
tional Health Service Corps; to the Com-
mittee on Health, Education, Labor, and
Pensions.
By Ms. KLOBUCHAR (for herself, Mr.
TILLIS, and Mr. SCHUMER):
S. 963. A bill to amend the Trademark Act
of 1946 to provide for the registration of
marks consisting of the flag, coat of arms, or
other official insignia of the United States,
any State or municipality, or any foreign na-
tion; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:54 Apr 02, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00013 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A01AP6.012 S01APPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2118 April 1, 2019
By Mrs. SHAHEEN (for herself, Ms.
STABENOW, Mr. CASEY, Mr. REED, Mr.
BLUMENTHAL, Ms. HASSAN, Ms. KLO-
BUCHAR, Mr. TESTER, Mr. KAINE, Mr.
KING, Ms. HARRIS, Mr. WHITEHOUSE,
Ms. BALDWIN, Ms. HIRONO, and Mr.
MURPHY):
S. 964. A bill to amend the Patient Protec-
tion and Affordable Care Act to improve
cost-sharing subsidies; to the Committee on
Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
By Mr. JONES (for himself and Mr.
COTTON):
S. 965. A bill to provide for programs of
scholarships for members of Junior Reserve
Officers’ Training Corps units toward obtain-
ing private pilot’s licenses, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Armed Serv-
ices.
By Mr. PORTMAN (for himself and Mr.
BENNET):
S. 966. A bill to amend title XVIII of the
Social Security Act to modernize the physi-
cian self-referral prohibitions to promote
care coordination in the merit-based incen-
tive payment system and to facilitate physi-
cian practice participation in alternative
payment models under the Medicare pro-
gram, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Finance.
By Mrs. SHAHEEN (for herself, Ms.
BALDWIN, and Mr. MERKLEY):
S. 967. A bill to amend the Public Health
Service Act to establish limitations on cost-
sharing for out-of-network services in the in-
dividual market, to prohibit balance billing
for such services, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Health, Education, Labor,
and Pensions.
By Mr. REED (for himself, Mr. DURBIN,
Ms. WARREN, and Mr. MURPHY):
S. 968. A bill to provide for institutional
risk-sharing in the Federal student loan pro-
grams; to the Committee on Health, Edu-
cation, Labor, and Pensions.
By Mr. REED (for himself, Mr. CASEY,
and Mr. COONS):
S. 969. A bill to improve quality and ac-
countability for educator preparation pro-
grams; to the Committee on Health, Edu-
cation, Labor, and Pensions.
By Mr. TESTER (for himself, Mr.
WICKER, and Mr. KING):
S. 970. A bill to amend the Public Health
Service Act to provide for the participation
of physical therapists in the National Health
Service Corps Loan Repayment Program,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
By Ms. SMITH:
S. 971. A bill to amend title 5, United
States Code, to clarify that during a lapse in
appropriations certain services relating to
the Federal Employees Health Benefits Pro-
gram are excepted services under the Anti-
Deficiency Act, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Homeland Security and
Governmental Affairs.
By Mr. GRASSLEY (for himself and
Mr. WYDEN):
S. 972. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to encourage retirement
savings, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Finance.
By Ms. SMITH:
S. 973. A bill to amend title 5, United
States Code, to continue supplemental den-
tal and vision benefits and long-term care in-
surance coverage for Federal employees af-
fected by a Government shutdown, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Home-
land Security and Governmental Affairs.
By Mrs. FEINSTEIN (for herself and
Ms. HARRIS):
S. 974. A bill to modify the authorized uses
of certain property conveyed by the United
States in Los Angeles, California; to the
Committee on Armed Services.
By Mrs. MURRAY (for herself, Ms.
WARREN, Ms. SMITH, Ms. BALDWIN,
Ms. STABENOW, Mrs. SHAHEEN, Ms.
KLOBUCHAR, Mr. SANDERS, Mrs. GILLI-
BRAND, Mr. KAINE, Mrs. FEINSTEIN,
Ms. CANTWELL, Ms. CORTEZ MASTO,
Ms. HIRONO, Ms. DUCKWORTH, Ms.
HASSAN, Ms. HARRIS, Mr. MERKLEY,
Mr. MENENDEZ, Mr. BENNET, Ms.
ROSEN, Mr. BLUMENTHAL, and Mr.
WYDEN):
S. 975. A bill to amend the Employee Re-
tirement Income Security Act of 1974 to pro-
vide for greater spousal protection under de-
fined contribution plans, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Health, Edu-
cation, Labor, and Pensions.
By Mrs. GILLIBRAND (for herself, Mr.
GRASSLEY, Ms. ERNST, Mr. RUBIO,
Mrs. CAPITO, Mr. BLUMENTHAL, Ms.
HASSAN, Mr. REED, Mr. WARNER, and
Mrs. SHAHEEN):
S. 976. A bill to amend the Higher Edu-
cation Act of 1965 and the Jeanne Clery Dis-
closure of Campus Security Policy and Cam-
pus Crime Statistics Act to combat campus
sexual assault, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and
Pensions.
By Mr. SCOTT of Florida (for himself
and Mr. HAWLEY):
S. 977. A bill to address the high cost of
prescription drugs; to the Committee on
Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
f
SUBMISSION OF CONCURRENT AND
SENATE RESOLUTIONS
The following concurrent resolutions
and Senate resolutions were read, and
referred (or acted upon), as indicated:
By Mr. WYDEN (for himself and Mrs.
FISCHER):
S. Res. 133. A resolution honoring the life
and legacy of Elizebeth Smith Friedman,
Cryptanalyst; considered and agreed to.
By Mr. PAUL:
S. Con. Res. 11. A concurrent resolution
setting forth the congressional budget for
the United States Government for fiscal year
2020 and setting forth the appropriate budg-
etary levels for fiscal years 2021 through 2029;
to the Committee on the Budget.
By Mr. ENZI:
S. Con. Res. 12. An original concurrent res-
olution setting forth the congressional budg-
et for the United States Government for fis-
cal year 2020 and setting forth the appro-
priate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2021
through 2024; from the Committee on the
Budget; placed on the calendar.
f
ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS
S. 178
At the request of Mr. RUBIO, the
name of the Senator from Vermont
(Mr. SANDERS) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 178, a bill to condemn gross
human rights violations of ethnic
Turkic Muslims in Xinjiang, and call-
ing for an end to arbitrary detention,
torture, and harassment of these com-
munities inside and outside China.
S. 179
At the request of Mr. TESTER, the
name of the Senator from Illinois (Ms.
DUCKWORTH) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 179, a bill to direct the Secretary
of Veterans Affairs to carry out a clin-
ical trial of the effects of cannabis on
certain health outcomes of adults with
chronic pain and post-traumatic stress
disorder, and for other purposes.
S. 260
At the request of Mr. CASEY, the
name of the Senator from New Hamp-
shire (Ms. HASSAN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 260, a bill to assist em-
ployers providing employment under
special certificates issued under sec-
tion 14(c) of the Fair Labor Standards
Act of 1938 to transform their business
and program models, to support indi-
viduals with disabilities to transition
to competitive integrated employment,
to phase out the use of such special
certificates, and for other purposes.
S. 362
At the request of Mr. WYDEN, the
name of the Senator from Mississippi
(Mr. WICKER) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 362, a bill to amend the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986 to reform tax-
ation of alcoholic beverages.
S. 427
At the request of Mr. MENENDEZ, the
names of the Senator from Alabama
(Mr. JONES) and the Senator from Kan-
sas (Mr. ROBERTS) were added as co-
sponsors of S. 427, a bill to amend the
Public Health Service Act to enhance
activities of the National Institutes of
Health with respect to research on au-
tism spectrum disorder and enhance
programs relating to autism, and for
other purposes.
S. 433
At the request of Ms. COLLINS, the
name of the Senator from Indiana (Mr.
YOUNG) was added as a cosponsor of S.
433, a bill to amend title XVIII of the
Social Security Act to improve home
health payment reforms under the
Medicare program.
S. 456
At the request of Mr. REED, the name
of the Senator from California (Ms.
HARRIS) was added as a cosponsor of S.
456, a bill to provide for the adjustment
of status of certain nationals of Liberia
to that of lawful permanent residents,
and for other purposes.
S. 518
At the request of Ms. CANTWELL, the
names of the Senator from Colorado
(Mr. BENNET), the Senator from New
Mexico (Mr. UDALL), the Senator from
New Mexico (Mr. HEINRICH) and the
Senator from Montana (Mr. TESTER)
were added as cosponsors of S. 518, a
bill to amend title XVIII of the Social
Security Act to provide for Medicare
coverage of certain lymphedema com-
pression treatment items as items of
durable medical equipment.
S. 521
At the request of Mr. BROWN, the
name of the Senator from Nevada (Ms.
CORTEZ MASTO) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 521, a bill to amend title II of
the Social Security Act to repeal the
Government pension offset and wind-
fall elimination provisions.
S. 546
At the request of Mrs. GILLIBRAND,
the name of the Senator from Missouri
(Mr. BLUNT) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 546, a bill to extend authorization
for the September 11th Victim Com-
pensation Fund of 2001 through fiscal
year 2090, and for other purposes.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:31 Apr 02, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00014 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A01AP6.015 S01APPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2119
April 1, 2019
S. 559
At the request of Mr. TESTER, the
name of the Senator from Wisconsin
(Ms. BALDWIN) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 559, a bill to amend the Fam-
ily and Medical Leave Act of 1993 to
provide leave because of the death of a
son or daughter.
S. 600
At the request of Mr. HOEVEN, the
names of the Senator from Indiana
(Mr. BRAUN) and the Senator from Ten-
nessee (Mrs. BLACKBURN) were added as
cosponsors of S. 600, a bill to require
the Secretary of Transportation to es-
tablish a working group to study regu-
latory and legislative improvements
for the livestock, insect, and agricul-
tural commodities transport indus-
tries, and for other purposes.
S. 629
At the request of Mr. TESTER, the
name of the Senator from Illinois (Ms.
DUCKWORTH) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 629, a bill to require the Secretary
of Veterans Affairs to review the proc-
esses and requirements of the Depart-
ment of Veterans Affairs for scheduling
appointments for health care and con-
ducting consultations under the laws
administered by the Secretary, and for
other purposes.
S. 635
At the request of Mr. LEAHY, the
name of the Senator from New Jersey
(Mr. BOOKER) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 635, a bill to restore statutory
rights to the people of the United
States from forced arbitration.
S. 655
At the request of Mr. DURBIN, the
names of the Senator from Connecticut
(Mr. BLUMENTHAL), the Senator from
Ohio (Mr. BROWN), the Senator from
Rhode Island (Mr. REED), the Senator
from Oregon (Mr. WYDEN), and the Sen-
ator from Oregon (Mr. MERKLEY) were
added as cosponsors of S. 655, a bill to
impose additional restrictions on to-
bacco flavors for use in e-cigarettes.
S. 698
At the request of Mr. MENENDEZ, the
name of the Senator from Massachu-
setts (Ms. WARREN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 698, a bill to amend the
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to pro-
vide equitable treatment for residents
of Puerto Rico with respect to the re-
fundable portion of the child tax credit
and to provide the same treatment to
families in Puerto Rico with one child
or two children that is currently pro-
vided to island families with three or
more children.
S. 703
At the request of Mrs. FEINSTEIN, the
name of the Senator from New Mexico
(Mr. UDALL) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 703, a bill to amend title 10,
United States Code, to address health,
safety, and environmental hazards at
private military housing units, to pro-
hibit the payment by members of the
Armed Forces of deposits or other fees
relating to such housing units, and for
other purposes.
S. 741
At the request of Ms. SMITH, the
names of the Senator from Arkansas
(Mr. BOOZMAN) and the Senator from
Massachusetts (Mr. MARKEY) were
added as cosponsors of S. 741, a bill to
amend the Public Health Service Act
to require group and individual health
insurance coverage and group health
plans to provide for cost sharing for
oral anticancer drugs on terms no less
favorable than the cost sharing pro-
vided for anticancer medications ad-
ministered by a health care provider.
S. 778
At the request of Ms. MURKOWSKI, the
name of the Senator from Maine (Mr.
KING) was added as a cosponsor of S.
778, a bill to direct the Secretary of
Commerce, acting through the Admin-
istrator of the National Oceanic and
Atmospheric Administration, to con-
duct coastal community vulnerability
assessments related to ocean acidifica-
tion, and for other purposes.
S. 814
At the request of Mrs. SHAHEEN, the
name of the Senator from Alaska (Ms.
MURKOWSKI) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 814, a bill to amend title XVIII of
the Social Security Act to improve ac-
cess to diabetes outpatient self-man-
agement training services, and for
other purposes.
S. 815
At the request of Mr. BOOZMAN, the
name of the Senator from New Mexico
(Mr. UDALL) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 815, a bill to amend the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986 to allow a refund-
able tax credit against income tax for
the purchase of qualified access tech-
nology for the blind.
S. 827
At the request of Mr. WHITEHOUSE,
the name of the Senator from Ohio
(Mr. BROWN) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 827, a bill to designate certain Na-
tional Forest System land and certain
public land under the jurisdiction of
the Secretary of the Interior in the
States of Idaho, Montana, Oregon,
Washington, and Wyoming as wilder-
ness, wild and scenic rivers, wildland
recovery areas, and biological con-
necting corridors, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 846
At the request of Mr. CORNYN, the
names of the Senator from Florida (Mr.
RUBIO) and the Senator from Oklahoma
(Mr. INHOFE) were added as cosponsors
of S. 846, a bill to amend title 49,
United States Code, to limit certain
rolling stock procurements, and for
other purposes.
S. 854
At the request of Mr. CARDIN, the
names of the Senator from Oregon (Mr.
MERKLEY) and the Senator from Mary-
land (Mr. VAN HOLLEN) were added as
cosponsors of S. 854, a bill to require
human rights certifications for arms
sales, and for other purposes.
S. 879
At the request of Mr. VAN HOLLEN,
the names of the Senator from Hawaii
(Mr. SCHATZ), the Senator from New
Jersey (Mr. BOOKER), and the Senator
from New Jersey (Mr. MENENDEZ) were
added as cosponsors of S. 879, a bill to
provide a process for granting lawful
permanent resident status to aliens
from certain countries who meet speci-
fied eligibility requirements, and for
other purposes.
S. 910
At the request of Mr. WICKER, the
names of the Senator from Washington
(Ms. CANTWELL) and the Senator from
Alaska (Mr. SULLIVAN) were added as
cosponsors of S. 910, a bill to reauthor-
ize and amend the National Sea Grant
College Program Act, and for other
purposes.
S. 914
At the request of Mr. WICKER, the
name of the Senator from Alaska (Mr.
SULLIVAN) was added as a cosponsor of
S. 914, a bill to reauthorize the Inte-
grated Coastal and Ocean Observation
System Act of 2009, to clarify the au-
thority of the Administrator of the Na-
tional Oceanic and Atmospheric Ad-
ministration with respect to post-
storm assessments, and to require the
establishment of a National Water Cen-
ter, and for other purposes.
S. 931
At the request of Mr. CASEY, the
name of the Senator from Illinois (Ms.
DUCKWORTH) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 931, a bill to amend the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986 to enhance the
Child and Dependent Care Tax Credit
and make the credit fully refundable.
S. 949
At the request of Mr. UDALL, the
names of the Senator from Virginia
(Mr. WARNER) and the Senator from Ar-
izona (Ms. SINEMA) were added as co-
sponsors of S. 949, a bill to expand
Americans’ access to the ballot box, re-
duce the influence of big money in poli-
tics, and strengthen ethics rules for
public servants, and for other purposes.
S.J. RES. 11
At the request of Mr. MERKLEY, the
name of the Senator from Delaware
(Mr. COONS) was added as a cosponsor
of S.J. Res. 11, a joint resolution to
prohibit the unauthorized use of United
States Armed Forces in hostilities with
respect to Venezuela.
S. RES. 85
At the request of Mr. BROWN, the
names of the Senator from Washington
(Mrs. MURRAY), the Senator from Or-
egon (Mr. WYDEN), the Senator from
Delaware (Mr. CARPER), the Senator
from Delaware (Mr. COONS), the Sen-
ator from Alabama (Mr. JONES), the
Senator from Illinois (Mr. DURBIN), and
the Senator from Maryland (Mr.
CARDIN) were added as cosponsors of S.
Res. 85, a resolution recognizing the
100th anniversary of the founding of
Easterseals, a leading advocate and
service provider for children and adults
with disabilities, including veterans
and older adults, and their caregivers
and families.
S. RES. 99
At the request of Mr. PETERS, the
names of the Senator from Montana
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:51 Apr 02, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00015 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A01AP6.023 S01APPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2120 April 1, 2019
(Mr. DAINES), the Senator from Oregon
(Mr. WYDEN), the Senator from Mary-
land (Mr. CARDIN) and the Senator from
Hawaii (Mr. SCHATZ) were added as co-
sponsors of S. Res. 99, a resolution ex-
pressing the sense of the Senate that
Congress should take all appropriate
measures to ensure that the United
States Postal Service remains an inde-
pendent establishment of the Federal
Government and is not subject to pri-
vatization.
S. RES. 120
At the request of Mr. CARDIN, the
names of the Senator from Montana
(Mr. DAINES), the Senator from Kansas
(Mr. MORAN) and the Senator from
Delaware (Mr. CARPER) were added as
cosponsors of S. Res. 120, a resolution
opposing efforts to delegitimize the
State of Israel and the Global Boycott,
Divestment, and Sanctions Movement
targeting Israel.
S. RES. 123
At the request of Mr. RISCH, the
names of the Senator from New Mexico
(Mr. UDALL), the Senator from Dela-
ware (Mr. COONS) and the Senator from
Florida (Mr. RUBIO) were added as co-
sponsors of S. Res. 123, a resolution
supporting the North Atlantic Treaty
Organization and recognizing its 70
years of accomplishments.
AMENDMENT NO. 205
At the request of Mr. LEAHY, the
names of the Senator from Maryland
(Mr. CARDIN), the Senator from West
Virginia (Mr. MANCHIN), the Senator
from Nevada (Ms. CORTEZ MASTO), the
Senator from Wisconsin (Ms. BALDWIN),
the Senator from New Jersey (Mr.
BOOKER), the Senator from Ohio (Mr.
BROWN), the Senator from Illinois (Mr.
DURBIN), the Senator from New York
(Mrs. GILLIBRAND), the Senator from
California (Ms. HARRIS), the Senator
from Hawaii (Ms. HIRONO), the Senator
from Minnesota (Ms. KLOBUCHAR), the
Senator from Massachusetts (Mr. MAR-
KEY), the Senator from Washington
(Mrs. MURRAY), the Senator from
Vermont (Mr. SANDERS), the Senator
from New York (Mr. SCHUMER) and the
Senator from Maryland (Mr. VAN HOL-
LEN) were added as cosponsors of
amendment No. 205 intended to be pro-
posed to H.R. 268, a bill making supple-
mental appropriations for the fiscal
year ending September 30, 2019, and for
other purposes.
AMENDMENT NO. 228
At the request of Mr. SCHUMER, the
names of the Senator from Colorado
(Mr. BENNET), the Senator from West
Virginia (Mr. MANCHIN), the Senator
from Nevada (Ms. ROSEN), the Senator
from New York (Mrs. GILLIBRAND) and
the Senator from New Mexico (Mr.
UDALL) were added as cosponsors of
amendment No. 228 intended to be pro-
posed to H.R. 268, a bill making supple-
mental appropriations for the fiscal
year ending September 30, 2019, and for
other purposes.
STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED
BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS
By Mr. REED (for himself, Mr.
DURBIN, Ms. WARREN, and Mr.
MURPHY):
S. 968. A bill to provide for institu-
tional risk-sharing in the Federal stu-
dent loan programs; to the Committee
on Health, Education, Labor, and Pen-
sions.
Mr. REED. Mr. President, we all rec-
ognize that a postsecondary education
is required for most family-sustaining,
middle-class jobs, and that an educated
workforce is essential to a modern,
productive economy. A report by the
Georgetown University Center on Edu-
cation and the Workforce found that
college-level intensive business serv-
ices have replaced manufacturing as
the largest sector in the U.S. economy,
and that while college-educated work-
ers make up only 32 percent of the
workforce, they now produce more
than 50 percent of the Nation’s eco-
nomic output, up from 13 percent in
1967. A college degree also pays off,
with one recent analysis estimating
that the typical college graduate will
earn $900,000 more of their lifetime
than the typical high school graduate.
Yet just as there is growing recogni-
tion that postsecondary education is
indispensable in the modern economy,
families are being required to shoulder
growing debt burdens that threaten ac-
cess to college and their financial
health. According to an analysis by the
Federal Reserve, student loan debt per
capita doubled between 2005 and 2014,
rising from $5,000 to $10,000. This is a
growing drag on our economy. As stu-
dent loan debt has grown, young adults
have put off buying homes or cars,
starting a family, saving for retire-
ment, or launching new businesses.
They have literally mortgaged their
economic future.
We know that student loan borrowers
are struggling. The Secretary of Edu-
cation just testified before the Senate
Labor, Health and Human Services,
and Education Appropriations Sub-
committee that 43 percent of the stu-
dent loans in the nearly $1.5 trillion
Federal student loan portfolio are in
default, more than 30 days delinquent,
or negatively amortized. The Federal
Reserve Bank of New York reports that
the balance of defaulted loans now ex-
ceeds $120 billion. More than 8 million
borrowers currently have a loan in de-
fault.
Default is catastrophic for student
loan borrowers. Only in rare instances
can the debt be discharged in bank-
ruptcy. The Federal government has
the power to withhold tax refunds, gar-
nish wages, and even garnish Social Se-
curity benefits to collect defaulted stu-
dent loans.
We have seen the costs to students
and taxpayers when institutions are
not held accountable. Corinthian Col-
leges and ITT are two examples of in-
stitutions that failed their students
while benefitting from Federal student
aid. Their fraudulent business practices
eventually led to their demise, but not
before leaving their students and tax-
payers on the hook for millions of dol-
lars in student loan debt. More re-
cently, we have seen the closure of Ar-
gosy University, South University, and
the Art Institutes, all operated by the
Dream Center, leave roughly 26,000 stu-
dents in the lurch.
We cannot wait until an institution
is catastrophically failing its students
before taking action. Institutions need
greater financial incentives to act be-
fore default rates rise. Simply put, we
cannot tackle the student loan debt
crisis without States and institutions
stepping up and taking greater respon-
sibility for college costs and student
borrowing.
That is why I am pleased to reintro-
duce the Protect Student Borrowers
Act with Senators DURBIN, WARREN,
and MURPHY. Our legislation seeks to
ensure there is more skin in the game
when it comes to student loan debt by
setting stronger market incentives for
colleges and universities to provide
better and more affordable education
to students, which should in turn help
put the brakes on rising student loan
defaults.
The Protect Student Borrowers Act
would hold colleges and universities
accountable for student loan defaults
by requiring them to repay a percent-
age of defaulted loans. Only institu-
tions that have one-third or more of
their students borrow would be in-
cluded in the bill’s risk-sharing re-
quirements based on their cohort de-
fault rate. Risk-sharing requirements
would kick in when the default rate ex-
ceeds 15 percent. As the institution’s
default rate rises, so too will the insti-
tution’s risk-share payment.
The Protect Student Borrowers Act
also provides incentives for institu-
tions to take proactive steps to ease
student loan debt burdens and reduce
default rates. Colleges and universities
can reduce or eliminate their payments
if they implement a comprehensive
student loan management plan. The
Secretary may waive or reduce the
payments for institutions whose mis-
sion is to serve low-income and minor-
ity students, such as community col-
leges, Historically Black Institutions,
or Hispanic-Serving Institutions—if
they are making progress in their stu-
dent loan management plans.
The risk-sharing payments would be
invested in helping struggling bor-
rowers, preventing future default and
delinquency, and increasing Pell
Grants at institutions that enroll a
high percentage of Pell Grant recipi-
ents and have low default rates.
With the stakes so high for students
and taxpayers, it is only fair that insti-
tutions bear some of the risk in the
student loan program.
We need to tackle student loan debt
and college affordability from multiple
angles. All stakeholders in the system
must do their part. With the Protect
Student Borrowers Act, we are pro-
viding the incentives and resources for
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:51 Apr 02, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00016 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A01AP6.026 S01APPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2121
April 1, 2019
institutions to take more responsi-
bility to address college affordability
and student loan debt and improve stu-
dent outcomes. I urge my colleagues to
cosponsor this bill and look forward to
working with them to include it and
other key reforms in the upcoming re-
authorization of the Higher Education
Act.
By Mr. REED (for himself, Mr.
CASEY, and Mr. COONS):
S. 969. A bill to improve quality and
accountability for educator prepara-
tion programs; to the Committee on
Health, Education, Labor, and Pen-
sions.
Mr. REED. Mr. President, we know
that the quality of teachers and prin-
cipals are two of the most important
in-school factors related to student
achievement. Yet the pipeline into the
profession is in disrepair. A report from
the American Association of Colleges
of Teacher Education showed that the
number of education degrees awarded
peaked at 200,000 per year in the 1970s
and has dwindled to fewer than 100,000
today. This is at a time when all fifty
States have reported experiencing
statewide teacher shortages in at least
one teaching area for the 2016–17 or
2017–18 school year. If we want to im-
prove our schools, it is essential that
we invest in the professional prepara-
tion of teachers, principals, and other
educators. As such, today, I am re-
introducing the Educator Preparation
Reform Act with my colleagues Sen-
ators Casey and Coons to ensure that
the Federal government continues to
be a partner in addressing this critical
national need.
The impact of educator shortages
falls the hardest on our most vulner-
able students in our highest need com-
munities. Rhode Island is no exception,
with Providence, the largest school dis-
trict, facing an acute shortage of
teachers certified to teach English lan-
guage learners. My home State has
also reported shortages in special edu-
cation, science, math, world languages,
and school nurses.
We cannot solve this problem with-
out improving both teacher and prin-
cipal preparation. We need to make
sure that our educator preparation pro-
grams are worthy of the professionals
entering the field and the students
they will serve. The Educator Prepara-
tion Reform Act is a key part of the so-
lution.
Our legislation builds on the success-
ful Teacher Quality Partnership Pro-
gram, which I helped author in the 1998
reauthorization of the Higher Edu-
cation Act. It continues the partner-
ship between high-need school dis-
tricts, institutions of higher education,
and educator preparation programs to
reform pre-service programs based on
the unique needs of the partners.
Among the key changes are specific at-
tention and emphasis on principals and
the addition of a residency program for
new principals. Improving instruction
is a team effort, with principals at the
helm. This bill better connects teacher
preparation with principal preparation.
The Educator Preparation Reform Act
will also allow partnerships to develop
preparation programs for other areas of
instructional need, such as for school
librarians, counselors, or other aca-
demic support professionals.
The bill streamlines the account-
ability and reporting requirements for
teacher preparation programs to pro-
vide greater transparency on key qual-
ity measures such as admissions stand-
ards, requirements for clinical prac-
tice, placement of graduates, retention
in the field of teaching, and teacher
performance, including student-learn-
ing outcomes. All programs—whether
traditional or alternative routes to cer-
tification—will report on the same
measures.
Under our legislation, States will be
required to identify at-risk and low-
performing programs and provide them
with technical assistance and a
timeline for improvement. States
would be encouraged to close programs
that do not improve.
Our legislation also makes important
improvements to the TEACH Grants. It
focuses the grants on the later years of
teacher preparation, reducing the po-
tential of the grants being converted to
loans if a student decides to change
majors. Additionally, it allows pro-
rating the amount of grants converted
to loans, giving teachers credit for par-
tially completing the service require-
ment. Finally, it requires the Depart-
ment of Education to establish an ap-
peals process for grants wrongly con-
verted to loans and to report to Con-
gress annually on the number of con-
versions and appeals.
We have been fortunate to work with
many stakeholders on this legislation.
Organizations that have endorsed the
Educator Preparation Reform Act in-
clude: the American Association of
Colleges for Teacher Education, Amer-
ican Federation of Teachers, Higher
Education Consortium for Special Edu-
cation, Hispanic Association of Col-
leges and Universities, National Asso-
ciation of Elementary School Prin-
cipals, National Association of Sec-
ondary School Principals, National As-
sociation of State Directors of Special
Education, National Education Asso-
ciation, Public Advocacy for Kids, and
the Teacher Education Division of the
Council for Exceptional Children.
I look forward to working to incor-
porate this legislation into the upcom-
ing reauthorization of the Higher Edu-
cation Act. I urge my colleagues to
join us in this effort and support this
legislation.
f
SUBMITTED RESOLUTIONS
SENATE RESOLUTION 133—HON-
ORING THE LIFE AND LEGACY
OF ELIZEBETH SMITH FRIED-
MAN, CRYPTANALYST
Mr. WYDEN (for himself and Mrs.
FISCHER) submitted the following reso-
lution; which was considered and
agreed to:
S. RES. 133
Whereas Elizebeth Smith Friedman was
born on August 26, 1892, in Huntington, Indi-
ana;
Whereas, at 19 years of age, Friedman
began to study Greek and English literature
at Wooster College in Ohio and later grad-
uated from Hillsdale College in Michigan
after transferring there;
Whereas Friedman stumbled upon her ca-
reer as a codebreaker by accident after as-
sisting with cipher research at the River-
bank facility of businessman George Fabyan;
Whereas, in the 1920s, government agents
recruited Friedman to break codes for the
Coast Guard;
Whereas, based on her work, the Coast
Guard subsequently asked Friedman to form
a group to decrypt intercepts;
Whereas, in the early 1930s, Friedman cre-
ated and managed the first codebreaking
unit ever to be run by a woman;
Whereas, during World War II, Friedman
and her team in the Coast Guard, working si-
multaneously with, but independently of, the
well-known British codebreaking group led
by Alan Turing, broke the Enigma G ma-
chine used by Germany, enabling the
decryption of intercepted messages between
German operatives in South America and
their overseers in Berlin, thus stopping an
alliance between Nazi Germany and coun-
tries in South America;
Whereas Friedman co-authored several of
the Riverbank Publications, which became
the ‘‘textbook’’ for training individuals in
the United States on encryption and
codebreaking from the 1930s to the 1950s;
Whereas J. Edgar Hoover of the Federal
Bureau of Investigation took credit for the
achievements of Friedman and her team,
leaving her work widely unrecognized until
after her death;
Whereas, in the 1990s, to honor the con-
tributions of both Friedman and her hus-
band, who was also a codebreaker, the Na-
tional Security Agency renamed its audito-
rium as the William F. Friedman and
Elizebeth S. Friedman Memorial Audito-
rium;
Whereas Elizebeth Smith Friedman con-
tinues to be a beacon of inspiration for
women in the national security community
and for women pursuing STEM-related fields;
Whereas the work of individuals such as
Elizebeth Smith Friedman distinctly shows
how strong encryption technology can
change the course of history; and
Whereas Elizebeth Smith Friedman died on
October 31, 1980, leaving behind a legacy of
remarkable skill and technical ingenuity,
woven together to solve the most complex
secret messages in the world: Now, therefore,
be it
Resolved, That the Senate honors the life
and contributions of Elizebeth Smith Fried-
man, a pioneer in codebreaking.
f
SENATE CONCURRENT RESOLU-
TION 11—SETTING FORTH THE
CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET FOR
THE UNITED STATES GOVERN-
MENT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2020
AND SETTING FORTH THE AP-
PROPRIATE BUDGETARY LEVELS
FOR FISCAL YEARS 2021
THROUGH 2029
Mr. PAUL submitted the following
concurrent resolution; which was re-
ferred to the Committee on the Budget:
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:51 Apr 02, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00017 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A01AP6.019 S01APPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2122 April 1, 2019
S. CON. RES. 11
Resolved by the Senate (the House of Rep-
resentatives concurring),
SECTION 1. CONCURRENT RESOLUTION ON THE
BUDGET FOR FISCAL YEAR 2020.
(a) DECLARATION.—Congress declares that
this resolution is the concurrent resolution
on the budget for fiscal year 2020 and that
this resolution sets forth the appropriate
budgetary levels for fiscal years 2021 through
2029.
(b) TABLE OF CONTENTS.—The table of con-
tents for this concurrent resolution is as fol-
lows:
Sec. 1. Concurrent resolution on the budget
for fiscal year 2020.
TITLE I—SENSE OF CONGRESS
Sec. 1001. Sense of Congress regarding so-
cialism.
TITLE II—RECOMMENDED LEVELS AND
AMOUNTS
Subtitle A—Budgetary Levels in Both
Houses
Sec. 2101. Recommended levels and amounts.
Sec. 2102. Major functional categories.
Subtitle B—Levels and Amounts in the
Senate
Sec. 2201. Social Security in the Senate.
Sec. 2202. Postal Service discretionary ad-
ministrative expenses in the
Senate.
TITLE III—RECONCILIATION
Sec. 3001. Reconciliation in the Senate.
TITLE IV—RESERVE FUNDS
Sec. 4001. Deficit reduction fund for effi-
ciencies, consolidations, and
other savings.
Sec. 4002. Reserve fund relating to health
savings accounts.
TITLE V—BUDGET PROCESS
Sec. 5001. Voting threshold for points of
order.
Sec. 5002. Emergency legislation.
Sec. 5003. Enforcement of allocations, aggre-
gates, and other levels.
Sec. 5004. Point of order against legislation
providing funding within more
than 3 suballocations under sec-
tion 302(b).
Sec. 5005. Duplication determinations by the
Congressional Budget Office.
Sec. 5006. Breakdown of cost estimates by
budget function.
Sec. 5007. Sense of the Senate on treatment
of reduction of appropriations
levels to achieve savings.
Sec. 5008. Prohibition on preemptive waiv-
ers.
Sec. 5009. Adjustments for legislation reduc-
ing appropriations.
Sec. 5010. Authority.
Sec. 5011. Exercise of rulemaking powers.
TITLE I—SENSE OF CONGRESS
SEC. 1001. SENSE OF CONGRESS REGARDING SO-
CIALISM.
It is the sense of Congress that the United
States will not be a socialist nation.
TITLE II—RECOMMENDED LEVELS AND
AMOUNTS
Subtitle A—Budgetary Levels in Both Houses
SEC. 2101. RECOMMENDED LEVELS AND
AMOUNTS.
The following budgetary levels are appro-
priate for each of fiscal years 2020 through
2029:
(1) FEDERAL REVENUES.—For purposes of
the enforcement of this resolution:
(A) The recommended levels of Federal
revenues are as follows:
Fiscal year 2020: $2,743,000,000,000.
Fiscal year 2021: $2,860,000,000,000.
Fiscal year 2022: $2,997,000,000,000.
Fiscal year 2023: $3,153,000,000,000.
Fiscal year 2024: $3,350,000,000,000.
Fiscal year 2025: $3,500,000,000,000.
Fiscal year 2026: $3,668,000,000,000.
Fiscal year 2027: $3,773,000,000,000.
Fiscal year 2028: $3,900,000,000,000.
Fiscal year 2029: $4,345,000,000,000.
(B) The amounts by which the aggregate
levels of Federal revenues should be changed
are as follows:
Fiscal year 2020: ¥$2,000,000,000.
Fiscal year 2021: ¥$2,000,000,000.
Fiscal year 2022: $0.
Fiscal year 2023: $0.
Fiscal year 2024: $0.
Fiscal year 2025: ¥$6,000,000,000.
Fiscal year 2026: ¥$102,000,000,000.
Fiscal year 2027: ¥$250,000,000,000.
Fiscal year 2028: ¥$268,000,000,000.
Fiscal year 2029: $0.
(2) NEW BUDGET AUTHORITY.—For purposes
of the enforcement of this resolution, the ap-
propriate levels of total new budget author-
ity are as follows:
Fiscal year 2020: $4,581,000,000,000.
Fiscal year 2021: $3,268,000,000,000.
Fiscal year 2022: $3,284,000,000,000.
Fiscal year 2023: $3,262,000,000,000.
Fiscal year 2024: $3,180,000,000,000.
Fiscal year 2025: $3,157,000,000,000.
Fiscal year 2026: $3,121,000,000,000.
Fiscal year 2027: $3,087,000,000,000.
Fiscal year 2028: $3,053,000,000,000.
Fiscal year 2029: $3,020,000,000,000.
(3) BUDGET OUTLAYS.—For purposes of the
enforcement of this resolution, the appro-
priate levels of total budget outlays are as
follows:
Fiscal year 2020: $3,435,880,000,000.
Fiscal year 2021: $3,367,160,000,000.
Fiscal year 2022: $3,299,820,000,000.
Fiscal year 2023: $3,233,820,000,000.
Fiscal year 2024: $3,169,150,000,000.
Fiscal year 2025: $3,134,290,000,000.
Fiscal year 2026: $3,099,810,000,000.
Fiscal year 2027: $3,065,710,000,000.
Fiscal year 2028: $3,031,990,000,000.
Fiscal year 2029: $2,998,640,000,000.
(4) DEFICITS.—For purposes of the enforce-
ment of this resolution, the amounts of the
deficits are as follows:
Fiscal year 2020: ¥$693,000,000,000.
Fiscal year 2021: ¥$507,000,000,000.
Fiscal year 2022: ¥$303,000,000,000.
Fiscal year 2023: ¥$81,000,000,000.
Fiscal year 2024: $181,000,000,000.
Fiscal year 2025: $366,000,000,000.
Fiscal year 2026: $568,000,000,000.
Fiscal year 2027: $707,000,000,000.
Fiscal year 2028: $868,000,000,000.
Fiscal year 2029: $1,346,000,000,000.
(5) PUBLIC DEBT.—Pursuant to section
301(a)(5) of the Congressional Budget Act of
1974 (2 U.S.C. 632(a)(5)), the appropriate levels
of the public debt are as follows:
Fiscal year 2020: $22,829,000,000,000.
Fiscal year 2021: $24,091,000,000,000.
Fiscal year 2022: $25,456,000,000,000.
Fiscal year 2023: $26,841,000,000,000.
Fiscal year 2024: $27,839,000,000,000.
Fiscal year 2025: $28,809,000,000,000.
Fiscal year 2026: $29,763,000,000,000.
Fiscal year 2027: $30,644,000,000,000.
Fiscal year 2028: $31,690,000,000,000.
Fiscal year 2029: $32,311,000,000,000.
(6) DEBT HELD BY THE PUBLIC.—The appro-
priate levels of debt held by the public are as
follows:
Fiscal year 2020: $17,601,000,000,000.
Fiscal year 2021: $18,626,000,000,000.
Fiscal year 2022: $19,795,000,000,000.
Fiscal year 2023: $20,976,000,000,000.
Fiscal year 2024: $22,112,000,000,000.
Fiscal year 2025: $23,372,000,000,000.
Fiscal year 2026: $24,625,000,000,000.
Fiscal year 2027: $25,866,000,000,000.
Fiscal year 2028: $67,338,000,000,000.
Fiscal year 2029: $28,739,000,000,000.
SEC. 2102. MAJOR FUNCTIONAL CATEGORIES.
Congress determines and declares that the
appropriate levels of new budget authority
and outlays for fiscal years 2020 through 2029
for each major functional category are:
(1) National Defense (050):
Fiscal year 2020:
(A) New budget authority, $657,233,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $658,713,000,000.
Fiscal year 2021:
(A) New budget authority, $672,853,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $662,618,000,000.
Fiscal year 2022:
(A) New budget authority, $689,163,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $678,238,000,000.
Fiscal year 2023:
(A) New budget authority, $705,906,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $686,426,000,000.
Fiscal year 2024:
(A) New budget authority, $723,122,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $696,634,000,000.
Fiscal year 2025:
(A) New budget authority, $740,745,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $717,640,000,000.
Fiscal year 2026:
(A) New budget authority, $758,781,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $734,554,000,000.
Fiscal year 2027:
(A) New budget authority, $777,247,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $752,246,000,000.
Fiscal year 2028:
(A) New budget authority, $797,290,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $776,811,000,000.
Fiscal year 2029:
(A) New budget authority, $816,669,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $784,136,000,000.
(2) International Affairs (150):
Fiscal year 2020:
(A) New budget authority, $60,834,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $49,188,000,000.
Fiscal year 2021:
(A) New budget authority, $59,952,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $51,158,000,000.
Fiscal year 2022:
(A) New budget authority, $59,894,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $53,452,000,000.
Fiscal year 2023:
(A) New budget authority, $61,263,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $55,184,000,000.
Fiscal year 2024:
(A) New budget authority, $62,708,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $57,070,000,000.
Fiscal year 2025:
(A) New budget authority, $64,131,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $58,835,000,000.
Fiscal year 2026:
(A) New budget authority, $65,563,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $60,703,000,000.
Fiscal year 2027:
(A) New budget authority, $66,992,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $62,392,000,000.
Fiscal year 2028:
(A) New budget authority, $68,532,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $64,038,000,000.
Fiscal year 2029:
(A) New budget authority, $70,046,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $65,500,000,000.
(3) General Science, Space, and Technology
(250):
Fiscal year 2020:
(A) New budget authority, $35,256,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $34,360,000,000.
Fiscal year 2021:
(A) New budget authority, $36,041,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $35,602,000,000.
Fiscal year 2022:
(A) New budget authority, $36,839,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $36,250,000,000.
Fiscal year 2023:
(A) New budget authority, $37,664,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $36,901,000,000.
Fiscal year 2024:
(A) New budget authority, $38,526,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $37,702,000,000.
Fiscal year 2025:
(A) New budget authority, $39,389,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $38,538,000,000.
Fiscal year 2026:
(A) New budget authority, $40,256,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $39,390,000,000.
Fiscal year 2027:
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:51 Apr 02, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00018 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A01AP6.030 S01APPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2123
April 1, 2019
(A) New budget authority, $41,127,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $40,200,000,000.
Fiscal year 2028:
(A) New budget authority, $42,070,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $41,102,000,000.
Fiscal year 2029:
(A) New budget authority, $42,986,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $42,015,000,000.
(4) Energy (270):
Fiscal year 2020:
(A) New budget authority, $6,510,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $4,473,000,000.
Fiscal year 2021:
(A) New budget authority, $6,243,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $4,962,000,000.
Fiscal year 2022:
(A) New budget authority, $4,995,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $4,088,000,000.
Fiscal year 2023:
(A) New budget authority, $4,748,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $3,684,000,000.
Fiscal year 2024:
(A) New budget authority, $4,859,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $3,660,000,000.
Fiscal year 2025:
(A) New budget authority, $4,921,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $3,758,000,000.
Fiscal year 2026:
(A) New budget authority, $4,768,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $3,604,000,000.
Fiscal year 2027:
(A) New budget authority, $4,821,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $3,745,000,000.
Fiscal year 2028:
(A) New budget authority, $7,353,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $6,378,000,000.
Fiscal year 2029:
(A) New budget authority, $7,897,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $6,987,000,000.
(5) Natural Resources and Environment
(300):
Fiscal year 2020:
(A) New budget authority, $45,811,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $45,366,000,000.
Fiscal year 2021:
(A) New budget authority, $46,409,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $46,650,000,000.
Fiscal year 2022:
(A) New budget authority, $46,237,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $46,351,000,000.
Fiscal year 2023:
(A) New budget authority, $48,927,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $48,449,000,000.
Fiscal year 2024:
(A) New budget authority, $51,041,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $49,877,000,000.
Fiscal year 2025:
(A) New budget authority, $51,449,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $50,831,000,000.
Fiscal year 2026:
(A) New budget authority, $53,037,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $52,650,000,000.
Fiscal year 2027:
(A) New budget authority, $54,106,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $53,911,000,000.
Fiscal year 2028:
(A) New budget authority, $55,218,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $55,120,000,000.
Fiscal year 2029:
(A) New budget authority, $56,358,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $56,153,000,000.
(6) Agriculture (350):
Fiscal year 2020:
(A) New budget authority, $20,079,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $18,780,000,000.
Fiscal year 2021:
(A) New budget authority, $22,194,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $20,398,000,000.
Fiscal year 2022:
(A) New budget authority, $22,549,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $21,889,000,000.
Fiscal year 2023:
(A) New budget authority, $23,030,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $22,307,000,000.
Fiscal year 2024:
(A) New budget authority, $23,110,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $22,421,000,000.
Fiscal year 2025:
(A) New budget authority, $23,267,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $22,583,000,000.
Fiscal year 2026:
(A) New budget authority, $23,485,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $22,852,000,000.
Fiscal year 2027:
(A) New budget authority, $23,863,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $23,153,000,000.
Fiscal year 2028:
(A) New budget authority, $24,560,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $23,844,000,000.
Fiscal year 2029:
(A) New budget authority, $24,574,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $23,894,000,000.
(7) Commerce and Housing Credit (370):
Fiscal year 2020:
(A) New budget authority, $15,095,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $8,760,000,000.
Fiscal year 2021:
(A) New budget authority, $15,668,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $9,210,000,000.
Fiscal year 2022:
(A) New budget authority, $18,107,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $9,608,000,000.
Fiscal year 2023:
(A) New budget authority, $17,146,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $7,414,000,000.
Fiscal year 2024:
(A) New budget authority, $17,388,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $7,276,000,000.
Fiscal year 2025:
(A) New budget authority, $18,246,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $7,252,000,000.
Fiscal year 2026:
(A) New budget authority, $17,983,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $7,359,000,000.
Fiscal year 2027:
(A) New budget authority, $18,744,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $7,560,000,000.
Fiscal year 2028:
(A) New budget authority, $18,665,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $7,634,000,000.
Fiscal year 2029:
(A) New budget authority, $19,136,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $7,499,000,000.
(8) Transportation (400):
Fiscal year 2020:
(A) New budget authority, $98,482,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $98,857,000,000.
Fiscal year 2021:
(A) New budget authority, $99,566,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $102,704,000,000.
Fiscal year 2022:
(A) New budget authority, $100,681,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $106,356,000,000.
Fiscal year 2023:
(A) New budget authority, $101,804,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $108,806,000,000.
Fiscal year 2024:
(A) New budget authority, $102,972,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $110,846,000,000.
Fiscal year 2025:
(A) New budget authority, $104,125,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $113,411,000,000.
Fiscal year 2026:
(A) New budget authority, $105,302,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $115,681,000,000.
Fiscal year 2027:
(A) New budget authority, $106,481,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $117,881,000,000.
Fiscal year 2028:
(A) New budget authority, $107,741,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $120,146,000,000.
Fiscal year 2029:
(A) New budget authority, $108,751,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $122,644,000,000.
(9) Community and Regional Development
(450):
Fiscal year 2020:
(A) New budget authority, $24,553,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $28,734,000,000.
Fiscal year 2021:
(A) New budget authority, $24,970,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $28,395,000,000.
Fiscal year 2022:
(A) New budget authority, $25,163,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $28,502,000,000.
Fiscal year 2023:
(A) New budget authority, $25,702,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $28,291,000,000.
Fiscal year 2024:
(A) New budget authority, $26,261,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $28,295,000,000.
Fiscal year 2025:
(A) New budget authority, $26,834,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $28,390,000,000.
Fiscal year 2026:
(A) New budget authority, $27,402,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $28,220,000,000.
Fiscal year 2027:
(A) New budget authority, $27,977,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $27,572,000,000.
Fiscal year 2028:
(A) New budget authority, $28,587,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $28,124,000,000.
Fiscal year 2029:
(A) New budget authority, $29,191,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $28,223,000,000.
(10) Education, Training, Employment, and
Social Services (500):
Fiscal year 2020:
(A) New budget authority, $114,111,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $115,411,000,000.
Fiscal year 2021:
(A) New budget authority, $116,746,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $120,109,000,000.
Fiscal year 2022:
(A) New budget authority, $119,336,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $117,725,000,000.
Fiscal year 2023:
(A) New budget authority, $122,015,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $120,086,000,000.
Fiscal year 2024:
(A) New budget authority, $124,693,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $122,530,000,000.
Fiscal year 2025:
(A) New budget authority, $127,304,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $125,103,000,000.
Fiscal year 2026:
(A) New budget authority, $130,033,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $127,783,000,000.
Fiscal year 2027:
(A) New budget authority, $132,574,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $130,314,000,000.
Fiscal year 2028:
(A) New budget authority, $135,484,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $133,127,000,000.
Fiscal year 2029:
(A) New budget authority, $138,550,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $136,076,000,000.
(11) Health (550):
Fiscal year 2020:
(A) New budget authority, $624,400,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $597,917,000,000.
Fiscal year 2021:
(A) New budget authority, $638,246,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $622,941,000,000.
Fiscal year 2022:
(A) New budget authority, $677,706,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $660,299,000,000.
Fiscal year 2023:
(A) New budget authority, $711,178,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $695,326,000,000.
Fiscal year 2024:
(A) New budget authority, $736,047,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $731,341,000,000.
Fiscal year 2025:
(A) New budget authority, $774,777,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $769,951,000,000.
Fiscal year 2026:
(A) New budget authority, $813,804,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $808,349,000,000.
Fiscal year 2027:
(A) New budget authority, $855,542,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $850,228,000,000.
Fiscal year 2028:
(A) New budget authority, $894,335,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $894,981,000,000.
Fiscal year 2029:
(A) New budget authority, $941,126,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $942,572,000,000.
(12) Medicare (570):
Fiscal year 2020:
(A) New budget authority, $683,075,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $682,718,000,000.
Fiscal year 2021:
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:51 Apr 02, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00019 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A01AP6.030 S01APPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2124 April 1, 2019
(A) New budget authority, $733,198,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $732,807,000,000.
Fiscal year 2022:
(A) New budget authority, $825,700,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $825,361,000,000.
Fiscal year 2023:
(A) New budget authority, $850,252,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $849,915,000,000.
Fiscal year 2024:
(A) New budget authority, $869,004,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $868,664,000,000.
Fiscal year 2025:
(A) New budget authority, $973,963,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $973,620,000,000.
Fiscal year 2026:
(A) New budget authority, $1,043,148,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $1,042,805,000,000.
Fiscal year 2027:
(A) New budget authority, $1,118,278,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $1,117,931,000,000.
Fiscal year 2028:
(A) New budget authority, $1,269,113,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $1,268,762,000,000.
Fiscal year 2029:
(A) New budget authority, $1,242,799,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $1,242,458,000,000.
(13) Income Security (600):
Fiscal year 2020:
(A) New budget authority, $536,754,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $528,175,000,000.
Fiscal year 2021:
(A) New budget authority, $555,807,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $547,974,000,000.
Fiscal year 2022:
(A) New budget authority, $579,324,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $577,308,000,000.
Fiscal year 2023:
(A) New budget authority, $588,842,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $582,117,000,000.
Fiscal year 2024:
(A) New budget authority, $596,372,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $584,513,000,000.
Fiscal year 2025:
(A) New budget authority, $615,018,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $605,635,000,000.
Fiscal year 2026:
(A) New budget authority, $628,864,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $623,161,000,000.
Fiscal year 2027:
(A) New budget authority, $631,333,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $622,577,000,000.
Fiscal year 2028:
(A) New budget authority, $652,079,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $648,768,000,000.
Fiscal year 2029:
(A) New budget authority, $655,108,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $639,484,000,000.
(14) Social Security (650):
Fiscal year 2020:
(A) New budget authority, $39,252,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $39,252,000,000.
Fiscal year 2021:
(A) New budget authority, $42,275,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $42,275,000,000.
Fiscal year 2022:
(A) New budget authority, $45,349,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $45,349,000,000.
Fiscal year 2023:
(A) New budget authority, $48,517,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $48,517,000,000.
Fiscal year 2024:
(A) New budget authority, $51,914,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $51,914,000,000.
Fiscal year 2025:
(A) New budget authority, $55,547,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $55,547,000,000.
Fiscal year 2026:
(A) New budget authority, $65,711,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $65,711,000,000.
Fiscal year 2027:
(A) New budget authority, $71,947,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $71,947,000,000.
Fiscal year 2028:
(A) New budget authority, $76,840,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $76,840,000,000.
Fiscal year 2029:
(A) New budget authority, $82,171,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $82,171,000,000.
(15) Veterans Benefits and Services (700):
Fiscal year 2020:
(A) New budget authority, $211,307,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $209,974,000,000.
Fiscal year 2021:
(A) New budget authority, $217,876,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $214,591,000,000.
Fiscal year 2022:
(A) New budget authority, $226,099,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $232,749,000,000.
Fiscal year 2023:
(A) New budget authority, $232,881,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $230,898,000,000.
Fiscal year 2024:
(A) New budget authority, $239,684,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $228,030,000,000.
Fiscal year 2025:
(A) New budget authority, $248,365,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $246,141,000,000.
Fiscal year 2026:
(A) New budget authority, $256,350,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $254,064,000,000.
Fiscal year 2027:
(A) New budget authority, $264,501,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $262,148,000,000.
Fiscal year 2028:
(A) New budget authority, $273,906,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $282,774,000,000.
Fiscal year 2029:
(A) New budget authority, $281,933,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $268,025,000,000.
(16) Administration of Justice (750):
Fiscal year 2020:
(A) New budget authority, $73,088,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $67,142,000,000.
Fiscal year 2021:
(A) New budget authority, $66,977,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $70,595,000,000.
Fiscal year 2022:
(A) New budget authority, $68,811,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $72,425,000,000.
Fiscal year 2023:
(A) New budget authority, $70,786,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $73,619,000,000.
Fiscal year 2024:
(A) New budget authority, $72,611,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $73,749,000,000.
Fiscal year 2025:
(A) New budget authority, $74,406,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $74,275,000,000.
Fiscal year 2026:
(A) New budget authority, $76,003,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $75,343,000,000.
Fiscal year 2027:
(A) New budget authority, $78,139,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $77,359,000,000.
Fiscal year 2028:
(A) New budget authority, $86,642,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $85,778,000,000.
Fiscal year 2029:
(A) New budget authority, $89,698,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $88,892,000,000.
(17) General Government (800):
Fiscal year 2020:
(A) New budget authority, $25,517,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $25,207,000,000.
Fiscal year 2021:
(A) New budget authority, $26,047,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $25,515,000,000.
Fiscal year 2022:
(A) New budget authority, $27,373,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $26,905,000,000.
Fiscal year 2023:
(A) New budget authority, $27,429,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $26,929,000,000.
Fiscal year 2024:
(A) New budget authority, $27,887,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $27,440,000,000.
Fiscal year 2025:
(A) New budget authority, $28,929,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $28,411,000,000.
Fiscal year 2026:
(A) New budget authority, $29,383,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $28,847,000,000.
Fiscal year 2027:
(A) New budget authority, $30,118,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $29,577,000,000.
Fiscal year 2028:
(A) New budget authority, $30,905,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $30,345,000,000.
Fiscal year 2029:
(A) New budget authority, $31,722,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $31,153,000,000.
(18) Net Interest (900):
Fiscal year 2020:
(A) New budget authority, $535,750,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $535,750,000,000.
Fiscal year 2021:
(A) New budget authority, $589,700,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $589,700,000,000.
Fiscal year 2022:
(A) New budget authority, $640,420,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $640,420,000,000.
Fiscal year 2023:
(A) New budget authority, $689,320,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $689,320,000,000.
Fiscal year 2024:
(A) New budget authority, $728,620,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $728,620,000,000.
Fiscal year 2025:
(A) New budget authority, $759,290,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $759,290,000,000.
Fiscal year 2026:
(A) New budget authority, $795,760,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $795,760,000,000.
Fiscal year 2027:
(A) New budget authority, $832,700,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $832,700,000,000.
Fiscal year 2028:
(A) New budget authority, $869,820,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $869,820,000,000.
Fiscal year 2029:
(A) New budget authority, $912,190,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $912,190,000,000.
(19) Allowances (920):
Fiscal year 2020:
(A) New budget authority, ¥$87,604,000,000.
(B) Outlays, ¥$47,899,000,000.
Fiscal year 2021:
(A) New budget authority, ¥$89,564,000,000.
(B) Outlays, ¥$71,157,000,000.
Fiscal year 2022:
(A) New budget authority, ¥$92,981,000,000.
(B) Outlays, ¥$82,881,000,000.
Fiscal year 2023:
(A) New budget authority, ¥$95,788,000,000.
(B) Outlays, ¥$88,923,000,000.
Fiscal year 2024:
(A) New budget authority, ¥$98,972,000,000.
(B) Outlays, ¥$93,652,000,000.
Fiscal year 2025:
(A) New budget authority,
¥$101,562,000,000.
(B) Outlays, ¥$97,203,000,000.
Fiscal year 2026:
(A) New budget authority,
¥$103,831,000,000.
(B) Outlays, ¥$100,102,000,000.
Fiscal year 2027:
(A) New budget authority,
¥$105,944,000,000.
(B) Outlays, ¥$102,587,000,000.
Fiscal year 2028:
(A) New budget authority,
¥$103,497,000,000.
(B) Outlays, ¥$102,900,000,000.
Fiscal year 2029:
(A) New budget authority,
¥$107,440,000,000.
(B) Outlays, ¥$105,545,000,000.
(20) New Efficiencies, Consolidations, and
Other Savings (930):
Fiscal year 2020:
(A) New budget authority,
¥$239,000,000,000.
(B) Outlays, ¥$179,460,000,000.
Fiscal year 2021:
(A) New budget authority,
¥$471,000,000,000.
(B) Outlays, ¥$401,450,000,000.
Fiscal year 2022:
(A) New budget authority,
¥$812,000,000,000.
(B) Outlays, ¥$712,640,000,000.
Fiscal year 2023:
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:51 Apr 02, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00020 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A01AP6.030 S01APPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2125
April 1, 2019
(A) New budget authority,
¥$960,000,000,000.
(B) Outlays, ¥$901,580,000,000.
Fiscal year 2024:
(A) New budget authority,
¥$1,135,000,000,000.
(B) Outlays, ¥$1,075,670,000,000.
Fiscal year 2025:
(A) New budget authority,
¥$1,435,000,000,000.
(B) Outlays, ¥$1,341,590,000,000.
Fiscal year 2026:
(A) New budget authority,
¥$1,677,000,000,000.
(B) Outlays, ¥$1,590,510,000,000.
Fiscal year 2027:
(A) New budget authority,
¥$1,897,000,000,000.
(B) Outlays, ¥$1,815,670,000,000.
Fiscal year 2028:
(A) New budget authority,
¥$2,306,000,000,000.
(B) Outlays, ¥$2,176,000,000,000.
Fiscal year 2029:
(A) New budget authority,
¥$2,310,000,000,000.
(B) Outlays, ¥$2,269,700,000,000.
(21) Undistributed Offsetting Receipts (950):
Fiscal year 2020:
(A) New budget authority, ¥$85,259,000,000.
(B) Outlays, ¥$85,259,000,000.
Fiscal year 2021:
(A) New budget authority, ¥$89,609,000,000.
(B) Outlays, ¥$89,609,000,000.
Fiscal year 2022:
(A) New budget authority, ¥$88,414,000,000.
(B) Outlays, ¥$88,414,000,000.
Fiscal year 2023:
(A) New budget authority, ¥$89,499,000,000.
(B) Outlays, ¥$89,499,000,000.
Fiscal year 2024:
(A) New budget authority, ¥$92,055,000,000.
(B) Outlays, ¥$92,055,000,000.
Fiscal year 2025:
(A) New budget authority,
¥$106,921,000,000.
(B) Outlays, ¥$106,921,000,000.
Fiscal year 2026:
(A) New budget authority, ¥$96,998,000,000.
(B) Outlays, ¥$96,998,000,000.
Fiscal year 2027:
(A) New budget authority, ¥$99,668,000,000.
(B) Outlays, ¥$99,668,000,000.
Fiscal year 2028:
(A) New budget authority,
¥$103,281,000,000.
(B) Outlays, ¥$103,281,000,000.
Fiscal year 2029:
(A) New budget authority,
¥$106,617,000,000.
(B) Outlays, ¥$106,617,000,000.
(22) Overseas Contingency Operations (970):
Fiscal year 2020:
(A) New budget authority, $82,746,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $64,053,000,000.
Fiscal year 2021:
(A) New budget authority, $0.
(B) Outlays, $0.
Fiscal year 2022:
(A) New budget authority, $0.
(B) Outlays, $0.
Fiscal year 2023:
(A) New budget authority, $0.
(B) Outlays, $0.
Fiscal year 2024:
(A) New budget authority, $0.
(B) Outlays, $0.
Fiscal year 2025:
(A) New budget authority, $0.
(B) Outlays, $0.
Fiscal year 2026:
(A) New budget authority, $0.
(B) Outlays, $0.
Fiscal year 2027:
(A) New budget authority, $0.
(B) Outlays, $0.
Fiscal year 2028:
(A) New budget authority, $0.
(B) Outlays, $0.
Fiscal year 2029:
(A) New budget authority, $0.
(B) Outlays, $0.
Subtitle B—Levels and Amounts in the
Senate
SEC. 2201. SOCIAL SECURITY IN THE SENATE.
(a) SOCIAL SECURITY REVENUES.—For pur-
poses of Senate enforcement under sections
302 and 311 of the Congressional Budget Act
of 1974 (2 U.S.C. 633 and 642), the amounts of
revenues of the Federal Old-Age and Sur-
vivors Insurance Trust Fund and the Federal
Disability Insurance Trust Fund are as fol-
lows:
Fiscal year 2020: $940,000,000,000.
Fiscal year 2021: $978,000,000,000.
Fiscal year 2022: $1,015,000,000,000.
Fiscal year 2023: $1,055,000,000,000.
Fiscal year 2024: $1,098,000,000,000.
Fiscal year 2025: $1,141,000,000,000.
Fiscal year 2026: $1,185,000,000,000.
Fiscal year 2027: $1,231,000,000,000.
Fiscal year 2028: $1,278,000,000,000.
Fiscal year 2029: $1,327,000,000,000.
(b) SOCIAL SECURITY OUTLAYS.—For pur-
poses of Senate enforcement under sections
302 and 311 of the Congressional Budget Act
of 1974 (2 U.S.C. 633 and 642), the amounts of
outlays of the Federal Old-Age and Survivors
Insurance Trust Fund and the Federal Dis-
ability Insurance Trust Fund are as follows:
Fiscal year 2020: $1,107,796,000,000.
Fiscal year 2021: $1,176,968,000,000.
Fiscal year 2022: $1,253,750,000,000.
Fiscal year 2023: $1,329,595,000,000.
Fiscal year 2024: $1,410,044,000,000.
Fiscal year 2025: $1,494,431,000,000.
Fiscal year 2026: $1,581,141,000,000.
Fiscal year 2027: $1,671,643,000,000.
Fiscal year 2028: $1,766,797,000,000.
Fiscal year 2029: $1,864,475,000,000.
(c) SOCIAL SECURITY ADMINISTRATIVE EX-
PENSES.—In the Senate, the amounts of new
budget authority and budget outlays of the
Federal Old-Age and Survivors Insurance
Trust Fund and the Federal Disability Insur-
ance Trust Fund for administrative expenses
are as follows:
Fiscal year 2020:
(A) New budget authority, $6,253,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $6,078,000,000.
Fiscal year 2021:
(A) New budget authority, $6,458,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $6,289,000,000.
Fiscal year 2022:
(A) New budget authority, $6,665,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $6,611,000,000.
Fiscal year 2023:
(A) New budget authority, $6,870,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $6,816,000,000.
Fiscal year 2024:
(A) New budget authority, $7,083,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $7,027,000,000.
Fiscal year 2025:
(A) New budget authority, $7,300,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $7,244,000,000.
Fiscal year 2026:
(A) New budget authority, $7,519,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $7,462,000,000.
Fiscal year 2027:
(A) New budget authority, $7,741,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $7,683,000,000.
Fiscal year 2028:
(A) New budget authority, $7,980,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $7,918,000,000.
Fiscal year 2029:
(A) New budget authority, $8,220,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $8,156,000,000.
SEC. 2202. POSTAL SERVICE DISCRETIONARY AD-
MINISTRATIVE EXPENSES IN THE
SENATE.
In the Senate, the amounts of new budget
authority and budget outlays of the Postal
Service for discretionary administrative ex-
penses are as follows:
Fiscal year 2020:
(A) New budget authority, $33,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $329,000,000.
Fiscal year 2021:
(A) New budget authority, $341,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $341,000,000.
Fiscal year 2022:
(A) New budget authority, $354,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $354,000,000.
Fiscal year 2023:
(A) New budget authority, $365,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $365,000,000.
Fiscal year 2024:
(A) New budget authority, $377,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $377,000,000.
Fiscal year 2025:
(A) New budget authority, $39,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $389,000,000.
Fiscal year 2026:
(A) New budget authority, $402,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $402,000,000.
Fiscal year 2027:
(A) New budget authority, $415,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $414,000,000.
Fiscal year 2028:
(A) New budget authority, $429,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $428,000,000.
Fiscal year 2029:
(A) New budget authority, $443,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $442,000,000.
TITLE III—RECONCILIATION
SEC. 3001. RECONCILIATION IN THE SENATE.
(a) AGRICULTURE, NUTRITION, AND FOR-
ESTRY.—The Committee on Agriculture, Nu-
trition, and Forestry of the Senate shall re-
port changes in laws within its jurisdiction
to reduce the deficit by not less than
$1,000,000,000 for the period of fiscal years
2020 through 2029.
(b) ARMED SERVICES.—The Committee on
Armed Services of the Senate shall report
changes in laws within its jurisdiction to re-
duce the deficit by not less than $1,000,000,000
for the period of fiscal years 2020 through
2029.
(c) COMMITTEE ON BANKING, HOUSING, AND
URBAN AFFAIRS.—The Committee on Bank-
ing, Housing, and Urban Affairs of the Sen-
ate shall report changes in laws within its
jurisdiction to reduce the deficit by not less
than $1,000,000,000 for the period of fiscal
years 2020 through 2029.
(d) ENERGY AND NATURAL RESOURCES.—The
Committee on Energy and Natural Resources
of the Senate shall report changes in laws
within its jurisdiction to reduce the deficit
by not less than $1,000,000,000 for the period
of fiscal years 2020 through 2029.
(e) FINANCE.—The Committee on Finance
of the Senate shall report changes in laws
within its jurisdiction—
(1) to reduce the deficit by not less than
$1,000,000,000 for the period of fiscal years
2020 through 2029; and
(2) to reduce revenues by not less than
$631,000,000,000 for the period of fiscal years
2020 through 2029.
(f) HEALTH, EDUCATION, LABOR, AND PEN-
SIONS.—The Committee on Health, Edu-
cation, Labor, and Pensions of the Senate
shall report changes in laws within its juris-
diction to reduce the deficit by not less than
$1,000,000,000 for the period of fiscal years
2020 through 2029.
(g) HOMELAND SECURITY AND GOVERN-
MENTAL AFFAIRS.—The Committee on Home-
land Security and Governmental Affairs of
the Senate shall report changes in laws with-
in its jurisdiction to reduce the deficit by
not less than $1,000,000,000 for the period of
fiscal years 2020 through 2029.
(h) VETERANS AFFAIRS.—The Committee on
Veterans Affairs of the Senate shall report
changes in laws within its jurisdiction to re-
duce the deficit by not less than $1,000,000,000
for the period of fiscal years 2020 through
2029.
(i) SUBMISSIONS.—In the Senate, not later
than August 1, 2019, the committees named
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:51 Apr 02, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00021 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A01AP6.030 S01APPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2126 April 1, 2019
in subsections (a) through (h) shall submit
their recommendations to the Committee on
the Budget of the Senate. Upon receiving
such recommendations, the Committee on
the Budget of the Senate shall report to the
Senate a reconciliation bill carrying out all
such recommendations without any sub-
stantive revision.
TITLE IV—RESERVE FUNDS
SEC. 4001. DEFICIT REDUCTION FUND FOR EFFI-
CIENCIES, CONSOLIDATIONS, AND
OTHER SAVINGS.
The Chairman of the Committee on the
Budget of the Senate may revise the alloca-
tions of a committee or committees, aggre-
gates, and other appropriate levels in this
resolution, and make adjustments to the
pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or more bills,
joint resolutions, amendments, amendments
between the Houses, motions, or conference
reports relating to efficiencies, consolida-
tions, and other savings by the amounts pro-
vided in such legislation for those purposes,
provided that such legislation would reduce
the deficit over the period of the total of fis-
cal years 2020 through 2024 and the period of
the total of fiscal years 2020 through 2029.
SEC. 4002. RESERVE FUND RELATING TO HEALTH
SAVINGS ACCOUNTS.
The Chairman of the Committee on the
Budget of the Senate may revise the alloca-
tions of a committee or committees, aggre-
gates, and other appropriate levels in this
resolution, and make adjustments to the
pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or more bills,
joint resolutions, amendments, amendments
between the Houses, motions, or conference
reports relating to health savings accounts
by the amounts provided in such legislation
for those purposes.
TITLE V—BUDGET PROCESS
SEC. 5001. VOTING THRESHOLD FOR POINTS OF
ORDER.
(a) DEFINITION.—In this section, the term
‘‘covered point of order’’ means a point of
order—
(1) under the Congressional Budget Act of
1974 (2 U.S.C. 621 et seq.), the Balanced Budg-
et and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985
(2 U.S.C. 900 et seq.), or a concurrent resolu-
tion on the budget; and
(2) which, but for subsection (b), may be
waived only by the affirmative vote of three-
fifths of the Members of the Senate, duly
chosen and sworn.
(b) VOTING THRESHOLD.—In the Senate—
(1) a covered point of order may be waived
only by the affirmative vote of five-eighths
of the Members, duly chosen and sworn; and
(2) an affirmative vote of five-eighths of
the Members, duly chosen and sworn, shall
be required to sustain an appeal of the ruling
of the Chair on a covered point of order.
SEC. 5002. EMERGENCY LEGISLATION.
(a) AUTHORITY TO DESIGNATE.—In the Sen-
ate, with respect to a provision of direct
spending or receipts legislation or appropria-
tions for discretionary accounts that Con-
gress designates as an emergency require-
ment, by an affirmative vote of five-eighths
of the Members, duly chosen and sworn, in
such measure, the amounts of new budget
authority, outlays, and receipts in all fiscal
years resulting from that provision shall be
treated as an emergency requirement for the
purpose of this section.
(b) EXEMPTION OF EMERGENCY PROVI-
SIONS.—Any new budget authority, outlays,
and receipts resulting from any provision
designated as an emergency requirement,
pursuant to this section, in any bill, joint
resolution, amendment, amendment between
the Houses, or conference report shall not
count for purposes of sections 302 and 311 of
the Congressional Budget Act of 1974 (2
U.S.C. 633 and 642), section 4106 of H. Con.
Res. 71 (115th Congress), the concurrent reso-
lution on the budget for fiscal year 2018, sec-
tion 3101 of S. Con. Res. 11 (114th Congress),
the concurrent resolution on the budget for
fiscal year 2016, and sections 401 and 404 of S.
Con. Res. 13 (111th Congress), the concurrent
resolution on the budget for fiscal year 2010.
Designated emergency provisions shall not
count for the purpose of revising allocations,
aggregates, or other levels pursuant to pro-
cedures established under section 301(b)(7) of
the Congressional Budget Act of 1974 (2
U.S.C. 632(b)(7)) for deficit-neutral reserve
funds and revising discretionary spending
limits set pursuant to section 301 of S. Con.
Res. 13 (111th Congress), the concurrent reso-
lution on the budget for fiscal year 2010.
(c) DESIGNATIONS.—If a provision of legisla-
tion is designated as an emergency require-
ment under this section, the committee re-
port and any statement of managers accom-
panying that legislation shall include an ex-
planation of the manner in which the provi-
sion meets the criteria in subsection (f).
(d) DEFINITIONS.—In this section, the terms
‘‘direct spending’’, ‘‘receipts’’, and ‘‘appro-
priations for discretionary accounts’’ mean
any provision of a bill, joint resolution,
amendment, motion, amendment between
the Houses, or conference report that affects
direct spending, receipts, or appropriations
as those terms have been defined and inter-
preted for purposes of the Balanced Budget
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 (2
U.S.C. 900 et seq.).
(e) POINT OF ORDER.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—When the Senate is con-
sidering a bill, resolution, amendment, mo-
tion, amendment between the Houses, or
conference report, if a point of order is made
by a Senator against an emergency designa-
tion in that measure, that provision making
such a designation shall be stricken from the
measure and may not be offered as an
amendment from the floor.
(2) SUPERMAJORITY WAIVER AND APPEALS.—
(A) WAIVER.—Paragraph (1) may be waived
or suspended in the Senate only by an af-
firmative vote of five-eighths of the Mem-
bers, duly chosen and sworn.
(B) APPEALS.—Appeals in the Senate from
the decisions of the Chair relating to any
provision of this subsection shall be limited
to 1 hour, to be equally divided between, and
controlled by, the appellant and the manager
of the bill or joint resolution, as the case
may be. An affirmative vote of five-eighths
of the Members of the Senate, duly chosen
and sworn, shall be required to sustain an ap-
peal of the ruling of the Chair on a point of
order raised under this subsection.
(3) DEFINITION OF AN EMERGENCY DESIGNA-
TION.—For purposes of paragraph (1), a provi-
sion shall be considered an emergency des-
ignation if it designates any item as an
emergency requirement pursuant to this sub-
section.
(4) FORM OF THE POINT OF ORDER.—A point
of order under paragraph (1) may be raised
by a Senator as provided in section 313(e) of
the Congressional Budget Act of 1974 (2
U.S.C. 644(e)).
(5) CONFERENCE REPORTS.—When the Sen-
ate is considering a conference report on, or
an amendment between the Houses in rela-
tion to, a bill, upon a point of order being
made by any Senator pursuant to this sec-
tion, and such point of order being sustained,
such material contained in such conference
report shall be stricken, and the Senate shall
proceed to consider the question of whether
the Senate shall recede from its amendment
and concur with a further amendment, or
concur in the House amendment with a fur-
ther amendment, as the case may be, which
further amendment shall consist of only that
portion of the conference report or House
amendment, as the case may be, not so
stricken. Any such motion in the Senate
shall be debatable. In any case in which such
point of order is sustained against a con-
ference report (or Senate amendment derived
from such conference report by operation of
this subsection), no further amendment shall
be in order.
(f) CRITERIA.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—For purposes of this sec-
tion, any provision is an emergency require-
ment if the situation addressed by such pro-
vision is—
(A) necessary, essential, or vital (not mere-
ly useful or beneficial);
(B) sudden, quickly coming into being, and
not building up over time;
(C) an urgent, pressing, and compelling
need requiring immediate action;
(D) subject to paragraph (2), unforeseen,
unpredictable, and unanticipated; and
(E) not permanent, temporary in nature.
(2) UNFORESEEN.—An emergency that is
part of an aggregate level of anticipated
emergencies, particularly when normally es-
timated in advance, is not unforeseen.
(g) INAPPLICABILITY.—In the Senate, sec-
tion 4112 of H. Con. Res. 71 (115th Congress),
the concurrent resolution on the budget for
fiscal year 2018, shall no longer apply.
SEC. 5003. ENFORCEMENT OF ALLOCATIONS, AG-
GREGATES, AND OTHER LEVELS.
(a) POINT OF ORDER.—During each of fiscal
years 2020 through 2029, it shall not be in
order in the Senate to consider any bill,
joint resolution, motion, amendment,
amendment between the Houses, or con-
ference report that would cause the amount
of new budget authority, outlays, or deficits
to be more than, or would cause the amount
of revenues to be less than, the amount set
forth under any allocation, aggregate, or
other level established under this resolution.
(b) WAIVER AND APPEAL.—Subsection (a)
may be waived or suspended in the Senate
only by an affirmative vote of five-eighths of
the Members, duly chosen and sworn. An af-
firmative vote of five-eighths of the Mem-
bers of the Senate, duly chosen and sworn,
shall be required to sustain an appeal of the
ruling of the Chair on a point of order raised
under subsection (a).
SEC. 5004. POINT OF ORDER AGAINST LEGISLA-
TION PROVIDING FUNDING WITHIN
MORE THAN 3 SUBALLOCATIONS
UNDER SECTION 302(b).
(a) POINT OF ORDER.—It shall not be in
order in the Senate to consider any bill,
joint resolution, motion, amendment,
amendment between the Houses, or con-
ference report that appropriates amounts
that are within more than 3 of the suballoca-
tions under section 302(b) of the Congres-
sional Budget Act of 1974 (2 U.S.C. 633(b)).
(b) WAIVER AND APPEAL.—Subsection (a)
may be waived or suspended in the Senate
only by an affirmative vote of five-eighths of
the Members, duly chosen and sworn. An af-
firmative vote of five-eighths of the Mem-
bers of the Senate, duly chosen and sworn,
shall be required to sustain an appeal of the
ruling of the Chair on a point of order raised
under subsection (a).
SEC. 5005. DUPLICATION DETERMINATIONS BY
THE CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OF-
FICE.
(a) DEFINITION.—In this section, the term
‘‘covered legislation’’ means a bill or resolu-
tion of a public character reported by any
committee of the Senate.
(b) DUPLICATION DETERMINATIONS BY THE
CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE.—Any esti-
mate provided by the Congressional Budget
Office under section 402 of the Congressional
Budget Act of 1974 (2 U.S.C. 653) for covered
legislation shall include an analysis that in-
cludes—
(1) a determination of whether the covered
legislation creates any new Federal program,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:51 Apr 02, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00022 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A01AP6.030 S01APPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2127
April 1, 2019
office, or initiative that would duplicate or
overlap with any existing Federal entity
with similar mission, purpose, goals, or ac-
tivities; and
(2) a listing of all such instances of dupli-
cation or overlapping created by the covered
legislation.
SEC. 5006. BREAKDOWN OF COST ESTIMATES BY
BUDGET FUNCTION.
Any cost estimate prepared by the Con-
gressional Budget Office shall specify the
percentage of the estimated cost that is
within each budget function.
SEC. 5007. SENSE OF THE SENATE ON TREAT-
MENT OF REDUCTION OF APPRO-
PRIATIONS LEVELS TO ACHIEVE
SAVINGS.
(a) FINDINGS.—Congress finds the fol-
lowing:
(1) H. Con. Res. 448 (96th Congress), the
concurrent resolution on the budget for fis-
cal year 1981, gave authorizing committees
reconciliation instructions which amounted
to approximately two-thirds of the savings
required under reconciliation.
(2) The language in H. Con. Res. 448 re-
sulted in a debate about how reconciling dis-
cretionary spending programs could be in
order given that authorizations of appropria-
tions for programs did not actually change
spending and the programs authorized would
be funded through later annual appropria-
tion. The staff of the Committee on the
Budget of the Senate and the counsel to the
Majority Leader advised that upon consulta-
tion with the Parliamentarian, the original
instructions on discretionary spending would
be out of order because of the phrase, ‘‘to
modify programs’’. This was seen as too
broad and programs could be modified with-
out resulting in changes to their future ap-
propriations.
(3) To rectify this violation, the Com-
mittee on the Budget of the Senate reported
S. Con. Res. 9 (97th Congress), revising the
congressional budget for the United States
Government for fiscal years 1981, 1982, and
1983, to include reconciliation, which revised
the language in the reconciliation instruc-
tions to change entitlement law and ‘‘to re-
port changes in laws within the jurisdiction
of that committee sufficient to reduce appro-
priations levels so as to achieve savings’’.
(4) This was understood to mean changes in
authorization language of discretionary pro-
grams would be permissible under reconcili-
ation procedures provided such changes in
law would have the result in affecting a
change in later outlays derived from future
appropriations. Further it was understood
that a change in authorization language that
caused a change in later outlays was consid-
ered to be a change in outlays for the pur-
pose of reconciliation.
(5) On April 2, 1981, the Senate voted 88 to
10 to approve S. Con. Res. 9 with the modi-
fied reconciliation language.
(b) SENSE OF THE SENATE.—It is the sense
of the Senate that committees reporting
changes in laws within the jurisdiction of
that committee sufficient to reduce appro-
priations levels so as to achieve savings shall
be considered to be changes in outlays for
the purpose of enforcing the prohibition on
extraneous matters in reconciliation bills.
SEC. 5008. PROHIBITION ON PREEMPTIVE WAIV-
ERS.
In the Senate, it shall not be in order to
move to waive or suspend a point of order
under the Congressional Budget Act of 1974 (2
U.S.C. 621 et seq.) or any concurrent resolu-
tion on the budget with respect to a bill,
joint resolution, motion, amendment,
amendment between the Houses, or con-
ference report unless the point of order has
been specifically raised by a Senator.
SEC. 5009. ADJUSTMENTS FOR LEGISLATION RE-
DUCING APPROPRIATIONS.
The Chairman of the Committee on the
Budget of the Senate may revise the alloca-
tions in effect under section 302(a) of the
Congressional Budget Act of 1974 (2 U.S.C.
633(a)) and the allocations of a committee or
committees, aggregates, and other appro-
priate levels in this resolution for any bill or
joint resolution considered pursuant to sec-
tion 3001 containing the recommendations of
one or more committees, or for one or more
amendments to, a conference report on, or
an amendment between the Houses in rela-
tion to such a bill or joint resolution, by the
amounts necessary to accommodate the re-
duction in the amount of discretionary ap-
propriations for a fiscal year caused by the
measure.
SEC. 5010. AUTHORITY.
Congress adopts this title under the au-
thority under section 301(b)(4) of the Con-
gressional Budget Act of 1974 (2 U.S.C.
632(b)(4)).
SEC. 5011. EXERCISE OF RULEMAKING POWERS.
Congress adopts the provisions of this
title—
(1) as an exercise of the rulemaking power
of the Senate, and as such they shall be con-
sidered as part of the rules of the Senate and
such rules shall supersede other rules only to
the extent that they are inconsistent with
such other rules; and
(2) with full recognition of the constitu-
tional right of the Senate to change those
rules at any time, in the same manner, and
to the same extent as is the case of any other
rule of the Senate.
f
SENATE CONCURRENT RESOLU-
TION 12—SETTING FORTH THE
CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET FOR
THE UNITED STATES GOVERN-
MENT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2020
AND SETTING FORTH THE AP-
PROPRIATE BUDGETARY LEVELS
FOR FISCAL YEARS 2021
THROUGH 2024
Mr. ENZI from the Committee on the
Budget; submitted the following con-
current resolution; which was placed
on the calendar:
S. CON. RES. 12
Resolved by the Senate (the House of Rep-
resentatives concurring),
SECTION 1. CONCURRENT RESOLUTION ON THE
BUDGET FOR FISCAL YEAR 2020.
(a) DECLARATION.—Congress declares that
this resolution is the concurrent resolution
on the budget for fiscal year 2020 and that
this resolution sets forth the appropriate
budgetary levels for fiscal years 2021 through
2024.
(b) TABLE OF CONTENTS.—The table of con-
tents for this concurrent resolution is as fol-
lows:
Sec. 1. Concurrent resolution on the budget
for fiscal year 2020.
TITLE I—RECOMMENDED LEVELS AND
AMOUNTS
Sec. 1001. Recommended levels and amounts.
Sec. 1002. Major functional categories.
Sec. 1003. Social Security in the Senate.
Sec. 1004. Postal Service discretionary ad-
ministrative expenses in the
Senate.
TITLE II—RECONCILIATION
Sec. 2001. Reconciliation in the Senate.
TITLE III—RESERVE FUNDS
Sec. 3001. Deficit-neutral reserve fund for
legislation modifying statutory
discretionary caps.
Sec. 3002. Deficit-neutral reserve fund to
promote American energy and
natural resources.
Sec. 3003. Deficit-neutral reserve fund for
public lands and the environ-
ment.
Sec. 3004. Deficit-neutral reserve fund for
American agriculture.
Sec. 3005. Deficit-neutral reserve fund to
strengthen American families.
Sec. 3006. Deficit-neutral reserve fund to
strengthen American commu-
nities.
Sec. 3007. Deficit-neutral reserve fund to
promote innovation in edu-
cation.
Sec. 3008. Deficit-neutral reserve fund to
promote economic growth and
prosperity for American work-
ers.
Sec. 3009. Deficit-neutral reserve fund to
promote economic opportunity
and self-sufficiency.
Sec. 3010. Deficit-neutral reserve fund for
Federal banking, insurance, or
housing finance programs.
Sec. 3011. Deficit-neutral reserve fund to im-
prove tax administration.
Sec. 3012. Deficit-neutral reserve fund to im-
prove Americans’ health care
options.
Sec. 3013. Deficit-neutral reserve fund to
protect Medicaid and Medicare.
Sec. 3014. Deficit-neutral reserve fund to re-
store American military power.
Sec. 3015. Deficit-neutral reserve fund to im-
prove cybersecurity.
Sec. 3016. Deficit-neutral reserve fund for
veterans and service members.
Sec. 3017. Deficit-neutral reserve fund for
border security and immigra-
tion.
Sec. 3018. Deficit-neutral reserve fund for
American transportation and
infrastructure.
Sec. 3019. Deficit-neutral reserve fund to
promote financial security.
Sec. 3020. Deficit-neutral reserve fund to
prevent a taxpayer bailout of
pension plans.
Sec. 3021. Deficit-neutral reserve fund for ef-
ficiencies, consolidations, curb-
ing budgetary gimmicks, and
other savings.
Sec. 3022. Deficit-neutral reserve fund for
legislation modifying statutory
budget controls.
Sec. 3023. Deficit-neutral reserve fund for re-
ducing fraud in taxpayer-funded
Government assistance pro-
grams.
Sec. 3024. Deficit-neutral reserve fund relat-
ing to Federal compensation.
Sec. 3025. Deficit-neutral reserve fund relat-
ing to pre-existing conditions
protections.
Sec. 3026. Deficit-neutral reserve fund relat-
ing to reforming the broken
congressional budget process.
Sec. 3027. Deficit-neutral reserve fund to im-
prove coordination and Federal
Government disaster response
and mitigation.
Sec. 3028. Deficit-neutral reserve fund to
provide continued tax relief for
family-owned businesses, farms,
and ranches.
Sec. 3029. Deficit-neutral reserve fund relat-
ing to supporting programs to
analyze the threats to installa-
tions of the Department of De-
fense due to extreme storms,
wildfire, droughts, rising sea
level, and other conditions.
Sec. 3030. Deficit-neutral reserve fund relat-
ing to improving the afford-
ability of rental housing for
low-income families.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:51 Apr 02, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00023 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0655 E:\CR\FM\A01AP6.030 S01APPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2128 April 1, 2019
Sec. 3031. Deficit-neutral reserve fund to im-
prove Federal flood control ef-
forts.
Sec. 3032. Deficit-neutral reserve fund relat-
ing to a clean audit opinion at
the Department of Defense.
Sec. 3033. Deficit-neutral reserve fund to
continue proven middle class
tax relief.
Sec. 3034. Deficit-neutral reserve fund to
support servicemembers’ access
to safe housing.
Sec. 3035. Deficit-neutral reserve fund to
provide the Department of
Homeland Security with the
necessary resources to protect
migrant children and families.
Sec. 3036. Deficit-neutral reserve fund relat-
ing to reducing prescription
drug costs for Americans.
Sec. 3037. Deficit-neutral reserve fund to
allow program integrity fund-
ing for targeted denial reviews.
TITLE IV—BUDGET PROCESS
Subtitle A—Budget Enforcement
Sec. 4101. Point of order against advance ap-
propriations in the Senate.
Sec. 4102. Point of order against changes in
mandatory programs.
Sec. 4103. Honest accounting: cost estimates
for major legislation to incor-
porate macroeconomic effects.
Sec. 4104. Adjustment authority for amend-
ments to statutory caps.
Sec. 4105. Point of order against certain leg-
islation related to surface
transportation funding.
Sec. 4106. Surgical strike point of order in
the Senate against directing
budgetary treatment.
Sec. 4107. Point of order against designation
of funds for Overseas Contin-
gency Operations/Global War on
Terrorism.
Subtitle B—Other Provisions
Sec. 4201. Budgetary treatment of certain
discretionary administrative
expenses.
Sec. 4202. Application and effect of changes
in allocations and aggregates.
Sec. 4203. Adjustments to reflect changes in
concepts and definitions.
Sec. 4204. Exercise of rulemaking powers.
TITLE I—RECOMMENDED LEVELS AND
AMOUNTS
SEC. 1001. RECOMMENDED LEVELS AND
AMOUNTS.
The following budgetary levels are appro-
priate for each of fiscal years 2020 through
2024:
(1) FEDERAL REVENUES.—For purposes of
the enforcement of this resolution:
(A) The recommended levels of Federal
revenues are as follows:
Fiscal year 2020: $2,761,633,000,000.
Fiscal year 2021: $2,891,558,000,000.
Fiscal year 2022: $3,033,552,000,000.
Fiscal year 2023: $3,196,633,000,000.
Fiscal year 2024: $3,401,278,000,000.
(B) The amounts by which the aggregate
levels of Federal revenues should be changed
are as follows:
Fiscal year 2020: $16,213,000,000.
Fiscal year 2021: $29,104,000,000.
Fiscal year 2022: $36,495,000,000.
Fiscal year 2023: $43,833,000,000.
Fiscal year 2024: $50,844,000,000.
(2) NEW BUDGET AUTHORITY.—For purposes
of the enforcement of this resolution, the ap-
propriate levels of total new budget author-
ity are as follows:
Fiscal year 2020: $3,588,211,000,000.
Fiscal year 2021: $3,720,114,000,000.
Fiscal year 2022: $3,870,878,000,000.
Fiscal year 2023: $3,958,315,000,000.
Fiscal year 2024: $4,018,079,000,000.
(3) BUDGET OUTLAYS.—For purposes of the
enforcement of this resolution, the appro-
priate levels of total budget outlays are as
follows:
Fiscal year 2020: $3,595,894,000,000.
Fiscal year 2021: $3,711,295,000,000.
Fiscal year 2022: $3,879,799,000,000.
Fiscal year 2023: $3,936,726,000,000.
Fiscal year 2024: $3,982,549,000,000.
(4) DEFICITS.—For purposes of the enforce-
ment of this resolution, the amounts of the
deficits are as follows:
Fiscal year 2020: $834,261,000,000.
Fiscal year 2021: $819,737,000,000.
Fiscal year 2022: $846,247,000,000.
Fiscal year 2023: $740,093,000,000.
Fiscal year 2024: $581,271,000,000.
(5) PUBLIC DEBT.—Pursuant to section
301(a)(5) of the Congressional Budget Act of
1974 (2 U.S.C. 632(a)(5)), the appropriate levels
of the public debt are as follows:
Fiscal year 2020: $23,497,927,000,000.
Fiscal year 2021: $24,477,491,000,000.
Fiscal year 2022: $25,451,182,000,000.
Fiscal year 2023: $26,346,711,000,000.
Fiscal year 2024: $27,102,434,000,000.
(6) DEBT HELD BY THE PUBLIC.—The appro-
priate levels of debt held by the public are as
follows:
Fiscal year 2020: $17,560,895,000,000.
Fiscal year 2021: $18,488,481,000,000.
Fiscal year 2022: $19,469,210,000,000.
Fiscal year 2023: $20,381,526,000,000.
Fiscal year 2024: $21,174,257,000,000.
SEC. 1002. MAJOR FUNCTIONAL CATEGORIES.
Congress determines and declares that the
appropriate levels of new budget authority
and outlays for fiscal years 2020 through 2024
for each major functional category are:
(1) National Defense (050):
Fiscal year 2020:
(A) New budget authority, $586,773,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $620,199,000,000.
Fiscal year 2021:
(A) New budget authority, $600,892,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $603,490,000,000.
Fiscal year 2022:
(A) New budget authority, $670,879,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $642,849,000,000.
Fiscal year 2023:
(A) New budget authority, $687,439,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $661,388,000,000.
Fiscal year 2024:
(A) New budget authority, $704,436,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $675,345,000,000.
(2) International Affairs (150):
Fiscal year 2020:
(A) New budget authority, $48,548,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $46,255,000,000.
Fiscal year 2021:
(A) New budget authority, $47,383,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $45,065,000,000.
Fiscal year 2022:
(A) New budget authority, $47,042,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $45,094,000,000.
Fiscal year 2023:
(A) New budget authority, $48,119,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $44,986,000,000.
Fiscal year 2024:
(A) New budget authority, $49,260,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $45,724,000,000.
(3) General Science, Space, and Technology
(250):
Fiscal year 2020:
(A) New budget authority, $35,256,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $34,360,000,000.
Fiscal year 2021:
(A) New budget authority, $36,041,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $35,602,000,000.
Fiscal year 2022:
(A) New budget authority, $36,839,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $36,250,000,000.
Fiscal year 2023:
(A) New budget authority, $37,664,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $36,901,000,000.
Fiscal year 2024:
(A) New budget authority, $38,526,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $37,702,000,000.
(4) Energy (270):
Fiscal year 2020:
(A) New budget authority, ¥$1,432,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $2,240,000,000.
Fiscal year 2021:
(A) New budget authority, $3,970,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $2,825,000,000.
Fiscal year 2022:
(A) New budget authority, $4,064,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $2,837,000,000.
Fiscal year 2023:
(A) New budget authority, $4,243,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $2,963,000,000.
Fiscal year 2024:
(A) New budget authority, $4,399,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $3,134,000,000.
(5) Natural Resources and Environment
(300):
Fiscal year 2020:
(A) New budget authority, $45,196,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $46,587,000,000.
Fiscal year 2021:
(A) New budget authority, $46,496,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $47,565,000,000.
Fiscal year 2022:
(A) New budget authority, $43,870,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $44,772,000,000.
Fiscal year 2023:
(A) New budget authority, $45,837,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $45,962,000,000.
Fiscal year 2024:
(A) New budget authority, $47,758,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $46,799,000,000.
(6) Agriculture (350):
Fiscal year 2020:
(A) New budget authority, $17,920,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $17,718,000,000.
Fiscal year 2021:
(A) New budget authority, $20,087,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $18,500,000,000.
Fiscal year 2022:
(A) New budget authority, $20,268,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $19,657,000,000.
Fiscal year 2023:
(A) New budget authority, $20,691,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $20,029,000,000.
Fiscal year 2024:
(A) New budget authority, $20,847,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $20,207,000,000.
(7) Commerce and Housing Credit (370):
Fiscal year 2020:
(A) New budget authority, $12,145,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $6,310,000,000.
Fiscal year 2021:
(A) New budget authority, $12,168,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $5,710,000,000.
Fiscal year 2022:
(A) New budget authority, $11,557,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $3,058,000,000.
Fiscal year 2023:
(A) New budget authority, $9,496,000,000.
(B) Outlays, ¥$236,000,000.
Fiscal year 2024:
(A) New budget authority, $1,838,000,000.
(B) Outlays, ¥$8,274,000,000.
(8) Transportation (400):
Fiscal year 2020:
(A) New budget authority, $97,801,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $98,176,000,000.
Fiscal year 2021:
(A) New budget authority, $98,427,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $101,565,000,000.
Fiscal year 2022:
(A) New budget authority, $99,063,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $104,738,000,000.
Fiscal year 2023:
(A) New budget authority, $99,698,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $106,700,000,000.
Fiscal year 2024:
(A) New budget authority, $100,337,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $108,211,000,000.
(9) Community and Regional Development
(450):
Fiscal year 2020:
(A) New budget authority, $26,555,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $28,161,000,000.
Fiscal year 2021:
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:51 Apr 02, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00024 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A01AP6.031 S01APPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2129
April 1, 2019
(A) New budget authority, $21,773,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $27,529,000,000.
Fiscal year 2022:
(A) New budget authority, $14,771,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $27,154,000,000.
Fiscal year 2023:
(A) New budget authority, $15,108,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $26,089,000,000.
Fiscal year 2024:
(A) New budget authority, $15,462,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $25,595,000,000.
(10) Education, Training, Employment, and
Social Services (500):
Fiscal year 2020:
(A) New budget authority, $104,559,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $112,432,000,000.
Fiscal year 2021:
(A) New budget authority, $111,171,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $111,614,000,000.
Fiscal year 2022:
(A) New budget authority, $111,897,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $105,567,000,000.
Fiscal year 2023:
(A) New budget authority, $112,662,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $111,276,000,000.
Fiscal year 2024:
(A) New budget authority, $113,342,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $112,057,000,000.
(11) Health (550):
Fiscal year 2020:
(A) New budget authority, $621,563,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $595,863,000,000.
Fiscal year 2021:
(A) New budget authority, $624,390,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $609,589,000,000.
Fiscal year 2022:
(A) New budget authority, $616,981,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $599,699,000,000.
Fiscal year 2023:
(A) New budget authority, $619,741,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $603,412,000,000.
Fiscal year 2024:
(A) New budget authority, $623,027,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $618,895,000,000.
(12) Medicare (570):
Fiscal year 2020:
(A) New budget authority, $682,599,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $682,385,000,000.
Fiscal year 2021:
(A) New budget authority, $725,899,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $725,586,000,000.
Fiscal year 2022:
(A) New budget authority, $810,776,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $810,472,000,000.
Fiscal year 2023:
(A) New budget authority, $826,603,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $826,278,000,000.
Fiscal year 2024:
(A) New budget authority, $835,529,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $835,202,000,000.
(13) Income Security (600):
Fiscal year 2020:
(A) New budget authority, $533,186,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $524,843,000,000.
Fiscal year 2021:
(A) New budget authority, $548,364,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $540,643,000,000.
Fiscal year 2022:
(A) New budget authority, $570,992,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $569,005,000,000.
Fiscal year 2023:
(A) New budget authority, $579,546,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $572,829,000,000.
Fiscal year 2024:
(A) New budget authority, $585,933,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $574,082,000,000.
(14) Social Security (650):
Fiscal year 2020:
(A) New budget authority, $39,252,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $39,252,000,000.
Fiscal year 2021:
(A) New budget authority, $42,275,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $42,275,000,000.
Fiscal year 2022:
(A) New budget authority, $45,349,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $45,349,000,000.
Fiscal year 2023:
(A) New budget authority, $48,517,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $48,517,000,000.
Fiscal year 2024:
(A) New budget authority, $51,914,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $51,914,000,000.
(15) Veterans Benefits and Services (700):
Fiscal year 2020:
(A) New budget authority, $211,192,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $209,859,000,000.
Fiscal year 2021:
(A) New budget authority, $217,571,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $214,286,000,000.
Fiscal year 2022:
(A) New budget authority, $225,575,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $232,222,000,000.
Fiscal year 2023:
(A) New budget authority, $232,135,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $230,152,000,000.
Fiscal year 2024:
(A) New budget authority, $238,779,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $227,128,000,000.
(16) Administration of Justice (750):
Fiscal year 2020:
(A) New budget authority, $71,333,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $65,758,000,000.
Fiscal year 2021:
(A) New budget authority, $65,954,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $69,242,000,000.
Fiscal year 2022:
(A) New budget authority, $67,740,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $71,273,000,000.
Fiscal year 2023:
(A) New budget authority, $69,638,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $72,468,000,000.
Fiscal year 2024:
(A) New budget authority, $71,369,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $72,506,000,000.
(17) General Government (800):
Fiscal year 2020:
(A) New budget authority, $25,491,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $25,205,000,000.
Fiscal year 2021:
(A) New budget authority, $26,023,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $25,515,000,000.
Fiscal year 2022:
(A) New budget authority, $27,350,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $26,905,000,000.
Fiscal year 2023:
(A) New budget authority, $27,407,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $26,929,000,000.
Fiscal year 2024:
(A) New budget authority, $27,866,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $27,438,000,000.
(18) Net Interest (900):
Fiscal year 2020:
(A) New budget authority, $538,701,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $538,701,000,000.
Fiscal year 2021:
(A) New budget authority, $596,977,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $596,977,000,000.
Fiscal year 2022:
(A) New budget authority, $651,037,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $651,037,000,000.
Fiscal year 2023:
(A) New budget authority, $697,296,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $697,296,000,000.
Fiscal year 2024:
(A) New budget authority, $731,580,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $731,580,000,000.
(19) Allowances (920):
Fiscal year 2020:
(A) New budget authority, ¥$90,168,000,000.
(B) Outlays, ¥$50,001,000,000.
Fiscal year 2021:
(A) New budget authority, ¥$99,138,000,000.
(B) Outlays, ¥$76,084,000,000.
Fiscal year 2022:
(A) New budget authority,
¥$116,758,000,000.
(B) Outlays, ¥$93,395,000,000.
Fiscal year 2023:
(A) New budget authority,
¥$134,026,000,000.
(B) Outlays, ¥$116,064,000,000.
Fiscal year 2024:
(A) New budget authority,
¥$152,068,000,000.
(B) Outlays, ¥$134,166,000,000.
(20) Undistributed Offsetting Receipts (950):
Fiscal year 2020:
(A) New budget authority, ¥$85,259,000,000.
(B) Outlays, ¥$85,259,000,000.
Fiscal year 2021:
(A) New budget authority, ¥$89,609,000,000.
(B) Outlays, ¥$89,609,000,000.
Fiscal year 2022:
(A) New budget authority, ¥$88,414,000,000.
(B) Outlays, ¥$88,414,000,000.
Fiscal year 2023:
(A) New budget authority, ¥$89,499,000,000.
(B) Outlays, ¥$89,499,000,000.
Fiscal year 2024:
(A) New budget authority, ¥$92,055,000,000.
(B) Outlays, ¥$92,055,000,000.
(21) Overseas Contingency Operations (970):
Fiscal year 2020:
(A) New budget authority, $67,000,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $36,850,000,000.
Fiscal year 2021:
(A) New budget authority, $63,000,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $53,410,000,000.
Fiscal year 2022:
(A) New budget authority, $0.
(B) Outlays, $23,670,000,000.
Fiscal year 2023:
(A) New budget authority, $0.
(B) Outlays, $8,350,000,000.
Fiscal year 2024:
(A) New budget authority, $0.
(B) Outlays, $3,525,000,000.
SEC. 1003. SOCIAL SECURITY IN THE SENATE.
(a) SOCIAL SECURITY REVENUES.—For pur-
poses of Senate enforcement under sections
302 and 311 of the Congressional Budget Act
of 1974 (2 U.S.C. 633 and 642), the amounts of
revenues of the Federal Old-Age and Sur-
vivors Insurance Trust Fund and the Federal
Disability Insurance Trust Fund are as fol-
lows:
Fiscal year 2020: $940,397,000,000.
Fiscal year 2021: $978,052,000,000.
Fiscal year 2022: $1,015,255,000,000.
Fiscal year 2023: $1,055,379,000,000.
Fiscal year 2024: $1,097,703,000,000.
(b) SOCIAL SECURITY OUTLAYS.—For pur-
poses of Senate enforcement under sections
302 and 311 of the Congressional Budget Act
of 1974 (2 U.S.C. 633 and 642), the amounts of
outlays of the Federal Old-Age and Survivors
Insurance Trust Fund and the Federal Dis-
ability Insurance Trust Fund are as follows:
Fiscal year 2020: $964,280,000,000.
Fiscal year 2021: $1,029,849,000,000.
Fiscal year 2022: $1,101,572,000,000.
Fiscal year 2023: $1,178,289,000,000.
Fiscal year 2024: $1,256,973,000,000.
(c) SOCIAL SECURITY ADMINISTRATIVE EX-
PENSES.—In the Senate, the amounts of new
budget authority and budget outlays of the
Federal Old-Age and Survivors Insurance
Trust Fund and the Federal Disability Insur-
ance Trust Fund for administrative expenses
are as follows:
Fiscal year 2020:
(A) New budget authority, $5,895,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $5,777,000,000.
Fiscal year 2021:
(A) New budget authority, $6,088,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $5,953,000,000.
Fiscal year 2022:
(A) New budget authority, $6,283,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $6,239,000,000.
Fiscal year 2023:
(A) New budget authority, $6,477,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $6,426,000,000.
Fiscal year 2024:
(A) New budget authority, $6,678,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $6,625,000,000.
SEC. 1004. POSTAL SERVICE DISCRETIONARY AD-
MINISTRATIVE EXPENSES IN THE
SENATE.
In the Senate, the amounts of new budget
authority and budget outlays of the Postal
Service for discretionary administrative ex-
penses are as follows:
Fiscal year 2020:
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:51 Apr 02, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00025 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A01AP6.031 S01APPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2130 April 1, 2019
(A) New budget authority, $271,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $270,000,000.
Fiscal year 2021:
(A) New budget authority, $281,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $281,000,000.
Fiscal year 2022:
(A) New budget authority, $292,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $292,000,000.
Fiscal year 2023:
(A) New budget authority, $302,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $302,000,000.
Fiscal year 2024:
(A) New budget authority, $313,000,000.
(B) Outlays, $313,000,000.
TITLE II—RECONCILIATION
SEC. 2001. RECONCILIATION IN THE SENATE.
(a) COMMITTEES.—
(1) COMMITTEE ON AGRICULTURE, NUTRITION,
AND FORESTRY.—The Committee on Agri-
culture, Nutrition, and Forestry of the Sen-
ate shall report changes in laws within its
jurisdiction that reduce the deficit by not
less than $9,000,000,000 for the period of fiscal
years 2020 through 2024.
(2) COMMITTEE ON BANKING, HOUSING, AND
URBAN AFFAIRS.—The Committee on Bank-
ing, Housing, and Urban Affairs of the Sen-
ate shall report changes in laws within its
jurisdiction that reduce the deficit by not
less than $10,000,000,000 for the period of fis-
cal years 2020 through 2024
(3) COMMITTEE ON FINANCE.—The Com-
mittee on Finance of the Senate shall report
changes in laws within its jurisdiction that
reduce the deficit by not less than
$50,000,000,000 for the period of fiscal years
2020 through 2024.
(4) COMMITTEE ON HEALTH, EDUCATION,
LABOR, AND PENSIONS.—The Committee on
Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions of
the Senate shall report changes in laws with-
in its jurisdiction that reduce the deficit by
not less than $10,000,000,000 for the period of
fiscal years 2020 through 2024.
(5) COMMITTEE ON HOMELAND SECURITY AND
GOVERNMENTAL AFFAIRS.—The Committee on
Homeland Security and Governmental Af-
fairs of the Senate shall report changes in
laws within its jurisdiction that reduce the
deficit by not less than $15,000,000,000 for the
period of fiscal years 2020 through 2024.
(b) SUBMISSIONS.—In the Senate, not later
than July 31, 2019, the Committees named in
subsection (a) shall submit their rec-
ommendations to the Committee on the
Budget of the Senate. Upon receiving such
recommendations, the Committee on the
Budget of the Senate shall report to the Sen-
ate a reconciliation bill carrying out all such
recommendations without any substantive
revision.
TITLE III—RESERVE FUNDS
SEC. 3001. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND
FOR LEGISLATION MODIFYING STAT-
UTORY DISCRETIONARY CAPS.
The Chairman of the Committee on the
Budget of the Senate may revise the alloca-
tions of a committee or committees, aggre-
gates, and other appropriate levels in this
resolution, and make adjustments to the
pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or more bills,
joint resolutions, amendments, amendments
between the Houses, motions, or conference
reports relating to adjustments to the dis-
cretionary spending limits imposed by the
Budget Control Act of 2011 (Public Law 112–
25; 125 Stat. 240), by the amounts provided in
such legislation for those purposes, provided
that such legislation would not increase the
deficit over the period of the total of fiscal
years 2020 through 2029.
SEC. 3002. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND TO
PROMOTE AMERICAN ENERGY AND
NATURAL RESOURCES.
The Chairman of the Committee on the
Budget of the Senate may revise the alloca-
tions of a committee or committees, aggre-
gates, and other appropriate levels in this
resolution, and make adjustments to the
pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or more bills,
joint resolutions, amendments, amendments
between the Houses, motions, or conference
reports relating to American energy and nat-
ural resources policies, which may include—
(1) energy development and permitting;
(2) nuclear waste;
(3) State mineral royalty revenues; or
(4) soda ash royalties,
by the amounts provided in such legislation
for those purposes, provided that such legis-
lation would not increase the deficit over ei-
ther the period of the total of fiscal years
2020 through 2024 or the period of the total of
fiscal years 2020 through 2029.
SEC. 3003. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND
FOR PUBLIC LANDS AND THE ENVI-
RONMENT.
The Chairman of the Committee on the
Budget of the Senate may revise the alloca-
tions of a committee or committees, aggre-
gates, and other appropriate levels in this
resolution, and make adjustments to the
pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or more bills,
joint resolutions, amendments, amendments
between the Houses, motions, or conference
reports related to public lands and the envi-
ronment, which may include—
(1) protecting and managing wildlife and
species conservation and recovery;
(2) forest health and wildfire prevention
and control;
(3) resources for wildland firefighting for
the Forest Service and the Department of
the Interior;
(4) deferred maintenance backlogs at Fed-
eral land management agencies;
(5) the Payments in Lieu of Taxes program;
(6) the Secure Rural Schools and Commu-
nity Self-Determination program;
(7) restoring the Everglades;
(8) carbon capture, utilization, and seques-
tration; or
(9) advanced innovative nuclear tech-
nologies,
by the amounts provided in such legislation
for those purposes, provided that such legis-
lation would not increase the deficit over ei-
ther the period of the total of fiscal years
2020 through 2024 or the period of the total of
fiscal years 2020 through 2029.
SEC. 3004. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND
FOR AMERICAN AGRICULTURE.
The Chairman of the Committee on the
Budget of the Senate may revise the alloca-
tions of a committee or committees, aggre-
gates, and other appropriate levels in this
resolution, and make adjustments to the
pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or more bills,
joint resolutions, amendments, amendments
between the Houses, motions, or conference
reports relating to American agriculture,
which may include—
(1) grain standards, inspections, and weigh-
ing;
(2) mandatory price reporting for live-
stock; or
(3) the regulation of commodities and fu-
tures trading,
by the amounts provided in such legislation
for those purposes, provided that such legis-
lation would not increase the deficit over ei-
ther the period of the total of fiscal years
2020 through 2024 or the period of the total of
fiscal years 2020 through 2029.
SEC. 3005. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND TO
STRENGTHEN AMERICAN FAMILIES.
The Chairman of the Committee on the
Budget of the Senate may revise the alloca-
tions of a committee or committees, aggre-
gates, and other appropriate levels in this
resolution, and make adjustments to the
pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or more bills,
joint resolutions, amendments, amendments
between the Houses, motions, or conference
reports relating to strengthening American
families, which may include—
(1) addressing the opioid and substance
abuse crisis;
(2) improving child and maternal health;
(3) making child and dependent care more
affordable and useful for American families;
(4) child nutrition programs;
(5) foster care, marriage, and fatherhood
programs; or
(6) provide transitional supports to States
implementing the Family First Prevention
Services Act (title VII of division E of the
Bipartisan Budget Act of 2018 (Public Law
115–123; 132 Stat. 232)),
by the amounts provided in such legislation
for those purposes, provided that such legis-
lation would not increase the deficit over ei-
ther the period of the total of fiscal years
2020 through 2024 or the period of the total of
fiscal years 2020 through 2029.
SEC. 3006. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND TO
STRENGTHEN AMERICAN COMMU-
NITIES.
The Chairman of the Committee on the
Budget of the Senate may revise the alloca-
tions of a committee or committees, aggre-
gates, and other appropriate levels in this
resolution, and make adjustments to the
pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or more bills,
joint resolutions, amendments, amendments
between the Houses, motions, or conference
reports relating to strengthening American
communities, which may include—
(1) reforming the American public housing
system;
(2) combating violent crime;
(3) protecting and assisting survivors of do-
mestic abuse;
(4) ensuring long-term, stable access to
funding for victims of crime; or
(5) reforming the criminal justice system,
by the amounts provided in such legislation
for those purposes, provided that such legis-
lation would not increase the deficit over ei-
ther the period of the total of fiscal years
2020 through 2024 or the period of the total of
fiscal years 2020 through 2029.
SEC. 3007. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND TO
PROMOTE INNOVATION IN EDU-
CATION.
The Chairman of the Committee on the
Budget of the Senate may revise the alloca-
tions of a committee or committees, aggre-
gates, and other appropriate levels in this
resolution, and make adjustments to the
pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or more bills,
joint resolutions, amendments, amendments
between the Houses, motions, or conference
reports relating to promoting innovation in
education, which may include—
(1) higher education;
(2) education programs for students with
disabilities;
(3) ensuring State flexibility in education;
or
(4) consolidating and streamlining overlap-
ping early education and child care pro-
grams,
by the amounts provided in such legislation
for those purposes, provided that such legis-
lation would not increase the deficit over ei-
ther the period of the total of fiscal years
2020 through 2024 or the period of the total of
fiscal years 2020 through 2029.
SEC. 3008. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND TO
PROMOTE ECONOMIC GROWTH AND
PROSPERITY FOR AMERICAN WORK-
ERS.
The Chairman of the Committee on the
Budget of the Senate may revise the alloca-
tions of a committee or committees, aggre-
gates, and other appropriate levels in this
resolution, and make adjustments to the
pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or more bills,
joint resolutions, amendments, amendments
between the Houses, motions, or conference
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:51 Apr 02, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00026 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A01AP6.031 S01APPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2131
April 1, 2019
reports relating to promoting economic
growth and prosperity for American workers,
which may include—
(1) reducing the costs to businesses and in-
dividuals stemming from Federal regula-
tions;
(2) streamlining and enhancing outcomes
from Federal workforce development, job
training, and reemployment programs, such
as apprenticeship or certificate programs
that provide training for a new industry;
(3) increasing job creation, commerce, and
economic growth;
(4) increasing exports from the United
States;
(5) supporting robust intellectual property
protections; or
(6) as part of Federal tax reform, provide
continued tax relief to working families and
the middle class, such as through extension
of tax provisions of Public Law 115–97 (131
Stat. 2054),
by the amounts provided in such legislation
for those purposes, provided that such legis-
lation would not increase the deficit over ei-
ther the period of the total of fiscal years
2020 through 2024 or the period of the total of
fiscal years 2020 through 2029.
SEC. 3009. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND TO
PROMOTE ECONOMIC OPPORTUNITY
AND SELF-SUFFICIENCY.
The Chairman of the Committee on the
Budget of the Senate may revise the alloca-
tions of a committee or committees, aggre-
gates, and other appropriate levels in this
resolution, and make adjustments to the
pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or more bills,
joint resolutions, amendments, amendments
between the Houses, motions, or conference
reports relating to promoting economic op-
portunity and self-sufficiency, which may in-
clude—
(1) advancing policies that promote eco-
nomic opportunities for all Americans; or
(2) implementing work requirements in
means-tested welfare programs and pro-
moting self-sufficiency,
by the amounts provided in such legislation
for those purposes, provided that such legis-
lation would not increase the deficit over ei-
ther the period of the total of fiscal years
2020 through 2024 or the period of the total of
fiscal years 2020 through 2029.
SEC. 3010. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND
FOR FEDERAL BANKING, INSUR-
ANCE, OR HOUSING FINANCE PRO-
GRAMS.
The Chairman of the Committee on the
Budget of the Senate may revise the alloca-
tions of a committee or committees, aggre-
gates, and other appropriate levels in this
resolution, and make adjustments to the
pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or more bills,
joint resolutions, amendments, amendments
between the Houses, motions, or conference
reports relating to Federal banking, insur-
ance, or housing finance programs, by the
amounts provided in such legislation for
those purposes, provided that such legisla-
tion would not increase the deficit over ei-
ther the period of the total of fiscal years
2020 through 2024 or the period of the total of
fiscal years 2020 through 2029.
SEC. 3011. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND TO
IMPROVE TAX ADMINISTRATION.
The Chairman of the Committee on the
Budget of the Senate may revise the alloca-
tions of a committee or committees, aggre-
gates, and other appropriate levels in this
resolution, and make adjustments to the
pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or more bills,
joint resolutions, amendments, amendments
between the Houses, motions, or conference
reports relating to changes improving tax
administration, by the amounts provided in
such legislation for those purposes, provided
that such legislation would not increase the
deficit over either the period of the total of
fiscal years 2020 through 2024 or the period of
the total of fiscal years 2020 through 2029.
SEC. 3012. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND TO
IMPROVE AMERICANS’ HEALTH
CARE OPTIONS.
The Chairman of the Committee on the
Budget of the Senate may revise the alloca-
tions of a committee or committees, aggre-
gates, and other appropriate levels in this
resolution, and make adjustments to the
pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or more bills,
joint resolutions, amendments, amendments
between the Houses, motions, or conference
reports relating to improving American
health care, which may include—
(1) repealing and replacing the Patient
Protection and Affordable Care Act or the
Health Care and Education Reconciliation
Act of 2010, and preserving pre-existing con-
ditions protections;
(2) increasing health care options for indi-
viduals;
(3) lowering health care costs for American
families, such as reducing prescription drug
costs and promoting biosimilar competition;
(4) encouraging State flexibility and inno-
vation;
(5) improving consumers’ access to care; or
(6) investing in public health,
by the amounts provided in such legislation
for those purposes, provided that such legis-
lation would not increase the deficit over ei-
ther the period of the total of fiscal years
2020 through 2024 or the period of the total of
fiscal years 2020 through 2029.
SEC. 3013. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND TO
PROTECT MEDICAID AND MEDI-
CARE.
The Chairman of the Committee on the
Budget of the Senate may revise the alloca-
tions of a committee or committees, aggre-
gates, and other appropriate levels in this
resolution, and make adjustments to the
pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or more bills,
joint resolutions, amendments, amendments
between the Houses, motions, or conference
reports relating to protecting the Medicaid
and Medicare programs, which may include
strengthening and improving Medicaid for
the most vulnerable populations, and extend-
ing the life of the Federal Hospital Insurance
Trust Fund, by the amounts provided in such
legislation for those purposes, provided that
such legislation would not increase the def-
icit over either the period of the total of fis-
cal years 2020 through 2024 or the period of
the total of fiscal years 2020 through 2029.
SEC. 3014. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND TO
RESTORE AMERICAN MILITARY
POWER.
The Chairman of the Committee on the
Budget of the Senate may revise the alloca-
tions of a committee or committees, aggre-
gates, and other appropriate levels in this
resolution, and make adjustments to the
pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or more bills,
joint resolutions, amendments, amendments
between the Houses, motions, or conference
reports relating to restoring American mili-
tary power, which may include—
(1) military readiness, including facilities
sustainment restoration and modernization;
(2) military technological superiority;
(3) modernizing and protecting the integ-
rity and credibility of the triad of strategic
nuclear delivery systems;
(4) the ability of the Department of De-
fense to conduct cyber operations; or
(5) structural defense reforms,
by the amounts provided in such legislation
for those purposes, provided that such legis-
lation would not increase the deficit over ei-
ther the period of the total of fiscal years
2020 through 2024 or the period of the total of
fiscal years 2020 through 2029.
SEC. 3015. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND TO
IMPROVE CYBERSECURITY.
The Chairman of the Committee on the
Budget of the Senate may revise the alloca-
tions of a committee or committees, aggre-
gates, and other appropriate levels in this
resolution, and make adjustments to the
pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or more bills,
joint resolutions, amendments, amendments
between the Houses, motions, or conference
reports relating to improving cybersecurity,
which may include cybersecurity for critical
infrastructure, by the amounts provided in
such legislation for those purposes, provided
that such legislation would not increase the
deficit over either the period of the total of
fiscal years 2020 through 2024 or the period of
the total of fiscal years 2020 through 2029.
SEC. 3016. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND
FOR VETERANS AND SERVICE MEM-
BERS.
The Chairman of the Committee on the
Budget of the Senate may revise the alloca-
tions of a committee or committees, aggre-
gates, and other appropriate levels in this
resolution, and make adjustments to the
pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or more bills,
joint resolutions, amendments, amendments
between the Houses, motions, or conference
reports relating to improving the delivery of
benefits and services to veterans and service
members, by the amounts provided in such
legislation for those purposes, provided that
such legislation would not increase the def-
icit over either the period of the total of fis-
cal years 2020 through 2024 or the period of
the total of fiscal years 2020 through 2029.
SEC. 3017. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND
FOR BORDER SECURITY AND IMMI-
GRATION.
The Chairman of the Committee on the
Budget of the Senate may revise the alloca-
tions of a committee or committees, aggre-
gates, and other appropriate levels in this
resolution, and make adjustments to the
pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or more bills,
joint resolutions, amendments, amendments
between the Houses, motions, or conference
reports relating to border security and immi-
gration, which may include—
(1) securing the borders of the United
States;
(2) reforming immigration laws;
(3) ending human trafficking; or
(4) intercepting narcotics being trans-
ported into the United States,
by the amounts provided in such legislation
for those purposes, provided that such legis-
lation would not increase the deficit over ei-
ther the period of the total of fiscal years
2020 through 2024 or the period of the total of
fiscal years 2020 through 2029.
SEC. 3018. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND
FOR AMERICAN TRANSPORTATION
AND INFRASTRUCTURE.
The Chairman of the Committee on the
Budget of the Senate may revise the alloca-
tions of a committee or committees, aggre-
gates, and other appropriate levels in this
resolution, and make adjustments to the
pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or more bills,
joint resolutions, amendments, amendments
between the Houses, motions, or conference
reports relating to improving American
transportation and infrastructure, which
may include strengthening surface, air, or
maritime transportation systems, water re-
sources development, or broadband deploy-
ment, by the amounts provided in such legis-
lation for those purposes, provided that such
legislation would not increase the deficit
over either the period of the total of fiscal
years 2020 through 2024 or the period of the
total of fiscal years 2020 through 2029.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:51 Apr 02, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00027 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A01AP6.031 S01APPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2132 April 1, 2019
SEC. 3019. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND TO
PROMOTE FINANCIAL SECURITY.
The Chairman of the Committee on the
Budget of the Senate may revise the alloca-
tions of a committee or committees, aggre-
gates, and other appropriate levels in this
resolution, and make adjustments to the
pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or more bills,
joint resolutions, amendments, amendments
between the Houses, motions, or conference
reports relating to promoting financial secu-
rity, which may include making it easier to
save for retirement and consolidating and
streamlining overlapping and duplicative fi-
nancial literacy programs, by the amounts
provided in such legislation for those pur-
poses, provided that such legislation would
not increase the deficit over either the pe-
riod of the total of fiscal years 2020 through
2024 or the period of the total of fiscal years
2020 through 2029.
SEC. 3020. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND TO
PREVENT A TAXPAYER BAILOUT OF
PENSION PLANS.
The Chairman of the Committee on the
Budget of the Senate may revise the alloca-
tions of a committee or committees, aggre-
gates, and other appropriate levels in this
resolution, and make adjustments to the
pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or more bills,
joint resolutions, amendments, amendments
between the Houses, motions, or conference
reports relating to preventing taxpayer bail-
outs of pension plans by the amounts pro-
vided in such legislation for those purposes,
provided that such legislation would not in-
crease the deficit over either the period of
the total of fiscal years 2020 through 2024 or
the period of the total of fiscal years 2020
through 2029.
SEC. 3021. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND
FOR EFFICIENCIES, CONSOLIDA-
TIONS, CURBING BUDGETARY GIM-
MICKS, AND OTHER SAVINGS.
The Chairman of the Committee on the
Budget of the Senate may revise the alloca-
tions of a committee or committees, aggre-
gates, and other appropriate levels in this
resolution, and make adjustments to the
pay-as-you go ledger, for one or more bills,
joint resolutions, amendments, amendments
between the Houses, motions, or conference
reports relating to efficiencies, consolida-
tions, curbing budgetary gimmicks, and
other savings, by the amounts provided in
such legislation for those purposes, provided
that such legislation would not increase the
deficit over either the period of the total of
fiscal years 2020 through 2024 or the period of
the total of fiscal years 2020 through 2029.
SEC. 3022. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND
FOR LEGISLATION MODIFYING STAT-
UTORY BUDGET CONTROLS.
The Chairman of the Committee on the
Budget of the Senate may revise the alloca-
tions of a committee or committees, aggre-
gates, and other appropriate levels in this
resolution, and make adjustments to the
pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or more bills,
joint resolutions, amendments, amendments
between the Houses, motions, or conference
reports relating to changes to the scope of
sequestration as carried out by the Office of
Management and Budget, such as for the Fi-
nancial Accounting Standards Board, Public
Company Accounting Oversight Board, Secu-
rities Investor Protection Corporation, and
other similar entities, by the amounts pro-
vided in such legislation for those purposes,
provided that such legislation would not in-
crease the deficit over either the period of
the total of fiscal years 2020 through 2024 or
the period of the total of fiscal years 2020
through 2029.
SEC. 3023. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND
FOR REDUCING FRAUD IN TAX-
PAYER-FUNDED GOVERNMENT AS-
SISTANCE PROGRAMS.
The Chairman of the Committee on the
Budget of the Senate may revise the alloca-
tions of a committee or committees, aggre-
gates, and other appropriate levels in this
resolution, and make adjustments to the
pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or more bills,
joint resolutions, amendments, amendments
between the Houses, motions, or conference
reports relating to reducing fraud in tax-
payer-funded Government assistance pro-
grams by the amounts provided in such legis-
lation for those purposes, provided that such
legislation would not increase the deficit
over either the period of the total of fiscal
years 2020 through 2024 or the period of the
total of fiscal years 2020 through 2029.
SEC. 3024. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RE-
LATING TO FEDERAL COMPENSA-
TION.
The Chairman of the Committee on the
Budget of the Senate may revise the alloca-
tions of a committee or committees, aggre-
gates, and other appropriate levels in this
resolution, and make adjustments to the
pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or more bills,
joint resolutions, amendments, amendments
between the Houses, motions, or conference
reports relating to Federal compensation, in-
cluding the possibility of allowing elected of-
ficials to voluntarily reduce their pensions,
by the amounts provided in such legislation
for those purposes, provided that such legis-
lation would not increase the deficit over ei-
ther the period of the total of fiscal years
2020 through 2024 or the period of the total of
fiscal years 2020 through 2029.
SEC. 3025. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RE-
LATING TO PRE-EXISTING CONDI-
TIONS PROTECTIONS.
The Chairman of the Committee on the
Budget of the Senate may revise the alloca-
tions of a committee or committees, aggre-
gates, and other appropriate levels in this
resolution, and make adjustments to the
pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or more bills,
joint resolutions, amendments, amendments
between the Houses, motions, or conference
reports relating to supporting Congressional
efforts to preserve pre-existing condition
protections with respect to health insurance,
by the amounts provided in such legislation
for those purposes, provided that such legis-
lation would not increase the deficit over ei-
ther the period of the total of fiscal years
2020 through 2024 or the period of the total of
fiscal years 2020 through 2029.
SEC. 3026. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RE-
LATING TO REFORMING THE BRO-
KEN CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET
PROCESS.
The Chairman of the Committee on the
Budget of the Senate may revise the alloca-
tions of a committee or committees, aggre-
gates, and other appropriate levels in this
resolution, and make adjustments to the
pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or more bills,
joint resolutions, amendments, amendments
between the Houses, motions, or conference
reports relating to reforming the broken
congressional budget process, which may in-
clude establishing an optional bipartisan
budget pathway, by the amounts provided in
such legislation for those purposes, provided
that such legislation would not increase the
deficit over either the period of the total of
fiscal years 2020 through 2024 or the period of
the total of fiscal years 2020 through 2029.
SEC. 3027. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND TO
IMPROVE COORDINATION AND FED-
ERAL GOVERNMENT DISASTER RE-
SPONSE AND MITIGATION.
The Chairman of the Committee on the
Budget of the Senate may revise the alloca-
tions of a committee or committees, aggre-
gates, and other appropriate levels in this
resolution, and make adjustments to the
pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or more bills,
joint resolutions, amendments, amendments
between the Houses, motions, or conference
reports relating to changes in disaster man-
agement and mitigation laws, which may in-
clude enhanced cooperation by Federal Gov-
ernment departments and agencies and State
governments in responding, recovering, or
preventing major disasters, by amounts pro-
vided in such legislation for these purposes,
provided that such legislation would not in-
crease the deficit over either the period of
the total of fiscal years 2020 through 2024 or
the period of the total of fiscal years 2020
though 2029.
SEC. 3028. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND TO
PROVIDE CONTINUED TAX RELIEF
FOR FAMILY-OWNED BUSINESSES,
FARMS, AND RANCHES.
The Chairman of the Committee on the
Budget of the Senate may revise the alloca-
tions of a committee or committees, aggre-
gates, and other appropriate levels in this
resolution, and make adjustments to the
pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or more bills,
joint resolutions, amendments, amendments
between the Houses, motions, or conference
reports relating to changes in Federal tax
laws, which may include provision of contin-
ued tax relief for family-owned businesses,
farms, and ranches such as through exten-
sions of provisions of Public Law 115–97 (131
Stat. 2054), by the amounts provided in such
legislation for those purposes, provided that
such legislation would not increase the def-
icit over either the period of the total of fis-
cal years 2020 through 2024 or the period of
the total of fiscal years 2020 through 2029.
SEC. 3029. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RE-
LATING TO SUPPORTING PROGRAMS
TO ANALYZE THE THREATS TO IN-
STALLATIONS OF THE DEPARTMENT
OF DEFENSE DUE TO EXTREME
STORMS, WILDFIRE, DROUGHTS, RIS-
ING SEA LEVEL, AND OTHER CONDI-
TIONS.
The Chairman of the Committee on the
Budget of the Senate may revise the alloca-
tions of a committee or committees, aggre-
gates, and other appropriate levels in this
resolution, and make adjustments to the
pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or more bills,
joint resolutions, amendments, amendments
between the Houses, motions, or conference
reports relating to supporting programs to
analyze the threats to installations of the
Department of Defense due to extreme
storms, wildfire, droughts, rising sea level,
and other conditions by the amounts pro-
vided in such legislation for those purposes,
provided that such legislation would not in-
crease the deficit over either the period of
the total of fiscal years 2020 through 2024 or
the period of the total of fiscal years 2020
through 2029.
SEC. 3030. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RE-
LATING TO IMPROVING THE AF-
FORDABILITY OF RENTAL HOUSING
FOR LOW-INCOME FAMILIES.
The Chairman of the Committee on the
Budget of the Senate may revise the alloca-
tions of a committee or committees, aggre-
gates, and other appropriate levels in this
resolution, and make adjustments to the
pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or more bills,
joint resolutions, amendments, amendments
between the Houses, motions, or conference
reports relating to improving the afford-
ability of rental housing for low-income fam-
ilies by the amounts provided in such legisla-
tion for those purposes, provided that such
legislation would not increase the deficit
over either the period of the total of fiscal
years 2020 through 2024 or the period of the
total of fiscal years 2020 through 2029.
SEC. 3031. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND TO
IMPROVE FEDERAL FLOOD CON-
TROL EFFORTS.
The Chairman of the Committee on the
Budget of the Senate may revise the alloca-
tions of a committee or committees, aggre-
gates, and other appropriate levels in this
resolution, and make adjustments to the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:51 Apr 02, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00028 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A01AP6.031 S01APPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2133
April 1, 2019
pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or more bills,
joint resolutions, amendments, amendments
between the Houses, motions, or conference
reports relating to changes in Federal flood
control efforts and river management laws,
which may include reforms to project
prioritization and increased focus on the
Missouri River, by the amounts provided in
such legislation for those purposes, provided
that such legislation would not increase the
deficit over either the period of the total of
fiscal years 2020 through 2024 or the period of
the total of fiscal years 2020 through 2029.
SEC. 3032. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RE-
LATING TO A CLEAN AUDIT OPINION
AT THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE.
The Chairman of the Committee on the
Budget of the Senate may revise the alloca-
tions of a committee or committees, aggre-
gates, and other appropriate levels in this
resolution, and make adjustments to the
pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or more bills,
joint resolutions, amendments, amendments
between the Houses, motions, or conference
reports relating to Department of Defense fi-
nancial management, which may include leg-
islation that holds the Department of De-
fense accountable for failing to pass a clean
audit, or eliminates waste, fraud, and abuse,
by the amounts provided in such legislation
for those purposes, provided that such legis-
lation would not increase the deficit over ei-
ther the period of the total of fiscal years
2020 through 2024 or the period of the total of
fiscal years 2020 to 2029.
SEC. 3033. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND TO
CONTINUE PROVEN MIDDLE CLASS
TAX RELIEF.
The Chairman of the Committee on the
Budget of the Senate may revise the alloca-
tions of a committee or committees, aggre-
gates, and other appropriate levels in this
resolution, and make adjustments to the
pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or more bills,
joint resolutions, amendments, amendments
between the Houses, motions, or conference
reports relating to changes in Federal tax
laws, which may include provision of contin-
ued tax relief to working families and the
middle class such as through extension of
tax provisions of Public Law 115–97 (131 Stat.
2054), by the amounts provided in such legis-
lation for those purposes, provided that such
legislation would not increase the deficit
over either the period of the total of fiscal
years 2020 through 2024 or the period of the
total of fiscal years 2020 through 2029.
SEC. 3034. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND TO
SUPPORT SERVICEMEMBERS’ AC-
CESS TO SAFE HOUSING.
The Chairman of the Committee on the
Budget of the Senate may revise the alloca-
tions of a committee or committees, aggre-
gates, and other appropriate levels in this
resolution, and make adjustments to the
pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or more bills,
joint resolutions, amendments, amendments
between the Houses, motions, or conference
reports related to addressing health, safety,
and environmental hazards for tenants of
military barracks or military family hous-
ing, which may include establishing the ad-
ministrative framework necessary to ensure
that accountability is increased and im-
provements are made reliably and without
fear of retaliation, by the amounts provided
in such legislation for those purposes, pro-
vided that such legislation would not in-
crease the deficit over either the period of
the total of fiscal years 2020 through 2024 or
the period of the total of fiscal years 2020
through 2029.
SEC. 3035. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND TO
PROVIDE THE DEPARTMENT OF
HOMELAND SECURITY WITH THE
NECESSARY RESOURCES TO PRO-
TECT MIGRANT CHILDREN AND FAM-
ILIES.
The Chairman of the Committee on the
Budget of the Senate may revise the alloca-
tions of a committee or committees, aggre-
gates, and other appropriate levels in this
resolution, and make adjustments to the
pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or more bills,
joint resolutions, amendments, amendments
between the Houses, motions, or conference
reports relating to providing the Department
of Homeland Security with the necessary re-
sources to properly secure the border and
protect migrant children and families, which
may include supporting efforts to keep fami-
lies together, by the amounts provided in
such legislation for those purposes, provided
that such legislation would not increase the
deficit over either the period of the total of
fiscal years 2020 through 2024 or the period of
the total of fiscal years 2020 through 2029.
SEC. 3036. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND RE-
LATING TO REDUCING PRESCRIP-
TION DRUG COSTS FOR AMERICANS.
The Chairman of the Committee on the
Budget of the Senate may revise the alloca-
tions of a committee or committees, aggre-
gates, and other appropriate levels in this
resolution, and make adjustments to the
pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or more bills,
joint resolutions, amendments, amendments
between the Houses, motions, or conference
reports relating to improving access to, and
affordability of, prescription drugs for all
Americans, holding the health care industry
accountable for the prices that consumers
and Federal programs pay for critical medi-
cations, and addressing issues that artifi-
cially increase the costs of drugs, such as
price gouging and pay-for-delay, by the
amounts provided in such legislation for
those purposes, provided that such legisla-
tion would not increase the deficit over ei-
ther the period of the total of fiscal years
2020 through 2024 or the period of the total of
fiscal years 2020 through 2029.
SEC. 3037. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND TO
ALLOW PROGRAM INTEGRITY FUND-
ING FOR TARGETED DENIAL RE-
VIEWS.
The Chairman of the Committee on the
Budget of the Senate may revise the alloca-
tions of a committee or committees, aggre-
gates, and other appropriate levels in this
resolution, and make adjustments to the
pay-as-you-go ledger, for one or more bills,
joint resolutions, amendments, amendments
between the Houses, motions, or conference
reports relating to the addition of Target De-
nial Reviews in the allowable activities in
section 815 of the Bipartisan Budget Act of
2015 (Public Law 114–74; 129 Stat. 604) by the
amounts provided in such legislation for
those purposes, provided that such legisla-
tion would not increase the deficit over ei-
ther the period of the total of fiscal years
2020 through 2024 or the period of the total of
fiscal years 2020 through 2029.
TITLE IV—BUDGET PROCESS
Subtitle A—Budget Enforcement
SEC. 4101. POINT OF ORDER AGAINST ADVANCE
APPROPRIATIONS IN THE SENATE.
(a) IN GENERAL.—
(1) POINT OF ORDER.—Except as provided in
subsection (b), it shall not be in order in the
Senate to consider any bill, joint resolution,
motion, amendment, amendment between
the Houses, or conference report that would
provide an advance appropriation for a dis-
cretionary account.
(2) DEFINITION.—In this section, the term
‘‘advance appropriation’’ means any new
budget authority provided in a bill or joint
resolution making appropriations for fiscal
year 2020 that first becomes available for any
fiscal year after 2020, or any new budget au-
thority provided in a bill or joint resolution
making general appropriations or continuing
appropriations for fiscal year 2021, that first
becomes available for any fiscal year after
2021.
(b) EXCEPTIONS.—Advance appropriations
may be provided—
(1) for fiscal years 2021 and 2022 for pro-
grams, projects, activities, or accounts iden-
tified in the joint explanatory statement of
managers accompanying this concurrent res-
olution under the heading ‘‘Accounts Identi-
fied for Advance Appropriations’’ in an ag-
gregate amount not to exceed $28,852,000,000
in new budget authority in each fiscal year;
(2) for the Corporation for Public Broad-
casting; and
(3) for the Department of Veterans Affairs
for the Medical Services, Medical Support
and Compliance, Veterans Medical Commu-
nity Care, and Medical Facilities accounts of
the Veterans Health Administration.
(c) SUPERMAJORITY WAIVER AND APPEAL.—
(1) WAIVER.—In the Senate, subsection (a)
may be waived or suspended only by an af-
firmative vote of three-fifths of the Mem-
bers, duly chosen and sworn.
(2) APPEAL.—An affirmative vote of three-
fifths of the Members of the Senate, duly
chosen and sworn, shall be required to sus-
tain an appeal of the ruling of the Chair on
a point of order raised under subsection (a).
(d) FORM OF POINT OF ORDER.—A point of
order under subsection (a) may be raised by
a Senator as provided in section 313(e) of the
Congressional Budget Act of 1974 (2 U.S.C.
644(e)).
(e) CONFERENCE REPORTS.—When the Sen-
ate is considering a conference report on, or
an amendment between the Houses in rela-
tion to, a bill or joint resolution, upon a
point of order being made by any Senator
pursuant to this section, and such point of
order being sustained, such material con-
tained in such conference report or House
amendment shall be stricken, and the Senate
shall proceed to consider the question of
whether the Senate shall recede from its
amendment and concur with a further
amendment, or concur in the House amend-
ment with a further amendment, as the case
may be, which further amendment shall con-
sist of only that portion of the conference re-
port or House amendment, as the case may
be, not so stricken. Any such motion in the
Senate shall be debatable. In any case in
which such point of order is sustained
against a conference report (or Senate
amendment derived from such conference re-
port by operation of this subsection), no fur-
ther amendment shall be in order.
SEC. 4102. POINT OF ORDER AGAINST CHANGES
IN MANDATORY PROGRAMS.
Section 4102(b) of H. Con. Res. 71 (115th
Congress), the concurrent resolution on the
budget for fiscal year 2018, is amended—
(1) in paragraph (1), by inserting ‘‘(which
shall not include a rescission bill or im-
poundment resolution, as such terms are de-
fined in section 1011 of the Congressional
Budget and Impoundment Control Act of 1974
(2 U.S.C. 682))’’ after ‘‘making appropriations
for a full fiscal year’’; and
(2) in paragraph (2)(C), by striking ‘‘fiscal
year 2020, $15,000,000,000’’ and inserting ‘‘fis-
cal year 2020 and each fiscal year thereafter,
$0’’.
SEC. 4103. HONEST ACCOUNTING: COST ESTI-
MATES FOR MAJOR LEGISLATION TO
INCORPORATE MACROECONOMIC
EFFECTS.
(a) CBO AND JCT ESTIMATES.—During the
116th Congress, any estimate provided by the
Congressional Budget Office under section
402 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974 (2
U.S.C. 653) or by the Joint Committee on
Taxation to the Congressional Budget Office
under section 201(f) of such Act (2 U.S.C.
601(f)) for major legislation considered in the
Senate shall, to the greatest extent prac-
ticable, incorporate the budgetary effects of
changes in economic output, employment,
capital stock, and other macroeconomic
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:51 Apr 02, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00029 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A01AP6.031 S01APPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2134 April 1, 2019
variables resulting from such major legisla-
tion.
(b) CONTENTS.—Any estimate referred to in
subsection (a) shall, to the extent prac-
ticable, include—
(1) a qualitative assessment of the budg-
etary effects (including macroeconomic vari-
ables described in subsection (a)) of the
major legislation in the 20-fiscal year period
beginning after the last fiscal year of the
most recently agreed to concurrent resolu-
tion on the budget that sets forth budgetary
levels required under section 301 of the Con-
gressional Budget Act of 1974 (2 U.S.C. 632);
and
(2) an identification of the critical assump-
tions and the source of data underlying that
estimate.
(c) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) MAJOR LEGISLATION.—The term ‘‘major
legislation’’ means a bill, joint resolution,
conference report, amendment, amendment
between the Houses, or treaty considered in
the Senate—
(A) for which an estimate is required to be
prepared pursuant to section 402 of the Con-
gressional Budget Act of 1974 (2 U.S.C. 653)
and that causes a gross budgetary effect (be-
fore incorporating macroeconomic effects
and not including timing shifts) in a fiscal
year in the period of years of the most re-
cently agreed to concurrent resolution on
the budget equal to or greater than—
(i) 0.25 percent of the current projected
gross domestic product of the United States
for that fiscal year; or
(ii) for a treaty, equal to or greater than
$15,000,000,000 for that fiscal year; or
(B) designated as such by—
(i) the Chairman of the Committee on the
Budget of the Senate for all direct spending
and revenue legislation; or
(ii) the Senator who is Chairman or Vice
Chairman of the Joint Committee on Tax-
ation for revenue legislation.
(2) BUDGETARY EFFECTS.—The term ‘‘budg-
etary effects’’ means changes in revenues, di-
rect spending outlays, and deficits.
(3) TIMING SHIFTS.—The term ‘‘timing
shifts’’ means—
(A) provisions that cause a delay of the
date on which outlays flowing from direct
spending would otherwise occur from one fis-
cal year to the next fiscal year; or
(B) provisions that cause an acceleration of
the date on which revenues would otherwise
occur from one fiscal year to the prior fiscal
year.
SEC. 4104. ADJUSTMENT AUTHORITY FOR
AMENDMENTS TO STATUTORY CAPS.
During the 116th Congress, if a measure be-
comes law that revises the discretionary
spending limits established under section
251(c) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency
Deficit Control Act of 1985 (2 U.S.C. 901(c)),
such as a measure increasing the limits for
the revised security category in support for
a total defense budget of $750,000,000,000 for
fiscal year 2020, the Chairman of the Com-
mittee on the Budget of the Senate may ad-
just the allocation called for under section
302(a) of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974
(2 U.S.C. 633(a)) to the appropriate com-
mittee or committees of the Senate, and
may adjust all other budgetary aggregates,
allocations, levels, and limits contained in
this resolution, as necessary, consistent with
such measure.
SEC. 4105. POINT OF ORDER AGAINST CERTAIN
LEGISLATION RELATED TO SURFACE
TRANSPORTATION FUNDING.
(a) REPEAL OF SUNSET.—Section 405 of S.
Con. Res. 13 (111th Congress), the concurrent
resolution on the budget for fiscal year 2010,
is amended by striking subsection (c).
(b) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendment
made by subsection (a) shall take effect as
though this resolution were agreed to on
September 29, 2018.
SEC. 4106. SURGICAL STRIKE POINT OF ORDER IN
THE SENATE AGAINST DIRECTING
BUDGETARY TREATMENT.
(a) DEFINITION.—In this section, the term
‘‘directs budgetary treatment’’ with respect
to a provision means that the provision, as
determined by the Chairman of the Com-
mittee on the Budget of the Senate—
(1) directs the congressional estimating
process for determining the budgetary ef-
fects of legislation;
(2) directs that a provision of legislation be
considered a change in concepts and defini-
tions under section 251(b) of the Balanced
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act
of 1985 (2 U.S.C. 901(b)); or
(3) reclassifies the budgetary treatment of
funding.
(b) POINT OF ORDER.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—In the Senate, it shall not
be in order to consider a provision that di-
rects budgetary treatment in a bill, joint
resolution, motion, amendment, amendment
between the Houses, or conference report,
unless the provision is included in—
(A) a bill or resolution which has been re-
ported by the Committee on the Budget (or
from the consideration of which such com-
mittee has been discharged); or
(B) a motion on, amendment to, amend-
ment between the Houses in relation to, or
conference report on a bill or resolution de-
scribed in subparagraph (A).
(2) POINT OF ORDER SUSTAINED.—If a point
of order is made by a Senator against a pro-
vision described in paragraph (1), and the
point of order is sustained by the Chair, that
provision shall be stricken from the measure
and may not be offered as an amendment
from the floor.
(c) FORM OF THE POINT OF ORDER.—A point
of order under subsection (b)(1) may be
raised by a Senator as provided in section
313(e) of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974
(2 U.S.C. 644(e)).
(d) CONFERENCE REPORTS.—When the Sen-
ate is considering a conference report on, or
an amendment between the Houses in rela-
tion to, a bill or resolution, upon a point of
order being made by any Senator pursuant
to subsection (b)(1), and such point of order
being sustained, such material contained in
such conference report or House amendment
shall be stricken, and the Senate shall pro-
ceed to consider the question of whether the
Senate shall recede from its amendment and
concur with a further amendment, or concur
in the House amendment with a further
amendment, as the case may be, which fur-
ther amendment shall consist of only that
portion of the conference report or House
amendment, as the case may be, not so
stricken. Any such motion in the Senate
shall be debatable. In any case in which such
point of order is sustained against a con-
ference report (or Senate amendment derived
from such conference report by operation of
this subsection), no further amendment shall
be in order.
(e) SUPERMAJORITY WAIVER AND APPEAL.—
In the Senate, this section may be waived or
suspended only by an affirmative vote of
three-fifths of the Members, duly chose and
sworn. An affirmative vote of three-fifths of
Members of the Senate, duly chosen and
sworn shall be required to sustain an appeal
of the ruling of the Chair on a point of order
raised under this section.
SEC. 4107. POINT OF ORDER AGAINST DESIGNA-
TION OF FUNDS FOR OVERSEAS
CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS/GLOB-
AL WAR ON TERRORISM.
(a) IN GENERAL.—When the Senate is con-
sidering a bill, joint resolution, amendment,
motion, amendment between the Houses, or
conference report, if a point of order is made
by a Senator against a designation of funds
for Overseas Contingency Operations/Global
War on Terrorism, in accordance with sec-
tion 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 (2
U.S.C. 901(b)(2)(A)(ii)), in that measure, that
provision making such a designation shall be
stricken from the measure and may not be
offered as an amendment from the floor.
(b) SUPERMAJORITY WAIVER AND APPEALS.—
(1) WAIVER.—Subsection (a) may be waived
or suspended in the Senate only by an af-
firmative vote of three-fifths of the Mem-
bers, duly chosen and sworn.
(2) APPEALS.—Appeals in the Senate from
the decisions of the Chair relating to any
provision of this subsection shall be limited
to 1 hour, to be equally divided between, and
controlled by, the appellant and the manager
of the bill or joint resolution, as the case
may be. An affirmative vote of three-fifths of
the Members of the Senate, duly chosen and
sworn, shall be required to sustain an appeal
of the ruling of the Chair on a point of order
raised under this subsection.
(c) FORM OF THE POINT OF ORDER.—A point
of order under subsection (a) may be raised
by a Senator as provided in section 313(e) of
the Congressional Budget Act of 1974 (2
U.S.C. 644(e)).
(d) CONFERENCE REPORTS.—When the Sen-
ate is considering a conference report on, or
an amendment between the Houses in rela-
tion to, a bill or joint resolution, upon a
point of order being made by any Senator
pursuant to this section, and such point of
order being sustained, such material con-
tained in such conference report or House
amendment shall be stricken, and the Senate
shall proceed to consider the question of
whether the Senate shall recede from its
amendment and concur with a further
amendment, or concur in the House amend-
ment with a further amendment, as the case
may be, which further amendment shall con-
sist of only that portion of the conference re-
port or House amendment, as the case may
be, not so stricken. Any such motion in the
Senate shall be debatable. In any case in
which such point of order is sustained
against a conference report (or Senate
amendment derived from such conference re-
port by operation of this subsection), no fur-
ther amendment shall be in order.
Subtitle B—Other Provisions
SEC. 4201. BUDGETARY TREATMENT OF CERTAIN
DISCRETIONARY ADMINISTRATIVE
EXPENSES.
(a) IN GENERAL.—In the Senate, notwith-
standing section 302(a)(1) of the Congres-
sional Budget Act of 1974 (2 U.S.C. 633(a)(1)),
section 13301 of the Budget Enforcement Act
of 1990 (2 U.S.C. 632 note), and section 2009a
of title 39, United States Code, the joint ex-
planatory statement accompanying the con-
ference report on any concurrent resolution
on the budget shall include in its allocations
under section 302(a) of the Congressional
Budget Act of 1974 (2 U.S.C. 633(a)) to the
Committees on Appropriations amounts for
the discretionary administrative expenses of
the Social Security Administration and of
the Postal Service.
(b) SPECIAL RULE.—In the Senate, for pur-
poses of enforcing sections 302(f) of the Con-
gressional Budget Act of 1974 (2 U.S.C. 633(f)),
estimates of the level of total new budget au-
thority and total outlays provided by a
measure shall include any discretionary
amounts described in subsection (a).
SEC. 4202. APPLICATION AND EFFECT OF
CHANGES IN ALLOCATIONS AND AG-
GREGATES.
(a) APPLICATION.—Any adjustments of allo-
cations and aggregates made pursuant to
this resolution shall—
(1) apply while that measure is under con-
sideration;
(2) take effect upon the enactment of that
measure; and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:51 Apr 02, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00030 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A01AP6.031 S01APPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2135
April 1, 2019
(3) be published in the Congressional
Record as soon as practicable.
(b) EFFECT OF CHANGED ALLOCATIONS AND
AGGREGATES.—Revised allocations and ag-
gregates resulting from these adjustments
shall be considered for the purposes of the
Congressional Budget Act of 1974 (2 U.S.C. 621
et seq.) as allocations and aggregates con-
tained in this resolution.
(c) BUDGET COMMITTEE DETERMINATIONS.—
For purposes of this resolution the levels of
new budget authority, outlays, direct spend-
ing, new entitlement authority, revenues,
deficits, and surpluses for a fiscal year or pe-
riod of fiscal years shall be determined on
the basis of estimates made by the Com-
mittee on the Budget of the Senate.
SEC. 4203. ADJUSTMENTS TO REFLECT CHANGES
IN CONCEPTS AND DEFINITIONS.
Upon the enactment of a bill or joint reso-
lution providing for a change in concepts or
definitions, the Chairman of the Committee
on the Budget of the Senate may make ad-
justments to the levels and allocations in
this resolution in accordance with section
251(b) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency
Deficit Control Act of 1985 (2 U.S.C. 901(b)).
SEC. 4204. EXERCISE OF RULEMAKING POWERS.
Congress adopts the provisions of this
title—
(1) as an exercise of the rulemaking power
of the Senate, and as such they shall be con-
sidered as part of the rules of the Senate and
such rules shall supersede other rules only to
the extent that they are inconsistent with
such other rules; and
(2) with full recognition of the constitu-
tional right of the Senate to change those
rules at any time, in the same manner, and
to the same extent as is the case of any other
rule of the Senate.
f
AMENDMENTS SUBMITTED AND
PROPOSED
SA 229. Mr. MENENDEZ submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 201 proposed by Mr. SHELBY
to the bill H.R. 268, making supplemental ap-
propriations for the fiscal year ending Sep-
tember 30, 2019, and for other purposes; which
was ordered to lie on the table.
SA 230. Mr. ENZI submitted an amendment
intended to be proposed to amendment SA
201 proposed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill H.R.
268, supra; which was ordered to lie on the
table.
SA 231. Mr. SCHATZ submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed to amendment
SA 201 proposed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill
H.R. 268, supra; which was ordered to lie on
the table.
SA 232. Mr. LEAHY submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed by him to the
bill H.R. 268, supra; which was ordered to lie
on the table.
SA 233. Ms. HIRONO submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed to amendment
SA 201 proposed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill
H.R. 268, supra; which was ordered to lie on
the table.
SA 234. Mr. LEAHY (for himself, Ms. BALD-
WIN, Mr. BLUMENTHAL, Mr. BOOKER, Mr. DUR-
BIN, Mrs. GILLIBRAND, Mr. MARKEY, Mr.
MENENDEZ, Mrs. MURRAY, Mr. SANDERS, Mr.
VAN HOLLEN, Ms. WARREN , Mr. BROWN, Ms.
HARRIS, Mr. SCHUMER, Mr. CARDIN, Ms. COR-
TEZ MASTO, and Ms. KLOBUCHAR) submitted
an amendment intended to be proposed by
him to the bill H.R. 268, supra; which was or-
dered to lie on the table.
SA 235. Mr. SHELBY submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed by him to the
bill H.R. 268, supra; which was ordered to lie
on the table.
SA 236. Mr. SHELBY submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed by him to the
bill H.R. 268, supra; which was ordered to lie
on the table.
SA 237. Mr. SHELBY submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed by him to the
bill H.R. 268, supra; which was ordered to lie
on the table.
SA 238. Mr. SHELBY submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed by him to the
bill H.R. 268, supra; which was ordered to lie
on the table.
SA 239. Mr. ISAKSON (for himself and Mr.
PERDUE) submitted an amendment intended
to be proposed by him to the bill H.R. 268,
supra; which was ordered to lie on the table.
SA 240. Mr. ISAKSON submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed by him to the
bill H.R. 268, supra; which was ordered to lie
on the table.
SA 241. Mr. ISAKSON submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed by him to the
bill H.R. 268, supra; which was ordered to lie
on the table.
SA 242. Mr. BOOKER submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed to amendment
SA 201 proposed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill
H.R. 268, supra; which was ordered to lie on
the table.
SA 243. Mr. MARKEY (for himself and Ms.
WARREN) submitted an amendment intended
to be proposed to amendment SA 201 pro-
posed by Mr . SHELBY to the bill H.R. 268,
supra; which was ordered to lie on the table.
SA 244. Mr. SCOTT, of South Carolina (for
himself and Mr. GRAHAM) submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 201 proposed by Mr. SHELBY
to the bill H.R. 268, supra; which was ordered
to lie on the table.
SA 245. Ms. HIRONO submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed to amendment
SA 201 proposed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill
H.R. 268, supra; which was ordered to lie on
the table.
f
TEXT OF AMENDMENTS
SA 229. Mr. MENENDEZ submitted
an amendment intended to be proposed
to amendment SA 201 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 268, making
supplemental appropriations for the
fiscal year ending September 30, 2019,
and for other purposes; which was or-
dered to lie on the table; as follows:
On page 21, line 10, insert ‘‘Provided further,
That of the amounts made available under
this heading, $38,000,000 shall be used for
Corps of Engineers ecosystem restoration
projects that have ancillary flood mitigation
benefits in jurisdictions impacted by Hurri-
canes Irma and Maria:’’ after ‘‘element:’’.
SA 230. Mr. ENZI submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 201 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 268, making
supplemental appropriations for the
fiscal year ending September 30, 2019,
and for other purposes; which was or-
dered to lie on the table; as follows:
On page 67, strike line 11 and all that fol-
lows through ‘‘SEC. 202.’’ on line 21 and insert
‘‘SEC. 201.’’.
SA 231. Mr. SCHATZ submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 201 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 268, making
supplemental appropriations for the
fiscal year ending September 30, 2019,
and for other purposes; which was or-
dered to lie on the table; as follows:
At the appropriate place in title XI of divi-
sion A, insert the following:
SEC. 11ll. None of the funds appropriated
or otherwise made available in title III may
be—
(1) obligated or expended until the Sec-
retary of Defense certifies to the Committee
on Appropriations of the Senate and the
Committee on Appropriations of the House
of Representatives that no new project will
be commenced under section 284 or 2808 of
title 10, United States Code, relating to con-
struction on the southern border of the
United States during the period beginning on
the date of the enactment of this Act and
ending on September 30, 2019; or
(2) transferred or reprogrammed for any
purpose other than the purposes set forth in
title III.
SA 232. Mr. LEAHY submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed by
him to the bill H.R. 268, making supple-
mental appropriations for the fiscal
year ending September 30, 2019, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
At the appropriate place in title XI, insert
the following:
Sec. ll. Funds made available in Division
A of Public Law 116–6 may be used to alter
operations within the National Targeting
Center of U.S. Customs and Border Protec-
tion, except that none of the funds provided
in such Act or any previous Act may be used
to reduce vetting operations at existing loca-
tions unless specifically authorized by a
statute enacted after the date of enactment
of this Act.
SA 233. Ms. HIRONO submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 201 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 268, making
supplemental appropriations for the
fiscal year ending September 30, 2019,
and for other purposes; which was or-
dered to lie on the table; as follows:
At the appropriate place, insert the fol-
lowing:
SEC. lll. (a) Section 1108(g) of the Social
Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1308(g)) is amended—
(1) in paragraph (5)—
(A) in subparagraph (A), by inserting ‘‘and
paragraph (6)’’ after ‘‘and (E)’’;
(B) in subparagraph (C), in the matter pre-
ceding clause (i), by striking ‘‘2019’’ and in-
serting ‘‘2021’’; and
(C) in subparagraph (E)—
(i) by striking ‘‘title XIX, during’’ and in-
serting, ‘‘title XIX—
‘‘(i) during’’;
(ii) by striking the period at the end and
inserting ‘‘; and’’; and
(iii) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(ii) during the period beginning January
1, 2019, and ending September 30, 2020, with
respect to payments to Guam, the Virgin Is-
lands, the Northern Mariana Islands, and
American Samoa from the additional funds
provided under subparagraph (A) and para-
graph (6), and from funds provided under sec-
tion 1323 of the Patient Protection and Af-
fordable Care Act, the Secretary shall in-
crease the Federal medical assistance per-
centage or other rate that would otherwise
apply to such payments to 100 percent.’’; and
(2) by adding at the end the following new
paragraph:
‘‘(6) FURTHER ADDITIONAL INCREASE FOR
NORTHERN MARIANA ISLANDS.—(A) For the pe-
riod beginning January 1, 2019, and ending
September 30, 2020, the Secretary shall in-
crease the amounts otherwise determined
under this subsection for the Northern Mar-
iana Islands (after application of subsection
(f) and the preceding paragraphs of this sub-
section), including the amount of any in-
crease otherwise provided under paragraph
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:51 Apr 02, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00031 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A01AP6.031 S01APPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2136 April 1, 2019
(5) for the Northern Mariana Islands for such
period (or any portion thereof), by such
amounts that the total additional payments
under title XIX to the Northern Mariana Is-
lands equals $78,432,368.
‘‘(B) The amount of the increase otherwise
provided under subparagraph (A) for the
Northern Mariana Islands shall be further in-
creased by $26,144,367 if the Secretary cer-
tifies that the Northern Mariana Islands has
taken reasonable and appropriate steps dur-
ing such period, in accordance with a
timeline established by the Secretary, to
meet the conditions for certification speci-
fied in subclauses (I) and (II) of paragraph
(5)(D)(i).’’.
(b) The amounts provided by the amend-
ments made by subsection (a) are designated
by Congress as being for an emergency re-
quirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i)
of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Def-
icit Control Act of 1985.
SEC. lll. (a) Section 402(b)(2) of the Per-
sonal Responsibility and Work Opportunity
Reconciliation Act of 1996 (8 U.S.C. 1612(b)(2))
is amended by adding at the end the fol-
lowing new subparagraph:
‘‘(G) MEDICAID EXCEPTION FOR CITIZENS OF
FREELY ASSOCIATED STATES.—With respect to
eligibility for benefits for the designated
Federal program defined in paragraph (3)(C)
(relating to the Medicaid program), section
401(a) and paragraph (1) shall not apply to
any individual who lawfully resides in 1 of
the 50 States or the District of Columbia in
accordance with the Compacts of Free Asso-
ciation between the Government of the
United States and the Governments of the
Federated States of Micronesia, the Republic
of the Marshall Islands, and the Republic of
Palau and shall not apply, at the option of
the Governor of Puerto Rico, the Virgin Is-
lands, Guam, the Northern Mariana Islands,
or American Samoa as communicated to the
Secretary of Health and Human Services in
writing, to any individual who lawfully re-
sides in the respective territory in accord-
ance with such Compacts.’’.
(b) Section 403(d) of such Act (8 U.S.C.
1613(d)) is amended—
(1) in paragraph (1), by striking ‘‘or’’ at the
end;
(2) in paragraph (2), by striking the period
at the end and inserting ‘‘; or’’; and
(3) by adding at the end the following new
paragraph:
‘‘(3) an individual described in section
402(b)(2)(G), but only with respect to the des-
ignated Federal program defined in section
402(b)(3)(C).’’.
(c) Section 431(b) of such Act (8 U.S.C.
1641(b)) is amended—
(1) in paragraph (6), by striking ‘‘; or’’ at
the end and inserting a comma;
(2) in paragraph (7), by striking the period
at the end and inserting ‘‘, or’’; and
(3) by adding at the end the following new
paragraph:
‘‘(8) an individual who lawfully resides in
the United States in accordance with a Com-
pact of Free Association referred to in sec-
tion 402(b)(2)(G), but only with respect to the
designated Federal program defined in sec-
tion 402(b)(3)(C) (relating to the Medicaid
program).’’.
(d) Section 1108 of the Social Security Act
(42 U.S.C. 1308) is amended—
(1) in subsection (f), in the matter pre-
ceding paragraph (1), by striking ‘‘subsection
(g)’’ and inserting ‘‘subsections (g) and (h)’’;
and
(2) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(h) Expenditures for medical assistance
provided to an individual described in sec-
tion 431(b)(8) of the Personal Responsibility
and Work Opportunity Reconciliation Act of
1996 shall not be taken into account for pur-
poses of applying payment limits under sub-
sections (f) and (g).’’.
(e) The amendments made by this section
shall apply to benefits for items and services
furnished on or after the date of the enact-
ment of this Act.
(f) The amounts provided by the amend-
ments made by this section are designated
by Congress as being for an emergency re-
quirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i)
of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Def-
icit Control Act of 1985.
SA 234. Mr. LEAHY (for himself, Ms.
BALDWIN, Mr. BLUMENTHAL, Mr. BOOK-
ER, Mr. DURBIN, Mrs. GILLIBRAND, Mr.
MARKEY, Mr. MENENDEZ, Mrs. MURRAY,
Mr. SANDERS, Mr. VAN HOLLEN, Ms.
WARREN, Mr. BROWN, Ms. HARRIS, Mr.
SCHUMER, Mr. CARDIN, Ms. CORTEZ
MASTO, and Ms. KLOBUCHAR) submitted
an amendment intended to be proposed
by him to the bill H.R. 268, making
supplemental appropriations for the
fiscal year ending September 30, 2019,
and for other purposes; which was or-
dered to lie on the table; as follows:
(1) On page 2, strike line 6 through line 17
on page 4 and insert the following:
For an additional amount for the ‘‘Office of
the Secretary’’, $3,005,442,000, which shall re-
main available until December 31, 2020, for
necessary expenses related to losses of crops
(including milk and harvested adulterated
wine grapes), trees, bushes, and vines, as a
consequence of Hurricanes Michael and Flor-
ence, other hurricanes, floods, tornadoes, ty-
phoons, volcanic activity, snow storms, and
wildfires occurring in calendar years 2018 and
2019 under such terms and conditions as de-
termined by the Secretary: Provided, That
the Secretary may provide assistance for
such losses in the form of block grants to eli-
gible states and territories and such assist-
ance may include compensation to pro-
ducers, as determined by the Secretary, for
forest restoration and poultry and livestock
losses: Provided further, That of the amounts
provided under this heading, tree assistance
payments may be made under section 1501(e)
of the Agricultural Act of 2014 (7 U.S.C.
9081(e)) to eligible orchardists or nursery
tree growers (as defined in such section) of
pecan trees with a tree mortality rate that
exceeds 7.5 percent (adjusted for normal mor-
tality) and is less than 15 percent (adjusted
for normal mortality), to be available until
expended, for losses incurred during the pe-
riod beginning January 1, 2018, and ending
December 31, 2018: Provided further, That in
the case of producers impacted by volcanic
activity that resulted in the loss of crop
land, or access to crop land, the Secretary
shall consider all measures available, as ap-
propriate, to bring replacement land into
production: Provided further, That the total
amount of payments received under this
heading and applicable policies of crop insur-
ance under the Federal Crop Insurance Act (7
U.S.C. 1501 et seq.) or the Noninsured Crop
Disaster Assistance Program (NAP) under
section 196 of the Federal Agriculture Im-
provement and Reform Act of 1996 (7 U.S.C.
7333) shall not exceed 90 percent of the loss
as determined by the Secretary: Provided fur-
ther, That the total amount of payments re-
ceived under this heading for producers who
did not obtain a policy or plan of insurance
for an insurable commodity for the applica-
ble crop year under the Federal Crop Insur-
ance Act (7 U.S.C. 1501 et seq.) for the crop
incurring the losses or did not file the re-
quired paperwork and pay the service fee by
the applicable State filing deadline for a
noninsurable commodity for the applicable
crop year under NAP for the crop incurring
the losses shall not exceed 70 percent of the
loss as determined by the Secretary: Provided
further, That producers receiving payments
under this heading, as determined by the
Secretary, shall be required to purchase crop
insurance where crop insurance is available
for the next two available crop years, exclud-
ing tree insurance policies, and producers re-
ceiving payments under this heading shall be
required to purchase coverage under NAP
where crop insurance is not available in the
next two available crop years, as determined
by the Secretary: Provided further, That, not
later than 120 days after the end of fiscal
year 2019, the Secretary shall submit a re-
port to the Congress specifying the type,
amount, and method of such assistance by
state and territory: Provided further, That
such amount is designated by the Congress
as being for an emergency requirement pur-
suant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985.
(2) On page 6, strike lines 9 through 24, in-
sert the following, and renumber general
provisions on pages 7 and 8 appropriately:
SEC. 101. In addition to other amounts
made available by section 309 of division A of
the Additional Supplemental Appropriations
for Disaster Relief Requirements Act, 2017
(Public Law 115–72; 131 Stat. 1229), there is
appropriated to the Secretary, out of any
moneys in the Treasury not otherwise appro-
priated, for the fiscal year ending September
30, 2019, $600,000,000 to provide a grant to the
Commonwealth of Puerto Rico for disaster
nutrition assistance in response to a major
disaster or emergency designated by the
President under the Robert T. Stafford Dis-
aster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act
(42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq.): Provided, That the
funds made available to the Commonwealth
of Puerto Rico under this section shall re-
main available for obligation by the Com-
monwealth until September 30, 2020, and
shall be in addition to funds otherwise made
available: Provided further, That such
amount is designated by the Congress as
being for an emergency requirement pursu-
ant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act
of 1985 (2 U.S.C. 901(b)(2)(A)(i)).
SEC. 102. There is hereby appropriated
$5,000,000, to remain available until Sep-
tember 30, 2020, for the Secretary of Agri-
culture to conduct an independent study, in-
cluding a survey of participants, to compare
the impact of the additional benefits pro-
vided by section 309 of Public Law 115–72 to
the food insecurity, health status, and well-
being of low-income residents in Puerto Rico
without such additional benefits: Provided,
That such amount is designated by the Con-
gress as being for an emergency requirement
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985.
SEC. 103. In addition to amounts otherwise
made available, out of the funds made avail-
able under section 18 of Food and Nutrition
Act of 2008, $5,000,000 shall be available for
the Secretary to provide a grant to Amer-
ican Samoa for disaster nutrition assistance
in response to the presidentially declared
major disasters and emergencies: Provided,
That funds made available to the territory
under this section shall remain available for
obligation by the territory until September
30, 2020: Provided further, That such amount
is designated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
(3) On page 9, line 21, strike ‘‘2018’’ and in-
sert ‘‘2018, and tornadoes and floods occur-
ring in calendar year 2019’’.
(4) On page 14, line 4, strike ‘‘eruptions,
and’’ and insert ‘‘eruptions,’’.
(5) On page 14, line 5, after ‘‘earthquakes,’’
insert ‘‘and calendar year 2019 tornadoes and
floods,’’
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:51 Apr 02, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00032 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A01AP6.036 S01APPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2137
April 1, 2019
(6) On page 38, line 17, insert ‘‘or tornadoes
and floods occurring in calendar year 2019,’’
after ‘‘2018,’’.
(7) On page 39, line 20, insert ‘‘, and torna-
does and floods occurring in calendar year
2019’’ after ‘‘2018’’.
(8) On page 40, line 13, insert ‘‘, and torna-
does and floods occurring in calendar year
2019’’ after ‘‘2018’’.
(9) On page 42, line 10, insert ‘‘, and torna-
does and floods occurring in calendar year
2019’’ after ‘‘2018’’.
(10) On page 43, line 17, insert ‘‘, and torna-
does and floods occurring in calendar year
2019’’ after ‘‘2018’’.
(11) On page 66, insert the following new
section at the appropriate place:
SEC. 1104. Of all amounts made available
for mitigation activities under the heading
‘‘Department of Housing and Urban Develop-
ment - Community Development Fund’’ in
Public Law 115–123, the Secretary shall pub-
lish in the Federal Register the allocations
to all eligible grantees, and the necessary ad-
ministrative requirements applicable to such
allocations within 90 days after enactment of
this Act;
(1) For any plans or amendments address-
ing the use of any funds provided under Pub-
lic Law 115–123 and received by the Secretary
prior to December 22, 2018, the Secretary
shall review pending amendments within 15
days of enactment of this Act and pending
plans within 30 days of enactment of this
Act;
(2) After the date of this Act, the Secretary
may not apply the statutory waiver or alter-
native requirement authority provided by
Public Law 115–123 to extend or otherwise
alter existing statutory and regulatory pro-
visions governing the timeline for review of
required grantee plans.
(12) On page 66, strike lines 10 through 17.
SA 235. Mr. SHELBY submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed by
him to the bill H.R. 268, making supple-
mental appropriations for the fiscal
year ending September 30, 2019, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
At the end, add the following:
This Act shall take effect 1 day after the
date of enactment of this Act.
SA 236. Mr. SHELBY submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed by
him to the bill H.R. 268, making supple-
mental appropriations for the fiscal
year ending September 30, 2019, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
Strike all after the first word and insert
the following:
the following sums in this Act are appro-
priated, out of any money in the Treasury
not otherwise appropriated, for the fiscal
year ending September 30, 2019, and for other
purposes, namely:
TITLE I
DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE
AGRICULTURAL PROGRAMS
PROCESSING, RESEARCH AND MARKETING
OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY
For an additional amount for the ‘‘Office of
the Secretary’’, $3,005,442,000, which shall re-
main available until December 31, 2020, for
necessary expenses related to losses of crops
(including milk and harvested adulterated
wine grapes), trees, bushes, and vines, as a
consequence of Hurricanes Michael and Flor-
ence, other hurricanes, floods, tornadoes, ty-
phoons, volcanic activity, and wildfires oc-
curring in calendar years 2018 and 2019 under
such terms and conditions as determined by
the Secretary: Provided, That the Secretary
may provide assistance for such losses in the
form of block grants to eligible states and
territories and such assistance may include
compensation to producers, as determined by
the Secretary, for forest restoration and
poultry and livestock losses: Provided further,
That of the amounts provided under this
heading, tree assistance payments may be
made under section 1501(e) of the Agricul-
tural Act of 2014 (7 U.S.C. 9081(e)) to eligible
orchardists or nursery tree growers (as de-
fined in such section) of pecan trees with a
tree mortality rate that exceeds 7.5 percent
(adjusted for normal mortality) and is less
than 15 percent (adjusted for normal mor-
tality), to be available until expended, for
losses incurred during the period beginning
January 1, 2018, and ending December 31,
2018: Provided further, That in the case of pro-
ducers impacted by volcanic activity that re-
sulted in the loss of crop land, or access to
crop land, the Secretary shall consider all
measures available, as appropriate, to bring
replacement land into production: Provided
further, That the total amount of payments
received under this heading and applicable
policies of crop insurance under the Federal
Crop Insurance Act (7 U.S.C. 1501 et seq.) or
the Noninsured Crop Disaster Assistance
Program (NAP) under section 196 of the Fed-
eral Agriculture Improvement and Reform
Act of 1996 (7 U.S.C. 7333) shall not exceed 90
percent of the loss as determined by the Sec-
retary: Provided further, That the total
amount of payments received under this
heading for producers who did not obtain a
policy or plan of insurance for an insurable
commodity for the applicable crop year
under the Federal Crop Insurance Act (7
U.S.C. 1501 et seq.) for the crop incurring the
losses or did not file the required paperwork
and pay the service fee by the applicable
State filing deadline for a noninsurable com-
modity for the applicable crop year under
NAP for the crop incurring the losses shall
not exceed 70 percent of the loss as deter-
mined by the Secretary: Provided further,
That producers receiving payments under
this heading, as determined by the Sec-
retary, shall be required to purchase crop in-
surance where crop insurance is available for
the next two available crop years, excluding
tree insurance policies, and producers receiv-
ing payments under this heading shall be re-
quired to purchase coverage under NAP
where crop insurance is not available in the
next two available crop years, as determined
by the Secretary: Provided further, That, not
later than 120 days after the end of fiscal
year 2019, the Secretary shall submit a re-
port to the Congress specifying the type,
amount, and method of such assistance by
state and territory: Provided further, That
such amount is designated by the Congress
as being for an emergency requirement pur-
suant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985.
FARM SERVICE AGENCY
EMERGENCY FOREST RESTORATION PROGRAM
For an additional amount for the ‘‘Emer-
gency Forest Restoration Program’’, for nec-
essary expenses related to the consequences
of Hurricanes Michael and Florence and
wildfires occurring in calendar year 2018, and
other natural disasters, $480,000,000, to re-
main available until expended: Provided,
That such amount is designated by the Con-
gress as being for an emergency requirement
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985.
NATURAL RESOURCES CONSERVATION SERVICE
WATERSHED AND FLOOD PREVENTION
OPERATIONS
For an additional amount for ‘‘Watershed
and Flood Prevention Operations’’, for nec-
essary expenses for the Emergency Water-
shed Protection Program related to the con-
sequences of Hurricanes Michael and Flor-
ence and wildfires occurring in calendar year
2018, and other natural disasters, $125,000,000,
to remain available until expended: Provided,
That such amount is designated by the Con-
gress as being for an emergency requirement
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985.
RURAL DEVELOPMENT
RURAL COMMUNITY FACILITIES PROGRAM
ACCOUNT
For an additional amount for the cost of
grants for rural community facilities pro-
grams as authorized by section 306 and de-
scribed in section 381E(d)(1) of the Consoli-
dated Farm and Rural Development Act, for
necessary expenses related to the con-
sequences of Hurricanes Michael and Flor-
ence and wildfires occurring in calendar year
2018, and other natural disasters, $150,000,000,
to remain available until expended: Provided,
That sections 381E-H and 381N of the Consoli-
dated Farm and Rural Development Act are
not applicable to the funds made available
under this heading: Provided further, That
such amount is designated by the Congress
as being for an emergency requirement pur-
suant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985.
GENERAL PROVISIONS—THIS TITLE
SEC. 101. In addition to amounts otherwise
made available, out of the funds made avail-
able under section 18 of Food and Nutrition
Act of 2008, $25,200,000 shall be available for
the Secretary to provide a grant to the Com-
monwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands
for disaster nutrition assistance in response
to the Presidentially declared major disas-
ters and emergencies: Provided, That funds
made available to the Commonwealth of the
Northern Mariana Islands under this section
shall remain available for obligation by the
Commonwealth until September 30, 2020: Pro-
vided further, That such amount is des-
ignated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
SEC. 102. For purposes of administering
title I of subdivision 1 of division B of the Bi-
partisan Budget Act of 2018 (Public Law 115–
123), losses to agricultural producers result-
ing from hurricanes shall also include losses
of peach and blueberry crops in calendar
year 2017 due to extreme cold: Provided, That
the amounts provided by this section are
designated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985: Pro-
vided further, That amounts repurposed
under this heading that were previously des-
ignated by the Congress as an emergency re-
quirement pursuant to the Balanced Budget
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985
are designated by the Congress as an emer-
gency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
SEC. 103. (a)(1) Except as provided in para-
graph (2), a person or legal entity is not eli-
gible to receive a payment under the Market
Facilitation Program established pursuant
to the Commodity Credit Corporation Char-
ter Act (15 U.S.C. 714 et seq.) if the average
adjusted gross income of such person or legal
entity is greater than $900,000.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:51 Apr 02, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00033 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A01AP6.037 S01APPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2138 April 1, 2019
(2) Paragraph (1) shall not apply to a per-
son or legal entity if at least 75 percent of
the adjusted gross income of such person or
legal entity is derived from farming, ranch-
ing, or forestry related activities.
(b) A person or legal entity may not re-
ceive a payment under the Market Facilita-
tion Program described in subsection (a)(1),
directly or indirectly, of more than $125,000.
(c) In this section, the term ‘‘average ad-
justed gross income’’ has the meaning given
the term defined in section 760.1502 of title 7
Code of Federal Regulations (as in effect
July 18, 2018).
(d) The amount provided by this section is
designated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
SEC. 104. In addition to other amounts
made available by section 309 of division A of
the Additional Supplemental Appropriations
for Disaster Relief Requirements Act, 2017
(Public Law 115–72; 131 Stat. 1229), there is
appropriated to the Secretary, out of any
moneys in the Treasury not otherwise appro-
priated, for the fiscal year ending September
30, 2019, $600,000,000 to provide a grant to the
Commonwealth of Puerto Rico for disaster
nutrition assistance in response to a major
disaster or emergency designated by the
President under the Robert T. Stafford Dis-
aster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act
(42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq.): Provided, That the
funds made available to the Commonwealth
of Puerto Rico under this section shall re-
main available for obligation by the Com-
monwealth until September 30, 2020, and
shall be in addition to funds otherwise made
available: Provided further, That such
amount is designated by the Congress as
being for an emergency requirement pursu-
ant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act
of 1985 (2 U.S.C. 901(b)(2)(A)(i)).
TITLE II
DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT ADMINISTRATION
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT ASSISTANCE
PROGRAMS
(INCLUDING TRANSFERS OF FUNDS)
Pursuant to section 703 of the Public
Works and Economic Development Act (42
U.S.C. 3233), for an additional amount for
‘‘Economic Development Assistance Pro-
grams’’ for necessary expenses related to
flood mitigation, disaster relief, long-term
recovery, and restoration of infrastructure
in areas that received a major disaster des-
ignation as a result of Hurricanes Florence,
Michael, and Lane, Typhoons Yutu and
Mangkhut, and of wildfires, volcanic erup-
tions, earthquakes, and other natural disas-
ters occurring in calendar year 2018, and tor-
nadoes and floods occurring in calendar year
2019 under the Robert T. Stafford Disaster
Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42
U.S.C. 5121 et seq.), $600,000,000, to remain
available until expended: Provided, That such
amount is designated by the Congress as
being for an emergency requirement pursu-
ant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act
of 1985: Provided further, That within the
amount appropriated, up to 2 percent of
funds may be transferred to the ‘‘Salaries
and Expenses’’ account for administration
and oversight activities: Provided further,
That within the amount appropriated,
$1,000,000 shall be transferred to the ‘‘Office
of Inspector General’’ account for carrying
out investigations and audits related to the
funding provided under this heading.
NATIONAL OCEANIC AND ATMOSPHERIC
ADMINISTRATION
OPERATIONS, RESEARCH, AND FACILITIES
For an additional amount for ‘‘Operations,
Research, and Facilities’’ for necessary ex-
penses related to the consequences of Hurri-
canes Florence and Michael, Typhoon Yutu,
and of wildfires, $120,570,000, to remain avail-
able until September 30, 2020, as follows:
(1) $3,000,000 for repair and replacement of
observing assets, real property, and equip-
ment;
(2) $11,000,000 for marine debris assessment
and removal;
(3) $31,570,000 for mapping, charting, and
geodesy services;
(4) $25,000,000 to improve: (a) hurricane in-
tensity forecasting, including through de-
ployment of unmanned ocean observing plat-
forms and enhanced data assimilation; (b)
flood prediction, forecasting, and mitigation
capabilities; and (c) wildfire prediction, de-
tection, and forecasting; and
(5) $50,000,000 for Title IX Fund grants as
authorized under section 906(c) of division O
of Public Law 114–113:
Provided, That such amount is designated by
the Congress as being for an emergency re-
quirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i)
of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Def-
icit Control Act of 1985: Provided further,
That the National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration shall submit a spending plan
to the Committees on Appropriations of the
House of Representatives and the Senate for
funding provided under subsection (4) of this
heading within 45 days after the date of en-
actment of this Act.
PROCUREMENT, ACQUISITION AND CONSTRUCTION
For an additional amount for ‘‘Procure-
ment, Acquisition and Construction’’,
$25,000,000, to remain available until Sep-
tember 30, 2021, for improvements to oper-
ational and research weather supercom-
puting infrastructure and satellite ground
services used for hurricane intensity and
track prediction; flood prediction, fore-
casting, and mitigation; and wildfire pre-
diction, detection, and forecasting: Provided,
That such amount is designated by the Con-
gress as being for an emergency requirement
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985: Provided further, That the Na-
tional Oceanic and Atmospheric Administra-
tion shall submit a spending plan to the
Committees on Appropriations of the House
of Representatives and the Senate within 45
days after the date of enactment of this Act.
FISHERY DISASTER ASSISTANCE
For an additional amount for ‘‘Fishery
Disaster Assistance’’ for necessary expenses
associated with the mitigation of fishery dis-
asters, $150,000,000, to remain available until
expended: Provided, That funds shall be used
for mitigating the effects of commercial fish-
ery failures and fishery resource disasters
declared by the Secretary of Commerce, in-
cluding those declared by the Secretary to be
a direct result of Hurricanes Florence and
Michael and Typhoons Yutu and Mangkhut:
Provided further, That such amount is des-
ignated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
UNITED STATES MARSHALS SERVICE
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For an additional amount for ‘‘Salaries
and Expenses’’ for necessary expenses related
to the consequences of Hurricanes Florence
and Michael and Typhoon Yutu, $1,336,000:
Provided, That such amount is designated by
the Congress as being for an emergency re-
quirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i)
of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Def-
icit Control Act of 1985.
FEDERAL PRISON SYSTEM
BUILDINGS AND FACILITIES
For an additional amount for ‘‘Buildings
and Facilities’’ for necessary expenses re-
lated to the consequences of Hurricanes
Florence and Michael and Typhoon Yutu,
$28,400,000, to remain available until ex-
pended: Provided, That such amount is des-
ignated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
RELATED AGENCIES
LEGAL SERVICES CORPORATION
PAYMENT TO THE LEGAL SERVICES
CORPORATION
For an additional amount for ‘‘Payment to
the Legal Services Corporation’’ to carry out
the purposes of the Legal Services Corpora-
tion Act by providing for necessary expenses
related to the consequences of Hurricanes
Florence, Michael, and Lane, Typhoons Yutu
and Mangkhut, calendar year 2018 wildfires,
volcanic eruptions, and earthquakes, and
calendar year 2019 tornadoes and floods,
$15,000,000: Provided, That such amount is
designated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985: Pro-
vided further, That none of the funds appro-
priated in this Act to the Legal Services Cor-
poration shall be expended for any purpose
prohibited or limited by, or contrary to any
of the provisions of, sections 501, 502, 503, 504,
505, and 506 of Public Law 105–119, and all
funds appropriated in this Act to the Legal
Services Corporation shall be subject to the
same terms and conditions set forth in such
sections, except that all references in sec-
tions 502 and 503 to 1997 and 1998 shall be
deemed to refer instead to 2018 and 2019, re-
spectively, and except that sections 501 and
503 of Public Law 104–134 (referenced by Pub-
lic Law 105–119) shall not apply to the
amount made available under this heading:
Provided further, That, for the purposes of
this Act, the Legal Services Corporation
shall be considered an agency of the United
States Government.
TITLE III
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE
OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE, MARINE CORPS
For an additional amount for ‘‘Operation
and Maintenance, Marine Corps’’,
$200,000,000, for necessary expenses related to
the consequences of Hurricanes Michael and
Florence: Provided, That such amount is des-
ignated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE, AIR FORCE
For an additional amount for ‘‘Operation
and Maintenance, Air Force’’, $400,000,000, for
necessary expenses related to the con-
sequences of Hurricanes Michael and Flor-
ence: Provided, That such amount is des-
ignated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
TITLE IV
CORPS OF ENGINEERS—CIVIL
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
INVESTIGATIONS
For an additional amount for ‘‘Investiga-
tions’’ for necessary expenses related to the
completion, or initiation and completion, of
flood and storm damage reduction, including
shore protection, studies which are currently
authorized or which are authorized after the
date of enactment of this Act, to reduce risk
from future floods and hurricanes, at full
Federal expense, $35,000,000, to remain avail-
able until expended, for high priority studies
of projects in States and insular areas that
were impacted by Hurricanes Florence and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:51 Apr 02, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00034 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A01AP6.039 S01APPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2139
April 1, 2019
Michael, Typhoon Mangkhut, Super Typhoon
Yutu, and Tropical Storm Gita: Provided,
That such amount is designated by the Con-
gress as being for an emergency requirement
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985: Provided further, That the Assist-
ant Secretary of the Army for Civil Works
shall provide a monthly report directly to
the Committees on Appropriations of the
House and the Senate detailing the alloca-
tion and obligation of these funds, including
new studies selected to be initiated using
funds provided under this heading, beginning
not later than 60 days after the date of en-
actment of this Act.
CONSTRUCTION
For an additional amount for ‘‘Construc-
tion’’ for necessary expenses, $740,000,000, to
remain available until expended, to con-
struct flood and storm damage reduction, in-
cluding shore protection, projects which are
currently authorized or which are authorized
after the date of enactment of this Act, and
flood and storm damage reduction, including
shore protection, projects which have signed
Chief’s Reports as of the date of enactment
of this Act or which are studied using funds
provided under the heading ‘‘Investigations’’
if the Secretary determines such projects to
be technically feasible, economically justi-
fied, and environmentally acceptable, in
States and insular areas that were impacted
by Hurricanes Florence and Michael, Ty-
phoon Mangkhut, Super Typhoon Yutu, and
Tropical Storm Gita: Provided, That projects
receiving funds provided in Public Law 115–
123 shall not be eligible for funding provided
under this heading: Provided further, That for
projects receiving funds provided under this
heading, the provisions of Section 902 of the
Water Resources Development Act of 1986
shall not apply to these funds: Provided fur-
ther, That the completion of ongoing con-
struction projects receiving funds provided
under this heading shall be at full Federal
expense with respect to such funds: Provided
further, That using funds provided under this
heading, the non-Federal cash contribution
for projects other than ongoing construction
projects shall be financed in accordance with
the provisions of section 103(k) of Public Law
99–662 over a period of 30 years from the date
of completion of the project or separable ele-
ment: Provided further, That up to $25,000,000
of the funds made available under this head-
ing shall be used for continuing authorities
projects to reduce the risk of flooding and
storm damage: Provided further, That any
projects using funds appropriated under this
heading shall be initiated only after non-
Federal interests have entered into binding
agreements with the Secretary requiring,
where applicable, the non-Federal interests
to pay 100 percent of the operation, mainte-
nance, repair, replacement, and rehabilita-
tion costs of the project and to hold and save
the United States free from damages due to
the construction or operation and mainte-
nance of the project, except for damages due
to the fault or negligence of the United
States or its contractors: Provided further,
That such amount is designated by the Con-
gress as being for an emergency requirement
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985: Provided further, That the Assist-
ant Secretary of the Army for Civil Works
shall provide a monthly report directly to
the Committees on Appropriations of the
House of Representatives and the Senate de-
tailing the allocation and obligation of these
funds, beginning not later than 60 days after
the date of enactment of this Act.
MISSISSIPPI RIVER AND TRIBUTARIES
For an additional amount for ‘‘Mississippi
River and Tributaries’’ for necessary ex-
penses to address emergency situations at
Corps of Engineers projects and rehabilitate
and repair damages to Corps of Engineers
projects, caused by natural disasters,
$225,000,000, to remain available until ex-
pended: Provided, That such amount is des-
ignated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985: Pro-
vided further, That the Assistant Secretary of
the Army for Civil Works shall provide a
monthly report directly to the Committees
on Appropriations of the House of Represent-
atives and the Senate detailing the alloca-
tion and obligation of these funds, beginning
not later than 60 days after the date of en-
actment of this Act.
OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE
For an additional amount for ‘‘Operation
and Maintenance’’ for necessary expenses to
dredge Federal navigation projects in re-
sponse to, and repair damages to Corps of
Engineers Federal projects caused by, nat-
ural disasters, $245,000,000, to remain avail-
able until expended, of which such sums as
are necessary to cover the Federal share of
eligible operation and maintenance costs for
coastal harbors and channels, and for inland
harbors shall be derived from the Harbor
Maintenance Trust Fund: Provided, That
such amount is designated by the Congress
as being for an emergency requirement pur-
suant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985: Provided further, That the Assist-
ant Secretary of the Army for Civil Works
shall provide a monthly report directly to
the Committees on Appropriations of the
House of Representatives and the Senate de-
tailing the allocation and obligation of these
funds, beginning not later than 60 days after
the date of enactment of this Act.
DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR
CENTRAL UTAH PROJECT
CENTRAL UTAH PROJECT COMPLETION ACCOUNT
For an additional amount for ‘‘Central
Utah Project Completion Account’’, $350,000,
to be deposited into the Utah Reclamation
Mitigation and Conservation Account for use
by the Utah Reclamation Mitigation and
Conservation Commission, to remain avail-
able until expended, for expenses necessary
in carrying out fire remediation activities
related to wildfires in 2018: Provided, That
such amount is designated by the Congress
as being for an emergency requirement pur-
suant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985.
BUREAU OF RECLAMATION
WATER AND RELATED RESOURCES
For an additional amount for ‘‘Water and
Related Resources’’, $15,500,000, to remain
available until expended, for fire remedi-
ation and suppression emergency assistance
related to wildfires in 2017 and 2018: Provided,
That such amount is designated by the Con-
gress as being for an emergency requirement
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985.
TITLE V
DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY
SECURITY, ENFORCEMENT, AND
INVESTIGATIONS
COAST GUARD
OPERATIONS AND SUPPORT
For an additional amount for ‘‘Operations
and Support’’ for necessary expenses related
to the consequences of Hurricanes Michael,
Florence, and Lane, Tropical Storm Gordon,
and Typhoon Mangkhut, $46,977,000, to re-
main available until September 30, 2020: Pro-
vided, That such amount is designated by the
Congress as being for an emergency require-
ment pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of
the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit
Control Act of 1985.
PROCUREMENT, CONSTRUCTION, AND
IMPROVEMENTS
For an additional amount for ‘‘Procure-
ment, Construction, and Improvements’’ for
necessary expenses related to the con-
sequences of Hurricanes Michael, Florence,
and Lane, Tropical Storm Gordon, and Ty-
phoon Mangkhut, $476,755,000, to remain
available until September 30, 2023: Provided,
That such amount is designated by the Con-
gress as being for an emergency requirement
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985.
ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE AND
RESTORATION
For an additional amount for ‘‘Environ-
mental Compliance and Restoration’’ for
necessary expenses related to the con-
sequences of Hurricanes Michael and Flor-
ence, $2,000,000, to remain available until
September 30, 2023: Provided, That such
amount is designated by the Congress as
being for an emergency requirement pursu-
ant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act
of 1985.
TITLE VI
DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR
UNITED STATES FISH AND WILDLIFE SERVICE
CONSTRUCTION
For an additional amount for ‘‘Construc-
tion’’ for necessary expenses related to the
consequences of Hurricanes Florence, Lane,
and Michael, and flooding associated with
major declared disaster DR–4365, and cal-
endar year 2018 earthquakes, $82,400,000, to
remain available until expended: Provided,
That of this amount $50,000,000 shall be used
to restore and rebuild national wildlife ref-
uges and increase the resiliency and capacity
of coastal habitat and infrastructure to
withstand storms and reduce the amount of
damage caused by such storms: Provided fur-
ther, That such amount is designated by the
Congress as being for an emergency require-
ment pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of
the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit
Control Act of 1985.
NATIONAL PARK SERVICE
HISTORIC PRESERVATION FUND
For an additional amount for the ‘‘Historic
Preservation Fund’’ for necessary expenses
related to the consequences of Hurricanes
Florence and Michael, and Typhoon Yutu,
$50,000,000, to remain available until Sep-
tember 30, 2022, including costs to States and
territories necessary to complete compliance
activities required by section 306108 of title
54, United States Code (formerly section 106
of the National Historic Preservation Act)
and costs needed to administer the program:
Provided, That grants shall only be available
for areas that have received a major disaster
declaration pursuant to the Robert T. Staf-
ford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assist-
ance Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq.): Provided fur-
ther, That individual grants shall not be sub-
ject to a non-Federal matching requirement:
Provided further, That such amount is des-
ignated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
CONSTRUCTION
For an additional amount for ‘‘Construc-
tion’’ for necessary expenses related to the
consequences of Hurricanes Florence and Mi-
chael, Typhoons Yutu and Mangkhut, and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:51 Apr 02, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00035 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A01AP6.039 S01APPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2140 April 1, 2019
calendar year 2018 wildfires, earthquakes,
and volcanic eruptions, $78,000,000, to remain
available until expended: Provided, That such
amount is designated by the Congress as
being for an emergency requirement pursu-
ant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act
of 1985.
UNITED STATES GEOLOGICAL SURVEY
SURVEYS, INVESTIGATIONS, AND RESEARCH
For an additional amount for ‘‘Surveys, In-
vestigations, and Research’’ for necessary
expenses related to the consequences of Hur-
ricanes Florence and Michael, and calendar
year 2018 wildfires, earthquake damage asso-
ciated with emergency declaration EM–3410,
and in those areas impacted by a major dis-
aster declared pursuant to the Robert T.
Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency As-
sistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq.) with re-
spect to calendar year 2018 wildfires or vol-
canic eruptions, $98,500,000, to remain avail-
able until expended: Provided, That of this
amount, $72,310,000 is for costs related to the
repair and replacement of equipment and fa-
cilities damaged by disasters in 2018: Pro-
vided further, That, not later than 90 days
after enactment of this Act, the Survey shall
submit a report to the Committees on Appro-
priations that describes the potential op-
tions to replace the facility damaged by the
2018 volcano disaster along with cost esti-
mates and a description of how the Survey
will provide direct access for monitoring vol-
canic activity and the potential threat to at-
risk communities: Provided further, That
such amount is designated by the Congress
as being for an emergency requirement pur-
suant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985.
DEPARTMENTAL OFFICES
INSULAR AFFAIRS
ASSISTANCE TO TERRITORIES
For an additional amount for ‘‘Technical
Assistance’’ for financial management ex-
penses related to the consequences of Ty-
phoon Yutu, $2,000,000, to remain available
until expended: Provided, That such amount
is designated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
OFFICE OF INSPECTOR GENERAL
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For an additional amount for ‘‘Salaries
and Expenses’’ for necessary expenses related
to the consequences of major disasters de-
clared pursuant to the Robert T. Stafford
Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance
Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq.) in 2018, $1,000,000,
to remain available until expended: Provided,
That such amount is designated by the Con-
gress as being for an emergency requirement
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985.
ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY
SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY
For an additional amount for ‘‘Science and
Technology’’ for necessary expenses related
to improving preparedness of the water sec-
tor, $600,000, to remain available until ex-
pended: Provided, That such amount is des-
ignated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
LEAKING UNDERGROUND STORAGE TANK TRUST
FUND PROGRAM
For an additional amount for ‘‘Leaking
Underground Storage Tank Fund’’ for nec-
essary expenses related to the consequences
of Hurricanes Florence and Michael, cal-
endar year 2018 earthquakes, and Typhoon
Yutu, $1,500,000, to remain available until ex-
pended: Provided, That such amount is des-
ignated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
STATE AND TRIBAL ASSISTANCE GRANTS
For additional amounts for ‘‘State and
Tribal Assistance Grants’’ for necessary ex-
penses related to the consequences of Hurri-
canes Florence and Michael and calendar
year 2018 earthquakes for the hazardous
waste financial assistance grants program,
$1,500,000, to remain available until ex-
pended; for necessary expenses related to the
consequences of Typhoon Yutu for the haz-
ardous waste financial assistance grants pro-
gram and for other solid waste management
activities, $56,000,000, to remain available
until expended, provided that none of these
funds shall be subject to section 3011(b) of
the Solid Waste Disposal Act; and for grants
under section 106 of the Federal Water Pollu-
tion Control Act, $5,000,000, to remain avail-
able until expended, to address impacts of
Hurricane Florence, Hurricane Michael, Ty-
phoon Yutu, and calendar year 2018 wildfires,
notwithstanding subsections (b), (e), and (f),
of such section: Provided, That such amounts
are designated by the Congress as being for
an emergency requirement pursuant to sec-
tion 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
For an additional amount for ‘‘State and
Tribal Assistance Grants’’, $349,400,000 to re-
main available until expended, of which
$53,300,000 shall be for capitalization grants
for the Clean Water State Revolving Funds
under title VI of the Federal Water Pollution
Control Act, and of which $296,100,000 shall be
for capitalization grants under section 1452
of the Safe Drinking Water Act: Provided,
That notwithstanding section 604(a) of the
Federal Water Pollution Control Act and
section 1452(a)(1)(D) of the Safe Drinking
Water Act, funds appropriated herein shall
be provided to States in EPA Regions 4, 9,
and 10 in amounts determined by the Admin-
istrator for wastewater treatment works and
drinking water facilities impacted by Hurri-
canes Florence and Michael, Typhoon Yutu,
and calendar year 2018 wildfires and earth-
quakes: Provided further, That notwith-
standing the requirements of section 603(i) of
the Federal Water Pollution Control Act and
section 1452(d) of the Safe Drinking Water
Act, for the funds appropriated herein, each
State shall use not less than 20 percent but
not more than 30 percent of the amount of
its capitalization grants to provide addi-
tional subsidization to eligible recipients in
the form of forgiveness of principal, negative
interest loans or grants or any combination
of these: Provided further, That the Adminis-
trator shall retain $10,400,000 of the funds ap-
propriated herein for grants for drinking
water facilities and waste water treatment
plants impacted by Typhoon Yutu: Provided
further, That the funds appropriated herein
shall be used for eligible projects whose pur-
pose is to reduce flood or fire damage risk
and vulnerability or to enhance resiliency to
rapid hydrologic change or natural disaster
at treatment works as defined by section 212
of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act
or any eligible facilities under section 1452 of
the Safe Drinking Water Act, and for other
eligible tasks at such treatment works or fa-
cilities necessary to further such purposes:
Provided further, That the Administrator of
the Environmental Protection Agency may
retain up to $1,000,000 of the funds appro-
priated herein for management and over-
sight: Provided further, That such amount is
designated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
RELATED AGENCIES
DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE
FOREST SERVICE
FOREST AND RANGELAND RESEARCH
For an additional amount for ‘‘Forest and
Rangeland Research’’ for necessary expenses
related to the consequences of Hurricanes
Florence and Michael, and the calendar year
2018 wildfires, $1,000,000, to remain available
until expended for the forest inventory and
analysis program: Provided, That such
amount is designated by the Congress as
being for an emergency requirement pursu-
ant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act
of 1985.
STATE AND PRIVATE FORESTRY
For an additional amount for ‘‘State and
Private Forestry’’ for necessary expenses re-
lated to the consequences of Hurricanes
Florence and Michael, and the calendar year
2018 wildfires, $12,000,000, to remain available
until expended: Provided, That such amount
is designated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
NATIONAL FOREST SYSTEM
For an additional amount for ‘‘National
Forest System’’ for necessary expenses re-
lated to the consequences of Hurricanes
Florence and Michael, and the calendar year
2018 wildfires, $84,960,000, to remain available
until expended: Provided, That of this
amount $21,000,000 shall be used for haz-
ardous fuels management activities: Provided
further, That such amount is designated by
the Congress as being for an emergency re-
quirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i)
of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Def-
icit Control Act of 1985.
CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT AND MAINTENANCE
For an additional amount for ‘‘Capital Im-
provement and Maintenance’’ for necessary
expenses related to the consequences of Hur-
ricanes Florence and Michael, and the cal-
endar year 2018 wildfires, $36,040,000, to re-
main available until expended: Provided,
That such amount is designated by the Con-
gress as being for an emergency requirement
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985.
WILDLAND FIRE MANAGEMENT
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
For an additional amount for ‘‘Wildland
Fire Management’’, $720,271,000, to remain
available through September 30, 2022, for ur-
gent wildland fire suppression operations:
Provided, That such funds shall be solely
available to be transferred to and merged
with other appropriations accounts from
which funds were previously transferred for
wildland fire suppression in fiscal year 2018
to fully repay those amounts: Provided fur-
ther, That such amount is designated by the
Congress as an emergency requirement pur-
suant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985.
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN
SERVICES
NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF ENVIRONMENTAL
HEALTH SCIENCES
For an additional amount for ‘‘National In-
stitute of Environmental Health Sciences’’
for necessary expenses in carrying out ac-
tivities set forth in section 311(a) of the Com-
prehensive Environmental Response, Com-
pensation, and Liability Act of 1980 (42
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:51 Apr 02, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00036 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A01AP6.039 S01APPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2141
April 1, 2019
U.S.C. 9660(a)) and section 126(g) of the
Superfund Amendments and Reauthorization
Act of 1986 related to the consequences of
major disasters declared pursuant to the
Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emer-
gency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq.)
in 2018, $1,000,000, to remain available until
expended: Provided, That such amount is des-
ignated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
GENERAL PROVISION—THIS TITLE
SEC. 601. Not later than 45 days after the
date of enactment of this Act, the agencies
receiving funds appropriated by this title
shall provide a detailed operating plan of an-
ticipated uses of funds made available in this
title by State and Territory, and by pro-
gram, project, and activity, to the Commit-
tees on Appropriations: Provided, That no
such funds shall be obligated before the oper-
ating plans are provided to the Committees:
Provided further, That such plans shall be up-
dated, including obligations to date, and sub-
mitted to the Committees on Appropriations
every 60 days until all such funds are ex-
pended.
TITLE VII
DEPARTMENT OF LABOR
EMPLOYMENT AND TRAINING ADMINISTRATION
TRAINING AND EMPLOYMENT SERVICES
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
For an additional amount for ‘‘Training
and Employment Services’’, $50,000,000, for
the dislocated workers assistance national
reserve for necessary expenses directly re-
lated to the consequences of Hurricanes
Florence and Michael, Typhoon Mangkhut,
Super Typhoon Yutu, wildfires and earth-
quakes occurring in calendar year 2018, and
tornadoes and floods occurring in calendar
year 2019 (referred to under this heading as
‘‘covered disaster or emergency’’), to remain
available through September 30, 2020: Pro-
vided, That the Secretary of Labor may
transfer up to $1,000,000 of such funds to any
other Department of Labor account for re-
construction and recovery needs, including
worker protection activities: Provided fur-
ther, That these sums may be used to replace
grant funds previously obligated to the im-
pacted areas: Provided further, That of the
amount provided, up to $500,000, to remain
available until expended, shall be transferred
to ‘‘Office of Inspector General’’ for over-
sight of activities responding to such covered
disaster or emergency: Provided further, That
such amount is designated by the Congress
as being for an emergency requirement pur-
suant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985.
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN
SERVICES
SUBSTANCE ABUSE AND MENTAL HEALTH
SERVICES ADMINISTRATION
HEALTH SURVEILLANCE AND PROGRAM SUPPORT
For an additional amount for ‘‘Health Sur-
veillance and Program Support’’, $30,000,000,
to remain available until September 30, 2019,
for grants, contracts and cooperative agree-
ments for behavioral health treatment, crisis
counseling, and other related helplines, and
for other similar programs to provide sup-
port to individuals impacted by Hurricanes
Florence and Michael, Typhoon Mangkhut,
Super Typhoon Yutu, wildfires and earth-
quakes occurring in calendar year 2018, and
tornadoes and floods occurring in calendar
year 2019 in those areas for which a major
disaster or emergency has been declared
under section 401 or 501 of the Robert T. Staf-
ford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assist-
ance Act (42 U.S.C. 5170 and 5191): Provided,
That obligations incurred for the purposes
provided herein prior to the date of enact-
ment of this Act may be charged to funds ap-
propriated under this heading: Provided fur-
ther, That such amount is designated by the
Congress as being for an emergency require-
ment pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of
the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit
Control Act of 1985.
ADMINISTRATION FOR CHILDREN AND FAMILIES
CHILDREN AND FAMILIES SERVICES PROGRAMS
For an additional amount for ‘‘Children
and Families Services Programs’’, $60,000,000,
to remain available until September 30, 2021,
for Head Start programs, including making
payments under the Head Start Act, for nec-
essary expenses directly related to the con-
sequences of Hurricanes Florence and Mi-
chael, Typhoon Mangkhut, Super Typhoon
Yutu, wildfires and earthquakes occurring in
calendar year 2018, and tornadoes and floods
occurring in calendar year 2019 in those
areas for which a major disaster or emer-
gency has been declared under section 401 or
501 of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief
and Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C.
5170 and 5191): Provided, That none of the
funds appropriated in this paragraph shall be
included in the calculation of the ‘‘base
grant’’ in subsequent fiscal years, as such
term is defined in sections 640(a)(7)(A),
641A(h)(1)(B), or 645(d)(3) of the Head Start
Act: Provided further, That funds appro-
priated in this paragraph are not subject to
the allocation requirements of section 640(a)
of the Head Start Act: Provided further, That
funds appropriated in this paragraph shall
not be available for costs that are reim-
bursed by the Federal Emergency Manage-
ment Agency, under a contract for insur-
ance, or by self-insurance: Provided further,
That up to $2,000,000 shall be available for
Federal administrative expenses: Provided
further, That obligations incurred for the
purposes provided herein prior to the date of
enactment of this Act may be charged to
funds appropriated under this heading: Pro-
vided further, That such amount is des-
ignated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION
EDUCATION RECOVERY
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
For an additional amount for ‘‘Education
Recovery’’ for necessary expenses related to
the consequences of Hurricanes Florence and
Michael, Typhoon Mangkhut, Super Typhoon
Yutu, wildfires and earthquakes occurring in
calendar year 2018, and tornadoes and floods
occurring in calendar year 2019 in those
areas for which a major disaster or emer-
gency has been declared under section 401 or
501 of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief
and Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C.
5170 and 5191) (referred to under this heading
as a ‘‘covered disaster or emergency’’),
$165,000,000, to remain available through Sep-
tember 30, 2019: Provided, That such amount
is designated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985: Pro-
vided further, That such assistance may be
provided through any of the programs au-
thorized under this heading in division B of
title VIII of Public Law 115–123 (as amended
by Public Law 115–141), as determined by the
Secretary of Education, and subject to the
terms and conditions that applied to those
programs, except that references to dates
and school years in Public Law 115–123 shall
be deemed to be the corresponding dates and
school years for the covered disaster or
emergency: Provided further, That the Sec-
retary of Education may determine the
amounts to be used for each such program
and shall notify the Committees on Appro-
priations of the House of Representatives
and the Senate of these amounts not later
than 7 days prior to obligation: Provided fur-
ther, $2,000,000 of the funds made available
under this heading, to remain available until
expended, shall be transferred to the Office
of the Inspector General of the Department
of Education for oversight of activities sup-
ported with funds appropriated under this
heading, and up to $1,000,000 of the funds
made available under this heading shall be
for program administration.
GENERAL PROVISION—THIS TITLE
SEC. 701. Not later than 30 days after the
date of enactment of this Act, the Secre-
taries of Labor, Health and Human Services,
and Education shall provide a detailed spend
plan of anticipated uses of funds made avail-
able in this title, including estimated per-
sonnel and administrative costs, to the Com-
mittees on Appropriations: Provided, That
such plans shall be updated and submitted to
the Committees on Appropriations every 60
days until all funds are expended or expire.
TITLE VIII
LEGISLATIVE BRANCH
GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For an additional amount for ‘‘Salaries
and Expenses’’, $10,000,000, to remain avail-
able until expended, for audits and investiga-
tions related to Hurricanes Florence, Lane,
and Michael, Typhoons Yutu and Mangkhut,
the calendar year 2018 wildfires, earth-
quakes, and volcano eruptions, and other dis-
asters declared pursuant to the Robert T.
Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency As-
sistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq.): Provided,
That, not later than 90 days after the date of
enactment of this Act, the Government Ac-
countability Office shall submit to the Com-
mittees on Appropriations of the House of
Representatives and the Senate a spend plan
specifying funding estimates for audits and
investigations of any such declared disasters
occurring in 2018 and identifying funding es-
timates or carryover balances, if any, that
may be available for audits and investiga-
tions of any other such declared disasters:
Provided further, That such amount is des-
ignated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
TITLE IX
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE
MILITARY CONSTRUCTION, NAVY AND MARINE
CORPS
For an additional amount for ‘‘Military
Construction, Navy and Marine Corps’’,
$115,000,000, to remain available until Sep-
tember 30, 2023, for planning and design re-
lated to the consequences of Hurricanes
Florence and Michael on Navy and Marine
Corps installations: Provided, That none of
the funds shall be available for obligation
until the Committees on Appropriations of
the House of Representatives and the Senate
receive a master plan for the installations:
Provided further, That, not later than 60 days
after enactment of this Act, the Secretary of
the Navy, or his designee, shall submit to
the Committees on Appropriations of the
House of Representatives and the Senate a
detailed expenditure plan for funds provided
under this heading: Provided further, That
such amount is designated by the Congress
as being for an emergency requirement pur-
suant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:51 Apr 02, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00037 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A01AP6.039 S01APPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2142 April 1, 2019
MILITARY CONSTRUCTION, AIR FORCE
For an additional amount for ‘‘Military
Construction, Air Force’’, $700,000,000, to re-
main available until September 30, 2023, for
planning and design, and construction ex-
penses related to the consequences of Hurri-
cane Michael: Provided, That none of the
funds shall be available for obligation until
the Committees on Appropriations of the
House of Representatives and the Senate re-
ceive a basing plan and future mission re-
quirements for installations significantly
damaged by Hurricane Michael: Provided fur-
ther, That, not later than 60 days after enact-
ment of this Act, the Secretary of the Air
Force, or his designee, shall submit to the
Committees on Appropriations of the House
of Representatives and the Senate a detailed
expenditure plan for funds provided under
this heading: Provided further, That such
amount is designated by the Congress as
being for an emergency requirement pursu-
ant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act
of 1985.
MILITARY CONSTRUCTION, ARMY NATIONAL
GUARD
For an additional amount for ‘‘Military
Construction, Army National Guard’’,
$42,400,000, to remain available until Sep-
tember 30, 2023, for necessary expenses re-
lated to the consequences of Hurricanes
Florence and Michael: Provided, That none of
the funds shall be available for obligation
until the Committees on Appropriations of
the House of Representatives and the Senate
receive form 1391 for each specific request:
Provided further, That, not later than 60 days
after enactment of this Act, the Director of
the Army National Guard, or his designee,
shall submit to the Committees on Appro-
priations of the House of Representatives
and the Senate a detailed expenditure plan
for funds provided under this heading: Pro-
vided further, That such funds may be obli-
gated or expended for planning and design
and military construction projects not oth-
erwise authorized by law: Provided further,
That such amount is designated by the Con-
gress as being for an emergency requirement
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985.
DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS
VETERANS HEALTH ADMINISTRATION
MEDICAL FACILITIES
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
For an additional amount for ‘‘Medical Fa-
cilities’’, $3,000,000, to remain available until
September 30, 2023, for necessary expenses re-
lated to the consequences of Hurricanes
Florence and Michael and Typhoons
Mangkhut and Yutu: Provided, That the Sec-
retary of Veterans Affairs, upon determina-
tion that such action is necessary to address
needs as a result of the consequences of Hur-
ricanes Florence and Michael and Typhoons
Mangkhut and Yutu, may transfer such
funds to any discretionary account of the
Department of Veterans Affairs: Provided fur-
ther, That before a transfer may take place,
the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall sub-
mit notice thereof to the Committees on Ap-
propriations of the House of Representatives
and the Senate: Provided further, That none
of these funds shall be available for obliga-
tion until the Secretary of Veterans Affairs
submits to the Committees on Appropria-
tions of the House of Representatives and
the Senate a detailed expenditure plan for
funds provided under this heading: Provided
further, That such amount is designated by
the Congress as being for an emergency re-
quirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i)
of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Def-
icit Control Act of 1985.
TITLE X
DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION
FEDERAL TRANSIT ADMINISTRATION
PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION EMERGENCY RELIEF
PROGRAM
For an additional amount for the ‘‘Public
Transportation Emergency Relief Program’’
as authorized under section 5324 of title 49,
United States Code, $10,542,000 to remain
available until expended, for transit systems
affected by major declared disasters occur-
ring in calendar year 2018: Provided, That not
more than three-quarters of 1 percent of the
funds for public transportation emergency
relief shall be available for administrative
expenses and ongoing program management
oversight as authorized under sections 5334
and 5338(f)(2) of such title and shall be in ad-
dition to any other appropriations for such
purpose: Provided further, That such amount
is designated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
FEDERAL AVIATION ADMINISTRATION
OPERATIONS
(AIRPORT AND AIRWAY TRUST FUND)
Of the amounts made available for ‘‘Fed-
eral Aviation Administration—Operations’’
in division B of the Bipartisan Budget Act of
2018 (Public Law 115–123), up to $18,000,000
shall also be available for necessary expenses
related to the consequences of major de-
clared disasters occurring in calendar year
2018: Provided, That amounts repurposed
under this heading that were previously des-
ignated by the Congress as an emergency re-
quirement pursuant to the Balanced Budget
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985
are designated by the Congress as an emer-
gency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
FEDERAL HIGHWAY ADMINISTRATION
EMERGENCY RELIEF PROGRAM
For an additional amount for the Emer-
gency Relief Program as authorized under
section 125 of title 23, United States Code,
$1,650,000,000, to remain available until ex-
pended: Provided, That such amount is des-
ignated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND URBAN
DEVELOPMENT
COMMUNITY PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT FUND
(INCLUDING TRANSFERS OF FUNDS)
For an additional amount for ‘‘Community
Development Fund’’, $1,060,000,000, to remain
available until expended, for necessary ex-
penses for activities authorized under title I
of the Housing and Community Development
Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5301 et seq.) related to
disaster relief, long-term recovery, restora-
tion of infrastructure and housing, economic
revitalization, and mitigation in the most
impacted and distressed areas resulting from
a major disaster that occurred in 2018 pursu-
ant to the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief
and Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C.
5121 et seq.): Provided, That funds shall be
awarded directly to the State, unit of gen-
eral local government, or Indian tribe (as
such term is defined in section 102 of the
Housing and Community Development Act of
1974) at the discretion of the Secretary: Pro-
vided further, That any funds made available
under this heading and under the same head-
ing in Public Law 115–254 that remain avail-
able, after the funds under such headings
have been allocated for necessary expenses
for activities authorized under such head-
ings, shall be allocated to grantees, for miti-
gation activities in the most impacted and
distressed areas resulting from a major dis-
aster that occurred in 2018: Provided further,
That such allocations shall be made in the
same proportion that the amount of funds
each grantee received under this Act and the
same heading in division I of Public Law 115–
254 bears to the amount of all funds provided
to all grantees that received allocations for
disasters that occurred in 2018: Provided fur-
ther, That of the amounts made available
under the text preceding the first proviso
under this heading and under the same head-
ing in Public Law 115–254, the Secretary
shall allocate to all such grantees an aggre-
gate amount not less than 33 percent of the
sum of such amounts of funds within 120 days
after the enactment of this Act based on the
best available data, and shall allocate no less
than 100 percent of such funds by no later
than 180 days after the enactment of this
Act: Provided further, That the Secretary
shall not prohibit the use of funds made
available under this heading and the same
heading in Public Law 115–254 for non-Fed-
eral share as authorized by section 105(a)(9)
of the Housing and Community Development
Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5305(a)(9)): Provided fur-
ther, That of the amounts made available
under this heading, grantees may establish
grant programs to assist small businesses for
working capital purposes to aid in recovery:
Provided further, That as a condition of mak-
ing any grant, the Secretary shall certify in
advance that such grantee has in place pro-
ficient financial controls and procurement
processes and has established adequate pro-
cedures to prevent any duplication of bene-
fits as defined by section 312 of the Robert T.
Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency As-
sistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5155), to ensure time-
ly expenditure of funds, to maintain com-
prehensive websites regarding all disaster re-
covery activities assisted with these funds,
and to detect and prevent waste, fraud, and
abuse of funds: Provided further, That with
respect to any such duplication of benefits,
the Secretary shall act in accordance with
section 1210 of Public Law 115–254 (132 Stat.
3442) and section 312 of the Robert T. Staf-
ford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assist-
ance Act (42 U.S.C. 5155): Provided further,
That the Secretary shall require grantees to
maintain on a public website information
containing common reporting criteria estab-
lished by the Department that permits indi-
viduals and entities awaiting assistance and
the general public to see how all grant funds
are used, including copies of all relevant pro-
curement documents, grantee administrative
contracts and details of ongoing procure-
ment processes, as determined by the Sec-
retary: Provided further, That prior to the ob-
ligation of funds a grantee shall submit a
plan to the Secretary for approval detailing
the proposed use of all funds, including cri-
teria for eligibility and how the use of these
funds will address long-term recovery and
restoration of infrastructure and housing,
economic revitalization, and mitigation in
the most impacted and distressed areas: Pro-
vided further, That such funds may not be
used for activities reimbursed by, or for
which funds have been made available by,
the Federal Emergency Management Agency
or the Army Corps of Engineers, in excess of
the authorized amount of the project or its
components: Provided further, That funds al-
located under this heading shall not be con-
sidered relevant to the non-disaster formula
allocations made pursuant to section 106 of
the Housing and Community Development
Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5306): Provided further,
That a State, unit of general local govern-
ment, or Indian tribe may use up to 5 per-
cent of its allocation for administrative
costs: Provided further, That the first proviso
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:51 Apr 02, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00038 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A01AP6.039 S01APPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2143
April 1, 2019
under this heading in the Supplemental Ap-
propriations for Disaster Relief Require-
ments Act, 2018 (division I of Public Law 115–
254) is amended by striking ‘‘State or unit of
general local government’’ and inserting
‘‘State, unit of general local government, or
Indian tribe (as such term is defined in sec-
tion 102 of the Housing and Community De-
velopment Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5302))’’: Pro-
vided further, That the sixth proviso under
this heading in the Supplemental Appropria-
tions for Disaster Relief Requirements Act,
2018 (division I of Public Law 115–254) is
amended by striking ‘‘State or subdivision
thereof’’ and inserting ‘‘State, unit of gen-
eral local government, or Indian tribe (as
such term is defined in section 102 of the
Housing and Community Development Act of
1974 (42 U.S.C. 5302))’’: Provided further, That
in administering the funds under this head-
ing, the Secretary of Housing and Urban De-
velopment may waive, or specify alternative
requirements for, any provision of any stat-
ute or regulation that the Secretary admin-
isters in connection with the obligation by
the Secretary or the use by the recipient of
these funds (except for requirements related
to fair housing, nondiscrimination, labor
standards, and the environment), if the Sec-
retary finds that good cause exists for the
waiver or alternative requirement and such
waiver or alternative requirement would not
be inconsistent with the overall purpose of
title I of the Housing and Community Devel-
opment Act of 1974: Provided further, That,
notwithstanding the preceding proviso, re-
cipients of funds provided under this heading
that use such funds to supplement Federal
assistance provided under section 402, 403,
404, 406, 407, 408 (c)(4), or 502 of the Robert T.
Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency As-
sistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq.) may
adopt, without review or public comment,
any environmental review, approval, or per-
mit performed by a Federal agency, and such
adoption shall satisfy the responsibilities of
the recipient with respect to such environ-
mental review, approval or permit: Provided
further, That, notwithstanding section
104(g)(2) of the Housing and Community De-
velopment Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5304(g)(2)),
the Secretary may, upon receipt of a request
for release of funds and certification, imme-
diately approve the release of funds for an
activity or project assisted under this head-
ing if the recipient has adopted an environ-
mental review, approval or permit under the
preceding proviso or the activity or project
is categorically excluded from review under
the National Environmental Policy Act of
1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.): Provided further,
That the Secretary shall publish via notice
in the Federal Register any waiver, or alter-
native requirement, to any statute or regula-
tion that the Secretary administers pursu-
ant to title I of the Housing and Community
Development Act of 1974 no later than 5 days
before the effective date of such waiver or al-
ternative requirement: Provided further, That
of the amounts made available under this
heading, up to $5,000,000 shall be made avail-
able for capacity building and technical as-
sistance, including assistance on contracting
and procurement processes, to support
States, units of general local government, or
Indian tribes (and their subrecipients) that
receive allocations pursuant to this heading,
received disaster recovery allocations under
the same heading in Public Law 115–254, or
may receive similar allocations for disaster
recovery in future appropriations Acts: Pro-
vided further, That of the amounts made
available under this heading and under the
same heading in Public Law 115–254, up to
$2,500,000 shall be transferred, in aggregate,
to ‘‘Department of Housing and Urban Devel-
opment—Program Office Salaries and Ex-
penses—Community Planning and Develop-
ment’’ for necessary costs, including infor-
mation technology costs, of administering
and overseeing the obligation and expendi-
ture of amounts under this heading: Provided
further, That the amount specified in the pre-
ceding proviso shall be combined with funds
appropriated under the same heading and for
the same purpose in Public Law 115–254 and
the aggregate of such amounts shall be avail-
able for any of the same such purposes speci-
fied under this heading or the same heading
in Public Law 115–254 without limitation:
Provided further, That such amount is des-
ignated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985: Pro-
vided further, That amounts repurposed
under this heading that were previously des-
ignated by the Congress as an emergency re-
quirement pursuant to the Balanced Budget
and Emergency Deficit Control Act are des-
ignated by the Congress as an emergency re-
quirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i)
of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Def-
icit Control Act of 1985.
GENERAL PROVISION—THIS TITLE
SEC. 1001. (a) Amounts previously made
available for activities authorized under
title I of the Housing and Community Devel-
opment Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5301 et seq.) re-
lated to disaster relief, long-term recovery,
restoration of infrastructure and housing,
economic revitalization, and mitigation in
the most impacted and distressed areas re-
sulting from a major disaster, including
funds provided under section 145 of division C
of Public Law 114–223, section 192 of division
C of Public Law 114–223 (as added by section
101(3) of division A of Public Law 114–254),
section 421 of division K of Public Law 115–31,
and any mitigation funding provided under
the heading ‘‘Department of Housing and
Urban Development—Community Planning
and Development—Community Development
Fund’’ of Public Law 115–123, that were allo-
cated in response to Hurricane Matthew,
may be used interchangeably and without
limitation for the same activities in the
most impacted and distressed areas related
to Hurricane Florence. In addition, any
funds provided under the heading ‘‘Depart-
ment of Housing and Urban Development—
Community Planning and Development—
Community Development Fund’’ in this Act
or in division I of Public Law 115–254 that are
allocated in response to Hurricane Florence
may be used interchangeably and without
limitation for the same activities in the
most impacted and distressed areas related
to Hurricane Matthew. Until HUD publishes
the Federal Register Notice implementing
this provision, grantees may submit for HUD
approval revised plans for the use of funds
related to Hurricane Matthew that expand
the eligible beneficiaries of existing pro-
grams contained in such previously approved
plans to include those impacted by Hurri-
cane Florence. Approval of any such revised
plans shall include the execution of revised
grant terms and conditions as necessary.
Once the implementing Notice is published,
any additional action plan revisions shall
follow the requirements contained therein.
(b) Amounts made available for adminis-
trative costs for activities authorized under
title I of the Housing and Community Devel-
opment Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5301 et seq.) re-
lated to disaster relief, long-term recovery,
restoration of infrastructure and housing,
economic revitalization, and mitigation in
the most impacted and distressed areas
under this Act or any future Act, and
amounts previously provided under section
420 of division L of Public Law 114–113, sec-
tion 145 of division C of Public Law 114–223,
section 192 of division C of Public Law 114–
223 (as added by section 101(3) of division A of
Public Law 114–254), section 421 of division K
of Public Law 115–31, and under the heading
‘‘Department of Housing and Urban Develop-
ment—Community Planning and Develop-
ment—Community Development Fund’’ of
division B of Public Law 115–56, Public Law
115–123, and Public Law 115–254, shall be
available for eligible administrative costs of
the grantee related to any disaster relief
funding identified in this subsection without
regard to the particular disaster appropria-
tion from which such funds originated.
(c) The additional uses pursuant to this
section for amounts that were previously
designated by the Congress, respectively, as
an emergency requirement or as being for
disaster relief pursuant to the Balanced
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act
are designated by the Congress as being for
an emergency requirement pursuant to sec-
tion 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 or
as being for disaster relief pursuant to sec-
tion 251(b)(2)(D) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
TITLE XI
GENERAL PROVISION—THIS ACT
SEC. 1101. Each amount designated in this
Act by the Congress as being for an emer-
gency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 shall
be available (or rescinded or transferred, if
applicable) only if the President subse-
quently so designates all such amounts and
transmits such designations to the Congress.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Additional
Supplemental Appropriations for Disaster
Relief Act, 2019’’.
SA 237. Mr. SHELBY submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed by
him to the bill H.R. 268, making supple-
mental appropriations for the fiscal
year ending September 30, 2019, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
Strike all after the first word and insert
the following:
the following sums in this Act are appro-
priated, out of any money in the Treasury
not otherwise appropriated, for the fiscal
year ending September 30, 2019, and for other
purposes, namely:
TITLE I
DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE
AGRICULTURAL PROGRAMS
PROCESSING, RESEARCH AND MARKETING
OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY
For an additional amount for the ‘‘Office of
the Secretary’’, $3,005,442,000, which shall re-
main available until December 31, 2020, for
necessary expenses related to losses of crops
(including milk and harvested adulterated
wine grapes), trees, bushes, and vines, as a
consequence of Hurricanes Michael and Flor-
ence, other hurricanes, floods, tornadoes, ty-
phoons, volcanic activity, and wildfires oc-
curring in calendar years 2018 and 2019 under
such terms and conditions as determined by
the Secretary: Provided, That the Secretary
may provide assistance for such losses in the
form of block grants to eligible states and
territories and such assistance may include
compensation to producers, as determined by
the Secretary, for forest restoration and
poultry and livestock losses: Provided further,
That of the amounts provided under this
heading, tree assistance payments may be
made under section 1501(e) of the Agricul-
tural Act of 2014 (7 U.S.C. 9081(e)) to eligible
orchardists or nursery tree growers (as de-
fined in such section) of pecan trees with a
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:51 Apr 02, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00039 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A01AP6.039 S01APPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2144 April 1, 2019
tree mortality rate that exceeds 7.5 percent
(adjusted for normal mortality) and is less
than 15 percent (adjusted for normal mor-
tality), to be available until expended, for
losses incurred during the period beginning
January 1, 2018, and ending December 31,
2018: Provided further, That in the case of pro-
ducers impacted by volcanic activity that re-
sulted in the loss of crop land, or access to
crop land, the Secretary shall consider all
measures available, as appropriate, to bring
replacement land into production: Provided
further, That the total amount of payments
received under this heading and applicable
policies of crop insurance under the Federal
Crop Insurance Act (7 U.S.C. 1501 et seq.) or
the Noninsured Crop Disaster Assistance
Program (NAP) under section 196 of the Fed-
eral Agriculture Improvement and Reform
Act of 1996 (7 U.S.C. 7333) shall not exceed 90
percent of the loss as determined by the Sec-
retary: Provided further, That the total
amount of payments received under this
heading for producers who did not obtain a
policy or plan of insurance for an insurable
commodity for the applicable crop year
under the Federal Crop Insurance Act (7
U.S.C. 1501 et seq.) for the crop incurring the
losses or did not file the required paperwork
and pay the service fee by the applicable
State filing deadline for a noninsurable com-
modity for the applicable crop year under
NAP for the crop incurring the losses shall
not exceed 70 percent of the loss as deter-
mined by the Secretary: Provided further,
That producers receiving payments under
this heading, as determined by the Sec-
retary, shall be required to purchase crop in-
surance where crop insurance is available for
the next two available crop years, excluding
tree insurance policies, and producers receiv-
ing payments under this heading shall be re-
quired to purchase coverage under NAP
where crop insurance is not available in the
next two available crop years, as determined
by the Secretary: Provided further, That, not
later than 120 days after the end of fiscal
year 2019, the Secretary shall submit a re-
port to the Congress specifying the type,
amount, and method of such assistance by
state and territory: Provided further, That
such amount is designated by the Congress
as being for an emergency requirement pur-
suant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985.
FARM SERVICE AGENCY
EMERGENCY FOREST RESTORATION PROGRAM
For an additional amount for the ‘‘Emer-
gency Forest Restoration Program’’, for nec-
essary expenses related to the consequences
of Hurricanes Michael and Florence and
wildfires occurring in calendar year 2018, and
other natural disasters, $480,000,000, to re-
main available until expended: Provided,
That such amount is designated by the Con-
gress as being for an emergency requirement
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985.
NATURAL RESOURCES CONSERVATION SERVICE
WATERSHED AND FLOOD PREVENTION
OPERATIONS
For an additional amount for ‘‘Watershed
and Flood Prevention Operations’’, for nec-
essary expenses for the Emergency Water-
shed Protection Program related to the con-
sequences of Hurricanes Michael and Flor-
ence and wildfires occurring in calendar year
2018, and other natural disasters, $125,000,000,
to remain available until expended: Provided,
That such amount is designated by the Con-
gress as being for an emergency requirement
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985.
RURAL DEVELOPMENT
RURAL COMMUNITY FACILITIES PROGRAM
ACCOUNT
For an additional amount for the cost of
grants for rural community facilities pro-
grams as authorized by section 306 and de-
scribed in section 381E(d)(1) of the Consoli-
dated Farm and Rural Development Act, for
necessary expenses related to the con-
sequences of Hurricanes Michael and Flor-
ence and wildfires occurring in calendar year
2018, and other natural disasters, $150,000,000,
to remain available until expended: Provided,
That sections 381E-H and 381N of the Consoli-
dated Farm and Rural Development Act are
not applicable to the funds made available
under this heading: Provided further, That
such amount is designated by the Congress
as being for an emergency requirement pur-
suant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985.
GENERAL PROVISIONS—THIS TITLE
SEC. 101. In addition to amounts otherwise
made available, out of the funds made avail-
able under section 18 of Food and Nutrition
Act of 2008, $25,200,000 shall be available for
the Secretary to provide a grant to the Com-
monwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands
for disaster nutrition assistance in response
to the Presidentially declared major disas-
ters and emergencies: Provided, That funds
made available to the Commonwealth of the
Northern Mariana Islands under this section
shall remain available for obligation by the
Commonwealth until September 30, 2020: Pro-
vided further, That such amount is des-
ignated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
SEC. 102. For purposes of administering
title I of subdivision 1 of division B of the Bi-
partisan Budget Act of 2018 (Public Law 115–
123), losses to agricultural producers result-
ing from hurricanes shall also include losses
of peach and blueberry crops in calendar
year 2017 due to extreme cold: Provided, That
the amounts provided by this section are
designated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985: Pro-
vided further, That amounts repurposed
under this heading that were previously des-
ignated by the Congress as an emergency re-
quirement pursuant to the Balanced Budget
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985
are designated by the Congress as an emer-
gency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
SEC. 103. (a)(1) Except as provided in para-
graph (2), a person or legal entity is not eli-
gible to receive a payment under the Market
Facilitation Program established pursuant
to the Commodity Credit Corporation Char-
ter Act (15 U.S.C. 714 et seq.) if the average
adjusted gross income of such person or legal
entity is greater than $900,000.
(2) Paragraph (1) shall not apply to a per-
son or legal entity if at least 75 percent of
the adjusted gross income of such person or
legal entity is derived from farming, ranch-
ing, or forestry related activities.
(b) A person or legal entity may not re-
ceive a payment under the Market Facilita-
tion Program described in subsection (a)(1),
directly or indirectly, of more than $125,000.
(c) In this section, the term ‘‘average ad-
justed gross income’’ has the meaning given
the term defined in section 760.1502 of title 7
Code of Federal Regulations (as in effect
July 18, 2018).
(d) The amount provided by this section is
designated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
SEC. 104. In addition to other amounts
made available by section 309 of division A of
the Additional Supplemental Appropriations
for Disaster Relief Requirements Act, 2017
(Public Law 115–72; 131 Stat. 1229), there is
appropriated to the Secretary, out of any
moneys in the Treasury not otherwise appro-
priated, for the fiscal year ending September
30, 2019, $600,000,000 to provide a grant to the
Commonwealth of Puerto Rico for disaster
nutrition assistance in response to a major
disaster or emergency designated by the
President under the Robert T. Stafford Dis-
aster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act
(42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq.): Provided, That the
funds made available to the Commonwealth
of Puerto Rico under this section shall re-
main available for obligation by the Com-
monwealth until September 30, 2020, and
shall be in addition to funds otherwise made
available: Provided further, That such
amount is designated by the Congress as
being for an emergency requirement pursu-
ant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act
of 1985 (2 U.S.C. 901(b)(2)(A)(i)).
TITLE II
DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT ADMINISTRATION
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT ASSISTANCE
PROGRAMS
(INCLUDING TRANSFERS OF FUNDS)
Pursuant to section 703 of the Public
Works and Economic Development Act (42
U.S.C. 3233), for an additional amount for
‘‘Economic Development Assistance Pro-
grams’’ for necessary expenses related to
flood mitigation, disaster relief, long-term
recovery, and restoration of infrastructure
in areas that received a major disaster des-
ignation as a result of Hurricanes Florence,
Michael, and Lane, Typhoons Yutu and
Mangkhut, and of wildfires, volcanic erup-
tions, earthquakes, and other natural disas-
ters occurring in calendar year 2018, and tor-
nadoes and floods occurring in calendar year
2019 under the Robert T. Stafford Disaster
Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42
U.S.C. 5121 et seq.), $600,000,000, to remain
available until expended: Provided, That such
amount is designated by the Congress as
being for an emergency requirement pursu-
ant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act
of 1985: Provided further, That within the
amount appropriated, up to 2 percent of
funds may be transferred to the ‘‘Salaries
and Expenses’’ account for administration
and oversight activities: Provided further,
That within the amount appropriated,
$1,000,000 shall be transferred to the ‘‘Office
of Inspector General’’ account for carrying
out investigations and audits related to the
funding provided under this heading.
NATIONAL OCEANIC AND ATMOSPHERIC
ADMINISTRATION
OPERATIONS, RESEARCH, AND FACILITIES
For an additional amount for ‘‘Operations,
Research, and Facilities’’ for necessary ex-
penses related to the consequences of Hurri-
canes Florence and Michael, Typhoon Yutu,
and of wildfires, $120,570,000, to remain avail-
able until September 30, 2020, as follows:
(1) $3,000,000 for repair and replacement of
observing assets, real property, and equip-
ment;
(2) $11,000,000 for marine debris assessment
and removal;
(3) $31,570,000 for mapping, charting, and
geodesy services;
(4) $25,000,000 to improve: (a) hurricane in-
tensity forecasting, including through de-
ployment of unmanned ocean observing plat-
forms and enhanced data assimilation; (b)
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:51 Apr 02, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00040 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A01AP6.040 S01APPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2145
April 1, 2019
flood prediction, forecasting, and mitigation
capabilities; and (c) wildfire prediction, de-
tection, and forecasting; and
(5) $50,000,000 for Title IX Fund grants as
authorized under section 906(c) of division O
of Public Law 114–113:
Provided, That such amount is designated by
the Congress as being for an emergency re-
quirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i)
of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Def-
icit Control Act of 1985: Provided further,
That the National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration shall submit a spending plan
to the Committees on Appropriations of the
House of Representatives and the Senate for
funding provided under subsection (4) of this
heading within 45 days after the date of en-
actment of this Act.
PROCUREMENT, ACQUISITION AND CONSTRUCTION
For an additional amount for ‘‘Procure-
ment, Acquisition and Construction’’,
$25,000,000, to remain available until Sep-
tember 30, 2021, for improvements to oper-
ational and research weather supercom-
puting infrastructure and satellite ground
services used for hurricane intensity and
track prediction; flood prediction, fore-
casting, and mitigation; and wildfire pre-
diction, detection, and forecasting: Provided,
That such amount is designated by the Con-
gress as being for an emergency requirement
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985: Provided further, That the Na-
tional Oceanic and Atmospheric Administra-
tion shall submit a spending plan to the
Committees on Appropriations of the House
of Representatives and the Senate within 45
days after the date of enactment of this Act.
FISHERY DISASTER ASSISTANCE
For an additional amount for ‘‘Fishery
Disaster Assistance’’ for necessary expenses
associated with the mitigation of fishery dis-
asters, $150,000,000, to remain available until
expended: Provided, That funds shall be used
for mitigating the effects of commercial fish-
ery failures and fishery resource disasters
declared by the Secretary of Commerce, in-
cluding those declared by the Secretary to be
a direct result of Hurricanes Florence and
Michael and Typhoons Yutu and Mangkhut:
Provided further, That such amount is des-
ignated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
UNITED STATES MARSHALS SERVICE
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For an additional amount for ‘‘Salaries
and Expenses’’ for necessary expenses related
to the consequences of Hurricanes Florence
and Michael and Typhoon Yutu, $1,336,000:
Provided, That such amount is designated by
the Congress as being for an emergency re-
quirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i)
of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Def-
icit Control Act of 1985.
FEDERAL PRISON SYSTEM
BUILDINGS AND FACILITIES
For an additional amount for ‘‘Buildings
and Facilities’’ for necessary expenses re-
lated to the consequences of Hurricanes
Florence and Michael and Typhoon Yutu,
$28,400,000, to remain available until ex-
pended: Provided, That such amount is des-
ignated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
RELATED AGENCIES
LEGAL SERVICES CORPORATION
PAYMENT TO THE LEGAL SERVICES
CORPORATION
For an additional amount for ‘‘Payment to
the Legal Services Corporation’’ to carry out
the purposes of the Legal Services Corpora-
tion Act by providing for necessary expenses
related to the consequences of Hurricanes
Florence, Michael, and Lane, Typhoons Yutu
and Mangkhut, calendar year 2018 wildfires,
volcanic eruptions, and earthquakes, and
calendar year 2019 tornadoes and floods,
$15,000,000: Provided, That such amount is
designated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985: Pro-
vided further, That none of the funds appro-
priated in this Act to the Legal Services Cor-
poration shall be expended for any purpose
prohibited or limited by, or contrary to any
of the provisions of, sections 501, 502, 503, 504,
505, and 506 of Public Law 105–119, and all
funds appropriated in this Act to the Legal
Services Corporation shall be subject to the
same terms and conditions set forth in such
sections, except that all references in sec-
tions 502 and 503 to 1997 and 1998 shall be
deemed to refer instead to 2018 and 2019, re-
spectively, and except that sections 501 and
503 of Public Law 104–134 (referenced by Pub-
lic Law 105–119) shall not apply to the
amount made available under this heading:
Provided further, That, for the purposes of
this Act, the Legal Services Corporation
shall be considered an agency of the United
States Government.
TITLE III
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE
OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE, MARINE CORPS
For an additional amount for ‘‘Operation
and Maintenance, Marine Corps’’,
$381,000,000, for necessary expenses related to
the consequences of Hurricanes Michael and
Florence: Provided, That such amount is des-
ignated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE, AIR FORCE
For an additional amount for ‘‘Operation
and Maintenance, Air Force’’, $550,000,000, for
necessary expenses related to the con-
sequences of Hurricanes Michael and Flor-
ence: Provided, That such amount is des-
ignated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
TITLE IV
CORPS OF ENGINEERS—CIVIL
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
INVESTIGATIONS
For an additional amount for ‘‘Investiga-
tions’’ for necessary expenses related to the
completion, or initiation and completion, of
flood and storm damage reduction, including
shore protection, studies which are currently
authorized or which are authorized after the
date of enactment of this Act, to reduce risk
from future floods and hurricanes, at full
Federal expense, $35,000,000, to remain avail-
able until expended, for high priority studies
of projects in States and insular areas that
were impacted by Hurricanes Florence and
Michael, Typhoon Mangkhut, Super Typhoon
Yutu, and Tropical Storm Gita: Provided,
That such amount is designated by the Con-
gress as being for an emergency requirement
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985: Provided further, That the Assist-
ant Secretary of the Army for Civil Works
shall provide a monthly report directly to
the Committees on Appropriations of the
House and the Senate detailing the alloca-
tion and obligation of these funds, including
new studies selected to be initiated using
funds provided under this heading, beginning
not later than 60 days after the date of en-
actment of this Act.
CONSTRUCTION
For an additional amount for ‘‘Construc-
tion’’ for necessary expenses, $740,000,000, to
remain available until expended, to con-
struct flood and storm damage reduction, in-
cluding shore protection, projects which are
currently authorized or which are authorized
after the date of enactment of this Act, and
flood and storm damage reduction, including
shore protection, projects which have signed
Chief’s Reports as of the date of enactment
of this Act or which are studied using funds
provided under the heading ‘‘Investigations’’
if the Secretary determines such projects to
be technically feasible, economically justi-
fied, and environmentally acceptable, in
States and insular areas that were impacted
by Hurricanes Florence and Michael, Ty-
phoon Mangkhut, Super Typhoon Yutu, and
Tropical Storm Gita: Provided, That projects
receiving funds provided in Public Law 115–
123 shall not be eligible for funding provided
under this heading: Provided further, That for
projects receiving funds provided under this
heading, the provisions of Section 902 of the
Water Resources Development Act of 1986
shall not apply to these funds: Provided fur-
ther, That the completion of ongoing con-
struction projects receiving funds provided
under this heading shall be at full Federal
expense with respect to such funds: Provided
further, That using funds provided under this
heading, the non-Federal cash contribution
for projects other than ongoing construction
projects shall be financed in accordance with
the provisions of section 103(k) of Public Law
99–662 over a period of 30 years from the date
of completion of the project or separable ele-
ment: Provided further, That up to $25,000,000
of the funds made available under this head-
ing shall be used for continuing authorities
projects to reduce the risk of flooding and
storm damage: Provided further, That any
projects using funds appropriated under this
heading shall be initiated only after non-
Federal interests have entered into binding
agreements with the Secretary requiring,
where applicable, the non-Federal interests
to pay 100 percent of the operation, mainte-
nance, repair, replacement, and rehabilita-
tion costs of the project and to hold and save
the United States free from damages due to
the construction or operation and mainte-
nance of the project, except for damages due
to the fault or negligence of the United
States or its contractors: Provided further,
That such amount is designated by the Con-
gress as being for an emergency requirement
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985: Provided further, That the Assist-
ant Secretary of the Army for Civil Works
shall provide a monthly report directly to
the Committees on Appropriations of the
House of Representatives and the Senate de-
tailing the allocation and obligation of these
funds, beginning not later than 60 days after
the date of enactment of this Act.
MISSISSIPPI RIVER AND TRIBUTARIES
For an additional amount for ‘‘Mississippi
River and Tributaries’’ for necessary ex-
penses to address emergency situations at
Corps of Engineers projects and rehabilitate
and repair damages to Corps of Engineers
projects, caused by natural disasters,
$225,000,000, to remain available until ex-
pended: Provided, That such amount is des-
ignated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985: Pro-
vided further, That the Assistant Secretary of
the Army for Civil Works shall provide a
monthly report directly to the Committees
on Appropriations of the House of Represent-
atives and the Senate detailing the alloca-
tion and obligation of these funds, beginning
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:51 Apr 02, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00041 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A01AP6.040 S01APPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2146 April 1, 2019
not later than 60 days after the date of en-
actment of this Act.
OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE
For an additional amount for ‘‘Operation
and Maintenance’’ for necessary expenses to
dredge Federal navigation projects in re-
sponse to, and repair damages to Corps of
Engineers Federal projects caused by, nat-
ural disasters, $245,000,000, to remain avail-
able until expended, of which such sums as
are necessary to cover the Federal share of
eligible operation and maintenance costs for
coastal harbors and channels, and for inland
harbors shall be derived from the Harbor
Maintenance Trust Fund: Provided, That
such amount is designated by the Congress
as being for an emergency requirement pur-
suant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985: Provided further, That the Assist-
ant Secretary of the Army for Civil Works
shall provide a monthly report directly to
the Committees on Appropriations of the
House of Representatives and the Senate de-
tailing the allocation and obligation of these
funds, beginning not later than 60 days after
the date of enactment of this Act.
DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR
CENTRAL UTAH PROJECT
CENTRAL UTAH PROJECT COMPLETION ACCOUNT
For an additional amount for ‘‘Central
Utah Project Completion Account’’, $350,000,
to be deposited into the Utah Reclamation
Mitigation and Conservation Account for use
by the Utah Reclamation Mitigation and
Conservation Commission, to remain avail-
able until expended, for expenses necessary
in carrying out fire remediation activities
related to wildfires in 2018: Provided, That
such amount is designated by the Congress
as being for an emergency requirement pur-
suant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985.
BUREAU OF RECLAMATION
WATER AND RELATED RESOURCES
For an additional amount for ‘‘Water and
Related Resources’’, $15,500,000, to remain
available until expended, for fire remedi-
ation and suppression emergency assistance
related to wildfires in 2017 and 2018: Provided,
That such amount is designated by the Con-
gress as being for an emergency requirement
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985.
TITLE V
DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY
SECURITY, ENFORCEMENT, AND
INVESTIGATIONS
COAST GUARD
OPERATIONS AND SUPPORT
For an additional amount for ‘‘Operations
and Support’’ for necessary expenses related
to the consequences of Hurricanes Michael,
Florence, and Lane, Tropical Storm Gordon,
and Typhoon Mangkhut, $46,977,000, to re-
main available until September 30, 2020: Pro-
vided, That such amount is designated by the
Congress as being for an emergency require-
ment pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of
the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit
Control Act of 1985.
PROCUREMENT, CONSTRUCTION, AND
IMPROVEMENTS
For an additional amount for ‘‘Procure-
ment, Construction, and Improvements’’ for
necessary expenses related to the con-
sequences of Hurricanes Michael, Florence,
and Lane, Tropical Storm Gordon, and Ty-
phoon Mangkhut, $476,755,000, to remain
available until September 30, 2023: Provided,
That such amount is designated by the Con-
gress as being for an emergency requirement
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985.
ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE AND
RESTORATION
For an additional amount for ‘‘Environ-
mental Compliance and Restoration’’ for
necessary expenses related to the con-
sequences of Hurricanes Michael and Flor-
ence, $2,000,000, to remain available until
September 30, 2023: Provided, That such
amount is designated by the Congress as
being for an emergency requirement pursu-
ant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act
of 1985.
TITLE VI
DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR
UNITED STATES FISH AND WILDLIFE SERVICE
CONSTRUCTION
For an additional amount for ‘‘Construc-
tion’’ for necessary expenses related to the
consequences of Hurricanes Florence, Lane,
and Michael, and flooding associated with
major declared disaster DR–4365, and cal-
endar year 2018 earthquakes, $82,400,000, to
remain available until expended: Provided,
That of this amount $50,000,000 shall be used
to restore and rebuild national wildlife ref-
uges and increase the resiliency and capacity
of coastal habitat and infrastructure to
withstand storms and reduce the amount of
damage caused by such storms: Provided fur-
ther, That such amount is designated by the
Congress as being for an emergency require-
ment pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of
the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit
Control Act of 1985.
NATIONAL PARK SERVICE
HISTORIC PRESERVATION FUND
For an additional amount for the ‘‘Historic
Preservation Fund’’ for necessary expenses
related to the consequences of Hurricanes
Florence and Michael, and Typhoon Yutu,
$50,000,000, to remain available until Sep-
tember 30, 2022, including costs to States and
territories necessary to complete compliance
activities required by section 306108 of title
54, United States Code (formerly section 106
of the National Historic Preservation Act)
and costs needed to administer the program:
Provided, That grants shall only be available
for areas that have received a major disaster
declaration pursuant to the Robert T. Staf-
ford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assist-
ance Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq.): Provided fur-
ther, That individual grants shall not be sub-
ject to a non-Federal matching requirement:
Provided further, That such amount is des-
ignated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
CONSTRUCTION
For an additional amount for ‘‘Construc-
tion’’ for necessary expenses related to the
consequences of Hurricanes Florence and Mi-
chael, Typhoons Yutu and Mangkhut, and
calendar year 2018 wildfires, earthquakes,
and volcanic eruptions, $78,000,000, to remain
available until expended: Provided, That such
amount is designated by the Congress as
being for an emergency requirement pursu-
ant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act
of 1985.
UNITED STATES GEOLOGICAL SURVEY
SURVEYS, INVESTIGATIONS, AND RESEARCH
For an additional amount for ‘‘Surveys, In-
vestigations, and Research’’ for necessary
expenses related to the consequences of Hur-
ricanes Florence and Michael, and calendar
year 2018 wildfires, earthquake damage asso-
ciated with emergency declaration EM–3410,
and in those areas impacted by a major dis-
aster declared pursuant to the Robert T.
Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency As-
sistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq.) with re-
spect to calendar year 2018 wildfires or vol-
canic eruptions, $98,500,000, to remain avail-
able until expended: Provided, That of this
amount, $72,310,000 is for costs related to the
repair and replacement of equipment and fa-
cilities damaged by disasters in 2018: Pro-
vided further, That, not later than 90 days
after enactment of this Act, the Survey shall
submit a report to the Committees on Appro-
priations that describes the potential op-
tions to replace the facility damaged by the
2018 volcano disaster along with cost esti-
mates and a description of how the Survey
will provide direct access for monitoring vol-
canic activity and the potential threat to at-
risk communities: Provided further, That
such amount is designated by the Congress
as being for an emergency requirement pur-
suant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985.
DEPARTMENTAL OFFICES
INSULAR AFFAIRS
ASSISTANCE TO TERRITORIES
For an additional amount for ‘‘Technical
Assistance’’ for financial management ex-
penses related to the consequences of Ty-
phoon Yutu, $2,000,000, to remain available
until expended: Provided, That such amount
is designated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
OFFICE OF INSPECTOR GENERAL
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For an additional amount for ‘‘Salaries
and Expenses’’ for necessary expenses related
to the consequences of major disasters de-
clared pursuant to the Robert T. Stafford
Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance
Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq.) in 2018, $1,000,000,
to remain available until expended: Provided,
That such amount is designated by the Con-
gress as being for an emergency requirement
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985.
ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY
SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY
For an additional amount for ‘‘Science and
Technology’’ for necessary expenses related
to improving preparedness of the water sec-
tor, $600,000, to remain available until ex-
pended: Provided, That such amount is des-
ignated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
LEAKING UNDERGROUND STORAGE TANK TRUST
FUND PROGRAM
For an additional amount for ‘‘Leaking
Underground Storage Tank Fund’’ for nec-
essary expenses related to the consequences
of Hurricanes Florence and Michael, cal-
endar year 2018 earthquakes, and Typhoon
Yutu, $1,500,000, to remain available until ex-
pended: Provided, That such amount is des-
ignated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
STATE AND TRIBAL ASSISTANCE GRANTS
For additional amounts for ‘‘State and
Tribal Assistance Grants’’ for necessary ex-
penses related to the consequences of Hurri-
canes Florence and Michael and calendar
year 2018 earthquakes for the hazardous
waste financial assistance grants program,
$1,500,000, to remain available until ex-
pended; for necessary expenses related to the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:51 Apr 02, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00042 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A01AP6.040 S01APPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2147
April 1, 2019
consequences of Typhoon Yutu for the haz-
ardous waste financial assistance grants pro-
gram and for other solid waste management
activities, $56,000,000, to remain available
until expended, provided that none of these
funds shall be subject to section 3011(b) of
the Solid Waste Disposal Act; and for grants
under section 106 of the Federal Water Pollu-
tion Control Act, $5,000,000, to remain avail-
able until expended, to address impacts of
Hurricane Florence, Hurricane Michael, Ty-
phoon Yutu, and calendar year 2018 wildfires,
notwithstanding subsections (b), (e), and (f),
of such section: Provided, That such amounts
are designated by the Congress as being for
an emergency requirement pursuant to sec-
tion 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
For an additional amount for ‘‘State and
Tribal Assistance Grants’’, $349,400,000 to re-
main available until expended, of which
$53,300,000 shall be for capitalization grants
for the Clean Water State Revolving Funds
under title VI of the Federal Water Pollution
Control Act, and of which $296,100,000 shall be
for capitalization grants under section 1452
of the Safe Drinking Water Act: Provided,
That notwithstanding section 604(a) of the
Federal Water Pollution Control Act and
section 1452(a)(1)(D) of the Safe Drinking
Water Act, funds appropriated herein shall
be provided to States in EPA Regions 4, 9,
and 10 in amounts determined by the Admin-
istrator for wastewater treatment works and
drinking water facilities impacted by Hurri-
canes Florence and Michael, Typhoon Yutu,
and calendar year 2018 wildfires and earth-
quakes: Provided further, That notwith-
standing the requirements of section 603(i) of
the Federal Water Pollution Control Act and
section 1452(d) of the Safe Drinking Water
Act, for the funds appropriated herein, each
State shall use not less than 20 percent but
not more than 30 percent of the amount of
its capitalization grants to provide addi-
tional subsidization to eligible recipients in
the form of forgiveness of principal, negative
interest loans or grants or any combination
of these: Provided further, That the Adminis-
trator shall retain $10,400,000 of the funds ap-
propriated herein for grants for drinking
water facilities and waste water treatment
plants impacted by Typhoon Yutu: Provided
further, That the funds appropriated herein
shall be used for eligible projects whose pur-
pose is to reduce flood or fire damage risk
and vulnerability or to enhance resiliency to
rapid hydrologic change or natural disaster
at treatment works as defined by section 212
of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act
or any eligible facilities under section 1452 of
the Safe Drinking Water Act, and for other
eligible tasks at such treatment works or fa-
cilities necessary to further such purposes:
Provided further, That the Administrator of
the Environmental Protection Agency may
retain up to $1,000,000 of the funds appro-
priated herein for management and over-
sight: Provided further, That such amount is
designated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
RELATED AGENCIES
DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE
FOREST SERVICE
FOREST AND RANGELAND RESEARCH
For an additional amount for ‘‘Forest and
Rangeland Research’’ for necessary expenses
related to the consequences of Hurricanes
Florence and Michael, and the calendar year
2018 wildfires, $1,000,000, to remain available
until expended for the forest inventory and
analysis program: Provided, That such
amount is designated by the Congress as
being for an emergency requirement pursu-
ant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act
of 1985.
STATE AND PRIVATE FORESTRY
For an additional amount for ‘‘State and
Private Forestry’’ for necessary expenses re-
lated to the consequences of Hurricanes
Florence and Michael, and the calendar year
2018 wildfires, $12,000,000, to remain available
until expended: Provided, That such amount
is designated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
NATIONAL FOREST SYSTEM
For an additional amount for ‘‘National
Forest System’’ for necessary expenses re-
lated to the consequences of Hurricanes
Florence and Michael, and the calendar year
2018 wildfires, $84,960,000, to remain available
until expended: Provided, That of this
amount $21,000,000 shall be used for haz-
ardous fuels management activities: Provided
further, That such amount is designated by
the Congress as being for an emergency re-
quirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i)
of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Def-
icit Control Act of 1985.
CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT AND MAINTENANCE
For an additional amount for ‘‘Capital Im-
provement and Maintenance’’ for necessary
expenses related to the consequences of Hur-
ricanes Florence and Michael, and the cal-
endar year 2018 wildfires, $36,040,000, to re-
main available until expended: Provided,
That such amount is designated by the Con-
gress as being for an emergency requirement
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985.
WILDLAND FIRE MANAGEMENT
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
For an additional amount for ‘‘Wildland
Fire Management’’, $720,271,000, to remain
available through September 30, 2022, for ur-
gent wildland fire suppression operations:
Provided, That such funds shall be solely
available to be transferred to and merged
with other appropriations accounts from
which funds were previously transferred for
wildland fire suppression in fiscal year 2018
to fully repay those amounts: Provided fur-
ther, That such amount is designated by the
Congress as an emergency requirement pur-
suant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985.
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN
SERVICES
NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF ENVIRONMENTAL
HEALTH SCIENCES
For an additional amount for ‘‘National In-
stitute of Environmental Health Sciences’’
for necessary expenses in carrying out ac-
tivities set forth in section 311(a) of the Com-
prehensive Environmental Response, Com-
pensation, and Liability Act of 1980 (42
U.S.C. 9660(a)) and section 126(g) of the
Superfund Amendments and Reauthorization
Act of 1986 related to the consequences of
major disasters declared pursuant to the
Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emer-
gency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq.)
in 2018, $1,000,000, to remain available until
expended: Provided, That such amount is des-
ignated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
GENERAL PROVISION—THIS TITLE
SEC. 601. Not later than 45 days after the
date of enactment of this Act, the agencies
receiving funds appropriated by this title
shall provide a detailed operating plan of an-
ticipated uses of funds made available in this
title by State and Territory, and by pro-
gram, project, and activity, to the Commit-
tees on Appropriations: Provided, That no
such funds shall be obligated before the oper-
ating plans are provided to the Committees:
Provided further, That such plans shall be up-
dated, including obligations to date, and sub-
mitted to the Committees on Appropriations
every 60 days until all such funds are ex-
pended.
TITLE VII
DEPARTMENT OF LABOR
EMPLOYMENT AND TRAINING ADMINISTRATION
TRAINING AND EMPLOYMENT SERVICES
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
For an additional amount for ‘‘Training
and Employment Services’’, $50,000,000, for
the dislocated workers assistance national
reserve for necessary expenses directly re-
lated to the consequences of Hurricanes
Florence and Michael, Typhoon Mangkhut,
Super Typhoon Yutu, wildfires and earth-
quakes occurring in calendar year 2018, and
tornadoes and floods occurring in calendar
year 2019 (referred to under this heading as
‘‘covered disaster or emergency’’), to remain
available through September 30, 2020: Pro-
vided, That the Secretary of Labor may
transfer up to $1,000,000 of such funds to any
other Department of Labor account for re-
construction and recovery needs, including
worker protection activities: Provided fur-
ther, That these sums may be used to replace
grant funds previously obligated to the im-
pacted areas: Provided further, That of the
amount provided, up to $500,000, to remain
available until expended, shall be transferred
to ‘‘Office of Inspector General’’ for over-
sight of activities responding to such covered
disaster or emergency: Provided further, That
such amount is designated by the Congress
as being for an emergency requirement pur-
suant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985.
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN
SERVICES
SUBSTANCE ABUSE AND MENTAL HEALTH
SERVICES ADMINISTRATION
HEALTH SURVEILLANCE AND PROGRAM SUPPORT
For an additional amount for ‘‘Health Sur-
veillance and Program Support’’, $30,000,000,
to remain available until September 30, 2019,
for grants, contracts and cooperative agree-
ments for behavioral health treatment, crisis
counseling, and other related helplines, and
for other similar programs to provide sup-
port to individuals impacted by Hurricanes
Florence and Michael, Typhoon Mangkhut,
Super Typhoon Yutu, wildfires and earth-
quakes occurring in calendar year 2018, and
tornadoes and floods occurring in calendar
year 2019 in those areas for which a major
disaster or emergency has been declared
under section 401 or 501 of the Robert T. Staf-
ford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assist-
ance Act (42 U.S.C. 5170 and 5191): Provided,
That obligations incurred for the purposes
provided herein prior to the date of enact-
ment of this Act may be charged to funds ap-
propriated under this heading: Provided fur-
ther, That such amount is designated by the
Congress as being for an emergency require-
ment pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of
the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit
Control Act of 1985.
ADMINISTRATION FOR CHILDREN AND FAMILIES
CHILDREN AND FAMILIES SERVICES PROGRAMS
For an additional amount for ‘‘Children
and Families Services Programs’’, $60,000,000,
to remain available until September 30, 2021,
for Head Start programs, including making
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:51 Apr 02, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00043 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A01AP6.040 S01APPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2148 April 1, 2019
payments under the Head Start Act, for nec-
essary expenses directly related to the con-
sequences of Hurricanes Florence and Mi-
chael, Typhoon Mangkhut, Super Typhoon
Yutu, wildfires and earthquakes occurring in
calendar year 2018, and tornadoes and floods
occurring in calendar year 2019 in those
areas for which a major disaster or emer-
gency has been declared under section 401 or
501 of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief
and Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C.
5170 and 5191): Provided, That none of the
funds appropriated in this paragraph shall be
included in the calculation of the ‘‘base
grant’’ in subsequent fiscal years, as such
term is defined in sections 640(a)(7)(A),
641A(h)(1)(B), or 645(d)(3) of the Head Start
Act: Provided further, That funds appro-
priated in this paragraph are not subject to
the allocation requirements of section 640(a)
of the Head Start Act: Provided further, That
funds appropriated in this paragraph shall
not be available for costs that are reim-
bursed by the Federal Emergency Manage-
ment Agency, under a contract for insur-
ance, or by self-insurance: Provided further,
That up to $2,000,000 shall be available for
Federal administrative expenses: Provided
further, That obligations incurred for the
purposes provided herein prior to the date of
enactment of this Act may be charged to
funds appropriated under this heading: Pro-
vided further, That such amount is des-
ignated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION
EDUCATION RECOVERY
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
For an additional amount for ‘‘Education
Recovery’’ for necessary expenses related to
the consequences of Hurricanes Florence and
Michael, Typhoon Mangkhut, Super Typhoon
Yutu, wildfires and earthquakes occurring in
calendar year 2018, and tornadoes and floods
occurring in calendar year 2019 in those
areas for which a major disaster or emer-
gency has been declared under section 401 or
501 of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief
and Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C.
5170 and 5191) (referred to under this heading
as a ‘‘covered disaster or emergency’’),
$165,000,000, to remain available through Sep-
tember 30, 2019: Provided, That such amount
is designated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985: Pro-
vided further, That such assistance may be
provided through any of the programs au-
thorized under this heading in division B of
title VIII of Public Law 115–123 (as amended
by Public Law 115–141), as determined by the
Secretary of Education, and subject to the
terms and conditions that applied to those
programs, except that references to dates
and school years in Public Law 115–123 shall
be deemed to be the corresponding dates and
school years for the covered disaster or
emergency: Provided further, That the Sec-
retary of Education may determine the
amounts to be used for each such program
and shall notify the Committees on Appro-
priations of the House of Representatives
and the Senate of these amounts not later
than 7 days prior to obligation: Provided fur-
ther, $2,000,000 of the funds made available
under this heading, to remain available until
expended, shall be transferred to the Office
of the Inspector General of the Department
of Education for oversight of activities sup-
ported with funds appropriated under this
heading, and up to $1,000,000 of the funds
made available under this heading shall be
for program administration.
GENERAL PROVISION—THIS TITLE
SEC. 701. Not later than 30 days after the
date of enactment of this Act, the Secre-
taries of Labor, Health and Human Services,
and Education shall provide a detailed spend
plan of anticipated uses of funds made avail-
able in this title, including estimated per-
sonnel and administrative costs, to the Com-
mittees on Appropriations: Provided, That
such plans shall be updated and submitted to
the Committees on Appropriations every 60
days until all funds are expended or expire.
TITLE VIII
LEGISLATIVE BRANCH
GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For an additional amount for ‘‘Salaries
and Expenses’’, $10,000,000, to remain avail-
able until expended, for audits and investiga-
tions related to Hurricanes Florence, Lane,
and Michael, Typhoons Yutu and Mangkhut,
the calendar year 2018 wildfires, earth-
quakes, and volcano eruptions, and other dis-
asters declared pursuant to the Robert T.
Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency As-
sistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq.): Provided,
That, not later than 90 days after the date of
enactment of this Act, the Government Ac-
countability Office shall submit to the Com-
mittees on Appropriations of the House of
Representatives and the Senate a spend plan
specifying funding estimates for audits and
investigations of any such declared disasters
occurring in 2018 and identifying funding es-
timates or carryover balances, if any, that
may be available for audits and investiga-
tions of any other such declared disasters:
Provided further, That such amount is des-
ignated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
TITLE IX
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE
MILITARY CONSTRUCTION, NAVY AND MARINE
CORPS
For an additional amount for ‘‘Military
Construction, Navy and Marine Corps’’,
$115,000,000, to remain available until Sep-
tember 30, 2023, for planning and design re-
lated to the consequences of Hurricanes
Florence and Michael on Navy and Marine
Corps installations: Provided, That none of
the funds shall be available for obligation
until the Committees on Appropriations of
the House of Representatives and the Senate
receive a master plan for the installations:
Provided further, That, not later than 60 days
after enactment of this Act, the Secretary of
the Navy, or his designee, shall submit to
the Committees on Appropriations of the
House of Representatives and the Senate a
detailed expenditure plan for funds provided
under this heading: Provided further, That
such amount is designated by the Congress
as being for an emergency requirement pur-
suant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985.
MILITARY CONSTRUCTION, AIR FORCE
For an additional amount for ‘‘Military
Construction, Air Force’’, $700,000,000, to re-
main available until September 30, 2023, for
planning and design, and construction ex-
penses related to the consequences of Hurri-
cane Michael: Provided, That none of the
funds shall be available for obligation until
the Committees on Appropriations of the
House of Representatives and the Senate re-
ceive a basing plan and future mission re-
quirements for installations significantly
damaged by Hurricane Michael: Provided fur-
ther, That, not later than 60 days after enact-
ment of this Act, the Secretary of the Air
Force, or his designee, shall submit to the
Committees on Appropriations of the House
of Representatives and the Senate a detailed
expenditure plan for funds provided under
this heading: Provided further, That such
amount is designated by the Congress as
being for an emergency requirement pursu-
ant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act
of 1985.
MILITARY CONSTRUCTION, ARMY NATIONAL
GUARD
For an additional amount for ‘‘Military
Construction, Army National Guard’’,
$42,400,000, to remain available until Sep-
tember 30, 2023, for necessary expenses re-
lated to the consequences of Hurricanes
Florence and Michael: Provided, That none of
the funds shall be available for obligation
until the Committees on Appropriations of
the House of Representatives and the Senate
receive form 1391 for each specific request:
Provided further, That, not later than 60 days
after enactment of this Act, the Director of
the Army National Guard, or his designee,
shall submit to the Committees on Appro-
priations of the House of Representatives
and the Senate a detailed expenditure plan
for funds provided under this heading: Pro-
vided further, That such funds may be obli-
gated or expended for planning and design
and military construction projects not oth-
erwise authorized by law: Provided further,
That such amount is designated by the Con-
gress as being for an emergency requirement
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985.
DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS
VETERANS HEALTH ADMINISTRATION
MEDICAL FACILITIES
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
For an additional amount for ‘‘Medical Fa-
cilities’’, $3,000,000, to remain available until
September 30, 2023, for necessary expenses re-
lated to the consequences of Hurricanes
Florence and Michael and Typhoons
Mangkhut and Yutu: Provided, That the Sec-
retary of Veterans Affairs, upon determina-
tion that such action is necessary to address
needs as a result of the consequences of Hur-
ricanes Florence and Michael and Typhoons
Mangkhut and Yutu, may transfer such
funds to any discretionary account of the
Department of Veterans Affairs: Provided fur-
ther, That before a transfer may take place,
the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall sub-
mit notice thereof to the Committees on Ap-
propriations of the House of Representatives
and the Senate: Provided further, That none
of these funds shall be available for obliga-
tion until the Secretary of Veterans Affairs
submits to the Committees on Appropria-
tions of the House of Representatives and
the Senate a detailed expenditure plan for
funds provided under this heading: Provided
further, That such amount is designated by
the Congress as being for an emergency re-
quirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i)
of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Def-
icit Control Act of 1985.
TITLE X
DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION
FEDERAL TRANSIT ADMINISTRATION
PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION EMERGENCY RELIEF
PROGRAM
For an additional amount for the ‘‘Public
Transportation Emergency Relief Program’’
as authorized under section 5324 of title 49,
United States Code, $10,542,000 to remain
available until expended, for transit systems
affected by major declared disasters occur-
ring in calendar year 2018: Provided, That not
more than three-quarters of 1 percent of the
funds for public transportation emergency
relief shall be available for administrative
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:51 Apr 02, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00044 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A01AP6.040 S01APPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2149
April 1, 2019
expenses and ongoing program management
oversight as authorized under sections 5334
and 5338(f)(2) of such title and shall be in ad-
dition to any other appropriations for such
purpose: Provided further, That such amount
is designated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
FEDERAL AVIATION ADMINISTRATION
OPERATIONS
(AIRPORT AND AIRWAY TRUST FUND)
Of the amounts made available for ‘‘Fed-
eral Aviation Administration—Operations’’
in division B of the Bipartisan Budget Act of
2018 (Public Law 115–123), up to $18,000,000
shall also be available for necessary expenses
related to the consequences of major de-
clared disasters occurring in calendar year
2018: Provided, That amounts repurposed
under this heading that were previously des-
ignated by the Congress as an emergency re-
quirement pursuant to the Balanced Budget
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985
are designated by the Congress as an emer-
gency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
FEDERAL HIGHWAY ADMINISTRATION
EMERGENCY RELIEF PROGRAM
For an additional amount for the Emer-
gency Relief Program as authorized under
section 125 of title 23, United States Code,
$1,650,000,000, to remain available until ex-
pended: Provided, That such amount is des-
ignated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND URBAN
DEVELOPMENT
COMMUNITY PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT FUND
(INCLUDING TRANSFERS OF FUNDS)
For an additional amount for ‘‘Community
Development Fund’’, $1,060,000,000, to remain
available until expended, for necessary ex-
penses for activities authorized under title I
of the Housing and Community Development
Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5301 et seq.) related to
disaster relief, long-term recovery, restora-
tion of infrastructure and housing, economic
revitalization, and mitigation in the most
impacted and distressed areas resulting from
a major disaster that occurred in 2018 pursu-
ant to the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief
and Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C.
5121 et seq.): Provided, That funds shall be
awarded directly to the State, unit of gen-
eral local government, or Indian tribe (as
such term is defined in section 102 of the
Housing and Community Development Act of
1974) at the discretion of the Secretary: Pro-
vided further, That any funds made available
under this heading and under the same head-
ing in Public Law 115–254 that remain avail-
able, after the funds under such headings
have been allocated for necessary expenses
for activities authorized under such head-
ings, shall be allocated to grantees, for miti-
gation activities in the most impacted and
distressed areas resulting from a major dis-
aster that occurred in 2018: Provided further,
That such allocations shall be made in the
same proportion that the amount of funds
each grantee received under this Act and the
same heading in division I of Public Law 115–
254 bears to the amount of all funds provided
to all grantees that received allocations for
disasters that occurred in 2018: Provided fur-
ther, That of the amounts made available
under the text preceding the first proviso
under this heading and under the same head-
ing in Public Law 115–254, the Secretary
shall allocate to all such grantees an aggre-
gate amount not less than 33 percent of the
sum of such amounts of funds within 120 days
after the enactment of this Act based on the
best available data, and shall allocate no less
than 100 percent of such funds by no later
than 180 days after the enactment of this
Act: Provided further, That the Secretary
shall not prohibit the use of funds made
available under this heading and the same
heading in Public Law 115–254 for non-Fed-
eral share as authorized by section 105(a)(9)
of the Housing and Community Development
Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5305(a)(9)): Provided fur-
ther, That of the amounts made available
under this heading, grantees may establish
grant programs to assist small businesses for
working capital purposes to aid in recovery:
Provided further, That as a condition of mak-
ing any grant, the Secretary shall certify in
advance that such grantee has in place pro-
ficient financial controls and procurement
processes and has established adequate pro-
cedures to prevent any duplication of bene-
fits as defined by section 312 of the Robert T.
Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency As-
sistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5155), to ensure time-
ly expenditure of funds, to maintain com-
prehensive websites regarding all disaster re-
covery activities assisted with these funds,
and to detect and prevent waste, fraud, and
abuse of funds: Provided further, That with
respect to any such duplication of benefits,
the Secretary shall act in accordance with
section 1210 of Public Law 115–254 (132 Stat.
3442) and section 312 of the Robert T. Staf-
ford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assist-
ance Act (42 U.S.C. 5155): Provided further,
That the Secretary shall require grantees to
maintain on a public website information
containing common reporting criteria estab-
lished by the Department that permits indi-
viduals and entities awaiting assistance and
the general public to see how all grant funds
are used, including copies of all relevant pro-
curement documents, grantee administrative
contracts and details of ongoing procure-
ment processes, as determined by the Sec-
retary: Provided further, That prior to the ob-
ligation of funds a grantee shall submit a
plan to the Secretary for approval detailing
the proposed use of all funds, including cri-
teria for eligibility and how the use of these
funds will address long-term recovery and
restoration of infrastructure and housing,
economic revitalization, and mitigation in
the most impacted and distressed areas: Pro-
vided further, That such funds may not be
used for activities reimbursed by, or for
which funds have been made available by,
the Federal Emergency Management Agency
or the Army Corps of Engineers, in excess of
the authorized amount of the project or its
components: Provided further, That funds al-
located under this heading shall not be con-
sidered relevant to the non-disaster formula
allocations made pursuant to section 106 of
the Housing and Community Development
Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5306): Provided further,
That a State, unit of general local govern-
ment, or Indian tribe may use up to 5 per-
cent of its allocation for administrative
costs: Provided further, That the first proviso
under this heading in the Supplemental Ap-
propriations for Disaster Relief Require-
ments Act, 2018 (division I of Public Law 115–
254) is amended by striking ‘‘State or unit of
general local government’’ and inserting
‘‘State, unit of general local government, or
Indian tribe (as such term is defined in sec-
tion 102 of the Housing and Community De-
velopment Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5302))’’: Pro-
vided further, That the sixth proviso under
this heading in the Supplemental Appropria-
tions for Disaster Relief Requirements Act,
2018 (division I of Public Law 115–254) is
amended by striking ‘‘State or subdivision
thereof’’ and inserting ‘‘State, unit of gen-
eral local government, or Indian tribe (as
such term is defined in section 102 of the
Housing and Community Development Act of
1974 (42 U.S.C. 5302))’’: Provided further, That
in administering the funds under this head-
ing, the Secretary of Housing and Urban De-
velopment may waive, or specify alternative
requirements for, any provision of any stat-
ute or regulation that the Secretary admin-
isters in connection with the obligation by
the Secretary or the use by the recipient of
these funds (except for requirements related
to fair housing, nondiscrimination, labor
standards, and the environment), if the Sec-
retary finds that good cause exists for the
waiver or alternative requirement and such
waiver or alternative requirement would not
be inconsistent with the overall purpose of
title I of the Housing and Community Devel-
opment Act of 1974: Provided further, That,
notwithstanding the preceding proviso, re-
cipients of funds provided under this heading
that use such funds to supplement Federal
assistance provided under section 402, 403,
404, 406, 407, 408 (c)(4), or 502 of the Robert T.
Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency As-
sistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq.) may
adopt, without review or public comment,
any environmental review, approval, or per-
mit performed by a Federal agency, and such
adoption shall satisfy the responsibilities of
the recipient with respect to such environ-
mental review, approval or permit: Provided
further, That, notwithstanding section
104(g)(2) of the Housing and Community De-
velopment Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5304(g)(2)),
the Secretary may, upon receipt of a request
for release of funds and certification, imme-
diately approve the release of funds for an
activity or project assisted under this head-
ing if the recipient has adopted an environ-
mental review, approval or permit under the
preceding proviso or the activity or project
is categorically excluded from review under
the National Environmental Policy Act of
1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.): Provided further,
That the Secretary shall publish via notice
in the Federal Register any waiver, or alter-
native requirement, to any statute or regula-
tion that the Secretary administers pursu-
ant to title I of the Housing and Community
Development Act of 1974 no later than 5 days
before the effective date of such waiver or al-
ternative requirement: Provided further, That
of the amounts made available under this
heading, up to $5,000,000 shall be made avail-
able for capacity building and technical as-
sistance, including assistance on contracting
and procurement processes, to support
States, units of general local government, or
Indian tribes (and their subrecipients) that
receive allocations pursuant to this heading,
received disaster recovery allocations under
the same heading in Public Law 115–254, or
may receive similar allocations for disaster
recovery in future appropriations Acts: Pro-
vided further, That of the amounts made
available under this heading and under the
same heading in Public Law 115–254, up to
$2,500,000 shall be transferred, in aggregate,
to ‘‘Department of Housing and Urban Devel-
opment—Program Office Salaries and Ex-
penses—Community Planning and Develop-
ment’’ for necessary costs, including infor-
mation technology costs, of administering
and overseeing the obligation and expendi-
ture of amounts under this heading: Provided
further, That the amount specified in the pre-
ceding proviso shall be combined with funds
appropriated under the same heading and for
the same purpose in Public Law 115–254 and
the aggregate of such amounts shall be avail-
able for any of the same such purposes speci-
fied under this heading or the same heading
in Public Law 115–254 without limitation:
Provided further, That such amount is des-
ignated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:51 Apr 02, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00045 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A01AP6.040 S01APPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2150 April 1, 2019
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985: Pro-
vided further, That amounts repurposed
under this heading that were previously des-
ignated by the Congress as an emergency re-
quirement pursuant to the Balanced Budget
and Emergency Deficit Control Act are des-
ignated by the Congress as an emergency re-
quirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i)
of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Def-
icit Control Act of 1985.
GENERAL PROVISION—THIS TITLE
SEC. 1001. (a) Amounts previously made
available for activities authorized under
title I of the Housing and Community Devel-
opment Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5301 et seq.) re-
lated to disaster relief, long-term recovery,
restoration of infrastructure and housing,
economic revitalization, and mitigation in
the most impacted and distressed areas re-
sulting from a major disaster, including
funds provided under section 145 of division C
of Public Law 114–223, section 192 of division
C of Public Law 114–223 (as added by section
101(3) of division A of Public Law 114–254),
section 421 of division K of Public Law 115–31,
and any mitigation funding provided under
the heading ‘‘Department of Housing and
Urban Development—Community Planning
and Development—Community Development
Fund’’ of Public Law 115–123, that were allo-
cated in response to Hurricane Matthew,
may be used interchangeably and without
limitation for the same activities in the
most impacted and distressed areas related
to Hurricane Florence. In addition, any
funds provided under the heading ‘‘Depart-
ment of Housing and Urban Development—
Community Planning and Development—
Community Development Fund’’ in this Act
or in division I of Public Law 115–254 that are
allocated in response to Hurricane Florence
may be used interchangeably and without
limitation for the same activities in the
most impacted and distressed areas related
to Hurricane Matthew. Until HUD publishes
the Federal Register Notice implementing
this provision, grantees may submit for HUD
approval revised plans for the use of funds
related to Hurricane Matthew that expand
the eligible beneficiaries of existing pro-
grams contained in such previously approved
plans to include those impacted by Hurri-
cane Florence. Approval of any such revised
plans shall include the execution of revised
grant terms and conditions as necessary.
Once the implementing Notice is published,
any additional action plan revisions shall
follow the requirements contained therein.
(b) Amounts made available for adminis-
trative costs for activities authorized under
title I of the Housing and Community Devel-
opment Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5301 et seq.) re-
lated to disaster relief, long-term recovery,
restoration of infrastructure and housing,
economic revitalization, and mitigation in
the most impacted and distressed areas
under this Act or any future Act, and
amounts previously provided under section
420 of division L of Public Law 114–113, sec-
tion 145 of division C of Public Law 114–223,
section 192 of division C of Public Law 114–
223 (as added by section 101(3) of division A of
Public Law 114–254), section 421 of division K
of Public Law 115–31, and under the heading
‘‘Department of Housing and Urban Develop-
ment—Community Planning and Develop-
ment—Community Development Fund’’ of
division B of Public Law 115–56, Public Law
115–123, and Public Law 115–254, shall be
available for eligible administrative costs of
the grantee related to any disaster relief
funding identified in this subsection without
regard to the particular disaster appropria-
tion from which such funds originated.
(c) The additional uses pursuant to this
section for amounts that were previously
designated by the Congress, respectively, as
an emergency requirement or as being for
disaster relief pursuant to the Balanced
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act
are designated by the Congress as being for
an emergency requirement pursuant to sec-
tion 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 or
as being for disaster relief pursuant to sec-
tion 251(b)(2)(D) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
TITLE XI
GENERAL PROVISION—THIS ACT
SEC. 1101. Each amount designated in this
Act by the Congress as being for an emer-
gency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 shall
be available (or rescinded or transferred, if
applicable) only if the President subse-
quently so designates all such amounts and
transmits such designations to the Congress.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Additional
Supplemental Appropriations for Disaster
Relief Act, 2019’’.
SA 238. Mr. SHELBY submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed by
him to the bill H.R. 268, making supple-
mental appropriations for the fiscal
year ending September 30, 2019, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
Strike all after the first word and insert
the following:
the following sums in this Act are appro-
priated, out of any money in the Treasury
not otherwise appropriated, for the fiscal
year ending September 30, 2019, and for other
purposes, namely:
TITLE I
DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE
AGRICULTURAL PROGRAMS
PROCESSING, RESEARCH AND MARKETING
OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY
For an additional amount for the ‘‘Office of
the Secretary’’, $3,005,442,000, which shall re-
main available until December 31, 2020, for
necessary expenses related to losses of crops
(including milk and harvested adulterated
wine grapes), trees, bushes, and vines, as a
consequence of Hurricanes Michael and Flor-
ence, other hurricanes, floods, tornadoes, ty-
phoons, volcanic activity, and wildfires oc-
curring in calendar years 2018 and 2019 under
such terms and conditions as determined by
the Secretary: Provided, That the Secretary
may provide assistance for such losses in the
form of block grants to eligible states and
territories and such assistance may include
compensation to producers, as determined by
the Secretary, for forest restoration and
poultry and livestock losses: Provided further,
That of the amounts provided under this
heading, tree assistance payments may be
made under section 1501(e) of the Agricul-
tural Act of 2014 (7 U.S.C. 9081(e)) to eligible
orchardists or nursery tree growers (as de-
fined in such section) of pecan trees with a
tree mortality rate that exceeds 7.5 percent
(adjusted for normal mortality) and is less
than 15 percent (adjusted for normal mor-
tality), to be available until expended, for
losses incurred during the period beginning
January 1, 2018, and ending December 31,
2018: Provided further, That in the case of pro-
ducers impacted by volcanic activity that re-
sulted in the loss of crop land, or access to
crop land, the Secretary shall consider all
measures available, as appropriate, to bring
replacement land into production: Provided
further, That the total amount of payments
received under this heading and applicable
policies of crop insurance under the Federal
Crop Insurance Act (7 U.S.C. 1501 et seq.) or
the Noninsured Crop Disaster Assistance
Program (NAP) under section 196 of the Fed-
eral Agriculture Improvement and Reform
Act of 1996 (7 U.S.C. 7333) shall not exceed 90
percent of the loss as determined by the Sec-
retary: Provided further, That the total
amount of payments received under this
heading for producers who did not obtain a
policy or plan of insurance for an insurable
commodity for the applicable crop year
under the Federal Crop Insurance Act (7
U.S.C. 1501 et seq.) for the crop incurring the
losses or did not file the required paperwork
and pay the service fee by the applicable
State filing deadline for a noninsurable com-
modity for the applicable crop year under
NAP for the crop incurring the losses shall
not exceed 70 percent of the loss as deter-
mined by the Secretary: Provided further,
That producers receiving payments under
this heading, as determined by the Sec-
retary, shall be required to purchase crop in-
surance where crop insurance is available for
the next two available crop years, excluding
tree insurance policies, and producers receiv-
ing payments under this heading shall be re-
quired to purchase coverage under NAP
where crop insurance is not available in the
next two available crop years, as determined
by the Secretary: Provided further, That, not
later than 120 days after the end of fiscal
year 2019, the Secretary shall submit a re-
port to the Congress specifying the type,
amount, and method of such assistance by
state and territory: Provided further, That
such amount is designated by the Congress
as being for an emergency requirement pur-
suant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985.
FARM SERVICE AGENCY
EMERGENCY FOREST RESTORATION PROGRAM
For an additional amount for the ‘‘Emer-
gency Forest Restoration Program’’, for nec-
essary expenses related to the consequences
of Hurricanes Michael and Florence and
wildfires occurring in calendar year 2018, and
other natural disasters, $480,000,000, to re-
main available until expended: Provided,
That such amount is designated by the Con-
gress as being for an emergency requirement
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985.
NATURAL RESOURCES CONSERVATION SERVICE
WATERSHED AND FLOOD PREVENTION
OPERATIONS
For an additional amount for ‘‘Watershed
and Flood Prevention Operations’’, for nec-
essary expenses for the Emergency Water-
shed Protection Program related to the con-
sequences of Hurricanes Michael and Flor-
ence and wildfires occurring in calendar year
2018, and other natural disasters, $125,000,000,
to remain available until expended: Provided,
That such amount is designated by the Con-
gress as being for an emergency requirement
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985.
RURAL DEVELOPMENT
RURAL COMMUNITY FACILITIES PROGRAM
ACCOUNT
For an additional amount for the cost of
grants for rural community facilities pro-
grams as authorized by section 306 and de-
scribed in section 381E(d)(1) of the Consoli-
dated Farm and Rural Development Act, for
necessary expenses related to the con-
sequences of Hurricanes Michael and Flor-
ence and wildfires occurring in calendar year
2018, and other natural disasters, $150,000,000,
to remain available until expended: Provided,
That sections 381E-H and 381N of the Consoli-
dated Farm and Rural Development Act are
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:51 Apr 02, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00046 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A01AP6.040 S01APPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2151
April 1, 2019
not applicable to the funds made available
under this heading: Provided further, That
such amount is designated by the Congress
as being for an emergency requirement pur-
suant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985.
GENERAL PROVISIONS—THIS TITLE
SEC. 101. In addition to amounts otherwise
made available, out of the funds made avail-
able under section 18 of Food and Nutrition
Act of 2008, $25,200,000 shall be available for
the Secretary to provide a grant to the Com-
monwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands
for disaster nutrition assistance in response
to the Presidentially declared major disas-
ters and emergencies: Provided, That funds
made available to the Commonwealth of the
Northern Mariana Islands under this section
shall remain available for obligation by the
Commonwealth until September 30, 2020: Pro-
vided further, That such amount is des-
ignated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
SEC. 102. For purposes of administering
title I of subdivision 1 of division B of the Bi-
partisan Budget Act of 2018 (Public Law 115–
123), losses to agricultural producers result-
ing from hurricanes shall also include losses
of peach and blueberry crops in calendar
year 2017 due to extreme cold: Provided, That
the amounts provided by this section are
designated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985: Pro-
vided further, That amounts repurposed
under this heading that were previously des-
ignated by the Congress as an emergency re-
quirement pursuant to the Balanced Budget
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985
are designated by the Congress as an emer-
gency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
SEC. 103. (a)(1) Except as provided in para-
graph (2), a person or legal entity is not eli-
gible to receive a payment under the Market
Facilitation Program established pursuant
to the Commodity Credit Corporation Char-
ter Act (15 U.S.C. 714 et seq.) if the average
adjusted gross income of such person or legal
entity is greater than $900,000.
(2) Paragraph (1) shall not apply to a per-
son or legal entity if at least 75 percent of
the adjusted gross income of such person or
legal entity is derived from farming, ranch-
ing, or forestry related activities.
(b) A person or legal entity may not re-
ceive a payment under the Market Facilita-
tion Program described in subsection (a)(1),
directly or indirectly, of more than $125,000.
(c) In this section, the term ‘‘average ad-
justed gross income’’ has the meaning given
the term defined in section 760.1502 of title 7
Code of Federal Regulations (as in effect
July 18, 2018).
(d) The amount provided by this section is
designated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
SEC. 104. In addition to other amounts
made available by section 309 of division A of
the Additional Supplemental Appropriations
for Disaster Relief Requirements Act, 2017
(Public Law 115–72; 131 Stat. 1229), there is
appropriated to the Secretary, out of any
moneys in the Treasury not otherwise appro-
priated, for the fiscal year ending September
30, 2019, $600,000,000 to provide a grant to the
Commonwealth of Puerto Rico for disaster
nutrition assistance in response to a major
disaster or emergency designated by the
President under the Robert T. Stafford Dis-
aster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act
(42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq.): Provided, That the
funds made available to the Commonwealth
of Puerto Rico under this section shall re-
main available for obligation by the Com-
monwealth until September 30, 2020, and
shall be in addition to funds otherwise made
available: Provided further, That such
amount is designated by the Congress as
being for an emergency requirement pursu-
ant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act
of 1985 (2 U.S.C. 901(b)(2)(A)(i)).
TITLE II
DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT ADMINISTRATION
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT ASSISTANCE
PROGRAMS
(INCLUDING TRANSFERS OF FUNDS)
Pursuant to section 703 of the Public
Works and Economic Development Act (42
U.S.C. 3233), for an additional amount for
‘‘Economic Development Assistance Pro-
grams’’ for necessary expenses related to
flood mitigation, disaster relief, long-term
recovery, and restoration of infrastructure
in areas that received a major disaster des-
ignation as a result of Hurricanes Florence,
Michael, and Lane, Typhoons Yutu and
Mangkhut, and of wildfires, volcanic erup-
tions, earthquakes, and other natural disas-
ters occurring in calendar year 2018, and tor-
nadoes and floods occurring in calendar year
2019 under the Robert T. Stafford Disaster
Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42
U.S.C. 5121 et seq.), $600,000,000, to remain
available until expended: Provided, That such
amount is designated by the Congress as
being for an emergency requirement pursu-
ant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act
of 1985: Provided further, That within the
amount appropriated, up to 2 percent of
funds may be transferred to the ‘‘Salaries
and Expenses’’ account for administration
and oversight activities: Provided further,
That within the amount appropriated,
$1,000,000 shall be transferred to the ‘‘Office
of Inspector General’’ account for carrying
out investigations and audits related to the
funding provided under this heading.
NATIONAL OCEANIC AND ATMOSPHERIC
ADMINISTRATION
OPERATIONS, RESEARCH, AND FACILITIES
For an additional amount for ‘‘Operations,
Research, and Facilities’’ for necessary ex-
penses related to the consequences of Hurri-
canes Florence and Michael, Typhoon Yutu,
and of wildfires, $120,570,000, to remain avail-
able until September 30, 2020, as follows:
(1) $3,000,000 for repair and replacement of
observing assets, real property, and equip-
ment;
(2) $11,000,000 for marine debris assessment
and removal;
(3) $31,570,000 for mapping, charting, and
geodesy services;
(4) $25,000,000 to improve: (a) hurricane in-
tensity forecasting, including through de-
ployment of unmanned ocean observing plat-
forms and enhanced data assimilation; (b)
flood prediction, forecasting, and mitigation
capabilities; and (c) wildfire prediction, de-
tection, and forecasting; and
(5) $50,000,000 for Title IX Fund grants as
authorized under section 906(c) of division O
of Public Law 114–113:
Provided, That such amount is designated by
the Congress as being for an emergency re-
quirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i)
of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Def-
icit Control Act of 1985: Provided further,
That the National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration shall submit a spending plan
to the Committees on Appropriations of the
House of Representatives and the Senate for
funding provided under subsection (4) of this
heading within 45 days after the date of en-
actment of this Act.
PROCUREMENT, ACQUISITION AND CONSTRUCTION
For an additional amount for ‘‘Procure-
ment, Acquisition and Construction’’,
$25,000,000, to remain available until Sep-
tember 30, 2021, for improvements to oper-
ational and research weather supercom-
puting infrastructure and satellite ground
services used for hurricane intensity and
track prediction; flood prediction, fore-
casting, and mitigation; and wildfire pre-
diction, detection, and forecasting: Provided,
That such amount is designated by the Con-
gress as being for an emergency requirement
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985: Provided further, That the Na-
tional Oceanic and Atmospheric Administra-
tion shall submit a spending plan to the
Committees on Appropriations of the House
of Representatives and the Senate within 45
days after the date of enactment of this Act.
FISHERY DISASTER ASSISTANCE
For an additional amount for ‘‘Fishery
Disaster Assistance’’ for necessary expenses
associated with the mitigation of fishery dis-
asters, $150,000,000, to remain available until
expended: Provided, That funds shall be used
for mitigating the effects of commercial fish-
ery failures and fishery resource disasters
declared by the Secretary of Commerce, in-
cluding those declared by the Secretary to be
a direct result of Hurricanes Florence and
Michael and Typhoons Yutu and Mangkhut:
Provided further, That such amount is des-
ignated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
UNITED STATES MARSHALS SERVICE
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For an additional amount for ‘‘Salaries
and Expenses’’ for necessary expenses related
to the consequences of Hurricanes Florence
and Michael and Typhoon Yutu, $1,336,000:
Provided, That such amount is designated by
the Congress as being for an emergency re-
quirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i)
of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Def-
icit Control Act of 1985.
FEDERAL PRISON SYSTEM
BUILDINGS AND FACILITIES
For an additional amount for ‘‘Buildings
and Facilities’’ for necessary expenses re-
lated to the consequences of Hurricanes
Florence and Michael and Typhoon Yutu,
$28,400,000, to remain available until ex-
pended: Provided, That such amount is des-
ignated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
RELATED AGENCIES
LEGAL SERVICES CORPORATION
PAYMENT TO THE LEGAL SERVICES
CORPORATION
For an additional amount for ‘‘Payment to
the Legal Services Corporation’’ to carry out
the purposes of the Legal Services Corpora-
tion Act by providing for necessary expenses
related to the consequences of Hurricanes
Florence, Michael, and Lane, Typhoons Yutu
and Mangkhut, calendar year 2018 wildfires,
volcanic eruptions, and earthquakes, and
calendar year 2019 tornadoes and floods,
$15,000,000: Provided, That such amount is
designated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:51 Apr 02, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00047 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A01AP6.041 S01APPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2152 April 1, 2019
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985: Pro-
vided further, That none of the funds appro-
priated in this Act to the Legal Services Cor-
poration shall be expended for any purpose
prohibited or limited by, or contrary to any
of the provisions of, sections 501, 502, 503, 504,
505, and 506 of Public Law 105–119, and all
funds appropriated in this Act to the Legal
Services Corporation shall be subject to the
same terms and conditions set forth in such
sections, except that all references in sec-
tions 502 and 503 to 1997 and 1998 shall be
deemed to refer instead to 2018 and 2019, re-
spectively, and except that sections 501 and
503 of Public Law 104–134 (referenced by Pub-
lic Law 105–119) shall not apply to the
amount made available under this heading:
Provided further, That, for the purposes of
this Act, the Legal Services Corporation
shall be considered an agency of the United
States Government.
TITLE III
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE
OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE, MARINE CORPS
For an additional amount for ‘‘Operation
and Maintenance, Marine Corps’’,
$381,000,000, for necessary expenses related to
the consequences of Hurricanes Michael and
Florence: Provided, That such amount is des-
ignated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE, AIR FORCE
For an additional amount for ‘‘Operation
and Maintenance, Air Force’’, $550,000,000, for
necessary expenses related to the con-
sequences of Hurricanes Michael and Flor-
ence: Provided, That such amount is des-
ignated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
TITLE IV
CORPS OF ENGINEERS—CIVIL
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
INVESTIGATIONS
For an additional amount for ‘‘Investiga-
tions’’ for necessary expenses related to the
completion, or initiation and completion, of
flood and storm damage reduction, including
shore protection, studies which are currently
authorized or which are authorized after the
date of enactment of this Act, to reduce risk
from future floods and hurricanes, at full
Federal expense, $35,000,000, to remain avail-
able until expended, for high priority studies
of projects in States and insular areas that
were impacted by Hurricanes Florence and
Michael, Typhoon Mangkhut, Super Typhoon
Yutu, and Tropical Storm Gita: Provided,
That such amount is designated by the Con-
gress as being for an emergency requirement
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985: Provided further, That the Assist-
ant Secretary of the Army for Civil Works
shall provide a monthly report directly to
the Committees on Appropriations of the
House and the Senate detailing the alloca-
tion and obligation of these funds, including
new studies selected to be initiated using
funds provided under this heading, beginning
not later than 60 days after the date of en-
actment of this Act.
CONSTRUCTION
For an additional amount for ‘‘Construc-
tion’’ for necessary expenses, $740,000,000, to
remain available until expended, to con-
struct flood and storm damage reduction, in-
cluding shore protection, projects which are
currently authorized or which are authorized
after the date of enactment of this Act, and
flood and storm damage reduction, including
shore protection, projects which have signed
Chief’s Reports as of the date of enactment
of this Act or which are studied using funds
provided under the heading ‘‘Investigations’’
if the Secretary determines such projects to
be technically feasible, economically justi-
fied, and environmentally acceptable, in
States and insular areas that were impacted
by Hurricanes Florence and Michael, Ty-
phoon Mangkhut, Super Typhoon Yutu, and
Tropical Storm Gita: Provided, That projects
receiving funds provided in Public Law 115–
123 shall not be eligible for funding provided
under this heading: Provided further, That for
projects receiving funds provided under this
heading, the provisions of Section 902 of the
Water Resources Development Act of 1986
shall not apply to these funds: Provided fur-
ther, That the completion of ongoing con-
struction projects receiving funds provided
under this heading shall be at full Federal
expense with respect to such funds: Provided
further, That using funds provided under this
heading, the non-Federal cash contribution
for projects other than ongoing construction
projects shall be financed in accordance with
the provisions of section 103(k) of Public Law
99–662 over a period of 30 years from the date
of completion of the project or separable ele-
ment: Provided further, That up to $25,000,000
of the funds made available under this head-
ing shall be used for continuing authorities
projects to reduce the risk of flooding and
storm damage: Provided further, That any
projects using funds appropriated under this
heading shall be initiated only after non-
Federal interests have entered into binding
agreements with the Secretary requiring,
where applicable, the non-Federal interests
to pay 100 percent of the operation, mainte-
nance, repair, replacement, and rehabilita-
tion costs of the project and to hold and save
the United States free from damages due to
the construction or operation and mainte-
nance of the project, except for damages due
to the fault or negligence of the United
States or its contractors: Provided further,
That such amount is designated by the Con-
gress as being for an emergency requirement
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985: Provided further, That the Assist-
ant Secretary of the Army for Civil Works
shall provide a monthly report directly to
the Committees on Appropriations of the
House of Representatives and the Senate de-
tailing the allocation and obligation of these
funds, beginning not later than 60 days after
the date of enactment of this Act.
MISSISSIPPI RIVER AND TRIBUTARIES
For an additional amount for ‘‘Mississippi
River and Tributaries’’ for necessary ex-
penses to address emergency situations at
Corps of Engineers projects and rehabilitate
and repair damages to Corps of Engineers
projects, caused by natural disasters,
$225,000,000, to remain available until ex-
pended: Provided, That such amount is des-
ignated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985: Pro-
vided further, That the Assistant Secretary of
the Army for Civil Works shall provide a
monthly report directly to the Committees
on Appropriations of the House of Represent-
atives and the Senate detailing the alloca-
tion and obligation of these funds, beginning
not later than 60 days after the date of en-
actment of this Act.
OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE
For an additional amount for ‘‘Operation
and Maintenance’’ for necessary expenses to
dredge Federal navigation projects in re-
sponse to, and repair damages to Corps of
Engineers Federal projects caused by, nat-
ural disasters, $245,000,000, to remain avail-
able until expended, of which such sums as
are necessary to cover the Federal share of
eligible operation and maintenance costs for
coastal harbors and channels, and for inland
harbors shall be derived from the Harbor
Maintenance Trust Fund: Provided, That
such amount is designated by the Congress
as being for an emergency requirement pur-
suant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985: Provided further, That the Assist-
ant Secretary of the Army for Civil Works
shall provide a monthly report directly to
the Committees on Appropriations of the
House of Representatives and the Senate de-
tailing the allocation and obligation of these
funds, beginning not later than 60 days after
the date of enactment of this Act.
DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR
CENTRAL UTAH PROJECT
CENTRAL UTAH PROJECT COMPLETION ACCOUNT
For an additional amount for ‘‘Central
Utah Project Completion Account’’, $350,000,
to be deposited into the Utah Reclamation
Mitigation and Conservation Account for use
by the Utah Reclamation Mitigation and
Conservation Commission, to remain avail-
able until expended, for expenses necessary
in carrying out fire remediation activities
related to wildfires in 2018: Provided, That
such amount is designated by the Congress
as being for an emergency requirement pur-
suant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985.
BUREAU OF RECLAMATION
WATER AND RELATED RESOURCES
For an additional amount for ‘‘Water and
Related Resources’’, $15,500,000, to remain
available until expended, for fire remedi-
ation and suppression emergency assistance
related to wildfires in 2017 and 2018: Provided,
That such amount is designated by the Con-
gress as being for an emergency requirement
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985.
TITLE V
DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY
SECURITY, ENFORCEMENT, AND
INVESTIGATIONS
COAST GUARD
OPERATIONS AND SUPPORT
For an additional amount for ‘‘Operations
and Support’’ for necessary expenses related
to the consequences of Hurricanes Michael,
Florence, and Lane, Tropical Storm Gordon,
and Typhoon Mangkhut, $46,977,000, to re-
main available until September 30, 2020: Pro-
vided, That such amount is designated by the
Congress as being for an emergency require-
ment pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of
the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit
Control Act of 1985.
PROCUREMENT, CONSTRUCTION, AND
IMPROVEMENTS
For an additional amount for ‘‘Procure-
ment, Construction, and Improvements’’ for
necessary expenses related to the con-
sequences of Hurricanes Michael, Florence,
and Lane, Tropical Storm Gordon, and Ty-
phoon Mangkhut, $476,755,000, to remain
available until September 30, 2023: Provided,
That such amount is designated by the Con-
gress as being for an emergency requirement
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985.
ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE AND
RESTORATION
For an additional amount for ‘‘Environ-
mental Compliance and Restoration’’ for
necessary expenses related to the con-
sequences of Hurricanes Michael and Flor-
ence, $2,000,000, to remain available until
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:51 Apr 02, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00048 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A01AP6.041 S01APPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2153
April 1, 2019
September 30, 2023: Provided, That such
amount is designated by the Congress as
being for an emergency requirement pursu-
ant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act
of 1985.
TITLE VI
DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR
UNITED STATES FISH AND WILDLIFE SERVICE
CONSTRUCTION
For an additional amount for ‘‘Construc-
tion’’ for necessary expenses related to the
consequences of Hurricanes Florence, Lane,
and Michael, and flooding associated with
major declared disaster DR–4365, and cal-
endar year 2018 earthquakes, $82,400,000, to
remain available until expended: Provided,
That of this amount $50,000,000 shall be used
to restore and rebuild national wildlife ref-
uges and increase the resiliency and capacity
of coastal habitat and infrastructure to
withstand storms and reduce the amount of
damage caused by such storms: Provided fur-
ther, That such amount is designated by the
Congress as being for an emergency require-
ment pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of
the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit
Control Act of 1985.
NATIONAL PARK SERVICE
HISTORIC PRESERVATION FUND
For an additional amount for the ‘‘Historic
Preservation Fund’’ for necessary expenses
related to the consequences of Hurricanes
Florence and Michael, and Typhoon Yutu,
$50,000,000, to remain available until Sep-
tember 30, 2022, including costs to States and
territories necessary to complete compliance
activities required by section 306108 of title
54, United States Code (formerly section 106
of the National Historic Preservation Act)
and costs needed to administer the program:
Provided, That grants shall only be available
for areas that have received a major disaster
declaration pursuant to the Robert T. Staf-
ford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assist-
ance Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq.): Provided fur-
ther, That individual grants shall not be sub-
ject to a non-Federal matching requirement:
Provided further, That such amount is des-
ignated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
CONSTRUCTION
For an additional amount for ‘‘Construc-
tion’’ for necessary expenses related to the
consequences of Hurricanes Florence and Mi-
chael, Typhoons Yutu and Mangkhut, and
calendar year 2018 wildfires, earthquakes,
and volcanic eruptions, $78,000,000, to remain
available until expended: Provided, That such
amount is designated by the Congress as
being for an emergency requirement pursu-
ant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act
of 1985.
UNITED STATES GEOLOGICAL SURVEY
SURVEYS, INVESTIGATIONS, AND RESEARCH
For an additional amount for ‘‘Surveys, In-
vestigations, and Research’’ for necessary
expenses related to the consequences of Hur-
ricanes Florence and Michael, and calendar
year 2018 wildfires, earthquake damage asso-
ciated with emergency declaration EM–3410,
and in those areas impacted by a major dis-
aster declared pursuant to the Robert T.
Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency As-
sistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq.) with re-
spect to calendar year 2018 wildfires or vol-
canic eruptions, $98,500,000, to remain avail-
able until expended: Provided, That of this
amount, $72,310,000 is for costs related to the
repair and replacement of equipment and fa-
cilities damaged by disasters in 2018: Pro-
vided further, That, not later than 90 days
after enactment of this Act, the Survey shall
submit a report to the Committees on Appro-
priations that describes the potential op-
tions to replace the facility damaged by the
2018 volcano disaster along with cost esti-
mates and a description of how the Survey
will provide direct access for monitoring vol-
canic activity and the potential threat to at-
risk communities: Provided further, That
such amount is designated by the Congress
as being for an emergency requirement pur-
suant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985.
DEPARTMENTAL OFFICES
INSULAR AFFAIRS
ASSISTANCE TO TERRITORIES
For an additional amount for ‘‘Technical
Assistance’’ for financial management ex-
penses related to the consequences of Ty-
phoon Yutu, $2,000,000, to remain available
until expended: Provided, That such amount
is designated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
OFFICE OF INSPECTOR GENERAL
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For an additional amount for ‘‘Salaries
and Expenses’’ for necessary expenses related
to the consequences of major disasters de-
clared pursuant to the Robert T. Stafford
Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance
Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq.) in 2018, $1,000,000,
to remain available until expended: Provided,
That such amount is designated by the Con-
gress as being for an emergency requirement
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985.
ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY
SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY
For an additional amount for ‘‘Science and
Technology’’ for necessary expenses related
to improving preparedness of the water sec-
tor, $600,000, to remain available until ex-
pended: Provided, That such amount is des-
ignated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
LEAKING UNDERGROUND STORAGE TANK TRUST
FUND PROGRAM
For an additional amount for ‘‘Leaking
Underground Storage Tank Fund’’ for nec-
essary expenses related to the consequences
of Hurricanes Florence and Michael, cal-
endar year 2018 earthquakes, and Typhoon
Yutu, $1,500,000, to remain available until ex-
pended: Provided, That such amount is des-
ignated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
STATE AND TRIBAL ASSISTANCE GRANTS
For additional amounts for ‘‘State and
Tribal Assistance Grants’’ for necessary ex-
penses related to the consequences of Hurri-
canes Florence and Michael and calendar
year 2018 earthquakes for the hazardous
waste financial assistance grants program,
$1,500,000, to remain available until ex-
pended; for necessary expenses related to the
consequences of Typhoon Yutu for the haz-
ardous waste financial assistance grants pro-
gram and for other solid waste management
activities, $56,000,000, to remain available
until expended, provided that none of these
funds shall be subject to section 3011(b) of
the Solid Waste Disposal Act; and for grants
under section 106 of the Federal Water Pollu-
tion Control Act, $5,000,000, to remain avail-
able until expended, to address impacts of
Hurricane Florence, Hurricane Michael, Ty-
phoon Yutu, and calendar year 2018 wildfires,
notwithstanding subsections (b), (e), and (f),
of such section: Provided, That such amounts
are designated by the Congress as being for
an emergency requirement pursuant to sec-
tion 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
For an additional amount for ‘‘State and
Tribal Assistance Grants’’, $349,400,000 to re-
main available until expended, of which
$53,300,000 shall be for capitalization grants
for the Clean Water State Revolving Funds
under title VI of the Federal Water Pollution
Control Act, and of which $296,100,000 shall be
for capitalization grants under section 1452
of the Safe Drinking Water Act: Provided,
That notwithstanding section 604(a) of the
Federal Water Pollution Control Act and
section 1452(a)(1)(D) of the Safe Drinking
Water Act, funds appropriated herein shall
be provided to States in EPA Regions 4, 9,
and 10 in amounts determined by the Admin-
istrator for wastewater treatment works and
drinking water facilities impacted by Hurri-
canes Florence and Michael, Typhoon Yutu,
and calendar year 2018 wildfires and earth-
quakes: Provided further, That notwith-
standing the requirements of section 603(i) of
the Federal Water Pollution Control Act and
section 1452(d) of the Safe Drinking Water
Act, for the funds appropriated herein, each
State shall use not less than 20 percent but
not more than 30 percent of the amount of
its capitalization grants to provide addi-
tional subsidization to eligible recipients in
the form of forgiveness of principal, negative
interest loans or grants or any combination
of these: Provided further, That the Adminis-
trator shall retain $10,400,000 of the funds ap-
propriated herein for grants for drinking
water facilities and waste water treatment
plants impacted by Typhoon Yutu: Provided
further, That the funds appropriated herein
shall be used for eligible projects whose pur-
pose is to reduce flood or fire damage risk
and vulnerability or to enhance resiliency to
rapid hydrologic change or natural disaster
at treatment works as defined by section 212
of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act
or any eligible facilities under section 1452 of
the Safe Drinking Water Act, and for other
eligible tasks at such treatment works or fa-
cilities necessary to further such purposes:
Provided further, That the Administrator of
the Environmental Protection Agency may
retain up to $1,000,000 of the funds appro-
priated herein for management and over-
sight: Provided further, That such amount is
designated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
RELATED AGENCIES
DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE
FOREST SERVICE
FOREST AND RANGELAND RESEARCH
For an additional amount for ‘‘Forest and
Rangeland Research’’ for necessary expenses
related to the consequences of Hurricanes
Florence and Michael, and the calendar year
2018 wildfires, $1,000,000, to remain available
until expended for the forest inventory and
analysis program: Provided, That such
amount is designated by the Congress as
being for an emergency requirement pursu-
ant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act
of 1985.
STATE AND PRIVATE FORESTRY
For an additional amount for ‘‘State and
Private Forestry’’ for necessary expenses re-
lated to the consequences of Hurricanes
Florence and Michael, and the calendar year
2018 wildfires, $12,000,000, to remain available
until expended: Provided, That such amount
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:51 Apr 02, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00049 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A01AP6.041 S01APPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2154 April 1, 2019
is designated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
NATIONAL FOREST SYSTEM
For an additional amount for ‘‘National
Forest System’’ for necessary expenses re-
lated to the consequences of Hurricanes
Florence and Michael, and the calendar year
2018 wildfires, $84,960,000, to remain available
until expended: Provided, That of this
amount $21,000,000 shall be used for haz-
ardous fuels management activities: Provided
further, That such amount is designated by
the Congress as being for an emergency re-
quirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i)
of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Def-
icit Control Act of 1985.
CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT AND MAINTENANCE
For an additional amount for ‘‘Capital Im-
provement and Maintenance’’ for necessary
expenses related to the consequences of Hur-
ricanes Florence and Michael, and the cal-
endar year 2018 wildfires, $36,040,000, to re-
main available until expended: Provided,
That such amount is designated by the Con-
gress as being for an emergency requirement
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985.
WILDLAND FIRE MANAGEMENT
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
For an additional amount for ‘‘Wildland
Fire Management’’, $720,271,000, to remain
available through September 30, 2022, for ur-
gent wildland fire suppression operations:
Provided, That such funds shall be solely
available to be transferred to and merged
with other appropriations accounts from
which funds were previously transferred for
wildland fire suppression in fiscal year 2018
to fully repay those amounts: Provided fur-
ther, That such amount is designated by the
Congress as an emergency requirement pur-
suant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985.
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN
SERVICES
NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF ENVIRONMENTAL
HEALTH SCIENCES
For an additional amount for ‘‘National In-
stitute of Environmental Health Sciences’’
for necessary expenses in carrying out ac-
tivities set forth in section 311(a) of the Com-
prehensive Environmental Response, Com-
pensation, and Liability Act of 1980 (42
U.S.C. 9660(a)) and section 126(g) of the
Superfund Amendments and Reauthorization
Act of 1986 related to the consequences of
major disasters declared pursuant to the
Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emer-
gency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq.)
in 2018, $1,000,000, to remain available until
expended: Provided, That such amount is des-
ignated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
GENERAL PROVISION—THIS TITLE
SEC. 601. Not later than 45 days after the
date of enactment of this Act, the agencies
receiving funds appropriated by this title
shall provide a detailed operating plan of an-
ticipated uses of funds made available in this
title by State and Territory, and by pro-
gram, project, and activity, to the Commit-
tees on Appropriations: Provided, That no
such funds shall be obligated before the oper-
ating plans are provided to the Committees:
Provided further, That such plans shall be up-
dated, including obligations to date, and sub-
mitted to the Committees on Appropriations
every 60 days until all such funds are ex-
pended.
TITLE VII
DEPARTMENT OF LABOR
EMPLOYMENT AND TRAINING ADMINISTRATION
TRAINING AND EMPLOYMENT SERVICES
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
For an additional amount for ‘‘Training
and Employment Services’’, $50,000,000, for
the dislocated workers assistance national
reserve for necessary expenses directly re-
lated to the consequences of Hurricanes
Florence and Michael, Typhoon Mangkhut,
Super Typhoon Yutu, wildfires and earth-
quakes occurring in calendar year 2018, and
tornadoes and floods occurring in calendar
year 2019 (referred to under this heading as
‘‘covered disaster or emergency’’), to remain
available through September 30, 2020: Pro-
vided, That the Secretary of Labor may
transfer up to $1,000,000 of such funds to any
other Department of Labor account for re-
construction and recovery needs, including
worker protection activities: Provided fur-
ther, That these sums may be used to replace
grant funds previously obligated to the im-
pacted areas: Provided further, That of the
amount provided, up to $500,000, to remain
available until expended, shall be transferred
to ‘‘Office of Inspector General’’ for over-
sight of activities responding to such covered
disaster or emergency: Provided further, That
such amount is designated by the Congress
as being for an emergency requirement pur-
suant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985.
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN
SERVICES
SUBSTANCE ABUSE AND MENTAL HEALTH
SERVICES ADMINISTRATION
HEALTH SURVEILLANCE AND PROGRAM SUPPORT
For an additional amount for ‘‘Health Sur-
veillance and Program Support’’, $30,000,000,
to remain available until September 30, 2019,
for grants, contracts and cooperative agree-
ments for behavioral health treatment, crisis
counseling, and other related helplines, and
for other similar programs to provide sup-
port to individuals impacted by Hurricanes
Florence and Michael, Typhoon Mangkhut,
Super Typhoon Yutu, wildfires and earth-
quakes occurring in calendar year 2018, and
tornadoes and floods occurring in calendar
year 2019 in those areas for which a major
disaster or emergency has been declared
under section 401 or 501 of the Robert T. Staf-
ford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assist-
ance Act (42 U.S.C. 5170 and 5191): Provided,
That obligations incurred for the purposes
provided herein prior to the date of enact-
ment of this Act may be charged to funds ap-
propriated under this heading: Provided fur-
ther, That such amount is designated by the
Congress as being for an emergency require-
ment pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of
the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit
Control Act of 1985.
ADMINISTRATION FOR CHILDREN AND FAMILIES
CHILDREN AND FAMILIES SERVICES PROGRAMS
For an additional amount for ‘‘Children
and Families Services Programs’’, $60,000,000,
to remain available until September 30, 2021,
for Head Start programs, including making
payments under the Head Start Act, for nec-
essary expenses directly related to the con-
sequences of Hurricanes Florence and Mi-
chael, Typhoon Mangkhut, Super Typhoon
Yutu, wildfires and earthquakes occurring in
calendar year 2018, and tornadoes and floods
occurring in calendar year 2019 in those
areas for which a major disaster or emer-
gency has been declared under section 401 or
501 of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief
and Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C.
5170 and 5191): Provided, That none of the
funds appropriated in this paragraph shall be
included in the calculation of the ‘‘base
grant’’ in subsequent fiscal years, as such
term is defined in sections 640(a)(7)(A),
641A(h)(1)(B), or 645(d)(3) of the Head Start
Act: Provided further, That funds appro-
priated in this paragraph are not subject to
the allocation requirements of section 640(a)
of the Head Start Act: Provided further, That
funds appropriated in this paragraph shall
not be available for costs that are reim-
bursed by the Federal Emergency Manage-
ment Agency, under a contract for insur-
ance, or by self-insurance: Provided further,
That up to $2,000,000 shall be available for
Federal administrative expenses: Provided
further, That obligations incurred for the
purposes provided herein prior to the date of
enactment of this Act may be charged to
funds appropriated under this heading: Pro-
vided further, That such amount is des-
ignated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION
EDUCATION RECOVERY
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
For an additional amount for ‘‘Education
Recovery’’ for necessary expenses related to
the consequences of Hurricanes Florence and
Michael, Typhoon Mangkhut, Super Typhoon
Yutu, wildfires and earthquakes occurring in
calendar year 2018, and tornadoes and floods
occurring in calendar year 2019 in those
areas for which a major disaster or emer-
gency has been declared under section 401 or
501 of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief
and Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C.
5170 and 5191) (referred to under this heading
as a ‘‘covered disaster or emergency’’),
$165,000,000, to remain available through Sep-
tember 30, 2019: Provided, That such amount
is designated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985: Pro-
vided further, That such assistance may be
provided through any of the programs au-
thorized under this heading in division B of
title VIII of Public Law 115–123 (as amended
by Public Law 115–141), as determined by the
Secretary of Education, and subject to the
terms and conditions that applied to those
programs, except that references to dates
and school years in Public Law 115–123 shall
be deemed to be the corresponding dates and
school years for the covered disaster or
emergency: Provided further, That the Sec-
retary of Education may determine the
amounts to be used for each such program
and shall notify the Committees on Appro-
priations of the House of Representatives
and the Senate of these amounts not later
than 7 days prior to obligation: Provided fur-
ther, $2,000,000 of the funds made available
under this heading, to remain available until
expended, shall be transferred to the Office
of the Inspector General of the Department
of Education for oversight of activities sup-
ported with funds appropriated under this
heading, and up to $1,000,000 of the funds
made available under this heading shall be
for program administration.
GENERAL PROVISION—THIS TITLE
SEC. 701. Not later than 30 days after the
date of enactment of this Act, the Secre-
taries of Labor, Health and Human Services,
and Education shall provide a detailed spend
plan of anticipated uses of funds made avail-
able in this title, including estimated per-
sonnel and administrative costs, to the Com-
mittees on Appropriations: Provided, That
such plans shall be updated and submitted to
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:51 Apr 02, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00050 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A01AP6.041 S01APPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2155
April 1, 2019
the Committees on Appropriations every 60
days until all funds are expended or expire.
TITLE VIII
LEGISLATIVE BRANCH
GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For an additional amount for ‘‘Salaries
and Expenses’’, $10,000,000, to remain avail-
able until expended, for audits and investiga-
tions related to Hurricanes Florence, Lane,
and Michael, Typhoons Yutu and Mangkhut,
the calendar year 2018 wildfires, earth-
quakes, and volcano eruptions, and other dis-
asters declared pursuant to the Robert T.
Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency As-
sistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq.): Provided,
That, not later than 90 days after the date of
enactment of this Act, the Government Ac-
countability Office shall submit to the Com-
mittees on Appropriations of the House of
Representatives and the Senate a spend plan
specifying funding estimates for audits and
investigations of any such declared disasters
occurring in 2018 and identifying funding es-
timates or carryover balances, if any, that
may be available for audits and investiga-
tions of any other such declared disasters:
Provided further, That such amount is des-
ignated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
TITLE IX
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE
MILITARY CONSTRUCTION, NAVY AND MARINE
CORPS
For an additional amount for ‘‘Military
Construction, Navy and Marine Corps’’,
$115,000,000, to remain available until Sep-
tember 30, 2023, for planning and design re-
lated to the consequences of Hurricanes
Florence and Michael on Navy and Marine
Corps installations: Provided, That none of
the funds shall be available for obligation
until the Committees on Appropriations of
the House of Representatives and the Senate
receive a master plan for the installations:
Provided further, That, not later than 60 days
after enactment of this Act, the Secretary of
the Navy, or his designee, shall submit to
the Committees on Appropriations of the
House of Representatives and the Senate a
detailed expenditure plan for funds provided
under this heading: Provided further, That
such amount is designated by the Congress
as being for an emergency requirement pur-
suant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985.
MILITARY CONSTRUCTION, AIR FORCE
For an additional amount for ‘‘Military
Construction, Air Force’’, $6,123,000,000, to
remain available until September 30, 2023, for
planning and design, and construction ex-
penses related to the consequences of Hurri-
cane Michael: Provided, That none of the
funds shall be available for obligation until
the Committees on Appropriations of the
House of Representatives and the Senate re-
ceive a basing plan and future mission re-
quirements for installations significantly
damaged by Hurricane Michael: Provided fur-
ther, That, not later than 60 days after enact-
ment of this Act, the Secretary of the Air
Force, or his designee, shall submit to the
Committees on Appropriations of the House
of Representatives and the Senate a detailed
expenditure plan for funds provided under
this heading: Provided further, That such
amount is designated by the Congress as
being for an emergency requirement pursu-
ant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act
of 1985.
MILITARY CONSTRUCTION, ARMY NATIONAL
GUARD
For an additional amount for ‘‘Military
Construction, Army National Guard’’,
$42,400,000, to remain available until Sep-
tember 30, 2023, for necessary expenses re-
lated to the consequences of Hurricanes
Florence and Michael: Provided, That none of
the funds shall be available for obligation
until the Committees on Appropriations of
the House of Representatives and the Senate
receive form 1391 for each specific request:
Provided further, That, not later than 60 days
after enactment of this Act, the Director of
the Army National Guard, or his designee,
shall submit to the Committees on Appro-
priations of the House of Representatives
and the Senate a detailed expenditure plan
for funds provided under this heading: Pro-
vided further, That such funds may be obli-
gated or expended for planning and design
and military construction projects not oth-
erwise authorized by law: Provided further,
That such amount is designated by the Con-
gress as being for an emergency requirement
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985.
DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS
VETERANS HEALTH ADMINISTRATION
MEDICAL FACILITIES
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
For an additional amount for ‘‘Medical Fa-
cilities’’, $3,000,000, to remain available until
September 30, 2023, for necessary expenses re-
lated to the consequences of Hurricanes
Florence and Michael and Typhoons
Mangkhut and Yutu: Provided, That the Sec-
retary of Veterans Affairs, upon determina-
tion that such action is necessary to address
needs as a result of the consequences of Hur-
ricanes Florence and Michael and Typhoons
Mangkhut and Yutu, may transfer such
funds to any discretionary account of the
Department of Veterans Affairs: Provided fur-
ther, That before a transfer may take place,
the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall sub-
mit notice thereof to the Committees on Ap-
propriations of the House of Representatives
and the Senate: Provided further, That none
of these funds shall be available for obliga-
tion until the Secretary of Veterans Affairs
submits to the Committees on Appropria-
tions of the House of Representatives and
the Senate a detailed expenditure plan for
funds provided under this heading: Provided
further, That such amount is designated by
the Congress as being for an emergency re-
quirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i)
of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Def-
icit Control Act of 1985.
TITLE X
DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION
FEDERAL TRANSIT ADMINISTRATION
PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION EMERGENCY RELIEF
PROGRAM
For an additional amount for the ‘‘Public
Transportation Emergency Relief Program’’
as authorized under section 5324 of title 49,
United States Code, $10,542,000 to remain
available until expended, for transit systems
affected by major declared disasters occur-
ring in calendar year 2018: Provided, That not
more than three-quarters of 1 percent of the
funds for public transportation emergency
relief shall be available for administrative
expenses and ongoing program management
oversight as authorized under sections 5334
and 5338(f)(2) of such title and shall be in ad-
dition to any other appropriations for such
purpose: Provided further, That such amount
is designated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
FEDERAL AVIATION ADMINISTRATION
OPERATIONS
(AIRPORT AND AIRWAY TRUST FUND)
Of the amounts made available for ‘‘Fed-
eral Aviation Administration—Operations’’
in division B of the Bipartisan Budget Act of
2018 (Public Law 115–123), up to $18,000,000
shall also be available for necessary expenses
related to the consequences of major de-
clared disasters occurring in calendar year
2018: Provided, That amounts repurposed
under this heading that were previously des-
ignated by the Congress as an emergency re-
quirement pursuant to the Balanced Budget
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985
are designated by the Congress as an emer-
gency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
FEDERAL HIGHWAY ADMINISTRATION
EMERGENCY RELIEF PROGRAM
For an additional amount for the Emer-
gency Relief Program as authorized under
section 125 of title 23, United States Code,
$1,650,000,000, to remain available until ex-
pended: Provided, That such amount is des-
ignated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND URBAN
DEVELOPMENT
COMMUNITY PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT FUND
(INCLUDING TRANSFERS OF FUNDS)
For an additional amount for ‘‘Community
Development Fund’’, $1,060,000,000, to remain
available until expended, for necessary ex-
penses for activities authorized under title I
of the Housing and Community Development
Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5301 et seq.) related to
disaster relief, long-term recovery, restora-
tion of infrastructure and housing, economic
revitalization, and mitigation in the most
impacted and distressed areas resulting from
a major disaster that occurred in 2018 pursu-
ant to the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief
and Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C.
5121 et seq.): Provided, That funds shall be
awarded directly to the State, unit of gen-
eral local government, or Indian tribe (as
such term is defined in section 102 of the
Housing and Community Development Act of
1974) at the discretion of the Secretary: Pro-
vided further, That any funds made available
under this heading and under the same head-
ing in Public Law 115–254 that remain avail-
able, after the funds under such headings
have been allocated for necessary expenses
for activities authorized under such head-
ings, shall be allocated to grantees, for miti-
gation activities in the most impacted and
distressed areas resulting from a major dis-
aster that occurred in 2018: Provided further,
That such allocations shall be made in the
same proportion that the amount of funds
each grantee received under this Act and the
same heading in division I of Public Law 115–
254 bears to the amount of all funds provided
to all grantees that received allocations for
disasters that occurred in 2018: Provided fur-
ther, That of the amounts made available
under the text preceding the first proviso
under this heading and under the same head-
ing in Public Law 115–254, the Secretary
shall allocate to all such grantees an aggre-
gate amount not less than 33 percent of the
sum of such amounts of funds within 120 days
after the enactment of this Act based on the
best available data, and shall allocate no less
than 100 percent of such funds by no later
than 180 days after the enactment of this
Act: Provided further, That the Secretary
shall not prohibit the use of funds made
available under this heading and the same
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:51 Apr 02, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00051 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A01AP6.041 S01APPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2156 April 1, 2019
heading in Public Law 115–254 for non-Fed-
eral share as authorized by section 105(a)(9)
of the Housing and Community Development
Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5305(a)(9)): Provided fur-
ther, That of the amounts made available
under this heading, grantees may establish
grant programs to assist small businesses for
working capital purposes to aid in recovery:
Provided further, That as a condition of mak-
ing any grant, the Secretary shall certify in
advance that such grantee has in place pro-
ficient financial controls and procurement
processes and has established adequate pro-
cedures to prevent any duplication of bene-
fits as defined by section 312 of the Robert T.
Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency As-
sistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5155), to ensure time-
ly expenditure of funds, to maintain com-
prehensive websites regarding all disaster re-
covery activities assisted with these funds,
and to detect and prevent waste, fraud, and
abuse of funds: Provided further, That with
respect to any such duplication of benefits,
the Secretary shall act in accordance with
section 1210 of Public Law 115–254 (132 Stat.
3442) and section 312 of the Robert T. Staf-
ford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assist-
ance Act (42 U.S.C. 5155): Provided further,
That the Secretary shall require grantees to
maintain on a public website information
containing common reporting criteria estab-
lished by the Department that permits indi-
viduals and entities awaiting assistance and
the general public to see how all grant funds
are used, including copies of all relevant pro-
curement documents, grantee administrative
contracts and details of ongoing procure-
ment processes, as determined by the Sec-
retary: Provided further, That prior to the ob-
ligation of funds a grantee shall submit a
plan to the Secretary for approval detailing
the proposed use of all funds, including cri-
teria for eligibility and how the use of these
funds will address long-term recovery and
restoration of infrastructure and housing,
economic revitalization, and mitigation in
the most impacted and distressed areas: Pro-
vided further, That such funds may not be
used for activities reimbursed by, or for
which funds have been made available by,
the Federal Emergency Management Agency
or the Army Corps of Engineers, in excess of
the authorized amount of the project or its
components: Provided further, That funds al-
located under this heading shall not be con-
sidered relevant to the non-disaster formula
allocations made pursuant to section 106 of
the Housing and Community Development
Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5306): Provided further,
That a State, unit of general local govern-
ment, or Indian tribe may use up to 5 per-
cent of its allocation for administrative
costs: Provided further, That the first proviso
under this heading in the Supplemental Ap-
propriations for Disaster Relief Require-
ments Act, 2018 (division I of Public Law 115–
254) is amended by striking ‘‘State or unit of
general local government’’ and inserting
‘‘State, unit of general local government, or
Indian tribe (as such term is defined in sec-
tion 102 of the Housing and Community De-
velopment Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5302))’’: Pro-
vided further, That the sixth proviso under
this heading in the Supplemental Appropria-
tions for Disaster Relief Requirements Act,
2018 (division I of Public Law 115–254) is
amended by striking ‘‘State or subdivision
thereof’’ and inserting ‘‘State, unit of gen-
eral local government, or Indian tribe (as
such term is defined in section 102 of the
Housing and Community Development Act of
1974 (42 U.S.C. 5302))’’: Provided further, That
in administering the funds under this head-
ing, the Secretary of Housing and Urban De-
velopment may waive, or specify alternative
requirements for, any provision of any stat-
ute or regulation that the Secretary admin-
isters in connection with the obligation by
the Secretary or the use by the recipient of
these funds (except for requirements related
to fair housing, nondiscrimination, labor
standards, and the environment), if the Sec-
retary finds that good cause exists for the
waiver or alternative requirement and such
waiver or alternative requirement would not
be inconsistent with the overall purpose of
title I of the Housing and Community Devel-
opment Act of 1974: Provided further, That,
notwithstanding the preceding proviso, re-
cipients of funds provided under this heading
that use such funds to supplement Federal
assistance provided under section 402, 403,
404, 406, 407, 408 (c)(4), or 502 of the Robert T.
Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency As-
sistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq.) may
adopt, without review or public comment,
any environmental review, approval, or per-
mit performed by a Federal agency, and such
adoption shall satisfy the responsibilities of
the recipient with respect to such environ-
mental review, approval or permit: Provided
further, That, notwithstanding section
104(g)(2) of the Housing and Community De-
velopment Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5304(g)(2)),
the Secretary may, upon receipt of a request
for release of funds and certification, imme-
diately approve the release of funds for an
activity or project assisted under this head-
ing if the recipient has adopted an environ-
mental review, approval or permit under the
preceding proviso or the activity or project
is categorically excluded from review under
the National Environmental Policy Act of
1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.): Provided further,
That the Secretary shall publish via notice
in the Federal Register any waiver, or alter-
native requirement, to any statute or regula-
tion that the Secretary administers pursu-
ant to title I of the Housing and Community
Development Act of 1974 no later than 5 days
before the effective date of such waiver or al-
ternative requirement: Provided further, That
of the amounts made available under this
heading, up to $5,000,000 shall be made avail-
able for capacity building and technical as-
sistance, including assistance on contracting
and procurement processes, to support
States, units of general local government, or
Indian tribes (and their subrecipients) that
receive allocations pursuant to this heading,
received disaster recovery allocations under
the same heading in Public Law 115–254, or
may receive similar allocations for disaster
recovery in future appropriations Acts: Pro-
vided further, That of the amounts made
available under this heading and under the
same heading in Public Law 115–254, up to
$2,500,000 shall be transferred, in aggregate,
to ‘‘Department of Housing and Urban Devel-
opment—Program Office Salaries and Ex-
penses—Community Planning and Develop-
ment’’ for necessary costs, including infor-
mation technology costs, of administering
and overseeing the obligation and expendi-
ture of amounts under this heading: Provided
further, That the amount specified in the pre-
ceding proviso shall be combined with funds
appropriated under the same heading and for
the same purpose in Public Law 115–254 and
the aggregate of such amounts shall be avail-
able for any of the same such purposes speci-
fied under this heading or the same heading
in Public Law 115–254 without limitation:
Provided further, That such amount is des-
ignated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985: Pro-
vided further, That amounts repurposed
under this heading that were previously des-
ignated by the Congress as an emergency re-
quirement pursuant to the Balanced Budget
and Emergency Deficit Control Act are des-
ignated by the Congress as an emergency re-
quirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i)
of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Def-
icit Control Act of 1985.
GENERAL PROVISION—THIS TITLE
SEC. 1001. (a) Amounts previously made
available for activities authorized under
title I of the Housing and Community Devel-
opment Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5301 et seq.) re-
lated to disaster relief, long-term recovery,
restoration of infrastructure and housing,
economic revitalization, and mitigation in
the most impacted and distressed areas re-
sulting from a major disaster, including
funds provided under section 145 of division C
of Public Law 114–223, section 192 of division
C of Public Law 114–223 (as added by section
101(3) of division A of Public Law 114–254),
section 421 of division K of Public Law 115–31,
and any mitigation funding provided under
the heading ‘‘Department of Housing and
Urban Development—Community Planning
and Development—Community Development
Fund’’ of Public Law 115–123, that were allo-
cated in response to Hurricane Matthew,
may be used interchangeably and without
limitation for the same activities in the
most impacted and distressed areas related
to Hurricane Florence. In addition, any
funds provided under the heading ‘‘Depart-
ment of Housing and Urban Development—
Community Planning and Development—
Community Development Fund’’ in this Act
or in division I of Public Law 115–254 that are
allocated in response to Hurricane Florence
may be used interchangeably and without
limitation for the same activities in the
most impacted and distressed areas related
to Hurricane Matthew. Until HUD publishes
the Federal Register Notice implementing
this provision, grantees may submit for HUD
approval revised plans for the use of funds
related to Hurricane Matthew that expand
the eligible beneficiaries of existing pro-
grams contained in such previously approved
plans to include those impacted by Hurri-
cane Florence. Approval of any such revised
plans shall include the execution of revised
grant terms and conditions as necessary.
Once the implementing Notice is published,
any additional action plan revisions shall
follow the requirements contained therein.
(b) Amounts made available for adminis-
trative costs for activities authorized under
title I of the Housing and Community Devel-
opment Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5301 et seq.) re-
lated to disaster relief, long-term recovery,
restoration of infrastructure and housing,
economic revitalization, and mitigation in
the most impacted and distressed areas
under this Act or any future Act, and
amounts previously provided under section
420 of division L of Public Law 114–113, sec-
tion 145 of division C of Public Law 114–223,
section 192 of division C of Public Law 114–
223 (as added by section 101(3) of division A of
Public Law 114–254), section 421 of division K
of Public Law 115–31, and under the heading
‘‘Department of Housing and Urban Develop-
ment—Community Planning and Develop-
ment—Community Development Fund’’ of
division B of Public Law 115–56, Public Law
115–123, and Public Law 115–254, shall be
available for eligible administrative costs of
the grantee related to any disaster relief
funding identified in this subsection without
regard to the particular disaster appropria-
tion from which such funds originated.
(c) The additional uses pursuant to this
section for amounts that were previously
designated by the Congress, respectively, as
an emergency requirement or as being for
disaster relief pursuant to the Balanced
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act
are designated by the Congress as being for
an emergency requirement pursuant to sec-
tion 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 or
as being for disaster relief pursuant to sec-
tion 251(b)(2)(D) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:51 Apr 02, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00052 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A01AP6.041 S01APPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2157
April 1, 2019
TITLE XI
GENERAL PROVISION—THIS ACT
SEC. 1101. Each amount designated in this
Act by the Congress as being for an emer-
gency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 shall
be available (or rescinded or transferred, if
applicable) only if the President subse-
quently so designates all such amounts and
transmits such designations to the Congress.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Additional
Supplemental Appropriations for Disaster
Relief Act, 2019’’.
SA 239. Mr. ISAKSON (for himself
and Mr. PERDUE) submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed by him
to the bill H.R. 268, making supple-
mental appropriations for the fiscal
year ending September 30, 2019, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
On page 66, strike lines 1 through 15.
SA 240. Mr. ISAKSON submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed by
him to the bill H.R. 268, making supple-
mental appropriations for the fiscal
year ending September 30, 2019, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
At the end of title XI, add the following:
‘‘SEC. 11ll. In this Act—
‘‘(1) funds appropriated under the provision
under the heading ‘Office of the Secretary’
under the heading ‘Processing, Research and
Marketing’ under the heading ‘Department
of Agriculture Agricultural Programs’ under
title I may be used for necessary expenses
described in that provision as a consequence
of tornadoes or floods occurring in calendar
year 2019, in the same manner and subject to
the same conditions as other such necessary
expenses;
‘‘(2) funds appropriated under the provision
under the heading ‘Economic Development
Assistance Programs (Including Transfers of
Funds)’ under the heading ‘Economic Devel-
opment Administration’ under the heading
‘Department of Commerce’ under title II
may be used for necessary expenses described
in that provision in areas that received a
major disaster designation under the Robert
T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency
Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq.) as a re-
sult of tornadoes and floods occurring in cal-
endar year 2019, in the same manner and sub-
ject to the same conditions as other such
necessary expenses;
‘‘(3) funds appropriated under the provision
under the heading ‘Payment to the Legal
Services Corporation’ under the heading
‘Legal Services Corporation’ under the head-
ing ‘Related Agencies’ under title II may be
used for necessary expenses described in that
provision related to the consequences of cal-
endar year 2019 tornadoes and floods, in the
same manner and subject to the same condi-
tions as other such necessary expenses;
‘‘(4) funds appropriated under the provision
under the heading ‘Training and Employ-
ment Services (Including Transfer of Funds)’
under the heading ‘Employment and Train-
ing Administration’ under the heading ‘De-
partment of Labor’ under title VII may be
used for necessary expenses described in that
provision directly related to the con-
sequences of tornadoes and floods occurring
in calendar year 2019, in the same manner
and subject to the same conditions as other
such necessary expenses;
‘‘(5) funds appropriated under the provision
under the heading ‘Health Surveillance and
Program Support’ under the heading ‘Sub-
stance Abuse and Mental Health Services
Administration’ under the heading ‘Depart-
ment of Health and Human Services’ under
title VII may be used for purposes described
in that provision to provide support to indi-
viduals impacted by tornadoes and floods oc-
curring in calendar year 2019 in areas for
which a major disaster or emergency has
been declared under section 401 or 501 of the
Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emer-
gency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5170 and 5191)
(referred to in this section as ‘major disaster
or emergency areas’), in the same manner
and subject to the same conditions as other
support provided under such provision;
‘‘(6) funds appropriated under the provision
under the heading ‘Social Services Block
Grant’ under the heading ‘Administration
for Children and Families’ under the heading
‘Department of Health and Human Services’
under title VII may be used for necessary ex-
penses described in that provision directly
related to the consequences of tornadoes and
floods occurring in calendar year 2019 in
major disaster or emergency areas, in the
same manner and subject to the same condi-
tions as other such necessary expenses;
‘‘(7) funds appropriated under the provision
under the heading ‘Children and Families
Services Programs’ under the heading ‘Ad-
ministration for Children and Families’
under the heading ‘Department of Health
and Human Services’ under title VII may be
used for necessary expenses directly related
to the consequences of tornadoes and floods
occurring in calendar year 2019 in major dis-
aster or emergency areas, in the same man-
ner and subject to the same conditions as
other such necessary expenses; and
‘‘(8) funds appropriated under the provision
under the heading ‘Education Recovery (In-
cluding Transfer of Funds)’ under the head-
ing ‘Department of Education’ under title
VII may be used for necessary expenses de-
scribed in that provision related to the con-
sequences of tornadoes and floods occurring
in calendar year 2019 in major disaster or
emergency areas, in the same manner and
subject to the same conditions as other such
necessary expenses.’’.
SA 241. Mr. ISAKSON submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed by
him to the bill H.R. 268, making supple-
mental appropriations for the fiscal
year ending September 30, 2019, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
Strike line 7 on page 39 and all that follows
through line 8 on page 43 and insert the fol-
lowing:
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN
SERVICES
ADMINISTRATION FOR CHILDREN AND FAMILIES
PAYMENTS TO STATES FOR THE CHILD CARE AND
DEVELOPMENT BLOCK GRANT
For an additional amount for ‘‘Payments
to States for the Child Care and Develop-
ment Block Grant’’, $30,000,000, to remain
available through September 30, 2021, for
necessary expenses directly related to the
consequences of Hurricanes Florence and Mi-
chael, Typhoon Mangkhut, Super Typhoon
Yutu, wildfires and earthquakes occurring in
calendar year 2018, and tornadoes and floods
occurring in calendar year 2019 in those
areas for which a major disaster or emer-
gency has been declared under section 401 or
501 of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief
and Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C.
5170 and 5191): Provided, That the Secretary
shall allocate such funds based on assessed
need notwithstanding sections 658J and 658O
of the Child Care and Development Block
Grant Act of 1990: Provided further, That such
funds may be used for costs of renovating,
repairing, or rebuilding child care facilities
without regard to section 658F(b) or 658G of
such Act and with amounts allocated for
such purposes excluded from the calculation
of percentages under subsection 658E(c)(3) of
such Act: Provided further, That notwith-
standing section 658J(c) of such Act, funds
allotted to a State and used for renovating,
repairing, or rebuilding child care facilities
may be obligated by the State in that fiscal
year or the succeeding three fiscal years:
Provided further, , That Federal interest pro-
visions will not apply to the renovation or
rebuilding of privately-owned family child
care homes, and the Secretary shall develop
parameters on the use of funds for family
child care homes: Provided further, That the
Secretary shall not retain Federal interest
after a period of 10 years in any facility ren-
ovated, repaired, or rebuilt with funds appro-
priated under this paragraph: Provided fur-
ther, That funds appropriated in this para-
graph shall not be available for costs that
are reimbursed by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency, under a contract for
insurance, or by self-insurance: Provided fur-
ther, That obligations incurred for the pur-
poses provided herein prior to the date of en-
actment of this Act may be charged to funds
appropriated under this heading: Provided
further, That such amount is designated by
the Congress as being for an emergency re-
quirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i)
of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Def-
icit Control Act of 1985.
CHILDREN AND FAMILIES SERVICES PROGRAMS
For an additional amount for ‘‘Children
and Families Services Programs’’, $90,000,000,
to remain available through September 30,
2021, for necessary expenses directly related
to the consequences of Hurricanes Florence
and Michael, Typhoon Mangkhut, Super Ty-
phoon Yutu, wildfires and earthquakes oc-
curring in calendar year 2018, and tornadoes
and floods occurring in calendar year 2019 in
those areas for which a major disaster or
emergency has been declared under section
401 or 501 of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster
Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42
U.S.C. 5170 and 5191): Provided, That
$55,000,000 shall be for Head Start programs,
including making payments under the Head
Start Act: Provided further, That none of
funds provided in the previous proviso shall
be included in the calculation of the ‘‘base
grant’’ in subsequent fiscal years, as such
term is defined in sections 640(a)(7)(A),
641A(h)(1)(B), or 645(d)(3) of the Head Start
Act: Provided further, That funds provided in
the second previous proviso are not subject
to the allocation requirements of section
640(a) of the Head Start Act: Provided further,
That $5,000,000 shall be for payments to
States, territories, and tribes for activities
authorized under subpart 1 of part B of title
IV of the Social Security Act, with such
funds allocated based on assessed need not-
withstanding section 423 of such Act and
paid without regard to percentage limita-
tions in subsections (a) or (e) in section 424
of such Act: Provided further, That $25,000,000
shall be for payments to States, territories,
and tribes authorized under the Community
Services Block Grant Act, with such funds
allocated based on assessed need notwith-
standing sections 674(b), 675A, and 675B of
such Act: Provided further, That notwith-
standing section 676(b)(8) of the Community
Services Block Grant Act, each State, terri-
tory, or tribe may allocate funds to eligible
entities based on assessed need: Provided fur-
ther, That funds appropriated in this para-
graph shall not be available for costs that
are reimbursed by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency, under a contract for
insurance, or by self-insurance: Provided fur-
ther, That up to $5,000,000, to remain avail-
able until expended, shall be available for
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:51 Apr 02, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00053 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A01AP6.041 S01APPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2158 April 1, 2019
Federal administrative expenses: Provided
further, That obligations incurred for the
purposes provided herein prior to the date of
enactment of this Act may be charged to
funds appropriated under this heading: Pro-
vided further, That such amount is des-
ignated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY
PUBLIC HEALTH AND SOCIAL SERVICES
EMERGENCY FUND
(INCLUDING TRANSFERS OF FUNDS)
For an additional amount for the ‘‘Public
Health and Social Services Emergency
Fund’’, $201,000,000, to remain available
through September 30, 2020, for necessary ex-
penses directly related to the consequences
of Hurricanes Florence and Michael, Ty-
phoon Mangkhut, Super Typhoon Yutu,
wildfires and earthquakes occurring in cal-
endar year 2018, and tornadoes and floods oc-
curring in calendar year 2019 in those areas
for which a major disaster or emergency has
been declared under section 401 or 501 of the
Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emer-
gency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5170 and 5191)
(referred to under this heading as ‘‘covered
disaster or emergency’’), including activities
authorized under section 319(a) of the Public
Health Service Act (referred to in this Act as
the ‘‘PHS Act’’): Provided, That of the
amount provided, $80,000,000 shall be trans-
ferred to ‘‘Health Resources and Services Ad-
ministration—Primary Health Care’’ for ex-
penses directly related to a covered disaster
or emergency for disaster response and re-
covery, for the Health Centers Program
under section 330 of the PHS Act, including
alteration, renovation, construction, equip-
ment, and other capital improvement costs
as necessary to meet the needs of areas af-
fected by a covered disaster or emergency:
Provided further, That the time limitation in
section 330(e)(3) of the PHS Act shall not
apply to funds made available under the pre-
ceding proviso: Provided further, That of the
amount provided, not less than $20,000,000
shall be transferred to ‘‘Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention—CDC-Wide Activi-
ties and Program Support’’ for response, re-
covery, mitigation, and other expenses di-
rectly related to a covered disaster or emer-
gency: Provided further, That of the amount
provided, not less than $100,000,000 shall be
transferred to ‘‘Substance Abuse and Mental
Health Services Administration—Health
Surveillance and Program Support’’ for
grants, contracts, and cooperative agree-
ments for behavioral health treatment,
treatment of substance use disorders, crisis
counseling, and other related helplines, and
for other similar programs to provide sup-
port to individuals impacted by a covered
disaster or emergency: Provided further, That
of the amount provided, up to $1,000,000, to
remain available until expended, shall be
transferred to ‘‘Office of the Secretary—Of-
fice of Inspector General’’ for oversight of
activities responding to such covered disas-
ters or emergencies: Provided further, That
such amount is designated by the Congress
as being for an emergency requirement pur-
suant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985.
SA 242. Mr. BOOKER submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 201 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 268, making
supplemental appropriations for the
fiscal year ending September 30, 2019,
and for other purposes; which was or-
dered to lie on the table; as follows:
At the appropriate place in title VI of divi-
sion A, insert the following:
SEC. 6ll. STATE REVOLVING FUND TRANSFER
AUTHORITY.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) CLEAN WATER REVOLVING FUND.—The
term ‘‘clean water revolving fund’’ means a
State water pollution control revolving fund
established under title VI of the Federal
Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. 1381
et seq.).
(2) DRINKING WATER REVOLVING FUND.—The
term ‘‘drinking water revolving fund’’ means
a State drinking water treatment revolving
loan fund established under section 1452 of
the Safe Drinking Water Act (42 U.S.C. 300j–
12).
(b) AUTHORITY.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—In addition to the transfer
authority provided under section 302(a) of
the Safe Drinking Water Act Amendments of
1996 (42 U.S.C. 300j–12 note; Public Law 104–
182), during fiscal year 2019, if a State, in
consultation with the Administrator of the
Environmental Protection Agency, deter-
mines that available funds in the clean water
revolving fund of the State could be used to
address a threat to public health as a result
of heightened exposure to lead in drinking
water, the State may transfer an amount
equal to not more than 35 percent of the un-
obligated funds in the clean water revolving
fund of the State to the drinking water re-
volving fund of the State for the purpose de-
scribed in paragraph (2).
(2) PURPOSES DESCRIBED.—The purpose re-
ferred to in paragraph (1) is to provide addi-
tional subsidies to eligible recipients to ad-
dress the threat to public health described in
that paragraph in the form of—
(A) forgiveness of principal;
(B) negative interest loans;
(C) grants; or
(D) any combination of the subsidies de-
scribed in subparagraphs (A) through (C).
SA 243. Mr. MARKEY (for himself
and Ms. WARREN) submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 201 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 268, making
supplemental appropriations for the
fiscal year ending September 30, 2019,
and for other purposes; which was or-
dered to lie on the table; as follows:
On page 41, line 5, insert before ‘‘, to re-
main’’ the following: ‘‘(and an additional
amount of $100,000,000, for the additional
home energy assistance needs of one or more
States arising from a natural disaster or
other emergency in accordance with section
2602(e) of the Low-Income Home Energy As-
sistance Act of 1981)’’.
SA 244. Mr. SCOTT of South Carolina
(for himself and Mr. GRAHAM) sub-
mitted an amendment intended to be
proposed to amendment SA 201 pro-
posed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill H.R.
268, making supplemental appropria-
tions for the fiscal year ending Sep-
tember 30, 2019, and for other purposes;
which was ordered to lie on the table;
as follows:
At the appropriate place, insert the fol-
lowing:
SEC. ll. REPLACEMENT OF RURAL MEDICAL FA-
CILITIES IMPACTED BY MAJOR DIS-
ASTERS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The President shall make
a contribution under section 406 of the Rob-
ert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emer-
gency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5172) for each
eligible rural medical facility that was dam-
aged or destroyed by a major disaster during
calendar year 2015, regardless of whether the
operations of such medical facility were sub-
sequently carried out in a temporary re-
placement facility. Such contribution shall
be sufficient to provide for a full permanent
replacement of each such medical facility to
the resiliency standards described in sub-
section (b).
(b) RESILIENCY STANDARDS.—A permanent
replacement facility provided for under this
section shall meet—
(1) the definition of resilient developed
pursuant to section 406(e) of the Robert T.
Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency As-
sistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5172(e)); and
(2) any relevant consensus-based codes,
specifications, and standards.
(c) TEMPORARY REPLACEMENT FACILITY.—In
any case in which the President, acting
through the Federal Emergency Manage-
ment Agency, has provided funding to lease
or purchase a temporary replacement facil-
ity to house the operations of an eligible
rural medical facility for which a permanent
replacement facility is required under this
section, the President shall continue such
funding until a permanent replacement facil-
ity is operational, including for any period of
time for which funding has not otherwise
been provided.
(d) HOSPITAL SUCCESSOR ENTITY.—A trans-
fer in ownership of an eligible rural medical
facility or of a permanent replacement facil-
ity, or the execution of a transaction by the
owner of an eligible rural medical facility re-
sulting in different ownership of a perma-
nent replacement facility, shall not affect
the requirement in subsection (a) to provide
for a full replacement of the facility for
which funds are provided under this section,
provided that such funds are provided to an
entity otherwise eligible for assistance under
section 406 of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster
Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42
U.S.C. 5172).
(e) DEFINITION OF ELIGIBLE RURAL MEDICAL
FACILITY.—In this section, the term ‘‘eligible
rural medical facility’’ means a private non-
profit hospital facility—
(1) located in a county with a population
below 40,000, as determined by the most re-
cent decennial census;
(2) that sustained damage during calendar
year 2015 that was eligible for financial as-
sistance under section 406 of the Robert T.
Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency As-
sistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5172); and
(3) that was closed following damage sus-
tained during a major disaster and remains
closed as of the date of enactment of this
Act.
SEC. ll. RESTORING CRITICAL WATER SUPPLY
INFRASTRUCTURE.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The President shall make
a contribution under section 406 of the Rob-
ert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emer-
gency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5172) to the
applicable State or local government for
each eligible hydroelectric facility that was
damaged or destroyed by a major disaster
during calendar year 2015 to carry out the
improvements for which such contribution
was provided under this section.
(b) CONTRIBUTION.—Each contribution pro-
vided for improvements to an eligible hydro-
electric facility under subsection (a) shall be
sufficient to—
(1) rebuild canal embankments to meet all
applicable guidelines in the Engineering
Guidelines for the Evaluation of Hydropower
Projects prepared by the Federal Energy
Regulatory Commission;
(2) restore all other water-control and re-
taining structures to meet all applicable
such Engineering Guidelines; and
(3) provide for either—
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:51 Apr 02, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00054 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A01AP6.046 S01APPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2159
April 1, 2019
(A) the restoration of the eligible hydro-
electric facility to full operation of its func-
tion as a primary water source and hydro-
electric power supply; or
(B) the establishment of an alternative pri-
mary water source and the restoration of the
full operation of the hydroelectric power
supply function of the eligible hydroelectric
facility pursuant to the requirements of sub-
section (c).
(c) ALTERNATIVE CONTRIBUTION.—A con-
tribution may cover the establishment of an
alternative primary water source under sub-
section (b)(3)(B) only if—
(1) the water source could provide redun-
dancy to the water supply provided by an eli-
gible hydroelectric facility;
(2) the water source is approved by any ap-
plicable regulatory agencies; and
(3) the cost of the establishment of such
water source and the restoration of the full
operation of the hydroelectric power supply
function of the eligible hydroelectric facility
is less than the cost of restoring the eligible
hydroelectric facility to full operation as de-
scribed under subsection (b)(3)(A).
(d) RESILIENCY STANDARDS.—An improve-
ment carried out under this section shall
meet the definition of resilient developed
pursuant to section 406(e) of the Robert T.
Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency As-
sistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5172(e)).
(e) DEFINITION OF ELIGIBLE HYDROELECTRIC
FACILITY.—In this section, the term ‘‘eligible
hydroelectric facility’’ means a hydro-
electric facility that—
(1) is part of a system that provides the
primary water source for more than 200,000
people;
(2) sustained damage eligible for financial
assistance under section 406 of the Robert T.
Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency As-
sistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5172);
(3) is licensed by the Federal Energy Regu-
latory Commission under part I of the Fed-
eral Power Act (16 U.S.C. 792 et seq.); and
(4) has been assigned a significant hazard
potential classification in accordance with
chapter 1 of the Engineering Guidelines for
the Evaluation of Hydropower Projects pre-
pared by the Federal Energy Regulatory
Commission.
SA 245. Ms. HIRONO submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 201 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 268, making
supplemental appropriations for the
fiscal year ending September 30, 2019,
and for other purposes; which was or-
dered to lie on the table; as follows:
At the appropriate place, insert the fol-
lowing:
SEC. lll. (a) Section 1108(g) of the Social
Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1308(g)) is amended—
(1) in paragraph (5)—
(A) in subparagraph (A), by inserting ‘‘and
paragraph (6)’’ after ‘‘and (E)’’;
(B) in subparagraph (C)—
(i) in the matter preceding clause (i), by
striking ‘‘2019’’ and inserting ‘‘2021’’;
(ii) in clause (i), by striking ‘‘of the in-
crease otherwise provided under subpara-
graphs (A) and (B)’’ and inserting ‘‘otherwise
determined under this subsection (including,
if any, any increase otherwise provided
under subparagraphs (A) and (B))’’; and
(iii) in clause (ii), by striking ‘‘the amount
of the increase otherwise provided under sub-
paragraph (A)’’ and inserting ‘‘the amount
otherwise determined under this subsection
(including, if any, any increase otherwise
provided under subparagraph (A))’’;
(C) in subparagraph (D), in the matter pre-
ceding clause (i), by striking ‘‘the amount of
the increase otherwise provided under sub-
paragraph (A)’’ and inserting ‘‘the amount
otherwise determined under this subsection
(including, if any, any increase otherwise
provided under subparagraph (A))’’; and
(D) in subparagraph (E)—
(i) by striking ‘‘title XIX, during’’ and in-
serting, ‘‘title XIX—
‘‘(i) during’’;
(ii) by striking the period at the end and
inserting ‘‘; and’’; and
(iii) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(ii) during the period beginning January
1, 2019, and ending September 30, 2020, with
respect to payments to Guam, the Virgin Is-
lands, the Northern Mariana Islands, and
American Samoa from the additional funds
provided under subparagraph (A) and para-
graph (6), and from funds provided under sec-
tion 1323 of the Patient Protection and Af-
fordable Care Act, the Secretary shall in-
crease the Federal medical assistance per-
centage or other rate that would otherwise
apply to such payments to 100 percent.’’; and
(2) by adding at the end the following new
paragraph:
‘‘(6) FURTHER ADDITIONAL INCREASE FOR
NORTHERN MARIANA ISLANDS.—(A) For the pe-
riod beginning January 1, 2019, and ending
September 30, 2020, the Secretary shall in-
crease the amounts otherwise determined
under this subsection for the Northern Mar-
iana Islands (after application of subsection
(f) and the preceding paragraphs of this sub-
section), including the amount of any in-
crease otherwise provided under paragraph
(5) for the Northern Mariana Islands for such
period (or any portion thereof), by such
amounts that the total additional payments
under title XIX to the Northern Mariana Is-
lands equals $78,432,368.
‘‘(B) The amount of the increase otherwise
provided under subparagraph (A) for the
Northern Mariana Islands shall be further in-
creased by $26,144,367 if the Secretary cer-
tifies that the Northern Mariana Islands has
taken reasonable and appropriate steps dur-
ing such period, in accordance with a
timeline established by the Secretary, to
meet the conditions for certification speci-
fied in subclauses (I) and (II) of paragraph
(5)(D)(i).’’.
(b) The amounts provided by the amend-
ments made by subsection (a) are designated
by Congress as being for an emergency re-
quirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i)
of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Def-
icit Control Act of 1985.
SEC. lll. (a) Section 402(b)(2) of the Per-
sonal Responsibility and Work Opportunity
Reconciliation Act of 1996 (8 U.S.C. 1612(b)(2))
is amended by adding at the end the fol-
lowing new subparagraph:
‘‘(G) MEDICAID EXCEPTION FOR CITIZENS OF
FREELY ASSOCIATED STATES.—With respect to
eligibility for benefits for the designated
Federal program defined in paragraph (3)(C)
(relating to the Medicaid program), section
401(a) and paragraph (1) shall not apply to
any individual who lawfully resides in 1 of
the 50 States or the District of Columbia in
accordance with the Compacts of Free Asso-
ciation between the Government of the
United States and the Governments of the
Federated States of Micronesia, the Republic
of the Marshall Islands, and the Republic of
Palau and shall not apply, at the option of
the Governor of Puerto Rico, the Virgin Is-
lands, Guam, the Northern Mariana Islands,
or American Samoa as communicated to the
Secretary of Health and Human Services in
writing, to any individual who lawfully re-
sides in the respective territory in accord-
ance with such Compacts.’’.
(b) Section 403(d) of such Act (8 U.S.C.
1613(d)) is amended—
(1) in paragraph (1), by striking ‘‘or’’ at the
end;
(2) in paragraph (2), by striking the period
at the end and inserting ‘‘; or’’; and
(3) by adding at the end the following new
paragraph:
‘‘(3) an individual described in section
402(b)(2)(G), but only with respect to the des-
ignated Federal program defined in section
402(b)(3)(C).’’.
(c) Section 431(b) of such Act (8 U.S.C.
1641(b)) is amended—
(1) in paragraph (6), by striking ‘‘; or’’ at
the end and inserting a comma;
(2) in paragraph (7), by striking the period
at the end and inserting ‘‘, or’’; and
(3) by adding at the end the following new
paragraph:
‘‘(8) an individual who lawfully resides in
the United States in accordance with a Com-
pact of Free Association referred to in sec-
tion 402(b)(2)(G), but only with respect to the
designated Federal program defined in sec-
tion 402(b)(3)(C) (relating to the Medicaid
program).’’.
(d) Section 1108 of the Social Security Act
(42 U.S.C. 1308) is amended—
(1) in subsection (f), in the matter pre-
ceding paragraph (1), by striking ‘‘subsection
(g)’’ and inserting ‘‘subsections (g) and (h)’’;
and
(2) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(h) Expenditures for medical assistance
provided to an individual described in sec-
tion 431(b)(8) of the Personal Responsibility
and Work Opportunity Reconciliation Act of
1996 shall not be taken into account for pur-
poses of applying payment limits under sub-
sections (f) and (g).’’.
(e) The amendments made by this section
shall apply to benefits for items and services
furnished on or after the date of the enact-
ment of this Act.
(f) The amounts provided by the amend-
ments made by this section are designated
by Congress as being for an emergency re-
quirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i)
of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Def-
icit Control Act of 1985.
f
AUTHORITY FOR COMMITTEES TO
MEET
Mr. WICKER. Mr. President, I have a
request for one committee to meet dur-
ing today’s session of the Senate. It
has the approval of the Majority and
Minority leaders.
Pursuant to rule XXVI, paragraph
5(a), of the Standing Rules of the Sen-
ate, the following committee is author-
ized to meet during today’s session of
the Senate:
COMMITTEE ON AGRICULTURE, NUTRITION, AND
FORESTRY
The Committee on Agriculture, Nu-
trition, and Forestry is authorized to
meet during the session of the Senate
on Monday, April 1, 2019, at 5:30 a.m.,
to conduct a hearing.
f
HONORING THE LIFE AND LEGACY
OF ELIZEBETH SMITH FRIED-
MAN, CRYPTANALYST
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate proceed to the consideration of S.
Res. 133, submitted earlier today.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the resolution by
title.
The legislative clerk read as follows:
A resolution (S. Res. 133) honoring the life
and legacy of Elizebeth Smith Friedman,
Cryptanalyst.
There being no objection, the Senate
proceeded to consider the resolution.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:51 Apr 02, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00055 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A01AP6.042 S01APPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2160 April 1, 2019
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the reso-
lution be agreed to, the preamble be
agreed to, and the motions to recon-
sider be considered made and laid upon
the table with no intervening action or
debate.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The resolution (S. Res. 133) was
agreed to.
The preamble was agreed to.
(The resolution, with its preamble, is
printed in today’s RECORD under ‘‘Sub-
mitted Resolutions.’’)
f
AUTHORIZING APPOINTMENT OF
ESCORT COMMITTEE
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Presi-
dent of the Senate be authorized to ap-
point a committee on the part of the
Senate to join with a like committee
on the part of the House of Representa-
tives to escort His Excellency Jens
Stoltenberg, Secretary-General of the
North Atlantic Treaty Organization,
into the House Chamber for the joint
meeting on Wednesday, April 3, 2019.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
ORDERS FOR TUESDAY, APRIL 2,
2019
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that when the
Senate completes its business today, it
adjourn until 10 a.m., Tuesday, April 2;
that following the prayer and pledge,
the morning hour be deemed expired,
the Journal of proceedings be approved
to date, the time for the two leaders be
reserved for their use later in the day,
morning business be closed, and the
Senate resume consideration of the
motion to proceed to S. Res. 50, with
the time until 12:30 p.m. equally di-
vided between the two leaders or their
designees; finally, that the Senate re-
cess from 12:30 p.m. until 2:15 p.m. to
allow for the weekly conference meet-
ings.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
ORDER FOR ADJOURNMENT
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, if
there is no further business to come be-
fore the Senate, I ask unanimous con-
sent that it stand adjourned under the
previous order following the remarks of
Senators ISAKSON and PERDUE.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The Senator from Georgia.
f
TRIBUTE TO WOODY WOODSIDE
Mr. ISAKSON. Mr. President, 4 years
ago, about this time of the night on a
Monday, I made a speech about Woody
Woodside. Four years later, I make an-
other speech about Woody Woodside.
Four years ago, I acknowledged his 30
years of service to the people of Bruns-
wick, GA, Glynn County, the Chamber
of Commerce, and two Members of Con-
gress for whom he worked over the
years. Tonight, I praise him for 34
years of service and for the fact that he
is going to retire later this year.
It is time for me to say that Woody
Woodside is one of the most unique in-
dividuals who all of us know in our
State. He is someone who is always
there when there is a problem to be
worked on. He is always there with a
positive attitude. He is somebody who
always thinks of a way to fix a prob-
lem. He is somebody who doesn’t call
to complain but calls to be a help.
Woody is a great man. He is a great
friend. I have known him and his beau-
tiful wife, Ellen, for a long time. They
have a beautiful family. Their daugh-
ter, Mary Gould, is a wonderful lady.
They lost their young son, Jay, a few
years ago when he passed away. He was
one of the finest kids I ever met. He
worked here in Washington a couple of
times. Once, he worked a short time for
me. He had the spirit that his father
has and his mother has—the spirit of
can-do, the spirit of loving his commu-
nity, the spirit of being a good human
being.
Woody is interesting, and he is
unique. He went to the Citadel and
served in the U.S. Army and Georgia
Army National Guard. Woody did a lot
of work in Congress. He worked for 11
years for ‘‘Bo’’ Ginn, a Congressman
from Georgia, who later ran for the
Governor of Georgia. For 3 years, he
also worked for Lindsay Thomas, an-
other former Congressman. So he had
14 years of work in the Congress of the
United States before he went home to
Brunswick and Golden Isles.
The Brunswick Golden Isles is a very
unique place. You have the Sea Island
Company that developed Sea Island,
which is one of the finest four-star re-
sorts anywhere. You have fishing,
which is an industry that serves our
State so well. We only have 123 miles of
shoreline, but we have lots of fish, we
have lots of crabs, and we have lots of
shrimp. It is a great industry for our
State and a great, prosperous industry
for that part of our State. The Golden
Isles is a very unique place, for it is the
estuary of the Atlantic Ocean. It is
where the food chain starts. If there
were no Brunswick and if there were no
marshes or glens, there would be no
food chain; there would be no fish or
wildlife.
This is a pristine area that we have
worked for years to preserve and main-
tain by passing wetlands bills, by pass-
ing clean water bills, by doing all of
the things you need to do to make sure
you are doing everything you can to
keep the water clean and to keep that
industry viable. Woody was not just a
chamber leader because he had to do it,
but as a citizen, he wanted to do it.
Woody is a leader and has been a leader
for clean water and for the coastline to
be clean and for the industries that de-
pend on the ocean and the sea and for
that part of our State.
We have a lot of chamber presidents
in our State. We have 159 counties, so I
imagine we have 159 chamber presi-
dents. That is a lot. We have no one
who is more active or more involved in
his State activities or his local activi-
ties than Woody Woodside. Of our
State chamber of commerce, he has
been an officer and adviser for years.
He has been on more economic develop-
ment councils than have most Gov-
ernors. He is outspoken, not to a fault
but to a critical need when we need
him to say what he needs to say for all
of the right reasons. For years, he has
been selected as one of the most out-
standing Georgians by Georgia Trend
magazine.
All in all, he is the whole package.
He is outstanding; he is smart; he is
likable; he loves government and what
government can do as a partner with
the private sector. I love him as a
friend. So, in knowing that Woody is
going to retire this year, I take this
time to say: Woody, you have been spe-
cial for lots of reasons.
I do lots of these at the requests of
chambers of commerce for people I
know, in some cases, but for whom,
most of the time, I don’t know. They
are hard to do. It is hard to find some-
thing that is the right thing to say
about somebody you don’t know. I
know Woody Woodside. I know his
heart and I know his record and I know
what he has done.
Woody, you have been everything a
person could ask for. You and your wife
are everything we could ask for as
leaders. You are a wonderful human
being, a great American, and a great
Georgian.
May God bless you and your family
in your retirement. Thank you for your
service to our State for many, many
years.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Georgia.
f
TRIBUTE TO WOODY WOODSIDE
Mr. PERDUE. Mr. President, I want
to make a few remarks tonight about
something Senator ISAKSON and I have
worked diligently on for the last 6
months. Yet, before we adjourn, I do
want to echo what he has just brought
to the Senate floor; that being a round-
ing statement of praise for a personal
friend of his and mine, Woody
Woodside.
I am a resident of Glynn County and
so have gotten to know him as a per-
sonal friend over the last few years. I
will have more to say about his retire-
ment later this year. Suffice it to say,
tonight, Woody Woodside is one of the
greatest people to be able to get things
done with whom I have ever worked,
and when he disagrees with you, he
does it in a way in which you actually
like him for his disagreement. He is a
bulldog when he gets on something,
and I have the highest respect for what
he has been able to accomplish in his
career. I will have much more to say
about that in the days to come.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:51 Apr 02, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00056 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G01AP6.024 S01APPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2161
April 1, 2019
H.R. 268
Mr. PERDUE. Mr. President, as an
outsider to this political process, it is
easy to be frustrated with how slowly
the Senate moves. It is easy to find
fault with colleagues. As an outsider
here, it is very easy to think we are not
focused on getting results. I usually
try to temper that with some rational
thought about, well, this is the way
things work, et cetera, et cetera, but I
didn’t see that tonight, and I am very
frustrated with the vote. What we just
witnessed on the floor of the U.S. Sen-
ate was nothing but pure partisan poli-
tics.
Our colleagues across the aisle
blocked our disaster relief bill because
they said it didn’t include enough for
Puerto Rico. That was one of several
reasons. To date, $40 billion in Federal
disaster relief aid has already been al-
located for Puerto Rico, and it is eligi-
ble for another $50 billion-plus, poten-
tially, which has already been allo-
cated.
How much aid did the farmers in the
Southeast receive after Hurricane Mi-
chael just 6 months ago? Not one dime.
Now, why is that critical? You say:
Well, OK. It takes time. Yes, it takes
time. These farmers lost their liveli-
hoods, and it hit them at the very time
when their harvests were coming due
last fall, October 10. It has been 6
months now. They have not received a
dime from the Federal Government.
The State has moved in with minor
help, but these bridge loans these farm-
ers have been using are running out;
therefore, we were hoping this bill to-
night would have given them some di-
rect relief.
Let’s put this in perspective.
Congress appropriated $136 billion for
2017’s natural disasters across our
country. That was for Hurricane Irma,
Hurricane Maria, Hurricane Harvey,
and the California wildfires—in 2017,
$136 billion. Before then, in 2013, $50.5
billion was appropriated for Hurricane
Sandy, mostly for New Jersey.
In this bill from tonight, we were
only talking about $13.45 billion for un-
precedented hurricanes, tornadoes,
earthquakes, and wildfires over the
last year. Listen to the number of
States we were talking about: Florida,
Georgia, Alabama, North Carolina,
South Carolina, Alaska, Hawaii, Cali-
fornia, Iowa, Nebraska, Missouri, and
Kansas. That is right. This $13.45 bil-
lion included only $3 billion for farmers
across five States in the Southeast.
President Trump visited that dam-
age, and Vice President PENCE visited
that damage. I was personally privi-
leged, as was JOHNNY ISAKSON, to travel
with him that day to see this damage.
You only have to see it to understand
how ravaging this was to the busi-
nesses that have been built up over
generations with regard to these fam-
ily farmers.
President Trump has done his part.
He has been very reasonable in this ne-
gotiation. He stepped up and did the
right thing with regard to Puerto Rico.
He agreed that because the nutrition
benefits were running out under the
prior allocations that we just men-
tioned, he stepped up and said, yes, he
would support $600 million in further
assistance for Puerto Rico nutrition so
that those benefits would not run out
and so that it would, hopefully, in the
negotiations, break the logjam.
It did no such thing. This $600 million
was exactly what Puerto Rico needed,
and President Trump saw that. I give
him high marks for stepping up and
taking the political risk to go ahead
and do that in addition to what had al-
ready been done for Puerto Rico over
the last 2 years. In fact, Puerto Rico’s
own Representative in Congress,
JENNIFFER GONZÁLEZ-COLÓN, supports
this disaster relief bill that Senator
ISAKSON and I and others sponsored.
She said:
I urge for the swift Senate passage of $600
million for nutrition assistance. Over 1.3 mil-
lion of my constituents are already experi-
encing cuts in their food benefits. Puerto
Rico needs this funding and needs it now.
When you listen to pleas like that, I
can only think of one word for our col-
leagues across the aisle in this episode,
and that is that it is very similar to
what has happened on the border. It is
hypocritical to me to think that they
asked for that and then voted no
against it. What we see here is pure
partisan politics.
The American people are not stupid.
It is clear that this had nothing to do
with Puerto Rico and that it really
hadn’t had much to do with disaster re-
lief. This vote was really pure partisan
politics. It had everything to do with
obstructing this President and pre-
venting him from keeping his promise
of helping the American people recover
from the tornadoes, hurricanes,
wildfires, and floods that have ravaged
our communities.
The Democrats ought to be ashamed.
They are holding our farmers hostage
right now for the political gain they
foresee in their having taken this posi-
tion. It is unacceptable. They are gam-
bling with people’s lives, and I don’t
overstate that. Some people will not
recover from this. They will get out of
farming. For those who stay in, it will
take a decade to recover even with this
government assistance, and many will
have to get out of the crops they were
growing to just survive in the next
year.
We have farmers in Georgia whom I
know personally who are on their sec-
ond bridge loan. As an individual busi-
nessperson, I have done those in my ca-
reer. I know how hard it is to go back
after one bridge loan and ask for an ex-
tension or for another bridge loan to
get to the point at which, hopefully,
the Federal Government will step in
and provide much needed assistance to
back up these bank loans. These farm-
ers are coming to the end of their abil-
ity to do that. I empathize with the
bankers as well. They have a very dif-
ficult time giving bridge loans in addi-
tion to what they have already done
until they get some degree of certainty
about what it is we in Congress are
going to do.
It is unacceptable that this intran-
sigence in Washington continues to
threaten the livelihoods the very peo-
ple who sent us here to represent them.
Because the Democrats chose to play
politics today, farmers across the
Southeast may, indeed, lose their busi-
nesses. Puerto Rican families will not
have access to the food benefits they
desperately need. California wildfire
victims will not get any Federal assist-
ance to help rebuild until we get this
done. The list goes on.
I challenge each of the Senators in
this body who voted against this dis-
aster relief bill tonight to go down to
Georgia, to Florida, or to South Caro-
lina and look the farmers in the eye
and tell them that, tonight, we chose
politics over helping Americans in
need. It is a shameful night in the
American Senate.
I thank Senator SHELBY, the chair-
man of the Appropriations Committee,
and its ranking member, Senator
LEAHY. They have worked diligently to
try to find a compromise in here, but it
is hard to compromise when there is
only one party playing.
In conclusion, I want farmers across
the Southeast to understand that I,
Senator ISAKSON, Senator RUBIO, Sen-
ator SCOTT, and many others—Senator
TILLIS, Senator BURR, Senator LINDSEY
GRAHAM, Senator TIM SCOTT from
South Carolina, and even one of the
Democrats, Senator DOUG JONES—are
all committed, along with Senator
MARCO RUBIO and Senator RICK SCOTT
of Florida, and are not giving up. This
is not the end of this tale. I want the
farmers and the bankers in these five
States to understand we are going to
continue this fight.
I thank Leader MCCONNELL for con-
tinuing to give us this opportunity. It
took a lot of time to get to this vote on
the Senate floor tonight, and I thank
him for that.
For the people of these States who
were affected, don’t lose heart. We will
get this done eventually.
I yield the floor.
f
ADJOURNMENT UNTIL 10 A.M.
TOMORROW
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the Senate stands
adjourned until 10 a.m. tomorrow, on
Tuesday, April 2, 2019.
Thereupon, the Senate, at 7:17 p.m.,
adjourned until Tuesday, April 2, 2019,
at 10 a.m.
f
NOMINATIONS
Executive nominations received by
the Senate:
DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR
DANIEL HABIB JORJANI, OF KENTUCKY, TO BE SOLIC-
ITOR OF THE DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR, VICE
HILARY CHANDLER TOMPKINS.
IN THE AIR FORCE
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICERS FOR APPOINTMENT
IN THE UNITED STATES AIR FORCE TO THE GRADE INDI-
CATED UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 624:
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:51 Apr 02, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00057 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 9801 E:\CR\FM\G01AP6.026 S01APPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2162 April 1, 2019
To be major general
BRIG. GEN. CHRISTOPHER P. AZZANO
BRIG. GEN. KENNETH T. BIBB, JR.
BRIG. GEN. ANGELA M. CADWELL
BRIG. GEN. SEAN M. FARRELL
BRIG. GEN. ALEXUS G. GRYNKEWICH
BRIG. GEN. MICHAEL A. GUETLEIN
BRIG. GEN. TIMOTHY D. HAUGH
BRIG. GEN. ERIC T. HILL
BRIG. GEN. DAVID R. IVERSON
BRIG. GEN. LANCE K. LANDRUM
BRIG. GEN. JEANNIE M. LEAVITT
BRIG. GEN. MICHAEL J. LUTTON
BRIG. GEN. COREY J. MARTIN
BRIG. GEN. TOM D. MILLER
BRIG. GEN. RICHARD G. MOORE, JR.
BRIG. GEN. AARON M. PRUPAS
BRIG. GEN. BRADLEY C. SALTZMAN
BRIG. GEN. MICHAEL J. SCHMIDT
BRIG. GEN. WILLIAM A. SPANGENTHAL
BRIG. GEN. DAVID H. TABOR
BRIG. GEN. ANDREA D. TULLOS
BRIG. GEN. JOHN T. WILCOX II
BRIG. GEN. CRAIG D. WILLS
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE REGULAR AIR FORCE
UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 531:
To be major
BENJAMIN D. RAMOS
THE FOLLOWING NAMED INDIVIDUAL FOR APPOINT-
MENT TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE REGULAR AIR
FORCE UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 531:
To be major
CHRISTOPHER D. BLACK
IN THE ARMY
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE UNITED STATES ARMY
UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 624:
To be major
JAMES A. BROADIE
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE UNITED STATES ARMY
MEDICAL SPECIALIST CORPS UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C.,
SECTIONS 624 AND 7064:
To be major
BRANDON E. RESOR
IN THE NAVY
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE UNITED STATES NAVY
UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 624:
To be captain
ROBERT K. DEBUSE
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:51 Apr 02, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00058 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 9801 E:\CR\FM\A01AP6.001 S01APPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
EXTENSIONS OF REMARKS
∑ This ‘‘bullet’’ symbol identifies statements or insertions which are not spoken by a Member of the Senate on the floor.
Matter set in this typeface indicates words inserted or appended, rather than spoken, by a Member of the House on the floor.
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E373
April 1, 2019
LEGENDARY LOS ANGELES EDU-
CATOR DR. GENEVIEVE SHEP-
HERD
HON. KAREN BASS
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, April 1, 2019
Ms. BASS. Madam Speaker, this past Janu-
ary Los Angeles lost a legendary educator, Dr.
Genevieve A. Shepherd. She championed
educational equity for African-American stu-
dents, especially boys, and believed passion-
ately that it is better to raise a child than to
mend an adult.
Dr. Shepherd decided she wanted to be a
teacher at the age of three, when the kindness
and support of a Sunday school teacher made
an indelible impression on her. She loved see-
ing a child work to understand something, and
then light up when the concept was mastered.
She only left the classroom when she realized
that she could have a multiplier effect on stu-
dents by nurturing teachers, who could go on
to support even more students.
She spent three decades of her half-century
career as principal at the same school, Dublin
Avenue Elementary, which was later re-named
Tom Bradley Global Awareness Magnet. She
always looked for innovative ways to address
the challenges she saw her students face, in-
cluding by pioneering an academy for African-
American boys at Bradley to tackle achieve-
ment gaps.
Her signature hats made her unmistakable
on school grounds. For years, before class
could begin, her students would gather on the
playground to enthusiastically recite the
mantra: ‘‘With passion and persistence we will
perpetually pursue excellence, for learning is
our top priority.’’ She had the privilege of see-
ing her first students grow to send her their
own children as students, then their grand-
children and even their great-grandchildren
over the course of an award-winning, 56-year
career in education.
A product of Los Angeles through and
through, she grew up in the LAUSD, attended
Los Angeles City College and then California
State University, Los Angeles. She went on to
earn a Master of Science degree from
Pepperdine University and a Doctorate of Phi-
losophy from Golden State University. She
married and raised her family in LA, and was
a faithful member of Bethlehem Temple
Church (and served as Sunday School Super-
intendent, of course). Her service extended to
playing leadership roles in many civic and pro-
fessional organizations, as well, including the
Council of Black Administrators and the YMCA
Metro LA.
She also believed in lifelong education and
was a long-time president of the pioneering
Our Authors Study Club, founded to pursue
Carter G. Woodson’s vision of creating and
disseminating knowledge about Black history
across the nation.
IN HONOR OF CHARLES ‘‘BUD’’
THOMPSON OF WARNER
HON. ANN M. KUSTER
OF NEW HAMPSHIRE
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, April 1, 2019
Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire. Madam
Speaker, I rise today in recognition of the 97th
birthday of Charles ‘‘Bud’’ Thompson, a re-
spected and adored Granite Stater.
As the founder of the Mount Kearsarge In-
dian Museum, Education and Cultural Center,
in Warner, and through his work with the
Shaker Village in Canterbury, Bud has made
meaningful contributions to our community and
to our state. Bud’s commitment to leaving our
Granite State better than he found it makes
him a true leader in our community.
On behalf of New Hampshire’s Second Con-
gressional District and all those who have
benefitted from Bud’s work, I thank him for his
incredible service and congratulate him once
again on achieving such a milestone. I look
forward to our continued work together to
make New Hampshire an even better place to
live, work, and raise a family.
f
SERGEANT EDWARD BROWN
HON. DONALD NORCROSS
OF NEW JERSEY
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, April 1, 2019
Mr. NORCROSS. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to honor United States Army Veteran,
Sergeant First Class Edward I. Brown of Wins-
low Township in New Jersey’s First Congres-
sional District.
On February 1, 1954, Sergeant Brown
began basic training at Fort Dix, currently Joint
Base McGuire-Dix-Lakehurst. Sergeant Brown
left Fort Dix for Fort Campbell, Kentucky
where he went through Airborne Training to
learn how to be a paratrooper.
While serving as a paratrooper from 1954 to
1968, Sergeant Brown attended Jump Master
School where he became a Jump Master.
After Jump Master School, Sergeant Brown
received a Compassionate Reassignment to
Fort Dix where he became a Drill Sergeant for
ten years.
In 1968, Sergeant Brown received orders to
report to Panama for jungle training in prepa-
ration for Vietnam. Upon returning home for
seven days, Sergeant Brown was flown out to
Oakland, California.
It was in Oakland where Sergeant Brown
changed from his military gear to his jungle fa-
tigue gear in preparation for Vietnam.
From 1968 to 1969, Sergeant Brown’s serv-
ice in Vietnam consisted of twenty-nine-day
patrols followed by three days in base. Ser-
geant Brown continued this cycle for eleven
months. For his combat bravery in Vietnam,
Sergeant Brown received the Air Medal, the
Bronze Star, the Commendation Medal, and
the Combat Infantry Badge.
Following his service in the Vietnam, Ser-
geant Brown returned home and began work-
ing at the NCO Academy at Fort Campbell
until his retirement at Fort Dix on January 31,
1979. Commendably, Sergeant Brown’s mili-
tary career spanned a total of twenty-five
years.
Madam Speaker, I ask you to join me in
celebrating and recognizing the valiant service
Sergeant First Class Edward I. Brown dedi-
cated to his country.
f
CELEBRATING THE 20TH ANNIVER-
SARY OF THE MCMAHON RYAN
CHILD ADVOCACY CENTER
HON. JOHN KATKO
OF NEW YORK
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, April 1, 2019
Mr. KATKO. Madam Speaker, I rise today in
celebration of the McMahon Ryan Child Advo-
cacy Center’s 20th Anniversary. Since its in-
ception, the McMahon Ryan Child Advocacy
Center has been a leader in the Central New
York region in the fight against child abuse,
human trafficking, and victim support.
In the late 1990s, Dr. Ann Botash and Mar-
tha Ryan founded the McMahon Ryan Child
Advocacy Center with the goal of ending child
abuse by raising awareness and providing
much needed services to victims in Central
New York. From the opening of its first facility
in 2002, McMahon Ryan has transformed the
way in which child victims in Central New York
are cared for and treated. The organization
applied more resources to assist victims of
child abuse, offering legal, medical, psycho-
logical, and social services under one roof.
McMahon Ryan has grown extensively since
opening its first facility in 2002, expanding
both outreach and services.
Madam Speaker, I ask my colleagues in the
House to join me in recognizing the important
work of the McMahon Ryan Child Advocacy
Center. Throughout their first 20 years, the
McMahon Ryan Child Advocacy Center has
brought a greater level of awareness to child
abuse in Central New York. The organization
has assisted in the recoveries of hundreds of
child victims and provided vital assistance to
families. I applaud the work of the McMahon
Ryan Child Advocacy Center, and similar or-
ganizations around the country, in their efforts
to combat child abuse and human trafficking.
f
BRITTNEY CUMMINGS
HON. ED PERLMUTTER
OF COLORADO
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, April 1, 2019
Mr. PERLMUTTER. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to recognize and applaud Brittney Cum-
mings for receiving the Adams County Mayors
and Commissioners Youth Award.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:05 Apr 02, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A01AP8.001 E01APPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E374 April 1, 2019
The Youth Award focuses on teenagers who
have overcome personal adversity and cre-
ated positive changes in their lives and their
community. The program provides businesses,
the community and civic leaders an oppor-
tunity to support young people in their commu-
nities and recognize their accomplishments.
Brittney is the perfect recipient for this award
because despite adversities and challenges,
she has become an inspiration and role model
for her peers.
The dedication and leadership demonstrated
by Brittney is exemplary of the type of
achievement that can be attained with hard
work and perseverance. It is essential stu-
dents at all levels strive to make the most of
their education and develop a work ethic
which will guide them for the rest of their lives.
I extend my deepest congratulations to
Brittney Cummings for this well-deserved rec-
ognition. I have no doubt she will exhibit the
same dedication and character in all of her fu-
ture accomplishments.
f
HONORING THE LIFE OF MRS.
KARYN FOLEY
HON. TED LIEU
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, April 1, 2019
Mr. TED LIEU of California. Madam Speak-
er, today I rise to celebrate the life of Mrs.
Karyn Foley, who passed away on March 9,
2019 at the age of 82. Karyn was a founding
councilmember and the first woman to serve
as mayor of the City of Calabasas, the most
recent city to be incorporated in Los Angeles
County.
Born in Detroit, Michigan on July 17, 1936,
Karyn moved to California with her family as
an infant, settling in Los Angeles. She at-
tended local public schools in the Mid-Wilshire
neighborhood before graduating from the Uni-
versity of California, Los Angeles, where she
received her degree in physical education.
Karyn married James Foley in July 1969,
and with their minds focused on where best to
raise their new family, they moved in 1976 to
Calabasas, then part of unincorporated Los
Angeles County. Karyn was a community ac-
tivist and engaged citizen from the moment
she arrived, whether as a volunteer parent
and part-time substitute teacher with the Las
Virgenes Unified School District or president of
the Round Meadow Elementary Parent Teach-
er Association. She and James also played a
crucial role in the early years of the Calabasas
Park Homeowners Association, with both serv-
ing as president and organizing summer activi-
ties like lakeside races and pet contests.
Karyn’s leadership in the effort to push for
cityhood for Calabasas was pivotal in the suc-
cess of the campaign. This decade long effort
culminated in the city’s incorporation in 1991
as the 88th city in Los Angeles County and
466th in the State of California. She served on
the Calabasas City Council from 1991 to 1997
and was the first woman to serve as mayor,
from 1994 to 1995.
Even after leaving office, Karyn remained in-
volved in civic government and helped foster
the city’s cultural institutions, serving on the
City’s first Library Commission, as well as get-
ting involved in the Art in Public Places Com-
mittee, Friends of the Calabasas Library,
Friends of the Calabasas Orchestra, and the
Calabasas Players Theatrical Group.
Karyn is survived by her husband of 49
years, James; daughter, Megan and son, Pat-
rick; and three grandchildren. I hope that
Karyn’s family takes comfort in knowing her
passion for public service, visionary leader-
ship, and remarkable compassion will live on
in the unique identity that Calabasas has de-
veloped over the past three decades.
f
IN RECOGNITION OF SHEILA
CRAVEN
HON. WILLIAM R. KEATING
OF MASSACHUSETTS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, April 1, 2019
Mr. KEATING. Madam Speaker, I rise today
in recognition of the retirement of Sheila Cra-
ven, who has spent her career seeking justice
as an employee of the Norfolk District Attor-
ney’s office.
Mrs. Craven has served the Norfolk District
Attorney’s office faithfully since 1977. During
her time with the district attorney’s office, she
has played an integral role in the office’s ef-
forts to safeguard the communities of Norfolk
County and its pursuit of justice.
Upon starting her service, Mrs. Craven im-
mediately became a crucial member of the
District Attorney’s new Career Criminal Pro-
gram. In her role as an administrator, Mrs.
Craven helped develop and execute the pro-
gram’s mission to prosecute violent repeat of-
fenders. At home in Halifax, she raised three
incredible children, Kelley, Jessica, and Ste-
phen, with her loving husband Clarence
‘‘Rusty.’’
During her 42 years serving the people of
Norfolk County, Mrs. Craven has worked for
four different District Attorneys and has re-
mained committed to ensuring the safety of
the district’s communities.
Madam Speaker, I am proud to honor Mrs.
Shelia Craven as she prepares for her well-
deserved retirement. I ask that my colleagues
join me in recognizing her hard work and dedi-
cation as she celebrates her retirement.
f
CASEY PFENNING
HON. ED PERLMUTTER
OF COLORADO
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, April 1, 2019
Mr. PERLMUTTER. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to recognize and applaud Casey
Pfenning for receiving the Adams County May-
ors and Commissioners Youth Award.
The Youth Award focuses on teenagers who
have overcome personal adversity and cre-
ated positive changes in their lives and their
community. The program provides businesses,
the community and civic leaders an oppor-
tunity to support young people in their commu-
nities and recognize their accomplishments.
Casey is the perfect recipient for this award
because despite adversities and challenges,
he has become an inspiration and role model
for his peers.
The dedication and leadership demonstrated
by Casey is exemplary of the type of achieve-
ment that can be attained with hard work and
perseverance. It is essential students at all
levels strive to make the most of their edu-
cation and develop a work ethic which will
guide them for the rest of their lives.
I extend my deepest congratulations to
Casey Pfenning for this well-deserved recogni-
tion. I have no doubt he will exhibit the same
dedication and character in all of his future ac-
complishments.
f
BARBARA AND RON DUOTT NAMED
CITIZENS OF THE YEAR BY THE
LAKE ARROWHEAD COMMU-
NITIES CHAMBER OF COMMERCE
HON. PAUL COOK
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, April 1, 2019
Mr. COOK. Madam Speaker, I rise today to
recognize and congratulate Barbara and Ron
Duott for being named Citizens of the Year by
the Lake Arrowhead Communities Chamber of
Commerce.
Barbara and her husband Ron have been
residents of the Lake Arrowhead area for
many years, where they have gone out of their
way to volunteer in the community and sup-
port local organizations. Barbara has worked
with the Mountain Community Hospital on their
Foundation Board, as well as served on the
board for the Mountain Communities Scholar-
ship Society. She is also a member of the So-
roptimist International Rim of the World chap-
ter and coordinated their Every Girl Counts
program. Ron has been involved with the Rim
of the World Historical Society for more than
a decade, where he has served as president
and treasurer. He has also been a member of
the Rotary Club of Lake Arrowhead and the
Boys and Girls Club of the Mountain Commu-
nities.
Barbara and Ron Duott are the epitome of
citizenship and community involvement, and I
sincerely thank them for their dedication and
support of so many in our mountain commu-
nities. They are truly deserving of being
named the Lake Arrowhead Communities
Chamber of Commerce 2018 Citizens of the
Year.
f
CELEBRATING ROBERT MILTON’S
70 YEARS OF SERVICE WITH THE
JORDAN FIRE DEPARTMENT
HON. JOHN KATKO
OF NEW YORK
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, April 1, 2019
Mr. KATKO. Madam Speaker, I rise today in
recognition of Robert E. Milton’s 70 years of
active service with the Jordan Fire Depart-
ment. Robert has dedicated his life to serving
his country and community, and Central New
York has benefitted tremendously from his ef-
forts.
Robert Milton first gained service experience
in the United States Navy, where he received
fire training and was inspired to further protect
his community. Upon leaving the Navy in
1950, he started with the Jordan Fire Depart-
ment as an officer. Robert quickly became a
leader within the department and reached the
rank of fire chief in 1959.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:00 Apr 02, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\K01AP8.005 E01APPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E375
April 1, 2019
Robert diligently led the Jordan Fire Depart-
ment during his time as fire chief, overseeing
key initiatives and was at the forefront of sev-
eral important events. The department hosted
two O.C.V.F.A. Conventions under his leader-
ship, one in 1960 and the other in 1970.
These were the first conventions hosted by
the department since 1937. Additionally, Rob-
ert oversaw the building of a new firehouse in
1964 and an expansion to the new structure in
1967 during his tenure as fire chief.
Robert stepped down as fire chief in 1977
but has served on the Jordan Fire Department
board of directors since 1984. He has contin-
ued to respond to fires ever since stepping
down as fire chief, and answered 93 alarms in
2018.
Madam Speaker, I ask my colleagues in the
House to join me in honoring the remarkable
firefighting career of Robert E. Milton. He has
risked his life to protect Central New Yorkers
from fire threats throughout his life and the
Jordan Fire Department thrived under his
leadership as fire chief. First responders like
Robert are essential in communities around
the country and I thank Robert for his long his-
tory of service.
f
IN RECOGNITION OF CHIEF WAR-
RANT OFFICER VERONICA G.
WORMLY
HON. ROBERT J. WITTMAN
OF VIRGINIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, April 1, 2019
Mr. WITTMAN. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to recognize the retirement of Chief
Warrant Officer Veronica G. Wormly. As a
member of the United States Military and cur-
rent resident of Toano, Virginia, Veronica
Wormly plans her summer 2019 retirement
after a total of 34 years of service.
Born in Texas, educated in the Midwest,
and now residing in our First District, Veronica
Wormly’s career has taken her across this na-
tion. After enlisting in the United States Army
on February 29, 1984, Ms. Wormly quickly
rose through the ranks. Beginning as a private
in that same year, she soon became sergeant
just four years later while remaining a Per-
sonnel Administrative Specialist in Oklahoma
City. After a brief time as a Drill Sergeant in
Winston Salem, North Carolina, Ms. Wormly
began work for the 388th Medical Battalion in
Kansas. In 1997 she was commissioned as a
member of the U.S. Army Reserves after 13
years of active duty service and received a
Liberal Arts degree at Fort Hays State Univer-
sity in 1998. Two years later she would also
finish a Master of Science in Instructional
Technology from that same university.
With her degrees in hand, now-Chief War-
rant Officer Wormly became a Military Per-
sonnel Technician for the 89th Regional Sup-
port Command until 2005, then moved to Ger-
many as a Human Resource Technician. She
then served as a Senior Leader Development
Officer for both the 4th and 5th Command
Chief Warrant Officers of the Army in Crystal
City and Fort Belvoir. Today, Ms. Wormly is
the Senior Warrant Officer Advisor to the
TRADOC Deputy Commanding General at
Fort Eustis, Virginia.
As an active and reserve member of the
U.S. Army, Ms. Wormly received multiple
decorations, service medals, and badges.
These include the Kuwait Liberation Medal in
1991, the Army Reserves Overseas Training
Ribbon in 1997, and the Meritorious Service
Medal w/5 Oak Leaf Cluster in 2012. Along
with her two degrees, Ms. Wormly has com-
pleted numerous officer training courses per-
taining to our national security, and the wealth
of information she has gained over the years
is invaluable.
Madam Speaker, I ask you to join me in
recognizing the bounty of Veronica G.
Wormly’s accomplishments as she enters re-
tirement, as her family also rejoices in the rec-
ognition of her lifetime of dutiful service.
f
HONORING HALL MIDDLE SCHOOL
HON. JARED HUFFMAN
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, April 1, 2019
Mr. HUFFMAN. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to honor Hall Middle School in Mann
County for its recognition on February 27,
2019, as a 2018–2019 ‘‘School to Watch’’ by
State Superintendent of Public Instruction
Tony Thurmond.
With 521 students, Hall Middle School has
strong roots in its Larkspur-Corte Madera
School District. It has acquired a well-de-
served reputation as a collaborative and com-
passionate school that works hard for its stu-
dents and community by working to inspire
and produce well-rounded, lifelong learners,
and innovative contributors to our world. A
2013 California Distinguished School and a
2015 Gold Ribbon Award for Excellence in
Arts Education, Hall Middle School is now one
of only sixteen California schools, and the first
in Mann County, to be named a ‘‘School to
Watch.’’
The National Forum to Accelerate Middle
Grades Reform and its ‘‘Schools to Watch’’
program encourages students to be lifelong
learners, and to flourish academically, devel-
opmentally, and socially though a wide range
of classes and topics. The criteria for identi-
fying ‘‘Schools to Watch’’ are high-perform-
ance academics and grades, best practices,
effective policies, and engagement with the
local community. Hall Middle School embodies
these characteristics, which are a direct reflec-
tion of an effective, high-quality educational
program and a strong commitment from the
school’s leadership, staff, students, families,
and the community.
The staff at Hall Middle School has devel-
oped a wide range of curricula tailored to meet
its students’ needs, and has engaged strong
and active support from parent and community
volunteers. Madam Speaker, please join me in
congratulating the Hall Middle School commu-
nity on being named a 2019 ‘‘School to
Watch,’’ and in sending them best wishes on
more accolades in the future.
RODNEY SADLER
HON. DONALD NORCROSS
OF NEW JERSEY
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, April 1, 2019
Mr. NORCROSS. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to honor the life and legacy of Mr. Rod-
ney S. Sadler of the City of Camden, located
in the First Congressional District of the great
State of New Jersey.
Mr. Rodney S. Sadler, an accomplished
mariner and personal collector of antique
boats, served as harbormaster at the Wiggins
Park Marina in the City of Camden, New Jer-
sey.
Mr. Rodney S. Sadler owned Pyne Poynt
Marine Services, had been a teacher, served
on the City’s Economic Recovery Board and
Planning Board, North Camden Neighborhood
Development Corporation, Camden Green-
ways Working Group, the Board of Trustees
for the Battleship New Jersey and Save Our
Waterfront.
Subsequently, the well-being of the City of
Camden benefitted from Mr. Rodney S.
Sadler’s commitment to the demolition of
Riverfront State Prison, creating one of the
most stable neighborhoods in the City of Cam-
den, and oversaw the creation of Cooper’s
Poynt Waterfront Park from its conception to
its opening.
Mr. Rodney S. Sadler committed his life to
improving the quality of life for the residents of
the City of Camden, educating himself and
those around him on how to enact change in
their community, while prioritizing kindness
and being a true champion for the City.
He will be deeply missed by his family,
friends, neighbors, community members, and
colleagues in public service.
Madam Speaker, Mr. Rodney S. Sadler,
was an exceptional community leader, com-
passionate about the City of Camden and
dedicated to his family. I invite you to join me
in honoring the memory of the late Mr. Rod-
ney S. Sadler.
f
SERENA STEBBINS
HON. ED PERLMUTTER
OF COLORADO
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, April 1, 2019
Mr. PERLMUTTER. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to recognize and applaud Serena
Stebbins for receiving the Arvada Wheat
Ridge Service Ambassadors for Youth award.
Serena Stebbins is a student at Arvada
West High School and received this award be-
cause her determination and hard work have
allowed her to overcome adversities.
The dedication demonstrated by Serena
Stebbins is exemplary of the type of achieve-
ment that can be attained with hard work and
perseverance. It is essential students at all
levels strive to make the most of their edu-
cation and develop a work ethic which will
guide them for the rest of their lives.
I extend my deepest congratulations to
Serena Stebbins for winning the Arvada
Wheat Ridge Service Ambassadors for Youth
award. I have no doubt she will exhibit the
same dedication and character in all of her fu-
ture accomplishments.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:05 Apr 02, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K01AP8.004 E01APPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E376 April 1, 2019
CONGRATULATING DEBBIE SIMON
ON HER RETIREMENT
HON. CHERI BUSTOS
OF ILLINOIS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, April 1, 2019
Mrs. BUSTOS. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to recognize Debbie Simon on her retirement.
She is the current Chief Executive Officer of
UnityPoint Health.
Ms. Debbie Simon earned a bachelor’s de-
gree of nursing from the University of Illinois
before beginning her outstanding career at
Methodist Hospital. Ms. Simon then later pur-
sued a master’s degree in business adminis-
tration from Bradley University before fur-
thering her training and education by com-
pleting both the Wharton Nurse Executive Fel-
lowship and Henry Crown Fellowship. With
this extensive knowledge, Ms. Simon stood
out as a leader at Methodist and eventually
became the regional chief executive officer. In
2011, Methodist Hospital integrated with
UnityPoint Health and she led the expansion
further into central Illinois. Ms. Simon’s leader-
ship has contributed to major growth at Meth-
odist College where over 600 students are
pursuing degrees. In addition to her stellar ca-
reer, Ms. Simon has taken the time to serve
on many boards and is a fierce advocate for
the health and wellbeing of the Peoria commu-
nity. I wish her the best in her well-earned re-
tirement and thank her for her many years of
service.
It is because of dedicated leaders such as
Debbie Simon that I am especially proud to
serve Illinois’ 17th Congressional District
Madam Speaker, I would like to again formally
congratulate Debbie Simon on her retirement
and thank her for her service to the Peoria
community.
f
CELEBRATING THE 70TH
ANNIVERSARY OF JACOBS MEDIA
HON. DOUG COLLINS
OF GEORGIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, April 1, 2019
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Madam Speaker,
I rise today to commemorate the 70th anniver-
sary of Jacobs Media.
Founded in 1949 by John W. Jacobs, Jr.,
Jacobs Media is a family owned-media com-
pany based in my hometown of Gainesville,
Georgia. On April 2, 1949, Jacobs Media suc-
cessfully brought North Georgia our first FM
radio station, WDUN. For 70 years, Jacobs
Media has provided North Georgians with
news, weather, sports, and variety of local and
syndicated talk.
In addition to bringing North Georgia our
first FM radio station, Jacobs Media also
launched the region’s first cable company and
online newspaper. They have continued to
thrive under the leadership of John W. ‘‘Jay’’
Jacobs III, as AccessWDUN is now the most
read website for local news in North Georgia,
reaching nearly 4.25 million views per month.
Access to free and trustworthy news is at
the very core of our democracy. Each day,
North Georgians turn to radio and online news
to understand what is happening in our na-
tion’s capital and in their own backyard. While
many families and businesses throughout the
region are hindered by limited internet access,
WDUN’s various media platforms have worked
to ensure our communities have access to a
variety of news.
On behalf of the Ninth District, I want to
thank Jacobs Media for seven decades of
service to North Georgia and congratulate
them on their incredible success. We look for-
ward to witnessing their continued growth as
they enter yet another decade.
f
COLDWELL BANKER SKY RIDGE
REALTY NAMED BUSINESS OF
THE YEAR BY THE LAKE AR-
ROWHEAD COMMUNITIES CHAM-
BER OF COMMERCE
HON. PAUL COOK
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, April 1, 2019
Mr. COOK. Madam Speaker, I rise today to
recognize and congratulate Coldwell Banker
Sky Ridge Realty on being named Business of
the Year by the Lake Arrowhead Communities
Chamber of Commerce.
Coldwell Banker Sky Ridge Realty recently
celebrated their 36th anniversary of operating
in our mountain communities. The business
was purchased in 2004 by Steve and Jamie
Keefe, and they will celebrate their 15th year
of ownership this April. They and their 60
agents are active throughout the community
and serve on numerous boards and commu-
nities across the mountains, including Rotary,
Soroptimists, Boys and Girls Club, RIM Edu-
cational Foundation, Hearts and Lives, and
Fifes and Drums. Coldwell Banker Sky Ridge
Realty is also a ‘‘Chairman’s Circle Company,’’
meaning it is in the top 6 percent of Coldwell
Banker Companies worldwide.
Anyone present in the mountain commu-
nities knows that Steve, Jamie, and their
agents at Coldwell Banker Sky Ridge Realty
are incredibly active in both business and
community service, and they are truly deserv-
ing of this award. I sincerely congratulate them
and their staff on being named the Lake Ar-
rowhead Communities Chamber of Commerce
2018 Business of the Year.
f
GRAYC SUGAR
HON. ED PERLMUTTER
OF COLORADO
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, April 1, 2019
Mr. PERLMUTTER. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to recognize and applaud Grayc Sugar
for receiving the Arvada Wheat Ridge Service
Ambassadors for Youth award.
Grayc Sugar is a student at North Arvada
Middle School and received this award be-
cause her determination and hard work have
allowed her to overcome adversities.
The dedication demonstrated by Grayc
Sugar is exemplary of the type of achievement
that can be attained with hard work and perse-
verance. It is essential students at all levels
strive to make the most of their education and
develop a work ethic which will guide them for
the rest of their lives.
I extend my deepest congratulations to
Grayc Sugar for winning the Arvada Wheat
Ridge Service Ambassadors for Youth award.
I have no doubt she will exhibit the same dedi-
cation and character in all of her future ac-
complishments.
f
HONORING ALICE C. DARROW
HON. MIKE THOMPSON
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, April 1, 2019
Mr. THOMPSON of California. Madam
Speaker, I rise today to recognize Alice
Darrow on her 100th Birthday on March 16th,
2019.
Ms. Darrow was born Alice Beck in Paso
Robles, California. She graduated from Ham-
ilton City High School and continued her edu-
cation at California State University, Chico.
Ms. Darrow earned her Nursing Degree at
Highland Hospital in Oakland, California.
Ms. Darrow is a veteran. She was a Navy
Nurse stationed at Mare Island during World
War II. She met her husband, Dean Darrow,
after he survived the attack on Pearl and was
shipped to Mare Island for open heart surgery,
where Ms. Darrow was his nurse. They mar-
ried after they were both honorably discharged
from the Navy. They lived in Pleasant Hill and
Kelseyville, where they raised their four chil-
dren, Becky, Jim, Diane, and Neil. Ms. Darrow
also has ten grandchildren and eleven great-
grandchildren.
As a ‘‘Sweetheart,’’ the wife of a Pearl Har-
bor survivor, Ms. Darrow remained active in
the local chapter of the Pearl Harbor Sur-
vivor’s organization until the last local member
passed away. She also spoke at local high
schools and colleges as part of her role as a
‘‘Sweetheart.’’ Ms. Darrow is known for her
compassion and drive to help others. She was
a member of Gleaner’s Group where she
gathered and bagged fruit, nuts, and vegeta-
bles for needy members of our community.
Madam Speaker, Alice Darrow is a special
member of our community. She has been
committed to serving others, as a nurse, vet-
eran, and volunteer. It is therefore fitting and
proper that we honor her here today.
f
HONORING THE CEDARS OF MARIN
CENTENNIAL
HON. JARED HUFFMAN
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, April 1, 2019
Mr. HUFFMAN. Madam Speaker, I rise
today in celebration of Cedars of Marin reach-
ing its centennial. The oldest and largest orga-
nization of its kind in Marin County, Cedars
was the first residential school facility to serve
individuals with mental disabilities in the west-
ern United States, a mission that it has stayed
true to this day.
Founded in 1919, Cedars was originally es-
tablished as a privately-owned school in Marin
County for children with mental disabilities.
After a change in ownership in 1938, the
school grew, adding two dormitories and 22
acres of land over the next 18 years. By 1964,
the school had expanded significantly, adding
a ranch lodge, pool, workshop, and stables.
One year later, the privately-owned school
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:05 Apr 02, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A01AP8.008 E01APPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E377
April 1, 2019
was incorporated as a nonprofit, with the
name Cedars Development Foundation. As a
newly minted nonprofit, the organization
pivoted to focus on both the education and
housing of individuals with intellectual and de-
velopmental disabilities. This led to the open-
ing of Cedars’ first community-based home in
1968, pioneering a model for which the organi-
zation would become known. By 1984, Cedars
began its Community Living Skills day pro-
gram, expanding the organization’s program-
ming into skills development and community
building for individuals who weren’t housed by
the program. Over the next seven years, Ce-
dars would continue to innovate, adding a
Community Challenges program, opening
eight additional community-based homes, and
initiating a successful capital campaign to ren-
ovate the original site. By 1995, the organiza-
tion was officially re-named Cedars of Marin.
Today, Cedars of Marin has provided serv-
ices to over 2,500 individuals with intellectual
and developmental disabilities. Through the
organization’s innovative community-based
housing program, Cedars now houses ap-
proximately 100 individuals across its main
campus and ten group homes, building a safe
and productive environment for them to reach
their highest levels of independence. The or-
ganization’s skills-focused day programs serve
over 190 individuals each weekday, creating a
larger community of support for the intellectu-
ally and developmentally disabled, while also
helping their families.
Madam Speaker, Cedars of Marin has con-
tinued to be an innovative leader in the areas
of residential, educational, and community
building programs for the intellectually and de-
velopmentally disabled. Through the unwaver-
ing dedication of its leadership and staff, the
organization has never lost sight of its original
purpose to provide opportunities to help these
individuals live as independently as possible,
while leading happy and productive lives.
Therefore, please join me in congratulating
Cedars of Marin for a century of inspiring
work, and in wishing them many more years
of success.
f
QUINNLAN THORNTON
HON. ED PERLMUTTER
OF COLORADO
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, April 1, 2019
Mr. PERLMUTTER. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to recognize and applaud Quinnlan
Thornton for receiving the Arvada Wheat
Ridge Service Ambassadors for Youth award.
Quinnlan Thornton is a student at Oberon
Middle School and received this award be-
cause his determination and hard work have
allowed him to overcome adversities.
The dedication demonstrated by Quinnlan
Thornton is exemplary of the type of achieve-
ment that can be attained with hard work and
perseverance. It is essential students at all
levels strive to make the most of their edu-
cation and develop a work ethic which will
guide them for the rest of their lives.
I extend my deepest congratulations to
Quinnlan Thornton for winning the Arvada
Wheat Ridge Service Ambassadors for Youth
award. I have no doubt he will exhibit the
same dedication and character in all of his fu-
ture accomplishments.
IN HONOR OF TALLADEGA HIGH
SCHOOL BOYS BASKETBALL
AHSAA STATE CHAMPIONSHIP
HON. MIKE ROGERS
OF ALABAMA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, April 1, 2019
Mr. ROGERS of Alabama. Madam Speaker,
I ask for the House’s attention to recognize
the Talladega High School boys basketball
team for winning the Alabama High School
Athletic Association (AHSAA) Class 4A bas-
ketball state championship.
The Tigers defeated West Limestone 60–48
in the championship game on March 1st at
Birmingham’s Legacy Arena in Birmingham,
Alabama. The Tigers brought home the pro-
gram’s first ever state title.
Madam Speaker, please join me in con-
gratulating the students and faculty of
Talladega High School, the coaches, the play-
ers and all the Tiger fans on this exciting
achievement. Go Tigers.
f
RECOGNIZING THE 100TH ANNIVER-
SARY OF THE MCLANE MID-
DLETON LAW FIRM
HON. ANN M. KUSTER
OF NEW HAMPSHIRE
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, April 1, 2019
Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire. Madam
Speaker, I rise today to recognize the McLane
Middleton law firm in celebration of their 100th
anniversary.
Founded in 1919, the firm has 106 attorneys
admitted to practice in 17 states and the Dis-
trict of Columbia and is the largest law firm in
the state of New Hampshire with 226 col-
leagues, and has five locations across New
Hampshire and Northern New England. The
firm is marking its anniversary with a year-long
celebration, which will include monthly com-
munity donations in quantities of 100, such as
100 blankets to transitional housing shelters,
and a centennial celebration with colleagues
and alumni on April 4th.
McLane Middleton is a pillar of the broader
community in New Hampshire, committed to
pro-bono work and community service. Its
contributions to the state are reflected in its
distinguished network of alumni—including
Members of Congress, State Supreme Court
Justices, and NH Attorneys General. I am
grateful for all McLane Middleton has done to
support our state and nation.
On behalf of my constituents across New
Hampshire’s Second Congressional District, I
want to thank McLane Middleton for all they
have done, and will continue to do, for the
Second District and the State of New Hamp-
shire.
f
IN RECOGNITION OF ROBERT
PARADY
HON. WILLIAM R. KEATING
OF MASSACHUSETTS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, April 1, 2019
Mr. KEATING. Madam Speaker, I rise today
in recognition of the retirement of Robert
Parady, who has served as the town moder-
ator of Bourne for eighteen years.
Mr. Parady has devoted his life to improving
the quality of life in the Town of Bourne. He
has held numerous posts in town and has al-
ways remained dedicated to participating in
local government and making our community
a better place to live. His first job was working
as a lifeguard for the town, and he later held
his first elected position on the town’s Plan-
ning Board.
After graduating from Bourne High School,
Mr. Parady received his bachelor’s degree in
political science from the University of Massa-
chusetts Amherst. He then attended Suffolk
Law School and was admitted to the Massa-
chusetts Bar Association.
Back in Bourne, Mr. Parady served as a Se-
lectman for nearly two decades, starting in
1977. During his time in office, he always
strived to solve problems that would have
practical and positive impacts on his commu-
nity. One project he and the Board of Select-
men were particularly keen on fixing was im-
proving Main Street. Step by step they tackled
the issue, first removing a sign blocking the
view of the bridge. They then worked to se-
cure the land to build Buzzards Bay park and
were given a grant to build Taylor’s Point Ma-
rina. Beyond Main Street, Mr. Parady worked
diligently to complete numerous public works
projects, such as expanding the police station
and renovating the Town Hall.
In 2001, Mr. Parady was elected to serve as
town moderator, to run the town meetings he
attended starting in high school. He is remem-
bered by his colleagues as a dedicated public
servant who unrelentingly worked to improve
the town he loved. After serving for over four
decades in numerous capacities, Mr. Parady’s
legacy will continue to have a positive impact
in Bourne.
Madam Speaker, I am proud to honor Rob-
ert Parady and his commitment to improving
the lives of all who lived in the town of
Bourne. I ask that my colleagues join me in
recognizing his hard work and dedication as
he celebrates his retirement.
f
XOCHITL VARGAS
HON. ED PERLMUTTER
OF COLORADO
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, April 1, 2019
Mr. PERLMUTTER. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to recognize and applaud Xochitl Vargas
for receiving the Arvada Wheat Ridge Service
Ambassadors for Youth award.
Xochitl Vargas is a student at Three Creeks
K–8 and received this award because her de-
termination and hard work have allowed her to
overcome adversities.
The dedication demonstrated by Xochitl
Vargas is exemplary of the type of achieve-
ment that can be attained with hard work and
perseverance. It is essential students at all
levels strive to make the most of their edu-
cation and develop a work ethic which will
guide them for the rest of their lives.
I extend my deepest congratulations to
Xochitl Vargas for winning the Arvada Wheat
Ridge Service Ambassadors for Youth award.
I have no doubt she will exhibit the same dedi-
cation and character in all of her future ac-
complishments.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:05 Apr 02, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A01AP8.012 E01APPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E378 April 1, 2019
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. JOE WILSON
OF SOUTH CAROLINA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, April 1, 2019
Mr. WILSON of South Carolina. Madam
Speaker, due to recovery from being sick, I
was unable to attend. Had I been present, I
would have voted ‘‘yea’’ on Roll Call No. 126;
‘‘nay’’ on Roll Call No. 127; ‘‘yea’’ on Roll Call
No. 128; ‘‘yea’’ on Roll Call No. 129; ‘‘nay’’ on
Roll Call No. 130; ‘‘nay’’ on Roll Call No. 131;
‘‘yea’’ on Roll Call No. 132; ‘‘yea’’ on Roll Call
No. 133; ‘‘nay’’ on Roll Call No. 134; ‘‘nay’’ on
Roll Call No. 135; and ‘‘yea’’ on Roll Call No.
136.
f
HONORING BARRY BIERMANN
HON. MIKE THOMPSON
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, April 1, 2019
Mr. THOMPSON of California. Madam
Speaker, I rise today to honor Barry Biermann
for his years of dedicated service as a mem-
ber of the Cal Fire community and as the
Napa County Fire Chief.
Mr. Biermann is a Napa County, California
native. He graduated with a Bachelor of Arts
from California State University, Chico and
has served Napa County as a CalFire em-
ployee since 1986. He began his tenure with
CalFire as a seasonal firefighter. In 2007 he
became a Battalion Chief and in 2014 was
promoted to be the County Fire Chief for Napa
County. Additionally, Mr. Biermann is a
Hazmat specialist and is a fifteen-year mem-
ber of the CalFire Incident Management
Team. Some of his responsibilities have in-
cluded managing the Oroville Spillway Emer-
gency, the Valley Fire, and the Atlas Fire/
Napa Complex Fires of 2017.
Mr. Biermann is known for remaining calm
during emergencies and has a disposition that
puts others at ease during difficult situations.
He is an important member of and asset to
our community. He is also a loving husband to
his wife and dedicated father to their two sons.
Madam Speaker, Mr. Biermann is the com-
mitted community member we should all strive
to be. He has dedicated his career to helping
our community and diving head first into dan-
gerous situations to protect others. It is there-
fore fitting and proper that we honor Barry
Biermann here today.
f
IN RECOGNITION OF MASSACHU-
SETTS MILITARY SUPPORT
FOUNDATION
HON. WILLIAM R. KEATING
OF MASSACHUSETTS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, April 1, 2019
Mr. KEATING. Madam Speaker, I rise today
in recognition of the Massachusetts Military
Support Foundation for its commendable serv-
ice to its community and country during the re-
cent government shutdown.
Started in 2014, the Cape Cod Military Sup-
port Foundation now provides programs and
services that support the thousands of service
members and their families at Joint Base
Cape Cod. In 2017, founder Don Cox and his
team saw a larger need to expand across the
Commonwealth to support active duty military,
coast guard, national guard, veterans, and
their families, creating the Massachusetts Mili-
tary Support Foundation.
The recent government shutdown brought
the loss of paychecks for members of the
United States Coast Guard. The Massachu-
setts Military Support Foundation took imme-
diate action, opening an empowerment center
on the Cape to provide food, groceries, and
baby supplies to members of our Coast Guard
and their families. Soon they had opened a
center in Boston and others across the Com-
monwealth to ensure no family was without
food. The Massachusetts Military Support
Foundation worked tirelessly to manage food
deliveries from Maine to Rhode Island and
went above and beyond for our community in
a time of need.
Madam Speaker, I am proud to honor the
Massachusetts Military Support Foundation for
its dedication to serving our community and
members of the United States Coast Guard. I
ask that my colleagues join me in thanking the
foundation for its incredible work and wishing
it all the best as it continues to support our
service members and their families.
f
ELLYSIA VEGA
HON. ED PERLMUTTER
OF COLORADO
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, April 1, 2019
Mr. PERLMUTTER. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to recognize and applaud Ellysia Vega
for receiving the Arvada Wheat Ridge Service
Ambassadors for Youth award.
Ellysia Vega is a student at Jefferson Jr/Sr.
and received this award because her deter-
mination and hard work have allowed her to
overcome adversities.
The dedication demonstrated by Ellysia
Vega is exemplary of the type of achievement
that can be attained with hard work and perse-
verance. It is essential students at all levels
strive to make the most of their education and
develop a work ethic which will guide them for
the rest of their lives.
I extend my deepest congratulations to
Ellysia Vega for winning the Arvada Wheat
Ridge Service Ambassadors for Youth award.
I have no doubt she will exhibit the same dedi-
cation and character in all of her future ac-
complishments.
f
IN RECOGNITION OF ITC(SW)
MICHAEL S. HAMMER
HON. ROBERT J. WITTMAN
OF VIRGINIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, April 1, 2019
Mr. WITTMAN. Madam Speaker, I rise
today in recognition of the active duty retire-
ment of ITC(SW) Michael S. Hammer, a brave
and honorable man who dedicated his life to
the U.S. Navy.
ITC(SW) Michael S. Hammer enlisted in the
Navy in 1994 and shipped out the day after
graduating high school. His first overseas de-
ployment was with the Commander Submarine
Group Seven in Yokosuka, Japan. There he
supported telecommunications to deployed
and shore based units. ITC(SW) Hammer then
went back to school but soon returned to
Japan on his assignment to the Commander
Seventh Fleet which embarked on the USS
Blue Ridge. ITC(SW) Hammer then served a
shore duty assignment with the Naval Security
Group Activity, as a computer network analyst
and an assistant Command Master-at-Arms in
Fort Meade.
His third tour took ITC(SW) Hammer back
stateside to the Naval Telecommunications
Area Master Station Atlantic, where he served
as both the Joint Forces Tactical Operations
and Communications Officer and Operations
Administrative Leading Chief. He next was de-
ployed back out to sea on the USS Mahan as
the leading Chief for the Radio Division as
well as the Command Information Assurance
Manager. ITC(SW) Hammer spent his fol-
lowing shore duty at the Navy Yard, serving
as the Field Support Activity. Finally, ITC(SW)
Hammer was deployed on his last tour on the
USS Truxtun with the USS George H.W. Bush
Carrier Strike Group to the Middle East and
Mediterranean. While there, he performed the
duties of Radio Leading Chief and the com-
mand’s Information Systems Security Man-
ager.
Madam Speaker, I ask you to join me in
recognizing the incredible accomplishments of
ITC(SW) Michael S. Hammer. Words alone
cannot express our gratitude for his service.
May God bless ITC(SW) Michael S. Hammer
and the U.S. Navy.
f
HONORING THE 10TH ANNIVER-
SARY OF KLUGER, KAPLAN, SIL-
VERMAN, KATZEN & LEVINE,
P.L.
HON. ALCEE L. HASTINGS
OF FLORIDA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, April 1, 2019
Mr. HASTINGS. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to honor the law firm of Kluger, Kaplan,
Silverman, Katzen & Levine, P.L. on cele-
brating their 10th anniversary.
Kluger Kaplan was founded in 2009 by at-
torneys Alan J. Kluger and Abbey Kaplan.
Since opening, they have expanded their of-
fices from Miami and Boca Raton, Florida to
Minneapolis, Minnesota. The firm focuses on a
range of disciplines and industries, including
business and corporate litigation, real estate
litigation, securities and financial fraud, cor-
porate governance, bankruptcy litigation and
debtor and creditor’s rights, appeals in state
and federal courts, professional liability, intel-
lectual property law, entertainment sports law,
fashion law, class actions, and complex mat-
rimonial litigation.
Kluger Kaplan has always taken great pride
in the work that they do on behalf of their cli-
ents and has rightly earned national recogni-
tion for that work.
As a firm, they have made giving back to
their community a top priority. Organizations
they are working with include: The American
Israel Public Affairs Committee (AIPAC),
America’s Second Harvest, Boy Scouts of
America, Chapman Partnership for Homeless,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:05 Apr 02, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A01AP8.016 E01APPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E379
April 1, 2019
Crohn’s & Colitis Foundation of America, Dia-
betes Research Institute, Dr. Abe Chames
Foundation, Florida International University
Alumni Association, Friends for Sylvester
Comprehensive Cancer Center, Greater Miami
Jewish Federation, Hispanic Unity Charity,
Jewish Adoption & Foster Care Options
(JAFCO), Lawyers for Literacy, Legal Services
of Greater Miami, Make-A-Wish Foundation,
Miami Art Museum, Miami Children’s Museum,
Miracle League of Howard—Palmetto, How-
ard-Palmetto Baseball & Softball Association,
Mt. Sinai Foundation, Museum of Contem-
porary Art, Samuel Scheck Hillel Community
Day School’s President’s Award for Pro-Bono
Work, and Top Responsibility Israel, Business
& Education Society (TRIBES).
As an attorney and former judge, who prac-
ticed law in South Florida for many years, it is
always great to see the success of law firms
such as Kluger, Kaplan, Silverman, Katzen &
Levine, P.L. The firm’s esteemed lawyers con-
tinue to be advocates for their clients, taking
on many complex cases around the nation.
Madam Speaker, it gives me great pride to
honor Kluger, Kaplan, Silverman, Katzen &
Levine, P.L. on the occasion of their 10th an-
niversary. They have had a tremendous im-
pact on our community over the past 10 years,
I wish them many more years of continued
success.
f
HONORING ANNA SACCENTE OF
ORANGE, CONNECTICUT
HON. ROSA L. DeLAURO
OF CONNECTICUT
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, April 1, 2019
Ms. DELAURO. Madam Speaker, it is my
honor to rise today to submit to the RECORD
a powerful statement by thirteen-year-old Ms.
Anna Saccente of Orange, Connecticut. I have
had the honor knowing Anna for her entire
thirteen years and could not be more proud of
the young woman she has become.
Despite recent shootings at schools across
the country, Congress has failed to pass
meaningful reform to school safety and firearm
regulations and has instead spent time debat-
ing arming teachers. As part of a school as-
signment, Anna chose to focus on this impor-
tant issue—a policy that, as a student, would
impact her directly.
Madam Speaker, I urge my colleagues in
the House not to forget that at the core of this
discussion is the fact that the lives of children
like Anna are impacted every day by gun vio-
lence. It is with great pride that I include in the
RECORD her poignant words.
GUNS IN CLASSROOMS?
(By Ms. Anna Saccente)
Many people in today’s world think that
putting guns in classrooms would make
them a safer and more productive environ-
ment. The truth is that it will actually make
the classrooms more dangerous and make
students more focused on the guns just feet
away from them. Many government officials
have brought up the idea of arming the staff
in the nation’s schools. The teachers who
agree to get trained and carry a gun would
receive a yearly bonus. The money they
would be receiving is not worth the dangers
it would pose to the students and staff in the
schools. Teachers and other school officials
should not be armed with guns. Although
some people think arming teachers would be
safer, teachers and other school officials
should not be armed, because getting the
proper training and firearms would be expen-
sive, schools may lose many talented teach-
ers and possibly students due to their beliefs
about the guns, and it would also be more
dangerous.
One reason why teachers and other staff
should not be armed is that it would cost the
schools and government a very large amount
of money. Where would the funding for such
a project come from? An article written by a
group of medical professionals states that,
‘‘Funding for any program is imperative—
quality firearms are expensive and we ques-
tion how this would be paid for when schools
already struggle with funding for basic edu-
cational resources’’ (Rogers 1).
This quote is significant because the
schools and government cannot expect the
teachers to pay for all the guns and training
themselves. The government would need
some way to find the money, and so far they
have not. There are about 3.6 million teach-
ers in the United States as of 2018. A com-
pany in Maryland charges you about one
hundred dollars per person for general train-
ing. In total it would cost about 360 million
dollars. If you were to get them the more
vigorous training the price would shoot up to
about one thousand dollars per person. The
total cost for that would be about 3.6 billion
dollars. Then they would have to pay for the
guns. If they were to get the teachers the
Glock G17, a very popular gun, it would cost
about 1.8 billion dollars (Bump 2). To get
them all the guns and the advanced training
it would cost over 5 billion dollars. Why
would the government spend so much money
on something that is not necessary and
would not help. Clearly putting guns in the
classrooms is a very pricey project.
Along with being very dangerous many
people do not believe in using guns, includ-
ing some parents and teachers. If a school
decides to make all of the teachers carry
guns teachers could quit, and parents could
pull their kids out of school. ‘‘Teachers have
to teach, and that’s what they should be
doing,’’ said Joel Myrick, a former assistant
principal at a high school in Mississippi. ‘‘It
doesn’t matter what a pistolero you are, or
think you are. You don’t need to be in a
school in charge of protecting children.’’
Like Myrick, many other people feel that if
they give teachers the guns it will take their
minds off of teaching and defeat the whole
purpose of school. If this happens the tal-
ented teachers will quit and go somewhere
that does not allow such deadly weapons.
Then, as a result, the schools will start to
loose teachers and who will be left to teach?
After the University of Texas decided to
allow firearms on campus multiple profes-
sors resigned (Rogers 1). This will only keep
happening. Because many people do not like
guns, if they permit them in the classrooms,
then teachers may quit and parents could
pull their kids out of school.
Many people argue that it would be a bet-
ter, safer option to put guns in teachers
hands, but in reality it is more dangerous.
Putting guns in the classrooms brings up
enormous risk to the life and mental well-
being of the students and teachers in them.
After the recent school shootings many kids
have gotten anxious or nervous that this
would happen to their school. Putting the
guns in their classrooms will make them
more nervous. Improper storage of the guns
could lead to student access or someone else
stealing it (Rogers 1). If the teacher goes to
leave the room for a minute and the gun is
left unattended, a student could gain access
to the gun. This could lead to someone get-
ting seriously injured. Imagine if this was a
first grade classroom. Six and seven year
olds do not really know what a gun is, let
alone how to use one. They could pick it up,
thinking it was a toy, and that would not
end well. In an article written by Michael
Hansen, a Brown University Chair and Direc-
tor, states that, ‘‘Professional police officers
hit their intended targets less than 20% of
the time in training situations. Armed
teachers will have an even lower accuracy
rate, and where will all of those stray bullets
go?’’ (Hansen 1). If a professional police offi-
cer is having trouble hitting a target than
the teachers are certainly not going to be
able to hit the target in a very stressful situ-
ation. If they shoot a bullet at their intended
target and miss, and there was someone be-
hind the target, what would happen to that
bullet? Because of the dangers associated
with putting guns in classrooms, they clear-
ly should not be in there in the first place.
Imagine a world where you would not have
to worry about sending your child to a
school that is not safe. The students could
attend their schools without the fear of guns
on the top of their minds. Instead of pro-
tecting them, the teachers would only have
to worry about teaching the students. For
the safety of the students and staff, it would
not be a good option to arm the staff in your
children’s schools. Many people believe it
would be safer, but in reality proper training
and quality firearms would cost a lot of
money, money that would be better spent
elsewhere. Many people who oppose them
may leave the schools, and it would cause
more harm to the people in the schools. So
go and do something about it. Go and help
make the schools a safer place for everyone
in them by contacting your elected officials
and opposing any effort to arm teachers.
WORKS CITED
Bump, Philip. ‘‘The Economics of Arming
America’s Schools.’’ The Washington Post,
Washington Post, 22 Feb. 2018,
www.washingtonpost.com/news/politics/wp/
2018/02/22/the-economics-of-arming-americas-
schools/?noredirect=on&utm_term=.
ee50434394d1. Accessed 7 Mar. 2019.
Hansen, Michael. ‘‘There are ways to make
schools safer and teachers stronger—but
they don’t involve guns.’’ Brown Center
Chalkboard, Brookings, 27 Feb. 2018,
www.brookings.edu/blog/brown-center-chalk-
board/20|8/02/27/there-are-ways-to-make-
schools-safer-and-teachers-stronger-but-
they-dont-involve-guns/. Accessed 7 Mar.
2019.
Proulx, Natalie. ‘‘Should Teachers Be
Armed With Guns?’’ The New York Times,
New York Times, 23 Feb. 2018,
www.nytimes.com/2018/02/23/learning/should-
teachers-be-armed-with-guns.html. Accessed
7 Mar. 2019.
Rogers, Melanie. ‘‘Is Arming Teachers Our
Nation’s Best Response to Gun Violence?
The Perspective of Public Health Students.’’
PMC, US National Library of Medicine Na-
tional Institutes of Health Search database,
July 2018, www.ncbi.nim.nih.gov/pmc/arti-
cles/PMC5993415/. Accessed 7 Mar. 2019.
f
SAINT WAKE
HON. ED PERLMUTTER
OF COLORADO
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, April 1, 2019
Mr. PERLMUTTER. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to recognize and applaud Saint Wake
for receiving the Arvada Wheat Ridge Service
Ambassadors for Youth award.
Saint Wake is a student at Moore Middle
School and received this award because his
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:05 Apr 02, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A01AP8.020 E01APPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E380 April 1, 2019
determination and hard work have allowed him
to overcome adversities.
The dedication demonstrated by Saint Wake
is exemplary of the type of achievement that
can be attained with hard work and persever-
ance. It is essential students at all levels strive
to make the most of their education and de-
velop a work ethic which will guide them for
the rest of their lives.
I extend my deepest congratulations to
Saint Wake for winning the Arvada Wheat
Ridge Service Ambassadors for Youth award.
I have no doubt he will exhibit the same dedi-
cation and character in all of his future accom-
plishments.
f
HONORING THE NAPA VALLEY
COLLEGE PUENTE PROGRAM
HON. MIKE THOMPSON
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, April 1, 2019
Mr. THOMPSON of California. Madam
Speaker, I rise today to celebrate the Napa
Valley College Puente Program on the 15th
anniversary of its implementation.
Since its launch in 2004, the Puente Pro-
gram has served underrepresented community
college students in the Napa Valley. The cur-
riculum-focused program was designed to as-
sist Napa Valley College students that are sta-
tistically more likely to not finish college. The
Puente Program helps students acquire the
necessary skills for success in both their aca-
demic and professional careers. Students are
paired with a Counselor, English Instructor,
and Mentor to help them prepare to transfer to
a four-year college or university. The program
accepts all students, but the majority of stu-
dents link their background to Mexico and
other countries in Central and South America.
The Puente Program tailors its services and
class materials to connect students to their
Mexican-American and Latino identities.
The Puente Program also spurred the cre-
ation of the student-led Puente Club. The
Puente Club has been instrumental in collabo-
rating with the community on initiatives, includ-
ing the first ever Dreamer’s Conference. The
Napa Valley Community Foundation awarded
the program three grants to help further its
impactful work. Many of the students of the
Puente Program have already positively im-
pacted our community. Two students became
Napa County Student Leaders of the Year,
one is a dedicated social worker, some have
become Puente leaders, and even more have
returned to serve our community in myriad
ways.
The Napa Valley College Puente Program is
a member of the Northern California Statewide
Puente Project. It is governed by a statewide
Memorandum of Understanding and the col-
lege funds personnel and events. The Napa
Valley College Puente Program would not be
the successful and collaborative project it is
today without its founders, Cathy Gills, Mary
Salceda, and Christina Rivera.
Madam Speaker, the Napa Valley Puente
Program is an important institution in our com-
munity. It is therefore fitting and proper that
we honor the program on its 15th anniversary.
IN MEMORY OF RAYMOND
CAUGHMAN
HON. JOE WILSON
OF SOUTH CAROLINA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, April 1, 2019
Mr. WILSON of South Carolina. Madam
Speaker, the people of Lexington and South
Carolina are mourning the loss of one of its
great citizens, Mr. Raymond Caughman.
He was ‘‘Mr. Lexington’’ leading the small
town of Lexington in banking and civic service
to be the center of one of America’s most dy-
namic counties. He and his wife, Lib, are be-
loved in the community. The following obituary
for Caughman-Harman Funeral Home clearly
indicates his achievements.
LEXINGTON.—Funeral services for Raymond
Sox Caughman, Sr., 92, will be held at 3:00
p.m. on Sunday, March 31, 2019, at St. David
Lutheran Church with interment to follow in
the church cemetery. The family will receive
friends from 5:00 p.m. to 8:00 p.m. on Satur-
day, March 30, 2019, at the church. In lieu of
flowers, memorials may be made to St.
David Lutheran Church, 132 St. David’s
Church Road, West Columbia, SC 29170. Mr.
Caughman was born January 10, 1927 in Lex-
ington, SC, and passed away on Thursday,
March 28, 2019. He was a son of the late Willie
Morgan and Mary Catherine Sox Caughman.
Mr. Caughman was educated in the Lex-
ington Public Schools, graduating in 1944. He
attended the American Institute of Banking
from 1954 to 1957 and earned an Honorary
Doctorate from Newberry College. He served
in the US Army from July 20, 1945 through
December 31, 1946, serving with occupational
forces in China in 1946. Mr. Caughman’s em-
ployment included The Bank of Lexington,
of The Lexington State Bank (President and
CEO) and he retired from BB&T Bank and
was Coroner of Lexington County. He was
President of both the SC Bankers Associa-
tion and Independent Bankers of SC. His
many involvements included the Lexington
Chamber of Commerce, Lexington Rotary
Club, Lutheran Men, SC Lutheran Synod
(Treasurer), Lexington School District One
Board of Trustees and Educational Founda-
tion, Woodmen of the World (National Direc-
tor), 6–51 Club, Lexington County Planning
Commission, Central Midlands Planning
Commission, Walking Horse Association,
Lexington Medical Center Foundation
Board, and he was honored by Lexington Ex-
tended Care when a wing of one of the build-
ings was named ‘‘Caughman Way’’. Mr.
Caughman is survived by his wife of 67 years,
Ann Elizabeth ‘‘Lib’’ Hook; children, Ann
Elizabeth Caughman Alexander (Gene),
Amanda Catherine ‘‘Mandy’’ Caughman Der-
rick (John), Raymond S. ‘‘Ray’’ Caughman,
Jr. (Ron); grandson, John Caughman Alex-
ander (Katie); granddaughters, Beth Ann
Alexander Bremer (Mike), Anna Catherine
Derrick Panning (Jonathan), Sarah Eliza-
beth Derrick; great-grandchildren, Anderson
Alexander, Caughman Alexander, Allie
Bremer and Jacob Panning and twin brother,
Hampton Sox Caughman, Sr. He was pre-
deceased by his siblings, Evelyn C. Segelken,
Zela C. Boozer, Henry Etta C. Frye, Henry
Morgan Caughman, Sue C. Shull, Elford
Caughman, Virginia C. Shull and Kenneth
Caughman. Caughman-Harman Funeral
Home, Lexington Chapel, is assisting the
family with arrangements.
HONORING THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA NATIONAL GUARD
HON. ELEANOR HOLMES NORTON
OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, April 1, 2019
Ms. NORTON. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to ask the House of Representatives to join
me in recognizing another outstanding
achievement by the District of Columbia Na-
tional Guard. On February 1, 2019 Burkina
Faso became the 76th nation to join the State
Partnership Program—a Department of De-
fense joint security cooperation program ad-
ministered by the National Guard. The pro-
gram is executed by the individual states, terri-
tories and the District of Columbia. I am proud
to inform this body that the D.C. National
Guard and the Burkina Faso Armed Forces
will now be establishing a military-to-military
relationship focused on security cooperation.
The State Partnership Program provides an
equally beneficial relationship between armed
forces of partnering U.S. National Guard
states, territories, the District of Columbia and
foreign nations. It is administered by the Na-
tional Guard Bureau and guided by State De-
partment foreign policy goals. These partner-
ships support Combatant Command campaign
objectives, strengthen alliances, provide cost-
effective subject matter expert engagements
and enhance defense security.
The District of Columbia National Guard’s
partnership with Burkina Faso will be in addi-
tion to the current partnership between the
D.C. National Guard and Jamaica. Since
1999, the District of Columbia National Guard
has had a successful and productive partner-
ship with Jamaica. In 2018, the D.C. National
Guard and the Jamaica Defense Forces con-
ducted 17 key subject matter expert engage-
ments including work on drug-trafficking, mili-
tary police response and domestic security,
humanitarian assistance and disaster relief re-
sponse, and preparation for medical and den-
tal personnel, among other activities.
The Burkina Faso state partnership would
not have happened without the leadership of
Major General William J. Walker, the Com-
manding General of the D.C. National Guard,
Brigadier General Aaron R. Dean II, the Adju-
tant General D.C. National Guard, Justin Som,
Burkina Faso’s Secretary General of the Min-
ister of Defense, Andrew R. Young, the U.S.
Ambassador to Burkina Faso Brigadier, Gen-
eral Moses Miningou, the Chief of General
Staff for the National Armed Forces of Burkina
Faso, and Brigadier General Steven
deMilliano, U.S. Air Force, Deputy Director for
Strategy, Engagement and Programs Direc-
torate at United States Africa Command. Many
others contributed as well from the D.C. Na-
tional Guard, Department of Defense, National
Guard Bureau and State Department.
As the D.C. National Guard embarks on this
new mission, I look forward to supporting them
every step of the way. I trust through their
dedication and sacrifices, they will help
strengthen shared national security goals
while fostering a partnership of peace, pros-
perity, and freedom for the people of Burkina
Faso and the region.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:05 Apr 02, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K01AP8.012 E01APPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E381
April 1, 2019
IN HONOR OF THE LIFE OF ADMI-
RAL DENNIS MATTHEW BROOKS
HON. MIKE ROGERS
OF ALABAMA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, April 1, 2019
Mr. ROGERS of Alabama. Madam Speaker,
I rise to recognize the life of Admiral Dennis
Matthew Brooks.
Admiral Brooks was born on November 23,
1934 in Fairfield, Alabama. He married the
love of his life Dolores (Lorrie) Gober following
his graduation from the Naval Academy in
1957. They had three children, Mark, Amy and
Allison and two grandchildren, James and
Mary Katherine.
He served his country for 35 years until his
retirement in 1992. His assignments included
fighter pilot, test pilot and teacher at the Naval
Academy. His command assignments included
fighter squadrons VF–51 ‘‘Screaming Eagles’’
and VF–121 ‘‘Pacemakers’’, USS Kansas City
and USS Constellation, Carrier Group Seven
and Battle Force and Carrier Strike Forces of
the U.S. Seventh Fleet. In 1988, he was as-
signed as the initial commander of the Com-
bined Joint Task Force, Middle East, involving
all U.S. Forces in the Persian Gulf. Ashore
Admiral Brooks’ major assignments included
Director, Navy Space Command and Military
Director of the National Reconnaissance Of-
fice.
The USS Constellation (Connie) under the
command of then Captain Brooks was visited
by Ronald Reagan shortly after the President’s
recovery from wounds received in an assas-
sination attempt. Following his inspection, the
President declared ‘‘Connie’’ to be ‘‘America’s
Flagship’’, presented the crew a presidential
flag and announced: ‘‘Let friend and foe alike
know that America has the muscle to back up
its words, and ships like this and men like you
are that muscle.’’ Later the Connie gained her
motto, ‘‘Go Ahead Make My Day’’, which was
painted on the ship’s island.
Following his Navy career, the Admiral and
Lorrie retired to Pell City where he continued
his service as Rotary District Governor for Dis-
trict 6860. His philanthropic efforts included
Pell City’s Habitat for Humanity, the Board of
the Eastern Health Foundation and the Pell
City Library Guild. He was an Eagle Scout and
continued throughout his life to be involved in
Scouting. Posthumously, the Greater Alabama
Scout Council presented the ‘‘Heart of an
Eagle’’ Award to his family.
Admiral Dennis Matthew Brooks, United
States Navy (Ret), of Pell City, Alabama,
passed away November 12, 2018. Admiral
Brooks lived an exemplary life and brought out
the very best in those who were fortunate to
serve with him in the Navy and those who
were fortunate enough to know him in civilian
life.
Madam Speaker, please join me in recog-
nizing the life of Admiral Brooks.
RECOGNIZING CAPTAIN JEFFREY
SEAN SHOEMAKER, GAINESVILLE
FOR HIS GRADUATION FROM FBI
NATIONAL ACADEMY
HON. DOUG COLLINS
OF GEORGIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, April 1, 2019
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Madam Speaker,
I rise today to recognize Captain Jeffrey Sean
Shoemaker, of the Hall County Sheriff’s Office
who recently graduated from the FBI National
Academy in Quantico.
Captain Shoemaker has demonstrated a
commitment to being a part of the next gen-
eration of law enforcement leadership. His ca-
reer in public service is a remarkable example
of the devotion and reverence to our country
and its success that many in law enforcement
share.
The FBI National Academy provides law en-
forcement officers across the country with the
most up to date tools and training necessary
to fight crime on a multilateral front. Programs
such as the FBI National Academy course will
help with the prevention and prosecution of
even the most heinous crimes.
My father was a State Trooper for the State
of Georgia, and he was relentless in his duty
to protect and serve. As such, I am particularly
appreciative of Captain Shoemaker’s duty to
serving the Hall County Sheriff’s Office and I
would like to take this opportunity to com-
memorate all women and men who serve in
law enforcement. Their adherence to justice
safeguards our liberties.
Furthermore, I congratulate Captain Jeffrey
Sean Shoemaker on his completion of the pro-
gram and I hope that he continues to find a
sense of meaning and purpose in service to
his country and the people of Georgia.
f
HAYDEN WILLEY
HON. ED PERLMUTTER
OF COLORADO
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, April 1, 2019
Mr. PERLMUTTER. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to recognize and applaud Hayden Willey
for receiving the Arvada Wheat Ridge Service
Ambassadors for Youth award.
Hayden Willey is a student at Three Creeks
K–8 and received this award because his de-
termination and hard work have allowed him
to overcome adversities.
The dedication demonstrated by Hayden
Willey is exemplary of the type of achievement
that can be attained with hard work and perse-
verance. It is essential students at all levels
strive to make the most of their education and
develop a work ethic which will guide them for
the rest of their lives.
I extend my deepest congratulations to Hay-
den Willey for winning the Arvada Wheat
Ridge Service Ambassadors for Youth award.
I have no doubt he will exhibit the same dedi-
cation and character in all of his future accom-
plishments.
IN RECOGNITION OF THOMAS NYE
HON. WILLIAM R. KEATING
OF MASSACHUSETTS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, April 1, 2019
Mr. KEATING. Madam Speaker, I rise today
in recognition of the life of Thomas Nye, a
dedicated Marion firefighter, who led a life
committed to proudly serving his town and his
country.
Born and raised in Marion, Massachusetts,
Mr. Nye was part of a family with a long tradi-
tion of firefighting. Before his time at the Mar-
ion Fire Department, Mr. Nye served in the
Vietnam War as an automotive mechanic and
regarded his military service with tremendous
pride.
Following his time in the military he worked
as a private auto mechanic, a skill that he car-
ried with him throughout his life. Mr. Nye was
appointed to service in the Marion Fire Depart-
ment in June of 1974 where he worked tire-
lessly for forty-five years.
Described by his family as a ‘‘gentle soul,’’
Mr. Nye was always there when someone
needed a helping hand. His hard work and
dedication to his community impacted hun-
dreds of lives. Whether it was assistance with
station maintenance, or filling in for some of
the younger firefighters while they were work-
ing their private jobs, he would have done
anything for anyone in need.
Mr. Nye left us too soon on February 27,
2019, at the age of 72, after responding to
one final call. His commitment to his work and
to the people around him will long be remem-
bered by his colleagues, his friends, and our
entire community.
Madam Speaker, I am proud to honor the
life of Thomas Nye. I ask that my colleagues
join me in recognizing his lifetime of service to
others.
f
HONORING KAREN COLLINS
HON. MIKE THOMPSON
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, April 1, 2019
Mr. THOMPSON of California. Madam
Speaker, I rise today to honor Karen Collins
as the 2019 Honorary Alcaldessa for the City
of Sonoma, California. Ms. Collins has been
named Alcaldessa, the Spanish word for
mayor, in recognition of her contributions to
our community.
Ms. Collins is originally from Washington
State. She earned a Bachelor of Arts in Polit-
ical Science and History from Whitworth Col-
lege, a Master of Arts in American Govern-
ment from George Washington University and
a junior college teaching credential from San
Francisco State University. She is also a grad-
uate of the Public Affairs Institute of Wash-
ington, D.C.
Ms. Collins is a tireless advocate for the
preservation and protection of the environment
and has worked diligently towards this goal.
She is a current Commissioner of the Sonoma
County Regional Parks and Recreation Com-
mission, which she has also chaired three
times. Ms. Collins serves as Vice President of
the Board of Jack London Park Partners and
chairs its government relations committee.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:05 Apr 02, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A01AP8.025 E01APPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E382 April 1, 2019
Ms. Collins was appointed to the California
Recreational Trails Committee in 1998 and
served as chair for two years of her four-year
term. She has also served on Sonoma’s Envi-
ronmental Advisory Commission and was a
past Bicycling and Hiking Trails Advisor where
she represented Sonoma’s interest on the
County Transportation Commission. Addition-
ally, Ms. Collins served on the boards of Yo-
semite National Institutes, the Headlands Insti-
tute and the Bay Area Ridge Trail. She is also
a former chair of the California Recreational
Trails Committee.
In addition to her environmental advocacy,
Ms. Collins has also supported the arts and
women’s health care in our community. She
helped establish a women’s health program at
Sonoma Valley Hospital and has served on
the board of the Hospital’s foundation. Ms.
Collins has chaired Salute to the Arts and
served on the Sonoma Community Center
Board.
Madam Speaker, Ms. Collins is the com-
mitted volunteer and dedicated community
member we should all strive to be. She has
spent countless hours advocating for our com-
munity. It is therefore fitting and proper that
we honor Karen Collins as Sonoma’s 44th
Honorary Alcaldessa.
f
REBUILDING TOGETHER MOUN-
TAIN COMMUNITIES NAMED NON-
PROFIT OF THE YEAR BY THE
LAKE ARROWHEAD COMMU-
NITIES CHAMBER OF COMMERCE
HON. PAUL COOK
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, April 1, 2019
Mr. COOK. Madam Speaker, I rise today to
recognize and congratulate Rebuilding To-
gether Mountain Communities on being
named Non-Profit of the Year by the Lake Ar-
rowhead Communities Chamber of Com-
merce.
Rebuilding Together Mountain Communities
is a community program organized and sup-
ported by the Association of Building Contrac-
tors. In conjunction with the national Rebuild-
ing Together organization, it focuses on and
brings awareness to housing issues faced by
some of our most vulnerable populations in-
cluding veterans, seniors, and disaster victims.
Rebuilding Together Mountain Communities is
also celebrating their 25th Anniversary this
year, and over its history has worked on over
200 homes in the mountain areas. The work
they have done has touched innumerable
lives, and I congratulate them on the longevity
and success of their program.
Rebuilding Together Mountain Communities,
the Association of Building Contractors, and
their community partners deserve this and
many other accolades for their hard work.
They are truly deserving of being named the
Lake Arrowhead Communities Chamber of
Commerce 2018 Non-Profit of the Year.
JONAH YUNES
HON. ED PERLMUTTER
OF COLORADO
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, April 1, 2019
Mr. PERLMUTTER. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to recognize and applaud Jonah Yunes
for receiving the Arvada Wheat Ridge Service
Ambassadors for Youth award.
Jonah Yunes is a student at Standley Lake
High School and received this award because
his determination and hard work have allowed
him to overcome adversities.
The dedication demonstrated by Jonah
Yunes is exemplary of the type of achieve-
ment that can be attained with hard work and
perseverance. It is essential students at all
levels strive to make the most of their edu-
cation and develop a work ethic which will
guide them for the rest of their lives.
I extend my deepest congratulations to
Jonah Yunes for winning the Arvada Wheat
Ridge Service Ambassadors for Youth award.
I have no doubt he will exhibit the same dedi-
cation and character in all of his future accom-
plishments.
f
SENATE COMMITTEE MEETINGS
Title IV of Senate Resolution 4,
agreed to by the Senate of February 4,
1977, calls for establishment of a sys-
tem for a computerized schedule of all
meetings and hearings of Senate com-
mittees, subcommittees, joint commit-
tees, and committees of conference.
This title requires all such committees
to notify the Office of the Senate Daily
Digest—designated by the Rules Com-
mittee—of the time, place and purpose
of the meetings, when scheduled and
any cancellations or changes in the
meetings as they occur.
As an additional procedure along
with the computerization of this infor-
mation, the Office of the Senate Daily
Digest will prepare this information for
printing in the Extensions of Remarks
section of the CONGRESSIONAL RECORD
on Monday and Wednesday of each
week.
Meetings scheduled for Tuesday,
April 2, 2019 may be found in the Daily
Digest of today’s RECORD.
MEETINGS SCHEDULED
APRIL 3
9 a.m.
Committee on Appropriations
Subcommittee on Department of the Inte-
rior, Environment, and Related Agen-
cies
To hold hearings to examine proposed
budget estimates and justification for
fiscal year 2020 for the Environmental
Protection Agency.
SD–124
9:30 a.m.
Committee on Appropriations
Subcommittee on Department of Defense
To hold hearings to examine proposed
budget estimates and justification for
fiscal year 2020 for the Defense Health
Program.
SD–192
Committee on Appropriations
Subcommittee on Department of Home-
land Security
To hold hearings to examine the pro-
posed budget estimates and justifica-
tion for fiscal year 2020 for the Federal
Emergency Management Agency.
SD–138
Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation
Business meeting to consider pending
calendar business.
SD–G50
2:15 p.m.
Committee on Foreign Relations
Business meeting to consider S. Res. 23,
supporting the goals and ideals of
Countering International Parental
Child Abduction Month and expressing
the sense of the Senate that Congress
should raise awareness of the harm
caused by international parental child
abduction, S. Res. 27, calling for a
prompt multinational freedom of navi-
gation operation in the Black Sea and
urging the cancellation of the Nord
Stream 2 pipeline, S. Res. 35, sup-
porting democratic principles and
standards in Bolivia and throughout
Latin America, S. Res. 67, expressing
the sense of the Senate on the impor-
tance and vitality of the United States
alliances with Japan and the Republic
of Korea, and our trilateral coopera-
tion in the pursuit of shared interests,
S. Res. 95, recognizing the 198th anni-
versary of the independence of Greece
and celebrating democracy in Greece
and the United States, S. Res. 96, com-
mending the Government of Canada for
upholding the rule of law and express-
ing concern over actions by the Gov-
ernment of the People’s Republic of
China in response to a request from the
United States Government to the Gov-
ernment of Canada for the extradition
of a Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. ex-
ecutive, an original resolution sup-
porting the North Atlantic Treaty Or-
ganization and recognizing its 70 years
of accomplishments, and the nomina-
tions of John P. Abizaid, of Nevada, to
be Ambassador to the Kingdom of
Saudi Arabia, Stephen Akard, of Indi-
ana, to be Director of the Office of For-
eign Missions, with the rank of Ambas-
sador, Lynda Blanchard, of Alabama,
to be Ambassador to the Republic of
Slovenia, Joseph Cella, of Michigan, to
be Ambassador to the Republic of Fiji,
and to serve concurrently and without
additional compensation as Ambas-
sador to the Republic of Kiribati, the
Republic of Nauru, the Kingdom of
Tonga, and Tuvalu, R. Clarke Cooper,
of Florida, to be an Assistant Sec-
retary (Political-Military Affairs), Mi-
chael J. Fitzpatrick, of Virginia, to be
Ambassador to the Republic of Ecua-
dor, Kenneth S. George, of Texas, to be
Ambassador to the Oriental Republic of
Uruguay, Brett P. Giroir, of Texas, to
be Representative of the United States
on the Executive Board of the World
Health Organization, Jeffrey Ross Gun-
ter, of California, to be Ambassador to
the Republic of Iceland, Ronald Doug-
las Johnson, of Florida, to be Ambas-
sador to the Republic of El Salvador,
W. Patrick Murphy, of Vermont, to be
Ambassador to the Kingdom of Cam-
bodia, Mark Rosen, of Connecticut, to
be United States Executive Director of
the International Monetary Fund, Dan-
iel N. Rosenblum, of Maryland, to be
Ambassador to the Republic of Uzbek-
istan, Robert K. Scott, of Maryland, to
be Ambassador to the Republic of Ma-
lawi, Donald R. Tapia, of Arizona, to be
Ambassador to Jamaica, Matthew H.
Tueller, of Utah, to be Ambassador to
the Republic of Iraq, Jane L. Corwin, of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:05 Apr 02, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00010 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A01AP8.028 E01APPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E383
April 1, 2019
New York, Robert C. Sisson, of Michi-
gan, and Lance V. Yohe, of North Da-
kota, each to be Commissioner on the
part of the United States on the Inter-
national Joint Commission, United
States and Canada, all of the Depart-
ment of State, and John Barsa, of Flor-
ida, to be an Assistant Administrator
of the United States Agency for Inter-
national Development.
S–116
Committee on the Judiciary
Subcommittee on Intellectual Property
To hold hearings to examine women in-
ventors and the future of American in-
novation.
SD–226
2:30 p.m.
Committee on Appropriations
Subcommittee on Energy and Water Devel-
opment
To hold hearings to examine proposed
budget estimates and justification for
fiscal year 2020 for the National Nu-
clear Security Administration.
SD–138
Committee on Appropriations
Subcommittee on Transportation, Housing
and Urban Development, and Related
Agencies
To hold hearings to examine proposed
budget estimates and justification for
fiscal year 2020 for the Department of
Housing and Urban Development.
SD–192
Committee on Armed Services
Subcommittee on Strategic Forces
To hold hearings to examine missile de-
fense policies and programs in review
of the Defense Authorization Request
for fiscal year 2020 and the Future
Years Defense Program.
SR–222
Committee on Indian Affairs
To hold hearings to examine enhancing
tribal self-governance and safety of In-
dian roads.
SD–628
Committee on Small Business and Entre-
preneurship
To hold hearings to examine reauthoriza-
tion of the Small Business Administra-
tion’s Access to Capital programs.
SR–428A
3 p.m.
Committee on Appropriations
Subcommittee on Legislative Branch
To hold hearings to examine proposed
budget estimates and justification for
fiscal year 2020 for the Senate Sergeant
at Arms and the United States Capitol
Police.
SD–124
Committee on Armed Services
Subcommittee on SeaPower
To hold hearings to examine Navy and
Marine Corps aviation programs in re-
view of the Defense Authorization Re-
quest for fiscal year 2020 and the Fu-
ture Years Defense Program.
SR–232A
3:30 p.m.
Commission on Security and Cooperation
in Europe
To hold hearings to examine Slovakia’s
chairmanship of the Organization for
Security and Cooperation in Europe,
focusing on priorities and challenges.
SVC–201–00
APRIL 4
9:30 a.m.
Committee on Armed Services
To hold hearings to examine the posture
of the Department of the Air Force in
review of the Defense Authorization
Request for fiscal year 2020 and the Fu-
ture Years Defense Program.
SD–G50
Committee on Homeland Security and
Governmental Affairs
To hold hearings to examine migration
at the United States Southern border.
SD–342
10 a.m.
Committee on Appropriations
Subcommittee on Departments of Labor,
Health and Human Services, and Edu-
cation, and Related Agencies
To hold hearings to examine proposed
budget estimates and justification for
fiscal year 2020 for the Department of
Health and Human Services.
SD–124
Committee on Energy and Natural Re-
sources
Business meeting to consider the nomi-
nations of David Bernhardt, of Vir-
ginia, to be Secretary, and Susan
Combs, of Texas, to be an Assistant
Secretary, both of the Department of
the Interior, and Aimee Kathryn
Jorjani, of Wisconsin, to be Chairman
of the Advisory Council on Historic
Preservation.
SD–366
Committee on the Judiciary
Business meeting to consider the nomi-
nations of Daniel P. Collins, and Ken-
neth Kiyul Lee, both of California,
both to be a United States Circuit
Judge for the Ninth Circuit, James
Wesley Hendrix, and Mark T. Pittman,
both to be a United States District
Judge for the Northern District of
Texas, Sean D. Jordan, to be United
States District Judge for the Eastern
District of Texas, Ronald D. Vitiello, of
Illinois, to be an Assistant Secretary of
Homeland Security, Virgil Madden, of
Indiana, to be a Commissioner of the
United States Parole Commission, and
Nick Edward Proffitt, of Virginia, to be
United States Marshal for the Eastern
District of Virginia, Department of
Justice.
SD–226
10:15 a.m.
Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation
Subcommittee on Security
To hold hearings to examine Federal
maritime agencies, focusing on ensur-
ing a safe, secure, and competitive fu-
ture.
SD–562
2 p.m.
Select Committee on Intelligence
To hold closed hearings to examine cer-
tain intelligence matters.
SH–219
APRIL 9
9:30 a.m.
Committee on Armed Services
To hold hearings to examine the posture
of the Department of the Navy in re-
view of the Defense Authorization Re-
quest for fiscal year 2020 and the Fu-
ture Years Defense Program.
SD–G50
10 a.m.
Committee on Homeland Security and
Governmental Affairs
To hold hearings to examine migration
at the United States Southern border,
focusing on perspectives from the
frontline.
SD–342
3 p.m.
Committee on Armed Services
Subcommittee on Airland
To hold hearings to examine Air Force
modernization in review of the Defense
Authorization Request for fiscal year
2020 and the Future Years Defense Pro-
gram.
SR–232A
APRIL 10
9:15 a.m.
Committee on Foreign Relations
To hold hearings to examine the Presi-
dent’s proposed budget request for fis-
cal year 2020 for the Department of
State.
SD–419
2:30 p.m.
Committee on Indian Affairs
To hold hearings to examine building out
Indian country, focusing on tools for
community development.
SD–628
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:05 Apr 02, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00011 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\M01AP8.000 E01APPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
REMARKS
D323
Monday, April 1, 2019
Daily Digest
HIGHLIGHTS
See Résumé of Congressional Activity.
Senate
Chamber Action
Routine Proceedings, pages S2105–S2162
Measures Introduced: Seventeen bills and three res-
olutions were introduced, as follows: S. 961–977, S.
Res. 133, and S. Con. Res. 11–12. Pages S2117–18
Measures Reported:
Special Report entitled ‘‘History, Jurisdiction, and
a Summary of Activities of the Committee on En-
ergy and Natural Resources During the 115th Con-
gress’’. (S. Rept. No. 116–25)
S. 771, to amend section 21 of the Small Business
Act to require cyber certification for small business
development center counselors.
S. 772, to require an annual report on the cyberse-
curity of the Small Business Administration, with an
amendment in the nature of a substitute.
S. Con. Res. 12, setting forth the congressional
budget for the United States Government for fiscal
year 2020 and setting forth the appropriate budg-
etary levels for fiscal years 2021 through 2024.
Special Report entitled ‘‘Report on Legislative Ac-
tivities of the Committee on Health, Education,
Labor, and Pensions’’. (S. Rept. No. 116–26)
Page S2117
Measures Passed:
Honoring Elizebeth Smith Friedman: Senate
agreed to S. Res. 133, honoring the life and legacy
of Elizebeth Smith Friedman, Cryptanalyst.
Pages S2159–60
Measures Considered:
Supplemental Appropriations Act: Senate resumed
consideration of H.R. 268, making supplemental ap-
propriations for the fiscal year ending September 30,
2019, taking action on the following motions and
amendments proposed thereto: Pages S2105–14
Pending:
Shelby Amendment No. 201, in the nature of a
substitute. Page S2105
McConnell Amendment No. 213 (to Amendment
No. 201), to change the enactment date. Page S2105
McConnell Amendment No. 214 (to Amendment
No. 213), of a perfecting nature. Page S2105
McConnell Amendment No. 215 (to the language
proposed to be stricken by Amendment No. 201), to
change the enactment date. Page S2105
McConnell Amendment No. 216 (to Amendment
No. 215), of a perfecting nature. Page S2105
During consideration of this measure today, Senate
also took the following action:
By 44 yeas to 49 nays (Vote No. 55), three-fifths
of those Senators duly chosen and sworn, not having
voted in the affirmative, Senate rejected the motion
to close further debate on Shelby Amendment No.
201 (listed above). Page S2113
Senator McConnell entered a motion to reconsider
the vote by which cloture was not invoked on Shelby
Amendment No. 201. Page S2113
By 46 yeas to 48 nays (Vote No. 56), three-fifths
of those Senators duly chosen and sworn, not having
voted in the affirmative, Senate rejected the motion
to close further debate on the bill. Pages S2113–14
Senator McConnell entered a motion to reconsider
the vote by which cloture was not invoked on the
bill. Page S2114
Escort Committee—Agreement: A unanimous-
consent agreement was reached providing that the
President of the Senate be authorized to appoint a
committee on the part of the Senate to join with a
like committee on the part of the House of Rep-
resentatives to escort His Excellency Jens
Stoltenberg, Secretary General of the North Atlantic
Treaty Organization, into the House Chamber for
the joint meeting on Wednesday, April 3, 2019.
Page S2160
Nominations in the Senate—Agreement: A unan-
imous-consent agreement was reached providing that
at approximately 10 a.m., on Tuesday, April 2,
2019, Senate resume consideration of the motion to
proceed to consideration S. Res. 50, improving pro-
cedures for the consideration of nominations in the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 21:47 Jul 01, 2019 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\RECORD19\APRIL\D01AP9.REC D01AP9
CORRECTION
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D324 April 1, 2019
Senate, with the time until 12:30 p.m., equally di-
vided between the two Leaders or their designees.
Page S2160
Message from the President: Senate received the
following message from the President of the United
States:
Transmitting, pursuant to law, a notice of the
continuation of the national emergency with respect
to South Sudan that was declared in Executive Order
13664 of April 3, 2014; which was referred to the
Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs.
(PM–8) Pages S2116–17
Kessler Nomination—Cloture: Senate began con-
sideration of the nomination of Jeffrey Kessler, of
Virginia, to be an Assistant Secretary of Commerce.
Page S2114
A motion was entered to close further debate on
the nomination, and, in accordance with the provi-
sions of Rule XXII of the Standing Rules of the
Senate, a vote on cloture will occur upon disposition
of S. Res. 50, improving procedures for the consider-
ation of nominations in the Senate. Page S2114
Prior to the consideration of this nomination, Sen-
ate took the following action:
Senate agreed to the motion to proceed to Execu-
tive Session to consider the nomination. Page S2114
Altman Nomination—Cloture: Senate began con-
sideration of the nomination of Roy Kalman Altman,
of Florida, to be United States District Judge for the
Southern District of Florida. Page S2114
A motion was entered to close further debate on
the nomination, and, in accordance with the provi-
sions of Rule XXII of the Standing Rules of the
Senate, a vote on cloture will occur upon disposition
of the nomination of Jeffrey Kessler, of Virginia, to
be an Assistant Secretary of Commerce. Page S2114
Prior to the consideration of this nomination, Sen-
ate took the following action:
Senate agreed to the motion to proceed to Legisla-
tive Session. Page S2114
Senate agreed to the motion to proceed to Execu-
tive Session to consider the nomination. Page S2114
Nominations Received: Senate received the fol-
lowing nominations:
Daniel Habib Jorjani, of Kentucky, to be Solicitor
of the Department of the Interior.
23 Air Force nominations in the rank of general.
Routine lists in the Air Force, Army, and Navy.
Pages S2161–62
Messages from the House: Page S2117
Enrolled Bills Presented: Page S2117
Executive Communications: Page S2117
Executive Reports of Committees: Page S2117
Additional Cosponsors: Pages S2118–20
Statements on Introduced Bills/Resolutions:
Pages S2120–35
Additional Statements: Pages S2115–16
Amendments Submitted: Pages S2135–59
Authorities for Committees to Meet: Page S2159
Record Votes: Two record votes were taken today.
(Total—56) Pages S2113–14
Adjournment: Senate convened at 3 p.m. and ad-
journed at 7:17 p.m., until 10 a.m. on Tuesday,
April 2, 2019. (For Senate’s program, see the re-
marks of the Majority Leader in today’s Record on
page S2160.)
Committee Meetings
(Committees not listed did not meet)
BUSINESS MEETING
Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry: Com-
mittee ordered favorably reported the nomination of
Heath P. Tarbert, of Maryland, to be Chairman and
a Commissioner of the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission.
h
House of Representatives
Chamber Action
Public Bills and Resolutions Introduced: 20 pub-
lic bills, H.R. 1999–2018; and 6 resolutions, H.
Res. 273, and 275–279 were introduced.
Pages H2937–38
Additional Cosponsors: Pages H2939–40
Report Filed: A report was filed today as follows:
H. Res. 274, providing for consideration of the
joint resolution (S.J. Res. 7) to direct the removal of
United States Armed Forces from hostilities in the
Republic of Yemen that have not been authorized by
Congress; providing for consideration of the resolu-
tion (H. Res. 271) Condemning the Trump
Administrations’s Legal Campaign to Take Away
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:54 Apr 02, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D01AP9.REC D01APPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D325
April 1, 2019
Americans’ Health Care; and providing for consider-
ation of motions to suspend the rules (H. Rept.
116–28). Page H2937
Speaker: Read a letter from the Speaker wherein she
appointed Representative Gomez to act as Speaker
pro tempore for today. Page H2925
Recess: The House recessed at 12:06 p.m. and re-
convened at 2 p.m. Page H2926
Journal: The House agreed to the Speaker’s approval
of the Journal by a recorded vote of 207 ayes to 181
noes with one answering ‘‘present’’, Roll No. 139.
Pages H2926, H2934–35
Recess: The House recessed at 2:09 p.m. and recon-
vened at 4:05 p.m. Page H2927
Suspensions: The House agreed to suspend the rules
and pass the following measures:
Department of Homeland Security Morale, Rec-
ognition, Learning and Engagement Act of 2019:
H.R. 1433, amended, to amend the Homeland Secu-
rity Act of 2002 to improve morale within the De-
partment of Homeland Security workforce by confer-
ring new responsibilities to the Chief Human Cap-
ital Officer, establishing an employee engagement
steering committee, requiring action plans, and au-
thorizing an annual employee award program;
Pages H2927–29
Coordinating and Leveraging Activities for
School Security Act of 2019: H.R. 1593, amended,
to amend the Homeland Security Act of 2002 to es-
tablish a school security coordinating council, by a
2⁄3 yea-and-nay vote of 384 yeas to 18 nays, Roll
No. 137; Pages H2929–30, H2933
Terrorist and Foreign Fighter Travel Exercise
Act of 2019: H.R. 1590, amended, to require an ex-
ercise related to terrorist and foreign fighter travel,
by a 2⁄3 yea-and-nay vote of 394 yeas to 7 nays, Roll
No. 138; and Pages H2930–31, H2933–34
CBRN Intelligence and Information Sharing
Act of 2019: H.R. 1589, amended, to amend the
Homeland Security Act of 2002 to establish chem-
ical, biological, radiological, and nuclear intelligence
and information sharing functions of the Office of
Intelligence and Analysis of the Department of
Homeland Security and to require dissemination of
information analyzed by the Department to entities
with responsibilities relating to homeland security.
Pages H2931–33
Recess: The House recessed at 4:39 p.m. and recon-
vened at 6:30 p.m. Page H2933
Presidential Message: Read a message from the
President wherein he notified Congress that the na-
tional emergency with respect to South Sudan that
was declared on April 3, 2014 is to continue in ef-
fect beyond April 3, 2019—referred to the Com-
mittee on Foreign Affairs and ordered to be printed
(H. Doc. 116–25). Page H2927
Senate Message: Message received from the Senate
by the Clerk and subsequently presented to the
House today appears on pages H2926–27.
Quorum Calls—Votes: Two yea-and-nay votes and
one recorded vote developed during the proceedings
of today and appear on pages H2933, H2933–34,
and H2934–35. There were no quorum calls.
Adjournment: The House met at 12 noon and ad-
journed at 7:34 p.m.
Committee Meetings
VIOLENCE AGAINST WOMEN
REAUTHORIZATION ACT OF 2019;
CONDEMNING THE TRUMP
ADMINISTRATION’S LEGAL CAMPAIGN TO
TAKE AWAY AMERICANS’ HEALTH CARE;
TO DIRECT THE REMOVAL OF UNITED
STATES ARMED FORCES FROM HOSTILITIES
IN THE REPUBLIC OF YEMEN THAT HAVE
NOT BEEN AUTHORIZED BY CONGRESS
Committee on Rules: Full Committee began a hearing
on H.R. 1585, the ‘‘Violence Against Women Reau-
thorization Act of 2019’’; and held a hearing on H.
Res. 271, the condemning the Trump Administra-
tion’s legal campaign to take away Americans’ health
care; and S.J. Res. 7, to direct the removal of United
States Armed Forces from hostilities in the Republic
of Yemen that have not been authorized by Con-
gress. The Committee granted, by record vote of
9–4, a rule providing for consideration of S.J. Res 7,
To direct the removal of United States Armed Forces
from hostilities in the Republic of Yemen that have
not been authorized by Congress and H. Res. 271,
condemning the Trump Administration’s legal cam-
paign to take away Americans’ health care. Section
1 of the rule provides for consideration of S.J. Res.
7 under a closed rule. The rule provides one hour of
debate equally divided and controlled by the chair
and ranking minority member of the Committee on
Foreign Affairs. The rule waives all points of order
against consideration of the joint resolution. The rule
provides that the joint resolution shall be considered
as read. The rule waives all points of order against
provisions in the joint resolution. The rule provides
one motion to commit. Section 2 of the rule pro-
vides for consideration of H. Res. 271, condemning
the Trump Administration’s legal campaign to take
away Americans’ health care, under a closed rule.
The rule provides one hour of debate equally divided
and controlled by the chair and ranking minority
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:54 Apr 02, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D01AP9.REC D01APPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D326 April 1, 2019
member of the Committee on Energy and Com-
merce. The rule waives all points of order against
consideration of the resolution. The rule provides
that the resolution shall be considered as read and
shall not be subject to a demand for division of the
question. Section 3 of the rule provides that it shall
be in order at any time on the legislative day of
April 4, 2019, for the Speaker to entertain motions
that the House suspend the rules and that the
Speaker or her designee shall consult with the Mi-
nority Leader or his designee on the designation of
any matter for consideration pursuant to this section.
Testimony was heard from Representatives
Malinowski, McCaul, Butterfield, Bucshon, and
Cline.
Joint Meetings
No joint committee meetings were held.
f
COMMITTEE MEETINGS FOR TUESDAY,
APRIL 2, 2019
(Committee meetings are open unless otherwise indicated)
Senate
Committee on Appropriations: Subcommittee on Com-
merce, Justice, Science, and Related Agencies, to hold
hearings to examine the proposed budget estimates and
justification for fiscal year 2020 for the Department of
Commerce, 2 p.m., SD–G50.
Committee on Armed Services: to hold hearings to examine
the nominations of General Tod D. Wolters, USAF, for
reappointment to the grade of general and to be Com-
mander, United States European Command and Supreme
Allied Commander Europe, and General Stephen J.
Townsend, USA, for reappointment to the grade of gen-
eral and to be Commander, United States Africa Com-
mand, 9:30 a.m., SD–G50.
Subcommittee on Airland, to hold hearings to examine
Army modernization in review of the Defense Authoriza-
tion Request for fiscal year 2020 and the future years de-
fense program, 3 p.m., SR–232A.
Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs: to
hold hearings to examine the application of environ-
mental, social, and governance principles in investing and
the role of asset managers, proxy advisors, and other
intermediaries, 10 a.m., SD–538.
Committee on Energy and Natural Resources: to hold hear-
ings to examine the President’s proposed budget request
for fiscal year 2020 for the Department of Energy, 10
a.m., SD–366.
Committee on Environment and Public Works: to hold over-
sight hearings to examine the Nuclear Regulatory Com-
mission, 10 a.m., SD–406.
Committee on Foreign Relations: to hold hearings to exam-
ine NATO at 70, focusing on a strategic partnership for
the 21st century, 2:15 p.m., SD–419.
Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions: to
hold hearings to examine reauthorizing HEA, focusing on
addressing campus sexual assault and ensuring student
safety and rights, 10 a.m., SD–430.
Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs:
to hold hearings to examine the nominations of Ron A.
Bloom, of New York, to be a Governor of the United
States Postal Service, and James A. Crowell IV, and Jason
Park, both of the District of Columbia, both to be an As-
sociate Judge of the Superior Court of the District of Co-
lumbia, 2:30 p.m., SD–342.
Committee on the Judiciary: to hold hearings to examine
arbitration in America, 10 a.m., SD–226.
Select Committee on Intelligence: to hold closed hearings to
examine certain intelligence matters, 2:30 p.m., SH–219.
Special Committee on Aging: to hold hearings to examine
Alzheimer’s, focusing on new directions in biomedical re-
search and caregiving, 9:30 a.m., SD–106.
House
Committee on Appropriations, Subcommittee on Energy
and Water Development, and Related Agencies, budget
hearing on the Department of Energy, National Nuclear
Security Administration, 9:45 a.m., 2362–B Rayburn.
Subcommittee on Interior, Environment, and Related
Agencies, budget hearing on the Environmental Protec-
tion Agency, 10 a.m., 2359 Rayburn.
Subcommittee on Military Construction, Veterans Af-
fairs, and Related Agencies, hearing entitled ‘‘Members
Day and Public Witness Day’’, 10 a.m., HT–2 Capitol.
Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural Development,
Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies,
hearing entitled ‘‘The Rural Economy’’, 10:30 a.m.,
2362–A Rayburn.
Subcommittee on the Departments of Labor, Health
and Human Services, Education, and Related Agencies,
budget hearing on the National Institutes of Health,
10:30 a.m., 2358–C Rayburn.
Subcommittee on Defense, budget hearing on the De-
fense Intelligence Agency and National Geospatial Agen-
cy, 11 a.m., H–405 Capitol. This hearing will be closed.
Subcommittee on Legislative Branch, hearing entitled
‘‘Members Day’’, 1 p.m., HT–2 Capitol.
Subcommittee on Legislative Branch, hearing entitled
‘‘Public Witness Day’’, 1:30 p.m., HT–2 Capitol.
Subcommittee on the Department of Homeland Secu-
rity, budget hearing on the Transportation Security Ad-
ministration, 2 p.m., 2008 Rayburn.
Subcommittee on Defense, budget hearing on the U.S.
Air Force, 3 p.m., H–140 Capitol.
Committee on Armed Services, Full Committee, hearing
entitled ‘‘Fiscal Year 2020 National Defense Authoriza-
tion Budget Request for the Department of Army and
the Department of the Air Force’’, 10 a.m., 2118 Ray-
burn.
Subcommittee on Military Personnel, hearing entitled
‘‘Examining the Role of the Commander in Sexual As-
sault Prosecutions’’, 2 p.m., 2118 Rayburn.
Committee on Education and Labor, Subcommittee on
Health, Employment, Labor, and Pensions, hearing enti-
tled ‘‘Examining Surprise Billing: Protecting Patients
from Financial Pain’’, 10:15 a.m., 2175 Rayburn.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:54 Apr 02, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D01AP9.REC D01APPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D327
April 1, 2019
Committee on Energy and Commerce, Subcommittee on En-
vironment and Climate Change, hearing entitled ‘‘Lessons
from Across the Nation: State and Local Action to Com-
bat Climate Change’’, 10 a.m., 2123 Rayburn.
Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations, hearing
entitled ‘‘Priced Out of a Lifesaving Drug: The Human
Impact of Rising Insulin Costs’’, 10:30 a.m., 2322 Ray-
burn.
Committee on Financial Services, Full Committee, hearing
entitled ‘‘The Fair Housing Act: Reviewing Efforts to
Eliminate Discrimination and Promote Opportunity in
Housing’’, 10 a.m., 2128 Rayburn.
Subcommittee on Housing, Community Development,
and Insurance, hearing entitled ‘‘The Affordable Housing
Crisis in Rural America: Assessing the Federal Response’’,
2 p.m., 2128 Rayburn.
Committee on Foreign Affairs, Full Committee, hearing
entitled ‘‘How Climate Change Threatens U.S. National
Security’’, 10 a.m., 2172 Rayburn.
Subcommittee on Europe, Eurasia, Energy, and the En-
vironment, hearing entitled ‘‘The Future of NATO: New
Challenges and Opportunities’’, 3 p.m., 2172 Rayburn.
Committee on Homeland Security, Subcommittee on Intel-
ligence and Counterterrorism; and Subcommittee on Bor-
der Security, Facilitation, and Operations, joint hearing
entitled ‘‘Supporting a Fact-Based Approach to Pre-
venting Terrorist Travel to the United States’’, 10 a.m.,
310 Cannon.
Committee on the Judiciary, Full Committee, hearing on
H.R. 5, the ‘‘Equality Act’’, 10 a.m., 2141 Rayburn.
Committee on Natural Resources, Subcommittee on Energy
and Mineral Resources, hearing entitled ‘‘Protecting
Coastal Communities from Offshore Drilling’’, 10 a.m.,
1334 Longworth.
Subcommittee on Water, Oceans, and Wildlife, hear-
ing entitled ‘‘WOW 101: The State of Western Water
Infrastructure and Innovation’’, 10 a.m., 1324 Longworth.
Subcommittee on National Parks, Forests, and Public
Lands, hearing on H.R. 823, the ‘‘Colorado Outdoor
Recreation and Economy Act’’; H.R. 1708, the ‘‘Rim of
the Valley Corridor Preservation Act’’; H.R. 434, the
‘‘Emancipation National Historic Trail Act’’; and H.R.
306, the ‘‘Kettle Creek Battlefield Park Study Act’’, 2
p.m., 1324 Longworth.
Committee on Oversight and Reform, Full Committee,
business meeting on A Resolution Offered by Chairman
Elijah E. Cummings Authorizing Issuance of Subpoena
Related to Security Clearances; and A Resolution Offered
by Chairman Elijah E. Cummings Authorizing Issuance
of Subpoenas Related to the 2020 Census, 10 a.m., 2154
Rayburn.
Committee on Science, Space, and Technology, Full Com-
mittee, hearing entitled ‘‘A Review of the NASA FY2020
Budget Request’’, 10 a.m., 2318 Rayburn.
Committee on Small Business, Subcommittee on Rural
Development, Agriculture, Trade, and Entrepreneurship,
hearing entitled ‘‘The Small Business Trade Snapshot:
Agriculture and Workers’’, 10 a.m., 2360 Rayburn.
Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, Sub-
committee on Railroads, Pipelines, and Hazardous Mate-
rials, hearing entitled ‘‘Pipeline Safety: Reviewing the
Status of Mandates and Examining Additional Safety
Needs’’, 10 a.m., HVC–210.
Committee on Veterans’ Affairs, Subcommittee on Tech-
nology and Modernization, hearing entitled ‘‘Mapping the
Challenges and Progress of the Office of Information and
Technology’’, 10:15 a.m., 1302 Longworth.
Full Committee, hearing entitled ‘‘MISSION Critical:
Assessing the Technology to Support Community Care’’,
2 p.m., 2360 Rayburn.
Committee on Ways and Means, Full Committee, markup
on H.R. 1759, the ‘‘BRIDGE for Workers Act’’; legisla-
tion on the Setting Every Community Up for Retirement
Enhancement Act of 2019; and H.R. 1957, the ‘‘Tax-
payer First Act of 2019’’, 10 a.m., 1100 Longworth.
f
CONGRESSIONAL PROGRAM AHEAD
Week of April 2 through April 5, 2019
Senate Chamber
On Tuesday, Senate will resume consideration of
the motion to proceed to consideration of S. Res. 50,
Nominations in the Senate, and vote on the motion
to invoke cloture on the motion to proceed to the
resolution at 2:15 p.m.
During the balance of the week, Senate may con-
sider any cleared legislative and executive business.
Senate Committees
(Committee meetings are open unless otherwise indicated)
Committee on Appropriations: April 2, Subcommittee on
Commerce, Justice, Science, and Related Agencies, to
hold hearings to examine the proposed budget estimates
and justification for fiscal year 2020 for the Department
of Commerce, 2 p.m., SD–G50.
April 3, Subcommittee on Department of the Interior,
Environment, and Related Agencies, to hold hearings to
examine proposed budget estimates and justification for
fiscal year 2020 for the Environmental Protection Agen-
cy, 9 a.m., SD–124.
April 3, Subcommittee on Department of Defense, to
hold hearings to examine proposed budget estimates and
justification for fiscal year 2020 for the Defense Health
Program, 9:30 a.m., SD–192.
April 3, Subcommittee on Department of Homeland
Security, to hold hearings to examine the proposed budg-
et estimates and justification for fiscal year 2020 for the
Federal Emergency Management Agency, 9:30 a.m.,
SD–138.
April 3, Subcommittee on Energy and Water Develop-
ment, to hold hearings to examine proposed budget esti-
mates and justification for fiscal year 2020 for the Na-
tional Nuclear Security Administration, 2:30 p.m.,
SD–138.
April 3, Subcommittee on Transportation, Housing
and Urban Development, and Related Agencies, to hold
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:54 Apr 02, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D01AP9.REC D01APPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D328 April 1, 2019
hearings to examine proposed budget estimates and jus-
tification for fiscal year 2020 for the Department of
Housing and Urban Development, 2:30 p.m., SD–192.
April 3, Subcommittee on Legislative Branch, to hold
hearings to examine proposed budget estimates and jus-
tification for fiscal year 2020 for the Senate Sergeant at
Arms and the United States Capitol Police, 3 p.m.,
SD–124.
April 4, Subcommittee on Departments of Labor,
Health and Human Services, and Education, and Related
Agencies, to hold hearings to examine proposed budget
estimates and justification for fiscal year 2020 for the De-
partment of Health and Human Services, 10 a.m.,
SD–124.
Committee on Armed Services: April 2, to hold hearings
to examine the nominations of General Tod D. Wolters,
USAF, for reappointment to the grade of general and to
be Commander, United States European Command and
Supreme Allied Commander Europe, and General Stephen
J. Townsend, USA, for reappointment to the grade of
general and to be Commander, United States Africa Com-
mand, 9:30 a.m., SD–G50.
April 2, Subcommittee on Airland, to hold hearings to
examine Army modernization in review of the Defense
Authorization Request for fiscal year 2020 and the future
years defense program, 3 p.m., SR–232A.
April 3, Subcommittee on Strategic Forces, to hold
hearings to examine missile defense policies and programs
in review of the Defense Authorization Request for fiscal
year 2020 and the Future Years Defense Program, 2:30
p.m., SR–222.
April 3, Subcommittee on SeaPower, to hold hearings
to examine Navy and Marine Corps aviation programs in
review of the Defense Authorization Request for fiscal
year 2020 and the Future Years Defense Program, 3 p.m.,
SR–232A.
April 4, Full Committee, to hold hearings to examine
the posture of the Department of the Air Force in review
of the Defense Authorization Request for fiscal year 2020
and the Future Years Defense Program, 9:30 a.m.,
SD–G50.
Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs: April
2, to hold hearings to examine the application of environ-
mental, social, and governance principles in investing and
the role of asset managers, proxy advisors, and other
intermediaries, 10 a.m., SD–538.
Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation: April
3, business meeting to consider pending calendar busi-
ness, 9:30 a.m., SD–G50.
April 4, Subcommittee on Security, to hold hearings to
examine Federal maritime agencies, focusing on ensuring
a safe, secure, and competitive future, 10:15 a.m.,
SD–562.
Committee on Energy and Natural Resources: April 2, to
hold hearings to examine the President’s proposed budget
request for fiscal year 2020 for the Department of En-
ergy, 10 a.m., SD–366.
April 4, Full Committee, business meeting to consider
the nominations of David Bernhardt, of Virginia, to be
Secretary, and Susan Combs, of Texas, to be an Assistant
Secretary, both of the Department of the Interior, and
Aimee Kathryn Jorjani, of Wisconsin, to be Chairman of
the Advisory Council on Historic Preservation, 10 a.m.,
SD–366.
Committee on Environment and Public Works: April 2, to
hold oversight hearings to examine the Nuclear Regu-
latory Commission, 10 a.m., SD–406.
Committee on Foreign Relations: April 2, to hold hearings
to examine NATO at 70, focusing on a strategic partner-
ship for the 21st century, 2:15 p.m., SD–419.
April 3, Full Committee, business meeting to consider
S. Res. 23, supporting the goals and ideals of Countering
International Parental Child Abduction Month and ex-
pressing the sense of the Senate that Congress should
raise awareness of the harm caused by international paren-
tal child abduction, S. Res. 27, calling for a prompt mul-
tinational freedom of navigation operation in the Black
Sea and urging the cancellation of the Nord Stream 2
pipeline, S. Res. 35, supporting democratic principles and
standards in Bolivia and throughout Latin America, S.
Res. 67, expressing the sense of the Senate on the impor-
tance and vitality of the United States alliances with
Japan and the Republic of Korea, and our trilateral co-
operation in the pursuit of shared interests, S. Res. 95,
recognizing the 198th anniversary of the independence of
Greece and celebrating democracy in Greece and the
United States, S. Res. 96, commending the Government
of Canada for upholding the rule of law and expressing
concern over actions by the Government of the People’s
Republic of China in response to a request from the
United States Government to the Government of Canada
for the extradition of a Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd.
executive, an original resolution supporting the North
Atlantic Treaty Organization and recognizing its 70 years
of accomplishments, and the nominations of John P.
Abizaid, of Nevada, to be Ambassador to the Kingdom
of Saudi Arabia, Stephen Akard, of Indiana, to be Direc-
tor of the Office of Foreign Missions, with the rank of
Ambassador, Lynda Blanchard, of Alabama, to be Ambas-
sador to the Republic of Slovenia, Joseph Cella, of Michi-
gan, to be Ambassador to the Republic of Fiji, and to
serve concurrently and without additional compensation
as Ambassador to the Republic of Kiribati, the Republic
of Nauru, the Kingdom of Tonga, and Tuvalu, R. Clarke
Cooper, of Florida, to be an Assistant Secretary (Political-
Military Affairs), Michael J. Fitzpatrick, of Virginia, to be
Ambassador to the Republic of Ecuador, Kenneth S.
George, of Texas, to be Ambassador to the Oriental Re-
public of Uruguay, Brett P. Giroir, of Texas, to be Rep-
resentative of the United States on the Executive Board
of the World Health Organization, Jeffrey Ross Gunter,
of California, to be Ambassador to the Republic of Ice-
land, Ronald Douglas Johnson, of Florida, to be Ambas-
sador to the Republic of El Salvador, W. Patrick Murphy,
of Vermont, to be Ambassador to the Kingdom of Cam-
bodia, Mark Rosen, of Connecticut, to be United States
Executive Director of the International Monetary Fund,
Daniel N. Rosenblum, of Maryland, to be Ambassador to
the Republic of Uzbekistan, Robert K. Scott, of Mary-
land, to be Ambassador to the Republic of Malawi, Don-
ald R. Tapia, of Arizona, to be Ambassador to Jamaica,
Matthew H. Tueller, of Utah, to be Ambassador to the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:54 Apr 02, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D01AP9.REC D01APPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D329
April 1, 2019
Republic of Iraq, Jane L. Corwin, of New York, Robert
C. Sisson, of Michigan, and Lance V. Yohe, of North Da-
kota, each to be Commissioner on the part of the United
States on the International Joint Commission, United
States and Canada, all of the Department of State, and
John Barsa, of Florida, to be an Assistant Administrator
of the United States Agency for International Develop-
ment, 2:15 p.m., S–116, Capitol.
Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions: April
2, to hold hearings to examine reauthorizing HEA, focus-
ing on addressing campus sexual assault and ensuring stu-
dent safety and rights, 10 a.m., SD–430.
Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs:
April 2, to hold hearings to examine the nominations of
Ron A. Bloom, of New York, to be a Governor of the
United States Postal Service, and James A. Crowell IV,
and Jason Park, both of the District of Columbia, both
to be an Associate Judge of the Superior Court of the
District of Columbia, 2:30 p.m., SD–342.
April 4, Full Committee, to hold hearings to examine
migration at the United States Southern border, 9:30
a.m., SD–342.
Committee on Indian Affairs: April 3, to hold hearings
to examine enhancing tribal self-governance and safety of
Indian roads, 2:30 p.m., SD–628.
Committee on the Judiciary: April 2, to hold hearings to
examine arbitration in America, 10 a.m., SD–226.
April 3, Subcommittee on Intellectual Property, to
hold hearings to examine women inventors and the future
of American innovation, 2:15 p.m., SD–226.
April 4, Full Committee, business meeting to consider
the nominations of Daniel P. Collins, and Kenneth Kiyul
Lee, both of California, both to be a United States Circuit
Judge for the Ninth Circuit, James Wesley Hendrix, and
Mark T. Pittman, both to be a United States District
Judge for the Northern District of Texas, Sean D. Jordan,
to be United States District Judge for the Eastern Dis-
trict of Texas, Ronald D. Vitiello, of Illinois, to be an
Assistant Secretary of Homeland Security, Virgil Madden,
of Indiana, to be a Commissioner of the United States Pa-
role Commission, and Nick Edward Proffitt, of Virginia,
to be United States Marshal for the Eastern District of
Virginia, Department of Justice, 10 a.m., SD–226.
Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship: April 3,
to hold hearings to examine reauthorization of the Small
Business Administration’s Access to Capital programs,
2:30 p.m., SR–428A.
Select Committee on Intelligence: April 2, to hold closed
hearings to examine certain intelligence matters, 2:30
p.m., SH–219.
April 4, Full Committee, to hold closed hearings to ex-
amine certain intelligence matters, 2 p.m., SH–219.
Special Committee on Aging: April 2, to hold hearings to
examine Alzheimer’s, focusing on new directions in bio-
medical research and caregiving, 9:30 a.m., SD–106.
House Committees
Committee on Agriculture, April 3, Subcommittee on Nu-
trition, Oversight, and Department Operations, hearing
entitled ‘‘Examining the Proposed ABAWD Rule and its
Impact on Hunger and Hardship’’, 9 a.m., 1300 Long-
worth.
Committee on Appropriations, April 3, Subcommittee on
Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Admin-
istration, and Related Agencies, budget hearing on the
Food and Drug Administration, 9 a.m., 2362–A Ray-
burn.
April 3, Subcommittee on the Departments of Trans-
portation, and Housing and Urban Development, and Re-
lated Agencies, budget hearing on the Department of
Housing and Urban Development, 9 a.m., 2358–A Ray-
burn.
April 3, Subcommittee on Interior, Environment, and
Related Agencies, budget hearing on the National Parks
Service, Fish and Wildlife Services, and U.S. Geological
Survey, 1 p.m., 2008 Rayburn.
April 3, Subcommittee on Financial Services and Gen-
eral Government, budget hearing on the Federal Commu-
nications Commission, 1:30 p.m., 2362–A Rayburn.
April 3, Subcommittee on Energy and Water Develop-
ment, and Related Agencies, budget hearing on Science,
Energy, and Environmental Management Programs, 1:45
p.m., 2362–B Rayburn.
April 3, Subcommittee on the Departments of Labor,
Health and Human Services, Education, and Related
Agencies, budget hearing on the Department of Labor, 2
p.m., 2358–C Rayburn.
April 3, Subcommittee on Commerce, Justice, Science,
and Related Agencies, budget hearing on the Department
of Commerce, 2:15 p.m., H–309 Capitol.
April 3, Subcommittee on Defense, budget hearing on
Defense Health Programs, 3 p.m., 2359 Rayburn.
April 4, Subcommittee on Commerce, Justice, Science,
and Related Agencies, budget hearing on the Federal Bu-
reau of Investigation, 9:30 a.m., 2359 Rayburn.
April 4, Subcommittee on Interior, Environment, and
Related Agencies, budget hearing on the Bureau of Land
Management, Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, and
Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement, 9:30
a.m., 2008 Rayburn.
Committee on Armed Services, April 3, Full Committee,
hearing entitled ‘‘Member Day’’, 9 a.m., 2118 Rayburn.
April 3, Subcommittee on Strategic Forces, hearing en-
titled ‘‘Fiscal Year 2020 Priorities for National Security
Space Programs’’, 1:45 p.m., 2118 Rayburn.
April 3, Subcommittee on Intelligence and Emerging
Threats and Capabilities, hearing entitled ‘‘Reviewing
Department of Defense Strategy, Policy, and Programs for
Countering Weapons of Mass Destruction for Fiscal Year
2020’’, 2:30 p.m., 2212 Rayburn.
April 4, Subcommittee on Tactical and Land Forces,
hearing entitled ‘‘Navy and Marine Corps Tactical Avia-
tion and Ground Modernization’’, 10 a.m., 2118 Ray-
burn.
April 4, Subcommittee on Readiness, hearing entitled
‘‘Mismanaged Military Family Housing Programs: What
is the Recovery Plan?’’ 10:30 a.m., 2212 Rayburn.
Committee on the Budget, April 3, Full Committee,
markup on a Bill to Invest for the People by Raising the
Discretionary Spending Caps and for Other Budget En-
forcement Purposes, 2 p.m., 210 Cannon.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:54 Apr 02, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D01AP9.REC D01APPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D330 April 1, 2019
Committee on Education and Labor, April 3, Sub-
committee on Higher Education and Workforce Invest-
ment, hearing entitled ‘‘Strengthening Accountability in
Higher Education to Better Serve Students and Tax-
payers’’, 9 a.m., 2175 Rayburn.
Committee on Energy and Commerce, April 3, Full Com-
mittee, markup on H.R. 1644, the ‘‘Save the Internet Act
of 2019’’; H.R. 1781, the ‘‘Payment Commission Data
Act of 2019’’; H.R. 938, the ‘‘BLOCKING Act of
2019’’; H.R. 1520, the ‘‘Purple Book Continuity Act of
2019’’, amended; H.R.1503, the ‘‘Orange Book Trans-
parency Act of 2019’’; H.R. 1499, the ‘‘Protecting Con-
sumer Access to Generic Drugs Act of 2019’’; H.R. 965,
the ‘‘CREATES Act of 2019’’; H.R. 1385, the ‘‘SAVE
Act’’; H.R. 1386, the ‘‘ENROLL Act of 2019’’; H.R.
987, the ‘‘MORE Health Education Act’’; H.R. 1010, a
bill to provide that the rule entitled ‘‘Short-Term, Lim-
ited Duration Insurance’’ shall have no force or effect;
H.R. 986, the ‘‘Protecting Americans with Preexisting
Conditions Act of 2019’’; H.R. 1425, the ‘‘State Health
Care Premium Reduction Act’’; and H.R. 9, the ‘‘Climate
Action Now Act’’, 9:30 a.m., 2123 Rayburn.
Committee on Financial Services, April 3, Full Committee,
hearing entitled ‘‘Member Day’’, 10 a.m., 2128 Rayburn.
April 3, Subcommittee on Investor Protection, Entre-
preneurship, and Capital Markets, hearing entitled ‘‘Put-
ting Investors First: Reviewing Proposals to Hold Execu-
tives Accountable’’, 2 p.m., 2128 Rayburn.
Committee on Foreign Affairs, April 3, Subcommittee on
the Middle East, North Africa, and International Ter-
rorism, hearing entitled ‘‘Assessing U.S. Policy Priorities
in the Middle East’’, 2 p.m., 2172 Rayburn.
Committee on Homeland Security, April 3, Subcommittee
on Oversight, Management, and Accountability, hearing
entitled ‘‘Ensuring Effective and Efficient Operations: A
Review of the Fiscal Year 2020 DHS Management Direc-
torate Budget Request’’, 2 p.m., 310 Cannon.
Committee on the Judiciary, April 3, Subcommittee on
Immigration and Citizenship, hearing entitled ‘‘Securing
the Future of American Agriculture’’, 12 p.m., 2141 Ray-
burn.
April 3, Full Committee, markup on a Resolution Au-
thorizing Issuance of Subpoenas, 9 a.m., 2141 Rayburn.
Committee on Natural Resources, April 3, Subcommittee
on National Parks, Forests, and Public Lands, hearing en-
titled ‘‘Examining the Spending Priorities and Mission of
the National Park Service’’, 9 a.m., 1324 Longworth.
April 3, Subcommittee for Indigenous Peoples of the
United States, hearing on H.R. 375, to amend the Act
of June 18, 1934, to reaffirm the authority of the Sec-
retary of the Interior to take land into trust for Indian
Tribes, and for other purposes; H.R. 312, the ‘‘Mashpee
Wampanoag 5 Tribe Reservation Reaffirmation Act’’; and
legislation on the RESPECT Act, 2 p.m., 1324 Long-
worth.
April 4, Full Committee, hearing on H.R. 1904, the
‘‘Indian Water Rights Settlement Extension Act’’, 10
a.m., 1324 Longworth.
Committee on Oversight and Reform, April 3, Sub-
committee on National Security, hearing entitled ‘‘The
Special Inspector General for Afghanistan Reconstruc-
tion’s 2019 High-Risk List’’, 2 p.m., 2154 Rayburn.
Committee on Veterans’ Affairs, April 3, Full Committee,
hearing entitled ‘‘U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs
Budget Request for Fiscal Year 2020’’, 2 p.m., 1334
Longworth.
Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, April 3, Full
Committee, hearing entitled ‘‘Fiscal Year 2020 Intel-
ligence Community Budget Request Overview’’,
HVC–304. This hearing will be closed.
Select Committee on the Climate Crisis, April 4, Full Com-
mittee, hearing entitled ‘‘Generation Climate: Young
Leaders Urge Climate Action Now’’, time and location to
be announced.
Joint Meetings
Commission on Security and Cooperation in Europe: April 3,
to hold hearings to examine Slovakia’s chairmanship of
the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe,
focusing on priorities and challenges, 3:30 p.m.,
SVC–201–00.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:54 Apr 02, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D01AP9.REC D01APPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D331
April 01, 2019
* These figures include all measures reported, even if there was no accom-
panying report. A total of 24 written reports have been filed in the Senate,
27 reports have been filed in the House.
Résumé of Congressional Activity
FIRST SESSION OF THE ONE HUNDRED SIXTEENTH CONGRESS
The first table gives a comprehensive résumé of all legislative business transacted by the Senate and House.
The second table accounts for all nominations submitted to the Senate by the President for Senate confirmation.
DATA ON LEGISLATIVE ACTIVITY
January 3 through March 31, 2019
Senate House Total
Days in session .................................... 50 51 . .
Time in session ................................... 262 hrs., 42′ 207 hrs., 11′ . .
Congressional Record:
Pages of proceedings ................... 2,104 2,924 . .
Extensions of Remarks ................ . . 372 . .
Public bills enacted into law ............... 4 6 10
Private bills enacted into law .............. . . . . . .
Bills in conference ............................... . . . . . .
Measures passed, total ......................... 88 163 251
Senate bills .................................. 11 6 . .
House bills .................................. 5 92 . .
Senate joint resolutions ............... 1 . . . .
House joint resolutions ............... 3 6 . .
Senate concurrent resolutions ...... 4 1 . .
House concurrent resolutions ...... 2 4 . .
Simple resolutions ....................... 62 54 . .
Measures reported, total ...................... *37 *26 63
Senate bills .................................. 16 . . . .
House bills .................................. 1 11 . .
Senate joint resolutions ............... . . . . . .
House joint resolutions ............... . . 1 . .
Senate concurrent resolutions ...... . . . . . .
House concurrent resolutions ...... . . . . . .
Simple resolutions ....................... 20 14 . .
Special reports ..................................... 7 . . . .
Conference reports ............................... 1 1 . .
Measures pending on calendar ............. 43 7 . .
Measures introduced, total .................. 1,118 2,340 3,458
Bills ............................................. 960 1,986 . .
Joint resolutions .......................... 16 54 . .
Concurrent resolutions ................ 10 28 . .
Simple resolutions ....................... 132 272 . .
Quorum calls ....................................... 2 1 . .
Yea-and-nay votes ............................... 54 109 . .
Recorded votes .................................... . . 26 . .
Bills vetoed ......................................... . . 1 . .
Vetoes overridden ................................ . . . . . .
DISPOSITION OF EXECUTIVE NOMINATIONS
January 3 through March 31, 2019
Civilian nominations, totaling 314, disposed of as follows:
Confirmed ...................................................................................... 23
Unconfirmed .................................................................................. 289
Withdrawn .................................................................................... 2
Other Civilian nominations, totaling 18, disposed of as follows:
Confirmed ...................................................................................... 1
Unconfirmed .................................................................................. 17
Air Force nominations, totaling 1,321, disposed of as follows:
Confirmed ...................................................................................... 1,254
Unconfirmed .................................................................................. 67
Army nominations, totaling 2,344, disposed of as follows:
Confirmed ...................................................................................... 2,231
Unconfirmed .................................................................................. 113
Navy nominations, totaling 159, disposed of as follows:
Confirmed ...................................................................................... 120
Unconfirmed .................................................................................. 39
Marine Corps nominations, totaling 1,375, disposed of as follows:
Confirmed ...................................................................................... 1,347
Unconfirmed .................................................................................. 28
Summary
Total nominations carried over from the First Session ........................... 0
Total nominations received this Session ................................................ 5,531
Total confirmed ..................................................................................... 4,976
Total unconfirmed ................................................................................. 553
Total withdrawn .................................................................................... 2
Total returned to the White House ...................................................... 0
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:54 Apr 02, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 0667 Sfmt 0667 E:\CR\FM\D01AP9.REC D01APPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
Congressional Record The Congressional Record (USPS 087–390). The Periodicals postage
is paid at Washington, D.C. The public proceedings of each House
of Congress, as reported by the Official Reporters thereof, are
printed pursuant to directions of the Joint Committee on Printing as authorized by appropriate provisions of Title 44, United
States Code, and published for each day that one or both Houses are in session, excepting very infrequent instances when
two or more unusually small consecutive issues are printed one time. ¶ Public access to the Congressional Record is available online through
the U.S. Government Publishing Office, at www.govinfo.gov, free of charge to the user. The information is updated online each day the
Congressional Record is published. For more information, contact the GPO Customer Contact Center, U.S. Government Publishing Office.
Phone 202–512–1800, or 866–512–1800 (toll-free). E-Mail, contactcenter@gpo.gov. ¶ To place an order for any of these products, visit the U.S.
Government Online Bookstore at: bookstore.gpo.gov. Mail orders to: Superintendent of Documents, P.O. Box 979050, St. Louis, MO
63197–9000, or phone orders to 866–512–1800 (toll-free), 202–512–1800 (D.C. area), or fax to 202–512–2104. Remit check or money order, made
payable to the Superintendent of Documents, or use VISA, MasterCard, Discover, American Express, or GPO Deposit Account. ¶ Following
each session of Congress, the daily Congressional Record is revised, printed, permanently bound and sold by the Superintendent of Documents
in individual parts or by sets. ¶ With the exception of copyrighted articles, there are no restrictions on the republication of material from
the Congressional Record.
POSTMASTER: Send address changes to the Superintendent of Documents, Congressional Record, U.S. Government Publishing Office,
Washington, D.C. 20402, along with the entire mailing label from the last issue received.
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
D332 April 1, 2019
Next Meeting of the SENATE
10 a.m., Tuesday, April 2
Senate Chamber
Program for Tuesday: Senate will resume consideration
of the motion to proceed to consideration of S. Res. 50,
Nominations in the Senate, and vote on the motion to
invoke cloture on the motion to proceed to the resolution
at 2:15 p.m.
(Senate will recess from 12:30 p.m. until 2:15 p.m. for their
respective party conferences.)
Next Meeting of the HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
10 a.m., Tuesday, April 2
House Chamber
Program for Tuesday: Consideration of H. Res. 271—
Condemning the Trump Administration’s Legal Cam-
paign to Take Away Americans’ Health Care (Subject to
a Rule). Consideration of measures under suspension of
the Rules.
Extensions of Remarks, as inserted in this issue
HOUSE
Bass, Karen, Calif., E373
Bustos, Cheri, Ill., E376
Collins, Doug, Ga., E376, E381
Cook, Paul, Calif., E374, E376, E382
DeLauro, Rosa L., Conn., E379
Hastings, Alcee L., Fla., E378
Huffman, Jared, Calif., E375, E376
Katko, John, N.Y., E373, E374
Keating, William R., Mass., E374, E377, E378, E381
Kuster, Ann M., N.H., E373, E377
Lieu, Ted, Calif., E374
Norcross, Donald, N.J., E373, E375
Norton, Eleanor Holmes, The District of Columbia,
E380
Perlmutter, Ed, Colo., E373, E374, E375, E376, E377,
E377, E378, E379, E381, E382
Rogers, Mike, Ala., E377, E381
Thompson, Mike, Calif., E376, E378, E380, E381
Wilson, Joe, S.C., E378, E380
Wittman, Robert J., Va., E375, E378
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:54 Apr 02, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00010 Fmt 0664 Sfmt 0664 E:\CR\FM\D01AP9.REC D01APPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
DIGEST
