Congressional Record
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
United States
of America PROCEEDINGS AND DEBATES OF THE 116th
CONGRESS, FIRST SESSION
b This symbol represents the time of day during the House proceedings, e.g., b 1407 is 2:07 p.m.
Matter set in this typeface indicates words inserted or appended, rather than spoken, by a Member of the House on the floor.
.
H1365
Vol. 165 WASHINGTON, WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 6, 2019 No. 23
House of Representatives
The House met at 10 a.m. and was
called to order by the Speaker pro tem-
pore (Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi).
f
DESIGNATION OF SPEAKER PRO
TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore laid be-
fore the House the following commu-
nication from the Speaker:
WASHINGTON, DC,
February 6, 2019.
I hereby appoint the Honorable BENNIE G.
THOMPSON to act as Speaker pro tempore on
this day.
NANCY PELOSI,
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
f
MORNING-HOUR DEBATE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the order of the House of Janu-
ary 3, 2019, the Chair will now recog-
nize Members from lists submitted by
the majority and minority leaders for
morning-hour debate.
The Chair will alternate recognition
between the parties. All time shall be
equally allocated between the parties,
and in no event shall debate continue
beyond 11:50 a.m. Each Member, other
than the majority and minority leaders
and the minority whip, shall be limited
to 5 minutes.
f
RESPONSE TO THE STATE OF THE
UNION ADDRESS
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
California (Mr. ROUDA) for 5 minutes.
Mr. ROUDA. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today in response to yesterday’s ad-
dress by the President to this body.
The guests the President invited rep-
resented America’s finest hours and
most compelling stories. They serve as
a reminder of a history much larger
than any individual among us and as
an invitation to recommit to our val-
ues and promises to our people.
But last night, the President chose to
invoke a national unity that he has
made every effort to fray. It has been
his cynical and sinister political strat-
egy to divide our country and burn
bridges among us.
The State of the Union is a platform
for the President to inject urgency into
the problems the country faces. As a
member of the Transportation and In-
frastructure Committee, I am encour-
aged that he has indicated he will sign
bipartisan infrastructure legislation,
and I am prepared to work with all
Members to do so serving our country
and communities.
The President also raised the specter
of declaring a national emergency to
build a monument to his ego, but the
real national emergency is the looming
climate crisis. As seas rise, fires burn,
and the weather becomes more ex-
treme, the people of Orange County
and across our country are already suf-
fering its effects, and action from the
executive branch can no longer wait—
let alone denial of climate change alto-
gether.
He warned us not to cross him, to
abandon our constitutional duty to ex-
ercise oversight and shine a light on
the practices of the executive branch.
Congress will not be intimidated.
We should not wait for nor should we
expect the President to lead an agenda
for the people, but this Congress can
move forward with a seriousness befit-
ting the problems of our time and work
with one another regardless of party to
improve the lives of the people who
trusted us to represent them.
f
HIGHLIGHTS FROM PRESIDENT
TRUMP’S STATE OF THE UNION
ADDRESS
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Pennsylvania (Mr. THOMPSON) for 5
minutes.
Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania.
Mr. Speaker, last night we heard a tre-
mendous State of the Union Address
from President Trump that expressed
confidence and hope for the future of
this great Nation.
Our economy is growing. Thanks in
part to historic tax reform, there are
currently more than 7 million job open-
ings. This truly is the land of oppor-
tunity. We must continue to support
smart policies that will expand oppor-
tunities for all Americans.
Mr. Speaker, I agree with President
Trump: Together, we can break decades
of political stalemate and choose
greatness over gridlock. We can work
together for the common good to im-
prove our outdated infrastructure; to
protect American workers; to provide a
check against the high cost of
healthcare, prescription drugs; to se-
cure our borders; and, yes, to fix our
broken immigration system.
As a nation, we have a right to secure
our borders. As President Trump stat-
ed, tolerance for illegal immigration is
not compassionate; it is cruel. Smug-
glers use migrant women and children
to exploit our laws and to gain access
to our country.
Congress must act to address these
issues that have plagued our country
for far too long because it is clear that
America is stronger when we work to-
gether.
We saw incredible moments of unity
last night. One that stands out for me
is when Republicans and Democrats in
this Chamber sang ‘‘Happy Birthday’’
to Holocaust survivor, Judah Samet.
Mr. Samet narrowly avoided the mass
killing at the Tree of Life synagogue in
Pittsburgh. Last night, he turned 81
years old. Mr. Speaker, I have wit-
nessed many State of the Union Ad-
dresses, but that is a moment I will
truly never forget.
The President and First Lady had
many distinguished guests in addition
to Mr. Samet, including another Penn-
sylvania resident, Pittsburgh Police
Officer Timothy Matson.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:39 Feb 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06FE7.000 H06FEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H1366 February 6, 2019
Officer Matson raced into the Tree of
Life synagogue and was shot seven
times as he chased down the shooter.
Officer Matson has undergone 12 sur-
geries. I understand he has more in the
future, but he made the trip to Wash-
ington to be in the gallery last night.
We are proud of the bravery and her-
oism of both Officer Matson and Mr.
Samet. It was an honor to have them
in the Chamber last night.
The President and First Lady also
welcomed a World War II and D-day
veteran; the first man to step on the
Moon; a childhood cancer survivor;
former prisoners who, thanks to crimi-
nal justice reform, have their lives
back; and many other special guests.
The State of the Union is both a time
to reflect and look to the future, and
this administration has achieved
record-setting accomplishments. The
policies being put forth truly are lift-
ing up all Americans and setting a
foundation to build a safe, strong, and
proud America:
We have worked to combat the opioid
crisis; we have provided relief from
burdensome regulations; we have given
our military the resources it needs to
be successful; and we can continue to
work towards solving the very serious
problems facing this Nation.
Now, I thank President Trump for
outlining his vision for the path for-
ward, and I look forward to working to-
gether to overcome some of our great-
est challenges. I know we can do it be-
cause it is the American way.
f
STATE OF THE UNION CELE-
BRATED WHAT IS GREAT ABOUT
AMERICA
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
California (Mr. LAMALFA) for 5 min-
utes.
Mr. LAMALFA. Mr. Speaker, last
night, in this very Chamber, we heard
a lot about what has made America the
strong country it is: the ideals, the
founding ideals, and the strength of
which, when the people are able to put
their will, their way behind it, has
made us the greatest country in the
world.
What the President outlined were
many important things. We have to
keep coming back to the situation at
our border.
Now, interestingly, polls taken last
night by CBS and CNN—not the bas-
tions of conservatism or the supporters
of President Trump that you would ex-
pect—both of these polls, the people’s
voice across this country added up to
76 percent somewhat support or strong-
ly support the measures the President
had talked about in securing our bor-
der.
We can get into the semantics, if you
want to call it a wall or call it a fence,
whatever it is. ‘‘A strong fence makes
for good neighbors’’—an old cowboy
saying.
The President laid out a plan that he
wants to work with this Congress to
get to a resolution on that, not an ex-
ecutive order. But in the time since we
came up with this temporary solution
here for 3 weeks, the negotiations from
that side of the aisle have been zip.
Is that what people see as this Cham-
ber, that this process is supposed to be?
No. They want us at the table coming
up with solutions.
The President has reached out with
an olive branch, saying: We will give
you 3 more weeks on this. Let’s get the
government reopened and get a solu-
tion on this.
Instead, gridlock.
What the President talked about was
greatness instead of gridlock. That is
what this Nation is about. That is what
we need.
Instead, we hear around here that the
crisis isn’t something at our border,
isn’t something with the immigration
problem we have. We hear about cli-
mate change. Climate change, climate
change—a manufactured problem, a
manufactured crisis.
Indeed, the United States is leading
the way of all the westernized coun-
tries, all the industrialized countries,
of lowering its CO2 numbers, leading
the way by things we are already doing
and innovating. Yet that is the first
thing, that the religion of climate
change can be tapped around here to
stop the progress we have when we can
make more progress by being a thriv-
ing, strong economy. The crisis isn’t
that. It would be much more so our
crushing national debt and our border
situation.
If we don’t provide for our own secu-
rity as a nation, then we don’t really
have much. So let’s solve these issues.
As we prosper, as we do better, we can
even improve more on doing things en-
vironmentally more strongly.
I come from northern California,
where the climate has been pretty
tough with the drought. The climate is
pretty tough where our forest burns
around us and amongst us, like in the
town of Paradise, the town of Redding,
and other areas of the district that are
so negatively affected by that.
The crisis doesn’t lie in the religion
of climate change. The crisis lies in us
doing whatever we can to protect our
citizens at the border, from the crush-
ing national debt, and from the threat-
ened export of our jobs that we should
be employing our own people here.
Mr. Speaker, there is room for a lot
of optimism. We heard that message of
optimism last night from the Presi-
dent, again, right in this Chamber,
when he mentioned our great heroes
from World War II who were here last
night and one of the people he liberated
from those camps where the Germans
held the Jewish people and executed so
many of them and abused so many
more.
What a great story of optimism and
what America is about, liberating and
preserving freedom in this country and
around the world, and one of the high-
lights in my time here in this U.S.
House of Representatives to see those
people come together so many years
later and celebrating what is great
about America and how it exports that
freedom and opportunity to the rest of
the world.
f
RECESS
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 12(a) of rule I, the Chair
declares the House in recess until noon
today.
Accordingly (at 10 o’clock and 12
minutes a.m.), the House stood in re-
cess.
f
b 1200
AFTER RECESS
The recess having expired, the House
was called to order by the Speaker at
noon.
f
PRAYER
Rabbi Arnold E. Resnicoff, U.S. Navy
Chaplain, Retired, Washington, D.C.,
offered the following prayer:
Almighty God, we the people stand
before You, some in prayer, all in need.
Armed with our Founders’ prayers
and dreams: more perfect Union—less
divided; liberty and justice—for us and
our posterity.
We the people don’t give up. Neither
should our leaders.
Let our Nation never slumber: no
closings, fits and starts; no honest pay
denied for honest work; no time out
from efforts to improve our lives,
achieve our dreams.
On this day—1971—Alan Shepard hit
two golf balls on the Moon: first human
swings beyond the confines of the
Earth.
At our best, fair play defines our
work with some room for playfulness.
We pursue, achieve extraordinary
dreams with humor, joy—a touch of
grace.
Reignite that joy and grace, we pray;
make no room for hate or threats, or
closing shop. Reignite our dreams, as
we—our better angels—reunite for
progress toward more perfect times.
And may we say, amen.
f
THE JOURNAL
The SPEAKER. The Chair has exam-
ined the Journal of the last day’s pro-
ceedings and announces to the House
her approval thereof.
Pursuant to clause 1, rule I, the Jour-
nal stands approved.
f
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
The SPEAKER. Will the gentle-
woman from New Hampshire (Ms.
KUSTER) come forward and lead the
House in the Pledge of Allegiance.
Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire led
the Pledge of Allegiance as follows:
I pledge allegiance to the Flag of the
United States of America, and to the Repub-
lic for which it stands, one nation under God,
indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:39 Feb 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K06FE7.002 H06FEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1367
February 6, 2019
WELCOMING RABBI ARNOLD E.
RESNICOFF
The SPEAKER. Without objection,
the gentleman from Virginia (Mr.
BEYER) is recognized for 1 minute.
There was no objection.
Mr. BEYER. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to honor Rabbi Arnold E.
Resnicoff who led us in the opening
prayer today.
Rabbi Resnicoff is an American con-
servative rabbi who served as a mili-
tary officer and military chaplain. He
served in Vietnam and in Europe before
attending rabbinical school, and then
went on to serve as a U.S. Navy chap-
lain for almost 5 years. He promoted
the creation of the Vietnam Veterans
Memorial, and delivered the closing
prayer in its 1982 dedication.
In 1984, President Ronald Reagan
spoke on his eyewitness account of the
1983 Beirut barracks bombing.
After retiring from the military, the
rabbi served as the National Director
of Interreligious Affairs for the Amer-
ican Jewish Community and then spe-
cial assistant to the Secretary and
Chief of Staff of the U.S. Air Force,
serving at the equivalent military
range of brigadier general.
Across his career, he received several
awards including: the Defense Superior
Service Medal, the Department of the
Air Force Decoration for Exceptional
Civilian Service, and the Chapel of
Four Chaplains Hall of Heroes Gold Me-
dallion.
He has always been a spiritual inspi-
ration, and now inspires me to Google
how far the golf balls were hit on the
Moon.
Madam Speaker, I am honored to
welcome Rabbi Resnicoff to the House
of Representatives today, and person-
ally thank him for his leadership and
for offering the opening prayer.
f
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER
PRO TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Ms.
KUSTER of New Hampshire). The Chair
will entertain up to 15 further requests
for 1-minute speeches on each side of
the aisle.
f
PASS AN AGENDA THAT IS FOR
THE PEOPLE
(Mr. KILDEE asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Mr. KILDEE. Madam Speaker, last
night, the President came to the floor
here and highlighted important issues
like the need to fix our aging infra-
structure and lower the cost of pre-
scription drugs.
These are issues that I know I and
many of my colleagues are ready to
work with the President on. However,
the President does have some history
of saying things and then not nec-
essarily following through.
In fact, last State of the Union, the
President promised a $1.5 trillion infra-
structure plan, but the next month, re-
leased an inadequate proposal that put
nearly all the burden on States and
local governments to fund those nec-
essary repairs.
In October of 2016, then-candidate
Trump promised in Michigan that not
one plant would close on his watch.
But this year we saw General Motors
slash 14,000 jobs in North America, in-
cluding in my district. And while the
President has promised to protect pub-
lic health, we have seen his own admin-
istration refuse to act on important
drinking water and health protections.
Throughout his calls to fix the bro-
ken immigration system, he continues
to govern by tweet, chant, and manu-
factured crises. The President has to
rise for the occasion. We have an agen-
da that is for the people, and I look for-
ward to working with my colleagues
across the aisle to enact it.
f
BORN ALIVE ABORTION
SURVIVORS PROTECTION
(Mrs. WAGNER asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend her re-
marks.)
Mrs. WAGNER. Madam Speaker, I
rise today to speak on behalf of babies
who survive abortions and are born
alive.
The Constitution clearly states that
all persons born in this country are en-
titled to life, liberty, and equal protec-
tion under the law.
Our Founding Fathers did not put
age limits on who is entitled to life,
but over the past month, I have been
astounded and horrified to watch rad-
ical legislators upend the Constitution
and argue that babies who survive
abortions should not be given the same
level of medical care that all other
newborn babies receive.
New York legislators repealed a law
mandating medical care for any baby
born alive during an abortion. A law
proposed in Virginia would allow abor-
tions up to the very moment of full de-
livery.
Congress must act to protect those
who cannot protect themselves. This
week, I introduced the Born Alive
Abortion Survivors Protection Act,
H.R. 962, which merely ensures that ba-
bies who survive abortions receive im-
mediate lifesaving care, which is very
simple. We choose life or we choose
death.
f
FREE PETER BIAR AJAK FROM
SOUTH SUDAN
(Ms. DEAN asked and was given per-
mission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend her re-
marks.)
Ms. DEAN. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to speak about Peter Biar Ajak,
a husband, father, and renowned peace
activist unlawfully detained in South
Sudan.
In July of 2018, Peter was arrested by
South Sudan security forces. He has
been held without charge or trial ever
since, and has frequently been denied
access to his family, counsel, medical
care, and adequate food.
Peter was one of Sudan’s Lost Boys
who resettled to Philadelphia and at-
tended La Salle University where I
taught for 10 years. I knew Peter as a
brilliant student and leader. He later
went on to Harvard and Cambridge.
He is a dedicated peace activist, who
cofounded South Sudan Young Leaders
Forum. In his work, he has criticized
South Sudan’s leaders for failing to se-
cure permanent peace for their people.
Incredibly, Peter is now under inves-
tigation for crimes, including treason
and terrorism. If charged and con-
victed, Peter could be sentenced to
death. In reality, he is being persecuted
for speech. I call on President Kiir to
release Peter and all political prisoners
in South Sudan.
f
RECOGNIZING OMAHA PUBLIC
SCHOOLS FOUNDATION AND DI-
RECTOR TOBA COHEN-DUNNING
(Mr. BACON asked and was given per-
mission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Mr. BACON. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to recognize the Omaha Public
Schools Foundation and its director,
Toba Cohen-Dunning for their commit-
ment to the children attending Omaha
Public Schools.
The Foundation was established in
1984 with $1,555, gifted by teachers and
staff. It is now a multimillion-dollar
foundation serving the students and
teachers in Nebraska’s largest school
district.
Last November, the Foundation was
recognized with the Investor in Amer-
ica Award by the Partners for Livable
Communities which acknowledges
groups and individuals who use cre-
ative public and private partnerships
to create more opportunities for liv-
able communities.
As director of the Foundation, Toba
directs a unique model of social entre-
preneurship that invests the revenues
from early childhood education and
childhood programs to scholarships for
high school seniors, teacher innovation
and classroom grants, and community
partnership projects.
Madam Speaker, I offer my congratu-
lations to Ms. Cohen-Dunning and the
staff of the Foundation for their com-
mitment to our children.
f
HONORING CHILDREN’S
HEALTHCARE OF ATLANTA FOR
THEIR WORK FIGHTING SICKLE
CELL ANEMIA DISEASE
(Mr. DAVID SCOTT of Georgia asked
and was given permission to address
the House for 1 minute.)
Mr. DAVID SCOTT of Georgia.
Madam Speaker, I rise today to honor
Children’s Healthcare of Atlanta for
their extraordinary work in fighting
sickle cell anemia disease, and pro-
viding comprehensive medical care for
thousands of our children in Georgia.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:39 Feb 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K06FE7.005 H06FEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H1368 February 6, 2019
Children’s Healthcare of Atlanta is
the home of this Nation’s largest pedi-
atric sickle cell disease program with
more than 1,800 children and teens.
Georgia is home to over 8,000 people
who have sickle cell disease, one of the
Nation’s most impacted populations.
On this Thursday, February 7, Chil-
dren’s Healthcare of Atlanta will be
hosting a briefing at 1 p.m. right here
in the Capitol in room HVC–201 to dis-
cuss innovations in sickle cell disease
treatment.
Madam Speaker, more than 100,000
Americans have and suffer from sickle
cell disease. It is a painful, genetic
blood disorder that prevents the chil-
dren from getting air. It is debilitating.
Madam Speaker, I ask that we stand
proudly and support the Children’s
Healthcare of Atlanta.
f
INVEST IN MEANINGFUL PHYS-
ICAL BARRIERS AT OUR BORDER
(Mr. GIANFORTE asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute and to revise and extend
his remarks.)
Mr. GIANFORTE. Madam Speaker,
Border Patrol agents recently made
the largest fentanyl bust in the agen-
cy’s history. A suspect attempted to
cross our southern border with nearly
400 pounds of meth and enough
fentanyl to kill 57 million Americans.
Montana faces a meth epidemic that
is tearing our families apart. We must
secure the border to cut off the meth
supply that cartels push through the
ports of entry and across our porous
borders.
Securing the border with a physical
barrier enjoys bipartisan support. More
than 60 Democrats in the House and
the Senate have claimed a physical
barrier should be part of the solution.
Both U.S. Senators from Montana
have voted for physical barriers. Yet,
despite bipartisan support for a phys-
ical barrier, the Speaker recently de-
clared there is not going to be any
money for a wall.
Madam Speaker, I urge Members of
the border security conference com-
mittee to listen to lawmakers from
both parties and invest in meaningful
physical barriers at our southern bor-
der.
f
REVERSE TRANSGENDER
MILITARY BAN
(Mr. PAPPAS asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. PAPPAS. Madam Speaker, yes-
terday, I welcomed a transgender vet-
eran from New Hampshire named
Tavion as my guest to the State of the
Union. I am proud to say that he was
warmly received here in the people’s
House.
Tavion didn’t give a big speech last
night but he still delivered a powerful
message. His story and exemplary serv-
ice stand as a direct rebuttal to the
false claims and flimsy logic used to
justify the Trump administration’s ban
on transgender military service.
By politicizing our military and
marginalizing patriot servicemembers,
this unjust policy is weakening Amer-
ica’s Armed Forces. Any American who
is prepared to risk life and limb in de-
fense of our Nation deserves our undy-
ing respect.
In spite of our political differences,
my sincere hope is that members of
both parties can come together to sup-
port our men and women in uniform,
regardless of gender identity.
Madam Speaker, the American peo-
ple sent us to Washington to stand up
for our constituents and our values. We
can live up to that responsibility by re-
versing the transgender military serv-
ice ban and honoring brave trans vets
like Tavion.
f
b 1215
APPOINTMENT OF MEMBERS TO
ACT AS SPEAKER PRO TEMPORE
TO SIGN ENROLLED BILLS AND
JOINT RESOLUTIONS DURING
THE 116TH CONGRESS
The SPEAKER pro tempore laid be-
fore the House the following commu-
nication from the Speaker:
FEBRUARY 6, 2019.
I hereby appoint the Honorable STENY H.
HOYER, the Honorable JAMES E. CLYBURN,
the Honorable BEN RAY LUJÁN, the Honor-
able ROBERT C. ‘‘BOBBY’’ SCOTT, the Honor-
able ELIJAH E. CUMMINGS, the Honorable
DORIS O. MATSUI, the Honorable JOHN P.
SARBANES, the Honorable GERALD E. CON-
NOLLY, the Honorable DONALD S. BEYER, Jr.,
the Honorable ANTHONY G. BROWN, the Hon-
orable A. DONALD MCEACHIN, and the Honor-
able JAMIE RASKIN to act as Speaker pro
tempore to sign enrolled bills and joint reso-
lutions through the remainder of the One
Hundred Sixteenth Congress.
Sincerely,
NANCY PELOSI,
Speaker of the House.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Without
objection, the appointments are ap-
proved.
There was no objection.
f
COMMUNICATION FROM THE
CLERK OF THE HOUSE
The SPEAKER pro tempore laid be-
fore the House the following commu-
nication from the Clerk of the House of
Representatives:
OFFICE OF THE CLERK,
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
Washington, DC, February 5, 2019.
Hon. NANCY PELOSI,
The Speaker, House of Representatives,
Washington, DC.
DEAR MADAM SPEAKER: Pursuant to the
permission granted in Clause 2(h) of Rule II
of the Rules of the U.S. House of Representa-
tives, the Clerk received the following mes-
sage from the Secretary of the Senate on
February 5, 2019, at 5:17 p.m.:
That the Senate passed without amend-
ment S. 49.
With best wishes, I am.
Sincerely,
KAREN L. HAAS.
COMMUNICATION FROM THE
CLERK OF THE HOUSE
The SPEAKER pro tempore laid be-
fore the House the following commu-
nication from the Clerk of the House of
Representatives:
OFFICE OF THE CLERK,
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
Washington, DC, February 6, 2019.
Hon. NANCY PELOSI,
The Speaker, House of Representatives,
Washington, DC.
DEAR MADAM SPEAKER: Pursuant to the
permission granted in Clause 2(h) of Rule II
of the Rules of the U.S. House of Representa-
tives, the Clerk received the following mes-
sage from the Secretary of the Senate on
February 6, 2019, at 11:11 a.m.:
That the Senate passed S. 1.
That the Senate passed without amend-
ment H.R. 439.
With best wishes, I am
Sincerely,
KAREN L. HAAS.
f
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER
PRO TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, the Chair
will postpone further proceedings
today on motions to suspend the rules
on which a recorded vote or the yeas
and nays are ordered, or votes objected
to under clause 6 of rule XX.
The House will resume proceedings
on postponed questions at a later time.
f
PACIFIC NORTHWEST EARTH-
QUAKE PREPAREDNESS ACT OF
2019
Mr. DEFAZIO. Madam Speaker, I
move to suspend the rules and pass the
bill (H.R. 876) to direct the Adminis-
trator of the Federal Emergency Man-
agement Agency to carry out a plan for
the purchase and installation of an
earthquake early warning system for
the Cascadia Subduction Zone, and for
other purposes, as amended.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 876
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; DEFINITION.
(a) SHORT TITLE.—This Act may be cited as
the ‘‘Pacific Northwest Earthquake Pre-
paredness Act of 2019’’.
(b) CASCADIA SUBDUCTION ZONE DEFINED.—
In this Act, the term ‘‘Cascadia Subduction
Zone’’ means the landward-dipping fault that
is approximately 684 miles long, separates
the Juan de Fuca and North America plates,
and stretches along a portion of the western
coast of the United States beginning off Cape
Mendocino, California, along the State of Or-
egon, the State of Washington, to Northern
Vancouver Island, British Columbia.
SEC. 2. EARTHQUAKE EARLY WARNING SYSTEM
FOR CASCADIA SUBDUCTION ZONE.
(a) PLAN FOR PURCHASE AND INSTALLA-
TION.—
(1) DEVELOPMENT AND FUNDING.—The Ad-
ministrator of the Federal Emergency Man-
agement Agency shall—
(A) develop a plan for the purchase and in-
stallation of an earthquake early warning
system for the Cascadia Subduction Zone;
and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:28 Feb 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K06FE7.007 H06FEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1369
February 6, 2019
(B) identify the funds necessary for imple-
mentation of the plan.
(2) SUBMISSION TO CONGRESS.—Not later
than 90 days after the date of enactment of
this Act, the Administrator shall submit to
the appropriate committees of Congress a
copy of the plan.
(b) REPORT TO CONGRESS.—Not later than 1
year after the date of enactment of this Act,
the Administrator shall submit to the appro-
priate committees of Congress a report that
summarizes the actions taken to implement
the plan.
(c) DEFINITIONS.—In this section, the fol-
lowing definitions apply:
(1) APPROPRIATE COMMITTEES OF CON-
GRESS.—The term ‘‘appropriate committees
of Congress’’ means the Committee on
Transportation and Infrastructure of the
House of Representatives and the Committee
on Homeland Security and Governmental Af-
fairs of the Senate.
(2) EARTHQUAKE EARLY WARNING SYSTEM.—
The term ‘‘earthquake early warning sys-
tem’’ includes—
(A) improvements to regional and geodetic
networks that support building a capability
for an earthquake early warning system; and
(B) seismometers, Global Positioning Sys-
tem receivers, and associated infrastructure.
SEC. 3. EARTHQUAKE AND TSUNAMI TASK
FORCE.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The President shall es-
tablish an Earthquake and Tsunami Task
Force for the purpose of developing a com-
prehensive strategy and recommendations on
how the Nation should prepare and plan for,
mitigate against, respond to, recover from,
and more successfully adapt to a covered
event in the Cascadia Subduction Zone.
(b) TASK FORCE.—
(1) MEMBERSHIP.—The membership of the
Task Force shall include a cross section of
subject matter experts representing the fol-
lowing:
(A) Relevant Federal agencies.
(B) The States of Oregon, Washington, and
California.
(C) Indian tribes, local governments, and
private sector representatives that may be
impacted by a covered event in the Cascadia
Subduction Zone.
(D) Universities, academia, and research
institutions with expertise in topics relevant
to the work of the Task Force.
(2) CHAIRPERSON.—The Administrator (or
the Administrator’s designee) shall serve as
the chairperson of the Task Force.
(3) DETAILED EMPLOYEES.—Members of the
Task Force may detail employees to assist
the Administrator (or the Administrator’s
designee) in fulfilling the responsibilities of
the Task Force.
(c) COMPREHENSIVE STRATEGY.—
(1) STRATEGY.—The comprehensive strat-
egy to be developed under subsection (a)
shall include the following:
(A) A description of how Federal agencies
will coordinate to develop the ability to pre-
pare and plan for, mitigate against, respond
to, recover from, and more successfully
adapt to the impacts of a covered event in
the Cascadia Subduction Zone.
(B) A strategy to ensure collaboration be-
tween the Department of Transportation,
the Department of Energy, the Coast Guard,
the Corps of Engineers, and other Federal
agencies, as appropriate, for purposes of—
(i) completing a needs assessment of Fed-
eral facilities in need of hardening for a cov-
ered event; and
(ii) developing a strategic plan to mitigate
and retrofit Federal, State, tribal, and local
critical assets for freight, energy, and tran-
sit purposes to withstand a covered event
and to help save lives during and imme-
diately after a covered event.
(C) A strategy—
(i) to assist State, tribal, and local govern-
ments in developing and implementing a co-
ordinated and comprehensive plan to
prioritize Federal, State, tribal, local, and
private investments and activities to develop
the ability to prepare and plan for, mitigate
against, respond to, recover from, and more
successfully adapt to the impacts of a cov-
ered event in the Cascadia Subduction Zone;
and
(ii) to link any existing statewide mitiga-
tion plan with such a coordinated and com-
prehensive plan.
(D) With respect to the strategy described
in subparagraph (C), an examination of the
feasibility of the public sector, the private
sector, and individuals to acquire earth-
quake insurance.
(E) An identification of funding opportuni-
ties to implement the comprehensive strat-
egy and any recommendations made by the
Task Force, including—
(i) existing funding opportunities across
Federal agencies and other sources; and
(ii) potential new funding opportunities.
(F) An identification of barriers to obtain-
ing funding for the implementation of the
comprehensive strategy and recommenda-
tions on how to remove the barriers.
(G) A strategy for appropriate Federal
agencies to collaborate with and assist
State, tribal, and local governments in de-
veloping recommendations for cost-effective
mitigation alternatives for aging State, trib-
al, and locally owned critical infrastructure.
(H) A strategy for assisting State, tribal,
and local governments in developing a recov-
ery plan prior to a covered event in the
Cascadia Subduction Zone that addresses
how State, tribal, and local governments
may want to rebuild after the event.
(I) An identification of the steps taken to
date to develop an onshore and offshore
earthquake early warning system and a de-
scription of the purpose and scope of such a
system.
(J) An evaluation of the types of offshore
earthquake early warning systems and rec-
ommendations and a cost estimate for an
earthquake early warning system appro-
priate for the Cascadia Subduction Zone.
(K) Recommendations on how an earth-
quake early warning system should operate,
including whether and how the system
should interface with the private sector.
(L) A description of appropriate roles and
responsibilities for Federal, State, local, and
tribal governments, including who should op-
erate and maintain an earthquake early
warning system, the cost of the system, and
possible funding sources for the system.
(M) A plan on how to integrate an earth-
quake early warning system into existing
and new public alert warning systems and
technologies, including mobile systems.
(2) USE OF EXISTING PLANS.—In developing
the comprehensive strategy, the Task Force
may use existing plans, studies, and other re-
sources.
(d) RECOMMENDATIONS.—The recommenda-
tions to be developed by the Task Force
under subsection (a) shall include rec-
ommendations on—
(1) potential administrative or legislative
changes required to implement the com-
prehensive strategy;
(2) the funding required to implement the
comprehensive strategy and the rec-
ommendations; and
(3) the order of priority for implementation
of the comprehensive strategy.
(e) NATIONAL ACADEMIES.—
(1) COLLABORATION.—The Task Force shall
work simultaneously and collaboratively
with the National Academies.
(2) AGREEMENT.—The Task Force shall
enter into an agreement with the National
Academies under which the National Acad-
emies shall develop recommendations for a
Federal research strategy to advance sci-
entific understanding of a Cascadia
Subduction Zone earthquake and resulting
tsunami preparedness, including the fol-
lowing:
(A) Geologic conditions, ground motions,
and tsunami hazards.
(B) Implications of an effective automated
early warning system.
(C) Effects of mega-earthquake and tsu-
nami events on the built and natural envi-
ronment.
(D) Social and behavioral factors for effec-
tive disaster preparedness and response.
(E) Cost-effective mitigation alternatives
for legacy and aging infrastructure.
(F) Strategic planning for freight, energy,
and transit network robustness.
(G) Tools that help communities invest
their resources for the greatest benefit.
(H) Any other topics identified as nec-
essary by the Task Force or the National
Academies.
(f) REPORT.—Not later than 18 months after
the date of enactment of this Act, the Ad-
ministrator shall submit to the Committee
on Transportation and Infrastructure of the
House of Representatives and the Committee
on Homeland Security and Governmental Af-
fairs of the Senate a report of the Task
Force that includes the following:
(1) The comprehensive strategy to be de-
veloped under subsection (a).
(2) The recommendations to be developed
under subsections (a), (d), and (e).
(g) DEFINITIONS.—In this section, the fol-
lowing definitions apply:
(1) ADMINISTRATOR.—The term ‘‘Adminis-
trator’’ means the Administrator of the Fed-
eral Emergency Management Agency.
(2) COVERED EVENT.—The term ‘‘covered
event’’ means an earthquake, tsunami, or
combined earthquake and tsunami event.
(3) TASK FORCE.—The term ‘‘Task Force’’
means the Federal interagency task force to
be established under subsection (a).
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentleman from Or-
egon (Mr. DEFAZIO) and the gentleman
from Michigan (Mr. MITCHELL) each
will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from Oregon.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. DEFAZIO. Madam Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that all Members
may have 5 legislative days within
which to revise and extend their re-
marks and include extraneous material
on H.R. 876, as amended.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from Oregon?
There was no objection.
Mr. DEFAZIO. Madam Speaker, I
yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
Madam Speaker, I rise in strong sup-
port of this overdue action by the Fed-
eral Government, the Pacific North-
west Earthquake Preparedness Act of
2019, as amended.
Next month will mark the eighth an-
niversary of the devastating 2011 earth-
quake and tsunami in Tohoku, Japan.
Japanese officials estimate the event
caused 100,000 buildings to totally col-
lapse, 270,000 buildings to half collapse,
and partially damaged almost 750,000
buildings.
Fifteen thousand people died. Most of
the deaths were caused by the resulting
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:51 Feb 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06FE7.005 H06FEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H1370 February 6, 2019
tsunami and not the earthquake be-
cause Japan has an early warning sys-
tem for earthquakes, and it worked. It
sent alarms and text messages warning
citizens to take cover and likely pre-
vented many deaths and injuries.
Within 15 seconds to 1 minute of
warning, depending on location, the
earthquake warning system alerted Ja-
pan’s high-speed rail system to stop
trains, reducing deaths and injuries;
production lines had time to cease op-
erations; and property damage eco-
nomic losses were way less than would
have been otherwise.
I went with then-Chairman Denham
over to observe their system and dis-
cuss what they are doing now. Now
what they are doing is they realize
that most of the people died because
they did not have ocean sensors, and
they underestimated the height of the
tsunami. They told people to take shel-
ter in places 10 to 12 feet above wave
level. The waves were much bigger and,
subsequently, many of those people
died.
So they are not waiting. The tech-
nology currently exists for a realtime
warning system that will give them
even more notice of an earthquake and
will give them more accurate wave
heights on the resulting tsunami so
people can take proper shelter.
We have the same opportunity to do
that here in the United States if we
take action soon.
The Cascadia subduction zone sits off
the coast of Oregon and northern Cali-
fornia—right at that border, essen-
tially—and experts believe it has gen-
erated at least a dozen major earth-
quakes between magnitudes 8 and 9,
which is an awesome earthquake, and
resulting tsunamis over the last 5,000
years.
This January was the 319th anniver-
sary of the last large quake, and many
scientists say that we are overdue and
it could happen at any time. It will be
essentially a mirror image of the
subduction zone off the coast of Japan
that caused the devastating 2011 earth-
quake and tsunami.
The technology is here. The question
is whether we want to invest in an off-
shore earthquake early warning system
now or wait until thousands of people
have died and catastrophic property
damage occurs. We need to invest now
rather than later.
This bill will begin to address the
very real threat of a combined earth-
quake and tsunami off the Pacific
Northwest coast before it happens.
Some forecasts say there is a 10 per-
cent chance of a magnitude 8 to 9 in
the next 30 years; others predict a 35 to
40 percent chance in the next 50 years.
This bill directs the Federal Emer-
gency Management Agency to develop
a plan to identify funds to purchase
equipment necessary for an earthquake
early warning system and to report to
Congress on the implementation of the
plan.
It also requires the President to es-
tablish an earthquake and tsunami
task force. The task force will consist
of representatives from potentially im-
pacted areas as well as earthquake and
tsunami experts to develop a com-
prehensive strategy and recommenda-
tions on how the Nation should prepare
for, plan for, mitigate against, respond
to, recover from, and adapt to an
earthquake, tsunami, or combined
event of a large magnitude in the
Cascadia subduction zone.
We need to take this threat seriously
and prepare accordingly. Madam
Speaker, I urge my colleagues to sup-
port this measure, and I reserve the
balance of my time.
Mr. MITCHELL. Madam Speaker, I
yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
Madam Speaker, as my colleague has
noted, earthquakes strike without
warning and result in potentially cata-
strophic casualties and massive dam-
age to buildings and infrastructure.
As was seen in Japan 8 years ago,
earthquakes in the coastal regions
such as the Pacific Northwest can be
followed by devastating tsunamis with
huge loss of life. They can’t be pre-
vented, but they impact life, property,
and our economy. What we can do is
warn our citizens of that threat.
H.R. 876, the Pacific Northwest
Earthquake Preparedness Act of 2019,
directs FEMA to plan the development
of an earthquake early warning sys-
tem, not unlike that in Japan, for the
Cascadia subduction zone. The bill di-
rects the President to establish an
earthquake and tsunami task force to
develop a comprehensive strategy and
recommendations on how to prepare
and plan for seismic events.
Good planning and preparedness can
save lives and property, and this legis-
lation will help us to prepare for, miti-
gate against, and respond to disasters
along the Cascadia subduction zone.
Madam Speaker, I urge my col-
leagues to support this bill. I support
the bill, and I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. DEFAZIO. Madam Speaker, I
yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
Madam Speaker, I want to thank the
gentleman from Michigan for his sup-
port of the bill, and I will look to sup-
port him on issues that deal with the
Great Lakes in the future or other con-
cerns that he may have.
This is just something that, as a na-
tion, as we see threats to our citizens
around the country, we should be push-
ing for preparedness and for resilience.
This bill, if we move forward with the
plan and put out the instrumentation,
will save lives and will be a tremendous
benefit to the Nation as a whole.
Madam Speaker, I have no further
speakers, and I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. MITCHELL. Madam Speaker, I
have no further speakers, and I yield
back the balance of my time.
Mr. DEFAZIO. Madam Speaker, I
yield back the balance of my time.
Ms. JOHNSONof Texas. Madam Speaker, I
support passage of H.R. 876, the Pacific
Northwest Earthquake Preparedness Act of
2019, as amended. I commend my friend from
Oregon, Chairman DEFAZIO, for addressing
the urgent need to develop better earthquake
and tsunami warning systems in the region of
our country most vulnerable to such natural
disasters. In fact, my own committee, the
Science, Space, and Technology Committee,
has had for many years a leading role in
strengthening earthquake and tsunami pre-
paredness and response in order to minimize
the loss of life and property.
In December 2018, we enacted a reauthor-
ization of the National Earthquake Hazards
Reduction Program (NEHRP), which was first
authorized in 1977 but had not been updated
since 2004. In the 15 years since, our sci-
entific understanding of earthquakes as well
as how we apply that science to save lives
and property have evolved significantly. In the
reauthorization, we updated the program to re-
flect those developments.
Four agencies participate in NEHRP. The
National Science Foundation and U.S. Geo-
logical Survey (USGS) carry out fundamental
research in the earth sciences that contributes
to our understanding of earthquakes. In addi-
tion, USGS develops and manages
ShakeAlert—the earthquake early warning
system. The National Institute of Standards
and Technology is the lead agency for
NEHRP and also carries out applied research
in support of more earthquake resilient build-
ing codes. FEMA provides earthquake training
and awareness to States and territories and
assists communities in creating seismic mitiga-
tion plans. Each of these agencies has a
unique and essential role as clearly defined in
the NEHRP statute. I want to thank my col-
league Chairman DEFAZIO for working with me
to ensure that H.R. 876 does not unintention-
ally create any confusion or uncertainty as to
the respective roles and responsibilities of
each of these agencies.
Our committee also has a lead role in tsu-
nami warning and preparedness. The National
Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
(NOAA) has run a tsunami early warning sys-
tem for many years. In 2006, the Science
Committee passed the Tsunami Warning and
Education Act. We updated that program just
last Congress through H.R. 353, thanks to the
leadership of another colleague from Oregon
and a valued Member of the Science Com-
mittee, Rep. SUZANNE BONAMICI.
We all share he same goal of taking advan-
tage of the strengths and resources of our fed-
eral agencies to minimize the tragic loss of life
and the economic impact of large scale nat-
ural disasters. If H.R. 876 becomes law, I look
forward to working with my colleagues to en-
sure good coordination and collaboration be-
tween the new activities required in H.R. 876
and the ongoing activities under the NEHRP
and Tsunami warning programs. I urge my
colleagues to support H.R. 876.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentleman from Oregon (Mr. DEFA-
ZIO) that the House suspend the rules
and pass the bill, H.R. 876, as amended.
The question was taken; and (two-
thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the bill, as
amended, was passed.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:28 Feb 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K06FE7.012 H06FEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1371
February 6, 2019
FAIRNESS FOR BREASTFEEDING
MOTHERS ACT OF 2019
Ms. NORTON. Madam Speaker, I
move to suspend the rules and pass the
bill (H.R. 866) to provide a lactation
room in public buildings.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 866
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Fairness For
Breastfeeding Mothers Act of 2019’’.
SEC. 2. LACTATION ROOM IN PUBLIC BUILDINGS.
(a) LACTATION ROOM IN PUBLIC BUILDINGS.—
Chapter 33 of title 40, United States Code, is
amended by adding at the end the following
new section:
‘‘§ 3318. Lactation room in public buildings
‘‘(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
‘‘(1) APPROPRIATE AUTHORITY.—The term
‘appropriate authority’ means the head of a
Federal agency, the Architect of the Capitol,
or other official authority responsible for the
operation of a public building.
‘‘(2) COVERED PUBLIC BUILDING.—The term
‘covered public building’ means a public
building (as defined in section 3301) that is
open to the public and contains a public rest-
room, and includes a building listed in sec-
tion 6301 or 5101.
‘‘(3) LACTATION ROOM.—The term ‘lactation
room’ means a hygienic place, other than a
bathroom, that—
‘‘(A) is shielded from view;
‘‘(B) is free from intrusion; and
‘‘(C) contains a chair, a working surface,
and, if the public building is otherwise sup-
plied with electricity, an electrical outlet.
‘‘(b) LACTATION ROOM REQUIRED.—Except
as provided in subsection (c), the appropriate
authority of a covered public building shall
ensure that the building contains a lactation
room that is made available for use by mem-
bers of the public to express breast milk.
‘‘(c) EXCEPTIONS.—A covered public build-
ing may be excluded from the requirement in
subsection (b) at the discretion of the appro-
priate authority if—
‘‘(1) the public building—
‘‘(A) does not contain a lactation room for
employees who work in the building; and
‘‘(B) does not have a room that could be
repurposed as a lactation room or a space
that could be made private using portable
materials, at a reasonable cost; or
‘‘(2) new construction would be required to
create a lactation room in the public build-
ing and the cost of such construction is
unfeasible.
‘‘(d) NO UNAUTHORIZED ENTRY.—Nothing in
this section shall be construed to authorize
an individual to enter a public building or
portion thereof that the individual is not
otherwise authorized to enter.’’.
(b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of
sections at the beginning of chapter 33 of
title 40, United States Code, is amended by
inserting after the item related to section
3316 the following new item:
‘‘3318. Lactation room in public buildings.’’.
(c) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments
made by this section shall take effect 1 year
after the date of the enactment of this Act.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentlewoman from
the District of Columbia (Ms. NORTON)
and the gentleman from Michigan (Mr.
MITCHELL) each will control 20 min-
utes.
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from the District of Columbia.
GENERAL LEAVE
Ms. NORTON. Madam Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that all Members
have 5 legislative days within which to
revise and extend their remarks and in-
clude extraneous material on H.R. 866.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gentle-
woman from the District of Columbia?
There was no objection.
Ms. NORTON. Madam Speaker, I
yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
Madam Speaker, today I rise in sup-
port of my bill, the Fairness For
Breastfeeding Mothers Act of 2019, a
bill that would require buildings that
are either federally owned or leased to
provide designated private and hygien-
ic lactation spaces for nursing moth-
ers.
The House passed this bill by voice
vote when I offered it last Congress.
The House also passed this bill in the
114th Congress as an amendment to the
Public Buildings Reform and Savings
Act of 2016. I appreciate the prior sup-
port of my colleagues, and I hope they
will join me today in support of this
important legislation once again.
For years, Federal agencies such as
the U.S. Department of Agriculture
and the Centers for Disease Control
and Prevention have encouraged
breastfeeding. The benefits are so great
that the Affordable Care Act amended
Federal law to require employers to
provide a designated, non-bathroom
space for returning employees to pump
breast milk for their newborns, ensur-
ing that new mothers would be able to
continue the essential practice even
after returning to work.
My bill would extend this require-
ment to include not only employees,
but visitors and guests to Federal fa-
cilities across the Nation. Actually,
Federal facilities visited by millions of
Americans and others should lead the
way.
My bill does not require the expendi-
ture of Federal funds or require space
to be mandated. It would simply allow
visitors to Federal buildings to make
use of spaces that are already available
to Federal employees or to access simi-
lar spaces within those buildings.
In Washington, D.C., alone, there are
millions of tourists who visit Federal
sites, such as the Lincoln Memorial
and the Smithsonian Institution. In-
creasingly, families understand the
unique benefits of breastfeeding as en-
couraged by Federal agencies and pro-
grams, and visitors to these buildings
who have newborns and babies should
have a private space to breastfeed or
pump.
The benefits of breastfeeding are
well-documented. Breast milk contains
antibodies and hormones that boost ba-
bies’ immune systems. Studies have
shown lower risks of asthma, diabetes,
respiratory infections, and other dis-
eases among breastfed babies.
b 1230
Breastfeeding also has benefits for
nursing mothers, who, research has
shown, have lower risks of diabetes and
certain forms of cancer.
Given the significant health benefits
of breastfeeding for both baby and
mother already recognized in Federal
policy, my bill is a logical step to en-
sure that visitors to Federal sites have
access to clean, hygienic, and private
spaces to nurse or pump.
It is also important to ensure that
lactation spaces are accessible to indi-
viduals with disabilities. While the
Americans with Disabilities Act does
not apply to Federal buildings, the lac-
tation spaces required by my bill would
be subject to a similar law, the Archi-
tectural Barriers Act, which requires
buildings and facilities that are de-
signed, built, or altered with Federal
dollars or leased by Federal agencies,
to be accessible to individuals with dis-
abilities whenever possible.
Madam Speaker, I urge my col-
leagues to support this important leg-
islation, and I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. MITCHELL. Madam Speaker, I
yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
Madam Speaker, I join my colleague
in support of H.R. 866, which provides
that federally managed buildings or
federally owned buildings open to the
public nursing rooms that are avail-
able.
The bill would apply to buildings
that are already open to the public and
which have nursing rooms for employ-
ees yet somehow do not manage to pro-
vide those to the general public, and
they should. The requirements would
not apply if the existing space cannot
feasibly be opened.
As the gentlewoman notes, it does
not create additional cost.
The legislation passed the House last
Congress by voice vote and, if enacted,
will help visiting mothers to our facili-
ties in both the capital here and
throughout the Nation.
Madam Speaker, I urge support for
this legislation, and I urge the Senate
to finally take up this legislation. To
move it forward, I join my colleague in
saying that it is about time that we
open up the nursing rooms in Federal
facilities to the general public in sup-
port of the care of newborns and young
children.
Madam Speaker, I have no remaining
speakers, and I yield back the balance
of my time.
Ms. NORTON. Madam Speaker, we
have had this act come up in a Repub-
lican House. It has now come up in a
Democratic House. What more do we
need in order for it to be clear that this
is, shall we say, motherhood legislation
and that the whole House is for it?
Madam Speaker, I have no remaining
speakers, and I yield back the balance
of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentlewoman from the District of
Columbia (Ms. NORTON) that the House
suspend the rules and pass the bill,
H.R. 866.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:28 Feb 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K06FE7.014 H06FEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H1372 February 6, 2019
The question was taken; and (two-
thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the bill was
passed.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
REQUIRING FEDERAL RAILROAD
ADMINISTRATION TO PROVIDE
CONGRESSIONAL NOTICE OF
COMPREHENSIVE SAFETY AS-
SESSMENTS
Ms. NORTON. Madam Speaker, I
move to suspend the rules and pass the
bill (H.R. 543) to require the Federal
Railroad Administration to provide ap-
propriate congressional notice of com-
prehensive safety assessments con-
ducted with respect to intercity or
commuter rail passenger transpor-
tation.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 543
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. NOTICE OF COMPREHENSIVE SAFETY
ASSESSMENTS.
(a) INITIAL NOTICE.—Not later than 10 busi-
ness days after the Federal Railroad Admin-
istration initiates a comprehensive safety
assessment of an entity providing regularly
scheduled intercity or commuter rail pas-
senger transportation, the Federal Railroad
Administration shall notify in electronic for-
mat the Committee on Transportation and
Infrastructure of the House of Representa-
tives and the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation of the Senate,
and each member of Congress representing a
State in which the service that is the subject
of the assessment being conducted is located,
of the initiation of that assessment.
(b) FINDINGS.—Not later than 90 days after
completion of a comprehensive safety assess-
ment described in subsection (a), the Federal
Railroad Administration shall transmit in
electronic format to the Committee on
Transportation and Infrastructure of the
House of Representatives and the Committee
on Commerce, Science, and Transportation
of the Senate, and to each member of Con-
gress representing a State in which the serv-
ice that is the subject of the assessment
being conducted is located, its findings of
that assessment, including identified defects
and any recommendations.
(c) DEFINITION.—For purpose of this sec-
tion, the term ‘‘comprehensive safety assess-
ment’’ means a focused review of the safety-
related processes and procedures, compliance
with safety regulations and requirements,
and overall safety culture of an entity pro-
viding regularly scheduled intercity or com-
muter rail passenger transportation.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentlewoman from
the District of Columbia (Ms. NORTON)
and the gentleman from Michigan (Mr.
MITCHELL) each will control 20 min-
utes.
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from the District of Columbia.
GENERAL LEAVE
Ms. NORTON. Madam Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that all Members
may have 5 legislative days in which to
revise and extend their remarks and in-
clude extraneous material on H.R. 543.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gentle-
woman from the District of Columbia?
There was no objection.
Ms. NORTON. Madam Speaker, I
yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
Madam Speaker, on the morning of
September 29, 2016, a New Jersey Tran-
sit train failed to stop, overrode a
bumping post at the end of its track,
and struck a wall of the Hoboken Ter-
minal in Hoboken, New Jersey.
In the wake of this fatal accident,
which killed a young mother and in-
jured 110 passengers and crew members,
it was made public that the Federal
Railroad Administration had been con-
ducting a so-called ‘‘deep audit’’ of New
Jersey Transit, which was prompted by
an increase in safety violations.
This bill requires that the FRA pro-
vide appropriate congressional notice
when the agency initiates and com-
pletes a comprehensive safety assess-
ment of an intercity or commuter rail
passenger system.
It is important that Members of Con-
gress are informed as soon as Federal
safety assessments are underway so
that we may work on ways to provide
assistance and oversight for our dis-
tricts’ intercity or commuter pas-
senger rail services and inform our con-
stituents of any safety issues before ac-
cidents like what happened in Hoboken
occur again.
Madam Speaker, I urge my col-
leagues to join me in supporting this
bill, and I reserve the balance of my
time.
Mr. MITCHELL. Madam Speaker, I
yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
Madam Speaker, this bill would im-
prove safety and transparency for our
Nation’s railroads. Our constituents
expect no less, by the way.
It requires notification of proper con-
gressional committees and Members of
Congress of the initiation of certain
safety assessments for passenger rail-
roads and rail transit agencies. Fur-
ther, upon completion of those safety
assessments, the bill requires the Fed-
eral Railroad Administration’s findings
and recommendations be submitted to
the proper committees and all affected
Members of Congress.
Rail safety is critical to our Nation.
When the FRA begins an in-depth safe-
ty assessment of a railroad, it means
the agency has identified a significant
and serious safety problem. Our con-
stituents expect us to be advised of
that, and, in fact, to keep them in-
formed.
It is important that the Transpor-
tation and Infrastructure Committee
and affected Members be notified time-
ly both that the investigation is under-
way and what the agency found as a re-
sult of it. Doing so can only help im-
prove the safety of our passenger and
commuter railroads, as well as keep
our constituents informed.
The bill passed the committee and
the House last year unanimously. I cer-
tainly hope we can get the Senate to
give it considerable concern. I thank
my colleague, Mr. SIRES, for his hard
work on this legislation, and I reserve
the balance of my time.
Ms. NORTON. Madam Speaker, I
yield such time as he may consume to
the gentleman from New Jersey (Mr.
SIRES), the sponsor of this legislation.
Mr. SIRES. Madam Speaker, in 2016,
in Hoboken, New Jersey, my district, a
New Jersey Transit commuter train
ran past the end of the track and into
the terminal, killing a young mother
and injuring over 100 passengers and
crew members.
In the wake of this tragedy, it was
made public that the Federal Railroad
Administration had been conducting a
deep audit on New Jersey Transit for
months, prompted by an increase in
safety violations. At that time, the
safety review was not known to rel-
evant Members of Congress or the pub-
lic who relied on New Jersey Transit to
take them to work and bring them
home safely every day.
Madam Speaker, H.R. 543 is a simple,
straightforward piece of legislation.
When the FRA begins a safety assess-
ment on an intercity or commuter pas-
senger rail system, it must notify
Members of Congress and Senators on
committees of jurisdiction or rep-
resenting the State in which the as-
sessment is conducted. The FRA will
have 10 business days after the assess-
ment begins to notify these parties.
The FRA will also need to transmit
its findings, including any safety rec-
ommendations, to the relevant parties
within 90 days of completion of the as-
sessment.
Madam Speaker, this bill brings us
one step closer to ensuring full trans-
parency for Federal agencies and helps
us ensure that our rail transportation
infrastructure is safe.
Mr. MITCHELL. Madam Speaker, I
have no further speakers. I reserve the
balance of my time to close.
Ms. NORTON. Madam Speaker, this
bill, too, was considered in the Repub-
lican House. We are considering it here
in the Democratic House. I certainly
hope that the urgency of this bill is ap-
parent.
I have no further speakers other than
the gentleman from New Jersey, who
knows this issue perhaps best, and I
yield back the balance of my time.
Mr. MITCHELL. Madam Speaker, I
urge my colleagues to support this bill.
I urge the Senate to move forward, and
I yield back the balance of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentlewoman from the District of
Columbia (Ms. NORTON) that the House
suspend the rules and pass the bill,
H.R. 543.
The question was taken; and (two-
thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the bill was
passed.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
REVIVING AMERICA’S SCENIC
BYWAYS ACT OF 2019
Ms. NORTON. Madam Speaker, I
move to suspend the rules and pass the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:28 Feb 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K06FE7.017 H06FEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1373
February 6, 2019
bill (H.R. 831) to direct the Secretary of
Transportation to request nominations
for and make determinations regarding
roads to be designated under the na-
tional scenic byways program, and for
other purposes.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 831
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Reviving
America’s Scenic Byways Act of 2019’’.
SEC. 2. NATIONAL SCENIC BYWAYS PROGRAM.
(a) REQUEST FOR NOMINATIONS.—Not later
than 90 days after the date of enactment of
this Act, the Secretary of Transportation
shall issue a request for nominations with
respect to roads to be designated under the
national scenic byways program, as de-
scribed in section 162(a) of title 23, United
States Code. The Secretary shall make the
request for nominations available on the ap-
propriate website of the Department of
Transportation.
(b) DESIGNATION DETERMINATIONS.—Not
later than 1 year after the date on which the
request for nominations required under sub-
section (a) is issued, the Secretary shall
make publicly available on the appropriate
website of the Department of Transportation
a list specifying the roads, nominated pursu-
ant to such request, to be designated under
the national scenic byways program.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentlewoman from
the District of Columbia (Ms. NORTON)
and the gentleman from Louisiana (Mr.
GRAVES) each will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from the District of Columbia.
GENERAL LEAVE
Ms. NORTON. Madam Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that all Members
may have 5 legislative days in which to
revise and extend their remarks and in-
clude extraneous material on H.R. 831.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gentle-
woman from the District of Columbia?
There was no objection.
Ms. NORTON. Madam Speaker, I
yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
The National Scenic Byways Pro-
gram was created in 1991 in the Inter-
modal Surface Transportation Effi-
ciency Act—ISTEA, as it was called—
and, since that time, has helped des-
ignate and provide funding for 150 sce-
nic roads across the country.
In the consolidation of Federal high-
ways programs in MAP–21, which was
enacted in 2012, funding for a separate
National Scenic Byways Program was
eliminated; however, the authority of
the Department of Transportation to
continue to designate roads was re-
tained. Unfortunately, the Department
of Transportation has not designated
any new scenic byways since the dedi-
cated program was eliminated in 2012.
Madam Speaker, this legislation will
ensure that there is a process once
again for States, Tribes, and Federal
land management agencies to request
designations for roads that meet the
scenic byways criteria.
I thank the sponsor of this legisla-
tion, Mr. CICILLINE, who has supported
efforts to preserve the scenic beauty of
our country’s natural and man-made
environments as co-chair of the Con-
gressional America the Beautiful Cau-
cus for introducing this legislation,
and I strongly support H.R. 831 and
urge my colleagues to join in passing
this legislation.
Madam Speaker, I reserve the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. GRAVES of Louisiana. Madam
Speaker, I yield myself such time as I
may consume.
Madam Speaker, I rise in support of
H.R. 831, and I thank my friend, the
gentleman from Rhode Island (Mr.
CICILLINE) for carrying the ball on this
one.
Madam Speaker, our scenic byways,
the national program, has a few mot-
tos. One of them is: No two experiences
are the same. Another one is: Explor-
ing the heart and soul of America.
Madam Speaker, some of the top or
most visited tourist destinations in the
United States are areas like Central
Park and other areas of Manhattan.
You have Las Vegas, our own Union
Station, Disneyland, Disney World, and
the Golden Gate Bridge.
b 1245
But some of the real experiences in
America are in some of these more sce-
nic areas, and we have such extraor-
dinary treasures in our country. There
is much more to America.
By reopening the scenic byways des-
ignations, we are giving access to, we
are bringing attention to some of these
great places, some of these great expe-
riences in helping to highlight those
and bring tourists to those areas.
In my home State of Louisiana, we
have two right now. Number one, we
have the Louisiana Great River Road, a
scenic byway which goes along the
length of the Mississippi River,
through my hometown of Baton Rouge;
and, also, the Wetlands Cultural Byway
that goes through our wetland areas in
south Louisiana’s Sportsman’s Para-
dise.
Madam Speaker, it really is just in-
credible. Years ago, the Department of
Tourism in Louisiana came up with a
motto saying, ‘‘the Atchafalaya Basin,
America’s Foreign Country,’’ and I
really think that applies to much of
south Louisiana, which is home and
where I represent. It is such a unique
place in terms of the food, the culture,
the people. We need to bring more at-
tention to some of these treasures that
America has.
I thank, again, my friend from Rhode
Island, for carrying the ball on this.
Madam Speaker, I reserve the bal-
ance of my time.
Ms. NORTON. Madam Speaker, I
yield as much time as he may consume
to the gentleman from Rhode Island
(Mr. CICILLINE), my good friend and the
sponsor of this legislation.
Mr. CICILLINE. Madam Speaker, I
thank the gentlewoman for yielding,
and I am particularly delighted to be
here in support of this legislation with
the Speaker pro tempore on the ros-
trum, who understands the value of
scenic byways in our beautiful country.
I rise today in strong support of this
bipartisan legislation, Reviving Amer-
ica’s Scenic Byways Act.
The National Scenic Byways Pro-
gram was established by Congress in
1991 in order to recognize, preserve, and
enhance designated roadways through-
out the United States. Since that time,
150 roads across the country have re-
ceived the scenic byway designation.
However, no new designations have
been made since 2009.
Under this program, the Secretary of
Transportation designates certain
roads as all-American roads or national
scenic byways based on one or more ar-
chaeological, cultural, historic, nat-
ural, recreational, or scenic qualities
that capture the unique characteristics
of a region.
The National Scenic Byways Pro-
gram is a national asset that show-
cases our Nation’s natural grandeur,
our history, and our culture, as well as
being a very significant economic driv-
er of tourism. It has been identified by
Brand USA, the organization created
by Congress to promote travel to the
United States, as a core element in
promoting international visitation to
the United States and creating tour-
ism-related jobs.
According to the National Scenic
Byway Foundation, State departments
of transportation report approximately
60 State scenic byways, and nearly 30
States are interested and prepared to
seek designation as a national scenic
byway or an all-American road.
For example, in my own State, road-
ways such as Paradise Avenue on
Aquidneck Island in Newport and
Route 102 are really excellent can-
didates for designation and all the ben-
efits that will follow.
This bill will allow those States to
once again apply for scenic byway des-
ignations and directs the Department
of Transportation to announce new
designations within 1 year of request-
ing nominations.
I thank the chairman of the com-
mittee and the ranking member for
their work. I urge passage of this legis-
lation, and conclude by, again, thank-
ing the gentleman from Louisiana (Mr.
GRAVES), who is the lead Republican on
this legislation, for his partnership, his
passion about this issue, his presence
here today, and his words in support of
the legislation.
Mr. GRAVES of Louisiana. Madam
Speaker, I yield 1 minute to the gen-
tleman from Illinois (Mr. RODNEY
DAVIS).
Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois.
Madam Speaker, I thank my colleague,
Mr. GRAVES, for the surprising yield-
ing.
This is a program, and this bill needs
to be passed.
My district in central and south-
western Illinois contains numerous sce-
nic byways, and I am excited that this
bill is such a bipartisan bill, too.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:28 Feb 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K06FE7.021 H06FEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H1374 February 6, 2019
This bipartisan bill needs to pass be-
cause the Department of Transpor-
tation has got to undertake a process
to designate the scenic byways in my
district, in Rhode Island, in Louisiana,
and throughout this Nation, designate
them under this program. This good fix
is a message of bipartisanship that the
President delivered last night on this
floor, and I certainly hope this bill
passes.
Mr. GRAVES of Louisiana. Madam
Speaker, I yield back the balance of
my time.
Ms. NORTON. Madam Speaker, you
see the bipartisan nature of this bill,
and it doesn’t require us to appropriate
any funds, but we can imagine what
States would do with this designation
on their own.
Madam Speaker, I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentlewoman from the District of
Columbia (Ms. NORTON) that the House
suspend the rules and pass the bill,
H.R. 831.
The question was taken.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. In the
opinion of the Chair, two-thirds being
in the affirmative, the ayes have it.
Ms. NORTON. Madam Speaker, on
that I demand the yeas and nays.
The yeas and nays were ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, further pro-
ceedings on this motion will be post-
poned.
f
ROUTE 66 CENTENNIAL
COMMISSION ACT
Ms. NORTON. Madam Speaker, I
move to suspend the rules and pass the
bill (H.R. 66) to establish the Route 66
Centennial Commission, to direct the
Secretary of Transportation to prepare
a plan on the preservation needs of
Route 66, and for other purposes.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 66
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Route 66
Centennial Commission Act’’.
SEC. 2. FINDINGS.
Congress makes the following findings:
(1) Route 66 was the Nation’s first all-
paved highway under the U.S. Highway Sys-
tem connecting the Midwest to California
and has played a major role in the history of
the United States.
(2) Route 66 was the symbol of opportunity
to hundreds of thousands of people seeking
escape from the Dust Bowl in the 1930s, serv-
ing as a ‘‘road to opportunity’’ in the West
and providing employment during the Great
Depression, as thousands were put to work
on road crews to pave the road.
(3) Route 66 was invaluable in transporting
troops, equipment, and supplies across the
country to the West, where the government
established multiple industries and armed
force bases during World War II. Upon the
conclusion of the war in 1945, Route 66 was a
key route taken by thousands of troops as
they returned home.
(4) Route 66 symbolized the Nation’s posi-
tive outlook during the postwar economic re-
covery in the 1950s and 1960s, serving as an
icon of free-spirited independence and link-
ing people across the United States. During
this period, the tourist industry along Route
66 grew tremendously, giving rise to count-
less tourist courts, motels, service stations,
garages, and diners.
(5) Since June 27, 1985, when Route 66 was
decommissioned as a Federal highway, the
popularity and mythical stature of Route 66
has grown domestically and internationally,
as the road has experienced a rebirth of in-
terest and support.
(6) The year 2026 will be the centennial an-
niversary of Route 66, and a commission
should be established to study and rec-
ommend to Congress activities that are fit-
ting and proper to celebrate that anniver-
sary in a manner that appropriately honors
America’s Mother Road.
SEC. 3. ESTABLISHMENT.
There is established a commission to be
known as the Route 66 Centennial Commis-
sion (referred to in this Act as the ‘‘Commis-
sion’’).
SEC. 4. DUTIES.
The Commission shall have the following
duties:
(1) To study activities that may be carried
out by the Federal Government to determine
whether the activities are fitting and proper
to honor Route 66 on the occasion of its cen-
tennial anniversary, including any of the ac-
tivities described under section 8(b)(2)(B).
(2) To recommend to Congress the activi-
ties the Commission considers most fitting
and proper to honor Route 66 on such occa-
sion, to be carried out by the Department of
Transportation and any other entity or enti-
ties within the Federal Government that the
Commission considers most appropriate to
carry out such activities.
(3) To plan and host, in cooperation with
such partners, a conference on the U.S. Num-
bered Highway System, and assist in the ac-
tivities of such a conference.
SEC. 5. MEMBERSHIP.
(a) NUMBER AND APPOINTMENT.—The Com-
mission shall be composed of 19 members ap-
pointed as follows:
(1) Three members, each of whom shall be
a qualified citizen described in subsection
(b), appointed by the President.
(2) Two members, each of whom shall be a
qualified citizen described in subsection (b),
appointed by the President on the rec-
ommendation of the Secretary of Transpor-
tation.
(3) One member, who shall be a qualified
citizen described in subsection (b), appointed
by the President on the recommendation of
the Governor of Illinois.
(4) One member, who shall be a qualified
citizen described in subsection (b), appointed
by the President on the recommendation of
the Governor of Missouri.
(5) One member, who shall be a qualified
citizen described in subsection (b), appointed
by the President on the recommendation of
the Governor of Kansas.
(6) One member, who shall be a qualified
citizen described in subsection (b), appointed
by the President on the recommendation of
the Governor of Oklahoma.
(7) One member, who shall be a qualified
citizen described in subsection (b), appointed
by the President on the recommendation of
the Governor of Texas.
(8) One member, who shall be a qualified
citizen described in subsection (b), appointed
by the President on the recommendation of
the Governor of New Mexico.
(9) One member, who shall be a qualified
citizen described in subsection (b), appointed
by the President on the recommendation of
the Governor of Arizona.
(10) One member, who shall be a qualified
citizen described in subsection (b), appointed
by the President on the recommendation of
the Governor of California.
(11) Three members, each of whom shall be
a qualified citizen described in subsection
(b), appointed by the President on the rec-
ommendation of the Speaker of the House of
Representatives, in consultation with the
minority leader of the House of Representa-
tives.
(12) Three members, each of whom shall be
a qualified citizen described in subsection
(b), appointed by the President on the rec-
ommendation of the majority leader of the
Senate, in consultation with the minority
leader of the Senate.
(b) QUALIFIED CITIZEN.—A qualified citizen
described in this subsection is a private cit-
izen of the United States with—
(1) a demonstrated dedication to educating
others about the importance of historical
figures and events; and
(2) substantial knowledge and appreciation
of Route 66.
(c) TIME OF APPOINTMENT.—Each initial ap-
pointment of a member of the Commission
shall be made before the expiration of the
120-day period beginning on the date of the
enactment of this Act.
(d) CONTINUATION OF MEMBERSHIP.—If a
member of the Commission was appointed to
the Commission as a Member of Congress,
and ceases to be a Member of Congress, that
member may continue to serve on the Com-
mission for not longer than the 30-day period
beginning on the date that member ceases to
be a Member of Congress.
(e) TERMS.—Each member shall be ap-
pointed for the life of the Commission.
(f) VACANCIES.—A vacancy in the Commis-
sion shall not affect the powers of the Com-
mission but shall be filled in the manner in
which the original appointment was made.
(g) BASIC PAY.—Members shall serve on the
Commission without pay.
(h) TRAVEL EXPENSES.—Each member shall
receive travel expenses, including per diem
in lieu of subsistence, in accordance with
sections 5702 and 5703 of title 5, United States
Code.
(i) QUORUM.—Seven members of the Com-
mission shall constitute a quorum but a less-
er number may hold hearings.
(j) CHAIR.—The President, in consultation
with the Secretary of Transportation, shall
designate one member of the Commission as
Chair.
(k) MEETINGS.—The Commission shall meet
at the call of the Chair.
SEC. 6. DIRECTOR AND STAFF.
(a) DIRECTOR.—The Commission may ap-
point and fix the pay of a Director and such
additional personnel as the Commission con-
siders to be appropriate.
(b) APPLICABILITY OF CERTAIN CIVIL SERV-
ICE LAWS.—
(1) DIRECTOR.—The Director of the Com-
mission may be appointed without regard to
the provisions of title 5, United States Code,
governing appointments in the competitive
service, and may be paid without regard to
the provisions of chapter 51 and subchapter
III of chapter 53 of that title relating to clas-
sification and General Schedule pay rates.
(2) STAFF.—The staff of the Commission
shall be appointed subject to the provisions
of title 5, United States Code, governing ap-
pointments in the competitive service, and
shall be paid in accordance with the provi-
sions of chapter 51 and subchapter III of
chapter 53 of that title relating to classifica-
tion and General Schedule pay rates.
SEC. 7. POWERS.
(a) HEARINGS AND SESSIONS.—The Commis-
sion may, for the purpose of carrying out
this Act, hold such hearings, sit and act at
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:28 Feb 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00010 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K06FE7.024 H06FEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1375
February 6, 2019
such times and places, take such testimony,
and receive such evidence as the Commission
considers to be appropriate.
(b) POWERS OF MEMBERS AND AGENTS.—Any
member or agent of the Commission may, if
authorized by the Commission, take any ac-
tion that the Commission is authorized to
take by this Act.
(c) OBTAINING OFFICIAL DATA.—The Com-
mission may secure directly from any de-
partment or agency of the United States in-
formation necessary to enable the Commis-
sion to carry out this Act. Upon request of
the Chair of the Commission, the head of
that department or agency shall furnish that
information to the Commission.
(d) MAILS.—The Commission may use the
United States mails in the same manner and
under the same conditions as other depart-
ments and agencies of the United States.
(e) ADMINISTRATIVE SUPPORT SERVICES.—
Upon the request of the Commission, the Ad-
ministrator of General Services shall provide
to the Commission, on a reimbursable basis,
the administrative support services nec-
essary for the Commission to carry out its
responsibilities under this Act.
SEC. 8. REPORTS.
(a) INTERIM REPORTS.—The Commission
may submit to Congress such interim reports
as the Commission considers to be appro-
priate.
(b) COMPREHENSIVE REPORT.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 5 years
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Commission shall submit to the President
and Congress a report incorporating specific
recommendations for the commemoration of
the centennial of Route 66 and related
events.
(2) CONTENTS OF REPORT.—The report under
paragraph (1)—
(A) shall include recommendations for the
allocation of financial and administrative re-
sponsibility among the public and private
authorities and organizations recommended
for participation by the Commission; and
(B) may recommend activities such as—
(i) the production, publication, and dis-
tribution of books, pamphlets, films, elec-
tronic publications, and other educational
materials focusing on the history and impact
of Route 66 on the United States and the
world;
(ii) bibliographical and documentary
projects, publications, and electronic re-
sources;
(iii) conferences, convocations, lectures,
seminars, and other programs;
(iv) the development of programs by and
for libraries, museums, parks, and historic
sites, including national traveling exhibi-
tions;
(v) ceremonies and celebrations commemo-
rating specific events;
(vi) the production, distribution, and per-
formance of artistic works, and of programs
and activities, focusing on the national and
international significance of Route 66; and
(vii) the issuance of commemorative coins,
medals, certificates of recognition, and post-
age stamps.
(c) FINAL REPORT.—The Commission shall
submit to the President and Congress a final
report not later than 90 days before the ter-
mination of the Commission provided in sec-
tion 10.
SEC. 9. PLAN ON PRESERVATION NEEDS OF
ROUTE 66.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary of Trans-
portation, in consultation with the Gov-
ernors referred to in section 5(a), shall pre-
pare a plan on the preservation needs of
Route 66.
(b) REPORT TO CONGRESS.—Not later than 3
years after the date of enactment of this
Act, the Secretary shall submit to the Com-
mittee on Transportation and Infrastructure
of the House of Representatives, the Com-
mittee on Environment and Public Works of
the Senate, and the President a report con-
taining the plan prepared under subsection
(a).
SEC. 10. TERMINATION.
The Commission shall terminate not later
than June 30, 2027.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentlewoman from
the District of Columbia (Ms. NORTON)
and the gentleman from Illinois (Mr.
RODNEY DAVIS) each will control 20
minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from the District of Columbia.
GENERAL LEAVE
Ms. NORTON. Madam Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that all Members
have 5 legislative days to revise and ex-
tend their remarks and include extra-
neous material on H.R. 66.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gentle-
woman from the District of Columbia?
There was no objection.
Ms. NORTON. Madam Speaker, I rise
in support of H.R. 66. This bill estab-
lishes a Route 66 Centennial Commis-
sion to develop and plan a fitting cele-
bration of the 100th anniversary of
America’s Mother Road, as it is called.
U.S. Route 66 was established Novem-
ber 11, 1926. The 2,448-mile highway
originally ran from Chicago, Illinois,
to Los Angeles, California, and passed
through Missouri, Kansas, Oklahoma,
Texas, New Mexico, and Arizona in be-
tween.
A precursor of the interstate system,
this route was born out of the need for
greater connectivity in our Nation
after the rise of automobile ownership.
Disparate segments of roads and paths
were woven into a cohesive highway
that offered Americans unparalleled
ease of mobility.
The historic route has carried Ameri-
cans of all stripes, from migrants dur-
ing the Dust Bowl of the 1930s to curi-
ous road trippers following in the foot-
steps of Jack Kerouac.
While Route 66 became largely obso-
lete after completion of the interstate
system, it holds a unique place in our
Nation’s surface transportation his-
tory. The story of Route 66 serves as an
important reminder as to why our
interconnected system of roads is vital
and why we can never devolve to a
piecemeal approach to surface trans-
portation policy.
This bipartisan bill is led by Rep-
resentative DAVIS, the ranking member
of the Highways and Transit Sub-
committee, and has bipartisan cospon-
sorship among Transportation and In-
frastructure Committee members, in-
cluding Representatives NAPOLITANO
and LIPINSKI, and I am proud to be a
cosponsor as well. I support H.R. 66 and
urge my colleagues join me in passing
this legislation.
Madam Speaker, I reserve the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois.
Madam Speaker, I yield myself such
time as I may consume.
Madam Speaker, I am honored to be
here today.
I recognize the chairperson of the
Highways and Transit Subcommittee
and thank her for her support, Ms.
HOLMES NORTON. I appreciate her sup-
port on this issue. As her ranking
member on the committee, I look for-
ward to working with her in a very bi-
partisan way to make sure that we put
infrastructure first when it comes to
the United States of America, and I
congratulate her on her chairmanship.
I thank my colleague who has joined
us on the floor, my partner in getting
this bill passed in the last Congress,
too, GRACE NAPOLITANO. We kind of sit
on both sides of Route 66: I in central
Illinois, and Mrs. NAPOLITANO on the
far west side with a lot more ocean air
than in the middle of Illinois in her dis-
trict near Santa Monica, California.
As you know, Madam Speaker, I rise
today in support of H.R. 66.
I thank the Speaker of the House for
giving us this designation of H.R. 66 be-
cause it is very important for the his-
torical context of this bill that creates
the Route 66 Centennial Commission.
I am proud to have Route 66 run right
through the middle of my district. As
you know, in 1926, Route 66 became our
Nation’s first all-paved highway under
the U.S. highway system, connecting
Chicago, Illinois, which is about 3
hours north of me. Right through the
middle of the 13th District in Illinois
runs this road.
Early on, this road, of course, ended
in Santa Monica, California, but it was
used by hundreds of thousands of
Americans, as Ms. NORTON said, seek-
ing escape from the Dust Bowl. It pro-
vided critical employment opportuni-
ties for road crews and infrastructure
investment during our Great Depres-
sion.
During World War II, our highway
transported troops, equipment, sup-
plies to military bases across our coun-
try, and it was used after the war by
thousands of troops coming home to
see their families.
By the 1950s, Route 66 began to see a
rise in tourism and became the true
symbol of American freedom and inde-
pendence that we know today.
In April of 2017, my colleague from
central Illinois, DARIN LAHOOD, and I
went on an extended tour along with
numerous State legislators in Illinois,
like my good friend Representative
Tim Butler and my State representa-
tive, Avery Bourne, and we toured the
stretches of Route 66 that we share.
I had the opportunity to personally
witness the economic impact of the
Mother Road throughout my district
and throughout Congressman LAHOOD’s
district. It supports many jobs and key
economic activity in many of our
smaller rural communities that we are
blessed enough to represent. This keeps
many of those communities alive, eco-
nomically.
Now travelers along Route 66 in my
district can see a giant pink elephant.
It is a big statue. You can’t miss it
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:51 Feb 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00011 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06FE7.006 H06FEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H1376 February 6, 2019
even when you are traveling on Inter-
state 55. But what you also can see
there on a Sunday afternoon, because
of the tourists and tourism opportuni-
ties along Route 66, the parking lot at
the Pink Elephant Antique Mall and
the diner attached to it in the small
town of Livingston, Illinois, is packed.
I took my family there to eat lunch
not too long ago, and you could barely
find a parking spot on a Sunday after-
noon.
You can also stop in Edwardsville, Il-
linois, at the Wildey Theatre, and you
can experience the same theater expe-
rience that many in the 1950s experi-
enced right in Edwardsville, Illinois.
That theater opened in 1909, and it has
been redone.
I got to stop by Jungle Jim’s break-
fast in Springfield, too. I got some good
food, got some good pancakes; just
don’t eat too many of them.
These are just a few of the thousands
of local businesses along Route 66,
which is why this bill is so important.
This is a system of not just roadways
and trail paths.
I want to make sure that we give this
route what it deserves in our Nation’s
history. That is what this bill will do.
That is why I am so supportive. I am
glad to be an original author of this
bill.
I thank, again, my colleague, Mrs.
NAPOLITANO, and I look forward to her
remarks.
Madam Speaker, I reserve the bal-
ance of my time.
Ms. NORTON. Madam Speaker, I
yield as much time as she may con-
sume to the gentlewoman from Cali-
fornia (Mrs. NAPOLITANO), my good
friend, who is a Democratic cosponsor
of this bill.
Mrs. NAPOLITANO. Madam Speaker,
I thank Ms. NORTON for that great in-
troduction.
Madam Speaker, I rise in strong sup-
port of H.R. 66, the Route 66 Centennial
Commission Act, and I thank Mr.
DAVIS for being so kind as to begin the
sponsorship of this bill because it is
something that we all share, and we
are proud of it.
b 1300
I also want to thank Chairman DEFA-
ZIO and Ranking Member GRAVES for
their support in moving this bill quick-
ly in this Congress. Last Congress, we
put it through—we almost got it
through. But here we are again, and we
hope this time it will go through.
Route 66 runs east to west through
my whole district as Foothill Boule-
vard and Huntington Drive in the cities
of La Verne, San Dimas, Azusa, Duarte,
and Monrovia.
My district’s restaurants include
great food, tacos, Mexican food, Asian
food, and great meals. And I challenge
my friend to come and visit us, so we
can take him through the whole area.
The shops and businesses, like so
many others dotting the interstate,
from the heartland to the West Coast,
provide rest breaks for travelers, allow-
ing them to sample local flavors of the
communities that are proud to be con-
nected with this iconic road.
The city of Duarte, home to the fabu-
lous City of Hope, a cancer treatment
center, also celebrates Route 66 every
September with a parade of classic
cars, equestrian groups, marching
bands, and the whole gamut. In fact,
Route 66 signs have been a part of
these communities for many years.
The theme of the Los Angeles County
Fair last year was Route 66, with
memorabilia and Route 66-themed
movie nights. They also have indicated
strong support for again, next year,
highlighting Route 66, so that more
people can be made aware of how im-
portant this route is.
States and local governments across
the country are reinvesting in Route 66
as an icon of American history and cul-
ture. The Federal Government should
be involved in this effort as well.
H.R. 66 creates a national commis-
sion to recommend activities to com-
memorate the 100th anniversary of
Route 66 in the year 2026. It will also
direct the Department of Transpor-
tation to develop a plan on the preser-
vation of Route 66. The Department is
required to consult with the eight
States through which it travels, which
include California, Arizona, New Mex-
ico, Texas, Oklahoma, Kansas, Mis-
souri, and Illinois.
Madam Speaker, Route 66 is a signifi-
cant part of America’s past, but it also
continues to provide transportation,
economic, and community benefits to
our societies today. We must continue
to improve this historic road so that
many more generations can, in the
words of Chuck Berry, get their kicks
on Route 66.
Madam Speaker, I ask my colleagues
to support H.R. 66, not only because it
is the right thing to do, but it is a pres-
ervation of an iconic portion of our his-
tory in the United States.
Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois.
Madam Speaker, may I inquire how
much time I have remaining.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tleman from Illinois has 151⁄2 minutes
remaining.
Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois. 151⁄2
minutes. Awesome. Madam Speaker, I
yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
Madam Speaker, look, we can’t say
much more about this bill. This is an-
other true example of bipartisanship.
This is what we do together in this in-
stitution to ensure that historical
areas like Route 66 that span this great
Nation are given the recognition that
they deserve.
This road, from Chicago to Santa
Monica, California, that I have yet to
take up—my colleague, Mrs. NAPOLI-
TANO, has offered to drive the entire
distance on Route 66. Maybe we will
have to do this during the 100-year an-
niversary that this bill allows us to
plan for.
Let’s give Route 66 its due. Let’s
think of the small-town communities
that rely upon the mother road to sur-
vive. Let’s continue to work together,
like we are today, to put good bills
through the House to the Senate. And
let’s get the President to sign them
into law.
Madam Speaker, I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
Ms. NORTON. Madam Speaker, I
yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
Madam Speaker, I certainly asso-
ciate myself with my colleague’s re-
marks on this bill.
Madam Speaker, I am accustomed to
historic places in the District of Co-
lumbia, because I represent the Na-
tion’s Capital. But I love the notion of
a historic road, to understand how we
built our country.
I particularly think it is appropriate
for us to be considering this bill this
year when we have to consider a new
transportation bill. As we consider the
movement from east to west, this bill
reminds us of how we got there, and we
can’t let such historic places—in this
case, a road—just float from our mem-
ory. We have to do all we can to keep
a road like Route 66 alive, as we do
here in the District of Columbia, to
keep the monuments a part of Amer-
ican history.
I certainly appreciate the opening re-
marks, as well, of our new ranking
member, Mr. RODNEY DAVIS. Our
Transportation and Infrastructure
Committee has been the most bipar-
tisan committee in the entire Con-
gress, and with Mr. DAVIS as ranking
member of the subcommittee, I antici-
pate that it will continue to be.
Madam Speaker, I have no more
speakers on my side, so I yield back
the balance of my time.
Mr. WATKINS. Madam Speaker, I am
pleased to support H.R. 66, which would es-
tablish the Route 66 Centennial Commission.
The historic Route 66, The Main Street of
America, travels through Galena, Riverton,
and Baxter Springs, Kansas in my district.
While the 13 miles of Route 66 in Kansas
may be the shortest stretch, it certainly has its
fair share of history and beauty.
From inspiring the animated movie char-
acter ‘‘Tow Mater’’ in Cars, to being the very
definition of ‘the open road’.
Route 66 is a staple of hometown Amer-
ica—and there is no better representation of
hometown America than in these three South-
east Kansas communities.
Route 66 is not only an economic driver, it
is part of the identity of the community.
I am thrilled to see Congress is taking
proactive steps towards the revitalization and
preservation of Route 66 and I urge my col-
leagues to join me in support of this legisla-
tion.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentlewoman from the District of
Columbia (Ms. NORTON) that the House
suspend the rules and pass the bill,
H.R. 66.
The question was taken.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. In the
opinion of the Chair, two-thirds being
in the affirmative, the ayes have it.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:28 Feb 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00012 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K06FE7.027 H06FEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1377
February 6, 2019
Ms. NORTON. Madam Speaker, on
that I demand the yeas and nays.
The yeas and nays were ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, further pro-
ceedings on this motion will be post-
poned.
f
RECESS
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 12(a) of rule I, the Chair
declares the House in recess subject to
the call of the Chair.
Accordingly (at 1 o’clock and 6 min-
utes p.m.), the House stood in recess.
f
b 1331
AFTER RECESS
The recess having expired, the House
was called to order by the Speaker pro
tempore (Ms. KUSTER of New Hamp-
shire) at 1 o’clock and 31 minutes p.m.
f
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER
PRO TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pro-
ceedings will resume on questions pre-
viously postponed.
Votes will be taken in the following
order:
Motion to suspend the rules and pass
H.R. 831; and
Motion to suspend the rules and pass
H.R. 66.
The first electronic vote will be con-
ducted as a 15-minute vote. Pursuant
to clause 9 of rule XX, the second elec-
tronic vote will be conducted as a 5-
minute vote.
f
REVIVING AMERICA’S SCENIC
BYWAYS ACT OF 2019
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, the unfin-
ished business is the vote on the mo-
tion to suspend the rules and pass the
bill (H.R. 831) to direct the Secretary of
Transportation to request nominations
for and make determinations regarding
roads to be designated under the na-
tional scenic byways program, and for
other purposes, on which the yeas and
nays were ordered.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentlewoman from the District of
Columbia (Ms. NORTON) that the House
suspend the rules and pass the bill.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—yeas 404, nays 19,
not voting 9, as follows:
[Roll No. 66]
YEAS—404
Abraham
Adams
Aderholt
Aguilar
Allen
Allred
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Axne
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Bergman
Beyer
Bilirakis
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Bost
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brady
Brindisi
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Buchanan
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Bustos
Butterfield
Byrne
Calvert
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Cline
Clyburn
Cohen
Cole
Collins (GA)
Collins (NY)
Comer
Conaway
Connolly
Cook
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crawford
Crenshaw
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cummings
Cunningham
Curtis
Davids (KS)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Davis, Rodney
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
DesJarlais
Deutch
Diaz-Balart
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Duffy
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Estes
Evans
Ferguson
Finkenauer
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Fletcher
Flores
Fortenberry
Foster
Foxx (NC)
Frankel
Fulcher
Gabbard
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Gianforte
Gibbs
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (OH)
Gonzalez (TX)
Gooden
Gottheimer
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Green (TX)
Griffith
Grijalva
Guest
Guthrie
Haaland
Hagedorn
Harder (CA)
Hartzler
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Herrera Beutler
Higgins (LA)
Higgins (NY)
Hill (AR)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Holding
Hollingsworth
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hudson
Huffman
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Johnson (TX)
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Kaptur
Katko
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kirkpatrick
Kuster (NH)
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamb
Lamborn
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Latta
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Lesko
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Long
Loudermilk
Lowenthal
Lowey
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Marchant
Marshall
Mast
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCarthy
McCaul
McCollum
McEachin
McGovern
McHenry
McKinley
McNerney
Meadows
Meeks
Meng
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Mullin
Murphy
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Newhouse
Norcross
Norman
Nunes
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Olson
Omar
Palazzo
Pallone
Palmer
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Pence
Perlmutter
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Porter
Posey
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (NY)
Richmond
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rooney (FL)
Rose (NY)
Rose, John W.
Rouda
Rouzer
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Rutherford
Ryan
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scalise
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Schweikert
Scott (VA)
Scott, Austin
Scott, David
Sensenbrenner
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Shimkus
Simpson
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smith (WA)
Smucker
Soto
Spanberger
Spano
Speier
Stanton
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Stevens
Stewart
Stivers
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Taylor
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Turner
Underwood
Upton
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watkins
Watson Coleman
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Welch
Wenstrup
Westerman
Wexton
Wild
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yarmuth
Yoho
Young
Zeldin
NAYS—19
Amash
Biggs
Buck
Burgess
Cloud
Davidson (OH)
Gohmert
Gosar
Grothman
Harris
Hern, Kevin
Hice (GA)
Jordan
Massie
McClintock
Perry
Rice (SC)
Roy
Williams
NOT VOTING—9
Bishop (UT)
Dingell
Fudge
Hoyer
Jones
Krishnamoorthi
Roybal-Allard
Steube
Wilson (FL)
b 1358
Messrs. HICE of Georgia,
GROTHMAN, and HARRIS changed
their vote from ‘‘yea’’ to ‘‘nay.’’
Messrs. COURTNEY and BABIN
changed their vote from ‘‘nay’’ to
‘‘yea.’’
So (two-thirds being in the affirma-
tive) the rules were suspended and the
bill was passed.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
ROUTE 66 CENTENNIAL
COMMISSION ACT
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, the unfin-
ished business is the vote on the mo-
tion to suspend the rules and pass the
bill (H.R. 66) to establish the Route 66
Centennial Commission, to direct the
Secretary of Transportation to prepare
a plan on the preservation needs of
Route 66, and for other purposes, on
which the yeas and nays were ordered.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentlewoman from the District of
Columbia (Ms. NORTON) that the House
suspend the rules and pass the bill.
This is a 5-minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—yeas 399, nays 22,
not voting 11, as follows:
[Roll No. 67]
YEAS—399
Abraham
Adams
Aderholt
Aguilar
Allred
Amodei
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:28 Feb 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00013 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K06FE7.029 H06FEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H1378 February 6, 2019
Armstrong
Arrington
Axne
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Beyer
Bilirakis
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Bost
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brady
Brindisi
Brooks (IN)
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Burchett
Burgess
Bustos
Butterfield
Calvert
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Clyburn
Cohen
Cole
Collins (GA)
Collins (NY)
Comer
Conaway
Connolly
Cook
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crawford
Crenshaw
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cummings
Cunningham
Curtis
Davids (KS)
Davidson (OH)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Davis, Rodney
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
DesJarlais
Deutch
Diaz-Balart
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Duffy
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Estes
Evans
Ferguson
Finkenauer
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Fletcher
Flores
Fortenberry
Foster
Foxx (NC)
Frankel
Fulcher
Gabbard
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Gianforte
Gibbs
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (OH)
Gonzalez (TX)
Gooden
Gottheimer
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Green (TX)
Griffith
Grijalva
Guest
Guthrie
Haaland
Hagedorn
Harder (CA)
Hartzler
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Higgins (LA)
Higgins (NY)
Hill (AR)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Holding
Hollingsworth
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hudson
Huffman
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Johnson (TX)
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Kaptur
Katko
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamb
Lamborn
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Latta
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Lesko
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Long
Loudermilk
Lowenthal
Lowey
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Marchant
Marshall
Mast
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McCollum
McEachin
McGovern
McHenry
McKinley
McNerney
Meadows
Meeks
Meng
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Mullin
Murphy
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Newhouse
Norcross
Norman
Nunes
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Olson
Omar
Palazzo
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Pence
Perlmutter
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Porter
Posey
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (NY)
Richmond
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rooney (FL)
Rose (NY)
Rose, John W.
Rouda
Rouzer
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Rutherford
Ryan
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scalise
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Schweikert
Scott (VA)
Scott, Austin
Scott, David
Sensenbrenner
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Shimkus
Simpson
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smith (WA)
Smucker
Soto
Spanberger
Spano
Speier
Stanton
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Stevens
Stewart
Stivers
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Taylor
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Turner
Underwood
Upton
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walorski
Waltz
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watkins
Watson Coleman
Webster (FL)
Welch
Wenstrup
Westerman
Wexton
Wild
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yarmuth
Young
Zeldin
NAYS—22
Allen
Amash
Bergman
Biggs
Brooks (AL)
Budd
Byrne
Cline
Cloud
Gosar
Grothman
Harris
Hice (GA)
Johnson (LA)
Jordan
Massie
Palmer
Perry
Rice (SC)
Roy
Weber (TX)
Yoho
NOT VOTING—11
Bishop (UT)
Dingell
Fudge
Gohmert
Hoyer
Jones
Maloney, Sean
Roybal-Allard
Steube
Walker
Wilson (FL)
b 1408
Mr. WEBER of Texas changed his
vote from ‘‘yea’’ to ‘‘nay.’’
Mr. BABIN changed his vote from
‘‘nay’’ to ‘‘yea.’’
So (two-thirds being in the affirma-
tive) the rules were suspended and the
bill was passed.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD. Madam Speaker, on
Wednesday, February 6, I was not present for
Roll Call votes 66 and 67. Had I been present,
I would have voted:
‘‘Yea’’ on Roll Call 66, on the motion to sus-
pend the rules and pass H.R. 831, the Reviv-
ing America’s Scenic Byways Act of 2019.
‘‘Yea’’ on Roll Call 67, on the motion to sus-
pend the rules and pass H.R. 66, the Route
66 Centennial Commission Act.
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
Mr. STEUBE. Madam Speaker, I missed
this vote series due to a death in the family.
Had I been present, I would have voted ‘‘yea’’
on rollcall No. 66 and ‘‘yea’’ on rollcall No. 67.
f
REQUEST TO CONSIDER H.R. 962,
BORN-ALIVE ABORTION SUR-
VIVORS PROTECTION ACT
Mr. MCCARTHY. Madam Speaker, I
ask unanimous consent that the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary be discharged
from further consideration of H.R. 962,
the Born-Alive Abortion Survivors Pro-
tection Act, and ask for its immediate
consideration in the House.
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Ms.
MUCARSEL-POWELL). Under guidelines
consistently issued by successive
Speakers, as recorded in section 956 of
the House Rules and Manual, the Chair
is constrained not to entertain the re-
quest unless it has been cleared by the
bipartisan floor and committee leader-
ships.
PARLIAMENTARY INQUIRIES
Mr. MCCARTHY. Madam Speaker,
parliamentary inquiry.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tleman will state his parliamentary in-
quiry.
Mr. MCCARTHY. Madam Speaker, I
can assure you there are no objections
on the Republican side. Is the Chair
saying that the Democrat leadership
has not cleared this important legisla-
tion to protect children who have been
born alive?
The SPEAKER pro tempore. A unani-
mous consent request for the consider-
ation of that measure would have to
have received clearance by the major-
ity and minority floor and committee
leaderships.
The Chair is unaware of such clear-
ance. Therefore, the Chair cannot en-
tertain that request at this time.
Mr. MCCARTHY. Madam Speaker,
further parliamentary inquiry.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tleman will state his parliamentary in-
quiry.
Mr. MCCARTHY. Madam Speaker, as
I said, there is no objection on the Re-
publican side, and it is just 2 p.m. on a
Wednesday. Is the Chair saying there is
not enough time left today to consider
this bill that would save the life of a
child who is born alive?
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tleman has not stated a parliamentary
inquiry.
Mr. MCCARTHY. Madam Speaker, no
further inquiries.
f
ELECTING MEMBERS TO A CER-
TAIN STANDING COMMITTEE OF
THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTA-
TIVES
Ms. CHENEY. Madam Speaker, by di-
rection of the Republican Conference, I
offer a privileged resolution and ask
for its immediate consideration.
The Clerk read the resolution, as fol-
lows:
H. RES. 103
Resolved, That the following named Mem-
bers be, and are hereby, elected to the fol-
lowing standing committee of the House of
Representatives:
COMMITTEE ON HOUSE ADMINISTRATION: Mr.
Walker, Mr. Loudermilk.
Ms. CHENEY (during the reading).
Madam Speaker, I ask unanimous con-
sent that the resolution be considered
as read.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gentle-
woman from Wyoming?
There was no objection.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:29 Feb 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00014 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06FE7.014 H06FEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1379
February 6, 2019
The resolution was agreed to.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
b 1415
HONORING RAYNA LATIMER
(Mr. PAYNE asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. PAYNE. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to honor a trailblazing first re-
sponder from Roselle, New Jersey. On
December 19 of last year, Rayna Lati-
mer was sworn in as the first-ever
woman firefighter in Roselle, New Jer-
sey’s history.
She has been called a hero, not just
because she is a firefighter, but also be-
cause she is paving a path for young
girls who might one day become fire-
fighters in their own communities.
Rayna has lived most of her life in
Roselle, and she has spent the past 5
years preparing to become a fire-
fighter. That is because helping people
has always been her passion, Rayna
had told a local newspaper a while ago.
Before setting her sights on the fire
department, Rayna was a corrections
officer. That gave her a greater appre-
ciation for first responders.
She didn’t set out to become the first
female firefighter in Roselle. Rayna
just wanted to align her passions and
her strengths.
Madam Speaker, I ask my colleagues
to join me in honoring Rayna Latimer
for her service to Roselle, New Jersey,
and for inspiring young people
throughout her community.
f
RECOGNIZING ARMAND
KUYKENDALL
(Mr. YOHO asked and was given per-
mission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. YOHO. Madam Speaker, I would
like to take this time to recognize one
of my constituents, Armand
Kuykendall, who was named Putnam
County’s 50th Annual Spelling Bee win-
ner on January 18, 2019.
Armand is currently in the fifth
grade at the Middleton-Burney Ele-
mentary School, where he is a straight-
A student. During his young life, he
has faced many obstacles. Armand has
excelled at school with the support of
his teachers and family.
In order to compete in Putnam Coun-
ty’s spelling bee, Armand spent his free
time studying and memorizing over 450
words. His winning word was ‘‘apricot.’’
His family, friends—as I am—are ex-
tremely proud of Armand for com-
peting and winning the spelling bee. I
would like to congratulate him for his
outstanding accomplishment.
Armand now moves on to participate
in the First Coast Spelling Bee at
Jacksonville University on February
19, 2019. Best of L-U-C-K, Armand.
LIVES CUT SHORT BY GUN
VIOLENCE
(Ms. HOULAHAN asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute and to revise and extend
her remarks.)
Ms. HOULAHAN. Madam Speaker, I
rise for Rodney and Michelle Roberson
and their daughter Bianca, who was fa-
tally shot in a road rage incident in
June of 2017.
Bianca had recently graduated from
Rustin High School in Chester County,
in my district. She was coming back
from a pre-college shopping trip when
she found herself in an encounter with
someone who tried passing her in a
merge lane and then, in a horrific act,
pulled out a loaded firearm and fired a
single, fatal shot at Bianca.
Bianca was a beautiful and smart
young lady who was, tragically, taken
from us too soon because of senseless
gun violence.
I rise for the 1,635 other Pennsylva-
nians whose lives were cut short in 2017
because of gun violence. I am a third-
generation veteran, and I support re-
sponsible gun ownership. And, like
many in my community, I support
commonsense safety measures that
Congress should act on to curtail gun
violence in our communities.
We must act now.
f
REMEMBERING THE LIFE OF
DAVID SOVCHEN
(Mr. CARTER of Georgia asked and
was given permission to address the
House for 1 minute and to revise and
extend his remarks.)
Mr. CARTER of Georgia. Madam
Speaker, I rise today to remember the
life of Mr. David Sovchen, who passed
away on January 25, his 72nd birthday.
Mr. Sovchen had an enormous impact
in Savannah throughout his life.
In 1985, he joined the Wendy’s senior
management team, which led him to
our community, where he owned nearly
a dozen restaurants.
Outside of his exceptional manage-
ment skills, he was dedicated to grow-
ing the arts in coastal Georgia. To that
end, Mr. Sovchen worked with the Sa-
vannah Book Festival to provide office
space and find critical funding opportu-
nities. Now, the Savannah Book Fes-
tival is in its 10th year and has brought
a total of over 400 authors to our area.
In addition to the book festival, Mr.
Sovchen volunteered with the Boy
Scouts, the Salvation Army, Savannah
Technical College, and the Chamber of
Commerce.
I am deeply thankful for all of this
work, which has made Savannah a bet-
ter place to live. Mr. Sovchen’s family
and friends will be in my thoughts and
prayers during this difficult time.
f
THE TRUE STATE OF OUR UNION
(Mr. LEVIN of California asked and
was given permission to address the
House for 1 minute and to revise and
extend his remarks.)
Mr. LEVIN of California. Madam
Speaker, last night we heard from a
President who is clearly out of touch
with the true state of our union. His
rhetoric of compromise failed to meet
the reality of the highly divisive poli-
cies he offered.
The President failed to acknowledge
that his tax scam has unfairly bene-
fited big corporations, CEOs, and the
wealthiest Americans at the expense of
working people.
He failed to acknowledge the severe
shortcomings of his own administra-
tion when it comes to middle class
families.
He failed to acknowledge that his ad-
ministration has ripped away protec-
tions for those with preexisting condi-
tions.
The President continued to use
harmful rhetoric toward immigrants
and declined to acknowledge that his
anti-immigrant agenda has torn fami-
lies apart, put kids in cages, and
turned away those seeking asylum and
safety.
The President also failed to address
one of the biggest crises we face, and
that is the impact of climate change on
our planet. We are witnessing more in-
tense storms and stronger wildfires as
a result of climate change, but instead
of acknowledging those facts, the
President denied climate science, nom-
inated fossil fuel lobbyists to run the
EPA and Department of Interior, and
has undone critical environmental pro-
tection.
We need a comprehensive agenda to
combat climate change and a monu-
mental shift to renewable energy, elec-
tric vehicles, and more energy-efficient
buildings.
While the President continues to deny
science and common sense, I will continue to
work with my colleagues on a Green New
Deal to protect our planet for future genera-
tions.
While the President’s State of the Union ad-
dress was out of touch, I welcome him to join
Democrats in working For The People to lower
health care costs, end the culture of corruption
in Washington, effectively combat climate
change, and serve the middle class.
f
AMERICAN HEART MONTH
(Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania
asked and was given permission to ad-
dress the House for 1 minute and to re-
vise and extend his remarks.)
Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania.
Madam Speaker, for more than 50
years, we have observed February as
American Heart Month.
Heart disease is the Nation’s number-
one killer, and during this month we
reaffirm our commitment to com-
bating heart disease and educating all
people about the benefits of a healthy,
active lifestyle.
Madam Speaker, before I came to
Congress, I worked for nearly 30 years
as a rehabilitation therapist and a li-
censed nursing home administrator. I
understand the unique challenges fac-
ing individuals who have suffered a
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:28 Feb 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00015 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K06FE7.035 H06FEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H1380 February 6, 2019
stroke or other life-changing injuries.
Often, it is a long road to recovery.
An active lifestyle can help lower
blood pressure, boost levels of good
cholesterol, improve blood flow, and
more. Cardiovascular disease, includ-
ing heart disease and stroke, remain
the leading cause of death globally;
but, by making healthy choices, in-
cluding a balanced diet and regular ex-
ercise, individuals can lower their risk
for cardiovascular disease by as much
as 80 percent.
I hope that Heart Month 2019 inspires
more Americans to take control of
their cardiovascular health and to
begin a healthy lifestyle journey.
f
CONGRATULATING THE PRESI-
DENT ON THE STATE OF THE
UNION ADDRESS
(Mr. LAMALFA asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. LAMALFA. Madam Speaker, I
rise today to recognize President
Trump’s effort last night and to con-
gratulate him on his State of the
Union Address.
The President’s message was indeed
clear. America has unlimited potential;
we just have to unlock it.
Under the 2 years of this administra-
tion, the economy has consistently
added jobs at record rates while simul-
taneously growing wages.
According to a CBS poll last night, 76
percent of Americans approved of what
they heard the President say. Even
more telling, 72 percent said they ap-
prove of the President’s ideas on immi-
gration and our border. It shouldn’t be
a surprise, either, that most Americans
agree we need increased border secu-
rity and we need it now.
Since a physical barrier was con-
structed in San Diego, California, 23
years ago, illegal immigration has
plummeted in that region by 92 per-
cent. That is just one of many exam-
ples.
We have a limited window of time
with our current 3-week agreement,
and what with more caravan hordes
amassing below our southern border,
we need to take action.
f
NEED FOR COMPREHENSIVE
IMMIGRATION REFORM
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under
the Speaker’s announced policy of Jan-
uary 3, 2019, the gentleman from New
York (Mr. ESPAILLAT) is recognized for
60 minutes as the designee of the ma-
jority leader.
Mr. ESPAILLAT. Madam Speaker, I
am glad to see yet another member of
our Congressional Hispanic Caucus pre-
siding over the House this afternoon,
as I had the distinct honor of doing
yesterday.
Madam Speaker, I have the privilege
of serving as the whip of the Congres-
sional Hispanic Caucus during this, the
116th congressional session, which is
the most diverse in the history of this
august body.
This Congress, we celebrate the larg-
est class of Latino Members of Con-
gress in the history of the United
States of America.
We are proud of the diversity and the
talent in our caucus. We boast about
Members representing communities
across our Nation, from as far as Guam
to the Northern Mariana Islands; lead-
ers from all walks of life—doctors, law-
yers, labor organizers, teachers, clean-
energy experts—leaders of all different
Hispanic heritage, some born right
here in the United States and others
who came here with their families to
pursue the American Dream from Mex-
ico; from Puerto Rico; from Guate-
mala; from Cuba; some Portuguese;
some Ecuadorian, as yourself, Madam
Speaker; and, of course, from the Do-
minican Republic, as myself.
As the CHC’s whip, I want to show-
case this incredible diversity of talent,
expertise, and culture. That is why we
are organizing these monthly CHC spe-
cial order hours. Each month, Members
of our caucus will join me to discuss a
set of issues affecting Hispanic commu-
nities across America.
The issue we are discussing tonight
will come as no surprise to anyone: the
need for comprehensive immigration
reform.
The Congressional Hispanic Caucus
has been working over the past few
weeks to lay out our border immigra-
tion reform principles, and we have
been working closely with House lead-
ership as policies are put forward on
this critical issue.
Tonight, you will hear from a num-
ber of colleagues in the CHC about why
we believe we must fix our broken im-
migration system, but first, let me
start with a brief history.
Let me start with the history of a
young Guatemalan mom named Yeni
Gonzalez. Madam Speaker, last night
in this very Chamber, we heard from
the President of the United States,
and, once again, he painted immigrants
as violent criminals, claiming that the
only way to keep America safe is a use-
less, medieval wall along our southern
border.
By all accounts, President Trump has
made immigrants demons. He has de-
monized immigrants, especially un-
documented immigrants, as a central
theme of his presidency, and last night
was, by no means, any exception.
As a former undocumented immi-
grant myself, I see it as my mission to
counter the many lies coming from the
White House pertaining to immigrants.
One of the ways we can do that is to in-
troduce the American people to immi-
grants and to tell them our compelling
stories.
That is why I brought, as my guest,
to the State of the Union this young
Guatemalan mom, Yeni Gonzalez, one
of the many people impacted by the
Trump administration’s hateful and
heartless zero tolerance policy.
Yeni and her family, as I said earlier,
are refugees from Guatemala. Yeni is
from a small agricultural town and
grew fearful for her children’s safety as
violence continued to surge in her com-
munity and throughout Central Amer-
ica.
In the face of break-ins at her home
and worried that violent gangs would
try to recruit her 11-year-old son, Yeni
did what any mom would do, what any
reasonable mom would do; She chose to
seek safety.
Yeni got herself and her children all
the way through Mexico and up to
Yuma, Arizona, where she was appre-
hended by Border Patrol.
She was not charged with a single
crime. No one pressed any charges
against her. Still, she was taken into
custody and placed in an immigration
detention facility where our own Amer-
ican government treated her in ways in
which we condemn other governments
across the world for treating others.
b 1430
The facility she was held in became
known as the Icebox, and I want to tell
the American people what that is, the
Icebox. Because it is so brutal and so
uncomfortably cold, many immigrants
who were held there called it the Ice-
box.
According to Yeni, no one was given
any food to eat for 2 straight days, not
even her young children. A few days
later, Yeni watched as her children
were being released from detention, but
she was forced to stay; and what is
worse, no one would tell her where
they were being sent to.
Imagine just for a moment, Madam
Speaker, you fled your home, the only
place you have ever known, because it
is no longer safe to be there, with your
children. You travel a long journey,
nearly 1,000 miles, just to get your kids
to a place that is safe. You arrive in
this new place hoping to find some se-
curity, and what happens to you? You
are locked up in a freezing cell called
the Icebox, given no food to eat, and
have your children sent off without
you knowing where they really are.
You left a violent place to give your
children a better, safer life, and you
have them taken away from you.
The horrors this woman was forced to
suffer are beneath the values upon
which this great Nation was founded.
But despite the cruel policies of the
current administration, the kindness
and good will of the American people
has not, for one moment, wavered.
Yeni was eventually released and
able to touch base with a relative in
North Carolina. She found out her chil-
dren were sent to a facility in my own
congressional district in Manhattan, in
Harlem. And through the work and
support of volunteers, complete strang-
ers who never met her before, just try-
ing to do the right things and right the
wrongs of their government, Yeni was
driven all the way across the country.
It was a cross-country trip that she
took to finally reunite with her chil-
dren.
I was able to work with her attorneys
and the foster care facility to finally
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:28 Feb 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00016 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K06FE7.046 H06FEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1381
February 6, 2019
reunite Yeni and her children. It was a
touching moment for everyone in-
volved to see Yeni finally reunited with
her family.
Those volunteers, they are the Amer-
ica that I have come to know and love.
Those people who put their own needs
aside to help a complete stranger
whom they knew nothing about, only
that she was in distress, represent the
values that America stands for. As a
father and as a former undocumented
immigrant myself, I was proud to play
even a small role in this incredible
story.
You see, Madam Speaker, a woman
seeking refuge for the safety of her
children is not some violent criminal,
as was portrayed here last night by the
President of the United States. No
matter what he said here last night,
Yeni Gonzalez is not a violent crimi-
nal. And if you have ever seen a mother
in distress for the safety of her chil-
dren, you know that no wall, no matter
how high, will stop her.
And now it is our duty to deal with
the many immigration myths that
were perpetrated on this floor last
night as America watched.
Now, let me say to you that I want to
begin a bit of immigration myth bust-
ing, and I hope that President Trump
and his acolytes at FOX News are
watching because they could use this
important lesson.
We will start with my favorite, myth
number one: immigrants are violent
criminals—false. In fact, all immi-
grants, documented or undocumented,
actually commit far less crime, lower
rates of crime than any native-born
Americans or any naturalized Ameri-
cans like you and I, Madam Speaker.
As you can see, this chart, published
by the Cato Institute, shows that un-
documented criminals commit crimes
at far less than half the rate of native-
born U.S. citizens. Undocumented im-
migrants commit crimes at even lower
rates.
Now, when you think about this, it
makes perfect sense. So many immi-
grants come to the United States, in
the first place, to flee strife in their
own countries of origin. Why would
anyone fleeing crime and violence just
commit a crime in the new country
that has harbored them?
I don’t know of any immigrant, man
or woman, who leaves their house to go
to work seeking to get arrested, to
then be deported. That is a myth, and
it is irrational.
Myth number two: the number of un-
documented immigrants is growing due
to a porous southern border and people
are flowing in—again, false.
Not only has the number of undocu-
mented immigrants decreased over the
past few years, but the way most un-
documented immigrants arrive in the
U.S. has completely changed from what
it was just 15 years ago. The data
shows that only half as many people
arrive by crossing our border as those
who legally enter the United States
and overstay their visa, and the num-
ber of those crossing at the Mexican
border continues to decrease.
Finally, myth number three: there is
a crisis at our southern border—again,
false.
As you can see right here in this
chart, Madam Speaker, the data shows
border crossings are at a historic low.
Unlike what the President said here
last night, unlike what he tweets on
any given night, there is no crisis at
the border. This has been fabricated. In
fact, border crossings are at a historic
low.
Only a third as many people were ap-
prehended and turned away from the
border in 2017 as there were in 2005. The
only crisis at the border is the humani-
tarian crisis that the President, him-
self, has created.
So now that we have dispelled some
of these myths, let’s talk about what
we need to do to actually fix our bro-
ken immigration system.
First and foremost, we must protect
Dreamers. Dreamers are young people
who came here at a very young age.
They are doctors; they are homeowners
and small business owners; they are po-
lice officers; they are members of our
Armed Forces; they are teachers—and
they deserve to stay here in our Na-
tion.
Democrats have been talking about
this for years, and President Obama did
what he could in the face of Republican
opposition to make sure that these
young people have some stability and
certainty. But President Trump cruelly
chose to take that away, and the
Federal courts had to step in and say:
No, Mr. President, those young people
deserve to stay here. Now he wants to
use them as a bargaining chip, and we
will not allow that to happen.
Next, we must protect recipients of
temporary protected status, TPS. The
countries TPS recipients came here
from are still dealing with extraor-
dinary crises, and we can’t just send
them back en masse. They deserve cer-
tainty, too.
Next, we have to address family sepa-
ration and the need to improve family
reunification. President Trump angrily
refers to this as chain migration. We
call it family unification, and we know
that when a family is together, that
family is stronger; and if that family is
stronger, our Nation is stronger.
So we want to continue to work to
ensure that families are kept together,
but what he doesn’t understand is that
our immigration system has been made
stronger by allowing individuals to
have their families here with them
once they are permanent residents.
If my colleagues on the other side of
the aisle truly stand for family values,
and family values has been touted by
those folks on the other side of the
aisle for decades, if they truly stand for
family values, they should support the
efforts to strengthen families and sup-
port family reunification policies.
Finally, any reforms we make must
reduce the outrageous backlog in proc-
essing applications for legal status.
Over the past few years, we have seen
waiting times grow and grow and grow.
Since 2014, the average processing
time for cases has nearly doubled. In
some cases, by the time someone comes
up, they have aged out of their situa-
tion, and now they are no longer appli-
cable, making them no longer eligible
for permanent legal status.
This administration’s backlog just
adds more undocumented immigrants
to our population and is the perfect ex-
ample of how broken our system is.
Over the rest of this hour, some of
my CHC colleagues will talk more
about the specific issues we must ad-
dress in comprehensive immigration
reform. Many of us agree that, to do
the right thing by the American peo-
ple, we must start from the same set of
facts and establish a shared set of val-
ues.
Madam Speaker, I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Mem-
bers are reminded to refrain from en-
gaging in personalities toward the
President of the United States.
f
NEED FOR COMPREHENSIVE
IMMIGRATION REFORM
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under
the Speaker’s announced policy of Jan-
uary 3, 2019, the gentleman from the
Northern Mariana Islands (Mr. SABLAN)
is recognized for the remainder of the
hour as the designee of the majority
leader.
Mr. SABLAN. Madam Speaker, I
thank my friend from the great State
of New York and the great city of New
York for inviting me to speak on the
need for comprehensive immigration
reform for our Nation as a whole and,
specifically, about how the broken im-
migration system hurts people I rep-
resent in the Mariana Islands.
In 2013, the Senate passed a com-
prehensive immigration reform bill,
with Republicans and Democrats vot-
ing together, that would have gone a
long way to fixing immigration.
The bill gave people who came here
illegally but are now contributing to
the economic prosperity of all Ameri-
cans a way to come out of the shadows,
and it provided for substantial im-
provements in border security—just
what the President says he wants.
The Republican-led House decided
not to take the path the Senate had
courageously shown us in 2013, but I
hope that, in this 116th Congress, we
can dust off that comprehensive immi-
gration reform bill and breathe new
life into it.
Because our immigration problems
still need fixing, we have a solution,
ready-made, that already passed the
Senate with Republican and Demo-
cratic votes.
I worked with the Gang of Eight in
the Senate who drafted that legisla-
tion. I was able to include a section
that dealt with groups of people in the
Mariana Islands who fell through the
cracks when Congress extended U.S.
immigration law to my islands in 2008.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:28 Feb 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00017 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K06FE7.048 H06FEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H1382 February 6, 2019
Let me begin by saying that none of
the people I wanted to help came into
our country illegally or stayed ille-
gally. They were all lawfully present,
but their situations were not under-
stood or accounted for when Federal
law was applied to the Mariana Islands.
I have wanted to help them since my
first days in Congress 10 years ago, and
I will not stop working until they are
pulled out of the limbo we left them in.
Let me tell you about these people.
Imagine you are the daughter or son
of parents who came to the Mariana Is-
lands before 1976, before our islands
were even part of the United States.
The Mariana Islands is your only
home. You grew up in the Islands, went
to school, have worked there ever
since, raising your own family, always
lawfully present.
Then, three decades later, Congress
decides to extend America’s immigra-
tion borders. Suddenly, you are told
you are a foreigner. You need a work
visa or humanitarian parole or, other-
wise, you will have to leave the only
home you have ever known. Imagine.
The Senate comprehensive immigra-
tion reform bill would have fixed that.
Imagine you are living in the Mar-
iana Islands and the local government
passes a law, as it has every right to
do, that gives you permanent resident
status. Then along comes Congress, 25
years later, and says the Mariana Is-
lands is within U.S. immigration bor-
ders now. Oh, and by the way, you per-
manent residents, you do not have that
status anymore. If you want to stay,
you need a work visa or humanitarian
parole; otherwise, you will have to
leave your home, your children, your
family. Imagine.
b 1445
The Senate comprehensive immigra-
tion reform bill would have fixed that.
Imagine coming to the Marianas as a
foreign worker. You have contributed
to economic growth and have been a
lawfully present resident for decades.
But Congress passes a new law, and
suddenly, your status changes. Even if
you have a spouse or children who are
U.S. citizens, they cannot petition for
you because they are too poor or un-
derage.
Under the Obama administration, at
least you were granted humanitarian
parole. But the Trump administration
wants you gone by June 30, June 30 of
this year.
You must uproot your family, pull
your children out of school, or leave
them behind as orphans. Imagine.
The Senate comprehensive immigra-
tion reform bill would have fixed that,
too.
Madam Speaker, I come from a very
small community, compared to my col-
leagues here in the House, just 50,000
people. When I ask you to imagine the
plight of those who were forgotten
when Congress extended Federal immi-
gration law to the Marianas, I do not
have to imagine who they are. I know
them individually. They are my neigh-
bors. Some are my relatives. None are
strangers to me. They are good people
who came in legally and remained law-
fully present. But their lives are pre-
carious, and the Trump administration
is tightening the noose.
We do not have to imagine how to
help them. The solution is before us.
The Senate-passed comprehensive im-
migration reform in 2013, a bipartisan
vote, a set of policies to fix our broken
system and strengthen border security,
I dare say could pass this House today.
Let us act.
Again, I thank the gentleman from
New York for giving me this time to
speak.
Madam Speaker, I yield to the gen-
tleman from Illinois (Mr. GARCÍA).
Mr. GARCÍA of Illinois. Madam
Speaker, I thank my colleagues, Rep-
resentative ESPAILLAT and Representa-
tive SABLAN, for yielding this time and
for organizing this important hour to
speak truth to power and provide an
opportunity for the American people to
hear the truth in contrast to the lies
that were told by President Trump in
how he propagandized about immi-
grants.
I take this issue personally. The way
the President has characterized immi-
grants denigrates the dignity and the
humanity of millions around the world,
including myself.
You see, Madam Speaker, I was born
in a tiny village called Los Pinos in the
Mexican state of Durango. I am an im-
migrant.
My mother raised me, the youngest
of four, while my father worked in the
United States as part of a World War
II-era bracero program. He was a mi-
grant seasonal worker, a pioneer of
what would later become the H–2A visa
program.
Eventually, my father got a job in a
storage plant in Chicago, and my fam-
ily immigrated to the U.S. in 1965. I
still remember my first American meal
at a gas station in El Paso, Texas, a bo-
logna sandwich.
Today, I stand on the floor of the
U.S. House of Representatives with
great pride to have been elected a
Member of Congress. But, also, I carry
a heavy burden, both on my conscience
and on my shoulders.
The President’s grotesque character-
ization of immigrants as rapists, drug
dealers, and murderers is an affront to
me, to my mother, to my family. Most
importantly, it is an affront to my
community and every single American,
lest we forget that our Nation values
immigrants.
Last night, the President doubled
down on his rhetoric of hate, once
again falsely describing a security cri-
sis at the border. Today, I want to
make clear three points on why we so
desperately need immigration reform.
First, let me be clear: There is no cri-
sis at the border. The only crisis we
face is the inadequate response to the
humanitarian relief that women, chil-
dren, asylum seekers, and refugees
want, while this administration abdi-
cates America’s moral duty to serve
and welcome those most in need.
The truth is that, Madam Speaker,
migrants are escaping some of the
harshest regimes in Central America,
where political and economic turmoil
threaten their lives. That is why they
come.
Contrary to the President’s
fearmongering, analysis from The New
York Times and the Center for Amer-
ican Progress shows that illegal immi-
gration is near an all-time low. In fact,
apprehensions at the border have de-
clined more than 75 percent since the
year 2000.
Most drug trafficking is coming
through our ports of entry, not rural
sections of the border.
Just last year, we witnessed the hor-
ror of young children being ripped out
of the arms of their parents. The chil-
dren were detained and held in cold,
lifeless cages, like animals, where they
slept on concrete floors and were given
little more than aluminum sheets to
keep them warm.
What a disgrace, Madam Speaker.
How can the richest, most powerful
country in the world not have the abil-
ity to do better?
My second point, on the need for im-
mediate immigration reform, is that
we face a tremendous crisis here at
home, where millions of hardworking,
law-abiding individuals—our neighbors,
relatives, and friends—live in constant
fear of being ripped apart from all they
know and those they love.
Madam Speaker, there are more than
11 million individuals, including chil-
dren, living in the United States who
are currently undocumented. Of those,
there are more than 3.6 million Dream-
ers, children who entered the U.S. be-
fore their 18th birthday, and more than
1.8 million children eligible for DACA
because they were brought to the U.S.
before their 16th birthday.
Their parents brought them seeking
refuge, opportunity, a chance to give
their children a life free of the fear
from hunger, abject poverty, and the
violent drug wars that are ravaging
Central America.
At this point, I would like to shine a
light on one young Dreamer who lives
in my district in Illinois, in a suburban
community of Chicago, and how she
studies, she works, and she helps build
communities.
Back home, in the community of Lit-
tle Village, where I have lived for the
past 49 years, there is a story about a
young woman named Elizeth Arguelles
and the tamales that are making her
dreams come true.
Elizeth’s mother began working as a
tamale street vendor when she arrived
in Chicago so that she could save
money and bring her children from
Mexico to join her in the U.S. When
Elizeth arrived at about 7 years old,
she immediately began helping her
mother make tamales. She would wake
up at 3:30 a.m. to prepare the cart and
sell tamales until 7:30 a.m. before going
to school.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:28 Feb 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00018 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K06FE7.049 H06FEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1383
February 6, 2019
Elizeth grew up in the United States,
saved up money from selling tamales,
and paid for college tuition, first at
Morton College and now at Dominican
University.
Elizeth’s immigration status, how-
ever, continues to present a challenge.
Despite all her hard work and her
study, her future is uncertain because
she is a deferred action recipient. She
doesn’t know what will happen next.
Despite those obstacles, she has prov-
en that she values resilience, self-reli-
ance, and ingenuity. Those are her val-
ues, and they are American values as
well. Elizeth’s story speaks to the val-
ues that make our country great.
Unfortunately, ICE raids continue to
terrorize immigrant communities and
traumatize children like Elizeth who
live in constant fear of losing their par-
ents and their own futures. These
young people yearn to go to college, to
serve in our military, and to enrich our
communities with their entrepre-
neurial spirit.
Madam Speaker, Congress must cre-
ate a path to citizenship to prove that,
beyond a doubt, we welcome Elizeth
and those like her to America.
I want to end and make my third and
final point. The status quo cannot re-
main, and the current legal immigra-
tion system is broken, creating dec-
ades-long delays for family reunifica-
tions and exacerbating workforce gaps
that harm our economy.
Madam Speaker, when we hear
naysayers complain that immigrants
should come to America using the legal
route but fail to acknowledge the anti-
quated and broken state that our sys-
tem is in—for many, processing time
for family reunification visas can last
between 18 and 23 years.
Imagine how much can happen in 18
to 23 years, Madam Speaker.
As of November 2012, there were 4.3
million people on the wait list for fam-
ily visas and 113,000 waiting for em-
ployment-based visas.
Those years-long wait times cause
others to make an even more difficult
choice. In Mexico, a group now referred
to as Los Invisibles, the invisible ones,
is growing. Los Invisibles, these invis-
ible young people, refers to more than
600,000 American-born U.S. children liv-
ing in Mexico.
Because our broken system keeps
families apart for so long, or it tears
mothers and fathers away from their
children, some have elected to leave
America altogether—a real tragedy, a
real loss for us.
Perhaps in another life, I would have
been one of those children and, because
of the anti-immigrant policies of to-
day’s administration, the next U.S.
Congressman won’t stand here in the
future to share the immigrant experi-
ence that I share with all of you today.
The true crisis we face, the true dan-
ger we face, is the President’s propa-
ganda that flies in the face of truth.
Immigrants don’t worsen the Nation.
On the contrary, immigrants help keep
this Nation the strongest nation the
world has ever known.
We are your mechanics, your nurses,
your farmers, your local brewer. We
are your teachers, engineers, and law
enforcement officers. We are fire-
fighters, plumbers, and doctors. In
some lucky instances, we are your Rep-
resentatives in Washington.
As the proud immigrant Representa-
tive from a district that is more than
two-thirds foreign-born, I refuse to
back down and sit silent while the
President denigrates me, my family,
and my constituents.
As a Congress, we cannot sit idly by
while thousands are denied humani-
tarian relief at the border while mil-
lions live in fear here in our commu-
nities and while millions more wait,
separated from those they love and
care for.
Madam Speaker, I thank the gen-
tleman from the Northern Mariana Is-
lands (Mr. SABLAN) for yielding me the
time to share my story.
Mr. SABLAN. Madam Speaker, I
yield to the gentlewoman from Texas
(Ms. ESCOBAR), the CHC freshman Rep-
resentative.
Ms. ESCOBAR. Madam Speaker, I am
here to correct the RECORD, to bust the
myth, to make sure that Americans
know the truth about my wonderful,
generous, incredible community, El
Paso, Texas.
Last night, in this Chamber, as I was
seated in the audience listening to the
State of the Union Address, I heard our
President misinform the American
public. He said that El Paso, Texas,
was once one of the most dangerous
cities in America, and then a wall was
built.
Well, Madam Speaker, that is not
true. El Paso is one of the safest cities
in America. However, we have been a
safe community; we have been a safe
city. We are right on the U.S.-Mexico
border, and we have been safe for dec-
ades.
b 1500
The wall was built in El Paso, Texas,
in 2008. Our ranking as one of the safest
communities in America dates back to
the 1990s.
Many people wonder why El Paso is
so safe. Why is El Paso, which is,
again, right on the U.S.-Mexico border,
one of the safest communities in Amer-
ica? Last night, in those conversations,
I pointed to my guest at the State of
the Union Address, Senaida Navar, who
is a Dreamer; she is a teacher; she is an
activist; she is exactly the kind of com-
munity member, constituent, citizen
who makes El Paso and the country
great.
As these debates over comprehensive
immigration reform, over border secu-
rity, continue to get louder and, in
fact, uglier here in Washington, D.C.,
El Paso has been, in many ways, at the
center of those debates and those dis-
cussions.
I will tell you, they should be. El
Paso should be at the center of that de-
bate.
The reason why El Paso should be at
the center of that debate is not because
we were the site of the President’s
zero-tolerance policy, not because we
were the site of the tent city at
Tornillo, not because our processing
center is the site where detainees are
right now being force-fed through a
nose tube against their will. We should
be at the center of deciding the future
of this country in terms of comprehen-
sive immigration reform because of our
generosity, because of our goodwill, be-
cause of our kindness.
El Paso has absolutely set an exam-
ple for our country, and we have done
it with the way that we have opened up
our arms to everyone and treated peo-
ple with the dignity that they deserve.
Madam Speaker, I thank Congress-
man SABLAN for the opportunity to
correct the RECORD.
Mr. SABLAN. Madam Speaker, I
thank my colleague very much for her
comments.
Madam Speaker, I just realized that
today, this Special Order, we had four
speakers, three of whom are immi-
grants: the gentleman from New York,
the gentleman from Illinois, and this
gentleman from the Northern Mari-
anas. We are immigrants. The sky
hasn’t fallen.
There is nothing to be afraid of. We
are a country of immigrants.
Madam Speaker, I thank my col-
league, Mr. ESPAILLAT, for organizing
this evening’s Special Order on the
need for immigration reform.
Madam Speaker, I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
f
INTERNATIONAL DAY OF ZERO
TOLERANCE FOR FEMALE GEN-
ITAL MUTILATION
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under
the Speaker’s announced policy of Jan-
uary 3, 2019, the gentleman from Penn-
sylvania (Mr. PERRY) is recognized for
60 minutes as the designee of the mi-
nority leader.
Mr. PERRY. Madam Speaker, I am
here today to talk about something
that is completely unimaginable to me.
I can’t imagine I am here to talk about
it on the floor of the House of Rep-
resentatives. I can’t imagine that it oc-
curs in the world. I can’t imagine that
it occurs on this very day in this world.
I can’t imagine that it occurs in our
country, but it does.
Madam Speaker, I rise today in soli-
darity with all who condemn a horrific
practice on this, the International Day
of Zero Tolerance for Female Genital
Mutilation.
Today, I introduced a bipartisan res-
olution with my colleague, the gentle-
woman from Florida, Congresswoman
LOIS FRANKEL, which calls for a coordi-
nated response from the United States
and the international community to
end this horrific and cruel practice.
The numbers surrounding FGM are
shocking. They are staggering. Two
hundred million women and girls alive
today are survivors of FGM. Of those
200 million, 44 million are girls at or
under the age of 14.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:28 Feb 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00019 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K06FE7.051 H06FEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H1384 February 6, 2019
Madam Speaker, these are children.
These are the little girls who you see
going to elementary school in your
community.
This year alone, an estimated 3 mil-
lion girls are at risk of being genitally
mutilated. In 25 countries where FGM
is routinely practiced, between the
years 2015 and 2030, an estimated 68
million girls will be cut, unless we take
concerted and accelerated action.
This is an urgent situation when you
imagine what happens, and I am going
to go through it with you.
People ask, what exactly is FGM?
Until just a few years ago, until I read
about it and met some of the ladies
who have had to endure it, I didn’t
know and I wasn’t aware. But FGM
comprises all procedures that involve
partial or total removal of the external
female genitalia or other injury to the
female genital organs for nonmedical
reasons.
There is no medical necessity what-
soever to do this. It is most commonly
performed on girls from infancy to age
15.
Now, just think about that: no anes-
thesia, no forewarning, no approval.
Madam Speaker, I am joined by the
gentlewoman. Wonderful.
FGM is classified into four major
types, ranging from pricking, nicking,
scraping, and cauterization, to total
excision and infibulation.
FGM is widely recognized by the
international community as a viola-
tion of women’s and girls’ basic human
rights, the right to their own body,
their very own body and no one else’s,
and what happens to it.
Organizations that condemn FGM in-
clude the United Nations, the African
Union, the European Union, and the
Organization of Islamic Cooperation.
The World Health Organization says
this practice has no health benefit for
women and girls and, instead, can have
severe short- and long-term impacts on
the physical, psychological, sexual, and
reproductive health of these innocent,
helpless girls.
The immediate physical complica-
tions of FGM include, obviously, severe
pain, excessive bleeding, fever, urinary
issues, shock, and death. That is just
the beginning.
In the long term, a girl may experi-
ence cysts, infections, septicemia,
painful and difficult urination and
menstruation, and increased risk of
death during childbirth for both the
mother and the unborn child.
The pain inflicted by FGM doesn’t
stop with the initial procedure. It often
serves as an ongoing torture through-
out the woman’s life, for her whole life.
Who practices FGM? FGM is a deeply
rooted cultural practice. Different
communities give different expla-
nations for why they insist upon FGM,
which usually involves nonfactual,
misleading, and, frankly, insulting ar-
guments about cleanliness and woman-
hood.
FGM communities often consider the
practice a necessary part of raising a
girl and a way to prepare her for adult-
hood and marriage. It is literally unbe-
lievable. It is viewed as a way to ensure
premarital virginity and marital fidel-
ity. It is more likely to be carried out
by communities that believe that this
mutilation increases marriageability.
In other communities, FGM is prac-
ticed under the notion that girls are
more clean and beautiful after removal
of body parts that are considered un-
clean, unfeminine, or male.
As an international community, we
must work with these communities to
provide accurate information about the
harm of this practice, about the long-
term harm of this practice to women
and girls, and change the narrative
that somehow FGM is okay or toler-
able for any reason whatsoever.
It is not okay. It is not tolerable for
any reason under the Sun.
People ask where FGM is practiced.
FGM is primarily concentrated in 30
countries in Africa, the Middle East,
and Asia. Currently, for girls 11 and
younger, FGM has the highest preva-
lence in Gambia at 56 percent, Mauri-
tania at 54 percent, and Indonesia at 50
percent.
It is most common in Somalia, Guin-
ea, and Djibouti, where more than 90
percent of women and girls ages 15 to
49 are mutilated on a regular and sys-
tematic basis.
Make no mistake, however: FGM is a
global problem. The World Health Or-
ganization warns that growing migra-
tion has increased the number of girls
and women living outside their country
of origin who have undergone FGM or
who are at risk in Europe, Australia,
Latin America, and North America.
Just last Friday, February 1, the
United Kingdom handed down its first-
ever guilty verdict of a woman who
committed FGM on her 3-year-old
daughter.
I have daughters. It is just unimagi-
nable to me.
The largest health network in Belfast
saw 17 cases of FGM in just 9 months
between April 2017 and January 2018.
Unfortunately, unbelievably, FGM
has also made headlines in the United
States. In April 2017, Federal prosecu-
tors for the first time used a 1996 Fed-
eral statute criminalizing the practice
of FGM to bring charges in Livonia,
Michigan, against Drs. Fakhruddin
Attar and Jumana Nagarwala.
These doctors are accused of per-
forming FGM on at least nine underage
girls, from 8 to 13 years old, from at
least three States. This is happening
right here in our communities.
I have an excerpt from the 10 crimi-
nal complaint pages against Dr.
Nagarwala. This is what happened, ac-
cording to investigators and the vic-
tims themselves. These are direct ex-
cerpts.
On April 10, 2017, victim 1 was interviewed
by a child forensic interviewer employed by
the FBI. She is 7 years old. She stated that
she was brought to Detroit, Michigan, with
victim 2 for a ‘‘special’’ girls’ trip. After they
arrived at the hotel, victim 1 advised that
she and victim 2 had to go to the doctor be-
cause ‘‘our tummies hurt.’’ While at the doc-
tor’s office, a procedure ‘‘to get the germs
out’’ of her was performed.
Victim 1 identified an unmarked photo-
graph of Nagarwala and said that she was the
person who performed the procedure.
Victim 1 said she took off her pants and
underwear and laid on an examining table
with her knees near her chest and her legs
spread apart. She said that Nagarwala
‘‘pinched’’ her on the ‘‘place where she goes
pee,’’ and that she was given a pad to wear in
her underwear as she left. She said that she
was told not to talk about the procedure.
On April 11, 2017, a medical doctor in Min-
nesota performed a complete medical exam-
ination of victim 1 pursuant to a search war-
rant. Your affiant has spoken with the med-
ical doctor who performed the exam, and the
doctor’s preliminary findings are that her
genitals are not normal in appearance. Her
labia minora has been altered or removed,
and her clitoral hood is also abnormal in ap-
pearance. Finally, the doctor observed some
scar tissue and small healing lacerations.
On April 10, 2017, victim 2 was interviewed
by a child forensic interviewer employed by
the FBI. Victim 2 is also 7 years old. She said
that she came to Detroit with victim 1 and
that she went to a doctor’s office. She identi-
fied a photograph of Nagarwala as the doctor
who she saw in Detroit.
Victim 2 said that, in the examination
room, Nagarwala took off her pants and un-
derwear and put her on the table. She said
that she ‘‘got a shot,’’ and that it hurt really
badly and she screamed. She said the ‘‘shot’’
was on her upper right thigh.
She drew a picture of the room, and she
drew an X to indicate blood on the exam-
ining table. She said her parents told her
that the procedure is a secret and that she is
not supposed to talk about it.
She said that, after the procedure, she
could barely walk and that she felt pain all
the way down to her ankle. She said
Nagarwala told her that she was fine.
Victim 2 said that she left one of her win-
ter gloves in the medical office.
This is a little 7-year-old girl.
On April 10, 2017, a search warrant was exe-
cuted at the medical clinic. During the
search, agents found a child’s winter glove in
the medical clinic. The glove had victim 2’s
first name written on it.
Nineteen months later, in November
2018, a Federal judge in the Eastern
District Court of Michigan ruled the
1996 Federal statute unconstitutional
and actually dismissed several charges
against these so-called doctors and
their co-conspirators.
In the Michigan case, Judge Fried-
man of the Eastern District Court of
Michigan wrote that ‘‘Congress over-
stepped its bounds by legislating to
prohibit FGM. . . . ‘Local criminal ac-
tivity’ . . . is for the States to regu-
late, not Congress.’’
Because of that, because of that dis-
appointing and horrific news, the good
gentlewoman from Florida and I are of-
fering a bill today that works within
the Federal Government’s jurisdiction
to combat this reprehensible practice.
b 1515
On Monday, I introduced two bills.
The first was the bipartisan Protect
Our Girls Act, H.R. 959, in which we ex-
pressly criminalized the transport of a
minor across State lines for the pur-
pose of female genital mutilation. The
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:28 Feb 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00020 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K06FE7.052 H06FEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1385
February 6, 2019
majority of these girls involved in the
recent case were from Minnesota and
Illinois, while the mutilation was per-
formed in a clinic in Michigan.
My second proposal, the Empower
Our Girls Act, H.R. 960, adds female
genital mutilation to seven grant pro-
grams within the Violence Against
Woman Act, or what is commonly
known as VAWA. The grants will focus
on providing assistance in the criminal
justice system and support from social
service organizations to these ladies
and little girls.
This is the first time that VAWA pro-
grams will address FGM and will allow
victims of this unspeakable, unimagi-
nable act to have the same opportunity
to receive assistance as victims of
other violent crimes.
The bill also adds female genital mu-
tilation as a separate crime under the
FBI’s uniform criminal reporting sys-
tem.
By codifying the existence of this
crime, the bill lays the foundation for
collecting information as it occurs
across States. Reporting will assist in
identifying other measures to bolster
prevention and prosecution.
Before I yield to my good friend from
Florida (Ms. FRANKEL), I just want to
tell folks who might be listening or
watching that one of the things that
we hear when we go to the States—be-
cause law enforcement typically hap-
pens at the State level—and we say,
‘‘Would you please consider a law for
this so that this doesn’t happen, so
that this is illegal, so that people
aren’t encouraged to practice it but are
discouraged from practicing?’’ they
will say, ‘‘Well, it doesn’t happen here.
We don’t have any cases of it being re-
ported.’’
It is not going to be reported, folks.
The people who are doing this are
doing it in secret. And once it has hap-
pened to a young girl or a lady, imag-
ine the shame or the fear of going to a
doctor and talking about something
like that.
It is not reported for a reason. And
because it is not reported, it is becom-
ing more prevalent. We just can’t allow
that to happen.
At this time, I yield to the gentle-
woman from Florida (Ms. FRANKEL).
Ms. FRANKEL. Mr. Speaker, I thank
Representative PERRY for yielding. I
have to say it was quite difficult to lis-
ten to you, not because you are not ar-
ticulate, but these stories are horrific.
I just thank you on a bipartisan basis
that we can address this horrible, hor-
rible situation.
I am rising here today and I am join-
ing, of course, Representative PERRY
on International Day of Zero Tolerance
for Female Genital Mutilation. I say
that every girl, no matter where she is
born, has a right to live free of vio-
lence.
When women and girls are empow-
ered, when they are provided access to
quality healthcare and education, com-
munities thrive. In fact, the best pre-
dictor of a country’s peacefulness is
how well its women are treated.
Uplifting the value of women around
the world is an American value that
must continue. And still, there are hor-
rific norms and cultural practices, like
female genital mutilation, or we call it
FGM for short, and it is holding back
women from reaching their full poten-
tial.
Representative PERRY, I actually met
a victim of this very, very cruel act
last year. She came to a panel discus-
sion. Her name was Jaha, a young
woman from Gambia. She told us that
when she was actually born, when she
was 1 week old, she was mutilated, and
that at age 15, she was married off. She
told us this is very common. It is hap-
pening to something like 200 million
women today.
Now, Jaha, she is a champion, be-
cause she broke away from her mar-
riage and she became a champion advo-
cate for her daughter. She became an
advocate. Through her advocacy, FGM
is now banned in Gambia. So she has
shown us that it can be done.
200 million girls and women today
have been cut, leaving them with irre-
versible emotional and physical dam-
age which can lead to infection, severe
bleeding, complication in childbirth
and increased risk of newborn death.
It is horrific, it is inhumane, and it is
a gross violation of human rights. And
it is not just tied to one religion or cul-
ture; it could happen anywhere. It is
unbelievable to say that it still hap-
pens in the United States of America,
as you so aptly pointed out.
I am very happy to be here with you.
In fact, I am very proud to be here with
you to just send a clear message that
FGM is unacceptable. It must stop.
And I am so pleased to join you in all
your efforts, our joint efforts to stop
this practice.
And I will add something: In the
United States, there is more that we
can do in terms of resources. At least
$15 million is needed, annually, to con-
tinue our efforts. I would like to see us
put into law the U.S. strategies to pre-
vent and respond to gender-based vio-
lence, globally, and to empower adoles-
cent girls, recognizing that FGM is a
gender-based violence.
As importantly, we must restore our
funding to the U.N. Population Fund,
which is providing care to 2 million
survivors around the world. It is time
we recommit to ensuring the safety
and empowerment of women and girls.
Mr. Speaker, I know Representative
PERRY would join me in saying, when
women succeed, so does the world.
Mr. PERRY. Well, I thank the gentle-
woman so much, and I know this is a
sensitive, uncomfortable topic, but it
must be discussed. We can’t just close
our eyes and turn our head from un-
comfortable things.
I am so proud and thankful that the
gentlewoman has been willing to step
up and stand up for these young ladies
all around the world and in the United
States as well, in our communities.
Make no mistake, ladies and gentle-
men, this is violence. This is violent.
Now, a friend showed me a picture,
and it is one of those things where you
sometimes wish you hadn’t seen some-
thing that you had seen, and you can’t
unsee it but it has such an impact on
you. I have that picture now, so I am
just going to continue to talk about
that a little bit.
This is a picture from a National Ge-
ographic magazine. And when I and the
gentlewoman from Florida talk about
the cultural aspects of this—this poor
little girl. You can see the grimace on
her face.
There is no sanitation, so to speak.
This is not necessarily performed in a
doctor’s office. It looks almost like a
school with a bunch of people around,
right? No anesthesia.
They are holding her down, three of
them holding her down. She doesn’t
want this to happen. This lady is smil-
ing in her face. I can’t imagine this lit-
tle girl—wherever she is from, whoever
she is, I can’t imagine that this, some-
how, is acceptable anywhere.
I feel compelled—I feel it is my duty,
it is our duty—to speak out and say
something about this to make sure it
doesn’t happen anywhere—it doesn’t
happen in our homes; it doesn’t happen
to one more little girl. I stand before
you today to call for an end to this
horrific, barbaric practice internation-
ally.
Only 28 of our United States have
statutes criminalizing FGM to any
varying degree. And again, I have gone
to my State, and I have said: ‘‘Please,
will you do something?’’
‘‘Well, this isn’t happening. We don’t
have any reports of it.’’
We don’t have any reports because it
is legal. If people knew it was illegal,
they would report it when they saw it.
When this little girl goes to the doctor
some day, they would report it.
I ask that the 22 States that cur-
rently have no law banning FGM, to in-
clude my home State of Pennsylvania,
to pass legislation immediately. I am
asking them right here, right now,
today, on this day of international con-
demnation of this barbaric practice.
This is the day, the International
Day of Zero Tolerance for FGM, female
genital mutilation. Now is the time to
stand up for the voiceless.
These are little girls. These are little
girls whose mothers and fathers take
them to do this to them. Sometimes
they do it to them, as you have heard,
themselves. Little girls who trust their
parents, who trust their mother would
never hurt them, right? Voiceless.
This must be criminalized, this hor-
rific practice of FGM. FGM has abso-
lutely no place in America or anywhere
else in the world. Again, there is no
medical reason to do this whatsoever—
none. It is unconscionable.
FGM is unconscionable. It is a sys-
tematic form of abuse and female sub-
jugation perpetrated against the
youngest and most vulnerable among
us.
And it doesn’t just end right there.
When she is done with this, it doesn’t
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:28 Feb 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00021 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K06FE7.054 H06FEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H1386 February 6, 2019
end there. She has got to heal, which
may take weeks and months, or longer,
physically. But the scars of what hap-
pens to this little girl and millions
around the world and in our country,
as well, lasts the rest of their lifetime.
For what?
As our society becomes more tran-
sient and diverse, we must strengthen
our efforts to stop this practice. It sim-
ply must end immediately. Those who
perpetrate it must be brought to swift
justice in the United States. We can no
longer have somebody report and put
themselves out there and peril them-
selves, make themselves vulnerable to
retribution or what have you for the
judge to throw it out.
I am not here to criticize the judge
who looked at the Constitution and
said: Look, this isn’t the place for it.
I get that. That is the judge’s job.
But it is our job in Congress to get this
right, to make sure that the law says
one way or the other: This is a problem
in our country. We don’t accept this.
We reject this, and there is going to be
a penalty for doing this.
Those little girls can’t protect them-
selves. They have no protection what-
soever. They are counting on their par-
ents and the adults in their lives.
Mr. Speaker, I thank my colleagues
from both sides of the aisle and across
the political spectrum for their support
of bipartisan solutions to condemn and
stop this atrocity. We have great sup-
port, and we think we are going to get
even more support, bipartisan support.
There are not many things that
Democrats and Republicans, that con-
servatives and liberals across the coun-
try can agree upon, but we can all
agree that, if that were our little girl,
there is no way in hell we would let
that happen. There is no way.
So not only us, as different people on
different sides of the aisle here in this
United States Congress, but the inter-
national community is also weighing
in on this as well, as you have already
heard. They have said enough is
enough.
It is bad enough that it is happening
in other parts of the world, but in the
21st century, in 2019, this is happening
right here in the United States of
America. And Americans need to be
aware. They need to be informed. The
medical practitioners need to be in-
formed.
Law enforcement needs a tool. They
need something to ensure that the peo-
ple who are contemplating doing this
will contemplate not doing it; that peo-
ple who think somehow it is culturally
acceptable figure out and are informed
that it is not; that people who some-
how feel that they must do this to
their little girl so that they can then
force her into some marriage and that
she will be acceptable to the partner
that she is forced to be with, that that
is no longer acceptable either.
It never was acceptable. It is not ac-
ceptable in the United States, and it is
our job to make sure it is not accept-
able anywhere. And it starts right
here, and it starts right now. We have
waited too long.
Mr. Speaker, it has been my privilege
to speak up on this issue.
b 1530
It is sensitive, and that is why people
don’t want to speak up on it, because it
is embarrassing to talk about, and I
guess they are afraid of the embarrass-
ment. But I am not. Somebody has to
speak up for these little girls that have
no one else, that, after the fact, can do
nothing about this for the rest of their
lives.
They only have us here, people who
don’t know them, people who will prob-
ably never ever know them. They have
us, and it is our job. It is our duty to
stick up for them and put ourselves out
here. And if it takes being uncomfort-
able, well, that is what it takes.
Mr. Speaker, I am privileged to be
here today to offer this. I would ask
that if my colleagues who are listening
haven’t heard about this, please take a
look at these two pieces of legislation.
I appreciate their input. If they have
got ways to improve them or if they
are concerned about what we are try-
ing to do here and think it is over-
reaching or something like that, I
would appreciate your input.
We want to make sure that we are
doing the best job that we can, and
that we are doing the best job that we
can for little girls like this who are
being held down against their will and
having their body parts cut off of them
because of some culture and some ideas
that they will somehow be more wor-
thy in their community once they are
mutilated for the rest of their life.
That is our job here.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
f
DEMOGRAPHIC BUBBLE
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr.
JOHNSON). Under the Speaker’s an-
nounced policy of January 3, 2019, the
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Arizona (Mr. SCHWEIKERT) for 30 min-
utes.
Mr. SCHWEIKERT. Mr. Speaker,
what we are doing today is sort of a
continuation of the theme that since
the beginning of this Congress we have
been walking through. So let’s put this
sort of in context.
This is probably our fourth or fifth
time to come to the floor and do part
of this theme. The first time we did
this we took almost an hour and we ac-
tually sort of walked through what is
happening in our society, when you ac-
tually do the math of the massive un-
funded liabilities in Medicare; the
issues with the fact that in 9 years, 50
percent of the noninterest spending of
this government in 9 years will be to
those 65 and over.
So it is important to understand
what is happening to us demographi-
cally. Much of that difficulty that is
coming toward us is about healthcare
costs.
One of my passions has been trying
to get an understanding of this. There
are a number of things we can do to ac-
tually deal with the fact that we are
getting older as a society. We are see-
ing what is happening on our birth
rates. The fact of the matter is, those
of us who are baby boomers—there are
74 million of us—and in 9 years, all of
the baby boomers will be functionally
65 and older.
It is a demographic bubble moving
through our society, and there are ben-
efits that we as a society have been
promised. So what do you do? How do
you make sure you have a vibrant
enough economy to keep our promises?
How do you make sure we have a vi-
brant enough economy not to crush the
young in their opportunities?
We have been laying out five little
legs. We will call them our proposals,
everything from an immigration sys-
tem that is talent based so you maxi-
mize economic vitality; policies, such
as tax, regulatory, trade, that maxi-
mize economic growth; policies that
are all up and down, whether it be our
programs within the social safety net,
or just incentives within Social Secu-
rity, and Medicare; other programs to
stay in the workforce or enter the
workforce because labor force partici-
pation is crucial.
We had a good number last month
where we broke over 63 percent labor
force participation. I know this sounds
a little geeky, but it is crucial.
The fifth one—and we will come back
to the fourth—the fifth one is looking
at our retirement entitlements and
how we design them to incentivize ev-
erything from being a good consumer
to staying in the labor market longer.
But the fourth one that we keep talk-
ing about over and over and over again
is technology.
Once again, I put up this slide right
here just to understand the scale. In a
decade, you and your partner, if you
have jobs, there will be two people
working for every one person in retire-
ment in 10 years: two workers, one re-
tiree. And understand Medicare and So-
cial Security are functioning right now
as pay-as-you-go programs because we
are using today’s income to pay to-
day’s retirees.
The next slide is just to emphasize
the scale of the unfunded liability.
When you look at this slide, you will
see up on the top that this is the 30-
year projection. It is not adjusted for
inflation. So if you want to adjust it
for inflation, you can remove a third of
the value. But, functionally, over the
next 30 years, you have an $84 trillion
unfunded liability when you add in the
cost of the programs and the interest
related, $84 trillion over the next 30
years.
But if you take a really close look,
almost all of that comes from Social
Security and Medicare. The rest of the
budget has about a $16 trillion on the
positive side, so you have got an $84
trillion shortfall. So what do you do as
far as solutions?
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:28 Feb 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00022 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K06FE7.055 H06FEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1387
February 6, 2019
Well, we are going to show some
slides of some creative ideas. Remem-
ber, we are working on that. We have
five piers. Right now we are going to
talk about our technology pier. Just,
once again, to sort of get your head
around these numbers, from 2008 to
2028, the calculation is 91 percent of the
increased spending of this Federal Gov-
ernment will be interest, Social Secu-
rity, and healthcare benefits.
Your government is functionally an
insurance company with an Army. So
how do you have a revolution in
healthcare costs? We have lots of pro-
posals around here, and if you listen to
them—and we have got to be brutally
honest—think about the ACA, many
know it as ObamaCare, or some of our
alternatives; we are often having a de-
bate of who gets to pay. Those don’t
have a revolutionary—they don’t have
a disruptive nature in the cost of
healthcare services. We are just mov-
ing around saying: we want more gov-
ernment subsidies. No, we want more
nongovernmental private-sector com-
petition, but we are often moving
around who gets to pay.
Our argument is we are in the middle
of a technology revolution. How many
of you have a watch that helps you
manage your blood pressure? How
many of you have seen the patch that
helps you manage your blood oxygen?
There are a number of these sorts of
things—we call them digiceuticals—
that are coming onto the market. We
as a body need to drag technology into
this debate so technology brings us a
disruption in the cost.
I say this over and over and over, but
it is a good visual. When was the last
time you went to Blockbuster video?
Didn’t it feel like almost overnight
from going down and getting the little
silver disk and getting a movie rec-
ommendation to now you go home and
hit a button? We are living in a society
that is having an amazing techno-
logical revolution.
What happens when this supercom-
puter in your pocket is functionally
your primary-care physician? It turns
out that that technology is here today,
but we as a body need to talk more
about who gets to pay and more about
lowering the price of healthcare.
I will argue that the elegance of
dragging this technology, removing the
barriers, removing our inequities in the
compensation for using this healthcare
IT is we will be healthier. We will deal
with our issues much faster, particu-
larly for those of us who have very
busy lives, instead of waiting for that
appointment.
So I want to just show some of the
revolution that is already out there.
These things are already out there in
our society.
This next slide shows a handheld
ultrasound. It is basically the size of
your phone. You plug it into your
Bluetooth, or you plug it into what-
ever, iPhone—at least I think this one
is an iPhone in this picture—and it is a
handheld ultrasound.
What happened to the days when you
used to have to go to a medical clinic
that had the specialty equipment? You
would sit there and find out that you
had a bone chip in your heel. Now, you
are at your office, your nurse’s office,
your company’s office. You can actu-
ally buy this as an individual. You can
actually see, and we are reading arti-
cles that are saying very soon you
won’t actually look at the picture. You
will use this handheld ultrasound and
the algorithm will actually tell you
what it is seeing. This is a revolution.
Right now, I think you can buy one
of these on Amazon for under $2,000.
Conceptually something that used to
be a large piece of equipment is in the
palm of your hand. That is a revolu-
tion.
We are about to have a series of dis-
cussions about drug pricing. Drug pric-
ing is a huge component of what we do
to have a revolution in the cost of
healthcare.
Here is a quick thought experiment.
What if I came to you and said: 50 per-
cent of the pharmaceutical prescrip-
tions that will be written this year will
not be properly used or used at all. So
just as a thought experiment, half the
pharmaceutical prescriptions written
this year just won’t be used at all, or
will be misused.
Well, right there—it is absurd to say
if we would fix this problem we would
have a 50 percent reduction in the need
to pay for pharmaceuticals, but it
could be a huge impact. This has less
to do with fighting over the
formularies, the mechanisms over here.
Will we have enough money for
healthcare research? This is just about
proper utilization.
So what would happen if I would
come to you right now and say: I have
a relative who has some dementia
issues or did you take your hyper-
tension medicine this morning? Turns
out, we can actually put on a bottle
cap that actually would talk to your
phone saying: Hey, you did not take
your pill today. Hey, you did not take
your pill in the time prescribed that
you are supposed to take it.
Something like this, as simple as
this, is a technology solution to an
issue where we know we have lots and
lots of seniors that don’t take their
medicines on time or in the proper
fashion.
We even have more complicated ones
that are in the same vein. What if you
are someone who has multiple pills
that you take? This one was particu-
larly designed for seniors with some
memory issues combined.
This is a dispensary that was just
shown at the Consumer Electronics
Show in Las Vegas 3 weeks ago. At a
certain time, it notifies you and drops
the prescribed combination of pills into
a little cup for you. It is a technology
solution for drug utilization where we
know that 50 percent of pharma-
ceuticals are not being properly used.
Mr. Speaker, I beg of us as a body, we
need to get out of our rhetoric sound-
ing like it is the late 1990s. There is a
technology revolution around us. Let’s
drag that creative thought, creative
design into our debate and say, this is
more than the continuing debate of
who pays, who doesn’t pay. It is: we
need a revolution in how we stay
healthy.
Is this Republican or Democrat? I am
making the argument it is technology.
Now, as we joke in our office, eventu-
ally, we will figure out that one party
will take a side so we can fuss at each
other. But at least right now, the dis-
cussion of dragging technology into
our own personal healthcare is not par-
tisan. It is a solution. Let’s go on to
the next slide.
About 2 years ago I had a situation
where I was cooking. It was a Sunday
evening. I love to cook, and I almost
chopped off my pinky. So I am at the
emergency room in Scottsdale, Ari-
zona, and I am bleeding like crazy.
The wonderful person who is on the
intake side in the emergency room, as
I am bleeding down my arm, is saying:
David, do we have your medical
records? Are you allergic to anything?
And I am going: I am bleeding. Well,
the absurdity is my medical records
were in the office that was closed be-
cause it was a Sunday evening. I should
have my medical records with me and
you should have your medical records
with you. It is not that hard. It turns
out others agree. This technology is
out there.
Now, I had the blessing of being the
co-chair of the Congressional
Blockchain Caucus. I actually believe
there is a really elegant way of using
an encrypted, what we call, blockchain,
a distributive ledger, with levels of per-
mission. So it is more than just my
medical records, because, as we are
going to show in a couple more slides,
this is actually just the beginning.
If I can carry my medical records
with me on this, why can’t I have that
wearable that helps me manage my di-
abetes, also doing 24 hours, 7 days a
week data; the thing that actually
helps me deal with my heart arrhyth-
mia, 7 days a week, 24 hours every day.
That type of algorithmic data is also
attached to my medical files; instead
of thinking that my medical profes-
sional is going to find out I have an
issue in that 15 minutes I am in their
office.
b 1545
This is more than a medical record
concept. If I am able to have
digiceuticals—wearables—that will
help me manage my healthcare and
help me manage my chronic condition,
will I be healthier?
Mr. Speaker, it is like the contact
lens that actually helps manage your
blood glucose talking to your pump, so
you don’t crash if you are diabetic, it
helps maintain you. You already see
some of that technology on a number
of people’s shoulders today where it is
actually Bluetoothing into the pump.
The revolution is already around us
using these technologies. We, as a
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Feb 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00023 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K06FE7.057 H06FEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H1388 February 6, 2019
body, need to have a very honest con-
versation of how do we remove bar-
riers—and we will need our friends at
the State and local level to also re-
move some of their regulatory bar-
riers—to allow the adoption of these
types of technologies.
The thought experiment goes a little
further. In the Scottsdale area—I think
we now have five or six, maybe seven of
them up—there are functionally auton-
omous healthcare clinics. It is a crazy
thought. You walk in, you sign up on
an iPad, and you take a picture of your
insurance card. You go into a booth,
and the avatar on the screen talks to
you and says: Can you shine this in
your nose? Can you turn it right, turn
it left? It will show you.
This avatar bends the device, and
then says, put it in your ear, turn it,
and down your throat, turn it, turn it.
It is autonomous. Think about the cost
savings.
The algorithm does a calculation and
says: we are actually calculating you
have the flu.
It turns out that algorithm is re-
markably accurate.
Now, in today’s world, at the very
end of the consult, a doctor comes on
to the screen and talks to you. A doc-
tor can choose to hit the button and
accept that algorithm.
But, conceptually, think about that.
What if that type of technology wasn’t
just sitting in an autonomous
healthcare clinic, but was at your
school nurses’ office, your office?
How about if it got small enough,
compact enough, and inexpensive
enough so it was at your home?
How many of us have had the occa-
sion where we have the cold or the flu,
we suffer with it for a couple days, and
then we start saying: Can I go to the
urgent care center? Maybe I can get an
appointment with my doctor.
By the time you show up at your doc-
tor’s appointment, Mr. Speaker, you
are actually already on the mend.
I have a picture on my phone of
something that looks like a large
kazoo, and here is the final part. You
blow into this, Mr. Speaker, and it is
able to tell you if you have a viral in-
fection—the flu—or a bacterial infec-
tion like a cold.
What would happen if that large
kazoo you could have sitting at home,
you blow into it, it says that you have
the flu, we are ordering your
antivirals, and they are going to be de-
livered—let’s say by a drone or an au-
tonomous vehicle, if we are going to be
really techno-utopian—and it is deliv-
ered to your home a couple of hours
later.
How much healthier did our society
get? The fact you didn’t go to work and
infect everyone; that you were able to
deal with this almost immediately;
that the time between actually getting
your pharmaceutical to actually man-
age this infection and the moment you
were feeling sick it is now hours.
How much cost did you just save out
of the medical system?
So I need us all to be creative here
and think this issue through. If 50 per-
cent—actually more than 50 percent of
our healthcare cost is 5 percent of our
brothers and sisters with chronic con-
ditions; we already know these types of
technologies are helping us manage in-
dividuals’ needs and issues who have
chronic conditions.
We saw the pill bottles to make sure
that—is there a way that the 50 percent
of pharmaceuticals that are not being
properly used or used at all are being
properly managed? Our ability to man-
age our data is going to be coming
from all these healthcare devices.
So my thesis is very, very simple. As
we have the arguments about drug
prices and as we have the arguments
about healthcare costs, we need to
have the discussion of it is time for a
technology revolution, and we need to
drag that technology solution into the
debate in how we regulate, how we
incentivize, and how we compensate.
Because, Mr. Speaker, I will make
you the argument: this is the moment
that—if you remember, the first couple
slides were the healthcare costs that
we have committed to as a society that
functionally consume almost every in-
cremental dollar of our future. What
would our future look like if we were
able to bend that cost curve because we
actually found and embraced the tech-
nology disruption that is on our door-
step?
Wouldn’t this be a much more ele-
gant debate and a much more opti-
mistic conversation?
That is what I have for today. But we
are going to do the next phase of this
next week and the week after that to
sort of walk through these pillars of,
there is a path where we can make this
work.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
f
RECESS
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 12(a) of rule I, the Chair
declares the House in recess subject to
the call of the Chair.
Accordingly (at 3 o’clock and 50 min-
utes p.m.), the House stood in recess.
f
b 1636
AFTER RECESS
The recess having expired, the House
was called to order by the Speaker pro
tempore (Mr. MCGOVERN) at 4 o’clock
and 36 minutes p.m.
REPORT ON RESOLUTION PRO-
VIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF
H.R. 840, VETERANS’ ACCESS TO
CHILD CARE ACT; PROVIDING
FOR ADOPTION OF H. RES. 86,
PROVIDING AMOUNTS FOR THE
EXPENSES OF THE SELECT COM-
MITTEE ON THE CLIMATE CRISIS
AND THE SELECT COMMITTEE
ON THE MODERNIZATION OF
CONGRESS; AND PROVIDING FOR
CONSIDERATION OF MOTIONS TO
SUSPEND THE RULES
Mr. MORELLE, from the Committee
on Rules, submitted a privileged report
(Rept. No. 116–6) on the resolution (H.
Res. 105) providing for consideration of
the bill (H.R. 840) to amend title 38,
United States Code, to direct the Sec-
retary of Veterans Affairs to provide
child care assistance to veterans re-
ceiving certain medical services pro-
vided by the Department of Veterans
Affairs; providing for the adoption of
the resolution (H. Res. 86) providing
amounts for the expenses of the Select
Committee on the Climate Crisis and
the Select Committee on the Mod-
ernization of Congress; and providing
for consideration of motions to suspend
the rules, which was referred to the
House Calendar and ordered to be
printed.
f
SENATE BILL REFERRED
A bill of the Senate of the following
title was taken from the Speaker’s
table and, under the rule, referred as
follows:
S. 49. An act to designate the outstation of
the Department of Veterans Affairs in North
Ogden, Utah, as the Major Brent Taylor Vet
Center Outstation; to the Committee on Vet-
erans’ Affairs.
f
ADJOURNMENT
Mr. MORELLE. Mr. Speaker, I move
that the House do now adjourn.
The motion was agreed to; accord-
ingly (at 4 o’clock and 38 minutes
p.m.), under its previous order, the
House adjourned until tomorrow,
Thursday, February 7, 2019, at 10 a.m.
for morning-hour debate.
f
EXECUTIVE COMMUNICATIONS,
ETC.
Under clause 2 of rule XIV, executive
communications were taken from the
Speaker’s table and referred as follows:
82. A letter from the Secretary, Securities
and Exchange Commission, transmitting the
Commission’s final rule — Disclosure of
Hedging by Employees, Officers and Direc-
tors [Release No.: 33-10593; 34-84883; IC-33333;
File No.: S7-01-15] (RIN: 3235-AL49) received
February 5, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Financial
Services.
83. A letter from the Assistant General
Counsel for Legislation, Regulation and En-
ergy Efficiency, Office of Energy Efficiency
and Renewable Energy, Department of En-
ergy, transmitting the Department’s final
rule — Energy Conservation Program: En-
ergy Conservation Standards for Certain Ex-
ternal Power Supplies [EERE-2019-BT-STD-
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Feb 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00024 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K06FE7.059 H06FEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1389
February 6, 2019
0001] (RIN: 1904-AE23) received February 1,
2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public
Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the
Committee on Energy and Commerce.
84. A letter from the Director, Regulatory
Management Division, Environmental Pro-
tection Agency, transmitting the Agency’s
final rule — National Emission Standards for
Hazardous Air Pollutants: Friction Materials
Manufacturing Facilities Residual Risk and
Technology Review [EPA-HQ-OAR-2017-0358;
FRL-9988-69-OAR] (RIN: 2060-AT66) received
February 1, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Energy and
Commerce.
85. A letter from the Director, Regulatory
Management Division, Environmental Pro-
tection Agency, transmitting the Agency’s
final rule — Glycine betaine; Exemption
from the Requirement of a Tolerance [EPA-
HQ-OPP-2018-0163; FRL-9987-42] received Feb-
ruary 1, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Energy and
Commerce.
86. A letter from the Director, Regulatory
Management Division, Environmental Pro-
tection Agency, transmitting the Agency’s
final rule — Approval of Recodification and
Revisions to State Air Pollution Control
Rules; North Dakota; Interim Approval of
Title V Program Recodification and Revi-
sions; Approval of Recodification and Revi-
sions to State Programs and Delegation of
Authority to Implement and Enforce Clean
Air Act Sections 111 and 112 Standards and
Requirements [EPA-R08-OAR-2018-0299; FRL-
9988-39-Region 8] received February 1, 2019,
pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law
104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Com-
mittee on Energy and Commerce.
87. A letter from the Director, Regulatory
Management Division, Environmental Pro-
tection Agency, transmitting the Agency’s
final rule — Approval and Promulgation of
Implementation Plans; North Dakota; Revi-
sions to Infrastructure Requirements for All
National Ambient Air Quality Standards;
Carbon Monoxide (CO); Lead (Pb); Nitrogen
Dioxide (NO2); Ozone (O3); Particle Pollution
(PM2.5, PM10); Sulfur Dioxide (SO2); Recodi-
fication [EPA-R08-OAR-2018-0616; FRL-9988-
35-Region 8] received February 1, 2019, pursu-
ant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-
121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee
on Energy and Commerce.
88. A letter from the Director, Regulatory
Management Division, Environmental Pro-
tection Agency, transmitting the Agency’s
final rule — Approval and Promulgation of
Air Quality Implementation Plans; State of
Colorado; Motor Vehicle Inspection and
Maintenance Program and Associated Revi-
sions [EPA-R08-OAR-2018-0530; FRL-9987-96-
Region 8] received February 1, 2019, pursuant
to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121,
Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on
Energy and Commerce.
89. A letter from the Director, Regulatory
Management Division, Environmental Pro-
tection Agency, transmitting the Agency’s
final rule — Approval and Promulgation of
Air Quality Implementation Plans; Dela-
ware; Interstate Transport Requirements for
the 2010 1-Hour Sulfur Dioxide Standard
[EPA-R03-OAR-2013-0492; FRL-9989-03-Region
3] received February 1, 2019, pursuant to 5
U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec.
251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on En-
ergy and Commerce.
90. A letter from the Director, Regulatory
Management Division, Environmental Pro-
tection Agency, transmitting the Agency’s
final rule — Air Plan Approval; Oklahoma;
Interstate Transport Requirements for the
1997 Ozone National Ambient Air Quality
Standards [EPA-R06-OAR-2007-0314; FRL-
9988-58-Region 6] received February 1, 2019,
pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law
104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Com-
mittee on Energy and Commerce.
91. A letter from the Director, Regulatory
Management Division, Environmental Pro-
tection Agency, transmitting the Agency’s
final rule — Air Plan Approval; Iowa; State
Implementation Plan and Operating Permits
Program [EPA-R07-OAR-2018-0642; FRL-9988-
94-Region 7] received February 1, 2019, pursu-
ant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-
121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee
on Energy and Commerce.
92. A letter from the Assistant Director,
SEMO, Department of Defense, transmitting
eight (8) notifications of a federal vacancy,
designation of acting officer, and action on
nomination, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 3349(a);
Public Law 105-277, 151(b); (112 Stat. 2681-614);
to the Committee on Oversight and Reform.
93. A letter from the Senior Procurement
Executive, Office of Acquisition Policy, Gen-
eral Services Administration, transmitting
the Administration’s summary presentation
of a final rule — Federal Acquisition Regula-
tion; Federal Acquisition Circular 2019-01; In-
troduction [Docket No.: FAR 2018-0001, Se-
quence No.: 6] received January 31, 2019, pur-
suant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-
121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee
on Oversight and Reform.
94. A letter from the Assistant General
Counsel for Regulatory Affairs, Pension Ben-
efit Guaranty Corporation, transmitting the
Corporation’s final rule — Benefits Payable
in Terminated Single-Employer Plans; Inter-
est Assumptions for Paying Benefits received
February 5, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Oversight
and Reform.
95. A letter from the Staff Director, Com-
mission on Civil Rights, transmitting a copy
of the charter for the U.S. Commission on
Civil Rights state advisory committees pur-
suant to 41 C.F.R. section 102-3.70; to the
Committee on the Judiciary.
f
REPORTS OF COMMITTEES ON
PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS
Under clause 2 of rule XIII, reports of
committees were delivered to the Clerk
for printing and reference to the proper
calendar, as follows:
Mr. MORELLE: Committee on Rules.
House Resolution 105. Resolution providing
for consideration of the bill (H.R. 840) to
amend title 38, United States Code, to direct
the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to provide
child care assistance to veterans receiving
certain medical services provided by the De-
partment of Veterans Affairs; providing for
the adoption of the resolution (H. Res. 86)
providing amounts for the expenses of the
Select Committee on the Climate Crisis and
the Select Committee on the Modernization
of Congress; and providing for consideration
of motions to suspend the rules (Rept. 116–6).
Referred to the House Calendar.
f
PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS
Under clause 2 of rule XII, public
bills and resolutions of the following
titles were introduced and severally re-
ferred, as follows:
By Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire (for
herself, Mr. BEYER, and Mr. COURT-
NEY):
H.R. 986. A bill to provide that certain
guidance related to waivers for State innova-
tion under the Patient Protection and Af-
fordable Care Act shall have no force or ef-
fect; to the Committee on Energy and Com-
merce, and in addition to the Committee on
Ways and Means, for a period to be subse-
quently determined by the Speaker, in each
case for consideration of such provisions as
fall within the jurisdiction of the committee
concerned.
By Ms. BLUNT ROCHESTER (for her-
self, Ms. CASTOR of Florida, Mrs.
MCBATH, and Mr. KILDEE):
H.R. 987. A bill to amend the Patient Pro-
tection and Affordable Care Act to provide
for Federal Exchange outreach and edu-
cational activities; to the Committee on En-
ergy and Commerce, and in addition to the
Committee on the Budget, for a period to be
subsequently determined by the Speaker, in
each case for consideration of such provi-
sions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned.
By Mr. POSEY (for himself, Ms.
BONAMICI, and Mr. MAST):
H.R. 988. A bill to provide for a study by
the Ocean Studies Board of the National
Academies of Science examining the impact
of ocean acidification and other stressors in
estuarine environments; to the Committee
on Science, Space, and Technology, and in
addition to the Committee on Natural Re-
sources, for a period to be subsequently de-
termined by the Speaker, in each case for
consideration of such provisions as fall with-
in the jurisdiction of the committee con-
cerned.
By Ms. BONAMICI (for herself, Mr.
FERGUSON, Mrs. DAVIS of California,
and Mr. GUTHRIE):
H.R. 989. A bill to promote registered ap-
prenticeships and other work-based learning
programs for small and medium-sized busi-
nesses within in-demand industry sectors,
through the establishment and support of in-
dustry or sector partnerships; to the Com-
mittee on Education and Labor, and in addi-
tion to the Committee on the Judiciary, for
a period to be subsequently determined by
the Speaker, in each case for consideration
of such provisions as fall within the jurisdic-
tion of the committee concerned.
By Mr. FLORES:
H.R. 990. A bill to amend the Federal Food,
Drug, and Cosmetic Act and the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 to prevent the inter
partes review process for challenging patents
from diminishing competition in the phar-
maceutical industry and with respect to drug
innovation, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Energy and Commerce, and in
addition to the Committee on Financial
Services, for a period to be subsequently de-
termined by the Speaker, in each case for
consideration of such provisions as fall with-
in the jurisdiction of the committee con-
cerned.
By Ms. SEWELL of Alabama (for her-
self, Mr. WENSTRUP, Ms. BASS, Mr.
SCHWEIKERT, Mr. HASTINGS, and Mr.
LEWIS):
H.R. 991. A bill to extend certain provisions
of the Caribbean Basin Economic Recovery
Act until September 30, 2030, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Ways and
Means.
By Mr. DEFAZIO (for himself and Mr.
HUFFMAN):
H.R. 992. A bill to withdraw certain land lo-
cated in Curry County and Josephine Coun-
ty, Oregon, from all forms of entry, appro-
priation, or disposal under the public land
laws, location, entry, and patent under the
mining laws, and operation under the min-
eral leasing and geothermal leasing laws,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Natural Resources.
By Mr. DEFAZIO:
H.R. 993. A bill to designate the Frank
Moore Wild Steelhead Sanctuary in the
State of Oregon; to the Committee on Nat-
ural Resources.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Feb 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00025 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\L06FE7.000 H06FEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H1390 February 6, 2019
By Mr. DEFAZIO (for himself and Mr.
HUFFMAN):
H.R. 994. A bill to amend the Wild and Sce-
nic Rivers Act to make technical corrections
to the segment designations for the Chetco
River, Oregon; to the Committee on Natural
Resources.
By Mr. PALMER:
H.R. 995. A bill to amend chapter 3 of title
5, United States Code, to require the publica-
tion of settlement agreements, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Oversight and
Reform.
By Ms. CLARKE of New York (for her-
self, Mr. GOSAR, Mr. SIMPSON, and
Ms. MENG):
H.R. 996. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to exclude from gross in-
come certain federally-subsidized loan repay-
ments for dental school faculty; to the Com-
mittee on Ways and Means, and in addition
to the Committee on Energy and Commerce,
for a period to be subsequently determined
by the Speaker, in each case for consider-
ation of such provisions as fall within the ju-
risdiction of the committee concerned.
By Mr. KING of Iowa (for himself, Mr.
ALLEN, Mr. MASSIE, Mr. MCCLINTOCK,
and Mr. PERRY):
H.R. 997. A bill to declare English as the of-
ficial language of the United States, to es-
tablish a uniform English language rule for
naturalization, and to avoid misconstruc-
tions of the English language texts of the
laws of the United States, pursuant to Con-
gress’ powers to provide for the general wel-
fare of the United States and to establish a
uniform rule of naturalization under article
I, section 8, of the Constitution; to the Com-
mittee on Education and Labor, and in addi-
tion to the Committee on the Judiciary, for
a period to be subsequently determined by
the Speaker, in each case for consideration
of such provisions as fall within the jurisdic-
tion of the committee concerned.
By Ms. CHENEY:
H.R. 998. A bill to amend the Mineral Leas-
ing Act to require the Secretary of the Inte-
rior to convey to a State all right, title, and
interest in and to a percentage of the
amount of royalties and other amounts re-
quired to be paid to the State under that Act
with respect to public land and deposits in
the State, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Natural Resources.
By Mr. DEFAZIO:
H.R. 999. A bill to provide for the designa-
tion of the Devil’s Staircase Wilderness Area
in the State of Oregon, to designate seg-
ments of Wasson and Franklin Creeks in the
State of Oregon as wild or recreation rivers,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Natural Resources.
By Ms. WILSON of Florida:
H.R. 1000. A bill to establish a National
Full Employment Trust Fund to create em-
ployment opportunities for the unemployed,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Education and Labor, and in addition to the
Committee on Ways and Means, for a period
to be subsequently determined by the Speak-
er, in each case for consideration of such pro-
visions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned.
By Mr. CASTRO of Texas (for himself,
Mrs. WALORSKI, Ms. GABBARD, Mr.
RUIZ, Mr. WELCH, Mr. THOMPSON of
California, and Ms. NORTON):
H.R. 1001. A bill to direct the Secretary of
Veterans Affairs to provide a process by
which a family member of a deceased indi-
vidual who is eligible for the Department of
Veterans Affairs burn pit registry may reg-
ister for such registry on behalf of the de-
ceased individual; to the Committee on Vet-
erans’ Affairs.
By Mr. FITZPATRICK (for himself, Mr.
CRIST, Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsyl-
vania, and Mr. MCGOVERN):
H.R. 1002. A bill to amend the Animal Wel-
fare Act to prohibit the issuance of licenses
to certain individuals connected to dealers of
dogs who have had licenses revoked, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Agri-
culture.
By Mrs. LAWRENCE (for herself, Mr.
COLLINS of Georgia, Ms. WATERS, Mr.
COHEN, Mr. SOTO, Mr. HIGGINS of New
York, Mr. SCOTT of Virginia, Mr.
MCNERNEY, Ms. KUSTER of New
Hampshire, Mr. HORSFORD, Ms.
SPANBERGER, Ms. BLUNT ROCHESTER,
Mr. LIPINSKI, Mr. SIRES, Mrs. WATSON
COLEMAN, Mr. HASTINGS, Ms.
WASSERMAN SCHULTZ, Mr. BISHOP of
Georgia, Mr. MCGOVERN, Mrs. DIN-
GELL, Mr. ESPAILLAT, Ms. PLASKETT,
Mr. LOWENTHAL, Mrs. HAYES, Mr.
RUPPERSBERGER, Ms. TLAIB, Ms.
SLOTKIN, Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY
of New York, Ms. OCASIO-CORTEZ, Mr.
COLLINS of New York, Mr. PETERSON,
Ms. BASS, Mr. LAWSON of Florida, Mr.
EVANS, Mr. COLE, Mr. CARSON of Indi-
ana, Mrs. DEMINGS, Mr. MOOLENAAR,
Mr. ENGEL, Mr. NADLER, Mr.
CICILLINE, Mr. GRIJALVA, Mr.
KHANNA, Mr. SCHIFF, Ms. NORTON, Ms.
WILSON of Florida, Mr. DAVID SCOTT
of Georgia, Mr. MEEKS, Mr. SERRANO,
Mrs. BEATTY, Ms. FUDGE, Mr. GREEN
of Texas, Mr. VEASEY, Ms. MOORE,
and Ms. CLARKE of New York):
H.R. 1003. A bill to posthumously award a
Congressional Gold Medal to Aretha Frank-
lin in recognition of her contributions of
outstanding artistic and historical signifi-
cance to culture in the United States; to the
Committee on Financial Services, and in ad-
dition to the Committee on House Adminis-
tration, for a period to be subsequently de-
termined by the Speaker, in each case for
consideration of such provisions as fall with-
in the jurisdiction of the committee con-
cerned.
By Mr. CICILLINE (for himself, Mr.
BLUMENAUER, Ms. CLARKE of New
York, Ms. DEGETTE, Mr. ESPAILLAT,
Ms. GABBARD, Mr. JONES, Ms.
HAALAND, Mr. KHANNA, Ms. LEE of
California, Mr. LEVIN of Michigan,
Mr. TED LIEU of California, Mr.
LOWENTHAL, Ms. MCCOLLUM, Mr.
MCGOVERN, Ms. MOORE, Mr.
MOULTON, Ms. NORTON, Ms. OCASIO-
CORTEZ, Ms. OMAR, Mr. POCAN, Mr.
SERRANO, Mr. RASKIN, Ms.
VELÁZQUEZ, and Mr. WELCH):
H.R. 1004. A bill to prohibit the introduc-
tion of United States Armed Forces into hos-
tilities with respect to Venezuela, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Armed
Services, and in addition to the Committee
on Foreign Affairs, for a period to be subse-
quently determined by the Speaker, in each
case for consideration of such provisions as
fall within the jurisdiction of the committee
concerned.
By Mr. CASTRO of Texas (for himself,
Mr. STAUBER, Mr. RUIZ, and Mr.
CISNEROS):
H.R. 1005. A bill to direct the Secretary of
Veterans Affairs to amend the schedule for
rating disabilities to add a diagnostic code
and evaluation criteria for obliterative
bronchiolitis, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Veterans’ Affairs.
By Mr. LATTA:
H.R. 1006. A bill to amend title I of the
Communications Act of 1934 to provide for
internet openness, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
By Mr. KIND (for himself, Mr. KELLY of
Pennsylvania, Mr. BLUMENAUER, Ms.
SÁNCHEZ, Mr. BEYER, Ms. JUDY CHU of
California, Mr. HIGGINS of New York,
Mr. HOLDING, Mr. KILDEE, Mr. PAS-
CRELL, and Mr. LARSON of Con-
necticut):
H.R. 1007. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to encourage retirement
savings, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Ways and Means, and in addition
to the Committee on Education and Labor,
for a period to be subsequently determined
by the Speaker, in each case for consider-
ation of such provisions as fall within the ju-
risdiction of the committee concerned.
By Mr. KIND (for himself, Mrs.
WALORSKI, Ms. SEWELL of Alabama,
and Mr. LAHOOD):
H.R. 1008. A bill to amend section 232 of the
Trade Expansion Act of 1962 to require the
Secretary of Defense to initiate investiga-
tions and to provide for congressional dis-
approval of certain actions, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Ways and
Means, and in addition to the Committee on
Rules, for a period to be subsequently deter-
mined by the Speaker, in each case for con-
sideration of such provisions as fall within
the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
By Mr. CÁRDENAS (for himself and
Mr. LOWENTHAL):
H.R. 1009. A bill to provide for the study
and evaluation of net metering, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Energy and
Commerce.
By Ms. CASTOR of Florida (for herself,
Ms. BARRAGÁN, Mr. HORSFORD, Ms.
MOORE, Ms. UNDERWOOD, and Mr.
DESAULNIER):
H.R. 1010. A bill to provide that the rule
entitled ‘‘Short-Term, Limited Duration In-
surance’’ shall have no force or effect; to the
Committee on Energy and Commerce, and in
addition to the Committees on Education
and Labor, and Ways and Means, for a period
to be subsequently determined by the Speak-
er, in each case for consideration of such pro-
visions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned.
By Mr. ESPAILLAT (for himself, Ms.
BONAMICI, Mr. SERRANO, Ms.
JAYAPAL, Mr. GARCÍA of Illinois, and
Mr. BEYER):
H.R. 1011. A bill to amend section 287 of the
Immigration and Nationality Act to limit
immigration enforcement actions at sen-
sitive locations, to clarify the powers of im-
migration officers at sensitive locations, and
for other purposes; to the Committee on the
Judiciary.
By Mr. ESPAILLAT (for himself, Ms.
BONAMICI, Mr. SERRANO, Ms.
JAYAPAL, Mr. GARCÍA of Illinois, and
Mr. BEYER):
H.R. 1012. A bill to reunite families sepa-
rated at or near ports of entry, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on the Judici-
ary.
By Mr. ESPAILLAT (for himself, Ms.
BONAMICI, Mr. SERRANO, Ms.
JAYAPAL, Mr. GARCÍA of Illinois, and
Mr. BEYER):
H.R. 1013. A bill to require agents and offi-
cers of U.S. Immigration and Customs En-
forcement and U.S. Customs and Border Pro-
tection to wear body cameras, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Homeland Se-
curity, and in addition to the Committees on
the Judiciary, and Ways and Means, for a pe-
riod to be subsequently determined by the
Speaker, in each case for consideration of
such provisions as fall within the jurisdic-
tion of the committee concerned.
By Miss GONZÁLEZ-COLÓN of Puerto
Rico (for herself, Mr. SABLAN, Mrs.
RADEWAGEN, Mr. SOTO, and Ms.
PLASKETT):
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Feb 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00026 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\L06FE7.100 H06FEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1391
February 6, 2019
H.R. 1014. A bill to amend the Outer Conti-
nental Shelf Lands Act to apply to terri-
tories of the United States, to establish off-
shore wind lease sale requirements, to pro-
vide dedicated funding for coral reef con-
servation, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Natural Resources.
By Ms. HILL of California (for herself
and Ms. BROWNLEY of California):
H.R. 1015. A bill to provide for the estab-
lishment of a national memorial and na-
tional monument to commemorate those
killed by the collapse of the Saint Francis
Dam on March 12, 1928, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Natural Re-
sources.
By Mr. HORSFORD (for himself and
Mr. CASTEN of Illinois):
H.R. 1016. A bill to amend title 31, United
States Code, to reimburse employees of the
Federal Government and the District of Co-
lumbia, Federal contractors, and the States
for certain costs incurred as a result of a
Government shutdown, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Oversight and
Reform.
By Mr. KELLY of Mississippi:
H.R. 1017. A bill to amend title 10, United
States Code, to authorize the Secretary of
Defense to provide space-available travel on
aircraft of the Department of Defense to
children, surviving spouses, and siblings of
members of the Armed Forces who die while
serving in the active military, naval, or air
service; to the Committee on Armed Serv-
ices.
By Mr. MEEKS (for himself and Ms.
ADAMS):
H.R. 1018. A bill to amend the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 to require the submis-
sion by issuers of data relating to diversity
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Financial Services.
By Mr. PANETTA (for himself, Mr.
TAYLOR, Mr. CRENSHAW, and Mrs.
LURIA):
H.R. 1019. A bill to amend title 10, United
States Code, to require a full military honors
ceremony for certain deceased veterans, and
for other purposes; to the Committee on
Armed Services.
By Mr. POSEY:
H.R. 1020. A bill to amend the Ethics in
Government Act of 1978 to require Members
of Congress to disclose business ties with for-
eign entities, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on House Administration.
By Mr. POSEY:
H.R. 1021. A bill to amend title 18, United
States Code, to establish a uniform 5-year
post-employment ban on all lobbying by
former Members of Congress, to establish a
uniform 2-year post-employment ban on all
lobbying by former officers and employees of
Congress, to lower the income threshold for
applying such ban to former officers and em-
ployees of Congress, and for other purposes;
to the Committee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. POSEY:
H.R. 1022. A bill to provide that a former
Member of Congress or former senior Con-
gressional employee who receives compensa-
tion as a lobbyist representing a foreign
principal shall not be eligible for retirement
benefits or certain other Federal benefits; to
the Committee on House Administration,
and in addition to the Committee on Over-
sight and Reform, for a period to be subse-
quently determined by the Speaker, in each
case for consideration of such provisions as
fall within the jurisdiction of the committee
concerned.
By Mr. QUIGLEY (for himself, Mr.
UPTON, Mrs. DINGELL, Mr. HIGGINS of
New York, Ms. SCHAKOWSKY, Mr. KIL-
DEE, Mr. HUIZENGA, Mr. JOYCE of
Ohio, Mr. MITCHELL, Mr. COLLINS of
New York, Mr. BERGMAN, Mr.
STAUBER, Ms. SLOTKIN, Mr. GONZALEZ
of Ohio, and Mr. KELLY of Pennsyl-
vania):
H.R. 1023. A bill to authorize the Director
of the United States Geological Survey to
conduct monitoring, assessment, science,
and research, in support of the binational
fisheries within the Great Lakes Basin, and
for other purposes; to the Committee on Nat-
ural Resources.
By Mr. AUSTIN SCOTT of Georgia (for
himself, Ms. FRANKEL, Mr. WITTMAN,
and Mr. CRIST):
H.R. 1024. A bill to require the Adminis-
trator of the Environmental Protection
Agency to revise labeling requirements for
fuel pumps that dispense E15, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Energy and
Commerce.
By Mr. SHERMAN (for himself, Mr.
YOHO, Mr. CONNOLLY, Mrs. WAGNER,
Mr. MCGOVERN, Mr. WITTMAN, Mr.
HASTINGS, Mr. COHEN, Mr. LYNCH, and
Ms. WEXTON):
H.R. 1025. A bill to counter the mass arbi-
trary detention of Turkic Muslims, including
Uighurs, within the Xinjiang Uighur Autono-
mous Region of the People’s Republic of
China, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Foreign Affairs, and in addition to
the Committees on Oversight and Reform,
and the Judiciary, for a period to be subse-
quently determined by the Speaker, in each
case for consideration of such provisions as
fall within the jurisdiction of the committee
concerned.
By Mr. SIMPSON (for himself and Mr.
KILMER):
H.R. 1026. A bill to provide for consistent
and reliable authority and funding to meet
conservation and deferred maintenance
needs affecting lands under the administra-
tive jurisdiction of the Department of the In-
terior and the Department of Agriculture,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Natural Resources, and in addition to the
Committee on the Budget, for a period to be
subsequently determined by the Speaker, in
each case for consideration of such provi-
sions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned.
By Mr. SMITH of Missouri (for himself
and Mr. GOHMERT):
H.R. 1027. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to terminate the credit for
new qualified plug-in electric drive motor ve-
hicles and to provide for a Federal Highway
user fee on alternative fuel vehicles; to the
Committee on Ways and Means.
By Ms. SPEIER:
H.R. 1028. A bill to reform certain ethics
rules of the Federal Government, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Over-
sight and Reform, and in addition to the
Committees on House Administration, and
Ways and Means, for a period to be subse-
quently determined by the Speaker, in each
case for consideration of such provisions as
fall within the jurisdiction of the committee
concerned.
By Mr. TIPTON (for himself and Mr.
PERLMUTTER):
H.R. 1029. A bill to direct the Adminis-
trator of the National Aeronautics and Space
Administration to submit to Congress a re-
port on the merits of, and options for, estab-
lishing an institute relating to space re-
sources, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Science, Space, and Technology.
By Ms. TITUS (for herself, Mrs. DIN-
GELL, Mr. FITZPATRICK, Ms. GABBARD,
Mr. GRIJALVA, Ms. HAALAND, Mr. HIG-
GINS of New York, Ms. KELLY of Illi-
nois, Mr. LOWENTHAL, Ms. MCCOLLUM,
Mr. MCGOVERN, Ms. NORTON, Mr.
PETERS, Ms. PINGREE, Mr. RUSH, Ms.
SCHAKOWSKY, Mr. SUOZZI, Mrs. WAT-
SON COLEMAN, and Ms. WILSON of
Florida):
H.R. 1030. A bill to amend title 38, United
States Code, to amend the definition of the
term ‘‘spouse’’ to recognize new State defini-
tions of such term for the purpose of the laws
administered by the Secretary of Veterans
Affairs, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Veterans’ Affairs.
By Mr. VARGAS (for himself and Mr.
COOK):
H.R. 1031. A bill to take certain land lo-
cated in San Diego County, California, into
trust for the benefit of the Pala Band of Mis-
sion Indians, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Natural Resources.
By Ms. CASTOR of Florida (for herself,
Ms. BARRAGÁN, Ms. UNDERWOOD, Mr.
DESAULNIER, Ms. MOORE, and Mr.
HORSFORD):
H.J. Res. 43. A joint resolution providing
for congressional disapproval under chapter 8
of title 5, United States Code, of the final
rule of the Department of the Treasury, the
Department of Labor, and the Department of
Health and Human Services relating to
‘‘Short-Term, Limited-Duration Insurance’’;
to the Committee on Energy and Commerce,
and in addition to the Committees on Edu-
cation and Labor, and Ways and Means, for a
period to be subsequently determined by the
Speaker, in each case for consideration of
such provisions as fall within the jurisdic-
tion of the committee concerned.
By Mr. SCALISE:
H. Res. 102. A resolution providing for the
consideration of the bill (H.R. 962) to amend
title 18, United States Code, to prohibit a
health care practitioner from failing to exer-
cise the proper degree of care in the case of
a child who survives an abortion or at-
tempted abortion; to the Committee on
Rules.
By Ms. CHENEY:
H. Res. 103. A resolution electing Members
to a certain standing committee of the
House of Representatives; considered and
agreed to.
By Mr. O’HALLERAN (for himself, Mr.
COLE, Mr. YOUNG, and Ms. TORRES
SMALL of New Mexico):
H. Res. 104. A resolution expressing support
for designation of the week beginning Feb-
ruary 3, 2019, as ‘‘National Tribal Colleges
and Universities Week’’; to the Committee
on Oversight and Reform.
By Ms. FRANKEL (for herself and Mr.
PERRY):
H. Res. 106. A resolution denouncing fe-
male genital mutilation/cutting as a viola-
tion of the human rights of women and girls
and urging the international community and
the Federal Government to increase efforts
to eliminate the harmful practice; to the
Committee on Foreign Affairs.
By Mr. KELLY of Mississippi:
H. Res. 107. A resolution establishing the
Congressional Gold Star Family Fellowship
Program for the placement in offices of
Members of the House of Representatives of
children, spouses, and siblings of members of
the Armed Forces who are hostile casualties
or who have died from a training-related in-
jury; to the Committee on House Adminis-
tration.
By Mr. POSEY (for himself and Mr.
BISHOP of Georgia):
H. Res. 108. A resolution expressing support
for the designation of July 12 as Collector
Car Appreciation Day and recognizing that
the collection and restoration of historic and
classic cars is an important part of pre-
serving the technological achievements and
cultural heritage of the United States; to the
Committee on Oversight and Reform.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Feb 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00027 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\L06FE7.100 H06FEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H1392 February 6, 2019
CONSTITUTIONAL AUTHORITY
STATEMENT
Pursuant to clause 7 of rule XII of
the Rules of the House of Representa-
tives, the following statements are sub-
mitted regarding the specific powers
granted to Congress in the Constitu-
tion to enact the accompanying bill or
joint resolution.
By Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire:
H.R. 986.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 18
By Ms. BLUNT ROCHESTER:
H.R. 987.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 3 of the U.S.
Constitution:
The Congress shall have power to lay and
collect taxes, duties, imposts and excises, to
pay the debts and provide for the common
defense and general welfare of the United
States; but all duties, imposts and excises
shall be uniform throughout the United
States;
To make all laws which shall be necessary
and proper for carrying into execution the
foregoing powers, and all other powers vest-
ed by this Constitution in the government of
the United States, or in any department or
officer thereof.
By Mr. POSEY:
H.R. 988.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8.
By Ms. BONAMICI:
H.R. 989.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8
By Mr. FLORES:
H.R. 990.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 3 of the United
States Constitution. The Congress shall have
power to regulate commerce with foreign na-
tions, and among the several states, and with
the Indian tribes.
Article I, Section 8, Clause 8, of the United
States Constitution. The Congress shall have
power to promote the progress of science and
useful arts, by securing for limited times to
authors and inventors the exclusive right to
their respective writings and discoveries.
By Ms. SEWELL of Alabama:
H.R. 991.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8 of the U.S. Constitu-
tion.
By Mr. DEFAZIO:
H.R. 992.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 18 (relating to
the power to make all laws necessary and
proper for carrying out the powers vested in
Congress)
By Mr. DEFAZIO:
H.R. 993.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 18 (relating to
the power to make all laws necessary and
proper for carrying out the powers vested in
Congress)
By Mr. DEFAZIO:
H.R. 994.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 18 (relating to
the power to make all laws necessary and
proper for carrying out the powers vested in
Congress)
By Mr. PALMER:
H.R. 995.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
The Congress shall have Power to make all
Laws which shall be necessary and proper for
carrying into Execution the foregoing Pow-
ers, and all other Powers vested by this Con-
stitution in the Government of the United
States, or in any Department or Officer
thereof.
By Ms. CLARKE of New York:
H.R. 996.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
the power granted to Congress under Arti-
cle I of the United States Constitution and it
subsequent amendments, and further clari-
fied and interpreted by the Supreme Court of
the United States.
By Mr. KING of Iowa:
H.R. 997.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 4 of the Con-
stitution.
By Ms. CHENEY:
H.R. 998.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 4, Section 3: The Congress shall
have power to dispose of and make all need-
ful rules and regulations respecting the ter-
ritory or property belonging to the United
States.
By Mr. DEFAZIO:
H.R. 999.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 18 (relating to
the power to make all laws necessary and
proper for carrying out the powers vested in
Congress)
By Ms. WILSON of Florida:
H.R. 1000.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the U.S. Constitu-
tion
By Mr. CASTRO of Texas:
H.R. 1001.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Constitutional Authority—Necessary and
Proper Clause (Art. I, Sec. 8, Clause 18)
THE U.S. CONSTITUTION
ARTICLE I, SECTION 8: POWERS OF
CONGRESS
CLAUSE 18
The Congress shall have power . . . To
make all laws which shall be necessary and
proper for carrying into execution the fore-
going powers, and all other powers vested by
this Constitution in the government of the
United States, or in any department or offi-
cer thereof.
By Mr. FITZPATRICK:
H.R. 1002.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 1
By Mrs. LAWRENCE:
H.R. 1003.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 18:
To make all Laws which shall be necessary
and proper for carrying into Execution the
foregoing Powers, and all other Powers vest-
ed by the Constitution in the Government of
the United States, or in any Department or
Officer thereof.
By Mr. CICILLINE:
H.R. 1004.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8
By Mr. CASTRO of Texas:
H.R. 1005.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Constitutional Authority—Necessary and
Proper Clause (Art. I, Sec. 8, Clause 18)
THE U.S. CONSTITUTION
ARTICLE I, SECTION 8: POWERS OF
CONGRESS
CLAUSE 18
The Congress shall have power . . . To
make all laws which shall be necessary and
proper for carrying into execution the fore-
going powers, and all other powers vested by
this Constitution in the government of the
United States, or in any department or offi-
cer thereof.
By Mr. LATTA:
H.R. 1006.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 3: Congress
shall have the Power . . . ‘‘to regulate Com-
merce with foreign Nations, and among the
several States, and with the Indian tribes.’’
By Mr. KIND:
H.R. 1007.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I Section 8 of the United States
Constitution.
By Mr. KIND:
H.R. 1008.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 3—‘‘the United
States Congress shall have power ‘‘To regu-
late Commerce with foreign Nations’’
By Mr. CARDENAS:
H.R. 1009.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Aritcle 1, Section 1.
All legislative powers herein granted shall
be vested in a Congress of the United States,
which shall consist of a Senate and House of
Representatives.
By Ms. CASTOR of Florida:
H.R. 1010.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I Section 8 of the U.S. Constitution
By Mr. ESPAILLAT:
H.R. 1011.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 4: ‘‘The Con-
gress shall have Power [. . .] To establish a
uniform Rule of Naturalization . . .’’
By Mr. ESPAILLAT:
H.R. 1012.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 4: ‘‘The Con-
gress shall have Power [. . .] To establish a
uniform Rule of Naturalization . . .’’
By Mr. ESPAILLAT:
H.R. 1013.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8
By Miss GONŹALEZ-COĹON of Puerto
Rico:
H.R. 1014.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 1 of the U.S. Constitu-
tion
‘‘All legislative Powers herein granted
shall be vested in a Congress of the United
States, which shall consist of a Senate and
House of Representatives.’’
Article IV, Section 3, Clause 2 of the U.S.
Constitution
‘‘The Congress shall have Power to dispose
of and make all needful Rules and Regula-
tions respecting the Territory or other Prop-
erty belonging to the United States; and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:51 Feb 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00028 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06FE7.024 H06FEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1393
February 6, 2019
nothing in this Constitution shall be so con-
strued as to Prejudice any Claims of the
United States, or of any particular State.’’
By Ms. HILL of California:
H.R. 1015.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8
By Mr. HORSFORD:
H.R. 1016.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article IV, Section 3, Clause 2
By Mr. KELLY of Mississippi:
H.R. 1017.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, clause 14 provides Con-
gress with the power to make rules for the
government and regulation of the land and
naval forces.
By Mr. MEEKS:
H.R. 1018.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Commerce Clause
By Mr. PANETTA:
H.R. 1019.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, clause 18
By Mr. POSEY:
H.R. 1020.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 18 of the United
States Constitution, which grants Congress
the authority ‘‘To make all Laws, and all
other Powers vested by this Constitution in
the Government of the United States, or in
any Department or Officer thereof’’
By Mr. POSEY:
H.R. 1021.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 18 of the United
States Constitution, which grants Congress
the authority ‘‘To make all Laws, and all
other Powers vested by this Constitution in
the Government of the United States, or in
any Department or Officer thereof’’
By Mr. POSEY:
H.R. 1022.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 18 of the United
States Constitution, which grants Congress
the authority ‘‘To make all Laws, and all
other Powers vested by this Constitution in
the Government of the United States, or in
any Department or Officer thereof’’
By Mr. QUIGLEY:
H.R. 1023.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 3 of the U.S.
Constitution
By Mr. AUSTIN SCOTT of Georgia:
H.R. 1024.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8 of the United States
Constitution
By Mr. SHERMAN:
H.R. 1025.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 18 of the Con-
stitution
By Mr. SIMPSON:
H.R. 1026.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
‘‘The constitutional authority of Congress
to enact legislation is provided by Article I,
Section 8 of the United States Constitution,
specifically clause 1 (relating to the power of
Congress to provide for the general welfare
of the United States) and clause 18 (relating
to the power to make all laws necessary and
proper for carrying out the powers vested in
Congress), and Article IV, section 3, clause 2
(relating to the power of Congress to dispose
of and make all needful rules and regulations
respecting the territory or other property
belonging to the United States).’’
By Mr. SMITH of Missouri:
H.R. 1027.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 1 of the United
States Constitution.
By Ms. SPEIER:
H.R. 1028.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
This bill is enacted pursuant to the power
granted to Congress under Article 1, Section
8 of the United States Constitution.
By Mr. TIPTON:
H.R. 1029.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 3:
The Congress shall have power to regulate
commerce with foreign nations, and among
the several states, and with Indian tribes.
and
Article I, Section 8, Clause 18:
The Congress shall have power to make all
Laws which shall be necessary and proper for
carrying into Execution the foregoing Pow-
ers, and all other Powers vested by this Con-
stitution in the Government of the United
States, or in any Department of Officer
thereof.
By Ms. TITUS:
H.R. 1030.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the United States
Constitution, specifically Clause 1 (relating
to providing for the common defense and
general welfare of the United States) and
Section 5 of Amendment XIV to the Con-
stitution.
By Mr. VARGAS:
H.R. 1031.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
(1) To regulate Commerce with foreign Na-
tions, and among the several States, and
with the Indian Tribes, as enumerated in Ar-
ticle I, Section 8, Clause 3 of the U.S. Con-
stitution; and
(2) To make all laws which shall be nec-
essary and proper for carrying into execution
the foregoing powers, and all other powers
vested by this Constitution in the govern-
ment of the United States, or in any depart-
ment or officer thereof, as enumerated in Ar-
ticle I, Section 8, Clause 18 of the U.S. Con-
stitution.
By Ms. CASTOR of Florida:
H.J. Res. 43.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I Section 8 of the U.S. Constitution
f
ADDITIONAL SPONSORS
Under clause 7 of rule XII, sponsors
were added to public bills and resolu-
tions, as follows:
H.R. 8: Mr. SCHRADER.
H.R. 20: Mr. JOHNSON of Ohio and Mr. HOLD-
ING.
H.R. 38: Mr. SCALISE.
H.R. 66: Mr. ROUDA and Mr. KINZINGER.
H.R. 74: Mr. HICE of Georgia.
H.R. 93: Mr. BEYER and Ms. MOORE.
H.R. 94: Mr. THOMPSON of California, Mr.
DESAULNIER, and Mr. QUIGLEY.
H.R. 96: Ms. GABBARD, Ms. WILSON of Flor-
ida, Mr. CISNEROS, and Mr. ROUDA.
H.R. 125: Mr. BROWN of Maryland.
H.R. 141: Mr. BISHOP of Georgia.
H.R. 230: Mr. MCGOVERN and Mr. HUFFMAN.
H.R. 236: Mr. KEVIN HERN of Oklahoma.
H.R. 303: Mr. MASSIE, Mr. LYNCH, Mr.
BYRNE, Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania, Mr.
KING of New York, and Mr. WELCH.
H.R. 309: Mr. PETERS, Mr. SCHIFF, and Mr.
MCGOVERN.
H.R. 357: Ms. LOFGREN.
H.R. 372: Ms. WILSON of Florida and Ms.
FUDGE.
H.R. 397: Ms. BROWNLEY of California, Mr.
KHANNA, Ms. WILSON of Florida, Mr. HAS-
TINGS, Mr. LOEBSACK, Mrs. BEATTY, Ms. PIN-
GREE, Mr. SIRES, Mr. STAUBER, Mr. HIGGINS
of New York, Ms. SEWELL of Alabama, Mr.
LAMB, Ms. VELÁZQUEZ, Miss RICE of New
York, Mrs. BUSTOS, Mr. COHEN, Mr.
ESPAILLAT, Mr. LIPINSKI, Mr. SABLAN, and
Mr. KILDEE.
H.R. 415: Mr. NADLER, Ms. CLARKE of New
York, and Mr. ESPAILLAT.
H.R. 444: Mr. KIND and Ms. PINGREE.
H.R. 445: Ms. WILSON of Florida and Mr.
GALLEGO.
H.R. 446: Mr. DEFAZIO and Mr. COOK.
H.R. 450: Mr. SCHNEIDER, Ms. SEWELL of
Alabama, Mrs. LESKO, Mr. LUETKEMEYER,
Ms. TORRES SMALL of New Mexico, and Mr.
RASKIN.
H.R. 473: Ms. JOHNSON of Texas.
H.R. 485: Mr. WESTERMAN.
H.R. 490: Mr. BROOKS of Alabama.
H.R. 500: Mr. GIANFORTE, Mr. OLSON, Mr.
HUIZENGA, Mr. KILDEE, Mrs. DAVIS of Cali-
fornia, and Mr. MEADOWS.
H.R. 507: Mr. CICILLINE and Mr. HUDSON.
H.R. 510: Mr. HURD of Texas, Mr. PRICE of
North Carolina, Mr. GIANFORTE, Mr. JOHNSON
of South Dakota, Mr. BRINDISI, Ms. SEWELL
of Alabama, Mr. SCHRADER, Mr. SMITH of
Washington, and Mr. REED.
H.R. 511: Mr. CASTEN of Illinois and Mr.
ROUDA.
H.R. 530: Mr. GRIJALVA.
H.R. 535: Ms. LOFGREN.
H.R. 543: Mr. ROUDA.
H.R. 549: Mr. CRIST, Mr. ENGEL, and Mr.
BRENDAN F. BOYLE of Pennsylvania.
H.R. 550: Mr. KING of New York.
H.R. 553: Mr. TAKANO, Mr. GALLEGO, and
Mr. MITCHELL.
H.R. 575: Mr. POSEY and Mr. LUETKEMEYER.
H.R. 587: Mr. GIBBS, Mr. MCADAMS, Mr.
GRAVES of Louisiana, Mr. SCHRADER, and Mr.
LATTA.
H.R. 590: Mr. SHERMAN.
H.R. 592: Mr. DESAULNIER, Ms. WILD, Mr.
ROSE of New York, Mr. GROTHMAN, Ms. JACK-
SON LEE, and Mr. TED LIEU of California.
H.R. 597: Mrs. MURPHY and Mr. HUFFMAN.
H.R. 613: Mr. RYAN, Mr. CARTER of Georgia,
Mr. TONKO, Mr. KIND, and Mr. LUCAS.
H.R. 639: Mr. CONNOLLY.
H.R. 647: Ms. BONAMICI, Mr. MCGOVERN, Mr.
LARSEN of Washington, Mr. PETERSON, Mr.
DAVID P. ROE of Tennessee, and Mr. CUM-
MINGS.
H.R. 658: Mr. MCGOVERN.
H.R. 665: Mr. CLAY, Mr. HECK, and Ms. NOR-
TON.
H.R. 666: Ms. JACKSON LEE.
H.R. 671: Mr. CLOUD.
H.R. 689: Ms. PINGREE, Mr. CARTWRIGHT,
Mr. SUOZZI, Mr. QUIGLEY, Mr. SCHIFF, Mr.
DEUTCH, Mr. CICILLINE, Mr. LANGEVIN, Ms.
NORTON, Mr. BRENDAN F. BOYLE of Pennsyl-
vania, Mr. AGUILAR, Mr. BLUMENAUER, Ms.
BONAMICI, Mr. SMITH of Washington, Mr.
CÁRDENAS, Ms. TITUS, and Mr. MCNERNEY.
H.R. 692: Mr. HUIZENGA, Mr. JOHNSON of
Ohio, Mr. KELLY of Pennsylvania, Mr.
LATTA, Mr. STIVERS, and Mr. DIAZ-BALART.
H.R. 693: Mr. NORCROSS, Mr. SUOZZI, Mr.
WEBER of Texas, Ms. KELLY of Illinois, Mr.
SMITH of Washington, Ms. SPEIER, Mr.
CÁRDENAS, Mr. KING of New York, Mr. BUDD,
and Mr. BUCK.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Feb 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00029 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06FE7.026 H06FEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H1394 February 6, 2019
H.R. 708: Mr. HICE of Georgia and Mr.
LUETKEMEYER.
H.R. 712: Mrs. LURIA, Mr. SOTO, Mrs. WAT-
SON COLEMAN, Mr. ESPAILLAT, and Mr.
QUIGLEY.
H.R. 759: Mr. GOODEN.
H.R. 762: Ms. NORTON.
H.R. 788: Mr. LAMALFA.
H.R. 804: Mr. DESAULNIER and Ms. KUSTER
of New Hampshire.
H.R. 831: Mr. ROUDA.
H.R. 838: Mr. WEBER of Texas, Mr. LIPINSKI,
and Mr. WENSTRUP.
H.R. 840: Mr. ROSE of New York, Mr. VELA,
Mr. RASKIN, Ms. MOORE, Mr. COURTNEY, Mr.
VAN DREW, Mr. MALINOWSKI, Ms. KUSTER of
New Hampshire, Ms. JACKSON LEE, Ms.
HOULAHAN, Mr. CISNEROS, Mr. CARBAJAL, and
Mr. KILMER.
H.R. 848: Mr. NORMAN and Mrs. LESKO.
H.R. 850: Mr. JOHNSON of South Dakota,
Mr. JOHNSON of Louisiana, Mr. BIGGS, and
Mr. BERGMAN.
H.R. 863: Ms. CLARKE of New York.
H.R. 866: Mr. ROUDA.
H.R. 872: Miss GONZÁLEZ-COLÓN of Puerto
Rico, Ms. WILD, Mr. TED LIEU of California,
Ms. MUCARSEL-POWELL, Mr. BRENDAN F.
BOYLE of Pennsylvania, Ms. KUSTER of New
Hampshire, Mr. KING of New York, and Mr.
QUIGLEY.
H.R. 876: Mr. ROUDA.
H.R. 877: Mr. WALBERG and Mr. LATTA.
H.R. 879: Ms. MOORE, Mrs. NAPOLITANO, and
Mr. COLE.
H.R. 882: Ms. WILSON of Florida and Mr.
EVANS.
H.R. 886: Ms. DEGETTE, Ms. MUCARSEL-
POWELL, Mr. THOMPSON of California, Mr.
PAPPAS, Mr. BRINDISI, and Ms. WILD.
H.R. 890: Mr. COLE.
H.R. 891: Mr. BABIN, Mr. GRAVES of Mis-
souri, and Mr. NORMAN.
H.R. 916: Mr. BOST.
H.R. 940: Ms. STEFANIK.
H.R. 943: Mr. MCGOVERN, Ms. SHALALA, and
Ms. BROWNLEY of California.
H.R. 949: Mr. ALLEN, Mr. SMITH of Missouri,
Mr. BANKS, Mr. LATTA, Mr. DUNCAN, Mr.
MOONEY of West Virginia, and Mr. ROGERS of
Kentucky.
H.R. 954: Mr. COLE and Ms. BONAMICI.
H.R. 956: Mr. LUETKEMEYER.
H.R. 962: Mr. JOHNSON of South Dakota,
Mr. BUCSHON, Mr. KEVIN HERN of Oklahoma,
Mr. ARRINGTON, Mr. SMITH of Missouri, Mr.
CONAWAY, Mr. WILLIAMS, Mr. KUSTOFF of
Tennessee, Mr. HAGEDORN, Mr. ARMSTRONG,
Mr. BURCHETT, Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsyl-
vania, Mr. WILSON of South Carolina, Mr.
BRADY, Mr. HARDER of California, Mr. HUD-
SON, Mr. BURGESS, Ms. STEFANIK, Mr.
LUETKEMEYER, Mr. GOHMERT, Mr. ROGERS of
Alabama, Mr. RICE of South Carolina, Mr.
CALVERT, Mr. BUDD, Mr. PENCE, Mr. BROOKS
of Alabama, Ms. GRANGER, Mr. MCCLINTOCK,
Mr. WESTERMAN, Mr. BYRNE, Mr. GROTHMAN,
Mr. BALDERSON, Mr. HURD of Texas, Mr.
ESTES, Mr. HIGGINS of Louisiana, and Mr.
NEWHOUSE.
H.R. 979: Mr. GROTHMAN and Mr. LAMBORN.
H.J. Res. 4: Mr. BROOKS of Alabama.
H.J. Res. 35: Ms. WATERS, Mr. CASTEN of Il-
linois, Mr. BROWN of Maryland, Ms. SHALALA,
Mr. TONKO, Mr. DANNY K. DAVIS of Illinois,
Mr. MORELLE, Mr. CLEAVER, Mr.
GOTTHEIMER, and Mr. PHILLIPS.
H.J. Res. 37: Ms. TITUS, Mr. CONNOLLY, and
Mr. QUIGLEY.
H.J. Res. 38: Mr. MORELLE.
H. Con. Res. 5: Mr. CARSON of Indiana and
Ms. JACKSON LEE.
H. Res. 33: Mr. GOTTHEIMER, Ms. JACKSON
LEE, and Mr. HUFFMAN.
H. Res. 49: Mr. GALLAGHER, Mr. MITCHELL,
Mr. NEWHOUSE, Mr. WENSTRUP, Mr. WRIGHT,
Mr. ESTES, and Mr. LAMBORN.
H. Res. 54: Mr. SHERMAN, Ms. STEFANIK, Mr.
CALVERT, Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania,
Mr. O’HALLERAN, Mr. GROTHMAN, Ms. NOR-
TON, Mr. PERRY, Mr. LATTA, Mr. LUETKE-
MEYER, and Mr. SUOZZI.
H. Res. 58: Mr. VISCLOSKY and Ms. TITUS.
H. Res. 60: Mr. LATTA.
H. Res. 72: Mr. GIBBS, Mr. GROTHMAN, Mr.
MCCLINTOCK, Mr. KEVIN HERN of Oklahoma,
Mr. WILLIAMS, Mr. HUIZENGA, and Mr.
LUETKEMEYER.
H. Res. 88: Mr. NEAL and Mr. KING of New
York.
H. Res. 95: Mr. YARMUTH.
H. Res. 98: Ms. SÁNCHEZ, Ms. ROYBAL-
ALLARD, Mr. GARCÍA of Illinois, Ms. WEXTON,
and Mr. HUFFMAN.
f
CONGRESSIONAL EARMARKS, LIM-
ITED TAX BENEFITS, OR LIM-
ITED TARIFF BENEFITS
Under clause 9 of rule XXI, lists or
statements on congressional earmarks,
limited tax benefits, or limited tariff
benefits were submitted as follows:
OFFERED BY MR. TAKANO
The provisions that warranted a referral to
the Committee on Veterans Affairs in H.R.
840 do not contain any congressional ear-
marks, limited tax benefits, or limited tariff
benefits as defined in clause 9 of Rule XXI.
OFFERED BY MR. TAKANO
The provisions that warranted a referral to
the Committee on Veterans Affairs in H.R.
840 do not contain any congressional ear-
marks, limited tax benefits, or limited tariff
benefits as defined in clause 9 of Rule XXI.
The amendment to be offered by Rep-
resentative BRINDISI or a designee to H.R. 840
the Veterans’ Access to Child Care Act, does
not contain any congressional earmarks,
limited tax benefits, or limited tariff bene-
fits as defined in clause 9 of Rule XXI.
f
PETITIONS, ETC.
Under clause 3 of rule XII,
2. The SPEAKER presented a petition of
Mr. Gregory D. Watson of Austin, Texas, rel-
ative to urging Congress to propose an
amendment to the United States Constitu-
tion, pursuant to Article V, that would allow
a state, or portions thereof, to secede from
the United States, and to provide for the ex-
pulsion from the Union of a state, or por-
tions thereof, upon the vote of the legisla-
tures of three-fifths of the other states;
which was referred to the Committee on the
Judiciary.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Feb 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00030 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06FE7.022 H06FEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
Congressional Record
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
United States
of America PROCEEDINGS AND DEBATES OF THE 116th
CONGRESS, FIRST SESSION
∑ This ‘‘bullet’’ symbol identifies statements or insertions which are not spoken by a Member of the Senate on the floor.
.
S875
Vol. 165 WASHINGTON, WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 6, 2019 No. 23
Senate
The Senate met at 10 a.m. and was
called to order by the President pro
tempore (Mr. GRASSLEY).
f
PRAYER
The Chaplain, Dr. Barry C. Black, of-
fered the following prayer:
Let us pray.
Almighty God, the source from which
we come and the goal to which we trav-
el, enter into our lives and make us
more like You. Strengthen our Sen-
ators. Equip and empower them with
Your heavenly grace, so that they may
solve the problems of our times with
Your wisdom and love. May their la-
bors help make America a nation You
can trust and bless. Lord, grant that
the powers of justice, understanding,
and cooperative endeavors will be used
to unify this land we love.
We pray in Your strong Name. Amen.
f
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
The President pro tempore led the
Pledge of Allegiance, as follows:
I pledge allegiance to the Flag of the
United States of America, and to the Repub-
lic for which it stands, one nation under God,
indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
f
RESERVATION OF LEADER TIME
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
CRAMER). Under the previous order, the
leadership time is reserved.
f
RECOGNITION OF THE MAJORITY
LEADER
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The ma-
jority leader is recognized.
f
MEASURE PLACED ON THE
CALENDAR—S. 340
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
understand there is a bill at the desk
due for a second reading.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will read the title of the bill for
the second time.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
A bill (S. 340) to promote competition in
the market for drugs and biological products
by facilitating the timely entry of lower-cost
generic and biosimilar versions of those
drugs and biological products.
Mr. MCCONNELL. In order to place
the bill on the calendar under the pro-
visions of rule XIV, I would object to
further proceedings.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Objec-
tion having been heard, the bill will be
placed on the calendar on the next leg-
islative day.
f
STATE OF THE UNION MESSAGE
Mr. MCCONNELL. Last night, the
President shared a hopeful vision of a
bright future for our country. In part,
he reminded us that the future is
bright because of the big steps we have
taken together in the past 2 years to
move the Nation forward—steps such
as historic tax reform that has helped
middle-class families across America
keep more of what they earn; the regu-
latory reforms that have amped up our
economy and fueled job creation; the
landmark legislation we passed to com-
bat the opioid epidemic; the long-need-
ed investment in our Armed Forces
that gives our servicemembers the
tools and training they need to keep us
safe.
As I mentioned yesterday, some of
these accomplishments were delivered
by Republicans alone, but the lion’s
share of them were bicameral and bi-
partisan. They combined the ideas and
priorities of both sides of the aisle and
both Chambers of Congress. So even
though I know our Democratic col-
leagues’ first instinct these days is to
reflexively criticize anything President
Trump says or does, I hope they took
some pride in the strong state of our
Union which the President described.
This great country belongs to all of
us, and it is going to take all of us to
keep moving forward. As the President
put it, ‘‘cooperation, compromise, and
the common good.’’
Last night, the President high-
lighted, in particular, the national
challenges he sees as most urgent and
as top priorities for his administration
this year. Tackling them will require
that same bipartisan spirit in Con-
gress. He restated the administration’s
commitment to addressing the humani-
tarian and security crisis at our Na-
tion’s southern border, to fighting on
behalf of American workers and job
creators, to rebuilding America’s infra-
structure, and to helping simplify fam-
ilies’ budgets by lowering the cost of
healthcare and prescription drugs. On
these and other challenges, the Amer-
ican people deserve the full attention
of a fully functioning Congress. They
deserve a Democratic Party that puts
the public interest ahead of political
spite and comes to the table to nego-
tiate necessary compromises.
Well, it will not be long before we
will see if this institution can rise to
the occasion. The next deadline for ap-
propriations will arrive in a little over
a week, and Members in both Chambers
will need to prove we can move past
making points and start actually mak-
ing a difference.
Throughout the coming year, if we
are serious about advancing meaning-
ful policy, this basic requirement will
remain the same—good-faith efforts be-
tween a Democratic-controlled House
and a Republican-controlled Senate
and President Trump’s administration.
Another challenge the President
mentioned is the ongoing obstruction
of his nominations to the executive
branch and the Federal courts. He was
absolutely right about that. To a his-
toric degree, Senate Democrats have
slow-walked well-qualified nominees,
gumming up committee consideration
and burning weeks of valuable time on
the floor. As I have said time and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 23:23 Feb 06, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06FE6.000 S06FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S876 February 6, 2019
again, this mindless obstruction is un-
acceptable.
So I was encouraged the President
took an opportunity last night to high-
light for the Nation exactly what we
are up against in this regard. We are
into the third year of his Presidency—
the third year—and the American peo-
ple deserve a fully functioning and
fully staffed Federal Government after
3 years. It is time for their elected rep-
resentatives to be part of the solution.
I know several of our colleagues are
discussing ways to help the Senate bet-
ter fulfill its duty in this area. I hope
there will be cooperation from the
other side of the aisle to identify and
advance a durable and fair solution.
President Trump offered a clear pic-
ture of the ways in which our policies
are delivering significant results to
families across America and the urgent
challenges we still need to confront to-
gether. He offered us a powerful re-
minder that America’s strength and
goodness are inextricably linked with
our commitment to individual liberty
and free enterprise and that we can
never allow the United States of Amer-
ica to dim our light by sliding into the
failures of socialism. Socialism has
failed everywhere it has been tried, and
we are not going to try it in this coun-
try. We need to do right now what we
need to in order to move forward to-
gether.
The brief Democratic response
showed us one potential way forward.
Our colleagues across the aisle could
simply deny the facts in front of us
about the progress that has taken
place—progress which middle-class
families all across America can tan-
gibly feel—and use the same, tired, for-
gettable cliches to divide our Nation
along political lines, but the President
offered a chance to walk together, uni-
fied, along a higher road. Both the tone
and the substance of his speech would
strike any fair observer as reasonable
and thoroughly bipartisan.
Once again, the only way this divided
Congress will be able to choose great-
ness and deliver significant legislation
to the American people is by focusing
on, as President Trump put it, ‘‘co-
operation, compromise, and the com-
mon good.’’
That will need to be our motto mov-
ing forward. The Nation we love de-
serves no less. The American people
will be watching us.
f
CONCLUSION OF MORNING
BUSINESS
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Morning
business is closed.
f
NATURAL RESOURCES MANAGE-
MENT ACT—MOTION TO PRO-
CEED—Resumed
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the Senate will re-
sume consideration of the motion to
proceed to S. 47, which the clerk will
report.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
Motion to proceed to S. 47, a bill to provide
for the management of the natural resources
of the United States, and for other purposes.
Mr. MCCONNELL. I suggest the ab-
sence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
RECOGNITION OF THE MINORITY LEADER
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
Democratic leader is recognized.
STATE OF THE UNION MESSAGE
Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, last
night President Trump had the oppor-
tunity to bring our parties together
and offer the Congress and the country
a new vision for the next 2 years of di-
vided government. President Trump
squandered the opportunity with a for-
gettable and, oftentimes, incoherent
speech. At times, he called for unity
without specifics, and at other times
he served up divisive campaign rhet-
oric that he has used so frequently in
the past.
The President’s speech was like a 90-
minute performance of ‘‘Dr. Jekyll and
Mr. Hyde,’’ calling for comity but lac-
ing it throughout with invectives. Un-
fortunately, President Trump seemed
more excited and placed more emphasis
on the Mr. Hyde parts of the speech
than on the Dr. Jekyll parts.
Listen to a few of the contradictions
in the speech. There were so many that
I can’t mention all of them.
President Trump says he believes in
legal immigration but not illegal im-
migration, but every bill he has pushed
on immigration has cut legal immigra-
tion as well as illegal immigration, in-
cluding the proposal he has now sent
over, in the debates, where he changes
the asylum process dramatically.
President Trump said he would only
work with us in Congress if we aban-
doned our oversight duties. He is back
to his old tricks—hostage-taking. He
said: I am not going to advance the
causes of the American people if Con-
gress investigates me.
Congress is supposed to do oversight
of the executive branch. It is one of the
things the Founding Fathers put in the
Constitution. They were weary of
overweening Executive power. They
wanted Congress to be a check.
What is President Trump afraid of? If
he weren’t afraid of these investiga-
tions and if he weren’t afraid of some-
thing that might be there that he did
that was wrong, he would shrug his
shoulders and say: Let them go for-
ward.
But, instead, he threatens. He threat-
ens the American people by saying: Un-
less these investigations stop, I am not
going to move forward on anything.
How about this one? This one made
everybody’s eyes roll, even on the Re-
publican side. He said if he weren’t
elected President, we would be in a war
with North Korea—what hyperbole. It
is not just hyperbole—what untruth,
what selective memory. President
Trump began his time in office by pre-
cipitously ramping up tensions with
North Korea. They were much lower
under President Obama than they were
with President Trump.
Maybe the most blatant contradic-
tion of all, which makes you just lose
respect for the integrity and honesty of
the President, was when President
Trump spoke about the need to defend
protections for Americans with pre-
existing conditions, while at the very
same time his administration is waging
a lawsuit that would eviscerate protec-
tions for preexisting conditions. How
can the President have the nerve to get
up on the podium last night and say he
wants to preserve preexisting condi-
tions and wage a lawsuit, support a
lawsuit that tries to undo them? It is
shocking hypocrisy—that one maybe
most of all for a speech that had many.
Of course, there were a whole lot of
omissions in the speech that many
Americans felt should have been placed
in. Let me give an example. The Presi-
dent did talk about a few potentials for
bipartisan compromise. We Democrats
would love to compromise with the
President and come up with some
things that would advance the causes
of working families in America.
He mentioned infrastructure and pre-
scription drugs, but instead of offering
substantive ideas and spending some
time on these issues, he delivered a
couple of lines about each and then
moved on. It seemed obligatory and
perfunctory. There was no new sinew,
no real way to figure out if there is a
way we can come together and get
something done, because he really
didn’t seem interested.
He talked about the future of Amer-
ica and didn’t even mention climate
change. How could you do that? Every
scientist who has studied it knows that
in the next 10, 20, 30, or 40 years, cli-
mate change is going to evoke huge
changes in our country and in our
world. If you believe in the future and
you want to have a good future for our
children and grandchildren, which we
all do, you can’t ignore climate change.
You may have different views on it, but
you can’t ignore it.
He also talked a great deal about the
safety of the American people, but
there was not one mention about gun
safety—not one. Again, maybe not to
President Trump, maybe not to his
hard-core supporters, but to the rest of
America, to talk about the need for se-
curity and the safety of Americans and
not to talk about gun safety misses the
mark badly.
Then he rattled off economic statis-
tics—how great everything is—but
completely ignored the difficult eco-
nomic realities of working Americans.
Why do so many Americans not have
faith in the future? Why do so many
Americans worry that their children
VerDate Sep 11 2014 23:23 Feb 06, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G06FE6.001 S06FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S877
February 6, 2019
will not have as good a life economi-
cally as they do? It is because so much
of what the President has done eco-
nomically has benefited the top 10 per-
cent. Those improve the overall statis-
tics, but they don’t improve the lives
of the average middle-class person.
Let’s take the tax cut, a huge tax cut
geared to the wealthy and the powerful
corporations. The President said each
worker will get about a $4,000 increase.
It didn’t happen. Wages are going up by
a small amount. They are still way be-
hind where they were in the past. What
did these companies do with all of this
huge tax break? They got $1 trillion in
buybacks—buybacks, which benefit the
corporate CEOs, which benefit the
shareholders but do nothing for the
workers, since so many of them don’t
own stock.
In fact, the stock market has become
more skewed. About 85 percent of the
value of the shares is held by the top 10
percent of Americans.
Then, of course, on the wall, he de-
manded that Congress fund his wall but
showed no signs of remorse over the
pointless Trump government shutdown
that he precipitated. He didn’t mention
the pain he caused to 800,000 Federal
workers, even though many of them
were in the Galleries listening.
I brought as a guest a man named
Ronan Byrne. He works in the
TRACON, our control tower in New
York. He just had two twins. He has
two other kids. I saw the nice pictures.
He came with his wife. She quit her job
when the twins came along.
He lost his salary at an intense job
like that, where you have to be on all
the time. I have been up there in the
TRACON. It is dark. You see little
dots, and you can’t have them get too
near each other because that is a safe-
ty issue for the people on the planes,
and here he was worried about paying
the bills and providing for his children.
Well, there was no mention of people
like that. No, it was just about his
wall.
It didn’t work for the President. We
know that. Our Republican colleagues
and Leader MCCONNELL know that. I
think even in his situation, where he is
often in a bubble that is often only
aimed at the narrow band of his sup-
porters, he touched a hot stove, and I
don’t think he wants to do it again.
But there was no mention of it. He
should have used his speech to say: We
are not going to have another govern-
ment shutdown. There was no word.
There was no plan to tackle our
opioid problem. There was no plan to
increase wages for the middle class.
There was no plan to increase manufac-
turing jobs.
So anyone who hoped that the Presi-
dent would change course and offer
some new bipartisan ideas with some
meat on the bone where we could dis-
cuss it and begin to move forward to
help the American people was sorely
disappointed. As I said, his real excite-
ment came in the most divisive parts
of the speech on immigration and abor-
tion.
So let’s contrast his speech with
Stacey Abrams’. The contrast between
the President’s speech and Stacey
Abrams’ speech was stunning. The
President was political, divisive, calcu-
lating, and, at times, even nasty. Ms.
Abrams was compelling, warm, and up-
lifting, showing real compassion for
the plight of our average families but
also filled with hope and inspired by
the promise of the American dream. It
was an uplifting speech. Ms. Abrams’
speech represented the kind of unifying
vision—understanding our challenges
but also having some confidence in our
ability to solve them—that the Presi-
dent failed to deliver. In short, last
night, Stacey Abrams gave President
Trump a lesson in how to lead.
Xavier Becerra, speaking from the
high school he graduated from in Sac-
ramento, McClatchy High School, gave
a wonderful response in Spanish.
We all knew the President would say
that the state of our Union was strong,
but the American people know the un-
fortunate truth. On the economy, on
healthcare, on governance, and on for-
eign policy, it is abundantly clear that
the Trump administration has been
getting failing grades from the Amer-
ican people.
The state of the Trump economy?
Failing the middle class. Wealthy
shareholders and corporate executives
cashed in from the Trump tax bill,
while American workers have been left
behind.
The state of the Trump healthcare
system? Failing American families.
Coverage is getting more expensive,
and the amount of coverage is declin-
ing. Due to the sabotage this adminis-
tration has done to our healthcare sys-
tem, this is the first year that fewer
Americans have healthcare than they
did the year before—the first time in a
while.
The state of the Trump administra-
tion? Chaos. President Trump has had
the most Cabinet turnover in more
than a century. He has failed to nomi-
nate anyone to one-fifth of our govern-
ment’s top positions. This has nothing
to do with the Senate; for one-fifth of
the positions, there are no nomina-
tions. This is 2 years into this Presi-
dency. The Senate had nothing to do
with all the Cabinet members who quit
or resigned under a cloud—nothing to
do with that either. President Trump
likes to blame somebody else for the
problems he creates; that is one of his
MOs.
The state of President Trump’s for-
eign policy? Inside out. Inside out. Our
longstanding allies—countries of
NATO—have been alienated. Our adver-
saries—Russia, China, North Korea—
have been emboldened because Presi-
dent Trump doesn’t stand up to them.
During the national security section of
the President’s speech last night, the
first item he mentioned wasn’t Rus-
sia’s malign activities, North Korea’s
nuclear program, or even the crisis in
Venezuela; it was criticism for our
NATO allies. That says it all.
The President’s State of the Union
last night did something rare for a
State of the Union Address: It revealed
just how much repair the state of our
Union requires; just how much work we
still have to do to aid working Ameri-
cans left behind by an economy that
only seems to work for the wealthy and
well-connected; to provide American
families everywhere with affordable
healthcare; to bring stability and ac-
countability to a government too short
on both—a government that seems to
have made the swamp deeper and more
odorous and to further isolate our en-
emies and give comfort to our allies
abroad.
Let us hope and pray that the coun-
try can heal. President Trump did
nothing to move that forward last
night.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Mr. SULLIVAN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
SASSE). Without objection, it is so or-
dered.
CHINA
Mr. SULLIVAN. Mr. President, a
number of us have been coming to the
floor for quite some time now, talking
about challenges posed by China—the
big geostrategic challenges for the
United States posed by China.
What has happened over the last cou-
ple of years—and I think it is very im-
portant—is that this issue went from
an issue where not many Senators 2, 3,
or 4 years ago were talking about it to
now, when Democrats, Republicans—
all of us—have recognized that literally
for the next 50 to 100 years, the biggest
challenges we have in terms of national
security and economic security for our
Nation are the challenges posed by the
rise of China. I think that is an impor-
tant course correction that we have
seen in the Congress and, importantly,
from the executive branch.
The Trump administration put out a
national security strategy, and that
national security strategy said: Yes,
we still have very significant chal-
lenges with regard to violent, extrem-
ist organizations like al-Qaida, like
ISIS, but long-term we are shifting to
a period in which the most significant
economic and national security chal-
lenge we face as a nation involves the
rise of great powers, particularly China
as the pacing threat.
I think the administration deserves a
lot of credit for this course correction.
It is in the national security strategy
of the administration. It is in the na-
tional defense strategy of the adminis-
tration. I believe it is strongly sup-
ported by Democrats and Republicans
in this body.
You may have seen, for example, that
Vice President PENCE gave a speech at
the Hudson Institute a couple of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 23:23 Feb 06, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G06FE6.002 S06FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S878 February 6, 2019
months ago. For anyone in America in-
terested in U.S.-China relations, I com-
mend that speech to you. It was an out-
standing speech. In my view, it was
probably the most important speech on
U.S.-China relations since a former
Deputy Secretary of State, Bob
Zoellick, gave the speech called the Re-
sponsible Stakeholder Speech. That
was over a decade ago, and Deputy Sec-
retary Zoellick essentially said to
China: You have risen in large measure
because of the international system
that the United States established
after World War II, and you benefited
from that. What you need to do now is
to become a responsible stakeholder in
that system. Here is your opportunity.
The system that benefited you more
than anybody, the system that the
United States led—China, you now
have the opportunity to become a re-
sponsible stakeholder in that system.
We are inviting you into it.
Well, I think pretty much every-
body—whether Trump administration
officials, Obama administration offi-
cials, former Bush administration offi-
cials—recognizes that China rejected
that offer. They are saying: We don’t
want to be part of the responsible—we
do not want to be a member of the sys-
tem that the United States has led. We
are going to do something different.
They rejected it. Again, I think that
is not a controversial statement. China
experts—Democrats, Republicans,
Trump, Obama, Bush—all pretty much
agree that is what has happened. So we
need a different approach.
Right now, there are very serious ne-
gotiations going on between the Trump
administration officials and senior Chi-
nese officials, mostly on economic
issues. But this relates to broader chal-
lenges we have with China, and I have
had a number of discussions with Am-
bassador Lighthizer, Larry Kudlow,
who is the NEC chairman at the White
House, Secretary Mnuchin, the Vice
President, and the President on this
topic. I would say again—because it is
important not only for the American
people but for the Chinese to know—
that there is strong bipartisan backing
for what is happening right now in
terms of our reorientation of the U.S.-
China relationship and what we are fi-
nally demanding of them.
Not everything is agreed to. There
are some people, I think with good rea-
son, who have some concerns about the
use of tariffs, but, overall, I think
there is broad bipartisan support in
this body—having talked frequently
with my colleagues on both sides of the
aisle—for what the Trump administra-
tion is trying to do with regard to
China.
As they look to address these
issues—and they just had these high-
level negotiations just last week—I
thought it would be important to lay
out a couple of things that I know
many Members of the Senate are inter-
ested in. Again, this is to show our
backing of these negotiations but also
to make sure China knows that it isn’t
just the Trump administration that is
focused on these issues. The Congress
and Senate of the United States of
America also hold similar goals.
Obviously, the most important goal
is to have a relationship in terms of ec-
onomics and trade and investment that
focuses on fairness, reciprocity in
terms of open investment and a trading
relationship with China. Fairness, reci-
procity, open trade, and investment
with China—we do not have that right
now. That is one of the big challenges.
As they are looking to continue these
negotiations and possibly come up with
an agreement with China, I thought it
would be important for the Chinese to
hear what a number of Members of the
Senate believe is important in my dis-
cussions. Let me review some of these.
First, we need to ensure that China
commits to structural changes in their
economy, not just pledges to increase
purchases of U.S. goods. Increasing
purchases of U.S. goods—whether they
are Nebraska farm products, which I
know the Presiding Officer cares a lot
about, or clean burning Alaska natural
gas, which I certainly care a lot
about—would be positive. But it is cer-
tainly not enough. Structural changes
to the way in which they run their
economy, to the way in which they
treat other countries are critical. It
was good to see the President last
night in the State of the Union say ex-
actly that.
Structural changes—what do we
mean by structural changes? First,
China, for decades now, has required
American companies that invest in
China to essentially transfer their
technology in exchange for access to
their market. No other country in the
world does that. China says they don’t
do it. They do it. They need to stop
that. It is against WTO rules.
Secondly, I am going to talk more in
detail about how China consistently
steals intellectual property from
American and other countries’ compa-
nies around the world.
Third, they heavily subsidize their
state-owned enterprises, which gives
them an unfair competitive advantage
against our companies and impacts
negatively our workers and our fami-
lies.
No. 1, structural changes have to
come, and if they don’t, we should not
accept this kind of deal.
No. 2, China needs to end the ‘‘prom-
ise fatigue’’ that we have had with
China by enabling us, through some
kind of trade agreement, to hold them
accountable for the commitments they
make. What do I mean by that? We
need assurances from the Chinese that
will ultimately be fulfilled that an
agreement that is reached at the end
by this administration can be enforced.
Why is that so important? As I men-
tioned, these kinds of negotiations
have been going on for years. The
Obama administration, Bush adminis-
tration, Clinton administration, all in
good faith, have tried to get China to
commit to the promises and commit-
ments they have already made and
hold to them, whether through their
WTO commitments or all kinds of
other commitments.
Here is the problem. The talk, the
agreements, the WTO, the strategic
economic dialogues with China—they
all sound good, but for the most part,
China has not kept its commitments.
In the United States, we are suffering
from promise fatigue. We get commit-
ments from China. They make prom-
ises, and then they don’t keep them.
Promise fatigue—the American people,
the U.S. Congress, this administration,
and I believe other administrations are
tired of that. Whatever agreement the
Trump administration is working on
should address this issue of promise fa-
tigue.
Let me give you a couple of examples
of promise fatigue. Many years ago, I
had the honor of serving on the Na-
tional Security Council staff at the
White House under Condoleezza Rice.
We were at a meeting. I was a staffer
for Secretary Condoleezza Rice, who, at
the time was National Security Advi-
sor, and President George W. Bush was
in the Oval Office with a senior admin-
istration official from China, Madame
Wu Yi. She was the Vice Premier. She
was a very important person from that
country. In this meeting, the Presi-
dent—as President Obama has done, as
President Trump has done, as Presi-
dent Clinton has done—President Bush
really pressed Madame Wu Yi on intel-
lectual property theft. This was in the
Oval Office. This was in a meeting in
2003, over 15 years ago. Madame Wu Yi
looked the President of the United
States in the eye and said: Mr. Presi-
dent, we are going to fix this. Pro-
tecting intellectual property is very
important to my country. We know it
hurts your country when we steal it.
We are going to fix this. I am in
charge.
That was pretty powerful. She said it
directly to the President of the United
States in the Oval Office. I witnessed
this.
Let’s fast forward to 15 years later.
Have they fixed it? No. Has it actually
gotten worse? Yes. Promise fatigue.
Let me give a couple of other exam-
ples of promise fatigue. In 2015, in the
Rose Garden, President Xi of China was
standing next to President Obama, and
he made essentially two commitments:
We are going to stop the cyber theft of
industrial products in the United
States; we are going to not steal,
through the internet, your intellectual
property and other valuable trade se-
crets from American companies—
whether related to defense, whether re-
lated to other issues—and China will
not militarize the South China Sea.
This is 2015—less than 4 years ago—
standing next to the President of the
United States, the President of China
made these commitments in the Rose
Garden. Has China kept these commit-
ments? No. They have massively mili-
tarized the South China Sea, and they
continue their industrial-scale cyber
VerDate Sep 11 2014 23:23 Feb 06, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G06FE6.004 S06FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S879
February 6, 2019
theft. Great countries, particularly in
these kind of settings, need to keep
their word. China should know this. A
key element of any deal that we as a
country strike with China needs to
take into account this promise fatigue
and have real mechanisms to keep
their commitments.
Third, we need to make sure China
commits to end its global corrupt prac-
tices. What do I mean by that? Preda-
tory Chinese infrastructure financing
and bribery of foreign officials are
trapping countries around the world in
debt and marginalizing outside com-
petition by foreign investors.
There was an article recently in the
Wall Street Journal that went into
very minute detail of how Chinese offi-
cials at the highest levels were bribing
senior officials from Malaysia to get
investment opportunities with regard
to infrastructure in that country.
This is essentially official policy in
China to bribe and pay off officials in
other countries to help their compa-
nies, which are often state-owned and
compete against other companies. Is
this fair? No. Is this good for the inter-
national economic system? No. Does
China do it on a regular basis? Yes. Do
our companies or the U.S. Government
engage in this kind of systematic cor-
ruption globally? No.
If the U.S. companies do this, their
leaders can go to jail for violating the
Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. China
has no such prohibitions. To the con-
trary, they do it as part of official
state policy.
Whatever agreement we have with re-
gard to the Chinese on this issue also
needs to include addressing this chal-
lenge globally of foreign corrupt prac-
tices. This kind of state-sponsored cor-
ruption should not be tolerated or
overlooked. Again, in my discussions
with the administration’s senior offi-
cials, I have encouraged them to make
sure this is part of the negotiations in
the agreement.
Finally, an important element of our
strategy with regard to China has to
involve our allies. All of the issues I
just talked about—promise fatigue, in-
dustrial cyber theft, intellectual prop-
erty theft—aren’t just issues the
United States is dealing with. They are
issues all of our key allies are dealing
with—the Germans, the European
Union, Japan, Korea, Canada. Every-
body is dealing with these same chal-
lenges with regard to China. What does
that mean?
The good news is, strategically, the
United States is an ally-rich nation,
and our adversaries and potential ad-
versaries are ally-poor. We have built a
system of alliances. Since World War
II, that provides strategic advantage to
our Nation. As a matter of fact, one of
the most strategic, important advan-
tages we have is our system of alli-
ances, which we need to deepen and
broaden. There are many countries in
Asia—many countries in Asia—that
want a closer relationship with the
United States because of the rise of
China. This administration needs to
seize that because it makes strategic
sense for us, but they also need to co-
ordinate with these countries as we are
working on these broader global eco-
nomic issues as it relates to China.
Why? Because if we come to the table,
not just the United States but with the
Europeans, with the Japanese, with the
Koreans, with the Canadians, this pro-
vides leverage.
The countries I just named, including
ours, constitutes well over two-thirds
of the global GDP. If we come together
with these demands, we will have much
more leverage to get a better deal.
The time is right. I have had the op-
portunity to talk to senior officials
from all of these countries. Every sin-
gle one of them has challenges like we
did with regard to China, and every
single one of them wants to work with
us.
I commend Ambassador Lighthizer
for starting an alliance on trade, as it
relates to China, on a regular basis
with the EU and Japan. The EU, Japan,
and the United States are coordinating
on these issues. I think it makes sense
for the Ambassador to broaden that co-
alition—the coalition of the willing on
these issues. It does bring significant
leverage, and countries are ready for
the United States to lean on us. As a
matter of fact, the number of countries
and Ambassadors whom I have heard
who have cited Vice President PENCE’s
speech on how we have to deal with
China has been remarkable. They are
looking for U.S. leadership. The admin-
istration needs to provide it. Using and
making sure we are coordinating with
our traditional allies on this issue is
vital, and that is how we are going to
come to a successful conclusion.
There is a lot we need to do with re-
gard to the challenges posed by China.
They are not all negative. A lot of
them can be positive. If we had Chinese
investment, greenfield investment, in
our country, that could help with jobs.
That could help ease tensions. It is
something I have been encouraging
Chinese officials to do for a long time.
It is in their interests. I think it is in
our interests. We need to take seri-
ously these challenges.
It is an issue. You often hear about
some of the tensions or some of the
conflicts that exist in this body. In my
view, a lot of that is overblown. There
is a lot of bipartisan work that goes on
in the Senate. The vast majority of the
work that goes on in the Senate is bi-
partisan.
One area of bipartisan agreement, I
believe, is the need to focus on this
very important geostrategic challenge
that our country faces with regard to
the rise of China. We are off to a good
start in that regard. I want to encour-
age the administration to continue to
focus on this issue and focus on these
four points I highlighted this morning
on the Senate floor.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk proceeded to
call the roll.
Mr. MERKLEY. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
TRIBUTE TO TRICIA PEEBLES AND ADRIAN
DEVENY
Mr. MERKLEY. Mr. President, I want
to begin by recognizing two members
of my team who will be leaving at the
end of this week—Tricia Peebles and
Adrian Deveny—who are on to new ad-
ventures and new opportunities to
make the world a better place.
Tricia has been with me on my Sen-
ate team for over 10 years—since I
came to the Senate just over 10 years
ago. Before that, she was with me on
my team when I was speaker in Oregon
for 2 years. So it has now been a dozen
years of working together. From the
very beginning of this wild ride, she
has been with me as my State sched-
uler. I don’t know how I could have
done any of it without her.
When you are inventing a State Sen-
ate office from the ground up and you
need someone with imagination, cre-
ativity, and commitment, well, Tricia
has all of those in spades. Out in Or-
egon, she is not only the gatekeeper
and defender of my schedule, she is a
real advocate, making sure I connect
with and hear from and work with Or-
egonians from all walks of life, Orego-
nians from every corner of our beau-
tiful State. She has used her uncanny
knowledge of the map of Oregon and
small cities to get me to townhalls in
each of Oregon’s 36 counties year after
year for 10 years straight. She has done
so with military precision. Seriously,
it is amazing. Name any two cities in
the State, and Tricia can tell you how
long it takes to drive between them,
any potential road hazards, and most
importantly, the nearest Subway sand-
wich shop so the team can stop and get
a bite to eat.
It is always tough to lose an original
member of a team, and I honestly don’t
know how we are going to fill the very
large space that will be left in her ab-
sence, but I am very excited for her as
she takes on her next adventure and
wish her nothing but the best.
Adrian Deveny joined my office back
in March of 2011. Here we are, almost 8
years later, and he has been an indis-
pensable member of my team. In his 8
years, he has been leading our efforts
to tackle the greatest challenge facing
humankind on this planet—the chal-
lenge of carbon pollution and climate
chaos.
He has taken us through initiatives,
such as the Keep It in the Ground Act,
which said that we as citizens of the
United States must no longer profit
from leasing out the fossil fuels that
we own for extraction and combustion
because it contributes to the problem,
and the 100 by ‘50 Act, which said that
we need to get to 100 percent renewable
energy and that we need to do so by the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 23:23 Feb 06, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G06FE6.006 S06FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S880 February 6, 2019
year 2050 or earlier and laid out a de-
tailed roadmap on how to do so in each
section of the energy economy.
He tirelessly advocated for programs
that had real, direct impacts on peo-
ple’s daily lives, whether it was the
Rural Energy Savings Program, which
created the opportunity throughout
rural America for families to upgrade
the insulation in their homes and busi-
nesses to save energy and have it paid
for in large part by those savings in en-
ergy, or reforming our Nation’s out-
dated chemical laws with the signifi-
cant reform of TSCA, where he played
a central negotiating role to try to get
us from the starting line to the finish
line, or helping make electric cars
more affordable.
He did all of this and so much more
and always with the type of steady dis-
position, cheerful attitude, nothing but
kind words, and support for his team-
mates that really helped him to be a
key facilitator with staff throughout
the Senate. He has been the calm in a
chaotic storm of a Senate office. It will
be tough to see him go, but he won’t be
going too far away—just moving over
from our office in the Hart Office
Building to the minority leader’s of-
fice, CHUCK SCHUMER’s office, here in
the Capitol to help lead the Demo-
cratic caucus’s collective efforts on
issues related to energy and the envi-
ronment. So our loss on Team Merkley
is the Senate’s gain.
A big thank-you to Adrian for all of
his hard work on behalf of the people of
Oregon and on behalf of a better world,
a better energy policy, a better envi-
ronmental policy, a policy that points
at taking on the biggest challenge fac-
ing human civilization on this planet.
Thank you, Adrian, for all of your
work to save our beautiful blue-green
planet.
CLIMATE CHANGE
Mr. President, the most important
words in our Constitution are the first
three, ‘‘We the people,’’ written in
supersized font so we won’t forget
about the core mission of our Constitu-
tion—a nation that, in President Lin-
coln’s words, is designed to be ‘‘of the
people, by the people, for the people.’’
Well, in a ‘‘we the people’’ nation, it is
the responsibility of government and
its leaders to put the interests and
well-being of its citizens first.
In July of 1932, while accepting his
party’s nomination for the Presidency
in the height of the Great Depression;
after the stock market had crashed,
losing almost 90 percent of its value;
after 11,000 American banks went bust;
after nearly a quarter of the United
States was unemployed, Franklin Roo-
sevelt called for ‘‘a new deal for the
American people.’’ He said that they
were living in ‘‘unprecedented and un-
usual times’’ in which we must ‘‘highly
resolve to resume the country’s unin-
terrupted march along the path of real
progress, of real justice, [and] of real
equality.’’
Well, in our ‘‘we the people’’ Nation,
we are once again finding ourselves in
unprecedented and unusual times, and
a big factor is the ravages of climate
chaos, carbon pollution and the chaos
that ensues from that wreaking havoc
not only on the environment but on the
lives of Americans all across our Na-
tion. We see it in the wildfires that are
burning longer and hotter than ever be-
fore, not just affecting our forests and
the jobs in our forests and our forest
economies but at times incinerating
entire communities, such as Paradise,
CA. Even when such a dramatic event
doesn’t occur, there is significant dam-
age to our cities, their economies, and
their people’s health from the smoke.
We have seen over time that the av-
erage number of large wildfires has
grown. Back in the decade of the 1980s,
there were about 140 per year. Now here
we are after the turn of the century
looking at nearly twice that—250 major
wildfires per year on average. And the
fire season has gone from roughly 5
months in the early 1970s to 7 months.
This is just characterizing the impact
of longer, hotter summers—one impact
of climate chaos.
We also see climate chaos in the
oceans. They are growing hotter year
by year. They are growing more acidic
year by year as carbon dioxide becomes
carbonic acid, actually changing the
chemistry of the ocean. We have found
that the oceans are about 30 percent
more acidic than they were before the
Industrial Revolution, affecting our
coral reefs and our shellfish.
A recent study found that the plan-
et’s oceans are heating up even faster
than we anticipated—40 percent faster
than we thought just 5 years ago. Now,
2018 broke the record for the warmest
ocean temperatures. It beat out the
previous record holder of 2017, and that
2017 record broke the previous record
holder of 2016. Rising temperatures
don’t just harm our sea life; they are
impacting citizens through impacts on
the fishing industry, impacting the
coastal communities for which coastal
activities are their lifeblood.
I was down on the gulf coast of Flor-
ida where they had a red tide that has
been in place for 10 of the last 12
months. A red tide essentially is toxic
algae that produces toxins that float
inland and irritate the lungs and ag-
gravate the asthma of those living near
the seashore, and it kills sea life. In ad-
dition to the toxins from the red tide,
they have dead manatees, dolphins,
fish, and turtles washing up on the
shores and decomposing, adding to the
stench. People on the gulf coast of
Florida take inland vacations that at
times extend to months to escape the
consequence of the red tide, and it
causes a huge impact on the economy
of those coastal cities.
We see chaos in extreme weather
events, massive storms like Harvey and
Irma and Maria, which in that year
cost our country $265 billion in dam-
ages, took the lives of thousands—
thousands in just Puerto Rico—and de-
stroyed hundreds of thousands of
homes in the gulf and the Caribbean.
We also see it in wild temperature
swings in communities like Chicago.
Last summer, Chicago experienced rec-
ordbreaking heat and then was hit with
a recordbreaking polar vortex. This is
climate chaos.
We the people, we the farmers, we the
foresters, we the fishermen, and, of
course, we the frontline communities
of America, minority and low-income
communities, whose health is being
impacted, feel the impact, a dev-
astating impact, and bear the brunt of
climate chaos.
So it is now another time for a new
deal for the American people to take
on this massive, immediate threat to
our people and our planet—a threat we
cannot delay responding to.
This time, it must be a Green New
Deal—a Green New Deal that not only
transitions America to an energy econ-
omy that is powered by 100-percent
noncarbon, clean, renewable energy,
but a Green New Deal that creates mil-
lions of good, living-wage jobs in the
process and continues our Nation’s
march along the path of real progress,
real justice, and real equality.
Let’s think, for a moment, of what
the core principles are when we say the
words ‘‘Green New Deal.’’ Here are
some of the core issues.
The first is an energy shift that uti-
lizes today’s technology and utilizes
and improves our electric grid and our
transportation system from ones pow-
ered by fossil fuels to ones powered by
renewable energy. A key principle of
the Green New Deal is that of an en-
ergy shift to solar and offshore wind,
wave energy, tidal energy, and geo-
thermal energy—all potentially con-
tributing to the noncarbon electricity
to power our Nation.
Here is the good news. The cost of
noncarbon, nonfossil fuel energy has
dropped. It has fallen about 90 percent
over the last decade. It has gone from
35 cents per kilowatt hour with solar
energy to about 3 to 5 cents per kilo-
watt hour. That is a massive change.
Wind has fallen about 70 percent, and
now it is down to 2 to 4 cents per kilo-
watt hour. What does this mean? This
means that a decade ago, the costs
were above the costs of burning fossil
fuels. Now they are below or are even
with the costs of burning fossil fuels
because it is about 10 cents per kilo-
watt hour to create electrons from
coal, and it is about 5 cents from nat-
ural gas. When you have wind at 2 to 4
cents and solar at 3 to 5 cents, you are
competitive, and that means we can
choose not only the energy that is best
for the planet and best for our health
but that is also the smartest invest-
ment for our economy.
This is where we are now. We can
pursue the smartest investment. If you
don’t have any understanding of the
impact of the climate chaos that is
devastating our resources and our cit-
ies and our people, you can still choose
green power, because it is the smartest
economic decision.
The second core principle of the
Green New Deal is to create millions of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 23:23 Feb 06, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G06FE6.007 S06FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S881
February 6, 2019
jobs. Our President likes to talk about
jobs, and we need his help in actually
creating jobs by renovating our energy
economy, by investing in these tech-
nologies, and by advancing these tech-
nologies. It is so we are selling them to
the world rather than buying them
from the world. It is so they are em-
ploying people in the United States of
America rather than employing people
in China. We want this revolution to be
here, driven by the United States of
America—by red, white, and blue inge-
nuity and innovation. It is not for us to
be on the receiving end of technologies
that are developed elsewhere, and it is
not for us to be on the receiving end of
products made elsewhere.
In creating these jobs, we need strong
protections for American workers. We
want these jobs to be living-wage jobs.
We want to see workers able to orga-
nize and able to unionize so as to make
sure these are family-wage jobs, be-
cause a good-paying job is better than
any government program for a family’s
foundation to thrive.
Right now, renewable industries are
booming. Jobs in solar and wind are
growing 12 times faster than is the rest
of the economy. Over 3 million Ameri-
cans now work in renewable energy and
energy efficiency, outnumbering fossil
fuels 3 to 1. This is the future of jobs in
the United States of America. This is
the future of good-paying jobs in the
United States of America. Just think
of how many more jobs we can create
down the road if the United States is
leading the world, not following. Let’s
be the leaders in this green technology
revolution. Like Roosevelt’s New Deal
with the Works Progress Administra-
tion, which created jobs that paved a
path for the economy to recover, the
Green New Deal will drive tens of mil-
lions of good-paying jobs for Americans
in the decades ahead.
The third big principle is that no one
gets left behind in this revolution. It
ensures that all Americans have the
benefits of the new green economy and
that the hard-working Americans who
are in the fossil fuel industry and have
provided the power that has taken our
Nation so far forward have the respect
for what they have accomplished and
have the opportunity for jobs in the fu-
ture. It is a just transition into good-
paying careers and for communities
that have been stumbling in their ef-
forts toward economic progress but
have been bypassed in the economy of
the past.
They will not be bypassed in the
green economy of the future because
the point is to design that economy so
that those communities can benefit
from the clean energy and can benefit
from the jobs that the Green New Deal
creates. That includes there being ac-
cess to clean public transportation,
community development investments,
and the ability of low-income families
to not only receive clean energy but to
get the clean energy jobs and job train-
ing and apprenticeship programs and
healthcare and housing that everyone
in America should have access to.
Those are the three core principles of
this vision. They are the three core
principles that will take us forward
quickly and productively and will put
us in the economic lead of the world. It
is a lead we are losing as we stumble—
trapped by fossil fuel special interest
money and its control of Congress.
There are those who say this vision is
too bold, that this vision is too far-
reaching, but let us think of what Rob-
ert Kennedy once said: ‘‘Only those
who dare to fail greatly can ever
achieve greatly.’’
For the sake of our planet and our
Nation and our families and the ‘‘we
the people’’ vision of our government,
let us dare, and let us dare greatly.
I thank the Presiding Officer.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. CAS-
SIDY). The Senator from Missouri.
S. 47
Mr. BLUNT. Mr. President, I want to
talk about the bill that we are consid-
ering this week. This is a bill that for
sportsmen and for those who are inter-
ested in public lands is going to have a
big impact. It will have big benefits for
our country and big benefits for my
State of Missouri.
This package includes a number of
important provisions to expand hunt-
ing and fishing access—something that,
I think, every Congress, over a handful
of Congresses now, has tried to do and
failed to do. It has provisions to pro-
tect natural resources and provisions
to improve public lands. In my State of
Missouri, we have more than 1.2 mil-
lion hunters and fishermen. They spend
about $1.67 billion annually and sup-
port almost 30,000 jobs in our State.
For the first time, this bill makes it
clear in statute that all Bureau of
Land Management and National Forest
System lands will be open to hunting,
to recreational shooting, and to fishing
unless they are explicitly closed. They
can be closed, but they have to be ex-
plicitly closed for safety reasons or
other justified reasons that are estab-
lished not just by the Bureau of Land
Management or by the National Forest
System but through a public process.
In other words, they are going to be
open unless they are closed instead of
the current situation of their being
closed unless they are open. This will
create an opportunity for people who
want to use public lands for those pur-
poses to be able to do so unless those
who are responsible for managing those
lands can make a real case that they
shouldn’t be able to do so.
This bill includes important provi-
sions that will improve the visitor ex-
perience in two of Missouri’s U.S. Na-
tional Park Service units. One is the
provision that would really enhance
one’s opportunity to learn more about
the personal life of the Nation’s 33rd
President, Harry Truman. I am stand-
ing here behind the desk I use every
day, which was also the desk that
President Truman used when he was in
the Senate.
Particularly, there are lessons that
can be learned from his life at the
Harry S. Truman National Historic
Site, which was first dedicated in May
of 1983. It preserves the history of the
person who has sometimes been called
the people’s President. He was the
President who, when he was retiring
and the press asked him ‘‘What is the
first thing you are going to do when
you get home?’’ thought for only a
minute and said, ‘‘I guess the first
thing I will do is take the suitcases to
the attic.’’ In his 71⁄2 years of being
President, he was a guy who had not
lost the sense of the kinds of common-
sense things that real people deal with.
His story is really well told at his
family home in Independence. It is a
site that includes not only the home
that he and Bess, his wife, shared
through their entire marriage, from
1919 until his death in 1972, but some
adjacent family properties and some
nearby properties of Truman’s farm
home, which was the home in which he
grew up in Grandview, MO.
This is a bill that, in many cases,
does really simple things. In this case,
it just takes the money, frankly, that
the city of Independence wants to give
to the Federal Government so the Fed-
eral Government has the money to
build a new visitors center. The Na-
tional Park Service would like to build
it on this piece of land, but before it
can do that, we have to accept the
piece of land. That is something that
will happen in this bill when we pass it.
There is another provision that
would enhance the visitor access to
Ste. Genevieve, which is at least the
newest historic park in Missouri if not,
certainly, one of the newest in the
country. This is something we did last
year in transitioning some property to
the National Park System from the
State park system.
Ste. Genevieve, which is on the banks
of the Mississippi River, was estab-
lished in the 1750s by French settlers
who were attracted to the area because
of the water access, the rich soil, and
the ability to make a living there. In
fact, the historic park encompasses
what was called the common field in
the Mississippi River Valley, where
citizens would own or be allocated a
plot in that field and would farm in
that plot. It was not part of the settle-
ment community itself but was at the
river bottom, which meant that for
flood reasons, you wouldn’t want to
build a house there, but you could grow
some of the most incredible crops that
could be grown then or now. In fact,
the common field in Ste. Genevieve is
recognized as being the oldest continu-
ously farmed piece of land west of the
Mississippi River.
Ste. Genevieve had been governed by
the French, then the British, then the
Spanish, and then the United States in
its history as it came into the United
States as part of a territory with the
Louisiana Purchase. The imprint of
each of those countries is still evident
in that community today. That is part-
ly thanks to the State of Missouri. It is
VerDate Sep 11 2014 23:23 Feb 06, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G06FE6.009 S06FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S882 February 6, 2019
thanks to dedicated historic preserva-
tion groups, including the National So-
ciety of the Colonial Dames of Amer-
ica, the Foundation for Restoration of
Ste. Genevieve, Les Amis, and the Ste.
Genevieve Chamber of Commerce. They
have all worked hard to recognize the
unique architecture they have there,
some of which dates back to the late
18th century. More of it dates back to
the years right after the turn of the
19th century and the very early 1800s.
This bill would allow significant
things to happen in that park, includ-
ing acquiring a standing visitors center
that wouldn’t happen otherwise.
The bill also permanently reauthor-
izes the Land and Water Conservation
Fund. Many of those hunters and fish-
ermen whom I mentioned earlier are,
appropriately, big advocates of this
Land and Water Conservation Fund,
which allows property to be available
to them and to be preserved through
this fund in a way that doesn’t allow it
to be developed but still to be available
to hunters, fishermen, birdwatchers,
and outdoor enthusiasts.
That fund is largely funded from Fed-
eral receipts from the offshore oil and
gas leases. In 2018, $487 million was ap-
propriated by the Congress to continue
to maintain and enhance that fund. It
supports Federal and State land acqui-
sition, planning grants, and outdoor
recreational programs. That has been a
program that, for a long time now, the
Federal Government has periodically
extended. This is the first time that it
would be permanently authorized.
This bill reauthorizes the partners in
Fish and Wildlife. It reauthorizes the
National Geological Mapping Program,
the Public Lands Corps program, and,
for the first time, the Invasive Species
Program at the Corps. The wildlife re-
sponse activities, as it involves drones,
are described here and defined in a new
and better way.
It also requires the Fish and Wildlife
Service to declare the attorney fee
payments they make and, maybe even
more importantly, to declare publicly
the awards they make to individuals
and groups that have filed a civil case
and are doing that under the Endan-
gered Species Act. A lot of determina-
tions have been made there that the
public was not aware of and, frankly,
in my view, that would not have been
made if they had to stand the test of
public scrutiny that they now have to
stand under with this law.
I want to congratulate Senator MUR-
KOWSKI and Senator CANTWELL for
bringing this bill to the floor. As we
work hard now to do what is necessary,
I look forward to passing it here, send-
ing it back to the House, getting it on
the President’s desk, and doing these
things that, in so many cases, have
been years now in the making.
This bill brings together about 100
separate pieces of legislation, each of
which will make an important dif-
ference—no matter how small they
are—in the community or the area that
they will impact.
With that, I suggest the absence of a
quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
STATE OF THE UNION MESSAGE
Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, last
night, most of America was tuned in to
the President’s State of the Union Ad-
dress, and I attended it with most of
my colleagues in the U.S. Senate.
The State of the Union Address is an
opportunity for the President, once
each year, to speak directly not just to
Congress but to the American people.
The President had an opportunity last
night to bring us together and to talk
about ways we can solve the challenges
facing our great Nation. Sadly, time
and again, the President chose to use
divisive language when he could have
used unifying language.
What is the state of the Union under
this President?
Affordable health insurance is at
risk. Last night, President Trump said
he wanted to protect healthcare for
people with preexisting conditions like
cancer, diabetes, asthma, and heart
disease. What he did not say was that
at this very moment, his administra-
tion is trying to eliminate those pro-
tections for people with preexisting
conditions. That is right. A lawsuit—
filed by Republican attorneys general,
led by the Texas Republican attorney
general—is supported by the adminis-
tration and the President, and it would
declare the entire Affordable Care Act
unconstitutional, including those pro-
visions that protect people with pre-
existing conditions. The President
can’t stand before us and give a speech
to the American people and say: I am
all about preexisting conditions—and
then tell his Attorney General to join
in a lawsuit and try to eliminate that
protection. That is exactly what is
happening at this moment.
Last night, President Trump said he
wanted to help people with HIV/AIDS
and children with cancer. Who could
argue with those goals? But people
with HIV/AIDS and children with can-
cer are some of the people who stand to
lose the most if President Trump sabo-
tages the Affordable Care Act.
Let me say a word about the child-
hood cancer issue. What a heart-
breaking, tender moment it was to
look up into the Gallery and see that
little girl, that 7-year-old girl, who,
fighting a brain tumor, was still out
raising money for St. Jude’s Hospital.
It was beautiful, and she was just as
pretty and loveable as any child can be
as she applauded everyone and had
what is clearly the night of her life to
be at that joint session. I looked up
there, and I am sure every parent and
grandparent in the audience saw in her
exactly what we love about little chil-
dren.
Let’s be honest about what the Presi-
dent said last night. When he said he
wanted to fight childhood cancer, he
said how much he would spend. That is
an important thing because your val-
ues in Congress and in the government
are often measured by how much you
are willing to invest in your values.
The President suggested that he
wanted to spend $500 million on child-
hood cancer. That is breathtaking, $500
million, until you listen to the rest of
the sentence—over 10 years, so $50 mil-
lion a year. To the outsider, that may
seem like a significant amount of
money, but in the context of medical
research, it is not.
The annual budget for the National
Institutes of Health, the major medical
research organization in the world,
nears $35 billion; $50 million against $35
billion pales in comparison. Look at
this. Each year, the National Institutes
of Health spends almost $500 million on
childhood cancer. I want to make sure
they pay more, spend more, research
more.
I thank ROY BLUNT, the Senator from
Missouri—Republican Senator from
Missouri; LAMAR ALEXANDER, Repub-
lican Senator from Tennessee; and, of
course, PATTY MURRAY, our champion
when it comes to medical research on
the Democratic side. What they have
done for 4 successive years is have a 5-
percent real increase in medical re-
search. That is amazing. That is al-
most 30 percent more being spent on
medical research because this bipar-
tisan team—which I am a cheerleader
for—has done that kind of investment.
So when the President talks about,
now he is going to tackle childhood
cancer, I can’t wait to see the next
budget for the National Institutes of
Health. It is Congress that has been
pushing the 5-percent real growth
every year, not President Trump.
So, yes, I am glad he is on board for
childhood cancer. If we can help that
little girl, and so many others like her
each year who are battling cancer, we
need to do it and put party aside, but
$50 million a year is hardly a moonshot
against cancer when it comes to chil-
dren. If we are going to make a massive
investment to make this work, it will
take a lot more of an investment than
that.
For the past 2 years, President
Trump has proposed cuts—cuts—in the
National Institutes of Health. Mr.
Mulvaney, who is now his Acting Chief
of Staff, is pretty good as a budget cut-
ter. He is not very good when it comes
to investing in research. He suggested
an 18-percent cut and a 6-percent cut to
the very Agency responsible for med-
ical research increases. Thank good-
ness, the team of Senators I mentioned
to you earlier ignored the President’s
request and Mr. Mulvaney’s directive
to cut spending when it came to med-
ical research. We need to make sure we
invest in medical research for the fu-
ture, finding new cures for diseases and
conditions, including childhood cancer
and HIV/AIDS.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 23:23 Feb 06, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G06FE6.010 S06FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S883
February 6, 2019
The basic services of our government
are at risk, unfortunately, despite the
President’s statement last night. You
see, the President authored the longest
government shutdown—35 days—in the
history of the United States, and after
he relented and allowed the govern-
ment Agencies to go back into business
and pay their employees—some 800,000
Federal employees—he dangled again
the possibility that next week he will
do it all over again, shut down the gov-
ernment again, God forbid. We have
seen enough of this.
My guest last night was from Illinois.
His name is Toby Hauck. Toby is head
of the air traffic controllers in our
State. We have almost 1,000 or more
across our State. When they reached a
point of 35 days with no pay, the air
traffic controllers announced they
would have to slow down air traffic op-
erations across the United States.
I believe that was the decisive mo-
ment in the government shutdown. It
was shortly thereafter that the Presi-
dent relented and said he will allow the
government to reopen again. Now, he
says if he doesn’t get his way about his
almighty wall, he is going to do it all
over again. I hope he doesn’t. For the
good of this Nation, I hope he doesn’t.
For air traffic controllers, and for peo-
ple who work at the Food and Drug Ad-
ministration, the Department of Agri-
culture, the Environmental Protection
Agency, and so many other Agencies,
not to mention TSA, I would hate to
see them face another period of not
being paid while being called into
work.
Our national security is at risk at
this moment too. When you look for
the reasoning behind it, you can see
the President’s view of foreign policy is
part of the problem.
I was glad to stand last night when
the President recognized the heroes of
World War II. Those three men—in
their nineties, I am sure—really were a
part of the ‘‘greatest generation.’’ The
sacrifices they made for America, the
sacrifices they made to defeat the
forces of authoritarianism in Germany,
Italy, and Japan have left a better
world. It also led to the creation of the
North Atlantic Treaty Organization
after World War II. The nations that
were victorious in World War II, led by
the United States, came together and
said: Our goal is never to have another
World War; to stop a war from break-
ing out again in Europe, as it had twice
in the last century. The North Atlantic
Treaty Organization was the organiza-
tion they chose to make sure we were
prepared to fight communism or other
forces that might lead to war. It has
been dramatically successful not just
in keeping the peace but in building a
community of interest between the
United States and Europe, which en-
dures to this day.
I don’t disagree with the President.
Those who are allies should pay their
fair share for NATO, but, clearly, many
of those countries in Europe today
wonder if the United States still has an
interest in their future, as it once did
many years ago. That uncertainty,
when it comes to dealing with Russia,
is emphasized on a daily basis as we try
to understand this President, who one
day is admonishing the Russians for
failing to live up to a nuclear arms
treaty and the next day is ignoring
Russia’s cyber act of war as it tries to
take over the election process in the
United States. I can’t follow where this
President stands when it comes to Rus-
sia, and a lot of our NATO allies are
curious, too, as to what he is trying to
achieve.
It isn’t just NATO. Beyond that, we
know the President walked away from
this nuclear agreement with Iran. He
talked about it last night. I couldn’t
disagree with the President’s position
more. When we had the major coun-
tries on Earth come together and de-
vise a way with inspectors to make
sure Iran did not develop a nuclear
weapon, that made the Middle East
safer; that made Israel safer. The
President opposed it from the start.
Despite his opposition, President
Obama was able to get it through, ap-
proved in Congress, and it became the
law of the land. When the reports came
back, Iran was complying with the nu-
clear agreement. They weren’t devel-
oping nuclear weapons. They were de-
stroying centrifuges and other equip-
ment that could lead them to develop a
nuclear weapon. Unfortunately, the net
result of it was destroyed when the
President stepped away from this trea-
ty. Iran still lives by its terms, but we
don’t know what tomorrow might
bring.
The nuclear arms race with Russia is
on again because of their violation of a
nuclear arms treaty that dates back to
President Reagan. Instead of negotia-
tion, we walked out and said we are
just not going to live by it anymore.
We need to stop a new arms race, and
we need to engage China, as the Presi-
dent suggested last night, in that proc-
ess.
I also want to say the state of our
Union sees our planet at risk. This
President withdrew the United States
from the Paris climate accord, an
agreement signed—listen carefully—by
every country in the world, but it
doesn’t include the United States. The
rest of the world—those who are polit-
ical foes and friends alike—came to-
gether and said: We have to do some-
thing to make sure this planet is
loveable for our children and grand-
children but not President Trump. He
walked away from that. As a con-
sequence, the United States is not
doing what it should to show leader-
ship in this critical life-or-death issue.
Finally, when it comes to America’s
confidence in our government, it has
been shaken by a President who refuses
to disclose his tax returns, refuses to
be open about his business dealings
around the United States and around
the world, and, unfortunately, has seen
a Cabinet riddled with corruption and
conflicts of interest. We have never
seen anything quite like this. In the 8
years of President Obama, there were
no scandals that even came close to
match what is happening under the
Trump administration. Is it any won-
der that people are skeptical about
their leadership and their commitment
to the common good as opposed to
their own personal gain?
The last point I will make is our
economy. It is true, there are more
jobs. We have had economic growth
since President Obama brought us out
of the worst recession since the Great
Depression, and that growth and job
creation is a good thing for America. I
applaud it. I want to see it continue,
but when we had a chance to rewrite
the Tax Code in a way to help working
families and those who are in the lower
and middle-income categories, this
Congress and this President did just
the opposite, creating massive tax
breaks for the wealthiest people in
America. I know it is part of the Re-
publican playbook that if the rich can
just get a little bit richer, America will
be better off, but it is counterintuitive.
Too many working families across the
United States have seen their wages—
their real wages—fall behind, even
though productivity and profits in cor-
porations have increased. We have to
make sure this is a fair economy when
it comes to our workers and our tax-
payers. Unfortunately, the President’s
position on taxes has not helped that
in any regard whatsoever.
So last night’s State of the Union
Address, unfortunately, divided us in-
stead of united us. It didn’t point out
the real challenges we face and need to
deal with. I hope still that we can come
together, Democrats and Republicans
in the Senate and the House, to deal
with the major challenges it faces—the
challenges we were elected to confront
and deal with.
Mr. President, I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Texas.
Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, I never
cease to be amazed how the politics
here inside the beltway remind me of
two ships passing in the night, where
we can all be looking at exactly the
same thing and describe it in such re-
markably different ways.
I have been amazed at the Demo-
cratic leader’s negative comments
about the President’s speech last night,
and I listened to comments of my
friend the Democrat whip. They found
virtually nothing to like about what
the President had to say last night.
So I was a little bit surprised to see
a CBS News poll that indicates that 70
percent of the viewers approved of
what they heard in President Trump’s
speech last night at the State of the
Union, and 72 percent said they ap-
proved of President Trump’s ideas on
immigration, one of the most conten-
tious and divisive issues that faces our
country.
One conclusion might be that it is be-
cause our Democratic colleagues are
simply unwilling to do anything to
VerDate Sep 11 2014 23:23 Feb 06, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G06FE6.013 S06FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S884 February 6, 2019
work with President Trump and are de-
termined to do everything they can in
order to defeat him or that anything
that he happens to be for they are re-
flexively against. That seemed to be
what gave us the 35-day shutdown,
where NANCY PELOSI said that building
a physical barrier along the south-
western border was immoral, even
though Democrats and Republicans had
routinely voted for fencing, extending
the hundreds of miles there in the Se-
cure Fence Act of 2006 and 2008. Barack
Obama, Hillary Clinton and Senator
SCHUMER, the Democratic leader, all
voted for that. Now NANCY PELOSI
woke up one morning and decided it
was immoral to build any physical bar-
rier at all along the southwestern bor-
der.
I agree with those who say the real
immorality here is to see the scourge
of human trafficking, sex slavery,
women and children being held against
their will by the traffickers who trans-
fer people up and across the south-
western border. What is really immoral
is to stand by and do nothing and
watch 70,000 Americans die of drug
overdoses last year alone, with a sig-
nificant amount of that due to opioid
addiction, including the 90 percent of
the heroin that comes into the United
States from Mexico. To me, that is the
immorality, not some fence or wall or
pedestrian bridge or whatever the
physical barrier may be.
I agree with those who were polled in
the CBS News poll who believe that
what we heard last night from the
President was a strong message in his
second State of the Union address.
Since President Trump took office 2
years ago, the American people have
seen real results and a shot of adren-
alin has been given to our economy, al-
lowing millions of Americans to get
back to work.
Yes, our economy is booming. We
have gotten our optimism and con-
fidence back again. Wages are on the
rise. People are getting to keep more of
what they earn, and middle-class
Americans are seeing their paychecks
expand.
We have heard the remarkable statis-
tics that people who have disabilities
are now reentering the workforce be-
cause there is such demand for workers
that even people who previously
weren’t able to find work are now able
to get that work.
Yes, in addition to the low unemploy-
ment rate, we are seeing minority un-
employment and African-American and
Hispanic unemployment lower than it
has ever been in recorded history. You
would think that would be something
that people would want to applaud on a
bipartisan basis.
But time and again, we saw our
friends across the aisle last night sit-
ting on their hands with a grim and
sort of discontented look on their face.
That is another reason why I think so
many people believe that Washington,
DC, and what happens here and the pol-
itics that take place here are com-
pletely removed and disconnected from
their experience across the breadth of
this country.
We have done some pretty significant
things in the last year together, on a
bipartisan basis. We combatted the
opioid crisis. We improved our criminal
justice system just this last December
by huge, overwhelming margins. We re-
pealed taxes on low- and middle-class
Americans, known as the ObamaCare
individual mandate, punishing people
simply because they could not afford
the high premiums and deductibles of
the so-called Affordable Care Act, and
we restored much needed funding to
our military in a still very dangerous
world and provided an overdue pay
raise for our troops.
But President Trump wasn’t there
just to tout his accomplishments. He
was there to assure the American peo-
ple that we are not going to rest on our
laurels. There is still work to be done,
and we are eager to get moving. The
President offered up some constructive
ideas about what that might be: re-
building America’s infrastructure,
making healthcare and prescription
drugs more affordable, and, finally,
eliminating the scourge of HIV over
the next decade.
I remember being at the dedication
of the George Bush Library at SMU a
few years ago, when they had all the
living Presidents speaking at that dedi-
cation. President Jimmy Carter, sur-
prisingly—to me, anyway—applauded
President George W. Bush for saving
millions of lives in Africa as a result of
the PEPFAR program, providing new,
incredible drugs to help reduce and
eliminate the scourge of HIV in Africa.
The President now wants to do that in
the United States, and I applaud him
for it.
To address these and other countless
challenges before us, the President
stressed the need for unity. As much as
we would like to, nobody gets every-
thing they want in Congress. In a coun-
try where democracy prevails, we know
that means that we are going to have
to negotiate and compromise, but there
are 80-percent solutions that when we
see them, we ought to grab them. Just
turning on the news or social media, it
is easy to think there is more that di-
vides us than unites us as a country,
but the President reminded us that
citizens of goodwill share the same
goal, and that is to build a stronger
and better America.
As the President said last night:
There is a new opportunity in American
politics, if only we have the courage to seize
it. Victory is not winning for our party. Vic-
tory is winning for our country.
I hope all of us will answer the Presi-
dent’s call to work together to respond
to the better angels of our nature and
to build on the successes of the last 2
years for the benefit of all the Amer-
ican people.
NOMINATION OF NEOMI RAO
Mr. President, yesterday, we had the
Judiciary Committee hold a hearing to
consider an important nomination, and
that is of Neomi Rao to the Court of
Appeals for the DC Circuit, what some
have called the ‘‘second highest court
in the land.’’ This is the seat, of course,
that has been vacated by the elevation
of Judge Brett Kavanaugh to the U.S.
Supreme Court.
Ms. Rao is currently the Adminis-
trator of the Office of Information and
Regulatory Affairs, an obscure but im-
portant Agency—probably the most
powerful Agency nobody has ever heard
of here in Washington, DC. She was
confirmed to that position on a bipar-
tisan basis in 2017, and since taking the
helm at OIRA, Agencies have reduced
regulatory costs by more than $23 bil-
lion, which has been another spur to
the American economy.
Ms. Rao is currently an associate
professor at the Antonin Scalia Law
School at George Mason University and
a leading scholar in the field of admin-
istrative law.
Through her career, Ms. Rao has
served in all three branches of the Fed-
eral Government. She clerked for Jus-
tice Clarence Thomas on the Supreme
Court and Judge Harvie Wilkinson on
the Fourth Circuit. She served as an
Associate Counsel and Special Assist-
ant to President George W. Bush, and
she has also worked here in the Senate
as a counsel for the then-chairman of
the Judiciary Committee, our friend,
Orrin Hatch.
Suffice it to say that she has a vast
understanding of the workings of the
Federal Government, as well as the
rulemaking process. In a court that
frequently hears challenges to Federal
regulations, her unique experience and
knowledge of administrative law will
be an incredibly valuable asset.
Unsurprisingly, I am not the only
one who holds that view. Two dozen
former Supreme Court clerks who
worked alongside Ms. Rao sent a letter
to the Judiciary Committee touting
her qualifications. They noted:
Many of us have worked in government, at
both federal and state levels, some for Demo-
crats and some for Republicans.
They went on to say:
While our professional and personal paths
have thus diverged, one of the things we
have shared is admiration for Neomi. We are
confident she will serve our country well on
the D.C. Circuit.
We have seen similar letters from her
classmates at both Yale and the Uni-
versity of Chicago Law School, as well
as from her former students.
Adding to the list of her glowing rec-
ommendations, Ms. Rao has received a
unanimous ‘‘well qualified’’ rating
from the American Bar Association.
My colleagues, Senator SCHUMER from
New York and Senator LEAHY from
Vermont, once referred to this rating
as ‘‘the gold standard by which judicial
candidates are judged.’’
But despite her outstanding quali-
fications, Ms. Rao has faced some un-
convincing attacks by opponents of
this administration. I am convinced
that some of our colleagues would op-
pose any judicial nominee by this
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:26 Feb 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00010 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G06FE6.014 S06FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S885
February 6, 2019
President just because they were nomi-
nated by President Trump.
On Monday, the day before her hear-
ing, I was surprised to see a headline
from POLITICO. The story was enti-
tled: ‘‘Dems hope to draw blood from
potential Trump SCOTUS pick.’’ What
they were referring to, I assume, is
that Ms. Rao, as qualified as she is and
nominated for the court of appeals,
once confirmed, she could possibly in
the future be a candidate for the U.S.
Supreme Court. So the goal is to rough
her up now, tarnish her reputation the
best you can, in preparation for that
potentiality in the future.
This is not entirely surprising, but it
is regrettable. Before we even had a
chance to hear from the nominee and
discuss her qualifications for a circuit
court seat, some on the other side are
sharpening their claws, and the special
interests are unfairly trying to under-
mine her nomination. This war being
waged against Ms. Rao is not because
she is unqualified for the job, but it is
because some fear her commitment to
the rule of law and speculate, as I said,
that someday she might be a nominee
to the U.S. Supreme Court.
A Wall Street Journal editor last
week warned that Ms. Rao might get
‘‘Kavanaughed.’’ That is a new verb. It
used to be called to get ‘‘Borked,’’ after
Robert Bork. But of course, they said
she could get ‘‘Kavanaughed’’ because
of her writings in college newspapers
more than two decades ago. So the
term ‘‘Borked’’ has now been sup-
planted by the term ‘‘Kavanaughed’’ as
a description of the scorched earth tac-
tics of the radical left.
A young conservative at the time,
her biweekly column for the Yale Her-
ald was called ‘‘Against the Current,’’
and it challenged the politically cor-
rect, although poorly reasoned, views
of some of her classmates at the liberal
Ivy League school. I guess, when you
consider what happened to Brett
Kavanaugh, at least we moved on from
high school yearbooks now to things
that somebody has written in college. I
don’t know whether that represents
progress or not.
Ms. Rao has said repeatedly, how-
ever, that she no longer holds the same
views she held more than 20 years ago.
That is called growing up and matur-
ing. In any event, she said she wouldn’t
substitute her personal views for the
laws of Congress or the precedents of
the Supreme Court. Of course, the flim-
sy suggestion is that these articles are
enough to deny her a seat on the Fed-
eral bench. The left’s attempt to block
this qualified nominee by any means
necessary reminds me of a comment
made by Judge Kavanaugh during his
confirmation hearing.
He noted that many members of the
committee are taking our job of ‘‘ad-
vice and consent’’ to mean ‘‘search and
destroy.’’ We have before us a highly
qualified nominee with an almost un-
paralleled understanding of adminis-
trative law. She has received positive
remarks from the American Bar Asso-
ciation, the so-called gold standard for
nominees. She enjoys high praise from
former colleagues and students who
represent both liberal and conservative
viewpoints.
I hope our colleagues can look objec-
tively at these endorsements and all
she has accomplished during her career
rather than follow the radical voices
down some rabbit trail. I believe Ms.
Rao is exceptionally qualified for a
seat on the DC Circuit Court, and I
thank her for answering the call to
serve despite the divisive political
times in which we live.
S. 47
Mr. President, on a final matter, I
am pleased that the Senate will begin
consideration of the Natural Resources
Management Act. This package con-
tains more than 100 individual land
bills that enjoy broad bipartisan sup-
port, with nearly 90 Senators cospon-
soring various components. I believe
the bill will create positive changes at
the State, Federal, and local levels by
improving public lands management
and allowing for greater public use of
America’s beautiful landscapes.
I have worked with my colleague
Senator CRUZ and members of the
Texas delegation in the House to en-
sure that two bills we introduced last
Congress were included.
First, the Lake Fannin Recreation
Area Conveyance Act would reduce the
Federal estate in Texas and restore
local control of more than 200 acres in
Fannin County. The residents of
Fannin County know better than the
Federal Government how to care for
the land, and this will allow them to
utilize this land for public recreation
purposes.
Also included is the Red River Gra-
dient Boundary Survey Act, which will
protect private property along the Red
River, which separates Texas from
Oklahoma. This will deliver certainty
for Texas families who live and own
land along the Red River that the Fed-
eral Government has no rightful claim
to their property.
I am glad we will have the oppor-
tunity to vote on this package, which
will make responsible changes to Fed-
eral land management and benefit Tex-
ans.
Mr. President, with that, I yield the
floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. ROM-
NEY). The chair recognizes the Senator
from Hawaii.
NOMINATION OF NEOMI RAO
Ms. HIRONO. Mr. President, as a fel-
low member of the Judiciary Com-
mittee, along with my colleague from
Texas who just spoke, it is not our job
as members of this committee to cast
aspersions on the motives of those of
us who ask probing questions of judi-
cial nominees for lifetime positions.
Many of these nominees have very
strongly held and long-held views on a
number of issues that may come before
them as judges, and the probing ques-
tions we ask go to whether they can
separate their ideological and personal
views when they are confronted with
issues they have taken public positions
on and whether they can be fair and ob-
jective and follow the rule of law.
Those are the kinds of probing ques-
tions we ask.
I hope that when my friend from
Texas mentioned that some of us seem
to—that many of us on this side of the
aisle will not vote for any nominee
from this President, I certainly hope he
wasn’t referring to me because I have,
in fact, voted for a number of those
nominees.
S. 47
Mr. President, having clarified that, I
want to talk about the Natural Re-
sources Management Act that is com-
ing before us. This is a great example
of what the Senate can accomplish
when we come together on a bipartisan
basis to get things done.
Although we certainly have disagree-
ments on energy and climate policy, a
broad bipartisan consensus supports
strengthening and expanding conserva-
tion programs like the Land and Water
Conservation Fund—better known as
LWCF—a program whose trans-
formative impact is felt in every State
in the country.
Over the past 50 years, the LWCF has
provided nearly $250 million in funding
for Hawaii to protect some of its most
cherished public spaces, including Ha-
waii Volcanoes National Park, Hanalei
National Wildlife Refuge, and the Ala
Kahakai National Historic Trail.
LWCF funding has also gone toward
protecting State and private forests, as
well as efforts to protect our native
species and watersheds.
I saw the benefits firsthand last April
when I joined Keith Unger and his fam-
ily for a blessing ceremony to mark the
sale of the McCandless Ranch to the
U.S. Fish & Wildlife Service. Financed
through the LWCF, the $22 million pur-
chase significantly expanded the
Hakalau Forest National Wildlife Ref-
uge on Hawaii island.
After a slow, 45-minute ascent up the
slopes of Mauna Loa, I saw a beautiful
property that the McCandless family
had faithfully stewarded over six gen-
erations and 100 years. According to
Keith, the property’s forests ‘‘represent
some of the most intact and pristine
native forests in the state and provide
habitat to many of Hawaii’s unique
flora and fauna.’’
During the time I spent with Keith
and his family, their passion for the
land and the plant and animal species
that call it home was quite evident.
Keith shared his family’s efforts to
conserve and rehabilitate the alala—
the critically endangered Hawaiian
crow. The McCandless Ranch was the
last place the alala was seen in the
wild.
In the late 1990s, the McCandless
Ranch entered into a conservation
partnership with the Fish & Wildlife
Service to protect the alala. When
Keith decided to sell a portion of his
land years ago, he wanted to find what
he called a ‘‘like minded buyer, some-
one who would continue our legacy of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:26 Feb 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00011 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G06FE6.015 S06FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S886 February 6, 2019
conservation and well managed forests.
This was easier said than done. The
majority of our buyer prospects were
loggers or developers.’’ Keith and
McCandless Ranch began talking with
the Fish & Wildlife Service about sell-
ing a portion of their property to add
to the national wildlife refuge.
Through his past experience working
with the Agency, he ‘‘knew that their
conservation philosophy aligned with
ours.’’
The Fish & Wildlife Service began
seeking money to acquire the property
in 2011 and made it their top priority
for acquisition in the Pacific region for
fiscal years 2013 through 2015. Funding
to acquire the McCandless Ranch be-
came possible because of the collabo-
rative work to develop the State of Ha-
waii’s ‘‘Island Forests at Risk’’ pro-
posal. Developed through engagement
with a wide range of stakeholders, ‘‘Is-
land Forests at Risk’’ was a com-
prehensive proposal to protect endan-
gered or threatened species, safeguard
water resources, improve ecosystems,
and preserve Native Hawaiian cultural
resources. This proposal included a
number of land acquisitions to add to
existing national parks and wildlife
refuges in Hawaii, including the
McCandless Ranch addition to
Hakalau.
In addition to Federal land manage-
ment agencies such as the National
Park Service, the Fish & Wildlife Serv-
ice, and the Forest Service, ‘‘Island
Forests at Risk’’ incorporated input
and perspectives from Hawaii’s State
agencies, such as the Department of
Land and Natural Resources, local or-
ganizations, such as The Nature Con-
servancy Hawaii and The Trust for
Public Land, and local landowners,
such as Keith Unger with the McCand-
less Ranch.
Beginning in fiscal year 2016, after
many meetings between myself and the
principals overseeing the LWCF pro-
posals, Hawaii’s land acquisition with-
in ‘‘Island Forests at Risk’’ began to
receive Federal funding. Between fiscal
years 2016 and 2018, nearly $40 million
was awarded to acquire land to add to
Hawaii Volcanoes National Park,
Haleakala National Park, and Hakalau
Forest National Wildlife Refuge.
In addition to facilitating the pur-
chase of land such as the McCandless
Ranch, the LWCF also funds the Fish &
Wildlife Service’s Cooperative Endan-
gered Species Conservation Fund. In
Hawaii, we have over 500 threatened
and endangered species—more than any
other State. One-third of all endan-
gered birds in the United States are
found in Hawaii. LWCF funds are es-
sential for protecting and reintro-
ducing these species, including the
alala.
The LWCF also funds the Forest Leg-
acy Program, which helps States and
private owners protect and enhance
forest habitats. The program has lever-
aged over $22 million of Federal fund-
ing for Hawaii’s forests over the past 50
years.
Most recently, the Forest Legacy
Program helped facilitate the acquisi-
tion of the Helemano Wilderness Area
on Oahu. This land includes high-qual-
ity native forests that are home to the
endangered Hawaiian hoary bat and a
watershed that is a primary source of
drinking water for one-third of the peo-
ple on Oahu.
Program funding will facilitate
invasive species’ removal and reforest-
ation. It will also provide public access
to hunting and camping areas, which
are limited on Oahu. Oahu is the island
on which the majority of the people of
Hawaii live. Eighty percent of the peo-
ple live on Oahu.
Forest protection and conservation
are particularly important as we face
the threat of catastrophic climate
change. Protecting these lands and for-
ests can help mitigate climate change
by absorbing carbon dioxide, cooling
the Earth, and regenerating our water-
sheds.
Aside from helping mitigate climate
change, the LWCF provides numerous
downstream benefits to local econo-
mies. In 2003, for example, the LWCF
funded the $22 million addition of
Kahuku Ranch to Hawaii Volcanoes
National Park—almost doubling the
park’s size.
Hawaii Volcanoes National Park is a
pillar of our tourism economy in Ha-
waii. It contributes nearly half a mil-
lion dollars every day—or $166 million
annually—to the economy and attracts
approximately 2 million visitors per
year. That is just one park—Hawaii
Volcanoes National Park.
Aside from the LWCF, Hawaii Volca-
noes National Park has also benefited
from programs and organizations like
KUPU that educate and inspire youth
to become stewards of our natural re-
sources. KUPU provides hands-on
training for youth in the areas of con-
servation, sustainability, and environ-
mental education. It has also placed
youth workers within various units of
the National Park System in Hawaii to
conduct trail repair, vegetation man-
agement, interpretation, et cetera.
The 21st Century Conservation Serv-
ice Corps bill included in the Natural
Resources Management Act that will
come before us supports programs like
KUPU that seek to nurture the next
generation of environmental stewards.
In testimony before the Energy and
Natural Resources Committee last
Congress, KUPU CEO John Leong
spoke to the transformative impact of
participating in a conservation pro-
gram. He cited two inspiring examples
of Corps members who have gone on to
do meaningful work in the environ-
mental and conservation space. He
shared the story of John Brito from
Molokai, who was awarded the White
House Champion of Change Award in
the years following his participation in
KUPU programming and who has since
chosen a career in conservation. An-
other KUPU Corps participant, Justine
Espiritu, recently helped to launch
Honolulu’s popular and revolutionary
Biki bike share.
More adults in Hawaii and across the
country will have their own trans-
formative experiences if we pass this
legislation.
The Natural Resources Management
Act also includes legislation Senators
MURKOWSKI, CANTWELL, and I passed
last Congress to improve our country’s
capacity to monitor and respond to
volcanic activity across the country.
Last year, the Hawaii Volcano Ob-
servatory, HVO, was instrumental in
studying and responding to the 3-
month-long eruption of Kilaeua on the
Big Island. The eruption devastated a
number of communities, destroying
more than 700 homes and displacing
thousands of people, including United
States Geological Survey staff and sci-
entists who operated out of the HVO
facility in Hawaii Volcanoes National
Park.
Over the coming months and years,
impacted homes, farms, and even the
observatory will need to be rebuilt.
At the same time, it will be critically
important to have the most updated
monitoring and communications tech-
nology to alert and protect impacted
communities from future events.
Our legislation will unify and con-
nect the Hawaiian Volcano Observ-
atory with the other four observatories
across the country into one national
volcano early warning system.
It will also create a volcano watch of-
fice that will operate 24 hours a day, 7
days a week, to provide continuous sit-
uational awareness of all active vol-
canos in the United States and its ter-
ritories, including Kilauea and Mauna
Loa volcanoes on Hawaii island.
Our legislation will also create a
grant program for the research and de-
velopment of emerging technologies for
our volcano monitoring.
During yesterday’s cloture vote, the
Natural Resources Management Act
earned the support of 99 out of 100 Sen-
ators. I don’t know what happened to
that lone Senator, but we need to bring
that person in. I am eager to vote on
its final passage as soon as possible.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Wyoming.
FAIRNESS FOR EVERY DRIVER ACT
Mr. BARRASSO. Mr. President,
today U.S. taxpayers are subsidizing
the electric car industry. The cost to
these taxpayers is billions of dollars,
and the subsidies have lasted now for
nearly 30 years.
In 2008, Washington added a tax cred-
it for purchases of electric vehicles.
The market was very small at that
time, and it was worth encouraging
that market, but today the electric
market for vehicles is well established.
The auto industry no longer needs
these pricey subsidies for electric vehi-
cles, and I believe it is time to pull the
plug on subsidies for electric vehicles.
Leading manufacturers, including
General Motors, Ford, and Volkswagen,
have announced plans to massively in-
crease investment in the electric vehi-
cle market. Global automakers are
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:26 Feb 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00012 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G06FE6.017 S06FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S887
February 6, 2019
promoting electric car luxury brands,
such as Bentley, Aston Martin,
Maserati, Porsche, and Cadillac, but
with these new electric vehicles com-
ing to the market, the subsidy program
is going to continue to run at an enor-
mous cost to American taxpayers.
Congress first passed legislation to
provide subsidies for electric car buy-
ers back in 1992. The purpose was to
temporarily support a promising, envi-
ronmentally friendly market. For dec-
ades now, Washington expanded this
program of tax credits. At the same
time, many States enacted similar sub-
sidies.
Between 2011 and 2017, electric car
buyers received more than $4 billion in
Federal credits alone, costing tax-
payers up to $7,500 for each vehicle.
This program disproportionately sub-
sidizes wealthy buyers because nearly
80 percent of the tax credits go to
households earning at least $100,000 a
year. Well, these car buyers don’t need
a taxpayer subsidy.
The program has served its purpose,
and I say that because today a million
electric vehicles travel our highways.
The global demand for electric vehicles
is rising as well. Now nearly every
automaker is entering the market. In
fact, the U.S. Energy Information Ad-
ministration projects that sales of
light-duty electric vehicles will reach 4
million vehicles by 2025.
So here is exhibit A. This past week-
end was Super Bowl weekend. They had
so many commercials, and it cost
about $5 million to run an ad during
the Super Bowl. Well, the automaker
Audi ran a commercial saying that by
2025 one-third of their cars—one out of
every three cars—will be an electric ve-
hicle. So I use that as exhibit A to say
this market is firmly established. As a
matter of fact, this market is posi-
tioned for expansion—which means so
will the cost of subsidies. I believe it is
time to take taxpayers off the hook.
I have introduced legislation, the
Fairness for Every Driver Act, and it is
to end the electric vehicle subsidy pro-
gram. My legislation has three key
goals; first is to the save taxpayers bil-
lions of dollars through the subsidy
program; second is to help maintain
our aging roads and bridges; and the
third is to reduce wasteful Washington
spending. According to the Manhattan
Institute, ending this subsidy will save
taxpayers an estimated $20 billion dol-
lars—$20 billion.
The electric car market can thrive
without Washington subsidies. We see
it is thriving. It is growing. Nearly
every State now provides its own sub-
sidies and added incentives.
California even mandates the per-
centage of cars that must be zero emis-
sion. This category is almost exclu-
sively electric vehicles. In 2017, Califor-
nians purchased 95,000 electric vehicles.
Now, residents in my home State of
Wyoming, where distances are long and
recharging stations are few, purchased
only 51. Hard-working Wyoming tax-
payers shouldn’t have to subsidize
wealthy California luxury car buyers.
Ending the electric car subsidies isn’t
just about saving taxpayers dollars, it
is about our shared responsibility to
maintain our highway system. The
highway trust fund is depleted. The
highway trust fund pays for road and
bridge projects. Its main source of
funding is the Federal gas tax.
Drivers of gas- and diesel-powered ve-
hicles pay this tax every time they pull
up and fill up at the pump. Electric car
drivers never pay these fees. Although
a Tesla puts as much strain on the
highways as a Ford Focus, the Tesla
driver pays next to nothing to fix the
roads.
Without congressional action, the
highway trust fund will be exhausted
by 2021. This legislation ensures all
drivers pay their fair share to improve
America’s roads. It establishes an an-
nual highway user fee for these alter-
native fuel vehicles. Comparable to the
gas tax, this user fee will result in bil-
lions of dollars over the next decade to
fund needed road projects.
All drivers use the roads. All drivers
should contribute to maintaining
them. Electric cars are here to stay.
The market is poised for growth, with
or without the subsidies. Congress
should pull the plug on this program. It
is time to end this subsidy. It is time
to stop wasting taxpayer dollars, and it
is time to level the playing field for all
drivers when it comes to repairing our
roads and bridges.
It is time to pass the Fairness for
Every Driver Act.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Delaware.
Mr. CARPER. Mr. President, I am de-
lighted to follow on the floor the chair-
man of the Environment and Public
Works Committee, who is now has-
tening for the exit before I can say nice
things about him. I want to say he rep-
resents Wyoming. We have a place
called Wyoming in Delaware just south
of Dover—Camden Wyoming—and I go
there every week, just as he goes home
to Wyoming every week.
His colleague from Wyoming is MIKE
ENZI, whom our new Presiding Officer,
a former Governor, is well familiar
with. MIKE ENZI had something called
the 80–20 rule, and the 80–20 rule goes
something like this. I used to ask him:
How do you get so much done with Ted
Kennedy on the HELP Committee, that
you now serve on, Mr. President, and
he said: Ted and I agree on 80 percent
of the stuff. We disagree on 20 percent
of the stuff. He said: Ted and I focus on
the 80 percent where we agree and we
set aside the other 20 percent to an-
other day.
So I want to just talk about the 80
percent Chairman BARRASSO and I
agree on and then maybe the 20 percent
we can agree to disagree until another
day. I appreciate your staying here,
but you don’t have to. I know you have
better things to do than to listen to
me.
Something that is being lost in this
conversation is, at least to this point
in time, there is a reason we have a
policy that encourages people to buy
electric-powered vehicles. There is a
reason we have a tax policy and other
policies to encourage people to buy
fuel-celled powered vehicles that are
fueled by hydrogen. The reason why is
because we have way too much carbon
dioxide in the air, and it is creating
great challenges for these young pages
who are sitting down here at your feet,
Mr. President. They have a planet to
worry about. I will be around for
maybe 30 years or more, but I will not
be here in the Senate, I assure you, for
30 years or more. They are going to be
around here for, gosh, 70, 80, 90 years or
more, and they have to worry about
this planet, and we have to worry
about this planet for them and for our
own kids and, eventually, hopefully,
for my wife and me, our grandchildren.
We want to make sure they have a
planet to live on and to grow up on,
and we have way too much carbon, and
if we are not careful, it is going to con-
tinue to get worse rather than better.
Here recently, just in the last several
months, we have had 13 Federal Agen-
cies that have come together to say the
situation is even more dire with re-
spect to the threat of climate change,
global warming, severe weather than
we thought. A month or so before that,
an arm, if you will, of the United Na-
tions had a similar kind of report, and
the forecast was equally daunting and
really frightening.
So the reason we are trying to en-
courage people to buy electric-powered
vehicles and to buy hydrogen-powered
vehicles is to reduce carbon in the air.
Why do we care about cars, trucks,
vans, and their emissions? The largest
source of carbon emissions in this
country today is not coal-fired utility
plants. It is not cement plants. It is not
our buildings. It is our vehicles, our
mobile sources, and so that is why we
focus on these issues.
The question of whether we need tax
incentives forever, permanently, for
electric vehicles, I think you can argue
we probably don’t. The battery tech-
nology in this country and this world is
getting better and better.
I just want to say to the Presiding
Officer who was from Massachusetts
and was the Governor there for a num-
ber of years, there is a company
there—and I think they are still in the
Cambridge area—A123 battery, and
they are one of the earlier pioneers in
battery technology for vehicles and
others.
My son actually was offered an in-
ternship there when he was at MIT one
summer. So we have been interested in
this industry for quite some time.
I go to the Detroit Auto Show just
about every year. People ask: Why do
you go to the Detroit Auto Show? Up
until about 6, 7, 8 years ago, Delaware
built more cars, trucks, and vans per
capita than any State in the Nation.
Think about that. More cars, trucks,
and vans per capita than any State in
the Nation.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:26 Feb 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00013 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G06FE6.018 S06FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S888 February 6, 2019
We had a Chrysler plant at one
time—4,000 employees in Newark, DE,
near the University of Delaware. We
had a GM plant—4,000 employees at one
time,—very close to Wilmington, DE.
We lost them both, like that, at the
bottom of the great recession when
Chrysler and GM went into bank-
ruptcy, which was a huge blow to the
economy of a small State, as you can
imagine.
The reason I used to go to the auto
show all the time in Detroit was so I
would know whoever was running GM,
I would know who was running Chrys-
ler, so that if they ever thought about
closing our plants, we would have
somebody to call and to go see and say:
You don’t want to do that. We lost
them both at the bottom of the great
recession.
The reason I tell that story is to ex-
plain why I have an interest in the De-
troit Auto Show. Eleven years ago at
the Detroit Auto Show, at the begin-
ning of the auto show on Monday—it is
about a 5-day event—they have what
they call the reveals, and they show all
the new cars and the concept cars and
everything, all the new technology.
Eleven years ago, the car of the year
was a Chevrolet Volt, V-o-l-t. The
Chevrolet Volt is a classic hybrid. You
get about 38 miles per gallon on a
charge, and then it ran on gasoline for
the rest of maybe 300 miles. That was
the car of the year, and they sold a
number of them but not huge num-
bers—not huge numbers.
Ten years later, about a year ago, the
car of the year was the Chevrolet Bolt,
B-o-l-t. The Chevrolet Bolt is a classic
electric vehicle, and it gets about 140
miles—or it did at the time when it
was debuted—about 140 miles on a
charge, and now more than that, I
think.
When I was at the Detroit Auto Show
last month, we saw electric-powered
vehicles from American car companies,
Korean car companies, Chinese compa-
nies that get up to 250 miles per
charge—250 miles per charge. That is
encouraging. What it is going to do is
encourage a lot of people who hadn’t
even thought about buying them to do
that.
One of the reasons folks are still re-
luctant to buy them is because when
you drive around the country and you
have your electric vehicle or a hydro-
gen-powered vehicle for a fuel cell,
when you are driving around, you need
a place to refuel and to recharge, and
you can’t take the time—well, I have 6
hours to recharge my battery. People
don’t want to do that. They might be
willing to spend 30 minutes to do that
and grab something to eat, but they
want to be able to recharge their bat-
teries conveniently. They may want to
refuel with hydrogen conveniently, but
we don’t have nearly enough places
around the country. We are trying to
create new corridors, densely populated
corridors, places to recharge batteries
and to refuel hydrogen tanks, but we
have a lot of work left to do.
So you put that in sort of the mix. I
think not just as Americans but as in-
habitants of this planet we want to re-
duce carbon emissions from the largest
source of carbon emissions on our plan-
et—mobile sources.
Among the incentives for that right
now—I am looking for a new car.
In my minivan, my Chrysler Town &
Country, which I bought the year I
stepped down as Governor, I just went
over 498,000 miles this week. I promised
my wife that I would buy a new vehicle
when this one went over one-half mil-
lion miles. I want it to be an electric
vehicle, and I want it to have a great
distance between charges. I want to
make sure we have a lot of charging
stations around, not just in Delaware
but all over the country, so I can refuel
that baby when I save enough money to
buy it.
We have this tax credit in place for
the first people who buy these cars, and
then, basically, we need to make sure
we have an investment tax credit
around for a good while, and maybe
phase it out over time, in order to en-
courage people and businesses and so
forth—like Wawa, for example, and
other gasoline stations—so they will be
putting in their own money to put in
those hydrogen fueling stations and
the electric charging stations.
Why is this important? Here is why it
is important. We used to measure our
rainfall in the country by the inch; we
now measure it by the foot. I was
speaking with a farmer earlier today,
and he told me that last year in Dela-
ware we had twice as much rain as we
normally have. They planted their
crops in the spring. We raise a lot of
soybeans and corn in Delaware. They
planted a good crop in spring, and it
was washed out. They came back after
it dried out and planted a second crop
again, and a couple weeks later, it got
washed out from the rain, and again
the third time. Finally, they just kind
of gave up. They gave up, and that is
not a good thing.
We had wildfires out in the great
Northwest—Northern California, Or-
egon, Washington, Montana—this last
year that were bigger than my State of
Delaware.
Right here in Ellicott City, in Mary-
land, where they have—have you heard
of the term ‘‘100-year flood’’? A 100-
year flood is something that occurs
about every 100 years. A 500-year flood
is something you would expect to occur
every 500 years. In Ellicott City, MD,
in the last year or so, they had two
1,000-year floods. Think about that.
These are floods that are supposed to
occur every 1,000 years. They had two
of them in 18 months. That is not good.
It is not just Ellicott City; it happens
in other places as well. We have had
more category 5 hurricanes than we
have ever seen. I think the last 4 years
have been the hottest 4 years on our
planet. We know that climate change is
happening, and this is real. We see the
vestiges every day, and we need to do
something about it and continue to do
more about it going forward.
The good thing about it is, we can do
more about it and create economic op-
portunity. We can reduce bad emissions
from cars, trucks, and vans and create
economic opportunities.
The auto industry in this country has
basically let it be known that they
would like to see the regulation put in
place by the Obama administration
about 3 years or so ago on fuel effi-
ciency standards for cars, trucks, and
vans. The auto industry says: You
know, we would like to have some
flexibility on those standards so that
the monitor requirement gets more
stringent going forward under the
Obama regulation. Other companies
have said they would like to have
greater flexibility in the near term,
maybe 2021 to 2025, and the Obama reg-
ulation was silent after the year 2025.
They said: We would be willing to han-
dle greater, more rigorous standards
going forward after 2025, but give us
flexibility in the near term.
I think that is not a bad idea. They
say that if we will do that, they can
avoid a lawsuit with California and 12
other States that want to make sure
California and other States have the
ability to set their own fuel efficiency
mileage requirements.
The auto industry doesn’t want to be
involved in litigation with California
or anybody else in the next 5 years.
They ought to have certainty about
the fuel efficiency standards their cars,
trucks, and vans are going to have to
meet in the years to come. The reason
is that they need to make huge invest-
ments, and they need a long lead time
for these investments. They are com-
peting in an international marketplace
against the rest of the world. The rest
of the world is going to be willing to
produce very efficient electric-powered
and hydrogen-fueled cars, and they
want to be able to compete with them.
So here is a situation where we can
do good things for our planet—clean
our air with respect to climate
change—and we can do good things for
the auto companies.
(Mr. SCOTT of Florida assumed the
Chair.)
I see our new Presiding Officer, who
just slipped into his seat. He used to be
a Governor, and he used to do a lot of
customer calls in Florida. I have done
a lot of customer calls in Delaware,
asking my businesses three questions:
How are you doing? How are we doing?
What can we do to help?
When I ask the auto manufacturers
what we can do to help, they say: Don’t
get rid of the electric vehicle credit.
The idea of phasing it out over time
might be OK—not overnight but over
time.
The other thing is to make sure we
put in place investment tax credits for
fueling stations for hydrogen and
charging stations for electricity.
The current administration does not
take the threat of climate change and
severe weather as seriously as the rest
of us. In my State we see it every day.
Delaware—which, you know, may be 70,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:26 Feb 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00014 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G06FE6.019 S06FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S889
February 6, 2019
80 miles to our east—is the second
smallest State. I like to say it is the
49th largest State in America. But we
are sinking, and the seas around us are
rising. If you go down the east coast as
far as Florida, you will find that in
Florida, especially southern Florida,
they have similar kinds of problems
and concerns. This is real.
What should we do about it? Well,
the current administration should not
lead a fight, in my judgment, to get rid
of the current regulations that I de-
scribed earlier and put in its place a
regulation that basically says there
will be little to no increase in fuel effi-
ciency standards as we go forward. I
just don’t think that is smart, and, in
the auto industry, that is not what
they are asking for. They are asking
for near-term flexibility, longer term
certainty, and more rigorous stand-
ards. They think that would be good
for their bottom line, and they could
sell more vehicles.
We had a committee hearing yester-
day—actually a markup and business
meeting in the Environment and Pub-
lic Works Committee for the nomina-
tion of Andrew Wheeler to be the Ad-
ministrator of the EPA. We haven’t
had a Senate-confirmed Administrator
for just over—about 1 year, maybe a
little more than 1 year.
Scott Pruitt was the first EPA Ad-
ministrator for this administration—
not a friend to the environment and
someone who turned out, I think, to be
ethically corrupt. He is gone, and An-
drew Wheeler is the Acting Adminis-
trator; he was the assistant adminis-
trator. He has been nominated by the
President to be the Administrator for
the EPA.
I didn’t realize this a couple months
ago, but when somebody is in a posi-
tion like this, when they are the assist-
ant administrator—in this case the
EPA—and the person who leaves as the
Administrator leaves a vacancy, the
President can appoint the assistant ad-
ministrator as the Acting Adminis-
trator. It is kind of like a promotion
but in an acting form. That is good for
210 days. Sometimes you may have a
situation in which someone is not the
assistant administrator of the EPA or
an Agency but is just plucked out of
the air by the President and plopped in
as the Acting Administrator. That per-
son doesn’t have 210 days—a period in
which they can stay there and do the
job as Acting Administrator. Andrew
Wheeler does. For all intents and pur-
poses he will be the Administrator in
an acting capacity for 210 days.
So we are saying to the administra-
tion, to our colleagues on the Environ-
ment and Public Works Committee,
there is no real need to rush through
the nomination until we resolve our
differences in a couple of areas, and one
of those areas deals with emissions
from mobile sources, the greatest
source of carbon in our air.
Another issue we have a lot of inter-
est in—the automobile industry does;
so does the utility industry; so does the
Chamber of Commerce—is a regulation
from the last administration that was
actually promulgated in 2012. It is
called MATS, mercury and air toxics
standards. The mercury and toxics
standards regulation, basically put in
place in 2012, says to the utility indus-
try: You have to reduce your emissions
of mercury by 2050.
Why do we care about mercury emis-
sions? Because if you are a pregnant
woman and you ingest fish with large
amounts of mercury, you may do seri-
ous damage to your unborn child. It
can also do serious damage to the life
of the woman, but the real concern is
brain damage for unborn children be-
cause of high levels of ingestion of
mercury by pregnant women of child-
bearing age.
We are not talking about something
that affects 100 or 1,000 women a year.
We are not talking about tens of thou-
sands but literally hundreds of thou-
sands of people who are at risk. So we
have in place a MATS mercury and air
toxics rule. It was adopted in 2012. The
utility companies initially said: Well,
we don’t like that. We don’t want to do
that.
Guess what. They did—and at one-
third of the cost they expected. It was
implemented more quickly than they
expected, and the health benefits are
greater than they expected.
Now the utility industry, including
the rural electric co-ops, including
their trade association for utilities,
chamber of commerce, National Asso-
ciation of Manufacturers, a whole host
of environmental groups and clean air
groups—everybody said: Well, we know
this MATS rule, the mercury and air
toxics rule we are familiar with, and
we are complying with it. It is OK.
Leave it alone.
The current administration wants to
take some steps that would really un-
dermine the ability to uphold that 2012
regulation in a court of law. They are
saying they are not doing that, but ac-
tually that is the effect of what they
are trying to do.
In order to move expeditiously on the
nomination of Andrew Wheeler to be
the Administrator of EPA, we want to
make clear that the mercury and air
toxics standards rule does not go away.
We are going to comply with what the
industry has asked us to do.
The third front I will mention is
HFCs—we are really good with acro-
nyms—hydrofluorocarbons. We have re-
frigerants, and we all have air condi-
tioning in our cars and homes—most of
us. We used to use perfluorocarbons in
the cooling systems, in our refrigerator
systems. They have created real prob-
lems for the environment and the at-
mosphere.
The follow-on product was called
HFCs, hydrofluorocarbons. We found
this was better for the atmosphere,
better for the environment—but not
great—and American companies, Amer-
ican technologies have come up with
another product to replace HFC. That
form of technology is American-owned,
and American technology creates
American jobs.
We need to adopt and pass a treaty in
this country called the Kigali treaty,
which makes it clear that the current
HFCs, which are coolants for refrig-
erants, are still a problem, but they
can be phased out, and this new tech-
nology by American companies can be
phased in to take its place. This in-
volves job creation in this country. We
are not talking about a couple of hun-
dred jobs; we are talking about thou-
sands of jobs—good-paying jobs in this
country, bringing economic value to
American companies—not measured in
millions of dollars but billions of dol-
lars every year. It is there for us.
This is a situation in which Amer-
ican technology can do good things for
our environment, for our atmosphere,
for our air, and at the same time create
jobs, American jobs using American
technology.
I might mention one more, some-
thing called—and I just want to say
that the EPA is standing in the way of
the administration’s submitting for
our approval in the Senate this treaty
called the Kigali treaty. Apparently,
the State Department wants to submit
the treaty for our consideration. The
Commerce Department wants to sub-
mit the treaty for our administration,
and the EPA is standing in the way. I
don’t really understand why, but before
we move expeditiously on the nomina-
tion of Mr. Wheeler, the administration
should say: OK, we are not messing
with the treaty.
Most of the administration thinks
they ought to submit it, and, frankly,
so do the rest of us. It is one of those
deals, again, that is good for environ-
ment, good for public health, creates
jobs—win-win.
The last one I want to mention is
PFOA. I wish I can tell you what it
stands for, but it is a long name. One of
the things we found out is that in
places where we have military bases—
where we have firefighting equipment
for planes, air crashes and so forth, and
we use that type of firefighting equip-
ment—sometimes the water runs off
the tarmac, off the runways and the
parking areas, and it gets into ground-
water and creates problems with our
drinking water. These are substances
that are known carcinogens, and we
have seen in places around the coun-
try—including places like West Vir-
ginia, where I was born, and North
Carolina, where my wife is from—this
is a real problem. We are not saying—
nobody is saying, at least to my knowl-
edge—that it ought to be completely
banned. This family of elements, the
PFAS and PFOA—we are not asking
for a ban; we just want a clean water
drinking standard established by the
EPA. That is what we want in 2 years—
not today, not tomorrow, but in 2
years, creating clean water so that peo-
ple can be protected.
Those are four things we are asking
for the administration to take action
on and to make clear. To the extent it
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:26 Feb 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00015 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G06FE6.021 S06FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S890 February 6, 2019
does, we are then prepared to move for-
ward on the nomination, right here, for
Andrew Wheeler. My guess is, he will
get confirmed, but I think it is impor-
tant for us to address those particular
issues.
At the end of the day, we will im-
prove the quality of life for the people
in our country. At the same time, we
will create jobs. That is a great com-
bination. It is a real win-win. We can
seize the day and win on behalf of our
young people and our not so young peo-
ple. At the same time, we can create a
lot of jobs and enhance economic activ-
ity. We ought to do that. If we do, the
EPA will end up with an Adminis-
trator—one who will be a lot better
than the last one. Let’s do that.
I thank the Presiding Officer.
I yield to my friend, the chairman of
the Finance Committee, Senator
GRASSLEY.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Iowa is recognized.
REMEMBERING ERNIE FITZGERALD
Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President, I pay
tribute to an extraordinary American.
I stand here today to pay my respects
to a World War II veteran who dedi-
cated his life to public service.
After serving his country in uniform
in the Navy, this gentleman from Ala-
bama served the American people as a
civil servant. For more than four dec-
ades, he was a tenacious watchdog who
chased down fraud, waste, and abuse at
the Pentagon. A hero for taxpayers and
a war hero against waste, Ernie Fitz-
gerald recently passed away at the age
of 92. I, today, sing the unsung praises
of this remarkable champion of whis-
tleblowers.
He was a fiercely independent watch-
dog. He was one of the rarest of breeds.
He brought an uncommon devotion to
his work. He prevailed against the
muzzles of many of his handlers whom
he called ‘‘over-dogs.’’ They used to try
and silence him. He prevailed over
those muzzles—it didn’t work—because
when Ernie sniffed wrongdoing, he
would sink his teeth in and never let
go. He was a bulldog. His superiors
squirreled him away in a farflung cub-
byhole at the Pentagon. Basically,
they exiled him to the Pentagon’s
attic. The big dogs at the Pentagon
didn’t want this watchdog’s work see-
ing the light of day.
As Americans, we are blessed to have
constitutional protections for freedom
of speech and freedom of the press.
These beacons of liberty worked to
Ernie’s advantage. Our system of
checks and balances also helped to
make sure wrongdoing was never swept
under the rug.
Throughout my public service, I have
paid close attention when I have gotten
a whiff of wrongdoing. I have learned
that a pervasive stench is often not far
behind. As a lifelong Iowa farmer, I
know what a load of manure really
smells like. So when I ran into a bit of
institutional gridlock in my efforts to
freeze the defense budget back in the
early eighties, I wanted to talk to a
pair of analysts at the Pentagon. Their
efforts exposed the Federal money hose
that showered unbridled tax dollars
over bloated defense contracts.
Ernie Fitzgerald and a fellow named
Chuck Spinney aren’t household
names, of course, but their crusade to
fix the fiscal mess at the Department
of Defense has inspired this Senator to
conduct robust oversight over the last
four decades. Ernie’s body of work has
helped me to derail the Pentagon’s
gravy train.
Do you remember back three decades
ago—and there are probably examples
today—when there were $450 hammers,
$640 toilet seats, and $7,600 coffee pots?
Those were real items, and those were
real figures. Those pricetags for spare
parts gave taxpayers sticker shock and
ought to have for good reason. Ameri-
cans know the price of everyday house-
hold items. They sure know what a
hammer or a toilet seat costs at their
local hardware stores.
As Ernie Fitzgerald explained, Amer-
icans aren’t expected to know what a
B–1 bomber or an F–15 fighter should
cost, but when you add all of that up,
you get a boondoggle of ‘‘overpriced
spare parts flying in close formation.’’
Those were Ernie’s words. Ernie’s fiscal
forensics uncovered mountains of mis-
matched receipts and invoice gaps that
left taxpayers footing the tab for ramp-
ant waste and unchecked spending
sprees. Ernie Fitzgerald was a sleuth
for truth. His quest gave Pentagon offi-
cials heartburn. His work gave me the
leverage I needed in Congress to enact
an across-the-board spending freeze,
but I am getting a bit ahead of Ernie’s
story.
For the record, Arthur Ernest Fitz-
gerald was a patriot, a whistleblower,
and a watchdog. He had a heart of gold,
but it was as tough as nails. He out-
maneuvered top military brass by get-
ting down to brass tacks. He was a gen-
tleman’s gentleman who had a big
southern drawl and a bone-deep genetic
allegiance to the truth. In fact, his al-
legiance to the truth was a big bone of
contention between him and those on
the highest rungs of power of the U.S.
Government—from the President of the
United States to the most highly deco-
rated brass in the U.S. military. Ernie
had uncommon courage to stand up for
the truth at great expense to his ca-
reer. He put integrity and pride above
saving his own hide. He spoke truth to
the powers that be, and he lost his job
for doing it.
As I mentioned, our acquaintance
started during my first term in the
Senate. I was awfully wet behind the
ears. I was a dyed-in-the-wool fiscal
conservative. At the same time, I was
cutting my teeth as a congressional
watchdog. Ernie Fitzgerald, at that
time, was on a short leash at the Pen-
tagon in his having been rehired—can
you believe this?—under court order
after having been fired for having
blown the whistle on fiscal mismanage-
ment at the Pentagon. That is how
whistleblowers were treated then, and
they are treated the same way today.
I remind my colleagues and the
American people where Ernie’s earnest-
ness for truth landed him. The 37th
President of the United States referred
to Ernie Fitzgerald in those infamous
Watergate tapes. You know who that
was—Nixon. In Ernie Fitzgerald’s
quoting of Nixon, Nixon said: ‘‘Get rid
of that SOB.’’ Those marching orders
were delivered after Ernie spilled the
beans at a Joint Economic Committee
hearing on November 13, 1968. He testi-
fied before Senator Proxmire’s panel
that taxpayers were on the hook for a
$2 billion cost overrun on the C–5 air-
craft. For this transgression of truth-
telling, he was fired by the Air Force.
Let me be clear. Ernie Fitzgerald lost
his job for committing the truth, and
that reveals the big-time risk whistle-
blowers face even today if they step
forward to expose wrongdoing.
Thanks to Ernie’s characteristic re-
silience, sheer determination, and our
system of checks and balances, Ernie
got his job back. He filed a lawsuit that
made its way through the courts. It
took a dozen years for him to get his
job back. On June 15, 1982, Ernie re-
turned to work at the Pentagon but in
the attic of the Pentagon. That was 14
years after he testified about the C–5
and its $2 billion cost overrun. Al-
though Ernie held a very senior posi-
tion in the Air Force—with the job
title of Management Systems Deputy—
at the Pentagon, he was kept at arm’s
length. His job description was spelled
out in a court order, but he was never
allowed to do that job that the court
said he ought to have had.
That is how whistleblowers are treat-
ed. You ignore them. You put them in
the attic. They go nuts. He was treated
as an outcast, as I am sure I am dem-
onstrating to you. He was snubbed by
his superiors and was left to his own
devices to make a difference.
Once again, the genius of our system
of checks and balances came into play.
Ernie was not snubbed by this U.S.
Senator. In fact, we discovered we
shared a bone-deep genetic aversion to
waste. Like many Midwesterners, I
don’t like to waste time or money.
That is why, as a U.S. Senator, I try to
keep a tight-fisted grip on the Federal
purse strings. It is why, as a taxpayer
watchdog, I take oversight work very
seriously. Every Member of Congress
has a constitutional duty to conduct
oversight—every Member of Congress.
We need the eyes and ears of whistle-
blowers to root out the truth. That is
why I want to hear what whistle-
blowers have to say.
As a new Senator in a Republican ad-
ministration, the Reagan administra-
tion, I previously mentioned my pro-
posal to enact a yearly across-the-
board budget freeze. An across-the-
board spending freeze guarantees
shared sacrifice. I wanted to make sure
it could be done without harming na-
tional security, so I needed answers
from people who could tell the truth. I
called on the Secretary of Defense at
that time, Weinberger, and asked if I
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:26 Feb 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00016 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G06FE6.022 S06FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S891
February 6, 2019
could talk to a Pentagon budget ana-
lyst named Chuck Spinney. I was told,
yes, he could come to my office.
It turns out the Pentagon didn’t
want Chuck Spinney, a civil servant,
briefing me. At that time, I had an or-
ange Chevette, so I jumped in it and
drove from the Capitol over to the Pen-
tagon. Even then, Chuck Spinney was
not allowed to see me. As I watched the
Pentagon disappear in my rearview
mirror, I thought the Pentagon was
making a mistake, though I didn’t re-
alize the publicity blunder it would
turn out to be. What I did know was
that one way or another, this Senator
was going to talk to that civil servant,
Mr. Spinney, whom the Pentagon
didn’t want me to talk to.
Six weeks later, Chuck Spinney testi-
fied before a standing-room-only joint
hearing of the Senate’s Budget and
Armed Services Committees. It was
held in the ornate Russell caucus room.
Chuck Spinney exposed the mis-
managed fiscal mess at the Department
of Defense. The Pentagon was front-
loading the budget, effectively stuffing
10 pounds of manure into a 5-pound
sack. The following Monday, Chuck
Spinney’s photo was on the cover of
TIME magazine.
The next time I wanted more answers
about ongoing fiscal mismanagement
at the Defense Department, I took a
second road trip, in my orange Chev-
ette, to the Pentagon. This time, I
wanted Mr. Ernie Fitzgerald to testify
before my subcommittee. Needless to
say, the Pentagon didn’t roll out the
red carpet for me, but there were about
50 members of the press crammed into
Ernie’s attic cubbyhole to witness this
U.S. Senator handing Ernie Fitzgerald
a subpoena.
Courageous truthtellers can make all
the difference, and Ernie was such a
courageous truthteller. Ernie’s evi-
dence showed that contracting waste
was bloating defense budgets and not
beefing up military readiness. Instead,
they were padding contractor profits at
taxpayers’ expense.
Ernie Fitzgerald’s pursuit for truth is
one of the primary reasons I also
worked to strengthen whistleblower
protections. What I like to call com-
mitting the truth often comes with a
steep price.
Whistleblowers, like Ernie Fitz-
gerald, put their jobs, their livelihoods,
and their reputations on the line. The
pressure in this bureaucracy and in
this government to ‘‘go along to get
along’’ is entrenched in a culture in
both the public and private sectors,
but, of course, it is a way of life in the
Pentagon.
In the late 1990s, I borrowed Ernie for
a couple of years to work in my Senate
office. He was assigned as an Air Force
representative and expert who worked
side by side with my staff. Together,
we investigated vendor payments and
bookkeeping, particularly in the De-
fense Finance and Accounting Services.
This was in their accounts payable op-
erations. It was tedious and time-con-
suming work, but Ernie Fitzgerald’s
unwavering work ethic was up to that
task to restore the public trust.
Ernie Fitzgerald never minced words.
He attributed lax procurement rules
and, of course, cronyism as the reasons
the taxpayers were being fleeced, and
he was bound and determined to stop
these shenanigans. As Ernie once said,
‘‘government officials, from the majes-
tic office of the president to the lowest,
sleaziest procurement office, lie rou-
tinely and with impunity in the de-
fense of the system.’’
In 1998, Ernie testified at a congres-
sional hearing I conducted to examine
two audits freshly prepared by what
was then called the General Account-
ing Office. The hearing was called ‘‘Li-
cense to Steal: Administrative Over-
sight of Financial Controls at the De-
partment of Defense.’’
The audits revealed nonexistent in-
ternal financial controls. Basically, the
Defense Department’s bookkeeping
system was on auto pilot. It allowed
for a freewheeling spending spree. The
absence of basic financial controls fos-
tered fraud, outright theft, and mis-
management of tax dollars. It was a
story of rinse and repeat. Costly ac-
counting errors were masked by a fun-
damentally flawed payment system
that can’t be audited, even today.
Working from within this bureau-
cratic behemoth, Ernie Fitzgerald de-
voted his life to exposing the abuse of
power within the military-industrial
complex. Outsized, but not out-
matched, Ernie Fitzgerald evokes the
image of David versus Goliath. At the
height of the Cold War, he helped to
freeze a galactic defense buildup and
shielded taxpayers from massive, unac-
countable expenditures.
America owes a debt of gratitude to
this now-deceased Ernie Fitzgerald and
to the brave work of whistleblowers
who will follow in Ernie Fitzgerald’s
legendary footsteps. These courageous
truthtellers risk everything to shed
light on wrongdoing.
Ever since I met Ernie Fitzgerald and
came to know the bureaucratic
stonewalling that he fought against, I
have worked to empower and protect
whistleblowers. Transparency brings
accountability.
Since passage of the bipartisan
Grassley-Berman updates to the False
Claims Act way back in 1986, the Abra-
ham Lincoln-era antifraud tool is cred-
ited with recovering nearly $60 billion
back into the Federal Treasury, and
they are still counting, at an average
of about $3 to $4 billion a year. The De-
partment of Justice has called it the
government’s single, most effective
antifraud weapon that it has in its ar-
senal. I am told my amendments effec-
tively deter hundreds of billions of dol-
lars of fraudulent activity.
As long as I am in this Senate, I will
continue to work to keep the False
Claims Act razor sharp and to
strengthen whistleblower protections. I
will always remember the good work of
Ernie Fitzgerald and lots of others like
him who kept their nose to the grind-
stone to do simply what is right.
Ernie Fitzgerald’s long march for the
truth teaches us that it requires con-
stant vigilance to weed out a deep-
rooted culture of cronyism, from the
military-industrial complex to Big
Pharma and elsewhere.
As cofounder of the Senate Whistle-
blower Protection Caucus, I will work
to see that the mission of truthtellers
is protected for generations to come. I
will continue to work to strengthen
sunshine laws, whistleblower protec-
tions, and enforcement of the Inspec-
tors General Act.
The inspector general of the Justice
Department called whistleblowers the
‘‘lifeblood’’ of his organization’s work.
I completely agree.
I will long remember the genteel
southern drawl and the charm of my
friend Ernie Fitzgerald. I am glad I was
able to visit him in person at the Sun-
rise Nursing Home in Falls Church,
VA. He leaves behind a legacy of truth
that ought to encourage every Amer-
ican to stand up for what is right and
what is just.
Like many whistleblowers, Ernie
Fitzgerald took the road less traveled.
In the words of Robert Frost, ‘‘that has
made all the difference.’’
In closing, Barbara and I extend our
condolences to Ernie’s peers, friends,
and family members. I bid this faithful
public servant a fond farewell with a
Scripture message that he shared with
me from time to time. He understood
that when the going got tough, the
tough got going. To my departed broth-
er in Christ, may the words of John 8:32
carry him to life everlasting: ‘‘You
shall know the truth, and the truth
shall make you free.’’
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
PERDUE). The Senator from Wyoming.
STATE OF THE UNION MESSAGE
Mr. BARRASSO. Mr. President, last
night we heard from the President of
the United States in his State of the
Union Address. What I heard and what
I know, living in Wyoming and trav-
eling across my State and across the
country—is that the state of the union
is strong. It is strong, and we are
strong militarily, economically, and
politically.
It is so fascinating to see this growth
that we have in our economy. I remem-
ber just a few years ago when the new
normal for economic growth was stuck
below 2 percent. People said: That is
where we are going to be.
Well, as a result of tax cuts and regu-
latory relief, we have had an incredible
amount of economic growth over the
last couple of years. Really, the econ-
omy is sizzling, firing on all cylinders,
fueled by the tax cuts that are allowing
people to keep more of their hard-
earned money, and wages going up be-
cause there are so many jobs being cre-
ated.
Talking about the good news for the
American people, I just noted that
there were 3 million new jobs added
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:26 Feb 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00017 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G06FE6.024 S06FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S892 February 6, 2019
since Republicans passed tax reform a
year ago. That is 3 million new jobs
across the country.
Somebody might say: Well, maybe it
is slowing down. It is actually the op-
posite. This past month, there were
304,000 new jobs. The experts, who
thought they had a handle on the econ-
omy, said: Well, maybe there are
160,000 new jobs.
There were 304,000, not just 160,000, as
it was estimated. There have been 3
million new jobs since we passed tax
reform for the American people.
The other thing that is so interesting
with the numbers is the increase in
manufacturing jobs. I remember Presi-
dent Obama saying that you would
need a magic wand to bring back man-
ufacturing jobs to the country. Well,
the number of manufacturing jobs that
were brought back to the country or
that were created in the country last
year was the largest growth in over 20
years.
Now, what about wages? Wages are
up significantly, compared to a year
ago. People are noting not only an in-
crease in their salaries but also an in-
crease in their take-home pay because
the amount of taxes taken out are
going down as well. So you have higher
salaries, lower taxes, and the amount
of money that people are able to keep
is going up as well.
More people are working today than
at any time in our history as a nation.
There are 157 million American work-
ers, and workers are in the driver’s
seat. There are more jobs available
than there are people to fill those jobs.
I am so happy with what President
Trump has done with regulations to try
to eliminate these burdensome, expen-
sive, and time-consuming regulations
that made it harder to create jobs,
harder to keep jobs going, and harder
to keep people in their jobs.
I was most pleased to see the Presi-
dent’s focus and discussion on energy.
Energy is called the master resource. It
is called the master resource for a rea-
son. It fuels our economy, it fuels our
military, and it fuels our Nation.
We now have, through innovation
and investment, enough energy re-
sources that we have now become a net
exporter of energy. People around the
country and around the world look to
us as a source of energy—crude oil,
natural gas, and liquefied natural gas.
There are opportunities for people
around the country—coal from my
home State of Wyoming. We are a net
energy exporter, and it is because of
the President’s focus on allowing us to
use the resources that we have been so
blessed with in this great country.
As for this talk about 3 million new
jobs, in Wyoming alone there have been
8,000 more jobs created since we passed
tax reform.
The Wall Street Journal editorial
board’s headline this past Friday, Feb-
ruary 1, was this: ‘‘Sorry for the Good
News.’’ It said: ‘‘This is what happens
when the political class takes its boot
off of the neck of private business, as
the GOP Congress and Trump adminis-
tration did for two years.’’
That is why we have all this good
news. Taxes are lower. Regulations are
much more reasonable. They are not
the kind of troublesome regulations
that choked our economy.
I think now it is time to refocus, as
the President talked about—a time for
greatness in America, to refocus our
attention on economic expansion.
When I hear my colleagues on the
other side of the aisle, they have taken
a hard left turn, way off to the liberal
side, to the radical side of things, pro-
posing socialist programs that increase
taxes, that increase government spend-
ing, and that apply burdensome new
regulations. That would put a tremen-
dous brake on the economy and the
economic growth we have seen. These
hard-left policies will kill job creation
and cripple the economy.
Americans want more freedom, more
opportunities, more economic pros-
perity, and better paying jobs. That is
what this is all about. That is what we
heard last night in the State of the
Union. That is why the state of our
Union is strong, with a strong, healthy,
and growing economy. It is time—and I
agreed with President Trump last
night—to unite, time to work together
and keep the country moving forward
with commonsense policies that im-
prove Americans’ everyday lives.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Iowa.
STATE OF THE UNION MESSAGE
Ms. ERNST. Mr. President, today I
rise to speak on the strength of the
U.S. economy, and I would like to
thank my colleagues who have joined
me here on the floor to address this
very important topic.
As President Trump said in last
night’s State of the Union, ‘‘Our econ-
omy is thriving like never before.’’
Last Friday’s January jobs report
was a continued good-news story, with
304,000 new jobs added just last month.
It is also an example of how Republican
pro-growth policies are getting people
back to work. Job growth was strong
across most sectors, including manu-
facturing, where 261,000 jobs were cre-
ated over the last year.
Just as important, this economic
growth has put upward pressure on
wages, with the average hourly pay in-
creasing by 3.2 percent from last year.
Lower wage workers saw some of the
biggest increases. This means more
money in your pockets to put food on
the table and provide for growing fami-
lies.
The tight labor market has drawn
workers off of the sidelines, and that is
a good thing. Folks who have been un-
employed or underemployed are finding
work, and those seeking to shift to a
better paying job or one with better
hours that is closer to home are finding
those opportunities.
Nowhere is the power of this job cre-
ation more evident than in my home
State of Iowa, where the 2.4-percent
unemployment rate is the lowest in the
Nation. There are 64,000-plus jobs cur-
rently open in Iowa. Over 1.6 million
Iowans are employed, which is the
most in our State’s history. Every time
I meet with an employer from my
home State, they tell me about the
challenges of filling jobs in order to
keep their businesses running. They
want to hire people, and business is
booming. Under Republican pro-growth
policies and the leadership of Governor
Kim Reynolds, Iowa’s economy con-
tinues to expand, and wages are in-
creasing across the State.
I also agree with the President that
‘‘no one has benefited more from our
thriving economy than women, who
have filled 58 percent of the new jobs
created in the last year.’’ Women are
also becoming small business owners at
increasing rates across Iowa. These
‘‘girl bosses’’ are creating jobs and
helping Iowa’s economy to rumble.
Yes, ladies, Iowa is the place to be.
The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act has al-
lowed Iowa’s job creators to invest in
their workers and grow their busi-
nesses. For example, a business in
Dyersville, IA, invested 75 percent of
its tax savings last year into its em-
ployees, giving $800 bonuses to the 162
full-time workers. One of its employees
said she planned to put her bonus into
her retirement fund—an investment in
her future.
Furthermore, cutting redtape and
scaling back burdensome regulations
have led to a surge in small business
optimism. A December survey from the
Iowa Association of Business and In-
dustry found that 97 percent of re-
spondents planned to make capital ex-
penditures this quarter, while a major-
ity expected to add new employees and
72 percent expected to see sales growth.
Recent achievements—from opioid
abuse efforts to criminal justice re-
form—will help transform our job pool
to help fill the needs of today and to-
morrow, helping people get back on
their feet and back to work.
I also know that millions of working
mothers, fathers, grandparents, and
families across the country struggle
with the realities of childbirth and in-
fant care while working hard to raise
strong and healthy families. It is long
overdue that Congress not just have a
conversation on these matters but that
we get serious about a path forward on
a paid leave approach. I am glad the
President highlighted this issue in the
State of the Union last night. Some are
fortunate enough to have paid benefits
provided by their employers, but many
families in America do not have that
luxury.
For the past few months, I have been
working on this issue with my col-
league, Senator MIKE LEE. Helping
families is an issue we can all agree on,
and I hope we can have a productive
dialogue on how Congress can best help
in a way that keeps our economy
strong.
Simply put, when Washington gives
power back to Main Street, American
families win.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:26 Feb 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00018 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G06FE6.026 S06FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S893
February 6, 2019
Sadly, over the last few weeks, I have
heard my Democratic colleagues pro-
pose a Green New Deal that would raise
energy prices for consumers by as
much as $3,800 per family a year and
proposals to impose tax rates as high
as 70 percent. If allowed to move for-
ward, these proposals would reverse
some of the economic progress we have
seen. They would change our Nation’s
direction from freedom, innovation,
and job facilitation to more heavy-
handed regulation. This far-left agenda
offers little for small businesses seek-
ing to grow to bigger ones, families
seeking to increase their take-home
pay, or workers trying to climb the
ladder to full economic success. That is
not a future that looks bright to me,
and it isn’t one that gives Americans a
path toward prosperity.
I am very proud of our achievements,
and I am thankful for the leadership of
the President and folks willing to work
together to get our economy moving.
There is more work yet to be done, and
I look forward to seeing our economy
continue to achieve new heights.
Mr. President, I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Indiana.
Mr. BRAUN. Mr. President, I rise
today in one of the hottest economic
environments our Nation has ever seen.
The last time American unemployment
was this low, the Beatles were at the
top of the charts and I was a starting
forward on the JV basketball team
back in Jasper, IN. The last time U.S.
stocks had a January as good as this
last month, the Hoosiers were on their
way to a national championship under
Coach Bobby Knight.
Last night, President Trump outlined
the incredible economic success and
progress our country has made in the
last 2 years, and it is times like these
that drive home the point that we all
already know: Business is the engine
that drives the American economy, not
government. Entrepreneurs—from ti-
tans of large industry to mostly Main
Street entrepreneurs—are the force
that generates prosperity, not politi-
cians. America’s true power is held in
our local chambers of commerce, not in
the Chambers of Congress. Our best
wisdom comes from the factory floor,
not the Senate floor.
Businesspeople understand what
makes the economy tick, and with
someone like President Trump at the
helm, the true potential of the Amer-
ican economy is being unleashed. GDP
and job growth numbers have never
been like this.
During the Obama administration,
these numbers were scoffed at as not
being attainable. Now it is happening.
We have to keep that in mind. Presi-
dent Obama offered us 8 years of stag-
nation and cynicism. President Trump
has offered optimism, bold leadership,
and the deep understanding of what
makes a business boom that could only
come from the experience of somebody
from the real world, an entrepreneur.
Like the President, I built my life in
business over many years. I started
back in 1981 with just a few employees.
Our original office was in a mobile
home on a rock lot—a very hard-
scrabble existence. I think of all the
time invested. For 17 years, we hovered
as a small business. Patience and per-
sistence underlie everything that real-
ly works in this economy and in this
world. We lived within our means, and
we reinvested in our own success in
good times and bad. And this story is
being played out across the country.
President Trump’s Tax Cuts and Jobs
Act is the most significant pro-growth
legislation that has come out of Wash-
ington since I have been paying atten-
tion. As I said, that has been 37 years.
For my company, the Trump tax cuts
were the biggest capital infusion we
had ever seen.
Like the President, I have been
blessed in that three of my four kids
work in my business. When tax reform
was signed into law, I believe back in
December of 2017, one of my sons came
to me and said: Dad, we need to take
these savings—we are sending less to
DC. Let’s do something with them.
I said: What did you have in mind?
He said: I would like to share these
benefits with our employees.
I said: Well, particularly, what did
you have in mind?
He said: I would like to raise 401(k)
benefits. I would like to start quarterly
bonuses.
We always did an end-of-the-year
bonus.
He said: I would like to cut family
healthcare costs by $1,400 per family.
We had held them flat for 9 years.
I said: Wow, I wish that had been my
idea. I like it.
He said: The other thing is, I would
like to put in the company memo that
this is due to tax reform.
I entered politics long ago—I was on
a school board for 10 years, 3 years as
a state legislator—and I knew you had
to be careful when you mixed business
with a political statement. I asked him
to talk it over with his brother, who I
thought might want to just give the
benefits and not make a political point
out of it.
He said: Dad, you are the CEO. What
do you think?
I said: Put in the company memo
that this is due to tax reform. As con-
servatives, we need to be proud of it.
That is exactly what we did.
Regulatory cuts and tax reform are
never going to make headlines, but
Americans are seeing the results in
real dollars and cents in their pay-
checks and their 401(k)s. It is clear
that when government gets out of the
way of enterprisers, the rising tide of
prosperity lifts all ships.
If my fellow Republicans and con-
servatives ever want to win again, it is
incumbent upon us to make the case
that this economy is due to the fact
that the administration and the Repub-
lican Congress created the stage for
this economic boom that we are with-
in. It is also incumbent upon employers
across the country to make sure you
share these benefits with your employ-
ees. If that is not done, we are going to
waste an opportunity.
The reason this is so critical is that
there are a lot of folks who have a dif-
ferent point of view. The Democrats
have a proposal that basically is this:
more taxes, more debt, probably more
regulations, and taking steps down the
pathway, I think, to a socialist catas-
trophe like the daily horrors we see in
Venezuela, embracing a failed ideology
that has not worked anywhere else.
Promising free college, free insur-
ance, and never being able to pay for it
may be a good way to win votes in 2020,
but it is no way to run a country.
Sooner or later, somebody gets stuck
with the bill. If we fail to confront this
creeping threat to our free market
principles now, our children and grand-
children will pay dearly.
Again, it is so incumbent upon us to
take this opportunity and run with it
as business owners so we can put it
into practice where everybody is feel-
ing the benefits beyond what they have
so far. If we want to keep President
Trump’s economic rally going, create
more opportunity for Americans to live
their America dream, and make the
clear choice between pro-growth policy
and a dissent toward socialist calam-
ity, more business people, as well, need
to step out of their comfort zone and
run.
Try to become a State legislator. Get
involved. Run for Congress. Run for the
Senate.
I did it out of nowhere, when nobody
thought it could be done. If we want
our system to work the way it should
when it works best for all, we need to
make sure that message is getting
heard. Let’s keep it booming. Let’s
keep this thing going. Participate. Get
involved.
I yield back my time.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
BRAUN). The Senator from Georgia.
ECONOMIC GROWTH
Mr. PERDUE. Mr. President, it is my
honor to join my colleagues, including
the Presiding Officer, in this brief col-
loquy about the current economic re-
sults that the President’s agenda is
achieving. I would like to put it in per-
spective though.
Just a little bit over 2 years ago, we
had suffered through 8 years of prob-
ably the most onerous increase in big
government regulatory reform that we
had ever seen. These regulations were
so onerous that they basically shut
down free enterprise for a decade. Add
to that a tax environment that was not
competitive with the rest of the world,
and the result was that we had the low-
est economic growth in United States’
history—1.6 to 1.9 percent, depending
on whom you believe. Regardless of
that detail, it was absolutely
uncontested that it was the lowest eco-
nomic growth in the United States’
history. There was no secret behind
that.
Actually, in 2009, when the last ad-
ministration started, the economy was
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:23 Feb 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00019 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G06FE6.028 S06FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S894 February 6, 2019
at a low point because of the financial
crisis. So they started from a very low
point to start with. It is more draco-
nian than the numbers indicate.
Two weeks after President Trump
was elected, I was included in a leader-
ship meeting in the White House to
talk about how we are going to achieve
the President’s No. 1 objective, and
that is to grow the economy. He said
during the election and, indeed, during
that meeting, that job one was to grow
the economy. We had to put people
back to work, get enthusiasm back,
and get confidence in the U.S. economy
again and in each other. In that meet-
ing, we outlined, basically, what was
required to do that. President Trump
gave us his vision of what we had to do.
We wanted to work on regulations,
energy, taxes, and, indeed, pull back on
as much of the Dodd-Frank bill as we
could. Those things in the first year
were intended to get the economy
jump-started. Then, in the second year,
we were supposed to talk about immi-
gration, infrastructure, and trade.
History will show that in the first
year, more than 870 regulations were
reversed. We unleashed our energy po-
tential in two major projects: ANWR in
Alaska and the Keystone Pipeline.
Those benefits are even yet to come.
Thirdly, we passed a historic tax bill
that made the United States more
competitive with the rest of the world.
We lowered the corporate tax rate. We
changed the individual tax structure.
We eliminated the repatriation tax.
The next thing was so important. We
actually passed a bipartisan bill that
pulled back on the most draconian
parts of the Dodd-Frank bill. The
Dodd-Frank bill was a knee-jerk reac-
tion from the financial crisis in 2008
and 2009. It really did put regulations
in place that pulled back on the bank-
ing industry in many ways. Some of
those, we might argue, were required.
Certainly, on the money banks in New
York, some things were needed. I would
argue that not the full breadth of what
Dodd-Frank did, but that is an argu-
ment for another day.
Last year, we got 17 of my Demo-
cratic colleagues in this body to agree
that a minor adjustment in the Dodd-
Frank bill would make a tremendous
difference for small community banks
and regional banks. We did that. We
passed that with 17 votes from the
other side. What this did in aggregate
was to free up somewhere around $6
trillion back in the economy. That is
real money when you are talking about
a $21 trillion economy. Not all of that
has flowed back in yet.
Here is what has happened. There is
$2 trillion on the Russell 1000 balance
sheets. These are our largest public
companies, and they had the largest
balance sheets in their history. They
had about $2 trillion on their balance
sheets.
Second, we had about $2 trillion on
bank balance sheets of community
banks and regional banks because of
Dodd-Frank. Estimates were $3 trillion
overseas in unrepatriated U.S. profits.
What we have done in the last 2 years
is fundamentally remove the road-
blocks for that capital to flow back
into the United States.
What are we seeing? Just the initial
blush of regulatory reform pumped up
CEO confidence and consumer con-
fidence to 30-year highs. We saw that in
the first 6 months of 2017. What hap-
pened after that was that consumers
started to react, employers started to
react, and capital started to flow. The
free enterprise system started to
breathe again after you took the
jackboots of an oversized Federal Gov-
ernment off the throat of free enter-
prise.
We just heard the Presiding Officer’s
story about a small business. Those are
multiplied by the thousands across our
country. This isn’t just about big busi-
ness, as you and I well know. It is
about individual enterprise. It is flow-
ing again after a decade of being ab-
sent.
I am also proud to tell you that if
you look at what the economy is doing
right now—honestly, I am just a busi-
ness guy, but I can back this up with
economic realities—these facts are not
debatable. This is the greatest eco-
nomic turnaround in the United
States’ history. We are growing about
a little more than twice the rate as we
did in the past decade.
We created 5.3 million new jobs. Me-
dian income is the highest in U.S. his-
tory. At the same time, unemployment
is at the lowest it has been in 50 years
in total. African-American, Asian
American, and Hispanic-American un-
employment is the lowest ever meas-
ured. By any measure, this economic
turnaround proves that what we be-
lieve in actually works. If you get big
government out of the way and let the
free enterprise system work, cap-
italism can breathe again, and this is
what happens.
Are we going to have a steady rise in
a consistent 3.5 percent, 4 percent
growth? No, this is free enterprise.
This is capitalism. What happens is we
form capital. We have an idea for a
product or a service, and we develop
that. We get a customer. We make a
transaction. Cash flows, and we rein-
vest that. This is what capitalism is.
Capitalism is not Big Government get-
ting all of your tax money, turning
around, and redistributing that out be-
cause that absolutely shuts down free
enterprise. As we know, free enterprise
is the best economic system we have
yet devised on the face of the Earth.
I am embarrassed that the President
of the United States—I never thought I
would see this day, on the floor of the
House of Representatives in a joint ses-
sion of Congress, in the State of the
Union Address—had to feel like he had
to make the statement that the United
States would never be a socialist coun-
try. The fact that it is even debated is
so embarrassing to me. It is unbeliev-
able that this could even be proper as a
viable alternative, given the history of
the last 100 years alone.
If you go back to the 1970s and the
great experiment that the Soviet
Union was going to bring egali-
tarianism to the world, well, that
failed. We have failed social states
today in Venezuela, Cuba, and others.
The Soviet Union today in Russia is a
mere shadow of its former self because
they played the game wrong. It may
take decades before that can be rebuilt.
There can be no debate that freedom
is what America is about. Our fore-
fathers and foremothers fought and
died to make sure that we would al-
ways have the liberty of the free enter-
prise system. That is what we are en-
joying right now. That is what we are
visibly witnessing before our very eyes
today. As we go into a Presidential
cycle in 2020, I hope that we have
enough sense as a country to see that
as the issue that we ought to be debat-
ing.
Yes, we have problems. Our debt is a
serious threat to our own national se-
curity. It is the No. 1 threat to this
continued economic boom we are all
talking about. We have $21 trillion of
debt. What is worse than that is that
over the next 10 years, no matter what
we do in terms of discretionary budget,
Congress will add another $10 trillion
to the debt unless we do something to
save Social Security, Medicare, and
Medicaid. It is as simple as that.
We are actually spending about the
same or a little bit less than we were in
2009 in terms of discretionary spending.
That is less than one-third of what we
spend as a Federal Government. The
mandatory side of that equation never
gets debated in this body. It is auto-
matic—mandatory. It is an automatic
withdrawal, like a house payment, car
payment, or insurance payment in a
private business.
There is no doubt in my mind that we
can solve every one of these. America
is not bankrupt. We have more assets
than we have liabilities. We have all
the wherewithal in the world to solve
our long-term debt problem. The rest
of the world knows that. That is why
they are still buying our corporate
bonds and treasuries. I have never been
more optimistic about the future of our
country for my children and my chil-
dren’s children, but we have to deal
with this Federal debt. Growing the
economy, as President Trump said 2
years ago, was the first step toward
doing that, but we have to get serious
about dealing and saving the trust
funds for Social Security and Medicare.
That doesn’t mean cutting them. It
means finding a viable financing way
to make them viable indefinitely.
There are so many ways to do that.
I will close with this. It seems to me
that what is at stake here is the very
Republic that we are talking about.
What are we going to be in the next 100
years? I would submit to you that the
evidence is before us right now that
one thing we have to be in order to pro-
tect the freedom of our country is to
remain committed to the free enter-
prise system that we all have built this
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:23 Feb 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00020 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G06FE6.031 S06FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S895
February 6, 2019
economic boom upon that has been the
greatest economic boom since World
War II and in the history of human-
kind.
I implore both sides here to put the
political differences aside, and let’s get
to funding this government on time,
which this Congress has only done four
times in the last 44 years. Congress has
actually shut the government down, in-
cluding this last one, 21 times.
This is totally unacceptable and un-
necessary. I think that with a bipar-
tisan approach, we know there are so
many places of agreement that we can
begin to do that, and I ask for
everybody’s forbearance and patience
and willingness to engage in a bipar-
tisan way to actually deal with some of
these life-threatening issues we see be-
fore us.
As we do that, I hope we can end the
debate once and for all about what
really works here—lower taxes, less
regulation, and certainly you have to
have controls to make sure we have a
level playing field for everybody in the
United States, but this onerous, top-
down-driven, controlling Big Govern-
ment policy does not work. We proved
that in the last decade and in other
decades in the last 100 years.
It is an honor to be in the U.S. Sen-
ate. It is an honor to be an American.
I never took that for granted, having
lived outside of the United States. I
can promise the Members of this body
that what we have right now is not a
false positive. What we have is evi-
dence that capitalism works, the free
enterprise system works. If we want to
protect our liberty, we have to con-
tinue to develop that system.
With that, I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Iowa.
Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President, like
several of my colleagues today, under
the leadership of my colleague from
Iowa, Senator ERNST, we come to the
floor to discuss the benefits of the tax
cut of 14 months ago. Congress then
passed historic tax legislation that fun-
damentally reformed our Tax Code and
provided tax relief to middle-income
Americans and to job creators. The Tax
Cuts and Jobs Act, as it is called, made
good on our commitment to provide
significant tax relief to middle-income
taxpayers while making the Tax Code
simpler, fairer, and, of course, pro-
growth oriented.
Thanks to a near doubling of the
standard deduction, millions of tax-
payers are discovering right now, as
they file their taxes, they can pay less
without spending hours and hours sift-
ing through receipts and extra forms,
all because the standard deduction is
doubled.
Middle-income taxpayers can also ex-
pect to see a significant reduction in
their tax bill from last year. For exam-
ple, an Iowa family of four, with a
State’s median income of around
$73,000, stands to see their tax bill cut
by more than half, or approximately
$2,000. This is real relief that began ap-
pearing in many taxpayers’ paychecks
at the start of 2018.
Given this, the best way for tax-
payers to see how tax reform affects
their bottom line is to compare this
year’s tax return with last year’s tax
return, rather than on the size of their
refund. At the end of the day, the vast
majority of taxpayers will see that less
of their hard-earned money is coming
to Washington for 535 Members of Con-
gress to decide how it will be spent. Of
course, those of us making that deci-
sion, 535 of us, would have less eco-
nomic impact than 150 million tax-
payers with more money to decide how
to spend or save—how to spend it or
how to save it. That would enhance our
income, creating jobs, much more than
Washington disposing of that same
amount of money.
It responds to the animal spirits of
the free market system—willing buyer
and willing seller. This tax release
stems from many pro-family and pro-
middle-income tax provisions in the
law. The law also enacted much needed
tax relief for important job creators. It
provides a very significant deduction
on business income for small busi-
nesses, effectively lowering their top
tax rate to under 30 percent, in many
cases.
This bill corrects an injustice that
has existed for decades; that there has
never been recognition of the small
business person who files an individual
tax form compared to a corporate tax
form. Small businesses never had eq-
uity like they should.
Small businesses, down to the small-
est family-owned corner store and fam-
ily farmer, are benefiting from that
provision. Additionally, the law low-
ered the statutory corporate rate down
from the highest in the developed
world to 21 percent. The previous cor-
porate tax rate was putting American
companies at a very competitive dis-
advantage globally and consequently
costing American jobs.
Just as important, the law put in
place immediate expensing for the de-
preciation of equipment that busi-
nesses of all sizes and shapes would in-
vest in. As a result, job creators will
have every incentive to invest back
into their business and expand oper-
ations here at home.
Nearly as soon as the tax cut was
signed into law, its positive effects
began to be felt throughout the econ-
omy. Hundreds of companies began an-
nouncing bonuses, pay raises, higher
retirement contributions, new hiring,
and increased investment. This in-
cluded numerous businesses in Iowa.
Utility companies across the country
also responded by passing along their
tax savings to their customers in the
form of lower electric gas and water
bills. Higher take-home pay, bonuses
for employers, and reduced utility bills
were all important benefits of the tax
cut.
While the tax cuts and reforms have
only been in effect for a little over a
year, the economic signs point toward
it having its intended effects. In 2018,
the economy grew at 3.1 percent—the
highest growth rate since 2005. Wages
have risen at the fastest pace in nearly
a decade. Nearly 3 million jobs have
been created since the passage of tax
reform, including more than 15,000 new
jobs in Iowa alone. Unemployment
rates for Hispanic and African-Amer-
ican workers have hit alltime lows.
For the first time on record, the
number of job openings has exceeded
job seekers for 9 straight months.
Small business optimism is at near-
record highs, and growth in business
investment has been more than twice
the rate it was during the sluggish
Obama economy.
All of this good economic news points
toward continued economic growth
moving forward. This is key to sustain-
able, long-term wage growth, which is
the most powerful anti-poverty meas-
ure that exists. Thanks to the tax cuts
and the reform, America is open for
business, and the economy is boom-
ing—all to the benefit of individuals
and families in Iowa and every State.
Of course, all of this good economic
news is no reason for us to become
complacent. Over the next 2 years, I
look forward to working with my col-
leagues on both sides of the aisle to
build on the success of tax reform. I
say that willingness to work with my
colleagues both from the standpoint of
being an individual Senator from the
State of Iowa as well as being chair-
man of the Senate Finance Committee.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
PERDUE). The majority whip.
Mr. THUNE. Mr. President, in last
night’s State of the Union Address, the
President highlighted the strength of
the economy. After years of stagnation
under the Obama administration, our
economy has come roaring back,
thanks in substantial part to Repub-
lican economic policies.
After the Presidential election 2
years ago, Republicans made it our
mission to get our economy going
again. We cut excessive regulations,
and we passed a historic comprehensive
reform of our outdated Tax Code.
The Tax Code plays a huge role in the
health of our economy. It helps deter-
mine how much money individuals and
families have to spend and save. It
helps to determine whether a small
business can expand and hire. It helps
determine whether larger businesses
hire, invest, and stay in the United
States.
A small business owner facing a huge
tax bill is highly unlikely to be able to
expand their business or to hire a new
employee. A larger business is going to
find it hard to create jobs or improve
benefits for employees if it is strug-
gling to stay competitive against for-
eign businesses paying much less in
taxes. A larger business is unlikely to
keep jobs and investment in the United
States if the Tax Code makes it vastly
more expensive to hire American work-
ers.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:23 Feb 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00021 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G06FE6.032 S06FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S896 February 6, 2019
Before we passed tax reform a year
ago in December, our Tax Code was not
helping our economy. It was taking too
much money from American families,
and it was making it harder for busi-
nesses, large and small, to create jobs,
increase wages, and grow. That is why,
after months of work, we passed the
Tax Cuts and Jobs Act.
This legislation cut tax rates for
American families, doubled the child
tax credit, and nearly doubled the
standard deduction. It lowered tax
rates across the board for owners of
small- and medium-sized businesses,
farms, and ranches. It lowered our Na-
tion’s massive corporate tax rate,
which up until January 1 of last year
was the highest corporate tax rate in
the developed world. It expanded busi-
ness owners’ ability to recover the cost
of investments they make in their
businesses, which frees up cash they
can reinvest in their operations and in
their workers. It brought the U.S.
international tax system into the 21st
century so American businesses are not
operating at a competitive disadvan-
tage next to their foreign counterparts.
Our goal with this bill was simple.
We wanted to make life better for the
American people; we wanted to let
Americans keep more of their hard-
earned money; and we wanted to spur
economic growth to give workers ac-
cess to good jobs, better wages, and
more opportunities.
I am proud to report that our policies
are working. The economy grew at a
robust 3.4 percent in the third quarter
of 2018. January marked the 11th
straight month that unemployment
has been at or below 4 percent. That is
the longest streak in nearly five dec-
ades.
In 2018, for the first time ever, the
number of job openings outnumbered
the number of job seekers, and 2018 saw
the most impressive job growth in the
manufacturing industry since 1997.
Wage growth has accelerated. Wages
have now been growing at a rate of 3
percent or greater for 6 straight
months. The last time wage growth
reached this level was in 2009—a decade
ago. Median household income is at an
alltime inflation-adjusted record of
$61,372, and on and on.
Continuing with something that is
working is usually a good strategy. If
your economic policies are working,
continuing them is a pretty logical
thing to do.
Democrats apparently have a dif-
ferent opinion. Instead of continuing
the policies that are producing eco-
nomic growth and opportunities for
American workers, they want to end
them. Instead of reducing taxes, they
want to raise taxes. Instead of getting
government out of your way, they want
to put government in charge of your
healthcare, your electricity options,
and more.
I wish I were joking, but Democrats
are increasingly uniting around poli-
cies that would not only undo the
progress our economy has made but
would damage our economy for the
long term.
One of the most dangerous proposals
is the so-called Medicare for All pro-
posal, which would abolish our current
system of employer-sponsored private
insurance and replace it with govern-
ment-run healthcare—paid for on the
backs of the middle class. The cost for
this program would be staggering, an
estimated $32 trillion over the next
decade. That is equivalent to the entire
Federal discretionary budget more
than two times over.
Doubling the amount of individual
and corporate income taxes collected
would still not be enough to pay for the
mammoth costs of this plan. Doubling
all the revenue collected from income
taxes in this country on the individual
and business side would not be enough
to pay for the mammoth costs of this
plan.
Passing any version of Medicare for
All would lead to stratospheric tax
hikes for Americans in addition to the
loss of their employer-sponsored insur-
ance.
Then, of course, there is the so-called
Green New Deal, which could raise
Americans’ energy costs by more than
$3,000 a year. I don’t know what fami-
lies Democrats are talking to, but I
have a hard time thinking of working
families who can afford to spend $3,000
more each year on their energy bills.
Then there are the plain old tax
hikes—like a proposal to raise the top
marginal tax rate to 70 percent, a rate
we haven’t seen since 1965. It would be
a tax hike not only on individuals but
on small- and medium-sized businesses
as well.
Take the House Democrats’ proposal
to substantially increase the corporate
tax rate. They want to raise the cor-
porate tax rate 40 percent on busi-
nesses from what it is today. Before
the passage of tax reform, America’s
global companies faced the highest cor-
porate tax rate in the developed world.
That put American businesses at a se-
rious disadvantage on the global stage,
which, in turn, put American workers
at a disadvantage.
Since we lowered the corporate rate,
we have seen economic growth, money
returning to the United States, and
new benefits and opportunities for
American workers.
It is difficult to understand what
would possess Democrats to jeopardize
economic growth and opportunities for
American workers by hiking the cor-
porate rate again. Right after we low-
ered it to get more competitive inter-
nationally, they are talking about rais-
ing it 40 percent.
I said before, I wish I were joking
about some of the Democrats’ out-
rageous proposals. In addition to the
money Democrats would be taking di-
rectly out of Americans’ pockets to
pay for their programs, it would also be
permanently damaging to economic
growth. If Democrats succeed in pass-
ing proposals like Medicare for All,
Americans will be facing a future not
just of higher taxes but of lower wages,
fewer jobs, and diminished opportuni-
ties.
Republicans are going to do every-
thing we can to ensure that doesn’t
happen. We will continue pushing for
policies that will create jobs and in-
crease wages, build on the progress we
have made in the last couple of years.
We will continue pushing for policies
that expand opportunities for workers,
that increase access to good jobs and to
fulfilling careers, and we will continue
pushing for policies that lower the cost
of living, including the cost of
healthcare and prescription drugs. We
will continue pushing for policies that
help hard-working families keep more
of their income and save for education
and retirement. We are committed to
giving every American access to a fu-
ture of freedom, opportunity, and secu-
rity.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. COT-
TON). The clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Mr. UDALL. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
S. 47
Mr. UDALL. Mr. President, thank
you for the recognition.
I rise to express my strong support
for the bipartisan public lands package.
This legislation, which puts together
over 100 public lands, natural re-
sources, and water bills, protects and
expands our Nation’s lands and
strengthens our local economies.
This sweeping package shows the
country the tremendous amount that
can be accomplished when both parties
in Congress roll up their sleeves and
work together toward a common goal.
While there are certainly other meas-
ures I wish we had included in this
package, overall, this bill can pass both
Chambers on strong bipartisan votes. I
am looking forward to this Congress
showing its strong support for keeping
public lands in public hands and pro-
tecting them for future generations.
I am particularly proud of provisions
in this package that I have championed
for years to benefit my home State of
New Mexico, starting with permanent
reauthorization of the Land and Water
Conservation Fund.
The Land and Water Conservation
Fund is our Nation’s most successful
conservation program and is extremely
popular with the American people. Yet
Congress has consistently underfunded
it and failed to make it permanent. I
have been fighting for years for full
funding and permanent reauthoriza-
tion. The public lands package does
just that. This was a law championed
by my father in 1965 while he was Sec-
retary of the Interior. I have been
proud to carry the torch and work to
make the Land and Water Conserva-
tion Fund permanent. In New Mexico
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:23 Feb 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00022 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G06FE6.035 S06FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S897
February 6, 2019
alone, over 1,200 local projects have
been supported by the LWCF since it
began in 1965.
Over the last 2 years, the President
has proposed essentially eliminating
the LWCF, but in a major step forward,
the Senate package permanently reau-
thorizes the program and provides an-
nual funding with at least $900 mil-
lion—all from offshore oil and gas
leases and other revenue streams that
don’t come from taxpayer dollars. Giv-
ing the Land and Water Conservation
Fund permanent authorization is a
monumental win for our entire Nation.
I hope that soon we can secure robust
mandatory funding as well. Until then,
I will continue to fight, along with my
colleagues on both sides of the aisle, to
ensure that this program receives sig-
nificant funding each year in the ap-
propriations process.
The lands package includes my Organ
Mountains-Desert Peaks Conservation
Act, cosponsored by Senator HEINRICH.
Senator HEINRICH and I have been
fighting to protect this rugged, beau-
tiful part of southern New Mexico for
years. In 2014, President Obama used
our legislation as the basis for his Ex-
ecutive order to create the Organ
Mountains-Desert Peaks National
Monument.
The Organ Mountains-Desert Peaks
area has contained protected wilder-
ness study areas since the 1980s and
1990s. It is high time to make these
study areas permanent wilderness. Sen-
ator HEINRICH and I have worked close-
ly with all stakeholders—ranchers,
conservationists, U.S. Customs and
Border Protection, and many others—
to bring these lands into 10 permanent
wilderness areas. Our bill, S. 441, places
approximately 240,000 acres into wilder-
ness while it releases approximately
30,000 acres so that the Border Patrol
has the flexibility that is necessary to
keep the border secure. The Border Pa-
trol concerns have been addressed, as
have the interests of grazing lease-
holders, who will be able to continue to
graze their cattle.
The areas targeted for protection
showcase sky island mountains, native
Chihuahuan Desert grasslands, caves,
unique lava flows, limestone cliffs, and
winding canyons. As you just heard,
the landscapes for designation are tre-
mendously varied. Here is a photo of
one that depicts the Organ Mountains.
What a magnificent range.
Under the 1964 Wilderness Act, ‘‘wil-
derness’’ is ‘‘an area where the earth
and its community of life are
untrammeled by man, where man him-
self is a visitor who does not remain.’’
The 10 areas for designation in the
Organ Mountains-Desert Peaks should
remain untrammeled, and they deserve
the special protection that ‘‘wilder-
ness’’ designation confers.
Like the wilderness study areas in
our newest national monument to the
south, Senator HEINRICH and I have
been working for years to designate
two wilderness study areas in our new-
est national monument to the north as
‘‘wilderness.’’ The 13,000-acre Cerro del
Yuta and the 8,000-acre Rio San Anto-
nio study areas within the Rio Grande
del Norte National Monument are
equally deserving of ‘‘wilderness’’ sta-
tus. The centerpiece of Cerro del Yuta
is Ute Mountain, which is a 10,000-foot-
high volcanic dome that overlooks the
magnificent Taos Gorge, which is
shown here. It is pretty inspiring when
you stand on top and look into this
gorge. The Rio San Antonio sits 200
feet below a plateau and creates a
unique riparian area and amazing rec-
reational opportunities that boost the
local economy.
This designation is also the product
of a grassroots coalition of local stake-
holders, including sportsmen, small
business owners, pueblos, and conserva-
tionists, who have worked for years to
preserve the Rio Grande del Norte area
for future generations. By designating
the Cerro del Yuta and the Rio San An-
tonio areas under our Cerros del Norte
Conservation Act, it cements their
place as part of northern New Mexico’s
protected heritage.
During the last congressional ses-
sion, I and my good friend, the late
Senator John McCain, worked hard on
the 21st Century Conservation Corps
Service Act, or 21 CSC for short. We
wanted to make sure that our youth
and our veterans had real and meaning-
ful opportunities to serve our country
by conserving our great outdoors. This
bill reinvigorates public-private part-
nerships between the Federal Govern-
ment and the private sector and en-
ables our youth and veterans to engage
in national service on conservation-re-
lated projects. The program also tar-
gets Native American youth by estab-
lishing an Indian Youth Service Corps
to work on Indian Country priorities.
The bill also expands eligibility so
that returning veterans and others can
participate in these important pro-
grams. It expands the number of Agen-
cies that can establish service corps,
and it authorizes detailed data collec-
tion so that we can track exactly how
these programs help communities and
our public lands.
This kind of program makes so much
sense, for we have a huge backlog of in-
frastructure needs on our public
lands—a backlog that is only growing
with increased wildfires and natural
disasters. Younger workers, especially
Native youth, face higher unemploy-
ment rates, and our veterans face their
own set of challenges when they transi-
tion to civilian life. Service corps are a
cost-effective way to promote con-
servation goals and to fill employment
gaps.
This program has broad bipartisan
support—support from the Western
Governors’ Association, veterans orga-
nizations, and the outdoor industry—
and it would pay special tribute to our
late colleague, Senator McCain, whom
we all admire so much. I urge its pas-
sage.
One of New Mexico’s most successful
watershed management collaborations
is the Rio Puerco Management Com-
mittee that was established in 1996.
The Rio Puerco is the largest tributary
to the Middle Rio Grande Basin. The
watershed encompasses approximately
4.7 million acres and unfortunately is
the primary source of undesirable fine
sediment that is delivered to the Rio
Grande system. According to the U.S.
Geological Survey, on average, the Rio
Puerco delivers 78 percent of the total
suspended sediment load of the Rio
Grande, although it provides only 4
percent of the runoff.
The Rio Puerco Watershed Manage-
ment Program is a community-based
approach that brings Federal and State
agencies, Tribes, nonprofits, and local
citizens together to work on watershed
management, including sediment re-
duction and habitat and vegetation res-
toration. The committee has been
widely recognized for its success and
has earned awards from the Environ-
mental Protection Agency and the Bu-
reau of Land Management. Its most re-
cent 10-year reauthorization ends on
March 30 of this year. We need to per-
manently authorize this very effective
program.
Senator MURKOWSKI and Senator
CANTWELL, I applaud your work on ex-
peditiously bringing this package to
the floor. The 100 bills that compose
the public lands package boast 50 dif-
ferent Senate sponsors and nearly 90
cosponsors. The package represents the
hard work of countless individuals and
organizations throughout the coun-
try—all committed to preserving and
protecting our country’s greatest
treasures. I stand resolutely behind
that commitment as well, and I urge
the unanimous passage of this historic
package.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from New Mexico.
Mr. HEINRICH. Mr. President, I start
by thanking Senator TOM UDALL, our
senior Senator from New Mexico, for
the incredible amount of work and
really the years of advocacy and atten-
tion that have gone into many of the
portions of this land package that he
just described. Without his leadership,
without his partnership, we would not
be celebrating this opportunity today.
I rise to celebrate the landmark con-
servation measures that we are about
to vote on here in the Senate. As a
Senator from a State that proudly
calls itself the Land of Enchantment, I
know how much our public lands mean
to New Mexicans. These are the places
to which generations of families have
gone to explore our natural wonders
and to learn about our rich history and
our incredible culture. Hunting and
fishing, as well as hiking and camping,
on our public lands are quite simply
part of our identity in the State of New
Mexico, and this relationship with our
land and our water is fundamental to
who we are.
These activities also fuel a thriving
outdoor recreation economy that sup-
ports nearly 100,000 jobs in New Mexico
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:23 Feb 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00023 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G06FE6.038 S06FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S898 February 6, 2019
alone. Nationwide, outdoor recreation
generates nearly $900 billion of con-
sumer spending each year and directly
supports more than 7 million American
jobs. Think about that—7 million
American jobs. That is why I thought
to pass this legislation that will open
additional access and create recreation
opportunities on our public lands to
support this important part of our
economy.
I commend our chairman, Senator
LISA MURKOWSKI of Alaska, our rank-
ing member, JOE MANCHIN of West Vir-
ginia, and our former ranking member,
Senator MARIA CANTWELL of Wash-
ington. We are, to say the least, going
through a frustrating political era here
in Washington, and there just don’t
seem to be many things we can agree
on these days. Yet the package of pub-
lic lands and conservation bills that we
are now considering on the floor reflect
Chairman MURKOWSKI, Ranking Mem-
ber MANCHIN, and Senator CANTWELL’s
leadership. It demonstrates their will-
ingness to put aside partisan rancor
and do the hard work that is required
to build bipartisan consensus.
I am proud that we are moving for-
ward to pass these bills that have
earned broad, bipartisan support in our
committee to conserve our public
lands, to create new outdoor recreation
opportunities, and to build on the suc-
cess of our Nation’s most effective con-
servation programs. I want to quickly
highlight some of these incredible vic-
tories in this bill for New Mexico.
First and foremost, I am so proud
that we are passing two bills to ad-
vance community-driven conservation
visions for New Mexico’s two newest
national monuments—the Rio Grande
del Norte and the Organ Mountains-
Desert Peaks. From the tops of the
Cerro de la Olla and Ute Mountain to
the depths of the Rio Grande Gorge,
the Rio Grande del Norte National
Monument in northern New Mexico is
one of the most spectacular landscapes
on Earth. The historic monument des-
ignation for the Rio Grande del Norte
was the direct result of tireless efforts
by those in the local community who
were dedicated to protecting this area
for future generations, and they
worked for decades to do just that.
The legislation we are voting on es-
tablishes two new wilderness areas
within this monument—the Cerro del
Yuta Wilderness and the Rio San Anto-
nio Wilderness. By designating the
most rugged and unique habitat in the
Rio Grande del Norte as wilderness, we
can protect the monument’s natural
heritage for our children and for gen-
erations to come.
We are doing the same thing for
southern New Mexico’s Organ Moun-
tains-Desert Peaks National Monu-
ment. Organ Mountains-Desert Peaks
is incredibly rich in cultural and nat-
ural history. It includes six stunning
mountain ranges. This is the very well-
known Organ Mountains—its profile
known by everyone who has ever vis-
ited or lived in southern New Mexico.
It also includes the Robledos, the East
Potrillos, the West Potrillos, the Dona
Anas, and the Sierra de las Uvas.
The Organ Mountains-Desert Peaks
Conservation Act that Senator UDALL
sponsored, that I have cosponsored, and
that we have worked together on for
all of these years will safeguard sen-
sitive cultural, historical, and natural
treasures in this monument. ‘‘Wilder-
ness’’ designation for several of the
most rugged and unique areas in the
Organ Mountains-Desert Peaks will
promote the monument as a world-
class destination.
President Obama based his 2014 ‘‘na-
tional monument’’ designation on the
legislation introduced by Senator
UDALL and me, but, as with the Rio
Grande del Norte, only Congress has
authority to create additional feder-
ally protected wilderness.
We can now ensure permanent pro-
tection for the wildest places within
the national monument, including the
Organ Mountains but also the Potrillo,
Uvas, and Robledo Mountains, as well
as Aden Lava Flow and Broad Canyon.
I want to express my deepest grati-
tude to the diverse coalition of stake-
holders from throughout our State who
worked for decades to make the Rio
Grande del Norte and Organ Moun-
tains-Desert Peaks monuments a re-
ality. From Tribal leaders to local
elected officials, sportsmen, ranchers,
land grant heirs, acequia parciantes,
small businesses, and conservation
groups, so many New Mexicans came
together and worked together to make
this possible.
Once again, I especially want to
thank my colleague, the senior Senator
from New Mexico, TOM UDALL, and our
former Senator Jeff Bingaman for their
leadership and their partnership in get-
ting this over the finish line.
These two monuments protect places
that New Mexicans have long recog-
nized as national treasures in their
backyards.
Once we pass this legislation, we will
put a capstone on years of work to
make these monuments national mod-
els of community-driven, landscape-
scale public lands conservation. I have
no doubt that future generations will
be grateful for what we are voting on
here.
Speaking of future generations, I am
also pleased that this public lands
package includes my bipartisan bill,
the Every Kid Outdoors Act. I want to
thank Senator LAMAR ALEXANDER of
Tennessee for joining me as the lead
Republican sponsor of this bill. The
Every Kid Outdoors Act will allow
every fourth grader in America to visit
our Nation’s national parks or national
forests or national wildlife refuges free
of charge and to bring their families
along with them.
Many of you might not know that
long before I became a Senator, one of
my first jobs in New Mexico was as the
executive director of Cottonwood
Gulch Expeditions—a 90-plus-year-old
experiential education organization
that takes children and adults out into
the backcountry of our public lands.
Connecting kids to the outdoors can
inspire a lifelong connection to con-
servation, while reaping all of the
health benefits that go along with an
active lifestyle. Some of my favorite
memories are from my adventures on
public lands with my wife Julie and
with our sons, Carter and Micah, and I
want all kids to have those same op-
portunities to fall in love with our
amazing public lands.
Since 2015, the Department of the In-
terior has offered fourth graders and
their families free entrance to all fed-
erally managed public lands. I can’t
tell you how popular this program has
become. The Every Kid Outdoors Act
codifies this effort into law and will en-
courage the creation of more edu-
cational opportunities for all of our
kids on their public lands.
I am so excited that we are encour-
aging a new generation of kids—a gen-
eration that will explore the rich nat-
ural and cultural history on display in
our parks, forests, and monuments.
After all, they are the future stewards
of these special places that we all love.
I also want to celebrate that we are
voting to permanently reauthorize
what I believe has been one of Amer-
ica’s most successful conservation pro-
gram ever, the Land and Water Con-
servation Fund.
In New Mexico, LWCF, as it is
known—the Land and Water Conserva-
tion Fund—has protected iconic land-
scapes, such as the Valles Caldera, Ute
Mountain, and Valle de Oro, without
costing taxpayers a single dime. It has
also provided for community projects,
such as baseball and soccer fields, play-
grounds, and picnic areas.
The broad support that LWCF has
had from both Republicans and Demo-
crats over the last half century is a
testament to how well the program has
worked all across this Nation; however,
despite our best efforts to save LWCF,
congressional inaction allowed the pro-
gram to expire last year. I am proud to
say that once we pass this package, we
will no longer need to worry year after
year about renewing this incredibly
successful program. Now LWCF funds
can continue being put to work pro-
tecting drinking water, providing pub-
lic land access, and funding our neigh-
borhood parks.
Finally, I would like to express my
gratitude once more to Chairman MUR-
KOWSKI for working with me to advance
provisions in this package to improve
public access on our public lands. Many
pieces of the Sportsmen’s Act are in-
cluded in this, and I am especially
pleased that we are passing my legisla-
tion, the HUNT Act, which will im-
prove access to public lands wherever
hunting, fishing, and outdoor recre-
ation are permitted.
With that, I would like to encourage
all of my colleagues to support this bi-
partisan package of bills. I am con-
fident that they will grow our outdoor
recreation economy, promote access to
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:37 Feb 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00024 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G06FE6.039 S06FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S899
February 6, 2019
our public lands, and support the sus-
tainable use of our natural resources.
What we will vote on will go a long
way toward ensuring that the outdoor
places that we all treasure will be pro-
tected for future generations of Ameri-
cans to enjoy.
I yield the remainder of my time.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk proceeded to
call the roll.
Ms. MURKOWSKI. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the order
for the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
Ms. MURKOWSKI. Mr. President, we
are at a point we have been hoping to
get to for some time, which is debate
on S. 47, the Natural Resources Man-
agement Act.
This is a compilation, if you will, of
various lands bills, water bills, and
sportsmen’s bills. This is a lands pack-
age that Senator CANTWELL, Senator
MANCHIN, and I recently introduced,
but it is the result of years—multiple
years, actually—of regular order proc-
ess in the committees of jurisdiction—
most notably, the Energy and Natural
Resources Committee. It is the result
of months of intense, bicameral back-
and-forth negotiations with now-Chair-
man RAÚL GRIJALVA and now-Ranking
Member ROB BISHOP of the House Nat-
ural Resources Committee. In that
back-and-forth, we said: We are going
to be very specific to our jurisdiction
here, and we are going to stick to a
four-corners agreement that we
reached late last year and had actually
confirmed here on the Senate floor in
late December.
This package contains more than 100
public lands, natural resources, and
water measures that have good, strong
support in both Chambers. We are at
that point where we can not only do
the back-and-forth, but we can work
through the back-and-forth that comes
when we are able to advance a package
like this to the floor.
I would like to thank Majority Lead-
er MCCONNELL and Minority Leader
SCHUMER for agreeing to add our lands
package directly to the Senate cal-
endar. This was an agreement that was
made back in December. We were teed
up and ready to go, but in fairness, you
run out of time at the end of the year.
There was an agreement that was
reached here on the Senate floor be-
tween the two leaders and other col-
leagues to make sure that we would
take up this package quickly and that
we would work to address it early in
this new Congress.
A lot of thanks go out to our leader-
ship, and special thanks to my former
ranking member, Senator CANTWELL,
for working with me to get us to this
point and to my new ranking member,
Senator MANCHIN, for really stepping
up and helping to manage this package
just weeks into his new role as the
ranking member.
Before I get into my full remarks, I
also want to recognize the efforts of
several of the other members of the En-
ergy Committee who have really gone
the extra mile to help us get to this
point. On our side of the aisle, Senator
GARDNER and Senator DAINES have
been just dogged in making sure that—
as issues arose and as we tried to cob-
ble together different proposals, they
were in the thick of it and have been
helpful every step of the way. On the
other side of the aisle, Senator HEIN-
RICH and Senator WYDEN have been
equally aggressive and helpful in all
they have done to help advance and
build support for this package.
It is probably true, if you were to
look through this package, you are not
going to see something that stands out
with bright lights and flags that says
these are sweeping changes in Federal
policy. Most of the items we have in-
cluded are probably considered too pa-
rochial, too local, too discrete to merit
floor time on a standalone basis. That
is the problem with lands packages,
generally, in that they don’t take up a
lot of space when it comes to a Senate
calendar, but I can tell you that every
one of the provisions in this package
matters to a community, matters to a
constituency—many of them in West-
ern States, States like mine, that have
a great amount of public land, of Fed-
eral lands. These are, again, important
at a host of different levels. So working
with colleagues to understand their
local priorities, their constituency, has
really been a real pleasure as part of
this process.
We worked very hard within the En-
ergy and Natural Resources Committee
this last Congress to prepare the vast
majority of bills in the package, and
our colleagues on the House side did
the same. What we were able to agree
to is a package that is sponsored by 50
different Senators in this past Con-
gress. When you count the cosponsor
provisions, this package addresses the
priorities of close to 90 Senators. You
have just about everybody in this body,
Republicans and Democrats, who have
come together and said: This is an
issue in my region, in my State. These
are issues we need to be working on to-
gether.
I think it is a real reflection of the
priorities—the wide range of prior-
ities—that Members have for their
home States. I think it is also a sign,
when you have more than 100 of these
smaller, more discrete bills packages
together—it is a sign that we are really
overdue in moving these lands bills.
The last time we had a significant
lands package on the floor was 2014. It
has been 5 years since we have had an
opportunity to move, again, a signifi-
cant number of Members’ priorities. I
think it is also a testament to the long
hours we have spent and our staffs have
spent reviewing and working through
and really trying to build the agree-
ments on what we hope is soon to be
ready to be signed into law.
It is important this bill, this pack-
age, becomes law in the near future.
What we do through this legislative
package is we really provide new op-
portunities for economic development
through land conveyances and ex-
changes. We expand and we enhance ac-
cess for sports men and women on our
Federal lands for hunting, fishing, and
other outdoor recreation activities.
This should be noted. We have been
trying to work a sportsmen’s pack-
age—a compilation of bills that relate
to access on our Federal lands for
hunting, fishing, and shooting sports.
We have been trying to do this for
three Congresses running. It is long
overdue.
We also feature provisions related to
western water management, national
park units, other Federal lands admin-
istered by the BLM and the Forest
Service. One of the provisions that is
probably most strongly supported in
this package reauthorizes the deposit
function of the Land and Water Con-
servation Fund. This expired last Sep-
tember. Instead of leaving that pro-
gram subject to repeated lapses and
short-term extensions—we see a lot of
that around here—what we have done
is we have agreed to remove that expi-
ration date. We effectively make that
permanent, and we paired it—this is
very important to us. We paired that
permanent authorization with mean-
ingful reforms, with meaningful re-
forms that will help ensure greater bal-
ance in the funds that are allocated to
the program.
I mentioned that many of these pro-
visions might seem very local, very pa-
rochial. We have a provision that will
facilitate the expansion of an airport in
Custer County, SD. I have never been
to Custer County, but when you have a
constriction, a limitation on your abil-
ity to expand an airport because you
need a land conveyance, it literally
takes an act of Congress in order to
make that happen.
Another provision in the measure
will enable the construction of a large-
scale solar project in the State of Ari-
zona. This is going to bring about jobs,
and it is going to bring about renew-
able energy opportunities. We have sev-
eral more provisions that will des-
ignate national monuments but done
the right way. The right way is with
Congress in the lead, rather than the
President exercising his authorities
under the Antiquities Act—so making
sure you have that level of consensus
that is so important when designations
like this move forward.
On some of the more Alaska-specific
provisions, we have upheld our prom-
ise, a promise made decades ago to
Alaska Natives who served during the
Vietnam war. During this time of their
service, they basically missed out on
their opportunity to receive the land
allotments that had been promised to
them by the Federal Government under
the land rights. What we have done is
we have worked to address that in-
equity in a way that is fair to our vet-
erans and fair to the process.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:23 Feb 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00025 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G06FE6.041 S06FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S900 February 6, 2019
We provide routing flexibility for the
natural gas pipeline that has been pro-
posed for some time. We are able to
create new opportunities for small,
small, small communities, like down in
Kake in Southeast Alaska or
Utkiagvik up in the North Slope.
We also reached agreement to im-
prove our volcano warning and moni-
toring system. Some of you might not
think about why we need to be paying
attention to our volcanoes. Believe me,
you don’t want to be in an aircraft
when you are flying through volcanic
ash. Knowing what is going on is im-
portant. Whether you are in Hawaii,
Alaska, or another State, it is really
just a matter of time before we see
more eruptions. We saw it in Alaska
with Mount Cleveland last year and
Kilauea in Hawaii. So we are paying at-
tention to that.
These are just a few of the high-
lights. I am going to be talking to
more of them on the floor as debate
goes on, but I also want to close with
kind of an explanation of where we are
in the process right now.
As I mentioned, when you have a
package that has 100-plus bills—and we
haven’t done something like this in
now 5 years—there is no shortage of
provisions that we could include. We
really worked hard. We did our best to
work through everything we had on the
table and included as much as we could
reach agreement on. I think we all can
agree there is more we can do, and we
should try to do, and that our work on
our lands and our resource issues is not
going to end just because we passed
this bill.
That is why I would encourage folks
to view this as a first step. It is lit-
erally a downpayment. We say we are
clearing the decks of the provisions
that have been outstanding for a long
time right now and that are ready to
go right now.
I know we have several Members who
would like to have amendments. We
want to try to find a way to accommo-
date some of those, but that is going to
take a level of cooperation. It always
does. We may be able to take some by
unanimous consent or by rollcall vote,
but there are also going to be some we
are just not going to be able to accept
at this time and on this package.
Again, I would take back to the bi-
partisan agreement that we had and
the spirit of that agreement, that we
want to stay away from things that are
outside our jurisdiction or that would
create problems with the House. The
House has been good—a cooperative ar-
rangement up to this point in time. I
think it is fair to say we have had some
very good signals that they are anxious
to receive this from the Senate and
thus help us facilitate its passage into
law.
For those who aren’t able to add
their specific provisions, you certainly
have my commitment to work with
you in this Congress, but in the mean-
time I think what you have in front of
you is an excellent package. It is time
for us to pass it. It is time to show our
strong support, send it to the House of
Representatives, and then to the Presi-
dent’s desk.
I am pleased to yield and recognize
my friend and new colleague on the En-
ergy Committee—not a new colleague
but certainly my new ranking mem-
ber—who has been a great person to
work with and a real help in all of our
efforts.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mrs.
BLACKBURN). The Senator from West
Virginia.
Mr. MANCHIN. Madam President,
first, I am so pleased to work with my
good friend Chairman MURKOWSKI on
something she has worked on for quite
some time with Senator CANTWELL.
Taking up this new position, I want to
make sure I help them the best I can to
bring this to fruition. That is what we
are working on right now. To have S. 47
in front of us is pretty special.
The public lands package includes
such a wide variety of bills, as the
chairman has spoken about. There are
currently more than 130 different
pieces of individual legislation that
will address many Members’ priorities
for public lands and natural resources
in their respective States. A public
lands package doesn’t come together
that often. I think it has been 5 years,
as was said, and they are far and few
between. When it does, we try to ac-
commodate and do the right thing that
really helps our country and future
generations.
Many of the bills in this package pro-
vide technical corrections and im-
provements to existing policies but do
not have a significant impact outside
their local sphere. However, these
minor bills will improve the way our
public lands are managed and con-
served at the ground level. While these
bills are important to the residents of
the small towns like mine across
America and Members of this body who
represent them, rarely will these indi-
vidual bills receive the floor time they
truly deserve. Because of this, it is nec-
essary for us to move these bills to-
gether in this package, which is what
we have coming up before us probably
by tomorrow.
This package was literally years in
the making. As I said, it builds on the
package that was negotiated last De-
cember by Chairman MURKOWSKI, then-
Ranking Member CANTWELL, then-
Chairman BISHOP, and then-Ranking
Member GRIJALVA of the House Natural
Resources Committee. Together, this
group came together and negotiated a
large package. Unfortunately, the Sen-
ate could not pass the package last De-
cember, which is why we find ourselves
here today.
I am grateful for the opportunity to
serve as the ranking member of the
committee and to be working with my
friend from Alaska Chairman MUR-
KOWSKI on this package but also on
many other issues we will consider in
the committee in the coming time.
I would also like to take this mo-
ment to thank the committee staff, the
majority and minority, as well as the
floor staff for their diligence in work-
ing on this package. I would like to in-
clude a list of names who worked on
the package for both me and Senator
CANTWELL and in our committee over
the last few months. I would also like
to include the names of the floor and
leadership staff.
Madam President, I ask unanimous
consent that this list of names be
printed in the RECORD.
There being no objection, the mate-
rial was ordered to be printed in the
RECORD, as follows:
S. 47 Lands Package Staff Team: Mary
Louise Wagner, Democratic Staff Director;
Sam Fowler, Democratic Chief Counsel;
David Brooks, Democratic General Counsel;
Bryan Petit, Democratic Senior Professional
Staff Member; Rebecca Bonner, Democratic
Professional Staff Member; Camille Touton,
Democratic Professional Staff Member;
Sarah Venuto, Democratic Staff Director;
Lance West, Democratic Deputy Staff Direc-
tor; Elliot Howard, Democratic Professional
Staff Member; Lauren Vernon, Democratic
Research Assistant; Tom Schaff, National
Park Service Bevinetto Fellow; David Poyer,
Democratic Staff Assistant; Kennedy
Woodard, Democratic Staff Assistant; Cam-
eron Nelson, Democratic Research Assistant;
Sean Byrne, Legislative Assistant; Gary
Myrick, Secretary for the Minority; Tricia
Engle, Assistant Secretary for the Minority;
Ryan McConaghy, Floor Assistant to the
Democratic Leader; Daniel Tinsley, Floor
Assistant to the Democratic Leader; Brad
Watt, Floor Assistant to the Democratic
Leader; Stephanie Paone, Democratic Cloak-
room Assistant; Maalik Simmons, Demo-
cratic Cloakroom Assistant; Nathan Oursler,
Democratic Cloakroom Assistant; Mary
Frances Repko, Minority Staff Director; An-
drew Rogers, Minority Chief Counsel;
Christophe Tulou, Minority Senior Counsel
and Policy Director; Elizabeth Mabry, Mi-
nority Professional Staff Member; and John
Kane, Minority Senior Professional Staff
Member.
Mr. MANCHIN. This package enjoys
the support from numerous national
stakeholder organizations across the
political spectrum. For example, the
National Wildlife Federation and the
Congressional Sportsmen’s Foundation
are two of its strongest and most dedi-
cated advocates. I thank them for their
support. I ask unanimous consent that
the list of organizations writing in sup-
port of this bill be printed in the
RECORD.
There being no objection, the mate-
rial was ordered to be printed in the
RECORD, as follows:
The organizations include: Bi-partisan Pol-
icy Center Action; League of Conservation
Voters; Boone and Crockett Club; Ventura
County; Chugach of Alaska Corporation; The
Wilderness Society; conservation groups in-
cluding National Audubon Society and the
Sierra Club; livestock groups such as the
Public Lands Council, National Cattlemen’s
Beef Association, and American Sheep Indus-
try Association; outdoor recreation groups
including Access Fund, American Alpine
Club, American Canoe Association, Amer-
ican Whitewater, Colorado Mountain Club,
International Mountain Bicycling Associa-
tion, Outdoor Alliance, Outdoor Industry As-
sociation, Surfrider Foundation, The Con-
servation Alliance, The Mazamas, The Moun-
taineers, Winter Midlands Alliance; organi-
zations representing the Outdoor Recreation
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:48 Feb 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00026 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G06FE6.042 S06FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S901
February 6, 2019
Roundtable including American Horse Coun-
cil, American Sportfishing, Association
Archery Trade Association, Association of
Marina Industries, Boat Owners Association
of the United States, The Corps Network,
International Snowmobile Manufacturers,
Association Marine Retailers, Association of
the Americas Motorcycle Industry Council,
National Association of RV Parks and Camp-
grounds, National Marine Manufacturers As-
sociation, National Park Hospitality, Asso-
ciation National Shooting Sports Founda-
tion, PeopleForBikes, Recreational Off-High-
way Vehicle Association, RV Dealers Asso-
ciation RV Industry, Association Specialty
Equipment Market, Association Specialty
Vehicle Institute of America; sportsmen’s
groups including American Fly Fishing
Trade Association, American Sportfishing
Association, American Woodcock Society,
Angler Action Foundation, Archery Trade
Association, Backcountry Hunters & An-
glers, Bass Anglers Sportsman Society
(B.A.S.S.), Bear Trust International,
Bonefish & Tarpon Trust, Boone & Crockett
Club, California Waterfowl Association,
Camp Fire Club of America, Congressional
Sportsmen’s Foundation, Conservation
Force, Council to Advance Hunting and
Shooting Sports, Delta Waterfowl, Ducks
Unlimited, Fly Fishers International, Hous-
ton Safari Club, Izaak Walton League of
America, Land Trust Alliance, National Deer
Alliance, National Marine Manufacturers As-
sociation, National Shooting Sports Founda-
tion, National Wildlife Federation, North
American Falconers Association, Orion: The
Hunter’s Institute, Outdoor Industry Asso-
ciation, Outdoor Recreation Roundtable,
Pheasants Forever/Quail Forever, Pope &
Young Club, Public Lands Foundation, Qual-
ity Deer Management Association, Rocky
Mountain Elk Foundation, Ruffed Grouse
Society, Sportsmen’s Alliance, Texas Wild-
life Association, The Nature Conservancy,
Theodore Roosevelt Conservation Partner-
ship, Trust for Public Land, Whitetails Un-
limited, Wildlife Forever, Wildlife Manage-
ment Institute; and The Corps Group Net-
work with many national and regional orga-
nizations including Appalachian Trail Con-
servancy Leadership Corps, Citizens Con-
servation Corps, Harpers Ferry Job Corps Ci-
vilian Conservation Center, and Stewards In-
dividual Placement Program.
Mr. MANCHIN. This package should
be warmly received by both Democrats
and Republicans. It is truly a bipar-
tisan effort. For starters, the package
includes numerous land exchanges and
conveyances, designates over 1.3 mil-
lion acres of wilderness, designates 367
miles of wild and scenic rivers, and pro-
vides boundary adjustments, designa-
tion changes, and management im-
provements to numerous areas in all
four corners of the country. All of this
will improve access, provide rec-
reational opportunities, and allow four
of our Federal public land management
Agencies—the Bureau of Land Manage-
ment, the Forest Service, the Fish and
Wildlife Service, and the National Park
Service—to better serve the public
through their varying missions as di-
rected by Congress.
Our public lands are truly one of the
Nation’s greatest treasures, and we are
unique in how we set aside some of our
most special places in the country to
be conserved, protected, and easily ac-
cessible to the public so we can all
enjoy the beauty these areas offer.
Usually, these lands are located in
rural areas, with few other economic
opportunities, making these treasures
economic engines for the surrounding
communities. In fact, data from the
U.S. Department of Commerce’s Bu-
reau of Economic Analysis shows the
outdoor recreation economy accounted
for 2.2 percent of GDP and grew faster
than the overall economy.
According to the Outdoor Industry
Association, outdoor recreation sup-
ports 7.6 million direct national jobs
and $887 billion in consumer spending.
Overall, this contributes billions to the
Federal, State, and local governments
in tax revenue.
In West Virginia, outdoor recreation
supports 91,000 direct jobs and $9 billion
in consumer spending. Each year, 67
percent of West Virginia residents take
to the outdoors to escape the hustle
and bustle of their daily lives to enjoy
the peace and certainty of our wild and
wonderful outdoor heritage. It is truly
almost heaven. If you haven’t been
there, we welcome you.
This package provides permanent re-
authorization of the Land and Water
Conservation Fund, which Senator
MURKOWSKI has pointed out. This is
something most every one of us—535
Members of Congress—is truly sup-
portive of because it affects our States
and our districts. LWCF is a simple yet
highly effective conservation tool with
unrivaled success over the last 50
years. Every year, $900 million in roy-
alties paid by energy companies drill-
ing for oil and gas on the Outer Conti-
nental Shelf are put into this fund.
Unfortunately, LWCF expired last
September. The National Resource
Management Act provides permanent
reauthorization of the LWCF. That is
enough to bring all of us together.
This permanent reauthorization en-
sures that States and Federal public
land management Agencies have the
ability to continue to protect and con-
serve our natural resources for the
next generation, and it does so without
relying on taxpayer dollars.
Since 1965, more than $243 million in
LWCF funds have been spent in my lit-
tle State of West Virginia on more
than 500 projects, both on State and
Federal lands. This includes improve-
ments to local parks and public spaces
and 54 of our little State’s 55 counties.
It also funded acquisition for our most
cherished public lands, such as the
Gauley River National Recreation
Area, the New River Gorge National
River, and Dolly Sods in the
Monongahela National Forest.
This package also includes some
long-awaited priorities for our sports-
men’s groups. Each year, more than
350,000 hunters take to the woods in
West Virginia to pursue game. These
hunting traditions directly benefit
rural communities, generating annual
revenue and supporting 5,000 jobs. Ac-
cording to the West Virginia Division
of Natural Resources, hunting-related
expenditures total nearly $270 million
of the State’s economy. Aside from
this, and perhaps most importantly,
hunting in West Virginia is one of our
oldest pastimes in which friends and
families can gather and spend quality
time together.
As I work with other Members of this
very body on difficult issues where we
may strongly disagree with each other,
we are able to set aside differences
when it comes to sportsmen’s tradi-
tions. The conversations quickly turn
to stories of hunting a deer with our
children and grandchildren or taking a
child to the first deer camp. It is im-
portant that we provide opportunities
to keep these traditions alive.
The Natural Resource Management
Act will expand and enhance sports-
men’s access by making Federal lands
throughout West Virginia and the Na-
tion ‘‘open unless closed’’ for fishing,
hunting, recreational shooting, and
other outdoor activities.
As a hunter myself and as vice chair
of the Congressional Sportsmen’s Cau-
cus, I know how frustrated sportsmen’s
groups have been in trying to get their
bills passed the last few years. That is
one of the reasons I am pleased that
Chairman MURKOWSKI’s bill, of which I
am an original cosponsor, the Sports-
men’s Act, is included in this package.
The Natural Resource Management
Act also establishes several national
heritage areas, including one in West
Virginia, the Appalachian Forest Na-
tional Heritage Area. National heritage
areas are designated by Congress as
places where natural, cultural, and his-
toric resources combine to form a co-
hesive, nationally important land-
scape. The Appalachian Forest Na-
tional Heritage Area has been oper-
ating as an ad hoc national heritage
area for more than a decade. Despite
not having official designation, the Ap-
palachian Forest Heritage Area has
continually done a great deal for West
Virginia. For example, the Appalachian
Forest Heritage Area administers a
credible AmeriCorps program. In one
recent program year, 38 AmeriCorps
members completed more than 65,000
service hours directly benefiting local
rural areas in West Virginia, as in
every State. These 38 members im-
proved 1,700 acres of public land and
managed more than 1,000 total volun-
teers.
By providing the official NHA des-
ignation, the Appalachian Forest Her-
itage Area can earn the national rec-
ognition it deserves and is now also eli-
gible for grants and technical assist-
ance from the National Park Service.
This will take their programmatic ef-
forts and other services they provide to
the region to the next level.
I believe that this package is a great
bill for both my Republican and Demo-
cratic friends. Numerous pieces of leg-
islation that have been longstanding
priorities for many Members are in-
cluded.
I would like to thank Chairman MUR-
KOWSKI again, as well as other members
of the Energy and Natural Resources
Committee, for their efforts to reach
an agreement on this bill. For those of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:48 Feb 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00027 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06FE6.002 S06FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S902 February 6, 2019
our colleagues who felt that they were
not able to get exactly what they
wanted or exactly what they would
love to have had in this bill, we are
committed to working with them to
further help them in getting access to
any other piece of legislation we will
have working through the committee.
I want to thank the majority leader
for his willingness to bring this bill to
the floor. I believe it is time to send
the bill to the House and to the Presi-
dent for his signature. We have had a
great working relationship with Chair-
man GRIJALVA, and he is committed to
working with us as we work through
this process.
There are many pieces of good legis-
lation in this package that will be val-
ued for years to come by communities
across the country and each one of our
States. I strongly encourage Members
to vote yes on this final package.
Thank you.
I yield the floor to the Senator from
Montana.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Montana.
Mr. TESTER. Today is a special day.
Today is a culmination of years of
work. I mean that. We were literally on
the floor 7 or 8 years ago with a bill
similar to this one that did not get
across the finish line. We were here 2
years after that and 2 years after that,
and now we are here today.
Before she leaves the floor, I want to
thank Senator MURKOWSKI for her lead-
ership. Senator CANTWELL is not here,
but I want to thank her for the work
she has done on this bill because it was
big. I want to thank Senator MANCHIN
for continuing the legacy of these two,
and, hopefully, it can continue over the
next year. Quite frankly, bills like this
don’t get done every day, and they
don’t get done by accident. They get
done by leadership and folks working
hard. I thank both of you. If Senator
CANTWELL is listening, thank you very
much for the work that has been done.
I am very proud to stand here on be-
half of countless Montana small busi-
nesses and community members who
had a crazy idea a few years ago about
not wanting an out-of-State mining
company—actually, not even wanting
an out-of-country mining company, a
foreign mining company—to expand
the mine on the doorstep of Yellow-
stone National Park. I am standing
here today to tell them that I heard
them. I listened to them, and I was not
going to stop until this bill was signed
into law.
I want to take you back about 4
years. A group of small business own-
ers who cared about the future of their
community got together after they
caught wind of two mining companies
that were planning to expand their op-
erations on nearby public land, which
threatened the area’s rapidly growing
outdoor economy—one of the fastest
growing economies in the State of
Montana. This mine expansion was set
to take place in a place we call Para-
dise Valley. That place is called Para-
dise Valley for an obvious reason. It
truly is a piece of paradise. It is the
headwaters of the Yellowstone River,
which is one of the longest undammed
rivers in the world. Paradise Valley is
flanked on both sides by legendary
mountain ranges: the Gallatins and Ab-
sarokas. It is the gateway to our Na-
tion’s first national park, Yellowstone.
These business owners—who ran fly
shops, breweries, guide and outfitter
businesses, and dozens of other local
hangouts—were relying on literally
hundreds of thousands of visitors to
flock to this region to experience
something they can experience no-
where else on Earth. They were rightly
concerned that multiple large-scale
mining operations would put their
local economy at risk and, in fact, put
them out of business.
I went in October of 2015 and met
with these folks. I listened to their
concerns that these mines would dev-
astate their businesses and the breath-
taking landscape in which they have
chosen to live. In that moment, it was
clear to me that the community needed
permanent protection. So I announced
my intent to introduce a bill—one of
the bills that is in this lands package
that we are taking up here today—to
do exactly that: Provide permanent
protection for Paradise Valley.
After months of working together,
this bill became known as the Yellow-
stone Gateway Protection Act. This
bill is a result of collaboration; it is
the result of hard work, and it does ex-
actly what is in the title. It will pro-
tect the gateway to Yellowstone by
permanently eliminating the ability of
proposed mines to expand onto public
land near the doorstep of our Nation’s
first national park, Yellowstone.
Responsible, natural resource devel-
opment plays an important role in
Montana’s economy, but there are sim-
ply some places where you should not
drill or dig, and one of those is at the
doorstep of Yellowstone National Park.
By permanently protecting the gate-
way, we can protect thousands of jobs
and billions of dollars that flow into
Montana’s economy every year.
Senator MANCHIN talked about the
impact of the outdoor economy on
West Virginia. We are very much a part
of that outdoor economy. Fly fisher-
men spend more than $70 million annu-
ally at these local businesses while try-
ing to earn the respect of Yellowstone
River’s brown, rainbow, and cutthroat
trout. In total, the communities in
Park County see nearly $200 million
pumped into their local economy every
year, a trend that continues to rise and
rise rapidly.
Quite frankly, if you haven’t been
there, I will just explain it this way to
you: God doesn’t make places like this
everywhere. It is a special place. It is a
place so special that the people who
live there understand that it could go
away with one bad decision. So we need
to protect it and protect those small
businesses and protect that way of life.
That is why this week, as we pass
this lands package that the Yellow-
stone Gateway Protection bill is a part
of, these business owners now can sleep
at night, knowing that the businesses
they have built over the past many
decades will continue and they will be
able to continue to look for the oppor-
tunity that God has created into Para-
dise Valley.
But this Yellowstone Gateway Pro-
tection Act isn’t the only provision
that Montanans are fighting for. The
Land and Water Conservation Fund is
the best conservation tool this country
has. It does a lot of really good things,
including access to public lands, in-
cluding making sure we have more of
our hunting, fishing, and hiking spots
available to folks who don’t have to be
millionaires. Since this Land and
Water Conservation Fund was founded
some 5 decades ago, LWCF has invested
hundreds of millions of dollars to in-
crease outdoor activities on our public
lands. We have used it to preserve tens
of thousands of acres of the world-class
elk habitat in central Montana.
We invested LWCF dollars to in-
crease fishing access sites along the
rivers that Norman McLean made so
famous in ‘‘A River Runs Through
It’’—the Blackfoot and the Missouri.
LWCF is a driver of Montana’s ever-
growing, increasing $7 billion-a-year
outdoor economy. Best of all, it is paid
for by offshore drilling fees, so it
doesn’t cost the taxpayer a dime.
Despite all of this success, the major-
ity has allowed LWCF to expire twice
in the last 4 years. I will tell you that
this uncertainty has taken a toll on
Montana’s hunters, hikers, anglers,
and businesses, which rely on our Na-
tion’s best conservation tool.
This lands package will again guar-
antee that LWCF will never expire
again. It permanently reauthorizes this
very successful initiative, and it guar-
antees that Montanans and all Ameri-
cans have the long-term ability to ex-
pand and protect public access for fu-
ture generations—ecosystems that, by
the way, may not be around in another
10 or 20 years.
Passing this legislation is a big win
for our public lands and for the outdoor
economy, but our work is not done yet.
We have more work to do.
Permanently reauthorizing LWCF is
very, very important, but where the
rubber really meets the road is LWCF
funding.
LWCF was authorized to receive $900
million some 50 years ago. In the Presi-
dent’s budget last year, he proposed $8
million for LWCF. Remember what I
just said. Over 50 years ago, it was
meant to have $900 million. Last year,
the President’s budget proposed $8 mil-
lion—a cut of nearly a half billion dol-
lars from the previous year.
After Congress rejected that proposal
and it appropriated a little over $400
million for LWCF, nearly every Mem-
ber of the majority, except one, right
after we put those dollars in, voted to
rescind a chunk of those dollars.
So the fact of the matter is that
without mandatory funding, our public
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:48 Feb 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00028 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G06FE6.046 S06FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S903
February 6, 2019
lands will remain a victim to this po-
litical seesaw.
Save for the sake of our public lands,
for the sake of our kids, and for the
sake of clean air and clean water, I
think this bipartisan lands package
serves as a launching point toward
mandatory funding for LWCF.
I know there is already a bipartisan
bill out there that does exactly that.
So I would just say that we have part
of the job done. We ought not to be
taking victory laps for doing part of
the job. We have more work to do, and
that is to fully fund the Land and
Water Conservation Fund, and, hope-
fully, we will get a bipartisan effort to
do exactly that because these are im-
portant investments. They are invest-
ments that will maintain a quality of
life not only today but tomorrow, for
future generations and for them the op-
portunity to reap the kind of economic
rewards that we do because of the fore-
sight and vision of generations that
came before us.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Kansas.
ORGAN DONOR PROCUREMENT
Mr. MORAN. Madam President, I rise
today to express my dissatisfaction and
disappointment over what is a life-and-
death matter for many Americans. My
disappointment is about the actions re-
cently taken by the Center for Medi-
care and Medicaid Services, and the ac-
tion they took was reinstating the
organ procurement organization
LiveOnNY.
I am a Kansan. This is not an organi-
zation that is located in my State, but
this decision by CMS, when combined
with recent policy changes from the
Organ Procurement and Transplant
Network, misses the mark, and it
misses it widely. We should be improv-
ing the organ procurement process and
increasing the number of available or-
gans for transplant rather than ex-
panding the distance organs travel and
moving additional organs from high do-
nation areas to low donation areas.
CMS’ recent decision to renew this
contract, which was initially meant to
be canceled due to years of poor per-
formance, is troublesome. This organi-
zation was the only organization out of
the 58 organ procurement organiza-
tions to have a contract canceled for
poor performance, which was only done
after numerous reprimands and pen-
alties that failed to lead to improve-
ment.
Conversely, it was reassuring that
CMS was finally going to take some re-
sponsibility toward ensuring that
donor organizations are adequately
performing their jobs and protecting
patients. However, CMS quickly re-
versed course and abdicated their duty
to protect some of our Nation’s most
vulnerable patients when they an-
nounced they would reinstate this li-
cense.
Our Nation continues to face a short-
age of organ donors. We need more
donor organs, but our agencies and or-
ganizations, which should be demand-
ing accountability and improvements,
continue to turn a blind eye to a cul-
prit, and that is the consistent failure
to live up to expectations and to waste
organs that could save lives.
This failure to address this issue in-
creases wait times for patients who
need organs and causes unnecessary
stress and anxiousness for those who
are on that waiting list for a potential
organ at a time when they grow sicker
and sicker.
Health and Human Services, CMS, or
the Center for Medicaid and Medicare
Services, HRSA, OPTN, and UNOS are
all abbreviations for organizations that
share the blame for the predicament
our country finds itself in.
This is perhaps the most important
part of what I want to reiterate or
state again on the Senate floor: These
organizations have decided that in-
stead of pushing organ procurement or-
ganizations to do their job, they will
simply draw more organs away from
areas with quality donor organizations
and high donation rates—places in the
Midwest, places like Kansas, places
like Missouri. So the solution to a
problem—the lack of organs to be
transplanted—is not to get more people
to donate organs and to improve the
organizations responsible for those do-
nations but, instead, to take organs
from places that are doing their job
and transmit them across the country.
I have written to and am waiting on
responses from the Secretary of Health
and Human Services, Mr. Azar. There
are two letters, in fact, that remain
unanswered.
The first letter was sent by Senator
BLUNT and me expressing our concern
at OPTN’s decision to ignore trans-
plant experts and push through a dan-
gerous new policy related to liver allo-
cations for donation.
The second letter, signed by a quar-
ter of the U.S. Senate, expresses broad
concern with OPTN’s process and the
reasoning behind a proposal that ap-
pears to disadvantage areas that have
actually done their jobs.
This new policy punishes those who
are successful in procuring organs for
donation and rewards those who con-
tinue to fail and do not appear to at-
tempt to make improvements.
Let’s recall that the new policy that
we are complaining about was rammed
through by OPTN and UNOS, and it
will simply shift donated organs, like
livers, to wider areas across the coun-
try while doing nothing to improve the
donor rates countrywide or to improve
the performance of OPOs. This is sim-
ply an avoidance of the problem, not a
solution to it.
CMS has failed to conduct proper
oversight of organ procurement organi-
zations, leading to organ shortages
that carry a real cost in patient lives,
who die while waiting on transplant
lists.
This is a matter that affects many
States, and it is time for us to have an-
swers from those who make these deci-
sions and who make decisions without
input from those affected.
Again, I ask my Senate colleagues to
pay attention to this issue—liver
transplants, something that will make
a difference in the lives of many Amer-
icans in your States and in mine.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Minnesota.
FAIR COMPENSATION FOR LOW-WAGE
CONTRACTOR EMPLOYEES ACT OF 2019
Ms. SMITH. Madam President, last
night President Trump delivered the
State of the Union Address, and he
talked about a lot of issues, including
immigration and national security,
healthcare, and prescription drugs. He
talked about the need for bipartisan-
ship. While I don’t always agree with
the President, I do agree that we
should seek bipartisanship where we
can, and today I would like to address
one area that is ripe for bipartisan ac-
tion.
I am so pleased that Senator BROWN,
Senator VAN HOLLEN, Senator WARNER,
Senator CARDIN, and Senator KAINE
have all played key roles in the effort
I am going to talk about this after-
noon, and many of them will be joining
me today on the Senate floor. In addi-
tion, Senator CASEY will be joining us,
and I am so glad that he is adding his
voice.
So many Americans suffered during
the wasteful and unnecessary govern-
ment shutdown that recently ended,
but for one group of Americans, the
shutdown isn’t over. These Americans
are employees of Federal contractors.
Now, in previous shutdowns, Federal
contractors didn’t receive backpay, and
they haven’t received backpay after
this shutdown, either. Now, that is not
fair, and several of my colleagues and I
are determined to fix this. So over the
next hour or so, my colleagues and I
will come together on the Senate floor
to talk about the importance of pro-
viding backpay to the employees of
Federal contractors who lost over a
month’s worth of wages.
Thousands of Federal contract em-
ployees work shoulder to shoulder with
Federal employees to make the govern-
ment work. They clean office build-
ings, provide security, serve millions of
meals a year, and do countless other
jobs.
In an op-ed published today, Con-
gresswoman AYANNA PRESSLEY, the
sponsor of the House companion to our
bill, and I shared a story that we heard
from Tamela Worthen, a security guard
at the Smithsonian Institution.
Tamela said that she was worried that
she would fall behind on her mortgage
and car payments, ruining the good
credit that she had worked so long and
hard to build. As she spoke, beads of
sweat started rolling down her face. We
were wondering: Was she nervous about
speaking in front of a crowd?
But, no, as Tamela explained, she is
diabetic and has high blood pressure.
Without her regular paycheck, she
hadn’t been able to afford the copay for
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:48 Feb 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00029 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G06FE6.048 S06FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S904 February 6, 2019
a doctor’s appointment to have her
blood tested and her prescription re-
newed. So she was going without her
medicine.
Too often, these Federal contract
workers are invisible to the public, but
I want them to know that those of us
speaking on the Senate floor today
haven’t forgotten about them.
Now I would like to read a little bit
of a letter that I got from a con-
stituent in Minnesota named Annie.
Annie is a chemist who works as a Fed-
eral contractor at the Environmental
Protection Agency in Duluth, MN, and
she wrote me a powerful letter about
how the shutdown affected her. Here
are a few pieces of what she shared.
Annie wrote:
I look forward to my job because I am sur-
rounded by colleagues who are passionate
about their work and want to make a signifi-
cant change towards bettering our environ-
ment. . . . This work contributes to a large
collaborative effort of tracking and moni-
toring the health of the Great Lakes, a price-
less freshwater resource.
Annie went on to say:
My frustration with the shutdown stems
not only from a personal angle, but also from
the halt it has put on environmental re-
search.
She says:
I am losing wages that I count on each
month to make significant payments to-
wards my student loans and contributions to
my savings, including my retirement sav-
ings. I can honestly say I never thought I
would be applying for unemployment, espe-
cially at 31 years old, but today I did just
that. Of course, collecting unemployment is
better than no wages at all, but it is still a
far cry from earning my normal income.
Annie finishes by saying:
The irritation I feel about the shutdown
extends beyond lost wages. I am very pas-
sionate about my work, and I believe that
what I do is important and contributes to a
critical subject: The environment.
Now, Annie makes a great point.
Federal contract workers like Annie do
important work for people in Min-
nesota and across the country, and it is
wrong for Annie to go without pay be-
cause of a shutdown fight that had
nothing to do with her.
The Senate recently passed legisla-
tion to provide backpay to Federal em-
ployees authored by Senator CARDIN,
and I am very honored to be able to
support Senator CARDIN in that work.
That bill passed without a single Sen-
ator objecting.
Now, I strongly support providing
backpay to Federal employees, and it
is just common sense that the contrac-
tors who work side by side with these
Federal employees should get the same
backpay that they deserve as well.
The shutdown was wasteful, and it
made pawns of hundreds of thousands
of people. Yet Federal contractors have
never been made whole in any shut-
down, including this last one, and we
think that needs to change.
Why should these hard-working peo-
ple be forced to pay the price for the
shutdown?
So we are working to fix this, and we
have bipartisan legislation to do so.
Here is what our bill would do. It
would use an existing contracting proc-
ess that is known as equitable adjust-
ment to make sure that contractors
can provide backpay to workers, with
full backpay to low-wage workers and
partial backpay to those who are earn-
ing higher incomes.
Our effort is gaining support every
day. In the Senate, we now have bipar-
tisan support with a group of more
than 40 cosponsors and counting, and
nearly 70 organizations, including the
AFL–CIO, the National Partnership
For Women and Families, Oxfam
America, the United Methodist Church
General Board of Church and Society,
and the United Steelworkers that have
all written in support of providing
backpay for these workers.
This is what their letter of support
says in part: ‘‘These federal contract
workers help keep our nation running,
even if their paychecks aren’t cut di-
rectly by the U.S. government, and
they need their paychecks just as badly
as federal employees and deserve the
same considerations when the govern-
ment shuts down.’’
So I want to say thank you to every-
one who continues to make their voices
heard on this important issue. I am es-
pecially thankful to the workers who
shared their stories, like the great-
grandmother who is taking care of her
two great-grandchildren, the employee
who was furloughed from two different
jobs who now can’t afford his electric
bill, and the worker at risk of losing
their home because they couldn’t pay
their mortgage.
Providing backpay to contractors is
an important opportunity for Repub-
licans and Democrats to do what is
right and to come together. If you
think it is wrong that hard-working
people didn’t get paid because of a
shutdown that had nothing to do with
them, then it is time for you to make
your voice heard. Let’s fix this, and
let’s fix it through hashtag
‘‘BackPayNow.’’
Thank you very much.
I yield to Senator CARDIN from Mary-
land.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Maryland.
Mr. CARDIN. Madam President, first
of all, I want to thank Senator SMITH
for her leadership on this issue. This
involves 1.2 million contract workers
who could very well not only lose their
pay from the 35 days of the Govern-
ment shutdown but not have any mech-
anism to receive that backpay.
Senator SMITH has filed legislation
that is fair legislation, it works, and it
is the right thing for us to do. These
workers did not lose their pay because
of anything they did wrong. These are
the same as government workers be-
cause they are performing government
work. They are maintaining our build-
ings, cleaning our buildings, providing
security for government buildings. In
some respects, these are very similar
to our direct Federal workforce.
We know that this 35-day, dangerous,
outrageous, and unnecessary shutdown
caused tremendous harm. We know the
harm it caused 800,000 Federal workers.
Over half were forced to work without
pay, but they showed up and worked
because they are patriotic Americans
who believe very much in the mission
they are doing on behalf of this coun-
try, the noble service of public service
on behalf of their fellow citizens. Can
you imagine trying to figure out how
you are going to find money to put gas-
oline in your car so you can drive to
work to do your service and not get
paid for that day of work or how you
are going to pay for your daycare or
how you are going to pay for your daily
expenses? But they are loyal, patriotic
people who showed up every day for
work. Close to 400,000 were furloughed
and locked out without pay.
As Senator SMITH said, this body,
with the help of the House and the sig-
nature of the President—S. 24, legisla-
tion I authored with Senator SMITH’s
help, the Government Employees Fair
Treatment Act, makes it clear that in
the event of a shutdown, our Federal
workforce will get their paychecks.
They will not get them timely. They
are still going to be inconvenienced.
They are still not going to be able to
pay their bills. But they will know that
at the end of the day, when govern-
ment reopens, they are going to get
their paychecks, as they should and as
every Member of this body agreed is
the right thing to do, because our Fed-
eral workforce was not responsible for
this shutdown.
But it goes beyond just 800,000. It
even goes beyond our contract workers.
Our economy itself suffered. I had an
opportunity to be the ranking Demo-
crat on the Small Business and Entre-
preneurship Committee. I can tell you
that small businesses throughout the
country were very much impacted by
this 35-day shutdown. I am talking
about small businesses that didn’t have
a direct relationship with the govern-
ment or contract with the govern-
ment—small businesses near our na-
tional parks.
I had a meeting with Senator VAN
HOLLEN in Montgomery County, MD,
with small businesses in the commu-
nity. Because there were so many Fed-
eral workers who had been furloughed
without pay and contract workers who
didn’t have paychecks, the average
business that was there that day—
there were many there—their business
was down 20 to 60 percent. They are not
going to be compensated for this.
Of course, the American people were
denied the services they needed, wheth-
er it was the FBI in full force to keep
them safe or food inspectors doing
their work. This was a disastrous shut-
down.
We can do something for the contract
workers. As I said, these are people
who are doing work on behalf of this
Nation. They are working in our build-
ings. They are keeping our buildings
safe. They are keeping our buildings
clean. They are working for modest
pay. These are not highly paid jobs.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:48 Feb 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00030 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G06FE6.049 S06FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S905
February 6, 2019
They were not paid during those 35
days, and unless Senator SMITH’s legis-
lation is passed, they will not get com-
pensated.
I want to thank Senator SMITH for S.
162, the Fair Compensation for Low-
Wage Contractor Employees Act. It is
well-drafted using existing mechanisms
to compensate low-paid contract serv-
ice workers. It is the right thing to do.
We estimate that as many as 1.2 mil-
lion people could be affected by this.
This has had a major impact on their
lives and on our economy.
During the shutdown last month, I
received a letter from Robert Conrad,
president and CEO of LJT & Associ-
ates. LJT & Associates is a midsized
firm based in Columbia, MD, that is
the top contractor for NASA’s Wallops
Island flight facility on the Eastern
Shore.
Mr. Conrad wrote: ‘‘The shutdown
has had a significant negative impact
on our business and, more importantly,
our employees and their families . . .
As a result of this lengthy government
shutdown our company has not been
paid by NASA and other agencies for
work performed in November and De-
cember 2018 and this lack of payment
continues to worsen by the day. As a
result, we are faced with decisions to
furlough or lay off our valuable em-
ployees. Unlike federal civil servants,
our employees will not receive pay for
suspended work during the shutdown,
making the impacts of the layoff a per-
manent financial burden for them and
their families.’’
Well, let’s respond to Mr. Conrad.
Let’s respond to those 1.2 million
Americans who are doing work on be-
half of all of us. The shutdown was not
their fault. As we compensated our
Federal workforce, let’s also provide a
safety net for those who lost their com-
pensation as a result of this shutdown,
the low-wage service workers.
I hope we can find a way to quickly
pass S. 162, and I again thank Senator
SMITH for her leadership.
Ms. SMITH. Will Senator CARDIN
yield?
Mr. CARDIN. I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Minnesota.
Ms. SMITH. Senator CARDIN, I want
to take a moment to thank you so
much for your leadership on this and
for making sure that Federal employ-
ees get the backpay they deserve. I
know that when this issue first became
clear to me, you were one of the first
people I called over the Christmas holi-
day to talk about what we might do to
fix this problem. So I greatly appre-
ciate your partnership on this, along
with the partnership of so many of my
other colleagues here but particularly
your help on this. Thank you very
much.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Maryland.
Mr. CARDIN. Madam President, I
want to thank Senator SMITH, who
called me during the holiday recess and
said: We have this problem. How do we
fix it?
I really appreciated the phone call I
received from Senator SMITH. She rec-
ognized that we had to build support
for the legislation but also make it
work right because it is much more
complicated to figure out the target
group we are trying to help to make
sure it is drafted in the right way. She
reached out to get that type of help on
drafting, as well as getting support
among the stakeholders to make sure
the bill was properly drafted. It took
some time, and now we have a bill that
we can all be proud to support.
So once again, I want to thank my
colleague from Minnesota for the man-
ner in which she has gone about pre-
senting this legislation.
Ms. SMITH. Thank you.
Thank you, Madam President.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The assistant bill clerk proceeded to
call the roll.
Mr. VAN HOLLEN. Madam Presi-
dent, I ask unanimous consent that the
order for the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
Mr. VAN HOLLEN. Madam Presi-
dent, I thank the Senator from Min-
nesota, Senator SMITH, for organizing
this discussion on the Senate floor
today to bring attention to the plight
of the Federal contract employees who
were locked out of their jobs for 35
days and, therefore, didn’t get pay-
checks for 35 days, even though the
bills kept coming in. I hope that we
will avoid another government shut-
down in the coming weeks.
We should also use this time to make
sure that we repair some of the damage
that was caused by the unnecessary
and really shameful record-long 35-day
government shutdown. It should never
have happened. It caused disruption
throughout the country. Small busi-
nesses, in many cases, were unable to
get loans. We know that we had 800,000
Federal employees who didn’t get pay-
checks and that Federal service con-
tract employees went without work in
many of our Agencies.
I was pleased that this body, on a bi-
partisan basis, adopted a measure to
make sure that Federal employees re-
ceive backpay. I was pleased to work
with Senator CARDIN, Senator SMITH,
and others on the Republican side to
get that done. That was really impor-
tant. We provided Federal employees
with the certainty that, at the end of
the shutdown, they would all receive
backpay, but we have not done any-
thing similar for Federal contract em-
ployees, and we need to do that. Sen-
ator SMITH and I and others have intro-
duced legislation that we hope we can
incorporate into whatever agreement
we reach to reopen the government
that addresses the plight of these Fed-
eral service contract employees.
I just want to bring to the attention
of our colleagues one of those individ-
uals. Her name is Lila Johnson. Ms.
Johnson was my guest last night at the
State of the Union Address. I invited
her here to draw attention to the
plight that she and others find them-
selves in.
She is 71 years old. She lives in Ha-
gerstown, MD. She commutes about 2
hours a day to the Department of Agri-
culture, where for 21 years she has pro-
vided janitorial services to help keep
the Department of Agriculture up and
running and clean. She is, right now,
the primary breadwinner for two of her
grandchildren, who depend on her and
the support she receives from her job
to make sure they can put food on the
table and pay for medical expenses and
pay for housing. When the government
shut down for 35 days, Ms. Johnson
didn’t get a paycheck.
She is not a highly paid employee
like most of these Federal service con-
tractors whom we are talking about.
We are talking about people who are
living, really, paycheck to paycheck—
people who provide janitorial services
and cafeteria services. We are talking
about security guards and some con-
struction workers around the country.
We are talking about lower wage and
middle-wage employees who work for
companies that contract with the Fed-
eral Government to provide services.
So Ms. Johnson is really scrambling
now to pay the bills and to keep her fi-
nancial head above water. That is why
I was pleased that she could join us
last evening. I had hoped that, maybe,
the President would have said some-
thing about service contract employ-
ees.
Many of us wrote a letter to the Of-
fice of Management and Budget, asking
the OMB to use its contract authority
to try to make these Federal service
contract employees whole because we
believed that it had some power to
make contract adjustments to fix some
of this problem. We don’t know exactly
what the extent of the OMB’s author-
ity is, and we don’t know if it will use
it in the administration even if it has
it. That is why it is really important
that we move forward and act on this
legislation.
I think we all agree that it is not fair
to punish people who have had nothing
to do with the political dysfunction in
this body and in Washington. Ms. John-
son has had nothing to do with the dis-
pute that we have had in this body and
the dispute with the President. For
goodness’ sake, she works for the De-
partment of Agriculture. The Depart-
ment of Agriculture has nothing to do
with how we most effectively provide
border security. The Department of Ag-
riculture is one of the eight or nine De-
partments that was held hostage for a
dispute that had nothing to do with the
Department of Agriculture’s mission.
That is why people like Lila Johnson
have been caught up in something they
had nothing to do with. It seems to me
that the right thing for us to do is to
make sure the people who are sort of
caught in the political crossfire are not
the ones who, at the end of the day, are
punished.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:48 Feb 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00031 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G06FE6.051 S06FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S906 February 6, 2019
I hope we will do the right thing on
a bipartisan basis. We have introduced
a piece of legislation. It is a bipartisan
piece of legislation. It has Democratic
and Republican Senators. The same is
true for a similar piece of legislation in
the House. So I am very hopeful that
we will use the opportunity of the
agreement to reopen the government.
Hopefully, we will get there, and we
will keep it open. I hope we will use
that opportunity to address this injus-
tice and to right this wrong.
Again, I thank the Senator from Min-
nesota.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
CRAMER). The Senator from Minnesota.
Ms. SMITH. Mr. President, I thank
Senator VAN HOLLEN for being here to
talk about this.
When I first became aware of this
issue, which was over what was the
Christmas holiday for us—Federal em-
ployees and Federal contractors were
already not working and not getting
paid—Senator VAN HOLLEN was one of
the first people whom I called to try to
figure out what we might do to resolve
this, to solve this problem.
I thank you for your leadership and
for all of the help that you have given
me and all of us to try to figure out
this problem. Thank you very much. It
has been wonderful to work with you
on this.
I also note that I am very grateful to
see my colleague Senator CASEY here,
who, I believe, also has some things to
say about this.
I thank the Presiding Officer.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Pennsylvania.
Mr. CASEY. Mr. President, I rise to
speak about the same topic that my
colleague from Maryland and my col-
league from Minnesota just spoke of. I
will start by highlighting the legisla-
tion that Senator SMITH from Min-
nesota has been leading. I am grateful
for her work and am grateful to be a
cosponsor and a supporter of the legis-
lation.
The Fair Compensation for Low-
Wage Contractor Employees Act is the
bill that we are talking about. I think
it is critically important that we pass
this legislation. The country has en-
dured the shutdown of 35 days. Now we
are in this interim period, waiting for
the results of negotiations that are un-
derway with appropriators. We wish
them well, and we hope they can come
to an agreement that can be signed
into law so that we will not have the
threat of yet another shutdown. In this
case, President Trump decided to shut
the government down for 35 days. That
decision, I guess, was prompted by his
not receiving funding or winning the
debate, at that time, for the funding of
his proposed border wall.
As we know, Federal employees, as
opposed to Federal contractors, have
received backpay. That was pursuant
to legislation that was led by Senator
CARDIN. I know his colleague from
Maryland, Senator VAN HOLLEN, who
just spoke, also worked very hard to
pass that legislation. That is good news
that Federal employees have backpay.
In this case now, though, although
the government has been open for near-
ly 2 weeks, many vulnerable, low-wage
Federal contractors, as opposed to em-
ployees, are still struggling due to the
lack of their backpay. They were not
covered by the bill that provided back-
pay to Federal employees. Over 820,000
Federal workers went without pay in
the 35-day shutdown. It is also esti-
mated that some 2 million private sec-
tor employees who work at companies
that contract with the Federal Govern-
ment also may have gone without pay.
Although the financial future of the
Federal contractors was and remains in
serious jeopardy, many of their stories
have gone untold. For example, a con-
stituent of mine from Adams County,
which is on the southernmost border—
right on the Maryland-Pennsylvania
border—is a Federal employee, not a
contractor, who was furloughed, and
her husband works for a private com-
pany that has a contract with the TSA.
So there, in one family, one couple,
you have a Federal employee, and you
have an employee of a Federal con-
tractor.
This is what this constituent said:
Because of all of this, we have taken our
children out of daycare . . . so, now our
daycare provider is without hundreds of dol-
lars a month. This will keep trickling down
to many others. . . . It will not just affect
federal employees.
That is what a woman from Adams
County said.
Then you go further east in our State
to Montgomery County, a very popu-
lous, suburban Philadelphia county.
This constituent is a Federal con-
tractor. I will read part of this letter,
not all of it. This constituent said: ‘‘As
of now, I am back working; however, it
may only be until February 15th.’’
That is the day when the current
continuing resolution runs out.
I will continue the letter with these
words:
In these last 6 weeks, I have completely
drained the family’s rainy day fund. . . . I
have asked all my utilities and credit card
companies to postpone my due payments. In
addition, my 8-year-old daughter was con-
cerned we are not going to be able to eat.
Like many Americans we live paycheck to
paycheck.
I could go on from there, but I will
not. I think people understand the sen-
timent. Most people have some sense of
the gravity of the suffering and what
could be even additional suffering, but
most of us can’t even begin to imagine.
The longest shutdown in American
history might be over, but these Fed-
eral contractors are still struggling to
put food on the table, to purchase med-
icine, and to pay their bills on time.
That is why, led by Senator SMITH, we
must pass this legislation, the Fair
Compensation for Low-Wage Con-
tractor Employees Act. The legislation
would compensate contractors for pro-
viding backpay to low-wage contractor
service employees who have been fur-
loughed or laid off during the shut-
down.
Who are these individuals we are
talking about? Here are just a few ex-
amples. They are custodians, security
guards, and food service workers who
work alongside Federal employees and
ensure that our government runs
smoothly.
We always hear a lot of talk by poli-
ticians and sometimes citizens who
complain about the government, deni-
grate the government, and talk about
how bad the government is. Then we go
through a 35-day shutdown, and people
realize, maybe more significantly,
what the government does every day.
It does, in fact, help our country run.
The country doesn’t run simply be-
cause of the private sector.
When we are dealing with the after-
math of this, we have to be thinking of
making those employees whole but also
helping the contractors and those who
work, of course, for the contractors.
These Americans, just like the Federal
employees, also deserve to be made
whole once again. It is essential that
we show our support for those workers
who keep the government running,
whether they are employees or con-
tractors.
Shutdowns are harmful to the Fed-
eral workforce in both the short and
long term. They pose immediate dan-
ger of destroying the economic well-
being of working families. As we have
heard from constituents across the
country and some I just noted today,
frequent shutdowns create uncertainty
and dissuade people from entering pub-
lic service. These are just two of the
adverse outcomes or consequences.
The bottom line is that we not only
need to repair some of the damage and
help people by way of legislation or
other actions, but we should also com-
mit ourselves—both parties, both
Houses, and it would help enormously
if the President of the United States
would also commit himself—to a very
simple goal: no more shutdowns—no
more shutdowns by anyone.
In fact, I know that there are a num-
ber of pieces of legislation that would,
if not have that effect, then at least
create the greatest disincentives for a
shutdown to occur. It would help all of
us if the President used that micro-
phone that he has every day to make it
very clear that he is committed to no
more shutdowns, no more hostage-tak-
ing, and no more use of shutdowns for
leverage.
If the President will not do it, the
Congress has to act and send him legis-
lation. He has the right to veto legisla-
tion, of course, but I would hope that if
he receives bipartisan legislation to
make people whole, to pass Senator
SMITH’s bill, or to pass legislation to
prevent future shutdowns from ever oc-
curring again, he would sign all of
those measures.
For purposes of today, we want to
make sure that we highlight and lift up
the legislation by Senator SMITH to
help contractors.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:48 Feb 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00032 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G06FE6.053 S06FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S907
February 6, 2019
With that, I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Mr. WHITEHOUSE. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the order
for the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
Mr. WHITEHOUSE. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that I be al-
lowed to speak as if in morning busi-
ness for up to 15 minutes.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
CLIMATE CHANGE
Mr. WHITEHOUSE. Mr. President,
judging by the deafening silence of
Senate Republicans, you would think
there was no conservative support in
this country for even the most meas-
ured response to climate change. How-
ever, many prominent Republicans are
actually clamoring for climate action.
They are just not doing it here in
Mammon Hall.
See, for example, the January 16 op-
ed in the Wall Street Journal. The Wall
Street Journal is not exactly a progres-
sive lefty rag. The opening line of the
Wall Street Journal op-ed is: ‘‘Global
climate change is a serious problem
calling for immediate national action.’’
I agree.
The op-ed is signed by 27 winners of
the Nobel Prize in economics, four
former Federal Reserve Chairs, 12 past
Chairs of the President’s Council of
Economic Advisers, and two former
Treasury Secretaries. Many were ap-
pointed by Republican Presidents.
Let’s look at what this bipartisan
group of experts and economists is pro-
posing.
Here is the first policy recommenda-
tion:
A carbon tax offers the most cost-effective
lever to reduce carbon emissions at the scale
and speed that is necessary. By correcting a
well-known market failure, a carbon tax will
send a powerful price signal that harnesses
the invisible hand of the marketplace to
steer economic actors towards a low-carbon
future.
Again, I agree. We must make the
price of fossil energy reflect the costs
of carbon pollution. That is Econ 101.
We have to do it if we are to reduce
emissions as much and as quickly as
we need to. This is why Senator SCHATZ
and I introduced the American Oppor-
tunity Carbon Fee Act to put a price on
carbon.
It is not just academic economists
and policymakers who recognize that
putting a price on carbon pollution is
the most efficient way to reduce green-
house gas emissions. Business execu-
tives agree. Few firms are more capi-
talist and fiercer than the legendary
Goldman Sachs. Consider this from Bob
Litterman, the former head of risk
management at Goldman Sachs, writ-
ing recently in the New York Times:
[F]or society at large, and the government
in particular, the most important and urgent
action required is to minimize future warm-
ing by creating appropriate global incentives
to reduce carbon dioxide emissions from
burning fossil fuels. Economists generally
agree that rather than regulate behavior, it
is more effective to allow individuals to
choose their actions, as long as the prices ap-
propriately reflect the costs—
Again, back to Econ 101—
including the risks posed by climate change.
To date, prices of energy have not reflected
the risk of future climate changes. This is a
stupid mistake. . . .
That is not very complicated eco-
nomic jargon. This is the former head
of risk management for one of the
smartest and most capitalist firms the
planet has ever seen saying that what
we are engaged in now is a ‘‘stupid mis-
take.’’ Again, I agree.
Republicans typically support free
market solutions, and this is a free
market solution. Yet, still, there re-
mains that deafening silence from the
other side of the aisle here in the Sen-
ate.
Here is the second recommendation
from the economists’ op-ed in the Wall
Street Journal:
A carbon tax should increase every year
until emissions reductions goals are met and
be revenue neutral to avoid debates over the
size of government. A consistently rising
carbon price will encourage technological in-
novation and large-scale infrastructure de-
velopment.
These are two things we want—inno-
vation and infrastructure. So again, I
agree. As to revenue neutral, the car-
bon pricing system Senator SCHATZ and
I proposed is revenue neutral. Every
penny goes back into the pockets of
Americans—none is designed to make
more or bigger government. As to inno-
vation, a carbon fee levels the playing
field so that polluters have to compete
in the market on even terms with non-
polluters. Competition on a level play-
ing field will incentivize innovation in
renewable energy, innovation in energy
efficiency, innovation in resilient in-
frastructure, and innovation in low-
carbon manufacturing and transpor-
tation.
This is not a novel concept. Nobel
Prize-winning economist William
Nordhaus showed as far back as 1992
‘‘that a low tax on carbon, set to rise
slowly, over time, could be enough to
keep emissions at reasonable levels,
saving us from climate change at lit-
tle, if any, cost. The tax would promote
innovations in new forms of power gen-
eration, and, eventually, a widespread
adoption of clean-energy tech-
nologies.’’
The latest Republican claim is that
innovation is the solution to climate
change. Fine, but you are not going to
get adequate innovation on the tilted
playing field that the fossil fuel indus-
try protects. Carbon pricing uses mar-
ket forces to drive innovation.
What else do the economists rec-
ommend?
A border carbon adjustment system should
be established. This system would enhance
the competitiveness of American firms that
are more energy-efficient than their global
competitors. It would also create an incen-
tive for other nations to adopt similar car-
bon pricing.
Again, I agree. A border carbon ad-
justment system means that products
from countries without a carbon price
are subject to a harmonizing tariff so
that they don’t have an unfair advan-
tage over domestic products. This pro-
tects American manufacturers, and, in
turn, American jobs. It motivates
other countries to help solve this glob-
al problem. People who say we need a
global solution must look to a carbon
price because it is the most efficient
global solution. That is why the White-
house-Schatz bill includes just such a
border adjustment system. By the way,
we filed this bill three Congresses ago
first. So we have been at this for a
while. The economists’ Wall Street
Journal op-ed was just a few weeks
ago. So we seem to have some conver-
gence here.
The economists continue:
To maximize the fairness and political via-
bility of a rising carbon tax, all the revenue
should be returned directly to U.S. citizens
through equal lump-sum rebates. The major-
ity of American families, including the most
vulnerable, will benefit financially—
Let me repeat that again—
will benefit financially by receiving more in
‘‘carbon dividends’’ than they pay in in-
creased energy prices.
The majority of our families, including the
most vulnerable will benefit financially.
As I already noted, the Whitehouse-
Schatz plan returns all revenue to the
American people. Carbon pricing is not
a tax increase. Lower and middle-in-
come households actually get more
money back than they may pay in
higher prices.
More than two dozen Nobel Prize
winners signed this Wall Street Jour-
nal op-ed. Their economic expertise is
unimpeachable. We have at least one
Nobel Laureate from almost every year
since the late 1990s. There are only a
few missing names, and many of those
names actually have endorsed carbon
pricing in other venues.
You might say: OK, they are just a
bunch of academics. They are all out of
touch with political realities.
Well, these were all chairs of the
Council of Economic Advisers to the
President. When you are advising the
President of the United States, you
generally adopt some sense of political
reality. Note that this is a bipartisan
list. It includes advisers to four Repub-
lican Presidents and two Democratic
Presidents. When this group of people
can agree on an economic policy, you
better believe it is not some fringe
idea, and these experts all say that car-
bon pricing is a practical solution to a
very real and pressing problem.
Here is yet another bipartisan list of
signers on the Wall Street Journal op-
ed: Fed chairs and Treasury Secre-
taries. We have top-level economic ap-
pointees from five different Republican
Presidents, all saying that ‘‘global cli-
mate change is a serious problem call-
ing for immediate national action’’ and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:48 Feb 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00033 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G06FE6.054 S06FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S908 February 6, 2019
all saying that setting a carbon price is
the best action to take. They don’t
write very big checks. So they don’t
get heard from much around here, it
seems.
But let’s think for a minute. What
about this President? What about
President Trump? What might he say?
What might President Trump think
about action on climate change?
This is a full-page advertisement
from the New York Times from 2009.
Back in 2009, Donald Trump and his
children and the Trump organization
all signed this letter published in the
New York Times. This letter urged
then-President Obama to pursue what
they called ‘‘meaningful and effective
measures to control climate change.’’
It goes on: ‘‘If we fail to act now’’—this
being 2009—‘‘it is scientifically irref-
utable that there will be catastrophic
and irreversible consequences for hu-
manity and our planet.’’ ‘‘Irrefutable,’’
‘‘catastrophic,’’ ‘‘irreversible’’—there
is not much ambiguity there.
Well, a decade has passed since this
letter, and much has changed. Now
Donald Trump mocks global warming,
and the GOP in Congress has fled from
taking any serious action on climate
change—even on policies that are as
mainstream and widely supported by
appointees of Republicans as carbon
pricing.
How did this come to pass? Well, I
was here. I saw it happen. The year
after President Trump signed this let-
ter, the Supreme Court’s disastrous
Citizens United decision opened the
floodgates to unlimited special-interest
money—money from polluters into our
politics—and that changed everything.
In 2007, we had bipartisan climate
bills. In 2008, we had bipartisan climate
bills. In 2009, we had bipartisan climate
bills. Bipartisanship was the theme of
responding to the climate change prob-
lem for those years. By my recollec-
tion, we had five different bipartisan
Senate climate bills kicking around.
Then, in January 2010 comes the Citi-
zens United decision. The fossil fuel in-
dustry pushed for it, asked for it, saw
it coming, and took immediate advan-
tage of it. Before you know it, there is
that unlimited money, often unleashed
through dark money channels, so you
don’t know who is behind it, and there
are the threats and promises that nec-
essarily accompany that power. Think
about it. If you are given the power to
spend unlimited money in politics, do
you not necessarily also have the
power to threaten to spend unlimited
money in politics? Of course, you do.
The two cannot be separated.
So the unlimited spending, the anon-
ymous dark money, and the threats
and promises combined to shut down
the Republican Party on this issue. It
was like turning off the lights. From
January 2010 forward, no Republican in
this Chamber has been willing to get
onto any serious piece of legislation to
reduce carbon dioxide.
Republican voters aren’t there. Re-
publican young voters are up in arms.
Republican economic leaders aren’t
there. You can look across the Repub-
lican Party, and you find a strong and
solid desire to address the climate
problem, and you even have Republican
leaders supporting a specific solution.
It is just here where it stops. It is just
here where political spending is so im-
portant that it has been able to over-
come even the judgment of Nobel
Prize-winning Republican appointees
as to how to solve this.
After he received his Nobel Prize just
last October, William Nordhaus, Nobel
Prize-winning economist, lamented:
‘‘It’s hard to be optimistic. . . . We’re
actually going backward in the United
States, with the disastrous policies of
the Trump administration.’’
Where is 2009 Donald Trump? Where
is the guy who signed this? I want that
guy back. These economists of all po-
litical backgrounds know what is going
on, and they know how to fix it. The
American people know what is going
on, and they want us to fix it. It is
time for us to take action, and it is
time for us to wake up.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The bill clerk proceeded to call the
roll.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the order
for the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
MORNING BUSINESS
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate be in a period of morning business,
with Senators permitted to speak
therein for up to 10 minutes each.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
ARMS SALES NOTIFICATION
Mr. RISCH. Mr. President, section
36(b) of the Arms Export Control Act
requires that Congress receive prior no-
tification of certain proposed arms
sales as defined by that statute. Upon
such notification, the Congress has 30
calendar days during which the sale
may be reviewed. The provision stipu-
lates that, in the Senate, the notifica-
tion of proposed sales shall be sent to
the chairman of the Senate Foreign
Relations Committee.
In keeping with the committee’s in-
tention to see that relevant informa-
tion is available to the full Senate, I
ask unanimous consent to have printed
in the RECORD the notifications which
have been received. If the cover letter
references a classified annex, then such
annex is available to all Senators in
the office of the Foreign Relations
Committee, room SD–423.
There being no objection, the mate-
rial was ordered to be printed in the
RECORD, as follows:
DEFENSE SECURITY
COOPERATION AGENCY,
Arlington, VA.
Hon. JAMES E. RISCH,
Chairman, Committee on Foreign Relations,
U.S. Senate, Washington, DC.
DEAR MR. CHAIRMAN: Pursuant to the re-
porting requirements of Section 36(b)(1) of
the Arms Export Control Act, as amended,
we are forwarding herewith Transmittal No.
19–02, concerning the Air Force’s proposed
Letter(s) of Offer and Acceptance to the Gov-
ernment of India for defense articles and
services estimated to cost $190 million. After
this letter is delivered to your office, we plan
to issue a news release to notify the public of
this proposed sale.
Sincerely,
CHARLES W. HOOPER,
Lieutenant General, USA, Director.
Enclosures.
TRANSMITTAL NO. 19–02
Notice of Proposed Issuance of Letter of
Offer Pursuant to Section 36(b)(1) of the
Arms Export Control Act, as amended
(i) Prospective Purchaser: Government of
India.
(ii) Total Estimated Value:
Major Defense Equipment $26 million.
Other $164 million.
TOTAL $190 million.
(iii) Description and Quantity or Quan-
tities of Articles or Services under Consider-
ation for Purchase: India has requested a
possible sale of two (2) Self-Protection
Suites (SPS) consisting of AN/AAQ 24(V)N
Large Aircraft Infrared Countermeasures
(LAIRCM), ALQ–211(V)8 Advanced Integrated
Defensive Electronic Warfare Suite
(AIDEWS), and AN/ALE–47 Counter-Meas-
ures Dispensing System (CMDS) to protect
two (2) Boeing–777 Head-of-State aircraft.
The LAIRCM system consists of three (3)
Guardian Laser Terminal Assemblies
(GLTA), six (6) Missile Warning Sensors
(MWS) for AN/AAQ–24 (V)N, one (1) LAIRCM
System Processor Replacements (LSPR), one
(1) Control Indicator Unit Replacement
(CIUR), one (1) Smart Card Assembly and
one (1) High Capacity Card (HCC)/User Data
Memory (UDM) card.
Major Defense Equipment (MDE):
Twelve (12) Guardian Laser Transmitter
Assemblies (GLTA) AN/AAQ–24(V)N (6 in-
stalled, 6 spares).
Eight (8) LAIRCM System Processor Re-
placements (LSPR) AN/AAQ–24(V)N (2 in-
stalled, 6 spares).
Twenty-three (23) Missile Warning Sensors
(MWS) for AN/AAR–54 AAQ–24(V)N (12 in-
stalled, 11 spares).
Five (5) AN/ALE–47 Counter-Measures Dis-
pensing System (CMDS) (2 installed, 3
spares).
Non-MDE: Also included are Advanced In-
tegrated Defensive Electronic Warfare Suites
(AIDEWS), LAIRCM CIURs, SCAs, HCCs, and
UDM cards, initial spares, consumables, re-
pair and return support, support equipment,
Self-Protection Suite (SPS) engineering de-
sign, integration, hardware integration,
flight test and certification, selective avail-
ability anti-spoofing modules (SAASM), war-
ranties, publications and technical docu-
mentation, training and training equipment,
field service representatives; U.S. Govern-
ment and contractor engineering, technical
and logistics support services, and other re-
lated elements of logistical and program sup-
port.
(iv) Military Department: Air Force (IN–D–
QAF).
(v) Prior Related Cases, if any: IN–D–QJD,
IN–D–QAA, IN–D–QAD.
(vi) Sales Commission, Fee, etc., Paid, Of-
fered, or Agreed to be Paid: None.
(vii) Sensitivity of Technology Contained
in the Defense Article or Defense Services
Proposed to be Sold: See Attached Annex.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:14 Feb 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00034 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G06FE6.057 S06FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S909
February 6, 2019
(viii) Date Report Delivered to Congress:
February 6, 2019.
*As defined in Section 47(6) of the Arms
Export Control Act.
POLICY JUSTIFICATION
India—777 Large Aircraft Infrared
Countermeasures Self-Protection Suite
The Government of India has requested to
buy two (2) Self-Protection Suites (SPS) con-
sisting of AN/AAQ 24(V)N Large Aircraft In-
frared Countermeasures (LAIRCM), ALQ–
211(V)8 Advanced Integrated Defensive Elec-
tronic Warfare Suite (AIDEWS), and AN/
ALE–47 Counter-Measures Dispensing Sys-
tem (CMDS) to protect two (2) Boeing–777
Head-of-State aircraft. This potential sale
would include: twelve (12) Guardian Laser
Transmitter Assemblies AN/AAQ–24 (V)N (6
installed and 6 spares); eight (8) LAIRCM
System Processor Replacements (LSPR) AN/
AAQ–24 (V)N (2 installed and 6 spares); twen-
ty-three (23) Missile Warning Sensors (MWS)
for AN/AAQ–24 (V)N (12 installed and 11
spares); five (5) AN/ALE–47 Counter-Measures
Dispensing System (CMDS) (2 installed and 3
spares). Also included in this sale are Ad-
vanced Integrated Defensive Electronic War-
fare Suites (AIDEWS), LAIRCM CIURs,
SCAs, HCCs, and UDM cards, initial spares,
consumables, repair and return support, sup-
port equipment, Self-Protection Suite (SPS)
engineering design, integration, hardware in-
tegration, flight test and certification, selec-
tive availability anti-spoofing modules
(SAASM), warranties, publications and tech-
nical documentation, training and training
equipment, field service representatives;
U.S. Government and contractor engineer-
ing, technical and logistics support services,
and other related elements of logistical and
program support. The total estimated cost is
$190 million.
This proposed sale will support the foreign
policy and national security of the United
States by helping to strengthen the U.S.-In-
dian strategic relationship and to improve
the security of a major defensive partner
which continues to be an important force for
political stability, peace, and economic
progress in the Indo-Pacific and South Asia
region.
The proposed sale will improve India’s ca-
pability to deter regional threats. The SPS
will facilitate a more robust capability into
areas of increased missile threats. India will
have no problem absorbing and using the
SPS system.
The proposed sale of this equipment and
support will not alter the basic military bal-
ance in the region.
The prime contractor will be Boeing Com-
pany, Oklahoma City, OK. The purchaser
typically requests offsets. Any offset agree-
ment will be defined in negotiations between
the purchaser and the contractor.
Implementation of this proposed sale will
require the assignment of one additional
U.S. contractor representative to New Delhi,
India.
There will be no adverse impact on U.S. de-
fense readiness as a result of this proposed
sale.
TRANSMITTAL NO. 19–02
Notice of Proposed Issuance of Letter of
Offer Pursuant to Section 36(b)(1) of the
Arms Export Control Act
Annex Item No. vii
(vii) Sensitivity of Technology:
1. The AN/AAQ–24(V)N LAIRCM is a self-
contained, directed energy countermeasures
system designed to protect aircraft from in-
frared-guided surface-to-air missiles. The
system features digital technology and
micro-miniature solid-state electronics. The
system operates in all conditions, detecting
incoming missiles and jamming infrared-
seeker equipped missiles with aimed bursts
of laser energy. The LAIRCM system con-
sists of multiple Missile Warning Sensors,
Guardian Laser Turret Assembly (GLTA),
LAIRCM System Processor Replacement
(LSPR), Control Indicator (CI), and a classi-
fied User Data Memory (UDM) card con-
taining the laser jam codes. The UDM card is
loaded into Computer Processor (CP) prior to
flight; when not in use, the UDM card is re-
moved from the CP and put in secure stor-
age. The Missile Warning Sensors (MWS) for
AN/AAQ–24 (V)N are mounted on the aircraft
exterior to provide omni-directional protec-
tion. The MWS detects the rocket plume of
missiles and sends appropriate data signals
to the CP for processing. The CP analyzes
the data from each sensor and automatically
deploys the appropriate countermeasure via
the GLTA. The CI displays the incoming
threat for the pilot to take appropriate ac-
tion. The CP also contains Built-in-Test
(BIT) circuitry. LAIRCM hardware is CLAS-
SIFIED. LAIRCM system software, including
Operational Flight Program and jam codes,
are classified SECRET. Technical data and
documentation to be provided is UNCLASSI-
FIED.
2. The AN/ALE–47 Countermeasure Dis-
penser Set (CMDS) provides an integrated
threat-adaptive, computer controlled capa-
bility for dispensing chaff, flares, and active
radio frequency expendables. The AN/ALE–47
system enhances aircraft survivability in so-
phisticated threat environments. The
threats countered by the CMDS include
radar-directed anti-aircraft artillery (AAA),
radar command-guided missiles, radar hom-
ing guided missiles, and infrared (IR) guided
missiles. The system is internally mounted
and may be operated as a stand-alone system
or may be integrated with other on-board
Electronic Warfare (EW) and avionics sys-
tems. The AN/ALE–47 uses threat data re-
ceived over the aircraft interfaces to assess
the threat situation and determine a re-
sponse. Expendable routines tailored to the
immediate aircraft and threat environment
may be dispensed. Hardware is UNCLASSI-
FIED. Software is SECRET. Technical data
and documentation to be provided is UN-
CLASSIFIED.
3. AN/ALQ–211 Airborne Integrated Defen-
sive Electronic Warfare Suite (AIDEWS) pro-
vides passive radar warning, wide spectrum
RF jamming, and control and management
of the entire EW system. It is an internally
or externally mounted Electronic Warfare
(EW) suite. The commercially developed sys-
tem software and hardware is UNCLASSI-
FIED. The system is classified SECRET
when loaded with a U.S.-derived EW data-
base.
4. If a technologically advanced adversary
were to obtain knowledge of the hardware
and software elements, the information
could be used to develop countermeasures or
equivalent systems which might reduce sys-
tem effectiveness or be used in the develop-
ment of a system with similar or advanced
capabilities.
5. A determination has been made that the
Government of India can provide substan-
tially the same degree of protection for the
sensitive technology being released as the
U.S. Government. This sale is necessary in
furtherance of the U.S. foreign policy and
national security objectives outlined in the
Policy Justification.
6. All defense articles and services listed in
this transmittal have been authorized for re-
lease and export to India.
SENATE COMMITTEE ON HOME-
LAND SECURITY AND GOVERN-
MENTAL AFFAIRS RULES OF
PROCEDURE
Mr. JOHNSON. Mr. President, rule
XXVI, paragraph 2, of the Standing
Rules of the Senate requires each com-
mittee to adopt rules to govern the
procedure of the committee and to pub-
lish those rules in the CONGRESSIONAL
RECORD not later than March 1 of the
first year of each Congress. Today, the
Committee on Homeland Security and
Governmental Affairs adopted com-
mittee rules of procedure.
Consistent with Standing Rule XXVI,
I ask unanimous consent to have a
copy of the rules of procedure of the
Committee on Homeland Security and
Governmental Affairs printed in the
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD.
There being no objection, the mate-
rial was ordered to be printed in the
RECORD, as follows:
RULES OF PROCEDURE OF THE COMMITTEE ON
HOMELAND SECURITY AND GOVERNMENTAL
AFFAIRS
PURSUANT TO RULE XXVI, SEC. 2, STANDING
RULES OF THE SENATE
RULE 1. MEETINGS AND MEETING PROCEDURES
OTHER THAN HEARINGS
A. Meeting dates. The Committee shall
hold its regular meetings on the first
Wednesday of each month, when the Con-
gress is in session, or at such other times as
the Chairman shall determine. Additional
meetings may be called by the Chairman as
he/she deems necessary to expedite Com-
mittee business. (Rule XXVI, Sec. 3, Stand-
ing Rules of the Senate.)
B. Calling special Committee meetings. If
at least three Members of the Committee de-
sire the Chairman to call a special meeting,
they may file in the offices of the Committee
a written request therefor, addressed to the
Chairman. Immediately thereafter, the clerk
of the Committee shall notify the Chairman
of such request. If, within 3 calendar days
after the filing of such request, the Chair-
man fails to call the requested special meet-
ing, which is to be held within 7 calendar
days after the filing of such request, a major-
ity of the Committee Members may file in
the offices of the Committee their written
notice that a special Committee meeting
will be held, specifying the date and hour
thereof, and the Committee shall meet on
that date and hour. Immediately upon the
filing of such notice, the Committee chief
clerk shall notify all Committee Members
that such special meeting will be held and
inform them of its date and hour. (Rule
XXVI, Sec. 3, Standing Rules of the Senate.)
C. Meeting notices and agenda. Written no-
tices of Committee meetings, accompanied
by an agenda, enumerating the items of busi-
ness to be considered, shall be sent to all
Committee Members at least 5 days in ad-
vance of such meetings, excluding Satur-
days, Sundays, and legal holidays in which
the Senate is not in session. The written no-
tices required by this Rule may be provided
by electronic mail. In the event that unfore-
seen requirements or Committee business
prevent a 5–day notice of either the meeting
or agenda, the Committee staff shall commu-
nicate such notice and agenda, or any revi-
sions to the agenda, as soon as practicable
by telephone or otherwise to Members or ap-
propriate staff assistants in their offices.
D. Open business meetings. Meetings for
the transaction of Committee or Sub-
committee business shall be conducted in
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:50 Feb 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00035 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06FE6.016 S06FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S910 February 6, 2019
open session, except that a meeting or series
of meetings on the same subject for a period
of no more than 14 calendar days may be
closed to the public on a motion made and
seconded to go into closed session to discuss
only whether the matters enumerated in
clauses (1) through (6) below would require
the meeting to be closed, followed imme-
diately by a record vote in open session by a
majority of the Committee or Subcommittee
Members when it is determined that the
matters to be discussed or the testimony to
be taken at such meeting or meetings—
(1) will disclose matters necessary to be
kept secret in the interests of national de-
fense or the confidential conduct of foreign
relations of the United States;
(2) will relate solely to matters of Com-
mittee or Subcommittee staff personnel or
internal staff management or procedure;
(3) will tend to charge an individual with
crime or misconduct, to disgrace or injure
the professional standing of an individual, or
otherwise expose an individual to public con-
tempt or obloquy or will represent a clearly
unwarranted invasion of the privacy of an in-
dividual;
(4) will disclose the identity of an informer
or law enforcement agent or will disclose
any information relating to the investiga-
tion or prosecution of a criminal offense that
is required to be kept secret in the interests
of effective law enforcement;
(5) will disclose information relating to the
trade secrets of financial or commercial in-
formation pertaining specifically to a given
person if—
(A) an Act of Congress requires the infor-
mation to be kept confidential by Govern-
ment officers and employees; or
(B) the information has been obtained by
the Government on a confidential basis,
other than through an application by such
person for a specific Government financial or
other benefit, and is required to be kept se-
cret in order to prevent undue injury to the
competitive position of such person; or
(6) may divulge matters required to be
kept confidential under other provisions of
law or Government regulations. (Rule XXVI,
Sec. 5(b), Standing Rules of the Senate.) Not-
withstanding the foregoing, whenever dis-
order arises during a Committee or Sub-
committee meeting that is open to the pub-
lic, or any demonstration of approval or dis-
approval is indulged in by any person in at-
tendance at any such meeting, it shall be the
duty of the Chairman to enforce order on his
or her own initiative and without any point
of order being made by a Member of the
Committee or Subcommittee; provided, fur-
ther, that when the Chairman finds it nec-
essary to maintain order, he/she shall have
the power to clear the room, and the Com-
mittee or Subcommittee may act in closed
session for so long as there is doubt of the as-
surance of order. (Rule XXVI, Sec. 5(d),
Standing Rules of the Senate.)
E. Prior notice of first degree amendments.
It shall not be in order for the Committee, or
a Subcommittee thereof, to consider any
amendment in the first degree proposed to
any measure under consideration by the
Committee or Subcommittee unless a writ-
ten copy of such amendment has been deliv-
ered to each Member of the Committee or
Subcommittee, as the case may be, and to
the office of the Committee or Sub-
committee, by no later than 4:00 p.m. two
days before the meeting of the Committee or
Subcommittee at which the amendment is to
be proposed, and, in the case of a first degree
amendment in the nature of a substitute pro-
posed by the manager of the measure, by no
later than 5:00 p.m. five days before the
meeting. The written copy of amendments in
the first degree required by this Rule may be
provided by electronic mail. This subsection
may be waived by a majority of the Members
present, or by consent of the Chairman and
Ranking Minority Member of the Committee
or Subcommittee. This subsection shall
apply only when at least 120 hours written
notice of a session to mark-up a measure is
provided to the Committee or Sub-
committee.
F. Meeting transcript. The Committee or
Subcommittee shall prepare and keep a com-
plete transcript or electronic recording ade-
quate to fully record the proceeding of each
meeting whether or not such meeting or any
part thereof is closed to the public, unless a
majority of the Committee or Subcommittee
Members vote to forgo such a record. (Rule
XXVI, Sec. 5(e), Standing Rules of the Sen-
ate.)
RULE 2. QUORUMS
A. Reporting measures and matters. A ma-
jority of the Members of the Committee
shall constitute a quorum for reporting to
the Senate any measures, matters or rec-
ommendations. (Rule XXVI, Sec. 7(a)(1),
Standing Rules of the Senate.)
B. Transaction of routine business. One-
third of the membership of the Committee
shall constitute a quorum for the trans-
action of routine business, provided that one
Member of the Minority is present. For the
purpose of this paragraph, the term ‘‘routine
business’’ includes the convening of a meet-
ing and the consideration of any business of
the Committee other than reporting to the
Senate any measures, matters or rec-
ommendations. (Rule XXVI, Sec. 7(a)(1),
Standing Rules of the Senate.)
C. Taking testimony. One Member of the
Committee shall constitute a quorum for
taking sworn or unsworn testimony. (Rule
XXVI, Sec. 7(a)(2) and 7(c)(2), Standing Rules
of the Senate.)
D. Subcommittee quorums. Subject to the
provisions of sections 7(a)(1) and (2) of Rule
XXVI of the Standing Rules of the Senate,
the Subcommittees of this Committee are
authorized to establish their own quorums
for the transaction of business and the tak-
ing of sworn testimony.
E. Proxies prohibited in establishment of
quorum. Proxies shall not be considered for
the establishment of a quorum.
RULE 3. VOTING
A. Quorum required. Subject to the provi-
sions of subsection (E), no vote may be taken
by the Committee, or any Subcommittee
thereof, on any measure or matter unless a
quorum, as prescribed in the preceding sec-
tion, is actually present.
B. Reporting measures and matters. No
measure, matter or recommendation shall be
reported from the Committee unless a ma-
jority of the Committee Members are actu-
ally present, and the vote of the Committee
to report a measure or matter shall require
the concurrence of a majority of those Mem-
bers who are actually present at the time the
vote is taken. (Rule XXVI, Sec. 7(a)(1) and
(3), Standing Rules of the Senate.)
C. Proxy voting. Proxy voting shall be al-
lowed on all measures and matters before the
Committee, or any Subcommittee thereof,
except that, when the Committee, or any
Subcommittee thereof, is voting to report a
measure or matter, proxy votes shall be al-
lowed solely for the purposes of recording a
Member’s position on the pending question.
Proxy voting shall be allowed only if the ab-
sent Committee or Subcommittee Member
has been informed of the matter on which he
or she is being recorded and has affirma-
tively requested that he or she be so re-
corded. All proxies shall be filed with the
chief clerk of the Committee or Sub-
committee thereof, as the case may be. All
proxies shall be in writing and shall contain
sufficient reference to the pending matter as
is necessary to identify it and to inform the
Committee or Subcommittee as to how the
Member establishes his or her vote to be re-
corded thereon. (Rule XXVI, Sec. 7(a)(3) and
7(c)(1), Standing Rules of the Senate.)
D. Announcement of vote. (1) Whenever the
Committee by roll call vote reports any
measure or matter, the report of the Com-
mittee upon such a measure or matter shall
include a tabulation of the votes cast in
favor of and the votes cast in opposition to
such measure or matter by each Member of
the Committee. (Rule XXVI, Sec. 7(c), Stand-
ing Rules of the Senate.)
(2) Whenever the Committee by roll call
vote acts upon any measure or amendment
thereto, other than reporting a measure or
matter, the results thereof shall be an-
nounced in the Committee report on that
measure unless previously announced by the
Committee, and such announcement shall in-
clude a tabulation of the votes cast in favor
of and the votes cast in opposition to each
such measure and amendment thereto by
each Member of the Committee who was
present at the meeting. (Rule XXVI, Sec.
7(b), Standing Rules of the Senate.)
(3) In any case in which a roll call vote is
announced, the tabulation of votes shall
state separately the proxy vote recorded in
favor of and in opposition to that measure,
amendment thereto, or matter. (Rule XXVI,
Sec. 7(b) and (c), Standing Rules of the Sen-
ate.)
E. Polling. (1) The Committee, or any Sub-
committee thereof, may poll (a) internal
Committee or Subcommittee matters includ-
ing the Committee’s or Subcommittee’s
staff, records and budget; (b) steps in an in-
vestigation, including issuance of subpoenas,
applications for immunity orders, and re-
quests for documents from agencies; and (c)
other Committee or Subcommittee business
other than a vote on reporting to the Senate
any measures, matters or recommendations
or a vote on closing a meeting or hearing to
the public.
(2) Only the Chairman, or a Committee
Member or staff officer designated by him/
her, may undertake any poll of the Members
of the Committee. If any Member requests,
any matter to be polled shall be held for
meeting rather than being polled. The chief
clerk of the Committee shall keep a record
of polls; if a majority of the Members of the
Committee determine that the polled matter
is in one of the areas enumerated in sub-
section (D) of Rule 1, the record of the poll
shall be confidential. Any Committee Mem-
ber may move at the Committee meeting fol-
lowing the poll for a vote on the polled deci-
sion, such motion and vote to be subject to
the provisions of subsection (D) of Rule 1,
where applicable.
F. Naming postal facilities. The Com-
mittee will not consider any legislation that
would name a postal facility for a living per-
son with the exception of bills naming facili-
ties after former Presidents and Vice Presi-
dents of the United States, former Members
of Congress over 70 years of age, former
State or local elected officials over 70 years
of age, former judges over 70 years of age, or
wounded veterans. The Committee will not
consider legislation that would name a post-
al facility unless it has the support of both
Senators in the delegation of the state in
which the facility is located.
G. Technical and conforming changes. A
Committee vote to report a measure to the
Senate shall also authorize the Committee
Chairman and Ranking Member by mutual
agreement to make any required technical
and conforming changes to the measure.
RULE 4. CHAIRMANSHIP OF MEETINGS AND
HEARINGS
The Chairman shall preside at all Com-
mittee meetings and hearings except that he
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:14 Feb 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00036 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06FE6.017 S06FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S911
February 6, 2019
or she shall designate a temporary Chairman
to act in his or her place if he or she is un-
able to be present at a scheduled meeting or
hearing. If the Chairman (or his or her des-
ignee) is absent 10 minutes after the sched-
uled time set for a meeting or hearing, the
Ranking Majority Member present shall pre-
side until the Chairman’s arrival. If there is
no Member of the Majority present, the
Ranking Minority Member present, with the
prior approval of the Chairman, may open
and conduct the meeting or hearing until
such time as a Member of the Majority ar-
rives.
RULE 5. HEARINGS AND HEARING PROCEDURES
A. Announcement of hearings. The Com-
mittee, or any Subcommittee thereof, shall
make public announcement of the date,
time, and subject matter of any hearing to
be conducted on any measure or matter at
least 5 days in advance of such hearing, ex-
cluding Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holi-
days in which the Senate is not in session,
unless the Committee, or Subcommittee, de-
termines that there is good cause to begin
such hearing at an earlier date. (Rule XXVI,
Sec. 4(a), Standing Rules of the Senate.)
B. Open hearings. Each hearing conducted
by the Committee, or any Subcommittee
thereof, shall be open to the public, except
that a hearing or series of hearings on the
same subject for a period of no more than 14
calendar days may be closed to the public on
a motion made and seconded to go into
closed session to discuss only whether the
matters enumerated in clauses (1) through
(6) below would require the hearing to be
closed, followed immediately by a record
vote in open session by a majority of the
Committee or Subcommittee Members when
it is determined that the matters to be dis-
cussed or the testimony to be taken at such
hearing or hearings—
(1) will disclose matters necessary to be
kept secret in the interests of national de-
fense or the confidential conduct of foreign
relations of the United States;
(2) will relate solely to matters of Com-
mittee or Subcommittee staff personnel or
internal staff management or procedure;
(3) will tend to charge an individual with
crime or misconduct, to disgrace or injure
the professional standing of an individual, or
otherwise expose an individual to public con-
tempt or obloquy or will represent a clearly
unwarranted invasion of the privacy of an in-
dividual;
(4) will disclose the identity of an informer
or law enforcement agent or will disclose
any information relating to the investiga-
tion or prosecution of a criminal offense that
is required to be kept secret in the interests
of effective law enforcement;
(5) will disclose information relating to the
trade secrets of financial or commercial in-
formation pertaining specifically to a given
person if—
(A) an Act of Congress requires the infor-
mation to be kept confidential by Govern-
ment officers and employees; or
(B) the information has been obtained by
the Government on a confidential basis,
other than through an application by such
person for a specific Government financial or
other benefit, and is required to be kept se-
cret in order to prevent undue injury to the
competitive position of such person; or
(6) may divulge matters required to be
kept confidential under other provisions of
law or Government regulations. (Rule XXVI,
Sec. 5(b), Standing Rules of the Senate.)
Notwithstanding the foregoing, whenever
disorder arises during a Committee or Sub-
committee meeting that is open to the pub-
lic, or any demonstration of approval or dis-
approval is indulged in by any person in at-
tendance at any such meeting, it shall be the
duty of the Chairman to enforce order on his
or her own initiative and without any point
of order being made by a Member of the
Committee or Subcommittee; provided, fur-
ther, that when the Chairman finds it nec-
essary to maintain order, he or she shall
have the power to clear the room, and the
Committee or Subcommittee may act in
closed session for so long as there is doubt of
the assurance of order. (Rule XXVI, Sec. 5(d),
Standing Rules of the Senate.)
C. Full Committee subpoenas. The Chair-
man, with the approval of the Ranking Mi-
nority Member of the Committee, is author-
ized to subpoena the attendance of witnesses
at a hearing or deposition or the production
of memoranda, documents, records, or any
other materials. The Chairman may sub-
poena attendance or production without the
approval of the Ranking Minority Member
where the Chairman has not received a letter
of disapproval signed by the Ranking Minor-
ity Member within 72 hours, excluding Sat-
urdays, Sundays, and legal holidays in which
the Senate is not in session, of the Ranking
Minority Member’s receipt of a letter signed
by the Chairman providing notice of the
Chairman’s intent to issue a subpoena, in-
cluding an identification of all individuals
and items sought to be subpoenaed. Delivery
and receipt of the signed notice and signed
disapproval letters and any additional com-
munications related to the subpoena may be
carried out by staff officers of the Chairman
and Ranking Minority Member, and may
occur through electronic mail. If a subpoena
is disapproved by the Ranking Minority
Member as provided in this subsection, the
subpoena may be authorized by vote of the
Members of the Committee. When the Com-
mittee or Chairman authorizes subpoenas,
subpoenas may be issued upon the signature
of the Chairman or any other Member of the
Committee designated by the Chairman.
D. Witness counsel. Counsel retained by
any witness and accompanying such witness
shall be permitted to be present during the
testimony of such witness at any public or
executive hearing or deposition to advise
such witness while he or she is testifying, of
his or her legal rights; provided, however,
that in the case of any witness who is an offi-
cer or employee of the Government, or of a
corporation or association, the Committee
Chairman may rule that representation by
counsel from the Government, corporation,
or association or by counsel representing
other witnesses, creates a conflict of inter-
est, and that the witness may only be rep-
resented during interrogation by staff or
during testimony before the Committee by
personal counsel not from the Government,
corporation, or association or by personal
counsel not representing other witnesses.
This subsection shall not be construed to ex-
cuse a witness from testifying in the event
his or her counsel is ejected for conducting
himself or herself in such manner so as to
prevent, impede, disrupt, obstruct or inter-
fere with the orderly administration of the
hearings; nor shall this subsection be con-
strued as authorizing counsel to coach the
witness or answer for the witness. The fail-
ure of any witness to secure counsel shall
not excuse such witness from complying
with a subpoena or deposition notice.
E. Witness transcripts. An accurate elec-
tronic or stenographic record shall be kept of
the testimony of all witnesses in executive
and public hearings. The record of his or her
testimony whether in public or executive
session shall be made available for inspec-
tion by the witness or his or her counsel
under Committee supervision; a copy of any
testimony given in public session or that
part of the testimony given by the witness in
executive session and subsequently quoted or
made part of the record in a public session
shall be provided to any witness at his or her
expense if he or she so requests. Upon in-
specting his or her transcript, within a time
limit set by the chief clerk of the Com-
mittee, a witness may request changes in the
transcript to correct errors of transcription
and grammatical errors; the Chairman or a
staff officer designated by him/her shall rule
on such requests.
F. Impugned persons. Any person whose
name is mentioned or is specifically identi-
fied, and who believes that evidence pre-
sented, or comment made by a Member of
the Committee or staff officer, at a public
hearing or at a closed hearing concerning
which there have been public reports, tends
to impugn his or her character or adversely
affect his or her reputation may:
(a) File a sworn statement of facts relevant
to the evidence or comment, which state-
ment shall be considered for placement in
the hearing record by the Committee;
(b) Request the opportunity to appear per-
sonally before the Committee to testify in
his or her own behalf, which request shall be
considered by the Committee; and
(c) Submit questions in writing which he
or she requests be used for the cross-exam-
ination of other witnesses called by the Com-
mittee, which questions shall be considered
for use by the Committee.
G. Radio, television, and photography. The
Committee, or any Subcommittee thereof,
may permit the proceedings of hearings
which are open to the public to be photo-
graphed and broadcast by radio, television or
both, subject to such conditions as the Com-
mittee, or Subcommittee, may impose. (Rule
XXVI, Sec. 5(c), Standing Rules of the Sen-
ate.)
H. Advance statements of witnesses. A wit-
ness appearing before the Committee, or any
Subcommittee thereof, shall provide elec-
tronically a written statement of his or her
proposed testimony at least 48 hours prior to
his or her appearance. This requirement may
be waived by the Chairman and the Ranking
Minority Member following their determina-
tion that there is good cause for failure of
compliance. (Rule XXVI, Sec. 4(b), Standing
Rules of the Senate.)
I. Minority witnesses. In any hearings con-
ducted by the Committee, or any Sub-
committee thereof, the Minority Members of
the Committee or Subcommittee shall be en-
titled, upon request to the Chairman by a
majority of the Minority Members, to call
witnesses of their selection during at least 1
day of such hearings. (Rule XXVI, Sec. 4(d),
Standing Rules of the Senate.)
J. Swearing in witnesses. In any hearings
conducted by the Committee, the Chairman
or his or her designee may swear in each wit-
ness prior to their testimony.
K. Full Committee depositions. Deposi-
tions may be taken prior to or after a hear-
ing as provided in this subsection.
(1) Notices for the taking of depositions
shall be authorized and issued by the Chair-
man, with the approval of the Ranking Mi-
nority Member of the Committee. The Chair-
man may initiate depositions without the
approval of the Ranking Minority Member
where the Chairman has not received a letter
of disapproval of the deposition signed by the
Ranking Minority Member within 72 hours,
excluding Saturdays, Sundays, and legal
holidays in which the Senate is not in ses-
sion, of the Ranking Minority Member’s re-
ceipt of a letter signed by the Chairman pro-
viding notice of the Chairman’s intent to
issue a deposition notice, including identi-
fication of all individuals sought to be de-
posed. Delivery and receipt of the signed no-
tice and signed disapproval letter and any
additional communications related to the
deposition may be carried out by staff offi-
cers of the Chairman and Ranking Member,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:14 Feb 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00037 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06FE6.018 S06FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S912 February 6, 2019
and may occur through electronic mail. If a
deposition notice is disapproved by the
Ranking Minority Member as provided in
this subsection, the deposition notice may be
authorized by a vote of the Members of the
Committee. Committee deposition notices
shall specify a time and place for examina-
tion, and the name of the Committee Mem-
ber or Members or staff officer or officers
who will take the deposition. Unless other-
wise specified, the deposition shall be in pri-
vate. The Committee shall not initiate pro-
cedures leading to criminal or civil enforce-
ment proceedings for a witness’ failure to ap-
pear or produce unless the deposition notice
was accompanied by a Committee subpoena.
(2) Witnesses may be accompanied at a
deposition by counsel to advise them of their
legal rights, subject to the provisions of Rule
5D.
(3) Oaths at depositions may be adminis-
tered by an individual authorized by local
law to administer oaths. Questions shall be
propounded orally by a Committee Member
or Members or staff. If a witness objects to a
question and refuses to testify, the objection
shall be noted for the record and the Com-
mittee Member or Members or staff may pro-
ceed with the remainder of the deposition.
(4) The Committee shall see that the testi-
mony is transcribed or electronically re-
corded (which may include audio or audio/
video recordings). If it is transcribed, the
transcript shall be made available for inspec-
tion by the witness or his or her counsel
under Committee supervision. The witness
shall sign a copy of the transcript and may
request changes to it, which shall be handled
in accordance with the procedure set forth in
subsection (E). If the witness fails to sign a
copy, the staff shall note that fact on the
transcript. The individual administering the
oath shall certify on the transcript that the
witness was duly sworn in his or her pres-
ence, the transcriber shall certify that the
transcript is a true record of the testimony,
and the transcript shall then be filed with
the chief clerk of the Committee. The Chair-
man or a staff officer designated by him/her
may stipulate with the witness to changes in
the procedure; deviations from this proce-
dure which do not substantially impair the
reliability of the record shall not relieve the
witness from his or her obligation to testify
truthfully.
RULE 6. COMMITTEE REPORTING PROCEDURES
A. Timely filing. When the Committee has
ordered a measure or matter reported, fol-
lowing final action, the report thereon shall
be filed in the Senate at the earliest prac-
ticable time. (Rule XXVI, Sec. 10(b), Stand-
ing Rules of the Senate.)
B. Supplemental, Minority, and additional
views. A Member of the Committee who
gives notice of his or her intention to file
supplemental, Minority, or additional views
at the time of final Committee approval of a
measure or matter shall be entitled to not
less than 3 calendar days in which to file
such views, in writing, with the chief clerk
of the Committee. Such views shall then be
included in the Committee report and print-
ed in the same volume, as a part thereof, and
their inclusion shall be noted on the cover of
the report. In the absence of timely notice,
the Committee report may be filed and
printed immediately without such views.
(Rule XXVI, Sec. 10(c), Standing Rules of the
Senate.)
C. Notice by Subcommittee Chairmen. The
Chairman of each Subcommittee shall notify
the Chairman in writing whenever any meas-
ure has been ordered reported by such Sub-
committee and is ready for consideration by
the full Committee.
D. Draft reports of Subcommittees. All
draft reports prepared by Subcommittees of
this Committee on any measure or matter
referred to it by the Chairman shall be in the
form, style, and arrangement required to
conform to the applicable provisions of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, and shall be in
accordance with the established practices
followed by the Committee. Upon completion
of such draft reports, copies thereof shall be
filed with the chief clerk of the Committee
at the earliest practicable time.
E. Impact statements in reports. All Com-
mittee reports, accompanying a bill or joint
resolution of a public character reported by
the Committee, shall contain (1) an esti-
mate, made by the Committee, of the costs
which would be incurred in carrying out the
legislation for the then current fiscal year
and for each of the next 5 years thereafter
(or for the authorized duration of the pro-
posed legislation, if less than 5 years); and (2)
a comparison of such cost estimates with
any made by a Federal agency; or (3) in lieu
of such estimate or comparison, or both, a
statement of the reasons for failure by the
Committee to comply with these require-
ments as impracticable, in the event of in-
ability to comply therewith. (Rule XXVI,
Sec. 11(a), Standing Rules of the Senate.)
Each such report shall also contain an
evaluation, made by the Committee, of the
regulatory impact which would be incurred
in carrying out the bill or joint resolution.
The evaluation shall include (a) an estimate
of the numbers of individuals and businesses
who would be regulated and a determination
of the groups and classes of such individuals
and businesses, (b) a determination of the
economic impact of such regulation on the
individuals, consumers, and businesses af-
fected, (c) a determination of the impact on
the personal privacy of the individuals af-
fected, and (d) a determination of the
amount of paperwork that will result from
the regulations to be promulgated pursuant
to the bill or joint resolution, which deter-
mination may include, but need not be lim-
ited to, estimates of the amount of time and
financial costs required of affected parties,
showing whether the effects of the bill or
joint resolution could be substantial, as well
as reasonable estimates of the recordkeeping
requirements that may be associated with
the bill or joint resolution. Or, in lieu of the
forgoing evaluation, the report shall include
a statement of the reasons for failure by the
Committee to comply with these require-
ments as impracticable, in the event of in-
ability to comply therewith. (Rule XXVI,
Sec. 11(b), Standing Rules of the Senate.)
RULE 7. SUBCOMMITTEES AND SUBCOMMITTEE
PROCEDURES
A. Regularly established Subcommittees.
The Committee shall have three regularly
established Subcommittees. The Subcommit-
tees are as follows:
PERMANENT SUBCOMMITTEE ON INVESTIGATIONS
SUBCOMMITTEE ON FEDERAL SPENDING
OVERSIGHT AND EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
SUBCOMMITTEE ON REGULATORY AFFAIRS AND
FEDERAL MANAGEMENT
B. Ad hoc Subcommittees. Following con-
sultation with the Ranking Minority Mem-
ber, the Chairman shall, from time to time,
establish such ad hoc Subcommittees as he/
she deems necessary to expedite Committee
business.
C. Subcommittee membership. Following
consultation with the Majority Members,
and the Ranking Minority Member of the
Committee, the Chairman shall announce se-
lections for membership on the Subcommit-
tees referred to in paragraphs A and B,
above.
(1) The Chairman and Ranking Minority
Member shall serve as nonvoting ex officio
members of the subcommittees on which
they do not serve as voting members.
(2) Any Member of the Committee may at-
tend hearings held by any subcommittee and
question witnesses testifying before that
Subcommittee, subject to the approval of
the Subcommittee Chairman and Ranking
Member.
D. Subcommittee meetings and hearings.
Each Subcommittee of this Committee is au-
thorized to establish meeting dates and
adopt rules not inconsistent with the rules of
the Committee except as provided in Rules
2(D) and 7(E).
E. Subcommittee subpoenas. Each Sub-
committee is authorized to adopt rules con-
cerning subpoenas which need not be con-
sistent with the rules of the Committee; pro-
vided, however, that in the event the Sub-
committee authorizes the issuance of a sub-
poena pursuant to its own rules, a written
notice of intent to issue the subpoena shall
be provided to the Chairman and Ranking
Minority Member of the Committee, or staff
officers designated by them, by the Sub-
committee Chairman or a staff officer des-
ignated by him/her immediately upon such
authorization, and no subpoena shall be
issued for at least 48 hours, excluding Satur-
days and Sundays, from delivery to the ap-
propriate offices, unless the Chairman and
Ranking Minority Member waive the 48-hour
waiting period or unless the Subcommittee
Chairman certifies in writing to the Chair-
man and Ranking Minority Member that, in
his or her opinion, it is necessary to issue a
subpoena immediately.
F. Subcommittee budgets. During the first
year of a new Congress, each Subcommittee
that requires authorization for the expendi-
ture of funds for the conduct of inquiries and
investigations, shall file with the chief clerk
of the Committee, by a date and time pre-
scribed by the Chairman, its request for
funds for the two (2) 12-month periods begin-
ning on March 1 and extending through and
including the last day of February of the 2
following years, which years comprise that
Congress. Each such request shall be sub-
mitted on the budget form prescribed by the
Committee on Rules and Administration,
and shall be accompanied by a written jus-
tification addressed to the Chairman of the
Committee, which shall include (1) a state-
ment of the Subcommittee’s area of activi-
ties, (2) its accomplishments during the pre-
ceding Congress detailed year by year, and
(3) a table showing a comparison between (a)
the funds authorized for expenditure during
the preceding Congress detailed year by
year, (b) the funds actually expended during
that Congress detailed year by year, (c) the
amount requested for each year of the Con-
gress, and (d) the number of professional and
clerical staff members and consultants em-
ployed by the Subcommittee during the pre-
ceding Congress detailed year by year and
the number of such personnel requested for
each year of the Congress. The Chairman
may request additional reports from the
Subcommittees regarding their activities
and budgets at any time during a Congress.
(Rule XXVI, Sec. 9, Standing Rules of the
Senate.)
RULE 8. CONFIRMATION STANDARDS AND
PROCEDURES
A. Standards. In considering a nomination,
the Committee shall inquire into the nomi-
nee’s experience, qualifications, suitability,
and integrity to serve in the position to
which he or she has been nominated. The
Committee shall recommend confirmation,
upon finding that the nominee has the nec-
essary integrity and is affirmatively quali-
fied by reason of training, education, or ex-
perience to carry out the functions of the of-
fice to which he or she was nominated.
B. Information concerning the Nominee.
Each nominee shall submit the following in-
formation to the Committee:
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:14 Feb 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00038 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06FE6.019 S06FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S913
February 6, 2019
(1) A detailed biographical resume which
contains information relating to education,
employment, and achievements;
(2) Financial information, in such speci-
ficity as the Committee deems necessary, in-
cluding a list of assets and liabilities of the
nominee and tax returns for the 3 years pre-
ceding the time of his or her nomination,
and copies of other relevant documents re-
quested by the Committee, such as a pro-
posed blind trust agreement, necessary for
the Committee’s consideration; and,
(3) Copies of other relevant documents the
Committee may request, such as responses
to questions concerning the policies and pro-
grams the nominee intends to pursue upon
taking office. At the request of the Chairman
or the Ranking Minority Member, a nominee
shall be required to submit a certified finan-
cial statement compiled by an independent
auditor. Information received pursuant to
this subsection shall be made available for
public inspection; provided, however, that
tax returns shall, after review by persons
designated in subsection (C) of this rule, be
placed under seal to ensure confidentiality.
C. Procedures for Committee inquiry. The
Committee shall conduct an inquiry into the
experience, qualifications, suitability, and
integrity of nominees, and shall give par-
ticular attention to the following matters:
(1) A review of the biographical informa-
tion provided by the nominee, including, but
not limited to, any professional activities re-
lated to the duties of the office to which he
or she is nominated;
(2) A review of the financial information
provided by the nominee, including tax re-
turns for the 3 years preceding the time of
his or her nomination;
(3) A review of any actions, taken or pro-
posed by the nominee, to remedy conflicts of
interest; and
(4) A review of any personal or legal mat-
ter which may bear upon the nominee’s
qualifications for the office to which he or
she is nominated. For the purpose of assist-
ing the Committee in the conduct of this in-
quiry, a Majority investigator or investiga-
tors shall be designated by the Chairman and
a Minority investigator or investigators
shall be designated by the Ranking Minority
Member. The Chairman, Ranking Minority
Member, other Members of the Committee,
and designated investigators shall have ac-
cess to all investigative reports on nominees
prepared by any Federal agency, except that
only the Chairman, the Ranking Minority
Member, or other Members of the Com-
mittee, upon request, shall have access to
the report of the Federal Bureau of Inves-
tigation. The Committee may request the as-
sistance of the U.S. Government Account-
ability Office and any other such expert
opinion as may be necessary in conducting
its review of information provided by nomi-
nees.
D. Report on the Nominee. After a review
of all information pertinent to the nomina-
tion, a confidential report on the nominee
shall be made in the case of judicial nomi-
nees and may be made in the case of non-ju-
dicial nominees by the designated investiga-
tors to the Chairman and the Ranking Mi-
nority Member and, upon request, to any
other Member of the Committee. The report
shall summarize the steps taken by the Com-
mittee during its investigation of the nomi-
nee and the results of the Committee in-
quiry, including any unresolved matters that
have been raised during the course of the in-
quiry.
E. Hearings. The Committee shall conduct
a public hearing during which the nominee
shall be called to testify under oath on all
matters relating to his or her suitability for
office, including the policies and programs
which he or she will pursue while in that po-
sition. No hearing shall be held until at least
72 hours after the following events have oc-
curred: The nominee has responded to pre-
hearing questions submitted by the Com-
mittee; and, if applicable, the report de-
scribed in subsection (D) has been made to
the Chairman and Ranking Minority Mem-
ber, and is available to other Members of the
Committee, upon request.
F. Action on confirmation. A mark-up on a
nomination shall not occur on the same day
that the hearing on the nominee is held. In
order to assist the Committee in reaching a
recommendation on confirmation, the staff
may make an oral presentation to the Com-
mittee at the mark-up, factually summa-
rizing the nominee’s background and the
steps taken during the pre-hearing inquiry.
G. Application. The procedures contained
in subsections (C), (D), (E), and (F) of this
rule shall apply to persons nominated by the
President to positions requiring their full-
time service. At the discretion of the Chair-
man and Ranking Minority Member, those
procedures may apply to persons nominated
by the President to serve on a part-time
basis.
RULE 9. PERSONNEL ACTIONS AFFECTING
COMMITTEE STAFF
In accordance with Rule XLII of the Stand-
ing Rules of the Senate and the Congres-
sional Accountability Act of 1995 (P.L. 104–1),
all personnel actions affecting the staff of
the Committee shall be made free from any
discrimination based on race, color, religion,
sex, national origin, age, state of physical
handicap, or disability.
RULE 10. APPRISAL OF COMMITTEE BUSINESS
The Chairman and Ranking Minority Mem-
ber shall keep each other apprised of hear-
ings, investigations, and other Committee
business.
RULE 11. PER DIEM FOR FOREIGN TRAVEL
A per diem allowance provided a Member
of the Committee or staff of the Committee
in connection with foreign travel shall be
used solely for lodging, food, and related ex-
penses and it is the responsibility of the
Member of the Committee or staff of the
Committee receiving such an allowance to
return to the United States Government that
portion of the allowance received which is
not actually used for necessary lodging, food,
and related expenses. (Rule XXXIX, Para-
graph 3, Standing Rules of the Senate.)
f
INF TREATY
Mr. MENENDEZ. Mr. President,
today I wish to express my deep con-
cerns regarding President Trump’s sus-
pension of U.S. participation in the In-
termediate-range Nuclear Forces—
INF—Treaty and decision to withdraw
from the treaty in 6 months.
Before diving into the substance of
this misguided decision, I am com-
pelled, as the ranking member of the
Senate Foreign Relations Committee,
to object to the process.
The President is pulling out of this
treaty, a treaty that was approved by
the U.S. Senate by a vote of 93–5 and
that has been in force for three dec-
ades, without official notice or any
meaningful consultation with the Sen-
ate Committee on Foreign Relations,
the congressional committee charged
with responsibility and jurisdiction
over treaties and without the approval
of the Senate.
This was despite multiple opportuni-
ties to explain the rationale for this de-
cision, including a Senate Foreign Re-
lations Committee hearing on arms
control and Russia. In that hearing,
senior officials from the Department of
State and the Department of Defense
provided no indication that a decision
to withdraw was even imminent, nor
that U.S. forces envisioned any mili-
tary operational benefit from near-
term withdrawal.
Article 2 of the Constitution endows
the President and the Senate with
shared power over treaties, including
an exceptionally high bar for advice
and consent. This President’s unilat-
eral decision to withdraw from the
INF, without any meaningful engage-
ment with the Senate, much less the
approval of this body, is impossible to
square with this shared constitutional
power.
In that vein, I urge all of my col-
leagues to focus not just on the sub-
stance of the President’s decision but
also on the process. INF is not alone; it
is one of several treaties that the
President has jettisoned without any
input from the Senate. He is eroding
the constitutional powers and institu-
tional prerogatives of this body, and we
cannot be silent.
Even if the President had followed a
sound process, this decision is mis-
guided on substance. It is another ex-
ample of the President and his team’s
apparent belief that destroying inter-
national agreements, with little or no
thought given to how to address the
underlying problem, is the solution to
a complex security issues.
In this case, there is no doubt, what
the problem is and where it comes
from.
Russia, and Russia alone, bears the
responsibility for the degradation of
the Intermediate-range Nuclear Forces
Treaty. It has brazenly violated the
treaty and has been unwilling to take
the steps necessary to come back into
compliance.
Director of National Intelligence Dan
Coats has succinctly laid out Russia’s
efforts to undermine the INF treaty.
He stated ‘‘the Intelligence Community
assesses Russia has flight-tested, pro-
duced, and deployed cruise missiles
with a range capability prohibited by
the Treaty.’’
Why is Russia doing this? Again, ac-
cording to Director Coats: Russia is de-
veloping missiles to ‘‘target critical
European military and economic infra-
structure’’ with both conventional and
nuclear capabilities. Russia is seeking
the means to coerce our European and
Asian allies by ‘‘posing a direct con-
ventional and nuclear threat’’ to them.
Russia’s violation of its INF treaty
obligations and its nuclear threats
against Europe are not particularly
surprising. It fits within a pattern of
malign behavior that seeks to under-
mine the security framework that con-
tributed to the peaceful end to the Cold
War. Russia has suspended its partici-
pation in the Treaty on Conventional
Armed Forces in Europe and of course
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:14 Feb 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00039 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06FE6.020 S06FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S914 February 6, 2019
violated the core principles of the Hel-
sinki accord by annexing Crimea and
invading Ukraine.
The question has never been whether
Russia is violating the INF treaty. It is
and has been in violation. The question
is how the United States should re-
spond.
Throughout the process of trying to
bring Russia back into compliance, I
have raised serious concerns about the
Trump administration’s approach. As
is the case with most major foreign
policy challenges facing the United
States, the Trump administration
lacks a coherent strategy. In this case,
they do not appear to have any real-
istic plan to address the threat that
new Russian missile capabilities pose
to the interests of the United States
and those of our allies.
By withdrawing from INF at this
time, the United States is providing
Russia with a pass on its obligations
and giving them the unfettered and un-
constrained opportunity to expand the
deployment of their new missile sys-
tem. The U.S. does not have the assets
in place to defend against Russia’s new
missile, nor is it anywhere close to de-
veloping, manufacturing, and deploy-
ing a similar system that would oper-
ate as a counter to it.
So the President is shredding the INF
treaty without any credible alter-
native. It is not just bad policy; it is
dangerous to European security. The
path the administration has chosen
leaves our allies vulnerable to Russian
aggression, and at this moment, there
is no recourse for the United States or
our allies.
It is within this vein of poor foreign
policy planning that I want to discuss
a second issue related to INF. In 2021,
the United States will face the decision
whether to extend New START. I am
extremely concerned that President
Trump has no appreciation or under-
stating of the importance of arms con-
trol treaties and that this deficiency
will lead him to abandon all limita-
tions on U.S-Russian nuclear forces.
We have historically negotiated and
entered into agreements with our ad-
versaries recognizing that we are deal-
ing with hostile powers that cannot be
trusted. We build in metrics that ac-
count for a probability of efforts to de-
ceive and dodge. In high stakes agree-
ments, provisions outlining U.S. intel-
ligence verification and compliance are
essential. In the universe of arms con-
trol agreements with Russia, we con-
duct on-site inspections of military
bases and facilities, and we require
data exchanges in order track the sta-
tus and makeup of their nuclear forces.
In assessing the value of an arms
control agreement, we consider wheth-
er our participation in the agreement
advances our national security inter-
ests.
Let’s be clear: The New START trea-
ty clearly advances vital U.S. national
security interests. Through our inspec-
tion regime, we are able to verify that
Russia is adhering to the limitations
the treaty places on the size of Russia’s
strategic nuclear arsenal. Through our
data exchanges and our verification re-
gimes, we gain extremely valuable in-
sights into the size and location of
their nuclear forces.
At a time when Russia is engaged in
malign behavior all over the world and
Putin is pressing to reassert Russian
power, it is critical we maintain key
leverage points to protect against a re-
visionist Russia. New START is one of
those points, and I urge my colleagues
and the administration that, in light of
ongoing Russian compliance with New
START, we must extend the treaty for
an additional 5 years.
I strongly urge the administration
try a new approach and develop a co-
herent strategy to stabilize our arms
control regime. The relationship with
the Russian Federation remains a chal-
lenge, but we must address these arms
control issues and negotiate a durable
agreement that ensures stability in our
nuclear forces.
Neither an unconstrained nuclear
arms race nor blind faith in arms con-
trol agreements serve U.S. national se-
curity interest. American security is
best served through a strong, credible
deterrent that operates within a le-
gally binding, stable, and constrained
arms control environment.
f
S.1
Mr. VAN HOLLEN. Mr. President, I
come to the Senate floor today with a
sense of great disappointment, dis-
appointment in what my colleague, the
senior Senator from Florida and the
Republican leader have done with the
bill that was before us. Because they
have taken a bill that had broad—
maybe unanimous—bipartisan support
and tried to turn it into a political
weapon. As a result, they are doing a
great disservice to the American peo-
ple and to all of us who value the tradi-
tion of strong bipartisan support for
our friend and ally, Israel. I also op-
posed Senator MCCONNELL’s amend-
ment to S.1 because it contains lan-
guage that could require the perpetual
presence of American forces in Afghan-
istan and Syria.
I am a cosponsor of the original bill
S.2497 entitled the United States-Israel
Security Assistance Authorization Act
of 2018. It is a bill to codify the memo-
randum of understanding between the
United States and Israel, that was
forged under President Obama and
which provides Israel with $38 billion in
security assistance over the next 10
years. This includes $33 billion in for-
eign military financing funds to Israel
and $5 billion in missile defense assist-
ance for the Iron Dome, David’s Sling,
and the Arrow–3.
That is a lot of money when you con-
sider the many priorities we have here
at home and abroad. In fact, more than
one-half of our entire global foreign
military financing, the security assist-
ance we provide to all of our partners
and allies around the world, goes to
Israel.
In my view, it is an important invest-
ment, it is an important investment to
support our friend and democratic ally
Israel from the many threats it faces in
a very dangerous neighborhood—
threats from Iran, Syria, Hezbollah,
Hamas, and many others. We need to
make sure Israel maintains a strong
military edge to defend itself, and that
is why you have strong bipartisan sup-
port for that original bill.
But then the Republican leader took
a bill with broad bipartisan support for
Israel and added a provision designed
to retaliate against American citizens
who express their disagreement with
certain policies of the government of
Israel by participating in certain boy-
cott activities. Specifically, the Sen-
ator from Florida added a provision
that encourages States throughout the
country to pass laws to punish Amer-
ican citizens who choose to protest the
settlement policies of the government
of Prime Minister Netanyahu by either
boycotting products made in Israeli
settlements in the West Bank or by not
otherwise engaging in commerce with
such settlements.
Now—and I want to make this clear—
while I disagree with some of the poli-
cies adopted by the Netanyahu govern-
ment in Israel, I do not—I do not in
any way support a boycott as a method
of expressing those disagreements.
But—let me be equally clear on this
point—I will fiercely defend the con-
stitutional right of any American cit-
izen to express his or her views in such
a peaceful way if they so choose. Just
as I would support the right of every
American to engage in other political
boycotts to peacefully express their po-
litical views without fear of being pun-
ished by their government.
The Senator from Florida wants to
use the power of the State to punish
American citizens who disagree with
him on this issue. It is right here in the
bill. Let me read some of the relevant
parts.
A state may adopt and enforce meas-
ures . . . to restrict contracting by the
state for goods and services with—any
entity that . . . knowingly engages in
. . . boycott activity . . . intended to
limit commercial relations with Israel
or persons doing business in Israel or
Israeli-controlled territories for pur-
poses of imposing policy positions on,
the Government of Israel.
So how does this new provision en-
courage States to retaliate against
American citizens? It encourages
States to pass laws to deny their citi-
zens the right to bid on any State con-
tracts unless those citizens sign an
oath stating that they do not or will
not engage in any boycott of Israel, in-
cluding any boycott relating the sale
or purchase of goods or services from
Israeli settlements in the West Bank.
Think about that. Let’s say you are
an American citizen living in my State
of Maryland. Let’s say you own a com-
puter consulting business and you hap-
pen to disagree with Israeli Prime Min-
ister Netanyahu’s policy of expanding
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:14 Feb 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00040 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06FE6.013 S06FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S915
February 6, 2019
settlements on the West Bank near the
city of Bethlehem, and you want to ex-
press your opposition to that policy,
and let’s say you choose to protest that
policy by deciding that you will not
provide your services to businesses lo-
cated in those settlements on the West
Bank.
If you did that, you would be prohib-
ited by State law from bidding on a
contract to provide computer con-
sulting services to a Maryland State
agency. Think about that. You may
run the best computer consulting busi-
ness in the State of Maryland, but if
you don’t sign an oath renouncing your
right to engage in a boycott, you can-
not win any contract with the State. In
other words, even if you are the best,
most qualified bidder, you would be
disqualified from winning that State
contract because of your peaceful po-
litical activity having nothing to do
with your ability to fulfill the con-
tract.
Does that sound unconstitutional? Of
course, it is unconstitutional. And,
guess what? That is what two Federal
courts have already concluded about
State laws that already do what Sen-
ator RUBIO’s bill is proposing. I am
going to review those decisions in a
moment, but before I do, let me re-
spond to the really flimsy defense the
senior Senator from Florida and others
have offered to try to justify this effort
to punish free expression. Here is what
Senator RUBIO tweeted out: ‘‘Opposi-
tion to our bill isn’t about free speech.
Companies are FREE to boycott Israel.
But state and local governments
should be FREE to end contracts with
companies that do.’’
This reflects a profound misunder-
standing of the First Amendment. It
turns the First Amendment on its
head. It is like saying to our fellow
Americans, you are free to peacefully
express yourselves however you want,
but the government is then free to use
the power of the State to punish you
for doing so. You are free to express
your political opinions, but, if we don’t
like what you say, the State is free to
pass laws to prevent you from doing
any business with the State.
That is State-sponsored discrimina-
tion against disfavored political ex-
pression. I would remind my colleagues
that the First Amendment is not de-
signed to protect government from its
citizens; it is designed to protect citi-
zens, who may engage in unpopular
speech, from retaliation by the govern-
ment.
What if a State passed a law to penal-
ize gun control advocates who boy-
cotted stores that sold semiautomatic
weapons? What if a State retaliated
against anti-abortion activists who
boycotted health clinics that provide
abortion services?
So SenatorRUBIO’s proposal is a text-
book example of why we need the First
Amendment.
I have heard others defend this meas-
ure by saying: ‘‘It is simply a law to
boycott the boycotters.’’ A cute slogan
but, again, a stunning ignorance of the
First Amendment. Yes, any of us, as
individuals, can always decide to boy-
cott those whose boycotts we disagree
with. Each of us is free to boycott
those businesses who choose to boycott
Israeli settlements in the West Bank,
but that is not what this bill does. This
bill calls upon States to use the power
of the State, the power of the govern-
ment to punish peaceful political ac-
tions we don’t like. Again, that is pat-
ently unconstitutional.
That is the conclusion reached by
two Federal courts that struck down
the kind of State laws that Sen-
atorRUBIO seeks to promote.
In Kansas, a Federal judge blocked
the enforcement of a State law requir-
ing any state contractor to submit a
written certification that they are
‘‘not currently engaged in a boycott of
Israel.’’ In the Kansas case, a woman
who had served as a public school math
teacher for 9 years was barred from
participating in a Sate-sponsored
teacher training program because she
refused to sign a certification that she
wasn’t participating in a boycott of
Israel.
The court found that the antiboycott
certification requirement was designed
to suppress political speech and was
‘‘plainly unconstitutional.’’ In his
opinion, the judge wrote, ‘‘[T]he Su-
preme Court has held that the First
Amendment protects the right to par-
ticipate in a boycott like the one pun-
ished by the Kansas law.’’
In Arizona, a Federal court blocked a
State law requiring contractors to cer-
tify that they will not boycott Israel,
finding again that the law violates the
right of free speech. In this case, an at-
torney contracted with the government
to provide legal services to incarcer-
ated individuals. Because of his polit-
ical views, the attorney refused to pur-
chase goods from businesses supporting
Israeli settlements in the West Bank.
Because he would not submit a written
certification that he wasn’t boycotting
Israel, he was barred from contracting
with the State to provide legal serv-
ices.
In this case, the court held, ‘‘A re-
striction of one’s ability to participate
in collective calls to oppose Israel un-
questionably burdens the protected ex-
pression of companies wishing to en-
gage in a boycott. The type of collec-
tive action targeted by the [law] spe-
cifically implicates the rights of as-
sembly and association that Americans
and Arizonans use ‘to bring about po-
litical, social, and economic change’.’’
There are a number of other chal-
lenges to laws requiring government
contractors to certify they are not boy-
cotting Israel or Israeli settlements, on
the grounds that they violate an Amer-
ican’s fundamental right to free
speech.
In Texas, there are two pending First
Amendment challenges to a law requir-
ing State contractors to certify they
will not boycott Israel or its settle-
ments.
In the first Texas lawsuit, four indi-
viduals were required to choose be-
tween signing a certification that they
are not participating in a peaceful boy-
cott or losing income and other profes-
sional opportunities. These individuals
include a freelance writer who lost two
service contracts from the University
of Houston; a reporter who was forced
to sign the certification against his
conscience in order to keep his job; a
Ph.D. candidate at Rice University,
who was forced to forfeit payment for
judging at a debate tournament; and a
student at Texas State University, who
has had to forego opportunities to
judge high school debate tournaments.
In the second lawsuit, a Texas speech
pathologist, who had worked with de-
velopmentally disabled, autistic, and
speech-impaired elementary school
students for 9 years, was fired because
she refused to sign an addendum to her
contract renewal saying she would not
boycott Israel or Israeli settlements.
In my home State of Maryland, a
software engineer is challenging an ex-
ecutive order requiring contractors to
certify in writing that they are not
boycotting Israel or its settlements. In
that case, the individual was barred
from bidding on government software
program contracts because he would
not sign such a certification.
These laws are patently unconstitu-
tional.
Now, I will speak briefly to a recent
court decision in Arkansas, in which
the judge ruled in favor of a law pro-
hibiting the State from contracting
with or investing in individuals or
firms that boycott Israel or its settle-
ments.
This decision is destined for dustbin
of history. I am not sure any Senator
wants to be associated with its holding.
It concludes that a boycott ‘‘is not
speech, inherently expressive activity,
or subject to constitutional protec-
tion.’’
The banner right here on page 9 on
the opinion reads: ‘‘A Boycott Is Nei-
ther Speech Nor Inherently Expressive
Conduct.’’
In other words, States can pass laws
banning or penalizing boycotts that
they don’t like. Years ago, as a college
student, I was active in the movement
to divest from companies that did busi-
ness with the apartheid regime of
South Africa. Under the Arkansas
court decision, a State could pass a law
that could ban that conduct or at least
penalize me if I did business as a sole
proprietor and sought State contracts.
There is no doubt that the Arkansas
decision will be overturned. That is be-
cause the Supreme Court explicitly
held in the case of NAACP v. Claiborne
Hardware that the First Amendment
protects the right to participate in a
boycott for political purposes. The
judge in the Arkansas case attempts to
narrow that NAACP holding in a way
that is clearly inconsistent with the
First Amendment protections. I urge
my colleagues to read all three deci-
sions from the Federal district courts
in Kansas, Arizona, and Arkansas.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:14 Feb 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00041 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06FE6.042 S06FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S916 February 6, 2019
Now, as I said earlier, I do not sup-
port the boycott of Israel as a means of
pressing the Netanyahu government to
change some of its policies, but here is
what I predict: I predict that the boy-
cott movement will continue to grow
for a number of reasons. At the top of
that list is the fact that the Trump ad-
ministration’s actions and inaction are
adding oxygen to the boycott move-
ment.
To start, the Trump administration
has abandoned any pretense of trying
to prevent the expansion of Israeli set-
tlements in new parts of the West
Bank. There has been a big jump in the
number of tenders and settlement
plans since President Trump took of-
fice. In fact, our Ambassador there,
Ambassador Freidman, has been a
vocal cheerleader for additional settle-
ments in new areas. In doing so, the
Trump administration has abandoned
what had been a long-held bipartisan
position of the U.S. Government. Here
are a few statements from Presidents
of both parties over the past 40 years.
President Ronald Reagan, in 1982,
said, ‘‘Settlement activity is in no way
necessary for the security of Israel and
only diminishes the confidence of the
Arabs that a final outcome can be free-
ly and fairly negotiated.’’
President George H.W. Bush, in 1990,
said, ‘‘The foreign policy of the United
States says we do not believe there
should be new settlements in the West
Bank or in East Jerusalem.’’
President Bill Clinton, in 2001, said,
‘‘The settlement enterprise and build-
ing bypass roads in the heart of what
they already know will one day be part
of a Palestinian state is inconsistent
with the Oslo commitment that both
sides negotiate a compromise.’’
President George W. Bush spoke out
against new settlements. In 2002, he
said, ‘‘Israeli settlement activity in oc-
cupied territories must stop, and the
occupation must end through with-
drawal to secure and recognized bound-
aries.’’
Finally, President Obama, in 2009,
said, ‘‘The United States does not ac-
cept the legitimacy of continued
Israeli settlements. This construction
violates previous agreements and un-
dermines efforts to achieve peace. It is
time for these settlements to stop.’’
The provision before us today di-
rectly contradicts this long stated U.S.
policy by drawing no distinction be-
tween someone boycotting businesses
located in the State of Israel and some-
one boycotting businesses located in
settlements in the territories. In other
words, this provision and the State
laws it promotes supports the same
penalty for those who boycott com-
merce with a business in Tel Aviv as it
does those who boycott commerce with
businesses in the settlements, includ-
ing outposts that may be illegal even
under Israeli law. This provision that
was before us erases an important dis-
tinction in American policy that has
been endorsed by Presidents of both
parties.
One of the reasons for discouraging
settlements and outposts in new areas
is to preserve the option for a two-
state solution, an option that has pre-
viously been supported by Presidents of
both parties, as well as pro-Israel
groups, including AIPAC, J Street, and
others. It is a demographic reality
that, in order to ensure a Jewish State
that is democratic and provides equal
rights to all its citizens, there must be
a two-state solution.
Now, such a solution should come
about through a negotiated settlement
between the parties, the Israelis and
the Palestinians. We all know that dys-
function and obstruction on the Pales-
tinian side has been one obstacle to
reaching an agreement, but that does
not justify changing the status quo on
the ground by adding settlements in
new areas that will make a two-state
solution impossible.
Second, the Trump administration,
under the guidance of the President’s
designated Middle East senior adviser,
his son-in-law, Jared Kushner, has em-
barked on undisguised effort to crush
the Palestinians by revoking all U.S.
humanitarian assistance.
Here we are, authorizing $38 billion
for U.S. military support for Israel,
something I strongly support and am a
cosponsor of, while at the same time
the Trump administration has elimi-
nated—eliminated—humanitarian and
other assistance to help the Pales-
tinian people, many of whom are living
in horrible conditions.
The Trump administration has elimi-
nated assistance that helps provide
medical care, clean water and food to
hundreds of thousands of vulnerable
Palestinian children and families.
Much of this assistance is provided by
organizations like Catholic Relief
Services and the Lutheran World Fed-
eration.
President Trump has also eliminated
$25 million in U.S. support to a net-
work of six hospitals in East Jeru-
salem, support the Congress explicitly
protected under the Taylor Force Act.
In doing this, he gutted funding for the
main hospital providing cancer treat-
ment for patients in the West Bank and
Gaza and kidney dialysis for children.
These hospitals include Lutheran Au-
gusta Victoria Hospital, the Anglican
St. John of Jerusalem Eye Hospital,
and the Catholic St. Joseph Hospital,
American-founded institutions that
fall under our American Schools and
Hospitals Abroad program. The Trump
administration has eliminated support
for those programs.
The effort to crush the Palestinians
into submitting to a one-sided agree-
ment will never work. President Trump
and Jared Kushner apparently think
this is just another real estate deal
where you turn off the water and elec-
tricity to force your tenants out. In-
stead, these actions by the Trump ad-
ministration will add fuel to the boy-
cott movement because many people
will see no other vehicle for expressing
their views.
Finally, to the Senator from Florida
and others, nothing, will motivate
Americans to exercise their rights
more that efforts to suppress them.
Trying to suppress free speech, even
unpopular speech, even conduct that
we don’t support here and I don’t sup-
port, that will only add momentum.
I will end where I started. It is a real-
ly shameful and disappointing day
when the sponsors of this legislation
took a bill demonstrating strong bipar-
tisan support for Israel, to our friends
and allies that share our commitment
to democracy, and share other values
we hold dear, that Senators took that
bill and used it to attack the constitu-
tional rights of American citizens who
may want to peacefully demonstrate
their opposition to some of the
Netanyahu government’s policies—not
in the way you would choose, not in
the way I would choose—but in a way
they have a right to do as American
citizens.
So in making these changes to the
bill, the sponsors are sabotaging what
was a bipartisan bill to support our
friend and ally Israel and in the process
strengthening the very boycott move-
ment that we seek to oppose. That
hurts Israel. That hurts the United
States. This is a really sad day in the
U.S. Senate, when we took something
that we all agreed on and decided to
use it to attack the constitutional
rights of American citizens to express
opinions we may disagree with.
Furthermore, I oppose Senator
MCCONNELL’s amendment to S. 1, which
calls for ‘‘the Administration to certify
that conditions have been met for the
enduring defeat of al Qaeda and ISIS
before initiating any significant with-
drawal of United States forces from
Syria and Afghanistan.’’ I strongly be-
lieve we have to finish the job and de-
stroy and al Qaeda and ISIS, but Sen-
ator MCCONNELL leaves undefined what
an ‘‘enduring defeat’’ means in this
context. Does he mean an enduring de-
feat of the ideology of ISIS and al-
Qaeda, which may never be achieved?
Does he mean the removal of every sin-
gle fighter from the battlefield, which
the administration might also never be
able to certify? By leaving this stand-
ard so nebulous, Senator MCCONNELL
has seemingly endorsed an indefinite
presence of U.S. troops in both coun-
tries, bolstering the positions of the
most hawkish members of President
Trump’s Cabinet, National Security
Adviser John Bolton and Secretary of
State Mike Pompeo.
Though I do not support an indefinite
U.S. presence in Syria, I also oppose
President Trump’s abrupt decision for
an immediate withdrawal from Syria.
This rash decision puts at risk our mis-
sion to defeat ISIS and endangers the
future of our Syrian Kurdish allies,
who have been the tip of the spear in
that fight. Ilham Ahmed, the cochair of
the Syrian Democratic Council, under-
scored this point in a meeting I con-
vened with a bipartisan group of Sen-
ators last week.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:14 Feb 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00042 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06FE6.043 S06FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S917
February 6, 2019
That is why I introduced a bipartisan
amendment with Senator TOOMEY,
which calls for a clear, publicly articu-
lated strategy that will guide the with-
drawal of U.S. forces from Syria. Criti-
cally, our amendment also makes clear
that the United States must protect
the Syrian Democratic Forces from at-
tacks by Turkey, which is more fo-
cused on destroying the Syrian Kurds
than defeating ISIS.
Finally, this legislation does not ac-
knowledge the obvious: We have a
reckless President who undermines our
security daily. We have a President
who conducts foreign policy by tweet
and champions the views of brutal dic-
tators, like Vladimir Putin and Kim
Jong Un, above that of his own top in-
telligence officials. We have a Presi-
dent who has compromised American
credibility; allies and adversaries alike
cannot trust if his grand pronounce-
ments will translate into action or if
they will just as quickly be reversed.
More than any President before him,
President Trump has shirked Amer-
ica’s founding principles and our values
as a nation. Until Republicans in the
Congress acknowledge that obvious
point, our ability to preserve American
leadership abroad will be greatly com-
promised.
For all of these reasons, I voted
against S. 1.
Ms. DUCKWORTH. Mr. President,
while the Strengthening America’s Se-
curity in the Middle East Act is clearly
far from perfect, the majority of the
legislation addresses several key prior-
ities that are particularly important to
me: formalizing long-term security aid
to Israel, supporting our Jordanian al-
lies’ fight against the Islamic State,
and sanctioning the Syrian financial
system over the Assad regime’s human
rights abuses.
These provisions represent important
measures to concretely support our al-
lies and address serious national secu-
rity concerns. The legislation as a
whole also preserves Obama adminis-
tration international agreements that
promote regional security while pro-
viding the Trump administration with
more tools to levy sanctions against
human rights abusers in the Assad re-
gime in Syria.
I also strongly oppose the BDS move-
ment. However, I have long had con-
cerns about the Combating BDS Act
and similar legislation, which could be
interpreted to change longstanding
U.S. policy towards Israeli settlement
activity and could have negative impli-
cations on domestic freedom of speech
protections. Those concerns are rightly
being litigated in Federal court. This
bill does not protect a state or local
BDS law from being challenged in
court by an individual on constitu-
tional grounds.
While this was among the more dif-
ficult votes I have taken, ultimately
the national security and other bene-
fits of the entirety of this legislation
could not be ignored or passed up.
REMEMBERING CHARLES S.
KETTLES
Ms. STABENOW. Mr. President,
today I wish to pay tribute to a Michi-
gan veteran whose bravery, spirit of
service, and selfless dedication to his
fellow soldiers earned him the Nation’s
highest military honor and the eternal
gratitude of 44 American families.
Charles S. Kettles was Michigan
through and through. He was born in
Ypsilanti in 1930, and that is where he
passed away on January 21, 2019, a cou-
ple of weeks after his 89th birthday.
He attended Edison Institute High
School in Dearborn and fell in love
with flying in the school’s flight simu-
lator. Perhaps it was no surprise; his
father served as a military pilot during
both World Wars.
Charlie was active in the community.
He and his brother opened a Ford deal-
ership in DeWitt. He later earned a
master’s degree in industrial tech-
nology from Eastern Michigan Univer-
sity and launched its aviation program.
He served on the Ypsilanti City Council
and in the local Kiwanis club. He was
close to his family and enjoyed his nine
grandchildren.
In many ways, Charlie lived an ordi-
nary Michigan life. What made his life
truly extraordinary were events that
happened far away from Ypsilanti on
the other side of the world.
Charlie was drafted into the Army in
1951, attended Army aviation school,
and served tours in Japan and Thai-
land. He retired from Active Duty in
1956, and that could have been the end
of his military service, but the Army
was in desperate need of helicopter pi-
lots during the Vietnam war. So in
1963, Charlie volunteered for active
duty and learned to fly the UH–1D
‘‘Huey.’’
Those skills would save lives on May
15, 1967, when then-Major Kettles vol-
unteered to lead a flight of six Hueys
on a rescue mission when members of
the 101st Airborne Division were am-
bushed by enemy troops.
The helicopters came under fire, but
that didn’t stop Charlie. He kept on
flying. When he returned to base after
his second rescue flight, his helicopter
was leaking fuel, and his gunner had
been severely wounded.
Then the call came in: 44 Americans
still needed to be evacuated. Charlie
found a Huey that wasn’t leaking fuel,
led a flight of six evacuation heli-
copters back to the landing zone, and
successfully rescued the stranded
men—or so he thought.
On the flight back to base, Charlie
learned that eight troops had been un-
able to reach the evacuation heli-
copters. He didn’t hesitate. With no re-
gard for his own safety, he turned his
Huey around and returned to the land-
ing zone.
His helicopter was hit by gunfire, and
a mortar round damaged the rotor
blade and shattered the windshield. De-
spite the damage, Charlie skillfully
navigated his helicopter to the landing
zone. The remaining troops scrambled
aboard, and all 44 finally made it off
the battlefield.
Charlie was awarded the Distin-
guished Service Cross, the Army’s sec-
ond-highest citation for valor, in 1968;
yet when I heard his story, I thought,
if anyone was ever worthy of receiving
the Medal of Honor, Charlie was.
Typically, the Medal of Honor must
be awarded within 5 years of the heroic
act. That is why, in 2015, I introduced
legislation with Senator GARY PETERS
and Congresswoman DEBBIE DINGELL to
allow Charlie to receive the Medal of
Honor. In 2016, that is just what hap-
pened.
‘‘In a lot of ways, Chuck is America,’’
President Obama said during his Medal
of Honor ceremony at the White House.
‘‘To the dozens of American soldiers
that he saved in Vietnam half a cen-
tury ago, Chuck is the reason that they
lived and came home and had children
and grandchildren. Entire family
trees—made possible by the actions of
this one man.’’
Charlie remained humble about his
award.
‘‘Out of all of that, there is really
only one thing that means anything—
those 40 names are not on the wall in
D.C. Awards are nice, but there is far
more gratitude in simply knowing
that.’’
Charlie Kettles was a real-life hero
and the very best of Michigan. The peo-
ple of my State and the families of the
44 men he saved will remain forever
grateful for his service and sacrifice.
Thank you.
f
ADDITIONAL STATEMENTS
150TH ANNIVERSARY OF THE
TOWN OF AUBURN, MAINE
∑ Mr. KING. Mr. President, today I
wish to recognize the town of Auburn,
ME, which is celebrating its 150th anni-
versary this year. Auburn might be a
small city, but it features something
for everyone, from recreation activities
and parks and trails to cultural oppor-
tunities, a variety of restaurants, shop-
ping, and public and private school op-
tions. Located along the banks of the
Androscoggin River, Auburn is home to
over 23,000 residents and is the county
seat of Androscoggin County.
Auburn was first incorporated on
February 22, 1869, and was created by
annexing parts of the surrounding
towns of Poland, Minot, and Danville,
previously called Pejepscot. Auburn
was the first city in Maine to adopt a
council-manager form of government
and grew into one of Maine’s largest
municipalities. In the early to mid-
1800s, a new bridge across the
Androscoggin River to Lewiston and
the arrival of the Atlantic and St. Law-
rence Railroad helped spur develop-
ment in Auburn. Like many Maine
towns, Auburn developed into a mill
town, and many of those mills were
powered by the falls on the
Androscoggin and Little Androscoggin
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:14 Feb 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00043 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06FE6.044 S06FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S918 February 6, 2019
Rivers. Auburn was also the home to a
number of other manufacturing plants,
including shoes, cotton and woolen tex-
tiles, carriages, bricks, and furniture.
The population of the city grew quick-
ly through the end of the 1800s, mostly
due to the influx of French-Canadian
immigrants coming to the city to work
at the shoe factories.
By the late 19th century, shoe manu-
facturing became the dominant indus-
try in Auburn. In fact, the city seal de-
picts a spindle with different types of
shoes at each outside point. In 1917, one
factory in Auburn was producing 75
percent of the world’s supply of white
canvas shoes. Like many manufac-
turing towns, Auburn has had to re-
invent itself in recent years, and they
have shown their resiliency and grit.
Today, Auburn is as vibrant as ever.
The city of Auburn has contributed
to the energy, vitality, and commerce
of the State of Maine and is poised to
make the next 150 years some of the
best years in its long and cherished his-
tory. I hope that the citizens of Auburn
take the opportunity during this year-
long birthday celebration to reconnect
to their roots, share their life stories,
and remind current and future genera-
tions about the rich past and the bright
future ahead of us all. Happy 150th
birthday, Auburn, and congratulations
to all the citizens of this great Maine
community.∑
f
REMEMBERING HAYNES SECURITY
SERVICES, INC.
∑ Mr. RUBIO. Mr. President, it is my
privilege to highlight a Florida small
business that displays the unique en-
trepreneurial spirit found across my
home State of Florida. As chairman of
the Senate Committee on Small Busi-
ness and Entrepreneurship, each week I
recognize a small business that exem-
plifies ingenuity, hard work, and dedi-
cation to improving their community.
Today, it is my distinct privilege to
honor Haynes Security Services, Inc.,
of Miami, FL, as the Small Business of
the Week.
Founded in 2011, Haynes Security
Services has grown from a small firm
focused on security consulting, to a
full-service security company with 35
employees and more than $600,000 in
annual revenues. It has done so in the
heart of Liberty City, which has a long,
proud, yet complicated, history. In re-
cent years, Liberty City has been char-
acterized as a community that suffers
with poverty, schools that have strug-
gled, majority single-parent house-
holds, and a declining workforce. How-
ever, history tells us that this a com-
munity that not that long ago was
thriving with entrepreneurs, economic
opportunity, and strong families. I
think those virtues, those values, and
those ambitions still remain in the
heart in the soul of the people who live
in Liberty City.
On February 1, 2019, I held a com-
mittee field hearing in Liberty City to
have an in-depth discussion with com-
munity advocates about ways that
small business policies and collabora-
tion between Federal and city agencies
can encourage economic growth and
upward mobility in our more vulner-
able communities. We discussed how,
together, we can support an upward
mobility that honors the men, women,
and children who live in that commu-
nity and to provide jobs in the commu-
nity that support safe and affordable
housing options. Small businesses are
rooted in their communities, and when
an owner of that business also grew up
in that community, they are going to
hire local citizens, and they are going
to support local partnerships and orga-
nizations.
It is at the hearing that I learned of
Edward ‘‘Ed’’ Haynes. Haynes Security
Services is a shining example of what
is possible in Liberty City and commu-
nities just like it. After spending 6
years in the U.S. Marine Corps, Ed
joined the Miami Shores Police Depart-
ment, becoming the organization’s first
African-American police officer. In the
early 1990s, Ed’s background and exper-
tise led him into the private security
industry where he consulted before
founding Haynes Security Services in
2011. Combined, Ed has more than 30
years of security experience under his
belt.
As Ed’s company has grown from just
1 employee to 30 officers, he ensured
that it remains family-owned and oper-
ated and rooted in the Liberty City
community. He relies on his wife
Adriene, who is the chief financial offi-
cer, and his daughters, Chakara, who
provides human resources support, and
Candyce, who is in charge of the com-
pany’s marketing. Ed noted the incred-
ible responsibility in providing for 30
families, including those of his own
daughters.
Today, Haynes Security Services pro-
vides a wide range of security services,
including investigations, security con-
sultations, executive protection, and
electronic security solutions. Recently,
the company took on larger contracts
to provide security for the Miami-Dade
Metrorail, large real estate develop-
ment companies, as well as major
events in Miami. In addition to these
services, Haynes Security Services also
provides private security licensing and
certification training as required by
the State of Florida.
In 2017, Ed and his team were named
the Veteran-Owned Business of the
Year by both the Small Business Ad-
ministration South Florida District Of-
fice and the State of Florida. Through-
out the company’s history, Haynes Se-
curity Services has worked closely
with the Florida Small Business Devel-
opment Center, SBDC, at Florida Inter-
national University. This partnership
has given Ed and his team the strategic
assistance and knowledge they need to
pursue major contracts and secure ac-
cess to capital. Ed credits the practical
know-how and dedication of the SBDC
consultants with much of the recent
success that Haynes Security Services
has experienced.
Ed’s unique experience and success in
the Miami community has given him a
platform to give back to his neighbor-
hood. Beginning with his time in the
Marine Corps, Ed has remained com-
mitted to serving others. Today, he
continues this service by mentoring
young people and through motivational
speaking, where he uses his story to
encourage people to reach their full po-
tential.
Companies like Haynes Security
Services are a great example of the
success that is possible with vision,
hard work, and quality service. It is
also a testament to the impact that lo-
cally owned and operated small busi-
nesses, who hire people from the com-
munity and are committed to the fami-
lies who live there, can have on places
like Liberty City. I would like to con-
gratulate Ed, Adriene, Chakara,
Candyce, and all of the employees at
Haynes Security Services on being
named Small Business of the Week. I
wish you the best of luck as you grow
your business and stay active in your
community.∑
f
MESSAGES FROM THE PRESIDENT
Messages from the President of the
United States were communicated to
the Senate by Ms. Ridgway, one of his
secretaries.
f
EXECUTIVE MESSAGES REFERRED
As in executive session the Presiding
Officer laid before the Senate messages
from the President of the United
States submitting sundry nominations
which were referred to the appropriate
committees.
(The messages received today are
printed at the end of the Senate pro-
ceedings.)
f
MESSAGE FROM THE HOUSE
At 3:19 p.m., a message from the
House of Representatives, delivered by
Mrs. Cole, one of its reading clerks, an-
nounced that pursuant to 22 U.S.C.
3003, and the order of the House of Jan-
uary 3, 2019, the Speaker appoints the
following Member on the part of the
House of Representatives to the Com-
mission on Security and Cooperation in
Europe: Mr. HASTINGS of Florida,
Chair.
f
MEASURES PLACED ON THE
CALENDAR
The following bill was read the sec-
ond time, and placed on the calendar:
S. 340. A bill to promote competition in the
market for drugs and biological products by
facilitating the timely entry of lower-cost
generic and biosimilar versions of those
drugs and biological products.
f
REPORTS OF COMMITTEES
The following reports of committees
were submitted:
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:14 Feb 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00044 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G06FE6.060 S06FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S919
February 6, 2019
By Mr. CRAPO, from the Committee on
Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs, with-
out amendment:
S. Res. 47. An original resolution author-
izing expenditures by the Committee on
Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs.
By Mr. WICKER, from the Committee on
Commerce, Science, and Transportation,
without amendment:
S. Res. 48. An original resolution author-
izing expenditures by the Committee on
Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
By Mr. JOHNSON, from the Committee on
Homeland Security and Governmental Af-
fairs, without amendment:
S. Res. 49. An original resolution author-
izing expenditures by the Committee on
Homeland Security and Governmental Af-
fairs.
By Mr. BURR, from the Select Committee
on Intelligence, without amendment:
S. Res. 51. An original resolution author-
izing expenditures by the Select Committee
on Intelligence.
By Mr. HOEVEN, from the Committee on
Indian Affairs, without amendment:
S. Res. 52. A resolution authorizing ex-
penditures by the Committee on Indian Af-
fairs.
f
INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND
JOINT RESOLUTIONS
The following bills and joint resolu-
tions were introduced, read the first
and second times by unanimous con-
sent, and referred as indicated:
By Mr. YOUNG (for himself and Ms.
BALDWIN):
S. 342. A bill to reauthorize title VI of the
Higher Education Act of 1965 in order to im-
prove and encourage innovation in inter-
national education, and for other purposes;
to the Committee on Health, Education,
Labor, and Pensions.
By Mr. BARRASSO (for himself, Mr.
ROBERTS, and Mr. ENZI):
S. 343. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to terminate the credit for
new qualified plug-in electric drive motor ve-
hicles and to provide for a Federal Highway
user fee on alternative fuel vehicles; to the
Committee on Finance.
By Mr. TILLIS:
S. 344. A bill to amend the Federal Food,
Drug, and Cosmetic Act and the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 to prevent the inter
partes review process for challenging patents
from diminishing competition in the phar-
maceutical industry and with respect to drug
innovation, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and
Pensions.
By Mr. CASEY (for himself, Mrs. GILLI-
BRAND, Mrs. MURRAY, Ms. KLO-
BUCHAR, Ms. STABENOW, and Mr.
BLUMENTHAL):
S. 345. A bill to amend title II of the Social
Security Act to increase survivors benefits
for disabled widows, widowers, and surviving
divorced spouses, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Finance.
By Ms. HASSAN (for herself, Mr. SAND-
ERS, Mrs. SHAHEEN, and Mr. MARKEY):
S. 346. A bill to provide for the study and
evaluation of net metering, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Energy and
Natural Resources.
By Mrs. GILLIBRAND (for herself and
Mr. SCHUMER):
S. 347. A bill to designate the facility of
the United States Postal Service located at
40 Fulton Street in Middletown, New York,
as the ‘‘Benjamin A. Gilman Post Office
Building’’ ; to the Committee on Homeland
Security and Governmental Affairs.
By Mr. MENENDEZ (for himself, Mr.
BOOZMAN, and Mr. SCHUMER):
S. 348. A bill to amend title XVIII of the
Social Security Act to provide for the dis-
tribution of additional residency positions,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Finance.
By Ms. COLLINS (for herself and Mr.
CARDIN):
S. 349. A bill to require the Secretary of
Transportation to request nominations for,
and make determinations regarding, roads to
be designated under the national scenic by-
ways program, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Environment and Public
Works.
By Mr. DAINES (for himself and Mr.
LEAHY):
S. 350. A bill to restore the application of
the Federal antitrust laws to the business of
health insurance to protect competition and
consumers; to the Committee on the Judici-
ary.
By Mrs. HYDE–SMITH (for herself,
Mrs. BLACKBURN, Ms. ERNST, Mr.
CRAMER, Mr. ENZI, Mr. SCOTT of
South Carolina, Mr. SULLIVAN, Mr.
LEE, Mr. ROBERTS, Mr. WICKER, and
Mr. ROUNDS):
S. 351. A bill to prohibit Federal funding of
State firearm ownership databases, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Home-
land Security and Governmental Affairs.
By Mr. CORNYN (for himself and Mr.
WARNER):
S. 352. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to increase the national
limitation amount for qualified highway or
surface freight transfer facility bonds; to the
Committee on Finance.
By Mr. CORNYN (for himself and Mr.
KAINE):
S. 353. A bill to amend title 23, United
States Code, to improve the transportation
infrastructure finance and innovation
(TIFIA) program, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Environment and Public
Works.
By Mr. WARNER (for himself and Ms.
COLLINS):
S. 354. A bill to avoid duplicative annual
reporting under the Internal Revenue Code
of 1986 and the Employee Retirement Income
Security Act of 1974, and for other purposes;
to the Committee on Health, Education ,
Labor, and Pensions.
By Mr. BLUMENTHAL (for himself,
Mr. MURPHY, Mr. MARKEY, and Ms.
WARREN):
S. 355. A bill to establish a grant program
to provide assistance to prevent and repair
damage to structures due to pyrrhotite; to
the Committee on Homeland Security and
Governmental Affairs.
By Mr. MURPHY (for himself, Mr.
BLUMENTHAL, Ms. WARREN, and Mr.
MARKEY):
S. 356. A bill to establish a grant program
to provide assistance to States to prevent
and repair damage to structures due to
pyrrhotite; to the Committee on Banking,
Housing, and Urban Affairs.
By Mr. RUBIO (for himself, Mr. WYDEN,
and Mr. MARKEY):
S. 357. A bill to require annual reports on
religious intolerance in Saudi Arabian edu-
cational materials, and for other purposes;
to the Committee on Foreign Relations.
By Mr. SCHATZ (for himself, Ms.
BALDWIN, Mr. BENNET, Mr.
BLUMENTHAL, Mr. CARDIN, Ms. COR-
TEZ MASTO, Ms. DUCKWORTH, Mr.
DURBIN, Mrs. GILLIBRAND, Ms. HAR-
RIS, Mr. KAINE, Mr. KING, Mr.
PETERS, Mr. REED, Ms. ROSEN, Ms.
SMITH, Mr. UDALL, Mr. VAN HOLLEN,
and Ms. KLOBUCHAR):
S. 358. A bill to amend title 13, United
States Code, to require the Secretary of
Commerce to provide advance notice to Con-
gress before changing any questions on the
decennial census, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Homeland Security and
Governmental Affairs.
By Mr. CARDIN (for himself and Mr.
WICKER):
S. 359. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to exclude from gross in-
come certain Federally-subsidized loan re-
payments for dental school faculty; to the
Committee on Finance.
By Mr. MENENDEZ (for himself, Ms.
HARRIS, and Mr. BOOKER):
S. 360. A bill to amend the Securities Ex-
change Act of 1934 to require the submission
by issuers of data relating to diversity, and
for other purposes; to the Committee on
Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs.
By Mr. GARDNER (for himself, Mr.
CRAPO, Mr. ROBERTS, Mr. TESTER, Mr.
BENNET, Mr. RISCH, and Mr. ENZI):
S. 361. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to facilitate water leasing
and water transfers to promote conservation
and efficiency; to the Committee on Finance.
By Mr. WYDEN (for himself, Mr.
BLUNT, Mr. CARPER, Mr. ROBERTS,
Ms. STABENOW, Mr. MORAN, Mr.
CASEY, Mr. PORTMAN, Mr. BENNET,
Mrs. CAPITO, Ms. BALDWIN, and Mr.
GARDNER):
S. 362. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to reform taxation of alco-
holic beverages; to the Committee on Fi-
nance.
By Ms. KLOBUCHAR (for herself, Mr.
BLUNT, Mr. CASEY, Mr. INHOFE, and
Mr. BOOZMAN):
S. 363. A bill to establish an Intercountry
Adoption Advisory Committee, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Foreign Rela-
tions.
By Mr. BROWN (for himself and Mr.
PORTMAN):
S. 364. A bill to amend the Ohio & Erie Na-
tional Heritage Canalway Act of 1996 to mod-
ify the funding limitation; to the Committee
on Energy and Natural Resources.
By Mr. PORTMAN (for himself, Mr.
JONES, Ms. ERNST, Mr. ALEXANDER,
Mrs. FEINSTEIN, Mrs. FISCHER, Ms.
SINEMA, Mr. YOUNG, and Mr. WICKER):
S. 365. A bill to amend section 232 of the
Trade Expansion Act of 1962 to require the
Secretary of Defense to initiate investiga-
tions and to provide for congressional dis-
approval of certain actions, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Finance.
By Mr. DURBIN (for himself, Ms. HAR-
RIS, Ms. SMITH, Ms. KLOBUCHAR, and
Mr. BLUMENTHAL):
S. 366. A bill to shorten monopoly periods
for prescription drugs that are the subjects
of sudden price hikes; to the Committee on
Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
f
SUBMISSION OF CONCURRENT AND
SENATE RESOLUTIONS
The following concurrent resolutions
and Senate resolutions were read, and
referred (or acted upon), as indicated:
By Mr. CRAPO:
S. Res. 47. An original resolution author-
izing expenditures by the Committee on
Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs; from
the Committee on Banking, Housing, and
Urban Affairs; to the Committee on Rules
and Administration.
By Mr. WICKER:
S. Res. 48. An original resolution author-
izing expenditures by the Committee on
Commerce, Science, and Transportation;
from the Committee on Commerce, Science,
and Transportation; to the Committee on
Rules and Administration.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:14 Feb 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00045 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06FE6.023 S06FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S920 February 6, 2019
By Mr. JOHNSON:
S. Res. 49. An original resolution author-
izing expenditures by the Committee on
Homeland Security and Governmental Af-
fairs; from the Committee on Homeland Se-
curity and Governmental Affairs; to the
Committee on Rules and Administration.
By Mr. LANKFORD (for himself and
Mr. BLUNT):
S. Res. 50. A resolution improving proce-
dures for the consideration of nominations in
the Senate; to the Committee on Rules and
Administration.
By Mr. BURR:
S. Res. 51. An original resolution author-
izing expenditures by the Select Committee
on Intelligence; from the Select Committee
on Intelligence; to the Committee on Rules
and Administration.
By Mr. HOEVEN:
S. Res. 52. A resolution authorizing ex-
penditures by the Committee on Indian Af-
fairs; from the Committee on Indian Affairs;
to the Committee on Rules and Administra-
tion.
By Mr. GRASSLEY:
S. Res. 53. A resolution recognizing the
staff of the Office of Legislative Counsel of
the Senate on the occasion of the 100th anni-
versary of the Office; considered and agreed
to.
f
ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS
S. 126
At the request of Ms. MURKOWSKI, the
name of the Senator from Alaska (Mr.
SULLIVAN) was added as a cosponsor of
S. 126, a bill to direct the Secretary of
the Interior to establish a demonstra-
tion program to adapt the successful
practices of providing foreign aid to
underdeveloped economies to the provi-
sion of Federal economic development
assistance to Native communities in
similarly situated remote areas in the
United States, and for other purposes.
S. 130
At the request of Mr. SASSE, the
name of the Senator from Arizona (Ms.
MCSALLY) was added as a cosponsor of
S. 130, a bill to amend title 18, United
States Code, to prohibit a health care
practitioner from failing to exercise
the proper degree of care in the case of
a child who survives an abortion or at-
tempted abortion.
S. 162
At the request of Ms. SMITH, the
names of the Senator from Delaware
(Mr. COONS), the Senator from Arizona
(Ms. SINEMA) and the Senator from
New York (Mr. SCHUMER) were added as
cosponsors of S. 162, a bill to provide
back pay to low-wage contractor em-
ployees, and for other purposes.
S. 172
At the request of Mr. GARDNER, the
name of the Senator from New Hamp-
shire (Ms. HASSAN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 172, a bill to delay the re-
imposition of the annual fee on health
insurance providers until after 2021.
S. 179
At the request of Mr. TESTER, the
name of the Senator from Maine (Mr.
KING) was added as a cosponsor of S.
179, a bill to direct the Secretary of
Veterans Affairs to carry out a clinical
trial of the effects of cannabis on cer-
tain health outcomes of adults with
chronic pain and post-traumatic stress
disorder, and for other purposes.
S. 184
At the request of Mr. MARKEY, the
name of the Senator from New Hamp-
shire (Mrs. SHAHEEN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 184, a bill to authorize the
appropriation of funds to the Centers
for Disease Control and Prevention for
conducting or supporting research on
firearms safety or gun violence preven-
tion.
S. 238
At the request of Mr. RUBIO, the
name of the Senator from South Da-
kota (Mr. ROUNDS) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 238, a bill to amend the
State Department Basic Authorities
Act of 1956 to monitor and combat
anti-Semitism globally, and for other
purposes.
S. 246
At the request of Mr. MURPHY, the
name of the Senator from Michigan
(Mr. PETERS) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 246, a bill to block the implemen-
tation of certain presidential actions
that restrict individuals from certain
countries from entering the United
States.
S. 262
At the request of Mr. VAN HOLLEN,
the name of the Senator from New Jer-
sey (Mr. BOOKER) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 262, a bill to provide for a
pay increase in 2019 for certain civilian
employees of the Federal Government,
and for other purposes.
S. 286
At the request of Mr. BARRASSO, the
name of the Senator from Maine (Mr.
KING) was added as a cosponsor of S.
286, a bill to amend title XVIII of the
Social Security Act to provide for the
coverage of marriage and family thera-
pist services and mental health coun-
selor services under part B of the Medi-
care program, and for other purposes.
S. 293
At the request of Mr. CASSIDY, the
name of the Senator from North Da-
kota (Mr. CRAMER) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 293, a bill to enhance bor-
der security to reduce drug trafficking
and related money laundering.
S. 309
At the request of Mr. SANDERS, the
name of the Senator from New York
(Mrs. GILLIBRAND) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 309, a bill to amend the
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to rein-
state estate and generation-skipping
taxes, and for other purposes.
S. 311
At the request of Mr. SASSE, the
name of the Senator from Arizona (Ms.
MCSALLY) was added as a cosponsor of
S. 311, a bill to amend title 18, United
States Code, to prohibit a health care
practitioner from failing to exercise
the proper degree of care in the case of
a child who survives an abortion or at-
tempted abortion.
S. 319
At the request of Mrs. MURRAY, the
name of the Senator from Colorado
(Mr. BENNET) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 319, a bill to improve the repro-
ductive assistance provided by the De-
partment of Defense and the Depart-
ment of Veterans Affairs to severely
wounded, ill, or injured members of the
Armed Forces, veterans, and their
spouses or partners, and for other pur-
poses.
f
STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED
BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS
By Ms. COLLINS (for herself and
Mr. CARDIN):
S. 349. A bill to require the Secretary
of Transportation to request nomina-
tions for, and make determinations re-
garding, roads to be designated under
the national scenic byways program,
and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Environment and Public
Works.
Ms. COLLINS. Mr. President, I rise
today to discuss the Reviving Amer-
ica’s Scenic Byways Act, a bill I have
introduced with my colleague from
Maryland, Senator CARDIN. Our bill
seeks to revive the long-dormant proc-
ess within the U.S. Department of
Transportation through which some of
our Nation’s most remarkable road-
ways can earn the prestigious designa-
tion of ‘‘National Scenic Byway.’’
The National Scenic Byways Pro-
gram began as a grassroots effort to
help recognize, preserve, and enhance
selected roads throughout the United
States based on one or more cultural,
historic, natural, recreational, and sce-
nic qualities. Today, there are more
than 150 distinct roads nationwide that
have been recognized as National Sce-
nic Byways—including several which
have gained the honor of being named
an ‘‘All-American Road.’’
I am proud that my home State of
Maine boasts not only three National
Scenic Byways, but also the Acadia
All-American Road. These roadways
provide Mainers and tourists alike with
spectacular views and memorable expe-
riences, while at the same time spur-
ring much-needed economic activity in
the surrounding areas. The National
Scenic Byways program represents a
true win-win scenario by protecting
precious corridors and providing tan-
gible benefits for local communities.
Despite this program’s proven value,
its nomination process has been inac-
tive since the passage of the 2012 sur-
face transportation funding bill (also
known as MAP–21). As a result, numer-
ous roadways across the country have
been prevented from pursuing National
Scenic Byway designation.
In fact, a recent survey found that at
least 44 State scenic byways across the
country are prepared to seek national
designation as soon as the program is
reopened to nominations. It is critical
that we provide these local byways the
opportunity to seek the Federal des-
ignation and reap its demonstrated
benefits.
Mr. President, I urge my colleagues
to support this bill, which in turn sup-
ports the preservation of America’s
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:14 Feb 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00046 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06FE6.028 S06FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S921
February 6, 2019
most unique roadways and the facilita-
tion of increased economic activity in
the regions that they serve.
By Mr. CARDIN (for himself and
Mr. WICKER):
S. 359. A bill to amend the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986 to exclude from
gross income certain Federally-sub-
sidized loan repayments for dental
school faculty; to the Committee on
Finance.
Mr. CARDIN. Mr. President, I rise
today with my colleague Senator
WICKER to bring your attention to our
proposed Dental Loan Repayment As-
sistance Act. This legislation will pro-
vide incentives for dental and dental
hygiene graduates to remain as dental
school faculty by eliminating certain
loan assistance benefits from being
counted as taxable income. We rely on
dental faculty to train the next genera-
tion of oral health providers, but too
often, these educators find themselves
pushed to work in private practice in
order to pay off their student loans.
The Dental Loan Repayment Assist-
ance Act will ease some of this finan-
cial burden and allow faculty to stay
where they are most needed.
There are currently over 5,000 dental
health professional shortage areas na-
tionwide—areas where it is hard to find
a dental provider even with insurance
coverage. By 2025, the Department of
Health and Human Services (HHS)
projects that the United States will
have a national shortage of 15,000 den-
tists. We can only hope to solve this
problem if we can recruit and retain
enough faculty to train the next gen-
eration of dentists and dental hygien-
ists. Crippling educational debt should
not prevent our Nation from having
the oral health care providers it needs,
and this bill will help address that.
I would also like to take this oppor-
tunity to acknowledge that February
is National Children’s Dental Health
Month. Since 1981, this month has af-
forded us the opportunity to acknowl-
edge the importance of children’s den-
tal health. We recognize the significant
strides we have made, but we also ac-
knowledge the work that remains to be
done. I invite my colleagues to join me
to use this month to renew our com-
mitment to ensuring that all children
in our country have access to afford-
able and comprehensive dental serv-
ices. To echo Former U.S. Surgeon
General C. Everett Koop, ‘‘there is no
health without oral health.’’
Despite being largely preventable,
tooth decay is the single most common
chronic health condition among chil-
dren and adolescents in the United
States. It is four times more common
than early-childhood obesity, five
times more common than asthma, and
20 times more common than diabetes.
Among children in families living
below the federal poverty line, 52 per-
cent have cavities. Children with cav-
ities in their primary or ‘‘baby’’ teeth
are three times more likely to develop
cavities in their permanent, adult
teeth, and the early loss of baby teeth
can make it harder for permanent
teeth to grow in properly. If tooth
decay is left untreated, it not only can
destroy a child’s teeth; it can have a
debilitating impact on his or her
health and quality of life.
Many have heard me speak before
about the tragic loss of Deamonte
Driver, a 12-year-old Prince George’s
County resident, in 2007. Deamonte’s
death was particularly heartbreaking
because it was entirely preventable.
What started out as a toothache turned
into a severe brain infection that could
have been prevented by an $80 extrac-
tion. After multiple surgeries and a
lengthy hospital stay, sadly, Deamonte
passed away—twelve years ago this
month.
Even in less tragic cases, tooth and
gum pain can impede a child’s healthy
development, including the ability to
learn, play, and eat nutritious foods.
Recent studies have shown that chil-
dren with poor oral health are nearly
three times more likely to miss school
due to dental pain, and children report-
ing recent toothaches are four times
more likely to have a lower grade point
average than their peers without den-
tal pain.
Tooth decay and oral health prob-
lems also disproportionately affect
children from low-income families and
minority communities. According to
the National Institutes of Health, ap-
proximately 80 percent of childhood
dental disease is concentrated in 25
percent of the population. These chil-
dren and families often face inordi-
nately high barriers to receiving essen-
tial oral health care and, simply put,
the consequences can be devastating.
In 2009, Congress reauthorized the
Children’s Health Insurance Program
(CHIP) with an important addition: a
guaranteed pediatric dental benefit.
Today, CHIP provides affordable com-
prehensive health coverage—including
dental coverage—to more than 8 mil-
lion children. Thanks to CHIP, we now
have the highest number of children
with medical and dental coverage in
history. In addition, in 2010, Congress
included pediatric dental services in
the set of essential health benefits es-
tablished under the Affordable Care
Act.
I am very proud that my State of
Maryland has been recognized as a na-
tional leader in pediatric dental health
coverage. In a 2011 Pew Center report,
‘‘The State of Children’s Dental
Health,’’ Maryland earned an ‘‘A’’ and
was the only State to meet seven of
eight policy benchmarks for addressing
children’s dental health needs. In addi-
tion, in the Maryland Health Benefit
Exchange, every qualified health plan
now includes pediatric dental coverage,
so families do not have to pay a sepa-
rate premium for dental coverage for
their children and do not have a sepa-
rate deductible or out-of-pocket limit
for pediatric dental services. I am
pleased to say that our actions have
been working, and our numbers are im-
proving. In 2004, nearly 23 percent of all
children had untreated tooth decay. In
2016, that number dropped down to 13
percent.
I urge my colleagues to join Senator
WICKER and me in supporting the Den-
tal Loan Repayment Assistance Act to
help address our critical nationwide
shortage of dental healthcare providers
and especially dental faculty. We will
not continue to allow crippling grad-
uate student debt to deprive the Amer-
ican people of the teachers and men-
tors we need to train the next genera-
tion of oral healthcare providers.
By Mr. DURBIN (for himself, Ms.
HARRIS, Ms. SMITH, Ms. KLO-
BUCHAR, and Mr. BLUMENTHAL):
S. 366. A bill to shorten monopoly pe-
riods for prescription drugs that are
the subjects of sudden price hikes; to
the Committee on Health, Education,
Labor, and Pensions.
Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the text of the
bill be printed in the RECORD.
There being no objection, the text of
the bill was ordered to be printed in
the RECORD, as follows:
S. 366
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Forcing
Limits on Abusive and Tumultuous Prices’’
or the ‘‘FLAT Prices Act’’.
SEC. 2. REDUCED MARKET EXCLUSIVITY.
(a) PENALTY.—If the manufacturer of a pre-
scription drug approved under section 505 of
the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act
(21 U.S.C. 355) or licensed under section 351 of
the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 262)
increases the price of such drug as described
in subsection (b), any remaining period of
market exclusivity with respect to such drug
shall be reduced as follows:
(1) With respect to any price increase de-
scribed in subsection (b), such market exclu-
sivity shall be reduced by 180 days.
(2) For every 5 percent price increase over
the 10 percent, 18 percent, or 25 percent, re-
spectively, threshold price increases de-
scribed in subsection (b), such market exclu-
sivity shall be reduced for an additional 30-
days.
(b) PRICE INCREASE.—A price increase de-
scribed in this subsection is an increase in
the wholesale acquisition cost (as defined in
section 1847A(c)(6)(B) of the Social Security
Act (42 U.S.C. 1395w–3a(c)(6)(B))) of a pre-
scription drug of more than 10 percent over
a 1-year period, more than 18 percent over a
2-year period, or more than 25 percent over a
3-year period.
(c) REPORT ON PRICE INCREASE.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—A drug manufacturer that
increases the price of a prescription drug as
described in subsection (b) shall report such
increase to the Secretary of Health and
Human Services (referred to in this section
as the ‘‘Secretary’’) within 30 days of meet-
ing the criteria for a price increase under
such subsection.
(2) FAILURE TO SUBMIT REPORT.—In the case
of a drug manufacturer that does not submit
a report required under paragraph (1) within
the 30-day period described in such para-
graph, in addition to the penalty under sub-
section (a), the period of market exclusivity
with respect to such drug shall be reduced by
30 days for each day after the due date of the
report until the report is submitted.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:26 Feb 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00047 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06FE6.033 S06FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S922 February 6, 2019
(d) WAIVER.—The Secretary may waive, or
decrease, the reduction in the period of mar-
ket exclusivity that would otherwise apply
under subsection (a) with respect to a pre-
scription drug if—
(1) the manufacturer of such drug sub-
mits—
(A) a report under subsection (c)(1); and
(B) an application for such a waiver, at
such time, in such manner, and containing
such information as the Secretary may re-
quire; and
(2) based upon the information in such ap-
plication, the Secretary determines that—
(A) the price increase is necessary to en-
able production of the drug, does not unduly
restrict patient access to the drug , and does
not negatively impact public health; and
(B) such waiver or decrease constitutes a
deviation from the reduction in market ex-
clusivity that would otherwise apply under
subsection (a) only to the extent necessary
to achieve drug production objectives.
(e) PERIOD OF MARKET EXCLUSIVITY.—For
purposes of this section, the term ‘‘period of
market exclusivity’’ means any period of
market exclusivity granted with respect to a
prescription drug under clause (ii), (iii), or
(iv) of section 505(c)(3)(E) of the Federal
Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C.
355(c)(3)(E)), section 505(j)(5)(B)(iv) of such
Act, clause (ii), (iii), or (iv) of section
505(j)(5)(F) of such Act, or paragraphs (6) or
(7) of section 351(k) of the Public Health
Service Act (42 U.S.C. 262(k)).
f
SUBMITTED RESOLUTIONS
SENATE RESOLUTION 47—AUTHOR-
IZING EXPENDITURES BY THE
COMMITTEE ON BANKING, HOUS-
ING, AND URBAN AFFAIRS
Mr. CRAPO submitted the following
resolution; from the Committee on
Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs;
which was referred to the Committee
on Rules and Administration:
S. RES. 47
Resolved,
SECTION 1. GENERAL AUTHORITY.
In carrying out its powers, duties, and
functions under the Standing Rules of the
Senate, in accordance with its jurisdiction
under rule XXV of the Standing Rules of the
Senate, including holding hearings, report-
ing such hearings, and making investiga-
tions as authorized by paragraphs 1 and 8 of
rule XXVI of the Standing Rules of the Sen-
ate, the Committee on Banking, Housing,
and Urban Affairs (in this resolution referred
to as the ‘‘committee’’) is authorized from
March 1, 2019 through February 28, 2021, in
its discretion, to—
(1) make expenditures from the contingent
fund of the Senate;
(2) employ personnel; and
(3) with the prior consent of the Govern-
ment department or agency concerned and
the Committee on Rules and Administration,
use on a reimbursable or nonreimbursable
basis the services of personnel of any such
department or agency.
SEC. 2. EXPENSES.
(a) EXPENSES FOR PERIOD ENDING SEP-
TEMBER 30, 2019.—The expenses of the com-
mittee for the period March 1, 2019 through
September 30, 2019 under this resolution
shall not exceed $3,243,919, of which
amount—
(1) not to exceed $11,666 may be expended
for the procurement of the services of indi-
vidual consultants, or organizations thereof
(as authorized by section 202(i) of the Legis-
lative Reorganization Act of 1946 (2 U.S.C.
4301(i))); and
(2) not to exceed $875 may be expended for
the training of the professional staff of the
committee (under procedures specified by
section 202(j) of that Act).
(b) EXPENSES FOR FISCAL YEAR 2020 PE-
RIOD.—The expenses of the committee for the
period October 1, 2019 through September 30,
2020 under this resolution shall not exceed
$5,561,004, of which amount—
(1) not to exceed $20,000 may be expended
for the procurement of the services of indi-
vidual consultants, or organizations thereof
(as authorized by section 202(i) of the Legis-
lative Reorganization Act of 1946 (2 U.S.C.
4301(i))); and
(2) not to exceed $1,500 may be expended for
the training of the professional staff of the
committee (under procedures specified by
section 202(j) of that Act).
(c) EXPENSES FOR PERIOD ENDING FEBRUARY
28, 2021.—The expenses of the committee for
the period October 1, 2020 through February
28, 2021 under this resolution shall not exceed
$2,317,085, of which amount—
(1) not to exceed $8,334 may be expended for
the procurement of the services of individual
consultants, or organizations thereof (as au-
thorized by section 202(i) of the Legislative
Reorganization Act of 1946 (2 U.S.C. 4301(i)));
and
(2) not to exceed $625 may be expended for
the training of the professional staff of the
committee (under procedures specified by
section 202(j) of that Act).
SEC. 3. EXPENSES AND AGENCY CONTRIBUTIONS.
(a) EXPENSES OF THE COMMITTEE.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in
paragraph (2), expenses of the committee
under this resolution shall be paid from the
contingent fund of the Senate upon vouchers
approved by the chairman of the committee.
(2) VOUCHERS NOT REQUIRED.—Vouchers
shall not be required for—
(A) the disbursement of salaries of employ-
ees paid at an annual rate;
(B) the payment of telecommunications
provided by the Office of the Sergeant at
Arms and Doorkeeper;
(C) the payment of stationery supplies pur-
chased through the Keeper of the Stationery;
(D) payments to the Postmaster of the
Senate;
(E) the payment of metered charges on
copying equipment provided by the Office of
the Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper;
(F) the payment of Senate Recording and
Photographic Services; or
(G) the payment of franked and mass mail
costs by the Sergeant at Arms and Door-
keeper.
(b) AGENCY CONTRIBUTIONS.—There are au-
thorized to be paid from the appropriations
account for ‘‘Expenses of Inquiries and Inves-
tigations’’ of the Senate such sums as may
be necessary for agency contributions re-
lated to the compensation of employees of
the committee—
(1) for the period March 1, 2019 through
September 30, 2019;
(2) for the period October 1, 2019 through
September 30, 2020; and
(3) for the period October 1, 2020 through
February 28, 2021.
f
SENATE RESOLUTION 48—AUTHOR-
IZING EXPENDITURES BY THE
COMMITTEE ON COMMERCE,
SCIENCE, AND TRANSPORTATION
Mr. WICKER submitted the following
resolution; from the Committee on
Commerce, Science, and Transpor-
tation; which was referred to the Com-
mittee on Rules and Administration:
S. RES. 48
Resolved, That, in carrying out its powers,
duties, and functions under the Standing
Rules of the Senate, in accordance with its
jurisdiction under Rule XXV of the Standing
Rules of the Senate, including holding hear-
ings, reporting such hearings, and making
investigations as authorized by paragraphs 1
and 8 of rule XXVI of the Standing Rules of
the Senate, the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation is authorized
from March 1, 2019, through February 28,
2021, in its discretion—
(1) to make expenditures from the contin-
gent fund of the Senate;
(2) to employ personnel; and
(3) with the prior consent of the Govern-
ment department or agency concerned and
the Committee on Rules and Administration,
to use on a reimbursable or nonreimbursable
basis the services of personnel of any such
department or agency.
SEC. 2. (a) The expenses of the committee
for the period from March 1, 2019, through
September 30, 2019, under this resolution
shall not exceed $4,155,132, of which
amount—
(1) not to exceed $50,000 may be expended
for the procurement of the services of indi-
vidual consultants, or organizations thereof
(as authorized by section 202(i) of the Legis-
lative Reorganization Act of 1946 (2 U.S.C.
4301(i))); and
(2) not to exceed $50,000 may be expended
for the training of the professional staff of
the committee (under procedures specified
by section 202(j) of the Legislative Reorga-
nization Act of 1946 (2 U.S.C. 4301(j))).
(b) For the period October 1, 2019, through
September 30, 2020, expenses of the com-
mittee under this resolution shall not exceed
$7,104,057, of which amount—
(1) not to exceed $50,000 may be expended
for the procurement of the services of indi-
vidual consultants, or organizations thereof
(as authorized by section 202(i) of the Legis-
lative Reorganization Act of 1946 (2 U.S.C.
4301(i))); and
(2) not to exceed $50,000 may be expended
for the training of the professional staff of
such committee (under procedures specified
by section 202(j) of the Legislative Reorga-
nization Act of 1946 (2 U.S.C. 4301(j))).
(c) For the period October 1, 2020, through
February 28, 2021, expenses of the committee
under this resolution shall not exceed
$2,960,024, of which amount—
(1) not to exceed $50,000 may be expended
for the procurement of the services of indi-
vidual consultants, or organizations thereof
(as authorized by section 202(i) of the Legis-
lative Reorganization Act of 1946 (2 U.S.C.
4301(i))); and
(2) not to exceed $50,000 may be expended
for the training of the professional staff of
the committee (under procedures specified
by section 202(j) of the Legislative Reorga-
nization Act of 1946 (2 U.S.C. 4301(j))).
SEC. 3. Expenses of the committee under
this resolution shall be paid from the contin-
gent fund of the Senate upon vouchers ap-
proved by the chairman of the committee,
except that vouchers shall not be required
for—
(1) the disbursement of salaries of employ-
ees paid at an annual rate;
(2) the payment of telecommunications
provided by the Office of the Sergeant at
Arms and Doorkeeper;
(3) the payment of stationery supplies pur-
chased through the Keeper of the Stationery;
(4) payments to the Postmaster of the Sen-
ate;
(5) the payment of metered charges on
copying equipment provided by the Office of
the Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper;
(6) the payment of Senate Recording and
Photographic Services; or
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:50 Feb 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00048 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06FE6.035 S06FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S923
February 6, 2019
(7) the payment of franked and mass mail
costs by the Sergeant at Arms and Door-
keeper.
SEC. 4. There are authorized to be paid
from the appropriations account for ‘‘Ex-
penses of Inquiries and Investigations’’ of
the Senate such sums as may be necessary
for agency contributions related to the com-
pensation of employees of the committee
for—
(1) the period from March 1, 2019, through
September 30, 2019;
(2) the period from October 1, 2019, through
September 30, 2020; and
(3) the period from October 1, 2020, through
February 28, 2021.
f
SENATE RESOLUTION 49—AUTHOR-
IZING EXPENDITURES BY THE
COMMITTEE ON HOMELAND SE-
CURITY AND GOVERNMENTAL
AFFAIRS
Mr. JOHNSON submitted the fol-
lowing resolution; from the Committee
on Homeland Security and Govern-
mental Affairs; which was referred to
the Committee on Rules and Adminis-
tration:
S. RES. 49
Resolved,
SECTION 1. GENERAL AUTHORITY.
In carrying out its powers, duties, and
functions under the Standing Rules of the
Senate, in accordance with its jurisdiction
under rule XXV of the Standing Rules of the
Senate and S. Res. 445, agreed to October 9,
2004 (108th Congress), including holding hear-
ings, reporting such hearings, and making
investigations as authorized by paragraphs 1
and 8 of rule XXVI of the Standing Rules of
the Senate, the Committee on Homeland Se-
curity and Governmental Affairs (in this res-
olution referred to as the ‘‘committee’’) is
authorized from March 1, 2019, through Feb-
ruary 28, 2021, in its discretion, to—
(1) make expenditures from the contingent
fund of the Senate;
(2) employ personnel; and
(3) with the prior consent of the Govern-
ment department or agency concerned and
the Committee on Rules and Administration,
use on a reimbursable or nonreimbursable
basis the services of personnel of any such
department or agency.
SEC. 2. EXPENSES.
(a) EXPENSES FOR PERIOD ENDING SEP-
TEMBER 30, 2019.—The expenses of the com-
mittee for the period March 1, 2019, through
September 30, 2019, under this resolution
shall not exceed $5,591,653, of which
amount—
(1) not to exceed $75,000 may be expended
for the procurement of the services of indi-
vidual consultants, or organizations thereof
(as authorized by section 202(i) of the Legis-
lative Reorganization Act of 1946 (2 U.S.C.
4301(i))); and
(2) not to exceed $20,000 may be expended
for the training of the professional staff of
the committee (under procedures specified
by section 202(j) of that Act).
(b) EXPENSES FOR FISCAL YEAR 2020 PE-
RIOD.—The expenses of the committee for the
period October 1, 2019, through September 30,
2020, under this resolution shall not exceed
$9,585,691, of which amount—
(1) not to exceed $75,000 may be expended
for the procurement of the services of indi-
vidual consultants, or organizations thereof
(as authorized by section 202(i) of the Legis-
lative Reorganization Act of 1946 (2 U.S.C.
4301(i))); and
(2) not to exceed $20,000 may be expended
for the training of the professional staff of
the committee (under procedures specified
by section 202(j) of that Act).
(c) EXPENSES FOR PERIOD ENDING FEBRUARY
28, 2021.—The expenses of the committee for
the period October 1, 2020, through February
28, 2021, under this resolution shall not ex-
ceed $3,994,038, of which amount—
(1) not to exceed $75,000 may be expended
for the procurement of the services of indi-
vidual consultants, or organizations thereof
(as authorized by section 202(i) of the Legis-
lative Reorganization Act of 1946 (2 U.S.C.
4301(i))); and
(2) not to exceed $20,000 may be expended
for the training of the professional staff of
the committee (under procedures specified
by section 202(j) of that Act).
SEC. 3. REPORTING LEGISLATION.
The committee shall report its findings,
together with such recommendations for leg-
islation as it deems advisable, to the Senate
at the earliest practicable date, but not later
than February 28, 2021.
SEC. 4. EXPENSES AND AGENCY CONTRIBUTIONS.
(a) EXPENSES OF THE COMMITTEE.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in
paragraph (2), expenses of the committee
under this resolution shall be paid from the
contingent fund of the Senate upon vouchers
approved by the chairman of the committee.
(2) VOUCHERS NOT REQUIRED.—Vouchers
shall not be required for—
(A) the disbursement of salaries of employ-
ees paid at an annual rate;
(B) the payment of telecommunications
provided by the Office of the Sergeant at
Arms and Doorkeeper;
(C) the payment of stationery supplies pur-
chased through the Keeper of the Stationery;
(D) payments to the Postmaster of the
Senate;
(E) the payment of metered charges on
copying equipment provided by the Office of
the Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper;
(F) the payment of Senate Recording and
Photographic Services; or
(G) the payment of franked and mass mail
costs by the Sergeant at Arms and Door-
keeper.
(b) AGENCY CONTRIBUTIONS.—There are au-
thorized to be paid from the appropriations
account for ‘‘Expenses of Inquiries and Inves-
tigations’’ of the Senate such sums as may
be necessary for agency contributions re-
lated to the compensation of employees of
the committee—
(1) for the period March 1, 2019, through
September 30, 2019;
(2) for the period October 1, 2019, through
September 30, 2020; and
(3) for the period October 1, 2020, through
February 28, 2021.
SEC. 5. INVESTIGATIONS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The committee, or any
duly authorized subcommittee of the com-
mittee, is authorized to study or inves-
tigate—
(1) the efficiency and economy of oper-
ations of all branches of the Government in-
cluding the possible existence of fraud, mis-
feasance, malfeasance, collusion, mis-
management, incompetence, corruption, or
unethical practices, waste, extravagance,
conflicts of interest, and the improper ex-
penditure of Government funds in trans-
actions, contracts, and activities of the Gov-
ernment or of Government officials and em-
ployees and any and all such improper prac-
tices between Government personnel and
corporations, individuals, companies, or per-
sons affiliated therewith, doing business
with the Government, and the compliance or
noncompliance of such corporations, compa-
nies, or individuals or other entities with the
rules, regulations, and laws governing the
various governmental agencies and its rela-
tionships with the public;
(2) the extent to which criminal or other
improper practices or activities are, or have
been, engaged in the field of labor-manage-
ment relations or in groups or organizations
of employees or employers, to the detriment
of interests of the public, employers, or em-
ployees, and to determine whether any
changes are required in the laws of the
United States in order to protect such inter-
ests against the occurrence of such practices
or activities;
(3) organized criminal activity which may
operate in or otherwise utilize the facilities
of interstate or international commerce in
furtherance of any transactions and the
manner and extent to which, and the iden-
tity of the persons, firms, or corporations, or
other entities by whom such utilization is
being made, and further, to study and inves-
tigate the manner in which and the extent to
which persons engaged in organized criminal
activity have infiltrated lawful business en-
terprise, and to study the adequacy of Fed-
eral laws to prevent the operations of orga-
nized crime in interstate or international
commerce, and to determine whether any
changes are required in the laws of the
United States in order to protect the public
against such practices or activities;
(4) all other aspects of crime and lawless-
ness within the United States which have an
impact upon or affect the national health,
welfare, and safety, including but not lim-
ited to investment fraud schemes, com-
modity and security fraud, computer fraud,
and the use of offshore banking and cor-
porate facilities to carry out criminal objec-
tives;
(5) the efficiency and economy of oper-
ations of all branches and functions of the
Government with particular reference to—
(A) the effectiveness of present national se-
curity methods, staffing, and processes as
tested against the requirements imposed by
the rapidly mounting complexity of national
security problems;
(B) the capacity of present national secu-
rity staffing, methods, and processes to
make full use of the Nation’s resources of
knowledge and talents;
(C) the adequacy of present intergovern-
mental relations between the United States
and international organizations principally
concerned with national security of which
the United States is a member; and
(D) legislative and other proposals to im-
prove these methods, processes, and relation-
ships;
(6) the efficiency, economy, and effective-
ness of all agencies and departments of the
Government involved in the control and
management of energy shortages including,
but not limited to, their performance with
respect to—
(A) the collection and dissemination of ac-
curate statistics on fuel demand and supply;
(B) the implementation of effective energy
conservation measures;
(C) the pricing of energy in all forms;
(D) coordination of energy programs with
State and local government;
(E) control of exports of scarce fuels;
(F) the management of tax, import, pric-
ing, and other policies affecting energy sup-
plies;
(G) maintenance of the independent sector
of the petroleum industry as a strong com-
petitive force;
(H) the allocation of fuels in short supply
by public and private entities;
(I) the management of energy supplies
owned or controlled by the Government;
(J) relations with other oil producing and
consuming countries;
(K) the monitoring of compliance by gov-
ernments, corporations, or individuals with
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:26 Feb 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00049 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06FE6.045 S06FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S924 February 6, 2019
the laws and regulations governing the allo-
cation, conservation, or pricing of energy
supplies; and
(L) research into the discovery and devel-
opment of alternative energy supplies; and
(7) the efficiency and economy of all
branches and functions of Government with
particular references to the operations and
management of Federal regulatory policies
and programs.
(b) EXTENT OF INQUIRIES.—In carrying out
the duties provided in subsection (a), the in-
quiries of this committee or any sub-
committee of the committee shall not be
construed to be limited to the records, func-
tions, and operations of any particular
branch of the Government and may extend
to the records and activities of any persons,
corporation, or other entity.
(c) SPECIAL COMMITTEE AUTHORITY.—For
the purposes of this section, the committee,
or any duly authorized subcommittee of the
committee, or its chairman, or any other
member of the committee or subcommittee
designated by the chairman is authorized, in
its, his, her, or their discretion—
(1) to require by subpoena or otherwise the
attendance of witnesses and production of
correspondence, books, papers, and docu-
ments;
(2) to hold hearings;
(3) to sit and act at any time or place dur-
ing the sessions, recess, and adjournment pe-
riods of the Senate;
(4) to administer oaths; and
(5) to take testimony, either orally or by
sworn statement, or, in the case of staff
members of the Committee and the Perma-
nent Subcommittee on Investigations, by
deposition in accordance with the Com-
mittee Rules of Procedure.
(d) AUTHORITY OF OTHER COMMITTEES.—
Nothing contained in this section shall affect
or impair the exercise of any other standing
committee of the Senate of any power, or the
discharge by such committee of any duty,
conferred or imposed upon it by the Standing
Rules of the Senate or by the Legislative Re-
organization Act of 1946.
(e) SUBPOENA AUTHORITY.—All subpoenas
and related legal processes of the committee
and any duly authorized subcommittee of
the committee authorized under S. Res. 62,
agreed to February 28, 2017 (115th Congress),
are authorized to continue.
f
SENATE RESOLUTION 50—IMPROV-
ING PROCEDURES FOR THE CON-
SIDERATION OF NOMINATIONS IN
THE SENATE
Mr. LANKFORD (for himself and Mr.
BLUNT) submitted the following resolu-
tion; which was referred to the Com-
mittee on Rules and Administration:
S. RES. 50
Resolved,
SECTION 1. CONSIDERATION OF NOMINATIONS.
(a) LIMIT ON CONSIDERATION FOR CERTAIN
NOMINATIONS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—If cloture is invoked on a
nomination described in paragraph (2), there
shall be no more than 2 hours of post-cloture
consideration equally divided between the
Majority Leader and the Minority Leader, or
their designees.
(2) NOMINATIONS COVERED.—A nomination
described in this paragraph is a nomination
of an individual to a position—
(A) as a judge of a district court of the
United States or of the United States Court
of Federal Claims; or
(B) in the executive branch that is not—
(i) a position at level I of the Executive
Schedule under section 5312 of title 5, United
States Code; or
(ii) a position as a member of—
(I) the Equal Employment Opportunity
Commission;
(II) the Securities and Exchange Commis-
sion;
(III) the Federal Election Commission;
(IV) the Federal Energy Regulatory Com-
mission;
(V) the Federal Trade Commission;
(VI) the National Labor Relations Board;
(VII) the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission;
(VIII) the Consumer Product Safety Com-
mission;
(IX) the Federal Communications Commis-
sion;
(X) the Surface Transportation Board;
(XI) the Nuclear Regulatory Commission;
(XII) the Federal Deposit Insurance Cor-
poration; or
(XIII) the Board of Governors of the Fed-
eral Reserve System.
(b) DIVISION OF TIME ON OTHER NOMINA-
TIONS.—If cloture is invoked on a nomination
that is not described in subsection (a)(2), the
period of post-cloture consideration shall be
equally divided between the Majority Leader
and the Minority Leader, or their designees.
f
SENATE RESOLUTION 51—AUTHOR-
IZING EXPENDITURES BY THE
SELECT COMMITTEE ON INTEL-
LIGENCE
Mr. BURR submitted the following
resolution; from the Select Committee
on Intelligence; which was referred to
the Committee on Rules and Adminis-
tration:
S. RES. 51
Resolved,
SECTION 1. GENERAL AUTHORITY.
In carrying out its powers, duties, and
functions under S. Res. 400, agreed to May 19,
1976 (94th Congress), as amended by S. Res.
445, agreed to October 9, 2004 (108th Con-
gress), in accordance with its jurisdiction
under sections 3(a) and 17 of such S. Res. 400,
including holding hearings, reporting such
hearings, and making investigations as au-
thorized by section 5 of such S. Res. 400, the
Select Committee on Intelligence (in this
resolution referred to as the ‘‘committee’’) is
authorized from March 1, 2019, through Feb-
ruary 28, 2021, in its discretion, to—
(1) make expenditures from the contingent
fund of the Senate;
(2) employ personnel; and
(3) with the prior consent of the Govern-
ment department or agency concerned and
the Committee on Rules and Administration,
use on a reimbursable or nonreimbursable
basis the services of personnel of any such
department or agency.
SEC. 2. EXPENSES.
(a) EXPENSES FOR PERIOD ENDING SEP-
TEMBER 30, 2019.—The expenses of the com-
mittee for the period March 1, 2019, through
September 30, 2019, under this resolution
shall not exceed $3,707,448, of which amount
not to exceed $10,000 may be expended for the
procurement of the services of individual
consultants, or organizations thereof (as au-
thorized by section 202(i) of the Legislative
Reorganization Act of 1946 (2 U.S.C. 4301(i))).
(b) EXPENSES FOR FISCAL YEAR 2020 PE-
RIOD.—The expenses of the committee for the
period October 1, 2019, through September 30,
2020, under this section shall not exceed
$6,355,625, of which amount not to exceed
$17,144 may be expended for the procurement
of the services of individual consultants, or
organizations thereof (as authorized by sec-
tion 202(i) of the Legislative Reorganization
Act of 1946 (2 U.S.C. 4301(i))).
(c) EXPENSES FOR PERIOD ENDING FEBRUARY
28, 2021.—The expenses of the committee for
the period October 1, 2020, through February
28, 2021, under this resolution shall not ex-
ceed $2,648,177, of which amount not to ex-
ceed $7,143 may be expended for the procure-
ment of the services of individual consult-
ants, or organizations thereof (as authorized
by section 202(i) of the Legislative Reorga-
nization Act of 1946 (2 U.S.C. 4301(i))).
SEC. 3. EXPENSES AND AGENCY CONTRIBUTIONS.
(a) EXPENSES OF THE COMMITTEE.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in
paragraph (2), expenses of the committee
under this resolution shall be paid from the
contingent fund of the Senate upon vouchers
approved by the chairman of the committee.
(2) VOUCHERS NOT REQUIRED.—Vouchers
shall not be required for—
(A) the disbursement of salaries of employ-
ees paid at an annual rate;
(B) the payment of telecommunications
provided by the Office of the Sergeant at
Arms and Doorkeeper;
(C) the payment of stationery supplies pur-
chased through the Keeper of the Stationery;
(D) payments to the Postmaster of the
Senate;
(E) the payment of metered charges on
copying equipment provided by the Office of
the Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper;
(F) the payment of Senate Recording and
Photographic Services; or
(G) the payment of franked and mass mail
costs by the Sergeant at Arms and Door-
keeper.
(b) AGENCY CONTRIBUTIONS.—There are au-
thorized to be paid from the appropriations
account for ‘‘Expenses of Inquiries and Inves-
tigations’’ of the Senate such sums as may
be necessary for agency contributions re-
lated to the compensation of employees of
the committee—
(1) for the period March 1, 2019, through
September 30, 2019;
(2) for the period October 1, 2019, through
September 30, 2020; and
(3) for the period October 1, 2020, through
February 28, 2021.
f
SENATE RESOLUTION 52—AUTHOR-
IZING EXPENDITURES BY THE
COMMITTEE ON INDIAN AFFAIRS
Mr. HOEVEN submitted the fol-
lowing resolution; from the Committee
on Indian Affairs; which was referred
to the Committee on Rules and Admin-
istration:
S. RES. 52
Resolved,
SECTION 1. GENERAL AUTHORITY.
In carrying out its powers, duties, and
functions imposed by section 105 of S. Res.
104, agreed to February 4, 1977 (95th Con-
gress), and in exercising the authority con-
ferred on it by that section, the Committee
on Indian Affairs (in this resolution referred
to as the ‘‘committee’’) is authorized from
March 1, 2019 through February 28, 2021, in
its discretion, to—
(1) make expenditures from the contingent
fund of the Senate;
(2) employ personnel; and
(3) with the prior consent of the Govern-
ment department or agency concerned and
the Committee on Rules and Administration,
use on a reimbursable or nonreimbursable
basis the services of personnel of any such
department or agency.
SEC. 2. EXPENSES.
(a) EXPENSES FOR PERIOD ENDING SEP-
TEMBER 30, 2019.—The expenses of the com-
mittee for the period March 1, 2019 through
September 30, 2019 under this resolution
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:26 Feb 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00050 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06FE6.049 S06FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S925
February 6, 2019
shall not exceed $1,231,690, of which
amount—
(1) not to exceed $20,000 may be expended
for the procurement of the services of indi-
vidual consultants, or organizations thereof
(as authorized by section 202(i) of the Legis-
lative Reorganization Act of 1946 (2 U.S.C.
4301(i))); and
(2) not to exceed $20,000 may be expended
for the training of the professional staff of
the committee (under procedures specified
by section 202(j) of that Act).
(b) EXPENSES FOR FISCAL YEAR 2020 PE-
RIOD.—The expenses of the committee for the
period October 1, 2019 through September 30,
2020 under this resolution shall not exceed
$2,111,468, of which amount—
(1) not to exceed $20,000 may be expended
for the procurement of the services of indi-
vidual consultants, or organizations thereof
(as authorized by section 202(i) of the Legis-
lative Reorganization Act of 1946 (2 U.S.C.
4301(i))); and
(2) not to exceed $20,000 may be expended
for the training of the professional staff of
the committee (under procedures specified
by section 202(j) of that Act).
(c) EXPENSES FOR PERIOD ENDING FEBRUARY
28, 2021.—The expenses of the committee for
the period October 1, 2020 through February
28, 2021 under this resolution shall not exceed
$879,778, of which amount—
(1) not to exceed $20,000 may be expended
for the procurement of the services of indi-
vidual consultants, or organizations thereof
(as authorized by section 202(i) of the Legis-
lative Reorganization Act of 1946 (2 U.S.C.
4301(i))); and
(2) not to exceed $20,000 may be expended
for the training of the professional staff of
the committee (under procedures specified
by section 202(j) of that Act).
SEC. 3. EXPENSES AND AGENCY CONTRIBUTIONS.
(a) EXPENSES OF THE COMMITTEE.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in
paragraph (2), expenses of the committee
under this resolution shall be paid from the
contingent fund of the Senate upon vouchers
approved by the chairman of the committee.
(2) VOUCHERS NOT REQUIRED.—Vouchers
shall not be required for—
(A) the disbursement of salaries of employ-
ees paid at an annual rate;
(B) the payment of telecommunications
provided by the Office of the Sergeant at
Arms and Doorkeeper;
(C) the payment of stationery supplies pur-
chased through the Keeper of the Stationery;
(D) payments to the Postmaster of the
Senate;
(E) the payment of metered charges on
copying equipment provided by the Office of
the Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper;
(F) the payment of Senate Recording and
Photographic Services; or
(G) the payment of franked and mass mail
costs by the Sergeant at Arms and Door-
keeper.
(b) AGENCY CONTRIBUTIONS.—There are au-
thorized to be paid from the appropriations
account for ‘‘Expenses of Inquiries and Inves-
tigations’’ of the Senate such sums as may
be necessary for agency contributions re-
lated to the compensation of employees of
the committee—
(1) for the period March 1, 2019 through
September 30, 2019;
(2) for the period October 1, 2019 through
September 30, 2020; and
(3) for the period October 1, 2020 through
February 28, 2021.
SENATE RESOLUTION 53—RECOG-
NIZING THE STAFF OF THE OF-
FICE OF LEGISLATIVE COUNSEL
OF THE SENATE ON THE OCCA-
SION OF THE 100TH ANNIVER-
SARY OF THE OFFICE
Mr. GRASSLEY submitted the fol-
lowing resolution; which was consid-
ered and agreed to:
S. RES. 53
Whereas the Office of the Legislative Coun-
sel of the Senate (referred to in this pre-
amble as the ‘‘Office’’) was established 100
years ago on February 24, 1919, with the en-
actment of the Act entitled ‘‘An Act to pro-
vide revenue, and for other purposes’’, ap-
proved February 24, 1919 (commonly known
as the ‘‘Revenue Act of 1918’’) (Public Law
254; 65th Congress; 40 Stat. 1057);
Whereas the enacting legislation estab-
lished that the purpose of the Office is to
‘‘aid in drafting public bills and resolutions
or amendments thereto’’ at the request of
any Senator, committee, or office of the Sen-
ate and that the staff of the Office is ap-
pointed ‘‘without reference to political affili-
ations and solely on the ground of fitness to
perform the duties of the office’’;
Whereas during the past 100 years, 136 at-
torneys, 91 staff members, and 47 interns (re-
ferred to in this preamble as the ‘‘staff of the
Office’’) have served in the Office and have
ably and faithfully upheld the high standards
and traditions of the Office by dem-
onstrating great dedication, professionalism,
and integrity in discharging their duties and
responsibilities;
Whereas the volume of work of the Office
has grown dramatically over time, with the
number of requests for legislation received
by the Office during a Congress growing from
fewer than 1,000 requests in the earliest
years of the Office to significantly more than
50,000 requests in each Congress convening
since 2005, including more than 72,000 re-
quests in the 115th Congress;
Whereas, in addition to the increase in the
number of drafts produced by the Office each
year, the drafting of new legislation has be-
come increasingly more difficult and time-
consuming because of the addition of a num-
ber of new subjects of Federal legislation and
the increasing technical complexity of Fed-
eral statutory law;
Whereas legislative drafting requires a
careful analysis of the legal issues involved,
the recognition of constitutional limita-
tions, and an understanding of earlier enact-
ments of related laws in order to produce, to
the maximum extent practicable, a con-
sistent body of law that will effectuate con-
gressional intent without producing unin-
tended consequences;
Whereas, throughout the history of the Of-
fice, the Office has enjoyed outstanding sup-
port from the Vice Presidents and the Presi-
dents pro tempore and their staffs who were
responsible for the oversight of the Office;
and
Whereas the staff of the Office currently
serving in the Office continues to carry out
the mission of the Office by providing the
Senate and the committees and officers of
the Senate quality drafting services and
sound legal advice throughout the legislative
process with the spirit of quiet profes-
sionalism that has been the tradition of the
Office since the inception of the Office: Now,
therefore, be it
Resolved, That the Senate expresses sincere
appreciation and gratitude to—
(1) the Office of the Legislative Counsel of
the Senate for 100 years of professionalism
and dedication in providing assistance with
the drafting of legislation considered by the
Senate; and
(2) commends the attorneys, staff mem-
bers, and interns who have served or are cur-
rently serving in the Office of the Legisla-
tive Counsel of the Senate for their faithful
and exemplary public service and profes-
sional assistance to the Senate and the
United States.
f
AMENDMENTS SUBMITTED AND
PROPOSED
SA 110. Mrs. HYDE–SMITH submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed by her
to the bill S. 47, to provide for the manage-
ment of the natural resources of the United
States, and for other purposes; which was or-
dered to lie on the table.
SA 111. Ms. MURKOWSKI (for herself and
Mr. MANCHIN) submitted an amendment in-
tended to be proposed by her to the bill S. 47,
supra; which was ordered to lie on the table.
SA 112. Ms. MURKOWSKI submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 111 submitted by Ms. MUR-
KOWSKI (for herself and Mr. MANCHIN) and in-
tended to be proposed to the bill S. 47, supra;
which was ordered to lie on the table.
SA 113. Mr. BENNET submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed by him to the
bill S. 47, supra; which was ordered to lie on
the table.
SA 114. Ms. CORTEZ MASTO submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed by her
to the bill S. 47, supra; which was ordered to
lie on the table.
SA 115. Ms. CORTEZ MASTO submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed by her
to the bill S. 47, supra; which was ordered to
lie on the table.
SA 116. Ms. CORTEZ MASTO submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed by her
to the bill S. 47, supra; which was ordered to
lie on the table.
SA 117. Mrs. SHAHEEN submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed by her
to the bill S. 47, supra; which was ordered to
lie on the table.
SA 118. Mrs. SHAHEEN (for herself and Ms.
COLLINS) submitted an amendment intended
to be proposed by her to the bill S. 47, supra;
which was ordered to lie on the table.
SA 119. Mr. BARRASSO submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed by him
to the bill S. 47, supra; which was ordered to
lie on the table.
SA 120. Mr. BARRASSO submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed by him
to the bill S. 47, supra; which was ordered to
lie on the table.
SA 121. Mr. BARRASSO submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed by him
to the bill S. 47, supra; which was ordered to
lie on the table.
SA 122. Mr. DAINES (for himself and Mr.
TESTER) submitted an amendment intended
to be proposed to amendment SA 111 sub-
mitted by Ms. MURKOWSKI (for herself and
Mr. MANCHIN) and intended to be proposed to
the bill S. 47, supra; which was ordered to lie
on the table.
SA 123. Mr. RUBIO submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed to amendment
SA 111 submitted by Ms. MURKOWSKI (for her-
self and Mr. MANCHIN) and intended to be
proposed to the bill S. 47, supra; which was
ordered to lie on the table.
SA 124. Mr. LANKFORD (for himself, Mr.
LEE, Mr. INHOFE, Mr. CRUZ, Mr. RUBIO, Mrs.
FISCHER, and Mr. BRAUN) submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 111 submitted by Ms. MUR-
KOWSKI (for herself and Mr. MANCHIN) and in-
tended to be proposed to the bill S. 47, supra;
which was ordered to lie on the table.
SA 125. Mr. LANKFORD (for himself, Mr.
LEE, Mr. INHOFE, Mr. RUBIO, and Mr. BRAUN)
submitted an amendment intended to be pro-
posed to amendment SA 111 submitted by
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:26 Feb 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00051 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06FE6.050 S06FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S926 February 6, 2019
Ms. MURKOWSKI (for herself and Mr.
MANCHIN) and intended to be proposed to the
bill S. 47, supra; which was ordered to lie on
the table.
SA 126. Mr. LANKFORD (for himself, Mr.
LEE, Mr. INHOFE, Mr. RUBIO, and Mr. BRAUN)
submitted an amendment intended to be pro-
posed to amendment SA 111 submitted by
Ms. MURKOWSKI (for herself and Mr.
MANCHIN) and intended to be proposed to the
bill S. 47, supra; which was ordered to lie on
the table.
SA 127. Mr. LANKFORD (for himself, Mr.
INHOFE, and Mr. BRAUN) submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 111 submitted by Ms. MUR-
KOWSKI (for herself and Mr. MANCHIN) and in-
tended to be proposed to the bill S. 47, supra;
which was ordered to lie on the table.
SA 128. Mr. ISAKSON (for himself, Mr.
KAINE, and Mr. BLUNT) submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed to amendment
SA 111 submitted by Ms. MURKOWSKI (for her-
self and Mr. MANCHIN) and intended to be
proposed to the bill S. 47, supra; which was
ordered to lie on the table.
SA 129. Mr. BURR (for himself and Mr.
TILLIS) submitted an amendment intended to
be proposed by him to the bill S. 47, supra;
which was ordered to lie on the table.
SA 130. Mr. BURR (for himself and Mr.
TILLIS) submitted an amendment intended to
be proposed by him to the bill S. 47, supra;
which was ordered to lie on the table.
SA 131. Mr. MARKEY (for himself and Ms.
WARREN) submitted an amendment intended
to be proposed by him to the bill S. 47, supra;
which was ordered to lie on the table.
SA 132. Mr. GARDNER submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 111 submitted by Ms. MUR-
KOWSKI (for herself and Mr. MANCHIN) and in-
tended to be proposed to the bill S. 47, supra;
which was ordered to lie on the table.
SA 133. Mr. GARDNER submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 111 submitted by Ms. MUR-
KOWSKI (for herself and Mr. MANCHIN) and in-
tended to be proposed to the bill S. 47, supra;
which was ordered to lie on the table.
SA 134. Mr. PORTMAN (for himself, Mr.
WARNER, Mr. ALEXANDER, Mr. KING, Mr.
TILLIS, Ms. COLLINS, Mr. DAINES, Mr.
CRAMER, and Mr. GARDNER) submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 111 submitted by Ms. MUR-
KOWSKI (for herself and Mr. MANCHIN) and in-
tended to be proposed to the bill S. 47, supra;
which was ordered to lie on the table.
SA 135. Ms. McSALLY (for herself and Ms.
SINEMA) submitted an amendment intended
to be proposed to amendment SA 111 sub-
mitted by Ms. MURKOWSKI (for herself and
Mr. MANCHIN) and intended to be proposed to
the bill S. 47, supra; which was ordered to lie
on the table.
SA 136. Mr. JOHNSON (for himself, Ms.
BALDWIN, Mr. BARRASSO, and Mr. ENZI) sub-
mitted an amendment intended to be pro-
posed to amendment SA 111 submitted by
Ms. MURKOWSKI (for herself and Mr.
MANCHIN) and intended to be proposed to the
bill S. 47, supra; which was ordered to lie on
the table.
SA 137. Mr. BARRASSO submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 111 submitted by Ms. MUR-
KOWSKI (for herself and Mr. MANCHIN) and in-
tended to be proposed to the bill S. 47, supra;
which was ordered to lie on the table.
SA 138. Mr. BARRASSO submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 111 submitted by Ms. MUR-
KOWSKI (for herself and Mr. MANCHIN) and in-
tended to be proposed to the bill S. 47, supra;
which was ordered to lie on the table.
SA 139. Mr. CASSIDY (for himself, Mr.
JONES, Mr. KENNEDY, and Mr. WICKER) sub-
mitted an amendment intended to be pro-
posed by him to the bill S. 47, supra; which
was ordered to lie on the table.
SA 140. Mr. PAUL submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed by him to the
bill S. 47, supra; which was ordered to lie on
the table.
SA 141. Mr. PAUL submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed by him to the
bill S. 47, supra; which was ordered to lie on
the table.
SA 142. Mr. UDALL (for himself and Mr.
HEINRICH) submitted an amendment intended
to be proposed to amendment SA 111 sub-
mitted by Ms. MURKOWSKI (for herself and
Mr. MANCHIN) and intended to be proposed to
the bill S. 47, supra; which was ordered to lie
on the table.
SA 143. Mr. TILLIS (for himself and Mr.
BURR) submitted an amendment intended to
be proposed to amendment SA 111 submitted
by Ms. MURKOWSKI (for herself and Mr.
MANCHIN) and intended to be proposed to the
bill S. 47, supra; which was ordered to lie on
the table.
SA 144. Mr. BLUNT submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed to amendment
SA 111 submitted by Ms. MURKOWSKI (for her-
self and Mr. MANCHIN) and intended to be
proposed to the bill S. 47, supra; which was
ordered to lie on the table.
SA 145. Mr. KENNEDY (for himself, Mr.
CASSIDY, and Mr. HEINRICH) submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 111 submitted by Ms. MUR-
KOWSKI (for herself and Mr. MANCHIN) and in-
tended to be proposed to the bill S. 47, supra;
which was ordered to lie on the table.
SA 146. Mr. KENNEDY submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 111 submitted by Ms. MUR-
KOWSKI (for herself and Mr. MANCHIN) and in-
tended to be proposed to the bill S. 47, supra;
which was ordered to lie on the table.
SA 147. Mr. KENNEDY submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 111 submitted by Ms. MUR-
KOWSKI (for herself and Mr. MANCHIN) and in-
tended to be proposed to the bill S. 47, supra;
which was ordered to lie on the table.
SA 148. Mr. KENNEDY submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 111 submitted by Ms. MUR-
KOWSKI (for herself and Mr. MANCHIN) and in-
tended to be proposed to the bill S. 47, supra;
which was ordered to lie on the table.
SA 149. Mr. BRAUN (for himself and Mr.
TOOMEY) submitted an amendment intended
to be proposed to amendment SA 111 sub-
mitted by Ms. MURKOWSKI (for herself and
Mr. MANCHIN) and intended to be proposed to
the bill S. 47, supra; which was ordered to lie
on the table.
SA 150. Mr. LEE submitted an amendment
intended to be proposed to amendment SA
111 submitted by Ms. MURKOWSKI (for herself
and Mr. MANCHIN) and intended to be pro-
posed to the bill S. 47, supra; which was or-
dered to lie on the table.
SA 151. Mr. LEE submitted an amendment
intended to be proposed to amendment SA
111 submitted by Ms. MURKOWSKI (for herself
and Mr. MANCHIN) and intended to be pro-
posed to the bill S. 47, supra; which was or-
dered to lie on the table.
SA 152. Mr. LEE submitted an amendment
intended to be proposed to amendment SA
111 submitted by Ms. MURKOWSKI (for herself
and Mr. MANCHIN) and intended to be pro-
posed to the bill S. 47, supra; which was or-
dered to lie on the table.
SA 153. Mr. LEE (for himself and Mr. ROM-
NEY) submitted an amendment intended to
be proposed to amendment SA 111 submitted
by Ms. MURKOWSKI (for herself and Mr.
MANCHIN) and intended to be proposed to the
bill S. 47, supra; which was ordered to lie on
the table.
SA 154. Mr. LEE (for himself, Mr.
LANKFORD, Mr. TOOMEY, and Mr. ROMNEY)
submitted an amendment intended to be pro-
posed to amendment SA 111 submitted by
Ms. MURKOWSKI (for herself and Mr.
MANCHIN) and intended to be proposed to the
bill S. 47, supra; which was ordered to lie on
the table.
SA 155. Mr. LEE submitted an amendment
intended to be proposed to amendment SA
111 submitted by Ms. MURKOWSKI (for herself
and Mr. MANCHIN) and intended to be pro-
posed to the bill S. 47, supra; which was or-
dered to lie on the table.
SA 156. Mr. LEE (for himself and Mr.
LANKFORD) submitted an amendment in-
tended to be proposed to amendment SA 111
submitted by Ms. MURKOWSKI (for herself and
Mr. MANCHIN) and intended to be proposed to
the bill S. 47, supra; which was ordered to lie
on the table.
SA 157. Mr. SCHATZ (for himself and Mr.
CASSIDY) submitted an amendment intended
to be proposed by him to the bill S. 47, supra;
which was ordered to lie on the table.
f
TEXT OF AMENDMENTS
SA 110. Mrs. HYDE-SMITH submitted
an amendment intended to be proposed
by her to the bill S. 47, to provide for
the management of the natural re-
sources of the United States, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
At the end of subtitle B of title I, add the
following:
SEC. 11ll. REDESIGNATION OF THE DELTA NA-
TIONAL FOREST.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The Delta National For-
est in the State of Mississippi is redesignated
as the ‘‘Thad Cochran Delta National For-
est’’.
(b) BOUNDARY REVISION.—Nothing in this
section shall prohibit the Secretary of Agri-
culture (referred to in this section as the
‘‘Secretary’’) from adjusting the boundaries
of the Thad Cochran Delta National Forest,
as determined appropriate by the Secretary,
in accordance with the Forest and Rangeland
Renewable Resources Planning Act of 1974
(16 U.S.C. 1600 et seq.).
(c) REFERENCES.—Any reference in a law,
regulation, document, record, map, or other
paper of the United States to the Delta Na-
tional Forest shall be considered to be a ref-
erence to the ‘‘Thad Cochran Delta National
Forest’’.
SA 111. Ms. MURKOWSKI (for herself
and Mr. MANCHIN) submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed by her to
the bill S. 47, to provide for the man-
agement of the natural resources of the
United States, and for other purposes;
which was ordered to lie on the table;
as follows:
Strike all after the enacting clause and in-
sert the following:
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.
(a) SHORT TITLE.—This Act may be cited as
the ‘‘Natural Resources Management Act’’.
(b) TABLE OF CONTENTS.—The table of con-
tents for this Act is as follows:
Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents.
Sec. 2. Definition of Secretary.
TITLE I—PUBLIC LAND AND FORESTS
Subtitle A—Land Exchanges and
Conveyances
Sec. 1001. Crags land exchange, Colorado.
Sec. 1002. Arapaho National Forest bound-
ary adjustment.
Sec. 1003. Santa Ana River Wash Plan land
exchange.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:26 Feb 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00052 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0655 E:\CR\FM\A06FE6.057 S06FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S927
February 6, 2019
Sec. 1004. Udall Park land exchange.
Sec. 1005. Confirmation of State land grants.
Sec. 1006. Custer County Airport convey-
ance.
Sec. 1007. Pascua Yaqui Tribe land convey-
ance.
Sec. 1008. La Paz County land conveyance.
Sec. 1009. Lake Bistineau land title sta-
bility.
Sec. 1010. Lake Fannin land conveyance.
Sec. 1011. Land conveyance and utility
right-of-way, Henry’s Lake Wil-
derness Study Area, Idaho.
Sec. 1012. Conveyance to Ukpeagvik Inupiat
Corporation.
Sec. 1013. Public purpose conveyance to City
of Hyde Park, Utah.
Sec. 1014. Juab County conveyance.
Sec. 1015. Black Mountain Range and Bull-
head City land exchange.
Sec. 1016. Cottonwood land exchange.
Sec. 1017. Embry-Riddle Tri-City land ex-
change.
Subtitle B—Public Land and National Forest
System Management
Sec. 1101. Bolts Ditch access.
Sec. 1102. Clarification relating to a certain
land description under the
Northern Arizona Land Ex-
change and Verde River Basin
Partnership Act of 2005.
Sec. 1103. Frank and Jeanne Moore Wild
Steelhead Special Management
Area.
Sec. 1104. Maintenance or replacement of fa-
cilities and structures at Smith
Gulch.
Sec. 1105. Repeal of provision limiting the
export of timber harvested from
certain Kake Tribal Corpora-
tion land.
Sec. 1106. Designation of Fowler and Boskoff
Peaks.
Sec. 1107. Coronado National Forest land
conveyance.
Sec. 1108. Deschutes Canyon-Steelhead Falls
Wilderness Study Area bound-
ary adjustment, Oregon.
Sec. 1109. Maintenance of Federal mineral
leases based on extraction of
helium.
Sec. 1110. Small miner waivers to claim
maintenance fees.
Sec. 1111. Saint Francis Dam Disaster Na-
tional Memorial and National
Monument.
Sec. 1112. Owyhee Wilderness Areas bound-
ary modifications.
Sec. 1113. Chugach Region land study.
Sec. 1114. Wildfire technology moderniza-
tion.
Sec. 1115. McCoy Flats Trail System.
Sec. 1116. Technical corrections to certain
laws relating to Federal land in
the State of Nevada.
Sec. 1117. Ashley Karst National Recreation
and Geologic Area.
Sec. 1118. John Wesley Powell National Con-
servation Area.
Sec. 1119. Alaska Native Vietnam era vet-
erans land allotment.
Sec. 1120. Red River gradient boundary sur-
vey.
Sec. 1121. San Juan County settlement im-
plementation.
Sec. 1122. Rio Puerco Watershed manage-
ment program.
Sec. 1123. Ashley Springs land conveyance.
Subtitle C—Wilderness Designations and
Withdrawals
PART I—GENERAL PROVISIONS
Sec. 1201. Organ Mountains-Desert Peaks
conservation.
Sec. 1202. Cerro del Yuta and Rı́o San Anto-
nio Wilderness Areas.
Sec. 1203. Methow Valley, Washington, Fed-
eral land withdrawal.
Sec. 1204. Emigrant Crevice withdrawal.
Sec. 1205. Oregon Wildlands.
PART II—EMERY COUNTY PUBLIC LAND
MANAGEMENT
Sec. 1211. Definitions.
Sec. 1212. Administration.
Sec. 1213. Effect on water rights.
Sec. 1214. Savings clause.
SUBPART A—SAN RAFAEL SWELL RECREATION
AREA
Sec. 1221. Establishment of Recreation Area.
Sec. 1222. Management of Recreation Area.
Sec. 1223. San Rafael Swell Recreation Area
Advisory Council.
SUBPART B—WILDERNESS AREAS
Sec. 1231. Additions to the National Wilder-
ness Preservation System.
Sec. 1232. Administration.
Sec. 1233. Fish and wildlife management.
Sec. 1234. Release.
SUBPART C—WILD AND SCENIC RIVER
DESIGNATION
Sec. 1241. Green River wild and scenic river
designation.
SUBPART D—LAND MANAGEMENT AND
CONVEYANCES
Sec. 1251. Goblin Valley State Park.
Sec. 1252. Jurassic National Monument.
Sec. 1253. Public land disposal and acquisi-
tion.
Sec. 1254. Public purpose conveyances.
Sec. 1255. Exchange of BLM and School and
Institutional Trust Lands Ad-
ministration land.
Subtitle D—Wild and Scenic Rivers
Sec. 1301. Lower Farmington River and
Salmon Brook wild and scenic
river.
Sec. 1302. Wood-Pawcatuck watershed wild
and scenic river segments.
Sec. 1303. Nashua wild and scenic rivers,
Massachusetts and New Hamp-
shire.
Subtitle E—California Desert Protection and
Recreation
Sec. 1401. Definitions.
PART I—DESIGNATION OF WILDERNESS IN THE
CALIFORNIA DESERT CONSERVATION AREA
Sec. 1411. California desert conservation and
recreation.
PART II—DESIGNATION OF SPECIAL
MANAGEMENT AREA
Sec. 1421. Vinagre Wash Special Manage-
ment Area.
PART III—NATIONAL PARK SYSTEM
ADDITIONS
Sec. 1431. Death Valley National Park
boundary revision.
Sec. 1432. Mojave National Preserve.
Sec. 1433. Joshua Tree National Park.
PART IV—OFF-HIGHWAY VEHICLE RECREATION
AREAS
Sec. 1441. Off-highway vehicle recreation
areas.
PART V—MISCELLANEOUS
Sec. 1451. Transfer of land to Anza-Borrego
Desert State Park.
Sec. 1452. Wildlife corridors.
Sec. 1453. Prohibited uses of acquired, do-
nated, and conservation land.
Sec. 1454. Tribal uses and interests.
Sec. 1455. Release of Federal reversionary
land interests.
Sec. 1456. California State school land.
Sec. 1457. Designation of wild and scenic riv-
ers.
Sec. 1458. Conforming amendments.
Sec. 1459. Juniper Flats.
Sec. 1460. Conforming amendments to Cali-
fornia Military Lands With-
drawal and Overflights Act of
1994.
Sec. 1461. Desert tortoise conservation cen-
ter.
TITLE II—NATIONAL PARKS
Subtitle A—Special Resource Studies
Sec. 2001. Special resource study of James K.
Polk presidential home.
Sec. 2002. Special resource study of
Thurgood Marshall school.
Sec. 2003. Special resource study of Presi-
dent Street Station.
Sec. 2004. Amache special resource study.
Sec. 2005. Special resource study of George
W. Bush Childhood Home.
Subtitle B—National Park System Boundary
Adjustments and Related Matters
Sec. 2101. Shiloh National Military Park
boundary adjustment.
Sec. 2102. Ocmulgee Mounds National His-
torical Park boundary.
Sec. 2103. Kennesaw Mountain National Bat-
tlefield Park boundary.
Sec. 2104. Fort Frederica National Monu-
ment, Georgia.
Sec. 2105. Fort Scott National Historic Site
boundary.
Sec. 2106. Florissant Fossil Beds National
Monument boundary.
Sec. 2107. Voyageurs National Park bound-
ary adjustment.
Sec. 2108. Acadia National Park boundary.
Sec. 2109. Authority of Secretary of the In-
terior to accept certain prop-
erties, Missouri.
Sec. 2110. Home of Franklin D. Roosevelt
National Historic Site.
Subtitle C—National Park System
Redesignations
Sec. 2201. Designation of Saint-Gaudens Na-
tional Historical Park.
Sec. 2202. Redesignation of Robert Emmet
Park.
Sec. 2203. Fort Sumter and Fort Moultrie
National Historical Park.
Sec. 2204. Reconstruction Era National His-
torical Park and Reconstruc-
tion Era National Historic Net-
work.
Sec. 2205. Golden Spike National Historical
Park.
Sec. 2206. World War II Pacific sites.
Subtitle D—New Units of the National Park
System
Sec. 2301. Medgar and Myrlie Evers Home
National Monument.
Sec. 2302. Mill Springs Battlefield National
Monument.
Sec. 2303. Camp Nelson Heritage National
Monument.
Subtitle E—National Park System
Management
Sec. 2401. Denali National Park and Pre-
serve natural gas pipeline.
Sec. 2402. Historically Black Colleges and
Universities Historic Preserva-
tion program reauthorized.
Sec. 2403. Authorizing cooperative manage-
ment agreements between the
District of Columbia and the
Secretary of the Interior.
Sec. 2404. Fees for Medical Services.
Sec. 2405. Authority to grant easements and
rights-of-way over Federal
lands within Gateway National
Recreation Area.
Sec. 2406. Adams Memorial Commission.
Sec. 2407. Technical corrections to ref-
erences to the African Amer-
ican Civil Rights Network.
Sec. 2408. Transfer of the James J. Howard
Marine Sciences Laboratory.
Sec. 2409. Bows in parks.
Sec. 2410. Wildlife management in parks.
Sec. 2411. Pottawattamie County rever-
sionary interest.
Sec. 2412. Designation of Dean Stone Bridge.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:26 Feb 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00053 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0655 E:\CR\FM\A06FE6.048 S06FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S928 February 6, 2019
Subtitle F—National Trails and Related
Matters
Sec. 2501. North Country Scenic Trail Route
adjustment.
Sec. 2502. Extension of Lewis and Clark Na-
tional Historic Trail.
Sec. 2503. American Discovery Trail signage.
Sec. 2504. Pike National Historic Trail
study.
TITLE III—CONSERVATION
AUTHORIZATIONS
Sec. 3001. Reauthorization of Land and
Water Conservation Fund.
Sec. 3002. Conservation incentives land-
owner education program.
TITLE IV—SPORTSMEN’S ACCESS AND
RELATED MATTERS
Subtitle A—National Policy
Sec. 4001. Congressional declaration of na-
tional policy.
Subtitle B—Sportsmen’s Access to Federal
Land
Sec. 4101. Definitions.
Sec. 4102. Federal land open to hunting, fish-
ing, and recreational shooting.
Sec. 4103. Closure of Federal land to hunt-
ing, fishing, and recreational
shooting.
Sec. 4104. Shooting ranges.
Sec. 4105. Identifying opportunities for
recreation, hunting, and fishing
on Federal land.
Subtitle C—Open Book on Equal Access to
Justice
Sec. 4201. Federal action transparency.
Subtitle D—Migratory Bird Framework and
Hunting Opportunities for Veterans
Sec. 4301. Federal closing date for hunting of
ducks, mergansers, and coots.
Subtitle E—Miscellaneous
Sec. 4401. Respect for treaties and rights.
Sec. 4402. No priority.
Sec. 4403. State authority for fish and wild-
life.
TITLE V—HAZARDS AND MAPPING
Sec. 5001. National Volcano Early Warning
and Monitoring System.
Sec. 5002. Reauthorization of National Geo-
logic Mapping Act of 1992.
TITLE VI—NATIONAL HERITAGE AREAS
Sec. 6001. National Heritage Area designa-
tions.
Sec. 6002. Adjustment of boundaries of Lin-
coln National Heritage Area.
Sec. 6003. Finger Lakes National Heritage
Area study.
Sec. 6004. National Heritage Area amend-
ments.
TITLE VII—WILDLIFE HABITAT AND
CONSERVATION
Sec. 7001. Wildlife habitat and conservation.
Sec. 7002. Reauthorization of Neotropical
Migratory Bird Conservation
Act.
Sec. 7003. John H. Chafee Coastal Barrier
Resources System.
TITLE VIII—WATER AND POWER
Subtitle A—Reclamation Title Transfer
Sec. 8001. Purpose.
Sec. 8002. Definitions.
Sec. 8003. Authorization of transfers of title
to eligible facilities.
Sec. 8004. Eligibility criteria.
Sec. 8005. Liability.
Sec. 8006. Benefits.
Sec. 8007. Compliance with other laws.
Subtitle B—Endangered Fish Recovery
Programs
Sec. 8101. Extension of authorization for an-
nual base funding of fish recov-
ery programs; removal of cer-
tain reporting requirement.
Sec. 8102. Report on recovery implementa-
tion programs.
Subtitle C—Yakima River Basin Water
Enhancement Project
Sec. 8201. Authorization of phase III.
Sec. 8202. Modification of purposes and defi-
nitions.
Sec. 8203. Yakima River Basin Water Con-
servation Program.
Sec. 8204. Yakima Basin water projects, op-
erations, and authorizations.
Subtitle D—Bureau of Reclamation Facility
Conveyances
Sec. 8301. Conveyance of Maintenance Com-
plex and District Office of the
Arbuckle Project, Oklahoma.
Sec. 8302. Contra Costa Canal transfer.
Subtitle E—Project Authorizations
Sec. 8401. Extension of Equus Beds Division
of the Wichita Project.
Subtitle F—Modifications of Existing
Programs
Sec. 8501. Watersmart.
Subtitle G—Bureau of Reclamation
Transparency
Sec. 8601. Definitions.
Sec. 8602. Asset Management Report en-
hancements for reserved works.
Sec. 8603. Asset Management Report en-
hancements for transferred
works.
TITLE IX—MISCELLANEOUS
Sec. 9001. Every Kid Outdoors Act.
Sec. 9002. Good Samaritan Search and Re-
covery Act.
Sec. 9003. 21st Century Conservation Service
Corps Act.
Sec. 9004. National Nordic Museum Act.
Sec. 9005. Designation of National George C.
Marshall Museum and Library.
Sec. 9006. 21st Century Respect Act.
Sec. 9007. American World War II Heritage
Cities.
Sec. 9008. Quindaro Townsite National Com-
memorative Site.
Sec. 9009. Designation of National Comedy
Center in Jamestown, New
York.
SEC. 2. DEFINITION OF SECRETARY.
In this Act, the term ‘‘Secretary’’ means
the Secretary of the Interior.
TITLE I—PUBLIC LAND AND FORESTS
Subtitle A—Land Exchanges and
Conveyances
SEC. 1001. CRAGS LAND EXCHANGE, COLORADO.
(a) PURPOSES.—The purposes of this section
are—
(1) to authorize, direct, expedite and facili-
tate the land exchange set forth herein; and
(2) to promote enhanced public outdoor
recreational and natural resource conserva-
tion opportunities in the Pike National For-
est near Pikes Peak, Colorado, via acquisi-
tion of the non-Federal land and trail ease-
ment.
(b) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) BHI.—The term ‘‘BHI’’ means
Broadmoor Hotel, Inc., a Colorado corpora-
tion.
(2) FEDERAL LAND.—The term ‘‘Federal
land’’ means all right, title, and interest of
the United States in and to approximately 83
acres of land within the Pike National For-
est, El Paso County, Colorado, together with
a nonexclusive perpetual access easement to
BHI to and from such land on Forest Service
Road 371, as generally depicted on the map
entitled ‘‘Proposed Crags Land Exchange–
Federal Parcel–Emerald Valley Ranch’’ and
dated March 2015.
(3) NON-FEDERAL LAND.—The term ‘‘non-
Federal land’’ means the land and trail ease-
ment to be conveyed to the Secretary by BHI
in the exchange and is—
(A) approximately 320 acres of land within
the Pike National Forest, Teller County,
Colorado, as generally depicted on the map
entitled ‘‘Proposed Crags Land Exchange–
Non-Federal Parcel–Crags Property’’ and
dated March 2015; and
(B) a permanent trail easement for the
Barr Trail in El Paso County, Colorado, as
generally depicted on the map entitled ‘‘Pro-
posed Crags Land Exchange–Barr Trail Ease-
ment to United States’’ and dated March
2015, and which shall be considered as a vol-
untary donation to the United States by BHI
for all purposes of law.
(4) SECRETARY.—The term ‘‘Secretary’’
means the Secretary of Agriculture, unless
otherwise specified.
(c) LAND EXCHANGE.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—If BHI offers to convey to
the Secretary all right, title, and interest of
BHI in and to the non-Federal land, the Sec-
retary shall accept the offer and simulta-
neously convey to BHI the Federal land.
(2) LAND TITLE.—Title to the non-Federal
land conveyed and donated to the Secretary
under this section shall be acceptable to the
Secretary and shall conform to the title ap-
proval standards of the Attorney General of
the United States applicable to land acquisi-
tions by the Federal Government.
(3) PERPETUAL ACCESS EASEMENT TO BHI.—
The nonexclusive perpetual access easement
to be granted to BHI as shown on the map re-
ferred to in subsection (b)(2) shall allow—
(A) BHI to fully maintain, at BHI’s ex-
pense, and use Forest Service Road 371 from
its junction with Forest Service Road 368 in
accordance with historic use and mainte-
nance patterns by BHI; and
(B) full and continued public and adminis-
trative access and use of Forest Service Road
371 in accordance with the existing Forest
Service travel management plan, or as such
plan may be revised by the Secretary.
(4) ROUTE AND CONDITION OF ROAD.—BHI and
the Secretary may mutually agree to im-
prove, relocate, reconstruct, or otherwise
alter the route and condition of all or por-
tions of such road as the Secretary, in close
consultation with BHI, may determine advis-
able.
(5) EXCHANGE COSTS.—BHI shall pay for all
land survey, appraisal, and other costs to the
Secretary as may be necessary to process
and consummate the exchange directed by
this section, including reimbursement to the
Secretary, if the Secretary so requests, for
staff time spent in such processing and con-
summation.
(d) EQUAL VALUE EXCHANGE AND APPRAIS-
ALS.—
(1) APPRAISALS.—The values of the lands to
be exchanged under this section shall be de-
termined by the Secretary through apprais-
als performed—
(A) in accordance with—
(i) the Uniform Appraisal Standards for
Federal Land Acquisitions;
(ii) the Uniform Standards of Professional
Appraisal Practice; and
(iii) appraisal instructions issued by the
Secretary; and
(B) by an appraiser mutually agreed to by
the Secretary and BHI.
(2) EQUAL VALUE EXCHANGE.—The values of
the Federal land and non-Federal land par-
cels exchanged shall be equal, or if they are
not equal, shall be equalized as follows:
(A) SURPLUS OF FEDERAL LAND VALUE.—If
the final appraised value of the Federal land
exceeds the final appraised value of the non-
Federal land parcel identified in subsection
(b)(3)(A), BHI shall make a cash equalization
payment to the United States as necessary
to achieve equal value, including, if nec-
essary, an amount in excess of that author-
ized pursuant to section 206(b) of the Federal
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:26 Feb 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00054 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06FE6.048 S06FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S929
February 6, 2019
Land Policy and Management Act of l976 (43
U.S.C. 1716(b)).
(B) USE OF FUNDS.—Any cash equalization
moneys received by the Secretary under sub-
paragraph (A) shall be—
(i) deposited in the fund established under
Public Law 90–171 (commonly known as the
‘‘Sisk Act’’; 16 U.S.C. 484a); and
(ii) made available to the Secretary for the
acquisition of land or interests in land in Re-
gion 2 of the Forest Service.
(C) SURPLUS OF NON-FEDERAL LAND
VALUE.—If the final appraised value of the
non-Federal land parcel identified in sub-
section (b)(3)(A) exceeds the final appraised
value of the Federal land, the United States
shall not make a cash equalization payment
to BHI, and surplus value of the non-Federal
land shall be considered a donation by BHI
to the United States for all purposes of law.
(3) APPRAISAL EXCLUSIONS.—
(A) SPECIAL USE PERMIT.—The appraised
value of the Federal land parcel shall not re-
flect any increase or diminution in value due
to the special use permit existing on the date
of enactment of this Act to BHI on the par-
cel and improvements thereunder.
(B) BARR TRAIL EASEMENT.—The Barr Trail
easement donation identified in subsection
(b)(3)(B) shall not be appraised for purposes
of this section.
(e) MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS.—
(1) WITHDRAWAL PROVISIONS.—
(A) WITHDRAWAL.—Lands acquired by the
Secretary under this section shall, without
further action by the Secretary, be perma-
nently withdrawn from all forms of appro-
priation and disposal under the public land
laws (including the mining and mineral leas-
ing laws) and the Geothermal Steam Act of
1930 (30 U.S.C. 1001 et seq.).
(B) WITHDRAWAL REVOCATION.—Any public
land order that withdraws the Federal land
from appropriation or disposal under a public
land law shall be revoked to the extent nec-
essary to permit disposal of the Federal land
parcel to BHI.
(C) WITHDRAWAL OF FEDERAL LAND.—All
Federal land authorized to be exchanged
under this section, if not already withdrawn
or segregated from appropriation or disposal
under the public lands laws upon enactment
of this Act, is hereby so withdrawn, subject
to valid existing rights, until the date of
conveyance of the Federal land to BHI.
(2) POSTEXCHANGE LAND MANAGEMENT.—
Land acquired by the Secretary under this
section shall become part of the Pike-San
Isabel National Forest and be managed in ac-
cordance with the laws, rules, and regula-
tions applicable to the National Forest Sys-
tem.
(3) EXCHANGE TIMETABLE.—It is the intent
of Congress that the land exchange directed
by this section be consummated no later
than 1 year after the date of enactment of
this Act.
(4) MAPS, ESTIMATES, AND DESCRIPTIONS.—
(A) MINOR ERRORS.—The Secretary and BHI
may by mutual agreement make minor
boundary adjustments to the Federal and
non-Federal lands involved in the exchange,
and may correct any minor errors in any
map, acreage estimate, or description of any
land to be exchanged.
(B) CONFLICT.—If there is a conflict be-
tween a map, an acreage estimate, or a de-
scription of land under this section, the map
shall control unless the Secretary and BHI
mutually agree otherwise.
(C) AVAILABILITY.—Upon enactment of this
Act, the Secretary shall file and make avail-
able for public inspection in the head-
quarters of the Pike-San Isabel National
Forest a copy of all maps referred to in this
section.
SEC. 1002. ARAPAHO NATIONAL FOREST BOUND-
ARY ADJUSTMENT.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The boundary of the
Arapaho National Forest in the State of Col-
orado is adjusted to incorporate the approxi-
mately 92.95 acres of land generally depicted
as ‘‘The Wedge’’ on the map entitled ‘‘Arap-
aho National Forest Boundary Adjustment’’
and dated November 6, 2013, and described as
lots three, four, eight, and nine of section 13,
Township 4 North, Range 76 West, Sixth
Principal Meridian, Colorado. A lot described
in this subsection may be included in the
boundary adjustment only after the Sec-
retary of Agriculture obtains written per-
mission for such action from the lot owner
or owners.
(b) BOWEN GULCH PROTECTION AREA.—The
Secretary of Agriculture shall include all
Federal land within the boundary described
in subsection (a) in the Bowen Gulch Protec-
tion Area established under section 6 of the
Colorado Wilderness Act of 1993 (16 U.S.C.
539j).
(c) LAND AND WATER CONSERVATION FUND.—
For purposes of section 200306(a)(2)(B)(i) of
title 54, United States Code, the boundaries
of the Arapaho National Forest, as modified
under subsection (a), shall be considered to
be the boundaries of the Arapaho National
Forest as in existence on January 1, 1965.
(d) PUBLIC MOTORIZED USE.—Nothing in
this section opens privately owned lands
within the boundary described in subsection
(a) to public motorized use.
(e) ACCESS TO NON-FEDERAL LANDS.—Not-
withstanding the provisions of section 6(f) of
the Colorado Wilderness Act of 1993 (16
U.S.C. 539j(f)) regarding motorized travel,
the owners of any non-Federal lands within
the boundary described in subsection (a) who
historically have accessed their lands
through lands now or hereafter owned by the
United States within the boundary described
in subsection (a) shall have the continued
right of motorized access to their lands
across the existing roadway.
SEC. 1003. SANTA ANA RIVER WASH PLAN LAND
EXCHANGE.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) CONSERVATION DISTRICT.—The term
‘‘Conservation District’’ means the San
Bernardino Valley Water Conservation Dis-
trict, a political subdivision of the State of
California.
(2) FEDERAL EXCHANGE PARCEL.—The term
‘‘Federal exchange parcel’’ means the ap-
proximately 90 acres of Federal land admin-
istered by the Bureau of Land Management
generally depicted as ‘‘BLM Equalization
Land to SBVWCD’’ on the Map and is to be
conveyed to the Conservation District if nec-
essary to equalize the fair market values of
the lands otherwise to be exchanged.
(3) FEDERAL LAND.—The term ‘‘Federal
land’’ means the approximately 327 acres of
Federal land administered by the Bureau of
Land Management generally depicted as
‘‘BLM Land to SBVWCD’’ on the Map.
(4) MAP.—The term ‘‘Map’’ means the map
entitled ‘‘Santa Ana River Wash Land Ex-
change’’ and dated September 3, 2015.
(5) NON-FEDERAL EXCHANGE PARCEL.—The
term ‘‘non-Federal exchange parcel’’ means
the approximately 59 acres of land owned by
the Conservation District generally depicted
as ‘‘SBVWCD Equalization Land’’ on the
Map and is to be conveyed to the United
States if necessary to equalize the fair mar-
ket values of the lands otherwise to be ex-
changed.
(6) NON-FEDERAL LAND.—The term ‘‘non-
Federal Land’’ means the approximately 310
acres of land owned by the Conservation Dis-
trict generally depicted as ‘‘SBVWCD to
BLM’’ on the Map.
(b) EXCHANGE OF LAND; EQUALIZATION OF
VALUE.—
(1) EXCHANGE AUTHORIZED.—Notwith-
standing the land use planning requirements
of sections 202, 210, and 211 of the Federal
Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43
U.S.C. 1712, 1720, 1721), subject to valid exist-
ing rights, and conditioned upon any equali-
zation payment necessary under section
206(b) of the Federal Land Policy and Man-
agement Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1716(b)), and
paragraph (2), as soon as practicable, but not
later than 2 years after the date of enact-
ment of this Act, if the Conservation Dis-
trict offers to convey the exchange land to
the United States, the Secretary shall—
(A) convey to the Conservation District all
right, title, and interest of the United States
in and to the Federal land, and any such por-
tion of the Federal exchange parcel as may
be required to equalize the values of the
lands exchanged; and
(B) accept from the Conservation District a
conveyance of all right, title, and interest of
the Conservation District in and to the non-
Federal land, and any such portion of the
non-Federal exchange parcel as may be re-
quired to equalize the values of the lands ex-
changed.
(2) EQUALIZATION PAYMENT.—To the extent
an equalization payment is necessary under
section 206(b) of the Federal Land Policy and
Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1716(b)),
the amount of such equalization payment
shall first be made by way of in-kind transfer
of such portion of the Federal exchange par-
cel to the Conservation District, or transfer
of such portion of the non-Federal exchange
parcel to the United States, as the case may
be, as may be necessary to equalize the fair
market values of the exchanged properties.
The fair market value of the Federal ex-
change parcel or non-Federal exchange par-
cel, as the case may be, shall be credited
against any required equalization payment.
To the extent such credit is not sufficient to
offset the entire amount of equalization pay-
ment so indicated, any remaining amount of
equalization payment shall be treated as fol-
lows:
(A) If the equalization payment is to equal-
ize values by which the Federal land exceeds
the non-Federal land and the credited value
of the non-Federal exchange parcel, Con-
servation District may make the equali-
zation payment to the United States, not-
withstanding any limitation regarding the
amount of the equalization payment under
section 206(b) of the Federal Land Policy and
Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1716(b)). In
the event Conservation District opts not to
make the indicated equalization payment,
the exchange shall not proceed.
(B) If the equalization payment is to equal-
ize values by which the non-Federal land ex-
ceeds the Federal land and the credited value
of the Federal exchange parcel, the Sec-
retary shall order the exchange without re-
quirement of any additional equalization
payment by the United States to the Con-
servation District.
(3) APPRAISALS.—
(A) The value of the land to be exchanged
under this section shall be determined by ap-
praisals conducted by one or more inde-
pendent and qualified appraisers.
(B) The appraisals shall be conducted in ac-
cordance with nationally recognized ap-
praisal standards, including, as appropriate,
the Uniform Appraisal Standards for Federal
Land Acquisitions and the Uniform Stand-
ards of Professional Appraisal Practice.
(4) TITLE APPROVAL.—Title to the land to
be exchanged under this section shall be in a
format acceptable to the Secretary and the
Conservation District.
(5) MAP AND LEGAL DESCRIPTIONS.—As soon
as practicable after the date of enactment of
this Act, the Secretary shall finalize a map
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:26 Feb 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00055 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06FE6.048 S06FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S930 February 6, 2019
and legal descriptions of all land to be con-
veyed under this section. The Secretary may
correct any minor errors in the map or in
the legal descriptions. The map and legal de-
scriptions shall be on file and available for
public inspection in appropriate offices of
the Bureau of Land Management.
(6) COSTS OF CONVEYANCE.—As a condition
of conveyance, any costs related to the con-
veyance under this section shall be paid by
the Conservation District.
(c) APPLICABLE LAW.—
(1) ACT OF FEBRUARY 20, 1909.—
(A) The Act of February 20, 1909 (35 Stat.
641), shall not apply to the Federal land and
any public exchange land transferred under
this section.
(B) The exchange of lands under this sec-
tion shall be subject to continuing rights of
the Conservation District under the Act of
February 20, 1909 (35 Stat. 641), on the non-
Federal land and any exchanged portion of
the non-Federal exchange parcel for the con-
tinued use, maintenance, operation, con-
struction, or relocation of, or expansion of,
groundwater recharge facilities on the non-
Federal land, to accommodate groundwater
recharge of the Bunker Hill Basin to the ex-
tent that such activities are not in conflict
with any Habitat Conservation Plan or Habi-
tat Management Plan under which such non-
Federal land or non-Federal exchange parcel
may be held or managed.
(2) FLPMA.—Except as otherwise provided
in this section, the Federal Land Policy and
Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1701 et
seq.), shall apply to the exchange of land
under this section.
(d) CANCELLATION OF SECRETARIAL ORDER
241.—Secretarial Order 241, dated November
11, 1929 (withdrawing a portion of the Federal
land for an unconstructed transmission line),
is terminated and the withdrawal thereby ef-
fected is revoked.
SEC. 1004. UDALL PARK LAND EXCHANGE.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) CITY.—The term ‘‘City’’ means the city
of Tucson, Arizona.
(2) NON-FEDERAL LAND.—The term ‘‘non-
Federal land’’ means the approximately
172.8-acre parcel of City land identified in
the patent numbered 02–90–0001 and dated Oc-
tober 4, 1989, and more particularly described
as lots 3 and 4, S1⁄2NW1⁄4, sec. 5, T.14 S., R.15
E., Gila and Salt River Meridian, Arizona.
(b) CONVEYANCE OF FEDERAL REVERSIONARY
INTEREST IN LAND LOCATED IN TUCSON, ARI-
ZONA.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Notwithstanding any
other provision of law, the Secretary shall
convey to the City, without consideration,
the reversionary interests of the United
States in and to the non-Federal land for the
purpose of unencumbering the title to the
non-Federal land to enable economic devel-
opment of the non-Federal land.
(2) LEGAL DESCRIPTIONS.—As soon as prac-
ticable after the date of enactment of this
Act, the exact legal descriptions of the non-
Federal land shall be determined in a man-
ner satisfactory to the Secretary.
(3) ADDITIONAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS.—
The Secretary may require such additional
terms and conditions to the conveyance
under paragraph (1), consistent with that
paragraph, as the Secretary considers appro-
priate to protect the interests of the United
States.
(4) COSTS.—The City shall pay all costs as-
sociated with the conveyance under para-
graph (1), consistent with that paragraph, in-
cluding the costs of any surveys, recording
costs, and other reasonable costs.
SEC. 1005. CONFIRMATION OF STATE LAND
GRANTS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Subject to valid existing
rights, the State of Utah may select any
lands in T. 6 S. and T. 7 S., R. 1 W., Salt Lake
Base and Meridian, that are owned by the
United States, under the administrative ju-
risdiction of the Bureau of Land Manage-
ment, and identified as available for disposal
by land exchange in the Record of Decision
for the Pony Express Resource Management
Plan and Rangeland Program Summary for
Utah County (January 1990), as amended by
the Pony Express Plan Amendment (Novem-
ber 1997), in fulfillment of the land grants
made in sections 6, 8, and 12 of the Act of
July 16, 1894 (28 Stat. 107) as generally de-
picted on the map entitled ‘‘Proposed Utah
County Quantity Grants’’ and dated June 27,
2017, to further the purposes of the State of
Utah School and Institutional Trust Lands
Administration, without further land use
planning action by the Bureau of Land Man-
agement.
(b) APPLICATION.—The criteria listed in De-
cision 3 of the Lands Program of the re-
source management plan described in sub-
section (a) shall not apply to any land se-
lected under that subsection.
(c) EFFECT ON LIMITATION.—Nothing in this
section affects the limitation established
under section 2815(d) of the National Defense
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2000 (Pub-
lic Law 106–65).
SEC. 1006. CUSTER COUNTY AIRPORT CONVEY-
ANCE.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) COUNTY.—The term ‘‘County’’ means
Custer County, South Dakota.
(2) FEDERAL LAND.—The term ‘‘Federal
land’’ means all right, title, and interest of
the United States in and to approximately
65.7 acres of National Forest System land, as
generally depicted on the map.
(3) MAP.—The term ‘‘map’’ means the map
entitled ‘‘Custer County Airport Convey-
ance’’ and dated October 19, 2017.
(4) SECRETARY.—The term ‘‘Secretary’’
means the Secretary of Agriculture, acting
through the Chief of the Forest Service.
(b) LAND CONVEYANCE.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Subject to the terms and
conditions described in paragraph (2), if the
County submits to the Secretary an offer to
acquire the Federal land for the market
value, as determined by the appraisal under
paragraph (3), the Secretary shall convey the
Federal land to the County.
(2) TERMS AND CONDITIONS.—The convey-
ance under paragraph (1) shall be—
(A) subject to valid existing rights;
(B) made by quitclaim deed; and
(C) subject to any other terms and condi-
tions as the Secretary considers appropriate
to protect the interests of the United States.
(3) APPRAISAL.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 60 days
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Secretary shall complete an appraisal to de-
termine the market value of the Federal
land.
(B) STANDARDS.—The appraisal under sub-
paragraph (A) shall be conducted in accord-
ance with—
(i) the Uniform Appraisal Standards for
Federal Land Acquisitions; and
(ii) the Uniform Standards of Professional
Appraisal Practice.
(4) MAP.—
(A) AVAILABILITY OF MAP.—The map shall
be kept on file and available for public in-
spection in the appropriate office of the For-
est Service.
(B) CORRECTION OF ERRORS.—The Secretary
may correct any errors in the map.
(5) CONSIDERATION.—As consideration for
the conveyance under paragraph (1), the
County shall pay to the Secretary an
amount equal to the market value of the
Federal land, as determined by the appraisal
under paragraph (3).
(6) SURVEY.—The exact acreage and legal
description of the Federal land to be con-
veyed under paragraph (1) shall be deter-
mined by a survey satisfactory to the Sec-
retary.
(7) COSTS OF CONVEYANCE.—As a condition
on the conveyance under paragraph (1), the
County shall pay to the Secretary all costs
associated with the conveyance, including
the cost of—
(A) the appraisal under paragraph (3); and
(B) the survey under paragraph (6).
(8) PROCEEDS FROM THE SALE OF LAND.—Any
proceeds received by the Secretary from the
conveyance under paragraph (1) shall be—
(A) deposited in the fund established under
Public Law 90–171 (commonly known as the
‘‘Sisk Act’’) (16 U.S.C. 484a); and
(B) available to the Secretary until ex-
pended, without further appropriation, for
the acquisition of inholdings in units of the
National Forest System in the State of
South Dakota.
SEC. 1007. PASCUA YAQUI TRIBE LAND CONVEY-
ANCE.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) DISTRICT.—The term ‘‘District’’ means
the Tucson Unified School District No. 1, a
school district recognized as such under the
laws of the State of Arizona.
(2) MAP.—The term ‘‘Map’’ means the map
entitled ‘‘ ‘Pascua Yaqui Tribe Land Convey-
ance Act’’, dated March 14, 2016, and on file
and available for public inspection in the
local office of the Bureau of Land Manage-
ment.
(3) RECREATION AND PUBLIC PURPOSES ACT.—
The term ‘‘Recreation and Public Purposes
Act’’ means the Act of June 14, 1926 (43
U.S.C. 869 et seq.).
(4) TRIBE.—The term ‘‘Tribe’’ means the
Pascua Yaqui Tribe of Arizona, a federally
recognized Indian Tribe.
(b) LAND TO BE HELD IN TRUST.—
(1) PARCEL A.—Subject to paragraph (2) and
to valid existing rights, all right, title, and
interest of the United States in and to the
approximately 39.65 acres of Federal lands
generally depicted on the map as ‘‘Parcel A’’
are declared to be held in trust by the United
States for the benefit of the Tribe.
(2) EFFECTIVE DATE.—Paragraph (1) shall
take effect on the day after the date on
which the District relinquishes all right,
title, and interest of the District in and to
the approximately 39.65 acres of land de-
scribed in paragraph (1).
(c) LANDS TO BE CONVEYED TO THE DIS-
TRICT.—
(1) PARCEL B.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Subject to valid existing
rights and payment to the United States of
the fair market value, the United States
shall convey to the District all right, title,
and interest of the United States in and to
the approximately 13.24 acres of Federal
lands generally depicted on the map as ‘‘Par-
cel B’’.
(B) DETERMINATION OF FAIR MARKET
VALUE.—The fair market value of the prop-
erty to be conveyed under subparagraph (A)
shall be determined by the Secretary in ac-
cordance with the Uniform Appraisal Stand-
ards for Federal Land Acquisitions and the
Uniform Standards of Professional Appraisal
Practice.
(C) COSTS OF CONVEYANCE.—As a condition
of the conveyance under this paragraph, all
costs associated with the conveyance shall
be paid by the District.
(2) PARCEL C.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—If, not later than 1 year
after the completion of the appraisal re-
quired by subparagraph (C), the District sub-
mits to the Secretary an offer to acquire the
Federal reversionary interest in all of the
approximately 27.5 acres of land conveyed to
the District under Recreation and Public
Purposes Act and generally depicted on the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:26 Feb 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00056 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06FE6.048 S06FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S931
February 6, 2019
map as ‘‘Parcel C’’, the Secretary shall con-
vey to the District such reversionary inter-
est in the lands covered by the offer. The
Secretary shall complete the conveyance not
later than 30 days after the date of the offer.
(B) SURVEY.—Not later than 90 days after
the date of enactment of this Act, the Sec-
retary shall complete a survey of the lands
described in this paragraph to determine the
precise boundaries and acreage of the lands
subject to the Federal reversionary interest.
(C) APPRAISAL.—Not later than 180 days
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Secretary shall complete an appraisal of the
Federal reversionary interest in the lands
identified by the survey required by subpara-
graph (B). The appraisal shall be completed
in accordance with the Uniform Appraisal
Standards for Federal Land Acquisitions and
the Uniform Standards of Professional Ap-
praisal Practice.
(D) CONSIDERATION.—As consideration for
the conveyance of the Federal reversionary
interest under this paragraph, the District
shall pay to the Secretary an amount equal
to the appraised value of the Federal inter-
est, as determined under subparagraph (C).
The consideration shall be paid not later
than 30 days after the date of the convey-
ance.
(E) COSTS OF CONVEYANCE.—As a condition
of the conveyance under this paragraph, all
costs associated with the conveyance, in-
cluding the cost of the survey required by
subparagraph (B) and the appraisal required
by subparagraph (C), shall be paid by the
District.
(d) GAMING PROHIBITION.—The Tribe may
not conduct gaming activities on lands
taken into trust pursuant to this section, ei-
ther as a matter of claimed inherent author-
ity, under the authority of any Federal law,
including the Indian Gaming Regulatory Act
(25 U.S.C. 2701 et seq.), or under regulations
promulgated by the Secretary or the Na-
tional Indian Gaming Commission.
(e) WATER RIGHTS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—There shall be no Federal
reserved right to surface water or ground-
water for any land taken into trust by the
United States for the benefit of the Tribe
under this section.
(2) STATE WATER RIGHTS.—The Tribe re-
tains any right or claim to water under
State law for any land taken into trust by
the United States for the benefit of the Tribe
under this section.
(3) FORFEITURE OR ABANDONMENT.—Any
water rights that are appurtenant to land
taken into trust by the United States for the
benefit of the Tribe under this section may
not be forfeited or abandoned.
(4) ADMINISTRATION.—Nothing in this sec-
tion affects or modifies any right of the
Tribe or any obligation of the United States
under Public Law 95–375.
SEC. 1008. LA PAZ COUNTY LAND CONVEYANCE.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) COUNTY.—The term ‘‘County’’ means La
Paz County, Arizona.
(2) FEDERAL LAND.—The term ‘‘Federal
land’’ means the approximately 5,935 acres of
land managed by the Bureau of Land Man-
agement and designated as ‘‘Federal land to
be conveyed’’ on the map.
(3) MAP.—The term ‘‘map’’ means the map
prepared by the Bureau of Land Management
entitled ‘‘Proposed La Paz County Land Con-
veyance’’ and dated October 1, 2018.
(b) CONVEYANCE TO LA PAZ COUNTY, ARI-
ZONA.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Notwithstanding the plan-
ning requirement of sections 202 and 203 of
the Federal Land Policy and Management
Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1712, 1713) and in ac-
cordance with this section and other applica-
ble law, as soon as practicable after receiv-
ing a request from the County to convey the
Federal land, the Secretary shall convey the
Federal land to the County.
(2) RESTRICTIONS ON CONVEYANCE.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The conveyance under
paragraph (1) shall be subject to—
(i) valid existing rights; and
(ii) such terms and conditions as the Sec-
retary determines to be necessary.
(B) EXCLUSION.—The Secretary shall ex-
clude from the conveyance under paragraph
(1) any Federal land that contains signifi-
cant cultural, environmental, wildlife, or
recreational resources.
(3) PAYMENT OF FAIR MARKET VALUE.—The
conveyance under paragraph (1) shall be for
the fair market value of the Federal land to
be conveyed, as determined—
(A) in accordance with the Federal Land
Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43
U.S.C. 1701 et seq.); and
(B) based on an appraisal that is conducted
in accordance with—
(i) the Uniform Appraisal Standards for
Federal Land Acquisitions; and
(ii) the Uniform Standards of Professional
Appraisal Practice.
(4) PROTECTION OF TRIBAL CULTURAL ARTI-
FACTS.—As a condition of the conveyance
under paragraph (1), the County shall, and as
a condition of any subsequent conveyance,
any subsequent owner shall—
(A) make good faith efforts to avoid dis-
turbing Tribal artifacts;
(B) minimize impacts on Tribal artifacts if
they are disturbed;
(C) coordinate with the Colorado River In-
dian Tribes Tribal Historic Preservation Of-
fice to identify artifacts of cultural and his-
toric significance; and
(D) allow Tribal representatives to rebury
unearthed artifacts at or near where they
were discovered.
(5) AVAILABILITY OF MAP.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The map shall be on file
and available for public inspection in the ap-
propriate offices of the Bureau of Land Man-
agement.
(B) CORRECTIONS.—The Secretary and the
County may, by mutual agreement—
(i) make minor boundary adjustments to
the Federal land to be conveyed under para-
graph (1); and
(ii) correct any minor errors in the map, an
acreage estimate, or the description of the
Federal land.
(6) WITHDRAWAL.—The Federal land is
withdrawn from the operation of the mining
and mineral leasing laws of the United
States.
(7) COSTS.—As a condition of the convey-
ance of the Federal land under paragraph (1),
the County shall pay—
(A) an amount equal to the appraised value
determined in accordance with paragraph
(3)(B); and
(B) all costs related to the conveyance, in-
cluding all surveys, appraisals, and other ad-
ministrative costs associated with the con-
veyance of the Federal land to the County
under paragraph (1).
(8) PROCEEDS FROM THE SALE OF LAND.—The
proceeds from the sale of land under this
subsection shall be—
(A) deposited in the Federal Land Disposal
Account established by section 206(a) of the
Federal Land Transaction Facilitation Act
(43 U.S.C. 2305(a)); and
(B) used in accordance with that Act (43
U.S.C. 2301 et seq.).
SEC. 1009. LAKE BISTINEAU LAND TITLE STA-
BILITY.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) CLAIMANT.—The term ‘‘claimant’’
means any individual, group, or corporation
authorized to hold title to land or mineral
interests in land in the State of Louisiana
with a valid claim to the omitted land, in-
cluding any mineral interests.
(2) MAP.—The term ‘‘Map’’ means the map
entitled ‘‘Lands as Delineated by Original
Survey December 18, 1842 showing the 1969
Meander Line at the 148.6 Elevation Line’’
and dated January 30, 2018.
(3) OMITTED LAND.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The term ‘‘omitted land’’
means the land in lots 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, and
13 of sec. 30, T. 16 N., R. 10 W., Louisiana Me-
ridian, comprising a total of approximately
229.72 acres, as depicted on the Map, that—
(i) was in place during the Original Survey;
but
(ii) was not included in the Original Sur-
vey.
(B) INCLUSION.—The term ‘‘omitted land’’
includes—
(i) Peggy’s Island in lot 1 of sec. 17, T. 16
N., R. 10 W., Louisiana Meridian; and
(ii) Hog Island in lot 1 of sec. 29, T. 16 N.,
R. 10 W., Louisiana Meridian.
(4) ORIGINAL SURVEY.—The term ‘‘Original
Survey’’ means the survey of land sur-
rounding Lake Bistineau, Louisiana, con-
ducted by the General Land Office in 1838
and approved by the Surveyor General on
December 8, 1842.
(b) CONVEYANCES.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Consistent with the first
section of the Act of December 22, 1928 (com-
monly known as the ‘‘Color of Title Act’’) (45
Stat. 1069, chapter 47; 43 U.S.C. 1068), except
as provided by this section, the Secretary
shall convey to the claimant the omitted
land, including any mineral interests, that
has been held in good faith and in peaceful,
adverse possession by a claimant or an an-
cestor or grantor of the claimant, under
claim or color of title, based on the Original
Survey.
(2) CONFIRMATION OF TITLE.—The convey-
ance or patent of omitted land to a claimant
under paragraph (1) shall have the effect of
confirming title to the surface and minerals
in the claimant and shall not serve as any
admission by a claimant.
(c) PAYMENT OF COSTS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in
paragraph (2), the conveyance required under
subsection (b) shall be without consider-
ation.
(2) CONDITION.—As a condition of the con-
veyance of the omitted land under sub-
section (b), before making the conveyance,
the Secretary shall recover from the State of
Louisiana any costs incurred by the Sec-
retary relating to any survey, platting, legal
description, or associated activities required
to prepare and issue a patent under that sub-
section.
(d) MAP AND LEGAL DESCRIPTION.—As soon
as practicable after the date of enactment of
this Act, the Secretary shall file, and make
available for public inspection in the appro-
priate offices of the Bureau of Land and
Management, the Map and legal descriptions
of the omitted land to be conveyed under
subsection (b).
SEC. 1010. LAKE FANNIN LAND CONVEYANCE.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) COUNTY.—The term ‘‘County’’ means
Fannin County, Texas.
(2) MAP.—The term ‘‘map’’ means the map
entitled ‘‘Lake Fannin Conveyance’’ and
dated November 21, 2013.
(3) NATIONAL FOREST SYSTEM LAND.—The
term ‘‘National Forest System land’’ means
the approximately 2,025 acres of National
Forest System land generally depicted on
the map.
(4) SECRETARY.—The term ‘‘Secretary’’
means the Secretary of Agriculture, acting
through the Chief of the Forest Service.
(b) LAND CONVEYANCE.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Subject to the terms and
conditions described in paragraph (2), if the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:26 Feb 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00057 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06FE6.048 S06FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S932 February 6, 2019
County submits to the Secretary an offer to
acquire the National Forest System land for
the fair market value, as determined by the
appraisal under paragraph (3), the Secretary
shall convey the National Forest System
land to the County.
(2) TERMS AND CONDITIONS.—The convey-
ance under paragraph (1) shall be—
(A) subject to valid existing rights;
(B) made by quitclaim deed; and
(C) subject to any other terms and condi-
tions as the Secretary considers appropriate
to protect the interests of the United States.
(3) APPRAISAL.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 180 days
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Secretary shall complete an appraisal to de-
termine the fair market value of the Na-
tional Forest System land.
(B) STANDARDS.—The appraisal under sub-
paragraph (A) shall be conducted in accord-
ance with—
(i) the Uniform Appraisal Standards for
Federal Land Acquisitions; and
(ii) the Uniform Standards of Professional
Appraisal Practice.
(4) MAP.—
(A) AVAILABILITY OF MAP.—The map shall
be kept on file and available for public in-
spection in the appropriate office of the For-
est Service.
(B) CORRECTION OF ERRORS.—The Secretary
may correct minor errors in the map.
(5) CONSIDERATION.—As consideration for
the conveyance under paragraph (1), the
County shall pay to the Secretary an
amount equal to the fair market value of the
National Forest System land, as determined
by the appraisal under paragraph (3).
(6) SURVEY.—The exact acreage and legal
description of the National Forest System
land to be conveyed under paragraph (1) shall
be determined by a survey satisfactory to
the Secretary and the County.
(7) USE.—As a condition of the conveyance
under paragraph (1), the County shall agree
to manage the land conveyed under that sub-
section for public recreational purposes.
(8) COSTS OF CONVEYANCE.—As a condition
on the conveyance under paragraph (1), the
County shall pay to the Secretary all costs
associated with the conveyance, including
the cost of—
(A) the appraisal under paragraph (3); and
(B) the survey under paragraph (6).
SEC. 1011. LAND CONVEYANCE AND UTILITY
RIGHT-OF-WAY, HENRY’S LAKE WIL-
DERNESS STUDY AREA, IDAHO.
(a) CONVEYANCE AND RIGHT-OF-WAY AU-
THORIZED.—Notwithstanding section 603(c) of
the Federal Land Policy and Management
Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1782(c)), the Secretary
may—
(1) convey to the owner of a private resi-
dence located at 3787 Valhalla Road in Island
Park, Idaho (in this section referred to as
the ‘‘owner’’), all right, title, and interest of
the United States in and to the approxi-
mately 0.5 acres of Federal land in the
Henry’s Lake Wilderness Study Area de-
scribed as lot 14, section 33, Township 16
North, Range 43 East, Boise Meridian, Fre-
mont County, Idaho; and
(2) grant Fall River Electric in Ashton,
Idaho, the right to operate, maintain, and re-
habilitate a right-of-way encumbering ap-
proximately 0.4 acres of Federal land in the
Henry’s Lake Wilderness Study Area de-
scribed as lot 15, section 33, Township 16
North, Range 43 East, Boise Meridian, Fre-
mont County, Idaho, which includes an elec-
tric distribution line and access road, 850′ in
length, 20′ in width.
(b) CONSIDERATION; CONDITIONS.—
(1) LAND DISPOSAL.—The Secretary shall
convey the land under subsection (a)(1) in ac-
cordance with section 203 of the Federal
Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43
U.S.C. 1713) and part 2711.3–3 of title 43, Code
of Federal Regulations. As consideration for
the conveyance the owner shall pay to the
Secretary an amount equal to the fair mar-
ket value as valued by a qualified land ap-
praisal and approved by the Appraisal and
Valuation Services Office.
(2) RIGHT-OF-WAY.—The Secretary shall
grant the right-of-way granted under sub-
section (a)(2) in accordance with section 205
of the Federal Land Policy and Management
Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1715), and part 2800 of
title 43, Code of Federal Regulations.
(c) ADDITIONAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS.—
The Secretary may require such additional
terms and conditions in connection with the
conveyance of the land and the grant of the
right-of-way under this section as the Sec-
retary considers appropriate to protect the
interests of the United States.
SEC. 1012. CONVEYANCE TO UKPEAGVIK INUPIAT
CORPORATION.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 1 year
after the date of enactment of this Act, sub-
ject to valid existing rights, the Secretary
shall convey to the Ukpeagvik Inupiat Cor-
poration all right, title, and interest held by
the United States in and to sand and gravel
deposits underlying the surface estate owned
by the Ukpeagvik Inupiat Corporation with-
in and contiguous to the Barrow gas fields,
and more particularly described as follows:
(1) T. 21 N. R. 16 W., secs. 7, 17–18, 19–21, and
28–29, of the Umiat Meridian.
(2) T. 21 N. R. 17 W., secs. 1–2 and 11–14, of
the Umiat Meridian.
(3) T. 22 N. R. 18 W., secs. 4, 9, and 29–32, of
the Umiat Meridian.
(4) T. 22 N. R. 19 W., secs. 25 and 36, of the
Umiat Meridian.
(b) ENTITLEMENT FULFILLED.—The convey-
ance under this section shall fulfill the enti-
tlement granted to the Ukpeagvik Inupiat
Corporation under section 12(a) of the Alaska
Native Claims Settlement Act (43 U.S.C.
1611(a)).
(c) COMPLIANCE WITH ENDANGERED SPECIES
ACT OF 1973.—Nothing in this section affects
any requirement, prohibition, or exception
under the Endangered Species Act of 1973 (16
U.S.C. 1531 et seq.).
SEC. 1013. PUBLIC PURPOSE CONVEYANCE TO
CITY OF HYDE PARK, UTAH.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Notwithstanding the land
use planning requirement of sections 202 and
203 of the Federal Land Policy and Manage-
ment Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1712, 1713), on
written request by the City of Hyde Park,
Utah (referred to in this section as the
‘‘City’’), the Secretary shall convey, without
consideration, to the City the parcel of pub-
lic land described in subsection (b)(1) for
public recreation or other public purposes
consistent with uses allowed under the Act
of June 14, 1926 (commonly known as the
‘‘Recreation and Public Purposes Act’’) (43
U.S.C. 869 et seq.).
(b) DESCRIPTION OF LAND.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The parcel of public land
referred to in subsection (a) is the approxi-
mately 80-acre parcel identified on the map
entitled ‘‘Hyde Park Land Conveyance Act’’
and dated October 23, 2017.
(2) AVAILABILITY OF MAP.—The map re-
ferred to in paragraph (1) shall be on file and
available for public inspection in appropriate
offices of the Bureau of Land Management.
(c) SURVEY.—The exact acreage and legal
description of the land to be conveyed under
this section shall be determined by a survey
satisfactory to the Secretary.
(d) CONVEYANCE COSTS.—As a condition for
the conveyance under this section, all costs
associated with the conveyance shall be paid
by the City.
SEC. 1014. JUAB COUNTY CONVEYANCE.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) COUNTY.—The term ‘‘County’’ means
Juab County, Utah.
(2) SECRETARY.—The term ‘‘Secretary’’
means the Secretary of Agriculture, acting
through the Chief of the Forest Service.
(3) NEPHI WORK CENTER CONVEYANCE PAR-
CEL.—The term ‘‘Nephi Work Center convey-
ance parcel’’ means the parcel of approxi-
mately 2.17 acres of National Forest System
land in the County, located at 740 South
Main Street, Nephi, Utah, as depicted as Tax
Lot Numbers #XA00–0545–1111 and #XA00–
0545–2 on the map entitled ‘‘Nephi Plat B’’
and dated May 6, 1981.
(b) CONVEYANCE OF NEPHI WORK CENTER
CONVEYANCE PARCEL, JUAB COUNTY, UTAH.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 1 year after
the date on which the Secretary receives a
request from the County and subject to valid
existing rights and such terms and condi-
tions as are mutually satisfactory to the
Secretary and the County, including such ad-
ditional terms as the Secretary determines
to be necessary, the Secretary shall convey
to the County without consideration all
right, title, and interest of the United States
in and to the Nephi Work Center conveyance
parcel.
(2) COSTS.—Any costs relating to the con-
veyance under paragraph (1), including proc-
essing and transaction costs, shall be paid by
the County.
(3) USE OF LAND.—The land conveyed to the
County under paragraph (1) shall be used by
the County—
(A) to house fire suppression and fuels
mitigation personnel;
(B) to facilitate fire suppression and fuels
mitigation activities; and
(C) for infrastructure and equipment nec-
essary to carry out subparagraphs (A) and
(B).
SEC. 1015. BLACK MOUNTAIN RANGE AND BULL-
HEAD CITY LAND EXCHANGE.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) CITY.—The term ‘‘City’’ means Bullhead
City, Arizona.
(2) NON-FEDERAL LAND.—The term ‘‘non-
Federal Land’’ means the approximately
1,100 acres of land owned by Bullhead City in
the Black Mountain Range generally de-
picted as ‘‘Bullhead City Land to be Ex-
changed to BLM’’ on the Map.
(3) MAP.—The term ‘‘Map’’ means the map
entitled ‘‘Bullhead City Land Exchange’’ and
dated August 24, 2018.
(4) FEDERAL LAND.—The term ‘‘Federal
land’’ means the approximately 345.2 acres of
land in Bullhead City, Arizona, generally de-
picted as ‘‘Federal Land to be exchanged to
Bullhead City’’ on the Map.
(b) LAND EXCHANGE.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—If after December 15, 2020,
the City offers to convey to the Secretary all
right, title, and interest of the City in and to
the non-Federal land, the Secretary shall ac-
cept the offer and simultaneously convey to
the City all right, title, and interest of the
United States in and to the Federal land.
(2) LAND TITLE.—Title to the non-Federal
land conveyed to the Secretary under this
section shall be in a form acceptable to the
Secretary and shall conform to the title ap-
proval standards of the Attorney General of
the United States applicable to land acquisi-
tions by the Federal Government.
(3) EXCHANGE COSTS.—The City shall pay
for all land survey, appraisal, and other costs
to the Secretary as may be necessary to
process and consummate the exchange under
this section.
(c) EQUAL VALUE EXCHANGE AND APPRAIS-
ALS.—
(1) APPRAISALS.—The values of the lands to
be exchanged under this section shall be de-
termined by the Secretary through apprais-
als performed—
(A) in accordance with—
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:26 Feb 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00058 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06FE6.048 S06FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S933
February 6, 2019
(i) the Uniform Appraisal Standards for
Federal Land Acquisitions;
(ii) the Uniform Standards of Professional
Appraisal Practice; and
(iii) appraisal instructions issued by the
Secretary; and
(B) by an appraiser mutually agreed to by
the Secretary and the City.
(2) EQUAL VALUE EXCHANGE.—The values of
the Federal and non-Federal land parcels ex-
changed shall be equal, or if they are not
equal, shall be equalized as follows:
(A) SURPLUS OF FEDERAL LAND VALUE.—If
the final appraised value of the Federal land
exceeds the final appraised value of the non-
Federal land, the City shall reduce the
amount of land it is requesting from the Fed-
eral Government in order to create an equal
value in accordance with section 206(b) of the
Federal Land Policy and Management Act of
1976 (43 U.S.C. 1716(b)). Land that is not ex-
changed because of equalization under this
subparagraph shall remain subject to lease
under the Act of June 14, 1926 (commonly
known as the ‘‘Recreation and Public Pur-
poses Act’’) (44 Stat. 741, chapter 578; 43
U.S.C. 869 et seq.).
(B) USE OF FUNDS.—Any cash equalization
moneys received by the Secretary under sub-
paragraph (A) shall be—
(i) deposited in the Federal Land Disposal
Account established by section 206(a) of the
Federal Land Transaction Facilitation Act
(43 U.S.C. 2305(a)); and
(ii) used in accordance with that Act (43
U.S.C. 2301 et seq.).
(C) SURPLUS OF NON-FEDERAL LAND
VALUE.—If the final appraised value of the
non-Federal land exceeds the final appraised
value of the Federal land, the United States
shall not make a cash equalization payment
to the City, and surplus value of the non-
Federal land shall be considered a donation
by the City to the United States for all pur-
poses of law.
(d) WITHDRAWAL PROVISIONS.—Lands ac-
quired by the Secretary under this section
are, upon such acquisition, automatically
and permanently withdrawn from all forms
of appropriation and disposal under the pub-
lic land laws (including the mining and min-
eral leasing laws) and the Geothermal Steam
Act of 1930 (30 U.S.C. 1001 et seq.).
(e) MAPS, ESTIMATES, AND DESCRIPTIONS.—
(1) MINOR ERRORS.—The Secretary and the
City may, by mutual agreement—
(A) make minor boundary adjustments to
the Federal and non-Federal lands involved
in the exchange; and
(B) correct any minor errors in any map,
acreage estimate, or description of any land
to be exchanged.
(2) CONFLICT.—If there is a conflict between
a map, an acreage estimate, or a description
of land under this section, the map shall con-
trol unless the Secretary and the City mutu-
ally agree otherwise.
(3) AVAILABILITY.—The Secretary shall file
and make available for public inspection in
the Arizona headquarters of the Bureau of
Land Management a copy of all maps re-
ferred to in this section.
SEC. 1016. COTTONWOOD LAND EXCHANGE.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) COUNTY.—The term ‘‘County’’ means
Yavapai County, Arizona.
(2) FEDERAL LAND.—The term ‘‘Federal
land’’ means all right, title, and interest of
the United States in and to approximately 80
acres of land within the Coconino National
Forest, in Yavapai County, Arizona, gen-
erally depicted as ‘‘Coconino National Forest
Parcels ‘Federal Land’ ’’ on the map.
(3) MAP.—The term ‘‘map’’ means the map
entitled ‘‘Cottonwood Land Exchange’’, with
the revision date July 5, 2018\Version 1.
(4) NON-FEDERAL LAND.—The term ‘‘non-
Federal land’’ means the approximately 369
acres of land in Yavapai County, Arizona,
generally depicted as ‘‘Yavapai County Par-
cels ‘Non-Federal Land’ ’’ on the map.
(5) SECRETARY.—The term ‘‘Secretary’’
means the Secretary of Agriculture, unless
otherwise specified.
(b) LAND EXCHANGE.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—If the County offers to
convey to the Secretary all right, title, and
interest of the County in and to the non-Fed-
eral land, the Secretary shall accept the
offer and simultaneously convey to the
County all right, title, and interest of the
United States to the Federal land.
(2) LAND TITLE.—Title to the non-Federal
land conveyed to the Secretary under this
section shall be acceptable to the Secretary
and shall conform to the title approval
standards of the Attorney General of the
United States applicable to land acquisitions
by the Federal Government.
(3) EXCHANGE COSTS.—The County shall pay
for all land survey, appraisal, and other costs
to the Secretary as may be necessary to
process and consummate the exchange under
this section, including reimbursement to the
Secretary, if the Secretary so requests, for
staff time spent in such processing and con-
summation.
(c) EQUAL VALUE EXCHANGE AND APPRAIS-
ALS.—
(1) APPRAISALS.—The values of the lands to
be exchanged under this section shall be de-
termined by the Secretary through apprais-
als performed—
(A) in accordance with—
(i) the Uniform Appraisal Standards for
Federal Land Acquisitions;
(ii) the Uniform Standards of Professional
Appraisal Practice; and
(iii) appraisal instructions issued by the
Secretary; and
(B) by an appraiser mutually agreed to by
the Secretary and the County.
(2) EQUAL VALUE EXCHANGE.—The values of
the Federal and non-Federal land parcels ex-
changed shall be equal, or if they are not
equal, shall be equalized as follows:
(A) SURPLUS OF FEDERAL LAND VALUE.—If
the final appraised value of the Federal land
exceeds the final appraised value of the non-
Federal land, the County shall make a cash
equalization payment to the United States
as necessary to achieve equal value, includ-
ing, if necessary, an amount in excess of that
authorized pursuant to section 206(b) of the
Federal Land Policy and Management Act of
1976 (43 U.S.C. 1716(b)).
(B) USE OF FUNDS.—Any cash equalization
moneys received by the Secretary under sub-
paragraph (A) shall be—
(i) deposited in the fund established under
Public Law 90–171 (commonly known as the
‘‘Sisk Act’’; 16 U.S.C. 484a); and
(ii) made available to the Secretary for the
acquisition of land or interests in land in Re-
gion 3 of the Forest Service.
(C) SURPLUS OF NON-FEDERAL LAND
VALUE.—If the final appraised value of the
non-Federal land exceeds the final appraised
value of the Federal land, the United States
shall not make a cash equalization payment
to the County, and surplus value of the non-
Federal land shall be considered a donation
by the County to the United States for all
purposes of law.
(d) WITHDRAWAL PROVISIONS.—Lands ac-
quired by the Secretary under this section
are, upon such acquisition, automatically
and permanently withdrawn from all forms
of appropriation and disposal under the pub-
lic land laws (including the mining and min-
eral leasing laws) and the Geothermal Steam
Act of 1930 (30 U.S.C. 1001 et seq.).
(e) MANAGEMENT OF LAND.—Land acquired
by the Secretary under this section shall be-
come part of the Coconino National Forest
and be managed in accordance with the laws,
rules, and regulations applicable to the Na-
tional Forest System.
(f) MAPS, ESTIMATES, AND DESCRIPTIONS.—
(1) MINOR ERRORS.—The Secretary and the
County may, by mutual agreement—
(A) make minor boundary adjustments to
the Federal and non-Federal lands involved
in the exchange; and
(B) correct any minor errors in any map,
acreage estimate, or description of any land
to be exchanged.
(2) CONFLICT.—If there is a conflict between
a map, an acreage estimate, or a description
of land under this section, the map shall con-
trol unless the Secretary and the County
mutually agree otherwise.
(3) AVAILABILITY.—The Secretary shall file
and make available for public inspection in
the headquarters of the Coconino National
Forest a copy of all maps referred to in this
section.
SEC. 1017. EMBRY-RIDDLE TRI-CITY LAND EX-
CHANGE.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) NON-FEDERAL LAND.—The term ‘‘non-
Federal land’’ means the approximately 16-
acre parcel of University land identified in
section 3(a) of Public Law 105–363 (112 Stat.
3297).
(2) UNIVERSITY.—The term ‘‘University’’
means Embry-Riddle Aeronautical Univer-
sity, Florida.
(b) CONVEYANCE OF FEDERAL REVERSIONARY
INTEREST IN LAND LOCATED IN THE COUNTY OF
YAVAPAI, ARIZONA.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Notwithstanding any
other provision of law, if after the comple-
tion of the appraisal required under sub-
section (c), the University submits to the
Secretary an offer to acquire the rever-
sionary interests of the United States in and
to the non-Federal land, the Secretary shall
convey to the University the reversionary
interests of the United States in and to the
non-Federal land for the purpose of
unencumbering the title to the non-Federal
land to enable economic development of the
non-Federal land.
(2) LEGAL DESCRIPTIONS.—As soon as prac-
ticable after the date of enactment of this
Act, the exact legal description of the non-
Federal land shall be determined in a man-
ner satisfactory to the Secretary.
(3) ADDITIONAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS.—
The Secretary may require such additional
terms and conditions to the conveyance
under paragraph (1), consistent with this sec-
tion, as the Secretary considers appropriate
to protect the interests of the United States.
(4) COSTS.—The University shall pay all
costs associated with the conveyance under
paragraph (1), including the costs of the ap-
praisal required under subsection (c), the
costs of any surveys, recording costs, and
other reasonable costs.
(c) APPRAISAL.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 180 days
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Secretary shall complete an appraisal of the
reversionary interests of the United States
in and to the non-Federal land.
(2) APPLICABLE LAW.—The appraisal shall
be completed in accordance with—
(A) the Uniform Appraisal Standards for
Federal Land Acquisitions; and
(B) the Uniform Standards of Professional
Appraisal Practice.
(d) CONSIDERATION.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—As consideration for the
conveyance of the reversionary interests of
the United States in and to the non-Federal
land under this section, the University shall
pay to the Secretary an amount equal to the
appraised value of the interests of the United
States, as determined under subsection (c).
(2) DEPOSIT; USE.—Amounts received under
paragraph (1) shall be—
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:26 Feb 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00059 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06FE6.048 S06FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S934 February 6, 2019
(A) deposited in the Federal Land Disposal
Account established by section 206(a) of the
Federal Land Transaction Facilitation Act
(43 U.S.C. 2305(a)); and
(B) used in accordance with that Act (43
U.S.C. 2301 et seq.).
Subtitle B—Public Land and National Forest
System Management
SEC. 1101. BOLTS DITCH ACCESS.
(a) ACCESS GRANTED.—The Secretary of Ag-
riculture shall permit by special use author-
ization nonmotorized access and use, in ac-
cordance with section 293.6 of title 36, Code
of Federal Regulations, of the Bolts Ditch
Headgate and the Bolts Ditch within the
Holy Cross Wilderness, Colorado, as des-
ignated by Public Law 96–560 (94 Stat. 3265),
for the purposes of the diversion of water and
use, maintenance, and repair of such ditch
and headgate by the Town of Minturn, Colo-
rado, a Colorado Home Rule Municipality.
(b) LOCATION OF FACILITIES.—The Bolts
Ditch headgate and ditch segment referenced
in subsection (a) are as generally depicted on
the map entitled ‘‘Bolts Ditch headgate and
Ditch Segment’’ and dated November 2015.
SEC. 1102. CLARIFICATION RELATING TO A CER-
TAIN LAND DESCRIPTION UNDER
THE NORTHERN ARIZONA LAND EX-
CHANGE AND VERDE RIVER BASIN
PARTNERSHIP ACT OF 2005.
Section 104(a)(5) of the Northern Arizona
Land Exchange and Verde River Basin Part-
nership Act of 2005 (Public Law 109–110; 119
Stat. 2356) is amended by inserting before the
period at the end ‘‘, which, notwithstanding
section 102(a)(4)(B), includes the N1⁄2 NE1⁄4
SW1⁄4 SW1⁄4, the N1⁄2 N1⁄2 SE1⁄4 SW1⁄4, and the
N1⁄2 N1⁄2 SW1⁄4 SE1⁄4, sec. 34, Township 22
North, Range 2 East, Gila and Salt River Me-
ridian, Coconino County, Arizona, com-
prising approximately 25 acres’’.
SEC. 1103. FRANK AND JEANNE MOORE WILD
STEELHEAD SPECIAL MANAGEMENT
AREA.
(a) FINDINGS.—Congress finds that—
(1) Frank Moore has committed his life to
family, friends, his country, and fly fishing;
(2) Frank Moore is a World War II veteran
who stormed the beaches of Normandy along
with 150,000 troops during the D-Day Allied
invasion and was awarded the Chevalier of
the French Legion of Honor for his bravery;
(3) Frank Moore returned home after the
war, started a family, and pursued his pas-
sion of fishing on the winding rivers in Or-
egon;
(4) as the proprietor of the Steamboat Inn
along the North Umpqua River in Oregon for
nearly 20 years, Frank Moore, along with his
wife Jeanne, shared his love of fishing, the
flowing river, and the great outdoors, with
visitors from all over the United States and
the world;
(5) Frank Moore has spent most of his life
fishing the vast rivers of Oregon, during
which time he has contributed significantly
to efforts to conserve fish habitats and pro-
tect river health, including serving on the
State of Oregon Fish and Wildlife Commis-
sion;
(6) Frank Moore has been recognized for
his conservation work with the National
Wildlife Federation Conservationist of the
Year award, the Wild Steelhead Coalition
Conservation Award, and his 2010 induction
into the Fresh Water Fishing Hall of Fame;
and
(7) in honor of the many accomplishments
of Frank Moore, both on and off the river,
approximately 99,653 acres of Forest Service
land in the State of Oregon should be des-
ignated as the ‘‘Frank and Jeanne Moore
Wild Steelhead Special Management Area’’.
(b) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) MAP.—The term ‘‘Map’’ means the map
entitled ‘‘Frank Moore Wild Steelhead Spe-
cial Management Area Designation Act’’ and
dated June 23, 2016.
(2) SECRETARY.—The term ‘‘Secretary’’
means the Secretary of Agriculture, acting
through the Chief of the Forest Service.
(3) SPECIAL MANAGEMENT AREA.—The term
‘‘Special Management Area’’ means the
Frank and Jeanne Moore Wild Steelhead
Special Management Area designated by sub-
section (c)(1).
(4) STATE.—The term ‘‘State’’ means the
State of Oregon.
(c) FRANK AND JEANNE MOORE WILD
STEELHEAD SPECIAL MANAGEMENT AREA, OR-
EGON.—
(1) DESIGNATION.—The approximately 99,653
acres of Forest Service land in the State, as
generally depicted on the Map, is designated
as the ‘‘Frank and Jeanne Moore Wild
Steelhead Special Management Area’’.
(2) MAP; LEGAL DESCRIPTION.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—As soon as practicable
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Secretary shall prepare a map and legal de-
scription of the Special Management Area.
(B) FORCE OF LAW.—The map and legal de-
scription prepared under subparagraph (A)
shall have the same force and effect as if in-
cluded in this section, except that the Sec-
retary may correct clerical and typo-
graphical errors in the map and legal de-
scription.
(C) AVAILABILITY.—The map and legal de-
scription prepared under subparagraph (A)
shall be on file and available for public in-
spection in the appropriate offices of the
Forest Service.
(3) ADMINISTRATION.—Subject to valid ex-
isting rights, the Special Management Area
shall be administered by the Secretary—
(A) in accordance with all laws (including
regulations) applicable to the National For-
est System; and
(B) in a manner that—
(i) conserves and enhances the natural
character, scientific use, and the botanical,
recreational, ecological, fish and wildlife,
scenic, drinking water, and cultural values
of the Special Management Area;
(ii) maintains and seeks to enhance the
wild salmonid habitat of the Special Man-
agement Area;
(iii) maintains or enhances the watershed
as a thermal refuge for wild salmonids; and
(iv) preserves opportunities for recreation,
including primitive recreation.
(4) FISH AND WILDLIFE.—Nothing in this
section affects the jurisdiction or respon-
sibilities of the State with respect to fish
and wildlife in the State.
(5) ADJACENT MANAGEMENT.—Nothing in
this section—
(A) creates any protective perimeter or
buffer zone around the Special Management
Area; or
(B) modifies the applicable travel manage-
ment plan for the Special Management Area.
(6) WILDFIRE MANAGEMENT.—Nothing in
this section prohibits the Secretary, in co-
operation with other Federal, State, and
local agencies, as appropriate, from con-
ducting wildland fire operations in the Spe-
cial Management Area, consistent with the
purposes of this section, including the use of
aircraft, machinery, mechanized equipment,
fire breaks, backfires, and retardant.
(7) VEGETATION MANAGEMENT.—Nothing in
this section prohibits the Secretary from
conducting vegetation management projects
within the Special Management Area in a
manner consistent with—
(A) the purposes described in paragraph (3);
and
(B) the applicable forest plan.
(8) PROTECTION OF TRIBAL RIGHTS.—Nothing
in this section diminishes any treaty rights
of an Indian Tribe.
(9) WITHDRAWAL.—Subject to valid existing
rights, the Federal land within the bound-
aries of the Special Management Area river
segments designated by paragraph (1) is
withdrawn from all forms of—
(A) entry, appropriation, or disposal under
the public land laws;
(B) location, entry, and patent under the
mining laws; and
(C) disposition under all laws relating to
mineral and geothermal leasing or mineral
materials.
SEC. 1104. MAINTENANCE OR REPLACEMENT OF
FACILITIES AND STRUCTURES AT
SMITH GULCH.
The authorization of the Secretary of Agri-
culture to maintain or replace facilities or
structures for commercial recreation serv-
ices at Smith Gulch under section 3(a)(24)(D)
of the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act (16 U.S.C.
1274(a)(24)(D))—
(1) may include improvements or replace-
ments that the Secretary of Agriculture de-
termines—
(A) are consistent with section 9(b) of the
Central Idaho Wilderness Act of 1980 (16
U.S.C. 1281 note; Public Law 96–312); and
(B) would reduce the impact of the com-
mercial recreation facilities or services on
wilderness or wild and scenic river resources
and values; and
(2) authorizes the Secretary of Agriculture
to consider including, as appropriate—
(A) hydroelectric generators and associ-
ated electrical transmission facilities;
(B) water pumps for fire suppression;
(C) transitions from propane to electrical
lighting;
(D) solar energy systems;
(E) 6-volt or 12-volt battery banks for
power storage; and
(F) other improvements or replacements
which are consistent with this section that
the Secretary of Agriculture determines ap-
propriate.
SEC. 1105. REPEAL OF PROVISION LIMITING THE
EXPORT OF TIMBER HARVESTED
FROM CERTAIN KAKE TRIBAL COR-
PORATION LAND.
Section 42 of the Alaska Native Claims
Settlement Act (43 U.S.C. 1629h) is amend-
ed—
(1) by striking subsection (h);
(2) by redesignating subsection (i) as sub-
section (h); and
(3) in subsection (h) (as so redesignated), in
the first sentence, by striking ‘‘and to pro-
vide’’ and all that follows through ‘‘sub-
section (h)’’.
SEC. 1106. DESIGNATION OF FOWLER AND
BOSKOFF PEAKS.
(a) DESIGNATION OF FOWLER PEAK.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The 13,498-foot mountain
peak, located at 37.8569° N, by ¥108.0117° W, in
the Uncompahgre National Forest in the
State of Colorado, shall be known and des-
ignated as ‘‘Fowler Peak’’.
(2) REFERENCES.—Any reference in a law,
map, regulation, document, paper, or other
record of the United States to the peak de-
scribed in paragraph (1) shall be deemed to
be a reference to ‘‘Fowler Peak’’.
(b) DESIGNATION OF BOSKOFF PEAK.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The 13,123-foot mountain
peak, located at 37.85549° N, by ¥108.03112° W,
in the Uncompahgre National Forest in the
State of Colorado, shall be known and des-
ignated as ‘‘Boskoff Peak’’.
(2) REFERENCES.—Any reference in a law,
map, regulation, document, paper, or other
record of the United States to the peak de-
scribed in paragraph (1) shall be deemed to
be a reference to ‘‘Boskoff Peak’’.
SEC. 1107. CORONADO NATIONAL FOREST LAND
CONVEYANCE.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) PERMITTEE.—
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:26 Feb 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00060 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06FE6.048 S06FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S935
February 6, 2019
(A) IN GENERAL.—The term ‘‘permittee’’
means a person who, on the date of enact-
ment of this Act, holds a valid permit for use
of a property.
(B) INCLUSIONS.—The term ‘‘permittee’’ in-
cludes any heirs, executors, and assigns of
the permittee or interest of the permittee.
(2) PROPERTY.—The term ‘‘property’’
means—
(A) the approximately 1.1 acres of National
Forest System land in sec. 8, T. 10 S., R. 16
E., Gila and Salt River Meridian, as gen-
erally depicted on the map entitled ‘‘Coro-
nado National Forest Land Conveyance Act
of 2017’’, special use permit numbered
SAN5005–03, and dated October 2017;
(B) the approximately 4.5 acres of National
Forest System land in sec. 8, T. 10 S., R. 16
E., Gila and Salt River Meridian, as gen-
erally depicted on the map entitled ‘‘Coro-
nado National Forest Land Conveyance Act
of 2017’’, special use permit numbered
SAN5116–03, and dated October 2017; and
(C) the approximately 3.9 acres of National
Forest System land in NW1⁄4, sec. 1, T. 10 S.,
R. 15 E., Gila and Salt River Meridian, as
generally depicted on the map entitled
‘‘Coronado National Forest Land Conveyance
Act of 2017’’, special use permit numbered
SAN5039–02, and dated October 2017.
(3) SECRETARY.—The term ‘‘Secretary’’
means the Secretary of Agriculture.
(b) SALE.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Subject to valid existing
rights, during the period described in para-
graph (2), not later than 90 days after the
date on which a permittee submits a request
to the Secretary, the Secretary shall—
(A) accept tender of consideration from
that permittee; and
(B) sell and quitclaim to that permittee all
right, title, and interest of the United States
in and to the property for which the per-
mittee holds a permit.
(2) PERIOD DESCRIBED.—The period referred
to in paragraph (1) is the period beginning on
the date of enactment of this Act and ending
on the date of expiration of the applicable
permit.
(c) TERMS AND CONDITIONS.—The Secretary
may establish such terms and conditions on
the sales of the properties under this section
as the Secretary determines to be in the pub-
lic interest.
(d) CONSIDERATION.—A sale of a property
under this section shall be for cash consider-
ation equal to the market value of the prop-
erty, as determined by the appraisal de-
scribed in subsection (e).
(e) APPRAISAL.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall com-
plete an appraisal of each property, which
shall—
(A) include the value of any appurtenant
easements; and
(B) exclude the value of any private im-
provements made by a permittee of the prop-
erty before the date of appraisal.
(2) STANDARDS.—An appraisal under para-
graph (1) shall be conducted in accordance
with—
(A) the Uniform Appraisal Standards for
Federal Land Acquisitions, established in ac-
cordance with the Uniform Relocation As-
sistance and Real Property Acquisition Poli-
cies Act of 1970 (42 U.S.C. 4601 et seq.); and
(B) the Uniform Standards of Professional
Appraisal Practice.
(f) COSTS.—The Secretary shall pay—
(1) the cost of a conveyance of a property
under this section; and
(2) the cost of an appraisal under sub-
section (e).
(g) PROCEEDS FROM THE SALE OF LAND.—
Any payment received by the Secretary from
the sale of property under this section shall
be deposited in the fund established under
Public Law 90–171 (commonly known as the
‘‘Sisk Act’’) (16 U.S.C. 484a) and shall be
available to the Secretary until expended for
the acquisition of inholdings in national for-
ests in the State of Arizona.
(h) MAPS AND LEGAL DESCRIPTIONS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—As soon as practicable
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Secretary shall file maps and legal descrip-
tions of each property.
(2) FORCE OF LAW.—The maps and legal de-
scriptions filed under paragraph (1) shall
have the same force and effect as if included
in this section, except that the Secretary
may correct typographical errors in the
maps and legal descriptions.
(3) PUBLIC AVAILABILITY.—The maps and
legal descriptions filed under paragraph (1)
shall be on file and available for public in-
spection in the office of the Supervisor of the
Coronado National Forest.
SEC. 1108. DESCHUTES CANYON-STEELHEAD
FALLS WILDERNESS STUDY AREA
BOUNDARY ADJUSTMENT, OREGON.
(a) BOUNDARY ADJUSTMENT.—The boundary
of the Deschutes Canyon-Steelhead Falls
Wilderness Study Area is modified to exclude
approximately 688 acres of public land, as de-
picted on the map entitled ‘‘Deschutes Can-
yon-Steelhead Falls Wilderness Study Area
(WSA) Proposed Boundary Adjustment’’ and
dated September 26, 2018.
(b) EFFECT OF EXCLUSION.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The public land excluded
from the Deschutes Canyon-Steelhead Falls
Wilderness Study Area under subsection
(a)—
(A) is no longer subject to section 603(c) of
the Federal Land Policy and Management
Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1782(c)); and
(B) shall be managed in accordance with—
(i) this section;
(ii) the Federal Land Policy and Manage-
ment Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.); and
(iii) any applicable resource management
plan.
(2) MANAGEMENT.—The Secretary shall
manage the land excluded from the
Deschutes Canyon-Steelhead Falls Wilder-
ness Study Area under subsection (a) to im-
prove fire resiliency and forest health, in-
cluding the conduct of wildfire prevention
and response activities, as appropriate.
(3) OFF-ROAD RECREATIONAL MOTORIZED
USE.—The Secretary shall not permit off-
road recreational motorized use on the pub-
lic land excluded from the Deschutes Can-
yon-Steelhead Falls Wilderness Study Area
under subsection (a).
SEC. 1109. MAINTENANCE OF FEDERAL MINERAL
LEASES BASED ON EXTRACTION OF
HELIUM.
The first section of the Mineral Leasing
Act (30 U.S.C. 181) is amended in the fifth
paragraph by inserting after ‘‘purchaser
thereof’’ the following: ‘‘, and that extrac-
tion of helium from gas produced from such
lands shall maintain the lease as if the ex-
tracted helium were oil and gas’’.
SEC. 1110. SMALL MINER WAIVERS TO CLAIM
MAINTENANCE FEES.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) COVERED CLAIMHOLDER.—The term ‘‘cov-
ered claimholder’’ means—
(A) the claimholder of the claims in the
State numbered AA023149, AA023163,
AA047913, AA047914, AA047915, AA047916,
AA047917, AA047918, and AA047919 (as of De-
cember 29, 2004);
(B) the claimholder of the claim in the
State numbered FF–059315 (as of December
29, 2004);
(C) the claimholder of the claims in the
State numbered FF–58607, FF–58608, FF–
58609, FF–58610, FF–58611, FF–58613, FF–58615,
FF–58616, FF–58617, and FF–58618 (as of De-
cember 31, 2003); and
(D) the claimholder of the claims in the
State numbered FF–53988, FF–53989, and FF–
53990 (as of December 31, 1987).
(2) DEFECT.—The term ‘‘defect’’ includes a
failure—
(A) to timely file—
(i) a small miner maintenance fee waiver
application;
(ii) an affidavit of annual labor associated
with a small miner maintenance fee waiver
application; or
(iii) an instrument required under section
314(a) of the Federal Land Policy and Man-
agement Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1744(a)); and
(B) to pay the required application fee for
a small maintenance fee waiver application.
(3) STATE.—The term ‘‘State’’ means the
State of Alaska.
(b) TREATMENT OF COVERED
CLAIMHOLDERS.—Notwithstanding section
10101(d) of the Omnibus Budget Reconcili-
ation Act of 1993 (30 U.S.C. 28f(d)) and section
314(c) of the Federal Land Policy and Man-
agement Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1744(c)), each
covered claimholder shall, during the 60-day
period beginning on the date on which the
covered claimholder receives written notifi-
cation from the Bureau of Land Management
by registered mail of the opportunity, have
the opportunity—
(1)(A) to cure any defect in a small miner
maintenance fee waiver application (includ-
ing the failure to timely file a small miner
maintenance fee waiver application) for any
prior period during which the defect existed;
or
(B) to pay any claim maintenance fees due
for any prior period during which the defect
existed; and
(2) to cure any defect in the filing of any
instrument required under section 314(a) of
the Federal Land Policy and Management
Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1744(a)) (including the
failure to timely file any required instru-
ment) for any prior period during which the
defect existed.
(c) REINSTATEMENT OF CLAIMS DEEMED FOR-
FEITED.—The Secretary shall reinstate any
claim of a covered claimholder as of the date
declared forfeited and void—
(1) under section 10104 of the Omnibus
Budget Reconciliation Act of 1993 (30 U.S.C.
28i) for failure to pay the claim maintenance
fee or obtain a valid waiver under section
10101 of the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation
Act of 1993 (30 U.S.C. 28f); or
(2) under section 314(c) of the Federal Land
Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43
U.S.C. 1744(c)) for failure to file any instru-
ment required under section 314(a) of that
Act (43 U.S.C. 1744(a)) for any prior period
during which the defect existed if the cov-
ered claimholder—
(A) cures the defect; or
(B) pays the claim maintenance fee under
subsection (b)(1)(B).
SEC. 1111. SAINT FRANCIS DAM DISASTER NA-
TIONAL MEMORIAL AND NATIONAL
MONUMENT.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) MEMORIAL.—The term ‘‘Memorial’’
means the Saint Francis Dam Disaster Na-
tional Memorial authorized under subsection
(b)(1).
(2) MONUMENT.—The term ‘‘Monument’’
means the Saint Francis Dam Disaster Na-
tional Monument established by subsection
(d)(1).
(3) SECRETARY.—The term ‘‘Secretary’’
means the Secretary of Agriculture.
(4) STATE.—The term ‘‘State’’ means the
State of California.
(b) SAINT FRANCIS DAM DISASTER NATIONAL
MEMORIAL.—
(1) ESTABLISHMENT.—The Secretary may
establish a memorial at the Saint Francis
Dam site in the county of Los Angeles, Cali-
fornia, for the purpose of honoring the vic-
tims of the Saint Francis Dam disaster of
March 12, 1928.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:26 Feb 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00061 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06FE6.048 S06FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S936 February 6, 2019
(2) REQUIREMENTS.—The Memorial shall
be—
(A) known as the ‘‘Saint Francis Dam Dis-
aster National Memorial’’; and
(B) managed by the Forest Service.
(3) DONATIONS.—The Secretary may accept,
hold, administer, invest, and spend any gift,
devise, or bequest of real or personal prop-
erty made to the Secretary for purposes of
developing, designing, constructing, and
managing the Memorial.
(c) RECOMMENDATIONS FOR MEMORIAL.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 3 years
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Secretary shall submit to Congress rec-
ommendations regarding—
(A) the planning, design, construction, and
long-term management of the Memorial;
(B) the proposed boundaries of the Memo-
rial;
(C) a visitor center and educational facili-
ties at the Memorial; and
(D) ensuring public access to the Memo-
rial.
(2) CONSULTATION.—In preparing the rec-
ommendations required under paragraph (1),
the Secretary shall consult with—
(A) appropriate Federal agencies;
(B) State, Tribal, and local governments,
including the Santa Clarita City Council;
and
(C) the public.
(d) ESTABLISHMENT OF SAINT FRANCIS DAM
DISASTER NATIONAL MONUMENT.—
(1) ESTABLISHMENT.—There is established
as a national monument in the State certain
National Forest System land administered
by the Secretary in the county of Los Ange-
les, California, comprising approximately 353
acres, as generally depicted on the map enti-
tled ‘‘Proposed Saint Francis Dam Disaster
National Monument’’ and dated September
12, 2018, to be known as the ‘‘Saint Francis
Dam Disaster National Monument’’.
(2) PURPOSE.—The purpose of the Monu-
ment is to conserve and enhance for the ben-
efit and enjoyment of the public the cul-
tural, archaeological, historical, watershed,
educational, and recreational resources and
values of the Monument.
(e) DUTIES OF THE SECRETARY WITH RE-
SPECT TO MONUMENT.—
(1) MANAGEMENT PLAN.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 4 years
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Secretary shall develop a management plan
for the Monument.
(B) CONSULTATION.—The management plan
shall be developed in consultation with—
(i) appropriate Federal agencies;
(ii) State, Tribal, and local governments;
and
(iii) the public.
(C) CONSIDERATIONS.—In developing and
implementing the management plan, the
Secretary shall, with respect to methods of
protecting and providing access to the Monu-
ment, consider the recommendations of the
Saint Francis Disaster National Memorial
Foundation, the Santa Clarita Valley Histor-
ical Society, and the Community Hiking
Club of Santa Clarita.
(2) MANAGEMENT.—The Secretary shall
manage the Monument—
(A) in a manner that conserves and en-
hances the cultural and historic resources of
the Monument; and
(B) in accordance with—
(i) the Forest and Rangeland Renewable
Resources Planning Act of 1974 (16 U.S.C. 1600
et seq.);
(ii) the laws generally applicable to the
National Forest System;
(iii) this section; and
(iv) any other applicable laws.
(3) USES.—
(A) USE OF MOTORIZED VEHICLES.—The use
of motorized vehicles within the Monument
may be permitted only—
(i) on roads designated for use by motor-
ized vehicles in the management plan re-
quired under paragraph (1);
(ii) for administrative purposes; or
(iii) for emergency responses.
(B) GRAZING.—The Secretary shall permit
grazing within the Monument, where estab-
lished before the date of enactment of this
Act—
(i) subject to all applicable laws (including
regulations and Executive orders); and
(ii) consistent with the purpose described
in subsection (d)(2).
(4) NO BUFFER ZONES.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Nothing in this section
creates a protective perimeter or buffer zone
around the Monument.
(B) ACTIVITIES OUTSIDE NATIONAL MONU-
MENT.—The fact that an activity or use on
land outside the Monument can be seen or
heard within the Monument shall not pre-
clude the activity or use outside the bound-
ary of the Monument.
(f) CLARIFICATION ON FUNDING.—
(1) USE OF EXISTING FUNDS.—This section
shall be carried out using amounts otherwise
made available to the Secretary.
(2) NO ADDITIONAL FUNDS.—No additional
funds are authorized to be appropriated to
carry out this section.
(g) EFFECT.—Nothing in this section affects
the operation, maintenance, replacement, or
modification of existing water resource,
flood control, utility, pipeline, or tele-
communications facilities that are located
outside the boundary of the Monument, sub-
ject to the special use authorities of the Sec-
retary of Agriculture and other applicable
laws.
SEC. 1112. OWYHEE WILDERNESS AREAS BOUND-
ARY MODIFICATIONS.
(a) BOUNDARY MODIFICATIONS.—
(1) NORTH FORK OWYHEE WILDERNESS.—The
boundary of the North Fork Owyhee Wilder-
ness established by section 1503(a)(1)(D) of
the Omnibus Public Land Management Act
of 2009 (Public Law 111–11; 123 Stat. 1033) is
modified to exclude certain land, as depicted
on—
(A) the Bureau of Land Management map
entitled ‘‘North Fork Owyhee and Pole Creek
Wilderness Aerial’’ and dated July 19, 2016;
and
(B) the Bureau of Land Management map
entitled ‘‘North Fork Owyhee River Wilder-
ness Big Springs Camp Zoom Aerial’’ and
dated July 19, 2016.
(2) OWYHEE RIVER WILDERNESS.—The bound-
ary of the Owyhee River Wilderness estab-
lished by section 1503(a)(1)(E) of the Omnibus
Public Land Management Act of 2009 (Public
Law 111–11; 123 Stat. 1033) is modified to ex-
clude certain land, as depicted on—
(A) the Bureau of Land Management map
entitled ‘‘North Fork Owyhee, Pole Creek,
and Owyhee River Wilderness Aerial’’ and
dated July 19, 2016;
(B) the Bureau of Land Management map
entitled ‘‘Owyhee River Wilderness Kincaid
Reservoir Zoom Aerial’’ and dated July 19,
2016; and
(C) the Bureau of Land Management map
entitled ‘‘Owyhee River Wilderness
Dickshooter Road Zoom Aerial’’ and dated
July 19, 2016.
(3) POLE CREEK WILDERNESS.—The boundary
of the Pole Creek Wilderness established by
section 1503(a)(1)(F) of the Omnibus Public
Land Management Act of 2009 (Public Law
111–11; 123 Stat. 1033) is modified to exclude
certain land, as depicted on—
(A) the Bureau of Land Management map
entitled ‘‘North Fork Owyhee, Pole Creek,
and Owyhee River Wilderness Aerial’’ and
dated July 19, 2016; and
(B) the Bureau of Land Management map
entitled ‘‘Pole Creek Wilderness Pullout
Zoom Aerial’’ and dated July 19, 2016.
(b) MAPS.—
(1) EFFECT.—The maps referred to in sub-
section (a) shall have the same force and ef-
fect as if included in this Act, except that
the Secretary may correct minor errors in
the maps.
(2) AVAILABILITY.—The maps referred to in
subsection (a) shall be available in the ap-
propriate offices of the Bureau of Land Man-
agement.
SEC. 1113. CHUGACH REGION LAND STUDY.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) CAC.—The term ‘‘CAC’’ means the Chu-
gach Alaska Corporation.
(2) CAC LAND.—The term ‘‘CAC land’’
means land conveyed to CAC pursuant to the
Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (43
U.S.C. 1601 et seq.) under which—
(A) both the surface estate and the sub-
surface estate were conveyed to CAC; or
(B)(i) the subsurface estate was conveyed
to CAC; and
(ii) the surface estate or a conservation
easement in the surface estate was acquired
by the State or by the United States as part
of the program.
(3) PROGRAM.—The term ‘‘program’’ means
the Habitat Protection and Acquisition Pro-
gram of the Exxon Valdez Oil Spill Trustee
Council.
(4) REGION.—The term ‘‘Region’’ means the
Chugach Region, Alaska.
(5) STUDY.—The term ‘‘study’’ means the
study conducted under subsection (b)(1).
(b) CHUGACH REGION LAND EXCHANGE
STUDY.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 1 year after
the date of enactment of this Act, the Sec-
retary, in coordination with the Secretary of
Agriculture and in consultation with CAC,
shall conduct a study of land ownership and
use patterns in the Region.
(2) STUDY REQUIREMENTS.—The study
shall—
(A) assess the social and economic impacts
of the program, including impacts caused by
split estate ownership patterns created by
Federal acquisitions under the program, on—
(i) the Region; and
(ii) CAC and CAC land;
(B) identify sufficient acres of accessible
and economically viable Federal land that
can be offered in exchange for CAC land iden-
tified by CAC as available for exchange; and
(C) provide recommendations for land ex-
change options with CAC that would—
(i) consolidate ownership of the surface and
mineral estate of Federal land under the pro-
gram; and
(ii) convey to CAC Federal land identified
under subparagraph (B).
(c) REPORT.—Not later than 18 months
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Secretary shall submit to the Committee on
Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate
and the Committee on Natural Resources of
the House of Representatives a report de-
scribing the results of the study, including—
(1) a recommendation on options for 1 or
more land exchanges; and
(2) detailed information on—
(A) the acres of Federal land identified for
exchange; and
(B) any other recommendations provided
by the Secretary.
SEC. 1114. WILDFIRE TECHNOLOGY MODERNIZA-
TION.
(a) PURPOSE.—The purpose of this section
is to promote the use of the best available
technology to enhance the effective and
cost-efficient response to wildfires—
(1) to meet applicable protection objec-
tives; and
(2) to increase the safety of—
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:26 Feb 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00062 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06FE6.048 S06FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S937
February 6, 2019
(A) firefighters; and
(B) the public.
(b) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) SECRETARIES.—The term ‘‘Secretaries’’
means—
(A) the Secretary of Agriculture; and
(B) the Secretary.
(2) SECRETARY CONCERNED.—The term ‘‘Sec-
retary concerned’’ means—
(A) the Secretary of Agriculture, with re-
spect to activities under the Department of
Agriculture; and
(B) the Secretary, with respect to activi-
ties under the Department of the Interior.
(c) UNMANNED AIRCRAFT SYSTEMS.—
(1) DEFINITIONS.—In this subsection, the
terms ‘‘unmanned aircraft’’ and ‘‘unmanned
aircraft system’’ have the meanings given
those terms in section 44801 of title 49,
United States Code.
(2) ESTABLISHMENT OF PROGRAM.—Not later
than 180 days after the date of enactment of
this Act, the Secretary, in consultation with
the Secretary of Agriculture, shall establish
a research, development, and testing pro-
gram, or expand an applicable existing pro-
gram, to assess unmanned aircraft system
technologies, including optionally piloted
aircraft, across the full range of wildland fire
management operations in order to accel-
erate the deployment and integration of
those technologies into the operations of the
Secretaries.
(3) EXPANDING USE OF UNMANNED AIRCRAFT
SYSTEMS ON WILDFIRES.—In carrying out the
program established under paragraph (2), the
Secretaries, in coordination with the Federal
Aviation Administration, State wildland
firefighting agencies, and other relevant
Federal agencies, shall enter into an agree-
ment under which the Secretaries shall de-
velop consistent protocols and plans for the
use on wildland fires of unmanned aircraft
system technologies, including for the devel-
opment of real-time maps of the location of
wildland fires.
(d) LOCATION SYSTEMS FOR WILDLAND FIRE-
FIGHTERS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 2 years
after the date of enactment of this Act, sub-
ject to the availability of appropriations, the
Secretaries, in coordination with State
wildland firefighting agencies, shall jointly
develop and operate a tracking system (re-
ferred to in this subsection as the ‘‘system’’)
to remotely locate the positions of fire re-
sources for use by wildland firefighters, in-
cluding, at a minimum, any fire resources
assigned to Federal type 1 wildland fire inci-
dent management teams.
(2) REQUIREMENTS.—The system shall—
(A) use the most practical and effective
technology available to the Secretaries to
remotely track the location of an active re-
source, such as a Global Positioning System;
(B) depict the location of each fire resource
on the applicable maps developed under sub-
section (c)(3);
(C) operate continuously during the period
for which any firefighting personnel are as-
signed to the applicable Federal wildland
fire; and
(D) be subject to such terms and conditions
as the Secretary concerned determines nec-
essary for the effective implementation of
the system.
(3) OPERATION.—The Secretary concerned
shall—
(A) before commencing operation of the
system—
(i) conduct not fewer than 2 pilot projects
relating to the operation, management, and
effectiveness of the system; and
(ii) review the results of those pilot
projects;
(B) conduct training, and maintain a cul-
ture, such that an employee, officer, or con-
tractor shall not rely on the system for safe-
ty; and
(C) establish procedures for the collection,
storage, and transfer of data collected under
this subsection to ensure—
(i) data security; and
(ii) the privacy of wildland fire personnel.
(e) WILDLAND FIRE DECISION SUPPORT.—
(1) PROTOCOL.—To the maximum extent
practicable, the Secretaries shall ensure that
wildland fire management activities con-
ducted by the Secretaries, or conducted
jointly by the Secretaries and State wildland
firefighting agencies, achieve compliance
with applicable incident management objec-
tives in a manner that—
(A) minimizes firefighter exposure to the
lowest level necessary; and
(B) reduces overall costs of wildfire inci-
dents.
(2) WILDFIRE DECISION SUPPORT SYSTEM.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The Secretaries, in co-
ordination with State wildland firefighting
agencies, shall establish a system or expand
an existing system to track and monitor de-
cisions made by the Secretaries or State
wildland firefighting agencies in managing
wildfires.
(B) COMPONENTS.—The system established
or expanded under subparagraph (A) shall be
able to alert the Secretaries if—
(i) unusual costs are incurred;
(ii) an action to be carried out would like-
ly—
(I) endanger the safety of a firefighter; or
(II) be ineffective in meeting an applicable
suppression or protection goal; or
(iii) a decision regarding the management
of a wildfire deviates from—
(I) an applicable protocol established by
the Secretaries, including the requirement
under paragraph (1); or
(II) an applicable spatial fire management
plan or fire management plan of the Sec-
retary concerned.
(f) SMOKE PROJECTIONS FROM ACTIVE
WILDLAND FIRES.—The Secretaries shall es-
tablish a program, to be known as the
‘‘Interagency Wildland Fire Air Quality Re-
sponse Program’’, under which the Secretary
concerned—
(1) to the maximum extent practicable,
shall assign 1 or more air resource advisors
to a type 1 incident management team man-
aging a Federal wildland fire; and
(2) may assign 1 or more air resource advi-
sors to a type 2 incident management team
managing a wildland fire.
(g) FIREFIGHTER INJURIES DATABASE.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Section 9(a) of the Federal
Fire Prevention and Control Act of 1974 (15
U.S.C. 2208(a)) is amended—
(A) in paragraph (2), by inserting ‘‘, cat-
egorized by the type of fire’’ after ‘‘such in-
juries and deaths’’; and
(B) in paragraph (3), by striking ‘‘activi-
ties;’’ and inserting the following: ‘‘activi-
ties, including—
‘‘(A) all injuries sustained by a firefighter
and treated by a doctor, categorized by the
type of firefighter;
‘‘(B) all deaths sustained while undergoing
a pack test or preparing for a work capacity;
‘‘(C) all injuries or deaths resulting from
vehicle accidents; and
‘‘(D) all injuries or deaths resulting from
aircraft crashes;’’.
(2) USE OF EXISTING DATA GATHERING AND
ANALYSIS ORGANIZATIONS.—Section 9(b)(3) of
the Federal Fire Prevention and Control Act
of 1974 (15 U.S.C. 2208(b)(3)) is amended by in-
serting ‘‘, including the Center for Fire-
fighter Injury Research and Safety Trends’’
after ‘‘public and private’’.
(3) MEDICAL PRIVACY OF FIREFIGHTERS.—
Section 9 of the Federal Fire Prevention and
Control Act of 1974 (15 U.S.C. 2208) is amend-
ed by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(e) MEDICAL PRIVACY OF FIREFIGHTERS.—
The collection, storage, and transfer of any
medical data collected under this section
shall be conducted in accordance with—
‘‘(1) the privacy regulations promulgated
under section 264(c) of the Health Insurance
Portability and Accountability Act of 1996
(42 U.S.C. 1320d–2 note; Public Law 104–191);
and
‘‘(2) other applicable regulations, including
parts 160, 162, and 164 of title 45, Code of Fed-
eral Regulations (as in effect on the date of
enactment of this subsection).’’.
(h) RAPID RESPONSE EROSION DATABASE.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretaries, in con-
sultation with the Administrator of the Na-
tional Aeronautics and Space Administra-
tion and the Secretary of Commerce, shall
establish and maintain a database, to be
known as the ‘‘Rapid Response Erosion Data-
base’’ (referred to in this subsection as the
‘‘Database’’).
(2) OPEN-SOURCE DATABASE.—
(A) AVAILABILITY.—The Secretaries shall
make the Database (including the original
source code)—
(i) web-based; and
(ii) available without charge.
(B) COMPONENTS.—To the maximum extent
practicable, the Database shall provide for—
(i) the automatic incorporation of spatial
data relating to vegetation, soils, and ele-
vation into an applicable map created by the
Secretary concerned that depicts the
changes in land-cover and soil properties
caused by a wildland fire; and
(ii) the generation of a composite map that
can be used by the Secretary concerned to
model the effectiveness of treatments in the
burned area to prevent flooding, erosion, and
landslides under a range of weather sce-
narios.
(3) USE.—The Secretary concerned shall
use the Database, as applicable, in devel-
oping recommendations for emergency sta-
bilization treatments or modifications to
drainage structures to protect values-at-risk
following a wildland fire.
(4) COORDINATION.—The Secretaries may
share the Database, and any results gen-
erated in using the Database, with any State
or unit of local government.
(i) PREDICTING WHERE WILDFIRES WILL
START.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretaries, in con-
sultation with the Administrator of the Na-
tional Aeronautics and Space Administra-
tion, the Secretary of Energy, and the Sec-
retary of Commerce, through the capabili-
ties and assets located at the National Lab-
oratories, shall establish and maintain a sys-
tem to predict the locations of future
wildfires for fire-prone areas of the United
States.
(2) COOPERATION; COMPONENTS.—The system
established under paragraph (1) shall be
based on, and seek to enhance, similar sys-
tems in existence on the date of enactment
of this Act, including the Fire Danger As-
sessment System.
(3) USE IN FORECASTS.—Not later than 1
year after the date of enactment of this Act,
the Secretaries shall use the system estab-
lished under paragraph (1), to the maximum
extent practicable, for purposes of devel-
oping any wildland fire potential forecasts.
(4) COORDINATION.—The Secretaries may
share the system established under para-
graph (1), and any results generated in using
the system, with any State or unit of local
government.
(j) TERMINATION OF AUTHORITY.—The au-
thority provided by this section terminates
on the date that is 10 years after the date of
enactment of this Act.
(k) SAVINGS CLAUSE.—Nothing in this sec-
tion—
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:26 Feb 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00063 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06FE6.048 S06FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S938 February 6, 2019
(1) requires the Secretary concerned to es-
tablish a new program, system, or database
to replace an existing program, system, or
database that meets the objectives of this
section; or
(2) precludes the Secretary concerned from
using existing or future technology that—
(A) is more efficient, safer, or better meets
the needs of firefighters, other personnel, or
the public; and
(B) meets the objectives of this section.
SEC. 1115. MCCOY FLATS TRAIL SYSTEM.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) COUNTY.—The term ‘‘County’’ means
Uintah County, Utah.
(2) DECISION RECORD.—The term ‘‘Decision
Record’’ means the Decision Record prepared
by the Bureau of Land Management for the
Environmental Assessment for the McCoy
Flats Trail System numbered DOI-BLM-
G010-2012-0057 and dated October 2012.
(3) STATE.—The term ‘‘State’’ means the
State of Utah.
(4) TRAIL SYSTEM.—The term ‘‘Trail Sys-
tem’’ means the McCoy Flats Trail System
established by subsection (b)(1).
(b) ESTABLISHMENT.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Subject to valid existing
rights, there is established the McCoy Flats
Trail System in the State.
(2) AREA INCLUDED.—The Trail System
shall include public land administered by the
Bureau of Land Management in the County,
as described in the Decision Record.
(c) MAP AND LEGAL DESCRIPTION.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—As soon as practicable
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Secretary shall prepare a map and legal de-
scription of the Trail System.
(2) AVAILABILITY; TRANSMITTAL TO CON-
GRESS.—The map and legal description pre-
pared under paragraph (1) shall be—
(A) available in appropriate offices of the
Bureau of Land Management; and
(B) transmitted by the Secretary to—
(i) the Committee on Natural Resources of
the House of Representatives; and
(ii) the Committee on Energy and Natural
Resources of the Senate.
(3) FORCE AND EFFECT.—The map and legal
description prepared under paragraph (1)
shall have the same force and effect as if in-
cluded in this section, except that the Sec-
retary may correct any clerical or typo-
graphical errors in the map and legal de-
scription.
(d) ADMINISTRATION.—The Secretary shall
administer the Trail System in accordance
with—
(1) the Federal Land Policy and Manage-
ment Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.);
(2) this section; and
(3) other applicable law.
(e) MANAGEMENT PLAN.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 2 years
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Secretary, in consultation and coordination
with the County and affected Indian Tribes,
shall prepare a management plan for the
Trail System.
(2) PUBLIC COMMENT.—The management
plan shall be developed with opportunities
for public comment.
(3) INTERIM MANAGEMENT.—Until the com-
pletion of the management plan, the Trail
System shall be administered in accordance
with the Decision Record.
(4) RECREATIONAL OPPORTUNITIES.—In de-
veloping the management plan, the Sec-
retary shall seek to provide for new moun-
tain bike route and trail construction to in-
crease recreational opportunities within the
Trail System, consistent with this section.
(f) USES.—The Trail System shall be used
for nonmotorized mountain bike recreation,
as described in the Decision Record.
(g) ACQUISITION.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—On the request of the
State, the Secretary shall seek to acquire
State land, or interests in State land, lo-
cated within the Trail System by purchase
from a willing seller or exchange.
(2) ADMINISTRATION OF ACQUIRED LAND.—
Any land acquired under this subsection
shall be administered as part of the Trail
System.
(h) FEES.—No fees shall be charged for ac-
cess to, or use of, the Trail System and asso-
ciated parking areas.
SEC. 1116. TECHNICAL CORRECTIONS TO CER-
TAIN LAWS RELATING TO FEDERAL
LAND IN THE STATE OF NEVADA.
(a) AMENDMENT TO CONVEYANCE OF FED-
ERAL LAND IN STOREY COUNTY, NEVADA.—Sec-
tion 3009(d) of the Carl Levin and Howard P.
‘‘Buck’’ McKeon National Defense Author-
ization Act for Fiscal Year 2015 (Public Law
113–291; 128 Stat. 3751) is amended—
(1) in paragraph (1)—
(A) by striking subparagraphs (B) through
(D) and redesignating subparagraph (E) as
subparagraph (D); and
(B) by inserting after subparagraph (A) the
following:
‘‘(B) FEDERAL LAND.—The term ‘Federal
land’ means the land generally depicted as
‘Federal land’ on the map.
‘‘(C) MAP.—The term ‘map’ means the map
entitled ‘Storey County Land Conveyance’
and dated June 6, 2018.’’.
(2) in paragraph (3)—
(A) in subparagraph (A)(i), by striking
‘‘after completing the mining claim validity
review under paragraph (2)(B), if requested
by the County,’’; and
(B) in subparagraph (B)—
(i) in clause (i)—
(I) in the matter preceding subclause (I),
by striking ‘‘each parcel of land located in a
mining townsite’’ and inserting ‘‘any Federal
land’’;
(II) in subclause (I), by striking ‘‘mining
townsite’’ and inserting ‘‘Federal land’’; and
(III) in subclause (II), by striking ‘‘mining
townsite (including improvements to the
mining townsite), as identified for convey-
ance on the map’’ and inserting ‘‘Federal
land (including improvements)’’;
(ii) by striking clause (ii);
(iii) by striking the subparagraph designa-
tion and heading and all that follows
through ‘‘With respect’’ in the matter pre-
ceding subclause (I) of clause (i) and insert-
ing the following:
‘‘(B) VALID MINING CLAIMS.—With respect’’;
and
(iv) by redesignating subclauses (I) and (II)
as clauses (i) and (ii), respectively, and in-
denting appropriately;
(3) in paragraph (4)(A), by striking ‘‘a min-
ing townsite conveyed under paragraph
(3)(B)(i)(II)’’ and inserting ‘‘Federal land con-
veyed under paragraph (2)(B)(ii)’’;
(4) in paragraph (5), by striking ‘‘a mining
townsite under paragraph (3)’’ and inserting
‘‘Federal land under paragraph (2)’’;
(5) in paragraph (6), in the matter pre-
ceding subparagraph (A), by striking ‘‘min-
ing townsite’’ and inserting ‘‘Federal land’’;
(6) in paragraph (7), by striking ‘‘A mining
townsite to be conveyed by the United
States under paragraph (3)’’ and inserting
‘‘The exterior boundary of the Federal land
to be conveyed by the United States under
paragraph (2)’’;
(7) in paragraph (9)—
(A) by striking ‘‘a mining townsite under
paragraph (3)’’ and inserting ‘‘the Federal
land under paragraph (2)’’; and
(B) by striking ‘‘the mining townsite’’ and
inserting ‘‘the Federal land’’;
(8) in paragraph (10), by striking ‘‘the ex-
amination’’ and all that follows through the
period at the end and inserting ‘‘the convey-
ance under paragraph (2) should be com-
pleted by not later than 18 months after the
date of enactment of the Natural Resources
Management Act.’’;
(9) by striking paragraphs (2) and (8);
(10) by redesignating paragraphs (3)
through (7) and (9) and (10) as paragraphs (2)
through (6) and (7) and (8) respectively; and
(11) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(9) AVAILABILITY OF MAP.—The map shall
be on file and available for public inspection
in the appropriate offices of the Bureau of
Land Management.’’.
(b) MODIFICATION OF UTILITY CORRIDOR.—
The Secretary shall realign the utility cor-
ridor established by section 301(a) of the Lin-
coln County Conservation, Recreation, and
Development Act of 2004 (Public Law 108–424;
118 Stat. 2412) to be aligned as generally de-
picted on the map entitled ‘‘Proposed
LCCRDA Utility Corridor Realignment’’ and
dated March 14, 2017, by modifying the map
entitled ‘‘Lincoln County Conservation,
Recreation, and Development Act’’ (referred
to in this subsection as the ‘‘Map’’) and
dated October 1, 2004, by—
(1) removing the utility corridor from sec-
tions 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 14, and 15, T. 7 N., R.
68 E., of the Map; and
(2) redesignating the utility corridor so as
to appear on the Map in—
(A) sections 31, 32, and 33, T. 8 N., R. 68 E.;
(B) sections 4, 5, 6, and 7, T. 7 N., R. 68 E.;
and
(C) sections 1 and 12, T. 7 N., 67 E.
(c) FINAL CORRECTIVE PATENT IN CLARK
COUNTY, NEVADA.—
(1) VALIDATION OF PATENT.—Patent number
27–2005–0081, issued by the Bureau of Land
Management on February 18, 2005, is af-
firmed and validated as having been issued
pursuant to, and in compliance with, the Ne-
vada-Florida Land Exchange Authorization
Act of 1988 (Public Law 100–275; 102 Stat. 52),
the National Environmental Policy Act of
1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.), and the Federal
Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43
U.S.C. 1701 et seq.) for the benefit of the
desert tortoise, other species, and the habi-
tat of the desert tortoise and other species to
increase the likelihood of the recovery of the
desert tortoise and other species.
(2) RATIFICATION OF RECONFIGURATION.—The
process used by the United States Fish and
Wildlife Service and the Bureau of Land
Management in reconfiguring the land de-
scribed in paragraph (1), as depicted on Ex-
hibit 1–4 of the Final Environmental Impact
Statement for the Planned Development
Project MSHCP, Lincoln County, NV (FWS–
R8–ES–2008–N0136), and the reconfiguration
provided for in special condition 10 of the
Corps of Engineers Permit No. 000005042, are
ratified.
(d) ISSUANCE OF CORRECTIVE PATENT IN LIN-
COLN COUNTY, NEVADA.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary, acting
through the Director of the Bureau of Land
Management, may issue a corrective patent
for the 7,548 acres of land in Lincoln County,
Nevada, depicted on the map prepared by the
Bureau of Land Management entitled ‘‘Pro-
posed Lincoln County Land Reconfigura-
tion’’ and dated January 28, 2016.
(2) APPLICABLE LAW.—A corrective patent
issued under paragraph (1) shall be treated as
issued pursuant to, and in compliance with,
the Nevada-Florida Land Exchange Author-
ization Act of 1988 (Public Law 100–275; 102
Stat. 52).
(e) CONVEYANCE TO LINCOLN COUNTY, NE-
VADA, TO SUPPORT A LANDFILL.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—As soon as practicable
after the date of enactment of this Act, and
subject to valid existing rights, at the re-
quest of Lincoln County, Nevada, the Sec-
retary shall convey without consideration
under the Act of June 14, 1926 (commonly
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:26 Feb 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00064 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06FE6.048 S06FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S939
February 6, 2019
known as the ‘‘Recreation and Public Pur-
poses Act’’) (44 Stat. 741, chapter 578; 43
U.S.C. 869 et seq.), to Lincoln County all
right, title and interest of the United States
in and to approximately 400 acres of land in
Lincoln County, Nevada, more particularly
described as follows: T. 11 S., R. 62, E., Sec-
tion 25 E 1⁄2 of W 1⁄2; and W 1⁄2 of E 1⁄2; and E
1⁄2 of SE 1⁄4.
(2) RESERVATION.—The Secretary shall re-
serve to the United States the mineral estate
in any land conveyed under paragraph (1).
(3) USE OF CONVEYED LAND.—The land con-
veyed under paragraph (1) shall be used by
Lincoln County, Nevada, to provide a suit-
able location for the establishment of a cen-
tralized landfill and to provide a designated
area and authorized facilities to discourage
unauthorized dumping and trash disposal on
environmentally-sensitive public land. Lin-
coln County may not dispose of the land con-
veyed under paragraph (1).
(4) REVERSION.—If Lincoln County, Nevada,
ceases to use any parcel of land conveyed
under paragraph (1) for the purposes de-
scribed in paragraph (3)—
(A) title to the parcel shall revert to the
Secretary, at the option of the Secretary;
and
(B) Lincoln County shall be responsible for
any reclamation necessary to restore the
parcel to a condition acceptable to the Sec-
retary.
(f) MT. MORIAH WILDERNESS, HIGH SCHELLS
WILDERNESS, AND ARC DOME WILDERNESS
BOUNDARY ADJUSTMENTS.—
(1) AMENDMENTS TO THE PAM WHITE WILDER-
NESS ACT OF 2006.—Section 323 of the Pam
White Wilderness Act of 2006 (16 U.S.C. 1132
note; 120 Stat. 3031) is amended by striking
subsection (e) and inserting the following:
‘‘(e) MT. MORIAH WILDERNESS ADJUST-
MENT.—The boundary of the Mt. Moriah Wil-
derness established under section 2(13) of the
Nevada Wilderness Protection Act of 1989 (16
U.S.C. 1132 note) is adjusted to include—
‘‘(1) the land identified as the ‘Mount
Moriah Wilderness Area’ and ‘Mount Moriah
Additions’ on the map entitled ‘Eastern
White Pine County’ and dated November 29,
2006; and
‘‘(2) the land identified as ‘NFS Lands’ on
the map entitled ‘Proposed Wilderness
Boundary Adjustment Mt. Moriah Wilder-
ness Area’ and dated January 19, 2017.
‘‘(f) HIGH SCHELLS WILDERNESS ADJUST-
MENT.—The boundary of the High Schells
Wilderness established under subsection
(a)(11) is adjusted—
‘‘(1) to include the land identified as ‘In-
clude as Wilderness’ on the map entitled
‘McCoy Creek Adjustment’ and dated No-
vember 3, 2014; and
‘‘(2) to exclude the land identified as ‘NFS
Lands’ on the map entitled ‘Proposed Wilder-
ness Boundary Adjustment High Schells Wil-
derness Area’ and dated January 19, 2017.’’.
(2) AMENDMENTS TO THE NEVADA WILDER-
NESS PROTECTION ACT OF 1989.—The Nevada
Wilderness Protection Act of 1989 (Public
Law 101–195; 16 U.S.C. 1132 note) is amended
by adding at the end the following:
‘‘SEC. 12. ARC DOME BOUNDARY ADJUSTMENT.
‘‘The boundary of the Arc Dome Wilderness
established under section 2(2) is adjusted to
exclude the land identified as ‘Exclude from
Wilderness’ on the map entitled ‘Arc Dome
Adjustment’ and dated November 3, 2014.’’.
SEC. 1117. ASHLEY KARST NATIONAL RECRE-
ATION AND GEOLOGIC AREA.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) MANAGEMENT PLAN.—The term ‘‘Man-
agement Plan’’ means the management plan
for the Recreation Area prepared under sub-
section (e)(2)(A).
(2) MAP.—The term ‘‘Map’’ means the map
entitled ‘‘Northern Utah Lands Management
Act-Overview’’ and dated February 4, 2019.
(3) RECREATION AREA.—The term ‘‘Recre-
ation Area’’ means the Ashley Karst Na-
tional Recreation and Geologic Area estab-
lished by subsection (b)(1).
(4) SECRETARY.—The term ‘‘Secretary’’
means the Secretary of Agriculture.
(5) STATE.—The term ‘‘State’’ means the
State of Utah.
(b) ESTABLISHMENT.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Subject to valid existing
rights, there is established the Ashley Karst
National Recreation and Geologic Area in
the State.
(2) AREA INCLUDED.—The Recreation Area
shall consist of approximately 173,475 acres
of land in the Ashley National Forest, as
generally depicted on the Map.
(c) PURPOSES.—The purposes of the Recre-
ation Area are to conserve and protect the
watershed, geological, recreational, wildlife,
scenic, natural, cultural, and historic re-
sources of the Recreation Area.
(d) MAP AND LEGAL DESCRIPTION.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—As soon as practicable
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Secretary shall prepare and submit to the
Committee on Natural Resources and the
Committee on Agriculture of the House of
Representatives and the Committee on En-
ergy and Natural Resources of the Senate a
map and legal description of the Recreation
Area.
(2) EFFECT.—The map and legal description
prepared under paragraph (1) shall have the
same force and effect as if included in this
section, except that the Secretary may cor-
rect minor errors in the map or legal descrip-
tion.
(3) AVAILABILITY.—A copy of the map and
legal description prepared under paragraph
(1) shall be on file and available for public in-
spection in the appropriate offices of the
Forest Service.
(e) ADMINISTRATION.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall ad-
minister the Recreation Area in accordance
with—
(A) the laws generally applicable to the
National Forest System, including the For-
est and Rangeland Renewable Resources
Planning Act of 1974 (16 U.S.C. 1600 et seq.);
(B) this section; and
(C) any other applicable law.
(2) MANAGEMENT PLAN.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 2 years
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Secretary shall prepare a management plan
for the Recreation Area.
(B) CONSULTATION.—The Secretary shall—
(i) prepare the management plan in con-
sultation and coordination with Uintah
County, Utah, and affected Indian Tribes;
and
(ii) provide for public input in the prepara-
tion of the management plan.
(f) USES.—The Secretary shall only allow
such uses of the Recreation Area that
would—
(1) further the purposes for which the
Recreation Area is established; and
(2) promote the long-term protection and
management of the watershed and under-
ground karst system of the Recreation Area.
(g) MOTORIZED VEHICLES.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Except as needed for
emergency response or administrative pur-
poses, the use of motorized vehicles in the
Recreation Area shall be permitted only on
roads and motorized routes designated in the
Management Plan for the use of motorized
vehicles.
(2) NEW ROADS.—No new permanent or tem-
porary roads or other motorized vehicle
routes shall be constructed within the Recre-
ation Area after the date of enactment of
this Act.
(3) EXISTING ROADS.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Necessary maintenance
or repairs to existing roads designated in the
Management Plan for the use of motorized
vehicles, including necessary repairs to keep
existing roads free of debris or other safety
hazards, shall be permitted after the date of
enactment of this Act, consistent with the
requirements of this section.
(B) REROUTING.—Nothing in this subsection
prevents the Secretary from rerouting an ex-
isting road or trail to protect Recreation
Area resources from degradation, or to pro-
tect public safety, as determined to be appro-
priate by the Secretary.
(4) OVER SNOW VEHICLES.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Nothing in this section
prohibits the use of snowmobiles and other
over snow vehicles within the Recreation
Area.
(B) WINTER RECREATION USE PLAN.—Not
later than 2 years after the date of enact-
ment of this Act, the Secretary shall under-
take a winter recreation use planning proc-
ess, which shall include opportunities for use
by snowmobiles or other over snow vehicles
in appropriate areas of the Recreation Area.
(5) APPLICABLE LAW.—Activities authorized
under this subsection shall be consistent
with the applicable forest plan and travel
management plan for, and any law (including
regulations) applicable to, the Ashley Na-
tional Forest.
(h) WATER INFRASTRUCTURE.—
(1) EXISTING ACCESS.—The designation of
the Recreation Area shall not affect the abil-
ity of authorized users to access, operate,
and maintain water infrastructure facilities
within the Recreation Area in accordance
with applicable authorizations and permits.
(2) COOPERATIVE AGREEMENTS.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall offer
to enter into a cooperative agreement with
authorized users and local governmental en-
tities to provide, in accordance with any ap-
plicable law (including regulations)—
(i) access, including motorized access, for
repair and maintenance to water infrastruc-
ture facilities within the Recreation Area,
including Whiterocks Reservoir, subject to
such terms and conditions as the Secretary
determines to be necessary; and
(ii) access and maintenance by authorized
users and local governmental entities for the
continued delivery of water to the Ashley
Valley if water flows cease or become dimin-
ished due to impairment of the karst system,
subject to such terms and conditions as the
Secretary determines to be necessary.
(i) GRAZING.—The grazing of livestock in
the Recreation Area, where established be-
fore the date of enactment of this Act, shall
be allowed to continue, subject to such rea-
sonable regulations, policies, and practices
as the Secretary considers to be necessary in
accordance with—
(1) applicable law (including regulations);
(2) the purposes of the Recreation Area;
and
(3) the guidelines set forth in the report of
the Committee on Interior and Insular Af-
fairs of the House of Representatives accom-
panying H.R. 5487 of the 96th Congress (H.
Rept. 96–617).
(j) FISH AND WILDLIFE.—Nothing in this
section affects the jurisdiction of the State
with respect to the management of fish and
wildlife on Federal land in the State.
(k) WILDLIFE WATER PROJECTS.—The Sec-
retary, in consultation with the State, may
authorize wildlife water projects (including
guzzlers) within the Recreation Area.
(l) WATER RIGHTS.—Nothing in this sec-
tion—
(1) constitutes an express or implied res-
ervation by the United States of any water
rights with respect to the Recreation Area;
(2) affects any water rights in the State;
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:26 Feb 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00065 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06FE6.048 S06FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S940 February 6, 2019
(3) affects the use or allocation, in exist-
ence on the date of enactment of this Act, of
any water, water right, or interest in water;
(4) affects any vested absolute or decreed
conditional water right in existence on the
date of enactment of this Act, including any
water right held by the United States;
(5) affects any interstate water compact in
existence on the date of enactment of this
Act; or
(6) shall be considered to be a relinquish-
ment or reduction of any water rights re-
served or appropriated by the United States
in the State on or before the date of enact-
ment of this Act.
(m) WITHDRAWAL.—Subject to valid exist-
ing rights, all Federal land in the Recreation
Area is withdrawn from—
(1) all forms of entry, appropriation, and
disposal under the public land laws;
(2) location, entry, and patent under the
mining laws; and
(3) operation of the mineral leasing, min-
eral materials, and geothermal leasing laws.
(n) VEGETATION MANAGEMENT.—Nothing in
this section prevents the Secretary from
conducting vegetation management projects,
including fuels reduction activities, within
the Recreation Area for the purposes of im-
proving water quality and reducing risks
from wildfire.
(o) WILDLAND FIRE OPERATIONS.—Nothing
in this section prohibits the Secretary, in
consultation with other Federal, State,
local, and Tribal agencies, as appropriate,
from conducting wildland fire treatment op-
erations or restoration operations in the
Recreation Area, consistent with the pur-
poses of this section.
(p) RECREATION FEES.—Except for fees for
improved campgrounds, the Secretary is pro-
hibited from collecting recreation entrance
or recreation use fees within the Recreation
Area.
(q) COMMUNICATION INFRASTRUCTURE.—
Nothing in this section affects the continued
use of, and access to, communication infra-
structure (including necessary upgrades)
within the Recreation Area, in accordance
with applicable authorizations and permits.
(r) NON-FEDERAL LAND.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Nothing in this section af-
fects non-Federal land or interests in non-
Federal land within the Recreation Area.
(2) ACCESS.—The Secretary shall provide
reasonable access to non-Federal land or in-
terests in non-Federal land within the Recre-
ation Area.
(s) OUTFITTING AND GUIDE ACTIVITIES.—
Outfitting and guide services within the
Recreation Area, including commercial out-
fitting and guide services, are authorized in
accordance with this section and other appli-
cable law (including regulations).
SEC. 1118. JOHN WESLEY POWELL NATIONAL
CONSERVATION AREA.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) MAP.—The term ‘‘Map’’ means the Bu-
reau of Land Management map entitled
‘‘Proposed John Wesley Powell National
Conservation Area’’ and dated December 10,
2018.
(2) NATIONAL CONSERVATION AREA.—The
term ‘‘National Conservation Area’’ means
the John Wesley Powell National Conserva-
tion Area established by subsection (b)(1).
(b) ESTABLISHMENT.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Subject to valid existing
rights, there is established the John Wesley
Powell National Conservation Area in the
State of Utah.
(2) AREA INCLUDED.—The National Con-
servation Area shall consist of approxi-
mately 29,868 acres of public land adminis-
tered by the Bureau of Land Management as
generally depicted on the Map.
(c) PURPOSES.—The purposes of the Na-
tional Conservation Area are to conserve,
protect, and enhance for the benefit of
present and future generations the nation-
ally significant historic, cultural, natural,
scientific, scenic, recreational, archae-
ological, educational, and wildlife resources
of the National Conservation Area.
(d) MAP AND LEGAL DESCRIPTION.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—As soon as practicable
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Secretary shall prepare and file a map and
legal description of the National Conserva-
tion Area with the Committee on Energy and
Natural Resources of the Senate and the
Committee on Natural Resources of the
House of Representatives.
(2) EFFECT.—The map and legal description
prepared under paragraph (1) shall have the
same force and effect as if included in this
section, except that the Secretary may cor-
rect minor errors in the map or legal descrip-
tion.
(3) AVAILABILITY.—A copy of the map and
legal description shall be on file and avail-
able for public inspection in the appropriate
offices of the Bureau of Land Management.
(e) MANAGEMENT.—The Secretary shall
manage the National Conservation Area—
(1) in a manner that conserves, protects,
and enhances the resources of the National
Conservation Area;
(2) in accordance with—
(A) the Federal Land Policy and Manage-
ment Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.);
(B) this section; and
(C) any other applicable law; and
(3) as a component of the National Land-
scape Conservation System.
(4) MANAGEMENT PLAN.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 2 years
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Secretary shall develop a management plan
for the National Conservation Area.
(B) CONSULTATION.—The Secretary shall
prepare the management plan—
(i) in consultation and coordination with
the State of Utah, Uintah County, and af-
fected Indian Tribes; and
(ii) after providing for public input.
(f) USES.—The Secretary shall only allow
such uses of the National Conservation Area
as the Secretary determines would further
the purposes for which the National Con-
servation is established.
(g) ACQUISITION.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary may ac-
quire land or interests in land within the
boundaries of the National Conservation
Area by purchase from a willing seller, dona-
tion, or exchange.
(2) INCORPORATION IN NATIONAL CONSERVA-
TION AREA.—Any land or interest in land lo-
cated inside the boundary of the National
Conservation Area that is acquired by the
United States after the date of enactment of
this Act shall be added to and administered
as part of the National Conservation Area.
(3) STATE LAND.—On request of the Utah
School and Institutional Trust Lands Ad-
ministration and, if practicable, not later
than 5 years after the date of enactment of
this Act, the Secretary shall seek to acquire
all State-owned land within the boundaries
of the National Conservation Area by ex-
change or purchase, subject to the appropria-
tion of necessary funds.
(h) MOTORIZED VEHICLES.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Subject to paragraph (2),
except in cases in which motorized vehicles
are needed for administrative purposes or to
respond to an emergency, the use of motor-
ized vehicles in the National Conservation
Area shall be permitted only on roads des-
ignated in the management plan.
(2) USE OF MOTORIZED VEHICLES PRIOR TO
COMPLETION OF MANAGEMENT PLAN.—Prior to
completion of the management plan, the use
of motorized vehicles within the National
Conservation Area shall be permitted in ac-
cordance with the applicable Bureau of Land
Management resource management plan.
(i) GRAZING.—The grazing of livestock in
the National Conservation Area, where es-
tablished before the date of enactment of
this Act, shall be allowed to continue, sub-
ject to such reasonable regulations, policies,
and practices as the Secretary considers to
be necessary in accordance with—
(1) applicable law (including regulations);
(2) the purposes of the National Conserva-
tion Area; and
(3) the guidelines set forth in Appendix A
of the report of the Committee on Interior
and Insular Affairs of the House of Rep-
resentatives accompanying H.R. 2570 of the
101st Congress (House Report 101–405).
(j) FISH AND WILDLIFE.—Nothing in this
section affects the jurisdiction of the State
of Utah with respect to the management of
fish and wildlife on Federal land in the
State.
(k) WILDLIFE WATER PROJECTS.—The Sec-
retary, in consultation with the State of
Utah, may authorize wildlife water projects
(including guzzlers) within the National Con-
servation Area.
(l) GREATER SAGE-GROUSE CONSERVATION
PROJECTS.—Nothing in this section affects
the authority of the Secretary to undertake
Greater sage-grouse (Centrocercus
urophasianus) conservation projects to main-
tain and improve Greater sage-grouse habi-
tat, including the management of vegetation
through mechanical means, to further the
purposes of the National Conservation Area.
(m) WATER RIGHTS.—Nothing in this sec-
tion—
(1) constitutes an express or implied res-
ervation by the United States of any water
rights with respect to the National Con-
servation Area;
(2) affects any water rights in the State;
(3) affects the use or allocation, in exist-
ence on the date of enactment of this Act, of
any water, water right, or interest in water;
(4) affects any vested absolute or decreed
conditional water right in existence on the
date of enactment of this Act, including any
water right held by the United States;
(5) affects any interstate water compact in
existence on the date of enactment of this
Act; or
(6) shall be considered to be a relinquish-
ment or reduction of any water rights re-
served or appropriated by the United States
in the State on or before the date of enact-
ment of this Act.
(n) NO BUFFER ZONES.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Nothing in this section
creates a protective perimeter or buffer zone
around the National Conservation Area.
(2) ACTIVITIES OUTSIDE NATIONAL CONSERVA-
TION AREA.—The fact that an authorized ac-
tivity or use on land outside the National
Conservation Area can be seen or heard with-
in the National Conservation Area shall not
preclude the activity or use outside the
boundary of the Area.
(o) WITHDRAWAL.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Subject to valid existing
rights, all Federal land in the National Con-
servation Area (including any land acquired
after the date of enactment of this Act) is
withdrawn from—
(A) all forms of entry, appropriation, and
disposal under the public land laws;
(B) location, entry, and patent under the
mining laws; and
(C) operation of the mineral leasing, min-
eral materials, and geothermal leasing laws.
(p) VEGETATION MANAGEMENT.—Nothing in
this section prevents the Secretary from
conducting vegetation management projects,
including fuels reduction activities, within
the National Conservation Area that are
consistent with this section and that further
the purposes of the National Conservation
Area.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:26 Feb 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00066 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06FE6.048 S06FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S941
February 6, 2019
(q) WILDLAND FIRE OPERATIONS.—Nothing
in this section prohibits the Secretary, in
consultation with other Federal, State,
local, and Tribal agencies, as appropriate,
from conducting wildland fire prevention
and restoration operations in the National
Conservation Area, consistent with the pur-
poses of this section.
(r) RECREATION FEES.—Except for improved
campgrounds, the Secretary is prohibited
from collecting recreation entrance or use
fees within the National Conservation Area.
(s) OUTFITTING AND GUIDE ACTIVITIES.—
Outfitting and guide services within the Na-
tional Conservation Area, including commer-
cial outfitting and guide services, are au-
thorized in accordance with this section and
other applicable law (including regulations).
(t) NON-FEDERAL LAND.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Nothing in this section af-
fects non-Federal land or interests in non-
Federal land within the National Conserva-
tion Area.
(2) REASONABLE ACCESS.—The Secretary
shall provide reasonable access to non-Fed-
eral land or interests in non-Federal land
within the National Conservation Area.
(u) RESEARCH AND INTERPRETIVE MANAGE-
MENT.—The Secretary may establish pro-
grams and projects for the conduct of sci-
entific, historical, cultural, archeological,
and natural studies through the use of public
and private partnerships that further the
purposes of the National Conservation Area.
SEC. 1119. ALASKA NATIVE VIETNAM ERA VET-
ERANS LAND ALLOTMENT.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) AVAILABLE FEDERAL LAND.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The term ‘‘available Fed-
eral land’’ means Federal land in the State
that—
(i) is vacant, unappropriated, and unre-
served and is identified as available for selec-
tion under subsection (b)(5); or
(ii) has been selected by, but not yet con-
veyed to—
(I) the State, if the State agrees to volun-
tarily relinquish the selection of the Federal
land for selection by an eligible individual;
or
(II) a Regional Corporation or a Village
Corporation, if the Regional Corporation or
Village Corporation agrees to voluntarily re-
linquish the selection of the Federal land for
selection by an eligible individual.
(B) EXCLUSIONS.—The term ‘‘available Fed-
eral land’’ does not include any Federal land
in the State that is—
(i)(I) a right-of-way of the TransAlaska
Pipeline; or
(II) an inner or outer corridor of such a
right-of-way;
(ii) withdrawn or acquired for purposes of
the Armed Forces;
(iii) under review for a pending right-of-
way for a natural gas corridor;
(iv) within the Arctic National Wildlife
Refuge;
(v) within a unit of the National Forest
System;
(vi) designated as wilderness by Congress;
(vii) within a unit of the National Park
System, a National Preserve, or a National
Monument;
(viii) within a component of the National
Trails System;
(ix) within a component of the National
Wild and Scenic Rivers System; or
(x) within the National Petroleum Re-
serve–Alaska.
(2) ELIGIBLE INDIVIDUAL.—The term ‘‘eligi-
ble individual’’ means an individual who, as
determined by the Secretary in accordance
with subsection (c)(1), is—
(A) a Native veteran—
(i) who served in the Armed Forces during
the period between August 5, 1964, and De-
cember 31, 1971; and
(ii) has not received an allotment made
pursuant to—
(I) the Act of May 17, 1906 (34 Stat. 197,
chapter 2469) (as in effect on December 17,
1971);
(II) section 14(h)(5) of the Alaska Native
Claims Settlement Act (43 U.S.C. 1613(h)(5));
or
(III) section 41 of the Alaska Native Claims
Settlement Act (43 U.S.C. 1629g); or
(B) is the personal representative of the es-
tate of a deceased eligible individual de-
scribed in subparagraph (A), who has been
duly appointed in the appropriate Alaska
State court or a registrar has qualified, act-
ing for the benefit of the heirs of the estate
of a deceased eligible individual described in
subparagraph (A).
(3) NATIVE; REGIONAL CORPORATION; VILLAGE
CORPORATION.—The terms ‘‘Native’’, ‘‘Re-
gional Corporation’’, and ‘‘Village Corpora-
tion’’ have the meanings given those terms
in section 3 of the Alaska Native Claims Set-
tlement Act (43 U.S.C. 1602).
(4) STATE.—The term ‘‘State’’ means the
State of Alaska.
(5) VETERAN.—The term ‘‘veteran’’ has the
meaning given the term in section 101 of
title 38, United States Code.
(b) ALLOTMENTS FOR ELIGIBLE INDIVID-
UALS.—
(1) INFORMATION TO DETERMINE ELIGI-
BILITY.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 180 days
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Secretary of Defense, in coordination with
the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, shall pro-
vide to the Secretary a list of all members of
the Armed Forces who served during the pe-
riod between August 5, 1964, and December
31, 1971.
(B) USE.—The Secretary shall use the in-
formation provided under subparagraph (A)
to determine whether an individual meets
the military service requirements under sub-
section (a)(2)(A)(i).
(C) OUTREACH AND ASSISTANCE.—The Sec-
retary, in coordination with the Secretary of
Veterans Affairs, shall conduct outreach,
and provide assistance in applying for allot-
ments, to eligible individuals.
(2) REGULATIONS.—Not later than 18
months after the date of enactment of this
section, the Secretary shall promulgate reg-
ulations to carry out this subsection.
(3) SELECTION BY ELIGIBLE INDIVIDUALS.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—An eligible individual—
(i) may select 1 parcel of not less than 2.5
acres and not more than 160 acres of avail-
able Federal land; and
(ii) on making a selection pursuant to
clause (i), shall submit to the Secretary an
allotment selection application for the appli-
cable parcel of available Federal land.
(B) SELECTION PERIOD.—An eligible indi-
vidual may apply for an allotment during
the 5-year period beginning on the effective
date of the final regulations issued under
paragraph (2).
(4) CONFLICTING SELECTIONS.—If 2 or more
eligible individuals submit to the Secretary
an allotment selection application under
paragraph (3)(A)(ii) for the same parcel of
available Federal land, the Secretary shall—
(A) give preference to the selection appli-
cation received on the earliest date; and
(B) provide to each eligible individual the
selection application of whom is rejected
under subparagraph (A) an opportunity to se-
lect a substitute parcel of available Federal
land.
(5) IDENTIFICATION OF AVAILABLE FEDERAL
LAND ADMINISTERED BY THE BUREAU OF LAND
MANAGEMENT.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 1 year
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Secretary, in consultation with the State,
Regional Corporations, and Village Corpora-
tions, shall identify Federal land adminis-
tered by the Bureau of Land Management as
available Federal land for allotment selec-
tion in the State by eligible individuals.
(B) CERTIFICATION; SURVEY.—The Secretary
shall—
(i) certify that the available Federal land
identified under subparagraph (A) is free of
known contamination; and
(ii) survey the available Federal land iden-
tified under subparagraph (A) into aliquot
parts and lots, segregating all navigable and
meanderable waters and land not available
for allotment selection.
(C) MAPS.—As soon as practicable after the
date on which available Federal land is iden-
tified under subparagraph (A), the Secretary
shall submit to Congress, and publish in the
Federal Register, 1 or more maps depicting
the identified available Federal land.
(D) CONVEYANCES.—Any available Federal
land conveyed to an eligible individual under
this paragraph shall be subject to—
(i) valid existing rights; and
(ii) the reservation of minerals to the
United States.
(E) INTENT OF CONGRESS.—It is the intent of
Congress that not later than 1 year after the
date on which an eligible individual submits
an allotment selection application for avail-
able Federal land that meets the require-
ments of this section, as determined by the
Secretary, the Secretary shall issue to the
eligible individual a certificate of allotment
with respect to the available Federal land
covered by the allotment selection applica-
tion, subject to the requirements of subpara-
graph (D).
(c) IDENTIFICATION OF AVAILABLE FEDERAL
LAND IN UNITS OF THE NATIONAL WILDLIFE
REFUGE SYSTEM.—
(1) REPORT.—Not later than 1 year after
the date of enactment of this Act, the Sec-
retary shall—
(A) conduct a study to determine whether
any additional Federal lands within units of
the National Wildlife Refuge System in the
State should be made available for allotment
selection; and
(B) report the findings and conclusions of
the study to Congress.
(2) CONTENT OF THE REPORT.—The Sec-
retary shall include in the report required
under paragraph (1)—
(A) the Secretary’s determination whether
Federal lands within units of the National
Wildlife Refuge System in the State should
be made available for allotment selection by
eligible individuals; and
(B) identification of the specific areas (in-
cluding maps) within units of the National
Wildlife Refuge System in the State that the
Secretary determines should be made avail-
able, consistent with the mission of the Na-
tional Wildlife Refuge System and the spe-
cific purposes for which the unit was estab-
lished, and this subsection.
(3) FACTORS TO BE CONSIDERED.—In deter-
mining whether Federal lands within units
of the National Wildlife Refuge System in
the State should be made available under
paragraph (1)(A), the Secretary shall take
into account—
(A) the proximity of the Federal land made
available for allotment selection under sub-
section (b)(5) to eligible individuals;
(B) the proximity of the units of the Na-
tional Wildlife Refuge System in the State
to eligible individuals; and
(C) the amount of additional Federal land
within units of the National Wildlife Refuge
System in the State that the Secretary esti-
mates would be necessary to make allot-
ments available for selection by eligible indi-
viduals.
(4) IDENTIFYING FEDERAL LAND IN UNITS OF
THE NATIONAL WILDLIFE REFUGE SYSTEM.—In
identifying whether Federal lands within
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:26 Feb 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00067 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06FE6.048 S06FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S942 February 6, 2019
units of the National Wildlife Refuge System
in the State should be made available for al-
lotment under paragraph (2)(B), the Sec-
retary shall not identify any Federal land in
a unit of the National Wildlife Refuge Sys-
tem—
(A) the conveyance of which, independ-
ently or as part of a group of allotments—
(i) could significantly interfere with bio-
logical, physical, cultural, scenic, rec-
reational, natural quiet, or subsistence val-
ues of the unit of the National Wildlife Ref-
uge System;
(ii) could obstruct access by the public or
the Fish and Wildlife Service to the resource
values of the unit;
(iii) could trigger development or future
uses in an area that would adversely affect
resource values of the surrounding National
Wildlife Refuge System land;
(iv) could open an area of a unit to new ac-
cess and uses that adversely affect resources
values of the unit; or
(v) could interfere with the management
plan of the unit;
(B) that is located within 300 feet from the
shore of a navigable water body;
(C) that is not consistent with the purposes
for which the unit of the National Wildlife
Refuge System was established;
(D) that is designated as wilderness by
Congress; or
(E) that is within the Arctic National
Wildlife Refuge.
(d) LIMITATION.—No Federal land may be
identified for selection or made available for
allotment within a unit of the National
Wildlife Refuge System unless it has been
authorized by an Act of Congress subsequent
to the date of enactment of this Act. Fur-
ther, any proposed conveyance of land within
a unit of the National Wildlife Refuge Sys-
tem must have been identified by the Sec-
retary in accordance with subsection (c)(4) in
the report to Congress required by sub-
section (c) and include patent provisions
that the land remains subject to the laws
and regulations governing the use and devel-
opment of the Refuge.
SEC. 1120. RED RIVER GRADIENT BOUNDARY
SURVEY.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) AFFECTED AREA.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The term ‘‘affected area’’
means land along the approximately 116-mile
stretch of the Red River, from its confluence
with the north fork of the Red River on the
west to the 98th meridian on the east.
(B) EXCLUSIONS.—The term ‘‘affected area’’
does not include the portion of the Red River
within the boundary depicted on the survey
prepared by the Bureau of Land Management
entitled ‘‘Township 5 South, Range 14 West,
of the Indian Meridian, Oklahoma, Depend-
ent Resurvey and Survey’’ and dated Feb-
ruary 28, 2006.
(2) GRADIENT BOUNDARY SURVEY METHOD.—
The term ‘‘gradient boundary survey meth-
od’’ means the measurement technique used
to locate the South Bank boundary line in
accordance with the methodology estab-
lished in Oklahoma v. Texas, 261 U.S. 340
(1923) (recognizing that the boundary line
along the Red River is subject to change due
to erosion and accretion).
(3) LANDOWNER.—The term ‘‘landowner’’
means any individual, group, association,
corporation, federally recognized Indian
tribe or member of such an Indian tribe, or
other private or governmental legal entity
that owns an interest in land in the affected
area.
(4) SECRETARY.—The term ‘‘Secretary’’
means the Secretary, acting through the Di-
rector of the Bureau of Land Management.
(5) SOUTH BANK.—The term ‘‘South Bank’’
means the water-washed and relatively per-
manent elevation or acclivity (commonly
known as a ‘‘cut bank’’) along the southerly
or right side of the Red River that—
(A) separates the bed of that river from the
adjacent upland, whether valley or hill; and
(B) usually serves, as specified in the fifth
paragraph of Oklahoma v. Texas, 261 U.S. 340
(1923)—
(i) to confine the waters within the bed;
and
(ii) to preserve the course of the river.
(6) SOUTH BANK BOUNDARY LINE.—The term
‘‘South Bank boundary line’’ means the
boundary, with respect to title and owner-
ship, between the States of Oklahoma and
Texas identified through the gradient bound-
ary survey method that does not impact or
alter the permanent political boundary line
between the States along the Red River, as
outlined under article II, section B of the
Red River Boundary Compact enacted by the
States and consented to by Congress pursu-
ant to Public Law 106–288 (114 Stat. 919).
(b) SURVEY OF SOUTH BANK BOUNDARY
LINE.—
(1) SURVEY REQUIRED.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall com-
mission a survey to identify the South Bank
boundary line in the affected area.
(B) REQUIREMENTS.—The survey shall—
(i) adhere to the gradient boundary survey
method;
(ii) span the length of the affected area;
(iii) be conducted by 1 or more independent
third-party surveyors that are—
(I) licensed and qualified to conduct offi-
cial gradient boundary surveys; and
(II) selected by the Secretary, in consulta-
tion with—
(aa) the Texas General Land Office;
(bb) the Oklahoma Commissioners of the
Land Office, in consultation with the attor-
ney general of the State of Oklahoma; and
(cc) each affected federally recognized In-
dian Tribe; and
(iv) subject to the availability of appro-
priations, be completed not later than 2
years after the date of enactment of this
Act.
(2) APPROVAL OF THE BOUNDARY SURVEY.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 60 days
after the date on which the survey or a por-
tion of the survey under paragraph (1)(A) is
completed, the Secretary shall submit the
survey for approval to—
(i) the Texas General Land Office;
(ii) the Oklahoma Commissioners of the
Land Office, in consultation with the attor-
ney general of the State of Oklahoma; and
(iii) each affected federally recognized In-
dian Tribe.
(B) TIMING OF APPROVAL.—Not later than 60
days after the date on which each of the
Texas General Land Office, the Oklahoma
Commissioners of the Land Office, in con-
sultation with the attorney general of the
State of Oklahoma, and each affected feder-
ally recognized Indian Tribe notify the Sec-
retary of the approval of the boundary sur-
vey or a portion of the survey by the applica-
ble office or federally recognized Indian
Tribe, the Secretary shall determine whether
to approve the survey or portion of the sur-
vey, subject to subparagraph (D).
(C) SUBMISSION OF PORTIONS OF SURVEY FOR
APPROVAL.—As portions of the survey are
completed, the Secretary may submit the
completed portions of the survey for ap-
proval under subparagraph (A).
(D) WRITTEN APPROVAL.—The Secretary
shall only approve the survey, or a portion of
the survey, that has the written approval of
each of—
(i) the Texas General Land Office;
(ii) the Oklahoma Commissioners of the
Land Office, in consultation with the attor-
ney general of the State of Oklahoma; and
(iii) each affected federally recognized In-
dian Tribe.
(c) SURVEY OF INDIVIDUAL PARCELS.—Sur-
veys of individual parcels in the affected
area shall be conducted in accordance with
the boundary survey approved under sub-
section (b)(2).
(d) NOTICE AND AVAILABILITY OF SURVEY.—
Not later than 60 days after the date on
which the boundary survey is approved under
subsection (b)(2), the Secretary shall—
(1) publish notice of the approval of the
survey in—
(A) the Federal Register; and
(B) 1 or more local newspapers; and
(2) on request, furnish to any landowner a
copy of—
(A) the survey; and
(B) any field notes relating to—
(i) the individual parcel of the landowner;
or
(ii) any individual parcel adjacent to the
individual parcel of the landowner.
(e) EFFECT OF SECTION.—Nothing in this
section—
(1) modifies any interest of the State of
Oklahoma or Texas, or the sovereignty,
property, or trust rights of any federally rec-
ognized Indian Tribe, relating to land lo-
cated north of the South Bank boundary
line, as established by the survey;
(2) modifies any land patented under the
Act of December 22, 1928 (45 Stat. 1069, chap-
ter 47; 43 U.S.C. 1068) (commonly known as
the ‘‘Color of Title Act’’), before the date of
enactment of this Act;
(3) modifies or supersedes the Red River
Boundary Compact enacted by the States of
Oklahoma and Texas and consented to by
Congress pursuant to Public Law 106–288 (114
Stat. 919);
(4) creates or reinstates any Indian res-
ervation or any portion of such a reserva-
tion;
(5) modifies any interest or any property or
trust rights of any individual Indian allot-
tee; or
(6) alters any valid right of the State of
Oklahoma or the Kiowa, Comanche, or
Apache Indian tribes to the mineral interest
trust fund established under the Act of June
12, 1926 (44 Stat. 740, chapter 572).
(f) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—
There is authorized to be appropriated to the
Secretary to carry out this section $1,000,000.
SEC. 1121. SAN JUAN COUNTY SETTLEMENT IM-
PLEMENTATION.
(a) EXCHANGE OF COAL PREFERENCE RIGHT
LEASE APPLICATIONS.—
(1) DEFINITION OF BIDDING RIGHT.—In this
subsection, the term ‘‘bidding right’’ means
an appropriate legal instrument or other
written documentation, including an entry
in an account managed by the Secretary,
issued or created under subpart 3435 of title
43, Code of Federal Regulations, that may be
used—
(A) in lieu of a monetary payment for 50
percent of a bonus bid for a coal lease sale
under the Mineral Leasing Act (30 U.S.C. 181
et seq.); or
(B) as a monetary credit against 50 percent
of any rental or royalty payments due under
any Federal coal lease.
(2) USE OF BIDDING RIGHT.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—If the Secretary retires a
coal preference right lease application under
the Mineral Leasing Act (30 U.S.C. 181 et
seq.) by issuing a bidding right in exchange
for the relinquishment of the coal preference
right lease application, the bidding right
subsequently may be used in lieu of 50 per-
cent of the amount owed for any monetary
payment of—
(i) a bonus in a coal lease sale; or
(ii) rental or royalty under a Federal coal
lease.
(B) PAYMENT CALCULATION.—
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:26 Feb 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00068 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06FE6.048 S06FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S943
February 6, 2019
(i) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall cal-
culate a payment of amounts owed to a rel-
evant State under section 35(a) of the Min-
eral Leasing Act (30 U.S.C. 191(a)) based on
the combined value of the bidding rights and
amounts received.
(ii) AMOUNTS RECEIVED.—Except as pro-
vided in this paragraph, for purposes of cal-
culating the payment of amounts owed to a
relevant State under clause (i) only, a bid-
ding right shall be considered amounts re-
ceived.
(C) REQUIREMENT.—The total number of
bidding rights issued by the Secretary under
subparagraph (A) before October 1, 2029, shall
not exceed the number of bidding rights that
reflect a value equivalent to $67,000,000.
(3) SOURCE OF PAYMENTS.—The Secretary
shall make payments to the relevant State
under paragraph (2) from monetary pay-
ments received by the Secretary when bid-
ding rights are exercised under this section.
(4) TREATMENT OF PAYMENTS.—A payment
to a State under this subsection shall be
treated as a payment under section 35(a) of
the Mineral Leasing Act (30 U.S.C. 191(a)).
(5) TRANSFERABILITY; LIMITATION.—
(A) TRANSFERABILITY.—A bidding right
issued for a coal preference right lease appli-
cation under the Mineral Leasing Act (30
U.S.C. 181 et seq.) shall be fully transferable
to any other person.
(B) NOTIFICATION OF SECRETARY.—A person
who transfers a bidding right shall notify the
Secretary of the transfer by any method de-
termined to be appropriate by the Secretary.
(C) EFFECTIVE PERIOD.—
(i) IN GENERAL.—A bidding right issued
under the Mineral Leasing Act (30 U.S.C. 181
et seq.) shall terminate on the expiration of
the 7-year period beginning on the date the
bidding right is issued.
(ii) TOLLING OF PERIOD.—The 7-year period
described in clause (i) shall be tolled during
any period in which exercise of the bidding
right is precluded by temporary injunctive
relief granted under, or administrative, leg-
islative, or judicial suspension of, the Fed-
eral coal leasing program.
(6) DEADLINE.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—If an existing settlement
of a coal preference right lease application
has not been implemented as of the date of
enactment of this Act, not later than 180
days after that date of enactment, the Sec-
retary shall complete the bidding rights
valuation process in accordance with the
terms of the settlement.
(B) DATE OF VALUATION.—For purposes of
the valuation process under subparagraph
(A), the market price of coal shall be deter-
mined as of the date of the settlement.
(b) CERTAIN LAND SELECTIONS OF THE NAV-
AJO NATION.—
(1) CANCELLATION OF CERTAIN SELECTIONS.—
The land selections made by the Navajo Na-
tion pursuant to Public Law 93–531 (com-
monly known as the ‘‘Navajo-Hopi Land Set-
tlement Act of 1974’’) (88 Stat. 1712) that are
depicted on the map entitled ‘‘Navajo-Hopi
Land Settlement Act Selected Lands’’ and
dated April 2, 2015, are cancelled.
(2) AUTHORIZATION FOR NEW SELECTION.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Subject to subparagraphs
(B), (C), and (D) and paragraph (3), the Nav-
ajo Nation may make new land selections in
accordance with the Act referred to in para-
graph (1) to replace the land selections can-
celled under that paragraph.
(B) ACREAGE CAP.—The total acreage of
land selected under subparagraph (A) shall
not exceed 15,000 acres of land.
(C) EXCLUSIONS.—The following land shall
not be eligible for selection under subpara-
graph (A):
(i) Land within a unit of the National
Landscape Conservation System.
(ii) Land within—
(I) the Glade Run Recreation Area;
(II) the Fossil Forest Research Natural
Area; or
(III) a special management area or area of
critical environmental concern identified in
a land use plan developed under section 202
of the Federal Land Policy and Management
Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1712) that is in effect on
the date of enactment of this Act.
(iii) Any land subject to a lease or contract
under the Mineral Leasing Act (30 U.S.C. 181
et seq.) or the Act of July 31, 1947 (commonly
known as the ‘‘Materials Act of 1947’’) (30
U.S.C. 601 et seq.) as of the date of the selec-
tion.
(iv) Land not under the jurisdiction of the
Bureau of Land Management.
(v) Land identified as ‘‘Parcels Excluded
from Selection’’ on the map entitled ‘‘Par-
cels excluded for selection under the San
Juan County Settlement Implementation
Act’’ and dated December 14, 2018.
(D) DEADLINE.—Not later than 7 years after
the date of enactment of this Act, the Nav-
ajo Nation shall make all selections under
subparagraph (A).
(E) WITHDRAWAL.—Any land selected by
the Navajo Nation under subparagraph (A)
shall be withdrawn from disposal, leasing,
and development until the date on which the
selected land is placed into trust for the Nav-
ajo Nation.
(3) EQUAL VALUE.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Notwithstanding the
acreage limitation in the second proviso of
section 11(c) of Public Law 93–531 (commonly
known as the ‘‘Navajo-Hopi Land Settlement
Act of 1974’’) (25 U.S.C. 640d–10(c)) and sub-
ject to paragraph (2)(B), the value of the land
selected under paragraph (2)(A) and the land
subject to selections cancellation under
paragraph (1) shall be equal, based on ap-
praisals conducted under subparagraph (B).
(B) APPRAISALS.—
(i) IN GENERAL.—The value of the land se-
lected under paragraph (2)(A) and the land
subject to selections cancelled under para-
graph (1) shall be determined by appraisals
conducted in accordance with—
(I) the Uniform Appraisal Standards for
Federal Land Acquisitions; and
(II) the Uniform Standards of Professional
Appraisal Practice.
(ii) TIMING.—
(I) LAND SUBJECT TO SELECTIONS CAN-
CELLED.—Not later than 18 months after the
date of enactment of this Act, the appraisal
under clause (i) of the land subject to selec-
tions cancelled under paragraph (1) shall be
completed.
(II) NEW SELECTIONS.—The appraisals under
clause (i) of the land selected under para-
graph (2)(A) shall be completed as the Navajo
Nation finalizes those land selections.
(4) BOUNDARY.—For purposes of this sub-
section and the Act referred to in paragraph
(1), the present boundary of the Navajo Res-
ervation is depicted on the map entitled
‘‘Navajo Nation Boundary’’ and dated No-
vember 16, 2015.
(c) DESIGNATION OF AH-SHI-SLE-PAH WIL-
DERNESS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—In accordance with the
Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.), the
approximately 7,242 acres of land as gen-
erally depicted on the map entitled ‘‘San
Juan County Wilderness Designations’’ and
dated April 2, 2015, is designated as wilder-
ness and as a component of the National Wil-
derness Preservation System, which shall be
known as the ‘‘Ah-shi-sle-pah Wilderness’’
(referred to in this subsection as the ‘‘Wil-
derness’’).
(2) MANAGEMENT.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Subject to valid existing
rights, the Wilderness shall be administered
by the Director of the Bureau of Land Man-
agement in accordance with this subsection
and the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et
seq.), except that any reference in that Act
to the effective date of that Act shall be con-
sidered to be a reference to the date of enact-
ment of this Act.
(B) ADJACENT MANAGEMENT.—
(i) IN GENERAL.—Congress does not intend
for the designation of the Wilderness to cre-
ate a protective perimeter or buffer zone
around the Wilderness.
(ii) NONWILDERNESS ACTIVITIES.—The fact
that nonwilderness activities or uses can be
seen or heard from areas within the Wilder-
ness shall not preclude the conduct of the ac-
tivities or uses outside the boundary of the
Wilderness.
(C) INCORPORATION OF ACQUIRED LAND AND
INTERESTS IN LAND.—Any land or interest in
land that is within the boundary of the Wil-
derness that is acquired by the United States
shall—
(i) become part of the Wilderness; and
(ii) be managed in accordance with—
(I) the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et
seq.);
(II) this subsection; and
(III) any other applicable laws.
(D) GRAZING.—Grazing of livestock in the
Wilderness, where established before the
date of enactment of this Act, shall be al-
lowed to continue in accordance with—
(i) section 4(d)(4) of the Wilderness Act (16
U.S.C. 1133(d)(4)); and
(ii) the guidelines set forth in the report of
the Committee on Interior and Insular Af-
fairs of the House of Representatives accom-
panying H.R. 5487 of the 96th Congress (H.
Rept. 96–617).
(3) RELEASE OF WILDERNESS STUDY AREAS.—
Congress finds that, for the purposes of sec-
tion 603(c) of the Federal Land Policy and
Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1782(c)),
the land within the Ah-shi-sle-pah Wilder-
ness Study Area not designated as wilderness
by this subsection has been adequately stud-
ied for wilderness designation and is no
longer subject to section 603(c) of the Federal
Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43
U.S.C. 1782(c)).
(d) EXPANSION OF BISTI/DE-NA-ZIN WILDER-
NESS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—There is designated as wil-
derness and as a component of the National
Wilderness Preservation System certain Fed-
eral land comprising approximately 2,250
acres, as generally depicted on the map enti-
tled ‘‘San Juan County Wilderness Designa-
tions’’ and dated April 2, 2015, which is incor-
porated in and shall be considered to be a
part of the Bisti/De-Na-Zin Wilderness.
(2) ADMINISTRATION.—Subject to valid ex-
isting rights, the land designated as wilder-
ness by paragraph (1) shall be administered
by the Director of the Bureau of Land Man-
agement (referred to in this subsection as
the ‘‘Director’’), in accordance with—
(A) the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et
seq.), except that any reference in that Act
to the effective date of that Act shall be con-
sidered to be a reference to the date of enact-
ment of this Act; and
(B) the San Juan Basin Wilderness Protec-
tion Act of 1984 (Public Law 98–603; 98 Stat.
3155; 110 Stat. 4211).
(3) ADJACENT MANAGEMENT.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Congress does not intend
for the designation of the land as wilderness
by paragraph (1) to create a protective pe-
rimeter or buffer zone around that land.
(B) NONWILDERNESS ACTIVITIES.—The fact
that nonwilderness activities or uses can be
seen or heard from areas within the land des-
ignated as wilderness by paragraph (1) shall
not preclude the conduct of the activities or
uses outside the boundary of that land.
(4) INCORPORATION OF ACQUIRED LAND AND
INTERESTS IN LAND.—Any land or interest in
land that is within the boundary of the land
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:26 Feb 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00069 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06FE6.048 S06FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S944 February 6, 2019
designated as wilderness by paragraph (1)
that is acquired by the United States shall—
(A) become part of the Bisti/De-Na-Zin Wil-
derness; and
(B) be managed in accordance with—
(i) the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et
seq.);
(ii) the San Juan Basin Wilderness Protec-
tion Act of 1984 (Public Law 98–603; 98 Stat.
3155; 110 Stat. 4211);
(iii) this subsection; and
(iv) any other applicable laws.
(5) GRAZING.—Grazing of livestock in the
land designated as wilderness by paragraph
(1), where established before the date of en-
actment of this Act, shall be allowed to con-
tinue in accordance with—
(A) section 4(d)(4) of the Wilderness Act (16
U.S.C. 1133(d)(4)); and
(B) the guidelines set forth in the report of
the Committee on Interior and Insular Af-
fairs of the House of Representatives accom-
panying H.R. 5487 of the 96th Congress (H.
Rept. 96–617).
(e) ROAD MAINTENANCE.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Subject to paragraph (2),
the Secretary, acting through the Director
of the Bureau of Indian Affairs, shall ensure
that L–54 between I–40 and Alamo, New Mex-
ico, is maintained in a condition that is safe
for motorized use.
(2) USE OF FUNDS.—In carrying out para-
graph (1), the Secretary and the Director of
the Bureau of Indian Affairs may not require
any Indian Tribe to use any funds—
(A) owned by the Indian Tribe; or
(B) provided to the Indian Tribe pursuant
to a contract under the Indian Self-Deter-
mination and Education Assistance Act (25
U.S.C. 5304 et seq.).
(3) ROAD UPGRADE.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Nothing in this sub-
section requires the Secretary or any Indian
Tribe to upgrade the condition of L–54 as of
the date of enactment of this Act.
(B) WRITTEN AGREEMENT.—An upgrade to
L–54 may not be made without the written
agreement of the Pueblo of Laguna.
(4) INVENTORY.—Nothing in this subsection
requires L–54 to be placed on the National
Tribal Transportation Facility Inventory.
SEC. 1122. RIO PUERCO WATERSHED MANAGE-
MENT PROGRAM.
(a) REAUTHORIZATION OF THE RIO PUERCO
MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE.—Section 401(b)(4)
of division I of the Omnibus Parks and Pub-
lic Lands Management Act of 1996 (Public
Law 104–333; 110 Stat. 4147; 123 Stat. 1108) is
amended by striking ‘‘Omnibus Public Land
Management Act of 2009’’ and inserting
‘‘Natural Resources Management Act’’.
(b) REAUTHORIZATION OF THE RIO PUERCO
WATERSHED MANAGEMENT PROGRAM.—Sec-
tion 401(e) of division I of the Omnibus Parks
and Public Lands Management Act of 1996
(Public Law 104–333; 110 Stat. 4148; 123 Stat.
1108) is amended by striking ‘‘Omnibus Pub-
lic Land Management Act of 2009’’ and in-
serting ‘‘Natural Resources Management
Act’’.
SEC. 1123. ASHLEY SPRINGS LAND CONVEYANCE.
(a) CONVEYANCE.—Subject to valid existing
rights, at the request of Uintah County,
Utah (referred to in this section as the
‘‘County’’), the Secretary shall convey to the
County, without consideration, the approxi-
mately 791 acres of public land administered
by the Bureau of Land Management, as gen-
erally depicted on the map entitled ‘‘Ashley
Springs Property’’ and dated February 4,
2019, subject to the following restrictions:
(1) The conveyed land shall be managed as
open space to protect the watershed and un-
derground karst system and aquifer.
(2) Mining or any form of mineral develop-
ment on the conveyed land is prohibited.
(3) The County shall allow for non-motor-
ized public recreation access on the conveyed
land.
(4) No new roads may be constructed on the
conveyed land.
(b) REVERSION.—A conveyance under sub-
section (a) shall include a reversionary
clause to ensure that management of the
land described in that subsection shall revert
to the Secretary if the land is no longer
being managed in accordance with that sub-
section.
Subtitle C—Wilderness Designations and
Withdrawals
PART I—GENERAL PROVISIONS
SEC. 1201. ORGAN MOUNTAINS-DESERT PEAKS
CONSERVATION.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) MONUMENT.—The term ‘‘Monument’’
means the Organ Mountains-Desert Peaks
National Monument established by Presi-
dential Proclamation 9131 (79 Fed. Reg.
30431).
(2) STATE.—The term ‘‘State’’ means the
State of New Mexico.
(3) WILDERNESS AREA.—The term ‘‘wilder-
ness area’’ means a wilderness area des-
ignated by subsection (b)(1).
(b) DESIGNATION OF WILDERNESS AREAS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—In accordance with the
Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.), the
following areas in the State are designated
as wilderness and as components of the Na-
tional Wilderness Preservation System:
(A) ADEN LAVA FLOW WILDERNESS.—Certain
land administered by the Bureau of Land
Management in Doña Ana County com-
prising approximately 27,673 acres, as gen-
erally depicted on the map entitled ‘‘Potrillo
Mountains Complex’’ and dated September
27, 2018, which shall be known as the ‘‘Aden
Lava Flow Wilderness’’.
(B) BROAD CANYON WILDERNESS.—Certain
land administered by the Bureau of Land
Management in Doña Ana County com-
prising approximately 13,902 acres, as gen-
erally depicted on the map entitled ‘‘Desert
Peaks Complex’’ and dated October 1, 2018,
which shall be known as the ‘‘Broad Canyon
Wilderness’’.
(C) CINDER CONE WILDERNESS.—Certain land
administered by the Bureau of Land Manage-
ment in Doña Ana County comprising ap-
proximately 16,935 acres, as generally de-
picted on the map entitled ‘‘Potrillo Moun-
tains Complex’’ and dated September 27, 2018,
which shall be known as the ‘‘Cinder Cone
Wilderness’’.
(D) EAST POTRILLO MOUNTAINS WILDER-
NESS.—Certain land administered by the Bu-
reau of Land Management in Doña Ana and
Luna counties comprising approximately
12,155 acres, as generally depicted on the map
entitled ‘‘Potrillo Mountains Complex’’ and
dated September 27, 2018, which shall be
known as the ‘‘East Potrillo Mountains Wil-
derness’’.
(E) MOUNT RILEY WILDERNESS.—Certain
land administered by the Bureau of Land
Management in Doña Ana and Luna counties
comprising approximately 8,382 acres, as gen-
erally depicted on the map entitled ‘‘Potrillo
Mountains Complex’’ and dated September
27, 2018, which shall be known as the ‘‘Mount
Riley Wilderness’’.
(F) ORGAN MOUNTAINS WILDERNESS.—Cer-
tain land administered by the Bureau of
Land Management in Doña Ana County com-
prising approximately 19,916 acres, as gen-
erally depicted on the map entitled ‘‘Organ
Mountains Area’’ and dated September 21,
2016, which shall be known as the ‘‘Organ
Mountains Wilderness’’, the boundary of
which shall be offset 400 feet from the center-
line of Dripping Springs Road in T. 23 S., R.
04 E., sec. 7, New Mexico Principal Meridian.
(G) POTRILLO MOUNTAINS WILDERNESS.—Cer-
tain land administered by the Bureau of
Land Management in Doña Ana and Luna
counties comprising approximately 105,085
acres, as generally depicted on the map enti-
tled ‘‘Potrillo Mountains Complex’’ and
dated September 27, 2018, which shall be
known as the ‘‘Potrillo Mountains Wilder-
ness’’.
(H) ROBLEDO MOUNTAINS WILDERNESS.—Cer-
tain land administered by the Bureau of
Land Management in Doña Ana County com-
prising approximately 16,776 acres, as gen-
erally depicted on the map entitled ‘‘Desert
Peaks Complex’’ and dated October 1, 2018,
which shall be known as the ‘‘Robledo Moun-
tains Wilderness’’.
(I) SIERRA DE LAS UVAS WILDERNESS.—Cer-
tain land administered by the Bureau of
Land Management in Doña Ana County com-
prising approximately 11,114 acres, as gen-
erally depicted on the map entitled ‘‘Desert
Peaks Complex’’ and dated October 1, 2018,
which shall be known as the ‘‘Sierra de las
Uvas Wilderness’’.
(J) WHITETHORN WILDERNESS.—Certain land
administered by the Bureau of Land Manage-
ment in Doña Ana and Luna counties com-
prising approximately 9,616 acres, as gen-
erally depicted on the map entitled ‘‘Potrillo
Mountains Complex’’ and dated September
27, 2018, which shall be known as the
‘‘Whitethorn Wilderness’’.
(2) MAPS AND LEGAL DESCRIPTIONS.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—As soon as practicable
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Secretary shall file maps and legal descrip-
tions of the wilderness areas with—
(i) the Committee on Energy and Natural
Resources of the Senate; and
(ii) the Committee on Natural Resources of
the House of Representatives.
(B) FORCE OF LAW.—The maps and legal de-
scriptions filed under subparagraph (A) shall
have the same force and effect as if included
in this section, except that the Secretary
may correct errors in the maps and legal de-
scriptions.
(C) PUBLIC AVAILABILITY.—The maps and
legal descriptions filed under subparagraph
(A) shall be on file and available for public
inspection in the appropriate offices of the
Bureau of Land Management.
(3) MANAGEMENT.—Subject to valid existing
rights, the wilderness areas shall be adminis-
tered by the Secretary—
(A) as components of the National Land-
scape Conservation System; and
(B) in accordance with—
(i) this section; and
(ii) the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et
seq.), except that—
(I) any reference in the Wilderness Act to
the effective date of that Act shall be consid-
ered to be a reference to the date of enact-
ment of this Act; and
(II) any reference in the Wilderness Act to
the Secretary of Agriculture shall be consid-
ered to be a reference to the Secretary.
(4) INCORPORATION OF ACQUIRED LAND AND
INTERESTS IN LAND.—Any land or interest in
land that is within the boundary of a wilder-
ness area that is acquired by the United
States shall—
(A) become part of the wilderness area
within the boundaries of which the land is
located; and
(B) be managed in accordance with—
(i) the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et
seq.);
(ii) this section; and
(iii) any other applicable laws.
(5) GRAZING.—Grazing of livestock in the
wilderness areas, where established before
the date of enactment of this Act, shall be
administered in accordance with—
(A) section 4(d)(4) of the Wilderness Act (16
U.S.C. 1133(d)(4)); and
(B) the guidelines set forth in Appendix A
of the Report of the Committee on Interior
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:26 Feb 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00070 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06FE6.048 S06FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S945
February 6, 2019
and Insular Affairs to accompany H.R. 2570 of
the 101st Congress (H. Rept. 101–405).
(6) MILITARY OVERFLIGHTS.—Nothing in
this subsection restricts or precludes—
(A) low-level overflights of military air-
craft over the wilderness areas, including
military overflights that can be seen or
heard within the wilderness areas;
(B) the designation of new units of special
airspace over the wilderness areas; or
(C) the use or establishment of military
flight training routes over the wilderness
areas.
(7) BUFFER ZONES.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Nothing in this sub-
section creates a protective perimeter or
buffer zone around any wilderness area.
(B) ACTIVITIES OUTSIDE WILDERNESS
AREAS.—The fact that an activity or use on
land outside any wilderness area can be seen
or heard within the wilderness area shall not
preclude the activity or use outside the
boundary of the wilderness area.
(8) PARAGLIDING.—The use of paragliding
within areas of the East Potrillo Mountains
Wilderness designated by paragraph (1)(D) in
which the use has been established before the
date of enactment of this Act, shall be al-
lowed to continue in accordance with section
4(d)(1) of the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C.
1133(d)(1)), subject to any terms and condi-
tions that the Secretary determines to be
necessary.
(9) CLIMATOLOGIC DATA COLLECTION.—Sub-
ject to such terms and conditions as the Sec-
retary may prescribe, nothing in this section
precludes the installation and maintenance
of hydrologic, meteorologic, or climatologic
collection devices in wilderness areas if the
facilities and access to the facilities are es-
sential to flood warning, flood control, or
water reservoir operation activities.
(10) FISH AND WILDLIFE.—Nothing in this
section affects the jurisdiction of the State
with respect to fish and wildlife located on
public land in the State, except that the Sec-
retary, after consultation with the New Mex-
ico Department of Game and Fish, may des-
ignate zones where, and establish periods
during which, no hunting or fishing shall be
permitted for reasons of public safety, ad-
ministration, or compliance with applicable
law.
(11) WITHDRAWALS.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Subject to valid existing
rights, the Federal land within the wilder-
ness areas and any land or interest in land
that is acquired by the United States in the
wilderness areas after the date of enactment
of this Act is withdrawn from—
(i) entry, appropriation, or disposal under
the public land laws;
(ii) location, entry, and patent under the
mining laws; and
(iii) operation of the mineral leasing, min-
eral materials, and geothermal leasing laws.
(B) PARCEL B.—The approximately 6,498
acres of land generally depicted as ‘‘Parcel
B’’ on the map entitled ‘‘Organ Mountains
Area’’ and dated September 21, 2016, is with-
drawn in accordance with subparagraph (A),
except that the land is not withdrawn for
purposes of the issuance of oil and gas pipe-
line or road rights-of-way.
(C) PARCEL C.—The approximately 1,297
acres of land generally depicted as ‘‘Parcel
C’’ on the map entitled ‘‘Organ Mountains
Area’’ and dated September 21, 2016, is with-
drawn in accordance with subparagraph (A),
except that the land is not withdrawn from
disposal under the Act of June 14, 1926 (com-
monly known as the ‘‘Recreation and Public
Purposes Act’’) (43 U.S.C. 869 et seq.).
(D) PARCEL D.—
(i) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary of the
Army shall allow for the conduct of certain
recreational activities on the approximately
2,035 acres of land generally depicted as
‘‘Parcel D’’ on the map entitled ‘‘Organ
Mountains Area’’ and dated September 21,
2016 (referred to in this paragraph as the
‘‘parcel’’), which is a portion of the public
land withdrawn and reserved for military
purposes by Public Land Order 833 dated May
21, 1952 (17 Fed. Reg. 4822).
(ii) OUTDOOR RECREATION PLAN.—
(I) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary of the
Army shall develop a plan for public outdoor
recreation on the parcel that is consistent
with the primary military mission of the
parcel.
(II) REQUIREMENT.—In developing the plan
under subclause (I), the Secretary of the
Army shall ensure, to the maximum extent
practicable, that outdoor recreation activi-
ties may be conducted on the parcel, includ-
ing hunting, hiking, wildlife viewing, and
camping.
(iii) CLOSURES.—The Secretary of the
Army may close the parcel or any portion of
the parcel to the public as the Secretary of
the Army determines to be necessary to pro-
tect—
(I) public safety; or
(II) the safety of the military members
training on the parcel.
(iv) TRANSFER OF ADMINISTRATIVE JURISDIC-
TION; WITHDRAWAL.—
(I) IN GENERAL.—On a determination by the
Secretary of the Army that military train-
ing capabilities, personnel safety, and instal-
lation security would not be hindered as a
result of the transfer to the Secretary of ad-
ministrative jurisdiction over the parcel, the
Secretary of the Army shall transfer to the
Secretary administrative jurisdiction over
the parcel.
(II) WITHDRAWAL.—On transfer of the par-
cel under subclause (I), the parcel shall be—
(aa) under the jurisdiction of the Director
of the Bureau of Land Management; and
(bb) withdrawn from—
(AA) entry, appropriation, or disposal
under the public land laws;
(BB) location, entry, and patent under the
mining laws; and
(CC) operation of the mineral leasing, min-
eral materials, and geothermal leasing laws.
(III) RESERVATION.—On transfer under sub-
clause (I), the parcel shall be reserved for
management of the resources of, and mili-
tary training conducted on, the parcel in ac-
cordance with a memorandum of under-
standing entered into under clause (v).
(v) MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING RELAT-
ING TO MILITARY TRAINING.—
(I) IN GENERAL.—If, after the transfer of the
parcel under clause (iv)(I), the Secretary of
the Army requests that the Secretary enter
into a memorandum of understanding, the
Secretary shall enter into a memorandum of
understanding with the Secretary of the
Army providing for the conduct of military
training on the parcel.
(II) REQUIREMENTS.—The memorandum of
understanding entered into under subclause
(I) shall—
(aa) address the location, frequency, and
type of training activities to be conducted on
the parcel;
(bb) provide to the Secretary of the Army
access to the parcel for the conduct of mili-
tary training;
(cc) authorize the Secretary or the Sec-
retary of the Army to close the parcel or a
portion of the parcel to the public as the
Secretary or the Secretary of the Army de-
termines to be necessary to protect—
(AA) public safety; or
(BB) the safety of the military members
training; and
(dd) to the maximum extent practicable,
provide for the protection of natural, his-
toric, and cultural resources in the area of
the parcel.
(vi) MILITARY OVERFLIGHTS.—Nothing in
this subparagraph restricts or precludes—
(I) low-level overflights of military aircraft
over the parcel, including military over-
flights that can be seen or heard within the
parcel;
(II) the designation of new units of special
airspace over the parcel; or
(III) the use or establishment of military
flight training routes over the parcel.
(12) ROBLEDO MOUNTAINS.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall man-
age the Federal land described in subpara-
graph (B) in a manner that preserves the
character of the land for the future inclusion
of the land in the National Wilderness Pres-
ervation System.
(B) LAND DESCRIPTION.—The land referred
to in subparagraph (A) is certain land admin-
istered by the Bureau of Land Management,
comprising approximately 100 acres as gen-
erally depicted as ‘‘Lookout Peak Commu-
nication Site’’ on the map entitled ‘‘Desert
Peaks Complex’’ and dated October 1, 2018.
(C) USES.—The Secretary shall permit only
such uses on the land described in subpara-
graph (B) as were permitted on the date of
enactment of this Act.
(13) RELEASE OF WILDERNESS STUDY
AREAS.—Congress finds that, for purposes of
section 603(c) of the Federal Land Policy and
Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1782(c)),
the public land in Doña Ana County adminis-
tered by the Bureau of Land Management
not designated as wilderness by paragraph (1)
or described in paragraph (12)—
(A) has been adequately studied for wilder-
ness designation;
(B) is no longer subject to section 603(c) of
the Federal Land Policy and Management
Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1782(c)); and
(C) shall be managed in accordance with—
(i) the Federal Land Policy and Manage-
ment Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.);
(ii) this section; and
(iii) any other applicable laws.
(14) PRIVATE LAND.—In accordance with
section 5 of the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C.
1134), the Secretary shall ensure adequate ac-
cess to non-Federal land located within the
boundary of a wilderness area.
(c) BORDER SECURITY.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Nothing in this section—
(A) prevents the Secretary of Homeland
Security from undertaking law enforcement
and border security activities, in accordance
with section 4(c) of the Wilderness Act (16
U.S.C. 1133(c)), within the wilderness areas,
including the ability to use motorized access
within a wilderness area while in pursuit of
a suspect;
(B) affects the 2006 Memorandum of Under-
standing among the Department of Home-
land Security, the Department of the Inte-
rior, and the Department of Agriculture re-
garding cooperative national security and
counterterrorism efforts on Federal land
along the borders of the United States; or
(C) prevents the Secretary of Homeland Se-
curity from conducting any low-level over-
flights over the wilderness areas that may be
necessary for law enforcement and border se-
curity purposes.
(2) WITHDRAWAL AND ADMINISTRATION OF
CERTAIN AREA.—
(A) WITHDRAWAL.—The area identified as
‘‘Parcel A’’ on the map entitled ‘‘Potrillo
Mountains Complex’’ and dated September
27, 2018, is withdrawn in accordance with sub-
section (b)(11)(A).
(B) ADMINISTRATION.—Except as provided
in subparagraphs (C) and (D), the Secretary
shall administer the area described in sub-
paragraph (A) in a manner that, to the max-
imum extent practicable, protects the wil-
derness character of the area.
(C) USE OF MOTOR VEHICLES.—The use of
motor vehicles, motorized equipment, and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:26 Feb 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00071 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06FE6.048 S06FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S946 February 6, 2019
mechanical transport shall be prohibited in
the area described in subparagraph (A) ex-
cept as necessary for—
(i) the administration of the area (includ-
ing the conduct of law enforcement and bor-
der security activities in the area); or
(ii) grazing uses by authorized permittees.
(D) EFFECT OF SUBSECTION.—Nothing in
this paragraph precludes the Secretary from
allowing within the area described in sub-
paragraph (A) the installation and mainte-
nance of communication or surveillance in-
frastructure necessary for law enforcement
or border security activities.
(3) RESTRICTED ROUTE.—The route excluded
from the Potrillo Mountains Wilderness
identified as ‘‘Restricted—Administrative
Access’’ on the map entitled ‘‘Potrillo Moun-
tains Complex’’ and dated September 27, 2018,
shall be—
(A) closed to public access; but
(B) available for administrative and law
enforcement uses, including border security
activities.
(d) ORGAN MOUNTAINS-DESERT PEAKS NA-
TIONAL MONUMENT.—
(1) MANAGEMENT PLAN.—In preparing and
implementing the management plan for the
Monument, the Secretary shall include a wa-
tershed health assessment to identify oppor-
tunities for watershed restoration.
(2) INCORPORATION OF ACQUIRED STATE
TRUST LAND AND INTERESTS IN STATE TRUST
LAND.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Any land or interest in
land that is within the State trust land de-
scribed in subparagraph (B) that is acquired
by the United States shall—
(i) become part of the Monument; and
(ii) be managed in accordance with—
(I) Presidential Proclamation 9131 (79 Fed.
Reg. 30431);
(II) this section; and
(III) any other applicable laws.
(B) DESCRIPTION OF STATE TRUST LAND.—
The State trust land referred to in subpara-
graph (A) is the State trust land in T. 22 S.,
R 01 W., New Mexico Principal Meridian and
T. 22 S., R. 02 W., New Mexico Principal Me-
ridian.
(3) LAND EXCHANGES.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Subject to subparagraphs
(C) through (F), the Secretary shall attempt
to enter into an agreement to initiate an ex-
change under section 2201.1 of title 43, Code
of Federal Regulations (or successor regula-
tions), with the Commissioner of Public
Lands of New Mexico, by the date that is 18
months after the date of enactment of this
Act, to provide for a conveyance to the State
of all right, title, and interest of the United
States in and to Bureau of Land Manage-
ment land in the State identified under sub-
paragraph (B) in exchange for the convey-
ance by the State to the Secretary of all
right, title, and interest of the State in and
to parcels of State trust land within the
boundary of the Monument identified under
that subparagraph or described in paragraph
(2)(B).
(B) IDENTIFICATION OF LAND FOR EX-
CHANGE.—The Secretary and the Commis-
sioner of Public Lands of New Mexico shall
jointly identify the Bureau of Land Manage-
ment land and State trust land eligible for
exchange under this paragraph, the exact
acreage and legal description of which shall
be determined by surveys approved by the
Secretary and the New Mexico State Land
Office.
(C) APPLICABLE LAW.—A land exchange
under subparagraph (A) shall be carried out
in accordance with section 206 of the Federal
Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43
U.S.C. 1716).
(D) CONDITIONS.—A land exchange under
subparagraph (A) shall be subject to—
(i) valid existing rights; and
(ii) such terms as the Secretary and the
State shall establish.
(E) VALUATION, APPRAISALS, AND EQUALI-
ZATION.—
(i) IN GENERAL.—The value of the Bureau of
Land Management land and the State trust
land to be conveyed in a land exchange under
this paragraph—
(I) shall be equal, as determined by ap-
praisals conducted in accordance with clause
(ii); or
(II) if not equal, shall be equalized in ac-
cordance with clause (iii).
(ii) APPRAISALS.—
(I) IN GENERAL.—The Bureau of Land Man-
agement land and State trust land to be ex-
changed under this paragraph shall be ap-
praised by an independent, qualified ap-
praiser that is agreed to by the Secretary
and the State.
(II) REQUIREMENTS.—An appraisal under
subclause (I) shall be conducted in accord-
ance with—
(aa) the Uniform Appraisal Standards for
Federal Land Acquisitions; and
(bb) the Uniform Standards of Professional
Appraisal Practice.
(iii) EQUALIZATION.—
(I) IN GENERAL.—If the value of the Bureau
of Land Management land and the State
trust land to be conveyed in a land exchange
under this paragraph is not equal, the value
may be equalized by—
(aa) making a cash equalization payment
to the Secretary or to the State, as appro-
priate, in accordance with section 206(b) of
the Federal Land Policy and Management
Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1716(b)); or
(bb) reducing the acreage of the Bureau of
Land Management land or State trust land
to be exchanged, as appropriate.
(II) CASH EQUALIZATION PAYMENTS.—Any
cash equalization payments received by the
Secretary under subclause (I)(aa) shall be—
(aa) deposited in the Federal Land Disposal
Account established by section 206(a) of the
Federal Land Transaction Facilitation Act
(43 U.S.C. 2305(a)); and
(bb) used in accordance with that Act.
(F) LIMITATION.—No exchange of land shall
be conducted under this paragraph unless
mutually agreed to by the Secretary and the
State.
SEC. 1202. CERRO DEL YUTA AND RÍO SAN ANTO-
NIO WILDERNESS AREAS.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) MAP.—The term ‘‘map’’ means the map
entitled ‘‘Rı́o Grande del Norte National
Monument Proposed Wilderness Areas’’ and
dated July 28, 2015.
(2) WILDERNESS AREA.—The term ‘‘wilder-
ness area’’ means a wilderness area des-
ignated by subsection (b)(1).
(b) DESIGNATION OF CERRO DEL YUTA AND
RÍO SAN ANTONIO WILDERNESS AREAS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—In accordance with the
Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.), the
following areas in the Rı́o Grande del Norte
National Monument are designated as wil-
derness and as components of the National
Wilderness Preservation System:
(A) CERRO DEL YUTA WILDERNESS.—Certain
land administered by the Bureau of Land
Management in Taos County, New Mexico,
comprising approximately 13,420 acres as
generally depicted on the map, which shall
be known as the ‘‘Cerro del Yuta Wilder-
ness’’.
(B) RÍO SAN ANTONIO WILDERNESS.—Certain
land administered by the Bureau of Land
Management in Rı́o Arriba County, New
Mexico, comprising approximately 8,120
acres, as generally depicted on the map,
which shall be known as the ‘‘Rı́o San Anto-
nio Wilderness’’.
(2) MANAGEMENT OF WILDERNESS AREAS.—
Subject to valid existing rights, the wilder-
ness areas shall be administered in accord-
ance with the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131
et seq.) and this section, except that with re-
spect to the wilderness areas designated by
this section—
(A) any reference to the effective date of
the Wilderness Act shall be considered to be
a reference to the date of enactment of this
Act; and
(B) any reference in the Wilderness Act to
the Secretary of Agriculture shall be consid-
ered to be a reference to the Secretary.
(3) INCORPORATION OF ACQUIRED LAND AND
INTERESTS IN LAND.—Any land or interest in
land within the boundary of the wilderness
areas that is acquired by the United States
shall—
(A) become part of the wilderness area in
which the land is located; and
(B) be managed in accordance with—
(i) the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et
seq.);
(ii) this section; and
(iii) any other applicable laws.
(4) GRAZING.—Grazing of livestock in the
wilderness areas, where established before
the date of enactment of this Act, shall be
administered in accordance with—
(A) section 4(d)(4) of the Wilderness Act (16
U.S.C. 1133(d)(4)); and
(B) the guidelines set forth in appendix A
of the Report of the Committee on Interior
and Insular Affairs to accompany H.R. 2570 of
the 101st Congress (H. Rept. 101–405).
(5) BUFFER ZONES.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Nothing in this section
creates a protective perimeter or buffer zone
around the wilderness areas.
(B) ACTIVITIES OUTSIDE WILDERNESS
AREAS.—The fact that an activity or use on
land outside a wilderness area can be seen or
heard within the wilderness area shall not
preclude the activity or use outside the
boundary of the wilderness area.
(6) RELEASE OF WILDERNESS STUDY AREAS.—
Congress finds that, for purposes of section
603(c) of the Federal Land Policy and Man-
agement Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1782(c)), the
public land within the San Antonio Wilder-
ness Study Area not designated as wilderness
by this section—
(A) has been adequately studied for wilder-
ness designation;
(B) is no longer subject to section 603(c) of
the Federal Land Policy and Management
Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1782(c)); and
(C) shall be managed in accordance with
this section.
(7) MAPS AND LEGAL DESCRIPTIONS.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—As soon as practicable
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Secretary shall file the map and legal de-
scriptions of the wilderness areas with—
(i) the Committee on Energy and Natural
Resources of the Senate; and
(ii) the Committee on Natural Resources of
the House of Representatives.
(B) FORCE OF LAW.—The map and legal de-
scriptions filed under subparagraph (A) shall
have the same force and effect as if included
in this section, except that the Secretary
may correct errors in the legal description
and map.
(C) PUBLIC AVAILABILITY.—The map and
legal descriptions filed under subparagraph
(A) shall be on file and available for public
inspection in the appropriate offices of the
Bureau of Land Management.
(8) NATIONAL LANDSCAPE CONSERVATION SYS-
TEM.—The wilderness areas shall be adminis-
tered as components of the National Land-
scape Conservation System.
(9) FISH AND WILDLIFE.—Nothing in this
section affects the jurisdiction of the State
of New Mexico with respect to fish and wild-
life located on public land in the State.
(10) WITHDRAWALS.—Subject to valid exist-
ing rights, any Federal land within the wil-
derness areas designated by paragraph (1),
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:26 Feb 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00072 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06FE6.048 S06FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S947
February 6, 2019
including any land or interest in land that is
acquired by the United States after the date
of enactment of this Act, is withdrawn
from—
(A) entry, appropriation, or disposal under
the public land laws;
(B) location, entry, and patent under the
mining laws; and
(C) operation of the mineral leasing, min-
eral materials, and geothermal leasing laws.
(11) TREATY RIGHTS.—Nothing in this sec-
tion enlarges, diminishes, or otherwise modi-
fies any treaty rights.
SEC. 1203. METHOW VALLEY, WASHINGTON, FED-
ERAL LAND WITHDRAWAL.
(a) DEFINITION OF MAP.—In this section,
the term ‘‘Map’’ means the Forest Service
map entitled ‘‘Methow Headwaters With-
drawal Proposal Legislative Map’’ and dated
May 24, 2016.
(b) WITHDRAWAL.—Subject to valid existing
rights, the approximately 340,079 acres of
Federal land and interests in the land lo-
cated in the Okanogan-Wenatchee National
Forest within the area depicted on the Map
as ‘‘Proposed Withdrawal’’ is withdrawn
from all forms of—
(1) entry, appropriation, or disposal under
the public land laws;
(2) location, entry, and patent under the
mining laws; and
(3) disposition under the mineral leasing
and geothermal leasing laws.
(c) ACQUIRED LAND.—Any land or interest
in land within the area depicted on the Map
as ‘‘Proposed Withdrawal’’ that is acquired
by the United States after the date of enact-
ment of this Act shall, on acquisition, be im-
mediately withdrawn in accordance with this
section.
(d) AVAILABILITY OF MAP.—The Map shall
be kept on file and made available for public
inspection in the appropriate offices of the
Forest Service and the Bureau of Land Man-
agement.
SEC. 1204. EMIGRANT CREVICE WITHDRAWAL.
(a) DEFINITION OF MAP.—In this section,
the term ‘‘map’’ means the map entitled
‘‘Emigrant Crevice Proposed Withdrawal
Area’’ and dated November 10, 2016.
(b) WITHDRAWAL.—Subject to valid existing
rights in existence on the date of enactment
of this Act, the National Forest System land
and interests in the National Forest System
land, as depicted on the map, is withdrawn
from—
(1) location, entry, and patent under the
mining laws; and
(2) disposition under all laws pertaining to
mineral and geothermal leasing.
(c) ACQUIRED LAND.—Any land or interest
in land within the area depicted on the map
that is acquired by the United States after
the date of enactment of this Act shall, on
acquisition, be immediately withdrawn in
accordance with this section.
(d) MAP.—
(1) SUBMISSION OF MAP.—As soon as prac-
ticable after the date of enactment of this
Act, the Secretary of Agriculture shall file
the map with—
(A) the Committee on Energy and Natural
Resources of the Senate; and
(B) the Committee on Natural Resources of
the House of Representatives.
(2) FORCE OF LAW.—The map filed under
paragraph (1) shall have the same force and
effect as if included in this section, except
that the Secretary of Agriculture may cor-
rect clerical and typographical errors in the
map.
(3) PUBLIC AVAILABILITY.—The map filed
under paragraph (1) shall be on file and avail-
able for public inspection in the appropriate
offices of the Forest Service and the Bureau
of Land Management.
(e) EFFECT.—Nothing in this section affects
any recreational use, including hunting or
fishing, that is authorized on land within the
area depicted on the map under applicable
law as of the date of enactment of this Act.
SEC. 1205. OREGON WILDLANDS.
(a) WILD AND SCENIC RIVER ADDITIONS, DES-
IGNATIONS AND TECHNICAL CORRECTIONS.—
(1) ADDITIONS TO ROGUE WILD AND SCENIC
RIVER.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Section 3(a) of the Wild
and Scenic Rivers Act (16 U.S.C. 1274(a)) is
amended by striking paragraph (5) and in-
serting the following:
‘‘(5) ROGUE, OREGON.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—The segment of the river
extending from the mouth of the Applegate
River downstream to the Lobster Creek
Bridge, to be administered by the Secretary
of the Interior or the Secretary of Agri-
culture, as agreed to by the Secretaries of
the Interior and Agriculture or as directed
by the President.
‘‘(B) ADDITIONS.—In addition to the seg-
ment described in subparagraph (A), there
are designated the following segments in the
Rogue River:
‘‘(i) KELSEY CREEK.—The approximately
6.8-mile segment of Kelsey Creek from the
Wild Rogue Wilderness boundary in T. 32 S.,
R. 9 W., sec. 25, Willamette Meridian, to the
confluence with the Rogue River, as a wild
river.
‘‘(ii) EAST FORK KELSEY CREEK.—
‘‘(I) SCENIC RIVER.—The approximately 0.2-
mile segment of East Fork Kelsey Creek
from headwaters downstream to the Wild
Rogue Wilderness boundary in T. 33 S., R. 8
W., sec. 5, Willamette Meridian, as a scenic
river.
‘‘(II) WILD RIVER.—The approximately 4.6-
mile segment of East Fork Kelsey Creek
from the Wild Rogue Wilderness boundary in
T. 33 S., R. 8 W., sec. 5, Willamette Meridian,
to the confluence with Kelsey Creek, as a
wild river.
‘‘(iii) WHISKY CREEK.—
‘‘(I) RECREATIONAL RIVER.—The approxi-
mately 1.6-mile segment of Whisky Creek
from the confluence of the East Fork and
West Fork to the south boundary of the non-
Federal land in T. 33 S., R. 8 W., sec. 17, Wil-
lamette Meridian, as a recreational river.
‘‘(II) WILD RIVER.—The approximately 1.2-
mile segment of Whisky Creek from road 33-
8-23 to the confluence with the Rogue River,
as a wild river.
‘‘(iv) EAST FORK WHISKY CREEK.—
‘‘(I) SCENIC RIVER.—The approximately 0.9-
mile segment of East Fork Whisky Creek
from its headwaters to Wild Rogue Wilder-
ness boundary in T. 33 S., R. 8 W., sec. 11,
Willamette Meridian, as a scenic river.
‘‘(II) WILD RIVER.—The approximately 2.6-
mile segment of East Fork Whisky Creek
from the Wild Rogue Wilderness boundary in
T. 33 S., R. 8 W., sec. 11, Willamette Merid-
ian, downstream to road 33-8-26 crossing, as a
wild river.
‘‘(III) RECREATIONAL RIVER.—The approxi-
mately 0.3-mile segment of East Fork Whis-
ky Creek from road 33-8-26 to the confluence
with Whisky Creek, as a recreational river.
‘‘(v) WEST FORK WHISKY CREEK.—The ap-
proximately 4.8-mile segment of West Fork
Whisky Creek from its headwaters to the
confluence with the East Fork Whisky
Creek, as a wild river.
‘‘(vi) BIG WINDY CREEK.—
‘‘(I) SCENIC RIVER.—The approximately 1.5-
mile segment of Big Windy Creek from its
headwaters to road 34-9-17.1, as a scenic
river.
‘‘(II) WILD RIVER.—The approximately 5.8-
mile segment of Big Windy Creek from road
34-9-17.1 to the confluence with the Rogue
River, as a wild river.
‘‘(vii) EAST FORK BIG WINDY CREEK.—
‘‘(I) SCENIC RIVER.—The approximately 0.2-
mile segment of East Fork Big Windy Creek
from its headwaters to road 34-8-36, as a sce-
nic river.
‘‘(II) WILD RIVER.—The approximately 3.7-
mile segment of East Fork Big Windy Creek
from road 34-8-36 to the confluence with Big
Windy Creek, as a wild river.
‘‘(viii) LITTLE WINDY CREEK.—
‘‘(I) SCENIC RIVER.—The approximately 1.2-
mile segment of Little Windy Creek from its
headwaters to the Wild Rogue Wilderness
boundary in T. 33 S., R. 9 W., sec. 33, Willam-
ette Meridian, as a scenic river.
‘‘(II) WILD RIVER.—The approximately 1.9-
mile segment of Little Windy Creek from the
Wild Rogue Wilderness boundary in T. 33 S.,
R. 9 W., sec. 34, Willamette Meridian, to the
confluence with the Rogue River, as a wild
river.
‘‘(ix) HOWARD CREEK.—
‘‘(I) SCENIC RIVER.—The approximately 3.5-
mile segment of Howard Creek from its head-
waters to road 34-9-34, as a scenic river.
‘‘(II) WILD RIVER.—The approximately 6.9-
mile segment of Howard Creek from 0.1 miles
downstream of road 34-9-34 to the confluence
with the Rogue River, as a wild river.
‘‘(III) WILD RIVER.—The approximately 3.5-
mile segment of Anna Creek from its head-
waters to the confluence with Howard Creek,
as a wild river.
‘‘(x) MULE CREEK.—
‘‘(I) SCENIC RIVER.—The approximately 3.5-
mile segment of Mule Creek from its head-
waters downstream to the Wild Rogue Wil-
derness boundary as a scenic river.
‘‘(II) WILD RIVER.—The approximately 7.8-
mile segment of Mule Creek from the Wild
Rogue Wilderness boundary in T. 32 S., R. 9
W., sec. 29, Willamette Meridian, to the con-
fluence with the Rogue River, as a wild river.
‘‘(xi) MISSOURI CREEK.—
‘‘(I) SCENIC RIVER.—The approximately 3.1-
mile segment of Missouri Creek from its
headwaters downstream to the Wild Rogue
Wilderness boundary in T. 33 S., R. 10 W., sec.
24, Willamette Meridian, as a scenic river.
‘‘(II) WILD RIVER.—The approximately 1.6-
mile segment of Missouri Creek from the
Wild Rogue Wilderness boundary in T. 33 S.,
R. 10 W., sec. 24, Willamette Meridian, to the
confluence with the Rogue River, as a wild
river.
‘‘(xii) JENNY CREEK.—
‘‘(I) SCENIC RIVER.—The approximately 3.1-
mile segment of Jenny Creek from its head-
waters downstream to the Wild Rogue Wil-
derness boundary in T. 33 S., R. 9 W., sec. 28,
Willamette Meridian, as a scenic river.
‘‘(II) WILD RIVER.—The approximately 1.8-
mile segment of Jenny Creek from the Wild
Rogue Wilderness boundary in T. 33 S., R. 9
W., sec. 28, Willamette Meridian, to the con-
fluence with the Rogue River, as a wild river.
‘‘(xiii) RUM CREEK.—
‘‘(I) SCENIC RIVER.—The approximately 2.2-
mile segment of Rum Creek from its head-
waters to the Wild Rogue Wilderness bound-
ary in T. 34 S., R. 8 W., sec. 9, Willamette
Meridian, as a scenic river.
‘‘(II) WILD RIVER.—The approximately 2.2-
mile segment of Rum Creek from the Wild
Rogue Wilderness boundary in T. 34 S., R. 8
W., sec. 9, Willamette Meridian, to the con-
fluence with the Rogue River, as a wild river.
‘‘(xiv) EAST FORK RUM CREEK.—
‘‘(I) SCENIC RIVER.—The approximately 0.8-
mile segment of East Fork Rum Creek from
its headwaters to the Wild Rogue Wilderness
boundary in T. 34 S., R. 8 W., sec. 10, Willam-
ette Meridian, as a scenic river.
‘‘(II) WILD RIVER.—The approximately 1.3-
mile segment of East Fork Rum Creek from
the Wild Rogue Wilderness boundary in T. 34
S., R. 8 W., sec. 10, Willamette Meridian, to
the confluence with Rum Creek, as a wild
river.
‘‘(xv) WILDCAT CREEK.—The approximately
1.7-mile segment of Wildcat Creek from its
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:26 Feb 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00073 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06FE6.048 S06FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S948 February 6, 2019
headwaters downstream to the confluence
with the Rogue River, as a wild river.
‘‘(xvi) MONTGOMERY CREEK.—The approxi-
mately 1.8-mile segment of Montgomery
Creek from its headwaters downstream to
the confluence with the Rogue River, as a
wild river.
‘‘(xvii) HEWITT CREEK.—
‘‘(I) SCENIC RIVER.—The approximately 1.4-
mile segment of Hewitt Creek from its head-
waters to the Wild Rogue Wilderness bound-
ary in T. 33 S., R. 9 W., sec. 19, Willamette
Meridian, as a scenic river.
‘‘(II) WILD RIVER.—The approximately 1.2-
mile segment of Hewitt Creek from the Wild
Rogue Wilderness boundary in T. 33 S., R. 9
W., sec. 19, Willamette Meridian, to the con-
fluence with the Rogue River, as a wild river.
‘‘(xviii) BUNKER CREEK.—The approxi-
mately 6.6-mile segment of Bunker Creek
from its headwaters to the confluence with
the Rogue River, as a wild river.
‘‘(xix) DULOG CREEK.—
‘‘(I) SCENIC RIVER.—The approximately 0.8-
mile segment of Dulog Creek from its head-
waters to 0.1 miles downstream of road 34-8-
36, as a scenic river.
‘‘(II) WILD RIVER.—The approximately 1.0-
mile segment of Dulog Creek from road 34-8-
36 to the confluence with the Rogue River, as
a wild river.
‘‘(xx) QUAIL CREEK.—The approximately
1.7-mile segment of Quail Creek from the
Wild Rogue Wilderness boundary in T. 33 S.,
R. 10 W., sec. 1, Willamette Meridian, to the
confluence with the Rogue River, as a wild
river.
‘‘(xxi) MEADOW CREEK.—The approximately
4.1-mile segment of Meadow Creek from its
headwaters to the confluence with the Rogue
River, as a wild river.
‘‘(xxii) RUSSIAN CREEK.—The approxi-
mately 2.5-mile segment of Russian Creek
from the Wild Rogue Wilderness boundary in
T. 33 S., R. 8 W., sec. 20, Willamette Merid-
ian, to the confluence with the Rogue River,
as a wild river.
‘‘(xxiii) ALDER CREEK.—The approximately
1.2-mile segment of Alder Creek from its
headwaters to the confluence with the Rogue
River, as a wild river.
‘‘(xxiv) BOOZE CREEK.—The approximately
1.5-mile segment of Booze Creek from its
headwaters to the confluence with the Rogue
River, as a wild river.
‘‘(xxv) BRONCO CREEK.—The approximately
1.8-mile segment of Bronco Creek from its
headwaters to the confluence with the Rogue
River, as a wild river.
‘‘(xxvi) COPSEY CREEK.—The approximately
1.5-mile segment of Copsey Creek from its
headwaters to the confluence with the Rogue
River, as a wild river.
‘‘(xxvii) CORRAL CREEK.—The approxi-
mately 0.5-mile segment of Corral Creek
from its headwaters to the confluence with
the Rogue River, as a wild river.
‘‘(xxviii) COWLEY CREEK.—The approxi-
mately 0.9-mile segment of Cowley Creek
from its headwaters to the confluence with
the Rogue River, as a wild river.
‘‘(xxix) DITCH CREEK.—The approximately
1.8-mile segment of Ditch Creek from the
Wild Rogue Wilderness boundary in T. 33 S.,
R. 9 W., sec. 5, Willamette Meridian, to its
confluence with the Rogue River, as a wild
river.
‘‘(xxx) FRANCIS CREEK.—The approximately
0.9-mile segment of Francis Creek from its
headwaters to the confluence with the Rogue
River, as a wild river.
‘‘(xxxi) LONG GULCH.—
‘‘(I) SCENIC RIVER.—The approximately 1.4-
mile segment of Long Gulch from its head-
waters to the Wild Rogue Wilderness bound-
ary in T. 33 S., R. 10 W., sec. 23, Willamette
Meridian, as a scenic river.
‘‘(II) WILD RIVER.—The approximately 1.1-
mile segment of Long Gulch from the Wild
Rogue Wilderness boundary in T. 33 S., R. 10
W., sec. 23, Willamette Meridian, to the con-
fluence with the Rogue River, as a wild river.
‘‘(xxxii) BAILEY CREEK.—
‘‘(I) SCENIC RIVER.—The approximately 1.4-
mile segment of Bailey Creek from its head-
waters to the Wild Rogue Wilderness bound-
ary on the west section line of T. 34 S., R. 8
W., sec. 14, Willamette Meridian, as a scenic
river.
‘‘(II) WILD RIVER.—The approximately 1.7-
mile segment of Bailey Creek from the west
section line of T. 34 S., R.8 W., sec. 14, Wil-
lamette Meridian, to the confluence of the
Rogue River, as a wild river.
‘‘(xxxiii) SHADY CREEK.—The approxi-
mately 0.7-mile segment of Shady Creek
from its headwaters to the confluence with
the Rogue River, as a wild river.
‘‘(xxxiv) SLIDE CREEK.—
‘‘(I) SCENIC RIVER.—The approximately 0.5-
mile segment of Slide Creek from its head-
waters to road 33-9-6, as a scenic river.
‘‘(II) WILD RIVER.—The approximately 0.7-
mile section of Slide Creek from road 33-9-6
to the confluence with the Rogue River, as a
wild river.’’.
(B) MANAGEMENT.—Each river segment des-
ignated by subparagraph (B) of section 3(a)(5)
of the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act (16 U.S.C.
1274(a)(5)) (as added by subparagraph (A))
shall be managed as part of the Rogue Wild
and Scenic River.
(C) WITHDRAWAL.—Subject to valid existing
rights, the Federal land within the bound-
aries of the river segments designated by
subparagraph (B) of section 3(a)(5) of the
Wild and Scenic Rivers Act (16 U.S.C.
1274(a)(5)) (as added by subparagraph (A)) is
withdrawn from all forms of—
(i) entry, appropriation, or disposal under
the public land laws;
(ii) location, entry, and patent under the
mining laws; and
(iii) disposition under all laws pertaining
to mineral and geothermal leasing or min-
eral materials.
(D) ADDITIONAL PROTECTIONS FOR ROGUE
RIVER TRIBUTARIES.—
(i) LICENSING BY COMMISSION.—The Federal
Energy Regulatory Commission shall not li-
cense the construction of any dam, water
conduit, reservoir, powerhouse, transmission
line, or other project works on or directly af-
fecting any stream described in clause (iv).
(ii) OTHER AGENCIES.—
(I) IN GENERAL.—No department or agency
of the United States shall assist by loan,
grant, license, or otherwise in the construc-
tion of any water resources project on or di-
rectly affecting any stream segment that is
described in clause (iv), except to maintain
or repair water resources projects in exist-
ence on the date of enactment of this Act.
(II) EFFECT.—Nothing in this clause pro-
hibits any department or agency of the
United States in assisting by loan, grant, li-
cense, or otherwise, a water resources
project—
(aa) the primary purpose of which is eco-
logical or aquatic restoration;
(bb) that provides a net benefit to water
quality and aquatic resources; and
(cc) that is consistent with protecting and
enhancing the values for which the river was
designated.
(iii) WITHDRAWAL.—Subject to valid exist-
ing rights, the Federal land located within 1⁄4
mile on either side of the stream segments
described in clause (iv) is withdrawn from all
forms of—
(I) entry, appropriation, or disposal under
the public land laws;
(II) location, entry, and patent under the
mining laws; and
(III) disposition under all laws pertaining
to mineral and geothermal leasing or min-
eral materials.
(iv) DESCRIPTION OF STREAM SEGMENTS.—
The following are the stream segments re-
ferred to in clause (i):
(I) KELSEY CREEK.—The approximately 2.5-
mile segment of Kelsey Creek from its head-
waters to the Wild Rogue Wilderness bound-
ary in T. 32 S., R. 9 W., sec. 25, Willamette
Meridian.
(II) GRAVE CREEK.—The approximately 10.2-
mile segment of Grave Creek from the east
boundary of T. 34 S., R. 7 W., sec. 1, Willam-
ette Meridian, downstream to the confluence
with the Rogue River.
(III) CENTENNIAL GULCH.—The approxi-
mately 2.2-mile segment of Centennial Gulch
from its headwaters to its confluence with
the Rogue River in T. 34 S., R. 7, W., sec. 18,
Willamette Meridian.
(IV) QUAIL CREEK.—The approximately 0.8-
mile segment of Quail Creek from its head-
waters to the Wild Rogue Wilderness bound-
ary in T. 33 S., R. 10 W., sec. 1, Willamette
Meridian.
(V) DITCH CREEK.—The approximately 0.7-
mile segment of Ditch Creek from its head-
waters to the Wild Rogue Wilderness bound-
ary in T. 33 S., R. 9 W., sec. 5, Willamette
Meridian.
(VI) GALICE CREEK.—The approximately
2.2-mile segment of Galice Creek from the
confluence with the North Fork Galice Creek
downstream to the confluence with the
Rogue River in T. 34 S., R. 8 W., sec. 36, Wil-
lamette Meridian.
(VII) QUARTZ CREEK.—The approximately
3.3-mile segment of Quartz Creek from its
headwaters to its confluence with the North
Fork Galice Creek in T. 35 S., R. 8 W., sec. 4,
Willamette Meridian.
(VIII) NORTH FORK GALICE CREEK.—The ap-
proximately 5.7-mile segment of the North
Fork Galice Creek from its headwaters to its
confluence with the South Fork Galice
Creek in T. 35 S., R. 8 W., sec. 3, Willamette
Meridian.
(2) TECHNICAL CORRECTIONS TO THE WILD
AND SCENIC RIVERS ACT.—
(A) CHETCO, OREGON.—Section 3(a)(69) of
the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act (16 U.S.C.
1274(a)(69)) is amended—
(i) by redesignating subparagraphs (A), (B),
and (C) as clauses (i), (ii), and (iii), respec-
tively, and indenting appropriately;
(ii) in the matter preceding clause (i) (as so
redesignated), by striking ‘‘The 44.5-mile’’
and inserting the following:
‘‘(A) DESIGNATIONS.—The 44.5-mile’’;
(iii) in clause (i) (as so redesignated)—
(I) by striking ‘‘25.5-mile’’ and inserting
‘‘27.5-mile’’; and
(II) by striking ‘‘Boulder Creek at the
Kalmiopsis Wilderness boundary’’ and insert-
ing ‘‘Mislatnah Creek’’;
(iv) in clause (ii) (as so redesignated)—
(I) by striking ‘‘8-mile’’ and inserting ‘‘7.5-
mile’’; and
(II) by striking ‘‘Boulder Creek to Steel
Bridge’’ and inserting ‘‘Mislatnah Creek to
Eagle Creek’’;
(v) in clause (iii) (as so redesignated)—
(I) by striking ‘‘11-mile’’ and inserting ‘‘9.5-
mile’’; and
(II) by striking ‘‘Steel Bridge’’ and insert-
ing ‘‘Eagle Creek’’; and
(vi) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(B) WITHDRAWAL.—Subject to valid rights,
the Federal land within the boundaries of
the river segments designated by subpara-
graph (A) is withdrawn from all forms of—
‘‘(i) entry, appropriation, or disposal under
the public land laws;
‘‘(ii) location, entry, and patent under the
mining laws; and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:26 Feb 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00074 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06FE6.048 S06FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S949
February 6, 2019
‘‘(iii) disposition under all laws pertaining
to mineral and geothermal leasing or min-
eral materials.’’.
(B) WHYCHUS CREEK, OREGON.—Section
3(a)(102) of the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act
(16 U.S.C. 1274(a)(102)) is amended—
(i) in the paragraph heading, by striking
‘‘SQUAW CREEK’’ and inserting ‘‘WHYCHUS
CREEK’’;
(ii) by redesignating subparagraphs (A) and
(B) as clauses (i) and (ii), respectively, and
indenting appropriately;
(iii) in the matter preceding clause (i) (as
so redesignated)—
(I) by striking ‘‘The 15.4-mile’’ and insert-
ing the following:
‘‘(A) DESIGNATIONS.—The 15.4-mile’’; and
(II) by striking ‘‘McAllister Ditch, includ-
ing the Soap Fork Squaw Creek, the North
Fork, the South Fork, the East and West
Forks of Park Creek, and Park Creek Fork’’
and inserting ‘‘Plainview Ditch, including
the Soap Creek, the North and South Forks
of Whychus Creek, the East and West Forks
of Park Creek, and Park Creek’’;
(iv) in clause (ii) (as so redesignated), by
striking ‘‘McAllister Ditch’’ and inserting
‘‘Plainview Ditch’’; and
(v) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(B) WITHDRAWAL.—Subject to valid exist-
ing rights, the Federal land within the
boundaries of the river segments designated
by subparagraph (A) is withdrawn from all
forms of—
‘‘(i) entry, appropriation, or disposal under
the public land laws;
‘‘(ii) location, entry, and patent under the
mining laws; and
‘‘(iii) disposition under all laws relating to
mineral and geothermal leasing or mineral
materials.’’.
(3) WILD AND SCENIC RIVER DESIGNATIONS,
WASSON CREEK AND FRANKLIN CREEK, OR-
EGON.—Section 3(a) of the Wild and Scenic
Rivers Act (16 U.S.C. 1274(a)) is amended by
adding at the end the following:
‘‘(214) FRANKLIN CREEK, OREGON.—The 4.5-
mile segment from its headwaters to the pri-
vate land boundary in sec. 8, to be adminis-
tered by the Secretary of Agriculture as a
wild river.
‘‘(215) WASSON CREEK, OREGON.—The 10.1-
mile segment in the following classes:
‘‘(A) The 4.2-mile segment from the eastern
boundary of T. 21 S., R. 9 W., sec. 17, down-
stream to the western boundary of T. 21 S.,
R. 10 W., sec. 12, to be administered by the
Secretary of the Interior as a wild river.
‘‘(B) The 5.9-mile segment from the west-
ern boundary of T. 21 S., R. 10 W., sec. 12,
downstream to the eastern boundary of the
northwest quarter of T. 21 S., R. 10 W., sec.
22, to be administered by the Secretary of
Agriculture as a wild river.’’.
(4) WILD AND SCENIC RIVER DESIGNATIONS,
MOLALLA RIVER, OREGON.—Section 3(a) of the
Wild and Scenic Rivers Act (16 U.S.C. 1274(a))
(as amended by paragraph (3)) is amended by
adding at the end the following:
‘‘(216) MOLALLA RIVER, OREGON.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—The following segments
in the State of Oregon, to be administered by
the Secretary of the Interior as a rec-
reational river:
‘‘(i) MOLALLA RIVER.—The approximately
15.1-mile segment from the southern bound-
ary line of T. 7 S., R. 4 E., sec. 19, down-
stream to the edge of the Bureau of Land
Management boundary in T. 6 S., R. 3 E., sec.
7.
‘‘(ii) TABLE ROCK FORK MOLALLA RIVER.—
The approximately 6.2-mile segment from
the easternmost Bureau of Land Manage-
ment boundary line in the NE1⁄4 sec. 4, T. 7
S., R. 4 E., downstream to the confluence
with the Molalla River.
‘‘(B) WITHDRAWAL.—Subject to valid exist-
ing rights, the Federal land within the
boundaries of the river segments designated
by subparagraph (A) is withdrawn from all
forms of—
‘‘(i) entry, appropriation, or disposal under
the public land laws;
‘‘(ii) location, entry, and patent under the
mining laws; and
‘‘(iii) disposition under all laws relating to
mineral and geothermal leasing or mineral
materials.’’.
(5) DESIGNATION OF ADDITIONAL WILD AND
SCENIC RIVERS.—
(A) ELK RIVER, OREGON.—
(i) IN GENERAL.—Section 3(a) of the Wild
and Scenic Rivers Act (16 U.S.C. 1274(a)) is
amended by striking paragraph (76) and in-
serting the following:
‘‘(76) ELK, OREGON.—The 69.2-mile segment
to be administered by the Secretary of Agri-
culture in the following classes:
‘‘(A) MAINSTEM.—The 17-mile segment from
the confluence of the North and South Forks
of the Elk to Anvil Creek as a recreational
river.
‘‘(B) NORTH FORK.—
‘‘(i) SCENIC RIVER.—The approximately 0.6-
mile segment of the North Fork Elk from its
source in T. 33 S., R. 12 W., sec. 21, Willam-
ette Meridian, downstream to 0.01 miles
below Forest Service Road 3353, as a scenic
river.
‘‘(ii) WILD RIVER.—The approximately 5.5-
mile segment of the North Fork Elk from
0.01 miles below Forest Service Road 3353 to
its confluence with the South Fork Elk, as a
wild river.
‘‘(C) SOUTH FORK.—
‘‘(i) SCENIC RIVER.—The approximately 0.9-
mile segment of the South Fork Elk from its
source in the southeast quarter of T. 33 S., R.
12 W., sec. 32, Willamette Meridian, Forest
Service Road 3353, as a scenic river.
‘‘(ii) WILD RIVER.—The approximately 4.2-
mile segment of the South Fork Elk from
0.01 miles below Forest Service Road 3353 to
its confluence with the North Fork Elk, as a
wild river.
‘‘(D) OTHER TRIBUTARIES.—
‘‘(i) ROCK CREEK.—The approximately 1.7-
mile segment of Rock Creek from its head-
waters to the west boundary of T. 32 S., R. 14
W., sec. 30, Willamette Meridian, as a wild
river.
‘‘(ii) BALD MOUNTAIN CREEK.—The approxi-
mately 8-mile segment of Bald Mountain
Creek from its headwaters, including Salal
Spring to its confluence with Elk River, as a
recreational river.
‘‘(iii) SOUTH FORK BALD MOUNTAIN CREEK.—
The approximately 3.5-mile segment of
South Fork Bald Mountain Creek from its
headwaters to its confluence with Bald
Mountain Creek, as a scenic river.
‘‘(iv) PLATINUM CREEK.—The approximately
1-mile segment of Platinum Creek from—
‘‘(I) its headwaters to Forest Service Road
5325, as a wild river; and
‘‘(II) Forest Service Road 5325 to its con-
fluence with Elk River, as a scenic river.
‘‘(v) PANTHER CREEK.—The approximately
5.0-mile segment of Panther Creek from—
‘‘(I) its headwaters, including Mountain
Well, to Forest Service Road 5325, as a wild
river; and
‘‘(II) Forest Service Road 5325 to its con-
fluence with Elk River, as a scenic river.
‘‘(vi) EAST FORK PANTHER CREEK.—The ap-
proximately 3.0-mile segment of East Fork
Panther Creek from it headwaters, to the
confluence with Panther Creek, as a wild
river.
‘‘(vii) WEST FORK PANTHER CREEK.—The ap-
proximately 3.0-mile segment of West Fork
Panther Creek from its headwaters to the
confluence with Panther Creek as a wild
river.
‘‘(viii) LOST CREEK.—The approximately
1.0-mile segment of Lost Creek from—
‘‘(I) its headwaters to Forest Service Road
5325, as a wild river; and
‘‘(II) Forest Service Road 5325 to its con-
fluence with the Elk River, as a scenic river.
‘‘(ix) MILBURY CREEK.—The approximately
1.5-mile segment of Milbury Creek from—
‘‘(I) its headwaters to Forest Service Road
5325, as a wild river; and
‘‘(II) Forest Service Road 5325 to its con-
fluence with the Elk River, as a scenic river.
‘‘(x) BLACKBERRY CREEK.—The approxi-
mately 5.0-mile segment of Blackberry Creek
from—
‘‘(I) its headwaters to Forest Service Road
5325, as a wild river; and
‘‘(II) Forest Service Road 5325 to its con-
fluence with the Elk River, as a scenic river.
‘‘(xi) EAST FORK BLACKBERRY CREEK.—The
approximately 2.0-mile segment of the
unnamed tributary locally known as ‘East
Fork Blackberry Creek’ from its headwaters
in T. 33 S., R. 13 W., sec. 26, Willamette Me-
ridian, to its confluence with Blackberry
Creek, as a wild river.
‘‘(xii) MCCURDY CREEK.—The approximately
1.0-mile segment of McCurdy Creek from—
‘‘(I) its headwaters to Forest Service Road
5325, as a wild river; and
‘‘(II) Forest Service Road 5325 to its con-
fluence with the Elk River, as a scenic river.
‘‘(xiii) BEAR CREEK.—The approximately
1.5-mile segment of Bear Creek from head-
waters to the confluence with Bald Mountain
Creek, as a recreational river.
‘‘(xiv) BUTLER CREEK.—The approximately
4-mile segment of Butler Creek from—
‘‘(I) its headwaters to the south boundary
of T. 33 S., R. 13 W., sec. 8, Willamette Merid-
ian, as a wild river; and
‘‘(II) from the south boundary of T. 33 S.,
R. 13 W., sec. 8, Willamette Meridian, to its
confluence with Elk River, as a scenic river.
‘‘(xv) EAST FORK BUTLER CREEK.—The ap-
proximately 2.8-mile segment locally known
as the ‘East Fork of Butler Creek’ from its
headwaters on Mount Butler in T. 32 S., R. 13
W., sec. 29, Willamette Meridian, to its con-
fluence with Butler Creek, as a scenic river.
‘‘(xvi) PURPLE MOUNTAIN CREEK.—The ap-
proximately 2.0-mile segment locally known
as ‘Purple Mountain Creek’ from—
‘‘(I) its headwaters in secs. 35 and 36, T. 33
S., R. 14 W., Willamette Meridian, to 0.01
miles above Forest Service Road 5325, as a
wild river; and
‘‘(II) 0.01 miles above Forest Service Road
5325 to its confluence with the Elk River, as
a scenic river.’’.
(ii) WITHDRAWAL.—Subject to valid exist-
ing rights, the Federal land within the
boundaries of the river segments designated
by paragraph (76) of section 3(a) of the Wild
and Scenic Rivers Act (16 U.S.C. 1274(a)) (as
amended by clause (i)) is withdrawn from all
forms of—
(I) entry, appropriation, or disposal under
the public land laws;
(II) location, entry, and patent under the
mining laws; and
(III) disposition under all laws relating to
mineral and geothermal leasing or mineral
materials.
(B) DESIGNATION OF WILD AND SCENIC RIVER
SEGMENTS.—
(i) IN GENERAL.—Section 3(a) of the Wild
and Scenic Rivers Act (16 U.S.C. 1274(a)) (as
amended by paragraph (4)) is amended by
adding at the end the following:
‘‘(217) NESTUCCA RIVER, OREGON.—The ap-
proximately 15.5-mile segment from its con-
fluence with Ginger Creek downstream until
it crosses the western edge of T. 4 S., R. 7 W.,
sec. 7, Willamette Meridian, to be adminis-
tered by the Secretary of the Interior as a
recreational river.
‘‘(218) WALKER CREEK, OREGON.—The ap-
proximately 2.9-mile segment from the head-
waters in T. 3 S., R. 6 W., sec. 20 downstream
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:26 Feb 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00075 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06FE6.048 S06FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S950 February 6, 2019
to the confluence with the Nestucca River in
T. 3 S., R. 6 W., sec. 15, Willamette Meridian,
to be administered by the Secretary of the
Interior as a recreational river.
‘‘(219) NORTH FORK SILVER CREEK, OREGON.—
The approximately 6-mile segment from the
headwaters in T. 35 S., R. 9 W., sec. 1 down-
stream to the western edge of the Bureau of
Land Management boundary in T. 35 S., R. 9
W., sec. 17, Willamette Meridian, to be ad-
ministered by the Secretary of the Interior
as a recreational river.
‘‘(220) JENNY CREEK, OREGON.—The approxi-
mately 17.6-mile segment from the Bureau of
Land Management boundary located at the
north boundary of the southwest quarter of
the southeast quarter of T. 38 S., R. 4 E., sec.
34, Willamette Meridian, downstream to the
Oregon State border, to be administered by
the Secretary of the Interior as a scenic
river.
‘‘(221) SPRING CREEK, OREGON.—The ap-
proximately 1.1-mile segment from its source
at Shoat Springs in T. 40 S., R. 4 E., sec. 34,
Willamette Meridian, downstream to the
confluence with Jenny Creek in T. 41 S., R.
4 E., sec. 3, Willamette Meridian, to be ad-
ministered by the Secretary of the Interior
as a scenic river.
‘‘(222) LOBSTER CREEK, OREGON.—The ap-
proximately 5-mile segment from T. 15 S., R.
8 W., sec. 35, Willamette Meridian, down-
stream to the northern edge of the Bureau of
Land Management boundary in T. 15 S., R. 8
W., sec. 15, Willamette Meridian, to be ad-
ministered by the Secretary of the Interior
as a recreational river.
‘‘(223) ELK CREEK, OREGON.—The approxi-
mately 7.3-mile segment from its confluence
with Flat Creek near river mile 9, to the
southern edge of the Army Corps of Engi-
neers boundary in T. 33 S., R. 1 E., sec. 30,
Willamette Meridian, near river mile 1.7, to
be administered by the Secretary of the Inte-
rior as a scenic river.’’.
(ii) ADMINISTRATION OF ELK CREEK.—
(I) LATERAL BOUNDARIES OF ELK CREEK.—
The lateral boundaries of the river segment
designated by paragraph (223) of section 3(a)
of the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act (16 U.S.C.
1274(a)) (as added by clause (i)) shall include
an average of not more than 640 acres per
mile measured from the ordinary high water
mark on both sides of the river segment.
(II) DEAUTHORIZATION.—The Elk Creek
Project authorized under the Flood Control
Act of 1962 (Public Law 87–874; 76 Stat. 1192)
is deauthorized.
(iii) WITHDRAWAL.—Subject to valid exist-
ing rights, the Federal land within the
boundaries of the river segments designated
by paragraphs (217) through (223) of section
3(a) of the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act (16
U.S.C. 1274(a)) (as added by clause (i)) is
withdrawn from all forms of—
(I) entry, appropriation, or disposal under
the public land laws;
(II) location, entry, and patent under the
mining laws; and
(III) disposition under all laws relating to
mineral and geothermal leasing or mineral
materials.
(b) DEVIL’S STAIRCASE WILDERNESS.—
(1) DEFINITIONS.—In this subsection:
(A) MAP.—The term ‘‘map’’ means the map
entitled ‘‘Devil’s Staircase Wilderness Pro-
posal’’ and dated July 26, 2018.
(B) SECRETARY.—The term ‘‘Secretary’’
means—
(i) the Secretary, with respect to public
land administered by the Secretary; or
(ii) the Secretary of Agriculture, with re-
spect to National Forest System land.
(C) STATE.—The term ‘‘State’’ means the
State of Oregon.
(D) WILDERNESS.—The term ‘‘Wilderness’’
means the Devil’s Staircase Wilderness des-
ignated by paragraph (2).
(2) DESIGNATION.—In accordance with the
Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.), the
approximately 30,621 acres of Forest Service
land and Bureau of Land Management land
in the State, as generally depicted on the
map, is designated as wilderness and as a
component of the National Wilderness Pres-
ervation System, to be known as the ‘‘Dev-
il’s Staircase Wilderness’’.
(3) MAP; LEGAL DESCRIPTION.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—As soon as practicable
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Secretary shall prepare a map and legal de-
scription of the Wilderness.
(B) FORCE OF LAW.—The map and legal de-
scription prepared under subparagraph (A)
shall have the same force and effect as if in-
cluded in this subsection, except that the
Secretary may correct clerical and typo-
graphical errors in the map and legal de-
scription.
(C) AVAILABILITY.—The map and legal de-
scription prepared under subparagraph (A)
shall be on file and available for public in-
spection in the appropriate offices of the
Forest Service and Bureau of Land Manage-
ment.
(4) ADMINISTRATION.—Subject to valid ex-
isting rights, the area designated as wilder-
ness by this subsection shall be administered
by the Secretary in accordance with the Wil-
derness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.), except
that—
(A) any reference in that Act to the effec-
tive date shall be considered to be a ref-
erence to the date of enactment of this Act;
and
(B) any reference in that Act to the Sec-
retary of Agriculture shall be considered to
be a reference to the Secretary that has ju-
risdiction over the land within the Wilder-
ness.
(5) FISH AND WILDLIFE.—Nothing in this
subsection affects the jurisdiction or respon-
sibilities of the State with respect to fish
and wildlife in the State.
(6) ADJACENT MANAGEMENT.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Nothing in this sub-
section creates any protective perimeter or
buffer zone around the Wilderness.
(B) ACTIVITIES OUTSIDE WILDERNESS.—The
fact that a nonwilderness activity or use on
land outside the Wilderness can be seen or
heard within the Wilderness shall not pre-
clude the activity or use outside the bound-
ary of the Wilderness.
(7) PROTECTION OF TRIBAL RIGHTS.—Nothing
in this subsection diminishes any treaty
rights of an Indian Tribe.
(8) TRANSFER OF ADMINISTRATIVE JURISDIC-
TION.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Administrative jurisdic-
tion over the approximately 49 acres of Bu-
reau of Land Management land north of the
Umpqua River in T. 21 S., R. 11 W., sec. 32, is
transferred from the Bureau of Land Man-
agement to the Forest Service.
(B) ADMINISTRATION.—The Secretary shall
administer the land transferred by subpara-
graph (A) in accordance with—
(i) the Act of March 1, 1911 (commonly
known as the ‘‘Weeks Law’’) (16 U.S.C. 480 et
seq.); and
(ii) any laws (including regulations) appli-
cable to the National Forest System.
PART II—EMERY COUNTY PUBLIC LAND
MANAGEMENT
SEC. 1211. DEFINITIONS.
In this part:
(1) COUNCIL.—The term ‘‘Council’’ means
the San Rafael Swell Recreation Area Advi-
sory Council established under section
1223(a).
(2) COUNTY.—The term ‘‘County’’ means
Emery County in the State.
(3) MANAGEMENT PLAN.—The term ‘‘Man-
agement Plan’’ means the management plan
for the Recreation Area developed under sec-
tion 1222(c).
(4) MAP.—The term ‘‘Map’’ means the map
entitled ‘‘Emery County Public Land Man-
agement Act of 2018 Overview Map’’ and
dated February 5, 2019.
(5) RECREATION AREA.—The term ‘‘Recre-
ation Area’’ means the San Rafael Swell
Recreation Area established by section
1221(a)(1).
(6) SECRETARY.—The term ‘‘Secretary’’
means—
(A) the Secretary, with respect to public
land administered by the Bureau of Land
Management; and
(B) the Secretary of Agriculture, with re-
spect to National Forest System land.
(7) STATE.—The term ‘‘State’’ means the
State of Utah.
(8) WILDERNESS AREA.—The term ‘‘wilder-
ness area’’ means a wilderness area des-
ignated by section 1231(a).
SEC. 1212. ADMINISTRATION.
Nothing in this part affects or modifies—
(1) any right of any federally recognized In-
dian Tribe; or
(2) any obligation of the United States to
any federally recognized Indian Tribe.
SEC. 1213. EFFECT ON WATER RIGHTS.
Nothing in this part—
(1) affects the use or allocation, in exist-
ence on the date of enactment of this Act, of
any water, water right, or interest in water;
(2) affects any water right (as defined by
applicable State law) in existence on the
date of enactment of this Act, including any
water right held by the United States;
(3) affects any interstate water compact in
existence on the date of enactment of this
Act;
(4) shall be considered to be a relinquish-
ment or reduction of any water rights re-
served or appropriated by the United States
in the State on or before the date of enact-
ment of this Act; or
(5) affects the management and operation
of Flaming Gorge Dam and Reservoir, in-
cluding the storage, management, and re-
lease of water.
SEC. 1214. SAVINGS CLAUSE.
Nothing in this part diminishes the au-
thority of the Secretary under Public Law
92–195 (commonly known as the ‘‘Wild Free-
Roaming Horses and Burros Act’’) (16 U.S.C.
1331 et seq.).
Subpart A—San Rafael Swell Recreation Area
SEC. 1221. ESTABLISHMENT OF RECREATION
AREA.
(a) ESTABLISHMENT.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Subject to valid existing
rights, there is established the San Rafael
Swell Recreation Area in the State.
(2) AREA INCLUDED.—The Recreation Area
shall consist of approximately 216,995 acres
of Federal land managed by the Bureau of
Land Management, as generally depicted on
the Map.
(b) PURPOSES.—The purposes of the Recre-
ation Area are to provide for the protection,
conservation, and enhancement of the rec-
reational, cultural, natural, scenic, wildlife,
ecological, historical, and educational re-
sources of the Recreation Area.
(c) MAP AND LEGAL DESCRIPTION.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—As soon as practicable
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Secretary shall file a map and legal descrip-
tion of the Recreation Area with the Com-
mittee on Natural Resources of the House of
Representatives and the Committee on En-
ergy and Natural Resources of the Senate.
(2) EFFECT.—The map and legal description
filed under paragraph (1) shall have the same
force and effect as if included in this subpart,
except that the Secretary may correct cler-
ical and typographical errors in the map and
legal description.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:26 Feb 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00076 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06FE6.048 S06FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S951
February 6, 2019
(3) PUBLIC AVAILABILITY.—A copy of the
map and legal description filed under para-
graph (1) shall be on file and available for
public inspection in the appropriate offices
of the Bureau of Land Management.
SEC. 1222. MANAGEMENT OF RECREATION AREA.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall ad-
minister the Recreation Area—
(1) in a manner that conserves, protects,
and enhances the purposes for which the
Recreation Area is established; and
(2) in accordance with—
(A) this section;
(B) the Federal Land Policy and Manage-
ment Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.); and
(C) other applicable laws.
(b) USES.—The Secretary shall allow only
uses of the Recreation Area that are con-
sistent with the purposes for which the
Recreation Area is established.
(c) MANAGEMENT PLAN.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 5 years
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Secretary shall develop a comprehensive
management plan for the long-term protec-
tion and management of the Recreation
Area.
(2) REQUIREMENTS.—The Management Plan
shall—
(A) describe the appropriate uses and man-
agement of the Recreation Area;
(B) be developed with extensive public
input;
(C) take into consideration any informa-
tion developed in studies of the land within
the Recreation Area; and
(D) be developed fully consistent with the
settlement agreement entered into on Janu-
ary 13, 2017, in the case in the United States
District Court for the District of Utah styled
‘‘Southern Utah Wilderness Alliance, et al. v.
U.S. Department of the Interior, et al.’’ and
numbered 2:12–cv–257 DAK.
(d) MOTORIZED VEHICLES; NEW ROADS.—
(1) MOTORIZED VEHICLES.—Except as needed
for emergency response or administrative
purposes, the use of motorized vehicles in
the Recreation Area shall be permitted only
on roads and motorized routes designated in
the Management Plan for the use of motor-
ized vehicles.
(2) NEW ROADS.—No new permanent or tem-
porary roads or other motorized vehicle
routes shall be constructed within the Recre-
ation Area after the date of enactment of
this Act.
(3) EXISTING ROADS.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Necessary maintenance
or repairs to existing roads designated in the
Management Plan for the use of motorized
vehicles, including necessary repairs to keep
existing roads free of debris or other safety
hazards, shall be permitted after the date of
enactment of this Act, consistent with the
requirements of this section.
(B) EFFECT.—Nothing in this subsection
prevents the Secretary from rerouting an ex-
isting road or trail to protect Recreation
Area resources from degradation or to pro-
tect public safety, as determined to be appro-
priate by the Secretary.
(e) GRAZING.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The grazing of livestock
in the Recreation Area, if established before
the date of enactment of this Act, shall be
allowed to continue, subject to such reason-
able regulations, policies, and practices as
the Secretary considers to be necessary in
accordance with—
(A) applicable law (including regulations);
and
(B) the purposes of the Recreation Area.
(2) INVENTORY.—Not later than 5 years
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Secretary, in collaboration with any affected
grazing permittee, shall carry out an inven-
tory of facilities and improvements associ-
ated with grazing activities in the Recre-
ation Area.
(f) COLD WAR SITES.—The Secretary shall
manage the Recreation Area in a manner
that educates the public about Cold War and
historic uranium mine sites in the Recre-
ation Area, subject to such terms and condi-
tions as the Secretary considers necessary to
protect public health and safety.
(g) INCORPORATION OF ACQUIRED LAND AND
INTERESTS.—Any land or interest in land lo-
cated within the boundary of the Recreation
Area that is acquired by the United States
after the date of enactment of this Act
shall—
(1) become part of the Recreation Area;
and
(2) be managed in accordance with applica-
ble laws, including as provided in this sec-
tion.
(h) WITHDRAWAL.—Subject to valid existing
rights, all Federal land within the Recre-
ation Area, including any land or interest in
land that is acquired by the United States
within the Recreation Area after the date of
enactment of this Act, is withdrawn from—
(1) entry, appropriation, or disposal under
the public land laws;
(2) location, entry, and patent under the
mining laws; and
(3) operation of the mineral leasing, min-
eral materials, and geothermal leasing laws.
(i) STUDY OF NONMOTORIZED RECREATION
OPPORTUNITIES.—Not later than 2 years after
the date of enactment of this Act, the Sec-
retary, in consultation with interested par-
ties, shall conduct a study of nonmotorized
recreation trail opportunities, including bi-
cycle trails, within the Recreation Area,
consistent with the purposes of the Recre-
ation Area.
(j) COOPERATIVE AGREEMENT.—The Sec-
retary may enter into a cooperative agree-
ment with the State in accordance with sec-
tion 307(b) of the Federal Land Policy and
Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1737(b))
and other applicable laws to provide for the
protection, management, and maintenance
of the Recreation Area.
SEC. 1223. SAN RAFAEL SWELL RECREATION
AREA ADVISORY COUNCIL.
(a) ESTABLISHMENT.—Not later than 180
days after the date of enactment of this Act,
the Secretary shall establish an advisory
council, to be known as the ‘‘San Rafael
Swell Recreation Area Advisory Council’’.
(b) DUTIES.—The Council shall advise the
Secretary with respect to the preparation
and implementation of the Management
Plan for the Recreation Area.
(c) APPLICABLE LAW.—The Council shall be
subject to—
(1) the Federal Advisory Committee Act (5
U.S.C. App.); and
(2) section 309 of the Federal Land Policy
and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1739).
(d) MEMBERS.—The Council shall include 7
members, to be appointed by the Secretary,
of whom, to the maximum extent prac-
ticable—
(1) 1 member shall represent the Emery
County Commission;
(2) 1 member shall represent motorized rec-
reational users;
(3) 1 member shall represent nonmotorized
recreational users;
(4) 1 member shall represent permittees
holding grazing allotments within the Recre-
ation Area or wilderness areas designated in
this part;
(5) 1 member shall represent conservation
organizations;
(6) 1 member shall have expertise in the
historical uses of the Recreation Area; and
(7) 1 member shall be appointed from the
elected leadership of a Federally recognized
Indian Tribe that has significant cultural or
historical connections to, and expertise in,
the landscape, archeological sites, or cul-
tural sites within the County.
Subpart B—Wilderness Areas
SEC. 1231. ADDITIONS TO THE NATIONAL WIL-
DERNESS PRESERVATION SYSTEM.
(a) ADDITIONS.—In accordance with the
Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.), the
following land in the State is designated as
wilderness and as components of the Na-
tional Wilderness Preservation System:
(1) BIG WILD HORSE MESA.—Certain Federal
land managed by the Bureau of Land Man-
agement, comprising approximately 18,192
acres, generally depicted on the Map as
‘‘Proposed Big Wild Horse Mesa Wilderness’’,
which shall be known as the ‘‘Big Wild Horse
Mesa Wilderness’’.
(2) COLD WASH.—Certain Federal land man-
aged by the Bureau of Land Management,
comprising approximately 11,001 acres, gen-
erally depicted on the Map as ‘‘Proposed
Cold Wash Wilderness’’, which shall be
known as the ‘‘Cold Wash Wilderness’’.
(3) DESOLATION CANYON.—Certain Federal
land managed by the Bureau of Land Man-
agement, comprising approximately 142,996
acres, generally depicted on the Map as
‘‘Proposed Desolation Canyon Wilderness’’,
which shall be known as the ‘‘Desolation
Canyon Wilderness’’.
(4) DEVIL’S CANYON.—Certain Federal land
managed by the Bureau of Land Manage-
ment, comprising approximately 8,675 acres,
generally depicted on the Map as ‘‘Proposed
Devil’s Canyon Wilderness’’, which shall be
known as the ‘‘Devil’s Canyon Wilderness’’.
(5) EAGLE CANYON.—Certain Federal land
managed by the Bureau of Land Manage-
ment, comprising approximately 13,832 acres,
generally depicted on the Map as ‘‘Proposed
Eagle Canyon Wilderness’’, which shall be
known as the ‘‘Eagle Canyon Wilderness’’.
(6) HORSE VALLEY.—Certain Federal land
managed by the Bureau of Land Manage-
ment, comprising approximately 12,201 acres,
generally depicted on the Map as ‘‘Proposed
Horse Valley Wilderness’’, which shall be
known as the ‘‘Horse Valley Wilderness’’.
(7) LABYRINTH CANYON.—Certain Federal
land managed by the Bureau of Land Man-
agement, comprising approximately 54,643
acres, generally depicted on the Map as
‘‘Proposed Labyrinth Canyon Wilderness’’,
which shall be known as the ‘‘Labyrinth
Canyon Wilderness’’.
(8) LITTLE OCEAN DRAW.—Certain Federal
land managed by the Bureau of Land Man-
agement, comprising approximately 20,660
acres, generally depicted on the Map as
‘‘Proposed Little Ocean Draw Wilderness’’,
which shall be known as the ‘‘Little Ocean
Draw Wilderness’’.
(9) LITTLE WILD HORSE CANYON.—Certain
Federal land managed by the Bureau of Land
Management, comprising approximately
5,479 acres, generally depicted on the Map as
‘‘Proposed Little Wild Horse Canyon Wilder-
ness’’, which shall be known as the ‘‘Little
Wild Horse Canyon Wilderness’’.
(10) LOWER LAST CHANCE.—Certain Federal
land managed by the Bureau of Land Man-
agement, comprising approximately 19,338
acres, generally depicted on the Map as
‘‘Proposed Lower Last Chance Wilderness’’,
which shall be known as the ‘‘Lower Last
Chance Wilderness’’.
(11) MEXICAN MOUNTAIN.—Certain Federal
land managed by the Bureau of Land Man-
agement, comprising approximately 76,413
acres, generally depicted on the Map as
‘‘Proposed Mexican Mountain Wilderness’’,
which shall be known as the ‘‘Mexican Moun-
tain Wilderness’’.
(12) MIDDLE WILD HORSE MESA.—Certain
Federal land managed by the Bureau of Land
Management, comprising approximately
16,343 acres, generally depicted on the Map as
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:26 Feb 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00077 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06FE6.048 S06FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S952 February 6, 2019
‘‘Proposed Middle Wild Horse Mesa Wilder-
ness’’, which shall be known as the ‘‘Middle
Wild Horse Mesa Wilderness’’.
(13) MUDDY CREEK.—Certain Federal land
managed by the Bureau of Land Manage-
ment, comprising approximately 98,023 acres,
generally depicted on the Map as ‘‘Proposed
Muddy Creek Wilderness’’, which shall be
known as the ‘‘Muddy Creek Wilderness’’.
(14) NELSON MOUNTAIN.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Certain Federal land
managed by the Forest Service, comprising
approximately 7,176 acres, and certain Fed-
eral land managed by the Bureau of Land
Management, comprising approximately 257
acres, generally depicted on the Map as
‘‘Proposed Nelson Mountain Wilderness’’,
which shall be known as the ‘‘Nelson Moun-
tain Wilderness’’.
(B) TRANSFER OF ADMINISTRATIVE JURISDIC-
TION.—Administrative jurisdiction over the
257-acre portion of the Nelson Mountain Wil-
derness designated by subparagraph (A) is
transferred from the Bureau of Land Man-
agement to the Forest Service.
(15) RED’S CANYON.—Certain Federal land
managed by the Bureau of Land Manage-
ment, comprising approximately 17,325 acres,
generally depicted on the Map as ‘‘Proposed
Red’s Canyon Wilderness’’, which shall be
known as the ‘‘Red’s Canyon Wilderness’’.
(16) SAN RAFAEL REEF.—Certain Federal
land managed by the Bureau of Land Man-
agement, comprising approximately 60,442
acres, generally depicted on the Map as
‘‘Proposed San Rafael Reef Wilderness’’,
which shall be known as the ‘‘San Rafael
Reef Wilderness’’.
(17) SID’S MOUNTAIN.—Certain Federal land
managed by the Bureau of Land Manage-
ment, comprising approximately 49,130 acres,
generally depicted on the Map as ‘‘Proposed
Sid’s Mountain Wilderness’’, which shall be
known as the ‘‘Sid’s Mountain Wilderness’’.
(18) TURTLE CANYON.—Certain Federal land
managed by the Bureau of Land Manage-
ment, comprising approximately 29,029 acres,
generally depicted on the Map as ‘‘Proposed
Turtle Canyon Wilderness’’, which shall be
known as the ‘‘Turtle Canyon Wilderness’’.
(b) MAP AND LEGAL DESCRIPTION.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—As soon as practicable
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Secretary shall file a map and legal descrip-
tion of each wilderness area with—
(A) the Committee on Natural Resources of
the House of Representatives; and
(B) the Committee on Energy and Natural
Resources of the Senate.
(2) EFFECT.—Each map and legal descrip-
tion filed under paragraph (1) shall have the
same force and effect as if included in this
part, except that the Secretary may correct
clerical and typographical errors in the maps
and legal descriptions.
(3) AVAILABILITY.—Each map and legal de-
scription filed under paragraph (1) shall be
on file and available for public inspection in
the appropriate office of the Secretary.
SEC. 1232. ADMINISTRATION.
(a) MANAGEMENT.—Subject to valid exist-
ing rights, the wilderness areas shall be ad-
ministered by the Secretary in accordance
with the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et
seq.), except that—
(1) any reference in that Act to the effec-
tive date shall be considered to be a ref-
erence to the date of enactment of this Act;
and
(2) any reference in that Act to the Sec-
retary of Agriculture shall be considered to
be a reference to the Secretary.
(b) RECREATIONAL CLIMBING.—Nothing in
this part prohibits recreational rock climb-
ing activities in the wilderness areas, such as
the placement, use, and maintenance of fixed
anchors, including any fixed anchor estab-
lished before the date of the enactment of
this Act—
(1) in accordance with the Wilderness Act
(16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.); and
(2) subject to any terms and conditions de-
termined to be necessary by the Secretary.
(c) TRAIL PLAN.—After providing opportu-
nities for public comment, the Secretary
shall establish a trail plan that addresses
hiking and equestrian trails on the wilder-
ness areas in a manner consistent with the
Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.).
(d) LIVESTOCK.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The grazing of livestock
in the wilderness areas, if established before
the date of enactment of this Act, shall be
allowed to continue, subject to such reason-
able regulations, policies, and practices as
the Secretary considers to be necessary in
accordance with—
(A) section 4(d)(4) of the Wilderness Act (16
U.S.C. 1133(d)(4)); and
(B) the guidelines set forth in Appendix A
of the report of the Committee on Interior
and Insular Affairs of the House of Rep-
resentatives accompanying H.R. 2570 of the
101st Congress (House Report 101–405).
(2) INVENTORY.—With respect to each wil-
derness area in which grazing of livestock is
allowed to continue under paragraph (1), not
later than 2 years after the date of enact-
ment of this Act, the Secretary, in collabora-
tion with any affected grazing permittee,
shall carry out an inventory of facilities and
improvements associated with grazing ac-
tivities in the wilderness area.
(e) ADJACENT MANAGEMENT.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Congress does not intend
for the designation of the wilderness areas to
create protective perimeters or buffer zones
around the wilderness areas.
(2) NONWILDERNESS ACTIVITIES.—The fact
that nonwilderness activities or uses can be
seen or heard from areas within a wilderness
area shall not preclude the conduct of those
activities or uses outside the boundary of the
wilderness area.
(f) MILITARY OVERFLIGHTS.—Nothing in
this subpart restricts or precludes—
(1) low-level overflights of military air-
craft over the wilderness areas, including
military overflights that can be seen or
heard within the wilderness areas;
(2) flight testing and evaluation; or
(3) the designation or creation of new units
of special use airspace, or the establishment
of military flight training routes, over the
wilderness areas.
(g) COMMERCIAL SERVICES.—Commercial
services (including authorized outfitting and
guide activities) within the wilderness areas
may be authorized to the extent necessary
for activities that are appropriate for real-
izing the recreational or other wilderness
purposes of the wilderness areas, in accord-
ance with section 4(d)(5) of the Wilderness
Act (16 U.S.C. 1133(d)(5)).
(h) LAND ACQUISITION AND INCORPORATION
OF ACQUIRED LAND AND INTERESTS.—
(1) ACQUISITION AUTHORITY.—The Secretary
may acquire land and interests in land with-
in the boundaries of a wilderness area by do-
nation, purchase from a willing seller, or ex-
change.
(2) INCORPORATION.—Any land or interest in
land within the boundary of a wilderness
area that is acquired by the United States
after the date of enactment of this Act shall
be added to and administered as part of the
wilderness area.
(i) WATER RIGHTS.—
(1) STATUTORY CONSTRUCTION.—Nothing in
this subpart—
(A) shall constitute or be construed to con-
stitute either an express or implied reserva-
tion by the United States of any water or
water rights with respect to the land des-
ignated as wilderness by section 1231;
(B) shall affect any water rights in the
State existing on the date of enactment of
this Act, including any water rights held by
the United States;
(C) shall be construed as establishing a
precedent with regard to any future wilder-
ness designations;
(D) shall affect the interpretation of, or
any designation made pursuant to, any other
Act; or
(E) shall be construed as limiting, altering,
modifying, or amending any of the interstate
compacts or equitable apportionment de-
crees that apportions water among and be-
tween the State and other States.
(2) STATE WATER LAW.—The Secretary shall
follow the procedural and substantive re-
quirements of the State in order to obtain
and hold any water rights not in existence on
the date of enactment of this Act with re-
spect to the wilderness areas.
(j) MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING.—The
Secretary shall offer to enter into a memo-
randum of understanding with the County, in
accordance with the Wilderness Act (16
U.S.C. 1131 et seq.), to clarify the approval
processes for the use of motorized equipment
and mechanical transport for search and res-
cue activities in the Muddy Creek Wilderness
established by section 1231(a)(13).
SEC. 1233. FISH AND WILDLIFE MANAGEMENT.
Nothing in this subpart affects the juris-
diction of the State with respect to fish and
wildlife on public land located in the State.
SEC. 1234. RELEASE.
(a) FINDING.—Congress finds that, for the
purposes of section 603(c) of the Federal Land
Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43
U.S.C. 1782(c)), the approximately 17,420
acres of public land administered by the Bu-
reau of Land Management in the County
that has not been designated as wilderness
by section 1231(a) has been adequately stud-
ied for wilderness designation.
(b) RELEASE.—The public land described in
subsection (a)—
(1) is no longer subject to section 603(c) of
the Federal Land Policy and Management
Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1782(c)); and
(2) shall be managed in accordance with—
(A) applicable law; and
(B) any applicable land management plan
adopted under section 202 of the Federal
Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43
U.S.C. 1712).
Subpart C—Wild and Scenic River
Designation
SEC. 1241. GREEN RIVER WILD AND SCENIC
RIVER DESIGNATION.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 3(a) of the Wild
and Scenic Rivers Act (16 U.S.C. 1274(a)) (as
amended by section 1205(a)(5)(B)(i)) is amend-
ed by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(224) GREEN RIVER.—The approximately
63-mile segment, as generally depicted on
the map entitled ‘Emery County Public Land
Management Act of 2018 Overview Map’ and
dated December 11, 2018, to be administered
by the Secretary of the Interior, in the fol-
lowing classifications:
‘‘(A) WILD RIVER SEGMENT.—The 5.3-mile
segment from the boundary of the Uintah
and Ouray Reservation, south to the
Nefertiti boat ramp, as a wild river.
‘‘(B) RECREATIONAL RIVER SEGMENT.—The
8.5-mile segment from the Nefertiti boat
ramp, south to the Swasey’s boat ramp, as a
recreational river.
‘‘(C) SCENIC RIVER SEGMENT.—The 49.2-mile
segment from Bull Bottom, south to the
county line between Emery and Wayne Coun-
ties, as a scenic river.’’.
(b) INCORPORATION OF ACQUIRED NON-FED-
ERAL LAND.—If the United States acquires
any non-Federal land within or adjacent to a
river segment of the Green River designated
by paragraph (224) of section 3(a) of the Wild
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:26 Feb 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00078 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06FE6.048 S06FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S953
February 6, 2019
and Scenic Rivers Act (16 U.S.C. 1274(a)) (as
added by subsection (a)), the acquired land
shall be incorporated in, and be administered
as part of, the applicable wild, scenic, or rec-
reational river.
Subpart D—Land Management and
Conveyances
SEC. 1251. GOBLIN VALLEY STATE PARK.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall offer
to convey to the Utah Division of Parks and
Recreation of the Utah Department of Nat-
ural Resources (referred to in this section as
the ‘‘State’’), approximately 6,261 acres of
land identified on the Map as the ‘‘Proposed
Goblin Valley State Park Expansion’’, with-
out consideration, for the management by
the State as a State park, consistent with
uses allowed under the Act of June 14, 1926
(commonly known as the ‘‘Recreation and
Public Purposes Act’’) (44 Stat. 741, chapter
578; 43 U.S.C. 869 et seq.).
(b) REVERSIONARY CLAUSE REQUIRED.—A
conveyance under subsection (a) shall in-
clude a reversionary clause to ensure that
management of the land described in that
subsection shall revert to the Secretary if
the land is no longer being managed as a
State park in accordance with subsection (a).
SEC. 1252. JURASSIC NATIONAL MONUMENT.
(a) ESTABLISHMENT PURPOSES.—To con-
serve, interpret, and enhance for the benefit
of present and future generations the paleon-
tological, scientific, educational, and rec-
reational resources of the area and subject to
valid existing rights, there is established in
the State the Jurassic National Monument
(referred to in this section as the ‘‘Monu-
ment’’), consisting of approximately 850
acres of Federal land administered by the
Bureau of Land Management in the County
and generally depicted as ‘‘Proposed Jurassic
National Monument’’ on the Map.
(b) MAP AND LEGAL DESCRIPTION.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 2 years
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Secretary shall file with the Committee on
Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate
and the Committee on Natural Resources of
the House of Representatives a map and
legal description of the Monument.
(2) EFFECT.—The map and legal description
filed under paragraph (1) shall have the same
force and effect as if included in this section,
except that the Secretary may correct cler-
ical and typographical errors in the map and
legal description, subject to the requirement
that, before making the proposed correc-
tions, the Secretary shall submit to the
State and any affected county the proposed
corrections.
(3) PUBLIC AVAILABILITY.—A copy of the
map and legal description filed under para-
graph (1) shall be on file and available for
public inspection in the appropriate offices
of the Bureau of Land Management.
(c) WITHDRAWAL.—Subject to valid existing
rights, any Federal land within the bound-
aries of the Monument and any land or inter-
est in land that is acquired by the United
States for inclusion in the Monument after
the date of enactment of this Act is with-
drawn from—
(1) entry, appropriation, or disposal under
the public land laws;
(2) location, entry, and patent under the
mining laws; and
(3) operation of the mineral leasing laws,
geothermal leasing laws, and minerals mate-
rials laws.
(d) MANAGEMENT.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall man-
age the Monument—
(A) in a manner that conserves, protects,
and enhances the resources and values of the
Monument, including the resources and val-
ues described in subsection (a); and
(B) in accordance with—
(i) this section;
(ii) the Federal Land Policy and Manage-
ment Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.); and
(iii) any other applicable Federal law.
(2) NATIONAL LANDSCAPE CONSERVATION SYS-
TEM.—The Monument shall be managed as a
component of the National Landscape Con-
servation System.
(e) MANAGEMENT PLAN.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 2 years
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Secretary shall develop a comprehensive
management plan for the long-term protec-
tion and management of the Monument.
(2) COMPONENTS.—The management plan
developed under paragraph (1) shall—
(A) describe the appropriate uses and man-
agement of the Monument, consistent with
the provisions of this section; and
(B) allow for continued scientific research
at the Monument during the development of
the management plan for the Monument,
subject to any terms and conditions that the
Secretary determines necessary to protect
Monument resources.
(f) AUTHORIZED USES.—The Secretary shall
only allow uses of the Monument that the
Secretary determines would further the pur-
poses for which the Monument has been es-
tablished.
(g) INTERPRETATION, EDUCATION, AND SCI-
ENTIFIC RESEARCH.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall pro-
vide for public interpretation of, and edu-
cation and scientific research on, the paleon-
tological resources of the Monument.
(2) COOPERATIVE AGREEMENTS.—The Sec-
retary may enter into cooperative agree-
ments with appropriate public entities to
carry out paragraph (1).
(h) SPECIAL MANAGEMENT AREAS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The establishment of the
Monument shall not modify the management
status of any area within the boundary of
the Monument that is managed as an area of
critical environmental concern.
(2) CONFLICT OF LAWS.—If there is a conflict
between the laws applicable to an area de-
scribed in paragraph (1) and this section, the
more restrictive provision shall control.
(i) MOTORIZED VEHICLES.—Except as needed
for administrative purposes or to respond to
an emergency, the use of motorized vehicles
in the Monument shall be allowed only on
roads and trails designated for use by motor-
ized vehicles under the management plan for
the Monument developed under subsection
(e).
(j) WATER RIGHTS.—Nothing in this section
constitutes an express or implied reservation
by the United States of any water or water
rights with respect to the Monument.
(k) GRAZING.—The grazing of livestock in
the Monument, if established before the date
of enactment of this Act, shall be allowed to
continue, subject to such reasonable regula-
tions, policies, and practices as the Sec-
retary considers to be necessary in accord-
ance with—
(1) applicable law (including regulations);
(2) the guidelines set forth in Appendix A
of the report of the Committee on Interior
and Insular Affairs of the House of Rep-
resentatives accompanying H.R. 2570 of the
101st Congress (House Report 101–405); and
(3) the purposes of the Monument.
SEC. 1253. PUBLIC LAND DISPOSAL AND ACQUISI-
TION.
(a) IN GENERAL.—In accordance with appli-
cable law, the Secretary may sell public land
located in the County that has been identi-
fied as suitable for disposal based on specific
criteria as listed in the Federal Land Policy
and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1713)
in the applicable resource management plan
in existence on the date of enactment of this
Act.
(b) USE OF PROCEEDS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Notwithstanding any
other provision of law (other than a law that
specifically provides for a portion of the pro-
ceeds of a land sale to be distributed to any
trust fund of the State), proceeds from the
sale of public land under subsection (a) shall
be deposited in a separate account in the
Treasury, to be known as the ‘‘Emery Coun-
ty, Utah, Land Acquisition Account’’ (re-
ferred to in this section as the ‘‘Account’’).
(2) AVAILABILITY.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Amounts in the Account
shall be available to the Secretary, without
further appropriation, to purchase from will-
ing sellers land or interests in land within a
wilderness area or the Recreation Area.
(B) APPLICABILITY.—Any purchase of land
or interest in land under subparagraph (A)
shall be in accordance with applicable law.
(C) PROTECTION OF CULTURAL RESOURCES.—
To the extent that there are amounts in the
Account in excess of the amounts needed to
carry out subparagraph (A), the Secretary
may use the excess amounts for the protec-
tion of cultural resources on Federal land
within the County.
SEC. 1254. PUBLIC PURPOSE CONVEYANCES.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Notwithstanding the land
use planning requirement of sections 202 and
203 of the Federal Land Policy and Manage-
ment Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1712, 1713), on re-
quest by the applicable local governmental
entity, the Secretary shall convey without
consideration the following parcels of public
land to be used for public purposes:
(1) EMERY CITY RECREATION AREA.—The ap-
proximately 640-acre parcel as generally de-
picted on the Map, to the City of Emery,
Utah, for the creation or enhancement of
public recreation opportunities consistent
with uses allowed under the Act of June 14,
1926 (commonly known as the ‘‘Recreation
and Public Purposes Act’’) (44 Stat. 741,
chapter 578; 43 U.S.C. 869 et seq.).
(2) HUNTINGTON AIRPORT.—The approxi-
mately 320-acre parcel as generally depicted
on the Map, to Emery County, Utah, for ex-
pansion of Huntington Airport consistent
with uses allowed under the Act of June 14,
1926 (commonly known as the ‘‘Recreation
and Public Purposes Act’’) (44 Stat. 741,
chapter 578; 43 U.S.C. 869 et seq.).
(3) EMERY COUNTY SHERIFF’S OFFICE.—The
approximately 5-acre parcel as generally de-
picted on the Map, to Emery County, Utah,
for the Emery County Sheriff’s Office sub-
station consistent with uses allowed under
the Act of June 14, 1926 (commonly known as
the ‘‘Recreation and Public Purposes Act’’)
(44 Stat. 741, chapter 578; 43 U.S.C. 869 et
seq.).
(4) BUCKHORN INFORMATION CENTER.—The
approximately 5-acre parcel as generally de-
picted on the Map, to Emery County, Utah,
for the Buckhorn Information Center con-
sistent with uses allowed under the Act of
June 14, 1926 (commonly known as the
‘‘Recreation and Public Purposes Act’’) (44
Stat. 741, chapter 578; 43 U.S.C. 869 et seq.).
(b) MAP AND LEGAL DESCRIPTION.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—As soon as practicable
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Secretary shall file a map and legal descrip-
tion of each parcel of land to be conveyed
under subsection (a) with—
(A) the Committee on Energy and Natural
Resources of the Senate; and
(B) the Committee on Natural Resources of
the House of Representatives.
(2) EFFECT.—Each map and legal descrip-
tion filed under paragraph (1) shall have the
same force and effect as if included in this
part, except that the Secretary may correct
clerical or typographical errors in the map
and legal description.
(3) PUBLIC AVAILABILITY.—Each map and
legal description filed under paragraph (1)
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:26 Feb 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00079 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06FE6.048 S06FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S954 February 6, 2019
shall be on file and available for public in-
spection in the Price Field Office of the Bu-
reau of Land Management.
(c) REVERSION.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—If a parcel of land con-
veyed under subsection (a) is used for a pur-
pose other than the purpose described in that
subsection, the parcel of land shall, at the
discretion of the Secretary, revert to the
United States.
(2) RESPONSIBILITY FOR REMEDIATION.—In
the case of a reversion under paragraph (1), if
the Secretary determines that the parcel of
land is contaminated with hazardous waste,
the local governmental entity to which the
parcel of land was conveyed under subsection
(a) shall be responsible for remediation.
SEC. 1255. EXCHANGE OF BLM AND SCHOOL AND
INSTITUTIONAL TRUST LANDS AD-
MINISTRATION LAND.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) EXCHANGE MAP.—The term ‘‘Exchange
Map’’ means the map prepared by the Bureau
of Land Management entitled ‘‘Emery Coun-
ty Public Land Management Act—Proposed
Land Exchange’’ and dated December, 10,
2018.
(2) FEDERAL LAND.—The term ‘‘Federal
land’’ means public land located in the State
of Utah that is identified on the Exchange
Map as—
(A) ‘‘BLM Surface and Mineral Lands Pro-
posed for Transfer to SITLA’’;
(B) ‘‘BLM Mineral Lands Proposed for
Transfer to SITLA’’; and
(C) ‘‘BLM Surface Lands Proposed for
Transfer to SITLA’’.
(3) NON-FEDERAL LAND.—The term ‘‘non-
Federal land’’ means the land owned by the
State in the Emery and Uintah Counties
that is identified on the Exchange Map as—
(A) ‘‘SITLA Surface and Mineral Land Pro-
posed for Transfer to BLM’’;
(B) ‘‘SITLA Mineral Lands Proposed for
Transfer to BLM’’; and
(C) ‘‘SITLA Surface Lands Proposed for
Transfer to BLM’’.
(4) STATE.—The term ‘‘State’’ means the
State, acting through the School and Insti-
tutional Trust Lands Administration.
(b) EXCHANGE OF FEDERAL LAND AND NON-
FEDERAL LAND.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—If the State offers to con-
vey to the United States title to the non-
Federal land, the Secretary, in accordance
with this section, shall—
(A) accept the offer; and
(B) on receipt of all right, title, and inter-
est in and to the non-Federal land, convey to
the State (or a designee) all right, title, and
interest of the United States in and to the
Federal land.
(2) CONVEYANCE OF PARCELS IN PHASES.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Notwithstanding that ap-
praisals for all of the parcels of Federal land
and non-Federal land may not have been ap-
proved under subsection (c)(5), parcels of the
Federal land and non-Federal land may be
exchanged under paragraph (1) in phases, to
be mutually agreed by the Secretary and the
State, beginning on the date on which the
appraised values of the parcels included in
the applicable phase are approved.
(B) NO AGREEMENT ON EXCHANGE.—If any
dispute or delay arises with respect to the
exchange of an individual parcel of Federal
land or non-Federal land under paragraph
(1), the Secretary and the State may mutu-
ally agree to set aside the individual parcel
to allow the exchange of the other parcels of
Federal land and non-Federal land to pro-
ceed.
(3) EXCLUSION.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall ex-
clude from any conveyance of a parcel of
Federal land under paragraph (1) any Federal
land that contains critical habitat des-
ignated for a species listed as an endangered
species or a threatened species under the En-
dangered Species Act of 1973 (16 U.S.C. 1531 et
seq.).
(B) REQUIREMENT.—Any Federal land ex-
cluded under subparagraph (A) shall be the
smallest area necessary to protect the appli-
cable critical habitat.
(4) APPLICABLE LAW.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The land exchange under
paragraph (1) shall be subject to section 206
of the Federal Land Policy and Management
Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1716) and other applica-
ble law.
(B) LAND USE PLANNING.—With respect to
the Federal land to be conveyed under para-
graph (1), the Secretary shall not be required
to undertake any additional land use plan-
ning under section 202 of the Federal Land
Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43
U.S.C. 1712) before the conveyance of the
Federal land.
(5) VALID EXISTING RIGHTS.—The land ex-
change under paragraph (1) shall be subject
to valid existing rights.
(6) TITLE APPROVAL.—Title to the Federal
land and non-Federal land to be exchanged
under paragraph (1) shall be in a form ac-
ceptable to the Secretary and the State.
(c) APPRAISALS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The value of the Federal
land and the non-Federal land to be ex-
changed under subsection (b)(1) shall be de-
termined by appraisals conducted by 1 or
more independent and qualified appraisers.
(2) STATE APPRAISER.—The Secretary and
the State may agree to use an independent
and qualified appraiser—
(A) retained by the State; and
(B) approved by the Secretary.
(3) APPLICABLE LAW.—The appraisals under
paragraph (1) shall be conducted in accord-
ance with nationally recognized appraisal
standards, including, as appropriate—
(A) the Uniform Appraisal Standards for
Federal Land Acquisitions; and
(B) the Uniform Standards of Professional
Appraisal Practice.
(4) MINERALS.—
(A) MINERAL REPORTS.—The appraisals
under paragraph (1) may take into account
mineral and technical reports provided by
the Secretary and the State in the evalua-
tion of mineral deposits in the Federal land
and non-Federal land.
(B) MINING CLAIMS.—To the extent permis-
sible under applicable appraisal standards,
the appraisal of any parcel of Federal land
that is encumbered by a mining or millsite
claim located under sections 2318 through
2352 of the Revised Statutes (commonly
known as the ‘‘Mining Law of 1872’’) (30
U.S.C. 21 et seq.) shall be appraised in ac-
cordance with standard appraisal practices,
including, as appropriate, the Uniform Ap-
praisal Standards for Federal Land Acquisi-
tion.
(C) VALIDITY EXAMINATIONS.—Nothing in
this subsection requires the United States to
conduct a mineral examination for any min-
ing claim on the Federal land.
(D) ADJUSTMENT.—
(i) IN GENERAL.—If value is attributed to
any parcel of Federal land because of the
presence of minerals subject to leasing under
the Mineral Leasing Act (30 U.S.C. 181 et
seq.), the value of the parcel (as otherwise
established under this subsection) shall be
reduced by the percentage of the applicable
Federal revenue sharing obligation under
section 35(a) of the Mineral Leasing Act (30
U.S.C. 191(a)).
(ii) LIMITATION.—An adjustment under
clause (i) shall not be considered to be a
property right of the State.
(5) APPROVAL.—An appraisal conducted
under paragraph (1) shall be submitted to the
Secretary and the State for approval.
(6) DURATION.—An appraisal conducted
under paragraph (1) shall remain valid for 3
years after the date on which the appraisal is
approved by the Secretary and the State.
(7) COST OF APPRAISAL.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The cost of an appraisal
conducted under paragraph (1) shall be paid
equally by the Secretary and the State.
(B) REIMBURSEMENT BY SECRETARY.—If the
State retains an appraiser in accordance
with paragraph (2), the Secretary shall reim-
burse the State in an amount equal to 50 per-
cent of the costs incurred by the State.
(d) CONVEYANCE OF TITLE.—It is the intent
of Congress that the land exchange author-
ized under subsection (b)(1) shall be com-
pleted not later than 1 year after the date of
final approval by the Secretary and the
State of the appraisals conducted under sub-
section (c).
(e) PUBLIC INSPECTION AND NOTICE.—
(1) PUBLIC INSPECTION.—Not later than 30
days before the date of any exchange of Fed-
eral land and non-Federal land under sub-
section (b)(1), all final appraisals and ap-
praisal reviews for the land to be exchanged
shall be available for public review at the of-
fice of the State Director of the Bureau of
Land Management in the State of Utah.
(2) NOTICE.—The Secretary shall make
available on the public website of the Sec-
retary, and the Secretary or the State, as ap-
plicable, shall publish in a newspaper of gen-
eral circulation in Salt Lake County, Utah,
a notice that the appraisals conducted under
subsection (c) are available for public inspec-
tion.
(f) EQUAL VALUE EXCHANGE.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The value of the Federal
land and non-Federal land to be exchanged
under subsection (b)(1)—
(A) shall be equal; or
(B) shall be made equal in accordance with
paragraph (2).
(2) EQUALIZATION.—
(A) SURPLUS OF FEDERAL LAND.—With re-
spect to any Federal land and non-Federal
land to be exchanged under subsection (b)(1),
if the value of the Federal land exceeds the
value of the non-Federal land, the value of
the Federal land and non-Federal land shall
be equalized by—
(i) the State conveying to the Secretary, as
necessary to equalize the value of the Fed-
eral land and non-Federal land, after the ac-
quisition of all State trust land located with-
in the wilderness areas or recreation area
designated by this part, State trust land lo-
cated within any of the wilderness areas or
national conservation areas in Washington
County, Utah, established under subtitle O of
title I of the Omnibus Public Land Manage-
ment Act of 2009 (Public Law 111–11; 123 Stat.
1075); and
(ii) the State, to the extent necessary to
equalize any remaining imbalance of value
after all available Washington County, Utah,
land described in clause (i) has been con-
veyed to the Secretary, conveying to the
Secretary additional State trust land as
identified and agreed on by the Secretary
and the State.
(B) SURPLUS OF NON-FEDERAL LAND.—If the
value of the non-Federal land exceeds the
value of the Federal land, the value of the
Federal land and the non-Federal land shall
be equalized—
(i) by the Secretary making a cash equali-
zation payment to the State, in accordance
with section 206(b) of the Federal Land Pol-
icy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C.
1716(b)); or
(ii) by removing non-Federal land from the
exchange.
(g) INDIAN TRIBES.—The Secretary shall
consult with any federally recognized Indian
Tribe in the vicinity of the Federal land and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:26 Feb 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00080 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06FE6.048 S06FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S955
February 6, 2019
non-Federal land to be exchanged under sub-
section (b)(1) before the completion of the
land exchange.
(h) APPURTENANT WATER RIGHTS.—Any
conveyance of a parcel of Federal land or
non-Federal land under subsection (b)(1)
shall include the conveyance of water rights
appurtenant to the parcel conveyed.
(i) GRAZING PERMITS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—If the Federal land or non-
Federal land exchanged under subsection
(b)(1) is subject to a lease, permit, or con-
tract for the grazing of domestic livestock in
effect on the date of acquisition, the Sec-
retary and the State shall allow the grazing
to continue for the remainder of the term of
the lease, permit, or contract, subject to the
related terms and conditions of user agree-
ments, including permitted stocking rates,
grazing fee levels, access rights, and owner-
ship and use of range improvements.
(2) RENEWAL.—To the extent allowed by
Federal or State law, on expiration of any
grazing lease, permit, or contract described
in paragraph (1), the holder of the lease, per-
mit, or contract shall be entitled to a pref-
erence right to renew the lease, permit, or
contract.
(3) CANCELLATION.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Nothing in this section
prevents the Secretary or the State from
canceling or modifying a grazing permit,
lease, or contract if the Federal land or non-
Federal land subject to the permit, lease, or
contract is sold, conveyed, transferred, or
leased for non-grazing purposes by the Sec-
retary or the State.
(B) LIMITATION.—Except to the extent rea-
sonably necessary to accommodate surface
operations in support of mineral develop-
ment, the Secretary or the State shall not
cancel or modify a grazing permit, lease, or
contract because the land subject to the per-
mit, lease, or contract has been leased for
mineral development.
(4) BASE PROPERTIES.—If non-Federal land
conveyed by the State under subsection
(b)(1) is used by a grazing permittee or lessee
to meet the base property requirements for a
Federal grazing permit or lease, the land
shall continue to qualify as a base property
for—
(A) the remaining term of the lease or per-
mit; and
(B) the term of any renewal or extension of
the lease or permit.
(j) WITHDRAWAL OF FEDERAL LAND FROM
MINERAL ENTRY PRIOR TO EXCHANGE.—Sub-
ject to valid existing rights, the Federal land
to be conveyed to the State under subsection
(b)(1) is withdrawn from mineral location,
entry, and patent under the mining laws
pending conveyance of the Federal land to
the State.
Subtitle D—Wild and Scenic Rivers
SEC. 1301. LOWER FARMINGTON RIVER AND
SALMON BROOK WILD AND SCENIC
RIVER.
(a) FINDINGS.—Congress finds that—
(1) the Lower Farmington River and Salm-
on Brook Study Act of 2005 (Public Law 109–
370) authorized the study of the Farmington
River downstream from the segment des-
ignated as a recreational river by section
3(a)(156) of the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act
(16 U.S.C. 1277(a)(156)) to its confluence with
the Connecticut River, and the segment of
the Salmon Brook including its main stem
and east and west branches for potential in-
clusion in the National Wild and Scenic Riv-
ers System;
(2) the studied segments of the Lower
Farmington River and Salmon Brook sup-
port natural, cultural, and recreational re-
sources of exceptional significance to the
citizens of Connecticut and the Nation;
(3) concurrently with the preparation of
the study, the Lower Farmington River and
Salmon Brook Wild and Scenic Study Com-
mittee prepared the Lower Farmington
River and Salmon Brook Management Plan,
June 2011 (referred to in this section as the
‘‘management plan’’), that establishes objec-
tives, standards, and action programs that
will ensure the long-term protection of the
outstanding values of the river segments
without Federal management of affected
lands not owned by the United States;
(4) the Lower Farmington River and Salm-
on Brook Wild and Scenic Study Committee
has voted in favor of Wild and Scenic River
designation for the river segments, and has
included this recommendation as an integral
part of the management plan;
(5) there is strong local support for the pro-
tection of the Lower Farmington River and
Salmon Brook, including votes of support for
Wild and Scenic designation from the gov-
erning bodies of all ten communities abut-
ting the study area;
(6) the State of Connecticut General As-
sembly has endorsed the designation of the
Lower Farmington River and Salmon Brook
as components of the National Wild and Sce-
nic Rivers System (Public Act 08–37); and
(7) the Rainbow Dam and Reservoir are lo-
cated entirely outside of the river segment
designated by subsection (b), and, based on
the findings of the study of the Lower Farm-
ington River pursuant to Public Law 109–370,
this hydroelectric project (including all as-
pects of its facilities, operations, and trans-
mission lines) is compatible with the des-
ignation made by subsection (b).
(b) DESIGNATION.—Section 3(a) of the Wild
and Scenic Rivers Act (16 U.S.C. 1274(a)) (as
amended by section 1241(a)) is amended by
adding at the end the following:
‘‘(225) LOWER FARMINGTON RIVER AND SALM-
ON BROOK, CONNECTICUT.—Segments of the
main stem and its tributary, Salmon Brook,
totaling approximately 62 miles, to be ad-
ministered by the Secretary of the Interior
as follows:
‘‘(A) The approximately 27.2-mile segment
of the Farmington River beginning 0.2 miles
below the tailrace of the Lower Collinsville
Dam and extending to the site of the
Spoonville Dam in Bloomfield and East
Granby as a recreational river.
‘‘(B) The approximately 8.1-mile segment
of the Farmington River extending from 0.5
miles below the Rainbow Dam to the con-
fluence with the Connecticut River in Wind-
sor as a recreational river.
‘‘(C) The approximately 2.4-mile segment
of the main stem of Salmon Brook extending
from the confluence of the East and West
Branches to the confluence with the Farm-
ington River as a recreational river.
‘‘(D) The approximately 12.6-mile segment
of the West Branch of Salmon Brook extend-
ing from its headwaters in Hartland, Con-
necticut, to its confluence with the East
Branch of Salmon Brook as a recreational
river.
‘‘(E) The approximately 11.4-mile segment
of the East Branch of Salmon Brook extend-
ing from the Massachusetts-Connecticut
State line to the confluence with the West
Branch of Salmon Brook as a recreational
river.’’.
(c) MANAGEMENT.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The river segments des-
ignated by subsection (b) shall be managed
in accordance with the management plan
and such amendments to the management
plan as the Secretary determines are con-
sistent with this section. The management
plan shall be deemed to satisfy the require-
ments for a comprehensive management plan
pursuant to section 3(d) of the Wild and Sce-
nic Rivers Act (16 U.S.C. 1274(d)).
(2) COMMITTEE.—The Secretary shall co-
ordinate the management responsibilities of
the Secretary under this section with the
Lower Farmington River and Salmon Brook
Wild and Scenic Committee, as specified in
the management plan.
(3) COOPERATIVE AGREEMENTS.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—In order to provide for
the long-term protection, preservation, and
enhancement of the river segment des-
ignated by subsection (b), the Secretary is
authorized to enter into cooperative agree-
ments pursuant to sections 10(e) and 11(b)(1)
of the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act (16 U.S.C.
1281(e), 1282(b)(1)) with—
(i) the State of Connecticut;
(ii) the towns of Avon, Bloomfield, Bur-
lington, East Granby, Farmington, Granby,
Hartland, Simsbury, and Windsor in Con-
necticut; and
(iii) appropriate local planning and envi-
ronmental organizations.
(B) CONSISTENCY.—All cooperative agree-
ments provided for under this section shall
be consistent with the management plan and
may include provisions for financial or other
assistance from the United States.
(4) LAND MANAGEMENT.—
(A) ZONING ORDINANCES.—For the purposes
of the segments designated in subsection (b),
the zoning ordinances adopted by the towns
in Avon, Bloomfield, Burlington, East Gran-
by, Farmington, Granby, Hartland,
Simsbury, and Windsor in Connecticut, in-
cluding provisions for conservation of
floodplains, wetlands, and watercourses asso-
ciated with the segments, shall be deemed to
satisfy the standards and requirements of
section 6(c) of the Wild and Scenic Rivers
Act (16 U.S.C. 1277(c)).
(B) ACQUISITION OF LAND.—The provisions
of section 6(c) of the Wild and Scenic Rivers
Act (16 U.S.C. 1277(c)) that prohibit Federal
acquisition of lands by condemnation shall
apply to the segments designated in sub-
section (b). The authority of the Secretary
to acquire lands for the purposes of the seg-
ments designated in subsection (b) shall be
limited to acquisition by donation or acqui-
sition with the consent of the owner of the
lands, and shall be subject to the additional
criteria set forth in the management plan.
(5) RAINBOW DAM.—The designation made
by subsection (b) shall not be construed to—
(A) prohibit, pre-empt, or abridge the po-
tential future licensing of the Rainbow Dam
and Reservoir (including any and all aspects
of its facilities, operations and transmission
lines) by the Federal Energy Regulatory
Commission as a federally licensed hydro-
electric generation project under the Federal
Power Act (16 U.S.C. 791a et seq.), provided
that the Commission may, in the discretion
of the Commission and consistent with this
section, establish such reasonable terms and
conditions in a hydropower license for Rain-
bow Dam as are necessary to reduce impacts
identified by the Secretary as invading or
unreasonably diminishing the scenic, rec-
reational, and fish and wildlife values of the
segments designated by subsection (b); or
(B) affect the operation of, or impose any
flow or release requirements on, the unli-
censed hydroelectric facility at Rainbow
Dam and Reservoir.
(6) RELATION TO NATIONAL PARK SYSTEM.—
Notwithstanding section 10(c) of the Wild
and Scenic Rivers Act (16 U.S.C. 1281(c)), the
Lower Farmington River shall not be admin-
istered as part of the National Park System
or be subject to regulations which govern the
National Park System.
(d) FARMINGTON RIVER, CONNECTICUT, DES-
IGNATION REVISION.—Section 3(a)(156) of the
Wild and Scenic Rivers Act (16 U.S.C.
1274(a)(156)) is amended in the first sen-
tence—
(1) by striking ‘‘14-mile’’ and inserting
‘‘15.1-mile’’; and
(2) by striking ‘‘to the downstream end of
the New Hartford-Canton, Connecticut town
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:26 Feb 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00081 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06FE6.048 S06FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S956 February 6, 2019
line’’ and inserting ‘‘to the confluence with
the Nepaug River’’.
SEC. 1302. WOOD-PAWCATUCK WATERSHED WILD
AND SCENIC RIVER SEGMENTS.
(a) DESIGNATION.—Section 3(a) of the Wild
and Scenic Rivers Act (16 U.S.C. 1274(a)) (as
amended by section 1301(b)) is amended by
adding at the end the following:
‘‘(226) WOOD-PAWCATUCK WATERSHED, RHODE
ISLAND AND CONNECTICUT.—The following
river segments within the Wood-Pawcatuck
watershed, to be administered by the Sec-
retary of the Interior, in cooperation with
the Wood-Pawcatuck Wild and Scenic Rivers
Stewardship Council:
‘‘(A) The approximately 11-mile segment of
the Beaver River from its headwaters in Exe-
ter and West Greenwich, Rhode Island, to its
confluence with the Pawcatuck River in
Richmond, Rhode Island, as a scenic river.
‘‘(B) The approximately 3-mile segment of
the Chipuxet River from the Kingstown Road
Bridge, South Kingstown, Rhode Island, to
its outlet in Worden Pond, as a wild river.
‘‘(C) The approximately 9-mile segment of
the Green Fall River from its headwaters in
Voluntown, Connecticut, to its confluence
with the Ashaway River in Hopkinton,
Rhode Island, as a scenic river.
‘‘(D) The approximately 3-mile segment of
the Ashaway River from its confluence with
the Green Fall River to its confluence with
the Pawcatuck River in Hopkinton, Rhode
Island, as a recreational river.
‘‘(E) The approximately 3-mile segment of
the Pawcatuck River from the Worden Pond
outlet in South Kingstown, Rhode Island, to
the South County Trail Bridge, Charlestown
and South Kingstown, Rhode Island, as a
wild river.
‘‘(F) The approximately 4-mile segment of
the Pawcatuck River from South County
Trail Bridge, Charlestown and South
Kingstown, Rhode Island, to the Carolina
Back Road Bridge in Richmond and Charles-
town, Rhode Island, as a recreational river.
‘‘(G) The approximately 21-mile segment of
the Pawcatuck River from Carolina Back
Road Bridge in Richmond and Charlestown,
Rhode Island, to the confluence with
Shunock River in Stonington, Connecticut,
as a scenic river.
‘‘(H) The approximately 8-mile segment of
the Pawcatuck River from the confluence
with Shunock River in Stonington, Con-
necticut, to the mouth of the river between
Pawcatuck Point in Stonington, Con-
necticut, and Rhodes Point in Westerly,
Rhode Island, as a recreational river.
‘‘(I) The approximately 11-mile segment of
the Queen River from its headwaters in Exe-
ter and West Greenwich, Rhode Island, to the
Kingstown Road Bridge in South Kingstown,
Rhode Island, as a scenic river.
‘‘(J) The approximately 5-mile segment of
the Usquepaugh River from the Kingstown
Road Bridge to its confluence with the
Pawcatuck River in South Kingstown, Rhode
Island, as a wild river.
‘‘(K) The approximately 8-mile segment of
the Shunock River from its headwaters in
North Stonington, Connecticut, to its con-
fluence with the Pawcatuck River as a rec-
reational river.
‘‘(L) The approximately 13-mile segment of
the Wood River from its headwaters in Ster-
ling and Voluntown, Connecticut, and Exeter
and West Greenwich, Rhode Island, to the
Arcadia Road Bridge in Hopkinton and Rich-
mond, Rhode Island, as a wild river.
‘‘(M) The approximately 11-mile segment
of the Wood River from the Arcadia Road
Bridge in Hopkinton and Richmond, Rhode
Island, to the confluence with the
Pawcatuck River in Charlestown,
Hopkinton, and Richmond, Rhode Island, as
a recreational river.’’.
(b) MANAGEMENT OF RIVER SEGMENTS.—
(1) DEFINITIONS.—In this subsection:
(A) COVERED TRIBUTARY.—The term ‘‘cov-
ered tributary’’ means—
(i) each of Assekonk Brook, Breakheart
Brook, Brushy Brook, Canochet Brook,
Chickasheen Brook, Cedar Swamp Brook,
Fisherville Brook, Glade Brook, Glen Rock
Brook, Kelly Brook, Locke Brook, Meadow
Brook, Pendleton Brook, Parris Brook,
Passquisett Brook, Phillips Brook, Poquiant
Brook, Queens Fort Brook, Roaring Brook,
Sherman Brook, Taney Brook, Tomaquag
Brook, White Brook, and Wyassup Brook
within the Wood-Pawcatuck watershed; and
(ii) any other perennial stream within the
Wood-Pawcatuck watershed.
(B) RIVER SEGMENT.—The term ‘‘river seg-
ment’’ means a river segment designated by
paragraph (226) of section 3(a) of the Wild
and Scenic Rivers Act (16 U.S.C. 1274(a)) (as
added by subsection (a)).
(C) STEWARDSHIP PLAN.—The term ‘‘Stew-
ardship Plan’’ means the plan entitled the
‘‘Wood-Pawcatuck Wild and Scenic Rivers
Stewardship Plan for the Beaver, Chipuxet,
Green Fall-Ashaway, Pawcatuck, Queen-
Usquepaugh, Shunock, and Wood Rivers’’
and dated June 2018, which takes a watershed
approach to the management of the river
segments.
(2) WOOD-PAWCATUCK WILD AND SCENIC RIV-
ERS STEWARDSHIP PLAN.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary, in co-
operation with the Wood-Pawcatuck Wild
and Scenic Rivers Stewardship Council, shall
manage the river segments in accordance
with—
(i) the Stewardship Plan; and
(ii) any amendment to the Stewardship
Plan that the Secretary determines is con-
sistent with this subsection.
(B) WATERSHED APPROACH.—In furtherance
of the watershed approach to resource pres-
ervation and enhancement described in the
Stewardship Plan, the covered tributaries
are recognized as integral to the protection
and enhancement of the river segments.
(C) REQUIREMENTS FOR COMPREHENSIVE
MANAGEMENT PLAN.—The Stewardship Plan
shall be considered to satisfy each require-
ment for a comprehensive management plan
required under section 3(d) of the Wild and
Scenic Rivers Act (16 U.S.C. 1274(d)).
(3) COOPERATIVE AGREEMENTS.—To provide
for the long-term protection, preservation,
and enhancement of each river segment, in
accordance with sections 10(e) and 11(b)(1) of
the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act (16 U.S.C.
1281(e), 1282(b)(1)), the Secretary may enter
into cooperative agreements (which may in-
clude provisions for financial or other assist-
ance from the Federal Government) with—
(A) the States of Connecticut and Rhode
Island;
(B) political subdivisions of the States of
Connecticut and Rhode Island, including—
(i) the towns of North Stonington, Ster-
ling, Stonington, and Voluntown, Con-
necticut; and
(ii) the towns of Charlestown, Exeter,
Hopkinton, North Kingstown, Richmond,
South Kingstown, Westerly, and West
Kingstown, Rhode Island;
(C) the Wood-Pawcatuck Wild and Scenic
Rivers Stewardship Council; and
(D) any appropriate nonprofit organiza-
tion, as determined by the Secretary.
(4) RELATION TO NATIONAL PARK SYSTEM.—
Notwithstanding section 10(c) of the Wild
and Scenic Rivers Act (16 U.S.C. 1281(c)),
each river segment shall not be—
(A) administered as a unit of the National
Park System; or
(B) subject to the laws (including regula-
tions) that govern the administration of the
National Park System.
(5) LAND MANAGEMENT.—
(A) ZONING ORDINANCES.—The zoning ordi-
nances adopted by the towns of North
Stonington, Sterling, Stonington, and
Voluntown, Connecticut, and Charlestown,
Exeter, Hopkinton, North Kingstown, Rich-
mond, South Kingstown, Westerly, and West
Greenwich, Rhode Island (including any pro-
vision of the zoning ordinances relating to
the conservation of floodplains, wetlands,
and watercourses associated with any river
segment), shall be considered to satisfy the
standards and requirements described in sec-
tion 6(c) of the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act
(16 U.S.C. 1277(c)).
(B) VILLAGES.—For purposes of section 6(c)
of the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act (16 U.S.C.
1277(c)), each town described in subparagraph
(A) shall be considered to be a village.
(C) ACQUISITION OF LAND.—
(i) LIMITATION OF AUTHORITY OF SEC-
RETARY.—With respect to each river seg-
ment, the Secretary may only acquire par-
cels of land—
(I) by donation; or
(II) with the consent of the owner of the
parcel of land.
(ii) PROHIBITION RELATING TO THE ACQUISI-
TION OF LAND BY CONDEMNATION.—In accord-
ance with 6(c) of the Wild and Scenic Rivers
Act (16 U.S.C. 1277(c)), with respect to each
river segment, the Secretary may not ac-
quire any parcel of land by condemnation.
SEC. 1303. NASHUA WILD AND SCENIC RIVERS,
MASSACHUSETTS AND NEW HAMP-
SHIRE.
(a) DESIGNATION OF WILD AND SCENIC RIVER
SEGMENTS.—Section 3(a) of the Wild and Sce-
nic Rivers Act (16 U.S.C. 1274(a)) (as amended
by section 1302(a)) is amended by adding at
the end the following:
‘‘(227) NASHUA, SQUANNACOOK, AND
NISSITISSIT WILD AND SCENIC RIVERS, MASSA-
CHUSETTS AND NEW HAMPSHIRE.—
‘‘(A) The following segments in the Com-
monwealth of Massachusetts and State of
New Hampshire, to be administered by the
Secretary of the Interior as a scenic river:
‘‘(i) The approximately 27-mile segment of
the mainstem of the Nashua River from the
confluence of the North and South Nashua
Rivers in Lancaster, Massachusetts, and ex-
tending north to the Massachusetts-New
Hampshire border, except as provided in sub-
paragraph (B).
‘‘(ii) The approximately 16.3-mile segment
of the Squannacook River from its head-
waters in Ash Swamp, Townsend, Massachu-
setts, extending downstream to the con-
fluence of the river with the Nashua River in
Shirley/Ayer, Massachusetts, except as pro-
vided in subparagraph (B).
‘‘(iii) The approximately 9.5-mile segment
of the Nissitissit River from its headwaters
in Brookline, New Hampshire, to the con-
fluence of the river with the Nashua River in
Pepperell, Massachusetts.
‘‘(B) EXCLUSION AREAS.—The designation of
the river segments in subparagraph (A) shall
exclude—
‘‘(i) with respect to the Ice House hydro-
electric project (FERC P–12769), from 700 feet
upstream from the crest of the dam to 500
feet downstream from the crest of the dam;
‘‘(ii) with respect to the Pepperell hydro-
electric project (FERC P12721), from 9,240
feet upstream from the crest of the dam to
1,000 feet downstream from the crest of the
dam; and
‘‘(iii) with respect to the Hollingsworth
and Vose dam (non-FERC), from 1,200 feet
upstream from the crest of the dam to 2,665
feet downstream from the crest of the dam.’’.
(b) MANAGEMENT.—
(1) PROCESS.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The river segments des-
ignated by paragraph (227) of section 3(a) of
the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act (16 U.S.C.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:26 Feb 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00082 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06FE6.048 S06FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S957
February 6, 2019
1274(a)) (as added by subsection (a)) shall be
managed in accordance with—
(i) the Nashua, Squannacook, and
Nissitissit Rivers Stewardship Plan devel-
oped pursuant to the study described in sec-
tion 5(b)(21) of the Wild and Scenic Rivers
Act (16 U.S.C. 1276(b)(21)) (referred to in this
subsection as the ‘‘management plan’’),
dated February 15, 2018; and
(ii) such amendments to the management
plan as the Secretary determines are con-
sistent with this section and as are approved
by the Nashua, Squannacook, and Nissitissit
Rivers Stewardship Council (referred to in
this subsection as the ‘‘Stewardship Coun-
cil’’).
(B) COMPREHENSIVE MANAGEMENT PLAN.—
The management plan shall be considered to
satisfy the requirements for a comprehensive
management plan under section 3(d) of the
Wild and Scenic Rivers Act (16 U.S.C.
1274(d)).
(2) COMMITTEE.—The Secretary shall co-
ordinate the management responsibilities of
the Secretary under this section with the
Stewardship Council, as specified in the
management plan.
(3) COOPERATIVE AGREEMENTS.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—In order to provide for
the long-term protection, preservation, and
enhancement of the river segments des-
ignated by paragraph (227) of section 3(a) of
the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act (16 U.S.C.
1274(a)) (as added by subsection (a)), the Sec-
retary may enter into cooperative agree-
ments pursuant to sections 10(e) and 11(b)(1)
of that Act (16 U.S.C. 1281(e), 1282(b)(1))
with—
(i) the Commonwealth of Massachusetts
and the State of New Hampshire;
(ii) the municipalities of—
(I) Ayer, Bolton, Dunstable, Groton, Har-
vard, Lancaster, Pepperell, Shirley, and
Townsend in Massachusetts; and
(II) Brookline and Hollis in New Hamp-
shire; and
(iii) appropriate local, regional, State, or
multistate, planning, environmental, or rec-
reational organizations.
(B) CONSISTENCY.—Each cooperative agree-
ment entered into under this paragraph shall
be consistent with the management plan and
may include provisions for financial or other
assistance from the United States.
(4) EFFECT ON WORKING DAMS.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The designation of the
river segments by paragraph (227) of section
3(a) of the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act (16
U.S.C. 1274(a)) (as added by subsection (a)),
does not—
(i) impact or alter the existing terms of
permitting, licensing, or operation of—
(I) the Pepperell hydroelectric project
(FERC Project P–12721, Nashua River,
Pepperell, MA);
(II) the Ice House hydroelectric project
(FERC Project P–12769, Nashua River, Ayer,
MA); or
(III) the Hollingsworth and Vose Dam (non-
FERC industrial facility, Squannacook
River, West Groton, MA) as further described
in the management plan (Appendix A,
‘‘Working Dams’’); or
(ii) preclude the Federal Energy Regu-
latory Commission from licensing, reli-
censing, or otherwise authorizing the oper-
ation or continued operation of the Pepperell
and Ice House hydroelectric projects under
the terms of licenses or exemptions in effect
on the date of enactment of this Act; or
(iii) limit actions taken to modernize, up-
grade, or carry out other changes to such
projects authorized pursuant to clause (i),
subject to written determination by the Sec-
retary that the changes are consistent with
the purposes of the designation.
(5) LAND MANAGEMENT.—
(A) ZONING ORDINANCES.—For the purpose
of the segments designated by paragraph
(227) of section 3(a) of the Wild and Scenic
Rivers Act (16 U.S.C. 1274(a)) (as added by
subsection (a)), the zoning ordinances adopt-
ed by the municipalities described in para-
graph (3)(A)(ii), including provisions for con-
servation of floodplains, wetlands, and wa-
tercourses associated with the segments,
shall be deemed to satisfy the standards and
requirements of section 6(c) of the Wild and
Scenic Rivers Act (16 U.S.C. 1277(c)).
(B) ACQUISITIONS OF LANDS.—The authority
of the Secretary to acquire land for the pur-
poses of the segments designated by para-
graph (227) of section 3(a) of the Wild and
Scenic Rivers Act (16 U.S.C. 1274(a)) (as
added by subsection (a)) shall be—
(i) limited to acquisition by donation or
acquisition with the consent of the owner of
the land; and
(ii) subject to the additional criteria set
forth in the management plan.
(C) NO CONDEMNATION.—No land or interest
in land within the boundary of the river seg-
ments designated by paragraph (227) of sec-
tion 3(a) of the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act
(16 U.S.C. 1274(a)) (as added by subsection (a))
may be acquired by condemnation.
(6) RELATION TO THE NATIONAL PARK SYS-
TEM.—Notwithstanding section 10(c) of the
Wild and Scenic Rivers Act(16 U.S.C. 1281(c)),
each segment of the Nashua, Squannacook,
and Nissitissit Rivers designated as a compo-
nent of the Wild and Scenic Rivers System
under this section shall not—
(A) be administered as a unit of the Na-
tional Park System; or
(B) be subject to regulations that govern
the National Park System.
Subtitle E—California Desert Protection and
Recreation
SEC. 1401. DEFINITIONS.
In this subtitle:
(1) CONSERVATION AREA.—The term ‘‘Con-
servation Area’’ means the California Desert
Conservation Area.
(2) SECRETARY.—The term ‘‘Secretary’’
means—
(A) the Secretary, with respect to land ad-
ministered by the Department of the Inte-
rior; or
(B) the Secretary of Agriculture, with re-
spect to National Forest System land.
(3) STATE.—The term ‘‘State’’ means the
State of California.
PART I—DESIGNATION OF WILDERNESS
IN THE CALIFORNIA DESERT CON-
SERVATION AREA
SEC. 1411. CALIFORNIA DESERT CONSERVATION
AND RECREATION.
(a) DESIGNATION OF WILDERNESS AREAS TO
BE ADMINISTERED BY THE BUREAU OF LAND
MANAGEMENT.—Section 102 of the California
Desert Protection Act of 1994 (16 U.S.C. 1132
note; Public Law 103–433; 108 Stat. 4472) is
amended by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(70) AVAWATZ MOUNTAINS WILDERNESS.—
Certain land in the California Desert Con-
servation Area administered by the Director
of the Bureau of Land Management, com-
prising approximately 89,500 acres, as gen-
erally depicted on the map entitled ‘Pro-
posed Avawatz Mountains Wilderness’ and
dated November 7, 2018, to be known as the
‘Avawatz Mountains Wilderness’.
‘‘(71) GREAT FALLS BASIN WILDERNESS.—Cer-
tain land in the California Desert Conserva-
tion Area administered by the Director of
the Bureau of Land Management, comprising
approximately 7,810 acres, as generally de-
picted on the map entitled ‘Proposed Great
Falls Basin Wilderness’ and dated November
7, 2018, to be known as the ‘Great Falls Basin
Wilderness’.
‘‘(72) SODA MOUNTAINS WILDERNESS.—Cer-
tain land in the California Desert Conserva-
tion Area, administered by the Bureau of
Land Management, comprising approxi-
mately 80,090 acres, as generally depicted on
the map entitled ‘Proposed Soda Mountains
Wilderness’ and dated November 7, 2018, to be
known as the ‘Soda Mountains Wilderness’.
‘‘(73) MILPITAS WASH WILDERNESS.—Certain
land in the California Desert Conservation
Area, administered by the Bureau of Land
Management, comprising approximately
17,250 acres, depicted as ‘Proposed Milpitas
Wash Wilderness’ on the map entitled ‘Pro-
posed Vinagre Wash Special Management
Area and Proposed Wilderness’ and dated De-
cember 4, 2018, to be known as the ‘Milpitas
Wash Wilderness’.
‘‘(74) BUZZARDS PEAK WILDERNESS.—Certain
land in the California Desert Conservation
Area, administered by the Bureau of Land
Management, comprising approximately
11,840 acres, depicted as ‘Proposed Buzzards
Peak Wilderness’ on the map entitled ‘Pro-
posed Vinagre Wash Special Management
Area and Proposed Wilderness’ and dated De-
cember 4, 2018, to be known as the ‘Buzzards
Peak Wilderness’.’’.
(b) ADDITIONS TO EXISTING WILDERNESS
AREAS ADMINISTERED BY THE BUREAU OF
LAND MANAGEMENT.—In furtherance of the
purposes of the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131
et seq.), the following land in the State is
designated as wilderness and as components
of the National Wilderness Preservation Sys-
tem:
(1) GOLDEN VALLEY WILDERNESS.—Certain
land in the Conservation Area administered
by the Director of the Bureau of Land Man-
agement, comprising approximately 1,250
acres, as generally depicted on the map enti-
tled ‘‘Proposed Golden Valley Wilderness Ad-
dition’’ and dated November 7, 2018, which
shall be added to and administered as part of
the ‘‘Golden Valley Wilderness’’.
(2) KINGSTON RANGE WILDERNESS.—Certain
land in the Conservation Area administered
by the Director of the Bureau of Land Man-
agement, comprising approximately 52,410
acres, as generally depicted on the map enti-
tled ‘‘Proposed Kingston Range Wilderness
Additions’’ and dated November 7, 2018,
which shall be added to and administered as
part of the ‘‘Kingston Range Wilderness’’.
(3) PALO VERDE MOUNTAINS WILDERNESS.—
Certain land in the Conservation Area ad-
ministered by the Director of the Bureau of
Land Management, comprising approxi-
mately 9,350 acres, depicted as ‘‘Proposed
Palo Verde Mountains Wilderness Additions’’
on the map entitled ‘‘Proposed Vinagre Wash
Special Management Area and Proposed Wil-
derness’’ and dated December 4, 2018, which
shall be added to and administered as part of
the ‘‘Palo Verde Mountains Wilderness’’.
(4) INDIAN PASS MOUNTAINS WILDERNESS.—
Certain land in the Conservation Area ad-
ministered by the Director of the Bureau of
Land Management, comprising approxi-
mately 10,860 acres, depicted as ‘‘Proposed
Indian Pass Wilderness Additions’’ on the
map entitled ‘‘Proposed Vinagre Wash Spe-
cial Management Area and Proposed Wilder-
ness’’ and dated December 4, 2018, which
shall be added to and administered as part of
the ‘‘Indian Pass Mountains Wilderness’’.
(c) DESIGNATION OF WILDERNESS AREAS TO
BE ADMINISTERED BY THE NATIONAL PARK
SERVICE.—In furtherance of the purposes of
the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.) the
following land in Death Valley National
Park is designated as wilderness and as a
component of the National Wilderness Pres-
ervation System, which shall be added to,
and administered as part of the Death Valley
National Park Wilderness established by sec-
tion 601(a)(1) of the California Desert Protec-
tion Act of 1994 (16 U.S.C. 1132 note; Public
Law 103–433; 108 Stat. 4496):
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:26 Feb 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00083 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06FE6.048 S06FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S958 February 6, 2019
(1) DEATH VALLEY NATIONAL PARK WILDER-
NESS ADDITIONS-NORTH EUREKA VALLEY.—Ap-
proximately 11,496 acres, as generally de-
picted on the map entitled ‘‘Death Valley
National Park Proposed Wilderness Area-
North Eureka Valley’’, numbered 143/
100,082D, and dated November 1, 2018.
(2) DEATH VALLEY NATIONAL PARK WILDER-
NESS ADDITIONS-IBEX.—Approximately 23,650
acres, as generally depicted on the map enti-
tled ‘‘Death Valley National Park Proposed
Wilderness Area-Ibex’’, numbered 143/
100,081D, and dated November 1, 2018.
(3) DEATH VALLEY NATIONAL PARK WILDER-
NESS ADDITIONS-PANAMINT VALLEY.—Approxi-
mately 4,807 acres, as generally depicted on
the map entitled ‘‘Death Valley National
Park Proposed Wilderness Area-Panamint
Valley’’, numbered 143/100,083D, and dated
November 1, 2018.
(4) DEATH VALLEY NATIONAL PARK WILDER-
NESS ADDITIONS-WARM SPRINGS.—Approxi-
mately 10,485 acres, as generally depicted on
the map entitled ‘‘Death Valley National
Park Proposed Wilderness Area-Warm
Spring Canyon/Galena Canyon’’, numbered
143/100,084D, and dated November 1, 2018.
(5) DEATH VALLEY NATIONAL PARK WILDER-
NESS ADDITIONS-AXE HEAD.—Approximately
8,638 acres, as generally depicted on the map
entitled ‘‘Death Valley National Park Pro-
posed Wilderness Area-Axe Head’’, numbered
143/100,085D, and dated November 1, 2018.
(6) DEATH VALLEY NATIONAL PARK WILDER-
NESS ADDITIONS-BOWLING ALLEY.—Approxi-
mately 28,923 acres, as generally depicted on
the map entitled ‘‘Death Valley National
Park Proposed Wilderness Area-Bowling
Alley’’, numbered 143/128,606A, and dated No-
vember 1, 2018.
(d) ADDITIONS TO EXISTING WILDERNESS
AREA ADMINISTERED BY THE FOREST SERV-
ICE.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—In furtherance of the pur-
poses of the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et
seq.), the land described in paragraph (2)—
(A) is designated as wilderness and as a
component of the National Wilderness Pres-
ervation System; and
(B) shall be added to and administered as
part of the San Gorgonio Wilderness estab-
lished by the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131
et seq.).
(2) DESCRIPTION OF LAND.—The land re-
ferred to in paragraph (1) is certain land in
the San Bernardino National Forest, com-
prising approximately 7,141 acres, as gen-
erally depicted on the map entitled ‘‘San
Gorgonio Wilderness Additions—Proposed’’
and dated November 7, 2018.
(3) FIRE MANAGEMENT AND RELATED ACTIVI-
TIES.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary may carry
out such activities in the wilderness area
designated by paragraph (1) as are necessary
for the control of fire, insects, and disease, in
accordance with section 4(d)(1) of the Wilder-
ness Act (16 U.S.C. 1133(d)(1)) and House Re-
port 98–40 of the 98th Congress.
(B) FUNDING PRIORITIES.—Nothing in this
subsection limits the provision of any fund-
ing for fire or fuel management in the wil-
derness area designated by paragraph (1).
(C) REVISION AND DEVELOPMENT OF LOCAL
FIRE MANAGEMENT PLANS.—As soon as prac-
ticable after the date of enactment of this
Act, the Secretary shall amend the local fire
management plans that apply to the wilder-
ness area designated by paragraph (1).
(D) ADMINISTRATION.—In accordance with
subparagraph (A) and other applicable Fed-
eral law, to ensure a timely and efficient re-
sponse to fire emergencies in the wilderness
area designated by paragraph (1), the Sec-
retary shall—
(i) not later than 1 year after the date of
enactment of this Act, establish agency ap-
proval procedures (including appropriate del-
egations of authority to the Forest Super-
visor, District Manager, or other agency offi-
cials) for responding to fire emergencies in
the wilderness area designated by paragraph
(1); and
(ii) enter into agreements with appropriate
State or local firefighting agencies relating
to the wilderness area.
(e) EFFECT ON UTILITY FACILITIES AND
RIGHTS-OF-WAY.—Nothing in this section or
an amendment made by this section affects
or precludes the renewal or reauthorization
of any valid existing right-of-way or cus-
tomary operation, maintenance, repair, up-
grading, or replacement activities in a right-
of-way acquired by or issued, granted, or per-
mitted to the Southern California Edison
Company or successors or assigns of the
Southern California Edison Company.
(f) RELEASE OF WILDERNESS STUDY
AREAS.—
(1) FINDING.—Congress finds that, for pur-
poses of section 603 of the Federal Land Pol-
icy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C.
1782), any portion of a wilderness study area
described in paragraph (2) that is not des-
ignated as a wilderness area or a wilderness
addition by this subtitle (including an
amendment made by this subtitle) or any
other Act enacted before the date of enact-
ment of this Act has been adequately studied
for wilderness designation.
(2) DESCRIPTION OF STUDY AREAS.—The
study areas referred to in subsection (a)
are—
(A) the Cady Mountains Wilderness Study
Area;
(B) the Soda Mountains Wilderness Study
Area;
(C) the Kingston Range Wilderness Study
Area;
(D) the Avawatz Mountain Wilderness
Study Area;
(E) the Death Valley 17 Wilderness Study
Area; and
(F) the Great Falls Basin Wilderness Study
Area.
(3) RELEASE.—The following are no longer
subject to section 603(c) of the Federal Land
Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43
U.S.C. 1782(c)):
(A) Any portion of a wilderness study area
described in paragraph (2) that is not des-
ignated as a wilderness area or a wilderness
addition by this subtitle (including an
amendment made by this subtitle) or any
other Act enacted before the date of enact-
ment of this Act.
(B) Any portion of a wilderness study area
described in paragraph (2) that is not trans-
ferred to the administrative jurisdiction of
the National Park Service for inclusion in a
unit of the National Park System by this
subtitle (including an amendment made by
this subtitle) or any other Act enacted be-
fore the date of enactment of this Act.
PART II—DESIGNATION OF SPECIAL
MANAGEMENT AREA
SEC. 1421. VINAGRE WASH SPECIAL MANAGE-
MENT AREA.
Title I of the California Desert Protection
Act of 1994 (16 U.S.C. 1132 note; Public Law
103–433; 108 Stat. 4472) is amended by adding
at the end the following:
‘‘SEC. 109. VINAGRE WASH SPECIAL MANAGE-
MENT AREA.
‘‘(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
‘‘(1) MANAGEMENT AREA.—The term ‘Man-
agement Area’ means the Vinagre Wash Spe-
cial Management Area established by sub-
section (b).
‘‘(2) MAP.—The term ‘map’ means the map
entitled ‘Proposed Vinagre Wash Special
Management Area and Proposed Wilderness’
and dated December 4, 2018.
‘‘(3) PUBLIC LAND.—The term ‘public land’
has the meaning given the term ‘public
lands’ in section 103 of the Federal Land Pol-
icy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C.
1702).
‘‘(4) STATE.—The term ‘State’ means the
State of California.
‘‘(b) ESTABLISHMENT.—There is established
the Vinagre Wash Special Management Area
in the State, to be managed by the Sec-
retary.
‘‘(c) PURPOSE.—The purpose of the Manage-
ment Area is to conserve, protect, and en-
hance—
‘‘(1) the plant and wildlife values of the
Management Area; and
‘‘(2) the outstanding and nationally signifi-
cant ecological, geological, scenic, rec-
reational, archaeological, cultural, historic,
and other resources of the Management
Area.
‘‘(d) BOUNDARIES.—The Management Area
shall consist of the public land in Imperial
County, California, comprising approxi-
mately 81,880 acres, as generally depicted on
the map as ‘Proposed Special Management
Area’.
‘‘(e) MAP; LEGAL DESCRIPTION.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—As soon as practicable,
but not later than 3 years, after the date of
enactment of this section, the Secretary
shall submit a map and legal description of
the Management Area to—
‘‘(A) the Committee on Natural Resources
of the House of Representatives; and
‘‘(B) the Committee on Energy and Natural
Resources of the Senate.
‘‘(2) EFFECT.—The map and legal descrip-
tion submitted under paragraph (1) shall
have the same force and effect as if included
in this section, except that the Secretary
may correct any errors in the map and legal
description.
‘‘(3) AVAILABILITY.—Copies of the map sub-
mitted under paragraph (1) shall be on file
and available for public inspection in the ap-
propriate offices of the Bureau of Land Man-
agement.
‘‘(f) MANAGEMENT.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall
manage the Management Area—
‘‘(A) in a manner that conserves, protects,
and enhances the purposes for which the
Management Area is established; and
‘‘(B) in accordance with—
‘‘(i) this section;
‘‘(ii) the Federal Land Policy and Manage-
ment Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.); and
‘‘(iii) other applicable laws.
‘‘(2) USES.—The Secretary shall allow only
those uses that are consistent with the pur-
poses of the Management Area, including
hiking, camping, hunting, and sightseeing
and the use of motorized vehicles, mountain
bikes, and horses on designated routes in the
Management Area in a manner that—
‘‘(A) is consistent with the purpose of the
Management Area described in subsection
(c);
‘‘(B) ensures public health and safety; and
‘‘(C) is consistent with all applicable laws
(including regulations), including the Desert
Renewable Energy Conservation Plan.
‘‘(3) OFF-HIGHWAY VEHICLE USE.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—Subject to subpara-
graphs (B) and (C) and all other applicable
laws, the use of off-highway vehicles shall be
permitted on routes in the Management Area
as generally depicted on the map.
‘‘(B) CLOSURE.—The Secretary may close or
permanently reroute a portion of a route de-
scribed in subparagraph (A)—
‘‘(i) to prevent, or allow for restoration of,
resource damage;
‘‘(ii) to protect Tribal cultural resources,
including the resources identified in the
Tribal cultural resources management plan
developed under section 705(d);
‘‘(iii) to address public safety concerns; or
‘‘(iv) as otherwise required by law.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:26 Feb 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00084 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06FE6.048 S06FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S959
February 6, 2019
‘‘(C) DESIGNATION OF ADDITIONAL ROUTES.—
During the 3-year period beginning on the
date of enactment of this section, the Sec-
retary—
‘‘(i) shall accept petitions from the public
regarding additional routes for off-highway
vehicles; and
‘‘(ii) may designate additional routes that
the Secretary determines—
‘‘(I) would provide significant or unique
recreational opportunities; and
‘‘(II) are consistent with the purposes of
the Management Area.
‘‘(4) WITHDRAWAL.—Subject to valid exist-
ing rights, all Federal land within the Man-
agement Area is withdrawn from—
‘‘(A) all forms of entry, appropriation, or
disposal under the public land laws;
‘‘(B) location, entry, and patent under the
mining laws; and
‘‘(C) right-of-way, leasing, or disposition
under all laws relating to—
‘‘(i) minerals and mineral materials; or
‘‘(ii) solar, wind, and geothermal energy.
‘‘(5) NO BUFFER ZONE.—The establishment
of the Management Area shall not—
‘‘(A) create a protective perimeter or buff-
er zone around the Management Area; or
‘‘(B) preclude uses or activities outside the
Management Area that are permitted under
other applicable laws, even if the uses or ac-
tivities are prohibited within the Manage-
ment Area.
‘‘(6) NOTICE OF AVAILABLE ROUTES.—The
Secretary shall ensure that visitors to the
Management Area have access to adequate
notice relating to the availability of des-
ignated routes in the Management Area
through—
‘‘(A) the placement of appropriate signage
along the designated routes;
‘‘(B) the distribution of maps, safety edu-
cation materials, and other information that
the Secretary determines to be appropriate;
and
‘‘(C) restoration of areas that are not des-
ignated as open routes, including vertical
mulching.
‘‘(7) STEWARDSHIP.—The Secretary, in con-
sultation with Indian Tribes and other inter-
ests, shall develop a program to provide op-
portunities for monitoring and stewardship
of the Management Area to minimize envi-
ronmental impacts and prevent resource
damage from recreational use, including vol-
unteer assistance with—
‘‘(A) route signage;
‘‘(B) restoration of closed routes;
‘‘(C) protection of Management Area re-
sources; and
‘‘(D) recreation education.
‘‘(8) PROTECTION OF TRIBAL CULTURAL RE-
SOURCES.—Not later than 2 years after the
date of enactment of this section, the Sec-
retary, in accordance with chapter 2003 of
title 54, United States Code, and any other
applicable law, shall—
‘‘(A) prepare and complete a Tribal cul-
tural resources survey of the Management
Area; and
‘‘(B) consult with the Quechan Indian Na-
tion and other Indian Tribes demonstrating
ancestral, cultural, or other ties to the re-
sources within the Management Area on the
development and implementation of the
Tribal cultural resources survey under sub-
paragraph (A).
‘‘(9) MILITARY USE.—The Secretary may au-
thorize use of the non-wilderness portion of
the Management Area by the Secretary of
the Navy for Naval Special Warfare Tactical
Training, including long-range small unit
training and navigation, vehicle conceal-
ment, and vehicle sustainment training, con-
sistent with this section and other applicable
laws.’’.
PART III—NATIONAL PARK SYSTEM
ADDITIONS
SEC. 1431. DEATH VALLEY NATIONAL PARK
BOUNDARY REVISION.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The boundary of Death
Valley National Park is adjusted to in-
clude—
(1) the approximately 28,923 acres of Bu-
reau of Land Management land in San
Bernardino County, California, abutting the
southern end of the Death Valley National
Park that lies between Death Valley Na-
tional Park to the north and Ft. Irwin Mili-
tary Reservation to the south and which
runs approximately 34 miles from west to
east, as depicted on the map entitled ‘‘Death
Valley National Park Proposed Boundary
Addition-Bowling Alley’’, numbered 143/
128,605A, and dated November 1, 2018; and
(2) the approximately 6,369 acres of Bureau
of Land Management land in Inyo County,
California, located in the northeast area of
Death Valley National Park that is within,
and surrounded by, land under the jurisdic-
tion of the Director of the National Park
Service, as depicted on the map entitled
‘‘Death Valley National Park Proposed
Boundary Addition-Crater’’, numbered 143/
100,079D, and dated November 1, 2018.
(b) AVAILABILITY OF MAP.—The maps de-
scribed in paragraphs (1) and (2) of sub-
section (a) shall be on file and available for
public inspection in the appropriate offices
of the National Park Service.
(c) ADMINISTRATION.—The Secretary—
(1) shall administer any land added to
Death Valley National Park under sub-
section (a)—
(A) as part of Death Valley National Park;
and
(B) in accordance with applicable laws (in-
cluding regulations); and
(2) may enter into a memorandum of un-
derstanding with Inyo County, California, to
permit operationally feasible, ongoing access
to and use (including material storage and
excavation) of existing gravel pits along Sa-
line Valley Road within Death Valley Na-
tional Park for road maintenance and re-
pairs in accordance with applicable laws (in-
cluding regulations).
(d) MORMON PEAK MICROWAVE FACILITY.—
Title VI of the California Desert Protection
Act of 1994 (16 U.S.C. 1132 note; Public Law
103–433; 108 Stat. 4496) is amended by adding
at the end the following:
‘‘SEC. 604. MORMON PEAK MICROWAVE FACILITY.
‘‘The designation of the Death Valley Na-
tional Park Wilderness by section 601(a)(1)
shall not preclude the operation and mainte-
nance of the Mormon Peak Microwave Facil-
ity.’’.
SEC. 1432. MOJAVE NATIONAL PRESERVE.
The boundary of the Mojave National Pre-
serve is adjusted to include the 25 acres of
Bureau of Land Management land in Baker,
California, as depicted on the map entitled
‘‘Mojave National Preserve Proposed Bound-
ary Addition’’, numbered 170/100,199A, and
dated November 1, 2018.
SEC. 1433. JOSHUA TREE NATIONAL PARK.
(a) BOUNDARY ADJUSTMENT.—The boundary
of the Joshua Tree National Park is adjusted
to include—
(1) the approximately 2,879 acres of land
managed by the Bureau of Land Management
that are depicted as ‘‘BLM Proposed Bound-
ary Addition’’ on the map entitled ‘‘Joshua
Tree National Park Proposed Boundary Ad-
ditions’’, numbered 156/149,375, and dated No-
vember 1, 2018; and
(2) the approximately 1,639 acres of land
that are depicted as ‘‘MDLT Proposed
Boundary Addition’’ on the map entitled
‘‘Joshua Tree National Park Proposed
Boundary Additions’’, numbered 156/149,375,
and dated November 1, 2018.
(b) AVAILABILITY OF MAPS.—The map de-
scribed in subsection (a) and the map depict-
ing the 25 acres described in subsection (c)(2)
shall be on file and available for public in-
spection in the appropriate offices of the Na-
tional Park Service.
(c) ADMINISTRATION.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall ad-
minister any land added to the Joshua Tree
National Park under subsection (a) and the
additional land described in paragraph (2)—
(A) as part of Joshua Tree National Park;
and
(B) in accordance with applicable laws (in-
cluding regulations).
(2) DESCRIPTION OF ADDITIONAL LAND.—The
additional land referred to in paragraph (1) is
the 25 acres of land—
(A) depicted on the map entitled ‘‘Joshua
Tree National Park Boundary Adjustment
Map’’, numbered 156/80,049, and dated April 1,
2003;
(B) added to Joshua Tree National Park by
the notice of the Department of the Interior
of August 28, 2003 (68 Fed. Reg. 51799); and
(C) more particularly described as lots 26,
27, 28, 33, and 34 in sec. 34, T. 1 N., R. 8 E.,
San Bernardino Meridian.
(d) SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA EDISON COMPANY
ENERGY TRANSPORT FACILITIES AND RIGHTS-
OF-WAY.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Nothing in this section af-
fects any valid right-of-way for the cus-
tomary operation, maintenance, upgrade, re-
pair, relocation within an existing right-of-
way, replacement, or other authorized en-
ergy transport facility activities in a right-
of-way issued, granted, or permitted to the
Southern California Edison Company or the
successors or assigns of the Southern Cali-
fornia Edison Company that is located on
land described in paragraphs (1) and (2) of
subsection (a), including, at a minimum, the
use of mechanized vehicles, helicopters, or
other aerial devices.
(2) UPGRADES AND REPLACEMENTS.—Nothing
in this section prohibits the upgrading or re-
placement of—
(A) Southern California Edison Company
energy transport facilities, including the en-
ergy transport facilities referred to as the
Jellystone, Burnt Mountain, Whitehorn,
Allegra, and Utah distribution circuits
rights-of-way; or
(B) an energy transport facility in rights-
of-way issued, granted, or permitted by the
Secretary adjacent to Southern California
Edison Joshua Tree Utility Facilities.
(3) PUBLICATION OF PLANS.—Not later than
the date that is 1 year after the date of en-
actment of this Act or the issuance of a new
energy transport facility right-of-way within
the Joshua Tree National Park, whichever is
earlier, the Secretary, in consultation with
the Southern California Edison Company,
shall publish plans for regular and emer-
gency access by the Southern California Edi-
son Company to the rights-of-way of the
Southern California Edison Company within
Joshua Tree National Park.
(e) VISITOR CENTER.—Title IV of the Cali-
fornia Desert Protection Act of 1994 (16
U.S.C. 410aaa–21 et seq.) is amended by add-
ing at the end the following:
‘‘SEC. 408. VISITOR CENTER.
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary may ac-
quire not more than 5 acres of land and in-
terests in land, and improvements on the
land and interests, outside the boundaries of
the park, in the unincorporated village of
Joshua Tree, for the purpose of operating a
visitor center.
‘‘(b) BOUNDARY.—The Secretary shall mod-
ify the boundary of the park to include the
land acquired under this section as a non-
contiguous parcel.
‘‘(c) ADMINISTRATION.—Land and facilities
acquired under this section—
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:26 Feb 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00085 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06FE6.048 S06FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S960 February 6, 2019
‘‘(1) may include the property owned (as of
the date of enactment of this section) by the
Joshua Tree National Park Association and
commonly referred to as the ‘Joshua Tree
National Park Visitor Center’;
‘‘(2) shall be administered by the Secretary
as part of the park; and
‘‘(3) may be acquired only with the consent
of the owner, by donation, purchase with do-
nated or appropriated funds, or exchange.’’.
PART IV—OFF-HIGHWAY VEHICLE
RECREATION AREAS
SEC. 1441. OFF-HIGHWAY VEHICLE RECREATION
AREAS.
Public Law 103–433 is amended by inserting
after title XII (16 U.S.C. 410bbb et seq.) the
following:
‘‘TITLE XIII—OFF-HIGHWAY VEHICLE
RECREATION AREAS
‘‘SEC. 1301. DESIGNATION OF OFF-HIGHWAY VEHI-
CLE RECREATION AREAS.
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—
‘‘(1) DESIGNATION.—In accordance with the
Federal Land Policy and Management Act of
1976 (43 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.) and resource man-
agement plans developed under this title and
subject to valid rights, the following land
within the Conservation Area in San
Bernardino County, California, is designated
as Off-Highway Vehicle Recreation Areas:
‘‘(A) DUMONT DUNES OFF-HIGHWAY VEHICLE
RECREATION AREA.—Certain Bureau of Land
Management land in the Conservation Area,
comprising approximately 7,620 acres, as gen-
erally depicted on the map entitled ‘Pro-
posed Dumont Dunes OHV Recreation Area’
and dated November 7, 2018, which shall be
known as the ‘Dumont Dunes Off-Highway
Vehicle Recreation Area’.
‘‘(B) EL MIRAGE OFF-HIGHWAY VEHICLE
RECREATION AREA.—Certain Bureau of Land
Management land in the Conservation Area,
comprising approximately 16,370 acres, as
generally depicted on the map entitled ‘Pro-
posed El Mirage OHV Recreation Area’ and
dated December 10, 2018, which shall be
known as the ‘El Mirage Off-Highway Vehi-
cle Recreation Area’.
‘‘(C) RASOR OFF-HIGHWAY VEHICLE RECRE-
ATION AREA.—Certain Bureau of Land Man-
agement land in the Conservation Area, com-
prising approximately 23,900 acres, as gen-
erally depicted on the map entitled ‘Pro-
posed Rasor OHV Recreation Area’ and dated
November 7, 2018, which shall be known as
the ‘Rasor Off-Highway Vehicle Recreation
Area’.
‘‘(D) SPANGLER HILLS OFF-HIGHWAY VEHICLE
RECREATION AREA.—Certain Bureau of Land
Management land in the Conservation Area,
comprising approximately 92,340 acres, as
generally depicted on the map entitled ‘Pro-
posed Spangler Hills OHV Recreation Area’
and dated December 10, 2018, which shall be
known as the ‘Spangler Hills Off-Highway
Vehicle Recreation Area’.
‘‘(E) STODDARD VALLEY OFF-HIGHWAY VEHI-
CLE RECREATION AREA.—Certain Bureau of
Land Management land in the Conservation
Area, comprising approximately 40,110 acres,
as generally depicted on the map entitled
‘Proposed Stoddard Valley OHV Recreation
Area’ and dated November 7, 2018, which
shall be known as the ‘Stoddard Valley Off-
Highway Vehicle Recreation Area’.
‘‘(2) EXPANSION OF JOHNSON VALLEY OFF-
HIGHWAY VEHICLE RECREATION AREA.—The
Johnson Valley Off-Highway Vehicle Recre-
ation Area designated by section 2945 of the
Military Construction Authorization Act for
Fiscal Year 2014 (division B of Public Law
113–66; 127 Stat. 1038) is expanded to include
approximately 20,240 acres, depicted as ‘Pro-
posed OHV Recreation Area Additions’ and
‘Proposed OHV Recreation Area Study
Areas’ on the map entitled ‘Proposed John-
son Valley OHV Recreation Area’ and dated
November 7, 2018.
‘‘(b) PURPOSE.—The purpose of the off-high-
way vehicle recreation areas designated or
expanded under subsection (a) is to preserve
and enhance the recreational opportunities
within the Conservation Area (including op-
portunities for off-highway vehicle recre-
ation), while conserving the wildlife and
other natural resource values of the Con-
servation Area.
‘‘(c) MAPS AND DESCRIPTIONS.—
‘‘(1) PREPARATION AND SUBMISSION.—As
soon as practicable after the date of enact-
ment of this title, the Secretary shall file a
map and legal description of each off-high-
way vehicle recreation area designated or ex-
panded by subsection (a) with—
‘‘(A) the Committee on Natural Resources
of the House of Representatives; and
‘‘(B) the Committee on Energy and Natural
Resources of the Senate.
‘‘(2) LEGAL EFFECT.—The map and legal de-
scriptions of the off-highway vehicle recre-
ation areas filed under paragraph (1) shall
have the same force and effect as if included
in this title, except that the Secretary may
correct errors in the map and legal descrip-
tions.
‘‘(3) PUBLIC AVAILABILITY.—Each map and
legal description filed under paragraph (1)
shall be filed and made available for public
inspection in the appropriate offices of the
Bureau of Land Management.
‘‘(d) USE OF THE LAND.—
‘‘(1) RECREATIONAL ACTIVITIES.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall con-
tinue to authorize, maintain, and enhance
the recreational uses of the off-highway ve-
hicle recreation areas designated or ex-
panded by subsection (a), as long as the rec-
reational use is consistent with this section
and any other applicable law.
‘‘(B) OFF-HIGHWAY VEHICLE AND OFF-HIGH-
WAY RECREATION.—To the extent consistent
with applicable Federal law (including regu-
lations) and this section, any authorized
recreation activities and use designations in
effect on the date of enactment of this title
and applicable to the off-highway vehicle
recreation areas designated or expanded by
subsection (a) shall continue, including cas-
ual off-highway vehicular use, racing, com-
petitive events, rock crawling, training, and
other forms of off-highway recreation.
‘‘(2) WILDLIFE GUZZLERS.—Wildlife guzzlers
shall be allowed in the off-highway vehicle
recreation areas designated or expanded by
subsection (a) in accordance with—
‘‘(A) applicable Bureau of Land Manage-
ment guidelines; and
‘‘(B) State law.
‘‘(3) PROHIBITED USES.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in
subparagraph (B), commercial development
(including development of energy facilities,
but excluding energy transport facilities,
rights-of-way, and related telecommuni-
cation facilities) shall be prohibited in the
off-highway vehicle recreation areas des-
ignated or expanded by subsection (a) if the
Secretary determines that the development
is incompatible with the purpose described
in subsection (b).
‘‘(B) EXCEPTION.—The Secretary may issue
a temporary permit to a commercial vendor
to provide accessories and other support for
off-highway vehicle use in an off-highway ve-
hicle recreation area designated or expanded
by subsection (a) for a limited period and
consistent with the purposes of the off-high-
way vehicle recreation area and applicable
laws.
‘‘(e) ADMINISTRATION.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall ad-
minister the off-highway vehicle recreation
areas designated or expanded by subsection
(a) in accordance with—
‘‘(A) this title;
‘‘(B) the Federal Land Policy and Manage-
ment Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.); and
‘‘(C) any other applicable laws (including
regulations).
‘‘(2) MANAGEMENT PLAN.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—As soon as practicable,
but not later than 3 years after the date of
enactment of this title, the Secretary shall—
‘‘(i) amend existing resource management
plans applicable to the off-highway vehicle
recreation areas designated or expanded by
subsection (a); or
‘‘(ii) develop new management plans for
each off-highway vehicle recreation area des-
ignated or expanded under that subsection.
‘‘(B) REQUIREMENTS.—All new or amended
plans under subparagraph (A) shall be de-
signed to preserve and enhance safe off-high-
way vehicle and other recreational opportu-
nities within the applicable recreation area
consistent with—
‘‘(i) the purpose described in subsection (b);
and
‘‘(ii) any applicable laws (including regula-
tions).
‘‘(C) INTERIM PLANS.—Pending completion
of a new management plan under subpara-
graph (A), the existing resource management
plans shall govern the use of the applicable
off-highway vehicle recreation area.
‘‘(f) WITHDRAWAL.—Subject to valid exist-
ing rights, all Federal land within the off-
highway vehicle recreation areas designated
or expanded by subsection (a) is withdrawn
from—
‘‘(1) all forms of entry, appropriation, or
disposal under the public land laws;
‘‘(2) location, entry, and patent under the
mining laws; and
‘‘(3) right-of-way, leasing, or disposition
under all laws relating to mineral leasing,
geothermal leasing, or mineral materials.
‘‘(g) SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA EDISON COM-
PANY UTILITY FACILITIES AND RIGHTS-OF-
WAY.—
‘‘(1) EFFECT OF TITLE.—Nothing in this
title—
‘‘(A) affects any validly issued right-of-way
for the customary operation, maintenance,
upgrade, repair, relocation within an exist-
ing right-of-way, replacement, or other au-
thorized energy transport facility activities
(including the use of any mechanized vehi-
cle, helicopter, and other aerial device) in a
right-of-way acquired by or issued, granted,
or permitted to Southern California Edison
Company (including any successor in inter-
est or assign) that is located on land in-
cluded in—
‘‘(i) the El Mirage Off-Highway Vehicle
Recreation Area;
‘‘(ii) the Spangler Hills Off-Highway Vehi-
cle Recreation Area;
‘‘(iii) the Stoddard Valley Off-Highway Ve-
hicle Recreation Area; or
‘‘(iv) the Johnson Valley Off-Highway Ve-
hicle Recreation Area;
‘‘(B) affects the application, siting, route
selection, right-of-way acquisition, or con-
struction of the Coolwater-Lugo trans-
mission project, as may be approved by the
California Public Utilities Commission and
the Bureau of Land Management; or
‘‘(C) prohibits the upgrading or replace-
ment of any Southern California Edison
Company—
‘‘(i) utility facility, including such a util-
ity facility known on the date of enactment
of this title as—
‘‘(I) ‘Gale-PS 512 transmission lines or
rights-of-way’;
‘‘(II) ‘Patio, Jack Ranch, and Kenworth
distribution circuits or rights-of-way’; or
‘‘(III) ‘Bessemer and Peacor distribution
circuits or rights-of-way’; or
‘‘(ii) energy transport facility in a right-of-
way issued, granted, or permitted by the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:26 Feb 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00086 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06FE6.048 S06FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S961
February 6, 2019
Secretary adjacent to a utility facility re-
ferred to in clause (i).
‘‘(2) PLANS FOR ACCESS.—The Secretary, in
consultation with the Southern California
Edison Company, shall publish plans for reg-
ular and emergency access by the Southern
California Edison Company to the rights-of-
way of the Company by the date that is 1
year after the later of—
‘‘(A) the date of enactment of this title;
and
‘‘(B) the date of issuance of a new energy
transport facility right-of-way within—
‘‘(i) the El Mirage Off-Highway Vehicle
Recreation Area;
‘‘(ii) the Spangler Hills Off-Highway Vehi-
cle Recreation Area;
‘‘(iii) the Stoddard Valley Off-Highway Ve-
hicle Recreation Area; or
‘‘(iv) the Johnson Valley Off-Highway Ve-
hicle Recreation Area.
‘‘(h) PACIFIC GAS AND ELECTRIC COMPANY
UTILITY FACILITIES AND RIGHTS-OF-WAY.—
‘‘(1) EFFECT OF TITLE.—Nothing in this
title—
‘‘(A) affects any validly issued right-of-way
for the customary operation, maintenance,
upgrade, repair, relocation within an exist-
ing right-of-way, replacement, or other au-
thorized activity (including the use of any
mechanized vehicle, helicopter, and other
aerial device) in a right-of-way acquired by
or issued, granted, or permitted to Pacific
Gas and Electric Company (including any
successor in interest or assign) that is lo-
cated on land included in the Spangler Hills
Off-Highway Vehicle Recreation Area; or
‘‘(B) prohibits the upgrading or replace-
ment of any—
‘‘(i) utility facilities of the Pacific Gas and
Electric Company, including those utility fa-
cilities known on the date of enactment of
this title as—
‘‘(I) ‘Gas Transmission Line 311 or rights-
of-way’; or
‘‘(II) ‘Gas Transmission Line 372 or rights-
of-way’; or
‘‘(ii) utility facilities of the Pacific Gas
and Electric Company in rights-of-way
issued, granted, or permitted by the Sec-
retary adjacent to a utility facility referred
to in clause (i).
‘‘(2) PLANS FOR ACCESS.—Not later than 1
year after the date of enactment of this title
or the issuance of a new utility facility
right-of-way within the Spangler Hills Off-
Highway Vehicle Recreation Area, whichever
is later, the Secretary, in consultation with
the Pacific Gas and Electric Company, shall
publish plans for regular and emergency ac-
cess by the Pacific Gas and Electric Com-
pany to the rights-of-way of the Pacific Gas
and Electric Company.
‘‘TITLE XIV—ALABAMA HILLS NATIONAL
SCENIC AREA
‘‘SEC. 1401. DEFINITIONS.
‘‘In this title:
‘‘(1) MANAGEMENT PLAN.—The term ‘man-
agement plan’ means the management plan
for the Scenic Area developed under section
1403(a).
‘‘(2) MAP.—The term ‘Map’ means the map
entitled ‘Proposed Alabama Hills National
Scenic Area’ and dated November 7, 2018.
‘‘(3) MOTORIZED VEHICLE.—The term ‘mo-
torized vehicle’ means a motorized or mecha-
nized vehicle and includes, when used by a
utility, mechanized equipment, a helicopter,
and any other aerial device necessary to
maintain electrical or communications in-
frastructure.
‘‘(4) SCENIC AREA.—The term ‘Scenic Area’
means the Alabama Hills National Scenic
Area established by section 1402(a).
‘‘(5) STATE.—The term ‘State’ means the
State of California.
‘‘(6) TRIBE.—The term ‘Tribe’ means the
Lone Pine Paiute-Shoshone Tribe.
‘‘SEC. 1402. ALABAMA HILLS NATIONAL SCENIC
AREA, CALIFORNIA.
‘‘(a) ESTABLISHMENT.—Subject to valid ex-
isting rights, there is established in Inyo
County, California, the Alabama Hills Na-
tional Scenic Area, to be comprised of the
approximately 18,610 acres generally de-
picted on the Map as ‘National Scenic Area’.
‘‘(b) PURPOSE.—The purpose of the Scenic
Area is to conserve, protect, and enhance for
the benefit, use, and enjoyment of present
and future generations the nationally sig-
nificant scenic, cultural, geological, edu-
cational, biological, historical, recreational,
cinematographic, and scientific resources of
the Scenic Area managed consistent with
section 302(a) of the Federal Land Policy and
Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1732(a)).
‘‘(c) MAP; LEGAL DESCRIPTIONS.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—As soon as practicable
after the date of enactment of this title, the
Secretary shall file a map and a legal de-
scription of the Scenic Area with—
‘‘(A) the Committee on Energy and Natural
Resources of the Senate; and
‘‘(B) the Committee on Natural Resources
of the House of Representatives.
‘‘(2) FORCE OF LAW.—The map and legal de-
scriptions filed under paragraph (1) shall
have the same force and effect as if included
in this title, except that the Secretary may
correct any clerical and typographical errors
in the map and legal descriptions.
‘‘(3) PUBLIC AVAILABILITY.—Each map and
legal description filed under paragraph (1)
shall be on file and available for public in-
spection in the appropriate offices of the
Forest Service and the Bureau of Land Man-
agement.
‘‘(d) ADMINISTRATION.—The Secretary shall
manage the Scenic Area—
‘‘(1) as a component of the National Land-
scape Conservation System;
‘‘(2) so as not to impact the future con-
tinuing operation and maintenance of any
activities associated with valid, existing
rights, including water rights;
‘‘(3) in a manner that conserves, protects,
and enhances the resources and values of the
Scenic Area described in subsection (b); and
‘‘(4) in accordance with—
‘‘(A) the Federal Land Policy and Manage-
ment Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.);
‘‘(B) this title; and
‘‘(C) any other applicable laws.
‘‘(e) MANAGEMENT.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall
allow only such uses of the Scenic Area as
the Secretary determines would further the
purposes of the Scenic Area as described in
subsection (b).
‘‘(2) RECREATIONAL ACTIVITIES.—Except as
otherwise provided in this title or other ap-
plicable law, or as the Secretary determines
to be necessary for public health and safety,
the Secretary shall allow existing rec-
reational uses of the Scenic Area to con-
tinue, including hiking, mountain biking,
rock climbing, sightseeing, horseback riding,
hunting, fishing, and appropriate authorized
motorized vehicle use in accordance with
paragraph (3).
‘‘(3) MOTORIZED VEHICLES.—Except as oth-
erwise specified in this title, or as necessary
for administrative purposes or to respond to
an emergency, the use of motorized vehicles
in the Scenic Area shall be permitted only
on—
‘‘(A) roads and trails designated by the
Secretary for use of motorized vehicles as
part of a management plan sustaining a
semiprimitive motorized experience; or
‘‘(B) county-maintained roads in accord-
ance with applicable State and county laws.
‘‘(f) NO BUFFER ZONES.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Nothing in this title cre-
ates a protective perimeter or buffer zone
around the Scenic Area.
‘‘(2) ACTIVITIES OUTSIDE SCENIC AREA.—The
fact that an activity or use on land outside
the Scenic Area can be seen or heard within
the Scenic Area shall not preclude the activ-
ity or use outside the boundaries of the Sce-
nic Area.
‘‘(g) ACCESS.—The Secretary shall provide
private landowners adequate access to
inholdings in the Scenic Area.
‘‘(h) FILMING.—Nothing in this title pro-
hibits filming (including commercial film
production, student filming, and still pho-
tography) within the Scenic Area—
‘‘(1) subject to—
‘‘(A) such reasonable regulations, policies,
and practices as the Secretary considers to
be necessary; and
‘‘(B) applicable law; and
‘‘(2) in a manner consistent with the pur-
poses described in subsection (b).
‘‘(i) FISH AND WILDLIFE.—Nothing in this
title affects the jurisdiction or responsibil-
ities of the State with respect to fish and
wildlife.
‘‘(j) LIVESTOCK.—The grazing of livestock
in the Scenic Area, including grazing under
the Alabama Hills allotment and the George
Creek allotment, as established before the
date of enactment of this title, shall be per-
mitted to continue—
‘‘(1) subject to—
‘‘(A) such reasonable regulations, policies,
and practices as the Secretary considers to
be necessary; and
‘‘(B) applicable law; and
‘‘(2) in a manner consistent with the pur-
poses described in subsection (b).
‘‘(k) WITHDRAWAL.—Subject to the provi-
sions of this title and valid rights in exist-
ence on the date of enactment of this title,
including rights established by prior with-
drawals, the Federal land within the Scenic
Area is withdrawn from all forms of—
‘‘(1) entry, appropriation, or disposal under
the public land laws;
‘‘(2) location, entry, and patent under the
mining laws; and
‘‘(3) disposition under all laws pertaining
to mineral and geothermal leasing or min-
eral materials.
‘‘(l) WILDLAND FIRE OPERATIONS.—Nothing
in this title prohibits the Secretary, in co-
operation with other Federal, State, and
local agencies, as appropriate, from con-
ducting wildland fire operations in the Sce-
nic Area, consistent with the purposes de-
scribed in subsection (b).
‘‘(m) COOPERATIVE AGREEMENTS.—The Sec-
retary may enter into cooperative agree-
ments with, State, Tribal, and local govern-
mental entities and private entities to con-
duct research, interpretation, or public edu-
cation or to carry out any other initiative
relating to the restoration, conservation, or
management of the Scenic Area.
‘‘(n) UTILITY FACILITIES AND RIGHTS-OF-
WAY.—
‘‘(1) EFFECT OF TITLE.—Nothing in this
title—
‘‘(A) affects the existence, use, operation,
maintenance (including vegetation control),
repair, construction, reconfiguration, expan-
sion, inspection, renewal, reconstruction, al-
teration, addition, relocation, improvement,
funding, removal, or replacement of any util-
ity facility or appurtenant right-of-way
within or adjacent to the Scenic Area;
‘‘(B) subject to subsection (e), affects nec-
essary or efficient access to utility facilities
or rights-of-way within or adjacent to the
Scenic Area; and
‘‘(C) precludes the Secretary from author-
izing the establishment of new utility facil-
ity rights-of-way (including instream sites,
routes, and areas) within the Scenic Area in
a manner that minimizes harm to the pur-
pose of the Scenic Area as described in sub-
section (b)—
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:26 Feb 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00087 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06FE6.048 S06FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S962 February 6, 2019
‘‘(i) in accordance with the National Envi-
ronmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321
et seq.) and any other applicable law;
‘‘(ii) subject to such terms and conditions
as the Secretary determines to be appro-
priate; and
‘‘(iii) that are determined by the Secretary
to be the only technical or feasible location,
following consideration of alternatives with-
in existing rights-of-way or outside of the
Scenic Area.
‘‘(2) MANAGEMENT PLAN.—Consistent with
this title, the Management Plan shall estab-
lish provisions for maintenance of public
utility and other rights-of-way within the
Scenic Area.
‘‘SEC. 1403. MANAGEMENT PLAN.
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 3 years
after the date of enactment of this title, in
accordance with subsections (b) and (c), the
Secretary shall develop a comprehensive
plan for the long-term management of the
Scenic Area.
‘‘(b) CONSULTATION.—In developing the
management plan, the Secretary shall con-
sult with—
‘‘(1) appropriate State, Tribal, and local
governmental entities, including Inyo Coun-
ty and the Tribe;
‘‘(2) utilities, including Southern Cali-
fornia Edison Company and the Los Angeles
Department of Water and Power;
‘‘(3) the Alabama Hills Stewardship Group;
and
‘‘(4) members of the public.
‘‘(c) REQUIREMENT.—In accordance with
this title, the management plan shall include
provisions for maintenance of existing public
utility and other rights-of-way within the
Scenic Area.
‘‘(d) INCORPORATION.—In developing the
management plan, in accordance with this
section, the Secretary may allow casual use
mining limited to the use of hand tools,
metal detectors, hand-fed dry washers, vacu-
um cleaners, gold pans, small sluices, and
similar items.
‘‘(e) INTERIM MANAGEMENT.—Pending com-
pletion of the management plan, the Sec-
retary shall manage the Scenic Area in ac-
cordance with section 1402(b).
‘‘SEC. 1404. LAND TAKEN INTO TRUST FOR LONE
PINE PAIUTE-SHOSHONE RESERVA-
TION.
‘‘(a) TRUST LAND.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—On completion of the
survey described in subsection (b), all right,
title, and interest of the United States in
and to the approximately 132 acres of Fed-
eral land depicted on the Map as ‘Lone Pine
Paiute-Shoshone Reservation Addition’ shall
be held in trust for the benefit of the Tribe,
subject to paragraphs (2) and (3).
‘‘(2) CONDITIONS.—The land described in
paragraph (1) shall be subject to all ease-
ments, covenants, conditions, restrictions,
withdrawals, and other matters of record in
existence on the date of enactment of this
title.
‘‘(3) EXCLUSION.—The Federal land over
which the right-of-way for the Los Angeles
Aqueduct is located, generally described as
the 250-foot-wide right-of-way granted to the
City of Los Angeles pursuant to the Act of
June 30, 1906 (34 Stat. 801, chapter 3926), shall
not be taken into trust for the Tribe.
‘‘(b) SURVEY.—Not later than 180 days after
the date of enactment of this title, the Sec-
retary shall complete a survey of the bound-
ary lines to establish the boundaries of the
land to be held in trust under subsection
(a)(1).
‘‘(c) RESERVATION LAND.—The land held in
trust pursuant to subsection (a)(1) shall be
considered to be a part of the reservation of
the Tribe.
‘‘(d) GAMING PROHIBITION.—Land held in
trust under subsection (a)(1) shall not be eli-
gible, or considered to have been taken into
trust, for gaming (within the meaning of the
Indian Gaming Regulatory Act (25 U.S.C.
2701 et seq.)).
‘‘SEC. 1405. TRANSFER OF ADMINISTRATIVE JU-
RISDICTION.
‘‘Administrative jurisdiction over the ap-
proximately 56 acres of Federal land depicted
on the Map as ‘USFS Transfer to BLM’ is
transferred from the Forest Service to the
Bureau of Land Management.
‘‘SEC. 1406. PROTECTION OF SERVICES AND REC-
REATIONAL OPPORTUNITIES.
‘‘(a) EFFECT OF TITLE.—Nothing in this
title limits commercial services for existing
or historic recreation uses, as authorized by
the permit process of the Bureau of Land
Management.
‘‘(b) GUIDED RECREATIONAL OPPORTUNI-
TIES.—Commercial permits to exercise guid-
ed recreational opportunities for the public
that are authorized as of the date of enact-
ment of this title may continue to be author-
ized.’’.
PART V—MISCELLANEOUS
SEC. 1451. TRANSFER OF LAND TO ANZA-
BORREGO DESERT STATE PARK.
Title VII of the California Desert Protec-
tion Act is 1994 (16 U.S.C. 410aaa–71 et seq.) is
amended by adding at the end the following:
‘‘SEC. 712. TRANSFER OF LAND TO ANZA-
BORREGO DESERT STATE PARK.
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—On termination of all
mining claims to the land described in sub-
section (b), the Secretary shall transfer the
land described in that subsection to the
State of California.
‘‘(b) DESCRIPTION OF LAND.—The land re-
ferred to in subsection (a) is certain Bureau
of Land Management land in San Diego
County, California, comprising approxi-
mately 934 acres, as generally depicted on
the map entitled ‘Proposed Table Mountain
Wilderness Study Area Transfer to the State’
and dated November 7, 2018.
‘‘(c) MANAGEMENT.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The land transferred
under subsection (a) shall be managed in ac-
cordance with the provisions of the Cali-
fornia Wilderness Act (California Public Re-
sources Code sections 5093.30–5093.40).
‘‘(2) WITHDRAWAL.—Subject to valid exist-
ing rights, the land transferred under sub-
section (a) is withdrawn from—
‘‘(A) all forms of entry, appropriation, or
disposal under the public land laws;
‘‘(B) location, entry, and patent under the
mining laws; and
‘‘(C) disposition under all laws relating to
mineral and geothermal leasing.
‘‘(3) REVERSION.—If the State ceases to
manage the land transferred under sub-
section (a) as part of the State Park System
or in a manner inconsistent with the Cali-
fornia Wilderness Act (California Public Re-
sources Code sections 5093.30–5093.40), the
land shall revert to the Secretary at the dis-
cretion of the Secretary, to be managed as a
Wilderness Study Area.’’.
SEC. 1452. WILDLIFE CORRIDORS.
Title VII of the California Desert Protec-
tion Act is 1994 (16 U.S.C. 410aaa–71 et seq.)
(as amended by section 1451) is amended by
adding at the end the following:
‘‘SEC. 713. WILDLIFE CORRIDORS.
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall—
‘‘(1) assess the impacts of habitat frag-
mentation on wildlife in the California
Desert Conservation Area; and
‘‘(2) establish policies and procedures to
ensure the preservation of wildlife corridors
and facilitate species migration.
‘‘(b) STUDY.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—As soon as practicable,
but not later than 2 years, after the date of
enactment of this section, the Secretary
shall complete a study regarding the impact
of habitat fragmentation on wildlife in the
California Desert Conservation Area.
‘‘(2) COMPONENTS.—The study under para-
graph (1) shall—
‘‘(A) identify the species migrating, or
likely to migrate in the California Desert
Conservation Area;
‘‘(B) examine the impacts and potential
impacts of habitat fragmentation on—
‘‘(i) plants, insects, and animals;
‘‘(ii) soil;
‘‘(iii) air quality;
‘‘(iv) water quality and quantity; and
‘‘(v) species migration and survival;
‘‘(C) identify critical wildlife and species
migration corridors recommended for preser-
vation; and
‘‘(D) include recommendations for ensuring
the biological connectivity of public land
managed by the Secretary and the Secretary
of Defense throughout the California Desert
Conservation Area.
‘‘(3) RIGHTS-OF-WAY.—The Secretary shall
consider the information and recommenda-
tions of the study under paragraph (1) to de-
termine the individual and cumulative im-
pacts of rights-of-way for projects in the
California Desert Conservation Area, in ac-
cordance with—
‘‘(A) the National Environmental Policy
Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.);
‘‘(B) the Endangered Species Act of 1973 (16
U.S.C. 1531 et seq.); and
‘‘(C) any other applicable law.
‘‘(c) LAND MANAGEMENT PLANS.—The Sec-
retary shall incorporate into all land man-
agement plans applicable to the California
Desert Conservation Area the findings and
recommendations of the study completed
under subsection (b).’’.
SEC. 1453. PROHIBITED USES OF ACQUIRED, DO-
NATED, AND CONSERVATION LAND.
Title VII of the California Desert Protec-
tion Act is 1994 (16 U.S.C. 410aaa–71 et seq.)
(as amended by section 1452) is amended by
adding at the end the following:
‘‘SEC. 714. PROHIBITED USES OF ACQUIRED, DO-
NATED, AND CONSERVATION LAND.
‘‘(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
‘‘(1) ACQUIRED LAND.—The term ‘acquired
land’ means any land acquired within the
Conservation Area using amounts from the
land and water conservation fund established
under section 200302 of title 54, United States
Code.
‘‘(2) CONSERVATION AREA.—The term ‘Con-
servation Area’ means the California Desert
Conservation Area.
‘‘(3) CONSERVATION LAND.—The term ‘con-
servation land’ means any land within the
Conservation Area that is designated to sat-
isfy the conditions of a Federal habitat con-
servation plan, general conservation plan, or
State natural communities conservation
plan, including—
‘‘(A) national conservation land estab-
lished pursuant to section 2002(b)(2)(D) of the
Omnibus Public Land Management Act of
2009 (16 U.S.C. 7202(b)(2)(D)); and
‘‘(B) areas of critical environmental con-
cern established pursuant to section 202(c)(3)
of the Federal Land Policy and Management
Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1712(c)(3)).
‘‘(4) DONATED LAND.—The term ‘donated
land’ means any private land donated to the
United States for conservation purposes in
the Conservation Area.
‘‘(5) DONOR.—The term ‘donor’ means an
individual or entity that donates private
land within the Conservation Area to the
United States.
‘‘(6) SECRETARY.—The term ‘Secretary’
means the Secretary, acting through the Di-
rector of the Bureau of Land Management.
‘‘(7) STATE.—The term ‘State’ means the
State of California.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:26 Feb 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00088 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06FE6.048 S06FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S963
February 6, 2019
‘‘(b) PROHIBITIONS.—Except as provided in
subsection (c), the Secretary shall not au-
thorize the use of acquired land, conserva-
tion land, or donated land within the Con-
servation Area for any activities contrary to
the conservation purposes for which the land
was acquired, designated, or donated, includ-
ing—
‘‘(1) disposal;
‘‘(2) rights-of-way;
‘‘(3) leases;
‘‘(4) livestock grazing;
‘‘(5) infrastructure development, except as
provided in subsection (c);
‘‘(6) mineral entry; and
‘‘(7) off-highway vehicle use, except on—
‘‘(A) designated routes;
‘‘(B) off-highway vehicle areas designated
by law; and
‘‘(C) administratively designated open
areas.
‘‘(c) EXCEPTIONS.—
‘‘(1) AUTHORIZATION BY SECRETARY.—Sub-
ject to paragraph (2), the Secretary may au-
thorize limited exceptions to prohibited uses
of acquired land or donated land in the Con-
servation Area if—
‘‘(A) a right-of-way application for a re-
newable energy development project or asso-
ciated energy transport facility on acquired
land or donated land was submitted to the
Bureau of Land Management on or before
December 1, 2009; or
‘‘(B) after the completion and consider-
ation of an analysis under the National Envi-
ronmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321
et seq.), the Secretary has determined that
proposed use is in the public interest.
‘‘(2) CONDITIONS.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—If the Secretary grants
an exception to the prohibition under para-
graph (1), the Secretary shall require the
permittee to donate private land of com-
parable value located within the Conserva-
tion Area to the United States to mitigate
the use.
‘‘(B) APPROVAL.—The private land to be do-
nated under subparagraph (A) shall be ap-
proved by the Secretary after—
‘‘(i) consultation, to the maximum extent
practicable, with the donor of the private
land proposed for nonconservation uses; and
‘‘(ii) an opportunity for public comment re-
garding the donation.
‘‘(d) EXISTING AGREEMENTS.—Nothing in
this section affects permitted or prohibited
uses of donated land or acquired land in the
Conservation Area established in any ease-
ments, deed restrictions, memoranda of un-
derstanding, or other agreements in exist-
ence on the date of enactment of this sec-
tion.
‘‘(e) DEED RESTRICTIONS.—Effective begin-
ning on the date of enactment of this sec-
tion, within the Conservation Area, the Sec-
retary may—
‘‘(1) accept deed restrictions requested by
landowners for land donated to, or otherwise
acquired by, the United States; and
‘‘(2) consistent with existing rights, create
deed restrictions, easements, or other third-
party rights relating to any public land de-
termined by the Secretary to be necessary—
‘‘(A) to fulfill the mitigation requirements
resulting from the development of renewable
resources; or
‘‘(B) to satisfy the conditions of—
‘‘(i) a habitat conservation plan or general
conservation plan established pursuant to
section 10 of the Endangered Species Act of
1973 (16 U.S.C. 1539); or
‘‘(ii) a natural communities conservation
plan approved by the State.’’.
SEC. 1454. TRIBAL USES AND INTERESTS.
Section 705 of the California Desert Protec-
tion Act is 1994 (16 U.S.C. 410aaa–75) is
amended—
(1) by redesignating subsection (b) as sub-
section (c);
(2) by striking subsection (a) and inserting
the following:
‘‘(a) ACCESS.—The Secretary shall ensure
access to areas designated under this Act by
members of Indian Tribes for traditional cul-
tural and religious purposes, consistent with
applicable law, including Public Law 95–341
(commonly known as the ‘American Indian
Religious Freedom Act’) (42 U.S.C. 1996).
‘‘(b) TEMPORARY CLOSURE.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—In accordance with appli-
cable law, including Public Law 95–341 (com-
monly known as the ‘American Indian Reli-
gious Freedom Act’) (42 U.S.C. 1996), and sub-
ject to paragraph (2), the Secretary, on re-
quest of an Indian Tribe or Indian religious
community, shall temporarily close to gen-
eral public use any portion of an area des-
ignated as a national monument, special
management area, wild and scenic river,
area of critical environmental concern, or
National Park System unit under this Act
(referred to in this subsection as a ‘des-
ignated area’) to protect the privacy of tradi-
tional cultural and religious activities in the
designated area by members of the Indian
Tribe or Indian religious community.
‘‘(2) LIMITATION.—In closing a portion of a
designated area under paragraph (1), the Sec-
retary shall limit the closure to the smallest
practicable area for the minimum period
necessary for the traditional cultural and re-
ligious activities.’’; and
(3) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(d) TRIBAL CULTURAL RESOURCES MANAGE-
MENT PLAN.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 2 years
after the date of enactment of the Natural
Resources Management Act, the Secretary
shall develop and implement a Tribal cul-
tural resources management plan to iden-
tify, protect, and conserve cultural resources
of Indian Tribes associated with the Xam
Kwatchan Trail network extending from
Avikwaame (Spirit Mountain, Nevada) to
Avikwlal (Pilot Knob, California).
‘‘(2) CONSULTATION.—The Secretary shall
consult on the development and implementa-
tion of the Tribal cultural resources manage-
ment plan under paragraph (1) with—
‘‘(A) each of—
‘‘(i) the Chemehuevi Indian Tribe;
‘‘(ii) the Hualapai Tribal Nation;
‘‘(iii) the Fort Mojave Indian Tribe;
‘‘(iv) the Colorado River Indian Tribes;
‘‘(v) the Quechan Indian Tribe; and
‘‘(vi) the Cocopah Indian Tribe;
‘‘(B) the Advisory Council on Historic
Preservation; and
‘‘(C) the State Historic Preservation Of-
fices of Nevada, Arizona, and California.
‘‘(3) RESOURCE PROTECTION.—The Tribal
cultural resources management plan devel-
oped under paragraph (1) shall—
‘‘(A) be based on a completed Tribal cul-
tural resources survey; and
‘‘(B) include procedures for identifying,
protecting, and preserving petroglyphs, an-
cient trails, intaglios, sleeping circles, arti-
facts, and other resources of cultural, ar-
chaeological, or historical significance in ac-
cordance with all applicable laws and poli-
cies, including—
‘‘(i) chapter 2003 of title 54, United States
Code;
‘‘(ii) Public Law 95–341 (commonly known
as the ‘American Indian Religious Freedom
Act’) (42 U.S.C. 1996);
‘‘(iii) the Archaeological Resources Protec-
tion Act of 1979 (16 U.S.C. 470aa et seq.);
‘‘(iv) the Native American Graves Protec-
tion and Repatriation Act (25 U.S.C. 3001 et
seq.); and
‘‘(v) Public Law 103–141 (commonly known
as the ‘Religious Freedom Restoration Act of
1993’) (42 U.S.C. 2000bb et seq.).
‘‘(e) WITHDRAWAL.—Subject to valid exist-
ing rights, all Federal land within the area
administratively withdrawn and known as
the ‘Indian Pass Withdrawal Area’ is perma-
nently withdrawn from—
‘‘(1) all forms of entry, appropriation, or
disposal under the public land laws;
‘‘(2) location, entry, and patent under the
mining laws; and
‘‘(3) right-of-way leasing and disposition
under all laws relating to minerals or solar,
wind, or geothermal energy.’’.
SEC. 1455. RELEASE OF FEDERAL REVERSIONARY
LAND INTERESTS.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) 1932 ACT.—The term ‘‘1932 Act’’ means
the Act of June 18, 1932 (47 Stat. 324, chapter
270).
(2) DISTRICT.—The term ‘‘District’’ means
the Metropolitan Water District of Southern
California.
(b) RELEASE.—Subject to valid existing
claims perfected prior to the effective date of
the 1932 Act and the reservation of minerals
set forth in the 1932 Act, the Secretary shall
release, convey, or otherwise quitclaim to
the District, in a form recordable in local
county records, and subject to the approval
of the District, after consultation and with-
out monetary consideration, all right, title,
and remaining interest of the United States
in and to the land that was conveyed to the
District pursuant to the 1932 Act or any
other law authorizing conveyance subject to
restrictions or reversionary interests re-
tained by the United States, on request by
the District.
(c) TERMS AND CONDITIONS.—A conveyance
authorized by subsection (b) shall be subject
to the following terms and conditions:
(1) The District shall cover, or reimburse
the Secretary for, the costs incurred by the
Secretary to make the conveyance, includ-
ing title searches, surveys, deed preparation,
attorneys’ fees, and similar expenses.
(2) By accepting the conveyances, the Dis-
trict agrees to indemnify and hold harmless
the United States with regard to any bound-
ary dispute relating to any parcel conveyed
under this section.
SEC. 1456. CALIFORNIA STATE SCHOOL LAND.
Section 707 of the California Desert Protec-
tion Act of 1994 (16 U.S.C. 410aaa–77) is
amended—
(1) in subsection (a)—
(A) in the first sentence—
(i) by striking ‘‘Upon request of the Cali-
fornia State Lands Commission (hereinafter
in this section referred to as the ‘Commis-
sion’), the Secretary shall enter into nego-
tiations for an agreement’’ and inserting the
following:
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall ne-
gotiate in good faith to reach an agreement
with the California State Lands Commission
(referred to in this section as the ‘Commis-
sion’)’’; and
(ii) by inserting ‘‘, national monuments,
off-highway vehicle recreation areas,’’ after
‘‘more of the wilderness areas’’; and
(B) in the second sentence, by striking
‘‘The Secretary shall negotiate in good faith
to’’ and inserting the following:
‘‘(2) AGREEMENT.—To the maximum extent
practicable, not later than 10 years after the
date of enactment of this title, the Secretary
shall’’; and
(2) in subsection (b)(1), by inserting ‘‘, na-
tional monuments, off-highway vehicle
recreation areas,’’ after ‘‘wilderness areas’’.
SEC. 1457. DESIGNATION OF WILD AND SCENIC
RIVERS.
(a) AMARGOSA RIVER, CALIFORNIA.—Section
3(a)(196)(A) of the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act
(16 U.S.C. 1274(a)(196)(A)) is amended to read
as follows:
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:26 Feb 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00089 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06FE6.048 S06FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S964 February 6, 2019
‘‘(A) The approximately 7.5-mile segment
of the Amargosa River in the State of Cali-
fornia, the private property boundary in sec.
19, T. 22 N., R. 7 E., to 100 feet upstream of
the Tecopa Hot Springs Road crossing, to be
administered by the Secretary of the Inte-
rior as a scenic river.’’.
(b) ADDITIONAL SEGMENTS.—Section 3(a) of
the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act (16 U.S.C.
1274(a)) (as amended by section 1303(a)) is
amended by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(228) SURPRISE CANYON CREEK, CALI-
FORNIA.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—The following segments
of Surprise Canyon Creek in the State of
California, to be administered by the Sec-
retary of the Interior:
‘‘(i) The approximately 5.3 miles of Sur-
prise Canyon Creek from the confluence of
Frenchman’s Canyon and Water Canyon to
100 feet upstream of Chris Wicht Camp, as a
wild river.
‘‘(ii) The approximately 1.8 miles of Sur-
prise Canyon Creek from 100 feet upstream of
Chris Wicht Camp to the southern boundary
of sec. 14, T. 21 S., R. 44 E., as a recreational
river.
‘‘(B) EFFECT ON HISTORIC MINING STRUC-
TURES.—Nothing in this paragraph affects
the historic mining structures associated
with the former Panamint Mining District.
‘‘(229) DEEP CREEK, CALIFORNIA.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—The following segments
of Deep Creek in the State of California, to
be administered by the Secretary of Agri-
culture:
‘‘(i) The approximately 6.5-mile segment
from 0.125 mile downstream of the Rainbow
Dam site in sec. 33, T. 2 N., R. 2 W., San
Bernardino Meridian, to 0.25 miles upstream
of the Road 3N34 crossing, as a wild river.
‘‘(ii) The 0.5-mile segment from 0.25 mile
upstream of the Road 3N34 crossing to 0.25
mile downstream of the Road 3N34 crossing,
as a scenic river.
‘‘(iii) The 2.5-mile segment from 0.25 miles
downstream of the Road 3 N. 34 crossing to
0.25 miles upstream of the Trail 2W01 cross-
ing, as a wild river.
‘‘(iv) The 0.5-mile segment from 0.25 miles
upstream of the Trail 2W01 crossing to 0.25
mile downstream of the Trail 2W01 crossing,
as a scenic river.
‘‘(v) The 10-mile segment from 0.25 miles
downstream of the Trail 2W01 crossing to the
upper limit of the Mojave dam flood zone in
sec. 17, T. 3 N., R. 3 W., San Bernardino Me-
ridian, as a wild river.
‘‘(vi) The 11-mile segment of Holcomb
Creek from 100 yards downstream of the
Road 3N12 crossing to .25 miles downstream
of Holcomb Crossing, as a recreational river.
‘‘(vii) The 3.5-mile segment of the Holcomb
Creek from 0.25 miles downstream of Hol-
comb Crossing to the Deep Creek confluence,
as a wild river.
‘‘(B) EFFECT ON SKI OPERATIONS.—Nothing
in this paragraph affects—
‘‘(i) the operations of the Snow Valley Ski
Resort; or
‘‘(ii) the State regulation of water rights
and water quality associated with the oper-
ation of the Snow Valley Ski Resort.
‘‘(230) WHITEWATER RIVER, CALIFORNIA.—
The following segments of the Whitewater
River in the State of California, to be admin-
istered by the Secretary of Agriculture and
the Secretary of the Interior, acting jointly:
‘‘(A) The 5.8-mile segment of the North
Fork Whitewater River from the source of
the River near Mt. San Gorgonio to the con-
fluence with the Middle Fork, as a wild river.
‘‘(B) The 6.4-mile segment of the Middle
Fork Whitewater River from the source of
the River to the confluence with the South
Fork, as a wild river.
‘‘(C) The 1-mile segment of the South Fork
Whitewater River from the confluence of the
River with the East Fork to the section line
between sections 32 and 33, T. 1 S., R. 2 E.,
San Bernardino Meridian, as a wild river.
‘‘(D) The 1-mile segment of the South Fork
Whitewater River from the section line be-
tween sections 32 and 33, T. 1 S., R. 2 E., San
Bernardino Meridian, to the section line be-
tween sections 33 and 34, T. 1 S., R. 2 E., San
Bernardino Meridian, as a recreational river.
‘‘(E) The 4.9-mile segment of the South
Fork Whitewater River from the section line
between sections 33 and 34, T. 1 S., R. 2 E.,
San Bernardino Meridian, to the confluence
with the Middle Fork, as a wild river.
‘‘(F) The 5.4-mile segment of the main
stem of the Whitewater River from the con-
fluence of the South and Middle Forks to the
San Gorgonio Wilderness boundary, as a wild
river.
‘‘(G) The 3.6-mile segment of the main
stem of the Whitewater River from the San
Gorgonio Wilderness boundary to .25 miles
upstream of the southern boundary of sec-
tion 35, T. 2 S., R. 3 E., San Bernardino Me-
ridian, as a recreational river.’’.
SEC. 1458. CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.
(a) SHORT TITLE.—Section 1 of the Cali-
fornia Desert Protection Act of 1994 (16
U.S.C. 410aaa note; Public Law 103–433) is
amended by striking ‘‘1 and 2, and titles I
through IX’’ and inserting ‘‘1, 2, and 3, titles
I through IX, and titles XIII and XIV’’.
(b) DEFINITIONS.—The California Desert
Protection Act of 1994 (Public Law 103–433;
108 Stat. 4471) is amended by inserting after
section 2 the following:
‘‘SEC. 3. DEFINITIONS.
‘‘(a) TITLES I THROUGH IX.—In titles I
through IX, the term ‘this Act’ means only—
‘‘(1) sections 1 and 2; and
‘‘(2) titles I through IX.
‘‘(b) TITLES XIII AND XIV.—In titles XIII
and XIV:
‘‘(1) CONSERVATION AREA.—The term ‘Con-
servation Area’ means the California Desert
Conservation Area.
‘‘(2) SECRETARY.—The term ‘Secretary’
means—
‘‘(A) with respect to land under the juris-
diction of the Secretary of the Interior, the
Secretary of the Interior; and
‘‘(B) with respect to land under the juris-
diction of the Secretary of Agriculture, the
Secretary of Agriculture.
‘‘(3) STATE.—The term ‘State’ means the
State of California.’’.
SEC. 1459. JUNIPER FLATS.
The California Desert Protection Act of
1994 is amended by striking section 711 (16
U.S.C. 410aaa–81) and inserting the following:
‘‘SEC. 711. JUNIPER FLATS.
‘‘Development of renewable energy genera-
tion facilities (excluding rights-of-way or fa-
cilities for the transmission of energy and
telecommunication facilities and infrastruc-
ture) is prohibited on the approximately
27,990 acres of Federal land generally de-
picted as ‘BLM Land Unavailable for Energy
Development’ on the map entitled ‘Juniper
Flats’ and dated November 7, 2018.’’.
SEC. 1460. CONFORMING AMENDMENTS TO CALI-
FORNIA MILITARY LANDS WITH-
DRAWAL AND OVERFLIGHTS ACT OF
1994.
(a) FINDINGS.—Section 801(b)(2) of the Cali-
fornia Military Lands Withdrawal and Over-
flights Act of 1994 (16 U.S.C. 410aaa–82 note;
Public Law 103–433) is amended by inserting
‘‘, special management areas, off-highway
vehicle recreation areas, scenic areas,’’ be-
fore ‘‘and wilderness areas’’.
(b) OVERFLIGHTS; SPECIAL AIRSPACE.—Sec-
tion 802 of the California Military Lands
Withdrawal and Overflights Act of 1994 (16
U.S.C. 410aaa–82) is amended—
(1) in subsection (a), by inserting ‘‘, scenic
areas, off-highway vehicle recreation areas,
or special management areas’’ before ‘‘des-
ignated by this Act’’;
(2) in subsection (b), by inserting ‘‘, scenic
areas, off-highway vehicle recreation areas,
or special management areas’’ before ‘‘des-
ignated by this Act’’; and
(3) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(d) DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE FACILITIES.—
Nothing in this Act alters any authority of
the Secretary of Defense to conduct military
operations at installations and ranges within
the California Desert Conservation Area that
are authorized under any other provision of
law.’’.
SEC. 1461. DESERT TORTOISE CONSERVATION
CENTER.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall es-
tablish, operate, and maintain a trans-State
desert tortoise conservation center (referred
to in this section as the ‘‘Center’’) on public
land along the California-Nevada border—
(1) to support desert tortoise research, dis-
ease monitoring, handling training, rehabili-
tation, and reintroduction;
(2) to provide temporary quarters for ani-
mals collected from authorized salvage from
renewable energy sites; and
(3) to ensure the full recovery and ongoing
survival of the species.
(b) CENTER.—In carrying out this section,
the Secretary shall—
(1) seek the participation of or contract
with qualified organizations with expertise
in desert tortoise disease research and expe-
rience with desert tortoise translocation
techniques, and scientific training of profes-
sional biologists for handling tortoises, to
staff and manage the Center;
(2) ensure that the Center engages in pub-
lic outreach and education on tortoise han-
dling; and
(3) consult with the State and the State of
Nevada to ensure that the Center is operated
consistent with State law.
(c) NON-FEDERAL CONTRIBUTIONS.—The Sec-
retary may accept and expend contributions
of non-Federal funds to establish, operate,
and maintain the Center.
TITLE II—NATIONAL PARKS
Subtitle A—Special Resource Studies
SEC. 2001. SPECIAL RESOURCE STUDY OF JAMES
K. POLK PRESIDENTIAL HOME.
(a) DEFINITION OF STUDY AREA.—In this
section, the term ‘‘study area’’ means the
President James K. Polk Home in Columbia,
Tennessee, and adjacent property.
(b) SPECIAL RESOURCE STUDY.—
(1) STUDY.—The Secretary shall conduct a
special resource study of the study area.
(2) CONTENTS.—In conducting the study
under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall—
(A) evaluate the national significance of
the study area;
(B) determine the suitability and feasi-
bility of designating the study area as a unit
of the National Park System;
(C) consider other alternatives for preser-
vation, protection, and interpretation of the
study area by the Federal Government,
State or local government entities, or pri-
vate and nonprofit organizations;
(D) consult with interested Federal agen-
cies, State or local governmental entities,
private and nonprofit organizations, or any
other interested individuals; and
(E) identify cost estimates for any Federal
acquisition, development, interpretation, op-
eration, and maintenance associated with
the alternatives.
(3) APPLICABLE LAW.—The study required
under paragraph (1) shall be conducted in ac-
cordance with section 100507 of title 54,
United States Code.
(4) REPORT.—Not later than 3 years after
the date on which funds are first made avail-
able for the study under paragraph (1), the
Secretary shall submit to the Committee on
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:26 Feb 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00090 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06FE6.048 S06FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S965
February 6, 2019
Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate
and the Committee on Natural Resources of
the House of Representatives a report that
describes—
(A) the results of the study; and
(B) any conclusions and recommendations
of the Secretary.
SEC. 2002. SPECIAL RESOURCE STUDY OF
THURGOOD MARSHALL SCHOOL.
(a) DEFINITION OF STUDY AREA.—In this
section, the term ‘‘study area’’ means—
(1) P.S. 103, the public school located in
West Baltimore, Maryland, which Thurgood
Marshall attended as a youth; and
(2) any other resources in the neighborhood
surrounding P.S. 103 that relate to the early
life of Thurgood Marshall.
(b) SPECIAL RESOURCE STUDY.—
(1) STUDY.—The Secretary shall conduct a
special resource study of the study area.
(2) CONTENTS.—In conducting the study
under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall—
(A) evaluate the national significance of
the study area;
(B) determine the suitability and feasi-
bility of designating the study area as a unit
of the National Park System;
(C) consider other alternatives for preser-
vation, protection, and interpretation of the
study area by the Federal Government,
State or local government entities, or pri-
vate and nonprofit organizations;
(D) consult with interested Federal agen-
cies, State or local governmental entities,
private and nonprofit organizations, or any
other interested individuals; and
(E) identify cost estimates for any Federal
acquisition, development, interpretation, op-
eration, and maintenance associated with
the alternatives.
(3) APPLICABLE LAW.—The study required
under paragraph (1) shall be conducted in ac-
cordance with section 100507 of title 54,
United States Code.
(4) REPORT.—Not later than 3 years after
the date on which funds are first made avail-
able to carry out the study under paragraph
(1), the Secretary shall submit to the Com-
mittee on Natural Resources of the House of
Representatives and the Committee on En-
ergy and Natural Resources of the Senate a
report that describes—
(A) the results of the study; and
(B) any conclusions and recommendations
of the Secretary.
SEC. 2003. SPECIAL RESOURCE STUDY OF PRESI-
DENT STREET STATION.
(a) DEFINITION OF STUDY AREA.—In this
section, the term ‘‘study area’’ means the
President Street Station, a railroad terminal
in Baltimore, Maryland, the history of which
is tied to the growth of the railroad industry
in the 19th century, the Civil War, the Un-
derground Railroad, and the immigrant in-
flux of the early 20th century.
(b) SPECIAL RESOURCE STUDY.—
(1) STUDY.—The Secretary shall conduct a
special resource study of the study area.
(2) CONTENTS.—In conducting the study
under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall—
(A) evaluate the national significance of
the study area;
(B) determine the suitability and feasi-
bility of designating the study area as a unit
of the National Park System;
(C) consider other alternatives for preser-
vation, protection, and interpretation of the
study area by the Federal Government,
State or local government entities, or pri-
vate and nonprofit organizations;
(D) consult with interested Federal agen-
cies, State or local governmental entities,
private and nonprofit organizations, or any
other interested individuals; and
(E) identify cost estimates for any Federal
acquisition, development, interpretation, op-
eration, and maintenance associated with
the alternatives.
(3) APPLICABLE LAW.—The study required
under paragraph (1) shall be conducted in ac-
cordance with section 100507 of title 54,
United States Code.
(4) REPORT.—Not later than 3 years after
the date on which funds are first made avail-
able for the study under paragraph (1), the
Secretary shall submit to the Committee on
Natural Resources of the House of Rep-
resentatives and the Committee on Energy
and Natural Resources of the Senate a report
that describes—
(A) the results of the study; and
(B) any conclusions and recommendations
of the Secretary.
SEC. 2004. AMACHE SPECIAL RESOURCE STUDY.
(a) DEFINITION OF STUDY AREA.—In this
section, the term ‘‘study area’’ means the
site known as ‘‘Amache’’, ‘‘Camp Amache’’,
and ‘‘Granada Relocation Center’’ in Gra-
nada, Colorado, which was 1 of the 10 reloca-
tion centers where Japanese Americans were
incarcerated during World War II.
(b) SPECIAL RESOURCE STUDY.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall con-
duct a special resource study of the study
area.
(2) CONTENTS.—In conducting the study
under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall—
(A) evaluate the national significance of
the study area;
(B) determine the suitability and feasi-
bility of designating the study area as a unit
of the National Park System;
(C) consider other alternatives for preser-
vation, protection, and interpretation of the
study area by the Federal Government,
State or local government entities, or pri-
vate and nonprofit organizations;
(D) consult with interested Federal agen-
cies, State or local governmental entities,
private and nonprofit organizations, or any
other interested individuals; and
(E) identify cost estimates for any Federal
acquisition, development, interpretation, op-
eration, and maintenance associated with
the alternatives described in subparagraphs
(B) and (C).
(3) APPLICABLE LAW.—The study required
under paragraph (1) shall be conducted in ac-
cordance with section 100507 of title 54,
United States Code.
(4) REPORT.—Not later than 3 years after
the date on which funds are first made avail-
able to carry out the study under paragraph
(1), the Secretary shall submit to the Com-
mittee on Natural Resources of the House of
Representatives and the Committee on En-
ergy and Natural Resources of the Senate a
report that describes—
(A) the results of the study; and
(B) any conclusions and recommendations
of the Secretary.
SEC. 2005. SPECIAL RESOURCE STUDY OF
GEORGE W. BUSH CHILDHOOD
HOME.
(a) DEFINITION OF STUDY AREA.—In this
section, the term ‘‘study area’’ means the
George W. Bush Childhood Home, located at
1412 West Ohio Avenue, Midland, Texas.
(b) SPECIAL RESOURCE STUDY.—
(1) STUDY.—The Secretary shall conduct a
special resource study of the study area.
(2) CONTENTS.—In conducting the study
under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall—
(A) evaluate the national significance of
the study area;
(B) determine the suitability and feasi-
bility of designating the study area as a unit
of the National Park System;
(C) consider other alternatives for preser-
vation, protection, and interpretation of the
study area by the Federal Government,
State or local government entities, or pri-
vate and nonprofit organizations;
(D) consult with interested Federal agen-
cies, State or local governmental entities,
private and nonprofit organizations, or any
other interested individuals; and
(E) identify cost estimates for any Federal
acquisition, development, interpretation, op-
eration, and maintenance associated with
the alternatives.
(3) APPLICABLE LAW.—The study required
under paragraph (1) shall be conducted in ac-
cordance with section 100507 of title 54,
United States Code.
(4) REPORT.—Not later than 3 years after
the date on which funds are first made avail-
able for the study under paragraph (1), the
Secretary shall submit to the Committee on
Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate
and the Committee on Natural Resources of
the House of Representatives a report that
describes—
(A) the results of the study; and
(B) any conclusions and recommendations
of the Secretary.
Subtitle B—National Park System Boundary
Adjustments and Related Matters
SEC. 2101. SHILOH NATIONAL MILITARY PARK
BOUNDARY ADJUSTMENT.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) AFFILIATED AREA.—The term ‘‘affiliated
area’’ means the Parker’s Crossroads Battle-
field established as an affiliated area of the
National Park System by subsection (c)(1).
(2) PARK.—The term ‘‘Park’’ means Shiloh
National Military Park, a unit of the Na-
tional Park System.
(b) AREAS TO BE ADDED TO SHILOH NA-
TIONAL MILITARY PARK.—
(1) ADDITIONAL AREAS.—The boundary of
the Park is modified to include the areas
that are generally depicted on the map enti-
tled ‘‘Shiloh National Military Park, Pro-
posed Boundary Adjustment’’, numbered 304/
80,011, and dated July 2014, and which are
comprised of the following:
(A) Fallen Timbers Battlefield.
(B) Russell House Battlefield.
(C) Davis Bridge Battlefield.
(2) ACQUISITION AUTHORITY.—The Secretary
may acquire the land described in paragraph
(1) by donation, purchase from willing sellers
with donated or appropriated funds, or ex-
change.
(3) ADMINISTRATION.—Any land acquired
under this subsection shall be administered
as part of the Park.
(c) ESTABLISHMENT OF AFFILIATED AREA.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Parker’s Crossroads Bat-
tlefield in the State of Tennessee is estab-
lished as an affiliated area of the National
Park System.
(2) DESCRIPTION OF AFFILIATED AREA.—The
affiliated area shall consist of the area gen-
erally depicted within the ‘‘Proposed Bound-
ary’’ on the map entitled ‘‘Parker’s Cross-
roads Battlefield, Proposed Boundary’’, num-
bered 903/80,073, and dated July 2014.
(3) ADMINISTRATION.—The affiliated area
shall be managed in accordance with—
(A) this section; and
(B) any law generally applicable to units of
the National Park System.
(4) MANAGEMENT ENTITY.—The City of
Parkers Crossroads and the Tennessee His-
torical Commission shall jointly be the man-
agement entity for the affiliated area.
(5) COOPERATIVE AGREEMENTS.—The Sec-
retary may provide technical assistance and
enter into cooperative agreements with the
management entity for the purpose of pro-
viding financial assistance for the mar-
keting, marking, interpretation, and preser-
vation of the affiliated area.
(6) LIMITED ROLE OF THE SECRETARY.—Noth-
ing in this section authorizes the Secretary
to acquire property at the affiliated area or
to assume overall financial responsibility for
the operation, maintenance, or management
of the affiliated area.
(7) GENERAL MANAGEMENT PLAN.—
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:26 Feb 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00091 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06FE6.048 S06FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S966 February 6, 2019
(A) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary, in con-
sultation with the management entity, shall
develop a general management plan for the
affiliated area in accordance with section
100502 of title 54, United States Code.
(B) TRANSMITTAL.—Not later than 3 years
after the date on which funds are made avail-
able to carry out this section, the Secretary
shall submit to the Committee on Natural
Resources of the House of Representatives
and the Committee on Energy and Natural
Resources of the Senate the general manage-
ment plan developed under subparagraph (A).
SEC. 2102. OCMULGEE MOUNDS NATIONAL HIS-
TORICAL PARK BOUNDARY.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) HISTORICAL PARK.—The term ‘‘Histor-
ical Park’’ means the Ocmulgee Mounds Na-
tional Historical Park in the State of Geor-
gia, as redesignated by subsection(b)(1)(A).
(2) MAP.—The term ‘‘map’’ means the map
entitled ‘‘Ocmulgee National Monument Pro-
posed Boundary Adjustment’’, numbered 363/
125996, and dated January 2016.
(3) STUDY AREA.—The term ‘‘study area’’
means the Ocmulgee River corridor between
the cities of Macon, Georgia, and
Hawkinsville, Georgia.
(b) OCMULGEE MOUNDS NATIONAL HISTOR-
ICAL PARK.—
(1) REDESIGNATION.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The Ocmulgee National
Monument, established pursuant to the Act
of June 14, 1934 (48 Stat. 958, chapter 519),
shall be known and designated as the
‘‘Ocmulgee Mounds National Historical
Park’’.
(B) REFERENCES.—Any reference in a law,
map, regulation, document, paper, or other
record of the United States to the
‘‘Ocmulgee National Monument’’ shall be
deemed to be a reference to the ‘‘Ocmulgee
Mounds National Historical Park’’.
(2) BOUNDARY ADJUSTMENT.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The boundary of the His-
torical Park is revised to include approxi-
mately 2,100 acres of land, as generally de-
picted on the map.
(B) AVAILABILITY OF MAP.—The map shall
be on file and available for public inspection
in the appropriate offices of the National
Park Service.
(3) LAND ACQUISITION.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary may ac-
quire land and interests in land within the
boundaries of the Historical Park by dona-
tion, purchase from a willing seller with do-
nated or appropriated funds, or exchange.
(B) LIMITATION.—The Secretary may not
acquire by condemnation any land or inter-
est in land within the boundaries of the His-
torical Park.
(4) ADMINISTRATION.—The Secretary shall
administer any land acquired under para-
graph (3) as part of the Historical Park in ac-
cordance with applicable laws (including reg-
ulations).
(c) OCMULGEE RIVER CORRIDOR SPECIAL RE-
SOURCE STUDY.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall con-
duct a special resource study of the study
area.
(2) CONTENTS.—In conducting the study
under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall—
(A) evaluate the national significance of
the study area;
(B) determine the suitability and feasi-
bility of designating the study area as a unit
of the National Park System;
(C) consider other alternatives for preser-
vation, protection, and interpretation of the
study area by the Federal Government,
State or local government entities, or pri-
vate and nonprofit organizations;
(D) consult with interested Federal agen-
cies, State or local governmental entities,
private and nonprofit organizations, or any
other interested individuals; and
(E) identify cost estimates for any Federal
acquisition, development, interpretation, op-
eration, and maintenance associated with
the alternatives.
(3) APPLICABLE LAW.—The study required
under paragraph (1) shall be conducted in ac-
cordance with section 100507 of title 54,
United States Code.
(4) REPORT.—Not later than 3 years after
the date on which funds are first made avail-
able to carry out the study under paragraph
(1), the Secretary shall submit to the Com-
mittee on Natural Resources of the House of
Representatives and the Committee on En-
ergy and Natural Resources of the Senate a
report that describes—
(A) the results of the study; and
(B) any conclusions and recommendations
of the Secretary.
SEC. 2103. KENNESAW MOUNTAIN NATIONAL BAT-
TLEFIELD PARK BOUNDARY.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) MAP.—The term ‘‘map’’ means the map
entitled ‘‘Kennesaw Mountain National Bat-
tlefield Park, Proposed Boundary Adjust-
ment’’, numbered 325/80,020, and dated Feb-
ruary 2010.
(2) PARK.—The term ‘‘Park’’ means the
Kennesaw Mountain National Battlefield
Park.
(b) KENNESAW MOUNTAIN NATIONAL BATTLE-
FIELD PARK BOUNDARY ADJUSTMENT.—
(1) BOUNDARY ADJUSTMENT.—The boundary
of the Park is modified to include the ap-
proximately 8 acres of land or interests in
land identified as ‘‘Wallis House and
Harriston Hill’’, as generally depicted on the
map.
(2) MAP.—The map shall be on file and
available for inspection in the appropriate
offices of the National Park Service.
(3) LAND ACQUISITION.—The Secretary may
acquire land or interests in land described in
paragraph (1) by donation, purchase from
willing sellers, or exchange.
(4) ADMINISTRATION OF ACQUIRED LAND.—
The Secretary shall administer land and in-
terests in land acquired under this section as
part of the Park in accordance with applica-
ble laws (including regulations).
SEC. 2104. FORT FREDERICA NATIONAL MONU-
MENT, GEORGIA.
(a) MAXIMUM ACREAGE.—The first section
of the Act of May 26, 1936 (16 U.S.C. 433g), is
amended by striking ‘‘two hundred and fifty
acres’’ and inserting ‘‘305 acres’’.
(b) BOUNDARY EXPANSION.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The boundary of the Fort
Frederica National Monument in the State
of Georgia is modified to include the land
generally depicted as ‘‘Proposed Acquisition
Areas’’ on the map entitled ‘‘Fort Frederica
National Monument Proposed Boundary Ex-
pansion’’, numbered 369/132,469, and dated
April 2016.
(2) AVAILABILITY OF MAP.—The map de-
scribed in paragraph (1) shall be on file and
available for public inspection in the appro-
priate offices of the National Park Service.
(3) ACQUISITION OF LAND.—The Secretary
may acquire the land and interests in land
described in paragraph (1) by donation or
purchase with donated or appropriated funds
from willing sellers only.
(4) NO USE OF CONDEMNATION OR EMINENT
DOMAIN.—The Secretary may not acquire by
condemnation or eminent domain any land
or interests in land under this section or for
the purposes of this section.
SEC. 2105. FORT SCOTT NATIONAL HISTORIC SITE
BOUNDARY.
Public Law 95–484 (92 Stat. 1610) is amend-
ed—
(1) in the first section—
(A) by inserting ‘‘, by purchase with appro-
priated funds, or by exchange’’ after ‘‘dona-
tion’’; and
(B) by striking the proviso; and
(2) in section 2—
(A) by striking ‘‘SEC. 2. When’’ and insert-
ing the following:
‘‘SEC. 2. ESTABLISHMENT.
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—When’’; and
(B) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(b) BOUNDARY MODIFICATION.—The bound-
ary of the Fort Scott National Historic Site
established under subsection (a) is modified
as generally depicted on the map referred to
as ‘Fort Scott National Historic Site Pro-
posed Boundary Modification’, numbered 471/
80,057, and dated February 2016.’’.
SEC. 2106. FLORISSANT FOSSIL BEDS NATIONAL
MONUMENT BOUNDARY.
The first section of Public Law 91–60 (83
Stat. 101) is amended—
(1) by striking ‘‘entitled ‘Proposed
Florissant Fossil Beds National Monument’,
numbered NM–FFB–7100, and dated March
1967, and more particularly described by
metes and bounds in an attachment to that
map,’’ and inserting ‘‘entitled ‘Florissant
Fossil Beds National Monument Proposed
Boundary Adjustment’, numbered 171/132,544,
and dated May 3, 2016,’’; and
(2) by striking ‘‘six thousand acres’’ and in-
serting ‘‘6,300 acres’’.
SEC. 2107. VOYAGEURS NATIONAL PARK BOUND-
ARY ADJUSTMENT.
(a) BOUNDARIES.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Section 102(a) of Public
Law 91–661 (16 U.S.C. 160a–1(a)) is amended—
(A) in the first sentence, by striking ‘‘the
drawing entitled’’ and all that follows
through ‘‘February 1969’’ and inserting ‘‘the
map entitled ‘Voyageurs National Park, Pro-
posed Land Transfer & Boundary Adjust-
ment’, numbered 172/80,056, and dated June
2009 (22 sheets)’’; and
(B) in the second and third sentences, by
striking ‘‘drawing’’ each place it appears and
inserting ‘‘map’’.
(2) TECHNICAL CORRECTIONS.—Section
102(b)(2)(A) of Public Law 91–661 (16 U.S.C.
160a–1(b)(2)(A)) is amended—
(A) by striking ‘‘paragraph (1)(C) and (D)’’
and inserting ‘‘subparagraphs (C) and (D) of
paragraph (1)’’; and
(B) in the second proviso, by striking
‘‘paragraph 1(E)’’ and inserting ‘‘paragraph
(1)(E)’’.
(b) LAND ACQUISITIONS.—Section 201 of
Public Law 91–661 (16 U.S.C. 160b) is amend-
ed—
(1) by striking the section designation and
heading and all that follows through ‘‘(a)
The Secretary’’ and inserting the following:
‘‘SEC. 201. LAND ACQUISITIONS.
‘‘(a) AUTHORIZATION.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary’’;
(2) in subsection (a)—
(A) in the second sentence, by striking
‘‘When any tract of land is only partly with-
in such boundaries’’ and inserting the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(2) CERTAIN PORTIONS OF TRACTS.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—In any case in which
only a portion of a tract of land is within the
boundaries of the park’’;
(B) in the third sentence, by striking
‘‘Land so acquired’’ and inserting the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(B) EXCHANGE.—
‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—Any land acquired pursu-
ant to subparagraph (A)’’;
(C) in the fourth sentence, by striking
‘‘Any portion’’ and inserting the following:
‘‘(ii) PORTIONS NOT EXCHANGED.—Any por-
tion’’;
(D) in the fifth sentence, by striking ‘‘Any
Federal property’’ and inserting the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(C) TRANSFERS OF FEDERAL PROPERTY.—
Any Federal property’’; and
(E) by striking the last sentence and in-
serting the following:
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:26 Feb 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00092 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06FE6.048 S06FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S967
February 6, 2019
‘‘(D) ADMINISTRATIVE JURISDICTION.—Effec-
tive beginning on the date of enactment of
this subparagraph, there is transferred to the
National Park Service administrative juris-
diction over—
‘‘(i) any land managed by the Bureau of
Land Management within the boundaries of
the park, as depicted on the map described in
section 102(a); and
‘‘(ii) any additional public land identified
by the Bureau of Land Management as ap-
propriate for transfer within the boundaries
of the park.
‘‘(E) LAND OWNED BY STATE.—
‘‘(i) DONATIONS AND EXCHANGES.—Any land
located within or adjacent to the boundaries
of the park that is owned by the State of
Minnesota (or a political subdivision of the
State) may be acquired by the Secretary
only through donation or exchange.
‘‘(ii) REVISION.—On completion of an acqui-
sition from the State under clause (i), the
Secretary shall revise the boundaries of the
park to reflect the acquisition.’’; and
(3) in subsection (b), by striking ‘‘(b) In ex-
ercising his’’ and inserting the following:
‘‘(b) OFFERS BY INDIVIDUALS.—In exercising
the’’.
SEC. 2108. ACADIA NATIONAL PARK BOUNDARY.
(a) BOUNDARY CLARIFICATION.—Section 101
of Public Law 99–420 (16 U.S.C. 341 note) is
amended—
(1) in the first sentence, by striking ‘‘In
order to’’ and inserting the following:
‘‘(a) BOUNDARIES.—Subject to subsections
(b) and (c)(2), to’’;
(2) in the second sentence—
(A) by striking ‘‘The map shall be on file’’
and inserting the following:
‘‘(c) AVAILABILITY AND REVISIONS OF
MAPS.—
‘‘(1) AVAILABILITY.—The map, together
with the map described in subsection (b)(1)
and any revised boundary map published
under paragraph (2), if applicable, shall be—
‘‘(A) on file’’; and
(B) by striking ‘‘Interior, and it shall be
made’’ and inserting the following: ‘‘Interior;
and
‘‘(B) made’’;
(3) by inserting after subsection (a) (as des-
ignated by paragraph (1)) the following:
‘‘(b) SCHOODIC PENINSULA ADDITION.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The boundary of the
Park is confirmed to include approximately
1,441 acres of land and interests in land, as
depicted on the map entitled ‘Acadia Na-
tional Park, Hancock County, Maine,
Schoodic Peninsula Boundary Revision’,
numbered 123/129102, and dated July 10, 2015.
‘‘(2) RATIFICATION AND APPROVAL OF ACQUI-
SITIONS OF LAND.—Congress ratifies and ap-
proves—
‘‘(A) effective as of September 26, 2013, the
acquisition by the United States of the land
and interests in the land described in para-
graph (1); and
‘‘(B) effective as of the date on which the
alteration occurred, any alteration of the
land or interests in the land described in
paragraph (1) that is held or claimed by the
United States (including conversion of the
land to fee simple interest) that occurred
after the date described in subparagraph
(A).’’; and
(4) in subsection (c) (as designated by para-
graph (2)(A)), by adding at the end the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(2) TECHNICAL AND LIMITED REVISIONS.—
Subject to section 102(k), notwithstanding
any other provision of this section, the Sec-
retary of the Interior (referred to in this
title as the ‘Secretary’), by publication in
the Federal Register of a revised boundary
map or other description, may make—
‘‘(A) such technical boundary revisions as
the Secretary determines to be appropriate
to the permanent boundaries of the Park (in-
cluding any property of the Park located
within the Schoodic Peninsula and Isle Au
Haut districts) to resolve issues resulting
from causes such as survey error or changed
road alignments; and
‘‘(B) such limited boundary revisions as
the Secretary determines to be appropriate
to the permanent boundaries of the Park to
take into account acquisitions or losses, by
exchange, donation, or purchase from willing
sellers using donated or appropriated funds,
of land adjacent to or within the Park, re-
spectively, in any case in which the total
acreage of the land to be so acquired or lost
is less than 10 acres, subject to the condition
that—
‘‘(i) any such boundary revision shall not
be a part of a more-comprehensive boundary
revision; and
‘‘(ii) all such boundary revisions, consid-
ered collectively with any technical bound-
ary revisions made pursuant to subparagraph
(A), do not increase the size of the Park by
more than a total of 100 acres, as compared
to the size of the Park on the date of enact-
ment of this paragraph.’’.
(b) LIMITATION ON ACQUISITIONS OF LAND
FOR ACADIA NATIONAL PARK.—Section 102 of
Public Law 99–420 (16 U.S.C. 341 note) is
amended—
(1) in subsection (a), in the matter pre-
ceding paragraph (1), by striking ‘‘of the In-
terior (hereinafter in this title referred to as
‘the Secretary’)’’;
(2) in subsection (d)(1), in the first sen-
tence, by striking ‘‘the the’’ and inserting
‘‘the’’;
(3) in subsection (k)—
(A) by redesignating the subsection as
paragraph (4) and indenting the paragraph
appropriately; and
(B) by moving the paragraph so as to ap-
pear at the end of subsection (b); and
(4) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(k) REQUIREMENTS.—Before revising the
boundaries of the Park pursuant to this sec-
tion or section 101(c)(2)(B), the Secretary
shall—
‘‘(1) certify that the proposed boundary re-
vision will contribute to, and is necessary
for, the proper preservation, protection, in-
terpretation, or management of the Park;
‘‘(2) consult with the governing body of
each county, city, town, or other jurisdiction
with primary taxing authority over the land
or interest in land to be acquired regarding
the impacts of the proposed boundary revi-
sion;
‘‘(3) obtain from each property owner the
land or interest in land of which is proposed
to be acquired for, or lost from, the Park
written consent for the proposed boundary
revision; and
‘‘(4) submit to the Acadia National Park
Advisory Commission established by section
103(a), the Committee on Natural Resources
of the House of Representatives, the Com-
mittee on Energy and Natural Resources of
the Senate, and the Maine Congressional
Delegation a written notice of the proposed
boundary revision.
‘‘(l) LIMITATION.—The Secretary may not
use the authority provided by section 100506
of title 54, United States Code, to adjust the
permanent boundaries of the Park pursuant
to this title.’’.
(c) ACADIA NATIONAL PARK ADVISORY COM-
MISSION.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall rees-
tablish and appoint members to the Acadia
National Park Advisory Commission in ac-
cordance with section 103 of Public Law 99–
420 (16 U.S.C. 341 note).
(2) CONFORMING AMENDMENT.—Section 103
of Public Law 99–420 (16 U.S.C. 341 note) is
amended by striking subsection (f).
(d) REPEAL OF CERTAIN PROVISIONS RELAT-
ING TO ACADIA NATIONAL PARK.—The fol-
lowing are repealed:
(1) Section 3 of the Act of February 26, 1919
(40 Stat. 1178, chapter 45).
(2) The first section of the Act of January
19, 1929 (45 Stat. 1083, chapter 77).
(e) MODIFICATION OF USE RESTRICTION.—
The Act of August 1, 1950 (64 Stat. 383, chap-
ter 511), is amended—
(1) by striking ‘‘That the Secretary’’ and
inserting the following:
‘‘SECTION 1. CONVEYANCE OF LAND IN ACADIA
NATIONAL PARK.
‘‘The Secretary’’; and
(2) by striking ‘‘for school purposes’’ and
inserting ‘‘for public purposes, subject to the
conditions that use of the land shall not de-
grade or adversely impact the resources or
values of Acadia National Park and that the
land shall remain in public ownership for
recreational, educational, or similar public
purposes’’.
(f) CONTINUATION OF CERTAIN TRADITIONAL
USES.—Title I of Public Law 99–420 (16 U.S.C.
341 note) is amended by adding at the end the
following:
‘‘SEC. 109. CONTINUATION OF CERTAIN TRADI-
TIONAL USES.
‘‘(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
‘‘(1) LAND WITHIN THE PARK.—The term
‘land within the Park’ means land owned or
controlled by the United States—
‘‘(A) that is within the boundary of the
Park established by section 101; or
‘‘(B)(i) that is outside the boundary of the
Park; and
‘‘(ii) in which the Secretary has or acquires
a property interest or conservation easement
pursuant to this title.
‘‘(2) MARINE SPECIES; MARINE WORM; SHELL-
FISH.—The terms ‘marine species’, ‘marine
worm’, and ‘shellfish’ have the meanings
given those terms in section 6001 of title 12 of
the Maine Revised Statutes (as in effect on
the date of enactment of this section).
‘‘(3) STATE LAW.—The term ‘State law’
means the law (including regulations) of the
State of Maine, including the common law.
‘‘(4) TAKING.—The term ‘taking’ means the
removal or attempted removal of a marine
species, marine worm, or shellfish from the
natural habitat of the marine species, ma-
rine worm, or shellfish.
‘‘(b) CONTINUATION OF TRADITIONAL USES.—
The Secretary shall allow for the traditional
taking of marine species, marine worms, and
shellfish, on land within the Park between
the mean high watermark and the mean low
watermark in accordance with State law.’’.
(g) CONVEYANCE OF CERTAIN LAND IN ACA-
DIA NATIONAL PARK TO THE TOWN OF BAR
HARBOR, MAINE.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall con-
vey to the Town of Bar Harbor all right,
title, and interest of the United States in
and to the .29-acre parcel of land in Acadia
National Park identified as lot 110–055–000 on
the tax map of the Town of Bar Harbor for
section 110, dated April 1, 2015, to be used
for—
(A) a solid waste transfer facility; or
(B) other public purposes consistent with
uses allowed under the Act of June 14, 1926
(commonly known as the ‘‘Recreation and
Public Purposes Act’’) (44 Stat. 741, chapter
578; 43 U.S.C. 869 et seq.).
(2) REVERSION.—If the land conveyed under
paragraph (1) is used for a purpose other than
a purpose described in that paragraph, the
land shall, at the discretion of the Secretary,
revert to the United States.
SEC. 2109. AUTHORITY OF SECRETARY OF THE IN-
TERIOR TO ACCEPT CERTAIN PROP-
ERTIES, MISSOURI.
(a) STE. GENEVIEVE NATIONAL HISTORICAL
PARK.—Section 7134(a)(3) of the Energy and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:26 Feb 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00093 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06FE6.048 S06FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S968 February 6, 2019
Natural Resources Act of 2017 (as enacted
into law by section 121(a)(2) of division G of
the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2018
(Public Law 115–141)) is amended by striking
‘‘ ‘Ste. Genevieve National Historical Park
Proposed Boundary’, numbered 571/132,626,
and dated May 2016’’ and inserting ‘‘ ‘Ste.
Genevieve National Historical Park Pro-
posed Boundary Addition’, numbered 571/
149,942, and dated December 2018’’.
(b) HARRY S TRUMAN NATIONAL HISTORIC
SITE.—Public Law 98–32 (54 U.S.C. 320101
note) is amended—
(1) in section 3, by striking the section des-
ignation and all that follows through ‘‘is au-
thorized’’ and inserting the following:
‘‘SEC. 4. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
‘‘There are authorized’’;
(2) in section 2—
(A) in the second sentence, by striking
‘‘The Secretary is further authorized, in the
administration of the site, to’’ and inserting
the following:
‘‘(b) USE BY MARGARET TRUMAN DANIEL.—
In administering the Harry S Truman Na-
tional Historic Site, the Secretary may’’;
and
(B) by striking the section designation and
all that follows through ‘‘and shall be’’ in
the first sentence and inserting the fol-
lowing:
‘‘SEC. 3. DESIGNATION; USE BY MARGARET TRU-
MAN DANIEL.
‘‘(a) DESIGNATION.—Any property acquired
pursuant to section 2—
‘‘(1) is designated as the ‘Harry S Truman
National Historic Site’; and
‘‘(2) shall be’’; and
(3) in the first section—
(A) by redesignating subsection (e) as para-
graph (2), indenting the paragraph appro-
priately, and moving the paragraph so as to
appear at the end of subsection (c);
(B) in subsection (c)—
(i) by striking the subsection designation
and all that follows through ‘‘authorized to’’
and inserting the following:
‘‘(c) TRUMAN FARM HOME.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary may’’; and
(ii) in paragraph (2) (as redesignated by
subparagraph (A))—
(I) by striking ‘‘Farm House’’ and inserting
‘‘Farm Home’’; and
(II) by striking the paragraph designation
and all that follows through ‘‘authorized and
directed to’’ and inserting the following:
‘‘(2) TECHNICAL AND PLANNING ASSIST-
ANCE.—The Secretary shall’’;
(C) in subsection (b)—
(i) by striking ‘‘(b)(1) The Secretary is fur-
ther authorized to’’ and inserting the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(b) NOLAND/HAUKENBERRY AND WALLACE
HOUSES.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary may’’; and
(ii) in paragraph (1), by indenting subpara-
graphs (A) and (B) appropriately;
(D) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(e) ADDITIONAL LAND IN INDEPENDENCE FOR
VISITOR CENTER.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary may ac-
quire, by donation from the city of Independ-
ence, Missouri, the land described in para-
graph (2) for—
‘‘(A) inclusion in the Harry S Truman Na-
tional Historic Site; and
‘‘(B) if the Secretary determines appro-
priate, use as a visitor center of the historic
site, which may include administrative serv-
ices.
‘‘(2) DESCRIPTION OF LAND.—The land re-
ferred to in paragraph (1) consists of the ap-
proximately 1.08 acres of land—
‘‘(A) owned by the city of Independence,
Missouri;
‘‘(B) designated as Lots 6 through 19,
DELAYS Subdivision, a subdivision in Inde-
pendence, Jackson County, Missouri; and
‘‘(C) located in the area of the city bound
by Truman Road on the south, North Lynn
Street on the west, East White Oak Street
on the north, and the city transit center on
the east.
‘‘(3) BOUNDARY MODIFICATION.—On acquisi-
tion of the land under this subsection, the
Secretary shall modify the boundary of the
Harry S Truman National Historic Site to
reflect that acquisition.’’; and
(E) in subsection (a)—
(i) in the second sentence, by striking ‘‘The
Secretary may also acquire, by any of the
above means, fixtures,’’ and inserting the
following:
‘‘(2) FIXTURES AND PERSONAL PROPERTY.—
The Secretary may acquire, by any means
described in paragraph (1), any fixtures’’; and
(ii) in the first sentence—
(I) by striking ‘‘of the Interior (hereinafter
referred to as the ‘Secretary’)’’; and
(II) by striking ‘‘That (a) in order to’’ and
inserting the following:
‘‘SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; DEFINITION OF SEC-
RETARY.
‘‘(a) SHORT TITLE.—This Act may be cited
as the ‘Harry S Truman National Historic
Site Establishment Act’.
‘‘(b) DEFINITION OF SECRETARY.—In this
Act, the term ‘Secretary’ means the Sec-
retary of the Interior.
‘‘SEC. 2. PURPOSE; ACQUISITION OF PROPERTY.
‘‘(a) PURPOSE; ACQUISITION.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—To’’.
SEC. 2110. HOME OF FRANKLIN D. ROOSEVELT
NATIONAL HISTORIC SITE.
(a) LAND ACQUISITION.—The Secretary may
acquire, by donation, purchase from a will-
ing seller using donated or appropriated
funds, or exchange, the approximately 89
acres of land identified as the ‘‘Morgan Prop-
erty’’ and generally depicted on the map en-
titled ‘‘Home of Franklin D. Roosevelt Na-
tional Historic Site, Proposed Park Addi-
tion’’, numbered 384/138,461, and dated May
2017.
(b) AVAILABILITY OF MAP.—The map re-
ferred to in subsection (a) shall be available
for public inspection in the appropriate of-
fices of the National Park Service.
(c) BOUNDARY ADJUSTMENT; ADMINISTRA-
TION.—On acquisition of the land referred to
in subsection (a), the Secretary shall—
(1) adjust the boundary of the Home of
Franklin D. Roosevelt National Historic Site
to reflect the acquisition; and
(2) administer the acquired land as part of
the Home of Franklin D. Roosevelt National
Historic Site, in accordance with applicable
laws.
Subtitle C—National Park System
Redesignations
SEC. 2201. DESIGNATION OF SAINT-GAUDENS NA-
TIONAL HISTORICAL PARK.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The Saint-Gaudens Na-
tional Historic Site shall be known and des-
ignated as the ‘‘Saint-Gaudens National His-
torical Park’’.
(b) AMENDMENTS TO PUBLIC LAW 88–543.—
Public Law 88–543 (78 Stat.749) is amended—
(1) by striking ‘‘National Historic Site’’
each place it appears and inserting ‘‘Na-
tional Historical Park’’;
(2) in section 2(a), by striking ‘‘historic
site’’ and inserting ‘‘Saint-Gaudens National
Historical Park’’;
(3) in section 3, by—
(A) striking ‘‘national historical site’’ and
inserting ‘‘Saint-Gaudens National Histor-
ical Park’’; and
(B) striking ‘‘part of the site’’ and insert-
ing ‘‘part of the park’’; and
(4) in section 4(b), by striking ‘‘traditional
to the site’’ and inserting ‘‘traditional to the
park’’.
(c) REFERENCES.—Any reference in any
law, regulation, document, record, map, or
other paper of the United States to the
Saint-Gaudens National Historic Site shall
be considered to be a reference to the ‘‘Saint-
Gaudens National Historical Park’’.
SEC. 2202. REDESIGNATION OF ROBERT EMMET
PARK.
(a) REDESIGNATION.—The small triangular
property designated by the National Park
Service as reservation 302, shall be known as
‘‘Robert Emmet Park’’.
(b) REFERENCE.—Any reference in any law,
regulation, document, record, map, paper, or
other record of the United States to the
property referred to in subsection (a) is
deemed to be a reference to ‘‘Robert Emmet
Park’’.
(c) SIGNAGE.—The Secretary may post
signs on or near Robert Emmet Park that in-
clude 1 or more of the following:
(1) Information on Robert Emmet, his con-
tribution to Irish Independence, and his re-
spect for the United States and the Amer-
ican Revolution.
(2) Information on the history of the statue
of Robert Emmet located in Robert Emmet
Park.
SEC. 2203. FORT SUMTER AND FORT MOULTRIE
NATIONAL HISTORICAL PARK.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) MAP.—The term ‘‘map’’ means the map
entitled ‘‘Boundary Map, Fort Sumter and
Fort Moultrie National Historical Park’’,
numbered 392/80,088, and dated August 2009.
(2) PARK.—The term ‘‘Park’’ means the
Fort Sumter and Fort Moultrie National
Historical Park established by subsection
(b).
(3) STATE.—The term ‘‘State’’ means the
State of South Carolina.
(4) SULLIVAN’S ISLAND LIFE SAVING STATION
HISTORIC DISTRICT.—The term ‘‘Sullivan’s Is-
land Life Saving Station Historic District’’
means the Charleston Lighthouse, the boat-
house, garage, bunker/sighting station, sig-
nal tower, and any associated land and im-
provements to the land that are located be-
tween Sullivan’s Island Life Saving Station
and the mean low water mark.
(b) ESTABLISHMENT.—There is established
the Fort Sumter and Fort Moultrie National
Historical Park in the State as a single unit
of the National Park System to preserve,
maintain, and interpret the nationally sig-
nificant historical values and cultural re-
sources associated with Fort Sumter Na-
tional Monument, Fort Moultrie National
Monument, and the Sullivan’s Island Life
Saving Station Historic District.
(c) BOUNDARY.—The boundary of the Park
shall be as generally depicted on the map.
(d) AVAILABILITY OF MAP.—The map shall
be on file and available for public inspection
in the appropriate offices of the National
Park Service.
(e) ADMINISTRATION.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary, acting
through the Director of the National Park
Service, shall administer the Park in accord-
ance with this section and the laws generally
applicable to units of the National Park Sys-
tem, including—
(A) section 100101(a), chapter 1003, and sec-
tions 100751(a), 100752, 100753, and 102101 of
title 54, United States Code; and
(B) chapter 3201 of title 54, United States
Code.
(2) INTERPRETATION OF HISTORICAL
EVENTS.—The Secretary shall provide for the
interpretation of historical events and ac-
tivities that occurred in the vicinity of Fort
Sumter and Fort Moultrie, including—
(A) the Battle of Sullivan’s Island on June
28, 1776;
(B) the Siege of Charleston during 1780;
(C) the Civil War, including—
(i) the bombardment of Fort Sumter by
Confederate forces on April 12, 1861; and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:26 Feb 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00094 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06FE6.048 S06FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S969
February 6, 2019
(ii) any other events of the Civil War that
are associated with Fort Sumter and Fort
Moultrie;
(D) the development of the coastal defense
system of the United States during the pe-
riod from the Revolutionary War to World
War II, including—
(i) the Sullivan’s Island Life Saving Sta-
tion;
(ii) the lighthouse associated with the Sul-
livan’s Island Life Saving Station; and
(iii) the coastal defense sites constructed
during the period of fortification construc-
tion from 1898 to 1942, known as the ‘‘Endi-
cott Period’’; and
(E) the lives of—
(i) the free and enslaved workers who built
and maintained Fort Sumter and Fort
Moultrie;
(ii) the soldiers who defended the forts;
(iii) the prisoners held at the forts; and
(iv) captive Africans bound for slavery
who, after first landing in the United States,
were brought to quarantine houses in the vi-
cinity of Fort Moultrie in the 18th century,
if the Secretary determines that the quar-
antine houses and associated historical val-
ues are nationally significant.
(f) COOPERATIVE AGREEMENTS.—The Sec-
retary may enter into cooperative agree-
ments with public and private entities and
individuals to carry out this section.
(g) REPEAL OF EXISTING LAW.—Section 2 of
the Joint Resolution entitled ‘‘Joint Resolu-
tion to establish the Fort Sumter National
Monument in the State of South Carolina’’,
approved April 28, 1948 (16 U.S.C. 450ee–1), is
repealed.
SEC. 2204. RECONSTRUCTION ERA NATIONAL HIS-
TORICAL PARK AND RECONSTRUC-
TION ERA NATIONAL HISTORIC NET-
WORK.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) HISTORICAL PARK.—The term ‘‘historical
park’’ means the Reconstruction Era Na-
tional Historical Park.
(2) MAP.—The term ‘‘Map’’ means the maps
entitled ‘‘Reconstruction Era National
Monument Old Beaufort Firehouse’’, num-
bered 550/135,755, and dated January 2017;
‘‘Reconstruction Era National Monument
Darrah Hall and Brick Baptist Church’’,
numbered 550/135,756, and dated January 2017;
and ‘‘Reconstruction Era National Monu-
ment Camp Saxton’’, numbered 550/135,757,
and dated January 2017, collectively.
(3) NETWORK.—The term ‘‘Network’’ means
the Reconstruction Era National Historic
Network established pursuant to this sec-
tion.
(b) RECONSTRUCTION ERA NATIONAL HISTOR-
ICAL PARK.—
(1) REDESIGNATION OF RECONSTRUCTION ERA
NATIONAL MONUMENT.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The Reconstruction Era
National Monument is redesignated as the
Reconstruction Era National Historical
Park, as generally depicted on the Map.
(B) AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS.—Any funds
available for the purposes of the Reconstruc-
tion Era National Monument shall be avail-
able for the purposes of the historical park.
(C) REFERENCES.—Any references in a law,
regulation, document, record, map, or other
paper of the United States to the Recon-
struction Era National Monument shall be
considered to be a reference to the historical
park.
(2) BOUNDARY EXPANSION.—
(A) BEAUFORT NATIONAL HISTORIC LANDMARK
DISTRICT.—Subject to subparagraph (D), the
Secretary is authorized to acquire land or in-
terests in land within the Beaufort National
Historic Landmark District that has historic
connection to the Reconstruction Era. Upon
finalizing an agreement to acquire land, the
Secretary shall expand the boundary of the
historical park to encompass the property.
(B) ST. HELENA ISLAND.—Subject to sub-
paragraph (D), the Secretary is authorized to
acquire the following and shall expand the
boundary of the historical park to include
acquisitions under this authority:
(i) Land and interests in land adjacent to
the existing boundary on St. Helena Island,
South Carolina, as reflected on the Map.
(ii) Land or interests in land on St. Helena
Island, South Carolina, that has a historic
connection to the Reconstruction Era.
(C) CAMP SAXTON.—Subject to subpara-
graph (D), the Secretary is authorized to ac-
cept administrative jurisdiction of Federal
land or interests in Federal land adjacent to
the existing boundary at Camp Saxton, as re-
flected on the Map. Upon finalizing an agree-
ment to accept administrative jurisdiction
of Federal land or interests in Federal land,
the Secretary shall expand the boundary of
the historical park to encompass that Fed-
eral land or interests in Federal land.
(D) LAND ACQUISITION AUTHORITY.—The Sec-
retary may only acquire land under this sec-
tion by donation, exchange, or purchase with
donated funds.
(3) ADMINISTRATION.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall ad-
minister the historical park in accordance
with this section and with the laws generally
applicable to units of the National Park Sys-
tem.
(B) MANAGEMENT PLAN.—If the manage-
ment plan for the Reconstruction Era Na-
tional Monument—
(i) has not been completed on or before the
date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary
shall incorporate all provisions of this sec-
tion into the planning process and complete
a management plan for the historical park
within 3 years; and
(ii) has been completed on or before the
date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary
shall update the plan incorporating the pro-
visions of this section.
(c) RECONSTRUCTION ERA NATIONAL HIS-
TORIC NETWORK.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall—
(A) establish, within the National Park
Service, a program to be known as the ‘‘Re-
construction Era National Historic Net-
work’’;
(B) not later than 1 year after the date of
enactment of this Act, solicit proposals from
sites interested in being a part of the Net-
work; and
(C) administer the Network through the
historical park.
(2) DUTIES OF SECRETARY.—In carrying out
the Network, the Secretary shall—
(A) review studies and reports to com-
plement and not duplicate studies of the his-
torical importance of Reconstruction Era
that may be underway or completed, such as
the National Park Service Reconstruction
Handbook and the National Park Service
Theme Study on Reconstruction;
(B) produce and disseminate appropriate
educational and promotional materials re-
lating to the Reconstruction Era and the
sites in the Network, such as handbooks,
maps, interpretive guides, or electronic in-
formation;
(C) enter into appropriate cooperative
agreements and memoranda of under-
standing to provide technical assistance;
(D)(i) create and adopt an official, uniform
symbol or device for the Network; and
(ii) issue regulations for the use of the
symbol or device adopted under clause (i);
and
(E) conduct research relating to Recon-
struction and the Reconstruction Era.
(3) ELEMENTS.—The Network shall encom-
pass the following elements:
(A) All units and programs of the National
Park Service that are determined by the
Secretary to relate to the Reconstruction
Era.
(B) Other Federal, State, local, and pri-
vately owned properties that the Secretary
determines—
(i) relate to the Reconstruction Era; and
(ii) are included in, or determined by the
Secretary to be eligible for inclusion in, the
National Register of Historic Places.
(C) Other governmental and nongovern-
mental sites, facilities, and programs of an
educational, research, or interpretive nature
that are directly related to the Reconstruc-
tion Era.
(4) COOPERATIVE AGREEMENTS AND MEMO-
RANDA OF UNDERSTANDING.—To achieve the
purposes of this section and to ensure effec-
tive coordination of the Federal and non-
Federal elements of the Network and units
and programs of the National Park Service,
the Secretary may enter into cooperative
agreements and memoranda of under-
standing with, and provide technical assist-
ance to, the heads of other Federal agencies,
States, units of local government, regional
governmental bodies, and private entities.
SEC. 2205. GOLDEN SPIKE NATIONAL HISTORICAL
PARK.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) PARK.—The term ‘‘Park’’ means the
Golden Spike National Historical Park des-
ignated by subsection (b)(1).
(2) PROGRAM.—The term ‘‘Program’’ means
the program to commemorate and interpret
the Transcontinental Railroad authorized
under subsection (c).
(3) SECRETARY.—The term ‘‘Secretary’’
means the Secretary, acting through the Di-
rector of the National Park Service.
(4) TRANSCONTINENTAL RAILROAD.—The
term ‘‘Transcontinental Railroad’’ means
the approximately 1,912-mile continuous
railroad constructed between 1863 and 1869
extending from Council Bluffs, Iowa, to San
Francisco, California.
(b) REDESIGNATION.—
(1) REDESIGNATION.—The Golden Spike Na-
tional Historic Site designated April 2, 1957,
and placed under the administration of the
National Park Service under Public Law 89–
102 (54 U.S.C. 320101 note; 79 Stat. 426), shall
be known and designated as the ‘‘Golden
Spike National Historical Park’’.
(2) REFERENCES.—Any reference in a law,
map, regulation, document, paper, or other
record of the United States to the Golden
Spike National Historic Site shall be consid-
ered to be a reference to the ‘‘Golden Spike
National Historical Park’’.
(c) TRANSCONTINENTAL RAILROAD COMMEMO-
RATION AND PROGRAM.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Subject to paragraph (2),
the Secretary shall establish within the Na-
tional Park Service a program to commemo-
rate and interpret the Transcontinental
Railroad.
(2) STUDY.—Before establishing the Pro-
gram, the Secretary shall conduct a study of
alternatives for commemorating and inter-
preting the Transcontinental Railroad that
includes—
(A) a historical assessment of the Trans-
continental Railroad;
(B) the identification of—
(i) existing National Park System land and
affiliated areas, land managed by other Fed-
eral agencies, and Federal programs that
may be related to preserving, commemo-
rating, and interpreting the Trans-
continental Railroad;
(ii) any properties relating to the Trans-
continental Railroad—
(I) that are designated as, or could meet
the criteria for designation as, National His-
toric Landmarks; or
(II) that are included, or eligible for inclu-
sion, on the National Register of Historic
Places;
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:26 Feb 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00095 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06FE6.048 S06FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S970 February 6, 2019
(iii) any objects relating to the Trans-
continental Railroad that have educational,
research, or interpretative value; and
(iv) any governmental programs and non-
governmental programs of an educational,
research, or interpretive nature relating to
the Transcontinental Railroad; and
(C) recommendations for—
(i) incorporating the resources identified
under subparagraph (B) into the Program;
and
(ii) other appropriate ways to enhance his-
torical research, education, interpretation,
and public awareness of the Trans-
continental Railroad.
(3) REPORT.—Not later than 3 years after
the date on which funds are made available
to carry out the study under paragraph (2),
the Secretary shall submit to the Committee
on Natural Resources of the House of Rep-
resentatives and the Committee on Energy
and Natural Resources of the Senate a report
containing the findings and recommenda-
tions of the study.
(4) FREIGHT RAILROAD OPERATIONS.—The
Program shall not include any properties
that are—
(A) used in active freight railroad oper-
ations (or other ancillary purposes); or
(B) reasonably anticipated to be used for
freight railroad operations in the future.
(5) ELEMENTS OF THE PROGRAM.—In car-
rying out the Program under this subsection,
the Secretary—
(A) shall produce and disseminate appro-
priate education materials relating to the
history, construction, and legacy of the
Transcontinental Railroad, such as hand-
books, maps, interpretive guides, or elec-
tronic information;
(B) may enter into appropriate cooperative
agreements and memoranda of under-
standing and provide technical assistance to
the heads of other Federal agencies, States,
units of local government, regional govern-
mental bodies, and private entities to fur-
ther the purposes of the Program and this
section; and
(C) may—
(i) create and adopt an official, uniform
symbol or device to identify the Program;
and
(ii) issue guidance for the use of the sym-
bol or device created and adopted under
clause (i).
(d) PROGRAMMATIC AGREEMENT.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 180 days
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Secretary shall seek to enter into a pro-
grammatic agreement with the Utah State
Historic Preservation Officer to add to the
list of undertakings eligible for streamlined
review under section 306108 of title 54, United
States Code, certain uses that would have
limited physical impact to land in the Park.
(2) DEVELOPMENT AND CONSULTATION.—The
programmatic agreement entered into under
paragraph (1) shall be developed—
(A) in accordance with applicable laws (in-
cluding regulations); and
(B) in consultation with adjacent land-
owners, Indian Tribes, and other interested
parties.
(3) APPROVAL.—The Secretary shall—
(A) consider any application for uses cov-
ered by the programmatic agreement; and
(B) not later than 60 days after the receipt
of an application described in subparagraph
(A), approve the application, if the Secretary
determines the application is consistent
with—
(i) the programmatic agreement entered
into under paragraph (1); and
(ii) applicable laws (including regulations).
(e) INVASIVE SPECIES.—The Secretary shall
consult with, and seek to coordinate with,
adjacent landowners to address the treat-
ment of invasive species adjacent to, and
within the boundaries of, the Park.
SEC. 2206. WORLD WAR II PACIFIC SITES.
(a) PEARL HARBOR NATIONAL MEMORIAL,
HAWAI’I.—
(1) DEFINITIONS.—In this subsection:
(A) MAP.—The term ‘‘Map’’ means the map
entitled ‘‘Pearl Harbor National Memorial—
Proposed Boundary’’, numbered 580/140,514,
and dated November 2017.
(B) NATIONAL MEMORIAL.—The term ‘‘Na-
tional Memorial’’ means the Pearl Harbor
National Memorial established by paragraph
(2)(A)(i).
(2) PEARL HARBOR NATIONAL MEMORIAL.—
(A) ESTABLISHMENT.—
(i) IN GENERAL.—There is established the
Pearl Harbor National Memorial in the State
of Hawai’i as a unit of the National Park
System.
(ii) BOUNDARIES.—The boundaries of the
National Memorial shall be the boundaries
generally depicted on the Map.
(iii) AVAILABILITY OF MAP.—The Map shall
be on file and available for public inspection
in appropriate offices of the National Park
Service.
(B) PURPOSES.—The purposes of the Na-
tional Memorial are to preserve, interpret,
and commemorate for the benefit of present
and future generations the history of World
War II in the Pacific from the events leading
to the December 7, 1941, attack on O’ahu, to
peace and reconciliation.
(3) ADMINISTRATION.—The Secretary shall
administer the National Memorial in accord-
ance with this subsection, section 121 of Pub-
lic Law 111–88 (123 Stat. 2930), and the laws
generally applicable to units of the National
Park System including—
(A) section 100101(a), chapter 1003, and sec-
tions 100751(a), 100752, 100753, and 102101 of
title 54, United States Code; and
(B) chapter 3201 of title 54, United States
Code.
(4) REMOVAL OF PEARL HARBOR NATIONAL
MEMORIAL FROM THE WORLD WAR II VALOR IN
THE PACIFIC NATIONAL MONUMENT.—
(A) BOUNDARIES.—The boundaries of the
World War II Valor in the Pacific National
Monument are revised to exclude from the
monument the land and interests in land
identified as the ‘‘Pearl Harbor National Me-
morial’’, as depicted on the Map.
(B) INCORPORATION INTO NATIONAL MEMO-
RIAL.—
(i) IN GENERAL.—The land and interests in
land excluded from the monument under sub-
paragraph (A) are incorporated in and made
part of the National Memorial in accordance
with this subsection.
(ii) USE OF FUNDS.—Any funds for the pur-
poses of the land and interests in land ex-
cluded from the monument under subpara-
graph (A) shall be made available for the
purposes of the National Memorial.
(iii) REFERENCES.—Any reference in a law
(other than this section), regulation, docu-
ment, record, map, or other paper of the
United States to resources in the State of
Hawai’i included in the World War II Valor
in the Pacific National Monument shall be
considered a reference to the ‘‘Pearl Harbor
National Memorial’’.
(b) TULE LAKE NATIONAL MONUMENT, CALI-
FORNIA.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The areas of the World
War II Valor in the Pacific National Monu-
ment located in the State of California, as
established by Presidential Proclamation
8327 (73 Fed. Reg. 75293; December 10, 2008),
are redesignated as the ‘‘Tule Lake National
Monument’’.
(2) ADMINISTRATION.—The Secretary shall
administer the Tule Lake National Monu-
ment in accordance with the provisions of
Presidential Proclamation 8327 (73 Fed. Reg.
75293; December 10, 2008) applicable to the
sites and resources in the State of California
that are subject to that proclamation.
(3) REFERENCES.—Any reference in a law
(other than this section), regulation, docu-
ment, record, map, or other paper of the
United States to resources in the State of
California included in the World War II
Valor in the Pacific National Monument
shall be considered to be a reference to ‘‘Tule
Lake National Monument’’.
(c) ALEUTIAN ISLANDS WORLD WAR II NA-
TIONAL MONUMENT, ALASKA.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The areas of the World
War II Valor in the Pacific National Monu-
ment located in the State of Alaska, as es-
tablished by Presidential Proclamation 8327
(73 Fed. Reg. 75293; December 10, 2008), are re-
designated as the ‘‘Aleutian Islands World
War II National Monument’’.
(2) ADMINISTRATION.—The Secretary shall
administer the Aleutian Islands World War II
National Monument in accordance with the
provisions of Presidential Proclamation 8327
(73 Fed. Reg. 75293; December 10, 2008) appli-
cable to the sites and resources in the State
of Alaska that are subject to that proclama-
tion.
(3) REFERENCES.—Any reference in a law
(other than this section), regulation, docu-
ment, record, map, or other paper of the
United States to the sites and resources in
the State of Alaska included in the World
War II Valor in the Pacific National Monu-
ment shall be considered to be a reference to
the ‘‘Aleutian Islands World War II National
Monument’’.
(d) HONOULIULI NATIONAL HISTORIC SITE,
HAWAI’I.—
(1) DEFINITIONS.—In this subsection:
(A) HISTORIC SITE.—The term ‘‘Historic
Site’’ means the Honouliuli National His-
toric Site established by paragraph (2)(A)(i).
(B) MAP.—The term ‘‘Map’’ means the map
entitled ‘‘Honouliuli National Historic Site—
Proposed Boundary’’, numbered 680/139428,
and dated June 2017.
(2) HONOULIULI NATIONAL HISTORIC SITE.—
(A) ESTABLISHMENT.—
(i) IN GENERAL.—There is established the
Honouliuli National Historic Site in the
State of Hawai’i as a unit of the National
Park System.
(ii) BOUNDARIES.—The boundaries of the
Historic Site shall be the boundaries gen-
erally depicted on the Map.
(iii) AVAILABILITY OF MAP.—The Map shall
be on file and available for public inspection
in appropriate offices of the National Park
Service.
(B) PURPOSES.—The purposes of the His-
toric Site are to preserve and interpret for
the benefit of present and future generations
the history associated with the internment
and detention of civilians of Japanese and
other ancestries during World War II in Ha-
wai’i, the impacts of war and martial law on
society in the Hawaiian Islands, and the co-
location and diverse experiences of Prisoners
of War at the Honouliuli Internment Camp
site.
(3) ADMINISTRATION.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall ad-
minister the Historic Site in accordance
with this subsection and the laws generally
applicable to units of the National Park Sys-
tem, including—
(i) section 100101(a), chapter 1003, and sec-
tions 100751(a), 100752, 100753, and 102101 of
title 54, United States Code; and
(ii) chapter 3201 of title 54, United States
Code.
(B) PARTNERSHIPS.—
(i) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary may enter
into agreements with, or acquire easements
from, the owners of property adjacent to the
Historic Site to provide public access to the
Historic Site.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:26 Feb 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00096 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06FE6.048 S06FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S971
February 6, 2019
(ii) INTERPRETATION.—The Secretary may
enter into cooperative agreements with gov-
ernmental and nongovernmental organiza-
tions to provide for interpretation at the
Historic Site.
(C) SHARED RESOURCES.—To the maximum
extent practicable, the Secretary may use
the resources of the Pearl Harbor National
Memorial to administer the Historic Site.
(4) ABOLISHMENT OF HONOULIULI NATIONAL
MONUMENT.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—In light of the establish-
ment of the Honouliuli National Historic
Site, the Honouliuli National Monument is
abolished and the lands and interests therein
are incorporated within and made part of
Honouliuli National Historic Site. Any funds
available for purposes of Honouliuli National
Monument shall be available for purposes of
the Historic Site.
(B) REFERENCES.—Any references in law
(other than in this section), regulation, doc-
ument, record, map or other paper of the
United States to Honouliuli National Monu-
ment shall be considered a reference to
Honouliuli National Historic Site.
Subtitle D—New Units of the National Park
System
SEC. 2301. MEDGAR AND MYRLIE EVERS HOME
NATIONAL MONUMENT.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) COLLEGE.—The term ‘‘College’’ means
Tougaloo College, a private educational in-
stitution located in Tougaloo, Mississippi.
(2) HISTORIC DISTRICT.—The term ‘‘Historic
District’’ means the Medgar Evers Historic
District, as included on the National Reg-
ister of Historic Places, and as generally de-
picted on the Map.
(3) MAP.—The term ‘‘Map’’ means the map
entitled ‘‘Medgar and Myrlie Evers Home Na-
tional Monument’’, numbered 515/142561, and
dated September 2018.
(4) MONUMENT.—The term ‘‘Monument’’
means the Medgar and Myrlie Evers Home
National Monument established by sub-
section (b).
(5) SECRETARY.—The term ‘‘Secretary’’
means the Secretary, acting through the Di-
rector of the National Park Service.
(b) ESTABLISHMENT.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Subject to paragraph (2),
there is established the Medgar and Myrlie
Evers Home National Monument in the State
of Mississippi as a unit of the National Park
System to preserve, protect, and interpret
for the benefit of present and future genera-
tions resources associated with the pivotal
roles of Medgar and Myrlie Evers in the
American Civil Rights Movement.
(2) DETERMINATION BY THE SECRETARY.—The
Monument shall not be established until the
date on which the Secretary determines that
a sufficient quantity of land or interests in
land has been acquired to constitute a man-
ageable park unit.
(c) BOUNDARIES.—The boundaries of the
Monument shall be the boundaries generally
depicted on the Map.
(d) AVAILABILITY OF MAP.—The Map shall
be on file and available for public inspection
in the appropriate offices of the National
Park Service.
(e) ACQUISITION AUTHORITY.—The Secretary
may only acquire any land or interest in
land located within the boundary of the
Monument by—
(1) donation;
(2) purchase from a willing seller with do-
nated or appropriated funds; or
(3) exchange.
(f) ADMINISTRATION.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall ad-
minister the Monument in accordance with—
(A) this section; and
(B) the laws generally applicable to units
of the National Park System, including—
(i) section 100101(a), chapter 1003, and sec-
tions 100751(a), 100752, 100753, and 102101 of
title 54, United States Code; and
(ii) chapter 3201 of title 54, United States
Code.
(2) MANAGEMENT PLAN.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 3 years
after the date on which funds are first made
available to the Secretary for this purpose,
the Secretary shall prepare a general man-
agement plan for the Monument in accord-
ance with section 100502 of title 54, United
States Code.
(B) SUBMISSION.—On completion of the gen-
eral management plan under subparagraph
(A), the Secretary shall submit it to the
Committee on Natural Resources of the
House of Representatives and the Committee
on Energy and Natural Resources of the Sen-
ate.
(g) AGREEMENTS.—
(1) MONUMENT.—The Secretary—
(A) shall seek to enter into an agreement
with the College to provide interpretive and
educational services relating to the Monu-
ment; and
(B) may enter into agreements with the
College and other entities for the purposes of
carrying out this section.
(2) HISTORIC DISTRICT.—The Secretary may
enter into agreements with the owner of a
nationally significant property within the
Historic District, to identify, mark, inter-
pret, and provide technical assistance with
respect to the preservation and interpreta-
tion of the property.
SEC. 2302. MILL SPRINGS BATTLEFIELD NA-
TIONAL MONUMENT.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) MAP.—The term ‘‘Map’’ means the map
entitled ‘‘Mill Springs Battlefield National
Monument, Nancy, Kentucky’’, numbered
297/145513, and dated June 2018.
(2) MONUMENT.—The term ‘‘Monument’’
means the Mill Springs Battlefield National
Monument established by subsection (b)(1).
(3) SECRETARY.—The term ‘‘Secretary’’
means the Secretary, acting through the Di-
rector of the National Park Service.
(b) ESTABLISHMENT.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Subject to paragraph (2),
there is established as a unit of the National
Park System, the Mill Springs Battlefield
National Monument in the State of Ken-
tucky, to preserve, protect, and interpret for
the benefit of present and future genera-
tions—
(A) the nationally significant historic re-
sources of the Mill Springs Battlefield; and
(B) the role of the Mill Springs Battlefield
in the Civil War.
(2) DETERMINATION BY THE SECRETARY.—The
Monument shall not be established until the
date on which the Secretary determines that
a sufficient quantity of land or interests in
land has been acquired to constitute a man-
ageable park unit.
(3) NOTICE.—Not later than 30 days after
the date on which the Secretary makes a de-
termination under paragraph (2), the Sec-
retary shall publish in the Federal Register
notice of the establishment of the Monu-
ment.
(4) BOUNDARY.—The boundary of the Monu-
ment shall be as generally depicted on the
Map.
(5) AVAILABILITY OF MAP.—The Map shall
be on file and available for public inspection
in the appropriate offices of the National
Park Service.
(6) ACQUISITION AUTHORITY.—The Secretary
may only acquire land or an interest in land
located within the boundary of the Monu-
ment by—
(A) donation;
(B) purchase from a willing seller with do-
nated or appropriated funds; or
(C) exchange.
(c) ADMINISTRATION.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall ad-
minister the Monument in accordance with—
(A) this section; and
(B) the laws generally applicable to units
of the National Park System, including—
(i) section 100101(a), chapter 1003, and sec-
tions 100751(a), 100752, 100753, and 102101 of
title 54, United States Code; and
(ii) chapter 3201 of title 54, United States
Code.
(2) MANAGEMENT PLAN.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 3 years
after the date on which funds are first made
available to prepare a general management
plan for the Monument, the Secretary shall
prepare the general management plan in ac-
cordance with section 100502 of title 54,
United States Code.
(B) SUBMISSION TO CONGRESS.—On comple-
tion of the general management plan, the
Secretary shall submit to the Committee on
Natural Resources of the House of Rep-
resentatives and the Committee on Energy
and Natural Resources of the Senate the gen-
eral management plan.
(d) PRIVATE PROPERTY PROTECTION.—Noth-
ing in this section affects the land use rights
of private property owners within or adja-
cent to the Monument.
(e) NO BUFFER ZONES.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Nothing in this section
creates a protective perimeter or buffer zone
around the Monument.
(2) ACTIVITIES OUTSIDE NATIONAL MONU-
MENT.—The fact that an activity or use on
land outside the Monument can be seen or
heard within the Monument shall not pre-
clude the activity or use outside the bound-
ary of the Monument.
SEC. 2303. CAMP NELSON HERITAGE NATIONAL
MONUMENT.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) MAP.—The term ‘‘Map’’ means the map
entitled ‘‘Camp Nelson Heritage National
Monument Nicholasville, Kentucky’’, num-
bered 532/144,148, and dated April 2018.
(2) MONUMENT.—The term ‘‘Monument’’
means the Camp Nelson Heritage National
Monument established by subsection (b)(1).
(3) SECRETARY.—The term ‘‘Secretary’’
means the Secretary, acting through the Di-
rector of the National Park Service.
(b) ESTABLISHMENT.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Subject to paragraph (2),
there is established, as a unit of the National
Park System, the Camp Nelson Heritage Na-
tional Monument in the State of Kentucky,
to preserve, protect, and interpret for the
benefit of present and future generations,
the nationally significant historic resources
of Camp Nelson and the role of Camp Nelson
in the American Civil War, Reconstruction,
and African American history and civil
rights.
(2) CONDITIONS.—The Monument shall not
be established until after the Secretary—
(A) has entered into a written agreement
with the owner of any private or non-Federal
land within the boundary of the Monument,
as depicted on the Map, providing that the
property shall be donated to the United
States for inclusion in the Monument, to be
managed consistently with the purposes of
the Monument; and
(B) has determined that sufficient land or
interests in land have been acquired within
the boundary of the Monument to constitute
a manageable unit.
(c) BOUNDARIES.—The boundaries of the
Monument shall be the boundaries generally
depicted on the Map.
(d) AVAILABILITY OF MAP.—The Map shall
be on file and available for public inspection
in the appropriate offices of the National
Park Service.
(e) ACQUISITION AUTHORITY.—The Secretary
may only acquire any land or interest in
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:26 Feb 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00097 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06FE6.048 S06FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S972 February 6, 2019
land located within the boundary of the
Monument by donation, purchase with do-
nated or appropriated funds, or exchange.
(f) ADMINISTRATION.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall ad-
minister the Monument in accordance with—
(A) this section;
(B) Presidential Proclamation 9811 (83 Fed.
Reg. 54845 (October 31, 2018)); and
(C) the laws generally applicable to units
of the National Park System, including—
(i) section 100101(a), chapter 1003, and sec-
tions 100751(a), 100752, 100753, and 102101 of
title 54, United States Code; and
(ii) chapter 3201 of title 54, United States
Code.
(2) MANAGEMENT PLAN.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 3 years
after the date on which funds are first made
available to the Secretary for the prepara-
tion of a general management plan for the
Monument, the Secretary shall prepare a
general management plan for the Monument
in accordance with section 100502 of title 54,
United States Code.
(B) SUBMISSION TO CONGRESS.—On comple-
tion of the general management plan, the
Secretary shall submit to the Committee on
Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate
and the Committee on Natural Resources of
the House of Representatives the general
management plan.
(g) NO BUFFER ZONES.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Nothing in this section
creates a protective perimeter or buffer zone
around the Monument.
(2) ACTIVITIES OUTSIDE NATIONAL MONU-
MENT.—The fact that an activity or use on
land outside the Monument can be seen or
heard within the Monument shall not pre-
clude the activity or use outside the bound-
ary of the Monument.
(h) CONFLICTS.—If there is conflict between
this section and Proclamation 9811 (83 Fed.
Reg. 54845; October 31, 2018), this section
shall control.
Subtitle E—National Park System
Management
SEC. 2401. DENALI NATIONAL PARK AND PRE-
SERVE NATURAL GAS PIPELINE.
(a) PERMIT.—Section 3(b)(1) of the Denali
National Park Improvement Act (Public Law
113–33; 127 Stat. 516) is amended by striking
‘‘within, along, or near the approximately 7-
mile segment of the George Parks Highway
that runs through the Park’’.
(b) TERMS AND CONDITIONS.—Section 3(c)(1)
of the Denali National Park Improvement
Act (Public Law 113–33; 127 Stat. 516) is
amended—
(1) in subparagraph (A), by inserting ‘‘and’’
after the semicolon;
(2) by striking subparagraph (B); and
(3) by redesignating subparagraph (C) as
subparagraph (B).
(c) APPLICABLE LAW.—Section 3 of the
Denali National Park Improvement Act
(Public Law 113–33; 127 Stat. 515) is amended
by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(d) APPLICABLE LAW.—A high pressure gas
transmission pipeline (including appur-
tenances) in a nonwilderness area within the
boundary of the Park, shall not be subject to
title XI of the Alaska National Interest
Lands Conservation Act (16 U.S.C. 3161 et
seq.).’’.
SEC. 2402. HISTORICALLY BLACK COLLEGES AND
UNIVERSITIES HISTORIC PRESERVA-
TION PROGRAM REAUTHORIZED.
Section 507(d)(2) of the Omnibus Parks and
Public Lands Management Act of 1996 (54
U.S.C. 302101 note) is amended by striking
the period at the end and inserting ‘‘and
each of fiscal years 2018 through 2024.’’.
SEC. 2403. AUTHORIZING COOPERATIVE MANAGE-
MENT AGREEMENTS BETWEEN THE
DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA AND THE
SECRETARY OF THE INTERIOR.
The Secretary may enter into a coopera-
tive management agreement with the Dis-
trict of Columbia in accordance with section
101703 of title 54, United States Code.
SEC. 2404. FEES FOR MEDICAL SERVICES.
(a) FEES AUTHORIZED.—The Secretary may
establish and collect fees for medical serv-
ices provided to persons in units of the Na-
tional Park System or for medical services
provided by National Park Service personnel
outside units of the National Park System.
(b) NATIONAL PARK MEDICAL SERVICES
FUND.—There is established in the Treasury
a fund, to be known as the ‘‘National Park
Medical Services Fund’’ (referred to in this
section as the ‘‘Fund’’). The Fund shall con-
sist of—
(1) donations to the Fund; and
(2) fees collected under subsection (a).
(c) AVAILABILITY OF AMOUNTS.—All
amounts deposited into the Fund shall be
available to the Secretary, to the extent pro-
vided in advance by Acts of appropriation,
for the following in units of the National
Park System:
(1) Services listed in subsection (a).
(2) Preparing needs assessments or other
programmatic analyses for medical facili-
ties, equipment, vehicles, and other needs
and costs of providing services listed in sub-
section (a).
(3) Developing management plans for med-
ical facilities, equipment, vehicles, and other
needs and costs of services listed in sub-
section (a).
(4) Training related to providing services
listed in subsection (a).
(5) Obtaining or improving medical facili-
ties, equipment, vehicles, and other needs
and costs of providing services listed in sub-
section (a).
SEC. 2405. AUTHORITY TO GRANT EASEMENTS
AND RIGHTS-OF-WAY OVER FEDERAL
LANDS WITHIN GATEWAY NATIONAL
RECREATION AREA.
Section 3 of Public Law 92–592 (16 U.S.C.
460cc–2) is amended by adding at the end the
following:
‘‘(j) AUTHORITY TO GRANT EASEMENTS AND
RIGHTS-OF-WAY.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary of the In-
terior may grant, to any State or local gov-
ernment, an easement or right-of-way over
Federal lands within Gateway National
Recreation Area for construction, operation,
and maintenance of projects for control and
prevention of flooding and shoreline erosion.
‘‘(2) CHARGES AND REIMBURSEMENT OF
COSTS.—The Secretary may grant such an
easement or right-of-way without charge for
the value of the right so conveyed, except for
reimbursement of costs incurred by the
United States for processing the application
therefore and managing such right. Amounts
received as such reimbursement shall be
credited to the relevant appropriation ac-
count.’’.
SEC. 2406. ADAMS MEMORIAL COMMISSION.
(a) COMMISSION.—There is established a
commission to be known as the ‘‘Adams Me-
morial Commission’’ (referred to in this sec-
tion as the ‘‘Commission’’) for the purpose of
establishing a permanent memorial to honor
John Adams and his legacy as authorized by
Public Law 107–62 (115 Stat. 411), located in
the city of Washington, District of Columbia,
including sites authorized by Public Law 107–
315 (116 Stat. 2763).
(b) MEMBERSHIP.—The Commission shall be
composed of—
(1) 4 persons appointed by the President,
not more than 2 of whom may be members of
the same political party;
(2) 4 Members of the Senate appointed by
the President pro tempore of the Senate in
consultation with the Majority Leader and
Minority Leader of the Senate, of which not
more than 2 appointees may be members of
the same political party; and
(3) 4 Members of the House of Representa-
tives appointed by the Speaker of the House
of Representatives in consultation with the
Majority Leader and Minority Leader of the
House of Representatives, of which not more
than 2 appointees may be members of the
same political party.
(c) CHAIR AND VICE CHAIR.—The members of
the Commission shall select a Chair and Vice
Chair of the Commission. The Chair and Vice
Chair shall not be members of the same po-
litical party.
(d) VACANCIES.—Any vacancy in the Com-
mission shall not affect its powers if a
quorum is present, but shall be filled in the
same manner as the original appointment.
(e) MEETINGS.—
(1) INITIAL MEETING.—Not later than 45
days after the date on which a majority of
the members of the Commission have been
appointed, the Commission shall hold its
first meeting.
(2) SUBSEQUENT MEETINGS.—The Commis-
sion shall meet at the call of the Chair.
(f) QUORUM.—A majority of the members of
the Commission shall constitute a quorum
but a lesser number of members may hold
hearings.
(g) NO COMPENSATION.—A member of the
Commission shall serve without compensa-
tion, but may be reimbursed for expenses in-
curred in carrying out the duties of the Com-
mission.
(h) DUTIES.—The Commission shall con-
sider and formulate plans for a permanent
memorial to honor John Adams and his leg-
acy, including the nature, location, design,
and construction of the memorial.
(i) POWERS.—The Commission may—
(1) make such expenditures for services and
materials for the purpose of carrying out
this section as the Commission considers ad-
visable from funds appropriated or received
as gifts for that purpose;
(2) accept gifts, including funds from the
Adams Memorial Foundation, to be used in
carrying out this section or to be used in
connection with the construction or other
expenses of the memorial; and
(3) hold hearings, enter into contracts for
personal services and otherwise, and do such
other things as are necessary to carry out
this section.
(j) REPORTS.—The Commission shall—
(1) report the plans required by subsection
(h), together with recommendations, to the
President and the Congress at the earliest
practicable date; and
(2) in the interim, make annual reports on
its progress to the President and the Con-
gress.
(k) APPLICABILITY OF OTHER LAWS.—The
Federal Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C.
App.) shall not apply to the Commission.
(l) TERMINATION.—The Commission shall
terminate on December 2, 2025.
(m) AMENDMENTS TO PUBLIC LAW 107–62.—
(1) REFERENCES TO COMMISSION.—Public
Law 107–62 (115 Stat. 411) is amended by
striking ‘‘Adams Memorial Foundation’’
each place it occurs and inserting ‘‘Adams
Memorial Commission’’.
(2) EXTENSION OF AUTHORIZATION.—Section
1(c) of Public Law 107–62 (115 Stat. 411; 124
Stat. 1192; 127 Stat. 3880) is amended by
striking ‘‘2020’’ and inserting ‘‘2025’’.
SEC. 2407. TECHNICAL CORRECTIONS TO REF-
ERENCES TO THE AFRICAN AMER-
ICAN CIVIL RIGHTS NETWORK.
(a) CHAPTER AMENDMENTS.—Chapter 3084 of
title 54, United States Code, is amended by
striking ‘‘U.S. Civil Rights Network’’ each
place it appears and inserting ‘‘African
American Civil Rights Network’’ (using iden-
tical font as used in the text being replaced).
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:26 Feb 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00098 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06FE6.048 S06FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S973
February 6, 2019
(b) AMENDMENTS TO LIST OF ITEMS.—The
list of items of title 54, United States Code,
is amended by striking ‘‘U.S. Civil Rights
Network’’ each place it appears and inserting
‘‘African American Civil Rights Network’’
(using identical font as used in the text
being replaced).
(c) REFERENCES.—Any reference in any law
(other than in this section), regulation, doc-
ument, record, map, or other paper of the
United States to the ‘‘U.S. Civil Rights Net-
work’’ shall be considered to be a reference
to the ‘‘African American Civil Rights Net-
work’’.
SEC. 2408. TRANSFER OF THE JAMES J. HOWARD
MARINE SCIENCES LABORATORY.
Section 7 of Public Law 100–515 (16 U.S.C.
1244 note) is amended by striking subsection
(b) and inserting the following:
‘‘(b) TRANSFER FROM THE STATE TO THE NA-
TIONAL OCEANIC AND ATMOSPHERIC ADMINIS-
TRATION.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Notwithstanding any
other provision of law, or the provisions of
the August 13, 1991, Ground Lease Agreement
(‘Lease’) between the Department of the In-
terior and the State of New Jersey (‘State’),
upon notice to the National Park Service,
the State may transfer without consider-
ation, and the National Oceanic and Atmos-
pheric Administration may accept, all State
improvements within the land assignment
and right of way, including the James J.
Howard Marine Sciences Laboratory (‘Lab-
oratory’), two parking lots, and the seawater
supply and backflow pipes as generally de-
picted on the map entitled ‘Gateway Na-
tional Recreation Area, James J. Howard
Marine Science Laboratory Land Assign-
ment’, numbered 646/142,581A, and dated
April 2018 (‘Map’) and any related State per-
sonal property.
‘‘(2) LEASE AMENDMENT.—Upon the transfer
authorized in paragraph (1), the Lease shall
be amended to exclude any obligations of the
State and the Department of the Interior re-
lated to the Laboratory and associated prop-
erty and improvements transferred to the
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Adminis-
tration. However, all obligations of the State
to rehabilitate Building 74 and modify land-
scaping on the surrounding property as de-
picted on the Map, under the Lease and pur-
suant to subsection (a), shall remain in full
force and effect.
‘‘(3) USE BY THE NATIONAL OCEANIC AND AT-
MOSPHERIC ADMINISTRATION.—Upon the trans-
fer authorized in paragraph (1), the Adminis-
trator of the National Oceanic and Atmos-
pheric Administration is authorized to use
the land generally depicted on the Map as a
land assignment and right of way and associ-
ated land and appurtenances for continued
use of the Laboratory, including providing
maintenance and repair, and access to the
Laboratory, the parking lots and the sea-
water supply and back flow pipes, without
consideration, except for reimbursement to
the National Park Service of agreed upon
reasonable actual costs of subsequently pro-
vided goods and services.
‘‘(4) AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE NATIONAL
PARK SERVICE AND THE NATIONAL OCEANIC AND
ATMOSPHERIC ADMINISTRATION.—Upon the
transfer authorized in paragraph (1), the Di-
rector of the National Park Service and the
Administrator of the National Oceanic and
Atmospheric Administration shall enter into
an agreement addressing responsibilities per-
taining to the use of the land assignment
within the Sandy Hook Unit of the Gateway
National Recreation Area as authorized in
paragraph (3). The agreement shall prohibit
any new construction on this land, perma-
nent or nonpermanent, or significant alter-
ation to the exterior of the Laboratory,
without National Park Service approval.
‘‘(5) RESTORATION.—
‘‘(A) Notwithstanding any provision of the
Lease to the contrary, if the State does not
transfer the improvements as authorized in
paragraph (1), and these improvements are
not used as or in support of a marine science
laboratory, the State shall demolish and re-
move the improvements and restore the land
in accordance with the standards set forth
by the National Park Service, free of unac-
ceptable encumbrances and in compliance
with all applicable laws and regulations re-
garding known contaminants.
‘‘(B) If the National Oceanic and Atmos-
pheric Administration accepts the improve-
ments as authorized in paragraph (1) and
these improvements are not used as or in
support of a marine science laboratory, the
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Adminis-
tration shall be responsible for demolishing
and removing these improvements and re-
storing the land, in accordance with the
standards set forth by the National Park
Service, free of unacceptable encumbrances
and in compliance with all applicable laws
and regulations regarding known contami-
nants.’’.
SEC. 2409. BOWS IN PARKS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Chapter 1049 of title 54,
United States Code, is amended by adding at
the end the following:
‘‘§ 104908. Bows in parks
‘‘(a) DEFINITION OF NOT READY FOR IMME-
DIATE USE.—The term ‘not ready for imme-
diate use’ means—
‘‘(1) a bow or crossbow, the arrows of which
are secured or stowed in a quiver or other
arrow transport case; and
‘‘(2) with respect to a crossbow, uncocked.
‘‘(b) VEHICULAR TRANSPORTATION AUTHOR-
IZED.—The Director shall not promulgate or
enforce any regulation that prohibits an in-
dividual from transporting bows and cross-
bows that are not ready for immediate use
across any System unit in the vehicle of the
individual if—
‘‘(1) the individual is not otherwise prohib-
ited by law from possessing the bows and
crossbows;
‘‘(2) the bows or crossbows that are not
ready for immediate use remain inside the
vehicle of the individual throughout the pe-
riod during which the bows or crossbows are
transported across System land; and
‘‘(3) the possession of the bows and cross-
bows is in compliance with the law of the
State in which the System unit is located.’’.
(b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of
sections for chapter 1049 of title 54, United
States Code, is amended by inserting after
the item relating to section 104907 the fol-
lowing:
‘‘104908. Bows in parks.’’.
SEC. 2410. WILDLIFE MANAGEMENT IN PARKS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Chapter 1049 of title 54,
United States Code (as amended by section
2409(a)), is amended by adding at the end the
following:
‘‘§ 104909. Wildlife management in parks
‘‘(a) USE OF QUALIFIED VOLUNTEERS.—If the
Secretary determines it is necessary to re-
duce the size of a wildlife population on Sys-
tem land in accordance with applicable law
(including regulations), the Secretary may
use qualified volunteers to assist in carrying
out wildlife management on System land.
‘‘(b) REQUIREMENTS FOR QUALIFIED VOLUN-
TEERS.—Qualified volunteers providing as-
sistance under subsection (a) shall be subject
to—
‘‘(1) any training requirements or quali-
fications established by the Secretary; and
‘‘(2) any other terms and conditions that
the Secretary may require.
‘‘(c) DONATIONS.—The Secretary may au-
thorize the donation and distribution of
meat from wildlife management activities
carried out under this section, including the
donation and distribution to Indian Tribes,
qualified volunteers, food banks, and other
organizations that work to address hunger,
in accordance with applicable health guide-
lines and such terms and conditions as the
Secretary may require.’’.
(b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of
sections for chapter 1049 of title 54 (as
amended by section 2409(b)), United States
Code, is amended by inserting after the item
relating to section 104908 the following:
‘‘104909. Wildlife management in parks.’’.
SEC. 2411. POTTAWATTAMIE COUNTY REVER-
SIONARY INTEREST.
Section 2 of Public Law 101–191 (103 Stat.
1697) is amended by adding at the end the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(g) CONVEYANCE OF REVERSIONARY INTER-
EST.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—If the Secretary deter-
mines that it is no longer in the public inter-
est to operate and maintain the center, sub-
ject to paragraph (2), the Secretary may
enter into 1 or more agreements—
‘‘(A) to convey the reversionary interest
held by the United States and described in
the quitclaim deed dated April 13, 1998, in-
strument number 19170, and as recorded in
book 98, page 55015, in Pottawattamie Coun-
ty, Iowa (referred to in this subsection as the
‘deed’); and
‘‘(B) to extinguish the requirement in the
deed that alterations to structures on the
property may not be made without the au-
thorization of the Secretary.
‘‘(2) CONSIDERATION.—A reversionary inter-
est may be conveyed under paragraph
(1)(A)—
‘‘(A) without consideration, if the land sub-
ject to the reversionary interest is required
to be used in perpetuity for public rec-
reational, educational, or similar purposes;
or
‘‘(B) for consideration in an amount equal
to the fair market value of the reversionary
interest, as determined based on an appraisal
that is conducted in accordance with—
‘‘(i) the Uniform Appraisal Standards for
Federal Land Acquisitions; and
‘‘(ii) the Uniform Standards of Professional
Appraisal Practice.
‘‘(3) EXECUTION OF AGREEMENTS.—The Sec-
retary shall execute appropriate instruments
to carry out an agreement entered into
under paragraph (1).
‘‘(4) EFFECT ON PRIOR AGREEMENT.—Effec-
tive on the date on which the Secretary has
executed instruments under paragraph (3)
and all Federal interests in the land and
properties acquired under this Act have been
conveyed, the agreement between the Na-
tional Park Service and the State Historical
Society of Iowa, dated July 21, 1995, and en-
tered into under subsection (d), shall have no
force or effect.’’.
SEC. 2412. DESIGNATION OF DEAN STONE
BRIDGE.
(a) DESIGNATION.—The bridge located in
Blount County, Tennessee, on the Foothills
Parkway (commonly known as ‘‘Bridge 2’’)
shall be known and designated as the ‘‘Dean
Stone Bridge’’.
(b) REFERENCES.—Any reference in a law,
map, regulation, document, paper, or other
record of the United States to the bridge re-
ferred to in subsection (a) shall be deemed to
be a reference to the ‘‘Dean Stone Bridge’’.
Subtitle F—National Trails and Related
Matters
SEC. 2501. NORTH COUNTRY SCENIC TRAIL
ROUTE ADJUSTMENT.
Section 5(a)(8) of the National Trails Sys-
tem Act (16 U.S.C. 1244(a)(8)) is amended in
the first sentence—
(1) by striking ‘‘thirty two hundred miles,
extending from eastern New York State’’ and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:26 Feb 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00099 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06FE6.048 S06FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S974 February 6, 2019
inserting ‘‘4,600 miles, extending from the
Appalachian Trail in Vermont’’; and
(2) by striking ‘‘Proposed North Country
Trail’’ and all that follows through ‘‘June
1975.’’ and inserting ‘‘ ‘North Country Na-
tional Scenic Trail, Authorized Route’, dated
February 2014, and numbered 649/116870.’’.
SEC. 2502. EXTENSION OF LEWIS AND CLARK NA-
TIONAL HISTORIC TRAIL.
(a) EXTENSION.—Section 5(a)(6) of the Na-
tional Trails System Act (16 U.S.C. 1244(a)(6))
is amended—
(1) by striking ‘‘three thousand seven hun-
dred’’ and inserting ‘‘4,900’’;
(2) by striking ‘‘Wood River, Illinois,’’ and
inserting ‘‘the Ohio River in Pittsburgh,
Pennsylvania,’’; and
(3) by striking ‘‘maps identified as, ‘Vicin-
ity Map, Lewis and Clark Trail’ study report
dated April 1977.’’ and inserting ‘‘the map en-
titled ‘Lewis and Clark National Historic
Trail Authorized Trail Including Proposed
Eastern Legacy Extension’, dated April 2018,
and numbered 648/143721.’’.
(b) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments
made by subsection (a) shall take effect on
the date that is 60 days after the date of en-
actment of this Act.
SEC. 2503. AMERICAN DISCOVERY TRAIL SIGN-
AGE.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) SECRETARY CONCERNED.—The term ‘‘Sec-
retary concerned’’ means—
(A) the Secretary, with respect to Federal
land under the jurisdiction of the Secretary;
or
(B) the Secretary of Agriculture, with re-
spect to Federal land under the jurisdiction
of the Secretary of Agriculture.
(2) TRAIL.—The term ‘‘Trail’’ means the
trail known as the ‘‘American Discovery
Trail’’, which consists of approximately 6,800
miles of trails extending from Cape Henlopen
State Park in Delaware to Point Reyes Na-
tional Seashore in California, as generally
described in volume 2 of the National Park
Service feasibility study dated June 1995.
(b) SIGNAGE AUTHORIZED.—As soon as prac-
ticable after the date on which signage ac-
ceptable to the Secretary concerned is do-
nated to the United States for placement on
Federal land at points along the Trail, the
Secretary concerned shall place the signage
on the Federal land.
(c) NO FEDERAL FUNDS.—No Federal funds
may be used to acquire signage authorized
for placement under subsection (b).
SEC. 2504. PIKE NATIONAL HISTORIC TRAIL
STUDY.
Section 5(c) of the National Trails System
Act (16 U.S.C. 1244(c)) is amended by adding
at the end the following:
‘‘(46) PIKE NATIONAL HISTORIC TRAIL.—The
Pike National Historic Trail, a series of
routes extending approximately 3,664 miles,
which follows the route taken by Lt. Zebulon
Montgomery Pike during the 1806–1807 Pike
expedition that began in Fort Bellefontaine,
Missouri, extended through portions of the
States of Kansas, Nebraska, Colorado, New
Mexico, and Texas, and ended in
Natchitoches, Louisiana.’’.
TITLE III—CONSERVATION
AUTHORIZATIONS
SEC. 3001. REAUTHORIZATION OF LAND AND
WATER CONSERVATION FUND.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 200302 of title 54,
United States Code, is amended—
(1) in subsection (b), in the matter pre-
ceding paragraph (1), by striking ‘‘During
the period ending September 30, 2018, there’’
and inserting ‘‘There’’; and
(2) in subsection (c)(1), by striking
‘‘through September 30, 2018’’.
(b) ALLOCATION OF FUNDS.—Section 200304
of title 54, United States Code, is amended—
(1) by striking the second sentence;
(2) by striking ‘‘There’’ and inserting the
following:
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—There’’; and
(3) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(b) ALLOCATION OF FUNDS.—Of the total
amount made available to the Fund through
appropriations or deposited in the Fund
under section 105(a)(2)(B) of the Gulf of Mex-
ico Energy Security Act of 2006 (43 U.S.C.
1331 note; Public Law 109–432)—
‘‘(1) not less than 40 percent shall be used
for Federal purposes; and
‘‘(2) not less than 40 percent shall be used
to provide financial assistance to States.’’.
(c) PARITY FOR TERRITORIES AND THE DIS-
TRICT OF COLUMBIA.—Section 200305(b) of title
54, United States Code, is amended by strik-
ing paragraph (5).
(d) RECREATIONAL PUBLIC ACCESS.—Section
200306 of title 54, United States Code, is
amended by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(c) RECREATIONAL PUBLIC ACCESS.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Of the amounts made
available for expenditure in any fiscal year
under section 200303, there shall be made
available for recreational public access
projects identified on the priority list devel-
oped under paragraph (2) not less than the
greater of—
‘‘(A) an amount equal to 3 percent of those
amounts; or
‘‘(B) $15,000,000.
‘‘(2) PRIORITY LIST.—The Secretary and the
Secretary of Agriculture, in consultation
with the head of each affected Federal agen-
cy, shall annually develop a priority list for
projects that, through acquisition of land (or
an interest in land), secure recreational pub-
lic access to Federal land under the jurisdic-
tion of the applicable Secretary for hunting,
fishing, recreational shooting, or other out-
door recreational purposes.’’.
(e) ACQUISITION CONSIDERATIONS.—Section
200306 of title 54, United States Code (as
amended by subsection (d)), is amended by
adding at the end the following:
‘‘(d) ACQUISITION CONSIDERATIONS.—In de-
termining whether to acquire land (or an in-
terest in land) under this section, the Sec-
retary and the Secretary of Agriculture shall
take into account—
‘‘(1) the significance of the acquisition;
‘‘(2) the urgency of the acquisition;
‘‘(3) management efficiencies;
‘‘(4) management cost savings;
‘‘(5) geographic distribution;
‘‘(6) threats to the integrity of the land;
and
‘‘(7) the recreational value of the land.’’.
SEC. 3002. CONSERVATION INCENTIVES LAND-
OWNER EDUCATION PROGRAM.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 1 year
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Secretary shall establish a conservation in-
centives landowner education program (re-
ferred to in this section as the ‘‘program’’).
(b) PURPOSE OF PROGRAM.—The program
shall provide information on Federal con-
servation programs available to landowners
interested in undertaking conservation ac-
tions on the land of the landowners, includ-
ing options under each conservation program
available to achieve the conservation goals
of the program, such as—
(1) fee title land acquisition;
(2) donation; and
(3) perpetual and term conservation ease-
ments or agreements.
(c) AVAILABILITY.—The Secretary shall en-
sure that the information provided under the
program is made available to—
(1) interested landowners; and
(2) the public.
(d) NOTIFICATION.—In any case in which the
Secretary contacts a landowner directly
about participation in a Federal conserva-
tion program, the Secretary shall, in writ-
ing—
(1) notify the landowner of the program;
and
(2) make available information on the con-
servation program options that may be
available to the landowner.
TITLE IV—SPORTSMEN’S ACCESS AND
RELATED MATTERS
Subtitle A—National Policy
SEC. 4001. CONGRESSIONAL DECLARATION OF
NATIONAL POLICY.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Congress declares that it
is the policy of the United States that Fed-
eral departments and agencies, in accord-
ance with the missions of the departments
and agencies, Executive Orders 12962 and
13443 (60 Fed. Reg. 30769 (June 7, 1995); 72 Fed.
Reg. 46537 (August 16, 2007)), and applicable
law, shall—
(1) facilitate the expansion and enhance-
ment of hunting, fishing, and recreational
shooting opportunities on Federal land, in
consultation with the Wildlife and Hunting
Heritage Conservation Council, the Sport
Fishing and Boating Partnership Council,
State and Tribal fish and wildlife agencies,
and the public;
(2) conserve and enhance aquatic systems
and the management of game species and the
habitat of those species on Federal land, in-
cluding through hunting and fishing, in a
manner that respects—
(A) State management authority over
wildlife resources; and
(B) private property rights; and
(3) consider hunting, fishing, and rec-
reational shooting opportunities as part of
all Federal plans for land, resource, and trav-
el management.
(b) EXCLUSION.—In this title, the term
‘‘fishing’’ does not include commercial fish-
ing in which fish are harvested, either in
whole or in part, that are intended to enter
commerce through sale.
Subtitle B—Sportsmen’s Access to Federal
Land
SEC. 4101. DEFINITIONS.
In this subtitle:
(1) FEDERAL LAND.—The term ‘‘Federal
land’’ means—
(A) any land in the National Forest Sys-
tem (as defined in section 11(a) of the Forest
and Rangeland Renewable Resources Plan-
ning Act of 1974 (16 U.S.C. 1609(a))) that is ad-
ministered by the Secretary of Agriculture,
acting through the Chief of the Forest Serv-
ice; and
(B) public lands (as defined in section 103 of
the Federal Land Policy and Management
Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1702)), the surface of
which is administered by the Secretary, act-
ing through the Director of the Bureau of
Land Management.
(2) SECRETARY CONCERNED.—The term ‘‘Sec-
retary concerned’’ means—
(A) the Secretary of Agriculture, with re-
spect to land described in paragraph (1)(A);
and
(B) the Secretary, with respect to land de-
scribed in paragraph (1)(B).
SEC. 4102. FEDERAL LAND OPEN TO HUNTING,
FISHING, AND RECREATIONAL
SHOOTING.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Subject to subsection (b),
Federal land shall be open to hunting, fish-
ing, and recreational shooting, in accordance
with applicable law, unless the Secretary
concerned closes an area in accordance with
section 4103.
(b) EFFECT OF PART.—Nothing in this sub-
title opens to hunting, fishing, or rec-
reational shooting any land that is not open
to those activities as of the date of enact-
ment of this Act.
SEC. 4103. CLOSURE OF FEDERAL LAND TO HUNT-
ING, FISHING, AND RECREATIONAL
SHOOTING.
(a) AUTHORIZATION.—
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:26 Feb 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00100 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06FE6.048 S06FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S975
February 6, 2019
(1) IN GENERAL.—Subject to paragraph (2)
and in accordance with section 302(b) of the
Federal Land Policy and Management Act of
1976 (43 U.S.C. 1732(b)), the Secretary con-
cerned may designate any area on Federal
land in which, and establish any period dur-
ing which, for reasons of public safety, ad-
ministration, or compliance with applicable
laws, no hunting, fishing, or recreational
shooting shall be permitted.
(2) REQUIREMENT.—In making a designation
under paragraph (1), the Secretary concerned
shall designate the smallest area for the
least amount of time that is required for
public safety, administration, or compliance
with applicable laws.
(b) CLOSURE PROCEDURES.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Except in an emergency,
before permanently or temporarily closing
any Federal land to hunting, fishing, or rec-
reational shooting, the Secretary concerned
shall—
(A) consult with State fish and wildlife
agencies; and
(B) provide public notice and opportunity
for comment under paragraph (2).
(2) PUBLIC NOTICE AND COMMENT.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Public notice and com-
ment shall include—
(i) a notice of intent—
(I) published in advance of the public com-
ment period for the closure—
(aa) in the Federal Register;
(bb) on the website of the applicable Fed-
eral agency;
(cc) on the website of the Federal land
unit, if available; and
(dd) in at least 1 local newspaper;
(II) made available in advance of the public
comment period to local offices, chapters,
and affiliate organizations in the vicinity of
the closure that are signatories to the
memorandum of understanding entitled
‘‘Federal Lands Hunting, Fishing, and Shoot-
ing Sports Roundtable Memorandum of Un-
derstanding’’; and
(III) that describes—
(aa) the proposed closure; and
(bb) the justification for the proposed clo-
sure, including an explanation of the reasons
and necessity for the decision to close the
area to hunting, fishing, or recreational
shooting; and
(ii) an opportunity for public comment for
a period of—
(I) not less than 60 days for a permanent
closure; or
(II) not less than 30 days for a temporary
closure.
(B) FINAL DECISION.—In a final decision to
permanently or temporarily close an area to
hunting, fishing, or recreation shooting, the
Secretary concerned shall—
(i) respond in a reasoned manner to the
comments received;
(ii) explain how the Secretary concerned
resolved any significant issues raised by the
comments; and
(iii) show how the resolution led to the clo-
sure.
(c) TEMPORARY CLOSURES.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—A temporary closure
under this section may not exceed a period of
180 days.
(2) RENEWAL.—Except in an emergency, a
temporary closure for the same area of land
closed to the same activities—
(A) may not be renewed more than 3 times
after the first temporary closure; and
(B) must be subject to a separate notice
and comment procedure in accordance with
subsection (b)(2).
(3) EFFECT OF TEMPORARY CLOSURE.—Any
Federal land that is temporarily closed to
hunting, fishing, or recreational shooting
under this section shall not become perma-
nently closed to that activity without a sep-
arate public notice and opportunity to com-
ment in accordance with subsection (b)(2).
(d) REPORTING.—On an annual basis, the
Secretaries concerned shall—
(1) publish on a public website a list of all
areas of Federal land temporarily or perma-
nently subject to a closure under this sec-
tion; and
(2) submit to the Committee on Energy and
Natural Resources and the Committee on
Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry of the
Senate and the Committee on Natural Re-
sources and the Committee on Agriculture of
the House of Representatives a report that
identifies—
(A) a list of each area of Federal land tem-
porarily or permanently subject to a closure;
(B) the acreage of each closure; and
(C) a survey of—
(i) the aggregate areas and acreage closed
under this section in each State; and
(ii) the percentage of Federal land in each
State closed under this section with respect
to hunting, fishing, and recreational shoot-
ing.
(e) APPLICATION.—This section shall not
apply if the closure is—
(1) less than 14 days in duration; and
(2) covered by a special use permit.
SEC. 4104. SHOOTING RANGES.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in
subsection (b), the Secretary concerned may,
in accordance with this section and other ap-
plicable law, lease or permit the use of Fed-
eral land for a shooting range.
(b) EXCEPTION.—The Secretary concerned
shall not lease or permit the use of Federal
land for a shooting range within—
(1) a component of the National Landscape
Conservation System;
(2) a component of the National Wilderness
Preservation System;
(3) any area that is—
(A) designated as a wilderness study area;
(B) administratively classified as—
(i) wilderness-eligible; or
(ii) wilderness-suitable; or
(C) a primitive or semiprimitive area;
(4) a national monument, national volcanic
monument, or national scenic area; or
(5) a component of the National Wild and
Scenic Rivers System (including areas des-
ignated for study for potential addition to
the National Wild and Scenic Rivers Sys-
tem).
SEC. 4105. IDENTIFYING OPPORTUNITIES FOR
RECREATION, HUNTING, AND FISH-
ING ON FEDERAL LAND.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) SECRETARY.—The term ‘‘Secretary’’
means—
(A) the Secretary, with respect to land ad-
ministered by—
(i) the Director of the National Park Serv-
ice;
(ii) the Director of the United States Fish
and Wildlife Service; and
(iii) the Director of the Bureau of Land
Management; and
(B) the Secretary of Agriculture, with re-
spect to land administered by the Chief of
the Forest Service.
(2) STATE OR REGIONAL OFFICE.—The term
‘‘State or regional office’’ means—
(A) a State office of the Bureau of Land
Management; or
(B) a regional office of—
(i) the National Park Service;
(ii) the United States Fish and Wildlife
Service; or
(iii) the Forest Service.
(3) TRAVEL MANAGEMENT PLAN.—The term
‘‘travel management plan’’ means a plan for
the management of travel—
(A) with respect to land under the jurisdic-
tion of the National Park Service, on park
roads and designated routes under section
4.10 of title 36, Code of Federal Regulations
(or successor regulations);
(B) with respect to land under the jurisdic-
tion of the United States Fish and Wildlife
Service, on the land under a comprehensive
conservation plan prepared under section
4(e) of the National Wildlife Refuge System
Administration Act of 1966 (16 U.S.C.
668dd(e));
(C) with respect to land under the jurisdic-
tion of the Forest Service, on National For-
est System land under part 212 of title 36,
Code of Federal Regulations (or successor
regulations); and
(D) with respect to land under the jurisdic-
tion of the Bureau of Land Management,
under a resource management plan devel-
oped under the Federal Land Policy and
Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1701 et
seq.).
(b) PRIORITY LISTS REQUIRED.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 1 year after
the date of enactment of this Act, and bien-
nially thereafter during the 10-year period
beginning on the date on which the first pri-
ority list is completed, the Secretary shall
prepare a priority list, to be made publicly
available on the website of the applicable
Federal agency referred to in subsection
(a)(1), which shall identify the location and
acreage of land within the jurisdiction of
each State or regional office on which the
public is allowed, under Federal or State
law, to hunt, fish, or use the land for other
recreational purposes but—
(A) to which there is no public access or
egress; or
(B) to which public access or egress to the
legal boundaries of the land is significantly
restricted (as determined by the Secretary).
(2) MINIMUM SIZE.—Any land identified
under paragraph (1) shall consist of contig-
uous acreage of at least 640 acres.
(3) CONSIDERATIONS.—In preparing the pri-
ority list required under paragraph (1), the
Secretary shall consider, with respect to the
land—
(A) whether access is absent or merely re-
stricted, including the extent of the restric-
tion;
(B) the likelihood of resolving the absence
of or restriction to public access;
(C) the potential for recreational use;
(D) any information received from the pub-
lic or other stakeholders during the nomina-
tion process described in paragraph (5); and
(E) any other factor, as determined by the
Secretary.
(4) ADJACENT LAND STATUS.—For each par-
cel of land on the priority list, the Secretary
shall include in the priority list whether re-
solving the issue of public access or egress to
the land would require acquisition of an
easement, right-of-way, or fee title from—
(A) another Federal agency;
(B) a State, local, or Tribal government; or
(C) a private landowner.
(5) NOMINATION PROCESS.—In preparing a
priority list under this section, the Sec-
retary shall provide an opportunity for mem-
bers of the public to nominate parcels for in-
clusion on the priority list.
(c) ACCESS OPTIONS.—With respect to land
included on a priority list described in sub-
section (b), the Secretary shall develop and
submit to the Committees on Appropriations
and Energy and Natural Resources of the
Senate and the Committees on Appropria-
tions and Natural Resources of the House of
Representatives a report on options for pro-
viding access that—
(1) identifies how public access and egress
could reasonably be provided to the legal
boundaries of the land in a manner that
minimizes the impact on wildlife habitat and
water quality;
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:26 Feb 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00101 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06FE6.048 S06FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S976 February 6, 2019
(2) specifies the steps recommended to se-
cure the access and egress, including acquir-
ing an easement, right-of-way, or fee title
from a willing owner of any land that abuts
the land or the need to coordinate with State
land management agencies or other Federal,
State, or Tribal governments to allow for
such access and egress; and
(3) is consistent with the travel manage-
ment plan in effect on the land.
(d) PROTECTION OF PERSONALLY IDENTI-
FYING INFORMATION.—In making the priority
list and report prepared under subsections
(b) and (c) available, the Secretary shall en-
sure that no personally identifying informa-
tion is included, such as names or addresses
of individuals or entities.
(e) WILLING OWNERS.—For purposes of pro-
viding any permits to, or entering into
agreements with, a State, local, or Tribal
government or private landowner with re-
spect to the use of land under the jurisdic-
tion of the government or landowner, the
Secretary shall not take into account wheth-
er the State, local, or Tribal government or
private landowner has granted or denied pub-
lic access or egress to the land.
(f) MEANS OF PUBLIC ACCESS AND EGRESS
INCLUDED.—In considering public access and
egress under subsections (b) and (c), the Sec-
retary shall consider public access and egress
to the legal boundaries of the land described
in those subsections, including access and
egress—
(1) by motorized or non-motorized vehicles;
and
(2) on foot or horseback.
(g) EFFECT.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—This section shall have no
effect on whether a particular recreational
use shall be allowed on the land included in
a priority list under this section.
(2) EFFECT OF ALLOWABLE USES ON AGENCY
CONSIDERATION.—In preparing the priority
list under subsection (b), the Secretary shall
only consider recreational uses that are al-
lowed on the land at the time that the pri-
ority list is prepared.
Subtitle C—Open Book on Equal Access to
Justice
SEC. 4201. FEDERAL ACTION TRANSPARENCY.
(a) MODIFICATION OF EQUAL ACCESS TO JUS-
TICE PROVISIONS.—
(1) AGENCY PROCEEDINGS.—Section 504 of
title 5, United States Code, is amended—
(A) in subsection (c)(1), by striking ‘‘,
United States Code’’;
(B) by redesignating subsection (f) as sub-
section (i); and
(C) by striking subsection (e) and inserting
the following:
‘‘(e)(1) Not later than March 31 of the first
fiscal year beginning after the date of enact-
ment of the Natural Resources Management
Act, and every fiscal year thereafter, the
Chairman of the Administrative Conference
of the United States, after consultation with
the Chief Counsel for Advocacy of the Small
Business Administration, shall submit to
Congress and make publicly available online
a report on the amount of fees and other ex-
penses awarded during the preceding fiscal
year under this section.
‘‘(2) Each report under paragraph (1) shall
describe the number, nature, and amount of
the awards, the claims involved in the con-
troversy, and any other relevant information
that may aid Congress in evaluating the
scope and impact of such awards.
‘‘(3)(A) Each report under paragraph (1)
shall account for all payments of fees and
other expenses awarded under this section
that are made pursuant to a settlement
agreement, regardless of whether the settle-
ment agreement is sealed or otherwise sub-
ject to a nondisclosure provision.
‘‘(B) The disclosure of fees and other ex-
penses required under subparagraph (A) shall
not affect any other information that is sub-
ject to a nondisclosure provision in a settle-
ment agreement.
‘‘(f) As soon as practicable, and in any
event not later than the date on which the
first report under subsection (e)(1) is re-
quired to be submitted, the Chairman of the
Administrative Conference of the United
States shall create and maintain online a
searchable database containing, with respect
to each award of fees and other expenses
under this section made on or after the date
of enactment of the Natural Resources Man-
agement Act, the following information:
‘‘(1) The case name and number of the ad-
versary adjudication, if available,
hyperlinked to the case, if available.
‘‘(2) The name of the agency involved in
the adversary adjudication.
‘‘(3) A description of the claims in the ad-
versary adjudication.
‘‘(4) The name of each party to whom the
award was made as such party is identified
in the order or other court document making
the award.
‘‘(5) The amount of the award.
‘‘(6) The basis for the finding that the posi-
tion of the agency concerned was not sub-
stantially justified.
‘‘(g) The online searchable database de-
scribed in subsection (f) may not reveal any
information the disclosure of which is pro-
hibited by law or a court order.
‘‘(h) The head of each agency shall provide
to the Chairman of the Administrative Con-
ference of the United States in a timely
manner all information requested by the
Chairman to comply with the requirements
of subsections (e), (f), and (g).’’.
(2) COURT CASES.—Section 2412(d) of title
28, United States Code, is amended by adding
at the end the following:
‘‘(5)(A) Not later than March 31 of the first
fiscal year beginning after the date of enact-
ment of the Natural Resources Management
Act, and every fiscal year thereafter, the
Chairman of the Administrative Conference
of the United States shall submit to Con-
gress and make publicly available online a
report on the amount of fees and other ex-
penses awarded during the preceding fiscal
year pursuant to this subsection.
‘‘(B) Each report under subparagraph (A)
shall describe the number, nature, and
amount of the awards, the claims involved in
the controversy, and any other relevant in-
formation that may aid Congress in evalu-
ating the scope and impact of such awards.
‘‘(C)(i) Each report under subparagraph (A)
shall account for all payments of fees and
other expenses awarded under this sub-
section that are made pursuant to a settle-
ment agreement, regardless of whether the
settlement agreement is sealed or otherwise
subject to a nondisclosure provision.
‘‘(ii) The disclosure of fees and other ex-
penses required under clause (i) shall not af-
fect any other information that is subject to
a nondisclosure provision in a settlement
agreement.
‘‘(D) The Chairman of the Administrative
Conference of the United States shall include
and clearly identify in each annual report
under subparagraph (A), for each case in
which an award of fees and other expenses is
included in the report—
‘‘(i) any amounts paid under section 1304 of
title 31 for a judgment in the case;
‘‘(ii) the amount of the award of fees and
other expenses; and
‘‘(iii) the statute under which the plaintiff
filed suit.
‘‘(6) As soon as practicable, and in any
event not later than the date on which the
first report under paragraph (5)(A) is re-
quired to be submitted, the Chairman of the
Administrative Conference of the United
States shall create and maintain online a
searchable database containing, with respect
to each award of fees and other expenses
under this subsection made on or after the
date of enactment of the Natural Resources
Management Act, the following information:
‘‘(A) The case name and number,
hyperlinked to the case, if available.
‘‘(B) The name of the agency involved in
the case.
‘‘(C) The name of each party to whom the
award was made as such party is identified
in the order or other court document making
the award.
‘‘(D) A description of the claims in the
case.
‘‘(E) The amount of the award.
‘‘(F) The basis for the finding that the po-
sition of the agency concerned was not sub-
stantially justified.
‘‘(7) The online searchable database de-
scribed in paragraph (6) may not reveal any
information the disclosure of which is pro-
hibited by law or a court order.
‘‘(8) The head of each agency (including the
Attorney General of the United States) shall
provide to the Chairman of the Administra-
tive Conference of the United States in a
timely manner all information requested by
the Chairman to comply with the require-
ments of paragraphs (5), (6), and (7).’’.
(3) TECHNICAL AND CONFORMING AMEND-
MENTS.—Section 2412 of title 28, United
States Code, is amended—
(A) in subsection (d)(3), by striking
‘‘United States Code,’’; and
(B) in subsection (e)—
(i) by striking ‘‘of section 2412 of title 28,
United States Code,’’ and inserting ‘‘of this
section’’; and
(ii) by striking ‘‘of such title’’ and insert-
ing ‘‘of this title’’.
(b) JUDGMENT FUND TRANSPARENCY.—Sec-
tion 1304 of title 31, United States Code, is
amended by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(d) Beginning not later than the date that
is 60 days after the date of enactment of the
Natural Resources Management Act, and un-
less the disclosure of such information is
otherwise prohibited by law or a court order,
the Secretary of the Treasury shall make
available to the public on a website, as soon
as practicable, but not later than 30 days
after the date on which a payment under this
section is tendered, the following informa-
tion with regard to that payment:
‘‘(1) The name of the specific agency or en-
tity whose actions gave rise to the claim or
judgment.
‘‘(2) The name of the plaintiff or claimant.
‘‘(3) The name of counsel for the plaintiff
or claimant.
‘‘(4) The amount paid representing prin-
cipal liability, and any amounts paid rep-
resenting any ancillary liability, including
attorney fees, costs, and interest.
‘‘(5) A brief description of the facts that
gave rise to the claim.
‘‘(6) The name of the agency that sub-
mitted the claim.’’.
Subtitle D—Migratory Bird Framework and
Hunting Opportunities for Veterans
SEC. 4301. FEDERAL CLOSING DATE FOR HUNT-
ING OF DUCKS, MERGANSERS, AND
COOTS.
Section 3 of the Migratory Bird Treaty Act
(16 U.S.C. 704) is amended by adding at the
end the following:
‘‘(c) FEDERAL FRAMEWORK CLOSING DATE
FOR HUNTING OF DUCKS, MERGANSERS, AND
COOTS.—
‘‘(1) REGULATIONS RELATING TO FRAMEWORK
CLOSING DATE.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—In promulgating regula-
tions under subsection (a) relating to the
Federal framework for the closing date up to
which the States may select seasons for mi-
gratory bird hunting, except as provided in
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:26 Feb 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00102 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06FE6.048 S06FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S977
February 6, 2019
paragraph (2), the Secretary shall, with re-
spect to the hunting season for ducks, mer-
gansers, and coots—
‘‘(i) subject to subparagraph (B), adopt the
recommendation of each respective flyway
council (as defined in section 20.152 of title
50, Code of Federal Regulations) for the Fed-
eral framework if the Secretary determines
that the recommendation is consistent with
science-based and sustainable harvest man-
agement; and
‘‘(ii) allow the States to establish the clos-
ing date for the hunting season in accord-
ance with the Federal framework.
‘‘(B) REQUIREMENT.—The framework clos-
ing date promulgated by the Secretary under
subparagraph (A) shall not be later than Jan-
uary 31 of each year.
‘‘(2) SPECIAL HUNTING DAYS FOR YOUTHS,
VETERANS, AND ACTIVE MILITARY PER-
SONNEL.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—Notwithstanding the
Federal framework closing date under para-
graph (1) and subject to subparagraphs (B)
and (C), the Secretary shall allow States to
select 2 days for youths and 2 days for vet-
erans (as defined in section 101 of title 38,
United States Code) and members of the
Armed Forces on active duty, including
members of the National Guard and Reserves
on active duty (other than for training), to
hunt eligible ducks, geese, swans, mergan-
sers, coots, moorhens, and gallinules, if the
Secretary determines that the addition of
those days is consistent with science-based
and sustainable harvest management. Such
days shall be treated as separate from, and
in addition to, the annual Federal frame-
work hunting season lengths.
‘‘(B) REQUIREMENTS.—In selecting days
under subparagraph (A), a State shall ensure
that—
‘‘(i) the days selected—
‘‘(I) may only include the hunting of duck,
geese, swan, merganser, coot, moorhen, and
gallinule species that are eligible for hunting
under the applicable annual Federal frame-
work;
‘‘(II) are not more than 14 days before or
after the Federal framework hunting season
for ducks, mergansers, and coots; and
‘‘(III) are otherwise consistent with the
Federal framework; and
‘‘(ii) the total number of days in a hunting
season for any migratory bird species, in-
cluding any days selected under subpara-
graph (A), is not more than 107 days.
‘‘(C) LIMITATION.—A State may combine
the 2 days allowed for youths with the 2 days
allowed for veterans and members of the
Armed Forces on active duty under subpara-
graph (A), but in no circumstance may a
State have more than a total of 4 additional
days added to its regular hunting season for
any purpose.
‘‘(3) REGULATIONS.—The Secretary shall
promulgate regulations in accordance with
this subsection for the Federal framework
for migratory bird hunting for the 2019–2020
hunting season and each hunting season
thereafter.’’.
Subtitle E—Miscellaneous
SEC. 4401. RESPECT FOR TREATIES AND RIGHTS.
Nothing in this title or the amendments
made by this title—
(1) affects or modifies any treaty or other
right of any federally recognized Indian
Tribe; or
(2) modifies any provision of Federal law
relating to migratory birds or to endangered
or threatened species.
SEC. 4402. NO PRIORITY.
Nothing in this title or the amendments
made by this title provides a preference to
hunting, fishing, or recreational shooting
over any other use of Federal land or water.
SEC. 4403. STATE AUTHORITY FOR FISH AND
WILDLIFE.
Nothing in this title—
(1) authorizes the Secretary of Agriculture
or the Secretary to require Federal licenses
or permits to hunt and fish on Federal land;
or
(2) enlarges or diminishes the responsi-
bility or authority of States with respect to
fish and wildlife management.
TITLE V—HAZARDS AND MAPPING
SEC. 5001. NATIONAL VOLCANO EARLY WARNING
AND MONITORING SYSTEM.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) SECRETARY.—The term ‘‘Secretary’’
means the Secretary, acting through the Di-
rector of the United States Geological Sur-
vey.
(2) SYSTEM.—The term ‘‘System’’ means
the National Volcano Early Warning and
Monitoring System established under sub-
section (b)(1)(A).
(b) NATIONAL VOLCANO EARLY WARNING AND
MONITORING SYSTEM.—
(1) ESTABLISHMENT.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall es-
tablish within the United States Geological
Survey a system, to be known as the ‘‘Na-
tional Volcano Early Warning and Moni-
toring System’’, to monitor, warn, and pro-
tect citizens of the United States from undue
and avoidable harm from volcanic activity.
(B) PURPOSES.—The purposes of the System
are—
(i) to organize, modernize, standardize, and
stabilize the monitoring systems of the vol-
cano observatories in the United States,
which includes the Alaska Volcano Observ-
atory, California Volcano Observatory, Cas-
cades Volcano Observatory, Hawaiian Vol-
cano Observatory, and Yellowstone Volcano
Observatory; and
(ii) to unify the monitoring systems of vol-
cano observatories in the United States into
a single interoperative system.
(C) OBJECTIVE.—The objective of the Sys-
tem is to monitor all the volcanoes in the
United States at a level commensurate with
the threat posed by the volcanoes by—
(i) upgrading existing networks on mon-
itored volcanoes;
(ii) installing new networks on
unmonitored volcanoes; and
(iii) employing geodetic and other compo-
nents when applicable.
(2) SYSTEM COMPONENTS.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The System shall in-
clude—
(i) a national volcano watch office that is
operational 24 hours a day and 7 days a week;
(ii) a national volcano data center; and
(iii) an external grants program to support
research in volcano monitoring science and
technology.
(B) MODERNIZATION ACTIVITIES.—Mod-
ernization activities under the System shall
include the comprehensive application of
emerging technologies, including digital
broadband seismometers, real-time contin-
uous Global Positioning System receivers,
satellite and airborne radar interferometry,
acoustic pressure sensors, and spectrometry
to measure gas emissions.
(3) MANAGEMENT.—
(A) MANAGEMENT PLAN.—
(i) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 180 days
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Secretary shall submit to Congress a 5-year
management plan for establishing and oper-
ating the System.
(ii) INCLUSIONS.—The management plan
submitted under clause (i) shall include—
(I) annual cost estimates for modernization
activities and operation of the System;
(II) annual milestones, standards, and per-
formance goals; and
(III) recommendations for, and progress to-
wards, establishing new, or enhancing exist-
ing, partnerships to leverage resources.
(B) ADVISORY COMMITTEE.—The Secretary
shall establish an advisory committee to as-
sist the Secretary in implementing the Sys-
tem, to be comprised of representatives of
relevant agencies and members of the sci-
entific community, to be appointed by the
Secretary.
(C) PARTNERSHIPS.—The Secretary may
enter into cooperative agreements with in-
stitutions of higher education and State
agencies designating the institutions of
higher education and State agencies as vol-
cano observatory partners for the System.
(D) COORDINATION.—The Secretary shall co-
ordinate the activities under this section
with the heads of relevant Federal agencies,
including—
(i) the Secretary of Transportation;
(ii) the Administrator of the Federal Avia-
tion Administration;
(iii) the Administrator of the National Oce-
anic and Atmospheric Administration; and
(iv) the Administrator of the Federal
Emergency Management Agency.
(4) ANNUAL REPORT.—Annually, the Sec-
retary shall submit to Congress a report that
describes the activities carried out under
this section.
(c) FUNDING.—
(1) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—
There is authorized to be appropriated to
carry out this section $55,000,000 for the pe-
riod of fiscal years 2019 through 2023.
(2) EFFECT ON OTHER SOURCES OF FEDERAL
FUNDING.—Amounts made available under
this subsection shall supplement, and not
supplant, Federal funds made available for
other United States Geological Survey haz-
ards activities and programs.
SEC. 5002. REAUTHORIZATION OF NATIONAL
GEOLOGIC MAPPING ACT OF 1992.
(a) REAUTHORIZATION.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Section 9(a) of the Na-
tional Geologic Mapping Act of 1992 (43
U.S.C. 31h(a)) is amended by striking ‘‘2018’’
and inserting ‘‘2023’’.
(2) CONFORMING AMENDMENT.—Section
4(b)(1) of the National Geologic Mapping Act
of 1992 (43 U.S.C. 31c(b)(1)) is amended by
striking ‘‘Omnibus Public Land Management
Act of 2009’’ each place it appears in subpara-
graphs (A) and (B) and inserting ‘‘Natural
Resources Management Act’’.
(b) GEOLOGIC MAPPING ADVISORY COM-
MITTEE.—Section 5(a)(3) of the National Geo-
logic Mapping Act of 1992 (43 U.S.C. 31d(a)(3))
is amended by striking ‘‘Associate Director
for Geology’’ and inserting ‘‘Associate Direc-
tor for Core Science Systems’’.
(c) CLERICAL AMENDMENTS.—Section 3 of
the National Geologic Mapping Act of 1992
(43 U.S.C. 31b) is amended—
(1) in paragraph (4), by striking ‘‘section
6(d)(3)’’ and inserting ‘‘section 4(d)(3)’’;
(2) in paragraph (5), by striking ‘‘section
6(d)(1)’’ and inserting ‘‘section 4(d)(1)’’; and
(3) in paragraph (9), by striking ‘‘section
6(d)(2)’’ and inserting ‘‘section 4(d)(2)’’.
TITLE VI—NATIONAL HERITAGE AREAS
SEC. 6001. NATIONAL HERITAGE AREA DESIGNA-
TIONS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The following areas are
designated as National Heritage Areas, to be
administered in accordance with this sec-
tion:
(1) APPALACHIAN FOREST NATIONAL HERIT-
AGE AREA, WEST VIRGINIA AND MARYLAND.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—There is established the
Appalachian Forest National Heritage Area
in the States of West Virginia and Maryland,
as depicted on the map entitled ‘‘Appa-
lachian Forest National Heritage Area’’,
numbered T07/80,000, and dated October 2007,
including—
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:26 Feb 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00103 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06FE6.048 S06FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S978 February 6, 2019
(i) Barbour, Braxton, Grant, Greenbrier,
Hampshire, Hardy, Mineral, Morgan, Nich-
olas, Pendleton, Pocahontas, Preston, Ran-
dolph, Tucker, Upshur, and Webster Counties
in West Virginia; and
(ii) Allegany and Garrett Counties in
Maryland.
(B) LOCAL COORDINATING ENTITY.—The Ap-
palachian Forest Heritage Area, Inc., shall
be—
(i) the local coordinating entity for the Na-
tional Heritage Area designated by subpara-
graph (A) (referred to in this subparagraph
as the ‘‘local coordinating entity’’); and
(ii) governed by a board of directors that
shall—
(I) include members to represent a geo-
graphic balance across the counties de-
scribed in subparagraph (A) and the States of
West Virginia and Maryland;
(II) be composed of not fewer than 7, and
not more than 15, members elected by the
membership of the local coordinating entity;
(III) be selected to represent a balanced
group of diverse interests, including—
(aa) the forest industry;
(bb) environmental interests;
(cc) cultural heritage interests;
(dd) tourism interests; and
(ee) regional agency partners;
(IV) exercise all corporate powers of the
local coordinating entity;
(V) manage the activities and affairs of the
local coordinating entity; and
(VI) subject to any limitations in the arti-
cles and bylaws of the local coordinating en-
tity, this section, and other applicable Fed-
eral or State law, establish the policies of
the local coordinating entity.
(2) MARITIME WASHINGTON NATIONAL HERIT-
AGE AREA, WASHINGTON.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—There is established the
Maritime Washington National Heritage
Area in the State of Washington, to include
land in Whatcom, Skagit, Snohomish, San
Juan, Island, King, Pierce, Thurston, Mason,
Kitsap, Jefferson, Clallam, and Grays Harbor
Counties in the State that is at least par-
tially located within the area that is 1⁄4-mile
landward of the shoreline, as generally de-
picted on the map entitled ‘‘Maritime Wash-
ington National Heritage Area Proposed
Boundary’’, numbered 584/125,484, and dated
August, 2014.
(B) LOCAL COORDINATING ENTITY.—The
Washington Trust for Historic Preservation
shall be the local coordinating entity for the
National Heritage Area designated by sub-
paragraph (A).
(3) MOUNTAINS TO SOUND GREENWAY NA-
TIONAL HERITAGE AREA, WASHINGTON.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—There is established the
Mountains to Sound Greenway National Her-
itage Area in the State of Washington, to
consist of land in King and Kittitas Counties
in the State, as generally depicted on the
map entitled ‘‘Mountains to Sound Green-
way National Heritage Area Proposed
Boundary’’, numbered 584/125,483, and dated
August, 2014 (referred to in this paragraph as
the ‘‘map’’).
(B) LOCAL COORDINATING ENTITY.—The
Mountains to Sound Greenway Trust shall be
the local coordinating entity for the Na-
tional Heritage Area designated by subpara-
graph (A).
(C) MAP.—The map shall be on file and
available for public inspection in the appro-
priate offices of—
(i) the National Park Service;
(ii) the Forest Service;
(iii) the Indian Tribes; and
(iv) the local coordinating entity.
(D) REFERENCES TO INDIAN TRIBE; TRIBAL.—
Any reference in this paragraph to the terms
‘‘Indian Tribe’’ and ‘‘Tribal’’ shall be consid-
ered, for purposes of the National Heritage
Area designated by subparagraph (A), to
refer to each of the Tribal governments of
the Snoqualmie, Yakama, Tulalip,
Muckleshoot, and Colville Indian Tribes.
(E) MANAGEMENT REQUIREMENTS.—With re-
spect to the National Heritage Area des-
ignated by subparagraph (A)—
(i) the preparation of an interpretive plan
under subsection (c)(2)(C)(vii) shall also in-
clude plans for Tribal heritage;
(ii) the Secretary shall ensure that the
management plan developed under sub-
section (c) is consistent with the trust re-
sponsibilities of the Secretary to Indian
Tribes and Tribal treaty rights within the
National Heritage Area;
(iii) the interpretive plan and management
plan for the National Heritage Area shall be
developed in consultation with the Indian
Tribes;
(iv) nothing in this paragraph shall grant
or diminish any hunting, fishing, or gath-
ering treaty right of any Indian Tribe; and
(v) nothing in this paragraph affects the
authority of a State or an Indian Tribe to
manage fish and wildlife, including the regu-
lation of hunting and fishing within the Na-
tional Heritage Area.
(4) SACRAMENTO-SAN JOAQUIN DELTA NA-
TIONAL HERITAGE AREA, CALIFORNIA.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—There is established the
Sacramento-San Joaquin Delta National
Heritage Area in the State of California, to
consist of land in Contra Costa, Sacramento,
San Joaquin, Solano, and Yolo Counties in
the State, as generally depicted on the map
entitled ‘‘Sacramento-San Joaquin Delta Na-
tional Heritage Area Proposed Boundary’’,
numbered T27/105,030, and dated October 2012.
(B) LOCAL COORDINATING ENTITY.—The
Delta Protection Commission established by
section 29735 of the California Public Re-
sources Code shall be the local coordinating
entity for the National Heritage Area des-
ignated by subparagraph (A).
(5) SANTA CRUZ VALLEY NATIONAL HERITAGE
AREA, ARIZONA.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—There is established the
Santa Cruz Valley National Heritage Area in
the State of Arizona, to consist of land in
Pima and Santa Cruz Counties in the State,
as generally depicted on the map entitled
‘‘Santa Cruz Valley National Heritage
Area’’, numbered T09/80,000, and dated No-
vember 13, 2007.
(B) LOCAL COORDINATING ENTITY.—Santa
Cruz Valley Heritage Alliance, Inc., a non-
profit organization established under the
laws of the State of Arizona, shall be the
local coordinating entity for the National
Heritage Area designated by subparagraph
(A).
(6) SUSQUEHANNA NATIONAL HERITAGE AREA,
PENNSYLVANIA.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—There is established the
Susquehanna National Heritage Area in the
State of Pennsylvania, to consist of land in
Lancaster and York Counties in the State.
(B) LOCAL COORDINATING ENTITY.—The Sus-
quehanna Heritage Corporation, a nonprofit
organization established under the laws of
the State of Pennsylvania, shall be the local
coordinating entity for the National Herit-
age Area designated by subparagraph (A).
(b) ADMINISTRATION.—
(1) AUTHORITIES.—For purposes of carrying
out the management plan for each of the Na-
tional Heritage Areas designated by sub-
section (a), the Secretary, acting through
the local coordinating entity, may use
amounts made available under subsection
(g)—
(A) to make grants to the State or a polit-
ical subdivision of the State, Indian Tribes,
nonprofit organizations, and other persons;
(B) to enter into cooperative agreements
with, or provide technical assistance to, the
State or a political subdivision of the State,
Indian Tribes, nonprofit organizations, and
other interested parties;
(C) to hire and compensate staff, which
shall include individuals with expertise in
natural, cultural, and historical resources
protection, and heritage programming;
(D) to obtain money or services from any
source including any money or services that
are provided under any other Federal law or
program;
(E) to contract for goods or services; and
(F) to undertake to be a catalyst for any
other activity that furthers the National
Heritage Area and is consistent with the ap-
proved management plan.
(2) DUTIES.—The local coordinating entity
for each of the National Heritage Areas des-
ignated by subsection (a) shall—
(A) in accordance with subsection (c), pre-
pare and submit a management plan for the
National Heritage Area to the Secretary;
(B) assist Federal agencies, the State or a
political subdivision of the State, Indian
Tribes, regional planning organizations, non-
profit organizations and other interested
parties in carrying out the approved manage-
ment plan by—
(i) carrying out programs and projects that
recognize, protect, and enhance important
resource values in the National Heritage
Area;
(ii) establishing and maintaining interpre-
tive exhibits and programs in the National
Heritage Area;
(iii) developing recreational and edu-
cational opportunities in the National Herit-
age Area;
(iv) increasing public awareness of, and ap-
preciation for, natural, historical, scenic,
and cultural resources of the National Herit-
age Area;
(v) protecting and restoring historic sites
and buildings in the National Heritage Area
that are consistent with National Heritage
Area themes;
(vi) ensuring that clear, consistent, and ap-
propriate signs identifying points of public
access and sites of interest are posted
throughout the National Heritage Area; and
(vii) promoting a wide range of partner-
ships among the Federal Government, State,
Tribal, and local governments, organiza-
tions, and individuals to further the Na-
tional Heritage Area;
(C) consider the interests of diverse units
of government, businesses, organizations,
and individuals in the National Heritage
Area in the preparation and implementation
of the management plan;
(D) conduct meetings open to the public at
least semiannually regarding the develop-
ment and implementation of the manage-
ment plan;
(E) for any year that Federal funds have
been received under this subsection—
(i) submit to the Secretary an annual re-
port that describes the activities, expenses,
and income of the local coordinating entity
(including grants to any other entities dur-
ing the year that the report is made);
(ii) make available to the Secretary for
audit all records relating to the expenditure
of the funds and any matching funds; and
(iii) require, with respect to all agreements
authorizing expenditure of Federal funds by
other organizations, that the organizations
receiving the funds make available to the
Secretary for audit all records concerning
the expenditure of the funds; and
(F) encourage by appropriate means eco-
nomic viability that is consistent with the
National Heritage Area.
(3) PROHIBITION ON THE ACQUISITION OF REAL
PROPERTY.—The local coordinating entity
shall not use Federal funds made available
under subsection (g) to acquire real property
or any interest in real property.
(c) MANAGEMENT PLAN.—
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:26 Feb 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00104 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06FE6.048 S06FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S979
February 6, 2019
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 3 years
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
local coordinating entity for each of the Na-
tional Heritage Areas designated by sub-
section (a) shall submit to the Secretary for
approval a proposed management plan for
the National Heritage Area.
(2) REQUIREMENTS.—The management plan
shall—
(A) incorporate an integrated and coopera-
tive approach for the protection, enhance-
ment, and interpretation of the natural, cul-
tural, historic, scenic, and recreational re-
sources of the National Heritage Area;
(B) take into consideration Federal, State,
local, and Tribal plans and treaty rights;
(C) include—
(i) an inventory of—
(I) the resources located in the National
Heritage Area; and
(II) any other property in the National
Heritage Area that—
(aa) is related to the themes of the Na-
tional Heritage Area; and
(bb) should be preserved, restored, man-
aged, or maintained because of the signifi-
cance of the property;
(ii) comprehensive policies, strategies and
recommendations for conservation, funding,
management, and development of the Na-
tional Heritage Area;
(iii) a description of actions that the Fed-
eral Government, State, Tribal, and local
governments, private organizations, and in-
dividuals have agreed to take to protect the
natural, historical, cultural, scenic, and rec-
reational resources of the National Heritage
Area;
(iv) a program of implementation for the
management plan by the local coordinating
entity that includes a description of—
(I) actions to facilitate ongoing collabora-
tion among partners to promote plans for re-
source protection, restoration, and construc-
tion; and
(II) specific commitments for implementa-
tion that have been made by the local co-
ordinating entity or any government, orga-
nization, or individual for the first 5 years of
operation;
(v) the identification of sources of funding
for carrying out the management plan;
(vi) analysis and recommendations for
means by which Federal, State, local, and
Tribal programs, including the role of the
National Park Service in the National Herit-
age Area, may best be coordinated to carry
out this subsection; and
(vii) an interpretive plan for the National
Heritage Area; and
(D) recommend policies and strategies for
resource management that consider and de-
tail the application of appropriate land and
water management techniques, including the
development of intergovernmental and inter-
agency cooperative agreements to protect
the natural, historical, cultural, educational,
scenic, and recreational resources of the Na-
tional Heritage Area.
(3) DEADLINE.—If a proposed management
plan is not submitted to the Secretary by
the date that is 3 years after the date of en-
actment of this Act, the local coordinating
entity shall be ineligible to receive addi-
tional funding under this section until the
date on which the Secretary receives and ap-
proves the management plan.
(4) APPROVAL OR DISAPPROVAL OF MANAGE-
MENT PLAN.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 180 days
after the date of receipt of the management
plan under paragraph (1), the Secretary, in
consultation with State and Tribal govern-
ments, shall approve or disapprove the man-
agement plan.
(B) CRITERIA FOR APPROVAL.—In deter-
mining whether to approve the management
plan, the Secretary shall consider whether—
(i) the local coordinating entity is rep-
resentative of the diverse interests of the
National Heritage Area, including Federal,
State, Tribal, and local governments, nat-
ural and historic resource protection organi-
zations, educational institutions, businesses,
and recreational organizations;
(ii) the local coordinating entity has af-
forded adequate opportunity, including pub-
lic hearings, for public and governmental in-
volvement in the preparation of the manage-
ment plan; and
(iii) the resource protection and interpre-
tation strategies contained in the manage-
ment plan, if implemented, would adequately
protect the natural, historical, and cultural
resources of the National Heritage Area.
(C) ACTION FOLLOWING DISAPPROVAL.—If the
Secretary disapproves the management plan
under subparagraph (A), the Secretary
shall—
(i) advise the local coordinating entity in
writing of the reasons for the disapproval;
(ii) make recommendations for revisions to
the management plan; and
(iii) not later than 180 days after the re-
ceipt of any proposed revision of the manage-
ment plan from the local coordinating enti-
ty, approve or disapprove the proposed revi-
sion.
(D) AMENDMENTS.—
(i) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall ap-
prove or disapprove each amendment to the
management plan that the Secretary deter-
mines make a substantial change to the
management plan.
(ii) USE OF FUNDS.—The local coordinating
entity shall not use Federal funds authorized
by this subsection to carry out any amend-
ments to the management plan until the
Secretary has approved the amendments.
(d) RELATIONSHIP TO OTHER FEDERAL AGEN-
CIES.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Nothing in this section af-
fects the authority of a Federal agency to
provide technical or financial assistance
under any other law.
(2) CONSULTATION AND COORDINATION.—The
head of any Federal agency planning to con-
duct activities that may have an impact on
a National Heritage Area designated by sub-
section (a) is encouraged to consult and co-
ordinate the activities with the Secretary
and the local coordinating entity to the
maximum extent practicable.
(3) OTHER FEDERAL AGENCIES.—Nothing in
this section—
(A) modifies, alters, or amends any law or
regulation authorizing a Federal agency to
manage Federal land under the jurisdiction
of the Federal agency;
(B) limits the discretion of a Federal land
manager to implement an approved land use
plan within the boundaries of a National
Heritage Area designated by subsection (a);
or
(C) modifies, alters, or amends any author-
ized use of Federal land under the jurisdic-
tion of a Federal agency.
(e) PRIVATE PROPERTY AND REGULATORY
PROTECTIONS.—Nothing in this section—
(1) abridges the rights of any property
owner (whether public or private), including
the right to refrain from participating in any
plan, project, program, or activity conducted
within a National Heritage Area designated
by subsection (a);
(2) requires any property owner—
(A) to permit public access (including ac-
cess by Federal, State, or local agencies) to
the property of the property owner; or
(B) to modify public access or use of prop-
erty of the property owner under any other
Federal, State, or local law;
(3) alters any duly adopted land use regula-
tion, approved land use plan, or other regu-
latory authority of any Federal, State, Trib-
al, or local agency;
(4) conveys any land use or other regu-
latory authority to the local coordinating
entity;
(5) authorizes or implies the reservation or
appropriation of water or water rights;
(6) enlarges or diminishes the treaty rights
of any Indian Tribe within the National Her-
itage Area;
(7) diminishes—
(A) the authority of the State to manage
fish and wildlife, including the regulation of
fishing and hunting within a National Herit-
age Area designated by subsection (a); or
(B) the authority of Indian Tribes to regu-
late members of Indian Tribes with respect
to fishing, hunting, and gathering in the ex-
ercise of treaty rights; or
(8) creates any liability, or affects any li-
ability under any other law, of any private
property owner with respect to any person
injured on the private property.
(f) EVALUATION AND REPORT.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—For each of the National
Heritage Areas designated by subsection (a),
not later than 3 years before the date on
which authority for Federal funding termi-
nates for each National Heritage Area, the
Secretary shall—
(A) conduct an evaluation of the accom-
plishments of the National Heritage Area;
and
(B) prepare a report in accordance with
paragraph (3).
(2) EVALUATION.—An evaluation conducted
under paragraph (1)(A) shall—
(A) assess the progress of the local man-
agement entity with respect to—
(i) accomplishing the purposes of the au-
thorizing legislation for the National Herit-
age Area; and
(ii) achieving the goals and objectives of
the approved management plan for the Na-
tional Heritage Area;
(B) analyze the investments of the Federal
Government, State, Tribal, and local govern-
ments, and private entities in each National
Heritage Area to determine the impact of
the investments; and
(C) review the management structure,
partnership relationships, and funding of the
National Heritage Area for purposes of iden-
tifying the critical components for sustain-
ability of the National Heritage Area.
(3) REPORT.—Based on the evaluation con-
ducted under paragraph (1)(A), the Secretary
shall submit to the Committee on Energy
and Natural Resources of the Senate and the
Committee on Natural Resources of the
House of Representatives a report that in-
cludes recommendations for the future role
of the National Park Service, if any, with re-
spect to the National Heritage Area.
(g) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—There is authorized to be
appropriated for each National Heritage
Area designated by subsection (a) to carry
out the purposes of this section $10,000,000, of
which not more than $1,000,000 may be made
available in any fiscal year.
(2) AVAILABILITY.—Amounts made avail-
able under paragraph (1) shall remain avail-
able until expended.
(3) COST-SHARING REQUIREMENT.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The Federal share of the
total cost of any activity under this section
shall be not more than 50 percent.
(B) FORM.—The non-Federal contribution
of the total cost of any activity under this
section may be in the form of in-kind con-
tributions of goods or services fairly valued.
(4) TERMINATION OF AUTHORITY.—The au-
thority of the Secretary to provide assist-
ance under this section terminates on the
date that is 15 years after the date of enact-
ment of this Act.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:26 Feb 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00105 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06FE6.048 S06FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S980 February 6, 2019
SEC. 6002. ADJUSTMENT OF BOUNDARIES OF LIN-
COLN NATIONAL HERITAGE AREA.
(a) BOUNDARY ADJUSTMENT.—Section
443(b)(1) of the Consolidated Natural Re-
sources Act of 2008 (Public Law 110–229; 122
Stat. 819) is amended—
(1) by inserting ‘‘, Livingston,’’ after ‘‘La-
Salle’’; and
(2) by inserting ‘‘, the city of Jonesboro in
Union County, and the city of Freeport in
Stephenson County’’ after ‘‘Woodford coun-
ties’’.
(b) MAP.—The Secretary shall update the
map referred to in section 443(b)(2) of the
Consolidated Natural Resources Act of 2008
to reflect the boundary adjustment made by
the amendments in subsection (a).
SEC. 6003. FINGER LAKES NATIONAL HERITAGE
AREA STUDY.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) HERITAGE AREA.—The term ‘‘Heritage
Area’’ means the Finger Lakes National Her-
itage Area.
(2) STATE.—The term ‘‘State’’ means the
State of New York.
(3) STUDY AREA.—The term ‘‘study area’’
means—
(A) the counties in the State of Cayuga,
Chemung, Cortland, Livingston, Monroe, On-
ondaga, Ontario, Schuyler, Seneca, Steuben,
Tioga, Tompkins, Wayne, and Yates; and
(B) any other areas in the State that—
(i) have heritage aspects that are similar
to the areas described in subparagraph (A);
and
(ii) are adjacent to, or in the vicinity of,
those areas.
(b) STUDY.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary, in con-
sultation with State and local historic pres-
ervation officers, State and local historical
societies, State and local tourism offices,
and other appropriate organizations and gov-
ernmental agencies, shall conduct a study to
assess the suitability and feasibility of desig-
nating the study area as a National Heritage
Area, to be known as the ‘‘Finger Lakes Na-
tional Heritage Area’’.
(2) REQUIREMENTS.—The study shall in-
clude analysis, documentation, and deter-
minations on whether the study area—
(A) has an assemblage of natural, historic,
and cultural resources that—
(i) represent distinctive aspects of the her-
itage of the United States;
(ii) are worthy of recognition, conserva-
tion, interpretation, and continuing use; and
(iii) would be best managed—
(I) through partnerships among public and
private entities; and
(II) by linking diverse and sometimes non-
contiguous resources and active commu-
nities;
(B) reflects traditions, customs, beliefs,
and folklife that are a valuable part of the
story of the United States;
(C) provides outstanding opportunities—
(i) to conserve natural, historic, cultural,
or scenic features; and
(ii) for recreation and education;
(D) contains resources that—
(i) are important to any identified themes
of the study area; and
(ii) retain a degree of integrity capable of
supporting interpretation;
(E) includes residents, business interests,
nonprofit organizations, and State and local
governments that—
(i) are involved in the planning of the Her-
itage Area;
(ii) have developed a conceptual financial
plan that outlines the roles of all partici-
pants in the Heritage Area, including the
Federal Government; and
(iii) have demonstrated support for the des-
ignation of the Heritage Area;
(F) has a potential management entity to
work in partnership with the individuals and
entities described in subparagraph (E) to de-
velop the Heritage Area while encouraging
State and local economic activity; and
(G) has a conceptual boundary map that is
supported by the public.
(c) REPORT.—Not later than 3 years after
the date on which funds are first made avail-
able to carry out this section, the Secretary
shall submit to the Committee on Natural
Resources of the House of Representatives
and the Committee on Energy and Natural
Resources of the Senate a report that de-
scribes—
(1) the findings of the study under sub-
section (b); and
(2) any conclusions and recommendations
of the Secretary.
SEC. 6004. NATIONAL HERITAGE AREA AMEND-
MENTS.
(a) RIVERS OF STEEL NATIONAL HERITAGE
AREA.—Section 409(a) of the Omnibus Parks
and Public Lands Management Act of 1996
(Public Law 104–333; 110 Stat. 4256; 129 Stat.
2551) is amended in the second sentence, by
striking ‘‘$17,000,000’’ and inserting
‘‘$20,000,000’’.
(b) ESSEX NATIONAL HERITAGE AREA.—Sec-
tion 508(a) of the Omnibus Parks and Public
Lands Management Act of 1996 (Public Law
104–333; 110 Stat. 4260; 129 Stat. 2551) is
amended in the second sentence, by striking
‘‘$17,000,000’’ and inserting ‘‘$20,000,000’’.
(c) OHIO & ERIE NATIONAL HERITAGE
CANALWAY.—Section 810(a) of the Omnibus
Parks and Public Lands Management Act of
1996 (Public Law 104–333; 110 Stat. 4275; 122
Stat. 826) is amended by striking the second
sentence and inserting the following: ‘‘Not
more than a total of $20,000,000 may be appro-
priated for the canalway under this title.’’.
(d) BLUE RIDGE NATIONAL HERITAGE
AREA.—The Blue Ridge National Heritage
Area Act of 2003 (Public Law 108–108; 117
Stat. 1274; 131 Stat. 461; 132 Stat. 661) is
amended—
(1) in subsection (i)(1), by striking
‘‘$12,000,000’’ and inserting ‘‘$14,000,000’’; and
(2) by striking subsection (j) and inserting
the following:
‘‘(j) TERMINATION OF AUTHORITY.—The au-
thority of the Secretary to provide assist-
ance under this section terminates on Sep-
tember 30, 2021.’’.
(e) MOTORCITIES NATIONAL HERITAGE
AREA.—Section 110(a) of the Automobile Na-
tional Heritage Area Act (Public Law 105–
355; 112 Stat. 3252) is amended, in the second
sentence, by striking ‘‘$10,000,000’’ and in-
serting ‘‘$12,000,000’’.
(f) WHEELING NATIONAL HERITAGE AREA.—
Subsection (h)(1) of the Wheeling National
Heritage Area Act of 2000 (Public Law 106–
291; 114 Stat. 967; 128 Stat. 2421; 129 Stat. 2550)
is amended by striking ‘‘$13,000,000’’ and in-
serting ‘‘$15,000,000’’.
(g) TENNESSEE CIVIL WAR HERITAGE
AREA.—Section 208 of the Omnibus Parks
and Public Lands Management Act of 1996
(Public Law 104–333; 110 Stat. 4248; 127 Stat.
420; 128 Stat. 314; 129 Stat. 2551; 132 Stat. 661)
is amended by striking ‘‘after’’ and all that
follows through the period at the end and in-
serting the following: ‘‘after September 30,
2021.’’.
(h) AUGUSTA CANAL NATIONAL HERITAGE
AREA.—Section 310 of the Omnibus Parks
and Public Lands Management Act of 1996
(Public Law 104–333; 110 Stat. 4252; 127 Stat.
420; 128 Stat. 314; 129 Stat. 2551; 132 Stat. 661)
is amended by striking ‘‘2019’’ and inserting
‘‘2021’’.
(i) SOUTH CAROLINA NATIONAL HERITAGE
CORRIDOR.—Section 607 of the Omnibus Parks
and Public Lands Management Act of 1996
(Public Law 104–333; 110 Stat. 4264; 127 Stat.
420; 128 Stat. 314; 129 Stat. 2551; 132 Stat. 661)
is amended by striking ‘‘2019’’ and inserting
‘‘2021’’.
(j) OIL REGION NATIONAL HERITAGE AREA.—
The Oil Region National Heritage Area Act
(Public Law 108–447; 118 Stat. 3368) is amend-
ed by striking ‘‘Oil Heritage Region, Inc.’’
each place it appears and inserting ‘‘Oil Re-
gion Alliance of Business, Industry and
Tourism’’.
(k) HUDSON RIVER VALLEY NATIONAL HERIT-
AGE AREA REDESIGNATION.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Hudson River Valley
National Heritage Area Act of 1996 (Public
Law 104–333; 110 Stat. 4275) is amended by
striking ‘‘Hudson River Valley National Her-
itage Area’’ each place it appears and insert-
ing ‘‘Maurice D. Hinchey Hudson River Val-
ley National Heritage Area’’.
(2) REFERENCE IN LAW.—Any reference in a
law, map, regulation, document, paper, or
other record of the United States to the Her-
itage Area referred to in paragraph (1) shall
be deemed to be a reference to the ‘‘Maurice
D. Hinchey Hudson River Valley National
Heritage Area’’.
TITLE VII—WILDLIFE HABITAT AND
CONSERVATION
SEC. 7001. WILDLIFE HABITAT AND CONSERVA-
TION.
(a) PARTNERS FOR FISH AND WILDLIFE PRO-
GRAM REAUTHORIZATION.—Section 5 of the
Partners for Fish and Wildlife Act (16 U.S.C.
3774) is amended by striking ‘‘2006 through
2011’’ and inserting ‘‘2019 through 2023’’.
(b) FISH AND WILDLIFE COORDINATION.—
(1) PURPOSE.—The purpose of this sub-
section is to protect water, oceans, coasts,
and wildlife from invasive species.
(2) AMENDMENTS TO FISH AND WILDLIFE CO-
ORDINATION ACT.—
(A) SHORT TITLE; AUTHORIZATION.—The first
section of the Fish and Wildlife Coordination
Act (16 U.S.C. 661) is amended by striking
‘‘For the purpose’’ and inserting the fol-
lowing:
‘‘SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; AUTHORIZATION.
‘‘(a) SHORT TITLE.—This Act may be cited
as the ‘Fish and Wildlife Coordination Act’.
‘‘(b) AUTHORIZATION.—For the purpose’’.
(B) PROTECTION OF WATER, OCEANS, COASTS,
AND WILDLIFE FROM INVASIVE SPECIES.—The
Fish and Wildlife Coordination Act (16 U.S.C.
661 et seq.) is amended by adding at the end
the following:
‘‘SEC. 10. PROTECTION OF WATER, OCEANS,
COASTS, AND WILDLIFE FROM
INVASIVE SPECIES.
‘‘(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
‘‘(1) CONTROL.—The term ‘control’, with re-
spect to an invasive species, means the eradi-
cation, suppression, or reduction of the popu-
lation of the invasive species within the area
in which the invasive species is present.
‘‘(2) ECOSYSTEM.—The term ‘ecosystem’
means the complex of a community of orga-
nisms and the environment of the organisms.
‘‘(3) ELIGIBLE STATE.—The term ‘eligible
State’ means any of—
‘‘(A) a State;
‘‘(B) the District of Columbia;
‘‘(C) the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico;
‘‘(D) Guam;
‘‘(E) American Samoa;
‘‘(F) the Commonwealth of the Northern
Mariana Islands; and
‘‘(G) the United States Virgin Islands.
‘‘(4) INVASIVE SPECIES.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—The term ‘invasive spe-
cies’ means an alien species, the introduc-
tion of which causes, or is likely to cause,
economic or environmental harm or harm to
human health.
‘‘(B) ASSOCIATED DEFINITION.—For purposes
of subparagraph (A), the term ‘alien species’,
with respect to a particular ecosystem,
means any species (including the seeds, eggs,
spores, or other biological material of the
species that are capable of propagating the
species) that is not native to the affected
ecosystem.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:26 Feb 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00106 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06FE6.048 S06FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S981
February 6, 2019
‘‘(5) MANAGE; MANAGEMENT.—The terms
‘manage’ and ‘management’, with respect to
an invasive species, mean the active imple-
mentation of any activity—
‘‘(A) to reduce or stop the spread of the
invasive species; and
‘‘(B) to inhibit further infestations of the
invasive species, the spread of the invasive
species, or harm caused by the invasive spe-
cies, including investigations regarding
methods for early detection and rapid re-
sponse, prevention, control, or management
of the invasive species.
‘‘(6) PREVENT.—The term ‘prevent’, with
respect to an invasive species, means—
‘‘(A) to hinder the introduction of the
invasive species onto land or water; or
‘‘(B) to impede the spread of the invasive
species within land or water by inspecting,
intercepting, or confiscating invasive species
threats prior to the establishment of the
invasive species onto land or water of an eli-
gible State.
‘‘(7) SECRETARY CONCERNED.—The term
‘Secretary concerned’ means—
‘‘(A) the Secretary of the Army, with re-
spect to Federal land administered by the
Corps of Engineers;
‘‘(B) the Secretary of the Interior, with re-
spect to Federal land administered by the
Secretary of the Interior through—
‘‘(i) the United States Fish and Wildlife
Service;
‘‘(ii) the Bureau of Indian Affairs;
‘‘(iii) the Bureau of Land Management;
‘‘(iv) the Bureau of Reclamation; or
‘‘(v) the National Park Service;
‘‘(C) the Secretary of Agriculture, with re-
spect to Federal land administered by the
Secretary of Agriculture through the Forest
Service; and
‘‘(D) the head or a representative of any
other Federal agency the duties of whom re-
quire planning relating to, and the treat-
ment of, invasive species for the purpose of
protecting water and wildlife on land and
coasts and in oceans and water.
‘‘(8) SPECIES.—The term ‘species’ means a
group of organisms, all of which—
‘‘(A) have a high degree of genetic simi-
larity;
‘‘(B) are morphologically distinct;
‘‘(C) generally—
‘‘(i) interbreed at maturity only among
themselves; and
‘‘(ii) produce fertile offspring; and
‘‘(D) show persistent differences from
members of allied groups of organisms.
‘‘(b) CONTROL AND MANAGEMENT.—Each
Secretary concerned shall plan and carry out
activities on land directly managed by the
Secretary concerned to protect water and
wildlife by controlling and managing
invasive species—
‘‘(1) to inhibit or reduce the populations of
invasive species; and
‘‘(2) to effectuate restoration or reclama-
tion efforts.
‘‘(c) STRATEGIC PLAN.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Each Secretary con-
cerned shall develop a strategic plan for the
implementation of the invasive species pro-
gram to achieve, to the maximum extent
practicable, a substantive annual net reduc-
tion of invasive species populations or in-
fested acreage on land or water managed by
the Secretary concerned.
‘‘(2) COORDINATION.—Each strategic plan
under paragraph (1) shall be developed—
‘‘(A) in coordination with affected—
‘‘(i) eligible States; and
‘‘(ii) political subdivisions of eligible
States;
‘‘(B) in consultation with federally recog-
nized Indian tribes; and
‘‘(C) in accordance with the priorities es-
tablished by 1 or more Governors of the eligi-
ble States in which an ecosystem affected by
an invasive species is located.
‘‘(3) FACTORS FOR CONSIDERATION.—In de-
veloping a strategic plan under this sub-
section, the Secretary concerned shall take
into consideration the economic and ecologi-
cal costs of action or inaction, as applicable.
‘‘(d) COST-EFFECTIVE METHODS.—In select-
ing a method to be used to control or man-
age an invasive species as part of a specific
control or management project conducted as
part of a strategic plan developed under sub-
section (c), the Secretary concerned shall
prioritize the use of methods that—
‘‘(1) effectively control and manage
invasive species, as determined by the Sec-
retary concerned, based on sound scientific
data;
‘‘(2) minimize environmental impacts; and
‘‘(3) control and manage invasive species in
the most cost-effective manner.
‘‘(e) COMPARATIVE ECONOMIC ASSESSMENT.—
To achieve compliance with subsection (d),
the Secretary concerned shall require a com-
parative economic assessment of invasive
species control and management methods to
be conducted.
‘‘(f) EXPEDITED ACTION.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretaries con-
cerned shall use all tools and flexibilities
available (as of the date of enactment of this
section) to expedite the projects and activi-
ties described in paragraph (2).
‘‘(2) DESCRIPTION OF PROJECTS AND ACTIVI-
TIES.—A project or activity referred to in
paragraph (1) is a project or activity—
‘‘(A) to protect water or wildlife from an
invasive species that, as determined by the
Secretary concerned is, or will be, carried
out on land or water that is—
‘‘(i) directly managed by the Secretary
concerned; and
‘‘(ii) located in an area that is—
‘‘(I) at high risk for the introduction, es-
tablishment, or spread of invasive species;
and
‘‘(II) determined by the Secretary con-
cerned to require immediate action to ad-
dress the risk identified in subclause (I); and
‘‘(B) carried out in accordance with appli-
cable agency procedures, including any ap-
plicable—
‘‘(i) land or resource management plan; or
‘‘(ii) land use plan.
‘‘(g) ALLOCATION OF FUNDING.—Of the
amount appropriated or otherwise made
available to each Secretary concerned for a
fiscal year for programs that address or in-
clude protection of land or water from an
invasive species, the Secretary concerned
shall use not less than 75 percent for on-the-
ground control and management of invasive
species, which may include—
‘‘(1) the purchase of necessary products,
equipment, or services to conduct that con-
trol and management;
‘‘(2) the use of integrated pest management
options, including options that use pesticides
authorized for sale, distribution, or use
under the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide,
and Rodenticide Act (7 U.S.C. 136 et seq.);
‘‘(3) the use of biological control agents
that are proven to be effective to reduce
invasive species populations;
‘‘(4) the use of revegetation or cultural res-
toration methods designed to improve the di-
versity and richness of ecosystems;
‘‘(5) the use of monitoring and detection
activities for invasive species, including
equipment, detection dogs, and mechanical
devices;
‘‘(6) the use of appropriate methods to re-
move invasive species from a vehicle or ves-
sel capable of conveyance; or
‘‘(7) the use of other effective mechanical
or manual control methods.
‘‘(h) INVESTIGATIONS, OUTREACH, AND PUB-
LIC AWARENESS.—Of the amount appro-
priated or otherwise made available to each
Secretary concerned for a fiscal year for pro-
grams that address or include protection of
land or water from an invasive species, the
Secretary concerned may use not more than
15 percent for investigations, development
activities, and outreach and public aware-
ness efforts to address invasive species con-
trol and management needs.
‘‘(i) ADMINISTRATIVE COSTS.—Of the
amount appropriated or otherwise made
available to each Secretary concerned for a
fiscal year for programs that address or in-
clude protection of land or water from an
invasive species, not more than 10 percent
may be used for administrative costs in-
curred to carry out those programs, includ-
ing costs relating to oversight and manage-
ment of the programs, recordkeeping, and
implementation of the strategic plan devel-
oped under subsection (c).
‘‘(j) REPORTING REQUIREMENTS.—Not later
than 60 days after the end of the second fis-
cal year beginning after the date of enact-
ment of this section, each Secretary con-
cerned shall submit to Congress a report—
‘‘(1) describing the use by the Secretary
concerned during the 2 preceding fiscal years
of funds for programs that address or include
invasive species management; and
‘‘(2) specifying the percentage of funds ex-
pended for each of the purposes specified in
subsections (g), (h), and (i).
‘‘(k) RELATION TO OTHER AUTHORITY.—
‘‘(1) OTHER INVASIVE SPECIES CONTROL, PRE-
VENTION, AND MANAGEMENT AUTHORITIES.—
Nothing in this section precludes the Sec-
retary concerned from pursuing or sup-
porting, pursuant to any other provision of
law, any activity regarding the control, pre-
vention, or management of an invasive spe-
cies, including investigations to improve the
control, prevention, or management of the
invasive species.
‘‘(2) PUBLIC WATER SUPPLY SYSTEMS.—Noth-
ing in this section authorizes the Secretary
concerned to suspend any water delivery or
diversion, or otherwise to prevent the oper-
ation of a public water supply system, as a
measure to control, manage, or prevent the
introduction or spread of an invasive species.
‘‘(l) USE OF PARTNERSHIPS.—Subject to the
subsections (m) and (n), the Secretary con-
cerned may enter into any contract or coop-
erative agreement with another Federal
agency, an eligible State, a federally recog-
nized Indian tribe, a political subdivision of
an eligible State, or a private individual or
entity to assist with the control and man-
agement of an invasive species.
‘‘(m) MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—As a condition of a con-
tract or cooperative agreement under sub-
section (l), the Secretary concerned and the
applicable Federal agency, eligible State, po-
litical subdivision of an eligible State, or
private individual or entity shall enter into
a memorandum of understanding that de-
scribes—
‘‘(A) the nature of the partnership between
the parties to the memorandum of under-
standing; and
‘‘(B) the control and management activi-
ties to be conducted under the contract or
cooperative agreement.
‘‘(2) CONTENTS.—A memorandum of under-
standing under this subsection shall contain,
at a minimum, the following:
‘‘(A) A prioritized listing of each invasive
species to be controlled or managed.
‘‘(B) An assessment of the total acres of
land or area of water infested by the invasive
species.
‘‘(C) An estimate of the expected total
acres of land or area of water infested by the
invasive species after control and manage-
ment of the invasive species is attempted.
‘‘(D) A description of each specific, inte-
grated pest management option to be used,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:26 Feb 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00107 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06FE6.048 S06FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S982 February 6, 2019
including a comparative economic assess-
ment to determine the least-costly method.
‘‘(E) Any map, boundary, or Global Posi-
tioning System coordinates needed to clear-
ly identify the area in which each control or
management activity is proposed to be con-
ducted.
‘‘(F) A written assurance that each partner
will comply with section 15 of the Federal
Noxious Weed Act of 1974 (7 U.S.C. 2814).
‘‘(3) COORDINATION.—If a partner to a con-
tract or cooperative agreement under sub-
section (l) is an eligible State, political sub-
division of an eligible State, or private indi-
vidual or entity, the memorandum of under-
standing under this subsection shall include
a description of—
‘‘(A) the means by which each applicable
control or management effort will be coordi-
nated; and
‘‘(B) the expected outcomes of managing
and controlling the invasive species.
‘‘(4) PUBLIC OUTREACH AND AWARENESS EF-
FORTS.—If a contract or cooperative agree-
ment under subsection (l) involves any out-
reach or public awareness effort, the memo-
randum of understanding under this sub-
section shall include a list of goals and ob-
jectives for each outreach or public aware-
ness effort that have been determined to be
efficient to inform national, regional, State,
Tribal, or local audiences regarding invasive
species control and management.
‘‘(n) INVESTIGATIONS.—The purpose of any
invasive species-related investigation carried
out under a contract or cooperative agree-
ment under subsection (l) shall be—
‘‘(1) to develop solutions and specific rec-
ommendations for control and management
of invasive species; and
‘‘(2) specifically to provide faster imple-
mentation of control and management meth-
ods.
‘‘(o) COORDINATION WITH AFFECTED LOCAL
GOVERNMENTS.—Each project and activity
carried out pursuant to this section shall be
coordinated with affected local governments
in a manner that is consistent with section
202(c)(9) of the Federal Land Policy and Man-
agement Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1712(c)(9)).’’.
(c) WILDLIFE CONSERVATION.—
(1) REAUTHORIZATIONS.—
(A) REAUTHORIZATION OF AFRICAN ELEPHANT
CONSERVATION ACT.—Section 2306(a) of the Af-
rican Elephant Conservation Act (16 U.S.C.
4245(a)) is amended by striking ‘‘2007 through
2012’’ and inserting ‘‘2019 through 2023’’.
(B) REAUTHORIZATION OF ASIAN ELEPHANT
CONSERVATION ACT OF 1997.—Section 8(a) of
the Asian Elephant Conservation Act of 1997
(16 U.S.C. 4266(a)) is amended by striking
‘‘2007 through 2012’’ and inserting ‘‘2019
through 2023’’.
(C) REAUTHORIZATION OF RHINOCEROS AND
TIGER CONSERVATION ACT OF 1994.—Section
10(a) of the Rhinoceros and Tiger Conserva-
tion Act of 1994 (16 U.S.C. 5306(a)) is amended
by striking ‘‘2007 through 2012’’ and inserting
‘‘2019 through 2023’’.
(2) AMENDMENTS TO GREAT APE CONSERVA-
TION ACT OF 2000.—
(A) PANEL.—Section 4(i) of the Great Ape
Conservation Act of 2000 (16 U.S.C. 6303(i)) is
amended—
(i) by striking paragraph (1) and inserting
the following:
‘‘(1) CONVENTION.—Not later than 1 year
after the date of enactment of the Natural
Resources Management Act, and every 5
years thereafter, the Secretary may convene
a panel of experts on great apes to identify
the greatest needs and priorities for the con-
servation of great apes.’’;
(ii) by redesignating paragraph (2) as para-
graph (5); and
(iii) by inserting after paragraph (1) the
following:
‘‘(2) COMPOSITION.—The Secretary shall en-
sure that the panel referred to in paragraph
(1) includes, to the maximum extent prac-
ticable, 1 or more representatives—
‘‘(A) from each country that comprises the
natural range of great apes; and
‘‘(B) with expertise in great ape conserva-
tion.
‘‘(3) CONSERVATION PLANS.—In identifying
the conservation needs and priorities under
paragraph (1), the panel referred to in that
paragraph shall consider any relevant great
ape conservation plan or strategy, including
scientific research and findings relating to—
‘‘(A) the conservation needs and priorities
of great apes;
‘‘(B) any regional or species-specific action
plan or strategy;
‘‘(C) any applicable strategy developed or
initiated by the Secretary; and
‘‘(D) any other applicable conservation
plan or strategy.
‘‘(4) FUNDS.—Subject to the availability of
appropriations, the Secretary may use
amounts available to the Secretary to pay
for the costs of convening and facilitating
any meeting of the panel referred to in para-
graph (1).’’.
(B) MULTIYEAR GRANTS.—Section 4 of the
Great Ape Conservation Act of 2000 (16 U.S.C.
6303) is amended by adding at the end the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(j) MULTIYEAR GRANTS.—
‘‘(1) AUTHORIZATION.—The Secretary may
award to a person who is otherwise eligible
for a grant under this section a multiyear
grant to carry out a project that the person
demonstrates is an effective, long-term con-
servation strategy for great apes and the
habitat of great apes.
‘‘(2) EFFECT OF SUBSECTION.—Nothing in
this subsection precludes the Secretary from
awarding a grant on an annual basis.’’.
(C) ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES.—Section
5(b)(2) of the Great Ape Conservation Act of
2000 (16 U.S.C. 6304(b)(2)) is amended by strik-
ing ‘‘$100,000’’ and inserting ‘‘$150,000’’.
(D) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—
Section 6 of the Great Ape Conservation Act
of 2000 (16 U.S.C. 6305) is amended by striking
‘‘2006 through 2010’’ and inserting ‘‘2019
through 2023’’.
(3) AMENDMENTS TO MARINE TURTLE CON-
SERVATION ACT OF 2004.—
(A) PURPOSE.—Section 2 of the Marine Tur-
tle Conservation Act of 2004 (16 U.S.C. 6601) is
amended by striking subsection (b) and in-
serting the following:
‘‘(b) PURPOSE.—The purpose of this Act is
to assist in the conservation of marine tur-
tles, freshwater turtles, and tortoises and
the habitats of marine turtles, freshwater
turtles, and tortoises in foreign countries
and territories of the United States by sup-
porting and providing financial resources for
projects—
‘‘(1) to conserve marine turtle, freshwater
turtle, and tortoise habitats under the juris-
diction of United States Fish and Wildlife
Service programs;
‘‘(2) to conserve marine turtles, freshwater
turtles, and tortoises in those habitats; and
‘‘(3) to address other threats to the sur-
vival of marine turtles, freshwater turtles,
and tortoises, including habitat loss, poach-
ing of turtles or their eggs, and wildlife traf-
ficking.’’.
(B) DEFINITIONS.—Section 3 of the Marine
Turtle Conservation Act of 2004 (16 U.S.C.
6602) is amended—
(i) in paragraph (2)—
(I) in the matter preceding subparagraph
(A), by striking ‘‘nesting habitats of marine
turtles in foreign countries and of marine
turtles in those habitats’’ and inserting ‘‘ma-
rine turtles, freshwater turtles, and tor-
toises, and the habitats of marine turtles,
freshwater turtles, and tortoises, in foreign
countries and territories of the United
States under the jurisdiction of United
States Fish and Wildlife Service programs’’;
(II) in subparagraphs (A), (B), and (C), by
striking ‘‘nesting’’ each place it appears;
(III) in subparagraph (D)—
(aa) in the matter preceding clause (i), by
striking ‘‘countries to—’’ and inserting
‘‘countries—’’;
(bb) in clause (i)—
(AA) by inserting ‘‘to’’ before ‘‘protect’’;
and
(BB) by striking ‘‘nesting’’ each place it
appears; and
(cc) in clause (ii), by inserting ‘‘to’’ before
‘‘prevent’’;
(IV) in subparagraph (E)(i), by striking
‘‘turtles on nesting habitat’’ and inserting
‘‘turtles, freshwater turtles, and tortoises’’;
(V) in subparagraph (F), by striking ‘‘tur-
tles over habitat used by marine turtles for
nesting’’ and inserting ‘‘turtles, freshwater
turtles, and tortoises over habitats used by
marine turtles, freshwater turtles, and tor-
toises’’; and
(VI) in subparagraph (H), by striking
‘‘nesting’’ each place it appears;
(ii) by redesignating paragraphs (3), (4), (5),
and (6) as paragraphs (4), (6), (7), and (8), re-
spectively;
(iii) by inserting before paragraph (4) (as so
redesignated) the following:
‘‘(3) FRESHWATER TURTLE.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—The term ‘freshwater
turtle’ means any member of the family
Carettochelyidae, Chelidae, Chelydridae,
Dermatemydidae, Emydidae, Geoemydidae,
Kinosternidae, Pelomedusidae,
Platysternidae, Podocnemididae, or
Trionychidae.
‘‘(B) INCLUSIONS.—The term ‘freshwater
turtle’ includes—
‘‘(i) any part, product, egg, or offspring of
a turtle described in subparagraph (A); and
‘‘(ii) a carcass of such a turtle.’’;
(iv) by inserting after paragraph (4) (as so
redesignated) the following:
‘‘(5) HABITAT.—The term ‘habitat’ means
any marine turtle, freshwater turtle, or tor-
toise habitat (including a nesting habitat)
that is under the jurisdiction of United
States Fish and Wildlife Service programs.’’;
and
(v) by inserting after paragraph (8) (as so
redesignated) the following:
‘‘(9) TERRITORY OF THE UNITED STATES.—
The term ‘territory of the United States’
means—
‘‘(A) American Samoa;
‘‘(B) the Commonwealth of the Northern
Mariana Islands;
‘‘(C) the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico;
‘‘(D) Guam;
‘‘(E) the United States Virgin Islands; and
‘‘(F) any other territory or possession of
the United States.
‘‘(10) TORTOISE.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—The term ‘tortoise’
means any member of the family
Testudinidae.
‘‘(B) INCLUSIONS.—The term ‘tortoise’ in-
cludes—
‘‘(i) any part, product, egg, or offspring of
a tortoise described in subparagraph (A); and
‘‘(ii) a carcass of such a tortoise.’’.
(C) CONSERVATION ASSISTANCE.—Section 4
of the Marine Turtle Conservation Act of
2004 (16 U.S.C. 6603) is amended—
(i) in the section heading, by striking ‘‘MA-
RINE TURTLE’’;
(ii) in subsection (a), by inserting ‘‘, fresh-
water turtles, or tortoises’’ after ‘‘marine
turtles’’;
(iii) in subsection (b)(1)—
(I) in the matter preceding subparagraph
(A), by inserting ‘‘, freshwater turtles, or
tortoises’’ after ‘‘marine turtles’’;
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:26 Feb 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00108 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06FE6.048 S06FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S983
February 6, 2019
(II) by striking subparagraph (A) and in-
serting the following:
‘‘(A) any wildlife management authority of
a foreign country or territory of the United
States that has within its boundaries marine
turtle, freshwater turtle, or tortoise habitat,
if the activities of the authority directly or
indirectly affect marine turtle, freshwater
turtle, or tortoise conservation; or’’; and
(III) in subparagraph (B), by inserting ‘‘,
freshwater turtles, or tortoises’’ after ‘‘ma-
rine turtles’’;
(iv) in subsection (c)(2), in each of subpara-
graphs (A) and (C), by inserting ‘‘and terri-
tory of the United States’’ after ‘‘each coun-
try’’;
(v) by striking subsection (d) and inserting
the following:
‘‘(d) CRITERIA FOR APPROVAL.—The Sec-
retary may approve a project proposal under
this section if the Secretary determines that
the project will help to restore, recover, and
sustain a viable population of marine tur-
tles, freshwater turtles, or tortoises in the
wild by assisting efforts in a foreign country
or territory of the United States to imple-
ment a marine turtle, freshwater turtle, or
tortoise conservation program.’’; and
(vi) in subsection (e), by striking ‘‘marine
turtles and their nesting habitats’’ and in-
serting ‘‘marine turtles, freshwater turtles,
or tortoises and the habitats of marine tur-
tles, freshwater turtles, or tortoises’’.
(D) MARINE TURTLE CONSERVATION FUND.—
Section 5 of the Marine Turtle Conservation
Act of 2004 (16 U.S.C. 6604) is amended—
(i) in subsection (a)(2), by striking ‘‘section
6’’ and inserting ‘‘section 7(a)’’; and
(ii) in subsection (b)(2), by striking ‘‘3 per-
cent, or up to $80,000’’ and inserting ‘‘5 per-
cent, or up to $150,000’’.
(E) ADVISORY GROUP.—Section 6(a) of the
Marine Turtle Conservation Act of 2004 (16
U.S.C. 6605(a)) is amended by inserting ‘‘,
freshwater turtles, or tortoises’’ after ‘‘ma-
rine turtles’’.
(F) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—
Section 7 of the Marine Turtle Conservation
Act of 2004 (16 U.S.C. 6606) is amended to read
as follows:
‘‘SEC. 7. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—There is authorized to
be appropriated to the Fund $5,000,000 for
each of fiscal years 2019 through 2023.
‘‘(b) ALLOCATION.—Of the amounts made
available for each fiscal year pursuant to
subsection (a)—
‘‘(1) not less than $1,510,000 shall be used by
the Secretary for marine turtle conservation
purposes in accordance with this Act; and
‘‘(2) of the amounts in excess of the
amount described in paragraph (1), not less
than 40 percent shall be used by the Sec-
retary for freshwater turtle and tortoise con-
servation purposes in accordance with this
Act.’’.
(d) PRIZE COMPETITIONS.—
(1) DEFINITIONS.—In this subsection:
(A) NON-FEDERAL FUNDS.—The term ‘‘non-
Federal funds’’ means funds provided by—
(i) a State;
(ii) a territory of the United States;
(iii) 1 or more units of local or tribal gov-
ernment;
(iv) a private for-profit entity;
(v) a nonprofit organization; or
(vi) a private individual.
(B) SECRETARY.—The term ‘‘Secretary’’
means the Secretary, acting through the Di-
rector of the United States Fish and Wildlife
Service.
(C) WILDLIFE.—The term ‘‘wildlife’’ has the
meaning given the term in section 8 of the
Fish and Wildlife Coordination Act (16 U.S.C.
666b).
(2) THEODORE ROOSEVELT GENIUS PRIZE FOR
PREVENTION OF WILDLIFE POACHING AND TRAF-
FICKING.—
(A) DEFINITIONS.—In this paragraph:
(i) BOARD.—The term ‘‘Board’’ means the
Prevention of Wildlife Poaching and Traf-
ficking Technology Advisory Board estab-
lished by subparagraph (C)(i).
(ii) PRIZE COMPETITION.—The term ‘‘prize
competition’’ means the Theodore Roosevelt
Genius Prize for the prevention of wildlife
poaching and trafficking established under
subparagraph (B).
(B) AUTHORITY.—Not later than 180 days
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Secretary shall establish under section 24 of
the Stevenson-Wydler Technology Innova-
tion Act of 1980 (15 U.S.C. 3719) a prize com-
petition, to be known as the ‘‘Theodore Roo-
sevelt Genius Prize for the prevention of
wildlife poaching and trafficking’’—
(i) to encourage technological innovation
with the potential to advance the mission of
the United States Fish and Wildlife Service
with respect to the prevention of wildlife
poaching and trafficking; and
(ii) to award 1 or more prizes annually for
a technological advancement that prevents
wildlife poaching and trafficking.
(C) ADVISORY BOARD.—
(i) ESTABLISHMENT.—There is established
an advisory board, to be known as the ‘‘Pre-
vention of Wildlife Poaching and Trafficking
Technology Advisory Board’’.
(ii) COMPOSITION.—The Board shall be com-
posed of not fewer than 9 members appointed
by the Secretary, who shall provide expertise
in—
(I) wildlife trafficking and trade;
(II) wildlife conservation and management;
(III) biology;
(IV) technology development;
(V) engineering;
(VI) economics;
(VII) business development and manage-
ment; and
(VIII) any other discipline, as the Sec-
retary determines to be necessary to achieve
the purposes of this paragraph.
(iii) DUTIES.—Subject to clause (iv), with
respect to the prize competition, the Board
shall—
(I) select a topic;
(II) issue a problem statement;
(III) advise the Secretary regarding any op-
portunity for technological innovation to
prevent wildlife poaching and trafficking;
and
(IV) advise winners of the prize competi-
tion regarding opportunities to pilot and im-
plement winning technologies in relevant
fields, including in partnership with con-
servation organizations, Federal or State
agencies, federally recognized Indian tribes,
private entities, and research institutions
with expertise or interest relating to the pre-
vention of wildlife poaching and trafficking.
(iv) CONSULTATION.—In selecting a topic
and issuing a problem statement for the
prize competition under subclauses (I) and
(II) of clause (iii), respectively, the Board
shall consult widely with Federal and non-
Federal stakeholders, including—
(I) 1 or more Federal agencies with juris-
diction over the prevention of wildlife poach-
ing and trafficking;
(II) 1 or more State agencies with jurisdic-
tion over the prevention of wildlife poaching
and trafficking;
(III) 1 or more State, regional, or local
wildlife organizations, the mission of which
relates to the prevention of wildlife poaching
and trafficking; and
(IV) 1 or more wildlife conservation groups,
technology companies, research institutions,
institutions of higher education, industry as-
sociations, or individual stakeholders with
an interest in the prevention of wildlife
poaching and trafficking.
(v) REQUIREMENTS.—The Board shall com-
ply with all requirements under paragraph
(7)(A).
(D) AGREEMENT WITH NATIONAL FISH AND
WILDLIFE FOUNDATION.—
(i) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall offer
to enter into an agreement under which the
National Fish and Wildlife Foundation shall
administer the prize competition.
(ii) REQUIREMENTS.—An agreement entered
into under clause (i) shall comply with all re-
quirements under paragraph (7)(B).
(E) JUDGES.—
(i) APPOINTMENT.—The Secretary shall ap-
point not fewer than 3 judges who shall, ex-
cept as provided in clause (ii), select the 1 or
more annual winners of the prize competi-
tion.
(ii) DETERMINATION BY SECRETARY.—The
judges appointed under clause (i) shall not
select any annual winner of the prize com-
petition if the Secretary makes a determina-
tion that, in any fiscal year, none of the
technological advancements entered into the
prize competition merits an award.
(F) REPORT TO CONGRESS.—Not later than
60 days after the date on which a cash prize
is awarded under this paragraph, the Sec-
retary shall submit to the Committee on En-
vironment and Public Works of the Senate
and the Committee on Natural Resources of
the House of Representatives a report on the
prize competition that includes—
(i) a statement by the Board that describes
the activities carried out by the Board relat-
ing to the duties described in subparagraph
(C)(iii);
(ii) if the Secretary has entered into an
agreement under subparagraph (D)(i), a
statement by the National Fish and Wildlife
Foundation that describes the activities car-
ried out by the National Fish and Wildlife
Foundation relating to the duties described
in paragraph (7)(B); and
(iii) a statement by 1 or more of the judges
appointed under subparagraph (E) that ex-
plains the basis on which the winner of the
cash prize was selected.
(G) TERMINATION OF AUTHORITY.—The
Board and all authority provided under this
paragraph shall terminate on December 31,
2023.
(3) THEODORE ROOSEVELT GENIUS PRIZE FOR
PROMOTION OF WILDLIFE CONSERVATION.—
(A) DEFINITIONS.—In this paragraph:
(i) BOARD.—The term ‘‘Board’’ means the
Promotion of Wildlife Conservation Tech-
nology Advisory Board established by sub-
paragraph (C)(i).
(ii) PRIZE COMPETITION.—The term ‘‘prize
competition’’ means the Theodore Roosevelt
Genius Prize for the promotion of wildlife
conservation established under subparagraph
(B).
(B) AUTHORITY.—Not later than 180 days
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Secretary shall establish under section 24 of
the Stevenson-Wydler Technology Innova-
tion Act of 1980 (15 U.S.C. 3719) a prize com-
petition, to be known as the ‘‘Theodore Roo-
sevelt Genius Prize for the promotion of
wildlife conservation’’—
(i) to encourage technological innovation
with the potential to advance the mission of
the United States Fish and Wildlife Service
with respect to the promotion of wildlife
conservation; and
(ii) to award 1 or more prizes annually for
a technological advancement that promotes
wildlife conservation.
(C) ADVISORY BOARD.—
(i) ESTABLISHMENT.—There is established
an advisory board, to be known as the ‘‘Pro-
motion of Wildlife Conservation Technology
Advisory Board’’.
(ii) COMPOSITION.—The Board shall be com-
posed of not fewer than 9 members appointed
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:26 Feb 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00109 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06FE6.048 S06FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S984 February 6, 2019
by the Secretary, who shall provide expertise
in—
(I) wildlife conservation and management;
(II) biology;
(III) technology development;
(IV) engineering;
(V) economics;
(VI) business development and manage-
ment; and
(VII) any other discipline, as the Secretary
determines to be necessary to achieve the
purposes of this paragraph.
(iii) DUTIES.—Subject to clause (iv), with
respect to the prize competition, the Board
shall—
(I) select a topic;
(II) issue a problem statement;
(III) advise the Secretary regarding any op-
portunity for technological innovation to
promote wildlife conservation; and
(IV) advise winners of the prize competi-
tion regarding opportunities to pilot and im-
plement winning technologies in relevant
fields, including in partnership with con-
servation organizations, Federal or State
agencies, federally recognized Indian tribes,
private entities, and research institutions
with expertise or interest relating to the
promotion of wildlife conservation.
(iv) CONSULTATION.—In selecting a topic
and issuing a problem statement for the
prize competition under subclauses (I) and
(II) of clause (iii), respectively, the Board
shall consult widely with Federal and non-
Federal stakeholders, including—
(I) 1 or more Federal agencies with juris-
diction over the promotion of wildlife con-
servation;
(II) 1 or more State agencies with jurisdic-
tion over the promotion of wildlife conserva-
tion;
(III) 1 or more State, regional, or local
wildlife organizations, the mission of which
relates to the promotion of wildlife con-
servation; and
(IV) 1 or more wildlife conservation groups,
technology companies, research institutions,
institutions of higher education, industry as-
sociations, or individual stakeholders with
an interest in the promotion of wildlife con-
servation.
(v) REQUIREMENTS.—The Board shall com-
ply with all requirements under paragraph
(7)(A).
(D) AGREEMENT WITH NATIONAL FISH AND
WILDLIFE FOUNDATION.—
(i) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall offer
to enter into an agreement under which the
National Fish and Wildlife Foundation shall
administer the prize competition.
(ii) REQUIREMENTS.—An agreement entered
into under clause (i) shall comply with all re-
quirements under paragraph (7)(B).
(E) JUDGES.—
(i) APPOINTMENT.—The Secretary shall ap-
point not fewer than 3 judges who shall, ex-
cept as provided in clause (ii), select the 1 or
more annual winners of the prize competi-
tion.
(ii) DETERMINATION BY SECRETARY.—The
judges appointed under clause (i) shall not
select any annual winner of the prize com-
petition if the Secretary makes a determina-
tion that, in any fiscal year, none of the
technological advancements entered into the
prize competition merits an award.
(F) REPORT TO CONGRESS.—Not later than
60 days after the date on which a cash prize
is awarded under this paragraph, the Sec-
retary shall submit to the Committee on En-
vironment and Public Works of the Senate
and the Committee on Natural Resources of
the House of Representatives a report on the
prize competition that includes—
(i) a statement by the Board that describes
the activities carried out by the Board relat-
ing to the duties described in subparagraph
(C)(iii);
(ii) if the Secretary has entered into an
agreement under subparagraph (D)(i), a
statement by the National Fish and Wildlife
Foundation that describes the activities car-
ried out by the National Fish and Wildlife
Foundation relating to the duties described
in paragraph (7)(B); and
(iii) a statement by 1 or more of the judges
appointed under subparagraph (E) that ex-
plains the basis on which the winner of the
cash prize was selected.
(G) TERMINATION OF AUTHORITY.—The
Board and all authority provided under this
paragraph shall terminate on December 31,
2023.
(4) THEODORE ROOSEVELT GENIUS PRIZE FOR
MANAGEMENT OF INVASIVE SPECIES.—
(A) DEFINITIONS.—In this paragraph:
(i) BOARD.—The term ‘‘Board’’ means the
Management of Invasive Species Technology
Advisory Board established by subparagraph
(C)(i).
(ii) PRIZE COMPETITION.—The term ‘‘prize
competition’’ means the Theodore Roosevelt
Genius Prize for the management of invasive
species established under subparagraph (B).
(B) AUTHORITY.—Not later than 180 days
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Secretary shall establish under section 24 of
the Stevenson-Wydler Technology Innova-
tion Act of 1980 (15 U.S.C. 3719) a prize com-
petition, to be known as the ‘‘Theodore Roo-
sevelt Genius Prize for the management of
invasive species’’—
(i) to encourage technological innovation
with the potential to advance the mission of
the United States Fish and Wildlife Service
with respect to the management of invasive
species; and
(ii) to award 1 or more prizes annually for
a technological advancement that manages
invasive species.
(C) ADVISORY BOARD.—
(i) ESTABLISHMENT.—There is established
an advisory board, to be known as the ‘‘Man-
agement of Invasive Species Technology Ad-
visory Board’’.
(ii) COMPOSITION.—The Board shall be com-
posed of not fewer than 9 members appointed
by the Secretary, who shall provide expertise
in—
(I) invasive species;
(II) biology;
(III) technology development;
(IV) engineering;
(V) economics;
(VI) business development and manage-
ment; and
(VII) any other discipline, as the Secretary
determines to be necessary to achieve the
purposes of this paragraph.
(iii) DUTIES.—Subject to clause (iv), with
respect to the prize competition, the Board
shall—
(I) select a topic;
(II) issue a problem statement;
(III) advise the Secretary regarding any op-
portunity for technological innovation to
manage invasive species; and
(IV) advise winners of the prize competi-
tion regarding opportunities to pilot and im-
plement winning technologies in relevant
fields, including in partnership with con-
servation organizations, Federal or State
agencies, federally recognized Indian tribes,
private entities, and research institutions
with expertise or interest relating to the
management of invasive species.
(iv) CONSULTATION.—In selecting a topic
and issuing a problem statement for the
prize competition under subclauses (I) and
(II) of clause (iii), respectively, the Board
shall consult widely with Federal and non-
Federal stakeholders, including—
(I) 1 or more Federal agencies with juris-
diction over the management of invasive
species;
(II) 1 or more State agencies with jurisdic-
tion over the management of invasive spe-
cies;
(III) 1 or more State, regional, or local
wildlife organizations, the mission of which
relates to the management of invasive spe-
cies; and
(IV) 1 or more wildlife conservation groups,
technology companies, research institutions,
institutions of higher education, industry as-
sociations, or individual stakeholders with
an interest in the management of invasive
species.
(v) REQUIREMENTS.—The Board shall com-
ply with all requirements under paragraph
(7)(A).
(D) AGREEMENT WITH NATIONAL FISH AND
WILDLIFE FOUNDATION.—
(i) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall offer
to enter into an agreement under which the
National Fish and Wildlife Foundation shall
administer the prize competition.
(ii) REQUIREMENTS.—An agreement entered
into under clause (i) shall comply with all re-
quirements under paragraph (7)(B).
(E) JUDGES.—
(i) APPOINTMENT.—The Secretary shall ap-
point not fewer than 3 judges who shall, ex-
cept as provided in clause (ii), select the 1 or
more annual winners of the prize competi-
tion.
(ii) DETERMINATION BY SECRETARY.—The
judges appointed under clause (i) shall not
select any annual winner of the prize com-
petition if the Secretary makes a determina-
tion that, in any fiscal year, none of the
technological advancements entered into the
prize competition merits an award.
(F) REPORT TO CONGRESS.—Not later than
60 days after the date on which a cash prize
is awarded under this paragraph, the Sec-
retary shall submit to the Committee on En-
vironment and Public Works of the Senate
and the Committee on Natural Resources of
the House of Representatives a report on the
prize competition that includes—
(i) a statement by the Board that describes
the activities carried out by the Board relat-
ing to the duties described in subparagraph
(C)(iii);
(ii) if the Secretary has entered into an
agreement under subparagraph (D)(i), a
statement by the National Fish and Wildlife
Foundation that describes the activities car-
ried out by the National Fish and Wildlife
Foundation relating to the duties described
in paragraph (7)(B); and
(iii) a statement by 1 or more of the judges
appointed under subparagraph (E) that ex-
plains the basis on which the winner of the
cash prize was selected.
(G) TERMINATION OF AUTHORITY.—The
Board and all authority provided under this
paragraph shall terminate on December 31,
2023.
(5) THEODORE ROOSEVELT GENIUS PRIZE FOR
PROTECTION OF ENDANGERED SPECIES.—
(A) DEFINITIONS.—In this paragraph:
(i) BOARD.—The term ‘‘Board’’ means the
Protection of Endangered Species Tech-
nology Advisory Board established by sub-
paragraph (C)(i).
(ii) PRIZE COMPETITION.—The term ‘‘prize
competition’’ means the Theodore Roosevelt
Genius Prize for the protection of endan-
gered species established under subparagraph
(B).
(B) AUTHORITY.—Not later than 180 days
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Secretary shall establish under section 24 of
the Stevenson-Wydler Technology Innova-
tion Act of 1980 (15 U.S.C. 3719) a prize com-
petition, to be known as the ‘‘Theodore Roo-
sevelt Genius Prize for the protection of en-
dangered species’’—
(i) to encourage technological innovation
with the potential to advance the mission of
the United States Fish and Wildlife Service
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:26 Feb 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00110 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06FE6.048 S06FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S985
February 6, 2019
with respect to the protection of endangered
species; and
(ii) to award 1 or more prizes annually for
a technological advancement that protects
endangered species.
(C) ADVISORY BOARD.—
(i) ESTABLISHMENT.—There is established
an advisory board, to be known as the ‘‘Pro-
tection of Endangered Species Technology
Advisory Board’’.
(ii) COMPOSITION.—The Board shall be com-
posed of not fewer than 9 members appointed
by the Secretary, who shall provide expertise
in—
(I) endangered species;
(II) biology;
(III) technology development;
(IV) engineering;
(V) economics;
(VI) business development and manage-
ment; and
(VII) any other discipline, as the Secretary
determines to be necessary to achieve the
purposes of this paragraph.
(iii) DUTIES.—Subject to clause (iv), with
respect to the prize competition, the Board
shall—
(I) select a topic;
(II) issue a problem statement;
(III) advise the Secretary regarding any op-
portunity for technological innovation to
protect endangered species; and
(IV) advise winners of the prize competi-
tion regarding opportunities to pilot and im-
plement winning technologies in relevant
fields, including in partnership with con-
servation organizations, Federal or State
agencies, federally recognized Indian tribes,
private entities, and research institutions
with expertise or interest relating to the
protection of endangered species.
(iv) CONSULTATION.—In selecting a topic
and issuing a problem statement for the
prize competition under subclauses (I) and
(II) of clause (iii), respectively, the Board
shall consult widely with Federal and non-
Federal stakeholders, including—
(I) 1 or more Federal agencies with juris-
diction over the protection of endangered
species;
(II) 1 or more State agencies with jurisdic-
tion over the protection of endangered spe-
cies;
(III) 1 or more State, regional, or local
wildlife organizations, the mission of which
relates to the protection of endangered spe-
cies; and
(IV) 1 or more wildlife conservation groups,
technology companies, research institutions,
institutions of higher education, industry as-
sociations, or individual stakeholders with
an interest in the protection of endangered
species.
(v) REQUIREMENTS.—The Board shall com-
ply with all requirements under paragraph
(7)(A).
(D) AGREEMENT WITH NATIONAL FISH AND
WILDLIFE FOUNDATION.—
(i) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall offer
to enter into an agreement under which the
National Fish and Wildlife Foundation shall
administer the prize competition.
(ii) REQUIREMENTS.—An agreement entered
into under clause (i) shall comply with all re-
quirements under paragraph (7)(B).
(E) JUDGES.—
(i) APPOINTMENT.—The Secretary shall ap-
point not fewer than 3 judges who shall, ex-
cept as provided in clause (ii), select the 1 or
more annual winners of the prize competi-
tion.
(ii) DETERMINATION BY SECRETARY.—The
judges appointed under clause (i) shall not
select any annual winner of the prize com-
petition if the Secretary makes a determina-
tion that, in any fiscal year, none of the
technological advancements entered into the
prize competition merits an award.
(F) REPORT TO CONGRESS.—Not later than
60 days after the date on which a cash prize
is awarded under this paragraph, the Sec-
retary shall submit to the Committee on En-
vironment and Public Works of the Senate
and the Committee on Natural Resources of
the House of Representatives a report on the
prize competition that includes—
(i) a statement by the Board that describes
the activities carried out by the Board relat-
ing to the duties described in subparagraph
(C)(iii);
(ii) if the Secretary has entered into an
agreement under subparagraph (D)(i), a
statement by the National Fish and Wildlife
Foundation that describes the activities car-
ried out by the National Fish and Wildlife
Foundation relating to the duties described
in paragraph (7)(B); and
(iii) a statement by 1 or more of the judges
appointed under subparagraph (E) that ex-
plains the basis on which the winner of the
cash prize was selected.
(G) TERMINATION OF AUTHORITY.—The
Board and all authority provided under this
paragraph shall terminate on December 31,
2023.
(6) THEODORE ROOSEVELT GENIUS PRIZE FOR
NONLETHAL MANAGEMENT OF HUMAN-WILDLIFE
CONFLICTS.—
(A) DEFINITIONS.—In this paragraph:
(i) BOARD.—The term ‘‘Board’’ means the
Nonlethal Management of Human-Wildlife
Conflicts Technology Advisory Board estab-
lished by subparagraph (C)(i).
(ii) PRIZE COMPETITION.—The term ‘‘prize
competition’’ means the Theodore Roosevelt
Genius Prize for the nonlethal management
of human-wildlife conflicts established under
subparagraph (B).
(B) AUTHORITY.—Not later than 180 days
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Secretary shall establish under section 24 of
the Stevenson-Wydler Technology Innova-
tion Act of 1980 (15 U.S.C. 3719) a prize com-
petition, to be known as the ‘‘Theodore Roo-
sevelt Genius Prize for the nonlethal man-
agement of human-wildlife conflicts’’—
(i) to encourage technological innovation
with the potential to advance the mission of
the United States Fish and Wildlife Service
with respect to the nonlethal management of
human-wildlife conflicts; and
(ii) to award 1 or more prizes annually for
a technological advancement that promotes
the nonlethal management of human-wildlife
conflicts.
(C) ADVISORY BOARD.—
(i) ESTABLISHMENT.—There is established
an advisory board, to be known as the ‘‘Non-
lethal Management of Human-Wildlife Con-
flicts Technology Advisory Board’’.
(ii) COMPOSITION.—The Board shall be com-
posed of not fewer than 9 members appointed
by the Secretary, who shall provide expertise
in—
(I) nonlethal wildlife management;
(II) social aspects of human-wildlife con-
flict management;
(III) biology;
(IV) technology development;
(V) engineering;
(VI) economics;
(VII) business development and manage-
ment; and
(VIII) any other discipline, as the Sec-
retary determines to be necessary to achieve
the purposes of this paragraph.
(iii) DUTIES.—Subject to clause (iv), with
respect to the prize competition, the Board
shall—
(I) select a topic;
(II) issue a problem statement;
(III) advise the Secretary regarding any op-
portunity for technological innovation to
promote the nonlethal management of
human-wildlife conflicts; and
(IV) advise winners of the prize competi-
tion regarding opportunities to pilot and im-
plement winning technologies in relevant
fields, including in partnership with con-
servation organizations, Federal or State
agencies, federally recognized Indian tribes,
private entities, and research institutions
with expertise or interest relating to the
nonlethal management of human-wildlife
conflicts.
(iv) CONSULTATION.—In selecting a topic
and issuing a problem statement for the
prize competition under subclauses (I) and
(II) of subparagraph (C), respectively, the
Board shall consult widely with Federal and
non-Federal stakeholders, including—
(I) 1 or more Federal agencies with juris-
diction over the management of native wild-
life species at risk due to conflict with
human activities;
(II) 1 or more State agencies with jurisdic-
tion over the management of native wildlife
species at risk due to conflict with human
activities;
(III) 1 or more State, regional, or local
wildlife organizations, the mission of which
relates to the management of native wildlife
species at risk due to conflict with human
activities; and
(IV) 1 or more wildlife conservation groups,
technology companies, research institutions,
institutions of higher education, industry as-
sociations, or individual stakeholders with
an interest in the management of native
wildlife species at risk due to conflict with
human activities.
(v) REQUIREMENTS.—The Board shall com-
ply with all requirements under paragraph
(7)(A).
(D) AGREEMENT WITH NATIONAL FISH AND
WILDLIFE FOUNDATION.—
(i) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall offer
to enter into an agreement under which the
National Fish and Wildlife Foundation shall
administer the prize competition.
(ii) REQUIREMENTS.—An agreement entered
into under clause (i) shall comply with all re-
quirements under paragraph (7)(B).
(E) JUDGES.—
(i) APPOINTMENT.—The Secretary shall ap-
point not fewer than 3 judges who shall, ex-
cept as provided in clause (ii), select the 1 or
more annual winners of the prize competi-
tion.
(ii) DETERMINATION BY SECRETARY.—The
judges appointed under clause (i) shall not
select any annual winner of the prize com-
petition if the Secretary makes a determina-
tion that, in any fiscal year, none of the
technological advancements entered into the
prize competition merits an award.
(F) REPORT TO CONGRESS.—Not later than
60 days after the date on which a cash prize
is awarded under this paragraph, the Sec-
retary shall submit to the Committee on En-
vironment and Public Works of the Senate
and the Committee on Natural Resources of
the House of Representatives a report on the
prize competition that includes—
(i) a statement by the Board that describes
the activities carried out by the Board relat-
ing to the duties described in subparagraph
(C)(iii);
(ii) if the Secretary has entered into an
agreement under subparagraph (D)(i), a
statement by the National Fish and Wildlife
Foundation that describes the activities car-
ried out by the National Fish and Wildlife
Foundation relating to the duties described
in paragraph (7)(B); and
(iii) a statement by 1 or more of the judges
appointed under subparagraph (E) that ex-
plains the basis on which the winner of the
cash prize was selected.
(G) TERMINATION OF AUTHORITY.—The
Board and all authority provided under this
paragraph shall terminate on December 31,
2023.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:26 Feb 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00111 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06FE6.048 S06FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S986 February 6, 2019
(7) ADMINISTRATION OF PRIZE COMPETI-
TIONS.—
(A) ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS FOR ADVI-
SORY BOARDS.—An advisory board established
under paragraph (2)(C)(i), (3)(C)(i), (4)(C)(i),
(5)(C)(i), or (6)(C)(i) (referred to in this para-
graph as a ‘‘Board’’) shall comply with the
following requirements:
(i) TERM; VACANCIES.—
(I) TERM.—A member of the Board shall
serve for a term of 5 years.
(II) VACANCIES.—A vacancy on the Board—
(aa) shall not affect the powers of the
Board; and
(bb) shall be filled in the same manner as
the original appointment was made.
(ii) INITIAL MEETING.—Not later than 30
days after the date on which all members of
the Board have been appointed, the Board
shall hold the initial meeting of the Board.
(iii) MEETINGS.—
(I) IN GENERAL.—The Board shall meet at
the call of the Chairperson.
(II) REMOTE PARTICIPATION.—
(aa) IN GENERAL.—Any member of the
Board may participate in a meeting of the
Board through the use of—
(AA) teleconferencing; or
(BB) any other remote business tele-
communications method that allows each
participating member to simultaneously
hear each other participating member during
the meeting.
(bb) PRESENCE.—A member of the Board
who participates in a meeting remotely
under item (aa) shall be considered to be
present at the meeting.
(iv) QUORUM.—A majority of the members
of the Board shall constitute a quorum, but
a lesser number of members may hold a
meeting.
(v) CHAIRPERSON AND VICE CHAIRPERSON.—
The Board shall select a Chairperson and
Vice Chairperson from among the members
of the Board.
(vi) ADMINISTRATIVE COST REDUCTION.—The
Board shall, to the maximum extent prac-
ticable, minimize the administrative costs of
the Board, including by encouraging the re-
mote participation described in clause
(iii)(II)(aa) to reduce travel costs.
(B) AGREEMENTS WITH NATIONAL FISH AND
WILDLIFE FOUNDATION.—Any agreement en-
tered into under paragraph (2)(D)(i), (3)(D)(i),
(4)(D)(i), (5)(D)(i), or (6)(D)(i) shall comply
with the following requirements:
(i) DUTIES.—An agreement shall provide
that the National Fish and Wildlife Founda-
tion shall—
(I) advertise the prize competition;
(II) solicit prize competition participants;
(III) administer funds relating to the prize
competition;
(IV) receive Federal funds—
(aa) to administer the prize competition;
and
(bb) to award a cash prize;
(V) carry out activities to generate con-
tributions of non-Federal funds to offset, in
whole or in part—
(aa) the administrative costs of the prize
competition; and
(bb) the costs of a cash prize;
(VI) in consultation with, and subject to
final approval by, the Secretary, develop cri-
teria for the selection of prize competition
winners;
(VII) provide advice and consultation to
the Secretary on the selection of judges
under paragraphs (2)(E), (3)(E), (4)(E), (5)(E),
and (6)(E) based on criteria developed in con-
sultation with, and subject to the final ap-
proval of, the Secretary;
(VIII) announce 1 or more annual winners
of the prize competition;
(IX) subject to clause (ii), award 1 cash
prize annually; and
(X) protect against unauthorized use or
disclosure by the National Fish and Wildlife
Foundation of any trade secret or confiden-
tial business information of a prize competi-
tion participant.
(ii) ADDITIONAL CASH PRIZES.—An agree-
ment shall provide that the National Fish
and Wildlife Foundation may award more
than 1 cash prize annually if the initial cash
prize referred to in clause (i)(IX) and any ad-
ditional cash prize are awarded using only
non-Federal funds.
(iii) SOLICITATION OF FUNDS.—An agree-
ment shall provide that the National Fish
and Wildlife Foundation—
(I) may request and accept Federal funds
and non-Federal funds for a cash prize;
(II) may accept a contribution for a cash
prize in exchange for the right to name the
prize; and
(III) shall not give special consideration to
any Federal agency or non-Federal entity in
exchange for a donation for a cash prize
awarded under this subsection.
(C) AWARD AMOUNTS.—
(i) IN GENERAL.—The amount of the initial
cash prize referred to in subparagraph
(B)(i)(IX) shall be $100,000.
(ii) ADDITIONAL CASH PRIZES.—On notifica-
tion by the National Fish and Wildlife Foun-
dation that non-Federal funds are available
for an additional cash prize, the Secretary
shall determine the amount of the additional
cash prize.
SEC. 7002. REAUTHORIZATION OF NEOTROPICAL
MIGRATORY BIRD CONSERVATION
ACT.
Section 10 of the Neotropical Migratory
Bird Conservation Act (16 U.S.C. 6109) is
amended to read as follows:
‘‘SEC. 10. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—There is authorized to
be appropriated to carry out this Act
$6,500,000 for each of fiscal years 2019 through
2023.
‘‘(b) USE OF FUNDS.—Of the amounts made
available under subsection (a) for each fiscal
year, not less than 75 percent shall be ex-
pended for projects carried out at a location
outside of the United States.’’.
SEC. 7003. JOHN H. CHAFEE COASTAL BARRIER
RESOURCES SYSTEM.
(a) REPLACEMENT OF JOHN H. CHAFEE
COASTAL BARRIER RESOURCES SYSTEM
MAPS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Subject to paragraph (3),
each map included in the set of maps re-
ferred to in section 4(a) of the Coastal Bar-
rier Resources Act (16 U.S.C. 3503(a)) that re-
lates to a Unit of such System referred to in
paragraph (2) is replaced in such set with the
map described in that paragraph with re-
spect to that Unit.
(2) REPLACEMENT MAPS DESCRIBED.—The re-
placement maps referred to in paragraph (1)
are the following:
(A) The map entitled ‘‘Delaware Seashore
Unit DE–07/DE–07P North Bethany Beach
Unit H01’’ and dated March 18, 2016, with re-
spect to Unit DE–07, Unit DE–07P, and Unit
H01.
(B) The map entitled ‘‘Pine Island Bay
Unit NC–01/NC–01P’’ and dated March 18,
2016, with respect to Unit NC–01 and Unit
NC–01P.
(C) The map entitled ‘‘Roosevelt Natural
Area Unit NC–05P’’ and dated March 18, 2016,
with respect to Unit NC–05P.
(D) The map entitled ‘‘Hammocks Beach
Unit NC–06/NC–06P (2 of 2) Onslow Beach
Complex L05 (1 of 2)’’ and dated March 18,
2016, with respect to Unit L05.
(E) The map entitled ‘‘Onslow Beach Com-
plex L05 (2 of 2) Topsail Unit L06 (1 of 2)’’ and
dated November 20, 2013, with respect to Unit
L05 and Unit L06.
(F) The map entitled ‘‘Topsail Unit L06 (2
of 2)’’ and dated November 20, 2013, with re-
spect to Unit L06.
(G) The map entitled ‘‘Litchfield Beach
Unit M02 Pawleys Inlet Unit M03’’ and dated
March 18, 2016, with respect to Unit M02 and
Unit M03.
(H) The map entitled ‘‘Fort Clinch Unit
FL–01/FL–01P’’ and dated March 18, 2016,
with respect to Unit FL–01 and Unit FL–01P.
(I) The map entitled ‘‘Usina Beach Unit
P04A Conch Island Unit P05/P05P’’ and dated
March 18, 2016, with respect to Unit P04A,
Unit P05, and Unit P05P.
(J) The map entitled ‘‘Ponce Inlet Unit
P08/P08P’’ and dated March 18, 2016, with re-
spect to Unit P08 and Unit P08P.
(K) The map entitled ‘‘Spessard Holland
Park Unit FL–13P Coconut Point Unit P09A/
P09AP’’ and dated March 18, 2016, with re-
spect to Unit FL–13P, Unit P09A, and Unit
P09AP.
(L) The map entitled ‘‘Blue Hole Unit P10A
Pepper Beach Unit FL–14P’’ and dated March
18, 2016, with respect to Unit P10A and Unit
FL–14P.
(M) The map entitled ‘‘Hutchinson Island
Unit P11/P11P (1 of 2)’’ and dated March 18,
2016, with respect to Unit P11 and Unit P11P.
(N) The map entitled ‘‘Hutchinson Island
Unit P11 (2 of 2)’’ and dated March 18, 2016,
with respect to Unit P11.
(O) The map entitled ‘‘Blowing Rocks Unit
FL–15 Jupiter Beach Unit FL–16P Carlin
Unit FL–17P’’ and dated March 18, 2016, with
respect to Unit FL–15, Unit FL–16P, and Unit
FL–17P.
(P) The map entitled ‘‘MacArthur Beach
Unit FL–18P’’ and dated March 18, 2016, with
respect to Unit FL–18P.
(Q) The map entitled ‘‘Birch Park Unit FL–
19P’’ and dated March 18, 2016, with respect
to Unit FL–19P.
(R) The map entitled ‘‘Lloyd Beach Unit
FL–20P North Beach Unit P14A’’ and dated
March 18, 2016, with respect to Unit FL–20P
and Unit P14A.
(S) The map entitled ‘‘Tavernier Key Unit
FL–39 Snake Creek Unit FL–40’’ and dated
March 18, 2016, with respect to Unit FL–39
and Unit FL–40.
(T) The map entitled ‘‘Channel Key Unit
FL–43 Toms Harbor Keys Unit FL–44 Deer/
Long Point Keys Unit FL–45’’ and dated
March 18, 2016, with respect to Unit FL–43,
Unit FL–44, and FL–45.
(U) The map entitled ‘‘Boot Key Unit FL–
46’’ and dated March 18, 2016, with respect to
Unit FL–46.
(V) The map entitled ‘‘Bowditch Point
Unit P17A Bunche Beach Unit FL–67/FL–67P
Sanibel Island Complex P18P (1 of 2)’’ and
dated March 18, 2016, with respect to Unit
P17A, Unit FL–67, and Unit FL–67P.
(W) The map entitled ‘‘Bocilla Island Unit
P21/P21P’’ and dated March 18, 2016, with re-
spect to Unit P21 and Unit P21P.
(X) The map entitled ‘‘Venice Inlet Unit
FL–71P Casey Key Unit P22’’ and dated
March 18, 2016, with respect to Unit P22.
(Y) The map entitled ‘‘Lido Key Unit FL–
72P’’ and dated March 18, 2016, with respect
to Unit FL–72P.
(Z) The map entitled ‘‘De Soto Unit FL–
73P Rattlesnake Key Unit FL–78 Bishop Har-
bor Unit FL–82’’ and dated March 18, 2016,
with respect to Unit FL–73P, Unit FL–78, and
Unit FL–82.
(AA) The map entitled ‘‘Passage Key Unit
FL–80P Egmont Key Unit FL–81/FL–81P The
Reefs Unit P24P (1 of 2)’’ and dated March 18,
2016, with respect to Unit FL–80P, Unit FL–
81, and Unit FL–81P.
(BB) The map entitled ‘‘Cockroach Bay
Unit FL–83’’ and dated March 18, 2016, with
respect to Unit FL–83.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:26 Feb 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00112 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06FE6.048 S06FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S987
February 6, 2019
(CC) The map entitled ‘‘Sand Key Unit FL–
85P’’ and dated March 18, 2016, with respect
to Unit FL–85P.
(DD) The map entitled ‘‘Pepperfish Keys
Unit P26’’ and dated March 18, 2016, with re-
spect to Unit P26.
(EE) The map entitled ‘‘Peninsula Point
Unit FL–89’’ and dated March 18, 2016, with
respect to Unit FL–89.
(FF) The map entitled ‘‘Phillips Inlet Unit
FL–93/FL–93P Deer Lake Complex FL–94’’
and dated March 18, 2016, with respect to
Unit FL–93, Unit FL–93P, and Unit FL–94.
(GG) The map entitled ‘‘St. Andrew Com-
plex P31 (1 of 3)’’ and dated October 7, 2016,
with respect to Unit P31.
(HH) The map entitled ‘‘St. Andrew Com-
plex P31 (2 of 3)’’ and dated October 7, 2016,
with respect to Unit P31.
(II) The map entitled ‘‘St. Andrew Complex
P31/P31P (3 of 3)’’ and dated October 7, 2016,
with respect to Unit P31 and Unit P31P.
(3) LIMITATIONS.—For purposes of para-
graph (1)—
(A) nothing in this subsection affects the
boundaries of any of Units NC–06 and NC–
06P;
(B) the occurrence in paragraph (2) of the
name of a Unit solely in the title of a map
shall not be construed to be a reference to
such Unit; and
(C) the depiction of boundaries of any of
Units P18P, FL–71P, and P24P in a map re-
ferred to in subparagraph (V), (X), or (AA) of
paragraph (2) shall not be construed to affect
the boundaries of such Unit.
(4) CONFORMING AMENDMENT.—Section 4(a)
of the Coastal Barrier Resources Act (16
U.S.C. 3503(a)) is amended—
(A) in the matter preceding paragraph (1),
by inserting ‘‘replaced,’’ after ‘‘may be’’; and
(B) in paragraph (3), by inserting ‘‘replaces
such a map or’’ after ‘‘that specifically’’.
(b) DIGITAL MAPS OF JOHN H. CHAFEE
COASTAL BARRIER RESOURCES SYSTEM
UNITS.—Section 4(b) of the Coastal Barrier
Resources Act (16 U.S.C. 3503(b)) is amend-
ed—
(1) by inserting before the first sentence
the following:
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—’’; and
(2) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(2) DIGITAL MAPS.—
‘‘(A) AVAILABILITY.—The Secretary shall
make available to the public on the Internet
web site of the United States Fish and Wild-
life Service digital versions of the maps in-
cluded in the set of maps referred to in sub-
section (a).
‘‘(B) EFFECT.—Any determination as to
whether a location is inside or outside the
System shall be made without regard to the
digital maps available under this paragraph,
except that this subparagraph does not apply
with respect to any printed version of such a
digital map if the printed version is included
in the maps referred to in subsection (a).
‘‘(C) REPORT.—No later than 180 days after
the date of the enactment of Natural Re-
sources Management Act, the Secretary
shall submit to the Committee on Natural
Resources of the House of Representatives
and the Committee on Environment and
Public Works of the Senate a report regard-
ing the progress and challenges in the transi-
tion from paper to digital maps and a time-
table for completion of the digitization of all
maps related to the System.’’.
(c) REPEAL OF REPORT.—Section 3 of Public
Law 109–226 (16 U.S.C. 3503 note) is repealed.
TITLE VIII—WATER AND POWER
Subtitle A—Reclamation Title Transfer
SEC. 8001. PURPOSE.
The purpose of this subtitle is to facilitate
the transfer of title to Reclamation project
facilities to qualifying entities on the com-
pletion of repayment of capital costs.
SEC. 8002. DEFINITIONS.
In this subtitle:
(1) CONVEYED PROPERTY.—The term ‘‘con-
veyed property’’ means an eligible facility
that has been conveyed to a qualifying enti-
ty under section 8003.
(2) ELIGIBLE FACILITY.—The term ‘‘eligible
facility’’ means a facility that meets the cri-
teria for potential transfer established under
section 8004(a).
(3) FACILITY.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The term ‘‘facility’’ in-
cludes a dam or appurtenant works, canal,
lateral, ditch, gate, control structure, pump-
ing station, other infrastructure, rec-
reational facility, building, distribution and
drainage works, and associated land or inter-
est in land or water.
(B) EXCLUSIONS.—The term ‘‘facility’’ does
not include a Reclamation project facility,
or a portion of a Reclamation project facil-
ity—
(i) that is a reserved works as of the date
of enactment of this Act;
(ii) that generates hydropower marketed
by a Federal power marketing administra-
tion; or
(iii) that is managed for recreation under a
lease, permit, license, or other management
agreement that does contribute to capital re-
payment.
(4) PROJECT USE POWER.—The term ‘‘project
use power’’ means the electrical capacity,
energy, and associated ancillary service
components required to provide the min-
imum electrical service needed to operate or
maintain Reclamation project facilities in
accordance with the authorization for the
Reclamation project.
(5) QUALIFYING ENTITY.—The term ‘‘quali-
fying entity’’ means an agency of a State or
political subdivision of a State, a joint ac-
tion or powers agency, a water users associa-
tion, or an Indian Tribe or Tribal utility au-
thority that—
(A) as of the date of conveyance under this
subtitle, is the current operator of the eligi-
ble facility pursuant to a contract with Rec-
lamation; and
(B) as determined by the Secretary, has
the capacity to continue to manage the eligi-
ble facility for the same purposes for which
the property has been managed under the
reclamation laws.
(6) RECLAMATION.—The term ‘‘Reclama-
tion’’ means the Bureau of Reclamation.
(7) RECLAMATION PROJECT.—The term ‘‘Rec-
lamation project’’ means—
(A) any reclamation or irrigation project,
including incidental features of the project—
(i) that is authorized by the reclamation
laws;
(ii) that is constructed by the United
States pursuant to the reclamation laws; or
(iii) in connection with which there is a re-
payment or water service contract executed
by the United States pursuant to the rec-
lamation laws; or
(B) any project constructed by the Sec-
retary for the reclamation of land.
(8) RESERVED WORKS.—The term ‘‘reserved
works’’ means any building, structure, facil-
ity, or equipment—
(A) that is owned by the Bureau; and
(B) for which operations and maintenance
are performed, regardless of the source of
funding—
(i) by an employee of the Bureau; or
(ii) through a contract entered into by the
Commissioner.
(9) SECRETARY.—The term ‘‘Secretary’’
means the Secretary, acting through the
Commissioner of Reclamation.
SEC. 8003. AUTHORIZATION OF TRANSFERS OF
TITLE TO ELIGIBLE FACILITIES.
(a) AUTHORIZATION.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Subject to the require-
ments of this subtitle, the Secretary, with-
out further authorization from Congress,
may, on application of a qualifying entity,
convey to a qualifying entity all right, title,
and interest of the United States in and to
any eligible facility, if—
(A) not later than 90 days before the date
on which the Secretary makes the convey-
ance, the Secretary submits to Congress—
(i) a written notice of the proposed convey-
ance; and
(ii) a description of the reasons for the con-
veyance; and
(B) a joint resolution disapproving the con-
veyance is not enacted before the date on
which the Secretary makes the conveyance.
(2) CONSULTATION.—A conveyance under
paragraph (1) shall be made by written agree-
ment between the Secretary and the quali-
fying entity, developed in consultation with
any existing water and power customers af-
fected by the conveyance of the eligible fa-
cility.
(b) RESERVATION OF EASEMENT.—The Sec-
retary may reserve an easement over a con-
veyed property if—
(1) the Secretary determines that the ease-
ment is necessary for the management of
any interests retained by the Federal Gov-
ernment under this subtitle;
(2) the Reclamation project or a portion of
the Reclamation project remains under Fed-
eral ownership; and
(3) the Secretary enters into an agreement
regarding the easement with the applicable
qualifying entity.
(c) INTERESTS IN WATER.—No interests in
water shall be conveyed under this subtitle
unless the conveyance is provided for in a
separate, quantified agreement between the
Secretary and the qualifying entity, subject
to applicable State law and public process
requirements.
SEC. 8004. ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA.
(a) ESTABLISHMENT.—The Secretary shall
establish criteria for determining whether a
facility is eligible for conveyance under this
subtitle.
(b) MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS.—
(1) AGREEMENT OF QUALIFYING ENTITY.—The
criteria established under subsection (a)
shall include a requirement that a qualifying
entity shall agree—
(A) to accept title to the eligible facility;
(B) to use the eligible facility for substan-
tially the same purposes for which the eligi-
ble facility is being used at the time the Sec-
retary evaluates the potential transfer; and
(C) to provide, as consideration for the as-
sets to be conveyed, compensation to the
reclamation fund established by the first
section of the Act of June 17, 1902 (32 Stat.
388, chapter 1093), in an amount that is the
equivalent of the net present value of any re-
payment obligation to the United States or
other income stream that the United States
derives from the eligible facility to be trans-
ferred, as of the date of the transfer.
(2) DETERMINATIONS OF SECRETARY.—The
criteria established under subsection (a)
shall include a requirement that the Sec-
retary shall—
(A) be able to enter into an agreement with
the qualifying entity with respect to the
legal, institutional, and financial arrange-
ments relating to the conveyance;
(B) determine that the proposed transfer—
(i) would not have an unmitigated signifi-
cant effect on the environment;
(ii) is consistent with the responsibilities
of the Secretary—
(I) in the role as trustee for federally rec-
ognized Indian Tribes; and
(II) to ensure compliance with any applica-
ble international and Tribal treaties and
agreements and interstate compacts and
agreements;
(iii) is in the financial interest of the
United States;
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:26 Feb 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00113 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06FE6.048 S06FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S988 February 6, 2019
(iv) protects the public aspects of the eligi-
ble facility, including water rights managed
for public purposes, such as flood control or
fish and wildlife;
(v) complies with all applicable Federal
and State law; and
(vi) will not result in an adverse impact on
fulfillment of existing water delivery obliga-
tions consistent with historical operations
and applicable contracts; and
(C) if the eligible facility proposed to be
transferred is a dam or diversion works (not
including canals or other project features
that receive or convey water from the divert-
ing works) diverting water from a water
body containing a species listed as a threat-
ened species or an endangered species or crit-
ical habitat under the Endangered Species
Act of 1973 (16 U.S.C. 1531 et seq.), determine
that—
(i) the eligible facility continues to comply
with the Endangered Species Act of 1973 (16
U.S.C. 1531 et seq.) in a manner that provides
no less protection to the listed species as ex-
isted under Federal ownership; and
(ii) the eligible facility is not part of the
Central Valley Project in the State of Cali-
fornia.
(3) STATUS OF RECLAMATION LAND.—The cri-
teria established under subsection (a) shall
require that any land to be conveyed out of
Federal ownership under this subtitle is—
(A) land acquired by the Secretary; or
(B) land withdrawn by the Secretary, only
if—
(i) the Secretary determines in writing
that the withdrawn land is encumbered by
facilities to the extent that the withdrawn
land is unsuitable for return to the public
domain; and
(ii) the qualifying entity agrees to pay fair
market value based on historical or existing
uses for the withdrawn land to be conveyed.
(c) HOLD HARMLESS.—No conveyance under
this subtitle shall adversely impact applica-
ble Federal power rates, repayment obliga-
tions, or other project power uses.
SEC. 8005. LIABILITY.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Effective on the date of
conveyance of any eligible facility under this
subtitle, the United States shall not be held
liable by any court for damages of any kind
arising out of any act, omission, or occur-
rence relating to the eligible facility, other
than damages caused by acts of negligence
committed by the United States or by agents
or employees of the United States prior to
the date of the conveyance.
(b) EFFECT.—Nothing in this section in-
creases the liability of the United States be-
yond that currently provided in chapter 171
of title 28, United States Code (commonly
known as the ‘‘Federal Tort Claims Act’’).
SEC. 8006. BENEFITS.
After a conveyance of an eligible facility
under this subtitle—
(1) the conveyed property shall no longer
be considered to be part of a Reclamation
project;
(2) except as provided in paragraph (3), the
qualifying entity to which the conveyed
property is conveyed shall not be eligible to
receive any benefits, including project use
power, with respect to the conveyed prop-
erty, except for any benefit that would be
available to a similarly situated entity with
respect to property that is not a part of a
Reclamation project; and
(3) the qualifying entity to which the con-
veyed property is conveyed may be eligible
to receive project use power if—
(A) the qualifying entity is receiving
project use power as of the date of enact-
ment of this Act;
(B) the project use power will be used for
the delivery of Reclamation project water;
and
(C) the Secretary and the qualifying entity
enter into an agreement under which the
qualifying entity agrees to continue to be re-
sponsible for a proportionate share of oper-
ation and maintenance and capital costs for
the Federal facilities that generate and de-
liver, if applicable, power used for delivery of
Reclamation project water after the date of
conveyance, in accordance with Reclamation
project use power rates.
SEC. 8007. COMPLIANCE WITH OTHER LAWS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Before conveying an eli-
gible facility under this subtitle, the Sec-
retary shall comply with all applicable Fed-
eral environmental laws, including—
(1) the National Environmental Policy Act
of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.);
(2) the Endangered Species Act of 1973 (16
U.S.C. 1531 et seq.); and
(3) subtitle III of title 54, United States
Code.
(b) SENSE OF CONGRESS.—It is the sense of
Congress that any Federal permitting and
review processes required with respect to a
conveyance of an eligible facility under this
subtitle should be completed with the max-
imum efficiency and effectiveness.
Subtitle B—Endangered Fish Recovery
Programs
SEC. 8101. EXTENSION OF AUTHORIZATION FOR
ANNUAL BASE FUNDING OF FISH RE-
COVERY PROGRAMS; REMOVAL OF
CERTAIN REPORTING REQUIRE-
MENT.
Section 3(d) of Public Law 106–392 (114 Stat.
1604; 126 Stat. 2444) is amended—
(1) by striking paragraph (1) and inserting
the following:
‘‘(1) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—There is authorized to
be appropriated to the Secretary to be used
by the Bureau of Reclamation to make the
annual base funding contributions to the Re-
covery Implementation Programs $10,000,000
for each of fiscal years 2020 through 2023.
‘‘(B) NONREIMURSABLE FUNDS.—The funds
contributed to the Recovery Implementation
Programs under subparagraph (A) shall be
considered a nonreimbursable Federal ex-
penditure.’’; and
(2) in paragraph (2), by striking the fourth,
fifth, sixth, and seventh sentences.
SEC. 8102. REPORT ON RECOVERY IMPLEMENTA-
TION PROGRAMS.
Section 3 of Public Law 106–392 (114 Stat.
1603; 126 Stat. 2444) is amended by adding at
the end the following:
‘‘(j) REPORT.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than Sep-
tember 30, 2021, the Secretary shall submit
to the appropriate committees of Congress a
report that—
‘‘(A) describes the accomplishments of the
Recovery Implementation Programs;
‘‘(B) identifies—
‘‘(i) as of the date of the report, the listing
status under the Endangered Species Act of
1973 (16 U.S.C. 1531 et seq.) of the Colorado
pikeminnow, humpback chub, razorback
sucker, and bonytail; and
‘‘(ii) as of September 30, 2023, the projected
listing status under that Act of each of the
species referred to in clause (i);
‘‘(C)(i) identifies—
‘‘(I) the total expenditures and the expend-
itures by categories of activities by the Re-
covery Implementation Programs during the
period beginning on the date on which the
applicable Recovery Implementation Pro-
gram was established and ending on Sep-
tember 30, 2021; and
‘‘(II) projected expenditures by the Recov-
ery Implementation Programs during the pe-
riod beginning on October 1, 2021, and ending
on September 30, 2023; and
‘‘(ii) for purposes of the expenditures iden-
tified under clause (i), includes a description
of—
‘‘(I) any expenditures of appropriated
funds;
‘‘(II) any power revenues;
‘‘(III) any contributions by the States,
power customers, Tribes, water users, and
environmental organizations; and
‘‘(IV) any other sources of funds for the Re-
covery Implementation Programs; and
‘‘(D) describes—
‘‘(i) any activities to be carried out under
the Recovery Implementation Program after
September 30, 2023; and
‘‘(ii) the projected cost of the activities de-
scribed under clause (i).
‘‘(2) CONSULTATION REQUIRED.—The Sec-
retary shall consult with the participants in
the Recovery Implementation Programs in
preparing the report under paragraph (1).’’.
Subtitle C—Yakima River Basin Water
Enhancement Project
SEC. 8201. AUTHORIZATION OF PHASE III.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) INTEGRATED PLAN.—The term ‘‘Inte-
grated Plan’’ means the Yakima River Basin
Integrated Water Resource Management
Plan, the Federal elements of which are
known as ‘‘phase III of the Yakima River
Basin Water Enhancement Project’’, as de-
scribed in the Bureau of Reclamation docu-
ment entitled ‘‘Record of Decision for the
Yakima River Basin Integrated Water Re-
source Management Plan Final Pro-
grammatic Environmental Impact State-
ment’’ and dated March 2, 2012.
(2) IRRIGATION ENTITY.—The term ‘‘irriga-
tion entity’’ means a district, project, or
State-recognized authority, board of control,
agency, or entity located in the Yakima
River basin that manages and delivers irriga-
tion water to farms in the Yakima River
basin.
(3) PRORATABLE IRRIGATION ENTITY.—The
term ‘‘proratable irrigation entity’’ means
an irrigation entity that possesses, or the
members of which possess, proratable water
(as defined in section 1202 of Public Law 103–
434 (108 Stat. 4551)).
(4) STATE.—The term ‘‘State’’ means the
State of Washington.
(5) TOTAL WATER SUPPLY AVAILABLE.—The
term ‘‘total water supply available’’ has the
meaning given the term in applicable civil
actions, as determined by the Secretary.
(6) YAKIMA RIVER BASIN WATER ENHANCE-
MENT PROJECT.—The term ‘‘Yakima River
Basin Water Enhancement Project’’ means
the Yakima River basin water enhancement
project authorized by Congress pursuant to
title XII of Public Law 103–434 (108 Stat. 4550;
114 Stat. 1425) and other Acts (including Pub-
lic Law 96–162 (93 Stat. 1241), section 109 of
Public Law 98–381 (16 U.S.C. 839b note), and
Public Law 105–62 (111 Stat. 1320)) to promote
water conservation, water supply, habitat,
and stream enhancement improvements in
the Yakima River basin.
(b) INTEGRATED PLAN.—
(1) INITIAL DEVELOPMENT PHASE.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—As the initial develop-
ment phase of the Integrated Plan, the Sec-
retary, in coordination with the State and
the Yakama Nation, shall identify and im-
plement projects under the Integrated Plan
that are prepared to be commenced during
the 10-year period beginning on the date of
enactment of this Act.
(B) REQUIREMENT.—The initial develop-
ment phase of the Integrated Plan under sub-
paragraph (A) shall be carried out in accord-
ance with—
(i) this subsection, including any related
plans, reports, and correspondence referred
to in this subsection; and
(ii) title XII of Public Law 103–434 (108
Stat. 4550; 114 Stat. 1425).
(2) INTERMEDIATE AND FINAL DEVELOPMENT
PHASES.—
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:26 Feb 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00114 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06FE6.048 S06FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S989
February 6, 2019
(A) PLANS.—The Secretary, in coordination
with the State and the Yakama Nation, shall
develop plans for the intermediate and final
development phases of the Integrated Plan
to achieve the purposes of title XII of Public
Law 103–434 (108 Stat. 4550; 114 Stat. 1425), in-
cluding conducting applicable feasibility
studies, environmental reviews, and other
relevant studies required to develop those
plans.
(B) INTERMEDIATE DEVELOPMENT PHASE.—
The Secretary, in coordination with the
State and the Yakama Nation, shall develop
an intermediate development phase of the
Integrated Plan, to commence not earlier
than the date that is 10 years after the date
of enactment of this Act.
(C) FINAL DEVELOPMENT PHASE.—The Sec-
retary, in coordination with the State and
the Yakama Nation, shall develop a final de-
velopment phase of the Integrated Plan, to
commence not earlier than the date that is
20 years after the date of enactment of this
Act.
(3) REQUIREMENTS.—The projects and ac-
tivities identified by the Secretary for im-
plementation under the Integrated Plan
shall be carried out only—
(A) subject to authorization and appropria-
tion;
(B) contingent on the completion of appli-
cable feasibility studies, environmental re-
views, and cost-benefit analyses that include
favorable recommendations for further
project development;
(C) on public review and a determination
by the Secretary that design, construction,
and operation of a proposed project or activ-
ity is in the best interest of the public; and
(D) in accordance with applicable laws, in-
cluding—
(i) the National Environmental Policy Act
of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.); and
(ii) the Endangered Species Act of 1973 (16
U.S.C. 1531 et seq.).
(4) EFFECT OF SUBSECTION.—Nothing in this
subsection—
(A) shall be considered to be a new or sup-
plemental benefit for purposes of the Rec-
lamation Reform Act of 1982 (43 U.S.C. 390aa
et seq.);
(B) affects—
(i) any contract in existence on the date of
enactment of this Act that was executed pur-
suant to the reclamation laws; or
(ii) any contract or agreement between the
Bureau of Indian Affairs and the Bureau of
Reclamation;
(C) affects, waives, abrogates, diminishes,
defines, or interprets any treaty between the
Yakama Nation and the United States; or
(D) constrains the authority of the Sec-
retary to provide fish passage in the Yakima
River basin, in accordance with the Hoover
Power Plant Act of 1984 (43 U.S.C. 619 et
seq.).
(5) PROGRESS REPORT.—Not later than 5
years after the date of enactment of this
Act, the Secretary, in conjunction with the
State and in consultation with the Yakama
Nation, shall submit to the Committee on
Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate
and the Committee on Natural Resources of
the House of Representatives a progress re-
port on the development and implementa-
tion of the Integrated Plan.
(c) FINANCING, CONSTRUCTION, OPERATION,
AND MAINTENANCE OF KACHESS DROUGHT RE-
LIEF PUMPING PLANT AND KEECHELUS TO
KACHESS PIPELINE.—
(1) LONG-TERM AGREEMENTS.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—A long-term agreement
negotiated pursuant to this section or the
reclamation laws between the Secretary and
a participating proratable irrigation entity
in the Yakima River basin for the non-Fed-
eral financing, construction, operation, or
maintenance of the Drought Relief Pumping
Plant or the Keechelus to Kachess Pipeline
shall include provisions regarding—
(i) responsibilities of each participating
proratable irrigation entity for—
(I) the planning, design, and construction
of infrastructure, in consultation and coordi-
nation with the Secretary; and
(II) the pumping and operational costs nec-
essary to provide the total water supply
available that is made inaccessible due to
drought pumping during any preceding cal-
endar year, if the Kachess Reservoir fails to
refill as a result of pumping drought storage
water during such a calendar year;
(ii) property titles and responsibilities of
each participating proratable irrigation enti-
ty for the maintenance of, and liability for,
all infrastructure constructed under title XII
of Public Law 103–434 (108 Stat. 4550; 114 Stat.
1425);
(iii) operation and integration of the
projects by the Secretary in the operation of
the Yakima Project; and
(iv) costs associated with the design, fi-
nancing, construction, operation, mainte-
nance, and mitigation of projects, with the
costs of Federal oversight and review to be
nonreimbursable to the participating prorat-
able irrigation entities and the Yakima
Project.
(B) TREATMENT.—A facility developed or
operated by a participating proratable irri-
gation entity under this subsection shall not
be considered to be a supplemental work for
purposes of section 9(a) of the Reclamation
Project Act of 1939 (43 U.S.C. 485h(a)).
(2) KACHESS RESERVOIR.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Any additional stored
water made available by the construction of
a facility to access and deliver inactive and
natural storage in Kachess Lake and Res-
ervoir under this subsection—
(i) shall be considered to be Yakima
Project water;
(ii) shall be used exclusively by the Sec-
retary to enhance the water supply during
years for which the total water supply avail-
able is not sufficient to provide a percentage
of proratable entitlements in order to make
that additional water available, in a quan-
tity representing not more than 70 percent of
proratable entitlements to the Kittitas Rec-
lamation District, the Roza Irrigation Dis-
trict, or any other proratable irrigation enti-
ty participating in the construction, oper-
ation, or maintenance costs of a facility
under this section, in accordance with such
terms and conditions as the districts may
agree, subject to the conditions that—
(I) the Bureau of Indian Affairs, the
Wapato Irrigation Project, and the Yakama
Nation, on an election to participate, may
also obtain water from Kachess Reservoir in-
active storage to enhance applicable existing
irrigation water supply in accordance with
such terms and conditions as the Bureau of
Indian Affairs and the Yakama Nation may
agree; and
(II) the additional supply made available
under this clause shall be available to par-
ticipating individuals and entities based on—
(aa) the proportion that—
(AA) the proratable entitlement of each
participating individual or entity; bears to
(BB) the proratable entitlements of all par-
ticipating individuals and entities; or
(bb) such other proportion as the partici-
pating entities may agree; and
(iii) shall not be any portion of the total
water supply available.
(B) EFFECT OF PARAGRAPH.—Nothing in this
paragraph affects, as in existence on the date
of enactment of this Act, any—
(i) contract;
(ii) law (including regulations) relating to
repayment costs;
(iii) water rights; or
(iv) treaty right of the Yakama Nation.
(3) PROJECT POWER FOR KACHESS PUMPING
PLANT.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Subject to subparagraphs
(B) through (D), the Administrator of the
Bonneville Power Administration, pursuant
to the Pacific Northwest Electric Power
Planning and Conservation Act (16 U.S.C. 839
et seq.), shall provide to the Secretary
project power to operate the Kachess Pump-
ing Plant constructed under this section if
inactive storage in the Kachess Reservoir is
needed to provide drought relief for irriga-
tion.
(B) DETERMINATIONS BY SECRETARY.—The
project power described in subparagraph (A)
may be provided only if the Secretary deter-
mines that—
(i) there are in effect—
(I) a drought declaration issued by the
State; and
(II) conditions that have led to 70 percent
or lower water delivery to proratable irriga-
tion districts; and
(ii) it is appropriate to provide the power
under that subparagraph.
(C) PERIOD OF AVAILABILITY.—The power
described in subparagraph (A) shall be pro-
vided during the period—
(i) beginning on the date on which the Sec-
retary makes the determinations described
in subparagraph (B); and
(ii) ending on the earlier of—
(I) the date that is 1 year after that date;
and
(II) the date on which the Secretary deter-
mines that—
(aa) drought mitigation measures are still
necessary in the Yakima River basin; or
(bb) the power should no longer be provided
for any other reason.
(D) RATE.—
(i) IN GENERAL.—The Administrator of the
Bonneville Power Administration shall pro-
vide project power under subparagraph (A) at
the then-applicable lowest Bonneville Power
Administration rate for public body, cooper-
ative, and Federal agency customer firm ob-
ligations on the date on which the authority
is provided.
(ii) NO DISCOUNTS.—The rate under clause
(i) shall not include any irrigation discount.
(E) LOCAL PROVIDER.—During any period
for which project power is not provided
under subparagraph (A), the Secretary shall
obtain power to operate the Kachess Pump-
ing Plant from a local provider.
(F) OTHER COSTS.—The cost of power for
pumping and station service, and the costs of
transmitting power from the Federal Colum-
bia River power system to the pumping fa-
cilities of the Yakima River Basin Water En-
hancement Project, shall be borne by the ir-
rigation districts receiving the benefits of
the applicable water.
(G) DUTIES OF COMMISSIONER.—For purposes
of this paragraph, the Commissioner of Rec-
lamation shall arrange transmission for any
delivery of—
(i) Federal power over the Bonneville sys-
tem through applicable tariff and business
practice processes of that system; or
(ii) power obtained from any local pro-
vider.
(d) DESIGN AND USE OF GROUNDWATER RE-
CHARGE PROJECTS.—The Secretary, in coordi-
nation with the State and the Yakama Na-
tion, may provide technical assistance for,
participate in, and enter into agreements, in-
cluding with irrigation entities for the use of
excess conveyance capacity in Yakima River
Basin Water Enhancement Project facilities,
for—
(1) groundwater recharge projects; and
(2) aquifer storage and recovery projects.
(e) OPERATIONAL CONTROL OF WATER SUP-
PLIES.—
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:26 Feb 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00115 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06FE6.048 S06FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S990 February 6, 2019
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall retain
authority and discretion over the manage-
ment of Yakima River Basin Water Enhance-
ment Project supplies—
(A) to optimize operational use and flexi-
bility; and
(B) to ensure compliance with all applica-
ble Federal and State laws, treaty rights of
the Yakama Nation, and legal obligations,
including those under title XII of Public Law
103–434 (108 Stat. 4550; 114 Stat. 1425).
(2) INCLUSION.—The authority and discre-
tion described in paragraph (1) shall include
the ability of the United States to store, de-
liver, conserve, and reuse water supplies de-
riving from projects authorized under title
XII of Public Law 103–434 (108 Stat. 4550; 114
Stat. 1425).
(f) COOPERATIVE AGREEMENTS AND
GRANTS.—The Secretary may enter into co-
operative agreements and make grants to
carry out this section, including for the pur-
poses of land and water transfers, leases, and
acquisitions from willing participants, sub-
ject to the condition that the acquiring enti-
ty shall hold title to, and be responsible for,
all required operation, maintenance, and
management of the acquired land or water
during any period in which the acquiring en-
tity holds title to the acquired land.
(g) WATER CONSERVATION PROJECTS.—The
Secretary may participate in, provide fund-
ing for, and accept non-Federal financing for
water conservation projects, regardless of
whether the projects are in accordance with
the Yakima River Basin Water Conservation
Program established under section 1203 of
Public Law 103–434 (108 Stat. 4551), that are
intended to partially implement the Inte-
grated Plan by providing conserved water to
improve tributary and mainstem stream
flow.
(h) INDIAN IRRIGATION PROJECTS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary, acting
through the Commissioner of Reclamation,
may contribute funds for the preparation of
plans and investigation measures, and, after
the date on which the Secretary certifies
that the measures are consistent with the
water conservation objectives of this section,
to any Indian irrigation project—
(A) that is located in the Pacific Northwest
Region;
(B) that is identified in the report of the
Government Accountability Office numbered
GAO–15–453T;
(C) that has been identified as part of a Bu-
reau of Reclamation basin study pursuant to
subtitle F of title IX of Public Law 111–11 (42
U.S.C. 10361 et seq.) to increase water supply
for the Pacific Northwest Region; and
(D) an improvement to which would con-
tribute to the flow of interstate water.
(2) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—
There is authorized to be appropriated to
carry out this subsection $75,000,000.
SEC. 8202. MODIFICATION OF PURPOSES AND
DEFINITIONS.
(a) PURPOSES.—Section 1201 of Public Law
103–434 (108 Stat. 4550) is amended—
(1) by striking paragraph (1) and inserting
the following:
‘‘(1) to protect, mitigate, and enhance fish
and wildlife and the recovery and mainte-
nance of self-sustaining harvestable popu-
lations of fish and other aquatic life, both
anadromous and resident species, throughout
their historic distribution range in the Yak-
ima Basin through—
‘‘(A) improved water management and the
constructions of fish passage at storage and
diversion dams, as authorized under the Hoo-
ver Power Plant Act of 1984 (43 U.S.C. 619 et
seq.);
‘‘(B) improved instream flows and water
supplies;
‘‘(C) improved water quality, watershed,
and ecosystem function;
‘‘(D) protection, creation, and enhance-
ment of wetlands; and
‘‘(E) other appropriate means of habitat
improvement;’’;
(2) in paragraph (2), by inserting ‘‘, munic-
ipal, industrial, and domestic water supply
and use purposes, especially during drought
years, including reducing the frequency and
severity of water supply shortages for pro-
ratable irrigation entities’’ before the semi-
colon at the end;
(3) by striking paragraph (4);
(4) by redesignating paragraph (3) as para-
graph (4);
(5) by inserting after paragraph (2) the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(3) to authorize the Secretary to make
water available for purchase or lease for
meeting municipal, industrial, and domestic
water supply purposes;’’;
(6) by redesignating paragraphs (5) and (6)
as paragraphs (6) and (8), respectively;
(7) by inserting after paragraph (4) (as re-
designated by paragraph (4)) the following:
‘‘(5) to realize sufficient water savings
from implementing the Yakima River Basin
Integrated Water Resource Management
Plan, so that not less than 85,000 acre feet of
water savings are achieved by implementing
the initial development phase of the Inte-
grated Plan pursuant to section 8201(b)(1) of
the Natural Resources Management Act, in
addition to the 165,000 acre-feet of water sav-
ings targeted through the Basin Conserva-
tion Program, as authorized on October 31,
1994;’’;
(8) in paragraph (6) (as redesignated by
paragraph (6))—
(A) by inserting ‘‘an increase in’’ before
‘‘voluntary’’; and
(B) by striking ‘‘and’’ at the end;
(9) by inserting after paragraph (6) (as so
redesignated) the following:
‘‘(7) to encourage an increase in the use of,
and reduce the barriers to, water transfers,
leasing, markets, and other voluntary trans-
actions among public and private entities to
enhance water management in the Yakima
River basin;’’;
(10) in paragraph (8) (as so redesignated),
by striking the period at the end and insert-
ing ‘‘; and’’; and
(11) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(9) to improve the resilience of the eco-
systems, economies, and communities in the
Yakima River basin facing drought, hydro-
logic changes, and other related changes and
variability in natural and human systems,
for the benefit of the people, fish, and wild-
life of the region.’’.
(b) DEFINITIONS.—Section 1202 of Public
Law 103–434 (108 Stat. 4550) is amended—
(1) by redesignating paragraphs (6), (7), (8),
(9), (10), (11), (12), (13), and (14) as paragraphs
(8), (10), (11), (12), (13), (14), (15), (17), and (18),
respectively;
(2) by inserting after paragraph (5) the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(6) DESIGNATED FEDERAL OFFICIAL.—The
term ‘designated Federal official’ means the
Commissioner of Reclamation (or a des-
ignee), acting pursuant to the charter of the
Conservation Advisory Group.
‘‘(7) INTEGRATED PLAN.—The term ‘Inte-
grated Plan’ has the meaning given the term
in section 8201(a) of the Natural Resources
Management Act, to be carried out in co-
operation with, and in addition to, activities
of the State of Washington and the Yakama
Nation.’’;
(3) by inserting after paragraph (8) (as re-
designated by paragraph (1)) the following:
‘‘(9) MUNICIPAL, INDUSTRIAL, AND DOMESTIC
WATER SUPPLY AND USE.—The term ‘munic-
ipal, industrial, and domestic water supply
and use’ means the supply and use of water
for—
‘‘(A) domestic consumption (whether urban
or rural);
‘‘(B) maintenance and protection of public
health and safety;
‘‘(C) manufacture, fabrication, processing,
assembly, or other production of a good or
commodity;
‘‘(D) production of energy;
‘‘(E) fish hatcheries; or
‘‘(F) water conservation activities relating
to a use described in subparagraphs (A)
through (E).’’; and
(4) by inserting after paragraph (15) (as so
redesignated) the following:
‘‘(16) YAKIMA ENHANCEMENT PROJECT; YAK-
IMA RIVER BASIN WATER ENHANCEMENT
PROJECT.—The terms ‘Yakima Enhancement
Project’ and ‘Yakima River Basin Water En-
hancement Project’ mean the Yakima River
basin water enhancement project authorized
by Congress pursuant to this Act and other
Acts (including Public Law 96–162 (93 Stat.
1241), section 109 of Public Law 98–381 (16
U.S.C. 839b note; 98 Stat. 1340), Public Law
105–62 (111 Stat. 1320), and Public Law 106–372
(114 Stat. 1425)) to promote water conserva-
tion, water supply, habitat, and stream en-
hancement improvements in the Yakima
River basin.’’.
SEC. 8203. YAKIMA RIVER BASIN WATER CON-
SERVATION PROGRAM.
Section 1203 of Public Law 103–434 (108
Stat. 4551) is amended—
(1) in subsection (a)—
(A) in paragraph (1)—
(i) in the second sentence, by striking
‘‘title’’ and inserting ‘‘section’’; and
(ii) in the third sentence, by striking
‘‘within 5 years of the date of enactment of
this Act’’; and
(B) in paragraph (2), by striking ‘‘irriga-
tion’’ and inserting ‘‘the number of irrigated
acres’’;
(2) in subsection (c)—
(A) in paragraph (2)—
(i) in each of subparagraphs (A) through
(D), by striking the comma at the end of the
subparagraph and inserting a semicolon;
(ii) in subparagraph (E), by striking the
comma at the end and inserting ‘‘; and’’;
(iii) in subparagraph (F), by striking ‘‘De-
partment of Wildlife of the State of Wash-
ington, and’’ and inserting ‘‘Department of
Fish and Wildlife of the State of Wash-
ington.’’; and
(iv) by striking subparagraph (G);
(B) in paragraph (3)—
(i) in each of subparagraphs (A) through
(C), by striking the comma at the end of the
subparagraph and inserting a semicolon;
(ii) in subparagraph (D), by striking ‘‘,
and’’ at the end and inserting a semicolon;
(iii) in subparagraph (E), by striking the
period at the end and inserting ‘‘; and’’; and
(iv) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(F) provide recommendations to advance
the purposes and programs of the Yakima
Enhancement Project, including the Inte-
grated Plan.’’; and
(C) by striking paragraph (4) and inserting
the following:
‘‘(4) AUTHORITY OF DESIGNATED FEDERAL OF-
FICIAL.—The designated Federal official
may—
‘‘(A) arrange and provide logistical support
for meetings of the Conservation Advisory
Group;
‘‘(B) use a facilitator to serve as a moder-
ator for meetings of the Conservation Advi-
sory Group or provide additional logistical
support; and
‘‘(C) grant any request for a facilitator by
any member of the Conservation Advisory
Group.’’;
(3) in subsection (d), by adding at the end
the following:
‘‘(4) PAYMENT OF LOCAL SHARE BY STATE OR
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT.—
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:26 Feb 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00116 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06FE6.048 S06FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S991
February 6, 2019
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—The State or the Fed-
eral Government may fund not more than
the 17.5-percent local share of the costs of
the Basin Conservation Program in exchange
for the long-term use of conserved water,
subject to the requirement that the funding
by the Federal Government of the local
share of the costs shall provide a quantifi-
able public benefit in meeting Federal re-
sponsibilities in the Yakima River basin and
the purposes of this title.
‘‘(B) USE OF CONSERVED WATER.—The Yak-
ima Project Manager may use water result-
ing from conservation measures taken under
this title, in addition to water that the Bu-
reau of Reclamation may acquire from any
willing seller through purchase, donation, or
lease, for water management uses pursuant
to this title.’’;
(4) in subsection (e), by striking the first
sentence and inserting the following: ‘‘To
participate in the Basin Conservation Pro-
gram, as described in subsection (b), an enti-
ty shall submit to the Secretary a proposed
water conservation plan.’’;
(5) in subsection (i)(3)—
(A) by striking ‘‘purchase or lease’’ each
place it appears and inserting ‘‘purchase,
lease, or management’’; and
(B) in the third sentence, by striking
‘‘made immediately upon availability’’ and
all that follows through ‘‘Committee’’ and
inserting ‘‘continued as needed to provide
water to be used by the Yakima Project
Manager as recommended by the System Op-
erations Advisory Committee and the Con-
servation Advisory Group’’; and
(6) in subsection (j)(4), in the first sen-
tence, by striking ‘‘initial acquisition’’ and
all that follows through ‘‘flushing flows’’ and
inserting ‘‘acquisition of water from willing
sellers or lessors specifically to provide im-
proved instream flows for anadromous and
resident fish and other aquatic life, including
pulse flows to facilitate outward migration
of anadromous fish’’.
SEC. 8204. YAKIMA BASIN WATER PROJECTS, OP-
ERATIONS, AND AUTHORIZATIONS.
(a) REDESIGNATION OF YAKAMA NATION.—
Section 1204(g) of Public Law 103–434 (108
Stat. 4557) is amended—
(1) by striking the subsection designation
and heading and all that follows through
paragraph (1) and inserting the following:
‘‘(g) REDESIGNATION OF YAKAMA INDIAN NA-
TION TO YAKAMA NATION.—
‘‘(1) REDESIGNATION.—The Confederated
Tribes and Bands of the Yakama Indian Na-
tion shall be known and designated as the
‘Confederated Tribes and Bands of the
Yakama Nation’.’’; and
(2) in paragraph (2), by striking ‘‘deemed to
be a reference to the ‘Confederated Tribes
and Bands of the Yakama Indian Nation’.’’
and inserting ‘‘deemed to be a reference to
the ‘Confederated Tribes and Bands of the
Yakama Nation’.’’.
(b) OPERATION OF YAKIMA BASIN
PROJECTS.—Section 1205 of Public Law 103–
434 (108 Stat. 4557) is amended—
(1) in subsection (a)(4)—
(A) in subparagraph (A)—
(i) in clause (i)—
(I) by inserting ‘‘additional’’ after ‘‘se-
cure’’;
(II) by striking ‘‘flushing’’ and inserting
‘‘pulse’’; and
(III) by striking ‘‘uses’’ and inserting
‘‘uses, in addition to the quantity of water
provided under the treaty between the
Yakama Nation and the United States’’;
(ii) by striking clause (ii);
(iii) by redesignating clause (iii) as clause
(ii); and
(iv) in clause (ii) (as so redesignated) by in-
serting ‘‘and water rights mandated’’ after
‘‘goals’’; and
(B) in subparagraph (B)(i), in the first sen-
tence, by inserting ‘‘in proportion to the
funding received’’ after ‘‘Program’’;
(2) in subsection (b), in the second sen-
tence, by striking ‘‘instream flows for use by
the Yakima Project Manager as flushing
flows or as otherwise’’ and inserting ‘‘fishery
purposes, as’’; and
(3) in subsection (e), by striking paragraph
(1) and inserting the following:
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Additional purposes of
the Yakima Project shall be any of the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(A) To recover and maintain self-sus-
taining harvestable populations of native
fish, both anadromous and resident species,
throughout their historic distribution range
in the Yakima River basin.
‘‘(B) To protect, mitigate, and enhance
aquatic life and wildlife.
‘‘(C) Recreation.
‘‘(D) Municipal, industrial, and domestic
use.’’.
(c) ENHANCEMENT OF WATER SUPPLIES FOR
YAKIMA BASIN TRIBUTARIES.—Section 1207 of
Public Law 103–434 (108 Stat. 4560) is amend-
ed—
(1) in the section heading, by striking
‘‘SUPPLIES’’ and inserting ‘‘MANAGEMENT’’;
(2) in subsection (a)—
(A) in the matter preceding paragraph (1),
by striking ‘‘supplies’’ and inserting ‘‘man-
agement’’;
(B) in paragraph (1), by inserting ‘‘and
water supply entities’’ after ‘‘owners’’; and
(C) in paragraph (2)—
(i) in subparagraph (A), by inserting ‘‘that
choose not to participate in, or opt out of,
tributary enhancement projects pursuant to
this section’’ after ‘‘water right owners’’; and
(ii) in subparagraph (B), by inserting ‘‘non-
participating’’ before ‘‘tributary water
users’’;
(3) in subsection (b)—
(A) in paragraph (1)—
(i) by striking the paragraph designation
and all that follows through ‘‘(but not lim-
ited to)—’’ and inserting the following:
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary, following
consultation with the State of Washington,
tributary water right owners, and the
Yakama Nation, and on agreement of appro-
priate water right owners, is authorized to
conduct studies to evaluate measures to fur-
ther Yakima Project purposes on tributaries
to the Yakima River. Enhancement pro-
grams that use measures authorized by this
subsection may be investigated and imple-
mented by the Secretary in tributaries to
the Yakima River, including Taneum Creek,
other areas, or tributary basins that cur-
rently or could potentially be provided sup-
plemental or transfer water by entities, such
as the Kittitas Reclamation District or the
Yakima-Tieton Irrigation District, subject
to the condition that activities may com-
mence on completion of applicable and re-
quired feasibility studies, environmental re-
views, and cost-benefit analyses that include
favorable recommendations for further
project development, as appropriate. Meas-
ures to evaluate include—’’;
(ii) by indenting subparagraphs (A)
through (F) appropriately;
(iii) in subparagraph (A), by inserting be-
fore the semicolon at the end the following:
‘‘, including irrigation efficiency improve-
ments (in coordination with programs of the
Department of Agriculture), consolidation of
diversions or administration, and diversion
scheduling or coordination’’;
(iv) by redesignating subparagraphs (C)
through (F) as subparagraphs (E) through
(H), respectively;
(v) by inserting after subparagraph (B) the
following:
‘‘(C) improvements in irrigation system
management or delivery facilities within the
Yakima River basin when those improve-
ments allow for increased irrigation system
conveyance and corresponding reduction in
diversion from tributaries or flow enhance-
ments to tributaries through direct flow sup-
plementation or groundwater recharge;
‘‘(D) improvements of irrigation system
management or delivery facilities to reduce
or eliminate excessively high flows caused
by the use of natural streams for conveyance
or irrigation water or return water;’’;
(vi) in subparagraph (E) (as redesignated
by clause (iv)), by striking ‘‘ground water’’
and inserting ‘‘groundwater recharge and’’;
(vii) in subparagraph (G) (as so redesig-
nated), by inserting ‘‘or transfer’’ after ‘‘pur-
chase’’; and
(viii) in subparagraph (H) (as so redesig-
nated), by inserting ‘‘stream processes and’’
before ‘‘stream habitats’’;
(B) in paragraph (2)—
(i) in the matter preceding subparagraph
(A), by striking ‘‘the Taneum Creek study’’
and inserting ‘‘studies under this sub-
section’’;
(ii) in subparagraph (B)—
(I) by striking ‘‘and economic’’ and insert-
ing ‘‘, infrastructure, economic, and land
use’’; and
(II) by striking ‘‘and’’ at the end;
(iii) in subparagraph (C), by striking the
period at the end and inserting ‘‘; and’’; and
(iv) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(D) any related studies already underway
or undertaken.’’; and
(C) in paragraph (3), in the first sentence,
by inserting ‘‘of each tributary or group of
tributaries’’ after ‘‘study’’;
(4) in subsection (c)—
(A) in the subsection heading, by inserting
‘‘AND NONSURFACE STORAGE’’ after ‘‘NON-
STORAGE’’; and
(B) in the matter preceding paragraph (1),
by inserting ‘‘and nonsurface storage’’ after
‘‘nonstorage’’;
(5) by striking subsection (d);
(6) by redesignating subsection (e) as sub-
section (d); and
(7) in paragraph (2) of subsection (d) (as so
redesignated)—
(A) in the first sentence—
(i) by inserting ‘‘and implementation’’
after ‘‘investigation’’;
(ii) by striking ‘‘other’’ before ‘‘Yakima
River’’; and
(iii) by inserting ‘‘and other water supply
entities’’ after ‘‘owners’’; and
(B) by striking the second sentence.
(d) CHANDLER PUMPING PLANT AND POWER-
PLANT-OPERATIONS AT PROSSER DIVERSION
DAM.—Section 1208(d) of Public Law 103–434
(108 Stat. 4562; 114 Stat. 1425) is amended by
inserting ‘‘negatively’’ before ‘‘affected’’.
Subtitle D—Bureau of Reclamation Facility
Conveyances
SEC. 8301. CONVEYANCE OF MAINTENANCE COM-
PLEX AND DISTRICT OFFICE OF THE
ARBUCKLE PROJECT, OKLAHOMA.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) AGREEMENT.—The term ‘‘Agreement’’
means the agreement entitled ‘‘Agreement
between the United States and the Arbuckle
Master Conservancy District for Transfer-
ring Title to the Federally Owned Mainte-
nance Complex and District Office to the Ar-
buckle Master Conservancy District’’ and
numbered 14AG640141.
(2) DISTRICT.—The term ‘‘District’’ means
the Arbuckle Master Conservancy District,
located in Murray County, Oklahoma.
(3) DISTRICT OFFICE.—The term ‘‘District
Office’’ means—
(A) the headquarters building located at
2440 East Main, Davis, Oklahoma; and
(B) the approximately 0.83 acres of land de-
scribed in the Agreement.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:26 Feb 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00117 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06FE6.048 S06FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S992 February 6, 2019
(4) MAINTENANCE COMPLEX.—The term
‘‘Maintenance Complex’’ means the care-
taker’s residence, shop buildings, and any
appurtenances located on the land described
in the Agreement comprising approximately
2 acres.
(b) CONVEYANCE TO DISTRICT.—As soon as
practicable after the date of enactment of
this Act, the Secretary shall convey to the
District, all right, title, and interest of the
United States in and to the Maintenance
Complex and District Office, Arbuckle
Project, Oklahoma, consistent with the
terms and conditions of the Agreement.
(c) LIABILITY.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Effective on the date of
conveyance to the District of the Mainte-
nance Complex and District Office under this
section, the United States shall not be held
liable by any court for damages of any kind
arising out of any act, omission, or occur-
rence relating to the Maintenance Complex
or District Office, except for damages caused
by acts of negligence committed by the
United States or by an employee or agent of
the United States prior to the date of con-
veyance.
(2) APPLICABLE LAW.—Nothing in this sec-
tion increases the liability of the United
States beyond the liability provided in chap-
ter 171 of title 28, United States Code (com-
monly known as the ‘‘Federal Tort Claims
Act’’), on the date of enactment of this Act.
(d) BENEFITS.—After the conveyance of the
Maintenance Complex and District Office to
the District under this section—
(1) the Maintenance Complex and District
Office shall not be considered to be a part of
a Federal reclamation project; and
(2) the District shall not be eligible to re-
ceive any benefits with respect to any facil-
ity comprising that Maintenance Complex
and District Office, other than benefits that
would be available to a similarly situated
person with respect to a facility that is not
part of a Federal reclamation project.
(e) COMMUNICATION.—If the Secretary has
not completed the conveyance required
under subsection (b) by the date that is 1
year after the date of enactment of this Act,
the Secretary shall submit to Congress a let-
ter with sufficient detail that—
(1) explains the reasons the conveyance has
not been completed; and
(2) specifies the date by which the convey-
ance will be completed.
SEC. 8302. CONTRA COSTA CANAL TRANSFER.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) ACQUIRED LAND.—The term ‘‘acquired
land’’ means land in Federal ownership and
land over which the Federal Government
holds an interest for the purpose of the con-
struction and operation of the Contra Costa
Canal, including land under the jurisdiction
of—
(A) the Bureau of Reclamation;
(B) the Western Area Power Administra-
tion; and
(C) the Department of Defense in the case
of the Clayton Canal diversion traversing the
Concord Naval Weapons Station.
(2) CONTRA COSTA CANAL.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The term ‘‘Contra Costa
Canal’’ means the Contra Costa Canal Unit
of the Central Valley Project, which exclu-
sively serves the Contra Costa Water Dis-
trict in an urban area of Contra Costa Coun-
ty, California.
(B) INCLUSIONS.—The term ‘‘Contra Costa
Canal’’ includes pipelines, conduits, pumping
plants, aqueducts, laterals, water storage
and regulatory facilities, electric sub-
stations, related works and improvements,
and all interests in land associated with the
Contra Costa Canal Unit of the Central Val-
ley Project in existence on the date of enact-
ment of this Act.
(C) EXCLUSION.—The term ‘‘Contra Costa
Canal’’ does not include the Rock Slough
fish screen facility.
(3) CONTRA COSTA CANAL AGREEMENT.—The
term ‘‘Contra Costa Canal Agreement’’
means an agreement between the District
and the Bureau of Reclamation to determine
the legal, institutional, and financial terms
surrounding the transfer of the Contra Costa
Canal, including compensation to the rec-
lamation fund established by the first sec-
tion of the Act of June 17, 1902 (32 Stat. 388,
chapter 1093), equal to the net present value
of miscellaneous revenues that the United
States would otherwise derive over the 10
years following the date of enactment of this
Act from the eligible land and facilities to be
transferred, as governed by reclamation law
and policy and the contracts.
(4) CONTRACTS.—The term ‘‘contracts’’
means the existing water service contract
between the District and the United States,
Contract No. 175r–3401A–LTR1 (2005), Con-
tract No. 14–06–200–6072A (1972, as amended),
and any other contract or land permit in-
volving the United States, the District, and
Contra Costa Canal.
(5) DISTRICT.—The term ‘‘District’’ means
the Contra Costa Water District, a political
subdivision of the State of California.
(6) ROCK SLOUGH FISH SCREEN FACILITY.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The term ‘‘Rock Slough
fish screen facility’’ means the fish screen
facility at the Rock Slough intake to the
Contra Costa Canal.
(B) INCLUSIONS.—The term ‘‘Rock Slough
fish screen facility’’ includes the screen
structure, rake cleaning system, and acces-
sory structures integral to the screen func-
tion of the Rock Slough fish screen facility,
as required under the Central Valley Project
Improvement Act (Public Law 102–575; 106
Stat. 4706).
(7) ROCK SLOUGH FISH SCREEN FACILITY
TITLE TRANSFER AGREEMENT.—The term
‘‘Rock Slough fish screen facility title trans-
fer agreement’’ means an agreement between
the District and the Bureau of Reclamation
to—
(A) determine the legal, institutional, and
financial terms surrounding the transfer of
the Rock Slough fish screen facility; and
(B) ensure the continued safe and reliable
operations of the Rock Slough fish screen fa-
cility.
(b) CONVEYANCE OF LAND AND FACILITIES.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 180 days
after the date of enactment of this Act, in
consideration for the District assuming from
the United States all liability for the admin-
istration, operation, maintenance, and re-
placement of the Contra Costa Canal, con-
sistent with the terms and conditions set
forth in the Contra Costa Canal Agreement
and subject to valid existing rights and ex-
isting recreation agreements between the
Bureau of Reclamation and the East Bay Re-
gional Park District for Contra Loma Re-
gional Park and other local agencies within
the Contra Costa Canal, the Secretary shall
offer to convey and assign to the District—
(A) all right, title, and interest of the
United States in and to—
(i) the Contra Costa Canal; and
(ii) the acquired land; and
(B) all interests reserved and developed as
of the date of enactment of this Act for the
Contra Costa Canal in the acquired land, in-
cluding existing recreation agreements be-
tween the Bureau of Reclamation and the
East Bay Regional Park District for Contra
Loma Regional Park and other local agen-
cies within the Contra Costa Canal.
(2) ROCK SLOUGH FISH SCREEN FACILITY.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall con-
vey and assign to the District all right, title,
and interest of the United States in and to
the Rock Slough fish screen facility pursu-
ant to the Rock Slough fish screen facility
title transfer agreement.
(B) COOPERATION.—Not later than 180 days
after the conveyance of the Contra Costa
Canal, the Secretary and the District shall
enter into good faith negotiations to accom-
plish the conveyance and assignment under
subparagraph (A).
(3) PAYMENT OF COSTS.—The District shall
pay to the Secretary any administrative and
real estate transfer costs incurred by the
Secretary in carrying out the conveyances
and assignments under paragraphs (1) and
(2), including the cost of any boundary sur-
vey, title search, cadastral survey, appraisal,
and other real estate transaction required
for the conveyances and assignments.
(4) COMPLIANCE WITH ENVIRONMENTAL
LAWS.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Before carrying out the
conveyances and assignments under para-
graphs (1) and (2), the Secretary shall comply
with all applicable requirements under—
(i) the National Environmental Policy Act
of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.);
(ii) the Endangered Species Act of 1973 (16
U.S.C. 1531 et seq.); and
(iii) any other law applicable to the Contra
Costa Canal or the acquired land.
(B) EFFECT.—Nothing in this section modi-
fies or alters any obligations under—
(i) the National Environmental Policy Act
of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.); or
(ii) the Endangered Species Act of 1973 (16
U.S.C. 1531 et seq.).
(c) RELATIONSHIP TO EXISTING CENTRAL
VALLEY PROJECT CONTRACTS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Nothing in this section af-
fects—
(A) the application of the reclamation laws
to water delivered to the District pursuant
to any contract with the Secretary; or
(B) subject to paragraph (2), the contracts.
(2) AMENDMENTS TO CONTRACTS.—The Sec-
retary and the District may modify the con-
tracts as necessary to comply with this sec-
tion.
(3) LIABILITY.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in
subparagraph (B), the United States shall
not be liable for damages arising out of any
act, omission, or occurrence relating to the
Contra Costa Canal or the acquired land.
(B) EXCEPTION.—The United States shall
continue to be liable for damages caused by
acts of negligence committed by the United
States or by any employee or agent of the
United States before the date of the convey-
ance and assignment under subsection (b)(1),
consistent with chapter 171 of title 28, United
States Code (commonly known as the ‘‘Fed-
eral Tort Claims Act’’).
(C) LIMITATION.—Nothing in this section
increases the liability of the United States
beyond the liability provided under chapter
171 of title 28, United States Code (commonly
known as the ‘‘Federal Tort Claims Act’’).
(d) REPORT.—If the conveyance and assign-
ment authorized by subsection (b)(1) is not
completed by the date that is 1 year after
the date of enactment of this Act, the Sec-
retary shall submit to Congress a report
that—
(1) describes the status of the conveyance
and assignment;
(2) describes any obstacles to completing
the conveyance and assignment; and
(3) specifies an anticipated date for com-
pletion of the conveyance and assignment.
Subtitle E—Project Authorizations
SEC. 8401. EXTENSION OF EQUUS BEDS DIVISION
OF THE WICHITA PROJECT.
Section 10(h) of Public Law 86–787 (74 Stat.
1026; 120 Stat. 1474) is amended by striking
‘‘10 years’’ and inserting ‘‘20 years’’.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:26 Feb 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00118 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06FE6.048 S06FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S993
February 6, 2019
Subtitle F—Modifications of Existing
Programs
SEC. 8501. WATERSMART.
Section 9504 of the Omnibus Public Land
Management Act of 2009 (42 U.S.C. 10364) is
amended in subsection (a)—
(1) in paragraph (2)(A)—
(A) by striking ‘‘within the States’’ and in-
serting the following: ‘‘within—
‘‘(i) the States’’;
(B) in clause (i) (as so designated), by
striking ‘‘and’’ at the end; and
(C) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(ii) the State of Alaska; or
‘‘(iii) the State of Hawaii; and’’; and
(2) in paragraph (3)(B)—
(A) by redesignating clauses (i) and (ii) as
subclauses (I) and (II), respectively, and in-
denting appropriately;
(B) in the matter preceding subclause (I)
(as so redesignated), by striking ‘‘In car-
rying’’ and inserting the following:
‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in
clause (ii), in carrying’’; and
(C) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(ii) INDIAN TRIBES.—In the case of an eligi-
ble applicant that is an Indian tribe, in car-
rying out paragraph (1), the Secretary shall
not provide a grant, or enter into an agree-
ment, for an improvement to conserve irriga-
tion water unless the Indian tribe agrees
not—
‘‘(I) to use any associated water savings to
increase the total irrigated acreage more
than the water right of that Indian tribe, as
determined by—
‘‘(aa) a court decree;
‘‘(bb) a settlement;
‘‘(cc) a law; or
‘‘(dd) any combination of the authorities
described in items (aa) through (cc); or
‘‘(II) to otherwise increase the consump-
tive use of water more than the water right
of the Indian tribe described in subclause
(I).’’.
Subtitle G—Bureau of Reclamation
Transparency
SEC. 8601. DEFINITIONS.
In this part:
(1) ASSET.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The term ‘‘asset’’ means
any of the following assets that are used to
achieve the mission of the Bureau to man-
age, develop, and protect water and related
resources in an environmentally and eco-
nomically sound manner in the interest of
the people of the United States:
(i) Capitalized facilities, buildings, struc-
tures, project features, power production
equipment, recreation facilities, or quarters.
(ii) Capitalized and noncapitalized heavy
equipment and other installed equipment.
(B) INCLUSIONS.—The term ‘‘asset’’ includes
assets described in subparagraph (A) that are
considered to be mission critical.
(2) ASSET MANAGEMENT REPORT.—The term
‘‘Asset Management Report’’ means—
(A) the annual plan prepared by the Bureau
known as the ‘‘Asset Management Plan’’;
and
(B) any publicly available information re-
lating to the plan described in subparagraph
(A) that summarizes the efforts of the Bu-
reau to evaluate and manage infrastructure
assets of the Bureau.
(3) MAJOR REPAIR AND REHABILITATION
NEED.—The term ‘‘major repair and rehabili-
tation need’’ means major nonrecurring
maintenance at a Reclamation facility, in-
cluding maintenance related to the safety of
dams, extraordinary maintenance of dams,
deferred major maintenance activities, and
all other significant repairs and extraor-
dinary maintenance.
SEC. 8602. ASSET MANAGEMENT REPORT EN-
HANCEMENTS FOR RESERVED
WORKS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 2 years
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Secretary shall submit to Congress an Asset
Management Report that—
(1) describes the efforts of the Bureau—
(A) to maintain in a reliable manner all re-
served works at Reclamation facilities; and
(B) to standardize and streamline data re-
porting and processes across regions and
areas for the purpose of maintaining re-
served works at Reclamation facilities; and
(2) expands on the information otherwise
provided in an Asset Management Report, in
accordance with subsection (b).
(b) INFRASTRUCTURE MAINTENANCE NEEDS
ASSESSMENT.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Asset Management
Report submitted under subsection (a) shall
include—
(A) a detailed assessment of major repair
and rehabilitation needs for all reserved
works at all Reclamation projects; and
(B) to the maximum extent practicable, an
itemized list of major repair and rehabilita-
tion needs of individual Reclamation facili-
ties at each Reclamation project.
(2) INCLUSIONS.—To the maximum extent
practicable, the itemized list of major repair
and rehabilitation needs under paragraph
(1)(B) shall include—
(A) a budget level cost estimate of the ap-
propriations needed to complete each item;
and
(B) an assignment of a categorical rating
for each item, consistent with paragraph (3).
(3) RATING REQUIREMENTS.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The system for assigning
ratings under paragraph (2)(B) shall be—
(i) consistent with existing uniform cat-
egorization systems to inform the annual
budget process and agency requirements; and
(ii) subject to the guidance and instruc-
tions issued under subparagraph (B).
(B) GUIDANCE.—As soon as practicable after
the date of enactment of this Act, the Sec-
retary shall issue guidance that describes
the applicability of the rating system appli-
cable under paragraph (2)(B) to Reclamation
facilities.
(4) PUBLIC AVAILABILITY.—Except as pro-
vided in paragraph (5), the Secretary shall
make publicly available, including on the
internet, the Asset Management Report re-
quired under subsection (a).
(5) CONFIDENTIALITY.—The Secretary may
exclude from the public version of the Asset
Management Report made available under
paragraph (4) any information that the Sec-
retary identifies as sensitive or classified,
but shall make available to the Committee
on Energy and Natural Resources of the Sen-
ate and the Committee on Natural Resources
of the House of Representatives a version of
the report containing the sensitive or classi-
fied information.
(c) UPDATES.—Not later than 2 years after
the date on which the Asset Management Re-
port is submitted under subsection (a) and
biennially thereafter, the Secretary shall up-
date the Asset Management Report, subject
to the requirements of section 8603(b)(2).
(d) CONSULTATION.—To the extent that
such consultation would assist the Secretary
in preparing the Asset Management Report
under subsection (a) and updates to the
Asset Management Report under subsection
(c), the Secretary shall consult with—
(1) the Secretary of the Army (acting
through the Chief of Engineers); and
(2) water and power contractors.
SEC. 8603. ASSET MANAGEMENT REPORT EN-
HANCEMENTS FOR TRANSFERRED
WORKS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall co-
ordinate with the non-Federal entities re-
sponsible for the operation and maintenance
of transferred works in developing reporting
requirements for Asset Management Reports
with respect to major repair and rehabilita-
tion needs for transferred works that are
similar to the reporting requirements de-
scribed in section 8602(b).
(b) GUIDANCE.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—After considering input
from water and power contractors of the Bu-
reau, the Secretary shall develop and imple-
ment a rating system for transferred works
that incorporates, to the maximum extent
practicable, the rating system for major re-
pair and rehabilitation needs for reserved
works developed under section 8602(b)(3).
(2) UPDATES.—The ratings system devel-
oped under paragraph (1) shall be included in
the updated Asset Management Reports
under section 8602(c).
TITLE IX—MISCELLANEOUS
SEC. 9001. EVERY KID OUTDOORS ACT.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) FEDERAL LAND AND WATERS.—The term
‘‘Federal land and waters’’ means any Fed-
eral land or body of water under the jurisdic-
tion of any of the Secretaries to which the
public has access.
(2) PROGRAM.—The term ‘‘program’’ means
the Every Kid Outdoors program established
under subsection (b)(1).
(3) SECRETARIES.—The term ‘‘Secretaries’’
means—
(A) the Secretary, acting through—
(i) the Director of the National Park Serv-
ice;
(ii) the Director of the United States Fish
and Wildlife Service;
(iii) the Director of the Bureau of Land
Management; and
(iv) the Commissioner of Reclamation;
(B) the Secretary of Agriculture, acting
through the Chief of the Forest Service;
(C) the Secretary of Commerce, acting
through the Administrator of the National
Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration;
and
(D) the Secretary of the Army, acting
through the Assistant Secretary of the Army
for Civil Works.
(4) STATE.—The term ‘‘State’’ means each
of the several States, the District of Colum-
bia, American Samoa, Guam, the Northern
Mariana Islands, Puerto Rico, the Virgin Is-
lands of the United States, and any other
territory or possession of the United States.
(5) STUDENT OR STUDENTS.—The term ‘‘stu-
dent’’ or ‘‘students’’ means any fourth grader
or home-schooled learner 10 years of age re-
siding in the United States, including any
territory or possession of the United States.
(b) EVERY KID OUTDOORS PROGRAM.—
(1) ESTABLISHMENT.—The Secretaries shall
jointly establish a program, to be known as
the ‘‘Every Kid Outdoors program’’, to pro-
vide free access to Federal land and waters
for students and accompanying individuals
in accordance with this subsection.
(2) ANNUAL PASSES.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—At the request of a stu-
dent, the Secretaries shall issue a pass to the
student, which allows access to Federal
lands and waters for which access is subject
to an entrance, standard amenity, or day use
fee, free of charge for the student and—
(i) in the case of a per-vehicle fee area—
(I) any passengers accompanying the stu-
dent in a private, noncommercial vehicle; or
(II) not more than three adults accom-
panying the student on bicycles; or
(ii) in the case of a per-person fee area, not
more than three adults accompanying the
student.
(B) TERM.—A pass described in subpara-
graph (A) shall be effective during the period
beginning on September 1 and ending on Au-
gust 31 of the following year.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:26 Feb 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00119 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06FE6.048 S06FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S994 February 6, 2019
(C) PRESENCE OF A STUDENT IN GRADE FOUR
REQUIRED.—A pass described in subparagraph
(A) shall be effective only if the student to
which the pass was issued is present at the
point of entry to the applicable Federal land
or water.
(3) OTHER ACTIVITIES.—In carrying out the
program, the Secretaries—
(A) may collaborate with State Park sys-
tems that opt to implement a complemen-
tary Every Kid Outdoors State park pass;
(B) may coordinate with the Secretary of
Education to implement the program;
(C) shall maintain a publicly available
website with information about the program;
(D) may provide visitor services for the
program; and
(E) may support approved partners of the
Federal land and waters by providing the
partners with opportunities to participate in
the program.
(4) REPORTS.—The Secretary, in coordina-
tion with each Secretary described in sub-
paragraphs (B) through (D) of subsection
(a)(3), shall prepare a comprehensive report
to Congress each year describing—
(A) the implementation of the program;
(B) the number and geographical distribu-
tion of students who participated in the pro-
gram; and
(C) the number of passes described in para-
graph (2)(A) that were distributed.
(5) SUNSET.—The authorities provided in
this section, including the reporting require-
ment, shall expire on the date that is 7 years
after the date of enactment of this Act.
SEC. 9002. GOOD SAMARITAN SEARCH AND RE-
COVERY ACT.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) ELIGIBLE.—The term ‘‘eligible’’, with re-
spect to an organization or individual, means
that the organization or individual, respec-
tively, is—
(A) acting in a not-for-profit capacity; and
(B) composed entirely of members who, at
the time of the good Samaritan search-and-
recovery mission, have attained the age of
majority under the law of the State where
the mission takes place.
(2) GOOD SAMARITAN SEARCH-AND-RECOVERY
MISSION.—The term ‘‘good Samaritan search-
and-recovery mission’’ means a search con-
ducted by an eligible organization or indi-
vidual for 1 or more missing individuals be-
lieved to be deceased at the time that the
search is initiated.
(3) SECRETARY.—The term ‘‘Secretary’’
means the Secretary or the Secretary of Ag-
riculture, as applicable.
(b) PROCESS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Each Secretary shall de-
velop and implement a process to expedite
access to Federal land under the administra-
tive jurisdiction of the Secretary for eligible
organizations and individuals to request ac-
cess to Federal land to conduct good Samari-
tan search-and-recovery missions.
(2) INCLUSIONS.—The process developed and
implemented under this subsection shall in-
clude provisions to clarify that—
(A) an eligible organization or individual
granted access under this section—
(i) shall be acting for private purposes; and
(ii) shall not be considered to be a Federal
volunteer;
(B) an eligible organization or individual
conducting a good Samaritan search-and-re-
covery mission under this section shall not
be considered to be a volunteer under section
102301(c) of title 54, United States Code;
(C) chapter 171 of title 28, United States
Code (commonly known as the ‘‘Federal Tort
Claims Act’’), shall not apply to an eligible
organization or individual carrying out a pri-
vately requested good Samaritan search-and-
recovery mission under this section; and
(D) chapter 81 of title 5, United States Code
(commonly known as the ‘‘Federal Employ-
ees Compensation Act’’), shall not apply to
an eligible organization or individual con-
ducting a good Samaritan search-and-recov-
ery mission under this section, and the con-
duct of the good Samaritan search-and-re-
covery mission shall not constitute civilian
employment.
(c) RELEASE OF FEDERAL GOVERNMENT
FROM LIABILITY.—The Secretary shall not re-
quire an eligible organization or individual
to have liability insurance as a condition of
accessing Federal land under this section, if
the eligible organization or individual—
(1) acknowledges and consents, in writing,
to the provisions described in subparagraphs
(A) through (D) of subsection (b)(2); and
(2) signs a waiver releasing the Federal
Government from all liability relating to the
access granted under this section and agrees
to indemnify and hold harmless the United
States from any claims or lawsuits arising
from any conduct by the eligible organiza-
tion or individual on Federal land.
(d) APPROVAL AND DENIAL OF REQUESTS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall notify
an eligible organization or individual of the
approval or denial of a request by the eligi-
ble organization or individual to carry out a
good Samaritan search-and-recovery mission
under this section by not later than 48 hours
after the request is made.
(2) DENIALS.—If the Secretary denies a re-
quest from an eligible organization or indi-
vidual to carry out a good Samaritan search-
and-recovery mission under this section, the
Secretary shall notify the eligible organiza-
tion or individual of—
(A) the reason for the denial of the request;
and
(B) any actions that the eligible organiza-
tion or individual can take to meet the re-
quirements for the request to be approved.
(e) PARTNERSHIPS.—Each Secretary shall
develop search-and-recovery-focused partner-
ships with search-and-recovery organiza-
tions—
(1) to coordinate good Samaritan search-
and-recovery missions on Federal land under
the administrative jurisdiction of the Sec-
retary; and
(2) to expedite and accelerate good Samari-
tan search-and-recovery mission efforts for
missing individuals on Federal land under
the administrative jurisdiction of the Sec-
retary.
(f) REPORT.—Not later than 180 days after
the date of enactment of this Act, the Secre-
taries shall submit to Congress a joint report
describing—
(1) plans to develop partnerships described
in subsection (e)(1); and
(2) efforts carried out to expedite and ac-
celerate good Samaritan search-and-recov-
ery mission efforts for missing individuals on
Federal land under the administrative juris-
diction of each Secretary pursuant to sub-
section (e)(2).
SEC. 9003. 21ST CENTURY CONSERVATION SERV-
ICE CORPS ACT.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—Section 203 of the Public
Lands Corps Act of 1993 (16 U.S.C. 1722) is
amended—
(1) in paragraph (2), by striking ‘‘under sec-
tion 204’’ and inserting ‘‘by section 204(a)(1)’’;
(2) by redesignating paragraphs (8) through
(13) as paragraphs (9) through (14), respec-
tively;
(3) by inserting after paragraph (7) the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(8) INSTITUTION OF HIGHER EDUCATION.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—The term ‘institution of
higher education’ has the meaning given the
term in section 102 of the Higher Education
Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1002).
‘‘(B) EXCLUSION.—The term ‘institution of
higher education’ does not include—
‘‘(i) an institution described in section
101(b) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20
U.S.C. 1001(b)); or
‘‘(ii) an institution outside the United
States, as described in section 102(a)(1)(C) of
the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C.
1002(a)(1)(C)).’’;
(4) in paragraph (9) (as so redesignated)—
(A) in the matter preceding subparagraph
(A), by striking ‘‘, as follows’’ and inserting
‘‘and other conservation and restoration ini-
tiatives, as follows’’; and
(B) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(E) To protect, restore, or enhance ma-
rine, estuarine, riverine, and coastal habitat
ecosystem components—
‘‘(i) to promote the recovery of threatened
species, endangered species, and managed
fisheries;
‘‘(ii) to restore fisheries, protected re-
sources, and habitats impacted by oil and
chemical spills and natural disasters; or
‘‘(iii) to enhance the resilience of coastal
ecosystems, communities, and economies
through habitat conservation.’’;
(5) in subparagraph (A) of paragraph (11)
(as so redesignated), by striking ‘‘individuals
between the ages of 16 and 30, inclusive,’’ and
inserting ‘‘individuals between the ages of 16
and 30, inclusive, or veterans age 35 or
younger’’;
(6) in paragraph (13) (as so redesignated)—
(A) in subparagraph (A), by striking ‘‘and’’
at the end;
(B) in subparagraph (B), by striking the pe-
riod at the end and inserting ‘‘; and’’; and
(C) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(C) with respect to the National Marine
Sanctuary System, coral reefs, and other
coastal, estuarine, and marine habitats, and
other land and facilities administered by the
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Adminis-
tration, the Secretary of Commerce.’’; and
(7) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(15) VETERAN.—The term ‘veteran’ has the
meaning given the term in section 101 of
title 38, United States Code.’’.
(b) PUBLIC LANDS CORPS PROGRAM.—Sec-
tion 204 of the Public Lands Corps Act of 1993
(16 U.S.C. 1723) is amended—
(1) by striking subsection (a) and inserting
the following:
‘‘(a) ESTABLISHMENT OF PUBLIC LANDS
CORPS.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—There is established in
the Department of the Interior, the Depart-
ment of Agriculture, and the Department of
Commerce a corps, to be known as the ‘Pub-
lic Lands Corps’.
‘‘(2) NO EFFECT ON OTHER AGENCIES.—Noth-
ing in this subsection precludes the estab-
lishment of a public lands corps by the head
of a Federal department or agency other
than a department described in paragraph
(1), in accordance with this Act.’’;
(2) in subsection (b)—
(A) in the first sentence, by striking ‘‘indi-
viduals between the ages of 16 and 30, inclu-
sive,’’ and inserting ‘‘individuals between the
ages of 16 and 30, inclusive, and veterans age
35 or younger’’; and
(B) in the second sentence, by striking
‘‘section 137(b) of the National and Commu-
nity Service Act of 1990’’ and inserting
‘‘paragraphs (1), (2), (4), and (5) of section
137(a) of the National and Community Serv-
ice Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 12591(a))’’; and
(3) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(g) EFFECT.—Nothing in this section au-
thorizes the use of the Public Lands Corps
for projects on or impacting real property
owned by, operated by, or within the cus-
tody, control, or administrative jurisdiction
of the Administrator of General Services
without the express permission of the Ad-
ministrator of General Services.’’.
(c) TRANSPORTATION.—Section 205 of the
Public Lands Corps Act of 1993 (16 U.S.C.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:26 Feb 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00120 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06FE6.048 S06FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S995
February 6, 2019
1724) is amended by adding at the end the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(e) TRANSPORTATION.—The Secretary may
provide to Corps participants who reside in
their own homes transportation to and from
appropriate conservation project sites.’’.
(d) RESOURCE ASSISTANTS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Section 206(a) of the Pub-
lic Lands Corps Act of 1993 (16 U.S.C. 1725(a))
is amended by striking the first sentence and
inserting the following: ‘‘The Secretary may
provide individual placements of resource as-
sistants to carry out research or resource
protection activities on behalf of the Sec-
retary.’’.
(2) DIRECT HIRE AUTHORITY.—Section 121(a)
of the Department of the Interior, Environ-
ment, and Related Agencies Appropriations
Act, 2012 (16 U.S.C. 1725a), is amended—
(A) in paragraph (1)—
(i) by striking ‘‘Secretary of the Interior’’
and inserting ‘‘Secretary (as defined in sec-
tion 203 of the Public Lands Corps Act of 1993
(16 U.S.C. 1722))’’;
(ii) by striking ‘‘paragraph (1)’’ and insert-
ing ‘‘paragraph (2)’’; and
(iii) by striking ‘‘with a land managing
agency of the Department of the Interior’’;
and
(B) in paragraph (2)(A), by striking ‘‘with a
land managing agency’’ and inserting ‘‘with
the Secretary (as so defined)’’.
(e) COMPENSATION AND EMPLOYMENT STAND-
ARDS.—Section 207 of the Public Lands Corps
Act of 1993 (16 U.S.C. 1726) is amended—
(1) by striking the section heading and in-
serting ‘‘COMPENSATION AND TERMS OF SERV-
ICE’’;
(2) by redesignating subsections (b) and (c)
as subsections (c) and (d), respectively;
(3) by inserting after subsection (a) the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(b) EDUCATIONAL CREDIT.—The Secretary
may provide a Corps participant with an edu-
cational credit that may be applied toward a
program of postsecondary education at an
institution of higher education that agrees
to award the credit for participation in the
Corps.’’;
(4) in subsection (c) (as so redesignated)—
(A) by striking ‘‘Each participant’’ and in-
serting the following:
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Each participant’’; and
(B) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(2) INDIAN YOUTH SERVICE CORPS.—With re-
spect to the Indian Youth Service Corps es-
tablished under section 210, the Secretary
shall establish the term of service of partici-
pants in consultation with the affected In-
dian tribe.’’;
(5) in subsection (d) (as so redesignated)—
(A) by redesignating paragraphs (1) and (2)
as subparagraphs (A) and (B), respectively,
and indenting the subparagraphs appro-
priately;
(B) in the matter preceding subparagraph
(A) (as so redesignated), by striking ‘‘The
Secretary’’ and inserting the following:
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary’’; and
(C) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(2) TIME-LIMITED APPOINTMENT.—For pur-
poses of section 9602 of title 5, United States
Code, a former member of the Corps hired by
the Secretary under paragraph (1)(B) for a
time-limited appointment shall be consid-
ered to be appointed initially under open,
competitive examination.’’; and
(6) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(e) APPLICABILITY TO QUALIFIED YOUTH OR
CONSERVATION CORPS.—The hiring and com-
pensation standards described in this section
shall apply to any individual participating in
an appropriate conservation project through
a qualified youth or conservation corps, in-
cluding an individual placed through a con-
tract or cooperative agreement, as approved
by the Secretary.’’.
(f) REPORTING AND DATA COLLECTION.—
Title II of the Public Lands Corps Act of 1993
(16 U.S.C. 1721 et seq.) is amended—
(1) by redesignating sections 209 through
211 as sections 211 through 213, respectively;
(2) by inserting after section 208 the fol-
lowing:
‘‘SEC. 209. REPORTING AND DATA COLLECTION.
‘‘(a) REPORT.—Not later than 2 years after
the date of enactment of the Natural Re-
sources Management Act, and annually
thereafter, the Chief Executive Officer of the
Corporation for National and Community
Service, in coordination with the Secre-
taries, shall submit to Congress a report that
includes data on the Corps, including—
‘‘(1) the number of participants enrolled in
the Corps and the length of the term of serv-
ice for each participant;
‘‘(2) the projects carried out by Corps par-
ticipants, categorized by type of project and
Federal agency;
‘‘(3) the total amount and sources of fund-
ing provided for the service of participants;
‘‘(4) the type of service performed by par-
ticipants and the impact and accomplish-
ments of the service; and
‘‘(5) any other similar data determined to
be appropriate by the Chief Executive Officer
of the Corporation for National and Commu-
nity Service or the Secretaries.
‘‘(b) DATA.—Not later than 1 year after the
date of enactment of the Natural Resources
Management Act, and annually thereafter,
the Secretaries shall submit to the Chief Ex-
ecutive Officer of the Corporation for Na-
tional and Community Service the data de-
scribed in subsection (a).
‘‘(c) DATA COLLECTION.—The Chief Execu-
tive Officer of the Corporation for National
and Community Service may coordinate
with qualified youth or conservation corps to
improve the collection of the required data
described in subsection (a).
‘‘(d) COORDINATION.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretaries shall, to
the maximum extent practicable, coordinate
with each other to carry out activities au-
thorized under this Act, including—
‘‘(A) the data collection and reporting re-
quirements of this section; and
‘‘(B) implementing and issuing guidance on
eligibility for noncompetitive hiring status
under section 207(d).
‘‘(2) DESIGNATION OF COORDINATORS.—The
Secretary shall designate a coordinator to
coordinate and serve as the primary point of
contact for any activity of the Corps carried
out by the Secretary.’’; and
(3) in subsection (c) of section 212 (as so re-
designated), by striking ‘‘211’’ and inserting
‘‘213’’.
(g) INDIAN YOUTH SERVICE CORPS.—Title II
of the Public Lands Corps Act of 1993 (16
U.S.C. 1721 et seq.) (as amended by sub-
section (f)) is amended by inserting after sec-
tion 209 the following:
‘‘SEC. 210. INDIAN YOUTH SERVICE CORPS.
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—There is established
within the Public Lands Corps a program to
be known as the ‘Indian Youth Service
Corps’ that—
‘‘(1) enrolls participants between the ages
of 16 and 30, inclusive, and veterans age 35 or
younger, a majority of whom are Indians;
‘‘(2) is established pursuant to an agree-
ment between an Indian tribe and a qualified
youth or conservation corps for the benefit
of the members of the Indian tribe; and
‘‘(3) carries out appropriate conservation
projects on eligible service land.
‘‘(b) AUTHORIZATION OF COOPERATIVE
AGREEMENTS.—The Secretary may enter into
cooperative agreements with Indian tribes
and qualified youth or conservation corps for
the establishment and administration of the
Indian Youth Service Corps.
‘‘(c) GUIDELINES.—Not later than 18 months
after the date of enactment of the Natural
Resources Management Act, the Secretary of
the Interior, in consultation with Indian
tribes, shall issue guidelines for the manage-
ment of the Indian Youth Service Corps, in
accordance with this Act and any other ap-
plicable Federal laws.’’.
SEC. 9004. NATIONAL NORDIC MUSEUM ACT.
(a) DESIGNATION.—The Nordic Museum lo-
cated at 2655 N.W. Market Street, Seattle,
Washington, is designated as the ‘‘National
Nordic Museum’’.
(b) EFFECT OF DESIGNATION.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The museum designated
by subsection (a) is not a unit of the Na-
tional Park System.
(2) USE OF FEDERAL FUNDS.—The designa-
tion of the museum by subsection (a) shall
not require Federal funds to be expended for
any purpose related to the museum.
SEC. 9005. DESIGNATION OF NATIONAL GEORGE
C. MARSHALL MUSEUM AND LI-
BRARY.
(a) DESIGNATION.—The George C. Marshall
Museum and the George C. Marshall Re-
search Library in Lexington, Virginia, are
designated as the ‘‘National George C. Mar-
shall Museum and Library’’ (referred to in
this section as the ‘‘museum)’’.
(b) EFFECT OF DESIGNATION.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The museum designated
by subsection (a) is not a unit of the Na-
tional Park System.
(2) USE OF FEDERAL FUNDS.—The designa-
tion of the museum by subsection (a) shall
not require Federal funds to be expended for
any purpose related to the museum.
SEC. 9006. 21ST CENTURY RESPECT ACT.
(a) AMENDMENTS TO REGULATIONS RE-
QUIRED.—
(1) SECRETARY OF AGRICULTURE.—The Sec-
retary of Agriculture shall amend section
1901.202 of title 7, Code of Federal Regula-
tions, for purposes of—
(A) replacing the reference to the term
‘‘Negro or Black’’ with ‘‘Black or African
American’’;
(B) replacing the reference to the term
‘‘Spanish Surname’’ with ‘‘Hispanic’’; and
(C) replacing the reference to the term
‘‘Oriental’’ with ‘‘Asian American or Pacific
Islander’’.
(2) ADMINISTRATOR OF GENERAL SERVICES.—
The Administrator of General Services shall
amend section 906.2 of title 36, Code of Fed-
eral Regulations, for purposes of—
(A) replacing the references to the term
‘‘Negro’’ with ‘‘Black or African American’’;
(B) replacing the definition of ‘‘Negro’’
with the definition of ‘‘Black or African
American’’ as ‘‘ an individual having origins
in any of the Black racial groups of Africa’’;
(C) replacing the references to the term
‘‘Oriental’’ with ‘‘Asian American or Pacific
Islander’’; and
(D) replacing the references to the terms
‘‘Eskimo’’ and ‘‘Aleut’’ with ‘‘Alaska Na-
tive’’.
(b) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.—Nothing in
this section, or the amendments required by
this section, shall be construed to affect Fed-
eral law, except with respect to the use of
terms by the Secretary of Agriculture and
the Administrator of General Services, re-
spectively, to the regulations affected by
this section.
SEC. 9007. AMERICAN WORLD WAR II HERITAGE
CITIES.
(a) DESIGNATION.—In order to recognize and
ensure the continued preservation and im-
portance of the history of the United States
involvement in World War II, each calendar
year the Secretary may designate 1 or more
cities located in 1 of the several States or a
territory of the United States as an ‘‘Amer-
ican World War II Heritage City’’. Not more
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:26 Feb 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00121 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06FE6.048 S06FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S996 February 6, 2019
than 1 city in each State or territory may be
designated under this section.
(b) APPLICATION FOR DESIGNATION.—The
Secretary may—
(1) establish and publicize the process by
which a city may apply for designation as an
American World War II Heritage City based
on the criteria in subsection (c); and
(2) encourage cities to apply for designa-
tion as an American World War II Heritage
City.
(c) CRITERIA FOR DESIGNATION.—The Sec-
retary, in consultation with the Secretary of
the Smithsonian Institution or the President
of the National Trust for Historic Preserva-
tion, shall make each designation under sub-
section (a) based on the following criteria:
(1) Contributions by a city and its environs
to the World War II home-front war effort,
including contributions related to—
(A) defense manufacturing, such as ships,
aircraft, uniforms, and equipment;
(B) production of foodstuffs and consumer
items for Armed Forces and home consump-
tion;
(C) war bond drives;
(D) adaptations to wartime survival;
(E) volunteer participation;
(F) civil defense preparedness;
(G) personnel serving in the Armed Forces,
their achievements, and facilities for their
rest and recreation; or
(H) the presence of Armed Forces camps,
bases, airfields, harbors, repair facilities, and
other installations within or in its environs.
(2) Achievements by a city and its environs
to preserve the heritage and legacy of the
city’s contributions to the war effort and to
preserve World War II history, including—
(A) the identification, preservation, res-
toration, and interpretation of World War II-
related structures, facilities and sites;
(B) establishment of museums, parks, and
markers;
(C) establishment of memorials to area
men who lost their lives in service;
(D) organizing groups of veterans and
home-front workers and their recognition;
(E) presentation of cultural events such as
dances, plays, and lectures;
(F) public relations outreach through the
print and electronic media, and books; and
(G) recognition and ceremonies remem-
bering wartime event anniversaries.
SEC. 9008. QUINDARO TOWNSITE NATIONAL COM-
MEMORATIVE SITE.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) COMMEMORATIVE SITE.—The term ‘‘Com-
memorative Site’’ means the Quindaro
Townsite National Commemorative Site des-
ignated by subsection (b)(1).
(2) STATE.—The term ‘‘State’’ means the
State of Kansas.
(b) DESIGNATION.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Quindaro Townsite in
Kansas City, Kansas, as listed on the Na-
tional Register of Historic Places, is des-
ignated as the ‘‘Quindaro Townsite National
Commemorative Site’’.
(2) EFFECT OF DESIGNATION.—The Com-
memorative Site shall not be considered to
be a unit of the National Park System.
(c) COOPERATIVE AGREEMENTS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary, in con-
sultation with the State, Kansas City, Kan-
sas, and affected subdivisions of the State,
may enter into cooperative agreements with
appropriate public or private entities, for the
purposes of—
(A) protecting historic resources at the
Commemorative Site; and
(B) providing educational and interpretive
facilities and programs at the Commemora-
tive Site for the public.
(2) TECHNICAL AND FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE.—
The Secretary may provide technical and fi-
nancial assistance to any entity with which
the Secretary has entered into a cooperative
agreement under paragraph (1).
(d) NO EFFECT ON ACTIONS OF PROPERTY
OWNERS.—Designation of the Quindaro
Townsite as a National Commemorative Site
shall not prohibit any actions that may oth-
erwise be taken by a property owner (includ-
ing any owner of the Commemorative Site)
with respect to the property of the owner.
(e) NO EFFECT ON ADMINISTRATION.—Noth-
ing in this section affects the administration
of the Commemorative Site by Kansas City,
Kansas, or the State.
SEC. 9009. DESIGNATION OF NATIONAL COMEDY
CENTER IN JAMESTOWN, NEW YORK.
(a) CONGRESSIONAL RECOGNITION.—Con-
gress—
(1) recognizes that the National Comedy
Center, located in Jamestown, New York, is
the only museum of its kind that exists for
the exclusive purpose of celebrating comedy
in all its forms; and
(2) officially designates the National Com-
edy Center as the ‘‘National Comedy Center’’
(referred to in this section as the ‘‘Center’’).
(b) EFFECT OF RECOGNITION.—The National
Comedy Center recognized in this section is
not a unit of the National Park System and
the designation of the Center shall not be
construed to require or permit Federal funds
to be expended for any purpose related to the
Center.
SA 112. Ms. MURKOWSKI submitted
an amendment intended to be proposed
to amendment SA 111 submitted by Ms.
MURKOWSKI (for herself and Mr.
MANCHIN) and intended to be proposed
to the bill S. 47, to provide for the man-
agement of the natural resources of the
United States, and for other purposes;
which was ordered to lie on the table;
as follows:
Strike section 2402 and insert the fol-
lowing:
SEC. 2402. HISTORICALLY BLACK COLLEGES AND
UNIVERSITIES HISTORIC PRESERVA-
TION PROGRAM REAUTHORIZED.
Section 507(d)(2) of the Omnibus Parks and
Public Lands Management Act of 1996 (54
U.S.C. 302101 note) is amended by striking
the period at the end and inserting ‘‘and
each of fiscal years 2019 through 2025.’’.
SA 113. Mr. BENNET submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed by
him to the bill S. 47, to provide for the
management of the natural resources
of the United States, and for other pur-
poses; which was ordered to lie on the
table; as follows:
At the end of title I, add the following:
Subtitle F—Colorado Outdoor Recreation
SEC. 1501. FINDINGS.
Congress finds that—
(1) Coloradans value public land and have a
long and proud history of balanced, varied,
sustainable use of public land for agri-
culture, energy development, recreation, and
other purposes;
(2) public land—
(A) is an essential part of the Colorado way
of life and what makes the State a desirable
place to live, work, and visit; and
(B) provides for—
(i) a clean water supply;
(ii) access to recreational opportunities,
including hiking, backpacking, camping,
mountain biking, skiing, climbing,
snowmobiling, off-highway vehicle travel,
and rafting;
(iii) high-quality wildlife habitat and mi-
gration corridors that support at-risk species
and big game animals important to hunters
and anglers across the United States; and
(iv) grazing land that supports the agricul-
tural economy of the State;
(3) outdoor recreation on public land is a
key component of the economy of the State,
supporting large and small businesses and
communities statewide;
(4) according to the Outdoor Industry Asso-
ciation—
(A) 71 percent of Colorado residents par-
ticipate in outdoor recreation each year; and
(B) in Colorado, outdoor recreation gen-
erates—
(i) $28,000,000,000 in consumer spending an-
nually;
(ii) 229,000 direct jobs;
(iii) $9,700,000,000 in wages and salaries; and
(iv) $2,000,000,000 in State and local tax rev-
enue;
(5) the wilderness, conservation, and recre-
ation areas in this subtitle will—
(A) protect—
(i) 3 highly visible mountain peaks with an
elevation of at least 14,000 feet (commonly
known as ‘‘Fourteeners’’), including Mt.
Sneffels, Wilson Peak, and Quandary Peak;
and
(ii) many well-known smaller peaks;
(B) preserve iconic landscapes across Colo-
rado;
(C) conserve important wildlife habitat;
(D) safeguard important watersheds that
provide many communities a supply of clean
drinking water;
(E) protect valuable, high-quality land for
biking, skiing, and other road- and trail-
based recreation; and
(F) provide access to world-class hunting
and fishing opportunities;
(6) the Camp Hale National Historic Land-
scape designation honors the legacy of the
10th Mountain Division, the members of
which—
(A) trained at Camp Hale;
(B) contributed to the United States vic-
tory during World War II; and
(C) went on to help create the modern out-
door industry in Colorado, including several
iconic Colorado ski areas;
(7) the Thompson Divide in western Colo-
rado—
(A) supports a robust agriculture-based
economy;
(B) provides outstanding recreation and
hunting opportunities to the public;
(C) serves as important spring and summer
grazing land for ranching operations; and
(D) was described by President Theodore
Roosevelt as a ‘‘great, wild country’’;
(8) the National Park Service has formally
recommended that Congress legislatively es-
tablish Curecanti as a National Recreation
Area with a new legislative boundary;
(9) Curecanti National Recreation Area—
(A) includes an abundance of natural fea-
tures in a setting of reservoirs, canyons, pin-
nacles, cliffs, and mesas;
(B) includes Blue Mesa Reservoir, the larg-
est body of water entirely contained in Colo-
rado and home to an outstanding fishery;
(C) offers the public outstanding opportu-
nities for recreation; and
(D) is 1 of the few remaining units of the
National Park Service that has never been
legislatively established by Congress;
(10) the provisions contained in this sub-
title are the result of years-long, locally
driven, collaborative efforts from a diverse
set of stakeholders regarding the manage-
ment of public land in Colorado; and
(11) this subtitle will provide long-term
certainty for management of public land in
Colorado, protecting the relevant areas in
perpetuity for the benefit of the people of the
United States.
SEC. 1502. DEFINITION OF STATE.
In this subtitle, the term ‘‘State’’ means
the State of Colorado.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:39 Feb 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00122 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06FE6.048 S06FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S997
February 6, 2019
PART I—CONTINENTAL DIVIDE
SEC. 1511. DEFINITIONS.
In this part:
(1) COVERED AREA.—The term ‘‘covered
area’’ means any area designated as wilder-
ness by the amendments to section 2(a) of
the Colorado Wilderness Act of 1993 (16
U.S.C. 1132 note; Public Law 103–77) made by
section 1512(a).
(2) HISTORIC LANDSCAPE.—The term ‘‘His-
toric Landscape’’ means the Camp Hale Na-
tional Historic Landscape designated by sec-
tion 1517(a).
(3) RECREATION MANAGEMENT AREA.—The
term ‘‘Recreation Management Area’’ means
the Tenmile Recreation Management Area
designated by section 1514(a).
(4) SECRETARY.—The term ‘‘Secretary’’
means the Secretary of Agriculture.
(5) WILDLIFE CONSERVATION AREA.—The
term ‘‘Wildlife Conservation Area’’ means, as
applicable—
(A) the Porcupine Gulch Wildlife Conserva-
tion Area designated by section 1515(a); and
(B) the Williams Fork Wildlife Conserva-
tion Area designated by section 1516(a).
SEC. 1512. COLORADO WILDERNESS ADDITIONS.
(a) DESIGNATION.—Section 2(a) of the Colo-
rado Wilderness Act of 1993 (16 U.S.C. 1132
note; Public Law 103–77) is amended—
(1) in paragraph (18), by striking ‘‘1993,’’
and inserting ‘‘1993, and certain Federal land
within the White River National Forest that
comprises approximately 6,876 acres, as gen-
erally depicted as ‘Proposed Ptarmigan Peak
Wilderness Additions’ on the map entitled
‘Proposed Ptarmigan Peak Wilderness Addi-
tions’ and dated January 23, 2018,’’; and
(2) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(23) HOLY CROSS WILDERNESS ADDITION.—
Certain Federal land within the White River
National Forest that comprises approxi-
mately 3,902 acres, as generally depicted as
‘Proposed Megan Dickie Wilderness Addi-
tion’ on the map entitled ‘Holy Cross Wilder-
ness Addition Proposal’ and dated January
23, 2018, which shall be incorporated into,
and managed as part of, the Holy Cross Wil-
derness designated by section 102(a)(5) of
Public Law 96–560 (94 Stat. 3266).
‘‘(24) HOOSIER RIDGE WILDERNESS.—Certain
Federal land within the White River Na-
tional Forest that comprises approximately
5,235 acres, as generally depicted on the map
entitled ‘Tenmile Proposal’ and dated Janu-
ary 23, 2018, which shall be known as the
‘Hoosier Ridge Wilderness’.
‘‘(25) TENMILE WILDERNESS.—Certain Fed-
eral land within the White River National
Forest that comprises approximately 7,606
acres, as generally depicted as ‘Proposed
Tenmile Wilderness’ on the map entitled
‘Tenmile Proposal’ and dated January 23,
2018, which shall be known as the ‘Tenmile
Wilderness’.
‘‘(26) EAGLES NEST WILDERNESS ADDITIONS.—
Certain Federal land within the White River
National Forest that comprises approxi-
mately 9,419 acres, as generally depicted as
‘Proposed Freeman Creek Wilderness Addi-
tion’ and ‘Proposed Spraddle Creek Wilder-
ness Addition’ on the map entitled ‘Eagles
Nest Wilderness Additions Proposal’ and
dated January 23, 2018, which shall be incor-
porated into, and managed as part of, the Ea-
gles Nest Wilderness designated by Public
Law 94–352 (90 Stat. 870).’’.
(b) APPLICABLE LAW.—Any reference in the
Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.) to the
effective date of that Act shall be considered
to be a reference to the date of enactment of
this Act for purposes of administering a cov-
ered area.
(c) FIRE, INSECTS, AND DISEASES.—In ac-
cordance with section 4(d)(1) of the Wilder-
ness Act (16 U.S.C. 1133(d)(1)), the Secretary
may carry out any activity in a covered area
that the Secretary determines to be nec-
essary for the control of fire, insects, and
diseases, subject to such terms and condi-
tions as the Secretary determines to be ap-
propriate.
(d) GRAZING.—The grazing of livestock on a
covered area, if established before the date of
enactment of this Act, shall be permitted to
continue subject to such reasonable regula-
tions as are considered to be necessary by
the Secretary, in accordance with—
(1) section 4(d)(4) of the Wilderness Act (16
U.S.C. 1133(d)(4)); and
(2) the guidelines set forth in Appendix A
of the report of the Committee on Interior
and Insular Affairs of the House of Rep-
resentatives accompanying H.R. 2570 of the
101st Congress (H. Rept. 101–405).
(e) COORDINATION.—For purposes of admin-
istering the Federal land designated as wil-
derness by paragraph (26) of section 2(a) of
the Colorado Wilderness Act of 1993 (16
U.S.C. 1132 note; Public Law 103–77) (as added
by subsection (a)(2)), the Secretary shall, as
determined to be appropriate for the protec-
tion of watersheds, coordinate the activities
of the Secretary in response to fires and
flooding events with interested State and
local agencies, including operations using
aircraft or mechanized equipment.
SEC. 1513. WILLIAMS FORK WILDERNESS.
(a) DESIGNATION.—In furtherance of the
purposes of the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131
et seq.), certain Federal land in the White
River National Forest in the State, com-
prising approximately 8,192 acres and gen-
erally depicted as ‘‘Proposed Williams Fork
Wilderness’’ on the map entitled ‘‘Williams
Fork Proposal’’ and dated January 23, 2018, is
designated as a potential wilderness area.
(b) MANAGEMENT.—Subject to valid exist-
ing rights and except as provided in sub-
section (d), the potential wilderness area
designated by subsection (a) shall be man-
aged in accordance with—
(1) the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et
seq.); and
(2) this section.
(c) LIVESTOCK USE OF VACANT ALLOT-
MENTS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 3 years
after the date of enactment of this Act, in
accordance with applicable laws (including
regulations), the Secretary shall publish a
determination regarding whether to author-
ize livestock grazing or other use by live-
stock on the vacant allotments known as—
(A) the ‘‘Big Hole Allotment’’; and
(B) the ‘‘Blue Ridge Allotment’’.
(2) MODIFICATION OF ALLOTMENTS.—In pub-
lishing a determination pursuant to para-
graph (1), the Secretary may modify or com-
bine the vacant allotments referred to in
that paragraph.
(3) PERMIT OR OTHER AUTHORIZATION.—Not
later than 1 year after the date on which a
determination of the Secretary to authorize
livestock grazing or other use by livestock is
published under paragraph (1), if applicable,
the Secretary shall grant a permit or other
authorization for that livestock grazing or
other use.
(d) RANGE IMPROVEMENTS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—If the Secretary permits
livestock grazing or other use by livestock
on the potential wilderness area under sub-
section (c), the Secretary, or a third party
authorized by the Secretary, may use any
motorized or mechanized transport or equip-
ment for purposes of constructing or reha-
bilitating such range improvements as are
necessary to obtain appropriate livestock
management objectives (including habitat
and watershed restoration).
(2) TERMINATION OF AUTHORITY.—The au-
thority provided by this subsection termi-
nates on the date that is 2 years after the
date on which the Secretary publishes a posi-
tive determination under subsection (c)(3).
(e) DESIGNATION AS WILDERNESS.—
(1) DESIGNATION.—The potential wilderness
area designated by subsection (a) shall be
designated as wilderness, to be known as the
‘‘Williams Fork Wilderness’’—
(A) effective not earlier than the date that
is 180 days after the date of enactment this
Act; and
(B) on the earliest of—
(i) the date on which the Secretary pub-
lishes in the Federal Register a notice that
the construction or rehabilitation of range
improvements under subsection (d) is com-
plete;
(ii) the date described in subsection (d)(2);
and
(iii) the effective date of a determination
of the Secretary not to authorize livestock
grazing or other use by livestock under sub-
section (c)(1).
(2) ADMINISTRATION.—Subject to valid ex-
isting rights, the Secretary shall manage the
Williams Fork Wilderness in accordance
with—
(A) the Colorado Wilderness Act of 1993 (16
U.S.C. 1132 note; Public Law 103–77); and
(B) this part.
SEC. 1514. TENMILE RECREATION MANAGEMENT
AREA.
(a) DESIGNATION.—Subject to valid existing
rights, the approximately 16,996 acres of Fed-
eral land in the White River National Forest
in the State depicted as ‘‘Proposed Tenmile
Recreation Management Area’’ on the map
entitled ‘‘Tenmile Proposal’’ and dated Janu-
ary 23, 2018, are designated as the ‘‘Tenmile
Recreation Management Area’’.
(b) PURPOSES.—The purposes of the Recre-
ation Management Area are to conserve, pro-
tect, and enhance for the benefit and enjoy-
ment of present and future generations the
recreational, scenic, watershed, habitat, and
ecological resources of the Recreation Man-
agement Area.
(c) MANAGEMENT.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall man-
age the Recreation Management Area—
(A) in a manner that conserves, protects,
and enhances—
(i) the purposes of the Recreation Manage-
ment Area described in subsection (b); and
(ii) recreation opportunities, including
mountain biking, hiking, fishing, horseback
riding, snowshoeing, climbing, skiing, camp-
ing, and hunting; and
(B) in accordance with—
(i) the Forest and Rangeland Renewable
Resources Planning Act of 1974 (16 U.S.C. 1600
et seq.);
(ii) any other applicable laws (including
regulations); and
(iii) this section.
(2) USES.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall only
allow such uses of the Recreation Manage-
ment Area as the Secretary determines
would further the purposes described in sub-
section (b).
(B) VEHICLES.—
(i) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in
clause (iii), the use of motorized vehicles in
the Recreation Management Area shall be
limited to the roads, vehicle classes, and pe-
riods authorized for motorized vehicle use on
the date of enactment of this Act.
(ii) NEW OR TEMPORARY ROADS.—Except as
provided in clause (iii), no new or temporary
road shall be constructed in the Recreation
Management Area.
(iii) EXCEPTIONS.—Nothing in clause (i) or
(ii) prevents the Secretary from—
(I) rerouting or closing an existing road or
trail to protect natural resources from deg-
radation, as the Secretary determines to be
appropriate;
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:39 Feb 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00123 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06FE6.039 S06FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S998 February 6, 2019
(II) authorizing the use of motorized vehi-
cles for administrative purposes or roadside
camping;
(III) constructing temporary roads or per-
mitting the use of motorized vehicles to
carry out pre- or post-fire watershed protec-
tion projects;
(IV) authorizing the use of motorized vehi-
cles to carry out any activity described in
subsection (d), (e)(1), or (f); or
(V) responding to an emergency.
(C) COMMERCIAL TIMBER.—
(i) IN GENERAL.—Subject to clause (ii), no
project shall be carried out in the Recreation
Management Area for the purpose of har-
vesting commercial timber.
(ii) LIMITATION.—Nothing in clause (i) pre-
vents the Secretary from harvesting or sell-
ing a merchantable product that is a byprod-
uct of an activity authorized under this sec-
tion.
(d) FIRE, INSECTS, AND DISEASES.—The Sec-
retary may carry out any activity, in ac-
cordance with applicable laws (including reg-
ulations), that the Secretary determines to
be necessary to prevent, control, or mitigate
fire, insects, or disease in the Recreation
Management Area, subject to such terms and
conditions as the Secretary determines to be
appropriate.
(e) WATER.—
(1) EFFECT ON WATER MANAGEMENT INFRA-
STRUCTURE.—Nothing in this section affects
the construction, repair, reconstruction, re-
placement, operation, maintenance, or ren-
ovation within the Recreation Management
Area of—
(A) water management infrastructure in
existence on the date of enactment of this
Act; or
(B) any future infrastructure necessary for
the development or exercise of water rights
decreed before the date of enactment of this
Act.
(2) APPLICABLE LAW.—Section 3(e) of the
James Peak Wilderness and Protection Area
Act (Public Law 107–216; 116 Stat. 1058) shall
apply to the Recreation Management Area.
(f) REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION PROJECTS.—
Nothing in this section precludes the Sec-
retary from authorizing, in accordance with
applicable laws (including regulations), the
use or leasing of Federal land within the
Recreation Management Area for—
(1) a regional transportation project, in-
cluding—
(A) highway widening or realignment; and
(B) construction of multimodal transpor-
tation systems; or
(2) any infrastructure, activity, or safety
measure associated with the implementation
or use of a facility constructed under para-
graph (1).
(g) APPLICABLE LAW.—Nothing in this sec-
tion affects the designation of the Federal
land within the Recreation Management
Area for purposes of—
(1) section 138 of title 23, United States
Code; or
(2) section 303 of title 49, United States
Code.
(h) PERMITS.—Nothing in this section al-
ters or limits—
(1) any permit held by a ski area or other
entity; or
(2) the acceptance, review, or implementa-
tion of associated activities or facilities pro-
posed or authorized by law or permit outside
the boundaries of the Recreation Manage-
ment Area.
SEC. 1515. PORCUPINE GULCH WILDLIFE CON-
SERVATION AREA.
(a) DESIGNATION.—Subject to valid existing
rights, the approximately 8,176 acres of Fed-
eral land located in the White River National
Forest, as generally depicted on the map en-
titled ‘‘Porcupine Gulch Wildlife Conserva-
tion Area Proposal’’ and dated January 23,
2018, are designated as the ‘‘Porcupine Gulch
Wildlife Conservation Area’’ (referred to in
this section as the ‘‘Wildlife Conservation
Area’’).
(b) PURPOSES.—The purposes of the Wild-
life Conservation Area are—
(1) to conserve and protect a wildlife mi-
gration corridor over Interstate 70; and
(2) to conserve, protect, and enhance for
the benefit and enjoyment of present and fu-
ture generations the wildlife, scenic,
roadless, watershed, and ecological resources
of the Wildlife Conservation Area.
(c) MANAGEMENT.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall man-
age the Wildlife Conservation Area—
(A) in a manner that conserves, protects,
and enhances the purposes described in sub-
section (b); and
(B) in accordance with—
(i) the Forest and Rangeland Renewable
Resources Planning Act of 1974 (16 U.S.C. 1600
et seq.);
(ii) any other applicable laws (including
regulations); and
(iii) this section.
(2) USES.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall only
allow such uses of the Wildlife Conservation
Area as the Secretary determines would fur-
ther the purposes described in subsection (b).
(B) RECREATION.—The Secretary may per-
mit such recreational activities in the Wild-
life Conservation Area that the Secretary de-
termines are consistent with the purposes
described in subsection (b).
(C) MOTORIZED VEHICLES AND MECHANIZED
TRANSPORT; NEW OR TEMPORARY ROADS.—
(i) MOTORIZED VEHICLES AND MECHANIZED
TRANSPORT.—Except as provided in clause
(iii), the use of motorized vehicles and
mechanized transport in the Wildlife Con-
servation Area shall be prohibited.
(ii) NEW OR TEMPORARY ROADS.—Except as
provided in clause (iii) and subsection (e), no
new or temporary road shall be constructed
within the Wildlife Conservation Area.
(iii) EXCEPTIONS.—Nothing in clause (i) or
(ii) prevents the Secretary from—
(I) authorizing the use of motorized vehi-
cles or mechanized transport for administra-
tive purposes;
(II) constructing temporary roads or per-
mitting the use of motorized vehicles or
mechanized transport to carry out pre- or
post-fire watershed protection projects;
(III) authorizing the use of motorized vehi-
cles or mechanized transport to carry out ac-
tivities described in subsection (d) or (e); or
(IV) responding to an emergency.
(D) COMMERCIAL TIMBER.—
(i) IN GENERAL.—Subject to clause (ii), no
project shall be carried out in the Wildlife
Conservation Area for the purpose of har-
vesting commercial timber.
(ii) LIMITATION.—Nothing in clause (i) pre-
vents the Secretary from harvesting or sell-
ing a merchantable product that is a byprod-
uct of an activity authorized under this sec-
tion.
(d) FIRE, INSECTS, AND DISEASES.—The Sec-
retary may carry out any activity, in ac-
cordance with applicable laws (including reg-
ulations), that the Secretary determines to
be necessary to prevent, control, and miti-
gate fire, insects, and diseases in the Wildlife
Conservation Area, subject to such terms
and conditions as the Secretary determines
to be appropriate.
(e) REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION PROJECTS.—
Nothing in this section precludes the Sec-
retary from authorizing, in accordance with
applicable laws (including regulations), the
use or leasing of Federal land within the
Wildlife Conservation Area for—
(1) a regional transportation project, in-
cluding—
(A) highway widening or realignment; and
(B) construction of multimodal transpor-
tation systems; or
(2) any infrastructure, activity, or safety
measure associated with the implementation
or use of a facility constructed under para-
graph (1).
(f) APPLICABLE LAW.—Nothing in this sec-
tion affects the designation of the Federal
land within the Wildlife Conservation Area
for purposes of—
(1) section 138 of title 23, United States
Code; or
(2) section 303 of title 49, United States
Code.
(g) WATER.—Section 3(e) of the James Peak
Wilderness and Protection Area Act (Public
Law 107–216; 116 Stat. 1058) shall apply to the
Wildlife Conservation Area.
SEC. 1516. WILLIAMS FORK WILDLIFE CONSERVA-
TION AREA.
(a) DESIGNATION.—Subject to valid existing
rights, the approximately 3,492 acres of Fed-
eral land in the White River National Forest
in the State, as generally depicted on the
map entitled ‘‘Williams Fork Proposal’’ and
dated January 23, 2018, are designated as the
‘‘Williams Fork Wildlife Conservation Area’’
(referred to in this section as the ‘‘Wildlife
Conservation Area’’).
(b) PURPOSES.—The purposes of the Wild-
life Conservation Area are to conserve, pro-
tect, and enhance for the benefit and enjoy-
ment of present and future generations the
wildlife, scenic, roadless, watershed, rec-
reational, and ecological resources of the
Wildlife Conservation Area.
(c) MANAGEMENT.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall man-
age the Wildlife Conservation Area—
(A) in a manner that conserves, protects,
and enhances the purposes described in sub-
section (b); and
(B) in accordance with—
(i) the Forest and Rangeland Renewable
Resources Planning Act of 1974 (16 U.S.C. 1600
et seq.);
(ii) any other applicable laws (including
regulations); and
(iii) this section.
(2) USES.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall only
allow such uses of the Wildlife Conservation
Area as the Secretary determines would fur-
ther the purposes described in subsection (b).
(B) MOTORIZED VEHICLES.—
(i) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in
clause (iii), the use of motorized vehicles in
the Wildlife Conservation Area shall be lim-
ited to designated roads and trails.
(ii) NEW OR TEMPORARY ROADS.—Except as
provided in clause (iii), no new or temporary
road shall be constructed in the Wildlife
Conservation Area.
(iii) EXCEPTIONS.—Nothing in clause (i) or
(ii) prevents the Secretary from—
(I) authorizing the use of motorized vehi-
cles for administrative purposes;
(II) authorizing the use of motorized vehi-
cles to carry out activities described in sub-
section (d); or
(III) responding to an emergency.
(C) BICYCLES.—The use of bicycles in the
Wildlife Conservation Area shall be limited
to designated roads and trails.
(D) COMMERCIAL TIMBER.—
(i) IN GENERAL.—Subject to clause (ii), no
project shall be carried out in the Wildlife
Conservation Area for the purpose of har-
vesting commercial timber.
(ii) LIMITATION.—Nothing in clause (i) pre-
vents the Secretary from harvesting or sell-
ing a merchantable product that is a byprod-
uct of an activity authorized under this sec-
tion.
(E) GRAZING.—The laws (including regula-
tions) and policies followed by the Secretary
in issuing and administering grazing permits
or leases on land under the jurisdiction of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:39 Feb 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00124 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06FE6.039 S06FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S999
February 6, 2019
the Secretary shall continue to apply with
regard to the land in the Wildlife Conserva-
tion Area, consistent with the purposes de-
scribed in subsection (b).
(d) FIRE, INSECTS, AND DISEASES.—The Sec-
retary may carry out any activity, in ac-
cordance with applicable laws (including reg-
ulations), that the Secretary determines to
be necessary to prevent, control, or mitigate
fire, insects, or disease in the Wildlife Con-
servation Area, subject to such terms and
conditions as the Secretary determines to be
appropriate.
(e) REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION PROJECTS.—
Nothing in this section precludes the Sec-
retary from authorizing, in accordance with
applicable laws (including regulations), the
use or leasing of Federal land within the
Wildlife Conservation Area for—
(1) a regional transportation project, in-
cluding—
(A) highway widening or realignment; and
(B) construction of multimodal transpor-
tation systems; or
(2) any infrastructure, activity, or safety
measure associated with the implementation
or use of a facility constructed under para-
graph (1).
(f) WATER.—Section 3(e) of the James Peak
Wilderness and Protection Area Act (Public
Law 107–216; 116 Stat. 1058) shall apply to the
Wildlife Conservation Area.
SEC. 1517. CAMP HALE NATIONAL HISTORIC
LANDSCAPE.
(a) DESIGNATION.—Subject to valid existing
rights, the approximately 28,728 acres of Fed-
eral land in the White River National Forest
in the State depicted as ‘‘Proposed Camp
Hale National Historic Landscape’’ on the
map entitled ‘‘Camp Hale National Historic
Landscape Proposal’’ and dated January 23,
2018, are designated the ‘‘Camp Hale Na-
tional Historic Landscape’’.
(b) PURPOSES.—The purposes of the His-
toric Landscape are—
(1) to provide for—
(A) the interpretation of historic events,
activities, structures, and artifacts of the
Historic Landscape, including with respect
to the role of the Historic Landscape in
local, national, and world history;
(B) the historic preservation of the His-
toric Landscape, consistent with—
(i) the designation of the Historic Land-
scape as a national historic site; and
(ii) the other purposes of the Historic
Landscape;
(C) recreational opportunities, with an em-
phasis on the activities related to the his-
toric use of the Historic Landscape, includ-
ing skiing, snowshoeing, snowmobiling, hik-
ing, horseback riding, climbing, other road-
and trail-based activities, and other outdoor
activities; and
(D) the continued cleanup of unexploded
ordnance and legacy hazards at the Camp
Hale Formerly Used Defense Site and the
Camp Hale historic cantonment area; and
(2) to conserve, protect, restore, and en-
hance for the benefit and enjoyment of
present and future generations the scenic,
watershed, and ecological resources of the
Historic Landscape.
(c) MANAGEMENT.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall man-
age the Historic Landscape in accordance
with—
(A) the purposes of the Historic Landscape
described in subsection (b); and
(B) any other applicable laws (including
regulations).
(2) MANAGEMENT PLAN.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 5 years
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Secretary shall prepare a management plan
for the Historic Landscape.
(B) CONTENTS.—The management plan pre-
pared under subparagraph (A) shall include
plans for—
(i) improving the interpretation of historic
events, activities, structures, and artifacts
of the Historic Landscape, including with re-
spect to the role of the Historic Landscape in
local, national, and world history;
(ii) conducting historic preservation ac-
tivities;
(iii) managing recreational opportunities,
including the use and stewardship of—
(I) the road and trail systems; and
(II) dispersed recreation resources;
(iv) the conservation, protection, restora-
tion, or enhancement of the scenic, water-
shed, and ecological resources of the Historic
Landscape, including conducting the restora-
tion and enhancement project under sub-
section (d); and
(v) consistent with subsection (e)(2), the re-
moval of unexploded ordnance and other leg-
acy hazards.
(3) ENVIRONMENTAL HAZARDS.—The Sec-
retary shall provide to the Secretary of the
Army a notification of any unexploded ord-
nance (as defined in section 101(e) of title 10,
United States Code) that is discovered in the
Historic Landscape.
(d) CAMP HALE RESTORATION AND ENHANCE-
MENT PROJECT.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall con-
duct a restoration and enhancement project
in the Historic Landscape—
(A) to improve aquatic, riparian, and wet-
land conditions in and along the Eagle River
and tributaries of the Eagle River;
(B) to maintain or improve recreation and
interpretive opportunities and facilities; and
(C) to conserve historic values in the Camp
Hale area.
(2) COORDINATION.—In carrying out the
project described in paragraph (1), the Sec-
retary shall coordinate with—
(A) the Corps of Engineers;
(B) the Camp Hale-Eagle River Headwaters
Collaborative Group;
(C) the National Forest Foundation;
(D) the Colorado Department of Public
Health and Environment;
(E) the Colorado State Historic Preserva-
tion Office;
(F) units of local government; and
(G) other interested organizations and
members of the public.
(e) ENVIRONMENTAL REMEDIATION.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary of the
Army shall continue to carry out the
projects and activities of the Department of
the Army in existence on the date of enact-
ment of this Act relating to cleanup of—
(A) the Camp Hale Formerly Used Defense
Site; or
(B) the Camp Hale historic cantonment
area.
(2) REMOVAL OF UNEXPLODED ORDNANCE.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary of the
Army may remove unexploded ordnance (as
defined in section 101(e) of title 10, United
States Code) from the Historic Landscape, as
the Secretary of the Army determines to be
appropriate—
(i) in any case in which the unexploded
ordnance interferes with the management of
the Historic Landscape; or
(ii) to ensure public safety.
(B) ACTION ON RECEIPT OF NOTICE.—On re-
ceipt from the Secretary of a notification of
unexploded ordnance under subsection (c)(3),
the Secretary of the Army may remove the
unexploded ordnance in accordance with—
(i) the program for environmental restora-
tion of formerly used defense sites under sec-
tion 2701 of title 10, United States Code;
(ii) the Comprehensive Environmental Re-
sponse, Compensation, and Liability Act of
1980 (42 U.S.C. 9601 et seq.); and
(iii) any other applicable provision of law
(including regulations).
(3) EFFECT OF SUBSECTION.—Nothing in this
subsection modifies any obligation in exist-
ence on the date of enactment of this Act re-
lating to the remediation or cleanup of any
unexploded ordnance or legacy environ-
mental hazard located in or around the Camp
Hale historic cantonment area, the Camp
Hale Formerly Used Defense Site, or the His-
toric Landscape, including such an obliga-
tion under—
(A) the program for environmental restora-
tion of formerly used defense sites under sec-
tion 2701 of title 10, United States Code;
(B) the Comprehensive Environmental Re-
sponse, Compensation, and Liability Act of
1980 (42 U.S.C. 9601 et seq.); or
(C) any other applicable provision of law
(including regulations).
(f) INTERAGENCY AGREEMENT.—The Sec-
retary and the Secretary of the Army shall
enter into an agreement—
(1) to specify—
(A) the responsibility of the Secretary to
manage the Historic Landscape; and
(B) the responsibility of the Secretary of
the Army for the removal of unexploded ord-
nance and other legacy hazards in accord-
ance with subsection (e) and other applicable
laws; and
(2) to require the Secretary to provide to
the Secretary of the Army, by not later than
1 year after the date of enactment of this
Act and periodically thereafter, as appro-
priate, a management plan for the Historic
Landscape for purposes of the removal ac-
tivities described in subsection (e).
(g) EFFECT.—Nothing in this section—
(1) affects the jurisdiction of the State over
any water law, water right, or adjudication
or administration relating to any water re-
source;
(2) affects any water right in existence on
or after the date of enactment of this Act, or
the exercise of such a water right, includ-
ing—
(A) a water right under an interstate water
compact (including full development of any
apportionment made in accordance with
such a compact);
(B) a water right decreed within, above,
below, or through the Historic Landscape;
(C) a water right held by the United
States;
(D) the management or operation of any
reservoir, including the storage, manage-
ment, release, or transportation of water;
and
(E) the construction or operation of such
infrastructure as is determined to be nec-
essary by an individual or entity holding
water rights to develop and place to bene-
ficial use those rights, subject to applicable
Federal, State, and local law (including reg-
ulations);
(3) constitutes an express or implied res-
ervation by the United States of any re-
served or appropriative water right;
(4) alters or limits—
(A) a permit held by a ski area;
(B) the implementation of activities gov-
erned by a ski area permit; or
(C) the authority of the Secretary to mod-
ify or expand an existing ski area permit;
(5) prevents the Secretary from closing
portions of the Historic Landscape for public
safety, environmental remediation, or other
use in accordance with applicable laws; or
(6) affects—
(A) any special use permit in effect on the
date of enactment of this Act; or
(B) the renewal of a permit described in
subparagraph (A).
(h) FUNDING.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—There is established in the
general fund of the Treasury a special ac-
count, to be known as the ‘‘Camp Hale His-
toric Preservation and Restoration Fund’’.
(2) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—
There is authorized to be appropriated to the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:39 Feb 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00125 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06FE6.039 S06FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1000 February 6, 2019
Camp Hale Historic Preservation and Res-
toration Fund $10,000,000, to be available to
the Secretary until expended, for activities
relating to historic interpretation, preserva-
tion, and restoration carried out in and
around the Historic Landscape.
SEC. 1518. WHITE RIVER NATIONAL FOREST
BOUNDARY MODIFICATION.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The boundary of the
White River National Forest is modified to
include the approximately 120 acres com-
prised of the SW 1⁄4, the SE 1⁄4, and the NE 1⁄4
of the SE 1⁄4 of sec. 1, T. 2 S., R. 80 W., 6th
Principal Meridian, in Summit County in
the State.
(b) LAND AND WATER CONSERVATION
FUND.—For purposes of section 200306 of title
54, United States Code, the boundaries of the
White River National Forest, as modified
under subsection (a), shall be considered to
be the boundaries of the White River Na-
tional Forest as in existence on January 1,
1965.
SEC. 1519. ROCKY MOUNTAIN NATIONAL PARK
WILDERNESS BOUNDARY ADJUST-
MENT.
(a) PURPOSE.—The purpose of this section
is to provide for the ongoing maintenance
and use of portions of the Trail River Ranch
and the associated property located within
Rocky Mountain National Park in Grand
County in the State.
(b) BOUNDARY ADJUSTMENT.—Section
1952(b) of the Omnibus Public Land Manage-
ment Act of 2009 (Public Law 111–11; 123 Stat.
1070) is amended by adding at the end the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(3) BOUNDARY ADJUSTMENT.—The bound-
ary of the Wilderness is modified to exclude
the potential wilderness comprising approxi-
mately 15.5 acres of land identified as ‘Poten-
tial Wilderness to Non-wilderness’ on the
map entitled ‘Rocky Mountain National
Park Proposed Wilderness Area Amendment’
and dated January 16, 2018.’’.
SEC. 1520. ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS.
(a) FISH AND WILDLIFE.—Nothing in this
part affects the jurisdiction or responsibility
of the State with respect to fish and wildlife
in the State.
(b) NO BUFFER ZONES.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Nothing in this part or an
amendment made by this part establishes a
protective perimeter or buffer zone around—
(A) a covered area;
(B) a wilderness area or potential wilder-
ness area designated by section 1513;
(C) the Recreation Management Area;
(D) a Wildlife Conservation Area; or
(E) the Historic Landscape.
(2) OUTSIDE ACTIVITIES.—The fact that a
nonwilderness activity or use on land outside
of a covered area can be seen or heard from
within the covered area shall not preclude
the activity or use outside the boundary of
the covered area.
(c) MAPS AND LEGAL DESCRIPTIONS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—As soon as practicable
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Secretary shall file maps and legal descrip-
tions of each area described in subsection
(b)(1) with—
(A) the Committee on Natural Resources of
the House of Representatives; and
(B) the Committee on Energy and Natural
Resources of the Senate.
(2) FORCE OF LAW.—Each map and legal de-
scription filed under paragraph (1) shall have
the same force and effect as if included in
this part, except that the Secretary may cor-
rect any typographical errors in the maps
and legal descriptions.
(3) PUBLIC AVAILABILITY.—Each map and
legal description filed under paragraph (1)
shall be on file and available for public in-
spection in the appropriate offices of the
Forest Service.
(d) ACQUISITION OF LAND.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary may ac-
quire any land or interest in land within the
boundaries of an area described in subsection
(b)(1) only through exchange, donation, or
purchase from a willing seller.
(2) MANAGEMENT.—Any land or interest in
land acquired under paragraph (1) shall be in-
corporated into, and administered as a part
of, the wilderness area, Recreation Manage-
ment Area, Wildlife Conservation Area, or
Historic Landscape, as applicable, in which
the land or interest in land is located.
(e) WITHDRAWAL.—Subject to valid rights
in existence on the date of enactment of this
Act, the areas described in subsection (b)(1)
are withdrawn from—
(1) entry, appropriation, and disposal under
the public land laws;
(2) location, entry, and patent under min-
ing laws; and
(3) operation of the mineral leasing, min-
eral materials, and geothermal leasing laws.
(f) MILITARY OVERFLIGHTS.—Nothing in
this part or an amendment made by this part
restricts or precludes—
(1) any low-level overflight of military air-
craft over any area subject to this part or an
amendment made by this part, including
military overflights that can be seen, heard,
or detected within such an area;
(2) flight testing or evaluation over an area
described in paragraph (1); or
(3) the use or establishment of—
(A) any new unit of special use airspace
over an area described in paragraph (1); or
(B) any military flight training or trans-
portation over such an area.
PART II—SAN JUAN MOUNTAINS
SEC. 1531. DEFINITIONS.
In this part:
(1) COVERED LAND.—The term ‘‘covered
land’’ means—
(A) land designated as wilderness under
paragraphs (27) through (29) of section 2(a) of
the Colorado Wilderness Act of 1993 (16
U.S.C. 1132 note; Public Law 103–77) (as added
by section 1532); and
(B) a Special Management Area.
(2) SECRETARY.—The term ‘‘Secretary’’
means the Secretary of Agriculture.
(3) SPECIAL MANAGEMENT AREA.—The term
‘‘Special Management Area’’ means each of—
(A) the Sheep Mountain Special Manage-
ment Area designated by section 1533(a)(1);
and
(B) the Liberty Bell East Special Manage-
ment Area designated by section 1533(a)(2).
SEC. 1532. ADDITIONS TO NATIONAL WILDER-
NESS PRESERVATION SYSTEM.
Section 2(a) of the Colorado Wilderness Act
of 1993 (16 U.S.C. 1132 note; Public Law 103–
77) (as amended by section 1512(a)(2)) is
amended by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(27) LIZARD HEAD WILDERNESS ADDITION.—
Certain Federal land in the Grand Mesa,
Uncompahgre, and Gunnison National For-
ests comprising approximately 3,141 acres, as
generally depicted on the map entitled ‘Pro-
posed Wilson, Sunshine, Black Face and San
Bernardo Additions to the Lizard Head Wil-
derness’ and dated September 6, 2018, which
is incorporated in, and shall be administered
as part of, the Lizard Head Wilderness.
‘‘(28) MOUNT SNEFFELS WILDERNESS ADDI-
TIONS.—
‘‘(A) LIBERTY BELL AND LAST DOLLAR ADDI-
TIONS.—Certain Federal land in the Grand
Mesa, Uncompahgre, and Gunnison National
Forests comprising approximately 7,235
acres, as generally depicted on the map enti-
tled ‘Proposed Liberty Bell and Last Dollar
Additions to the Mt. Sneffels Wilderness,
Liberty Bell East Special Management Area’
and dated September 6, 2018, which is incor-
porated in, and shall be administered as part
of, the Mount Sneffels Wilderness.
‘‘(B) WHITEHOUSE ADDITIONS.—Certain Fed-
eral land in the Grand Mesa, Uncompahgre,
and Gunnison National Forests comprising
approximately 12,465 acres, as generally de-
picted on the map entitled ‘Proposed White-
house Additions to the Mt. Sneffels Wilder-
ness’ and dated September 6, 2018, which is
incorporated in, and shall be administered as
part of, the Mount Sneffels Wilderness.
‘‘(29) MCKENNA PEAK WILDERNESS.—Certain
Federal land in the State of Colorado com-
prising approximately 8,884 acres of Bureau
of Land Management land, as generally de-
picted on the map entitled ‘Proposed McKen-
na Peak Wilderness Area’ and dated Sep-
tember 18, 2018, to be known as the ‘McKenna
Peak Wilderness’.’’.
SEC. 1533. SPECIAL MANAGEMENT AREAS.
(a) DESIGNATION.—
(1) SHEEP MOUNTAIN SPECIAL MANAGEMENT
AREA.—The Federal land in the Grand Mesa,
Uncompahgre, and Gunnison and San Juan
National Forests in the State comprising ap-
proximately 21,663 acres, as generally de-
picted on the map entitled ‘‘Proposed Sheep
Mountain Special Management Area’’ and
dated September 19, 2018, is designated as the
‘‘Sheep Mountain Special Management
Area’’.
(2) LIBERTY BELL EAST SPECIAL MANAGE-
MENT AREA.—The Federal land in the Grand
Mesa, Uncompahgre, and Gunnison National
Forests in the State comprising approxi-
mately 792 acres, as generally depicted on
the map entitled ‘‘Proposed Liberty Bell and
Last Dollar Additions to the Mt. Sneffels
Wilderness, Liberty Bell East Special Man-
agement Area’’ and dated September 6, 2018,
is designated as the ‘‘Liberty Bell East Spe-
cial Management Area’’.
(b) PURPOSE.—The purpose of the Special
Management Areas is to conserve and pro-
tect for the benefit and enjoyment of present
and future generations the geological, cul-
tural, archaeological, paleontological, nat-
ural, scientific, recreational, wilderness,
wildlife, riparian, historical, educational,
and scenic resources of the Special Manage-
ment Areas.
(c) MANAGEMENT.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall man-
age the Special Management Areas in a man-
ner that—
(A) conserves, protects, and enhances the
resources and values of the Special Manage-
ment Areas described in subsection (b);
(B) subject to paragraph (3), maintains or
improves the wilderness character of the
Special Management Areas and the suit-
ability of the Special Management Areas for
potential inclusion in the National Wilder-
ness Preservation System; and
(C) is in accordance with—
(i) the National Forest Management Act of
1976 (16 U.S.C. 1600 et seq.);
(ii) this part; and
(iii) any other applicable laws.
(2) PROHIBITIONS.—The following shall be
prohibited in the Special Management Areas:
(A) Permanent roads.
(B) Except as necessary to meet the min-
imum requirements for the administration
of the Federal land, to provide access for
abandoned mine cleanup, and to protect pub-
lic health and safety—
(i) the use of motor vehicles, motorized
equipment, or mechanical transport (other
than as provided in paragraph (3)); and
(ii) the establishment of temporary roads.
(3) AUTHORIZED ACTIVITIES.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary may allow
any activities (including helicopter access
for recreation and maintenance and the com-
petitive running event permitted since 1992)
that have been authorized by permit or li-
cense as of the date of enactment of this Act
to continue within the Special Management
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:39 Feb 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00126 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06FE6.039 S06FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1001
February 6, 2019
Areas, subject to such terms and conditions
as the Secretary may require.
(B) PERMITTING.—The designation of the
Special Management Areas by subsection (a)
shall not affect the issuance of permits relat-
ing to the activities covered under subpara-
graph (A) after the date of enactment of this
Act.
(C) BICYCLES.—The Secretary may permit
the use of bicycles in—
(i) the portion of the Sheep Mountain Spe-
cial Management Area identified as ‘‘Ophir
Valley Area’’ on the map entitled ‘‘Proposed
Sheep Mountain Special Management Area’’
and dated September 19, 2018; and
(ii) the portion of the Liberty Bell East
Special Management Area identified as ‘‘Lib-
erty Bell Corridor’’ on the map entitled
‘‘Proposed Liberty Bell and Last Dollar Ad-
ditions to the Mt. Sneffels Wilderness, Lib-
erty Bell East Special Management Area’’
and dated September 6, 2018.
(d) APPLICABLE LAW.—Water and water
rights in the Special Management Areas
shall be administered in accordance with
section 8 of the Colorado Wilderness Act of
1993 (Public Law 103–77; 107 Stat. 762), except
that—
(1) any reference contained in that section
to ‘‘the lands designated as wilderness by
this Act’’, ‘‘the Piedra, Roubideau, and
Tabeguache areas identified in section 9 of
this Act, or the Bowen Gulch Protection
Area or the Fossil Ridge Recreation Manage-
ment Area identified in sections 5 and 6 of
this Act’’, or ‘‘the areas described in sections
2, 5, 6, and 9 of this Act’’ shall be considered
to be a reference to ‘‘the Special Manage-
ment Areas’’; and
(2) any reference contained in that section
to ‘‘this Act’’ shall be considered to be a ref-
erence to ‘‘part II of subtitle F of title I of
the Natural Resources Management Act’’.
SEC. 1534. RELEASE OF WILDERNESS STUDY
AREAS.
(a) DOMINGUEZ CANYON WILDERNESS STUDY
AREA.—Subtitle E of title II of Public Law
111–11 is amended—
(1) by redesignating section 2408 (16 U.S.C.
460zzz–7) as section 2409; and
(2) by inserting after section 2407 (16 U.S.C.
460zzz–6) the following:
‘‘SEC. 2408. RELEASE.
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—Congress finds that, for
the purposes of section 603(c) of the Federal
Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43
U.S.C. 1782(c)), the portions of the
Dominguez Canyon Wilderness Study Area
not designated as wilderness by this subtitle
have been adequately studied for wilderness
designation.
‘‘(b) RELEASE.—Any public land referred to
in subsection (a) that is not designated as
wilderness by this subtitle—
‘‘(1) is no longer subject to section 603(c) of
the Federal Land Policy and Management
Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1782(c)); and
‘‘(2) shall be managed in accordance with
this subtitle and any other applicable laws.’’.
(b) MCKENNA PEAK WILDERNESS STUDY
AREA.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Congress finds that, for
the purposes of section 603(c) of the Federal
Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43
U.S.C. 1782(c)), the portions of the McKenna
Peak Wilderness Study Area in San Miguel
County in the State not designated as wil-
derness by paragraph (29) of section 2(a) of
the Colorado Wilderness Act of 1993 (16
U.S.C. 1132 note; Public Law 103–77) (as added
by section 1532) have been adequately studied
for wilderness designation.
(2) RELEASE.—Any public land referred to
in paragraph (1) that is not designated as
wilderness by paragraph (29) of section 2(a) of
the Colorado Wilderness Act of 1993 (16
U.S.C. 1132 note; Public Law 103–77) (as added
by section 1532)—
(A) is no longer subject to section 603(c) of
the Federal Land Policy and Management
Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1782(c)); and
(B) shall be managed in accordance with
applicable laws.
SEC. 1535. ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS.
(a) FISH AND WILDLIFE.—Nothing in this
part affects the jurisdiction or responsibility
of the State with respect to fish and wildlife
in the State.
(b) NO BUFFER ZONES.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Nothing in this part es-
tablishes a protective perimeter or buffer
zone around covered land.
(2) ACTIVITIES OUTSIDE WILDERNESS.—The
fact that a nonwilderness activity or use on
land outside of the covered land can be seen
or heard from within covered land shall not
preclude the activity or use outside the
boundary of the covered land.
(c) MAPS AND LEGAL DESCRIPTIONS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—As soon as practicable
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Secretary or the Secretary of the Interior, as
appropriate, shall file a map and a legal de-
scription of each wilderness area designated
by paragraphs (27) through (29) of section 2(a)
of the Colorado Wilderness Act of 1993 (16
U.S.C. 1132 note; Public Law 103–77) (as added
by section 1532) and the Special Management
Areas with—
(A) the Committee on Natural Resources of
the House of Representatives; and
(B) the Committee on Energy and Natural
Resources of the Senate.
(2) FORCE OF LAW.—Each map and legal de-
scription filed under paragraph (1) shall have
the same force and effect as if included in
this part, except that the Secretary or the
Secretary of the Interior, as appropriate,
may correct any typographical errors in the
maps and legal descriptions.
(3) PUBLIC AVAILABILITY.—Each map and
legal description filed under paragraph (1)
shall be on file and available for public in-
spection in the appropriate offices of the Bu-
reau of Land Management and the Forest
Service.
(d) ACQUISITION OF LAND.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary or the Sec-
retary of the Interior, as appropriate, may
acquire any land or interest in land within
the boundaries of a Special Management
Area or the wilderness designated under
paragraphs (27) through (29) of section 2(a) of
the Colorado Wilderness Act of 1993 (16
U.S.C. 1132 note; Public Law 103–77) (as added
by section 1532) only through exchange, do-
nation, or purchase from a willing seller.
(2) MANAGEMENT.—Any land or interest in
land acquired under paragraph (1) shall be in-
corporated into, and administered as a part
of, the wilderness or Special Management
Area in which the land or interest in land is
located.
(e) GRAZING.—The grazing of livestock on
covered land, if established before the date of
enactment of this Act, shall be permitted to
continue subject to such reasonable regula-
tions as are considered to be necessary by
the Secretary with jurisdiction over the cov-
ered land, in accordance with—
(1) section 4(d)(4) of the Wilderness Act (16
U.S.C. 1133(d)(4)); and
(2) the applicable guidelines set forth in
Appendix A of the report of the Committee
on Interior and Insular Affairs of the House
of Representatives accompanying H.R. 2570
of the 101st Congress (H. Rept. 101–405) or
H.R. 5487 of the 96th Congress (H. Rept. 96–
617).
(f) FIRE, INSECTS, AND DISEASES.—In ac-
cordance with section 4(d)(1) of the Wilder-
ness Act (16 U.S.C. 1133(d)(1)), the Secretary
with jurisdiction over a wilderness area des-
ignated by paragraphs (27) through (29) of
section 2(a) of the Colorado Wilderness Act
of 1993 (16 U.S.C. 1132 note; Public Law 103–
77) (as added by section 1532) may carry out
any activity in the wilderness area that the
Secretary determines to be necessary for the
control of fire, insects, and diseases, subject
to such terms and conditions as the Sec-
retary determines to be appropriate.
(g) WITHDRAWAL.—Subject to valid rights
in existence on the date of enactment of this
Act, the covered land and the approximately
6,590 acres generally depicted on the map en-
titled ‘‘Proposed Naturita Canyon Mineral
Withdrawal Area’’ and dated September 6,
2018, is withdrawn from—
(1) entry, appropriation, and disposal under
the public land laws;
(2) location, entry, and patent under min-
ing laws; and
(3) operation of the mineral leasing, min-
eral materials, and geothermal leasing laws.
PART III—THOMPSON DIVIDE
SEC. 1541. PURPOSES.
The purposes of this part are—
(1) subject to valid existing rights, to with-
draw certain Federal land in the Thompson
Divide area from mineral and other disposal
laws; and
(2) to promote the capture of methane gas
that would otherwise be emitted into the at-
mosphere—
(A) to reduce greenhouse gas emissions;
and
(B) to provide—
(i) new renewable electricity supplies; and
(ii) increased royalties for taxpayers.
SEC. 1542. DEFINITIONS.
In this part:
(1) THOMPSON DIVIDE LEASE.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The term ‘‘Thompson Di-
vide lease’’ means any oil or gas lease in ef-
fect on the date of enactment of this Act
within the Thompson Divide Withdrawal and
Protection Area.
(B) EXCLUSIONS.—The term ‘‘Thompson Di-
vide lease’’ does not include any oil or gas
lease that—
(i) is associated with a Wolf Creek Storage
Field development right; or
(ii) before the date of enactment of this
Act, has expired, been cancelled, or other-
wise terminated.
(2) THOMPSON DIVIDE MAP.—The term
‘‘Thompson Divide map’’ means the map en-
titled ‘‘Greater Thompson Divide Area Map’’
and dated September 22, 2016.
(3) THOMPSON DIVIDE WITHDRAWAL AND PRO-
TECTION AREA.—The term ‘‘Thompson Divide
Withdrawal and Protection Area’’ means the
Federal land and minerals generally depicted
on the Thompson Divide map as the
‘‘Thompson Divide Withdrawal and Protec-
tion Area’’.
(4) WOLF CREEK STORAGE FIELD DEVELOP-
MENT RIGHT.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The term ‘‘Wolf Creek
Storage Field development right’’ means a
development right for any of the Federal
mineral leases numbered COC 007496, COC
007497, COC 007498, COC 007499, COC 007500,
COC 007538, COC 008128, COC 015373, COC
0128018, COC 051645, and COC 051646, and gen-
erally depicted on the Thompson Divide map
as ‘‘Wolf Creek Storage Agreement’’.
(B) EXCLUSIONS.—The term ‘‘Wolf Creek
Storage Field development right’’ does not
include any storage right or related activity
within the area described in subparagraph
(A).
SEC. 1543. THOMPSON DIVIDE WITHDRAWAL AND
PROTECTION AREA.
(a) WITHDRAWAL.—Subject to valid existing
rights, the Thompson Divide Withdrawal and
Protection Area is withdrawn from all forms
of—
(1) entry, appropriation, and disposal under
the public land laws;
(2) location, entry, and patent under the
mining laws; and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:39 Feb 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00127 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06FE6.039 S06FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1002 February 6, 2019
(3) operation of the mineral leasing, min-
eral materials, and geothermal leasing laws.
(b) SURVEYS.—The exact acreage and legal
description of the Thompson Divide With-
drawal and Protection Area shall be deter-
mined by surveys approved by the Secretary,
in consultation with the Secretary of Agri-
culture.
SEC. 1544. THOMPSON DIVIDE LEASE EXCHANGE.
(a) IN GENERAL.—In exchange for the relin-
quishment by a leaseholder of all Thompson
Divide leases of the leaseholder, the Sec-
retary may issue to the leaseholder credits
for any bid, royalty, or rental payment due
under any Federal oil or gas lease on Federal
land in the State, in accordance with sub-
section (b).
(b) AMOUNT OF CREDITS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Subject to paragraph (2),
the amount of the credits issued to a lease-
holder of a Thompson Divide lease relin-
quished under subsection (a) shall—
(A) be equal to the sum of—
(i) the amount of the bonus bids paid for
the applicable Thompson Divide leases;
(ii) the amount of any rental paid for the
applicable Thompson Divide leases as of the
date on which the leaseholder submits to the
Secretary a notice of the decision to relin-
quish the applicable Thompson Divide leases;
and
(iii) the amount of any expenses incurred
by the leaseholder of the applicable Thomp-
son Divide leases in the preparation of any
drilling permit, sundry notice, or other re-
lated submission in support of the develop-
ment of the applicable Thompson Divide
leases as of January 28, 2019, including any
expenses relating to the preparation of any
analysis under the National Environmental
Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.); and
(B) require the approval of the Secretary.
(2) EXCLUSION.—The amount of a credit
issued under subsection (a) shall not include
any expenses paid by the leaseholder of a
Thompson Divide lease for legal fees or re-
lated expenses for legal work with respect to
a Thompson Divide lease.
(c) CANCELLATION.—Effective on relinquish-
ment under this section, and without any ad-
ditional action by the Secretary, a Thomp-
son Divide lease—
(1) shall be permanently cancelled; and
(2) shall not be reissued.
(d) CONDITIONS.—
(1) APPLICABLE LAW.—Except as otherwise
provided in this section, each exchange
under this section shall be conducted in ac-
cordance with—
(A) this subtitle; and
(B) other applicable laws (including regula-
tions).
(2) ACCEPTANCE OF CREDITS.—The Secretary
shall accept credits issued under subsection
(a) in the same manner as cash for the pay-
ments described in that subsection.
(3) APPLICABILITY.—The use of a credit
issued under subsection (a) shall be subject
to the laws (including regulations) applica-
ble to the payments described in that sub-
section, to the extent that the laws are con-
sistent with this section.
(4) TREATMENT OF CREDITS.—All amounts in
the form of credits issued under subsection
(a) accepted by the Secretary shall be con-
sidered to be amounts received for the pur-
poses of—
(A) section 35 of the Mineral Leasing Act
(30 U.S.C. 191); and
(B) section 20 of the Geothermal Steam Act
of 1970 (30 U.S.C. 1019).
(e) WOLF CREEK STORAGE FIELD DEVELOP-
MENT RIGHTS.—
(1) CONVEYANCE TO SECRETARY.—As a condi-
tion precedent to the relinquishment of a
Thompson Divide lease, any leaseholder with
a Wolf Creek Storage Field development
right shall permanently relinquish, transfer,
and otherwise convey to the Secretary, in a
form acceptable to the Secretary, all Wolf
Creek Storage Field development rights of
the leaseholder.
(2) LIMITATION OF TRANSFER.—An interest
acquired by the Secretary under paragraph
(1)—
(A) shall be held in perpetuity; and
(B) shall not be—
(i) transferred;
(ii) reissued; or
(iii) otherwise used for mineral extraction.
SEC. 1545. METHANE LEASING IN LOWER NORTH
FORK VALLEY.
(a) INVENTORY.—Not later than 1 year after
the date of enactment of this Act, the Sec-
retary shall complete, or shall collaborate
with agencies of the State or with institu-
tions of higher education in the State to
complete, an inventory of all significant
emissions of methane in the North Fork Val-
ley in the State, including methane emis-
sions from active, inactive, and abandoned
coal mines.
(b) LEASING PROGRAM.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 1 year after
the date of completion of the inventory re-
quired under subsection (a), the Secretary
shall carry out, to the extent permissible
under applicable law, a program to offer for
lease Federal methane from active, inactive,
and abandoned coal mines where methane is
escaping into the atmosphere, subject to
valid existing rights.
(2) CONDITIONS.—The program carried out
under paragraph (1) shall—
(A) only include methane that can be col-
lected and transported in a manner that does
not—
(i) endanger the safety of coal mine work-
ers; or
(ii) unreasonably interfere with ongoing
operations at coal mines; and
(B) provide for the owners or operators of
mines with leases that overlap potential
methane leases under the program carried
out under paragraph (1) to elect to remove
the areas from potential methane leasing
under the program, if the owner or operator
determines that the conditions described in
subparagraph (A) are not met.
(c) COAL MINE METHANE ELECTRICAL POWER
GENERATION DEMONSTRATION PROGRAM.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 2 years
after the date of completion of the inventory
required under subsection (a), the Secretary
shall consult with the eligible entities de-
scribed in paragraph (2) to develop a program
to facilitate the sale and delivery of methane
from active, inactive, and abandoned coal
mines where methane is escaping into the at-
mosphere to 1 or more of the eligible entities
to demonstrate the feasibility, cost-effec-
tiveness, and environmental benefits of pro-
ducing electrical power from methane that—
(A) is subject to subsection (b); but
(B) has not been leased under that sub-
section.
(2) DESCRIPTION OF ELIGIBLE ENTITIES.—An
eligible entity referred to in paragraph (1) is
any rural electric utility, energy coopera-
tive, or municipal utility the service area
boundaries of which are located within 100
miles of Paonia in the State.
(3) ESTABLISHMENT OF PRICING.—The Sec-
retary shall establish pricing for the sale and
delivery of methane under paragraph (1) that
is sufficient to reimburse all costs to the
Secretary for the implementation and man-
agement of the demonstration program
under that paragraph.
(4) CONTRACTS.—The Secretary may enter
into a contract with the State or 1 or more
institutions of higher education in the State
to provide services to the eligible entities de-
scribed in paragraph (2) to facilitate the pro-
gram under paragraph (1), with all related
costs to be included in the pricing estab-
lished under paragraph (3).
SEC. 1546. EFFECT.
Except as expressly provided in this part,
nothing in this part—
(1) expands, diminishes, or impairs any
valid existing mineral leases, mineral inter-
est, or other property rights wholly or par-
tially within the Thompson Divide With-
drawal and Protection Area, including access
to the leases, interests, rights, or land in ac-
cordance with applicable Federal, State, and
local laws (including regulations);
(2) prevents the capture of methane from
any active, inactive, or abandoned coal mine
covered by this part, in accordance with ap-
plicable laws; or
(3) prevents access to, or the development
of, any new or existing coal mine or lease in
Delta or Gunnison County in the State.
PART IV—CURECANTI NATIONAL
RECREATION AREA
SEC. 1551. DEFINITIONS.
In this part:
(1) MAP.—The term ‘‘map’’ means the map
entitled ‘‘Curecanti National Recreation
Area, Proposed Boundary’’, numbered 616/
100,485C, and dated August 11, 2016.
(2) NATIONAL RECREATION AREA.—The term
‘‘National Recreation Area’’ means the
Curecanti National Recreation Area estab-
lished by section 1552(a).
SEC. 1552. CURECANTI NATIONAL RECREATION
AREA.
(a) ESTABLISHMENT.—Effective beginning
on the earlier of the date on which the Sec-
retary approves a request under subsection
(c)(2)(B)(i)(I) and the date that is 1 year after
the date of enactment of this Act, there shall
be established as a unit of the National Park
System the Curecanti National Recreation
Area, in accordance with this part, con-
sisting of approximately 50,667 acres of land
in the State, as generally depicted on the
map as ‘‘Curecanti National Recreation Area
Proposed Boundary’’.
(b) AVAILABILITY OF MAP.—The map shall
be on file and available for public inspection
in the appropriate offices of the National
Park Service.
(c) ADMINISTRATION.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall ad-
minister the National Recreation Area in ac-
cordance with—
(A) this part; and
(B) the laws (including regulations) gen-
erally applicable to units of the National
Park System, including section 100101(a),
chapter 1003, and sections 100751(a), 100752,
100753, and 102101 of title 54, United States
Code.
(2) DAM, POWERPLANT, AND RESERVOIR MAN-
AGEMENT AND OPERATIONS.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Nothing in this part af-
fects or interferes with the authority of the
Secretary—
(i) to operate the Uncompahgre Valley
Reclamation Project under the reclamation
laws;
(ii) to operate the Wayne N. Aspinall Unit
of the Colorado River Storage Project under
the Act of April 11, 1956 (commonly known as
the ‘‘Colorado River Storage Project Act’’)
(43 U.S.C. 620 et seq.); or
(iii) under the Federal Water Project
Recreation Act (16 U.S.C. 460l–12 et seq.).
(B) RECLAMATION LAND.—
(i) SUBMISSION OF REQUEST TO RETAIN AD-
MINISTRATIVE JURISDICTION.—If, before the
date that is 1 year after the date of enact-
ment of this Act, the Commissioner of Rec-
lamation submits to the Secretary a request
for the Commissioner of Reclamation to re-
tain administrative jurisdiction over the
minimum quantity of land within the land
identified on the map as ‘‘Lands withdrawn
or acquired for Bureau of Reclamation
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:39 Feb 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00128 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06FE6.039 S06FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1003
February 6, 2019
projects’’ that the Commissioner of Rec-
lamation identifies as necessary for the ef-
fective operation of Bureau of Reclamation
water facilities, the Secretary may—
(I) approve, modify, or disapprove the re-
quest; and
(II) if the request is approved under sub-
clause (I), make any modifications to the
map that are necessary to reflect that the
Commissioner of Reclamation has manage-
ment authority over the minimum quantity
of land required to fulfill the reclamation
mission.
(ii) TRANSFER OF LAND.—
(I) IN GENERAL.—Administrative jurisdic-
tion over the land identified on the map as
‘‘Lands withdrawn or acquired for Bureau of
Reclamation projects’’, as modified pursuant
to clause (i)(II), if applicable, shall be trans-
ferred from the Commissioner of Reclama-
tion to the Director of the National Park
Service by not later than the date that is 1
year after the date of enactment of this Act.
(II) ACCESS TO TRANSFERRED LAND.—
(aa) IN GENERAL.—Subject to item (bb), the
Commissioner of Reclamation shall retain
access to the land transferred to the Director
of the National Park Service under subclause
(I) for reclamation purposes, including for
the operation, maintenance, and expansion
or replacement of facilities.
(bb) MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING.—The
terms of the access authorized under item
(aa) shall be determined by a memorandum
of understanding entered into between the
Commissioner of Reclamation and the Direc-
tor of the National Park Service not later
than 1 year after the date of enactment of
this Act.
(3) MANAGEMENT AGREEMENTS.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary may enter
into management agreements, or modify
management agreements in existence on the
date of enactment of this Act, relating to the
authority of the Director of the National
Park Service, the Commissioner of Reclama-
tion, the Director of the Bureau of Land
Management, or the Chief of the Forest
Service to manage Federal land within, adja-
cent to, or near the boundary of the National
Recreation Area.
(B) STATE LAND.—The Secretary may enter
into cooperative management agreements
for any land administered by the State that
is within, adjacent to, or near the National
Recreation Area, in accordance with the co-
operative management authority under sec-
tion 101703 of title 54, United States Code.
(4) RECREATIONAL ACTIVITIES.—
(A) AUTHORIZATION.—Except as provided in
subparagraph (B), the Secretary shall allow
boating, boating-related activities, hunting,
and fishing in the National Recreation Area
in accordance with applicable Federal and
State laws.
(B) CLOSURES; DESIGNATED ZONES.—
(i) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary, acting
through the Superintendent of the National
Recreation Area, may designate zones in
which, and establish periods during which,
no boating, hunting, or fishing shall be per-
mitted in the National Recreation Area
under subparagraph (A) for reasons of public
safety, administration, or compliance with
applicable laws.
(ii) CONSULTATION REQUIRED.—Except in
the case of an emergency, any closure pro-
posed by the Secretary under clause (i) shall
not take effect until after the date on which
the Superintendent of the National Recre-
ation Area consults with—
(I) the appropriate State agency respon-
sible for hunting and fishing activities; and
(II) the Board of County Commissioners in
each county in which the zone is proposed to
be designated.
(5) LANDOWNER ASSISTANCE.—On the writ-
ten request of an individual that owns pri-
vate land located not more than 3 miles from
the boundary of the National Recreation
Area, the Secretary may work in partnership
with the individual to enhance the long-term
conservation of natural, cultural, rec-
reational, and scenic resources in and around
the National Recreation Area—
(A) by acquiring the portion of the private
land or interests in private land located not
more than 3 miles from the boundary of the
National Recreation Area by purchase, ex-
change, or donation, in accordance with sec-
tion 1553;
(B) by providing technical assistance to
the individual, including cooperative assist-
ance;
(C) through available grant programs; and
(D) by supporting conservation easement
opportunities.
(6) WITHDRAWAL.—Subject to valid existing
rights, all Federal land within the National
Recreation Area is withdrawn from—
(A) all forms of entry, appropriation, or
disposal under the public land laws;
(B) location, entry, and patent under the
mining laws; and
(C) disposition under all laws relating to
mineral and geothermal leasing.
(7) GRAZING.—
(A) STATE LAND SUBJECT TO A STATE GRAZ-
ING LEASE.—
(i) IN GENERAL.—If State land acquired
under this part is subject to a State grazing
lease in effect on the date of acquisition, the
Secretary shall allow the grazing to continue
for the remainder of the term of the lease,
subject to the related terms and conditions
of user agreements, including permitted
stocking rates, grazing fee levels, access
rights, and ownership and use of range im-
provements.
(ii) ACCESS.—A lessee of State land may
use established routes within the National
Recreation Area to access State land for pur-
poses of administering the lease if the use
was established before the date of enactment
of this Act, subject to such terms and condi-
tions as the Secretary may require.
(B) STATE AND PRIVATE LAND.—The Sec-
retary may, in accordance with applicable
laws, authorize grazing on land acquired
from the State or private landowners under
section 1553, if grazing was established before
the date of acquisition.
(C) PRIVATE LAND.—On private land ac-
quired from a willing seller under section
1553 for the National Recreation Area on
which authorized grazing is occurring before
the date of enactment of this Act, the Sec-
retary, in consultation with the lessee, may
allow the continuation and renewal of graz-
ing on the land based on the terms of nego-
tiation of the individual land acquisition by
the lessee on the date of acquisition, subject
to applicable law (including regulations).
(D) FEDERAL LAND.—The Secretary shall—
(i) allow, consistent with the grazing
leases, uses, and practices in effect as of the
date of enactment of this Act, the continu-
ation and renewal of grazing on Federal land
located within the boundary of the National
Recreation Area on which grazing is allowed
before the date of enactment of this Act, un-
less the Secretary determines that grazing
on the Federal land would present unaccept-
able impacts (as defined in section 1.4.7.1 of
the National Park Service document entitled
‘‘Management Policies 2006: The Guide to
Managing the National Park System’’) to
the natural, cultural, recreational, and sce-
nic resource values and the character of the
land within the National Recreation Area;
and
(ii) retain all authorities to manage graz-
ing in the National Recreation Area.
(E) TERMINATION OF LEASES.—The Sec-
retary may—
(i) accept the voluntary termination of a
lease or permit for grazing; or
(ii) in the case of a lease or permit vacated
for a period of 3 or more years, terminate the
lease or permit.
(8) WATER RIGHTS.—Nothing in this part—
(A) affects any use or allocation in exist-
ence on the date of enactment of this Act of
any water, water right, or interest in water;
(B) affects any vested absolute or decreed
conditional water right in existence on the
date of enactment of this Act, including any
water right held by the United States;
(C) affects any interstate water compact in
existence on the date of enactment of this
Act;
(D) authorizes or imposes any new reserved
Federal water right; or
(E) shall be considered to be a relinquish-
ment or reduction of any water right re-
served or appropriated by the United States
in the State on or before the date of enact-
ment of this Act.
(9) FISHING EASEMENTS.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Nothing in this part di-
minishes or alters the fish and wildlife pro-
gram for the Aspinall Unit developed under
section 8 of the Act of April 11, 1956 (com-
monly known as the ‘‘Colorado River Stor-
age Project Act’’) (70 Stat. 110, chapter 203;
43 U.S.C. 620g), by the United States Fish and
Wildlife Service, the Bureau of Reclamation,
and the Colorado Division of Wildlife (includ-
ing any successor in interest to that divi-
sion) that provides for the acquisition of
public access fishing easements as mitiga-
tion for the Aspinall Unit (referred to in this
paragraph as the ‘‘program’’).
(B) ACQUISITION OF FISHING EASEMENTS.—
The Secretary shall continue to fulfill the
obligation of the Secretary under the pro-
gram to acquire 26 miles of class 1 public
fishing easements to provide to sportsmen
access for fishing within the Upper Gunnison
Basin upstream of the Aspinall Unit, subject
to the condition that no existing fishing ac-
cess downstream of the Aspinall Unit shall
be counted toward the minimum mileage re-
quirement under the program.
(C) PLAN.—Not later than 1 year after the
date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary
shall—
(i) develop a plan for fulfilling the obliga-
tion of the Secretary described in subpara-
graph (B); and
(ii) submit to Congress a report that—
(I) includes the plan developed under
clause (i); and
(II) describes any progress made in the ac-
quisition of public access fishing easements
as mitigation for the Aspinall Unit under the
program.
SEC. 1553. ACQUISITION OF LAND; BOUNDARY
MANAGEMENT.
(a) ACQUISITION.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary may ac-
quire any land or interest in land within the
boundary of the National Recreation Area.
(2) MANNER OF ACQUISITION.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Subject to subparagraph
(B), land described in paragraph (1) may be
acquired under this subsection by—
(i) donation;
(ii) purchase from willing sellers with do-
nated or appropriated funds;
(iii) transfer from another Federal agency;
or
(iv) exchange.
(B) STATE LAND.—Land or interests in land
owned by the State or a political subdivision
of the State may only be acquired by pur-
chase, donation, or exchange.
(b) TRANSFER OF ADMINISTRATIVE JURISDIC-
TION.—
(1) FOREST SERVICE LAND.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Administrative jurisdic-
tion over the approximately 2,560 acres of
land identified on the map as ‘‘U.S. Forest
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:39 Feb 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00129 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06FE6.039 S06FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1004 February 6, 2019
Service proposed transfer to the National
Park Service’’ is transferred to the Sec-
retary, to be administered by the Director of
the National Park Service as part of the Na-
tional Recreation Area.
(B) BOUNDARY ADJUSTMENT.—The boundary
of the Gunnison National Forest shall be ad-
justed to exclude the land transferred to the
Secretary under subparagraph (A).
(2) BUREAU OF LAND MANAGEMENT LAND.—
Administrative jurisdiction over the ap-
proximately 5,040 acres of land identified on
the map as ‘‘Bureau of Land Management
proposed transfer to National Park Service’’
is transferred from the Director of the Bu-
reau of Land Management to the Director of
the National Park Service, to be adminis-
tered as part of the National Recreation
Area.
(3) WITHDRAWAL.—Administrative jurisdic-
tion over the land identified on the map as
‘‘Proposed for transfer to the Bureau of Land
Management, subject to the revocation of
Bureau of Reclamation withdrawal’’ shall be
transferred to the Director of the Bureau of
Land Management on relinquishment of the
land by the Bureau of Reclamation and rev-
ocation by the Bureau of Land Management
of any withdrawal as may be necessary.
(c) POTENTIAL LAND EXCHANGE.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The withdrawal of land
identified on the map as ‘‘Potential ex-
change lands’’ shall be relinquished by the
Commissioner of Reclamation and revoked
by the Director of Bureau of Land Manage-
ment and the land shall be transferred to the
National Park Service.
(2) EXCHANGE; INCLUSION IN NATIONAL
RECREATION AREA.—On transfer of the land
described in paragraph (1), the transferred
land—
(A) may be exchanged by the Secretary for
the private land described in section
1552(c)(5)—
(i) subject to a conservation easement re-
maining on the transferred land, to protect
the scenic resources of the transferred land;
and
(ii) in accordance with the laws (including
regulations) and policies governing National
Park Service land exchanges; and
(B) if not exchanged under subparagraph
(A), shall be included in the boundary of the
National Recreation Area.
(d) ADDITION TO NATIONAL RECREATION
AREA.—Any land within the boundary of the
National Recreation Area that is acquired by
the United States shall be added to, and
managed as a part of, the National Recre-
ation Area.
SEC. 1554. GENERAL MANAGEMENT PLAN.
Not later than 3 years after the date on
which funds are made available to carry out
this part, the Director of the National Park
Service, in consultation with the Commis-
sioner of Reclamation, shall prepare a gen-
eral management plan for the National
Recreation Area in accordance with section
100502 of title 54, United States Code.
SEC. 1555. BOUNDARY SURVEY.
The Secretary (acting through the Direc-
tor of the National Park Service) shall pre-
pare a boundary survey and legal description
of the National Recreation Area.
SA 114. Ms. CORTEZ MASTO sub-
mitted an amendment intended to be
proposed by her to the bill S. 47, to pro-
vide for the management of the natural
resources of the United States, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
At the end of title I, add the following:
Subtitle F—Pershing County, Nevada,
Economic Development and Conservation
SEC. 1501. DEFINITIONS.
In this subtitle:
(1) COUNTY.—The term ‘‘County’’ means
Pershing County, Nevada.
(2) STATE.—The term ‘‘State’’ means the
State of Nevada.
(3) WILDERNESS AREA.—The term ‘‘wilder-
ness area’’ means a wilderness area des-
ignated by section 1531(a).
PART I—CHECKERBOARD LAND
RESOLUTION
SEC. 1511. FINDINGS.
Congress finds that—
(1) since the passage of the Act of July 1,
1862 (12 Stat. 489, chapter 120) (commonly
known as the ‘‘Pacific Railway Act of 1862’’),
under which railroad land grants along the
Union Pacific Railroad right-of-way created
a checkerboard land pattern of alternating
public land and privately owned land, man-
agement of the land in the checkerboard
area has been a constant source of frustra-
tion for both private landholders and the
Federal Government;
(2) management of Federal land in the
checkerboard area has been costly and dif-
ficult for the Federal land management
agencies, creating a disincentive to manage
the land effectively;
(3) parcels of land within the checkerboard
area in the County will not vary signifi-
cantly in appraised value by acre due to the
similarity of highest and best use in the
County; and
(4) consolidation of appropriate land within
the checkerboard area through sales and as
acre-for-acre exchanges for development and
Federal management will—
(A) help improve the tax base of the Coun-
ty; and
(B) simplify management for the Federal
Government.
SEC. 1512. DEFINITIONS.
In this part:
(1) ELIGIBLE LAND.—The term ‘‘eligible
land’’ means—
(A) any land administered by the Director
of the Bureau of Land Management that is
within the area identified on the Map as
‘‘Checkerboard Lands Resolution Area’’ that
is designated for disposal by the Secretary
through—
(i) the Winnemucca Consolidated Resource
Management Plan; or
(ii) any subsequent amendment or revision
to the management plan that is undertaken
with full public involvement; and
(B) the land identified on the Map as ‘‘Ad-
ditional Lands Eligible for Disposal’’.
(2) MAP.—The term ‘‘Map’’ means the map
entitled ‘‘Pershing County Checkerboard
Lands Resolution’’ and dated February 9,
2017.
SEC. 1513. SALE OR EXCHANGE OF ELIGIBLE
LAND.
(a) AUTHORIZATION OF CONVEYANCE.—Not-
withstanding sections 202 and 203, sub-
sections (b) through (i) of section 206, and
section 209 of the Federal Land Policy and
Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1712, 1713,
1716, 1719), the Secretary, in cooperation
with the County, in accordance with this
subtitle and any other applicable law, and
subject to valid existing rights, shall con-
duct sales or exchanges of the eligible land.
(b) JOINT SELECTION REQUIRED.—The Sec-
retary and the County shall jointly select
which parcels of eligible land to offer for sale
or exchange under subsection (a).
(c) COMPLIANCE WITH LOCAL PLANNING AND
ZONING LAWS.—Before carrying out a sale or
exchange under subsection (a), the County
shall submit to the Secretary a certification
that qualified bidders have agreed to comply
with—
(1) local zoning ordinances; and
(2) any master plan for the area approved
by the County.
(d) METHOD OF SALE OR EXCHANGE.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The sale or exchange of el-
igible land under subsection (a) shall be—
(A) consistent with subsections (b), (d), and
(f) of section 203 and section 206(a) of the
Federal Land Policy and Management Act of
1976 (43 U.S.C. 1713, 1716(a)); and
(B) conducted through—
(i) a sale, which shall be—
(I) through a competitive bidding process,
under which adjoining landowners are of-
fered the first option, unless otherwise deter-
mined by the Secretary;
(II) for not less than fair market value,
based on an appraisal in accordance with the
Uniform Standards of Professional Appraisal
Practice; and
(III) conducted in accordance with sub-
section (f); or
(ii) subject to paragraph (3), an acre-for-
acre exchange for private land located with-
in a Management Priority Area identified
under paragraph (4)(A).
(2) MASS APPRAISAL.—Not later than 1 year
after the date of enactment of this Act, and
every 5 years thereafter, the Secretary
shall—
(A) conduct a mass appraisal of the eligible
land to determine whether any parcel of eli-
gible land is likely valued at equal to or
greater than $500 per acre (in 2017 constant
dollars, as measured by the Consumer Price
Index); and
(B) make available to the public the re-
sults of the mass appraisal conducted under
subparagraph (A).
(3) EXCLUSION.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—If the Secretary deter-
mines that a parcel of eligible land is likely
valued at equal to or greater than $500 per
acre (in 2017 constant dollars, as measured
by the Consumer Price Index) under para-
graph (2)(A), the Secretary shall exclude that
parcel from the acre-for-acre exchange de-
scribed in paragraph (1)(B)(ii).
(B) PUBLICATION IN FEDERAL REGISTER.—If a
mass appraisal of eligible land under para-
graph (2)(A) is not finalized, or up-to-date
and publicly available, before an acre-for-
acre exchange described in paragraph
(1)(B)(ii) is completed, the Secretary may fi-
nalize the exchange if the Secretary pub-
lishes in the Federal Register—
(i) a determination stating that the one or
more parcels of eligible land included in the
exchange are likely valued at less than $500
per acre (in 2017 constant dollars, as meas-
ured by the Consumer Price Index); and
(ii) a description of the methodology used
to arrive at that determination.
(4) MANAGEMENT PRIORITY AREAS.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Subject to subparagraph
(B), not later than 1 year after the date of
enactment of this Act, for the purpose of the
exchanges authorized under paragraph
(1)(B)(ii), the Secretary—
(i) shall identify Management Priority
Areas within the Checkerboard Lands Reso-
lution Area, as identified on the Map, that
are considered by the Secretary to be—
(I) greater sage-grouse habitat;
(II) part of an identified wildlife corridor
or designated critical habitat;
(III) of value for outdoor recreation or pub-
lic access for hunting, fishing, and other rec-
reational purposes;
(IV) of significant cultural, historic, eco-
logical, or scenic value; or
(V) of value for improving Federal land
management; and
(ii) as appropriate, may identify additional
management priority areas in the County
any time after the identification under
clause (i) is completed.
(B) LIMITATION.—Management of Federal
land within any Management Priority Area
identified under subparagraph (A) shall not
be changed based solely on that identifica-
tion.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:39 Feb 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00130 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06FE6.039 S06FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1005
February 6, 2019
(e) WITHDRAWAL.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Subject to valid existing
rights and mining claims for which the
claims maintenance fees have been paid in
the applicable assessment year, effective on
the date on which a parcel of eligible land is
selected for sale or exchange under sub-
section (b), that parcel is withdrawn from—
(A) all forms of entry and appropriation
under the public land laws, including the
mining laws;
(B) location, entry, and patent under the
mining laws; and
(C) operation of the mineral leasing and
geothermal leasing laws.
(2) TERMINATION.—The withdrawal of a par-
cel of eligible land under paragraph (1) shall
terminate—
(A) on the date of sale or, in the case of ex-
change, the conveyance of title of the parcel
of eligible land under this part; or
(B) with respect to any parcel of eligible
land selected for sale or exchange under sub-
section (b) that is not sold or exchanged, not
later than 2 years after the date on which
the parcel was offered for sale or exchange
under this part.
(f) PARAMETERS FOR SALE OR EXCHANGE.—
(1) SALES.—
(A) DEADLINE.—Except as provided in para-
graph (3), not later than 1 year after the date
of enactment of this Act, and not less fre-
quently than once per year thereafter until
the date on which the limitation in subpara-
graph (B) has been reached or the date on
which the County requests a postponement
under paragraph (3), the Secretary shall offer
for sale the parcels of eligible land jointly
selected under subsection (b).
(B) LIMITATION.—The total acreage of eligi-
ble land sold under this part shall consist of
not more than 150,000 acres of eligible land.
(2) DEADLINE FOR EXCHANGES.—Except as
provided in paragraph (3), not later than 1
year after the date on which the Manage-
ment Priority Areas are identified under
subsection (d)(4)(A), and not less frequently
than once per year thereafter until the date
on which all of the parcels of eligible land
have been disposed of or the date on which
the County requests a postponement under
paragraph (3), the Secretary shall offer for
exchange the parcels of eligible land jointly
selected under subsection (b).
(3) POSTPONEMENT; EXCLUSION FOR SALE OR
EXCHANGE.—
(A) REQUEST BY COUNTY FOR POSTPONEMENT
OR EXCLUSION.—At the request of the County,
the Secretary shall postpone or exclude from
a sale or exchange all or a portion of the eli-
gible land jointly selected under subsection
(b).
(B) INDEFINITE POSTPONEMENT.—Unless spe-
cifically requested by the County, a post-
ponement under subparagraph (A) shall not
be indefinite.
(C) POSTPONEMENT OR EXCLUSION BY THE
SECRETARY.—The Secretary may postpone or
exclude from a sale or exchange all or a por-
tion of the eligible land jointly selected
under subsection (b) for emergency ecologi-
cal or safety reasons.
SEC. 1514. DISPOSITION OF PROCEEDS.
(a) DISPOSITION OF PROCEEDS.—Of the pro-
ceeds from the sale of land under section 1513
or 1521—
(1) 5 percent shall be disbursed to the State
for use in the general education program of
the State;
(2) 10 percent shall be disbursed to the
County for use as determined through nor-
mal County budgeting procedures; and
(3) the remainder shall be deposited in a
special account in the Treasury of the
United States, to be known as the ‘‘Pershing
County Special Account’’, which shall be
available to the Secretary, in consultation
with the County, for—
(A) the reimbursement of costs incurred by
the Department of the Interior in preparing
for the sale or exchange of the eligible land,
including—
(i) the costs of surveys and appraisals; and
(ii) the costs of compliance with the Na-
tional Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42
U.S.C. 4321 et seq.) and sections 202 and 203 of
the Federal Land Policy and Management
Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1712, 1713);
(B) the conduct of wildlife habitat con-
servation and restoration projects, including
projects that benefit the greater sage-grouse
in the County;
(C) a project or activity carried out in the
County to address drought conditions;
(D) the implementation of wildfire
presuppression and restoration projects in
the County;
(E) the acquisition of environmentally sen-
sitive land or interests in environmentally
sensitive land in the County;
(F) projects that secure public access to
Federal land for hunting, fishing, and other
recreational purposes through easements or
rights-of-way in the County; and
(G) the conduct of any surveys related to
the designation of the wilderness areas under
part III.
(b) INVESTMENT OF SPECIAL ACCOUNT.—Any
amounts deposited in the special account es-
tablished under subsection (a)(3)—
(1) shall earn interest in an amount deter-
mined by the Secretary of the Treasury,
based on the current average market yield
on outstanding marketable obligations of
the United States of comparable maturities;
and
(2) may be expended by the Secretary in
accordance with this section.
(c) REPORTS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Beginning with fiscal year
2020, and once every 5 fiscal years thereafter,
not later than 60 days after the last day of
the preceding fiscal year, the Secretary shall
submit to the State, the County, and the ap-
propriate committees of Congress a report on
the operation of the special account estab-
lished under subsection (a)(3) for the pre-
ceding 5 fiscal years.
(2) CONTENTS.—Each report submitted
under paragraph (1) shall include, for the fis-
cal year covered by the report—
(A) a statement of the amounts deposited
into the special account;
(B) a description of the expenditures made
from the special account for the fiscal year,
including the purpose of the expenditures;
(C) recommendations for additional au-
thorities to fulfill the purpose of the special
account; and
(D) a statement of the balance remaining
in the special account at the end of the fiscal
year.
PART II—LAND CONVEYANCES AND
TRANSFERS
SEC. 1521. CONVEYANCES OF COVERED LAND.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) COVERED LAND.—The term ‘‘covered
land’’ means any Federal land or interest in
Federal land in the County identified on the
Map as ‘‘Covered Land’’.
(2) MAP.—The term ‘‘Map’’ means the map
entitled ‘‘Pershing County Land Convey-
ances and Transfers’’ and dated February 9,
2017.
(3) QUALIFIED ENTITY.—The term ‘‘qualified
entity’’ means, with respect to a portion of
covered land—
(A) the owner of the mining claims, mill-
sites, or tunnel sites on a portion of the cov-
ered land on the date of enactment of this
Act;
(B) the lessee, or other successor in inter-
est of the owner—
(i) with the right of possession of the min-
ing claims, millsites, or tunnel sites on the
covered land;
(ii) that has paid (or whose agent has paid)
the annual claim maintenance fee or filed a
maintenance fee waiver on or before Sep-
tember 1, 2016, with the authority or consent
of the owner, for the upcoming assessment
year for the mining claims, millsites, or tun-
nel sites within the exterior boundary of the
portion of covered land, as determined based
on the claim maintenance fee records of the
Bureau of Land Management as of the date
of introduction of this Act; and
(iii) that has the authority or consent of
the owner to acquire the portion of covered
land; or
(C) a subsequent successor to the interest
of a qualified entity in the covered land that
has the authority or consent of the owner to
acquire the portion of covered land.
(b) LAND CONVEYANCES.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Subject to paragraph (3),
notwithstanding the inventory and land use
planning requirements of sections 201 and 202
or the sales provisions of section 203 of the
Federal Land Policy and Management Act of
1976 (43 U.S.C. 1711, 1712, 1713), not later than
180 days after the date of enactment of this
Act and subject to valid existing rights held
by third parties and any mining claims, mill-
site, or tunnel site of a qualified entity ap-
plicable to the covered land, the Secretary
shall offer for sale to qualified entities, for
fair market value, the remaining right, title,
and interest of the United States in and to
the covered land.
(2) CONVEYANCE.—Not later than 1 year
after the date of the acceptance of an offer
under paragraph (1) by a qualified entity and
completion of a sale for all or part of the
covered land to a qualified entity, the Sec-
retary, by delivery of an appropriate deed,
patent, or other valid instrument of convey-
ance, shall convey to the qualified entity, all
remaining right, title, and interest of the
United States in and to the applicable por-
tion of the covered land.
(3) MERGER.—Subject to valid existing
rights held by third parties, on delivery of
the instrument of conveyance to the quali-
fied entity under paragraph (2), any prior in-
terests in the locatable minerals and the
right to use the surface for mineral purposes
held by the qualified entity under a mining
claim, millsite, tunnel site, or any other
Federal land use authorization applicable to
the covered land conveyed to the qualified
entity shall merge with all right, title, and
interest conveyed to the qualified entity by
the United States under this section to en-
sure that the qualified entity receives fee
simple title to the purchased covered land.
(4) APPRAISAL TO DETERMINE FAIR MARKET
VALUE.—The Secretary shall determine the
fair market value of the covered land to be
conveyed under this subsection in accord-
ance with—
(A) the Federal Land Policy and Manage-
ment Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.); and
(B) the Uniform Standards of Professional
Appraisal Practice.
(5) COSTS.—As a condition of the convey-
ance of the covered land under this section,
the qualified entity shall pay all costs re-
lated to the conveyance of the covered land
conveyed, including the costs of surveys and
other administrative costs associated with
the conveyance.
(6) AVAILABILITY OF MAP.—The Map shall
be on file and available for public inspection
in the appropriate offices of the Bureau of
Land Management.
(7) MINOR CORRECTIONS.—The Secretary, in
consultation with the County, may correct
minor errors in the Map or a description of
the covered land.
(c) DISPOSITION OF PROCEEDS.—Any
amounts collected under this section shall be
disposed of in accordance with section 1514.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:39 Feb 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00131 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06FE6.040 S06FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1006 February 6, 2019
(d) TERMINATION.—The authority of the
Secretary to sell covered land under this sec-
tion shall terminate on the date that is 10
years after the date of enactment of this
Act.
SEC. 1522. CONVEYANCE OF LAND FOR USE AS A
PUBLIC CEMETERY.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall con-
vey to the County, without consideration,
the Federal land described in subsection (b).
(b) DESCRIPTION OF FEDERAL LAND.—The
Federal land referred to in subsection (a) is
the approximately 10 acres of land depicted
as ‘‘Unionville Cemetery’’ on the Map.
(c) USE OF CONVEYED LAND.—The Federal
land conveyed under subsection (a) shall be
used by the County as a public cemetery.
PART III—WILDERNESS AREAS
SEC. 1531. ADDITIONS TO THE NATIONAL WIL-
DERNESS PRESERVATION SYSTEM.
(a) ADDITIONS.—In accordance with the
Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.), the
following parcels of Federal land in the
State are designated as wilderness and as
components of the National Wilderness Pres-
ervation System:
(1) CAIN MOUNTAIN WILDERNESS.—Certain
Federal land managed by the Bureau of Land
Management, comprising approximately
12,339 acres, as generally depicted on the map
entitled ‘‘Proposed Cain Mountain Wilder-
ness’’ and dated February 9, 2017, which shall
be known as the ‘‘Cain Mountain Wilder-
ness’’.
(2) BLUEWING WILDERNESS.—Certain Fed-
eral land managed by the Bureau of Land
Management, comprising approximately
24,900 acres, as generally depicted on the map
entitled ‘‘Proposed Bluewing Wilderness’’
and dated February 9, 2017, which shall be
known as the ‘‘Bluewing Wilderness’’.
(3) SELENITE PEAK WILDERNESS.—Certain
Federal land managed by the Bureau of Land
Management, comprising approximately
22,822 acres, as generally depicted on the map
entitled ‘‘Proposed Selenite Peak Wilder-
ness’’ and dated February 9, 2017, which shall
be known as the ‘‘Selenite Peak Wilderness’’.
(4) MOUNT LIMBO WILDERNESS.—Certain
Federal land managed by the Bureau of Land
Management, comprising approximately
11,855 acres, as generally depicted on the map
entitled ‘‘Proposed Mt. Limbo Wilderness’’
and dated February 9, 2017, which shall be
known as the ‘‘Mount Limbo Wilderness’’.
(5) NORTH SAHWAVE WILDERNESS.—Certain
Federal land managed by the Bureau of Land
Management, comprising approximately
13,875 acres, as generally depicted on the map
entitled ‘‘Proposed North Sahwave Wilder-
ness’’ and dated February 9, 2017, which shall
be known as the ‘‘North Sahwave Wilder-
ness’’.
(6) GRANDFATHERS’ WILDERNESS.—Certain
Federal land managed by the Bureau of Land
Management, comprising approximately
35,339 acres, as generally depicted on the map
entitled ‘‘Proposed Grandfathers’ Wilder-
ness’’ and dated February 9, 2017, which shall
be known as the ‘‘Grandfathers’ Wilderness’’.
(7) FENCEMAKER WILDERNESS.—Certain Fed-
eral land managed by the Bureau of Land
Management, comprising approximately
14,942 acres, as generally depicted on the map
entitled ‘‘Proposed Fencemaker Wilderness’’
and dated February 9, 2017, which shall be
known as the ‘‘Fencemaker Wilderness’’.
(b) BOUNDARY.—The boundary of any por-
tion of a wilderness area that is bordered by
a road shall be 100 feet from the centerline of
the road.
(c) MAP AND LEGAL DESCRIPTION.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—As soon as practicable
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Secretary shall file a map and legal descrip-
tion of each wilderness area.
(2) EFFECT.—Each map and legal descrip-
tion prepared under paragraph (1) shall have
the same force and effect as if included in
this subtitle, except that the Secretary may
correct clerical and typographical errors in
the map or legal description.
(3) AVAILABILITY.—Each map and legal de-
scription prepared under paragraph (1) shall
be on file and available for public inspection
in the appropriate offices of the Bureau of
Land Management.
(4) WITHDRAWAL.—Subject to valid existing
rights, the wilderness areas designated by
subsection (a) are withdrawn from—
(A) all forms of entry, appropriation, and
disposal under the public land laws;
(B) location, entry, and patent under the
mining laws; and
(C) disposition under all laws relating to
mineral and geothermal leasing or mineral
materials.
SEC. 1532. ADMINISTRATION.
(a) MANAGEMENT.—Subject to valid exist-
ing rights, the wilderness areas shall be ad-
ministered by the Secretary in accordance
with the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et
seq.), except that—
(1) any reference in that Act to the effec-
tive date shall be considered to be a ref-
erence to the date of enactment of this Act;
and
(2) any reference in that Act to the Sec-
retary of Agriculture shall be considered to
be a reference to the Secretary.
(b) LIVESTOCK.—The grazing of livestock in
the wilderness areas, if established before
the date of enactment of this Act, shall be
allowed to continue, subject to such reason-
able regulations, policies, and practices as
the Secretary considers to be necessary in
accordance with—
(1) section 4(d)(4) of the Wilderness Act (16
U.S.C. 1133(d)(4)); and
(2) the guidelines set forth in Appendix A
of the report of the Committee on Interior
and Insular Affairs of the House of Rep-
resentatives accompanying H.R. 2570 of the
101st Congress (House Report 101–405).
(c) INCORPORATION OF ACQUIRED LAND AND
INTERESTS.—Any land or interest in land
within the boundary of a wilderness area
that is acquired by the United States after
the date of enactment of this Act shall be
added to and administered as part of the wil-
derness area.
(d) ADJACENT MANAGEMENT.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Congress does not intend
for the designation of the wilderness areas to
create protective perimeters or buffer zones
around the wilderness areas.
(2) NONWILDERNESS ACTIVITIES.—The fact
that nonwilderness activities or uses can be
seen or heard from areas within a wilderness
area shall not preclude the conduct of those
activities or uses outside the boundary of the
wilderness area.
(e) MILITARY OVERFLIGHTS.—Nothing in
this subtitle restricts or precludes—
(1) low-level overflights of military air-
craft over the wilderness areas, including
military overflights that can be seen or
heard within the wilderness areas;
(2) flight testing and evaluation; or
(3) the designation or creation of new units
of special use airspace, or the establishment
of military flight training routes, over the
wilderness areas.
(f) WILDFIRE, INSECT, AND DISEASE MANAGE-
MENT.—In accordance with section 4(d)(1) of
the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1133(d)(1)), the
Secretary may take such measures in the
wilderness areas as are necessary for the
control of fire, insects, and diseases (includ-
ing, as the Secretary determines to be appro-
priate, the coordination of the activities
with a State or local agency).
(g) CLIMATOLOGICAL DATA COLLECTION.—In
accordance with the Wilderness Act (16
U.S.C. 1131 et seq.) and subject to such terms
and conditions as the Secretary may pre-
scribe, the Secretary may authorize the in-
stallation and maintenance of hydrologic,
meteorologic, or climatological data collec-
tion devices in the wilderness areas if the
Secretary determines that the facilities and
access to the facilities are essential to flood
warning, flood control, or water reservoir op-
eration activities.
(h) WATER RIGHTS.—
(1) FINDINGS.—Congress finds that—
(A) the wilderness areas are located—
(i) in the semiarid region of the Great
Basin; and
(ii) at the headwaters of the streams and
rivers on land with respect to which there
are few, if any—
(I) actual or proposed water resource facili-
ties located upstream; and
(II) opportunities for diversion, storage, or
other uses of water occurring outside the
land that would adversely affect the wilder-
ness values of the land;
(B) the wilderness areas are generally not
suitable for use or development of new water
resource facilities; and
(C) because of the unique nature of the wil-
derness areas, it is possible to provide for
proper management and protection of the
wilderness and other values of land in ways
different from those used in other laws.
(2) PURPOSE.—The purpose of this section
is to protect the wilderness values of the wil-
derness areas by means other than a feder-
ally reserved water right.
(3) STATUTORY CONSTRUCTION.—Nothing in
this subtitle—
(A) constitutes an express or implied res-
ervation by the United States of any water
or water rights with respect to the wilder-
ness areas;
(B) affects any water rights in the State
(including any water rights held by the
United States) in existence on the date of en-
actment of this Act;
(C) establishes a precedent with regard to
any future wilderness designations;
(D) affects the interpretation of, or any
designation made under, any other Act; or
(E) limits, alters, modifies, or amends any
interstate compact or equitable apportion-
ment decree that apportions water among
and between the State and other States.
(4) NEVADA WATER LAW.—The Secretary
shall follow the procedural and substantive
requirements of State law in order to obtain
and hold any water rights not in existence on
the date of enactment of this Act with re-
spect to the wilderness areas.
(5) NEW PROJECTS.—
(A) DEFINITION OF WATER RESOURCE FACIL-
ITY.—
(i) IN GENERAL.—In this paragraph, the
term ‘‘water resource facility’’ means irriga-
tion and pumping facilities, reservoirs, water
conservation works, aqueducts, canals,
ditches, pipelines, wells, hydropower
projects, transmission and other ancillary
facilities, and other water diversion, storage,
and carriage structures.
(ii) EXCLUSION.—In this paragraph, the
term ‘‘water resource facility’’ does not in-
clude wildlife guzzlers.
(B) RESTRICTION ON NEW WATER RESOURCE
FACILITIES.—Except as otherwise provided in
this subtitle, on and after the date of enact-
ment of this Act, neither the President nor
any other officer, employee, or agent of the
United States shall fund, assist, authorize,
or issue a license or permit for the develop-
ment of any new water resource facility
within the wilderness areas.
(i) TEMPORARY TELECOMMUNICATIONS DE-
VICE.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Nothing in this subtitle
prevents the placement of a temporary tele-
communications device for law enforcement
or agency administrative purposes in the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:39 Feb 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00132 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06FE6.040 S06FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1007
February 6, 2019
Selenite Peak Wilderness in accordance with
paragraph (2).
(2) ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS.—Any tem-
porary telecommunications device author-
ized by the Secretary under paragraph (1)
shall—
(A) be carried out in accordance with—
(i) the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et
seq.); and
(ii) all other applicable laws (including reg-
ulations);
(B) to the maximum practicable, be lo-
cated in such a manner as to minimize im-
pacts on the recreational and other wilder-
ness values of the area; and
(C) be for a period of not longer than 7
years.
SEC. 1533. WILDLIFE MANAGEMENT.
(a) IN GENERAL.—In accordance with sec-
tion 4(d)(7) of the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C.
1133(d)(7)), nothing in this subtitle affects or
diminishes the jurisdiction of the State with
respect to fish and wildlife management, in-
cluding the regulation of hunting, fishing,
and trapping, in the wilderness areas.
(b) MANAGEMENT ACTIVITIES.—In further-
ance of the purposes and principles of the
Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.), the
Secretary may conduct any management ac-
tivities in the wilderness areas that are nec-
essary to maintain or restore fish and wild-
life populations and the habitats to support
the populations, if the activities are carried
out—
(1) consistent with relevant wilderness
management plans; and
(2) in accordance with—
(A) the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et
seq.); and
(B) appropriate policies, such as those set
forth in Appendix B of the report of the Com-
mittee on Interior and Insular Affairs of the
House of Representatives accompanying H.R.
2570 of the 101st Congress (House Report 101–
405), including noxious weed treatment and
the occasional and temporary use of motor-
ized vehicles if the use, as determined by the
Secretary, would promote healthy, viable,
and more naturally distributed wildlife pop-
ulations that would enhance wilderness val-
ues with the minimal impact necessary to
reasonably accomplish those tasks.
(c) EXISTING ACTIVITIES.—Consistent with
section 4(d)(1) of the Wilderness Act (16
U.S.C. 1133(d)(1)) and in accordance with ap-
propriate policies such as those set forth in
Appendix B of the Committee on Interior and
Insular Affairs of the House of Representa-
tives accompanying H.R. 2570 of the 101st
Congress (House Report 101–405), the State
may continue to use aircraft, including heli-
copters, to survey, capture, transplant, mon-
itor, and provide water for wildlife popu-
lations, specifically sage-grouse, in the wil-
derness areas.
(d) WILDLIFE WATER DEVELOPMENT
PROJECTS.—Subject to subsection (f), the
Secretary shall authorize structures and fa-
cilities, including existing structures and fa-
cilities, for wildlife water development
projects, including guzzlers, in the wilder-
ness areas if—
(1) the structures and facilities will, as de-
termined by the Secretary, enhance wilder-
ness values by promoting healthy, viable and
more naturally distributed wildlife popu-
lations; and
(2) the visual impacts of the structures and
facilities on the wilderness areas can reason-
ably be minimized.
(e) HUNTING, FISHING, AND TRAPPING.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary may des-
ignate areas in which, and establish periods
during which, for reasons of public safety,
administration, or compliance with applica-
ble laws, no hunting, fishing, or trapping will
be permitted in the wilderness areas.
(2) CONSULTATION.—Except in emergencies,
the Secretary shall consult with the appro-
priate State agency and notify the public be-
fore taking any action under paragraph (1).
(f) COOPERATIVE AGREEMENT.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The State, including a
designee of the State, may conduct wildlife
management activities in the wilderness
areas—
(A) in accordance with the terms and con-
ditions specified in the cooperative agree-
ment between the Secretary and the State
entitled ‘‘Memorandum of Understanding be-
tween the Bureau of Land Management and
the Nevada Department of Wildlife Supple-
ment No. 9’’ and signed November and De-
cember 2003, including any amendments to
the cooperative agreement agreed to by the
Secretary and the State; and
(B) subject to all applicable laws (including
regulations).
(2) REFERENCES; CLARK COUNTY.—For the
purposes of this subsection, any references to
Clark County in the cooperative agreement
described in paragraph (1)(A) shall be consid-
ered to be a reference to the wilderness
areas.
SEC. 1534. RELEASE OF WILDERNESS STUDY
AREAS.
(a) FINDING.—Congress finds that, for the
purposes of section 603(c) of the Federal Land
Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43
U.S.C. 1782(c)), the approximately 48,600
acres of public land in the portions of the
China Mountain, Mt. Limbo, Selenite Moun-
tains, and Tobin Range wilderness study
areas that have not been designated as wil-
derness by section 1531(a) and the portion of
the Augusta Mountains wilderness study
area within the County that has not been
designated as wilderness by section 1531(a)
have been adequately studied for wilderness
designation.
(b) RELEASE.—The public land described in
subsection (a)—
(1) is no longer subject to section 603(c) of
the Federal Land Policy and Management
Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1782(c)); and
(2) shall be managed in accordance with
the applicable land use plans adopted under
section 202 of the Federal Land Policy and
Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1712).
SEC. 1535. NATIVE AMERICAN CULTURAL AND RE-
LIGIOUS USES.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Nothing in this part al-
ters or diminishes the treaty rights of any
Indian tribe (as defined in section 4 of the In-
dian Self-Determination and Education As-
sistance Act (25 U.S.C. 5304)).
(b) CULTURAL USES.—Nothing in this part
precludes the traditional collection of pine
nuts in a wilderness area for personal, non-
commercial use consistent with the Wilder-
ness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.).
SA 115. Ms. CORTEZ MASTO sub-
mitted an amendment intended to be
proposed by her to the bill S. 47, to pro-
vide for the management of the natural
resources of the United States, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
At the end of section 1116, add the fol-
lowing:
(g) FACILITATION OF PINYON-JUNIPER RE-
LATED PROJECTS.—
(1) AVAILABILITY OF SPECIAL ACCOUNT
UNDER LINCOLN COUNTY LAND ACT OF 2000.—
Section 5(b) of the Lincoln County Land Act
of 2000 (Public Law 106–298; 114 Stat. 1048) is
amended—
(A) in paragraph (1)—
(i) in subparagraph (B), by inserting ‘‘and
implementation’’ after ‘‘development’’; and
(ii) in subparagraph (C)—
(I) in clause (i), by striking ‘‘; and’’ at the
end and inserting a semicolon; and
(II) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(iii) development and implementation of
comprehensive, cost-effective, and multi-
jurisdictional hazardous fuels reduction
projects and wildfire prevention planning ac-
tivities (particularly for pinyon-juniper
dominated landscapes) and other rangeland
and woodland restoration projects within the
County, consistent with the Ely Resource
Management Plan or any subsequent revi-
sions or amendments to that plan; and’’; and
(B) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(3) COOPERATIVE AGREEMENTS.—The Direc-
tor of the Bureau of Land Management shall
enter into cooperative agreements with the
County for County-provided law enforcement
and planning related activities approved by
the Secretary regarding—
‘‘(A) wilderness in the County designated
by the Lincoln County Conservation, Recre-
ation, and Development Act of 2004 (Public
Law 108–424; 118 Stat. 2403);
‘‘(B) cultural resources identified, pro-
tected, and managed pursuant to that Act;
‘‘(C) planning, management, and law en-
forcement associated with the Silver State
OHV Trail designated by that Act; and
‘‘(D) planning associated with land disposal
and related land use authorizations required
for utility corridors and rights-of-way to
serve land that has been, or is to be, disposed
of pursuant to that Act (other than rights-of-
way granted pursuant to that Act) and this
Act.’’.
(2) AVAILABILITY OF SPECIAL ACCOUNT
UNDER LINCOLN COUNTY CONSERVATION, RECRE-
ATION, AND DEVELOPMENT ACT OF 2004.—Sec-
tion 103 of the Lincoln County Conservation,
Recreation, and Development Act of 2004
(Public Law 108–424; 118 Stat. 2405) is amend-
ed—
(A) in subsection (b)(3)—
(i) in subparagraph (E), by striking ‘‘; and’’
at the end and inserting a semicolon;
(ii) in subparagraph (F), by striking the pe-
riod at the end and inserting ‘‘; and’’; and
(iii) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(G) development and implementation of
comprehensive, cost-effective, and multi-
jurisdictional hazardous fuels reduction and
wildfire prevention planning activities (par-
ticularly for pinyon-juniper dominated land-
scapes) and other rangeland and woodland
restoration projects within the County, con-
sistent with the Ely Resource Management
Plan or any subsequent revisions or amend-
ments to that plan.’’; and
(B) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(d) COOPERATIVE AGREEMENTS.—The Di-
rector of the Bureau of Land Management
shall enter into cooperative agreements with
the County for County-provided law enforce-
ment and planning related activities ap-
proved by the Secretary regarding—
‘‘(1) wilderness in the County designated
by this Act;
‘‘(2) cultural resources identified, pro-
tected, and managed pursuant to this Act;
‘‘(3) planning, management, and law en-
forcement associated with the Silver State
OHV Trail designated by this Act; and
‘‘(4) planning associated with land disposal
and related land use authorizations required
for utility corridors and rights-of-way to
serve land that has been, or is to be, disposed
of pursuant to this Act (other than rights-of-
way granted pursuant to this Act) and the
Lincoln County Land Act of 2000 (Public Law
106–298; 114 Stat. 1046).’’.
(3) DISPOSITION OF PROCEEDS.—
(A) DISPOSITION OF PROCEEDS UNDER LIN-
COLN COUNTY LAND ACT OF 2000.—Section
5(a)(2) of the Lincoln County Land Act of
2000 (Public Law 106–298; 114 Stat. 1047) is
amended by inserting ‘‘and economic devel-
opment’’ after ‘‘schools’’.
(B) DISPOSITION OF PROCEEDS UNDER LIN-
COLN COUNTY CONSERVATION, RECREATION, AND
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:39 Feb 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00133 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06FE6.040 S06FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1008 February 6, 2019
DEVELOPMENT ACT OF 2004.—Section 103(b)(2)
of the Lincoln County Conservation, Recre-
ation, and Development Act of 2004 (Public
Law 108–424; 118 Stat. 2405) is amended by
striking ‘‘and transportation’’ and inserting
‘‘transportation, and economic develop-
ment’’.
(h) IMPLEMENTATION OF WHITE PINE COUNTY
CONSERVATION, RECREATION, AND DEVELOP-
MENT ACT.—
(1) DISPOSITION OF PROCEEDS.—Section 312
of the White Pine County Conservation,
Recreation, and Development Act of 2006
(Public Law 109–432; 120 Stat. 3030) is amend-
ed—
(A) in paragraph (2), by striking ‘‘and plan-
ning’’ and inserting ‘‘municipal water and
sewer infrastructure, public electric trans-
mission facilities, public broadband infra-
structure, and planning’’; and
(B) in paragraph (3)—
(i) in subparagraph (G), by striking ‘‘; and’’
and inserting a semicolon;
(ii) in subparagraph (H), by striking the pe-
riod at the end and inserting ‘‘; and’’; and
(iii) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(I) processing by a government entity of
public land use authorizations and rights-of-
way relating to the development of land con-
veyed to the County under this Act, with an
emphasis on authorizations and rights-of-
way relating to any infrastructure needed
for the expansion of the White Pine County
Industrial Park under section 352(c)(2).’’.
(2) CONVEYANCE TO WHITE PINE COUNTY, NE-
VADA.—Section 352 of the White Pine County
Conservation, Recreation, and Development
Act of 2006 (Public Law 109–432; 120 Stat. 3039)
is amended—
(A) in subsection (a), by striking ‘‘the Sec-
retary’’ and inserting ‘‘not later than De-
cember 31, 2020, the Secretary’’;
(B) in subsection (c)(3)(B)(i), by striking
‘‘through a competitive bidding process’’ and
inserting ‘‘consistent with section 244 of the
Nevada Revised Statutes (as in effect on the
date of enactment of the Natural Resources
Management Act)’’; and
(C) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(e) DEADLINE.—If the Secretary has not
conveyed to the County the parcels of land
described in subsection (b) by December 31,
2020, the Secretary shall immediately convey
to the County, without consideration, all
right, title, and interest of the United States
in and to the parcels of land.’’.
SA 116. Ms. CORTEZ MASTO sub-
mitted an amendment intended to be
proposed by her to the bill S. 47, to pro-
vide for the management of the natural
resources of the United States, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
At the end of subtitle B of title I, add the
following:
SEC. 11llll. PROHIBITION OF OIL AND GAS
LEASING, RUBY MOUNTAINS RANG-
ER DISTRICT.
(a) DEFINITION OF DISTRICT LAND.—In this
section, the term ‘‘District land’’ means the
approximately 450,000 acres of National For-
est System land comprising the Ruby Moun-
tains Ranger District of the Humboldt-
Toiyabe National Forest, Elko and White
Pine Counties, Nevada, as in existence on the
date of enactment of this Act.
(b) PROHIBITION.—Subject to valid existing
rights in existence on the date of enactment
of this Act, the Secretary shall not issue
under any law, including the Mineral Leas-
ing Act (30 U.S.C. 181 et seq.), an oil or gas
lease on the District land.
(c) APPLICATION.—The prohibition under
subsection (b) shall apply to any land or in-
terest in land that is acquired by the United
States after the date of enactment of this
Act for inclusion in the Ruby Mountains
Ranger District.
SA 117. Mrs. SHAHEEN submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed by
her to the bill S. 47, to provide for the
management of the natural resources
of the United States, and for other pur-
poses; which was ordered to lie on the
table; as follows:
At the appropriate place, insert the fol-
lowing:
SEC. ll. REPEAL OF PERCENTAGE DEPLETION
ALLOWANCE FOR CERTAIN
HARDROCK MINES.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 613(a) of the In-
ternal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by
inserting ‘‘(other than hardrock mines lo-
cated on lands subject to the general mining
laws or on land patented under the general
mining laws)’’ after ‘‘In the case of the
mines’’.
(b) GENERAL MINING LAWS DEFINED.—Sec-
tion 613 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986
is amended by adding at the end the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(f) GENERAL MINING LAWS.—For purposes
of subsection (a), the term ‘general mining
laws’ means those Acts which generally com-
prise chapters 2, 11, 12, 12A, 15, and 16, and
sections 161 and 162, of title 30, United States
Code.’’.
(c) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments
made by this section shall apply to taxable
years beginning after December 31, 2019.
SA 118. Mrs. SHAHEEN (for herself
and Ms. COLLINS) submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed by her to
the bill S. 47, to provide for the man-
agement of the natural resources of the
United States, and for other purposes;
which was ordered to lie on the table;
as follows:
At the end of subtitle E of title II, add the
following:
SEC. 24lll. NATIONAL RECREATIONAL PASSES
FOR DISABLED VETERANS.
Section 805(b) of the Federal Lands Recre-
ation Enhancement Act (16 U.S.C. 6804(b)) is
amended by striking paragraph (2) and in-
serting the following:
‘‘(2) DISABILITY DISCOUNT.—The Secretary
shall make the National Parks and Federal
Recreational Lands Pass available, without
charge and for the lifetime of the passholder,
to the following:
‘‘(A) Any United States citizen or person
domiciled in the United States who has been
medically determined to be permanently dis-
abled for purposes of section 7(20)(A)(i) of the
Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C.
705(20)(A)(i)), if the citizen or person provides
adequate proof of the disability and such
citizenship or residency.
‘‘(B) Any veteran who has been found to
have a compensable or noncompensable serv-
ice-connected disability under title 38,
United States Code.’’.
SA 119. Mr. BARRASSO submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed by
him to the bill S. 47, to provide for the
management of the natural resources
of the United States, and for other pur-
poses; which was ordered to lie on the
table; as follows:
Strike section 3001 and insert the fol-
lowing:
SEC. 3001. LAND AND WATER CONSERVATION
FUND.
(a) REAUTHORIZATION.—Section 200302 of
title 54, United States Code, is amended—
(1) in subsection (b), in the matter pre-
ceding paragraph (1), by striking ‘‘September
30, 2018’’ and inserting ‘‘September 30, 2043’’;
and
(2) in subsection (c)(1), by striking ‘‘Sep-
tember 30, 2018’’ and inserting ‘‘September
30, 2043’’.
(b) ALLOCATION OF FUNDS.—Section 200304
of title 54, United States Code, is amended—
(1) by striking ‘‘There’’ and inserting the
following:
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—There’’; and
(2) by striking the second sentence and in-
serting the following:
‘‘(b) ALLOCATION.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Of the appropriations
from the Fund—
‘‘(A) not less than 60 percent shall be used
collectively to provide financial assistance
to States under section 200305;
‘‘(B) not less than 30 percent shall be used
collectively for Federal purposes under sec-
tion 200306; and
‘‘(C) not less than 10 percent shall be used
collectively—
‘‘(i) for the Forest Legacy Program estab-
lished under section 7 of the Cooperative
Forestry Assistance Act of 1978 (16 U.S.C.
2103c);
‘‘(ii) for cooperative endangered species
grants authorized under section 6 of the En-
dangered Species Act of 1973 (16 U.S.C. 1535);
and
‘‘(iii) for the American Battlefield Protec-
tion Program established under chapter 3081.
‘‘(2) REQUIREMENT.—Of the appropriations
from the Fund, not less than 1.5 percent or
$10,000,000, whichever is greater, shall be
used for projects that secure recreational
public access to Federal public land for hunt-
ing, fishing, or other recreational purposes.’’.
SA 120. Mr. BARRASSO submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed by
him to the bill S. 47, to provide for the
management of the natural resources
of the United States, and for other pur-
poses; which was ordered to lie on the
table; as follows:
At the end of section 3001, add the fol-
lowing:
(f) ALLOWABLE PURPOSES.—Section
200306(a) of title 54, United States Code, is
amended—
(1) by resdesignating paragraphs (3) and (4)
as paragraphs (4) and (5), respectively; and
(2) by inserting after paragraph (2) the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(3) CONSERVATION ACTIVITIES.—Amounts
shall be allotted for conservation activities,
including invasive species control, preven-
tion, and mitigation efforts, to improve the
ecological health of Federal land and water
resources.’’.
SA 121. Mr. BARRASSO submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed by
him to the bill S. 47, to provide for the
management of the natural resources
of the United States, and for other pur-
poses; which was ordered to lie on the
table; as follows:
In section 3001, strike subsection (a) and
insert the following:
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 200302 of title 54,
United States Code, is amended—
(1) in subsection (b), in the matter pre-
ceding paragraph (1), by striking ‘‘September
30, 2018’’ and inserting ‘‘September 30, 2043’’;
and
(2) in subsection (c)(1), by striking ‘‘Sep-
tember 30, 2018’’ and inserting ‘‘September
30, 2043’’.
SA 122. Mr. DAINES (for himself and
Mr. TESTER) submitted an amendment
intended to be proposed to amendment
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:39 Feb 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00134 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06FE6.051 S06FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1009
February 6, 2019
SA 111 submitted by Ms. MURKOWSKI
(for herself and Mr. MANCHIN) and in-
tended to be proposed to the bill S. 47,
to provide for the management of the
natural resources of the United States,
and for other purposes; which was or-
dered to lie on the table; as follows:
At the end of title VIII, add the following:
Subtitle H—Clean Water for Rural
Communities
SEC. 8701. PURPOSE.
The purpose of this subtitle is to ensure a
safe and adequate municipal, rural, and in-
dustrial water supply for the citizens of—
(1) Dawson, Garfield, McCone, Prairie,
Richland, Judith Basin, Wheatland, Golden
Valley, Fergus, Yellowstone, and Musselshell
Counties in the State of Montana; and
(2) McKenzie County, North Dakota.
SEC. 8702. DEFINITIONS.
In this subtitle:
(1) AUTHORITY.—The term ‘‘Authority’’
means—
(A) the Central Montana Regional Water
Authority, a publicly owned nonprofit water
authority formed in accordance with Mont.
Code Ann. Sec. 75-6-302 (2007); and
(B) any nonprofit successor entity to the
Authority described in subparagraph (A).
(2) MUSSELSHELL-JUDITH RURAL WATER SYS-
TEM.—The term ‘‘Musselshell-Judith Rural
Water System’’ means the Musselshell-Ju-
dith Rural Water System authorized under
section 8703(a), with a project service area
that includes—
(A) Judith Basin, Wheatland, Golden Val-
ley, and Musselshell Counties in the State;
(B) the portion of Yellowstone County in
the State within 2 miles of State Highway 3
and within 4 miles of the county line be-
tween Golden Valley and Yellowstone Coun-
ties in the State, inclusive of the Town of
Broadview, Montana; and
(C) the portion of Fergus County in the
State within 2 miles of U.S. Highway 87 and
within 4 miles of the county line between
Fergus and Judith Basin Counties in the
State, inclusive of the Town of Moore, Mon-
tana.
(3) STATE.—The term ‘‘State’’ means the
State of Montana.
SEC. 8703. MUSSELSHELL-JUDITH RURAL WATER
SYSTEM.
(a) AUTHORIZATION.—The Secretary may
carry out the planning, design, and construc-
tion of the Musselshell-Judith Rural Water
System in a manner that is substantially in
accordance with the feasibility report enti-
tled ‘‘Musselshell-Judith Rural Water Sys-
tem Feasibility Report’’ (including any and
all revisions of the report).
(b) COOPERATIVE AGREEMENT.—The Sec-
retary shall enter into a cooperative agree-
ment with the Authority to provide Federal
assistance for the planning, design, and con-
struction of the Musselshell-Judith Rural
Water System.
(c) COST-SHARING REQUIREMENT.—
(1) FEDERAL SHARE.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The Federal share of the
costs relating to the planning, design, and
construction of the Musselshell-Judith Rural
Water System shall not exceed 65 percent of
the total cost of the Musselshell-Judith
Rural Water System.
(B) LIMITATION.—Amounts made available
under subparagraph (A) shall not be return-
able or reimbursable under the reclamation
laws.
(2) USE OF FEDERAL FUNDS.—
(A) GENERAL USES.—Subject to subpara-
graph (B), the Musselshell-Judith Rural
Water System may use Federal funds made
available to carry out this section for—
(i) facilities relating to—
(I) water pumping;
(II) water treatment;
(III) water storage;
(IV) water supply wells;
(V) distribution pipelines; and
(VI) control systems;
(ii) transmission pipelines;
(iii) pumping stations;
(iv) appurtenant buildings, maintenance
equipment, and access roads;
(v) any interconnection facility that con-
nects a pipeline of the Musselshell-Judith
Rural Water System to a pipeline of a public
water system;
(vi) electrical power transmission and dis-
tribution facilities required for the operation
and maintenance of the Musselshell-Judith
Rural Water System;
(vii) any other facility or service required
for the development of a rural water dis-
tribution system, as determined by the Sec-
retary; and
(viii) any property or property right re-
quired for the construction or operation of a
facility described in this subsection.
(B) LIMITATION.—Federal funds made avail-
able to carry out this section shall not be
used for the operation, maintenance, or re-
placement of the Musselshell-Judith Rural
Water System.
(C) TITLE.—Title to the Musselshell-Judith
Rural Water System shall be held by the Au-
thority.
SEC. 8704. DRY-REDWATER FEASIBILITY STUDY.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) DRY-REDWATER REGIONAL WATER AU-
THORITY.—The term ‘‘Dry-Redwater Regional
Water Authority’’ means—
(A) the Dry-Redwater Regional Water Au-
thority, a publicly owned nonprofit water
authority formed in accordance with Mont.
Code Ann. § 75–6–302 (2007); and
(B) any nonprofit successor entity to the
Authority described in subparagraph (A).
(2) DRY-REDWATER REGIONAL WATER AU-
THORITY SYSTEM.—The term ‘‘Dry-Redwater
Regional Water Authority System’’ means
the project entitled the ‘‘Dry-Redwater Re-
gional Water Authority System’’, with a
project service area that includes—
(A) Garfield and McCone Counties in the
State;
(B) the area west of the Yellowstone River
in Dawson and Richland Counties in the
State;
(C) T. 15 N. (including the area north of the
Township) in Prairie County in the State;
and
(D) the portion of McKenzie County, North
Dakota, that includes all land that is located
west of the Yellowstone River in the State of
North Dakota.
(3) RECLAMATION FEASIBILITY STANDARDS.—
The term ‘‘reclamation feasibility stand-
ards’’ means the eligibility criteria and fea-
sibility study requirements described in sec-
tion 106 of the Reclamation Rural Water
Supply Act of 2006 (43 U.S.C. 2405) (as in ef-
fect on September 29, 2016).
(4) SUBMITTED FEASIBILITY STUDY.—The
term ‘‘submitted feasibility study’’ means
the feasibility study entitled ‘‘Dry-Redwater
Regional Water System Feasibility Study’’
(including revisions of the study), which re-
ceived funding from the Bureau of Reclama-
tion on September 1, 2010.
(b) STUDY.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary, in con-
sultation with the Dry-Redwater Regional
Water Authority, may undertake a study, in-
cluding a review of the submitted feasibility
study, to determine the feasibility of con-
structing the Dry-Redwater Regional Water
System.
(2) REQUIREMENT.—The study under para-
graph (1) shall comply with the reclamation
feasibility standards.
(c) COOPERATIVE AGREEMENT.—If the Sec-
retary determines that the study under sub-
section (b) does not comply with the rec-
lamation feasibility standards, the Secretary
may enter into a cooperative agreement with
the Dry-Redwater Regional Water Authority
to complete additional work to ensure that
the study complies with the reclamation fea-
sibility standards.
(d) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—
There is authorized to be appropriated to the
Secretary $5,000,000 to carry out this section.
(e) TERMINATION.—The authority provided
by this section shall expire on the date that
is 5 years after the date of enactment of this
Act.
SEC. 8705. WATER RIGHTS.
Nothing in this subtitle—
(1) preempts or affects any State water
law; or
(2) affects any authority of a State, as in
effect on the date of enactment of this Act,
to manage water resources within that
State.
SEC. 8706. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
(a) AUTHORIZATION.—There is authorized to
be appropriated to carry out the planning,
design, and construction of the Musselshell-
Judith Rural Water System, substantially in
accordance with the cost estimate set forth
in the feasibility report described in section
8703(a), $56,650,000.
(b) COST INDEXING.—The amount author-
ized to be appropriated under subsection (a)
may be increased or decreased in accordance
with ordinary fluctuations in development
costs incurred after November 1, 2014, as in-
dicated by any available engineering cost in-
dices applicable to construction activities
that are similar to the construction of the
Musselshell-Judith Rural Water System.
SA 123. Mr. RUBIO submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 111 submitted by Ms.
MURKOWSKI (for herself and Mr.
MANCHIN) and intended to be proposed
to the bill S. 47, to provide for the man-
agement of the natural resources of the
United States, and for other purposes;
which was ordered to lie on the table;
as follows:
On page 601, between lines 11 and 12, insert
the following:
(JJ) The map entitled ‘‘Cape San Blas Unit
P30/P30P (1 of 2)’’ and dated December 19,
2018, with respect to Unit P30 and Unit P30P.
(KK) The map entitled ‘‘Cape San Blas
Unit P30/P30P (2 of 2)’’ and dated December
19, 2018, with respect to Unit P30 and Unit
P30P.
SA 124. Mr. LANKFORD (for himself,
Mr. LEE, Mr. INHOFE, Mr. CRUZ, Mr.
RUBIO, Mrs. FISCHER, and Mr. BRAUN)
submitted an amendment intended to
be proposed to amendment SA 111 sub-
mitted by Ms. MURKOWSKI (for herself
and Mr. MANCHIN) and intended to be
proposed to the bill S. 47, to provide for
the management of the natural re-
sources of the United States, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
Strike section 3001 and insert the fol-
lowing:
SEC. 3001. LAND AND WATER CONSERVATION
FUND.
(a) REAUTHORIZATION.—Section 200302 of
title 54, United States Code, is amended—
(1) in subsection (b), in the matter pre-
ceding paragraph (1), by striking ‘‘September
30, 2018’’ and inserting ‘‘September 30, 2023’’;
and
(2) in subsection (c)(1), by striking ‘‘Sep-
tember 30, 2018’’ and inserting ‘‘September
30, 2023’’.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:39 Feb 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00135 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06FE6.052 S06FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1010 February 6, 2019
(b) ALLOCATION OF FUNDS.—Section 200304
of title 54, United States Code, is amended—
(1) by striking ‘‘There’’ and inserting ‘‘(a)
In General.—There’’; and
(2) by striking the second sentence and in-
serting the following:
‘‘(b) ALLOCATION.—Of the appropriations
from the Fund—
‘‘(1) not less than 50 percent shall be used
to provide financial assistance to States
under section 200305; and
‘‘(2) not more than 50 percent shall be used
collectively for Federal purposes under sec-
tion 200306, of which not less than 50 percent
shall be used for deferred maintenance needs
on Federal land under subsection (a)(2)(D) of
that section.’’.
(c) CERTAIN LAND ACQUISITION REQUIRE-
MENTS.—Section 200306 of title 54, United
States Code, is amended—
(1) in subsection (a), in paragraph (2)—
(A) in the paragraph heading, by striking
‘‘OR WATER’’ and inserting ‘‘OR WATER; DE-
FERRED MAINTENANCE NEEDS’’; and
(B) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(D) DEFERRED MAINTENANCE NEEDS.—
Amounts shall be allotted for deferred main-
tenance needs on Federal land.’’; and
(2) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(c) MAINTENANCE NEEDS.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Subject to paragraph (3),
funds appropriated for the acquisition of
land under this section shall include any
funds necessary to address maintenance
needs at the time of acquisition on the ac-
quired land.
‘‘(2) ACCEPTANCE OF DONATIONS.—A Federal
agency may accept, hold, administer, and
use donations to address maintenance needs
on land acquired under this section.
‘‘(3) LIMITATION.—If a Federal agency ac-
cepts a donation under paragraph (2) to ad-
dress maintenance needs on land acquired
under this section, the funds appropriated
for the acquisition under paragraph (1) shall
not include funds equivalent to the amount
of that donation.
‘‘(d) CONGRESSIONAL APPROVAL OF CERTAIN
LAND ACQUISITIONS.—For any acquisition of
land under this section for which the cost of
the land is greater than $50,000 per acre, as
indexed for United States dollar inflation
from the date of enactment of the Natural
Resources Management Act (as measured by
the Consumer Price Index)—
‘‘(1) before acquiring the land, the Sec-
retary shall submit to Congress a report that
describes the land proposed to be acquired;
and
‘‘(2) no acquisition may be made unless the
proposed acquisition is—
‘‘(A) reported to Congress in accordance
with paragraph (1); and
‘‘(B) approved by the enactment of a bill or
joint resolution.’’.
SA 125. Mr. LANKFORD (for himself,
Mr. LEE, Mr. INHOFE, Mr. RUBIO, and
Mr. BRAUN) submitted an amendment
intended to be proposed to amendment
SA 111 submitted by Ms. MURKOWSKI
(for herself and Mr. MANCHIN) and in-
tended to be proposed to the bill S. 47,
to provide for the management of the
natural resources of the United States,
and for other purposes; which was or-
dered to lie on the table; as follows:
In section 3001, strike subsection (b) and
insert the following:
(b) ALLOCATION OF FUNDS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Section 200304 of title 54,
United States Code, is amended—
(A) by striking ‘‘There’’ and inserting ‘‘(a)
In General.—There’’; and
(B) by striking the second sentence and in-
serting the following:
‘‘(b) ALLOCATION.—Of the appropriations
from the Fund—
‘‘(1) not less than 50 percent shall be used
to provide financial assistance to States
under section 200305; and
‘‘(2) not more than 50 percent shall be used
collectively for Federal purposes under sec-
tion 200306, of which not less than 50 percent
shall be used for deferred maintenance needs
on Federal land under subsection (a)(2)(D) of
that section.’’.
(2) CONFORMING AMENDMENT.—Section
200306(a)(2) of title 54, United States Code, is
amended—
(A) in the paragraph heading, by striking
‘‘OR WATER’’ and inserting ‘‘OR WATER; DE-
FERRED MAINTENANCE NEEDS’’; and
(B) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(D) DEFERRED MAINTENANCE NEEDS.—
Amounts shall be allotted for deferred main-
tenance needs on Federal land.’’.
SA 126. Mr. LANKFORD (for himself,
Mr. LEE, Mr. INHOFE, Mr. RUBIO, and
Mr. BRAUN) submitted an amendment
intended to be proposed to amendment
SA 111 submitted by Ms. MURKOWSKI
(for herself and Mr. MANCHIN) and in-
tended to be proposed to the bill S. 47,
to provide for the management of the
natural resources of the United States,
and for other purposes; which was or-
dered to lie on the table; as follows:
At the end of section 3001, add the fol-
lowing:
(f) CERTAIN LAND ACQUISITION REQUIRE-
MENTS.—Section 200306 of title 54, United
States Code (as amended by subsection (e)),
is amended by adding at the end the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(e) MAINTENANCE NEEDS.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Subject to paragraph (3),
funds appropriated for the acquisition of
land under this section shall include any
funds necessary to address maintenance
needs at the time of acquisition on the ac-
quired land.
‘‘(2) ACCEPTANCE OF DONATIONS.—A Federal
agency may accept, hold, administer, and
use donations to address maintenance needs
on land acquired under this section.
‘‘(3) LIMITATION.—If a Federal agency ac-
cepts a donation under paragraph (2) to ad-
dress maintenance needs on land acquired
under this section, the funds appropriated
for the acquisition under paragraph (1) shall
not include funds equivalent to the amount
of that donation.’’.
SA 127. Mr. LANKFORD (for himself,
Mr. INHOFE, and Mr. BRAUN) submitted
an amendment intended to be proposed
to amendment SA 111 submitted by Ms.
MURKOWSKI (for herself and Mr.
MANCHIN) and intended to be proposed
to the bill S. 47, to provide for the man-
agement of the natural resources of the
United States, and for other purposes;
which was ordered to lie on the table;
as follows:
In section 200304(b)(1) of title 54, United
States Code (as added by section 3001(b)(3)),
strike ‘‘purposes’’ and insert ‘‘purposes, of
which not less than 5 percent shall be used
for deferred maintenance needs on Federal
land’’.
SA 128. Mr. ISAKSON (for himself,
Mr. KAINE, and Mr. BLUNT) submitted
an amendment intended to be proposed
to amendment SA 111 submitted by Ms.
MURKOWSKI (for herself and Mr.
MANCHIN) and intended to be proposed
to the bill S. 47, to provide for the man-
agement of the natural resources of the
United States, and for other purposes;
which was ordered to lie on the table;
as follows:
At the end of subtitle E of title II, add the
following:
SEC. 24llll. PRESERVATION OF NATIONALLY
SIGNIFICANT BATTLEFIELDS.
(a) CIVIL WAR BATTLEFIELD PRESERVATION
ACT OF 2002.—Section 2 of the Civil War Bat-
tlefield Preservation Act of 2002 (Public Law
107–359) is amended to read as follows:
‘‘SEC. 2. FINDINGS AND PURPOSES.
‘‘(a) FINDINGS.—Congress finds the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(1) Battlefields of the American Revolu-
tion, War of 1812, and the Civil War—
‘‘(A) provide a means for the people of the
United States to understand our Nation’s
turbulent first century;
‘‘(B) serve as living memorials to those
who fought and sacrificed in these conflicts
to establish and maintain our freedom and
liberty;
‘‘(C) serve as training grounds for our Na-
tion’s Armed Forces; and
‘‘(D) serve as heritage tourism destina-
tions, generating revenue for local econo-
mies.
‘‘(2) According to the Report on the Na-
tion’s Civil War Battlefields, prepared by the
National Park Service and updated in 2010, of
the 383 Civil War battlefields identified as
national preservation priorities—
‘‘(A) only at 31 battlefields is more than
half of the surviving landscape permanently
protected;
‘‘(B) at 227 battlefields, less than half of
the surviving landscape is permanently pro-
tected;
‘‘(C) 65 battlefields have no protection at
all; and
‘‘(D) 113 battlefields have been severely
hampered by development since the Civil
War or are on the verge of being over-
whelmed.
‘‘(3) According to the 2007 Report to Con-
gress on the Historic Preservation of Revolu-
tionary War and War of 1812 Sites in the
United States, prepared by the National
Park Service, of the 243 principal Revolu-
tionary War and War of 1812 battlefields
identified as national preservation prior-
ities—
‘‘(A) almost 70 percent lie within urban
areas as denoted in the 2000 U.S. Census;
‘‘(B) 141 are lost or extremely fragmented,
with residential and commercial develop-
ment being the chief threats;
‘‘(C) 100 other battlefields retain signifi-
cant features and lands from the period of
battle, although on average these battle-
fields retain only 37 percent of the original
historic scene;
‘‘(D) of these 100 surviving but diminished
battle landscapes, 82 are partially owned and
protected by public and nonprofit stewards,
although the extent of that protection varies
from site to site;
‘‘(E) 18 are without any legal protection;
‘‘(F) the condition of two battlefields is un-
known, with additional research and survey
being required to determine their exact loca-
tion and condition; and
‘‘(G) the paucity of existing battlefield
landscapes necessitates preservation and
maintenance of what precious little remains
today.
‘‘(b) PURPOSES.—The purposes of this Act
are—
‘‘(1) to act quickly and proactively to pre-
serve and protect nationally significant bat-
tlefields of the American Revolution, War of
1812, and Civil War through conservation
easements and fee-simple purchases of those
battlefields from willing sellers; and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:39 Feb 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00136 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06FE6.052 S06FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1011
February 6, 2019
‘‘(2) to create partnerships among State
and local governments, regional entities, and
the private sector to preserve, conserve, and
enhance the visitor experience at nationally
significant battlefields of the American Rev-
olution, War of 1812, and Civil War.’’.
(b) PRESERVATION ASSISTANCE.—Section
308103(f) of title 54, United States Code, is
amended to read as follows:
‘‘(f) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—
There is authorized to be appropriated to the
Secretary to provide grants under this sec-
tion $20,000,000 for each fiscal year through
2028, of which not more than 10 percent may
be used each fiscal year as follows:
‘‘(1) Not more than $1,000,000 for projects
and programs that modernize battlefield in-
terpretive and educational assets through
the deployment of technology, disbursed
through the competitive grant process to
non-profit organizations.
‘‘(2) Not more than $1,000,000 for grants to
organizations described in section 501(c)(3) of
the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 and ex-
empt from taxation under section 501(a) of
such Code to be used for projects that restore
day-of-battle conditions on land preserved
through Battlefield Land Acquisition Grant
Program funds.’’.
SA 129. Mr. BURR (for himself and
Mr. TILLIS) submitted an amendment
intended to be proposed by him to the
bill S. 47, to provide for the manage-
ment of the natural resources of the
United States, and for other purposes;
which was ordered to lie on the table;
as follows:
At the end of title VII, add the following:
SEC. 70ll. WILD HORSES IN AND AROUND THE
CURRITUCK NATIONAL WILDLIFE
REFUGE.
(a) GENETIC DIVERSITY.—The Secretary, in
consultation with the North Carolina De-
partment of Environment and Natural Re-
sources, Currituck County, North Carolina,
and the Corolla Wild Horse Fund, shall allow
for the introduction of a small number of
free-roaming wild horses from the Cape
Lookout National Seashore as necessary to
ensure the genetic diversity of the wild horse
population in and around the Currituck Na-
tional Wildlife Refuge, consistent with—
(1) the laws (including regulations) appli-
cable to the Currituck National Wildlife Ref-
uge and the Cape Lookout National Sea-
shore; and
(2) the December 2014 Wild Horse Manage-
ment Agreement approved by the United
States Fish and Wildlife Service, the North
Carolina Department of Environment and
Natural Resources, Currituck County, North
Carolina, and the Corolla Wild Horse Fund.
(b) AGREEMENT.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary may enter
into an agreement with the Corolla Wild
Horse Fund to provide for the cost-effective
management of the horses in and around the
Currituck National Wildlife Refuge while en-
suring that natural resources within the
Currituck National Wildlife Refuge are not
adversely impacted.
(2) REQUIREMENTS.—The agreement entered
into under paragraph (1) shall specify that
the Corolla Wild Horse Fund shall pay the
costs associated with, with respect to the
horses in and around the Currituck National
Wildlife Refuge—
(A) coordinating and conducting a periodic
census, and inspecting the health, of the
horses;
(B) maintaining records of the horses liv-
ing in the wild and in confinement;
(C) coordinating and conducting the re-
moval and placement of horses and moni-
toring of any horses removed from the
Currituck County Outer Banks; and
(D) administering a viable population con-
trol plan for the horses, including auctions,
adoptions, contraceptive fertility methods,
and other viable options.
SA 130. Mr. BURR (for himself and
Mr. TILLIS) submitted an amendment
intended to be proposed by him to the
bill S. 47, to provide for the manage-
ment of the natural resources of the
United States, and for other purposes;
which was ordered to lie on the table;
as follows:
At the end of title VII, add the following:
SEC. 70ll. BEACH RENOURISHMENT PROJECTS.
Section 6(a)(6)(G) of the Coastal Barrier
Resources Act (16 U.S.C. 3505(a)(6)(G)) is
amended by inserting ‘‘, including beach re-
nourishment projects that remove sand ma-
terial within a System unit for placement on
or near a shoreline that is not within the
System’’ after ‘‘stabilization system’’.
SA 131. Mr. MARKEY (for himself
and Ms. WARREN) submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed by him
to the bill S. 47, to provide for the man-
agement of the natural resources of the
United States, and for other purposes;
which was ordered to lie on the table;
as follows:
At the end of subtitle E of title II, add the
following:
SEC. 24llll. CAPE COD NATIONAL SEASHORE
ADVISORY COMMISSION.
Effective September 26, 2018, section 8(a) of
Public Law 87–126 (16 U.S.C. 459b–7(a)) is
amended in the second sentence by striking
‘‘2018’’ and inserting ‘‘2028’’.
SA 132. Mr. GARDNER submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 111 submitted by Ms.
MURKOWSKI (for herself and Mr.
MANCHIN) and intended to be proposed
to the bill S. 47, to provide for the man-
agement of the natural resources of the
United States, and for other purposes;
which was ordered to lie on the table;
as follows:
At the end of title IX, add the following:
SEC. 90lll. BUREAU OF LAND MANAGEMENT
HEADQUARTERS RELOCATION.
(a) DEFINITION OF WESTERN STATE.—In this
section, the term ‘‘western State’’ means
any of the States of Alaska, Arizona, Cali-
fornia, Colorado, Idaho, Montana, Nevada,
New Mexico, Oregon, Utah, Washington, or
Wyoming.
(b) STRATEGY FOR RELOCATING THE HEAD-
QUARTERS OF THE BUREAU OF LAND MANAGE-
MENT FROM WASHINGTON, DC, TO A WESTERN
STATE.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 180 days
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Secretary shall submit to the Committee on
Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate
and the Committee on Natural Resources of
the House of Representatives a strategy for
relocating the headquarters of the Bureau of
Land Management from Washington, DC, to
a western State in a manner that will save
the maximum amount of taxpayer money
practicable.
(2) REQUIREMENTS.—The strategy sub-
mitted under paragraph (1) shall include—
(A) metrics for choosing a location for the
relocated headquarters of the Bureau of
Land Management;
(B) a description of the determining fac-
tors in favor of the relocation; and
(C) a proposed timeline for the relocation.
(c) AUTHORIZATION FOR RELOCATION OF THE
HEADQUARTERS OF THE BUREAU OF LAND MAN-
AGEMENT FROM WASHINGTON, DC, TO A WEST-
ERN STATE.—Notwithstanding section 72 of
title 4, United States Code, the Secretary
may relocate the headquarters of the Bureau
of Land Management from Washington, DC,
to a western State specified by the
Secretary.
SA 133. Mr. GARDNER submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 111 submitted by Ms.
MURKOWSKI (for herself and Mr.
MANCHIN) and intended to be proposed
to the bill S. 47, to provide for the man-
agement of the natural resources of the
United States, and for other purposes;
which was ordered to lie on the table;
as follows:
Before section 9001, insert the following:
Subtitle A—Good Samaritan Remediation of
Orphan Hardrock Mines
SEC. 9001. DEFINITIONS.
In this subtitle:
(1) ADMINISTRATOR.—The term ‘‘Adminis-
trator’’ means the Administrator of the En-
vironmental Protection Agency.
(2) COOPERATING PERSON.—The term ‘‘co-
operating person’’ means any person that is
named by the Good Samaritan in the permit
application as a cooperating entity.
(3) FEDERAL LAND MANAGEMENT AGENCY.—
The term ‘‘Federal land management agen-
cy’’ means any Federal agency authorized by
law or executive order to exercise jurisdic-
tion, custody, or control over land owned by
the United States.
(4) GOOD SAMARITAN.—The term ‘‘Good Sa-
maritan’’ means a person that, with respect
to historic mine residue, as determined by
the Administrator—
(A) is not a past or current owner or oper-
ator of—
(i) the orphan mine site at which the his-
toric mine residue is located; or
(ii) a portion of that orphan mine site;
(B) had no role in the creation of the his-
toric mine residue; and
(C) is not potentially liable under any Fed-
eral, State, Tribal, or local law for the reme-
diation, treatment, or control of the historic
mine residue.
(5) GOOD SAMARITAN PERMIT.—The term
‘‘Good Samaritan permit’’ means a permit
granted by the Administrator under section
9003(a)(1).
(6) HISTORIC MINE RESIDUE.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The term ‘‘historic mine
residue’’ means mine residue or any condi-
tion at an orphan mine site resulting from
hardrock mining activities conducted on—
(i) Federal land under sections 2319
through 2352 of the Revised Statutes (com-
monly known as the ‘‘Mining Law of 1872’’; 30
U.S.C. 22 et seq.); or
(ii) State or private land.
(B) INCLUSIONS.—The term ‘‘historic mine
residue’’ includes—
(i) previously mined ores and minerals
other than coal that contribute to acid mine
drainage or other pollution;
(ii) equipment (including materials in
equipment);
(iii) any tailings, heap leach piles, dump
leach piles, waste rock, overburden, slag
piles, or other waste or material resulting
from any extraction, beneficiation, or other
processing activity that occurred during the
active operation of an orphan mine site;
(iv) any acidic or otherwise polluted flow
in surface water or groundwater that origi-
nates from, or is pooled and contained in, an
inactive or abandoned mine site, such as un-
derground workings, open pits, in-situ leach-
ing operations, ponds, or impoundments;
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:39 Feb 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00137 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06FE6.053 S06FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1012 February 6, 2019
(v) any hazardous substance (as defined in
section 101 of the Comprehensive Environ-
mental Response, Compensation, and Liabil-
ity Act of 1980 (42 U.S.C. 9601));
(vi) any pollutant or contaminant (as de-
fined in section 101 of the Comprehensive En-
vironmental Response, Compensation, and
Liability Act of 1980 (42 U.S.C. 9601)); and
(vii) any pollutant (as defined in section
502 of the Federal Water Pollution Control
Act (33 U.S.C. 1362)).
(7) INDIAN TRIBE.—The term ‘‘Indian tribe’’
has the meaning given the term in section
518(h) of the Federal Water Pollution Control
Act (33 U.S.C. 1377(h)).
(8) INVESTIGATIVE SAMPLING PERMIT.—The
term ‘‘investigative sampling permit’’ means
a permit granted by the Administrator under
section 9003(d)(1).
(9) ORPHAN MINE SITE.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The term ‘‘orphan mine
site’’ means an abandoned or inactive
hardrock mine site and any facility associ-
ated with an abandoned or inactive hardrock
mine site—
(i) that was used for the production of a
mineral other than coal conducted on Fed-
eral land under sections 2319 through 2352 of
the Revised Statutes (commonly known as
the ‘‘Mining Law of 1872’’; 30 U.S.C. 22 et
seq.) or on non-Federal land; and
(ii) for which, based on information sup-
plied by the Good Samaritan after review of
publicly available data and after review of
other information in the possession of the
Administrator, the Administrator or, in the
case of a site on land owned by the United
States, the Federal land management agen-
cy, determines that no responsible owner or
operator has been identified—
(I) who is potentially liable for, or has been
required to perform or pay for, environ-
mental remediation activities under applica-
ble law; and
(II) other than, in the case of a mine site
located on land owned by the United States,
a Federal land management agency that has
not been involved in mining activity on that
land, except that the approval of a plan of
operations under the hardrock mining regu-
lations of the applicable Federal land man-
agement agency shall not be considered in-
volvement in the mining activity.
(B) INCLUSION.—The term ‘‘orphan mine
site’’ includes a hardrock mine site (includ-
ing associated facilities) that was previously
the subject of a completed response action
under the Comprehensive Environmental Re-
sponse, Compensation, and Liability Act of
1980 (42 U.S.C. 9601 et seq.) or a similar Fed-
eral and State reclamation or cleanup pro-
gram, including the remediation of mine-
scarred land under the brownfields revital-
ization program under section 104(k) of the
Comprehensive Environmental Response,
Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980 (42
U.S.C. 9604(k)).
(C) EXCLUSIONS.—
(i) IN GENERAL.—The term ‘‘orphan mine
site’’ does not include a mine site (including
associated facilities)—
(I) in a temporary shutdown or cessation;
(II) included on the National Priorities
List developed by the President in accord-
ance with section 105(a)(8)(B) of the Com-
prehensive Environmental Response, Com-
pensation, and Liability Act of 1980 (42
U.S.C. 9605(a)(8)(B)) or is proposed for inclu-
sion on that list;
(III) that is the subject of a planned or on-
going response action under the Comprehen-
sive Environmental Response, Compensa-
tion, and Liability Act of 1980 (42 U.S.C. 9601
et seq.) or a similar Federal and State rec-
lamation or cleanup program;
(IV) that has a responsible owner or oper-
ator; or
(V) that actively mined or processed min-
erals after December 11, 1980.
(10) PASSIVE LANDOWNER.—The term ‘‘pas-
sive landowner’’ means an individual who—
(A) owns property containing an orphan
mine site;
(B) had no part in the operation of the or-
phan mine site; and
(C) took ownership of the property de-
scribed in subparagraph (A) after termi-
nation of the mining operation at the orphan
mine site.
(11) PERSON.—The term ‘‘person’’ means
any entity described in—
(A) section 502(5) of the Federal Water Pol-
lution Control Act (33 U.S.C. 1362(5)); and
(B) section 101(21) of the Comprehensive
Environmental Response, Compensation, and
Liability Act of 1980 (42 U.S.C. 9601(21)).
(12) REMEDIATION.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The term ‘‘remediation’’
means any action taken to investigate, char-
acterize, or cleanup, in whole or in part, a
discharge, release, or threat of release of a
hazardous substance, pollutant, or contami-
nant into the environment at or from an or-
phan mine site, or to otherwise protect and
improve human health and the environment.
(B) INCLUSION.—The term ‘‘remediation’’
includes any action to remove, treat, or con-
tain historic mine residue to prevent, mini-
mize, or reduce—
(i) the release or threat of release of a haz-
ardous substance, pollutant, or contaminant
that would harm human health or the envi-
ronment; or
(ii) a migration or discharge of a hazardous
substance, pollutant, or contaminant that
would harm human health or the environ-
ment.
(13) RESERVATION.—The term ‘‘reservation’’
has the meaning given the term ‘‘Indian
country’’ in section 1151 of title 18, United
States Code.
(14) RESPONSIBLE OWNER OR OPERATOR.—
The term ‘‘responsible owner or operator’’
means a person that is—
(A)(i) legally responsible under section 301
of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act
(33 U.S.C. 1311) for a discharge that origi-
nates from an orphan mine site; and
(ii) financially able to comply with each
requirement described in that section; or
(B)(i) a present or past owner or operator
or other person that is liable with respect to
a release or threat of release of a hazardous
substance, pollutant, or contaminant associ-
ated with the historic mine residue at or
from an orphan mine site under section 104,
106, 107, or 113 of the Comprehensive Environ-
mental Response, Compensation, and Liabil-
ity Act of 1980 (42 U.S.C. 9604, 9606, 9607, 9613);
and
(ii) financially able to comply with each
requirement described in those sections, as
applicable.
SEC. 9002. SCOPE.
Nothing in this subtitle—
(1) reduces any existing liability;
(2) releases any person from liability, ex-
cept in compliance with this subtitle;
(3) authorizes the conduct of any mining or
processing other than the conduct of any
processing of previously mined ores, min-
erals, wastes, or other materials that is au-
thorized by a Good Samaritan permit;
(4) imposes liability on the United States
or a Federal land management agency pursu-
ant to section 107 of the Comprehensive En-
vironmental Response, Compensation, and
Liability Act of 1980 (42 U.S.C. 9607) or sec-
tion 301 of the Federal Water Pollution Con-
trol Act (33 U.S.C. 1311); or
(5) relieves the United States or any Fed-
eral land management agency from any li-
ability under section 107 of the Comprehen-
sive Environmental Response, Compensa-
tion, and Liability Act of 1980 (42 U.S.C. 9607)
or section 301 of the Federal Water Pollution
Control Act (33 U.S.C. 1311) that exists apart
from any action undertaken pursuant to this
subtitle.
SEC. 9003. ORPHAN MINE SITE GOOD SAMARITAN
PILOT PROJECT AUTHORIZATION.
(a) ESTABLISHMENT.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Administrator shall
establish a pilot program under which the
Administrator shall grant not more than 15
Good Samaritan permits to carry out
projects to remediate historic mine residue
at any portions of orphan mine sites in ac-
cordance with this subtitle.
(2) OVERSIGHT OF PERMITS.—The Adminis-
trator may oversee the remediation project
under paragraph (1), and any action taken by
the applicable Good Samaritan or any co-
operating person under the applicable Good
Samaritan permit, for the duration of the
Good Samaritan permit, as the Adminis-
trator determines to be necessary to review
the status of the project.
(b) GOOD SAMARITAN PERMIT ELIGIBILITY.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—To be eligible to receive a
Good Samaritan permit to carry out a
project to remediate an orphan mine site, a
person shall demonstrate that—
(A) the orphan mine site that is the subject
of the application for a Good Samaritan per-
mit is located in the United States;
(B) the purpose of the proposed project is
the remediation at that orphan mine site of
historic mine residue;
(C) the proposed activities are designed to
result in the partial or complete remediation
of historic mine residue at the orphan mine
site;
(D) to the satisfaction of the Adminis-
trator, the person—
(i) possesses, or has the ability to secure,
the financial and other resources necessary—
(I) to complete the permitted work, as de-
termined by the Administrator; and
(II) to address any contingencies identified
in the Good Samaritan permit application
described in subsection (c);
(ii) possesses the proper and appropriate
experience and capacity to complete the per-
mitted work; and
(iii) will complete the permitted work; and
(E) the person is a Good Samaritan with
respect to the historic mine residue proposed
to be covered by the Good Samaritan permit.
(2) IDENTIFICATION OF ALL RESPONSIBLE
OWNERS OR OPERATORS.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—A Good Samaritan shall
make reasonable and diligent efforts to iden-
tify, from a review of publicly available in-
formation in land records or on internet
websites of Federal, State, and local regu-
latory authorities, all responsible owners or
operators of an orphan mine site proposed to
be remediated by the Good Samaritan under
this section.
(B) EXISTING RESPONSIBLE OWNER OR OPER-
ATOR.—If the Administrator determines,
based on information provided by a Good Sa-
maritan or otherwise, that a responsible
owner or operator exists for an orphan mine
site proposed to be remediated by the Good
Samaritan, the Administrator shall deny the
application for a Good Samaritan permit.
(c) APPLICATION FOR PERMITS.—To obtain a
Good Samaritan permit, a person shall sub-
mit to the Administrator an application,
signed by the person and any cooperating
person, that provides, to the extent known or
reasonably discoverable by the person on the
date on which the application is submitted—
(1) a description of the orphan mine site
(including the boundaries of the orphan mine
site) proposed to be covered by the Good Sa-
maritan permit;
(2) a description of all parties proposed to
be involved in the remediation project, in-
cluding any cooperating person and each
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:39 Feb 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00138 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06FE6.064 S06FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1013
February 6, 2019
member of an applicable corporation, asso-
ciation, partnership, consortium, joint ven-
ture, commercial entity, or nonprofit asso-
ciation;
(3) evidence that the person has or will ac-
quire all legal rights or the authority nec-
essary to enter the relevant orphan mine site
and perform the remediation described in the
application;
(4) a detailed description of the historic
mine residue to be remediated;
(5) a detailed description of the expertise
and experience of the person and the re-
sources available to the person to success-
fully implement and complete the remedi-
ation plan under paragraph (7);
(6) to the satisfaction of the Administrator
and subject to subsection (d), a description of
the baseline environmental conditions, in-
cluding potentially affected surface water
quality and hydrological conditions, affected
by the historic mine residue to be remedi-
ated that includes—
(A) the nature and extent of any adverse
impact on the water quality of any body of
water caused by the drainage of historic
mine residue or other discharges from the or-
phan mine site;
(B) the flow rate and concentration of any
drainage of historic mine residue or other
discharge from the orphan mine site in any
body of water that has resulted in an adverse
impact described in subparagraph (A); and
(C) any other release or threat of release of
historic mine residue that has resulted in an
adverse impact to public health or the envi-
ronment;
(7) subject to subsection (d), a remediation
plan for the orphan mine site that de-
scribes—
(A) the nature and scope of the proposed
remediation activities, including—
(i) any historic mine residue to be ad-
dressed by the remediation plan; and
(ii) a description of the goals of the reme-
diation including, if applicable, with respect
to—
(I) the reduction or prevention of a release,
threat of release, or discharge to surface
waters; or
(II) other appropriate goals relating to
water or soil;
(B) each activity that the person proposes
to take that is designed—
(i) to improve or enhance water quality or
site-specific soil quality relevant to the his-
toric mine residue addressed by the remedi-
ation plan; or
(ii) to otherwise protect human health and
the environment (including through the pre-
vention of a release, discharge, or threat of
release to water or soil);
(C) the monitoring or other form of assess-
ment, if any, that will be undertaken by the
person to evaluate the success of the activi-
ties described in subparagraph (A) during
and after the remediation, with respect to
the baseline conditions, as described in para-
graph (6);
(D) to the satisfaction of the Adminis-
trator, detailed engineering plans for the
project;
(E) any proposed recycling or reprocessing
of historic mine residue to be conducted by
the person (including a description of how all
proposed recycling or reprocessing activities
relate to the remediation of the orphan mine
site); and
(F) identification of any proposed con-
tractor that will perform any remediation
activity;
(8) subject to subsection (d), a schedule for
the work to be carried out under the project,
including a schedule for periodic reporting
by the person on the remediation of the or-
phan mine site;
(9) subject to subsection (d), in the case of
a remediation activity that requires plug-
ging, opening, or otherwise altering the por-
tal or adit of an orphan mine site, an evalua-
tion of orphan mine site conditions, includ-
ing an assessment of any pooled water or hy-
draulic pressure in the orphan mine site con-
ducted by a licensed professional engineer;
(10) a health and safety plan that is specifi-
cally designed for mining remediation work;
(11) a specific contingency plan that—
(A) includes provisions on response and no-
tification to Federal, State, and local au-
thorities with jurisdiction over downstream
waters that have the potential to be im-
pacted by an unplanned release or discharge
of hazardous substances, pollutants, or con-
taminants; and
(B) is designed to respond to unplanned ad-
verse events (such as potential fluid release
that may result from addressing pooled
water or hydraulic pressure situations), in-
cluding the sudden release of historic mine
residue;
(12) subject to subsection (d), a project
budget and description of financial resources
that demonstrate that the permitted work,
including any operation and maintenance,
will be completed;
(13) subject to subsection (d), information
demonstrating that the applicant has the fi-
nancial resources to carry out the remedi-
ation (including any long-term monitoring
that may be required by the Good Samaritan
permit) or the ability to secure an appro-
priate third-party financial assurance, as de-
termined by the Administrator, to ensure
completion of the permitted work, including
any long-term operations and maintenance
of remediation activities that may be—
(A) proposed in the application for the
Good Samaritan permit; or
(B) required by the Administrator as a con-
dition of granting the permit;
(14) subject to subsection (d), a detailed
plan for any required operation and mainte-
nance of any remediation, including a
timeline, if necessary;
(15) subject to subsection (d), a description
of any planned post-remediation monitoring,
if necessary; and
(16) subject to subsection (d), any other ap-
propriate information, as determined by the
Administrator or the applicant.
(d) INVESTIGATIVE SAMPLING.—
(1) INVESTIGATIVE SAMPLING PERMITS.—The
Administrator may grant an investigative
sampling permit for a period determined by
the Administrator to authorize a person to
conduct investigative sampling of historic
mine residue, soil, or water to determine—
(A) baseline conditions; and
(B) whether the person—
(i) is willing to perform further remedi-
ation to address the historic mine residue;
and
(ii) will proceed with a permit conversion
under subsection (e)(1).
(2) APPLICATION.—If a person proposes to
conduct investigative sampling, the person
shall submit to the Administrator a Good
Samaritan permit application that contains,
to the satisfaction of the Administrator—
(A) each description required under para-
graphs (1), (2), (5), and (6) of subsection (c);
(B) the evidence required under subsection
(c)(3);
(C) each plan required under paragraphs
(10) and (11) of subsection (c); and
(D) a detailed plan of the investigative
sampling.
(3) PERMIT LIMITATIONS.—If a person sub-
mits an application that proposes only inves-
tigative sampling of historic mine residue,
soil, or water that only includes the require-
ments described in paragraph (2), the Admin-
istrator may only grant an investigative
sampling permit that authorizes the person
only to carry out the plan of investigative
sampling of historic mine residue, soil, or
water, as described in the investigative sam-
pling permit application under paragraph (2).
(4) REQUIREMENTS RELATING TO SAMPLES.—
In conducting investigative sampling of his-
toric mine residue, soil, or water, a person
shall—
(A) collect samples that are representative
of the conditions present at the orphan mine
site that is the subject of the investigative
sampling permit; and
(B) retain publically available records of
all sampling events for a period of not less
than 3 years.
(5) POST-SAMPLING REMEDIATION.—
(A) REFUSAL TO CONVERT PERMIT.—Subject
to subparagraph (B), a person who obtains an
investigative sampling permit may decline
to apply to convert the investigative sam-
pling permit into a Good Samaritan permit
under paragraph (6) and decline to undertake
remediation on conclusion of investigative
sampling.
(B) RETURN TO PREEXISTING CONDITIONS.—If
the activities carried out by a person under
an investigative sampling permit result in
surface water quality conditions, or any
other environmental conditions, that are
worse than the preexisting conditions of the
applicable orphan mine site due to historic
mine residue at the orphan mine site, the
person shall undertake actions to return the
orphan mine site to those preexisting condi-
tions.
(6) PERMIT CONVERSION.—Not later than 1
year after the date on which the investiga-
tive sampling under the investigative sam-
pling permit concludes, a person to whom an
investigative sampling permit is granted
under paragraph (1) may apply to convert an
investigative sampling permit into a Good
Samaritan permit under subsection (e)(1).
(e) INVESTIGATIVE SAMPLING CONVERSION.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—A person to which an in-
vestigative sampling permit was granted
may submit to the Administrator an applica-
tion in accordance with paragraph (2) to con-
vert the investigative sampling permit into
a Good Samaritan permit.
(2) APPLICATION.—
(A) INVESTIGATIVE SAMPLING.—An applica-
tion for the conversion of an investigative
sampling permit under paragraph (1) shall
include any requirement described in sub-
section (c) that was not included in full in
the application submitted under subsection
(d)(2).
(B) PUBLIC NOTICE AND COMMENT.—An appli-
cation for permit conversion under this para-
graph shall be subject to—
(i) a period of public notice and comment;
and
(ii) a public hearing, if requested.
(f) CONTENT OF PERMITS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—A Good Samaritan permit
shall contain—
(A) the information described in subsection
(c), including any modification required by
the Administrator;
(B)(i) a provision that states that the Good
Samaritan is responsible for securing, for all
activities authorized under the Good Samari-
tan permit, all authorizations, licenses, and
permits that are required under applicable
law except for—
(I) section 301, 302, 306, 307, 402, or 404 of the
Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33
U.S.C. 1311, 1312, 1316, 1317, 1342, 1344); and
(II) authorizations, licenses, and permits
that would not need to be obtained if the re-
mediation was conducted pursuant to section
121 of the Comprehensive Environmental Re-
sponse, Compensation, and Liability Act of
1980 (42 U.S.C. 9621); or
(ii) in the case of an orphan mine site in a
State that is authorized to implement State
law pursuant to section 402 or 404 of the Fed-
eral Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C.
1342, 1344) or on land of an Indian tribe that
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:39 Feb 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00139 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06FE6.064 S06FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1014 February 6, 2019
is authorized to implement Tribal law pursu-
ant to that section, a provision that states
that the Good Samaritan is responsible for
securing, for all activities authorized under
the Good Samaritan permit, all authoriza-
tions, licenses, and permits that are required
under applicable law, except for—
(I) the State or Tribal law, as applicable;
and
(II) authorizations, licenses, and permits
that would not need to be obtained if the re-
mediation was conducted pursuant to section
121 of the Comprehensive Environmental Re-
sponse, Compensation, and Liability Act of
1980 (42 U.S.C. 9621);
(C) specific public notification require-
ments, including the contact information for
all appropriate response centers in accord-
ance with subsection (o); and
(D) any other terms and conditions deter-
mined to be appropriate by the Adminis-
trator.
(2) FORCE MAJEURE.—A Good Samaritan
permit may include, at the request of the
Good Samaritan, a provision that a Good Sa-
maritan may assert a claim of force majeure
for any violation of the Good Samaritan per-
mit caused solely by—
(A) an act of God;
(B) an act of war;
(C) negligence on the part of the United
States; or
(D) an act or omission of a third party, if
the Good Samaritan—
(i) exercises due care with respect to the
actions of the Good Samaritan under the
Good Samaritan permit, as determined by
the Administrator;
(ii) took precautions against foreseeable
acts or omissions of the third party, as de-
termined by the Administrator; and
(iii) uses reasonable efforts—
(I) to anticipate any potential force
majeure; and
(II) to address the effects of any potential
force majeure.
(3) MONITORING.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The Good Samaritan
shall take such actions as the Good Samari-
tan permits requires to ensure appropriate
baseline monitoring, monitoring during the
remediation project, and post-remediation
monitoring of the environment under para-
graphs (6), (7), and (15), respectively, of sub-
section (c).
(B) MULTIPARTY MONITORING.—The Admin-
istrator may approve in a Good Samaritan
permit the monitoring by multiple cooper-
ating persons if, as determined by the Ad-
ministrator—
(i) the multiparty monitoring will effec-
tively accomplish the goals of this section;
and
(ii) the Good Samaritan remains respon-
sible for compliance with the terms of the
Good Samaritan permit.
(4) SIGNATURE BY GOOD SAMARITAN.—The
signature of the relevant Good Samaritan
and a cooperating person, if any, on the Good
Samaritan permit shall be considered to be
an acknowledgment by the Good Samaritan
that the Good Samaritan accepts the terms
and conditions of the Good Samaritan per-
mit.
(5) OTHER DEVELOPMENT.—
(A) NO AUTHORIZATION OF MINING ACTIVI-
TIES.—Except as provided in the Good Sa-
maritan permit, no mineral exploration,
processing, benefication, or mining shall
be—
(i) authorized by this subtitle; or
(ii) covered by any waiver of liability pro-
vided by this subtitle from applicable law.
(B) SALE OR USE OF MATERIALS.—A Good
Samaritan may sell or use materials recov-
ered during the implementation of a remedi-
ation plan only if all of the proceeds from
the sale or use of the materials are first
used—
(i) to defray the costs of the remediation;
and
(ii) to the extent required by the Good Sa-
maritan permit, to reimburse the Adminis-
trator or the head of a Federal land manage-
ment agency for any costs incurred for over-
sight of the Good Samaritan.
(C) CONNECTION WITH OTHER ACTIVITIES.—
The commingling or association of any other
discharge of water or historic mine residue
or any activity, project, or operation with
any aspect of a project subject to a Good Sa-
maritan permit shall not limit or reduce the
liability of any person associated with the
other discharge of water or historic mine
residue or activity, project, or operation.
(g) ADDITIONAL WORK.—A Good Samaritan
permit may allow the Good Samaritan to re-
turn to the orphan mine site after the com-
pletion of the remediation to perform oper-
ations and maintenance or other work—
(1) to ensure the functionality of the or-
phan mine site; or
(2) to protect public health and the envi-
ronment.
(h) TIMING.—Work authorized under a Good
Samaritan permit—
(1) shall commence, as applicable—
(A) not later than the date that is 18
months after the date on which the Adminis-
trator granted the Good Samaritan permit,
unless the Administrator grants an exten-
sion under subsection (r)(3)(B)(i); or
(B) if the grant of the Good Samaritan per-
mit is the subject of a petition for judicial
review, not later than the date that is 18
months after the date on which the judicial
review, including any appeals, has concluded;
and
(2) shall continue until completed, with
temporary suspensions permitted during ad-
verse weather or other conditions specified
in the Good Samaritan permit.
(i) TRANSFER OF PERMITS.—A Good Samari-
tan permit may be transferred to another
person only if—
(1) the Administrator determines that the
transferee qualifies as a Good Samaritan;
(2) the transferee signs, and agrees to be
bound by the terms of, the Good Samaritan
permit;
(3) the Administrator includes in the trans-
ferred Good Samaritan permit any addi-
tional conditions necessary to meet the
goals of this subtitle; and
(4) in the case of a project carried out or
proposed to be carried out under the trans-
ferred Good Samaritan permit on land owned
by the United States—
(A) the head of the appropriate Federal
land management agency consents to the
transfer; and
(B) the transferee enters into any applica-
ble special use permit or other land use
agreement with that Federal land manage-
ment agency.
(j) ROLE OF ADMINISTRATOR.—In carrying
out this section, the Administrator shall—
(1) consult with prospective applicants;
(2) convene, coordinate, and lead the appli-
cation review process;
(3) maintain all records relating to the
Good Samaritan permit and the permit proc-
ess;
(4) provide an opportunity for cooperating
persons and the public to participate in the
Good Samaritan permit process, including—
(A) a public comment period; and
(B) a public hearing, if requested; and
(5) enforce and otherwise carry out this
section.
(k) STATE, LOCAL, AND TRIBAL GOVERN-
MENTS.—As soon as practicable, but not later
than 14 days after the date on which the Ad-
ministrator receives an application for the
remediation of an orphan mine site under
this section, the Administrator shall provide
notice and a copy of the application to—
(1) each local government with jurisdiction
over a drinking water utility, and each In-
dian tribe with reservation or off-reservation
treaty rights to land or water, located down-
stream from a proposed remediation project
that is reasonably anticipated to be ad-
versely impacted by a potential release of
contaminants from the orphan mine site, as
determined by the Administrator;
(2) each Federal, State, and Tribal agency
that may have an interest in the application;
and
(3) in the case of an orphan mine site that
is located partially or entirely on land owned
by the United States, the Federal land man-
agement agency with jurisdiction over that
land.
(l) PUBLIC NOTICE OF RECEIPT OF APPLICA-
TIONS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 30 days
after the date on which the Administrator
receives a complete application for a Good
Samaritan permit, the Administrator shall
provide to the public a notice that—
(A) describes—
(i) the location of the relevant orphan
mine site;
(ii) the scope and nature of the proposed
remediation; and
(iii) the name of the person applying for
the Good Samaritan permit; and
(B) provides to the public a means of view-
ing or obtaining the application, including,
at a minimum, posting the application on
the website of the Administrator.
(2) HEARING.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Before the date on which
the Administrator grants a Good Samaritan
permit, if requested, the Administrator shall
hold a public hearing in the vicinity of the
affected orphan mine site.
(B) NOTICE.—Not later than 30 days before
the date of a hearing under subparagraph
(A), the Administrator shall provide to the
public—
(i) notice of the hearing; and
(ii) a draft Good Samaritan permit.
(C) COMMENTS.—The Administrator shall
provide to the relevant applicant and the
public the opportunity—
(i) to comment on the draft Good Samari-
tan permit at the public hearing; and
(ii) to submit written comments to the Ad-
ministrator during the 30-day period begin-
ning on the date of the hearing.
(m) PERMIT GRANT.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Administrator may
grant a Good Samaritan permit to carry out
a project for the remediation of an orphan
mine site only if—
(A) the Administrator determines that—
(i) the person seeking the permit is a Good
Samaritan;
(ii) the application described in subsection
(c) is complete;
(iii) the project is designed to remediate
historic mine residue at the orphan mine site
to protect public health and the environ-
ment;
(iv) the proposed project is designed to
meet all other goals, as determined by the
Administrator, including any goals set forth
in the application for the Good Samaritan
permit that are accepted by the Adminis-
trator;
(v) the proposed activities are designed to
result in, as compared to the baseline condi-
tions described in subsection (c)(6)—
(I) improved water or soil quality or other
environmental or safety conditions; or
(II) reductions in further threats to water
or soil quality or other environmental or
safety conditions;
(vi) the applicant has—
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:39 Feb 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00140 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06FE6.064 S06FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1015
February 6, 2019
(I) demonstrated that the applicant has the
proper and appropriate experience and capac-
ity to complete the permitted work;
(II) demonstrated that the applicant will
complete the permitted work;
(III) the financial and other resources to
address any contingencies identified in the
Good Samaritan permit application de-
scribed in subsections (b) and (c);
(IV) granted access and provided the au-
thority to review the records of the appli-
cant relevant to compliance with the re-
quirements of the Good Samaritan permit;
and
(V) demonstrated, to the satisfaction of
the Administrator, that—
(aa) the applicant has, or has access to, the
financial resources to complete the project
described in the Good Samaritan permit ap-
plication, including any long-term moni-
toring and operations and maintenance that
the Administrator may require the applicant
to perform in the Good Samaritan permit; or
(bb) the applicant has established a third
party financial assurance mechanism, such
as a corporate guarantee from a parent or
other corporate affiliate, letter of credit,
trust, surety bond, or insurance to assure
that funds are available to complete the per-
mitted work, including for operations and
maintenance and to address potential con-
tingencies, that establishes the Adminis-
trator or the head of the Federal land man-
agement agency as the beneficiary of the
third-party financial assurance mechanism
and that allows the Administrator to retain
and use the funds from the financial assur-
ance mechanism in the event the Good Sa-
maritan does not complete the remediation
under the Good Samaritan permit; and
(vii) the project meets the requirements of
this subtitle;
(B) the State or Indian tribe with jurisdic-
tion over land on which the orphan mine site
is located has been given an opportunity to
review and, if necessary, comment on the
grant of the Good Samaritan permit;
(C) in the case of a project proposed to be
carried out under the Good Samaritan per-
mit partially or entirely on land owned by
the United States—
(i) the head of the Federal land manage-
ment agency with jurisdiction over that land
reviews and concurs with the grant of the
Good Samaritan permit; and
(ii) the Good Samaritan has entered into
any applicable special use permit or other
land use agreement with the Federal land
management agency pursuant to applicable
Federal land management law; and
(D) the Administrator has provided—
(i) notice under subsection (l); and
(ii) a period of public comment and a pub-
lic hearing under that subsection, if re-
quested.
(2) RELATION TO NEPA.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The grant or modifica-
tion of a Good Samaritan permit by the Ad-
ministrator shall not be considered a major
Federal action significantly affecting the
quality of the human environment for pur-
poses of section 102 of the National Environ-
mental Policy Act (42 U.S.C. 4332).
(B) LIMITATION.—Nothing in this paragraph
exempts the Secretary of Agriculture or the
Secretary of the Interior, as applicable, from
any other requirements of section 102 of the
National Environmental Policy Act (42
U.S.C. 4332).
(3) DEADLINE.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The Administrator shall
grant or deny a Good Samaritan permit by
not later than—
(i) the date that is 180 days after the date
of receipt by the Administrator of an appli-
cation for the Good Samaritan permit that,
as determined by the Administrator, is com-
plete and meets all applicable requirements
of subsection (c); or
(ii) such later date as may be determined
by the Administrator with notification pro-
vided to the applicant.
(B) CONSTRUCTIVE DENIAL.—If the Adminis-
trator fails to grant or deny a Good Samari-
tan permit by the applicable deadline de-
scribed in subparagraph (A), the application
shall be considered to be denied.
(n) EFFECT OF PERMITS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—A Good Samaritan, recipi-
ent of an investigative sampling permit, pas-
sive landowner, and any cooperating person
undertaking remediation activities identi-
fied in and carried out pursuant to and in
full compliance with a Good Samaritan per-
mit—
(A) shall be considered to be in compliance
with all requirements (including permitting
requirements) under the Federal Water Pol-
lution Control Act (33 U.S.C. 1251 et seq.) (in-
cluding any law or regulation implemented
by a State or Indian tribe under section 402
or 404 of the Federal Water Pollution Control
Act (33 U.S.C. 1342, 1344)) and the Comprehen-
sive Environmental Response, Compensa-
tion, and Liability Act of 1980 (42 U.S.C. 9601
et seq.) during the term of the Good Samari-
tan permit and after the termination of the
Good Samaritan permit;
(B) shall not be required to obtain a permit
under, or to comply with, section 301, 302,
306, 307, 402, or 404 of the Federal Water Pol-
lution Control Act (33 U.S.C. 1311, 1312, 1316,
1317, 1342, 1344), or any State or Tribal stand-
ards or regulations approved by the Adminis-
trator under those sections of that Act, dur-
ing the term of the Good Samaritan permit
and after the termination of the Good Sa-
maritan permit; and
(C) shall not be required to obtain any au-
thorizations, licenses, or permits that would
otherwise not need to be obtained if the re-
mediation was conducted pursuant to section
121 of the Comprehensive Environmental Re-
sponse, Compensation, and Liability Act of
1980 (42 U.S.C. 9621).
(2) ACTIVITIES NOT RELATING TO REMEDI-
ATION.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—A Good Samaritan or any
cooperating person that carries out any ac-
tivity relating to mineral exploration, proc-
essing, beneficiation, or mining, including
development, that is not authorized by the
applicable Good Samaritan permit shall be
subject to all applicable law.
(B) LIABILITY.—Any activity not author-
ized by a Good Samaritan permit, as deter-
mined by the Administrator, may be subject
to liability and enforcement under all appli-
cable law, including—
(i) the Federal Water Pollution Control
Act (33 U.S.C. 1251 et seq.); and
(ii) the Comprehensive Environmental Re-
sponse, Compensation, and Liability Act of
1980 (42 U.S.C. 9601 et seq.).
(3) NO ENFORCEMENT LIABILITY.—
(A) DISCHARGES.—Subject to subparagraphs
(B) and (C), a Good Samaritan, recipient of
an investigative sampling permit, passive
landowner, or cooperating person that is
conducting remediation pursuant to a Good
Samaritan permit shall not be subject to en-
forcement, civil or criminal penalties, cit-
izen suits, or any other liability (including
any liability for response costs, natural re-
source damage, or contribution) under the
Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33
U.S.C. 1251 et seq.) (including under any law
or regulation administered by a State or In-
dian tribe under that Act) or the Comprehen-
sive Environmental Response, Compensa-
tion, and Liability Act of 1980 (42 U.S.C. 9601
et seq.) for any actions undertaken or for
any past, present, or future releases, threats
of releases, or discharges of hazardous sub-
stances, pollutants, or contaminants at or
from the orphan mine site that is the subject
of the Good Samaritan permit (including any
releases, threats of releases, or discharges
that occurred prior to the grant of the Good
Samaritan permit) during the term of the
Good Samaritan permit and after termi-
nation of the Good Samaritan permit.
(B) OTHER PARTIES.—Nothing in subpara-
graph (A) limits the liability of any person
that is not described in that subparagraph.
(C) VIOLATION OF PERMIT PRIOR TO TERMI-
NATION.—Notwithstanding subparagraph (A),
if the Good Samaritan, passive landowner, or
cooperating person violates the terms of the
Good Samaritan permit and that violation
results in surface water quality or other en-
vironmental conditions that are worse than
baseline conditions at the orphan mine site,
the Administrator—
(i) shall notify the Good Samaritan of the
violation; and
(ii) may require the Good Samaritan to un-
dertake reasonable measures, as determined
by the Administrator, to return surface
water quality or other environmental condi-
tions to the condition that existed prior to
the violation.
(o) PUBLIC NOTIFICATION OF ADVERSE
EVENT.—A Good Samaritan shall notify all
appropriate Federal, State, Tribal, and local
entities of any unplanned or previously un-
known release of historic mine residue
caused by the actions of the Good Samari-
tan, passive landowner, or any cooperating
person in accordance with—
(1) section 103 of the Comprehensive Envi-
ronmental Response, Compensation, and Li-
ability Act of 1980 (42 U.S.C. 9603);
(2) section 304 of the Emergency Planning
and Community Right-To-Know Act of 1986
(42 U.S.C. 11004);
(3) the Federal Water Pollution Control
Act (33 U.S.C. 1251 et seq.);
(4) any other applicable provision of Fed-
eral law; and
(5) any other applicable provision of State,
Tribal, or local law.
(p) GRANT ELIGIBILITY.—A remediation
project conducted under a Good Samaritan
permit shall be eligible for funding pursuant
to—
(1) section 319 of the Federal Water Pollu-
tion Control Act (33 U.S.C. 1329); and
(2) section 104(k) of the Comprehensive En-
vironmental Response, Compensation, and
Liability Act of 1980 (42 U.S.C. 9604(k)).
(q) EMERGENCY AUTHORITY AND LIABILITY.—
(1) EMERGENCY AUTHORITY.—Nothing in
this section affects the authority of—
(A) the Administrator to take any respon-
sive action authorized by law; or
(B) a Federal, State, Tribal, or local agen-
cy to carry out any emergency authority, in-
cluding an emergency authority provided
under Federal, State, Tribal, or local law.
(2) LIABILITY.—Except as specifically pro-
vided in this subtitle, nothing in this sub-
title or a Good Samaritan permit limits the
liability of any person (including a Good Sa-
maritan or any cooperating person) under
any provision of law.
(r) TERMINATION OF AUTHORITY.—
(1) TERMINATION.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in
subparagraph (B), the authority to grant
Good Samaritan permits pursuant to this
subtitle shall terminate on the date that is 7
years after the date of enactment of this
Act.
(B) EXCEPTION.—Notwithstanding subpara-
graph (A), the Administrator may grant a
Good Samaritan permit pursuant to this sub-
title after the date identified in subpara-
graph (A) if the application for the Good Sa-
maritan permit—
(i) was submitted not later than 180 days
before that date; and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:39 Feb 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00141 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06FE6.064 S06FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1016 February 6, 2019
(ii) was completed in accordance with sub-
section (e)(1) by not later than 7 years after
the date of enactment of this Act.
(2) EFFECT ON CERTAIN PERMITS.—Any Good
Samaritan permit granted by the deadline
prescribed in subparagraph (A) or (B) of para-
graph (1), as applicable, that is in effect on
the date that is 7 years after the date of en-
actment of this Act shall remain in effect
after that date in accordance with—
(A) the terms and conditions of the Good
Samaritan permit; and
(B) this subtitle.
(3) TERMINATION OF PERMIT.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—A Good Samaritan permit
shall terminate, as applicable—
(i) on inspection and notice from the Ad-
ministrator to the recipient of the Good Sa-
maritan permit that the permitted work has
been completed in accordance with the terms
of the Good Samaritan permit, as deter-
mined by the Administrator;
(ii) if the Administrator terminates a per-
mit under paragraph (4)(B)(i); or
(iii) except as provided in subparagraph
(B)—
(I) on the date that is 18 months after the
date on which the Administrator granted the
Good Samaritan permit, if the permitted
work has not commenced by that date; or
(II) if the grant of the Good Samaritan per-
mit was the subject of a petition for judicial
review, on the date that is 18 months after
the date on which the judicial review, includ-
ing any appeals, has concluded, if the per-
mitted work has not commenced by that
date.
(B) EXTENSION.—
(i) IN GENERAL.—If the Administrator is
otherwise required to terminate a Good Sa-
maritan permit under subparagraph (A)(iii),
the Administrator may grant an extension of
the Good Samaritan permit.
(ii) LIMITATION.—Any extension granted
under clause (i) shall be not more than 180
days for each extension.
(4) UNFORESEEN CIRCUMSTANCES.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The recipient of a Good
Samaritan permit or investigative sampling
permit may seek to modify or terminate the
Good Samaritan permit or investigative
sampling permit to take into account any
event or condition that—
(i) significantly reduces the feasibility or
significantly increases the cost of com-
pleting the remediation project that is the
subject of the Good Samaritan permit or in-
vestigative sampling permit;
(ii) was not—
(I) reasonably contemplated by the recipi-
ent of the permit; or
(II) taken into account in the remediation
plan of the recipient of the permit; and
(iii) is beyond the control of the recipient
of the permit, as determined by the Adminis-
trator.
(B) TERMINATION.—
(i) IN GENERAL.—Subject to subsection
(n)(3), the Administrator shall terminate a
Good Samaritan permit or investigative
sampling permit if—
(I) the recipient of the permit seeks termi-
nation of the permit under subparagraph (A);
(II) the factors described in subparagraph
(A) are satisfied; and
(III) the Administrator determines that re-
mediation activities conducted by the Good
Samaritan or person pursuant to the Good
Samaritan permit or investigative sampling
permit, respectively, may result in surface
water quality conditions, or any other envi-
ronmental conditions, that will be worse
than the baseline conditions, as described in
subsection (c)(6), as applicable.
(ii) EFFECT OF TERMINATION.—Notwith-
standing the termination of a Good Samari-
tan permit or investigative sampling permit
under clause (i), the provisions of paragraphs
(1), (2), and (3) of subsection (n) shall con-
tinue to apply to the Good Samaritan, the
recipient of an investigative sampling per-
mit, and any cooperating persons after the
termination.
(5) LONG-TERM OPERATIONS AND MAINTE-
NANCE.—In the case of a project that involves
long-term operations and maintenance at an
orphan mine site located on land owned by
the United States, the project may be con-
sidered complete and the Administrator may
terminate the Good Samaritan permit under
this subsection if the applicable Good Sa-
maritan has entered into an agreement with
the applicable Federal land management
agency or a cooperating person for the long-
term operations and maintenance that in-
cludes sufficient funding for the long-term
operations and maintenance.
(s) REGULATIONS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Subject to paragraph (2),
not later than 1 year after the date of enact-
ment of this Act, the Administrator, in con-
sultation with the Secretary of the Interior
and the Secretary of Agriculture, and appro-
priate State, Tribal, and local officials, shall
promulgate regulations to establish—
(A) requirements for remediation plans de-
scribed in subsection (c); and
(B) any other requirement that the Admin-
istrator determines to be necessary to carry
out this subtitle.
(2) SPECIFIC REQUIREMENTS BEFORE PROMUL-
GATION OF REGULATIONS.—Before the date on
which the Administrator promulgates regu-
lations under paragraph (1), the Adminis-
trator may establish, on a case-by-case basis,
specific requirements that the Adminis-
trator determines would facilitate the imple-
mentation of this subsection with respect to
a Good Samaritan permitting program.
SEC. 9004. SPECIAL ACCOUNTS.
(a) ESTABLISHMENT.—There is established
in the Treasury of the United States a Good
Samaritan Mine Remediation Fund (referred
to in this section as a ‘‘Fund’’) for each Fed-
eral land management agency that author-
izes a Good Samaritan to conduct a project
on Federal land under the jurisdiction of
that Federal land management agency under
a Good Samaritan permit.
(b) DEPOSITS.—Each Fund shall consist of—
(1) amounts provided in appropriation
Acts;
(2) any reimbursements for the costs of
oversight received under section
9003(f)(5)(B)(ii);
(3) any financial assurance funds collected
from an agreement described in section
9003(m)(1)(A)(vi)(V)(bb);
(4) any funds collected for long-term oper-
ations and maintenance under an agreement
under section 9003(r)(5);
(5) any interest earned under an invest-
ment under subsection (c); and
(6) any proceeds from the sale or redemp-
tion of investments held in the Fund.
(c) UNUSED FUNDS.—Amounts in each Fund
not currently needed to carry out this sub-
title shall be—
(1) maintained as readily available or on
deposit;
(2) invested in obligations of the United
States or guaranteed by the United States;
or
(3) invested in obligations, participations,
or other instruments that are lawful invest-
ments for a fiduciary, a trust, or public
funds.
(d) RETAIN AND USE AUTHORITY.—Each
head of a Federal land management agency,
as appropriate, may, notwithstanding any
other provision of law, retain and use money
deposited in the applicable Fund without fis-
cal year limitation for the purpose of car-
rying out this subtitle.
(e) LIMITATION.—Amounts in each Fund
may only be used for the Good Samaritan
project for which the funds were deposited.
SEC. 9005. REPORT TO CONGRESS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 8 years
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Administrator, in consultation with the
heads of Federal land management agencies,
shall submit to the Committee on Environ-
ment and Public Works of the Senate and
the Committees on Transportation and In-
frastructure, Energy and Commerce, and
Natural Resources of the House of Rep-
resentatives a report evaluating the Good
Samaritan pilot program under this subtitle.
(b) INCLUSIONS.—The report under sub-
section (a) shall include—
(1) a description of—
(A) the number, types, and objectives of
Good Samaritan permits granted pursuant to
this subtitle; and
(B) each remediation project authorized by
those Good Samaritan permits;
(2) qualitative and quantitative data on
the results achieved under the Good Samari-
tan permits before the date of issuance of the
report;
(3) a description of—
(A) any problems encountered in admin-
istering this subtitle; and
(B) whether the problems have been or can
be remedied by administrative action (in-
cluding amendments to existing law);
(4) a description of progress made in
achieving the purposes of this subtitle; and
(5) recommendations on whether the Good
Samaritan pilot program under this subtitle
should be continued, including a description
of any modifications (including amendments
to existing law) required to continue admin-
istering this subtitle.
Subtitle B—Other Matters
SA 134. Mr. PORTMAN (for himself,
Mr. WARNER, Mr. ALEXANDER, Mr.
KING, Mr. TILLIS, Ms. COLLINS, Mr.
DAINES, Mr. CRAMER, and Mr. GARDNER)
submitted an amendment intended to
be proposed to amendment SA 111 sub-
mitted by Ms. MURKOWSKI (for herself
and Mr. MANCHIN) and intended to be
proposed to the bill S. 47, to provide for
the management of the natural re-
sources of the United States, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
At the end of subtitle E of title II, add the
following:
SEC. 24llll. NATIONAL PARK SERVICE LEG-
ACY RESTORATION FUND.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Chapter 1049 of title 54,
United States Code (as amended by section
2410(a)), is amended by adding at the end the
following:
‘‘§ 104910. National park service legacy res-
toration fund
‘‘(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
‘‘(1) FUND.—The term ‘Fund’ means the Na-
tional Park Service Legacy Restoration
Fund established by subsection (b).
‘‘(2) PROJECT.—The term ‘project’ means
the overall plan of remediation of deferred
maintenance for an asset, which may include
resolving directly related infrastructure de-
ficiencies of the asset.
‘‘(b) ESTABLISHMENT.—There is established
in the Treasury of the United States a fund,
to be known as the ‘National Park Service
Legacy Restoration Fund’.
‘‘(c) DEPOSITS.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in
paragraph (2), for each of fiscal years 2019
through 2023, there shall be deposited in the
Fund an amount equal to 50 percent of all
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:39 Feb 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00142 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06FE6.064 S06FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1017
February 6, 2019
energy development revenues due and pay-
able to the United States from oil, gas, coal,
or alternative or renewable energy develop-
ment on Federal land and water that would
otherwise be credited, covered, or deposited
as miscellaneous receipts under Federal law.
‘‘(2) MAXIMUM AMOUNT.—The amount de-
posited in the Fund under paragraph (1) shall
not exceed $1,300,000,000 for any fiscal year.
‘‘(3) EFFECT ON OTHER REVENUES.—Nothing
in this section affects the disposition of reve-
nues that—
‘‘(A) are due to the United States, special
funds, trust funds, or States from mineral
and energy development on Federal land and
water; or
‘‘(B) have been otherwise appropriated
under Federal law, including the Gulf of
Mexico Energy Security Act of 2006 (43
U.S.C. 1331 note; Public Law 109–432), the
Mineral Leasing Act (30 U.S.C. 181 et seq.),
and chapter 2003.
‘‘(d) AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS.—Amounts de-
posited in the Fund shall be available to the
Secretary without further appropriation or
fiscal year limitation.
‘‘(e) INVESTMENT OF AMOUNTS.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary may re-
quest the Secretary of the Treasury to invest
any portion of the Fund that is not, as deter-
mined by the Secretary, required to meet the
current needs of the Fund.
‘‘(2) REQUIREMENT.—An investment re-
quested under paragraph (1) shall be made by
the Secretary of the Treasury in a public
debt security—
‘‘(A) with a maturity suitable to the needs
of the Fund, as determined by the Secretary;
and
‘‘(B) bearing interest at a rate determined
by the Secretary of the Treasury, taking
into consideration current market yields on
outstanding marketable obligations of the
United States of comparable maturity.
‘‘(3) CREDITS TO FUND.—The income on in-
vestments of the Fund under this subsection
shall be credited to, and form a part of, the
Fund.
‘‘(f) USE OF FUNDS.—Amounts in the Fund
shall be used for the priority deferred main-
tenance needs of the Service, as determined
by the Secretary, to carry out repair, res-
toration, or rehabilitation projects as fol-
lows:
‘‘(1) Not less than 65 percent of amounts in
the Fund shall be allocated for non-transpor-
tation projects, including—
‘‘(A) historic structures, facilities, and
other historic assets;
‘‘(B) structures, facilities, and other non-
historic assets that relate directly to the vis-
itor experience, including—
‘‘(i) access, including making facilities ac-
cessible to visitors with disabilities;
‘‘(ii) health and safety; and
‘‘(iii) recreation; and
‘‘(C) administrative facilities, water and
utility systems, and employee housing.
‘‘(2) The remaining amounts in the Fund
may be allocated to road, bridge, tunnel, or
other transportation-related projects that
may be eligible for funding made available to
the Service through—
‘‘(A) the transportation program under sec-
tion 203 of title 23; or
‘‘(B) any similar Federal land highway pro-
gram administered by the Secretary of
Transportation.
‘‘(g) PROHIBITED USE OF FUNDS.—No
amounts in the Fund shall be used—
‘‘(1) for land acquisition;
‘‘(2) to supplant discretionary funding
made available for the annually recurring fa-
cility operations, maintenance, and con-
struction needs of the Service; or
‘‘(3) for bonuses for employees of the Fed-
eral Government that are carrying out this
section.
‘‘(h) SUBMISSION TO CONGRESS.—The Sec-
retary shall submit to the Committee on En-
ergy and Natural Resources of the Senate
and the Committee on Natural Resources of
the House of Representatives, as part of the
annual budget submission of the President, a
list of projects for which the amounts in the
Fund are allocated under this section, in-
cluding a description of each project.
‘‘(i) PUBLIC DONATIONS.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary and the
Director may accept public cash or in-kind
donations that advance efforts—
‘‘(A) to reduce the deferred maintenance
backlog of the Service; and
‘‘(B) to encourage relevant public-private
partnerships.
‘‘(2) CREDITS TO FUND.—Any cash donations
accepted under paragraph (1) shall be cred-
ited to, and form a part of, the Fund.
‘‘(3) REPORTING.—Each donation received
under paragraph (1) that is used for, or di-
rectly related to, the reduction of the de-
ferred maintenance backlog of the Service
shall be included with the annual budget
submission of the President to Congress.’’.
(b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of
sections for chapter 1049 of title 54, United
States Code (as amended by section 2410(b)),
is amended by adding at the end the fol-
lowing:
‘‘104910. National Park Service Legacy Res-
toration Fund.’’.
SA 135. Ms. MCSALLY (for herself
and Ms. SINEMA) submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 111 submitted by Ms.
MURKOWSKI (for herself and Mr.
MANCHIN) and intended to be proposed
to the bill S. 47, to provide for the man-
agement of the natural resources of the
United States, and for other purposes;
which was ordered to lie on the table;
as follows:
On page 163, between lines 14 and 15, insert
the following:
SEC. 1124. COCONINO NATIONAL FOREST, ARI-
ZONA.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) OBSERVATORY.—The term ‘‘Observ-
atory’’ means the Lowell Observatory in
Flagstaff, Arizona.
(2) SECRETARY.—The term ‘‘Secretary’’
means the Secretary of Agriculture, acting
through the Chief of the Forest Service.
(b) RELEASE OF REVERSIONARY AND RE-
SERVED INTERESTS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Subject to valid existing
rights, if the Observatory makes a written
request to the Secretary for conveyance of
the parcel of land described in paragraph (2)
not later than 180 days after the date of en-
actment of this Act, the Secretary shall con-
vey to the Observatory, without consider-
ation and by quitclaim deed, all right, title,
and interest of the United States in and to
that parcel of land.
(2) LAND DESCRIBED.—The parcel of land to
be conveyed under paragraph (1) is the Na-
tional Forest System land—
(A) conveyed by the United States to Per-
cival Lowell and his heirs by the Act entitled
‘‘An Act granting certain lands in the
Coconino National Forest, in Arizona, for ob-
servatory purposes’’, approved May 30, 1910
(36 Stat. 452; chapter 261); and
(B) described as sec. 17, T. 21 N., R. 7 E., of
the Gila and Salt River base and meridian in
Coconino County, Arizona.
SA 136. Mr. JOHNSON (for himself,
Ms. BALDWIN, Mr. BARRASSO, and Mr.
ENZI) submitted an amendment in-
tended to be proposed to amendment
SA 111 submitted by Ms. MURKOWSKI
(for herself and Mr. MANCHIN) and in-
tended to be proposed to the bill S. 47,
to provide for the management of the
natural resources of the United States,
and for other purposes; which was or-
dered to lie on the table; as follows:
At the appropriate place, insert the fol-
lowing:
SEC. lll. REISSUANCE OF FINAL RULE RE-
GARDING GRAY WOLVES IN WEST-
ERN GREAT LAKES.
Before the end of the 60-day period begin-
ning on the date of enactment of this Act,
the Secretary of the Interior shall reissue
the final rule published on December 28, 2011
(76 Fed. Reg. 81666), without regard to any
other provision of statute or regulation that
applies to issuance of such rule. Such
reissuance shall not be subject to judicial re-
view.
SEC. lll. REISSUANCE OF FINAL RULE RE-
GARDING GRAY WOLVES IN WYO-
MING.
The final rule published on September 10,
2012 (77 Fed. Reg. 55530) that was reinstated
on March 3, 2017, by the decision of the U.S.
Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia
(No. 14–5300) and further republished on May
1, 2017 (82 Fed. Reg. 20284–85) that reinstates
the removal of Federal protections for the
gray wolf in Wyoming under the Endangered
Species Act of 1973, as amended, shall not be
subject to judicial review.
SA 137. Mr. BARRASSO submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 111 submitted by Ms.
MURKOWSKI (for herself and Mr.
MANCHIN) and intended to be proposed
to the bill S. 47, to provide for the man-
agement of the natural resources of the
United States, and for other purposes;
which was ordered to lie on the table;
as follows:
On page 236, line 9, insert ‘‘, including full
development of any apportionment made in
accordance with any interstate water com-
pact’’ after ‘‘Act’’.
SA 138. Mr. BARRASSO submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 111 submitted by Ms.
MURKOWSKI (for herself and Mr.
MANCHIN) and intended to be proposed
to the bill S. 47, to provide for the man-
agement of the natural resources of the
United States, and for other purposes;
which was ordered to lie on the table;
as follows:
At the end of title IX, add the following:
SEC. 90ll. REDUCTION IN ROYALTY RATE ON
SODA ASH.
Notwithstanding section 102(a)(9) of the
Federal Land Policy and Management Act of
1976 (43 U.S.C. 1701(a)(9)), section 24 of the
Mineral Leasing Act (30 U.S.C. 262), and the
terms of any lease under that Act, the roy-
alty rate on the quantity or gross value of
the output of sodium compounds and related
products at the point of shipment to market
from Federal land in the 1-year period begin-
ning on the date of enactment of this Act
shall be 4 percent.
SA 139. Mr. CASSIDY (for himself,
Mr. JONES, Mr. KENNEDY, and Mr.
WICKER) submitted an amendment in-
tended to be proposed by him to the
bill S. 47, to provide for the manage-
ment of the natural resources of the
United States, and for other purposes;
which was ordered to lie on the table;
as follows:
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:50 Feb 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00143 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06FE6.054 S06FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1018 February 6, 2019
At the end of title IX, add the following:
SEC. 90ll. AMENDMENTS TO THE GULF OF MEX-
ICO ENERGY SECURITY ACT OF 2006.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 105(a) of the Gulf
of Mexico Energy Security Act of 2006 (43
U.S.C. 1331 note; Public Law 109–432) is
amended—
(1) in paragraph (1), by striking ‘‘50’’ and
inserting ‘‘37.5’’; and
(2) in paragraph (2)—
(A) in the matter preceding subparagraph
(A), by striking ‘‘50’’ and inserting ‘‘62.5’’;
(B) in subparagraph (A), by striking ‘‘75’’
and inserting ‘‘80’’; and
(C) in subparagraph (B), by striking ‘‘25’’
and inserting ‘‘20’’.
(b) LIMITATIONS ON AUTHORIZED USES.—Sec-
tion 105(d) of the Gulf of Mexico Energy Se-
curity Act of 2006 (43 U.S.C. 1331 note; Public
Law 109–432) is amended—
(1) in paragraph (1), by adding at the end
the following:
‘‘(F) Planning, engineering, design, con-
struction, operations, and maintenance of 1
or more projects that are specifically au-
thorized by any other Act for ecosystem res-
toration, hurricane protection, or flood dam-
age prevention.’’; and
(2) by striking paragraph (2) and inserting
the following:
‘‘(2) LIMITATION.—Of the amounts received
by a Gulf producing State or coastal polit-
ical subdivision under subsection (b)—
‘‘(A) not more than 3 percent shall be used
for the purposes described in paragraph
(1)(E); and
‘‘(B) not less than 25 percent shall be used
for the purposes described in paragraph
(1)(F), which shall be applied proportionally
to the Federal and non-Federal share appli-
cable to the project.’’.
(c) REPEAL OF LIMITATION.—Section 105 of
the Gulf of Mexico Energy Security Act of
2006 (43 U.S.C. 1331 note; Public Law 109–432)
is amended by striking subsection (f).
SA 140. Mr. PAUL submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed by
him to the bill S. 47, to provide for the
management of the natural resources
of the United States, and for other pur-
poses; which was ordered to lie on the
table; as follows:
At the end of subtitle B of title I, add the
following:
SEC. 11lll. ACCESS TO WATERWAYS IN THE
DANIEL BOONE NATIONAL FOREST,
KENTUCKY.
The Secretary of Agriculture shall allow
access to the waterways feeding into Lake
Cumberland through the Daniel Boone Na-
tional Forest in Rockcastle County, Pulaski
County, Laurel County, Wayne County,
McCreary County, and Whitley County, Ken-
tucky, for the purpose of installing docks,
boat slips, and marinas.
SA 141. Mr. PAUL submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed by
him to the bill S. 47, to provide for the
management of the natural resources
of the United States, and for other pur-
poses; which was ordered to lie on the
table; as follows:
At the end of subtitle A of title I, add the
following
SEC. 10llll. SALE OF CERTAIN NATIONAL
FOREST SYSTEM LAND IN THE DAN-
IEL BOONE NATIONAL FOREST.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary of Agri-
culture (referred to in this section as the
‘‘Secretary’’) shall, in accordance with any
other applicable law and subject to valid ex-
isting rights, conduct 1 or more sales of the
National Forest System land described in
subsection (b) to qualified bidders.
(b) DESCRIPTION OF LAND.—The National
Forest System land referred to in subsection
(a) consists of National Forest System land
that—
(1) is located along U.S. Highway No. 27
from Burnside, Kentucky, through the Dan-
iel Boone National Forest to the point at
which U.S. Highway No. 27 crosses into the
State of Tennessee, as depicted on the map
prepared under subsection (c); and
(2) is identified for disposal by the Sec-
retary.
(c) MAP.—As soon as practicable after the
date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary
shall prepare a map of the National Forest
System land referred to in subsection (b)(1).
(d) CONSIDERATION.—The sale of National
Forest System land under subsection (a)
shall be for not less than fair market value.
SA 142. Mr. UDALL (for himself and
Mr. HEINRICH) submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 111 submitted by Ms.
MURKOWSKI (for herself and Mr.
MANCHIN) and intended to be proposed
to the bill S. 47, to provide for the man-
agement of the natural resources of the
United States, and for other purposes;
which was ordered to lie on the table;
as follows:
At the end of part I of subtitle C of title I,
add the following:
SEC. 12lll. WITHDRAWAL OF CERTAIN FED-
ERAL LAND IN THE STATE OF NEW
MEXICO.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) FEDERAL LAND.—The term ‘‘Federal
land’’ means—
(A) any Federal land or interest in Federal
land that is within the boundaries of the
Chaco Cultural Heritage Withdrawal Area, as
depicted on the Map; and
(B) any land or interest in land located
within the boundaries of the Chaco Cultural
Heritage Withdrawal Area, as depicted on
the Map, that is acquired by the Federal
Government after the date of enactment of
this Act.
(2) MAP.—The term ‘‘Map’’ means the map
prepared by the Bureau of Land Management
entitled ‘‘Chaco Cultural Heritage With-
drawal Area’’ and dated May 14, 2018.
(b) WITHDRAWAL.—Subject to any valid ex-
isting rights, the Federal land is withdrawn
from—
(1) all forms of entry, appropriation, and
disposal under the public land laws;
(2) location, entry, and patent under min-
ing laws; and
(3) operation of the mineral leasing, min-
eral materials, and geothermal leasing laws.
(c) AVAILABILITY OF MAP.—The Map shall
be made available for inspection at each ap-
propriate office of the Bureau of Land Man-
agement.
(d) EFFECT OF ACT.—Nothing in this sec-
tion—
(1) affects the mineral rights of a Tribe or
member of a Tribe to trust land or allotment
land; or
(2) precludes improvements to, or rights-
of-way for water, power, or road development
on, the Federal land to assist communities
adjacent to or in the vicinity of the Federal
land.
SA 143. Mr. TILLIS (for himself and
Mr. BURR) submitted an amendment in-
tended to be proposed to amendment
SA 111 submitted by Ms. MURKOWSKI
(for herself and Mr. MANCHIN) and in-
tended to be proposed to the bill S. 47,
to provide for the management of the
natural resources of the United States,
and for other purposes; which was or-
dered to lie on the table; as follows:
At the end of title VII, add the following:
SECTION 70ll. CORRECTION TO MAP.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 30 days
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Secretary of the Interior shall make such
corrections to the map described in sub-
section (b) as are necessary to exclude lots
from unit L06 of the John H. Chafee Coastal
Barrier Resources System in North Topsail
Beach, North Carolina, that were serviced by
infrastructure, as described in subsection (c),
installed along North Carolina Highway 210
and New River Inlet Road as of the date of
enactment of the Coastal Barrier Resources
Act (16 U.S.C. 3501 et seq.).
(b) MAPS DESCRIBED.—The map referred to
in subsection (a) is a map that—
(1) is included in a set of maps as part of
the John H. Chafee Coastal Barrier Re-
sources System entitled ‘‘John H. Chafee
Coastal Barrier Resources System’’ and
dated December 21, 2018; and
(2) relates to unit L06 of the John H.
Chafee Coastal Barrier Resources System.
(c) INFRASTRUCTURE DESCRIBED.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Subject to paragraph (2),
the infrastructure referred to in subsection
(a)(1) is infrastructure that meets the cri-
teria described in section 4(g)(1)(B) of the
Coastal Barrier Resources Act (16 U.S.C.
3503(g)(1)(B)).
(2) INCLUSION.—For purposes of paragraph
(1), North Carolina Highway 210 and New
River Inlet Road shall be considered to meet
the criteria described in section 4(g)(1)(B)(i)
of the Coastal Barrier Resources Act (16
U.S.C. 3503(g)(1)(B)(i)).
SA 144. Mr. BLUNT submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 111 submitted by Ms.
MURKOWSKI (for herself and Mr.
MANCHIN) and intended to be proposed
to the bill S. 47, to provide for the man-
agement of the natural resources of the
United States, and for other purposes;
which was ordered to lie on the table;
as follows:
In section 2109, strike subsection (a) and
insert the following:
(a) STE. GENEVIEVE NATIONAL HISTORICAL
PARK.—Section 7134(e)(1) of the Energy and
Natural Resources Act of 2017 (as enacted
into law by section 121(a)(2) of division G of
the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2018
(Public Law 115–141)) is amended, in the mat-
ter preceding subparagraph (A), by striking
‘‘any nationally significant property identi-
fied in the special resource study within’’
and inserting ‘‘any property within’’.
SA 145. Mr. KENNEDY (for himself,
Mr. CASSIDY, and Mr. HEINRICH) sub-
mitted an amendment intended to be
proposed to amendment SA 111 sub-
mitted by Ms. MURKOWSKI (for herself
and Mr. MANCHIN) and intended to be
proposed to the bill S. 47, to provide for
the management of the natural re-
sources of the United States, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
At the appropriate place, insert the fol-
lowing:
SEC. lll. NORTH AMERICAN WETLANDS CON-
SERVATION ACT REAUTHORIZATION.
Section 7(c) of the North American Wet-
lands Conservation Act (16 U.S.C. 4406(c)) is
amended by striking ‘‘not to exceed—’’ and
all that follows through paragraph (5) and in-
serting ‘‘not to exceed $60,000,000 for each of
fiscal years 2020 through 2024.’’.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:39 Feb 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00144 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06FE6.054 S06FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1019
February 6, 2019
SA 146. Mr. KENNEDY submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 111 submitted by Ms.
MURKOWSKI (for herself and Mr.
MANCHIN) and intended to be proposed
to the bill S. 47, to provide for the man-
agement of the natural resources of the
United States, and for other purposes;
which was ordered to lie on the table;
as follows:
At the appropriate place, insert the fol-
lowing:
SEC. lll. EMERALD ASH BORER PLAN.
Each Secretary concerned (as defined in
section 10(a) of the Fish and Wildlife Coordi-
nation Act (16 U.S.C. 661 et seq.)) shall expe-
dite any action necessary to develop and
carry out a plan to combat the emerald ash
borer on land administered by the Secretary
concerned.
SA 147. Mr. KENNEDY submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 111 submitted by Ms.
MURKOWSKI (for herself and Mr.
MANCHIN) and intended to be proposed
to the bill S. 47, to provide for the man-
agement of the natural resources of the
United States, and for other purposes;
which was ordered to lie on the table;
as follows:
At the appropriate place, insert the fol-
lowing:
SEC. lll. STUDY ON EFFECTS OF FLOODING OF
AGRICULTURAL FIELDS.
Not later than 2 years after the date of en-
actment of this Act, the Secretary shall
carry out, and submit to Congress a report
describing the results of, a study on the ef-
fects of the flooding of agricultural fields for
non-agricultural purposes on duck migra-
tion.
SA 148. Mr. KENNEDY submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 111 submitted by Ms.
MURKOWSKI (for herself and Mr.
MANCHIN) and intended to be proposed
to the bill S. 47, to provide for the man-
agement of the natural resources of the
United States, and for other purposes;
which was ordered to lie on the table;
as follows:
At the appropriate place, insert the fol-
lowing:
SEC. lll. CONCESSION CONTRACTS IN THE NA-
TIONAL WILDLIFE REFUGE SYSTEM.
(a) SHORT TITLE.—Section 4 of the National
Wildlife Refuge System Administration Act
of 1966 (16 U.S.C. 668dd) is amended by strik-
ing the section designation and all that fol-
lows through ‘‘For the purpose of’’ in the
first sentence of subsection (a)(1) and insert-
ing the following:
‘‘SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
‘‘This Act may be cited as the ‘National
Wildlife Refuge System Administration Act
of 1966’.
‘‘SEC. 4. NATIONAL WILDLIFE REFUGE SYSTEM
DESIGNATION.
‘‘(a) DESIGNATION.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—For the purpose of’’.
(b) DEFINITIONS.—The National Wildlife
Refuge System Administration Act of 1966 is
amended—
(1) by redesignating section 5 (16 U.S.C.
668ee) as section 2; and
(2) by moving section 2 (as so redesignated)
so as to appear after section 1 (as added by
subsection (a)).
(c) CONCESSION CONTRACTS.—The National
Wildlife Refuge System Administration Act
of 1966 (16 U.S.C. 668dd et seq.) is amended by
inserting after section 2 (as redesignated by
subsection (b)(1)) the following:
‘‘SEC. 3. MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR OF CERTAIN
FACILITIES.
‘‘(a) DEFINITION OF COVERED CONCESSION
ACTIVITY.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—In this section, the term
‘covered concession activity’ means a com-
mercial activity conducted to provide ac-
commodations, facilities, or services to
members of the public who are visiting land
or water in the System for the purpose of
providing those members of the public rec-
reational, educational, or interpretive enjoy-
ment of the land or water.
‘‘(2) EXCLUSION.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—The term ‘covered con-
cession activity’ does not include—
‘‘(i) any activity carried out under a pro-
curement contract, grant agreement, memo-
randum of understanding, or cooperative
agreement;
‘‘(ii) the performance of volunteer services;
‘‘(iii) any activity by a governmental enti-
ty; or
‘‘(iv) except as provided in subparagraph
(B), the performance of any guide or out-
fitter services authorized by any permit or
other authorization issued by the Secretary,
including services relating to fishing, hunt-
ing, boating, sightseeing, hiking, or camp-
ing.
‘‘(B) EXCEPTION.—Clause (iv) of subpara-
graph (A) does not include the construction,
maintenance, or occupancy of any signifi-
cant structure or facility.
‘‘(b) MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Notwithstanding any
other provision of law, the Secretary shall
include in each contract that authorizes a
person to use any land or water in the Sys-
tem for a covered concession activity provi-
sions that—
‘‘(A) authorize the person to maintain or
repair any improvement on or in the land or
water that the person is authorized to use for
that activity; and
‘‘(B) treat costs incurred by the person for
the maintenance or repair described in sub-
paragraph (A) as consideration otherwise re-
quired to be paid to the United States for
that use.
‘‘(2) DIRECT RELATION.—Nothing in this
subsection authorizes any maintenance or
repair that is not directly related to a cov-
ered concession activity authorized by a con-
tract described in paragraph (1).
‘‘(3) TITLE.—The United States shall retain
title to all property that is maintained or re-
paired under this subsection.’’.
(d) CONFORMING AMENDMENT.—Section 12 of
Public Law 91–135 (83 Stat. 282) is amended
by striking subsection (f).
SA 149. Mr. BRAUN (for himself and
Mr. TOOMEY) submitted an amendment
intended to be proposed to amendment
SA 111 submitted by Ms. MURKOWSKI
(for herself and Mr. MANCHIN) and in-
tended to be proposed to the bill S. 47,
to provide for the management of the
natural resources of the United States,
and for other purposes; which was or-
dered to lie on the table; as follows:
On page 695 of the amendment, after line
22, add the following:
SEC. 90ll. REPORT ON MAINTAINING FEDERAL
LAND HOLDINGS.
Not later than 120 days after the date on
which the President submits to Congress the
budget of the United States for fiscal year
2020, the President shall submit to Congress
a report that describes—
(1) all Federal land holdings; and
(2) the total cost of maintaining the Fed-
eral land holdings described under paragraph
(1) for each of fiscal years 2017 through 2019,
including an accounting of holdings and ex-
penditures by each Federal agency with re-
spect to the land holdings.
SA 150. Mr. LEE submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 111 submitted by Ms.
MURKOWSKI (for herself and Mr.
MANCHIN) and intended to be proposed
to the bill S. 47, to provide for the man-
agement of the natural resources of the
United States, and for other purposes;
which was ordered to lie on the table;
as follows:
Strike sections 1222 through 1232 and insert
the following:
SEC. 1222. MANAGEMENT OF RECREATION AREA.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall ad-
minister the Recreation Area—
(1) in a manner that conserves, protects,
and enhances the purposes for which the
Recreation Area is established; and
(2) in accordance with—
(A) this section;
(B) the Federal Land Policy and Manage-
ment Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.); and
(C) other applicable laws.
(b) USES.—The Secretary shall allow only
uses of the Recreation Area that are con-
sistent with the purposes for which the
Recreation Area is established.
(c) MANAGEMENT PLAN.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 5 years
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Secretary shall develop a comprehensive
management plan for the long-term protec-
tion and management of the Recreation
Area.
(2) REQUIREMENTS.—The Management Plan
shall—
(A) describe the appropriate uses and man-
agement of the Recreation Area;
(B) be developed with extensive public
input;
(C) take into consideration any informa-
tion developed in studies of the land within
the Recreation Area; and
(D) be developed fully consistent with the
settlement agreement entered into on Janu-
ary 13, 2017, in the case in the United States
District Court for the District of Utah styled
‘‘Southern Utah Wilderness Alliance, et al. v.
U.S. Department of the Interior, et al.’’ and
numbered 2:12–cv–257 DAK.
(d) MOTORIZED VEHICLES; EXISTING
ROADS.—
(1) MOTORIZED VEHICLES.—Except as needed
for emergency response or administrative
purposes, the use of motorized vehicles in
the Recreation Area shall be permitted only
on roads and motorized routes designated in
the Management Plan for the use of motor-
ized vehicles.
(2) EXISTING ROADS.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Necessary maintenance
or repairs to existing roads designated in the
Management Plan for the use of motorized
vehicles, including necessary repairs to keep
existing roads free of debris or other safety
hazards, shall be permitted after the date of
enactment of this Act, consistent with the
requirements of this section.
(B) EFFECT.—Nothing in this subsection
prevents the Secretary from rerouting an ex-
isting road or trail to protect Recreation
Area resources from degradation or to pro-
tect public safety, as determined to be appro-
priate by the Secretary.
(e) GRAZING.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The grazing of livestock
in the Recreation Area, if established before
the date of enactment of this Act, shall be
allowed to continue, subject to such reason-
able regulations, policies, and practices as
the Secretary considers to be necessary in
accordance with—
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:39 Feb 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00145 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06FE6.062 S06FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1020 February 6, 2019
(A) applicable law (including regulations);
and
(B) the purposes of the Recreation Area.
(2) INVENTORY.—Not later than 5 years
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Secretary, in collaboration with any affected
grazing permittee, shall carry out an inven-
tory of facilities and improvements associ-
ated with grazing activities in the Recre-
ation Area.
(f) COLD WAR SITES.—The Secretary shall
manage the Recreation Area in a manner
that educates the public about Cold War and
historic uranium mine sites in the Recre-
ation Area, subject to such terms and condi-
tions as the Secretary considers necessary to
protect public health and safety.
(g) INCORPORATION OF ACQUIRED LAND AND
INTERESTS.—Any land or interest in land lo-
cated within the boundary of the Recreation
Area that is acquired by the United States
after the date of enactment of this Act
shall—
(1) become part of the Recreation Area;
and
(2) be managed in accordance with applica-
ble laws, including as provided in this sec-
tion.
(h) WITHDRAWAL.—Subject to valid existing
rights, all Federal land within the Recre-
ation Area, including any land or interest in
land that is acquired by the United States
within the Recreation Area after the date of
enactment of this Act, is withdrawn from—
(1) entry, appropriation, or disposal under
the public land laws;
(2) location, entry, and patent under the
mining laws; and
(3) operation of the mineral leasing, min-
eral materials, and geothermal leasing laws.
(i) STUDY OF NONMOTORIZED RECREATION
OPPORTUNITIES.—Not later than 2 years after
the date of enactment of this Act, the Sec-
retary, in consultation with interested par-
ties, shall conduct a study of nonmotorized
recreation trail opportunities, including bi-
cycle trails, within the Recreation Area,
consistent with the purposes of the Recre-
ation Area.
(j) COOPERATIVE AGREEMENT.—The Sec-
retary may enter into a cooperative agree-
ment with the State in accordance with sec-
tion 307(b) of the Federal Land Policy and
Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1737(b))
and other applicable laws to provide for the
protection, management, and maintenance
of the Recreation Area.
SEC. 1223. SAN RAFAEL SWELL RECREATION
AREA ADVISORY COUNCIL.
(a) ESTABLISHMENT.—Not later than 180
days after the date of enactment of this Act,
the Secretary shall establish an advisory
council, to be known as the ‘‘San Rafael
Swell Recreation Area Advisory Council’’.
(b) DUTIES.—The Council shall advise the
Secretary with respect to the preparation
and implementation of the Management
Plan for the Recreation Area.
(c) APPLICABLE LAW.—The Council shall be
subject to—
(1) the Federal Advisory Committee Act (5
U.S.C. App.); and
(2) section 309 of the Federal Land Policy
and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1739).
(d) MEMBERS.—The Council shall include 7
members, to be appointed by the Secretary,
of whom, to the maximum extent prac-
ticable—
(1) 1 member shall represent the Emery
County Commission;
(2) 1 member shall represent motorized rec-
reational users;
(3) 1 member shall represent nonmotorized
recreational users;
(4) 1 member shall represent permittees
holding grazing allotments within the Recre-
ation Area or wilderness areas designated in
this part;
(5) 1 member shall represent conservation
organizations;
(6) 1 member shall have expertise in the
historical uses of the Recreation Area; and
(7) 1 member shall be appointed from the
elected leadership of a Federally recognized
Indian Tribe that has significant cultural or
historical connections to, and expertise in,
the landscape, archeological sites, or cul-
tural sites within the County.
SEC. 1224. LIMITATION ON THE DESIGNATION OF
NATIONAL MONUMENTS IN THE
COUNTY.
Notwithstanding any other provision of
law, no national monuments may be estab-
lished in the County under section 320301 of
title 54, United States Code.
Subpart B—Wilderness Areas
SEC. 1231. ADDITIONS TO THE NATIONAL WIL-
DERNESS PRESERVATION SYSTEM.
(a) ADDITIONS.—In accordance with the
Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.), the
following land in the State is designated as
wilderness and as components of the Na-
tional Wilderness Preservation System:
(1) COLD WASH.—Certain Federal land man-
aged by the Bureau of Land Management,
comprising approximately 11,001 acres, gen-
erally depicted on the Map as ‘‘Proposed
Cold Wash Wilderness’’, which shall be
known as the ‘‘Cold Wash Wilderness’’.
(2) DESOLATION CANYON.—Certain Federal
land managed by the Bureau of Land Man-
agement, comprising approximately 142,996
acres, generally depicted on the Map as
‘‘Proposed Desolation Canyon Wilderness’’,
which shall be known as the ‘‘Desolation
Canyon Wilderness’’.
(3) DEVIL’S CANYON.—Certain Federal land
managed by the Bureau of Land Manage-
ment, comprising approximately 8,675 acres,
generally depicted on the Map as ‘‘Proposed
Devil’s Canyon Wilderness’’, which shall be
known as the ‘‘Devil’s Canyon Wilderness’’.
(4) EAGLE CANYON.—Certain Federal land
managed by the Bureau of Land Manage-
ment, comprising approximately 13,832 acres,
generally depicted on the Map as ‘‘Proposed
Eagle Canyon Wilderness’’, which shall be
known as the ‘‘Eagle Canyon Wilderness’’.
(5) LABYRINTH CANYON.—Certain Federal
land managed by the Bureau of Land Man-
agement, comprising approximately 54,643
acres, generally depicted on the Map as
‘‘Proposed Labyrinth Canyon Wilderness’’,
which shall be known as the ‘‘Labyrinth
Canyon Wilderness’’.
(6) MEXICAN MOUNTAIN.—Certain Federal
land managed by the Bureau of Land Man-
agement, comprising approximately 76,413
acres, generally depicted on the Map as
‘‘Proposed Mexican Mountain Wilderness’’,
which shall be known as the ‘‘Mexican Moun-
tain Wilderness’’.
(7) MUDDY CREEK.—Certain Federal land
managed by the Bureau of Land Manage-
ment, comprising approximately 98,023 acres,
generally depicted on the Map as ‘‘Proposed
Muddy Creek Wilderness’’, which shall be
known as the ‘‘Muddy Creek Wilderness’’.
(8) NELSON MOUNTAIN.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Certain Federal land
managed by the Forest Service, comprising
approximately 7,176 acres, and certain Fed-
eral land managed by the Bureau of Land
Management, comprising approximately 257
acres, generally depicted on the Map as
‘‘Proposed Nelson Mountain Wilderness’’,
which shall be known as the ‘‘Nelson Moun-
tain Wilderness’’.
(B) TRANSFER OF ADMINISTRATIVE JURISDIC-
TION.—Administrative jurisdiction over the
257-acre portion of the Nelson Mountain Wil-
derness designated by subparagraph (A) is
transferred from the Bureau of Land Man-
agement to the Forest Service.
(9) RED’S CANYON.—Certain Federal land
managed by the Bureau of Land Manage-
ment, comprising approximately 17,325 acres,
generally depicted on the Map as ‘‘Proposed
Red’s Canyon Wilderness’’, which shall be
known as the ‘‘Red’s Canyon Wilderness’’.
(10) SAN RAFAEL REEF.—Certain Federal
land managed by the Bureau of Land Man-
agement, comprising approximately 60,442
acres, generally depicted on the Map as
‘‘Proposed San Rafael Reef Wilderness’’,
which shall be known as the ‘‘San Rafael
Reef Wilderness’’.
(11) SID’S MOUNTAIN.—Certain Federal land
managed by the Bureau of Land Manage-
ment, comprising approximately 49,130 acres,
generally depicted on the Map as ‘‘Proposed
Sid’s Mountain Wilderness’’, which shall be
known as the ‘‘Sid’s Mountain Wilderness’’.
(12) TURTLE CANYON.—Certain Federal land
managed by the Bureau of Land Manage-
ment, comprising approximately 29,029 acres,
generally depicted on the Map as ‘‘Proposed
Turtle Canyon Wilderness’’, which shall be
known as the ‘‘Turtle Canyon Wilderness’’.
(b) MAP AND LEGAL DESCRIPTION.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—As soon as practicable
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Secretary shall file a map and legal descrip-
tion of each wilderness area with—
(A) the Committee on Natural Resources of
the House of Representatives; and
(B) the Committee on Energy and Natural
Resources of the Senate.
(2) EFFECT.—Each map and legal descrip-
tion filed under paragraph (1) shall have the
same force and effect as if included in this
part, except that the Secretary may correct
clerical and typographical errors in the maps
and legal descriptions.
(3) AVAILABILITY.—Each map and legal de-
scription filed under paragraph (1) shall be
on file and available for public inspection in
the appropriate office of the Secretary.
SEC. 1232. ADMINISTRATION.
(a) MANAGEMENT.—Subject to valid exist-
ing rights, the wilderness areas shall be ad-
ministered by the Secretary in accordance
with the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et
seq.), except that—
(1) any reference in that Act to the effec-
tive date shall be considered to be a ref-
erence to the date of enactment of this Act;
and
(2) any reference in that Act to the Sec-
retary of Agriculture shall be considered to
be a reference to the Secretary.
(b) RECREATIONAL CLIMBING.—Nothing in
this part prohibits recreational rock climb-
ing activities in the wilderness areas, such as
the placement, use, and maintenance of fixed
anchors, including any fixed anchor estab-
lished before the date of the enactment of
this Act—
(1) in accordance with the Wilderness Act
(16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.); and
(2) subject to any terms and conditions de-
termined to be necessary by the Secretary.
(c) TRAIL PLAN.—After providing opportu-
nities for public comment, the Secretary
shall establish a trail plan that addresses
hiking and equestrian trails on the wilder-
ness areas in a manner consistent with the
Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.).
(d) LIVESTOCK.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The grazing of livestock
in the wilderness areas, if established before
the date of enactment of this Act, shall be
allowed to continue, subject to such reason-
able regulations, policies, and practices as
the Secretary considers to be necessary in
accordance with—
(A) section 4(d)(4) of the Wilderness Act (16
U.S.C. 1133(d)(4)); and
(B) the guidelines set forth in Appendix A
of the report of the Committee on Interior
and Insular Affairs of the House of Rep-
resentatives accompanying H.R. 2570 of the
101st Congress (House Report 101–405).
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:39 Feb 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00146 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06FE6.063 S06FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1021
February 6, 2019
(2) INVENTORY.—With respect to each wil-
derness area in which grazing of livestock is
allowed to continue under paragraph (1), not
later than 2 years after the date of enact-
ment of this Act, the Secretary, in collabora-
tion with any affected grazing permittee,
shall carry out an inventory of facilities and
improvements associated with grazing ac-
tivities in the wilderness area.
(e) ADJACENT MANAGEMENT.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Congress does not intend
for the designation of the wilderness areas to
create protective perimeters or buffer zones
around the wilderness areas.
(2) NONWILDERNESS ACTIVITIES.—The fact
that nonwilderness activities or uses can be
seen or heard from areas within a wilderness
area shall not preclude the conduct of those
activities or uses outside the boundary of the
wilderness area.
(f) MILITARY OVERFLIGHTS.—Nothing in
this subpart restricts or precludes—
(1) low-level overflights of military air-
craft over the wilderness areas, including
military overflights that can be seen or
heard within the wilderness areas;
(2) flight testing and evaluation; or
(3) the designation or creation of new units
of special use airspace, or the establishment
of military flight training routes, over the
wilderness areas.
(g) COMMERCIAL SERVICES.—Commercial
services (including authorized outfitting and
guide activities) within the wilderness areas
may be authorized to the extent necessary
for activities that are appropriate for real-
izing the recreational or other wilderness
purposes of the wilderness areas, in accord-
ance with section 4(d)(5) of the Wilderness
Act (16 U.S.C. 1133(d)(5)).
(h) LAND ACQUISITION AND INCORPORATION
OF ACQUIRED LAND AND INTERESTS.—
(1) ACQUISITION AUTHORITY.—The Secretary
may acquire land and interests in land with-
in the boundaries of a wilderness area by do-
nation, purchase from a willing seller, or ex-
change.
(2) INCORPORATION.—Any land or interest in
land within the boundary of a wilderness
area that is acquired by the United States
after the date of enactment of this Act shall
be added to and administered as part of the
wilderness area.
(i) WATER RIGHTS.—
(1) STATUTORY CONSTRUCTION.—Nothing in
this subpart—
(A) shall constitute or be construed to con-
stitute either an express or implied reserva-
tion by the United States of any water or
water rights with respect to the land des-
ignated as wilderness by section 1231;
(B) shall affect any water rights in the
State existing on the date of enactment of
this Act, including any water rights held by
the United States;
(C) shall be construed as establishing a
precedent with regard to any future wilder-
ness designations;
(D) shall affect the interpretation of, or
any designation made pursuant to, any other
Act; or
(E) shall be construed as limiting, altering,
modifying, or amending any of the interstate
compacts or equitable apportionment de-
crees that apportions water among and be-
tween the State and other States.
(2) STATE WATER LAW.—The Secretary shall
follow the procedural and substantive re-
quirements of the State in order to obtain
and hold any water rights not in existence on
the date of enactment of this Act with re-
spect to the wilderness areas.
(j) MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING.—The
Secretary shall offer to enter into a memo-
randum of understanding with the County, in
accordance with the Wilderness Act (16
U.S.C. 1131 et seq.), to clarify the approval
processes for the use of motorized equipment
and mechanical transport for search and res-
cue activities in the Muddy Creek Wilderness
established by section 1231(a)(7).
SA 151. Mr. LEE submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 111 submitted by Ms.
MURKOWSKI (for herself and Mr.
MANCHIN) and intended to be proposed
to the bill S. 47, to provide for the man-
agement of the natural resources of the
United States, and for other purposes;
which was ordered to lie on the table;
as follows:
At the appropriate place, insert the fol-
lowing:
SEC. ll. ACREAGE LIMITATIONS FOR CONVEY-
ANCES OF PUBLIC LAND FOR REC-
REATIONAL AND PUBLIC PURPOSES.
Section 1 of the Act of June 14, 1926 (com-
monly known as the ‘‘Recreation and Public
Purposes Act’’) (44 Stat. 741, chapter 578; 43
U.S.C. 869), is amended—
(1) in subsection (a)—
(A) in the second sentence, by striking
‘‘640’’ and inserting ‘‘6,400’’; and
(B) in the third sentence, by striking ‘‘six
hundred forty’’ and inserting ‘‘6,400’’; and
(2) in subsection (b)—
(A) in clause (i)—
(i) in subparagraph (A)—
(I) by striking ‘‘six thousand four hundred’’
and inserting ‘‘64,000’’; and
(II) by striking ‘‘ten’’ and inserting ‘‘100’’;
(ii) in subparagraph (B), by striking ‘‘six
hundred and forty’’ and inserting ‘‘6,400’’;
and
(iii) in subparagraph (C), in the first sen-
tence, by striking ‘‘twenty-five thousand six
hundred’’ and inserting ‘‘256,000’’; and
(B) in clause (ii), by striking ‘‘six hundred
and forty’’ each place it appears and insert-
ing ‘‘6,400’’.
SA 152. Mr. LEE submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 111 submitted by Ms.
MURKOWSKI (for herself and Mr.
MANCHIN) and intended to be proposed
to the bill S. 47, to provide for the man-
agement of the natural resources of the
United States, and for other purposes;
which was ordered to lie on the table;
as follows:
Strike section 1121.
Strike section 1201.
Strike section 1204.
Strike section 1205.
Strike subtitle E of title I.
Strike subtitle C of title VIII.
Strike section 9003.
SA 153. Mr. LEE (for himself and Mr.
ROMNEY) submitted an amendment in-
tended to be proposed to amendment
SA 111 submitted by Ms. MURKOWSKI
(for herself and Mr. MANCHIN) and in-
tended to be proposed to the bill S. 47,
to provide for the management of the
natural resources of the United States,
and for other purposes; which was or-
dered to lie on the table; as follows:
At the appropriate place, add the fol-
lowing:
SEC. lll. LIMITATION ON THE ESTABLISH-
MENT OR EXTENSION OF NATIONAL
MONUMENTS IN THE STATE OF
UTAH.
Section 320301 of title 54, United States
Code, is amended by adding at the end the
following:
‘‘(e) LIMITATION ON THE ESTABLISHMENT OR
EXTENSION OF NATIONAL MONUMENTS IN THE
STATE OF UTAH.—Notwithstanding any other
provision of this section, the President may
not establish or extend a national monument
in the State of Utah (referred to in this sub-
section as the ‘State’) unless—
‘‘(1) the extension or establishment has
been authorized by an Act of Congress; and
‘‘(2) the President has received from the
Governor of the State notice that the State
legislature has enacted legislation approving
the proposed establishment or extension.’’.
SA 154. Mr. LEE (for himself, Mr.
LANKFORD, Mr. TOOMEY, and Mr. ROM-
NEY) submitted an amendment in-
tended to be proposed to amendment
SA 111 submitted by Ms. MURKOWSKI
(for herself and Mr. MANCHIN) and in-
tended to be proposed to the bill S. 47,
to provide for the management of the
natural resources of the United States,
and for other purposes; which was or-
dered to lie on the table; as follows:
At the appropriate place, add the fol-
lowing:
SEC. lll. LIMITATION ON THE EXTENSION OR
ESTABLISHMENT OF NATIONAL
MONUMENTS IN THE STATE OF
UTAH.
Section 320301(d) of title 54, United States
Code, is amended—
(1) in the heading, by striking ‘‘WYOMING’’
and inserting ‘‘THE STATE OF WYOMING OR
UTAH’’; and
(2) by striking ‘‘Wyoming’’ and inserting
‘‘the State of Wyoming or Utah’’.
SA 155. Mr. LEE submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 111 submitted by Ms.
MURKOWSKI (for herself and Mr.
MANCHIN) and intended to be proposed
to the bill S. 47, to provide for the man-
agement of the natural resources of the
United States, and for other purposes;
which was ordered to lie on the table;
as follows:
In section 3001(b), strike paragraph (3) and
insert the following:
(3) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(b) ALLOCATION OF FUNDS.—Of the total
amount made available to the Fund through
appropriations or deposited in the Fund
under section 105(a)(2)(B) of the Gulf of Mex-
ico Energy Security Act of 2006 (43 U.S.C.
1331 note; Public Law 109–432)—
‘‘(1) not more than 50 percent shall be used
for Federal purposes; and
‘‘(2) not less than 50 percent shall be used
to provide financial assistance to States.’’.
SA 156. Mr. LEE (for himself and Mr.
LANKFORD) submitted an amendment
intended to be proposed to amendment
SA 111 submitted by Ms. MURKOWSKI
(for herself and Mr. MANCHIN) and in-
tended to be proposed to the bill S. 47,
to provide for the management of the
natural resources of the United States,
and for other purposes; which was or-
dered to lie on the table; as follows:
In section 3001, strike subsection (a) and
insert the following:
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 200302 of title 54,
United States Code, is amended—
(1) in subsection (b), in the matter pre-
ceding paragraph (1), by striking ‘‘September
30, 2018’’ and inserting ‘‘September 30, 2028’’;
and
(2) in subsection (c)(1), by striking ‘‘Sep-
tember 30, 2018’’ and inserting ‘‘September
30, 2028’’.
SA 157. Mr. SCHATZ (for himself and
Mr. CASSIDY) submitted an amendment
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:39 Feb 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00147 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06FE6.063 S06FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1022 February 6, 2019
intended to be proposed by him to the
bill S. 47, to provide for the manage-
ment of the natural resources of the
United States, and for other purposes;
which was ordered to lie on the table;
as follows:
At the end of subtitle E of title II, add the
following:
SEC. 24lll. MODIFICATIONS TO THE PRESERVE
AMERICA PROGRAM.
(a) PURPOSES.—The purposes of this section
are—
(1) to strengthen economic development
across the United States by supporting cul-
tural heritage tourism and historic preserva-
tion activities through the Preserve America
Program; and
(2) to encourage the Director of the Na-
tional Park Service to partner with gateway
communities (including Native American
communities and National Heritage Areas)
to leverage local cultural and historic herit-
age tourism assets.
(b) PRESERVE AMERICA GRANT PROGRAM.—
(1) ESTABLISHMENT.—Section 311102 of title
54, United States Code, is amended—
(A) in subsection (d)—
(i) in paragraph (1), by inserting ‘‘and the
Secretary of Commerce’’ after ‘‘Council’’;
and
(ii) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(3) ADVISORY ROLE OF SECRETARY OF COM-
MERCE.—The Secretary of Commerce shall
advise the program with respect to job cre-
ation, economic growth, and tourism policy
and promotion.’’; and
(B) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(f) TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—For any fiscal year for
which funds are not made available to pro-
vide grants under this section, to the extent
practicable, the program shall, in lieu of the
grants, provide technical assistance to the
eligible entities described in subsection (a)
for projects that meet the eligibility require-
ments described in subsection (b), as identi-
fied on the list of projects prepared by the
Secretary in accordance with subsection (d).
‘‘(2) LIMITATION.—The Secretary may take
into account the availability of staff re-
sources at the Department of the Interior,
the Council, and the Department of Com-
merce for purposes of determining the num-
ber of projects that are provided technical
assistance under this subsection.
‘‘(3) FORM.—The form of technical assist-
ance under paragraph (1) may include tech-
nical assistance provided by—
‘‘(A) the Director, with respect to—
‘‘(i) best practices in visitor services;
‘‘(ii) the conduct of research, inventories,
and surveys;
‘‘(iii) the documentation of historic re-
sources; and
‘‘(iv) the interpretation and promotion of
cultural and heritage assets;
‘‘(B) the Council, with respect to historic
preservation initiatives and best practices in
stewardship; and
‘‘(C) the Secretary of Commerce, with re-
spect to economic development and job cre-
ation resources.’’.
(2) PROGRAM METRICS.—Chapter 3111 of title
54, United States Code, is amended—
(A) by redesignating section 311105 as sec-
tion 311106; and
(B) by inserting after section 311104 the fol-
lowing:
‘‘§ 311105. Reports
‘‘(a) METRICS.—Not later than 180 days
after the date of enactment of the Natural
Resources Management Act, the Secretary,
in consultation with the Council and the
Secretary of Commerce, shall develop spe-
cific metrics to measure the effectiveness of
the program, including—
‘‘(1) the economic impact of the program
on local communities (including Native
American communities and National Herit-
age Areas); and
‘‘(2) the effect of the program on efforts to
preserve heritage resources.
‘‘(b) GRANTEE REPORT.—Not later than 2
years after the date on which a grantee re-
ceives a grant or technical assistance under
this chapter, the grantee shall submit to the
Secretary a report that—
‘‘(1) describes the outcome of the project
that was provided a grant or technical as-
sistance under this chapter; and
‘‘(2) based on the metrics developed under
subsection (a), assesses—
‘‘(A) the accomplishments of the project;
and
‘‘(B) the impact of the project on the com-
munity in which the project was carried out.
‘‘(c) ANNUAL REPORTS.—The Secretary
shall submit an annual report to the appro-
priate committees of Congress that includes
data provided by grantees to demonstrate
the economic impact of the program.’’.
(3) CONFORMING AMENDMENT.—The table of
sections for chapter 3111 of title 54, United
States Code, is amended by striking the item
relating to section 311105 and inserting the
following:
‘‘311105. Reports.
‘‘311106. Authorization of appropriations.’’.
(c) NATIONAL PARK SERVICE PARTNERSHIPS
WITH GATEWAY COMMUNITIES.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Subdivision 1 of division B
of subtitle III of title 54, United States Code,
is amended by adding at the end the fol-
lowing:
‘‘CHAPTER 3092—PARTNERSHIPS WITH
GATEWAY COMMUNITIES
‘‘Sec.
‘‘309201. Definitions.
‘‘309202. Partnerships with gateway commu-
nities.
‘‘309203. Report.
‘‘309204. Authorization of appropriations.
‘‘§ 309201. Definitions
‘‘In this chapter:
‘‘(1) APPROPRIATE CONGRESSIONAL COM-
MITTEE.—The term ‘appropriate congres-
sional committee’ means—
‘‘(A) the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation of the Senate;
‘‘(B) the Committee on Energy and Natural
Resources of the Senate;
‘‘(C) the Committee on Appropriations of
the Senate;
‘‘(D) the Committee on Energy and Com-
merce of the House of Representatives;
‘‘(E) the Committee on Natural Resources
of the House of Representatives; and
‘‘(F) the Committee on Appropriations of
the House of Representatives.
‘‘(2) GATEWAY COMMUNITY.—The term ‘gate-
way community’ means a community adja-
cent to a unit of the System, including a Na-
tive American community or a National Her-
itage Area.
‘‘(3) HERITAGE TOURISM.—The term ‘herit-
age tourism’ has the meaning given the term
in section 311101.
‘‘§ 309202. Partnerships with gateway commu-
nities
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall, to
the extent practicable, offer to enter into
partnerships with gateway communities to
leverage heritage tourism assets to strength-
en local economies and create jobs in the
gateway communities with the goal of estab-
lishing a standardized framework for part-
nerships throughout the System, including
through—
‘‘(1) providing financial assistance to gate-
way communities to support outreach and
promotional efforts;
‘‘(2) providing technical assistance to gate-
way communities based on Service best prac-
tices in tourism development and visitor
management, such as—
‘‘(A) inventorying tourism resources in the
gateway community;
‘‘(B) identifying historic heritage and cul-
tural resources;
‘‘(C) engaging collaborative partners and
stakeholders;
‘‘(D) designing community outreach and
participation strategies;
‘‘(E) developing concept plans for trails,
parks, historic resources, and natural areas;
‘‘(F) developing sustainable tourism devel-
opment frameworks for community plan-
ning; and
‘‘(G) encouraging regional strategies for
tourism development and promotion; and
‘‘(3) assisting gateway communities in ac-
cessing additional Federal resources avail-
able to strengthen tourism assets and sup-
port economic development.
‘‘(b) OBTAINING FINANCIAL AND TECHNICAL
ASSISTANCE.—The Secretary, in consultation
with stakeholders of System units, shall es-
tablish a process through which States, units
of local government, and Tribal governments
may apply for designation as a gateway com-
munity to become eligible for financial and
technical assistance made available under
this section.
‘‘(c) METRICS.—The Secretary, in consulta-
tion with gateway communities, shall de-
velop metrics to measure the impact of the
financial and technical assistance provided
to gateway communities under this section.
‘‘§ 309203. Report
‘‘Not later than 1 year after the date of en-
actment of this Act, the Secretary shall sub-
mit to the appropriate congressional com-
mittees a report that—
‘‘(1) describes the efforts of the Secretary
to partner with gateway communities under
this chapter;
‘‘(2) analyzes the results of the financial
and technical assistance using the metrics
developed under section 309202(c); and
‘‘(3) identifies—
‘‘(A) the next steps that should be taken to
improve partnerships with gateway commu-
nities; and
‘‘(B) any actions that the Secretary will
take to improve the partnerships.
‘‘§ 309204. Authorization of appropriations
‘‘There are authorized to be appropriated
such sums as are necessary to carry out this
chapter.’’.
(2) CONFORMING AMENDMENT.—The table of
chapters for title 54, United States Code, is
amended by inserting after the item relating
to chapter 3091 the following:
‘‘3092. Partnerships with gate-
way communities ................... 309201’’.
f
AUTHORITY FOR COMMITTEES TO
MEET
Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, I have 8
requests for committees to meet during
today’s session of the Senate. They
have the approval of the Majority and
Minority leaders.
Pursuant to rule XXVI, paragraph
5(a), of the Standing Rules of the Sen-
ate, the following committees are au-
thorized to meet during today’s session
of the Senate:
COMMITTEE ON BANKING, HOUSING, AND URBAN
AFFAIRS
The Committee on Banking, Housing,
and Urban Affairs is authorized to
meet during the session of the Senate
on Wednesday, February 6, 2019, at 9:45
a.m., to conduct a hearing entitled
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:50 Feb 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00148 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06FE6.065 S06FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1023
February 6, 2019
‘‘Organizational business meeting to
consider committee rules, sub-
committee assignments, and com-
mittee budget resolutions.’’
COMMITTEE ON COMMERCE, SCIENCE, AND
TRANSPORTATION
The Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation is author-
ized to meet during the session of the
Senate on Wednesday, February 6, 2019,
at 10 a.m., to conduct an executive
hearing.
COMMITTEE ON COMMERCE, SCIENCE, AND
TRANSPORTATION,
The Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation is author-
ized to meet during the session of the
Senate on Wednesday, February 6, 2019,
at 10 a.m., to conduct a hearing enti-
tled ‘‘Winning the Race to G and the
Next Era of Technology Innovation in
the United States’’.
COMMITTEE ON HOMELAND SECURITY AND
GOVERNMENTAL AFFAIRS
The Committee on Homeland Secu-
rity and Governmental Affairs is au-
thorized to meet during the session of
the Senate on Wednesday, February 6,
2019, at 10 a.m., to conduct an organiza-
tional hearing.
COMMITTEE ON INDIAN AFFAIRS
The Committee on Indian Affairs is
authorized to meet during the session
of the Senate on Wednesday, February
6, 2019, at 2:30 p.m., to conduct a busi-
ness meeting and hearing entitled ‘‘Or-
ganizational business meeting to con-
sider committee rules, subcommittee
assignments, and an original resolution
authorizing expenditures by the com-
mittee.’’
COMMITTEE ON VETERANS’ AFFAIRS
The Committee on Veterans’ Affairs
is authorized to meet during the ses-
sion of the Senate on Wednesday, Feb-
ruary 6, 2019, to conduct a hearing enti-
tled ‘‘Organizational business meeting
to consider committee rules, sub-
committee assignments, and com-
mittee budget resolutions.’’
SPECIAL COMMITTEE ON AGING
The Special Committee on Aging is
authorized to meet during the session
of the Senate on Wednesday, February
6, 2019, at 9:30 a.m., to conduct a hear-
ing entitled ‘‘Financial Security in Re-
tirement: InnoVation and Best Prac-
tices to Promote Savings.’’
SUBCOMMITTEE ON READINESS AND
MANAGEMENT SUPPORT
The Subcommittee on Readiness and
Management Support of the Com-
mittee on Armed Services is authorized
to meet during the session of the Sen-
ate on Wednesday, February 6, 2019, at
2:30 p.m., to conduct a closed hearing.
f
UNANIMOUS CONSENT AGREE-
MENT—READING OF WASHING-
TON’S FAREWELL ADDRESS
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that notwith-
standing the resolution of the Senate
of January 24, 1901, the traditional
reading of Washington’s Farewell Ad-
dress take place on Monday, February
25, 2019, at a time to be determined by
the majority leader in consultation
with the Democratic leader.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
APPOINTMENTS
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
Chair, on behalf of the Vice President,
pursuant to the order of the Senate of
January 24, 1901, as modified by the
order of February 6, 2019, appoints the
Senator from Nebraska (Mrs. FISCHER)
to read Washington’s Farewell Address
on Monday, February 25, 2019.
The Chair announces on behalf of the
Committee on Finance, pursuant to
section 8002 of title 26, U.S. Code, the
designation of the following Senators
as members of the Joint Committee on
Taxation: the Senator from Iowa (Mr.
GRASSLEY), the Senator from Idaho
(Mr. CRAPO), the Senator from Wyo-
ming (Mr. ENZI), the Senator from Or-
egon (Mr. WYDEN), and the Senator
from Michigan (Ms. STABENOW).
The Chair, in accordance with Public
Law 93–618, as amended by Public Law
100–418, on behalf of the President pro
tempore and upon the recommendation
of the Chairman of the Committee on
Finance, appoints the following Mem-
bers of the Finance Committee as con-
gressional advisers on trade policy and
negotiations to international con-
ferences, meetings and negotiation ses-
sions relating to trade agreements: the
Senator from Iowa (Mr. GRASSLEY), the
Senator from Idaho (Mr. CRAPO), the
Senator from Kansas (Mr. ROBERTS),
the Senator from Oregon (Mr. WYDEN),
and the Senator from Michigan (Ms.
STABENOW).
The Chair announces, on behalf of
the Democratic Leader, pursuant to
the provisions of Public Law 100–458,
sec. 114(b)(2)(c), the appointment of the
following individual to serve as a mem-
ber of the Board of Trustees of the
John C. Stennis Center for Public Serv-
ice Training and Development for a
term expiring 2020: the Honorable
CHRISTOPHER A. COONS of Delaware vice
Mike Moore of Mississippi.
f
SUPPORTING THE CONTRIBUTIONS
OF CATHOLIC SCHOOLS
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the
Health, Education, Labor, and Pen-
sions Committee be discharged from
further consideration of, and the Sen-
ate now proceed to, S. Res. 33.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the resolution by
title.
The bill clerk read as follows:
A resolution (S. Res. 33) supporting the
contributions of Catholic schools.
There being no objection, the Com-
mittee was discharged, and the Senate
proceeded to consider the resolution.
Mr. MCCONNELL. I ask unanimous
consent that the resolution be agreed
to, the preamble be agreed to, and the
motions to reconsider be considered
made and laid upon the table.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The resolution (S. Res. 33) was agreed
to.
The preamble was agreed to.
(The resolution, with its preamble, is
printed in the RECORD of January 28,
2019, under ‘‘Submitted Resolutions.’’)
f
RECOGNIZING THE STAFF OF THE
OFFICE OF THE LEGISLATIVE
COUNSEL OF THE SENATE ON
THE 100TH ANNIVERSARY OF
THE OFFICE
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate proceed to the consideration of S.
Res. 53, submitted earlier today.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the resolution by
title.
The bill clerk read as follows:
A resolution (S. Res. 53) recognizing the
staff of the Office of the Legislative Counsel
of the Senate on the occasion of the 100th an-
niversary of the Office.
There being no objection, the Senate
proceeded to consider the resolution.
Mr. MCCONNELL. I ask unanimous
consent that the resolution be agreed
to, the preamble be agreed to, and the
motions to reconsider be considered
made and laid upon the table with no
intervening action or debate.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The resolution (S. Res. 53) was agreed
to.
The preamble was agreed to.
(The resolution, with its preamble, is
printed in today’s RECORD under ‘‘Sub-
mitted Resolutions.’’)
f
ORDERS FOR THURSDAY,
FEBRUARY 7, 2019
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that when the
Senate completes its business today, it
adjourn until 12 noon, Thursday, Feb-
ruary 7; further, that following the
prayer and pledge, the morning hour be
deemed expired, the Journal of pro-
ceedings be approved to date, the time
for the two leaders be reserved for their
use later in the day, and morning busi-
ness be closed; finally, that following
leader remarks, the Senate resume
consideration of the motion to proceed
to S. 47, with all postcloture time on
the motion to proceed expired.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
ADJOURNMENT UNTIL TOMORROW
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, if
there is no further business to come be-
fore the Senate, I ask unanimous con-
sent that it stand adjourned under the
previous order.
There being no objection, the Senate,
at 6:18 p.m., adjourned until Thursday,
February 7, 2019, at 12 noon.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:50 Feb 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00149 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06FE6.060 S06FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1024 February 6, 2019
NOMINATIONS
Executive nominations received by
the Senate:
NATIONAL CREDIT UNION ADMINISTRATION
TODD M. HARPER, OF VIRGINIA, TO BE A MEMBER OF
THE NATIONAL CREDIT UNION ADMINISTRATION BOARD
FOR A TERM EXPIRING APRIL 10, 2021, VICE DEBORAH
MATZ, RESIGNED.
UNITED STATES TAX COURT
TRAVIS GREAVES, OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, TO
BE A JUDGE OF THE UNITED STATES TAX COURT FOR A
TERM OF FIFTEEN YEARS, VICE JUAN F. VASQUEZ, TERM
EXPIRED.
MARK VAN DYKE HOLMES, OF NEW YORK, TO BE A
JUDGE OF THE UNITED STATES TAX COURT FOR A TERM
OF FIFTEEN YEARS. (REAPPOINTMENT)
COURTNEY DUNBAR JONES, OF VIRGINIA, TO BE A
JUDGE OF THE UNITED STATES TAX COURT FOR A TERM
OF FIFTEEN YEARS, VICE JOHN O. COLVIN, RETIRED.
EMIN TORO, OF VIRGINIA, TO BE A JUDGE OF THE
UNITED STATES TAX COURT FOR A TERM OF FIFTEEN
YEARS, VICE JOSEPH ROBERT GOEKE, TERM EXPIRED.
THE JUDICIARY
STANLEY BLUMENFELD, OF CALIFORNIA, TO BE
UNITED STATES DISTRICT JUDGE FOR THE CENTRAL
DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA, VICE AUDREY B. COLLINS, RE-
TIRED.
DANIEL AARON BRESS, OF CALIFORNIA, TO BE UNITED
STATES CIRCUIT JUDGE FOR THE NINTH CIRCUIT, VICE
ALEX KOZINSKI, RETIRED.
PATRICK J. BUMATAY, OF CALIFORNIA, TO BE UNITED
STATES DISTRICT JUDGE FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT
OF CALIFORNIA, VICE MARILYN L. HUFF, RETIRED.
DANIEL P. COLLINS, OF CALIFORNIA, TO BE UNITED
STATES CIRCUIT JUDGE FOR THE NINTH CIRCUIT, VICE
HARRY PREGERSON, RETIRED.
KENNETH KIYUL LEE, OF CALIFORNIA, TO BE UNITED
STATES CIRCUIT JUDGE FOR THE NINTH CIRCUIT, VICE
STEPHEN R. REINHARDT, DECEASED.
JEREMY B. ROSEN, OF CALIFORNIA, TO BE UNITED
STATES DISTRICT JUDGE FOR THE CENTRAL DISTRICT
OF CALIFORNIA, VICE MARGARET M. MORROW, RETIRED.
MARK C. SCARSI, OF CALIFORNIA, TO BE UNITED
STATES DISTRICT JUDGE FOR THE CENTRAL DISTRICT
OF CALIFORNIA, VICE GEORGE H. KING, RETIRED.
IN THE AIR FORCE
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
IN THE UNITED STATES AIR FORCE TO THE GRADE INDI-
CATED WHILE ASSIGNED TO A POSITION OF IMPORTANCE
AND RESPONSIBILITY UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION
601:
To be lieutenant general
LT. GEN. VERALINN JAMIESON
IN THE ARMY
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
IN THE UNITED STATES ARMY TO THE GRADE INDICATED
WHILE ASSIGNED TO A POSITION OF IMPORTANCE AND
RESPONSIBILITY UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 601:
To be lieutenant general
MAJ. GEN. DUANE A. GAMBLE
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
IN THE UNITED STATES ARMY TO THE GRADE INDICATED
WHILE ASSIGNED TO A POSITION OF IMPORTANCE AND
RESPONSIBILITY UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 601:
To be general
GEN. STEPHEN J. TOWNSEND
IN THE AIR FORCE
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICERS FOR APPOINTMENT
IN THE GRADES INDICATED IN THE REGULAR AIR FORCE
UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTIONS 531 AND 716:
To be lieutenant colonel
PATRICK N. WESTMORELAND
To be major
JOSEPH A. CALAMAIO
MICHAEL P. CRAIG
JOEL L. DETRICK
KEVIN M. HUGHES
AARON J. LIPPY
IN THE ARMY
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICERS FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE UNITED STATES ARMY
UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 624:
To be major
ADRIAN ACEVEDO
EVAN N. ADAMS
REMINGTON D. ADAMS
WILLIS B. AKERS IV
ANDRE C. ALEONG
KATHLEEN E. ALFIN
CHAD A. ALFORD
BRIAN K. ALLISTON
WILLIAM B. ALLSUP
ANDREW M. ALOISIO
MATTHEW R. ALVEY
AARON W. AMACKER
EMMANUEL F. AMBROISE
JACOB M. AMSDEN
CHRISTOPHER W. AMSLEY
GARRETT D. ANDERSON
JASON L. ANDERSON
JOHN P. ANDREWS
BLAIR T. ANTHONY
CHRISTOPHER A. ARNETT
NICHOLAS P. ASHLEY
CHRISTOPHORO ATHANASOPOULOS
KYLE R. ATWELL
JUSTIN R. AUGUST
DONALD R. AURAY
JONATHAN C. AUSTIN
GREGORY AVANT
EDWARD M. BACHAR
DARNELL L. BADGER
JASON J. BAGGOTT
COLIN J. BAGGS
GARRETT C. BAILEY
GEORGE W. BAILEY, JR.
STEVEN M. BAILEY
JOSHUA C. BAKER
MICHAEL R. BAKER
JARED S. BALDWIN
ZACHARY B. BALDWIN
ERICK S. BALISH
DANIEL L. BALL
GWENDOLYN J. BAMFORD
DAVID J. BANAS
SAMUEL B. BANKS
LESLYE P. BARKSDALE
VIRGIL J. BARNARD
STEPHEN A. BARNES
TARIEL E. BARRAGAN
TREVOR R. BARRETT
GREGORY J. BARRY
MATTHEW P. BASILICO
JAMES M. BATES
KRISTOFFER M. BATES
DANIEL J. BAUSCHER
THOMAS W. BAZEMORE
JOSEPH C. BECKMAN
STEVEN A. BECKMAN, JR.
JAY G. BEEMAN
JEFFREY J. BENDER
JOSHUA B. BENEVIAT
CHRISTOPHER T. BENJUMEA
MICHAEL B. BENSON
JOSEPH E. BERLIN
ANDREW A. BERRETH
TODD A. BERRIOS
CURTIS L. BEW
ERIC T. BIERSCHENK
PAUL J. BILLY
NATHANIEL J. BISHOP
ANDREW W. BISSET
ERICK T. BLACKHAM
ROBERT T. BLACKMAN
TATIANA R. BLANC
KALEB S. BLANKENSHIP
ANDREW J. BLIK
CHRISTOPHER D. BLOM
JOSHUA E. BOBBITT
RHETT A. BOCHETTE
HERBERT A. BOEDECKER
KURT L. BOEHMER
NATHAN R. BOLING
BRENT M. BOND
JORGE A. BONILLAMANCHAN
GARY BOSTIC
TYLOR D. BOTT
SCOTT W. BOURNE
BLAKE M. BOWLES
ALEXANDER L. BOWLING
NICHOLAS R. BOWMAN
JOSHUA L. BOYLE
RONALD W. BRAASCH
RICHARD A. BRADLEY II
LUKE T. BRADY
DESMOND J. BRAZIEL
JAY M. BREND
DAVID R. BRENNAN
THOMAS P. BRICELAND
ANDREW J. BRIGGS
EARL J. BRIGHT
ANDREW J. BRIGMAN
CHAD A. BRINK
ANITA M. BROOKS
LAMONT E. BROOKS
WAYNE H. BROOKS, JR.
CORY L. BROWN
DEREK T. BROWN
JOHNATHON S. BROWN
MATTHEW R. BROWN
RYAN G. BROWN
ROBIN C. BRUCE
BENJAMIN J. BRUDER
TRAVIS L. BRUNSON
ADAM K. BRYANT
JASON G. BRYANT
BRENT T. BUBANY
JOHN W. BUCHANAN, JR.
RYAN E. BUCHANAN
PAUL S. BUNCIC
ANTHONY T. BURCH
JASON W. BURGESS
EMMANUEL J. BURKS
TYLER J. BURNISTON
KEVIN M. BURNS
ANDRE D. BYRD
WILLIAM S. BYRD, JR.
JAMES R. CALDWELL
JOEL CAMACHO
ANDREW S. CAMPBELL
BRIAN A. CAMPBELL
DENIS P. CAMPBELL
MAKONEN A. CAMPBELL
MICHAEL J. CAMPBELL
MORGAN W. CAMPBELL
MARIANO J. CANNONE
SCOTT T. CAPELA
PAUL A. CAPONE
ANTHONY D. CAPOZZI
EDMUND J. CARAZO III
NICHOLAS B. CARBAUGH
ROSS W. CARGILE
CHRISTOPHER S. CARLSON
ROBERT W. CARNEY
MATTHEW J. CARPENTER
AARON J. CARRAWAY
SPENCER G. CARRIKER
KENNETH V. CARROLL II
ABIGAIL G. CARTER
MICHAEL P. CASPERS
CHAD A. CASSIDY
ORLANDO R. CASTANEDA
JOEL O. CASTRO
NATHAN R. CATCHING
AUSTIN B. CATTLE
OMAR M. CAVALIER
DAVID A. CELSKI
MATTHEW CERNIGLIA
JON M. CHACHULA
MICHAEL A. CHANDLER
SEAN S. CHANG
STEVEN R. CHASE
CHRISTOPHER J. CHAVEZ
MICHAEL CHAVEZ
KEVIN A. CHESNUT
LINDA M. CHO
BRIAN H. CHOI
DOK K. CHON
ANTHONY L. CHUNG
ROBERT C. CHURCHILL
DOMINICK J. CINOTTO
MICHAEL T. CLAPPER
ABDULLAH H. CLARK
ANDREW M. CLARK
BRITTANY M. CLARK
WILLIAM L. CLARK
ANDRE J. CLAYBURN
WILLIAM C. CLELAND
NICK CLEMMER
ARTHUR N. CLYMER
MACKENZIE S. COLELLA
DAVID P. COLEMAN
PAUL M. COLEMAN
ROBERT W. COLEMAN
JOHN C. COLLIER
JOSEPH F. COLLIER
JAY R. COLLOTON
JOEL P. CONCANNON
MICHAEL A. CONFORTI
MATTHEW N. CONNELL
MATTHEW B. CONNER
BRIAN A. COOK
ERIC V. CORNELIUS
THOMAS C. CORRELL
SETH D. CORRIGAN
ANDREW D. COTTER
BRANDON R. COUNTS
DALE E. COX
MATTHEW Q. COX
TRENTON J. COYLE
MATTHEW J. CRAMPTON
WELLS L. CRAWLEY
BYRON L. CRITCHFIELD
HENRY J. CROFOOT
JUSTIN J. CROTTS
DANNY CRUZ
DANIEL C. CUMMINGS
STEVEN A. CUMMINGS
CHRISTOPHER J. CURRAN
KEITH A. DAILY
LANCELOT A. DALEY
JONATHAN D. DAMALOUJI
SCOTT A. DARHOWER
JOSHUA P. DAVID
BENJAMIN A. DAVIS
DERRICK M. DAVIS
KYLE C. DAVIS
DANIEL O. DAVISON
DREW T. DEAL
CLIFFORD DECOSTER
BRIAN M. DEGEN
JOSEPH E. DEHAVEN
BRAULIO DEJESUSSANTIAGO
JAVIER A. DELATORRE
OSCAR DELGADOVEANA
EDWIN C. DENHARDER
ROBERT Q. DEPPA
WILLIAM F. DEROBERTS
DAVID J. DEVINE
HERITIER N. DIAKABANA
JOVAN F. DIAZ
CHARLES A. DIB
CLINT L. DICKERSON
AVALON E. DILLON
DARRYL L. DILTZ, JR.
ENOCH J. DIXON
JEFFREY S. DONIS
ADAM B. DOTTS
ROBERT L. DOUGHTY
MICHAEL J. DOYLE
NATHAN R. DUE
CORBYN J. DUKE
JONATHAN T. DUKE
DUSTIN M. DUNCAN
THOMAS A. DUNCAN
MICHAEL J. DUNGEY, JR.
MYLES W. DURKIN
DYMITRI A. DUTKANICZ
CHARLES F. A. DVORAK
DONALD J. DYER
CHARLES M. EASON
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:39 Feb 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00150 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 9801 E:\CR\FM\A06FE6.003 S06FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1025
February 6, 2019
GEOFFREY P. EDMONDS
JESSE L. EDWARDS
WILLIAM A. EGGERS
CHRISTOPHER R. ELAM
NATHAN A. ELKINS
DAVID R. ENGOREN
MEGAN M. ENNENGA
JILLIAN J. ERIKSSON
JOSHUA D. ESLINGER
CHARLES A. EVANS
MICHAEL J. EZELL, JR.
ALEXEI FAINBLOUT
JOSEPH M. FANNING
CHRISTOPHER A. FARMER
MARCUS D. FARMER
LOUIS E. FAY
CHRISTINA J. FENSTERMAKER
HELAMAN P. FEPULEAI
TAYLOR R. FERNANDEZ
MICHAEL S. FERNHOLZ
DAVID A. FERREIRA
DANIEL J. FERRY IV
PHILIP R. FICKEN
ANGEL E. FIGUEROA
MICHAEL A. FILIZETTI
ALBERT J. FINOCCHIARO, JR.
JASON R. FISH
BRIANA D. FISK
CHARLES T. FITZGERALD
DANIEL P. FITZGERALD
PATRICK M. FLANNAGAN
MICHAEL F. FLEMING
JOSHUA G. FLETCHER
MATTHEW M. FLETCHER
RAYMOND G. FLETCHER
TRUETT F. FLOYD
ROGER J. FOLEY, JR.
WILLIAM FOLINUSZ
JOSEPH J. FONTANA
ANTHONY M. FORMICA
MARCUS B. FORRESTER
AMANDA G. FORT
MICHAEL L. FORTUNE
BENJAMIN M. FRANKLIN
JOHN E. FRANKLIN
ANDREW J. FREEMAN
DAVID C. FREEMAN
DAVID G. FROST
WILLIAM L. FULLER
NICHOLAS C. FULTZ
JORDAN M. FUNDERBURK
STEPHEN A. GAGNON
BRYAN P. GALAS
DAVID R. GALBREATH
MICHAEL J. GALLOW
JOSEPH M. GAMBINO
JASON S. GARCIA
DAVID T. GARDNER
KYLE E. GARDNER
CHRISTOPHER J. GARLICK
ANTONIO GAROFALO
MARK D. GARRISON
NICHOLAS H. GARVER
MARK C. GAUDET
BRIAN J. GAUDETTE
GREGORY A. GEORGE
CHARLES H. GEORGI
GRIFFITH R. GETTY
JESSE D. GEYER
DESIREE M. GIANGREGORIO
RYAN B. GIBBONS
SHAUN L. GILBERT
BRANDON H. GILLIS
SHANTEL K. GLASS
TROY B. GLOVER
JOHN G. GONZALES
MICHAEL N. GONZALEZ
YARICK GONZALEZ
MICHAEL P. GOODMAN
GERALD H. GORSS
STEPHEN M. GOUTHRO
WILEY W. GRANT
JEB S. GRAYDON
JACOB A. GREEN
OLEG GREEN
PATRICK M. GRESS
SEAN D. GRIFFIN
JAYPATRICK GRIFFITH
ROBERT T. GRIFFITH
JEFFREY A. GRIMES
BRIAN P. GRISHAM
JACOB P. GROB
BENJAMIN J. GROEN
IAN P. GRUNDHAUSER
ZHUOYI GU
ADAM P. GUAY
MICHAEL E. GUERRETTAZ
MATTHEW J. GURNIAK
ERIC J. GUTIERREZ
PAUL M. GUZMAN
JACOB B. HAAG
JOHN A. HACKMANN
KYLE A. HAGER
BENJAMIN B. HAGGERTY
ERIN C. HAHN
TRAVIS A. HAIGLER
CHARLES B. HALE
JEFFREY A. HALL
MATTHEW D. HANES
JAMES B. HARGUS
HENRY G. HARPEN
TAYLOR S. HARRINGTON
CHARLES L. HARRIS
SPENCER A. HARVEY
BRIAN H. HAUSLE
BRADEN O. HAWKINS
TRAVIS N. HAWKINS
BLAKE R. HAWTHORNE
ANDREW W. HEADID
ANDREW J. HEATH
KEVIN J. HEATH
MATTHEW J. HEATH
MEGAN L. HEDMAN
AARON J. HEFFELFINGER
JARED T. HELLE
AMANDA S. HENDRICK
JOSHUA A. HENRY
TODD M. HERGERT
JOSE T. HERNANDEZTORRES
ADAM M. HERRING
ANDREW V. HIBBS
BOBBY L. HILL
CANDACE J. HILL
ROBERT C. HILL, JR.
ANDREW R. HINNANT
JARED B. HIRSCHKORN
DEREK S. HIRTZ
TYLER A. HITTER
GREGORY J. HJELLE
MICHAEL B. HOBGOOD
DANIEL D. HOCKSTEDLER
DANIEL J. HOGAN
STEVEN C. HOJNICKI
KELLY A. HOLLERAN
JARED E. HOLLOWS
JAMIE L. HOLM
GREGORY K. HOLMES
COREY M. HOLOWACH
ALFRED P. T. HOLTZ
ASHLEY F. HOLZMANN
DENARD HONEYSUCKLE
WILLIAM A. HOOVER
BRIAN A. HOTCHKISS
DAVID T. HOUDE
CHRISTOPHER S. HOUSEL
NATHAN W. HOUSTON
MICHAEL C. HOWARD
RONALD T. HOWELL II
MARC A. HOWLE
THOMAS A. HUENS
DAVID R. HUGHES
NATHAN S. HUMBERT
ALEXANDER M. HUMES
ANDREW L. HUMMEL
WILLIAM P. HURT
ERIC HURTADO
JAMES J. HYMAN
OSCAR IBARRA
NEVILLE S. IBIT
WILLIAM J. INGE
CLAUDIO R. INNOCENTI
ANTONIO E. JACKSON
MATTHEW D. JACOBS
WILL J. JANOTKA
ELOISE S. JEANBART
JAMES M. JENNINGS
ARIC H. JENSEN
DANIEL JIMENEZ
MARTIN A. JOHNSON
TRAVIS D. JOHNSON
BRANDEN L. JONES
CHARLES W. JONES
IAN T. JONES
JAMES B. JONES
JAMES O. JONES, JR.
KYLE C. JONES
LYNN N. JONES
MATTHEW C. JONES
TODD R. JONES
STEVEN L. JORDAN
STEDROY P. JOSEPH
KEVIN JOYCE
LOREN F. KACOROSKI
GEORGE H. KANE
MISON KANG
JOSHUA B. KASSEL
RICHARD A. KATTE
PHILIP E. KAUTZ
JOHN A. KEARBY
MICHAEL R. B. KEARNES
PAUL M. KEARNEY
JAMES C. KEATON
TIMOTHY J. KEILTY
MATTHEW D. KELLEHER
JUSTIN M. KEMP
SEAN I. KENNEDY
MAURICE G. KENNER
DANIEL G. KEYSER
RYAN R. KIDD
DAVID T. KIM
JONG S. KIM
ADAM J. KINDER
RYAN L. KLINE
MARK A. KLOIBER
RAYMOND T. KLUTSE
JOSEPH C. KNIGHT
MICHAEL P. KNIGHT
PAUL L. KNUDSEN
LUKE E. KOEHLER
PATRICK D. KOHLER
JARED R. KOLB
DANIEL J. KONOPA
KIMBERLY G. KOPACK
JOSHUA T. KOPSIE
KENNETH D. KOVACH
LIAM J. KOZMA
CHESTER N. KRAFT
ANDREW M. KRUMM
MATTHEW V. KRUPSKI
ADAM R. KUBATZKE
RICHARD D. KUBU
ERIC D. LAIN
PATRICK R. LAMONDA
ANDREW D. LANCE
DAVID T. LANGDON
TATE E. LANGLEY
JESSE W. LANSFORD
WILLIAM J. LARSEN
COLBY R. LARSON
ROBERT T. LAUFER
JEFFREY J. LAUGHLIN
JOSEPH C. LAW
DANIEL L. LE
ALBERT G. LEDDY
BRIAN N. LEE
BRYAN D. LEE
JAMES R. LEE
JESSE LEE
SEON J. LEE
ANDREW J. LEEMAN
JUSTIN P. LEFOR
JOHN D. LEISINGER
ROBERT E. LELITO
CHRISTOPHER C. LEONARD
RAMON N. LEONGUERRERO
PAUL W. LEW, JR.
FREDDIE R. LEWIS
CHRISTOPHER A. LIEBES
DANIEL T. LIEBETREU
PATRICK W. LIETO
WILLIAM S. LINDBERG
NATHAN R. LINSE
KYLE E. LITCHFIELD
BRENTON L. LITFIN
SAVANNAH J. LIVINGSTON
CURTIS J. LOFTIN
ZACHARY Y. LONG
JUSTIN J. LOPEZ
NATHAN D. LUBBA, JR.
TERRENCE LUCAS
MATTHEW J. LUDEMANN
ANDREW R. LUDLOW
EDGAR Y. LUNAOGANDO
ADAM K. LUTZ
KAMAN T. LYKINS
CHRISTOPHER R. LYNCH
RILEY W. LYNCH
DAVID G. MACASPAC
ALANA L. MACK
EVAN K. MAIR
AARON W. MALCOLM
NATALIE A. MALLUE
KEVIN S. MALMQUIST
CHARLES W. MANGUM
SARAH E. MANION
RYAN N. R. MANNINA
FELIX A. MANYWEATHER
STEVEN A. MARRERO
BRIAN C. MARTIN
EMILY K. MARTIN
TYLER S. MARTIN
BLAS A. MARTINEZ
ERICK V. MARTINEZ
JOSE A. MARTINEZ
JOSEPH E. MARUT III
DAVID W. MASON
NICOLAS K. MASSIE
JONATHON P. MATHIAS
ROBERT C. MATHIS
AHMAD N. MATTHEWS
LANCE J. MAURER
KYLE A. MAY
CHRISTOPHER D. MAZUREK
BRYAN P. MCALISTER
JUSTIN G. MCBRIDE
LON C. MCBRIDE
CODY S. MCBROOM
AARON M. MCCANN
CALEB J. MCCOLLUM
BRIAN K. MCCOWN
SEAN S. MCCUNE
GARTH T. MCDERMOTT
DEANDRE L. MCDONALD
MICHAEL P. MCEUNN
PATRICK S. MCGEE
PATRICK R. MCGRATH
KEVIN B. MCGREW
SHANNON M. MCKENNA
ELIJAH J. MCMAHAN
SCOTT G. MCMAHAN
RICHARD K. MCMANAMON
CHRISTOPHER C. MCMASTER
SIDNEY H. MCMATH
LAWRENCE T. MCNAMARA
AUSTIN C. MCNAUL
ALONZO MCNEAL
MOHDHISHAM MDISA
SEAN C. MEBERG
DANIEL M. MEEGAN
SOLOMON E. METCALF
RICHARD V. METZGAR III
BENJAMIN A. MICHAEL
DANIEL R. MIDGETT
ZACHARY S. MIERVA
DAVID C. MILLIKAN
FREDERICK L. MIMS
JASON R. MINOR
LUCIEN S. MIRANNE
JOSHUA T. MITCHELL
SCOTT M. MODESITT
THOMAS W. MOENTMANN
STEVEN E. MOHR
THOMAS W. MOHR III
MICHAEL L. MOLCZYK
NICHOLAS G. MOLNAR
STEWART MONTESSANDOVAL
GRANT M. MONTGOMERY
LUKE J. MOODY
JEFFREY T. MORACCO
JAMES T. MORGAN
KYLE A. MORGAN
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:39 Feb 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00151 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 9801 E:\CR\FM\A06FE6.004 S06FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1026 February 6, 2019
JORDAN R. MORRIS
THADDEUS D. MORRIS
TIMOTHY R. MORTON
DEMETRICK L. MOSELEY
ERIC V. MUIRHEAD
KEVIN W. MULLEN
KATHERINE M. MUNOZ
JOSE G. MURILLO
TAYLOR W. MURPHY
JOHN N. NAELGAS
RENNIE A. NEGRON
DAVID W. NELSON
STEPHEN L. NELSON
FORREST E. NEUMANN
TONY NGUYEN
JONATHAN P. NIBLOCK
JASON J. NICHOLS
ALEXANDER R. NICKLES
TRAVIS W. NICOLETTE
BENJAMIN W. NIEHOFF
BRENDAN T. NINTZEL
DEVIN S. NIU
BENJAMIN A. NOBLES
XAVIER A. NOEL
ERIC E. NORGARD
DANIEL A. NORTON
VICTOR P. NUNCHUCK, JR.
TRISTAN W. OBLUCK
RODERIC M. OCONNOR
BRIANNA M. ODOM
CHRISTOPHER P. OFFOR, JR.
MICHAEL J. OGAN
SEAN P. OHALLORAN
THOMAS W. OLMSTEAD
EDWARD H. OLSON
TERIKAZU ONODA
MICHAEL E. OPBROEK
DARE C. ORAVITZ
DANIEL C. OTT
BRYAN S. PAINTER
MATTHEW J. PALANGE
RODOLFO P. PALMA
BRIAN A. PALMIOTTI
JONATHAN W. PANKAKE
JASON P. PANNELL
JEREMY D. PAQUIN
MICHAEL H. PARKER
WILLIAM R. PARTIN
MARK A. PASSMORE
DONALD B. PATE
TYSON D. PATRICK
CHRISTOPHER T. PAYNE
KYLE D. PAYNE
CHAD E. PEABODY
SETH G. PEARSON
ANDREW J. PEAVY
ROBERT H. PECHA
JONATHAN P. PECHON
ABBEY L. PEDERSEN
EDWARD PEGUERO
MARK P. PELAEZ
GINO L. PELLICANO
LAURIKA R. PENN
FELIPE J. PEREZ
JOSEPH L. PERKINS
THOMAS M. PERRY
SETH G. PETERS
ERIN J. PETERSON
LANCE E. PETERSON
THEODORE R. PETERSON
JAMES R. PFEIFFER
PERRY PHAM
ANITA R. PHILLIPS
FRANCIS G. PHILLIPS
JEREMY M. PHILLIPS
BRYAN D. PHILPOTT
MICHAEL A. PICCINI
DANIEL H. PICKERING
DANIEL J. PIECHOCKI
ANDREW C. PINGREY
BENJAMIN A. PINNER
RUDY PIROLOZZI
WILLIAM T. PITT
JOHN A. PLEASANTS
JOHN R. PLUMSTEAD
JASON L. POMEROY
KENNETH E. POPLAR
BENJAMIN J. PORATH
DANIEL N. PORRIS
DAVID R. PORTER
KHEMMER M. PORTER
BRADLEY A. PORTWOOD
ANDREW L. POWELL
JOHN P. POWELL
PETER M. PREISINGER
WILLIAM R. PRICE
DAVID A. PROVENCHER
CHRISTOPHER J. PURSEL
ROBERT E. PUSHARD
GARY T. QUACH
KEVIN J. QUIGLEY
DANIEL S. QUINLAN
DAVID R. RADKE
MATTHEW J. RADMAN
ALEXANDER J. RADOMSKY
LANCE C. RAE
DUSTIN D. RAMATOWSKI
REGINALD E. RAMSEY II
JEREMY R. RATHBUN
BRITTANY J. RAY
JARRETT B. REDMAN
CHRISTOPHER D. REED
WILLIAM J. REILLY
ERIK S. REKEDAL
ANDREW B. REYNOSO
MARK E. RICE
RONALD B. RICE
SHARIL K. RICHARDS
STEVEN M. RICHARDS
IAN B. RILEY
JESSICA K. RILEY
JAMIE M. RIOS
PATRICK G. RIPTON
BRIAN C. RISER
BENJAMIN R. RISHER
JACK T. ROACH
ROBERT C. ROBERTS
CHRISTOPHER K. ROBINSON
DREW A. ROBINSON
JEREMY M. ROBINSON
MICHAEL A. ROBINSON
WENDELL C. ROBINSON
JOSE R. ROCHAALVAREZ
EVAN E. RODERICK
JOSE E. RODRIGUEZ
SCOTT U. ROETT
MATTHEW J. ROGERS
SEAN A. ROLING
DEREK J. RONDEAU
GRACE E. RONE
CHRISTOPHER A. ROSE
TODD J. ROSSBACH
JOHN R. ROSSI
NATHAN F. ROUBICEK
JAMIA L. ROWLAND
ZACHARY S. ROZAR
ERIC M. RUFF
RONALD J. RUNYAN
NICHOLAS M. RUNYON
ALAMA F. RUSH
MICHAEL RUSSO
KYLE J. RUTLEDGE
WILLIAM R. RYAN
JOSEPH A. SAGLIMBENI II
CHRISTOPHER M. SALISBURY
BENJAMIN L. SALVITO
THOMAS SANCHEZ, JR.
GREGORY M. SANDERS
GRANCIS SANTANA
MATTHEW C. SARDO
ROBERT SARVIS
DAVID A. SAXTON
MATTHEW R. SCHLESINGER
THOMAS S. SCHLESINGER
BENJAMIN J. SCHMIDT
SCOTT J. SCHULTZ
ZACHARY J. SCHULTZ
MICHAEL S. SCHUMACHER
MARY K. O. SCHUSTER
BRANDON C. SCHWARTZ
PAUL F. SCIFERS
RYAN O. SCOTT
NOAH L. SCRIBNER
DANIEL J. SELF
DOMINIC A. SENTENO
DAVID J. SERVIDEO
STEPHEN T. SEXTON
DAVID M. SHANAHAN
GREGORY S. SHANEMAN
ANDREW T. SHATTUCK
JUSTIN K. SHAW
TIMOTHY S. SHEPHERD, JR.
WILLIAM E. SHERR
BENJAMIN T. SHOWMAN
ANDREW B. SHRIBER
KEVIN C. SHUFFSTALL
SCOTT R. SHUTTS
MICHAEL S. SIDMAN
ROBERT J. SIMMONS
WILLIAM C. SIMPSON
WHITNEY E. SIMS
ALEXANDER M. SINCLAIR
ANDREW D. SIVANICH
TAYLOR W. SIVLEY
KARL T. SKIDMORE
JASON A. SLONE
RYAN M. SMEDILE
JORDON M. SMILEY
BRANDON C. SMITH
BRANDON J. SMITH
CHRISTOPHER B. SMITH
TIMOTHY W. SMITH
MICHAEL J. SMOLUCHA
NEIL D. SMYTHE
DOUGLAS E. SNELLING
JOE SNIPES
MATTHEW A. SNYDER
RICHARD G. SNYDER
PHILIP Y. SOHN
NICOLAS F. SORIA
STEPHEN C. SORRELLS
JESUS D. SOTOMELENDEZ
THOMAS L. SPENCE
HERBERT M. SPERBER
GERARD T. SPINNEY
KENNETH J. SPOON
CHRISTOPHER C. SPROUL
MAUREEN STAGNEY
KATHERINE A. STAMPFLE
JOHN STANCZAK
MATTHEW J. STAPAY
NICHOLAS J. STAVE
REX C. STEELE
DAVID J. STEWART
DEREK A. STEWART
JERED L. STOKES
THEODORE D. STOUCH
ROBERT A. STOVALL
DANIEL L. STRASSER
NICHOLAS E. STRONCZEK
RUSSELL E. STUART
CHRISTOPHER SUAREZ
TRON S. SUGAI
THOMAS E. SULIK
CHRISTOPHER P. SULLIVAN
MICHAEL W. SULLIVAN, JR.
SCOTT M. SYLVESTER
MATTHEW C. SZARZYNSKI
TRAVIS W. TARBOX
NATHAN J. TARTER
JOHN R. TATE
AARON A. TAYLOR
ANGELO Q. TAYLOR
NICHOLAS J. TERPIN
THOMAS J. TERRY
KYLE W. TERZA
STEVEN F. THOMAS
PETER D. THOMPSON
WILLIAM D. THOMSON
HUNTER M. THORNAL
KYLE M. THURMAN
KIRILL S. TIKHONENKOV
MICHAEL E. TIKKANEN
PAUL D. TILLMAN
MICHAEL T. TIMCHO
MARSHALL R. TITCH
CHAD T. TOBIN
RYAN V. TODD
PETER B. TODSEN III
PATRICK A. TOFFLER
MICHAEL D. TOLLISON
ERIK J. TOMSEN
JUAN TORRES, JR.
ERIC S. TOWLE
RYAN T. TOWNSEND
CRAIG M. TRYZBIAK
JOHNDAVID D. TYDINGCO
IKE M. UKACHI
JESSE M. UNDERWOOD
ANTONIO L. URESTE
KRIS R. URQUHART
ROBERT A. VADNEY
STEPHEN VADOVSKY
WIE R. C. VAN
MATTHEW T. VANARSDALE
PHILLIP W. VANDERCOOK
JOSHUA R. VANDERLIP
JODY R. VANMETER, JR.
ROBERT W. VANWEY
TREY S. VANWYHE
ALEJANDRO L. VARGAS
MORRIZ F. VELAZQUEZ
JACOB S. VELDHOUSE
SAMUEL R. VELEZ
JORDAN D. VELIE
ERIC T. VENDITTI
DONALD O. VERPOORTEN
LUIS C. VILLA
DANIELLE L. VILLANUEVA
JON M. VOSS
GREGORY K. WALKER
KAYLEIGH E. WALLACE
MARK D. WALLACE
WESTON T. WALROND
BRIAN K. WALSH
LOREN M. WAMPLER
JAMES T. WARD
JED W. WARNOCK
JONATHAN M. WATSON
SHANNON J. WAX
THOMAS R. WEADON II
THOMAS J. WEBB
WILLIAM B. WEBSTER
SPENSER C. WEDDINGTON
MICHAEL F. WEIDEL
JOSHUA P. WEIDNER
JAMES W. WEIR
JOSHUA J. WELTE
ADAM F. WERNER
MATTHEW A. WESTCOTT
PAUL S. WHALEY II
KENNETH T. WHEELER
MATTHEW T. WHEELER
ROBERT O. WHITBY
MATTHEW S. WHITE
ROSS T. WHITE
TREVOR C. WHITE
TYLER R. WHITE
VERNON J. WHITE
JAMES R. WHITNEY
ZACHARY T. WILLEY
ADAM K. WILLIAMS
CHAD E. WILLIAMS
DOUGLAS H. WILLIAMS
SHANNON V. WILSON
TIMOTHY K. WILSON
MARSHALL W. WISH
JACOB J. WISHKO
KYLE J. WOLFLEY
ERIC J. WONG
DONALD A. WOOTEN II
DANIEL WORKMASTER
LI XU
RYAN K. YAMAUCHI
CHRISTOPHER T. YANKOW
SARAH A. YATES
SCOTT W. YINGLING
DAVID W. ZAK
PATRICK M. ZANG
KIONA L. ZAPPE
NICKOLAS M. ZAPPONE
REED M. ZIEGLER
JULIANNE C. ZIKE
JIMMIE L. ZILLINER
COURTNEY A. ZIMMERMAN
MARK G. ZWIRGZDAS
D014270
D014758
D014794
G010477
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICERS FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE UNITED STATES ARMY
UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 624:
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:43 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00152 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 9801 E:\RECORD19\FEBRUARY\S06FE9.REC S06FE9
CORRECTION
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1027
February 6, 2019
To be major
BENJAMIN T. ABEL
ANTHONY ABEYTA
JENNIFER G. ACOJEDO
CHRISTOPHER S. ALEXANDER
YELENA P. ALEXANDER
CHRISTOPHER M. ANDERSON
DAVID C. ANDERSON
ROBERT J. ANDERSON
ANGEL M. APONTE
ANDREW A. ARIAS
CAMERON R. ARNDT
JOEL M. ASKINS
AZIZ ATAKUZI
GARY A. AUSTIN
FRANCIS J. AXLINE
JONATHAN D. AZBILL
KEVIN BADGER
NICHOLAS F. BARBER
TRAVIS R. BARKER
EMERY C. BAUGHAN
BRET A. BEAVERS
ELANA A. BELL
DENISE BERNARD
LISA H. BEUM
SEAN M. BIRMINGHAM
DAVID R. BLACK
RANDALL B. BLADES
JOSHUA M. BLANC
RAYMOND G. BLOCKMON
JACOB L. BOESEN
BENJAMIN P. BOETTCHER
MARK R. BONAUDI
JULIO R. BONFE
FRANCISCO J. BONILLA
MATTHEW T. BOREL
ANDREW R. BOYD
MICHAEL A. BRADY
KENNETH BRANDT
DRAKE E. BREWSTER
MICHAEL M. BROOKS
BLAKE A. BUGAJ
BRIAN R. BUHLER
ANDREW M. BUNCE
MARK S. BURACZESKI
SHAWN M. BURKE
RYAN M. BURKHOLDER
GEORGE H. CALHOUN
ROBERT A. CALKINS
ANDREW M. CAMMACK
CLINTON B. CAMPBELL
JOSHUA J. CAMPBELL
GREGORY P. CAMPISI
CARLOS A. CANALESRAMIREZ
BYRON W. CARLSON
TYRIE D. CARROLL
CHRISTOPHER D. CARTIER
ANNAMARIE F. CASIMES
JUSTIN H. CASTRO
ADAN A. CAZAREZ
RYAN R. CHANEY
RYAN G. CHANKO
JEANETTE CHAVEZ
ALEXANDER J. CHERNUSHIN
JUNG U. CHO
KYUN Y. CHOI
WILLIAM CHOI
SETH P. CHURCH
MORGAN P. CINA
SEAN A. CLEMENT
LEONARDO E. CLEVERSLEY
MACKENZIE A. COHE
RONNIE L. COLLINS
SARAH C. COMPTON
KRISTOPHER L. CONKLIN
TRAVIS G. CONNELL
CHRISTOPHER R. CONNER
KEVIN A. CONNERS
MICHAEL R. CONNORS
JESSICA L. COOK
CHRISTOPHER J. COOPER
KEI C. COOPER
JESSIE A. CORTEZ
NICHOLAS J. COSMAS
TODD E. CRAMER
RENATA M. CRAPPS
LOUIS CRIST
JAMES S. CROTTY
DAVID P. CROW
DOUGLAS E. CRUTCHLEY, JR.
LEONARD CRUZ
GUSTER CUNNINGHAM III
DANIEL J. CURTIS
CLYDE J. DAINES
JONATHON A. DANIELL
SCOTT M. DANIELS
KOJO O. F. DARTEY
BRIAN P. DAVIS
GREGORY L. DAVIS
PATRICK W. DAVIS
PAUL J. DEEHAN
TAMARA J. DEJESUS
MATTHEW D. DELAGUARDIA
TRAVIS M. DESOUSA
AARON L. DEVIG
IBRAHIMA DIALLO
ALEXANDER C. DIAZMARTINEZ
STEPHEN C. DILORENZO
GERYAH A. DINGLE
BRANDON D. DOGGETTE
CORY M. DOMBROWSKI
JOAN C. DORREJOGONZALEZ
SCOTT DOTSON
CLIFTON O. DOUGLAS IV
STEVEN T. DOWNEY
MAXINE A. DRAKE
NATHANIEL M. DRAKE
ANTHONY M. DRELLA
CHRISTOPHER M. DRESCHER
RYAN S. DUDLEY
ANDREW P. DUKE
CLAYTON K. DURDEN, JR.
PAULINE C. EDWARDS
JOHN P. ELCO
MICHAEL P. ELLIS
ERIC A. ENGSTROM
ERIK ESTRADA
SITIA M. FALEAFINE
JOSEPH D. FASONE
JOSEPH E. FEIFER
RODNEY A. FERGUSON
SARAH A. FERREIRA
JAY B. FISHER
JOSEPH FORNASIER
WILLIAM L. FOULKS
PATRICK H. FRANKS
JEROD M. FRANZ
SEAN T. FRASER
BLANCA G. FRAZIER
SPENCER L. FRENCH
JOSHUA D. FREY
TREONE M. FRINK
CHRISTOPHER P. FROELICH
GLENDON C. FRYE, JR.
AVERY FULP
TOMMY R. GALLOWAY
ALISHA M. GARCIA
AIANA J. F. GARIN
LANCE M. GARNETT
JACOB T. GARRETT
SPENCER G. GARRISON
ABRAHAM GATES, JR.
LAURENCE W. GAUTHIER III
SHELLYANN S. GAYLEJACKSON
LUCAS C. GEBHART
CHRISTIAN P. GEHRELS
GRACE M. GEIGER
JOSHUA H. GEIGER
RYAN C. GENARD
ROBERT B. GILBREATH
SAMUEL E. GILTNER
ANDREW J. GLUBZINSKI
BRANDON J. GOOCH
JOHN C. GOODWILL
RUSSELL M. GORDON
SHARREE L. GORDON
SARAH E. GOUDREAU
DERRICK V. GOUGH
BRIAN T. GRAHAM
ROBERT L. GRAMER, JR.
JASON P. GRAMS
CHRISTOPHER W. GRAUEL
ROBERT F. GREENE
WILLIAM A. GRIFFITH, JR.
ADAM C. GRINES
KYLE D. GROGAN
JOSE D. GUILLENPEDROZO
SHAWN GUTIERREZ
JEFFREY M. HACKMAN
JOSHUA R. HAINES
TINA M. HAIRSTON
JASON M. HALL
ROBERT D. HALSTEAD
JEREMIE J. HANNAH
JASON E. HANSON
MARGARET C. HARRIS
MICHAEL A. HARRIS
MICHAEL J. HARRIS
TERRINA A. HARRISON
BRANDON M. HARTMANN
JOSHUA A. HASELTINE
KELSEY N. HASSIN
JEFFREY W. HATCH
MICHAEL J. HEIM
FELICIA D. HEISLER
DENNIS K. HELMS
WARREN C. HENDERSON
CHAUNCEY D. HENRY
MICHAEL J. HERBST
ANDREW P. HERENDEEN
NICHOLE C. HERNDON
ADAM D. HESS
SCOTT C. HETZEL
LAURENCE C. HINES
CARL E. HODGSON
ALEXANDER S. HOFFMAN
MICHAEL D. HOGANS
LUCAS M. HOLMBECK
ROBERT W. HONTZ
CHERYL D. HOOKER
IRA C. HOUCK
SARAH J. HOUP
MEGHAN N. HOUSEL
JAMES G. HOWARD
ORLANDON M. HOWARD
DAVID K. HUFFMAN
BENJAMIN A. HUNTER
BERNARD C. HUNTER
KURT G. HUXEL
JOSHUA A. HYATT
BENJAMIN M. IHNAT
SARA M. IRWIN
JASON W. ISGRIGG
DANNY JARAMILLO
DANIEL C. JOHNSON
JAMES D. JOHNSON
MATTHEW S. JOHNSON
PATRICK D. JONES
YOUNG H. JOO
MATTHEW M. KALIN
NIKESH D. KAPADIA
STEPHEN J. KARR
BENJAMIN A. KEDO
COREY R. KEIFFER
CHRISTIAN R. KELLER
PAUL R. KELLMURRAY
BRIAN J. KEMPER
DERECK N. KENNEDY
RILEY F. KENNEDY
EVAN M. KERRANE
LEILA KETTERLINUS
SEUNGKYU KIM
SUHAN KIM
ANDREW T. KINNEY
JESSICA P. KLEIN
ZACHARY W. KLEIN
SAMANTHA E. KNAPMAN
DAMON N. KNAUSS
JUSTIN A. KNOX
NICHOLAS J. KNUDTSON
KADEN C. KOBA
MATTHEW J. KRIVENSKY
ISAAC J. KUNZE
KWEKU A. KWARTENG
VERONICA L. KYLE
KAI L. LABAC
JOSEPH A. LAMIA
MATTHEW C. LANDON
JORDAN T. LANDRY
BRIAN S. LASKEY
SHEA J. LEAP
WILLIAM L. LEASURE
BOMBE LEE
BRANDON S. LEE
JULIUS N. LEE
YOUNG H. LEE
KATHLEEN M. LEFORTE
LORIS F. LEPRI
NATHAN B. LEQUIRE
CHARLES R. LEWANDOWSKI
JHORDN G. LEWIS
JERAD M. LINDER
STEVEN S. LIZAMA
LUIS E. LLAURY
PILLCO W. LLIVICHUZHCA
LIBERTY F. LOBDELL
PAUL A. LOOMIS
MAYRA E. LOPEZNANEZ
JASON C. LOVALLO
SERGIO A. LOYNAZ III
JASMINE L. LOZANO
CHRISTOPHER M. LUCK
LAURENT LUNDY
CHRISTOPHER C. MACE
ISAAC A. MACMILLEN
MILTON E. MADDOX
WILLIAM T. MAHAN
THOMAS R. MAHONEY
KENNETH L. MANDAKUNIS
DANIEL J. MANOR
CHRISTOPHER A. MANSELL
SHELDON D. MARCELLINE
ANTHONY G. MARINELLO
HOWARD K. MARKEL
AJAYA K. MARTIN
BENJAMIN W. MARTIN
CODY J. MARTIN
KYLE V. MARTIN
ALEXANDER L. MARTINEZ
MICHAEL J. MARTINEZ
MATTHEW M. MASSON
CRAIG A. MAYBEE
CHRISTOPHER A. MAYS
JAMES M. MCCABE
BRANDON H. J. MCCALLA
CARLYLE O. MCCALLA
JOSEPH M. MCCANDLESS
MICHAEL J. MCCASLAND
JENIFER R. MCCLARY
MICHAEL D. MCCONKEY
ROBERT D. MCCORMICK
ANNMARIE S. MCCREIGHT
DAVID N. MCCRERY IV
LOGAN F. MCDARMENT
JASON L. MCELROY
ANDREW J. MCKEE
ZACHARY S. MCLAIN
MATTHEW P. MCLEAN
AARON A. MCMURRAY
JUSTINE M. MEBERG
WILLIAM M. MEIER
VANESA M. MENAFERNANDEZ
NATASHA MERCADO
SALVATORE E. MESSINA
ANDREW R. MEYER
MICHAEL J. MILLER
DAVID E. MINGHELLA
EVAN MIZE
LUKAS R. MOORE
JACOB L. MORMON
DEMETRIUS K. MORRIS
JARROD J. MORRIS
RICHARD L. MORRIS
DEREK B. MUELLER
JASON A. MULL
CARLOS R. MUNOZAGUIRRE
RACHEAL W. MWANGI
JACOB E. MYERS
DANIEL NA
JOHN D. NALETELICH
SARAH E. NALETELICH
JAMES L. NAPPER
MENDOLA A. NASHWALLACE
JAIME E. NAVARRO
MARION J. NEDERHOED
PEDRO J. NEGRONBETANCOURT
KATTIE L. NEUJAHR
CHRISTINE M. NEUMAN
TRAVIS A. NEWTON
STEPHEN C. NICHOLS
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:39 Feb 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00153 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 9801 E:\CR\FM\A06FE6.006 S06FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1028 February 6, 2019
DARRICK M. NOAH
MINAH NUZUM
BABAJIDE ODEJOKEMAXWELL
JASON J. ODELL
OLA O. ODUNAIKECHERRY
KYONG L. OH
ASHLEY R. OLDS
ANDREW J. ONEILL
CHRISTIAN G. ORELLANA
AARON M. OVERSTAKE
JAMES E. PALIDAR
BRADLEY J. PALMERLOURENCO
JAMES T. PANTELAKIS
DANIELLE R. PAPPAS
ALEX C. PARKER
BONITA M. P. PARKER
KYLE W. PARKER
BRIAN P. PATTERSON
ABE L. PAYNE
RICHARD M. PAZDZIERSKI
JENNIFER M. PEACE
FRANKLIN G. PEACHEY
DANIEL PEARSON
EVAN M. PECK
JANE A. PETRICK
DIANA PETRIS
RICHARD W. PFROGNER
DANIEL J. PHILLIPS
LOGAN J. PHILLIPS
MICHAEL C. PHILLIPS
ROBERT J. PHILLIPS
BRYON J. PIEPER
BEVERLY A. PIMIENTA
TERRANCE T. PITTS
MICHAEL A. POOLE
TRAVIS A. PRATT
ANDREW J. PULASKI
CHRISTIAN A. RAMOS
DARREN M. RAWLINGS
TRACY C. READE
KENNETH B. REDD II
JOSHUA A. REDDEN
LATISHA R. REEDER
CHRISTOPHER D. REGO
JONATHAN L. REID
ERIC D. RICHARDS
COREY C. RIDDICK
SARA A. RIESEL
MARIO O. RIVAS
EVARISTO RIVERA
CATHERINE J. RIVERS
ARTURO RODRIGUEZ
ISAAC D. RODRIGUEZ
VIRGINA M. RODRIGUEZ
LINDSAY D. ROMAN
HUGO I. ROMERO
JEREMIE M. ROWAN
ANDREW E. ROWLAND
GORDON D. RUTLEDGE
JACK B. SADLER
BRANDON P. SALMERI
KELLAN S. SAMS
WILLIAM B. SAMUEL
CHRISTOPHER J. SANDOVAL
PATRICK A. SANDOVAL
ALEXANDER J. SAUL
ZACHARY B. SCHAEFFER
TYLER SCHAUER
EMMA A. SCHILLER
MATTHEW A. SCHLEUPNER
JOHN A. SCHLICHT
ELIZABETH K. SCHLOEMANN
MATTHEW A. SCHMIEDICKE
JEFFREY W. SCHRIMP
LEE E. SCHROEDER
KYLE D. SCOTT
TOBIAS I. SCOTT
CARLOS J. SEMIDEY
JAMES R. SESSIONS III
ANTHONY D. SEVERSON
DOUGLAS A. SHARP
CALEB J. SHEFFIELD
JABAKA D. SHERROD
TIMBERLY H. SHUMAKER
MARCELLUS SIMMONS
PAUL D. SIMNIOK
MATTHEW S. SINDA
KENNETH A. SLEZAK
ELLIOTT J. SMALLWOOD
DANIEL W. SMITH
MATTHEW A. SMITH
MICHAEL A. SMITH
LINDSEY M. SNYDER
PETER J. SOLANA, JR.
KYLE P. SOLER
WESLEY G. SOLWAY
BENJAMIN M. STAATS
WOJCIECH W. STACHURA
THOMAS B. STAUFFER
MICAH J. STEDMAN
RYAN A. STEUK
JOHN C. STEWART
SEAN C. STOREY
GARRY STRATIEV
BOONE A. SUPINGER
BRYAN D. SWIFT
SCOTT S. TANAKA
JEROME TATUM
KENNETH D. TAYLOR
STERLING E. TAYLOR
JASON W. THOMAS
KASSIE D. THOMPSON
ROXANA M. THOMPSON
STEVEN J. THOMPSON
ANDREW B. THORNSLEY
RYAN G. TINTERA
BRIAN W. TOBIAS
STEPHAN P. TOBIN
LILIANA TOLLIVER
JOHN F. TOMASELLI
KYRYLO TOROPCHYN
PAUL A. TORREZ
CARLOS M. TOSCANO
ROBERT W. TOWNSEND, JR.
TYRONE N. TRAPNELL
AARON J. TRIMBLE
NEAL J. TRUMP
BERNARD N. N. TUMANJONG
GREGORY A. UNDERWOOD
ANDREW B. UONG
JASON M. UPOLE
MATTHEW J. URBAN
MIGUEL A. URBINACHAVEZ
DARINEL D. URENAFABIAN
JOSE M. VALENCIA
REBEKAH E. VAUGHAN
KEVIN J. VEGA
JAMIE R. VENNEMAN
STEVEN A. VILLALVA
GREGORY P. WALSH
ROBERT E. WALSH
JEREMY L. WARNKEN
JAMES A. WATSON
BRIAN D. WEAVER
KEVIN P. WEAVER
BILLIE C. WEBB
DEXTER W. WEBB
SCOTT A. WEBB
JORDAN K. WEBER
COLLIN M. WEEKS
KERRI L. WEISS
JASON G. WELCH
CHRISTOPHER E. WELLER
BRADLEY WELLSANDT
WILLIAM J. WHELAN
ERIC A. WHIPPLE
ROBERT C. WHITE
BRENT C. WHITEHEAD
JEFFERY W. WHITTINGTON
CARL R. WIGINGTON
BENJAMIN WILLIAMS, JR.
DATHAN L. WILLIAMS
JAMES WILLIAMS III
MICHAEL S. WILSON
SCOTT W. WILSON
LARRY R. WITKOVSKI
MARK T. WITTE
KENNETH E. WOLFLE
JENNIFER M. WONG
MARIOPHILIP A. WONG
CLAY D. WOODY
CANNDICE C. WOOTEN
DENDRE WRIGHT
KIRK T. WRIGHT, JR.
TRAVIS D. WRIGHT
JASON WU
JIANG WU
STEPHEN J. YAFFE
TOMECA S. YANCEY
STACEY M. YARBOROUGH
PIPER M. YETMAN
FON P. E. ZAMCHO
DANIEL P. ZUNIGA
D012709
D013345
D013475
D013484
D013549
D013690
D013694
D014403
D014427
D014430
D014439
D014536
D014680
G010350
G010422
G010461
G010470
G010495
G010518
G010537
G010540
G010541
G010542
G010598
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICERS FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE UNITED STATES ARMY
UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 624:
To be major
KWANSAH E. ACKAH
KRISTEN N. ADAMS
WILLIAM H. ADAMS
GBENGA S. ADIGUN
JAMES J. AGIUS
ERIC R. AHLE
TODD M. AKROYD
LLOYD M. ALAIMALO
ELIZABETH H. ALBERTSON
JESSE J. ALCOCK
PATRIC M. ALEXANDER
BRANDON W. ALFORD
THEODORE C. ALLEN
VICTORIA A. ALLEN
FRIDAY E. AMEH
PHILLIP J. ANKLIN
ANDREA J. ASENDIO
DEREK D. ATWATERS, SR.
RONALD L. BAILEY, JR.
TRENT J. BAILEY
JENNIFER L. BAKER
MONICA M. BAKER
YESIR A. BALLENARIZA
BRIAN A. BANFIELD
KEVIN M. BARNES
CLIFTON C. BARNETT
KELLY L. BARTON
DEQUINCY K. BASS
JORDAN L. BASS
RENARDO L. BASTIAN
RAYMOND A. BEARD
AVRAHAM BEHAR
CONRAD L. BELLARD II
RYAN C. BELLMANN
CARLA L. BENDER
EDER G. BENNETT
JOSEPH C. BENNETT
HEATH A. BERGMANN
JOSEPH L. BEST, SR.
MATTHEW D. BINKINZ
MICHEAL J. BINNS
DAVID J. BJORK
TODD V. BLACKBURN
IAN M. BLOOMSBURG
LATRICE BOATNER
SHERRY T. BOBBETT
NORIELYS BONILLA
JAMES M. BONIN
STEPHEN J. BONNER
MYREON D. BOOKER
STEPHEN A. BOUGHTON
JOSEPH M. BOURDA
EFFENS Y. BOWDEN
SIRRON D. BOWMAN
MICHAEL H. BRESETTE
TINA D. BREVARD
MATTHEW A. BROOKS
MITCHELL K. BROOKS
FREDERICK BROWN
KELLY E. BROWN
MICHEAL A. BROWN
VICKIE L. BROWN
ALEXANDER C. BRUBAKER
NATALIA P. BRYANT
AUSTIN L. BUCHANS
THOMAS L. BURBANK
STANLEY R. BURDINE, JR.
ANTHOWAN A. BURRELL
SAMUEL CAMPBELL
SHEILOH S. A. CARLOS
GEOFFREY A. CARMICHAEL
LANDON P. CASSELS
HAROLD CASTANEDA
TODD C. CASTLES
CEDRIC A. CATO
KATRINA P. CEZAR
NEIDAS M. CEZAR
CHRISTINE S. CHANG
DANIEL B. CHELSEA
SHERRY A. CHILDS
JOSHUA S. CHOATE
THERESA D. CHRISTIE
STEPHANIE L. CIABOTTI
CHRISTOPHER L. CIMAN
JESSIE CLASS
JASON B. CLOWE
JUDE G. COE
PATRICK R. COFFEE
JIMMYVAN COGLESGUERRERO
CASEY R. COLBETH
BRENDAN T. COLLINS
EZRA M. COLLINS
JERED A. COLLINS
LILIENI B. COLLINS
TOMMY E. COLLINS
DEANNA M. COMSTOCK
LATONYA K. CONKLETON
SHIRLEY J. COOLEY
HOLGER A. CORREA
CONNIE R. COX
ELOISA A. COX
JOHN S. CRAWFORD
JOY L. CRENSHAW
NICHOLAS P. CRINER
STANLEY A. CROCKETT
KELSIE M. CUMMINS
SCOTT A. CURTICE
BENJAMIN E. DANIEL
LORI D. DANIELS
ANGEL F. DAVILA
DON R. DAVIS
INISHA T. DAWKINS
KURT D. DAY II
JESSE M. DEBOEST
ANDREW P. DEEL
MICHAEL R. DEEM
BRYAN M. DEMPSEY
SCOTT N. DEMPSEY
LLOYD DERRICOATTE II
DEVON C. DIAZ
RAMSES DIAZ
KAREE N. DIXONTHOMPSON
RAVEN S. DONELSON
SAMANTHA E. DOUGLAS
GREG M. DOYEN
CAROL E. DOYLE
DEVEN DRAKE
BETHANY G. DUMAS
DUANE D. DUMLAO
BRANDON P. DUNCAN
NICHOLAS P. DUNN
TIMOTHY M. DWYER
ARRON M. EDMONDS
DEDRICK W. EDWARDS
JACOB ELDERS
MOHAMED M. ELZEIN
TRAVIS D. EMBRYMARTIN
AMBER L. ENGLISH
DAVID M. ENNIS
CHRISTOPHER J. ENYART
PETER F. ERICKSON
JEFFREY T. FELL
BOBBY J. FILIPUNAS
JOHN R. FORRISTER, JR.
THERESA M. FOSTER
AUSTIN L. FRANKLIN
DANIEL R. FRANTZ
AARON K. FRAZIER
BRANDON C. FRAZIER
HEATHER R. FRAZIER
IVAN FUENTES
COURTNEY L. FULLER
JOSEPH S. FUOCO
STEPHEN M. GAGIN
LUIS A. GAITANTOVAR
RICHARD A. GARCIA
SHAWN L. GARCIA
EULOGIO GARCIAFLORES
HECTOR W. GARCIARODRIGUEZ
CANDACE N. GARLAND
JONATHAN K. GARMAN
QIONG GARNER
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:11 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00154 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 9801 E:\RECORD19\FEBRUARY\S06FE9.REC S06FE9
CORRECTION
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1029
February 6, 2019
TONYA L. GARRETT
STEFANIE M. GASKILL
GRETCHEN D. GASKINS
GAREY L. GATES
JOHANNES J. GEIST
JENNIFER L. GENSLINGER
ROY GEORGE
CURTIS A. GIBBS
DEREK S. GIBSON
SCOTT A. GILBERT
CRISTINA C. GOMEZ
KRISTIN R. GONZALEZ
JERMAINE D. GOODMAN
JASON W. GOODSON
SHASHESHE L. GOOLSBY
BRIAN M. GRACE
MICHAEL L. GRADDY, JR.
ARTHUR D. GRAY
NICHOLAS R. GRECO
SHERRI A. GREGOIRE
COREY J. GRIFFIN
JEREMY D. GRIFFIN
MICHAEL R. GRIFFIN
MAGATTE GUEYE
DERRICK C. GUILLORY
DEREK R. GUNTER
JEAN J. GWON
JUSTIN D. HACKETT
JAROD M. HAHN
BRIAN J. HALEY
DAVID M. HALL
MARKEL HALL
TANISHA C. HANSON
ROCKY A. HARKLESS, JR.
JOSEPH N. HARMON
KEVIN A. HARRIS
LASHERDO M. HARRIS
SHALLUM I. HARRIS
JOY L. HARRY
JON W. HATCHER
JAMES M. HAWTHORNE
ROBERT E. HAYNES
ANTHONY S. HEBERLEIN
THOMAS E. HEIDORN
ALANDA D. HENDERSON
GREGORY S. HENDERSON
MICHAEL A. HERMES
JOHN A. HERMIDA, JR.
SARAH M. HERNANDEZ
LONNIE T. HILL
ANDREW S. HINES
CODY A. HOLDER
AARON B. HOLKER
DARIAS D. HOLLOWAY
MONICA M. HOLMES
SUNG Y. HONG
ZACHARY B. HORNE
DAVID W. HORTON III
TY P. HORTON
LAURA C. HOUCK
JACOB E. HOUSE
APRIL M. HOWARD
JAMES M. HOWARD, JR.
JOEL C. HOWARD, JR.
CORAETTA A. HOWELL
JEREMY M. HOWELL
SHAUN A. HULSIZER
MICHAEL T. IMDIEKE
SHINANE K. ISREAL
ASHIAN M. IZADI
CHRISTOPHER G. JACKSON
MIKHAIL J. JACKSON
KEVIN F. JAGUSCH
CHARDETTE L. JAMES
TONI R. JAMES
MARKLY JEANCHARLES
SILVIA JEMUTAI
THOMAS C. JEWELL
JOSE A. JIMENEZ
CARREA L. JOHNSON
COREY N. JOHNSON
GEORGE E. JOHNSON
JERAME E. JOHNSON
SARAH E. JOHNSON
SHEILA R. JOHNSON
SPENCER D. JOHNSON
TIMOTHY J. JOHNSON
VIVLAVIA O. JOHNSON
CHRISTOPHER D. JONES
HUGH M. JONES
JAMES A. JONES
SHAWN M. JONES
JASON K. JOST
ANTHONY A. JOYCE
BRADY C. JUELSON
CYR KAMGATABOPDA
MASIRAY A. KANNEHPEART
ADAM M. KARLEWICZ
MICHELLE K. KELLEY
ANDREA L. KELLY
CHRISTOPHER J. KEMPF
PAUL M. KILGORE
ERIC Y. KIM
JAE H. KIM
JAMAAL R. KIRKLAND
STEPHEN F. KIROUAC
JONATHAN M. KLEINFELT
NICOLE R. KOEHLER
KYMBERLY T. KOENIG
LYDIA KOH
JASON A. KOMINIAK
ARMEJOY B. KOONTZ
FRANCIS J. KOYKAR
MATTHEW T. KRAMER
JUSTIN M. KUHLMANN
KEVIN C. KUMLIEN
CHRISTOPHER M. LADD
ALLAN F. LAGGUI
ROBERTO A. LAINEZ
NATHAN A. LAISURE
BRENDAN F. LAMB
DAVID J. LAMMERS
WILL N. LANDAVERDE
NICHOLAS P. LANGE
ERIN E. LANGLEY
MATTHEW D. LANGLEY
ASHLEY M. LANGSTON
NATHAN A. LARSEN
SHEMONIA T. LEA
SCOTT A. LECHNER
ROBERT S. I. LEE
VON S. LENNOX
ROBERT D. LINDSEY
MICHAEL S. LISTOPAD
JEREMY S. LITTREL
AVIS J. LIVERPOOL
CURT Q. LIVINGSTON
ROBERT R. LOBDELL
BENJAMIN J. LONG
ARIANNA LONGORIA
BRITTANY L. M. LOPRESTI
KESIA S. LOYDBROWN
BRANDON S. LUCAS
RENE LUJAN
CHERRY M. LUST
DAVID G. MACK
JOSHUA R. MALDEN
KIMBERLY L. MALLARDBROWN
CLIFTON J. MALONE
HUMPHREY W. MARARO
JAMES MARLEY
JOANN M. MARQUEZ
JACQUELIN N. MARRERO
SARAH A. C. MARTIN
RAUL MARTINEZ, JR.
SUSANA MARTINEZ
MICHAEL R. MATERNICK
JAMIE L. MATTHEWS
LAKEISHA MATTHEWS
CAROL M. MAUGAVAITAUTOLU
MATTHEW N. MAYOR
CLEOTILDE MAZZOCOGONZALES
CAROLYN P. MCARTHUR
VAUGHN R. MCCLINTOCK
ROOSEVELT J. MCCRAY
MELVIN MCDONALD III
ALEXANDRA C. MCGUIRE
TERI A. MCMAHAN
BRIAN C. MCNALLY
MISSY L. MCNEILL
RODERICK S. MCNIEL
JODIE H. MCQUILLAN
SEAN M. MCSHERRY
JUSTIN R. MEREDITH
NICHOLAS C. MILANO
RODNEY A. MILBOURNE
ZACHARY S. MILLER
DAVID N. K. MOBEE
HANS J. MOGELGAARD
KEYLA M. MOJICADIAZ
MITCHELL D. MONETTE
KAREN J. MONIGAN
VICTOR M. MONTELLANO
KELCEE L. MOODY
JESSE L. MORGAN IV
JUDITH R. MORGAN
SHARLEEN L. MORGAN
MICHAEL A. MORNER
JOHANNA A. MOSBY
LUCAS J. MOUTON
JEFFREY S. MUIR
CHRISTOPHER E. MULLIS
JAMAL D. MURPHY
ROLLIN B. MYERS
STEVEN J. NASER
MATTHEW J. NETER
JUSTIN A. NEWLIN
DIANNA L. NEWTON
KENNY K. NGUYEN
JENNIFER L. NICHOLAS
BLAKE A. NIEWENHUIS
KINGSLEY C. ONYEMA
MARIA M. OROZCO
JORGE A. ORTIZ
EUNICE E. OWUSUBOADI
ANDREA D. PABODY
DAVID J. PADDOCK
MINOU PAK
DARYLE S. PALMER, JR.
KEDRICK D. PALMER
ANTWON D. PARKER
REGINALD F. PARKER
TERRENCE C. PARKER
ALVA M. PEARSON
RACHEL L. PENNY
JOSE L. PEREZ, JR.
JADDIEL PEREZCOLON
FERDINAND PEREZRIVERA
GEORGE N. PERKINSON
TIMOTHY B. PETERS
JOSHUA W. PETRUS
JUDITH A. PHINN
DAVID M. PICARD
JOHN A. PICCIONE
JIMMY PLATA
VITALIY PLOKHOVSKYY
WILLIAM E. PONDER
JASON A. PORTER
KEVIN L. PORTER
SOLOMON A. PREKO
COLE S. PRICE
FERGUSON G. PRICE
THOMAS C. PRITCHARD
TRAVIS A. PROPES
EMILLE K. PROSKO
ROSECLAIRE PROSPER
CHAD B. PROSSER
ROWAN L. PRUITT
BRITTANY K. QUILES
RAHEEM T. RAHNI
VINCENT T. RAMOS
PAOLO G. RAPHAEL
STEVEN J. RAUCHBACH
CONTANYA L. RAVIN
JOHN B. RAYNOR
COURTNEY E. RAZON
NATHAN R. RECTA
JOSHUA A. REDMOND
KURT N. REYNOLDS
MICHAEL G. RIDLON
ADAN L. RIVAS
MIGUEL J. RIVERATRISTANI
BERSY P. ROBERSON
ELISSA R. ROBINSON
TOMIKA S. ROBINSON
ROMAN A. RODRIGUEZ
GENEVIEVE B. RODRIQUEZ
NEFJOVENY J. ROSA
ADRIAN ROSADO
DENNIS W. ROWE
TATIANA V. SABUROVA
JORDAN L. SALCEDO
KRISTAN M. SALTER
JAMES P. SANDERS
SEONTAE J. SANDLAIN
RENEE L. SANJUAN
ELVIN J. SANTOSRENTAS
MICHAEL G. SASLO
CHRISTOPHER L. SAWTELLE
ANTHONY D. SAYLES
MARK M. SCHILLY
SHANE A. SCHRADER
BRANDON J. SCHWARTZ
STEPHEN J. SCHWARTZ
ALICIA D. SCOTT
KENNETH SCOTT
LERAE B. SCOTT
CHRISTINA A. SCOTTO
OLIVER R. SEARS, JR.
SUMALINDINIE R. SERION
EDUARDO SERRANO
DARRELL E. SHEPPEARD
FRANKIE B. SHY
DEXTER D. SIMMONS
DANIAL A. SINGER
JAMIE A. SINKER
SAMUEL A. SISTARE
DANIEL T. SLOAN
CHARLES F. SMITH
CHRISTINA D. SMITH
DEVAN M. SMITH
RICHARD A. SMITH
SALOME SOTILLEO
WALTER F. SPRENGELER
ADAM D. STEAR
BRADLEY P. STEIMLE
JIMMY T. STEWART
DOUGLAS S. STONER
ANIETRA D. STOVALL
ANDRACHELLE E. STRAKA
ALAN M. STRANGE
MARCUS D. STRINGER
SANDIS SULLIVAN II
JAMES B. SUMMERSELL
TRENT W. SUTTERFIELD
JESSE D. SWANZY
QUERUBIN S. TAGULAO, JR.
JESSICA A. TAHILRAMANI
ERIC TAYLOR
JOSHUA P. TAYLOR
RONALD C. TAYLOR
JEFFREY R. TEPLIS
TREVOR P. TETZLAFF
WEDMAIER THENOR
KIETH A. THIERRY
JERRY L. THOMAS, JR.
ANTHONY E. THOMPSON
JOSEPH E. THOMPSON
MICHAEL L. THOMPSON
REED G. TIMME
JAMES R. TOOMEY
CHRISTOPHER J. TRILLING
MATTHEW TRUAX
ERIC E. TUBBS
RYAN D. TUTTON
CHAD M. TYSON
LILLIAN K. VAN PELT
BENJAMIN B. VANBEURDEN
CAROLYN P. VANDEVENTER
AMY M. VARNER
BRYAN J. VELEZ
JOHN P. VIDIKSIS III
ALAN J. VILLANUEVA
ROYSTON S. VOGLEZON
KEVIN S. VOSS
RAYSHUA WAGENHEIM
JACOB A. WALSH
CHARLES A. WALTON
GREGORY B. WARDWELL
WILLIAM T. WARREN
JAMES D. WEATHERS
CAMERON D. WEBB
ANDREW J. WEBER
JEREMY M. WEEKS
JOSHUA S. WEINTRAUB
JOHN W. WEIRAUCH
JOSHUA J. WEISMAN
JOHN D. WELCH
ERIC S. WENSTRUP
ERNEST I. WEST
KHANASTO J. WEST
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:39 Feb 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00155 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 9801 E:\CR\FM\A06FE6.009 S06FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1030 February 6, 2019
ROBIN J. WHARTON
KIERNAN P. WHITE
MICHAEL R. WHITE
KENYA U. WICKS
JAMES B. WILBURN III
BRADLEY M. WILCOX
BRANDON A. WILLIAMS
DANELLA J. WILLIAMS
GINA V. WILLIAMS
HOPE WILLIAMS
KYLE A. WILLIAMS
TODD R. WILLIAMS
ALFIERITA A. WILSON
DAVID A. WILSON
EARL E. WILSON
JADE J. WILSON
KEVIN L. WILSON
JUSTIN A. WINN
DEISY R. WOLFE
MARY M. WONG
JERIMIAH A. WOOD
MICHAEL P. WOODARD
KENNETH L. WOODFORD, JR.
NIRASARA WOODS
IEISHA M. WOOLRIDGE
STEPHANIE R. WORTH
ADAM K. WRIGHT
SHEMEKA L. WRIGHT
PAUL J. YI
BYRON V. YOUNG
TAMARA N. YOUNG
JENNIFER C. YURK
PATRICK M. ZEBROWSKI
PATRICIA E. ZUMWALT
D013472
D013513
D014348
D014355
D014486
D014510
D014535
D014862
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICERS FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE UNITED STATES ARMY
UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 624:
To be major
ALAN ADAME
JAMES R. ARMSTRONG, JR.
CRAIG T. BRECHLER
CARLO A. CAPPELLA
TRAVIS A. CARRENO
THOMAS J. CROSS
CARLINTON O. DOBSON
ADAM B. DUBY
RICHARD EATON
JAMES M. FASONE
JOEL R. FREDRICKSON
AVERROES A. FREEMAN
JOSHUA GOMPERT
DANIEL L. HANNUM
DANIEL S. HAWTHORNE
SETH M. HAYDEN
MATTHEW D. HEINMILLER
PHILIP T. HENKE
NATHAN M. HICKS
NATHAN R. JENKINS
AUSTYN W. KRUTSINGER
MARK C. LESAK
WILLIAM B. LILES
SEAN M. LYNCH
PHILIP J. MACIEJEWSKI
NEIL A. MILCHAK
JOSHUA S. NIKES
HERBERT W. NORTON III
DANIEL OCONER
BRADLEY D. PEMBERTON
JULIAN C. PETTY
ROY D. RAGSDALE
HYMAN H. RAYBORN II
JOSHUA C. SANCHEZ
SHANE A. SARTALAMACCHIA
THOMAS M. SCHINDLER
SARAH J. SMITH
JOSEPH U. STANLEY
DARNELL STOKES
ADAM J. SZCZYPKA
BRIDGER S. TERRA
SARAH P. WHITE
STEVEN M. WHITHAM
DANIEL J. WILD
LEONARD A. WILLIS, JR.
JONATHAN P. WOOD
EUGINNA S. WOODS
BRADLEY W. YOUNG
THOMAS E. ZASTOUPIL
D013220
D013619
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE UNITED STATES ARMY
UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 624:
To be major
ELIZABETH A. FIELDS
IN THE NAVY
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICERS FOR TEMPORARY
APPOINTMENT TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE
UNITED STATES NAVY UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION
605:
To be lieutenant commander
SCOTT A. ADAMS
NEWTON R. ARIAS
VERBON D. BRADLEY III
KEVIN M. BRENT
STEVEN J. BRINKLEY
ERIC S. CLARK
BENJIMAN D. COYLE
FORREST S. CROWELL
STEVEN CUEVAS
SAMUEL L. CURLEE
BRENT E. DEERING
CHRISTOPHER T. DEYOUNG
REBECCA L. DICKEY
JOHN A. DUGGER
FRANK L. ELLIS
JOHN P. ENGLISH
ROBERT M. FEDELE
TAMFU G. FOMUSO
MILES A. GARRETT
BRIAN F. GOTTFRIED
SAMUEL W. GRAESSLE
DUNCAN N. HAMILTON
ROBERT N. HARRIS III
TERENCE P. HIGGINS
JAMES T. HOUGH
CHRISTOPHER A. ISLEY
MEGAN E. JAMISON
JASMINE D. LEE
KEVIN M. LEWMAN
JUSTIN C. MCCORKLE
CHRISTIAN J. MINEUR
JUNG H. PARK
NATHANIEL S. PELLETIER
DAVID C. PHILLIPS
BRIDGET M. RIORDAN
THELMAR A. ROSARDA
ALEX M. SCAPEROTTO
JOSHUA B. SEAGRAVE
PATRICK D. SHANNON
ERIC T. STROMME
MICHAEL A. TARESCAVAGE
SCOTT W. TERRY
JAMES R. THOMPSON
HELENA J. VANGILDER
DANIEL M. WOODS
BRET A. YOUNT
IN THE MARINE CORPS
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICERS FOR APPOINTMENT
IN THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE IN THE REGULAR MA-
RINE CORPS UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C. SECTION 531:
To be major
BETHANY S. PETERSON
JON T. PETERSON
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:48 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00156 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 9801 E:\RECORD19\FEBRUARY\S06FE9.REC S06FE9
CORRECTION
EXTENSIONS OF REMARKS
∑ This ‘‘bullet’’ symbol identifies statements or insertions which are not spoken by a Member of the Senate on the floor.
Matter set in this typeface indicates words inserted or appended, rather than spoken, by a Member of the House on the floor.
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E137
February 6, 2019
TRIBUTE HONORING DR. R.A.
GREGG, COMMISSIONER, NYSCAB
HON. MAX ROSE
OF NEW YORK
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, February 6, 2019
Mr. ROSE of New York. Madam Speaker, I
respectfully ask that you and my other distin-
guished colleagues join me in honoring Dr.
R.A. Gregg for his consistently remarkable
dedication to community affairs, community-
police relations and his longstanding commit-
ment to improving our community.
While Dr. Gregg has a varied professional
portfolio ranging from Commissioner and Chief
Executive Officer of a community affairs non-
profit organization that serves New York State
to political campaign committee Chairman to
Director of Operations for a family established
boutique law firm, his dedication to providing
community affairs and improving community-
police relations can be seen in all his endeav-
ors. Most recently, Dr. Gregg was appointed
the first Commissioner of the New York State
Community Affairs Bureau, a nonprofit organi-
zation, by its Board of Governors. The
NYSCAB is a volunteer organization com-
prised of community, nonprofit and clergy
leaders as well as current, former and retired
law enforcement officers and law enforcement
and government officials that provides quality
community affairs services to New York State,
New York City and its residents.
Beyond his dedication to ensuring that qual-
ity community affairs services are provided to
New York State, New York City and its resi-
dents, Commissioner Gregg has a passion for
community-police relations. He is active in the
law enforcement community and serves as a
Chaplain or Chaplain (ex-officio) for numerous
organizations including the New York City De-
partment of Correction’s Correction Officers’
Benevolent Association (COBA), the New York
State Court Officers Association, the New
York City Police Department’s Detectives En-
dowment Association (DEA) and the New York
City Police Department’s Patrolmen’s Benevo-
lent Association (PBA), among others. He also
serves as the Chief of the Chaplains Unit for
the Law Enforcement Employees Benevolent
Association (LEEBA). Upon being appointed
Commissioner of NYSCAB, he established the
NYSCAB Volunteers in Police Service Unit to
oversee and run the VIPS Program which is a
locally-driven Citizen Corps program that al-
lows community members to offer their time
and talents to NYSCAB and local law enforce-
ment agencies. The VIPS program is man-
aged and implemented by the International
Association of Chiefs of Police (IACP) and has
registered the NYSCAB VIPS with the national
VIPS program.
For many years Dr. Gregg has been active
in civic organizations. He serves as a Member
of the Board of Directors or as a Member of
the following organizations: Archdiocese of
New York (Regional Advisory Board Member
and School Advisory Board Member), African
American Clergy & Elected Officials—Brooklyn
(Member), Bronx Clergy Task Force (Mem-
ber), the Global Alliance of Hispanic Law En-
forcement Professionals (Chair, Board of
Chaplains), God’s Whisper Burial Fund (Vice
Chairman), the International Conference of
Police Chaplains (Member), the National As-
sociation for the Advancement of Colored
People (NAACP) (Member), National Baptist
Convention (Member), the National Organiza-
tion of Black Law Enforcement Executives
(NOBLE) (Regular Member), Clergy Leaders
Council (Member) and Occupy the Block (a
Founding Member).
Each aspect of Dr. Gregg’s service to the
community speaks to his complete nature and
his dedication to improving the quality of life
for the residents of the community as well as
for the police community. I am proud to say
that we have someone like Dr. R.A. Gregg liv-
ing in our community and am very grateful for
all the work he has done and continues to do
to improve our community.
Madam Speaker, it is with great pleasure
and admiration that I stand before you today
to honor Dr. R.A. Gregg for his many years of
selfless and compassionate service to the
Staten Island and Brooklyn community, and to
all of our community’s residents and acknowl-
edge his latest recognition which he shall re-
ceive at the 2019 Somos Albany Conference
held March 8–10, 2019 as well as recognize
Dr. Gregg’s milestone birthday which is on
March 9th.
f
CLARIFYING REMARKS ON H. RES.
41
HON. STEVE KING
OF IOWA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, February 6, 2019
Mr. KING of Iowa. Madam Speaker, on Jan-
uary 15, 2019, the House of Representatives
considered H. Res. 41, a resolution rejecting
white nationalism and white supremacy as
hateful expressions of intolerance that are
contradictory to the values that define the peo-
ple of the United States. I voted for the resolu-
tion because it cited accurately the misquote
of my words by The New York Times and be-
cause I wholeheartedly agree with the rejec-
tion of white nationalism and white supremacy.
I write today to emphatically correct the
quote once again to align with what I actually
stated to The New York Times reporter and on
the floor of the House of Representatives. As
I stated on the House floor, what I actually
said was ‘‘ ‘White nationalist, white suprema-
cist—(there is a dash here as a pause) West-
ern civilization, how did that language become
offensive? Why did I sit in classes teaching
me about the merits of our history and civiliza-
tion’—that is the end of the quote—just to
watch ‘Western civilization’ become a deroga-
tory term in political discourse today?’’
According to my actual words, the question
‘‘how did that language become offensive?’’
clearly referred only to the term ‘‘Western Civ-
ilization’’. I was not asking how the terms
white nationalist and white supremacist have
become offensive. If there is any doubt as to
the accuracy of this accounting, I would direct
you to the CSPAN video of my floor remarks
from that day, January 15, 2019.
As the descendant of abolitionists and
Union soldiers who fought and died to purge
this land of the crime of human slavery, I well
know why certain terms—such as white na-
tionalist and white supremacist—are offensive.
And I always have and always will reject them
completely.
I stipulate that the RECORD reflects precisely
my words, which are those of a man who
loves his country and all its people and will
continue to work for the betterment of our so-
ciety for all Americans, who are all endowed
by their Creator with certain unalienable rights
and are equal under the law.
f
HONORING JUDY HAWLEY
HON. MICHAEL CLOUD
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, February 6, 2019
Mr. CLOUD. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to honor Judy Hawley, who devoted her life to
serving the people of Corpus Christi, Texas.
Ms. Hawley received the 2018 nomination
for the Texas Transportation Hall of Honor,
due in large part to her commitment and advo-
cacy for transportation infrastructure invest-
ment and policy decisions.
Some of Ms. Hawley’s community involve-
ment includes: eight years in the Texas House
of Representatives, Commissioner for the Port
of Corpus Christi Authority from 2004 to 2016
(serving as Chair during the last two years),
chair of the Corpus Christi Regional Economic
Development Corporation, chair of the Texas
State Aquarium Board, and co-chair of the
Chamber Infrastructure Committee.
Furthermore, Ms. Hawley served as the
former chair of the I–69 Advisory Committee.
During her tenure, she played a pivotal role in
guiding the growth of essential trade corridors
linking ports, waterways, trains, airports, and
highways from the Rio Grande Valley and the
Coastal Bend, creating opportunities for local
jobs and commerce.
If not for Judy Hawley, critical issues, such
as the need for a rail master plan, an enduring
replacement for the Harbor Bridge, and the
development of Interstate 69 would not have
received the kind of attention they warranted.
I would like to extend my heartfelt thanks
and appreciation to Judy Hawley for her in-
credible service and devotion to the people of
Corpus Christi and the 27th District of Texas.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:10 Feb 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\K06FE8.001 E06FEPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E138 February 6, 2019
IN HONOR OF 40 YEARS OF YES TO
YOUTH: MONTGOMERY COUNTY
YOUTH SERVICES
HON. KEVIN BRADY
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, February 6, 2019
Mr. BRADY. Madam Speaker, today I rise to
recognize the Fortieth Anniversary of one of
my community’s finest service organizations,
Yes to Youth—Montgomery County Youth
Services.
Established on February 2, 1979, Yes to
Youth (Y2Y) has faithfully served the Mont-
gomery County community for four decades.
Their noble mission is to empower teens and
their families by building up their existing
strengths, expanding their access to opportu-
nities, and overall, enhancing their lives. Their
selfless service, hard work, and dedicated
commitment to this mission has inspired and
positively affected countless lives in our com-
munity.
Y2Y first began providing services to teens
facing crises through the launch of their crisis
hotline. As the organization expanded over the
years, so too did the scope of the services of-
fered to those in need. Today, the organiza-
tion offers a wide variety of resources and ini-
tiatives to serve teens and their families. To
name just a few, Y2Y offers group and family
mental health counseling, school presentations
on crisis situations, suicide prevention, emer-
gency youth shelter, outreach program from
homeless teens, and a support program for
young adults.
These services have not only saved count-
less lives, but they have made Montgomery
County a better place to call home. The quali-
ties that Y2Y and its volunteers embody rep-
resent the best in our society, and today is
about making sure they know the tireless work
they do to improve our community does not go
unnoticed.
It is my absolute honor to congratulate the
Y2Y team today as they celebrate four dec-
ades of extraordinary service. I know I speak
for the entire Eighth Congressional District of
Texas when I say, thank you. Madam Speak-
er, please join me in honoring Y2Y’s Fortieth
Anniversary and their positive impact on the
Montgomery County community.
f
IN RECOGNITION OF COLONEL
MICHAEL ‘‘MOSES’’ THOMPSON
HON. ROBERT J. WITTMAN
OF VIRGINIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, February 6, 2019
Mr. WITTMAN. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to recognize the retirement of Colonel
Michael ‘‘Moses’’ Thompson. As a member of
the United States Air Force, ‘‘Moses,’’ his call
sign as an F–16 pilot, plans his retirement
after 24 years of dutiful service to his country.
With his long and successful career in a
many number of leadership positions, Colonel
Moses Thompson will officially retire in the
summer of this year. His career began at the
United States Air Force Academy in 1991
where he majored in Political Science and
International Relations. He became an F–16
Pilot of the 14th Fighter Squadron, then joined
the 79th Fighter Squadron in 1999 as Chief of
Standardization and Evaluation. Continuing his
love of flight and earnest ability to help others,
Moses started instructing young and hopeful
pilots, then becoming an Air Liaison and Flight
Commander in Fort Benning, Georgia. In 2007
he received an MBA from the University of
Maryland University College, and soon after
finished another master’s degree, this time
from the United States Air Force Command
and Staff College. After more positions in
leadership as a commander in Germany and
senior advisor to the Iraqi Ministry of Defense
in Baghdad, Moses Thompson is now the
Chief of Advanced Weapons Systems at the
U.S. Air Force Headquarters Air Combat Com-
mand.
After a lengthy and dedicated career, Colo-
nel Thompson will now retire with his wife Ali.
He has been described as a ‘‘powerful, inspi-
ration, and effective leader,’’ known for his in-
tegrity and ability to ‘‘make the difficult look
easy.’’ As previously stated, he has had many
titles and many honorable positions, but his
selfless action and dedicated service are what
keep Americans safe. People like Moses are
special and rare, and our country is blessed to
have had him serve our people.
Madam Speaker, I ask you to join me in
recognizing the many accomplishments of
Colonel Michael ‘‘Moses’’ Thompson, honoring
his love of country and service he has given
to our great nation.
f
CELEBRATION AND RECOGNITION
OF NILDA L. WILSON
HON. ADRIANO ESPAILLAT
OF NEW YORK
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, February 6, 2019
Mr. ESPAILLAT. Madam Speaker, Nilda L.
Wilson has been a longtime leader in the Do-
minican community. She was among the origi-
nal co-founders of many non-profit charities in-
cluding the Dominican Medical Society Wom-
en’s Chapter, Dominicanos Pro-Ayuda A La
Niñez, and many more philanthropic activities
supporting the community.
Nilda L. Wilson with her husband Dr. James
A. Wilson, have for over 40 years managed
and operated one of the earliest Dominican
medical practices in Washington Heights in
New York’s 13th Congressional District.
They were among the first Dominican med-
ical practices in Northern Manhattan first es-
tablished in 1966 on the corner of 178th St. &
Audubon Ave. and remained in the same loca-
tion serving the Dominican community through
their retirement in 2006.
Nilda L. Wilson has always felt a strong and
enduring responsibility to care for those in
need of health care especially in Washington
Heights and Northern Manhattan. Ms. Wilson
and Dr. Wilson have maintained and strength-
ened their ties to the Dominican Republic
helping sponsor medical students and trainees
coming to the United States.
Nilda L. Wilson and her remarkable family
have reached extraordinary professional suc-
cess and continue to give back to the Domini-
can-American community.
RECOGNIZING THE EIGHTEENTH
CONGRESS OF KAZAKHSTAN’S
NUR OTAN PARTY
HON. ALCEE L. HASTINGS
OF FLORIDA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, February 6, 2019
Mr. HASTINGS. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to recognize the Nur Otan party in
Kazakhstan for its twentieth anniversary and
the convening of its eighteenth Congress in
Astana, Kazakhstan later this month. The Nur
Otan party has made Kazakhstan’s growth in
the region, and around the world, its core mis-
sion through ‘‘Kazakhstan 2050’’.
This strategy seeks to place the country in
the top 30 global economies by 2050 by in-
vesting in not only economic sectors; but
through social initiatives as well. For instance,
President Nazarbayev, Chairman of Nur Otan,
has singled out investments in public housing,
education, small business, economic diver-
sification, and energy.
Madam Speaker, we must encourage such
development, but we must also never forget
the role Kazakhstan has played in our fight
against terrorism and the immense role the
country has played in the global cause of non-
proliferation. In Afghanistan, Kazakhstan has
provided invaluable support for supply lines
used by the International Security Assistance
Force (ISAF) Coalition, while also conducting
joint military training programs with American
and North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO)
forces in the Central Asian steppes. As for
non-proliferation, Kazakhstan, under President
Nazarbayev’s steady leadership, has not only
relentlessly championed the cause of nuclear
disarmament, but it has also established the
world’s first-ever Low Enriched Uranium Fuel
Bank, in order to ensure stable civil nuclear
energy use worldwide.
Madam Speaker, it is abundantly clear that
Kazakhstan has been, and continues to be, a
strong partner of ours in Central Asia, and it
is my hope that the U.S.-Kazakhstan relation-
ship will continue to strengthen to the benefit
of both countries.
f
HONORING MAYOR JOE D. HERMES
HON. MICHAEL CLOUD
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, February 6, 2019
Mr. CLOUD. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to honor Mayor Joe D. Hermes, an Edna na-
tive who dedicated his life to public service
and his community.
Mayor Hermes first moved to Edna when he
was six years old and has considered it his
home ever since. His first public service role
came as council member from 1979 to 1987.
He was then elected Mayor in 1987. After forty
devoted years of serving the people of Edna,
Mayor Hermes has decided to retire.
Since Mayor Hermes took office, Edna has
built three parks and a swimming pool, pur-
chased and restored property for the city,
moved City Hall from the building that now ac-
commodates the Edna Police Department, and
navigated the community through difficult eco-
nomic times.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:10 Feb 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A06FE8.003 E06FEPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E139
February 6, 2019
Mayor Hermes’ service to Edna includes
various board member and committee mem-
ber positions on the Golden Crescent Re-
gional Planning Commission, the Jackson
County Industrial Foundation and the Jackson
County Chamber of Commerce and Agri-
culture, among others.
Mayor Hermes’ retirement will afford him the
opportunity to spend more time with some of
his most important constituents, his three chil-
dren and grandchildren, all of whom live within
two hours of the city. Nevertheless, he will re-
main involved in the community.
I would like to extend my heartfelt thanks
and appreciation to Mayor Joe D. Hermes for
his tremendous public service and dedication
to the people of Edna. He is a model of gen-
erosity and embodies the spirit of Edna,
Texas.
f
RECOGNIZING THE CANANDAIGUA
VA MEDICAL CENTER
HON. ANTHONY BRINDISI
OF NEW YORK
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, February 6, 2019
Mr. BRINDISI. Madam Speaker, I rise today
on behalf of my constituent to recognize the
staff of the Canandaigua, New York U.S. De-
partment of Veterans Affairs (VA) Medical
Center.
Health care for our nation’s veterans is truly
one of the most important services the federal
government provides. All too often however,
we read news stories about substandard and
unacceptable care that those who served our
country in uniform receive. I was heartened re-
cently to receive correspondence from a con-
stituent, Beth Jones of Rome. Beth is the sis-
ter of a Vietnam veteran who served a total of
six years in the Air Force and Army. He suf-
fered trauma connected to his service, and
through the years has resided in several facili-
ties for veterans.
Beth told my office that, for nearly ten years,
her brother has resided at the VA’s
Canandaigua community living center. During
that time, he and the other patients there have
received individual attention with staff mem-
bers that take care of any health issues or
other concerns promptly; communicate with
out of town family members; and maintain the
facility so that it is a clean, comfortable envi-
ronment for its residents.
On Beth’s behalf, I would like to commend
the staff of the Canandaigua VA Medical Cen-
ter for providing such devoted and compas-
sionate care to this veteran and his family.
Our nation’s veterans have earned our stead-
fast support and respect, and I am glad to
hear that this military family has received the
care they needed at Canandaigua.
Veterans in New York and across the coun-
try deserve this same level of care, and I will
continue fighting to ensure that they have the
support and resources they need both when
wearing our country’s uniform, and when they
return home.
REMEMBERING THE LIFE OF
MOZELLE W. MYERS
HON. JAMES E. CLYBURN
OF SOUTH CAROLINA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, February 6, 2019
Mr. CLYBURN. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to pay tribute to an extraordinary woman
who possessed an adventurous spirit and a
big heart. Mrs. Mozelle Myers passed away on
Thursday, January 31, 2019, but her legacy
remains with us through the many lives she
touched during her 82 years among us.
Mozelle, the daughter of the late Reverend
Willie Williams and Inez Williams Brown, was
born on March 16, 1936. She was an honor
graduate of Burke High School and graduated
Summa Cum Laude from Claflin University in
1958. She married her college sweetheart and
classmate, AME Presiding Elder Samuel L.
Myers.
Mrs. Myers had a passion for learning and
service that led to a lifelong pursuit of knowl-
edge. She continued her education at the Uni-
versity of Notre Dame, South Carolina State
University, the University of South Carolina,
and the College of Charleston. Mrs. Myers
shared her deep appreciation for knowledge
with future generations, devoting 30 years to
teaching at Bonds Wilson and North Charles-
ton High Schools. Her desire to learn ex-
tended beyond the classroom and inspired her
to study the Bible and ancient history.
As a First Lady of the African Methodist
Episcopal Church, Mrs. Myers supported her
husband’s mission in ministry while remaining
a leader in the church and her community. As
a leader in the Women’s Missionary Society
for over 50 years she supported scholarship
and community building efforts.
Her favorite words of inspiration were,
‘‘Lord, when it’s my time to leave, let me come
home to you with a clean heart and a peaceful
soul. I have fought a good fight; now let me
rest in your loving arms.’’
In addition to her husband of 61 years, she
is survived by her loving daughters, Ms. An-
gela Myers and Ms. Sarita Myers; a special
grandson, Brandon Jackson-Williams; siblings,
Rev. Dr. Alfred Williams, Mrs. Luethel McNeil,
Mrs. Mildred Williams, Mrs. Leila Daniels, Mrs.
Rebecca Small, Mrs. Bessie Simmons, Mrs.
Gloria Edwards, Mrs. Susie Williams Manning,
Mr. Leon Williams, and nieces, nephews,
cousins and friends. She was predeceased by
her devoted brother, Isaac Williams, who also
served as an aide to me for many years.
Madam Speaker, I ask that you and my col-
leagues join me in offering our heartfelt condo-
lences to Mozelle Myers’ family and friends.
Her extraordinary faith and dedication to serv-
ing others are the hallmarks of a life well lived.
f
HONORING MR. JOHN SALTER, JR.
HON. BENNIE G. THOMPSON
OF MISSISSIPPI
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, February 6, 2019
Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi. Madam
Speaker, I rise today to honor Mr. John Salter,
Jr. on his great contributions to civil rights ac-
tivism.
Born in Chicago and raised in Flagstaff, Ari-
zona, John began his journey to higher edu-
cation at Arizona State University after serving
in the Army. He graduated in 1958 and re-
ceived his master’s degree in sociology in
1960. Mr. Salter alternated between activism
and teaching. He pursued his tenure in both
education and activism in Vermont, the State
of Washington, Rochester, New York, Chi-
cago, at the University of Iowa, Diné College,
and the University of North Dakota. His
worked encompassed a variety of services in-
cluding Directing the Department of American
Indian Studies at the University of North Da-
kota, teaching, and working with street gangs
in Chicago. Mr. Salter worked as a labor orga-
nizer in Arizona, the NAACP’s Mississippi field
secretary, and organized the Jackson Move-
ment.
John Salter, Jr. died on Monday, January 7,
2019, at 84 years of age. He and his wife Eldri
Johanson, who died in 2015, had been mar-
ried for 54 years. He is survived by four chil-
dren, Maria Salter and Josephine Evans, both
of Pocatello, and John Salter III and Peter
Salter, both of Lincoln, Neb.; a brother; 12
grandchildren; and two great-grandchildren.
Madam Speaker, today I honor the life of
Mr. John Salter, Jr. for his many contributions
to education and civil rights. Salter made a ca-
reer of serving others, and his work had a di-
rect and positive influence on the lives of lit-
erally thousands.
f
CELEBRATION AND RECOGNITION
OF JUDGE MARY V. ROSADO
HON. ADRIANO ESPAILLAT
OF NEW YORK
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, February 6, 2019
Mr. ESPAILLAT. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to recognize and celebrate the elevation
of Judge Mary V. Rosado to the New York
State Supreme Court, the highest-ranking
court in the State of New York.
Judge Rosado is a lifelong resident of Man-
hattan and was raised in the Jefferson Houses
in East Harlem in New York’s 13th Congres-
sional District.
From an early age, Judge Rosado was an
omnipresent contributor to the local community
organizing daytime summer camps in East
Harlem. Before starting her legal career, she
was a committed educator in the New York
City Public Schools for seven years teaching
Social Studies and English.
As the oldest of ten children born to Puerto
Rican migrants to the U.S., Judge Rosado has
committed herself to scholastic achievement
as a graduate of Hunter College of the City
University of New York (CUNY) where she re-
ceived her B.A. and M.A. and Fullbright Schol-
ar in Cairo, Egypt before receiving her J.D.
from Columbia University Law School.
Judge Rosado through her professional and
pro-bono work has become an acclaimed
community activist and is the Founder and
President of Friends of the West 59th Street
Recreation Center Inc., Puerto Rican Bar As-
sociation, Dominican Bar Association, Wom-
en’s Bar Association, Harlem School of the
Arts, Inc., Amsterdam Action Community As-
sociation, Dominican Women’s Caucus, and
proud participant in the Mentor-Guardian ad
litem program with the Civil Court of the City
of New York.
Judge Rosado has forged a thirty-year legal
career which epitomized with the creation of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:10 Feb 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A06FE8.007 E06FEPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E140 February 6, 2019
her very own practice in 1998, the Law Office
of Mary V. Rosado. Since then, she has
served as Manhattan Civil Court judge and
now ascends to serve in the First District of
the New York State Supreme Court.
f
REMEMBERING THE LIFE OF
SANDRA ELLA LEE
HON. TIM RYAN
OF OHIO
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, February 6, 2019
Mr. RYAN. Madam Speaker, I rise today to
honor the life of Sandra Ella Lee, age 71, who
passed away peacefully on Sunday, October
21, 2018 at Holy Cross Hospital in Silver
Spring, Maryland.
Sandra Ella Lee, one of four daughters born
to Ralph W. Lee and Flossie A. Lee, arrived
unexpectedly early on the morning of April 1,
1947, on the way to Gallinger Hospital in
Washington, D.C. She was a tiny baby with a
pair of lungs so powerful that only her father’s
deep bass voice could coax her to quiet down.
She attended Washington, D.C. Public
Schools where she was a good student known
for crisp wise cracks and phenomenal danc-
ing. She was raised as a faithful member of
Shiloh Baptist Church, where she was bap-
tized at age 9. Sandra graduated in Eastern
Senior High School’s Class of 1965 and later
attended Federal City College, now known as
the University of the District of Columbia.
During a 40-year career, Sandra held posi-
tions with both federal and city governments,
including assignments at the Board of Gov-
ernors of the Federal Reserve, the D.C. May-
or’s Office on Aging, and the D.C. City Coun-
cil. She worked with the staff of City Council
member Vincent Gray until her death. And,
she was a volunteer who helped serve meals
to homeless city residents on Thanksgiving
Day every year.
Among her many accomplishments, Sandra
was nominated by Ward 7 Council member
Vincent Gray to receive the 2018 Ward 7
Women of Excellence Award. This award was
presented to her on March 27, 2018.
Sandra was also an active, longtime, and
devoted member of New Bethel Baptist
Church, where she attended Bible Study and
Prayer Services. She was also active in the
Women’s Ministry and participated in many
community outreach projects.
Sandra is preceded in death by her parents;
brother, Ralph W. Lee, Jr; grandchild, Troy
Jackson, Jr.; and great grandchild, Kayla Rose
Taylor. She is survived by her children, Troy
Jackson (Moana) and Terri Christene Phillips
(Mark); grandchildren: Janay Jackson, Andre
Taylor, Taylor Jackson, Darrell West, II,
DeOndre Wright, Deyares Jackson, Diamond
Jackson, and Ayanna Jackson; two great
grandchildren: Kennedy Rose Taylor and An-
tonio Kingwood, three sisters: Jessica Lee
Lalanne (Joseph), Donna Lee Frederick
(Keith), and Dianne Lee; three nieces: Dawn
Bragg, Dana Queen, and Nakeya Proctor; one
aunt, Greta L. Dunn; and a host of other fam-
ily and friends.
I am very proud to be a friend of her son,
Troy Jackson. I extend my deepest sym-
pathies to all the family and friends whose
lives were blessed by Sandra Ella Lee.
IN RECOGNITION OF CYRUS
TARAPOREVALA’S REMARKS ON
THE OCCASION OF THE INSTAL-
LATION OF THE ‘‘FEARLESS
GIRL STATUE’’ AT THE NEW
YORK STOCK EXCHANGE
HON. CAROLYN B. MALONEY
OF NEW YORK
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, February 6, 2019
Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of New York.
Madam Speaker, I rise to recognize and in-
clude in the RECORD remarks made by State
Street Global Advisors CEO, Cyrus
Taraporevala, at the unveiling of the ‘‘Fearless
Girl’’ statue at the New York Stock Exchange
(NYSE) on December 10, 2018. The ‘‘Fearless
Girl’’ was commissioned by State Street to
draw attention to the small number or women
in leadership positions on Wall Street. She
was moved from her original location opposite
the ‘‘Charging Bull’’ statue near Bowling Green
to a permanent place in front of NYSE:
‘‘Thank you Lori. It is so exciting to
be here to unveil Fearless Girl at her
new home where she will have an even
bigger stage to make an even bigger
impact.
‘‘I want to thank everyone who
helped make this day happen: Mayor de
Blasio and his team; the Department of
Transportation; the Landmarks Preser-
vation Commission; the New York
Stock Exchange, in particular Betty
Liu and the Exchange president Stacey
Cunningham—who are here today; Con-
gresswoman Maloney; the thousands of
women in leadership; and, the millions
of Fearless Girl fans worldwide.
‘‘Throughout this campaign, even
today, many people have asked: Why is
State Street Global Advisors—one of
the largest investment managers in the
world—so focused on an issue like gen-
der diversity? l’d like to explain.
‘‘Our clients are businesses and orga-
nizations serving millions of people
across the globe. They’re pension plans
helping to fund a teacher or police-
man’s retirement. They’re foundations
investing in scientific and environ-
mental breakthroughs. And advisors
helping moms and dads figure out how
to make the numbers add up so they
can pay for their children’s college
education. Our goal is to ensure the in-
vestments we manage on their behalf
perform for the long-term.
‘‘Now, on our active management
side of the business—where portfolio
managers pick the stocks they want to
invest in—if they don’t like a company
or the way it is behaving, it’s quite
simple: they sell the stock. On the
index side, our portfolio managers
don’t have that luxury. They just can’t
sell the stock. As long as that company
is in the index we have to hold the
stock. We can’t give our clients the re-
turns of the S&P 499, when they expect
the S&P 500. That’s not how it works.
‘‘That means we actually have to en-
gage those companies with our voice
and vote as a large shareholder—to
push them to take seriously the issues
we believe are important to their long-
term sustainability, issues like climate
change or cybersecurity. And, yes, gen-
der diversity.
‘‘There is a growing body of data that
suggests cognitive diversity contrib-
utes to better decision-making at the
board level. These studies show that
gender-diverse boards pay more atten-
tion to risk management, and are less
inclined toward cronyism and
groupthink. In other words, all other
things being equal, these companies
tend to be better managed. So, for us,
advocating for gender diversity is not
part of some kind of political agenda.
It’s part of our long-term performance
agenda. This is about value, not values.
‘‘Yet in early 2017, one in four compa-
nies in the Russell 3000—the 3,000 larg-
est public companies in the U.S.—still
didn’t have a single woman on their
board. Not one, despite evidence that
shows it is in their best long-term in-
terest.
‘‘Then, Fearless Girl came along—a
symbol of our efforts to get more
women on corporate boards. Since her
installation, 301 of the companies iden-
tified as having no women at all on
their boards have added a female direc-
tor. And another 28 have committed to
doing so. In addition, many other in-
vestment managers and institutions
have stepped forward to advocate for
greater gender diversity on boards as
well.
‘‘All told, $15 trillion in total share-
holder assets now publicly back greater
gender diversity on boards. And while
there’s still a lot more work to do, the
number of companies in the Russell
3000 without a female board director
has now actually dropped by a third.
It’s gone from 24% to 16%.
‘‘But for me, there’s also something
deeply personal about Fearless Girl’s
new location here at the New York
Stock Exchange. Nearly 30 years ago I
was fortunate to have a summer in-
ternship right here at the Exchange. I
worked as a specialist on the floor of
the Exchange in 1989. It was the first
job in America for this immigrant.
Every day I would grab my lunch and
sit on those steps at the Federal Build-
ing, next to George Washington’s stat-
ue, and I’d look at that powerful sym-
bol of capitalism that the New York
Stock Exchange facade represents.
‘‘Now Fearless Girl will be part of
that powerful image to inspire the next
summer intern, the next public leader,
and the next business leader of one of
the companies traded on this Ex-
change.
‘‘That’s why I believe Fearless Girl is
not only reinventing the way we in-
vest, she is also changing the way we
see the world.
‘‘Once again a big thank you to ev-
eryone who made this possible.’’
Madam Speaker, I ask my colleagues to join
me in recognizing Cyrus Taraporevala’s re-
marks and the inspiring message of the ‘‘Fear-
less Girl’’ statue.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:10 Feb 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A06FE8.011 E06FEPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E141
February 6, 2019
HONORING JEAN MEADORS
HON. MICHAEL CLOUD
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, February 6, 2019
Mr. CLOUD. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to honor Jean Meadors, who dedicated her life
to educating and serving her community.
Jean Meadors’ love of teaching and books
motivated her to devote the last thirty years in-
spiring and educating children at the Owen R.
Hopkins Public Library in Corpus Christi.
As the Youth Librarian, Meadors was known
for her popular story-telling series, ‘‘Miss
Jean’s Story Time Kids,’’ which has been a
tradition at the public library for decades.
Meadors started her ‘‘Story Time Kids’’ series
to introduce children to an interactive book
reading experience.
Her selfless devotion to the children of Cor-
pus Christi has made an impact on the com-
munity that spans generations. Individuals like
Jean Meadors serve as an inspiring role
model to all.
I would like to extend my thanks and grati-
tude to Jean Meadors for her gracious heart
and contribution to developing the eager
minds of Corpus Christi. Her stories will be
dearly missed, but her legacy lives on in the
generations of book readers and story tellers
she inspired.
f
HONORING THE LIFE OF MR.
DAVID ARIAN
HON. TED LIEU
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, February 6, 2019
Mr. TED LIEU of California. Madam Speak-
er, I rise to remember and celebrate the life of
Mr. David Arian, a tireless defender of the
rights of dockworkers and an invaluable mem-
ber of our community. Over the course of his
remarkable career, Dave rose to be the Inter-
national President of the International
Longshore and Warehouse Union and later
served on the Los Angeles Harbor Commis-
sion.
Born and raised in San Pedro, California,
Dave began working on the docks of the Wil-
mington waterfront when he was only 18 years
old. Dave became involved with International
Longshore and Warehouse Union (ILWU) and
served three terms as local president before
being elected as the International President.
Despite reaching the highest office of the
union, Dave always described himself as a
‘‘rank and filer,’’ and maintained his open and
down to earth demeanor.
After his retirement, Dave was appointed to
the Los Angeles Board of Harbor Commis-
sioners, where he used his decades of exper-
tise to reduce air emissions and set a record
for cargo volume. Dave served on the com-
mission until his death, all the while fighting for
what was best for the dockworkers and main-
taining a vision of the port’s future.
Dave is survived by his children, Sean and
Justine, his sister Laraine, five grandchildren,
and many nieces, nephews and cousins. Dave
is also remembered by countless friends and
colleagues on whom he left a lasting impres-
sion.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:10 Feb 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A06FE8.014 E06FEPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E142 February 6, 2019
SENATE COMMITTEE MEETINGS
Title IV of Senate Resolution 4,
agreed to by the Senate of February 4,
1977, calls for establishment of a sys-
tem for a computerized schedule of all
meetings and hearings of Senate com-
mittees, subcommittees, joint commit-
tees, and committees of conference.
This title requires all such committees
to notify the Office of the Senate Daily
Digest—designated by the Rules Com-
mittee—of the time, place and purpose
of the meetings, when scheduled and
any cancellations or changes in the
meetings as they occur.
As an additional procedure along
with the computerization of this infor-
mation, the Office of the Senate Daily
Digest will prepare this information for
printing in the Extensions of Remarks
section of the CONGRESSIONAL RECORD
on Monday and Wednesday of each
week.
Meetings scheduled for Thursday,
February 7, 2019 may be found in the
Daily Digest of today’s RECORD.
MEETINGS SCHEDULED
FEBRUARY 12
9:30 a.m.
Committee on Armed Services
To hold hearings to examine the United
States Indo-Pacific Command and
United States Forces Korea in review
of the Defense Authorization Request
for fiscal year 2020 and the Future
Years Defense Program.
SD–G50
10 a.m.
Committee on Health, Education, Labor,
and Pensions
To hold hearings to examine managing
pain during the opioid crisis.
SD–430
2:30 p.m.
Committee on Armed Services
To receive a closed briefing on the
United States Indo-Pacific Command
and United States Forces Korea in re-
view of the Defense Authorization Re-
quest for fiscal year 2020 and the Fu-
ture Years Defense Program.
SVC–217
FEBRUARY 13
Time to be announced
Committee on the Judiciary
To hold hearings to examine pending
nominations.
SD–226
9:30 a.m.
Committee on Armed Services
To receive a closed briefing on cyber op-
erations to defend the midterm elec-
tions.
SVC–217
10 a.m.
Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation
To hold hearings to examine the nomina-
tions of Janice Miriam Hellreich, of
Hawaii, Robert A. Mandell, of Florida,
Don Munce, of Florida, and Bruce M.
Ramer, of California, each to be a
Member of the Board of Directors of
the Corporation for Public Broad-
casting, and a routine list in the Coast
Guard.
SD–G50
Committee on Environment and Public
Works
To hold hearings to examine the invasive
species threat, focusing on protecting
wildlife, public health, and infrastruc-
ture.
SD–406
Committee on Homeland Security and
Governmental Affairs
Business meeting to consider S. 195, to
require the Director of the Government
Publishing Office to establish and
maintain a website accessible to the
public that allows the public to obtain
electronic copies of all congressionally
mandated reports in one place, S. 196,
to save taxpayer money and improve
the efficiency and speed of
intragovernmental correspondence, S.
315, to authorize cyber hunt and inci-
dent response teams at the Department
of Homeland Security, S. 333, to au-
thorize the Secretary of Homeland Se-
curity to work with cybersecurity con-
sortia for training, S. 74, to prohibit
paying Members of Congress during pe-
riods during which a Government shut-
down is in effect, H.R. 504, to amend
the Homeland Security Act of 2002 to
require the Department of Homeland
Security to develop an engagement
strategy with fusion centers, an origi-
nal bill entitled, ‘‘Guidance Out Of
Darkness Act’’, an original bill to
amend section 1202 of title 5, United
States Code, to modify the continu-
ation of service provision for members
of the Merit Systems Protection Board,
an original bill entitled, ‘‘Presidential
Transition Enhancement Act of 2019’’,
an original bill entitled, ‘‘Providing
Accountability Through Transparency
Act of 2019’’, an original bill entitled,
‘‘Federal Rotational Cyber Workforce
Program Act of 2019’’, an original bill
entitled, ‘‘Payment Integrity Informa-
tion Act of 2019’’, an original bill enti-
tled, ‘‘Fair Chance Act’’, and the nomi-
nations of Dennis Dean Kirk, of Vir-
ginia, to be Chairman, and Julia Akins
Clark, of Maryland, and Andrew F.
Maunz, of Ohio, both to be a Member,
all of the of the Merit Systems Protec-
tion Board, and Ronald D. Vitiello, of
Illinois, to be an Assistant Secretary of
Homeland Security.
SD–342
Commission on Security and Cooperation
in Europe
To receive a briefing on asset recovery in
Eurasia.
SD–562
10:30 a.m.
Committee on Rules and Administration
Business meeting to consider S. Res. 50,
improving procedures for the consider-
ation of nominations in the Senate, an
original resolution authorizing expend-
itures by committees for the 116th Con-
gress, and committee rules.
SR–301
2 p.m.
Committee on Armed Services
Subcommittee on Personnel
To hold a joint hearing to examine the
current condition of the Military Hous-
ing Privatization Initiative.
SD–G50
FEBRUARY 14
2 p.m.
Select Committee on Intelligence
To receive a closed briefing on certain
intelligence matters.
SH–219
FEBRUARY 27
2:30 p.m.
Committee on Armed Services
Subcommittee on Personnel
To hold an oversight hearing to examine
military personnel policies and mili-
tary family readiness.
SR–222
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:10 Feb 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\M06FE8.000 E06FEPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
REMARKS
D121
Wednesday, February 6, 2019
Daily Digest
Senate
Chamber Action
Routine Proceedings, pages S875–S1030
Measures Introduced: Twenty-five bills and seven
resolutions were introduced, as follows: S. 342–366,
and S. Res. 47–53. Pages S919–20
Measures Reported:
S. Res. 47, authorizing expenditures by the Com-
mittee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs.
S. Res. 48, authorizing expenditures by the Com-
mittee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
S. Res. 49, authorizing expenditures by the Com-
mittee on Homeland Security and Governmental Af-
fairs.
S. Res. 51, authorizing expenditures by the Select
Committee on Intelligence.
S. Res. 52, authorizing expenditures by the Com-
mittee on Indian Affairs. Pages S981–19
Measures Passed:
Supporting the Contributions of Catholic
Schools: Committee on Health, Education, Labor,
and Pensions was discharged from further consider-
ation of S. Res. 33, supporting the contributions of
Catholic schools, and the resolution was then agreed
to. Page S1023
100th Anniversary of the Office of Legislative
Counsel: Senate agreed to S. Res. 53, recognizing
the staff of the Office of Legislative Counsel of the
Senate on the occasion of the 100th anniversary of
the Office. Page S1023
Measures Considered:
Natural Resources Management Act—Agree-
ment: Senate continued consideration of the motion
to proceed to consideration of S. 47, to provide for
the management of the natural resources of the
United States. Pages S876–S908
A unanimous-consent agreement was reached pro-
viding for further consideration of the motion to
proceed to consideration of the bill, post-cloture, at
approximately 12 noon, on Thursday, February 7,
2019, with all post-cloture time on the motion to
proceed to consideration of the bill expired.
Page S1023
Appointments:
John C. Stennis Center for Public Service
Training and Development Board of Trustees: The
Chair announced, on behalf of the Democratic Lead-
er, pursuant to the provisions of Public Law
100–458, sec. 114(b)(2)(c), the appointment of the
following individual to serve as a member of the
Board of Trustees of the John C. Stennis Center for
Public Service Training and Development for a term
expiring 2020: Senator Coons vice Mike Moore of
Mississippi. Page S1023
Joint Committee on Taxation: The Chair an-
nounced on behalf of the Committee on Finance,
pursuant to section 8002 of title 26, U.S. Code, the
designation of the following Senators as members of
the Joint Committee on Taxation: Senators Grassley,
Crapo, Enzi, Wyden, and Stabenow. Page S1023
Congressional Advisers on Trade Policy and Ne-
gotiations: The Chair, in accordance with Public
Law 93–618, as amended by Public Law 100–418,
on behalf of the President pro tempore and upon the
recommendation of the Chairman of the Committee
on Finance, appointed the following Members of the
Finance Committee as congressional advisers on trade
policy and negotiations to International conferences,
meetings and negotiation sessions relating to trade
agreements: Senators Grassley, Crapo, Roberts,
Wyden, and Stabenow. Page S1023
Washington’s Farewell Address: The Chair, on
behalf of the Vice President, pursuant to the order
of the Senate of January 24, 1901, as modified by
the order of February 6, 2019, appointed Senator
Fischer to read Washington’s Farewell Address on
Monday, February 25, 2019. Page S1023
Washington’s Farewell Address—Agreement: A
unanimous-consent agreement was reached providing
that notwithstanding the resolution of the Senate of
January 24, 1901, the traditional reading of Wash-
ington’s Farewell Address take place on Monday,
February 25, 2019, at a time to be determined by
the Majority Leader, in consultation with the Demo-
cratic Leader. Page S1023
Nominations Received: Senate received the fol-
lowing nominations:
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:19 Feb 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D06FE9.REC D06FEPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D122 February 6, 2019
Todd M. Harper, of Virginia, to be a Member of
the National Credit Union Administration Board for
a term expiring April 10, 2021.
Travis Greaves, of the District of Columbia, to be
a Judge of the United States Tax Court for a term
of fifteen years.
Mark Van Dyke Holmes, of New York, to be a
Judge of the United States Tax Court for a term of
fifteen years.
Courtney Dunbar Jones, of Virginia, to be a Judge
of the United States Tax Court for a term of fifteen
years.
Emin Toro, of Virginia, to be a Judge of the
United States Tax Court for a term of fifteen years.
Stanley Blumenfeld, of California, to be United
States District Judge for the Central District of Cali-
fornia.
Daniel Aaron Bress, of California, to be United
States Circuit Judge for the Ninth Circuit.
Patrick J. Bumatay, of California, to be United
States District Judge for the Southern District of
California.
Daniel P. Collins, of California, to be United
States Circuit Judge for the Ninth Circuit.
Kenneth Kiyul Lee, of California, to be United
States Circuit Judge for the Ninth Circuit.
Jeremy B. Rosen, of California, to be United
States District Judge for the Central District of Cali-
fornia.
Mark C. Scarsi, of California, to be United States
District Judge for the Central District of California.
1 Air Force nomination in the rank of general.
2 Army nominations in the rank of general.
Routine lists in the Air Force, Army, Marine
Corps, and Navy. Pages S1024–30
Messages from the House: Page S918
Measures Placed on the Calendar: Page S918
Additional Cosponsors: Page S920
Statements on Introduced Bills/Resolutions:
Pages S920–25
Additional Statements: Pages S917–18
Amendments Submitted: Pages S925–S1022
Authorities for Committees to Meet:
Pages S1022–23
Adjournment: Senate convened at 10 a.m. and ad-
journed at 6:18 p.m., until 12 noon on Thursday,
February 7, 2019. (For Senate’s program, see the re-
marks of the Majority Leader in today’s Record on
page S1023.)
Committee Meetings
(Committees not listed did not meet)
ARMY READINESS
Committee on Armed Services: Subcommittee on Readi-
ness and Management Support concluded a closed
hearing to examine United States Army readiness,
after receiving testimony from Mark T. Esper, Sec-
retary of the Army, General Mark A. Milley, USA,
Chief of Staff of the Army, both of the Department
of Defense; and John H. Pendleton, Director, De-
fense Capabilities and Management, Government Ac-
countability Office.
GLOBAL NUCLEAR DEVELOPMENTS
Committee on Armed Services: Subcommittee on Stra-
tegic Forces received a closed briefing on global nu-
clear developments from Richard Kline, Senior De-
fense Intelligence Analyst, Defense Intelligence
Agency, Department of Defense; Stockton Butler,
Deputy National Intelligence Officer for Weapons of
Mass Destruction, Joint Atomic Energy Intelligence
Committee; and Frank Szakaly, National Intelligence
Officer for Weapons of Mass Destruction, and Mi-
chael Allison, Principle Deputy National Intelligence
Officer for Military Issues, both of the National In-
telligence Council.
BUSINESS MEETING
Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs:
Committee ordered favorably reported an original
resolution (S. Res. 47) authorizing expenditures by
the Committee, and adopted its rules of procedure
for the 116th Congress.
Also, Committee announced the following sub-
committee assignments:
Subcommittee on Housing, Transportation, and Community
Development: Senators Perdue (Chair), Shelby, Cotton,
Rounds, McSally, Moran, Cramer, Menendez, Reed,
Warren, Cortez Masto, Jones, and Smith.
Subcommittee on Financial Institutions and Consumer Pro-
tection: Senators Scott (SC) (Chair), Rounds, Tillis,
Kennedy, Moran, Cramer, Shelby, Toomey, Sasse,
Warren, Reed, Tester, Warner, Schatz, Van Hollen,
Cortez Masto, and Jones.
Subcommittee on Securities, Insurance, and Investment:
Senators Toomey (Chair), Shelby, McSally, Scott
(SC), Cotton, Rounds, Perdue, Tillis, Kennedy, Van
Hollen, Reed, Menendez, Tester, Warner, Warren,
Smith, and Sinema.
Subcommittee on National Security and International
Trade and Finance: Senators Sasse (Chair), McSally,
Moran, Toomey, Scott (SC), Warner, Schatz, Van
Hollen, and Sinema.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:19 Feb 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D06FE9.REC D06FEPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D123
February 6, 2019
Subcommittee on Economic Policy: Senators Cotton
(Chair), Cramer, Sasse, Perdue, Tillis, Kennedy, Cor-
tez Masto, Menendez, Jones, Smith, and Sinema.
Senators Crapo and Brown are ex-officio members of each
subcommittee.
BUSINESS MEETING
Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation:
Committee ordered favorably reported an original
resolution (S. Res. 48) authorizing expenditures by
the committee for the 116th Congress.
Also, Committee announced the following sub-
committee assignments:
Subcommittee on Aviation and Space: Senators Cruz
(Chair), Thune, Blunt, Moran, Gardner, Blackburn,
Capito, Lee, Sinema, Schatz, Udall, Peters,
Duckworth, Tester, and Rosen.
Subcommittee on Communications, Technology, Innovation,
and the Internet: Senators Thune (Chair), Cruz, Blunt,
Fischer, Moran, Sullivan, Gardner, Blackburn, Cap-
ito, Lee, Johnson, Young, Scott (FL), Schatz, Klo-
buchar, Blumenthal, Markey, Udall, Peters, Baldwin,
Duckworth, Tester, Sinema, and Rosen.
Subcommittee on Manufacturing, Trade, and Consumer
Protection: Senators Moran (Chair), Thune, Fischer,
Sullivan, Blackburn, Capito, Lee, Johnson, Young,
Blumenthal, Klobuchar, Schatz, Markey, Udall,
Baldwin, Sinema, and Rosen.
Subcommittee on Science, Oceans, Fisheries, and Weather:
Senators Gardner (Chair), Cruz, Sullivan, Johnson,
Scott (FL), Baldwin, Blumenthal, Schatz, and Peters.
Subcommittee on Security: Senators Sullivan (Chair),
Cruz, Blunt, Fischer, Blackburn, Lee, Johnson,
Young, Scott (FL), Markey, Klobuchar, Blumenthal,
Schatz, Udall, Duckworth, Sinema, and Rosen.
Subcommittee on Transportation and Safety: Senators
Fischer (Chair), Thune, Blunt, Moran, Gardner, Cap-
ito, Young, Scott (FL), Duckworth, Klobuchar,
Blumenthal, Markey, Udall, Peters, and Baldwin.
Senators Wicker and Cantwell are ex-officio members of
each subcommittee.
WINNING THE RACE TO 5G
Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation:
Committee concluded a hearing to examine winning
the race to 5G and the next era of technology inno-
vation in the United States, after receiving testimony
from Michael Wessel, Commissioner, U.S.-China
Economic and Security Review Commission; Brad
Gillen, CTIA, Steven K. Berry, Competitive Carriers
Association, and Shailen P. Bhatt, The Intelligent
Transportation Society of America, all of Wash-
ington, D.C.; and Kim Zentz, Urbanova, Spokane,
Washington.
BUSINESS MEETING
Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Af-
fairs: Committee adopted its rules of procedure, and
ordered favorably reported an original resolution (S.
Res. 49) authorizing expenditures by the Committee
for the 116th Congress.
BUSINESS MEETING
Committee on Indian Affairs: Committee adopted its
rules of procedure, and ordered favorably reported
the following business items:
S. 256, to amend the Native American Programs
Act of 1974 to provide flexibility and reauthoriza-
tion to ensure the survival and continuing vitality of
Native American languages,
S. 257, to provide for rental assistance for home-
less or at-risk Indian veterans,
S. 294, to establish a business incubators program
within the Department of the Interior to promote
economic development in Indian reservation commu-
nities; and
An original resolution (S. Res. 52) authorizing ex-
penditures by the committee for the 116th Congress.
FINANCIAL SECURITY IN RETIREMENT
Special Committee on Aging: Committee concluded a
hearing to examine financial security in retirement,
focusing on innovations and best practices to pro-
mote savings, after receiving testimony from Gene L.
Dodaro, Comptroller General of the United States,
Government Accountability Office; John Scott, The
Pew Charitable Trusts Retirement Savings Project,
Washington, D.C.; Denis St. Peter, CES, Inc., Brew-
er, Maine; and Linda K. Stone, Women’s Institute
for a Secure Retirement, Bryn Mawr, Pennsylvania.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:19 Feb 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 5627 E:\CR\FM\D06FE9.REC D06FEPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D124 February 6, 2019
House of Representatives
Chamber Action
Public Bills and Resolutions Introduced: 46 pub-
lic bills, H.R. 986–1031; and 7 resolutions, H.J.
Res. 43, and H. Res. 102–104, 106–108, were in-
troduced. Pages H1389–91
Additional Cosponsors: Pages H1393–94
Report Filed: A report was filed today as follows:
H. Res. 105, providing for consideration of the
bill (H.R. 840) to amend title 38, United States
Code, to direct the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to
provide child care assistance to veterans receiving
certain medical services provided by the Department
of Veterans Affairs; providing for the adoption of the
resolution (H. Res. 86) providing amounts for the
expenses of the Select Committee on the Climate
Crisis and the Select Committee on the Moderniza-
tion of Congress; and providing for consideration of
motions to suspend the rules (H. Rept. 116–6).
Page H1389
Speaker: Read a letter from the Speaker wherein she
appointed Representative Thompson (MS) to act as
Speaker pro tempore for today. Page H1365
Recess: The House recessed at 10:12 a.m. and re-
convened at 12 noon. Page H1366
Guest Chaplain: The prayer was offered by the
Guest Chaplain, Rabbi Arnold E. Resnicoff,United
States Navy Chaplain, Retired, Washington, DC.
Page H1366
Speaker Pro Tempore Designations: Read a letter
from the Speaker wherein she appointed Representa-
tive Hoyer, Representative Clyburn, Representative
Scott (VA), Representative Cummings, Representa-
tive Matsui, Representative Sarbanes, Representative
Connolly, Representative Beyer, Representative
Brown (MD), Representative McEachin, and Rep-
resentative Raskin to act as Speaker pro tempore to
sign enrolled bills and joint resolutions through the
remainder of the One Hundred Sixteenth Congress.
Page H1368
Suspensions: The House agreed to suspend the rules
and pass the following measures:
Pacific Northwest Earthquake Preparedness Act
of 2019: H.R. 876, amended, to directthe Adminis-
trator of the Federal Emergency Management Agen-
cy to carry out a plan for thepurchase and installa-
tion of an earthquake early warning system for the
Cascadia SubductionZone; Pages H1368–70
Fairness For Breastfeeding Mothers Act of 2019:
H.R. 866, to provide a lactation room in public
buildings; Pages H1371–72
Requiring the Federal Railroad Administration
to provide appropriate congressionalnotice of com-
prehensive safety assessments conducted with re-
spect to intercity orcommuter rail passenger trans-
portation: H.R. 543, to require the Federal
RailroadAdministration to provide appropriate con-
gressional notice of comprehensive safetyassessments
conducted with respect to intercity or commuter rail
passenger transportation; Page H1372
Reviving America’s Scenic Byways Act of 2019:
H.R. 831, to direct the Secretary of Transportation
to request nominations for and make determinations
regarding roads to be designated under the national
scenic byways program, by a 2⁄3 yea-and-nay vote of
404 yeas to 19 nays, Roll No. 66; and
Pages H1372–74, H1377
Route 66 Centennial Commission Act: H.R. 66,
to establish the Route 66 CentennialCommission, to
direct the Secretary of Transportation to prepare a
plan on the preservationneeds of Route 66, by a 2⁄3
yea-and-nay vote of 399 yeas to 22 nays, Roll No.
67. Pages H1374–77, H1377–78
Recess: The House recessed at 1:06 p.m. and recon-
vened at 1:31 p.m. Page H1377
Committee Election: The House agreed to H. Res.
103, electing Members to a certainstanding com-
mittee of the House of Representatives.
Pages H1378–79
Recess: The House recessed at 3:50 p.m. and recon-
vened at 4:36 p.m. Page H1388
Senate Referrals: S. 49 was referred to the Com-
mittee on Veterans’ Affairs. S. 1 was held at the
desk. Page H1388
Senate Messages: Messages received from the Senate
by the Clerk and subsequently presented to the
House today appear on page H1368.
Quorum Calls—Votes: Two yea-and-nay votes de-
veloped during the proceedings of today and appear
on pages H1377 and H1377–78. There were no
quorum calls.
Adjournment: The House met at 10 a.m. and ad-
journed at 4:38 p.m.
Committee Meetings
OVERSIGHT HEARING: IMPACT OF THE
ADMINISTRATION’S POLICIES AFFECTING
THE AFFORDABLE CARE ACT
Committee on Appropriations: Subcommittee on the De-
partments of Labor, Healthand Human Services,
Education, and Related Agencies held a hearing en-
titled ‘‘OversightHearing: Impact of the Administra-
tion’s Policies Affecting the Affordable Care
Act’’.Testimony was heard from public witnesses.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:19 Feb 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 5627 E:\CR\FM\D06FE9.REC D06FEPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D125
February 6, 2019
THE POWER OF THE PURSE: A REVIEW OF
AGENCY SPENDING RESTRICTIONS
DURING A SHUTDOWN
Committee on Appropriations: Subcommittee on Inte-
rior, Environment, and Related Agencies held a
hearing entitled ‘‘The Power of the Purse: A Review
of Agency Spending Restrictions During a Shut-
down’’. Testimony was heard from Julia Matta, Man-
aging Associate General Counsel, Government Ac-
countability Office; and public witnesses.
WORLD WIDE THREAT ASSESSMENT AND
INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY POSTURE
Committee on Appropriations: Subcommittee on Defense
held a hearing entitled ‘‘World Wide Threat Assess-
ment and Intelligence Community Posture’’. Testi-
mony was heard from Daniel Coats, Director of Na-
tional Intelligence; and Joseph D. Kernan, Under
Secretary of Defense for Intelligence. This hearing
was closed.
EVALUATION OF THE DEPARTMENT OF
DEFENSE’S COUNTERTERRORISM
APPROACH
Committee on Armed Services: Full Committee held a
hearing entitled ‘‘Evaluation of the Department of
Defense’s Counterterrorism Approach’’. Testimony
was heard from Owen West, Assistant Secretary of
Defense for Special Operations and Low-Intensity
Conflict, Office of the Secretary of Defense; and
Major General Jim Hecker, Vice Director for Oper-
ations (J3), Joint Staff.
EXAMINING THREATS TO WORKERS WITH
PREEXISTING CONDITIONS
Committee on Education and Labor: Full Committee
held a hearing entitled ‘‘Examining Threats to
Workers with Preexisting Conditions’’. Testimony
was heard from public witnesses.
TIME FOR ACTION: ADDRESSING THE
ENVIRONMENTAL AND ECONOMIC
EFFECTS OF CLIMATE CHANGE
Committee on Energy and Commerce: Subcommittee on
Environment and Climate Change held a hearing en-
titled ‘‘Time for Action: Addressing the Environ-
mental and Economic Effects of Climate Change’’.
Testimony was heard from public witnesses.
TEXAS V. U.S.: THE REPUBLICAN LAWSUIT
AND ITS IMPACTS ON AMERICANS WITH
PRE-EXISTING CONDITIONS
Committee on Energy and Commerce: Subcommittee on
Health held a hearing entitled ‘‘Texas v. U.S.: The
Republican Lawsuit and Its Impacts on Americans
with Pre-Existing Conditions’’. Testimony was heard
from public witnesses.
U.S. POLICY IN THE ARABIAN PENINSULA;
MISCELLANEOUS MEASURE
Committee on Foreign Affairs: Full Committee held a
hearing entitled ‘‘U.S. Policy in the Arabian Penin-
sula’’; and markup on H.J. Res. 37, directing the re-
moval of United States Armed Forces from hostilities
in the Republic of Yemen that have not been au-
thorized by Congress. Testimony was heard from
public witnesses. H.J. Res. 37 was ordered reported,
without amendment.
PREVENTING GUN VIOLENCE: A CALL TO
ACTION
Committee on the Judiciary: Full Committee held a
hearing entitled ‘‘Preventing Gun Violence: A Call
to Action’’. Testimony was heard from Major Sabrina
Tapp-Harper, Commander, Domestic Violence Unit,
Baltimore City Sheriff’s Office, Baltimore, Maryland;
Chief Art Acevedo, Chief of Police, Houston Police
Department, Houston, Texas; and public witnesses.
CLIMATE CHANGE: THE IMPACTS AND
THE NEED TO ACT
Committee on Natural Resources: Full Committee held
a hearing entitled ‘‘Climate Change: The Impacts
and the Need to Act’’. Testimony was heard from
Roy Cooper, Governor, North Carolina; Charlie
Baker, Governor, Massachusetts; and public wit-
nesses.
LEGISLATIVE MEASURE
Committee on Oversight and Reform: Full Committee
held a hearing on H.R. 1, the ‘‘Strengthening Ethics
Rules for the Ethics Branch’’. Testimony was heard
from public witnesses.
VETERANS’ ACCESS TO CHILD CARE ACT;
PROVIDING AMOUNTS FOR THE EXPENSES
OF THE SELECT COMMITTEE ON THE
CLIMATE CRISIS AND THE SELECT
COMMITTEE ON THE MODERNIZATION OF
CONGRESS
Committee on Rules: Full Committee held a hearing on
H.R. 840, the ‘‘Veterans’ Access to Child Care Act’’;
and H. Res. 86, providing amounts for the expenses
of the Select Committee on the Climate Crisis and
the Select Committee on the Modernization of Con-
gress. The Committee granted, by voice vote, a rule
providing for consideration of H.R. 840, the Vet-
erans’ Access to Child Care Act, and H. Res. 86,
Providing amounts for the expenses of the Select
Committee on the Climate Crisis and the Select
Committee on the Modernization of Congress. Sec-
tion 1 of the rule provides for consideration of H.R.
840 under a structured rule. The rule provides one
hour of general debate equally divided and con-
trolled by the chair and ranking minority member
of the Committee on Veterans’ Affairs. The rule
waives all points of order against consideration of the
bill. The rule makes in order as original text for the
purpose of amendment the amendment in the nature
of a substitute consisting of the text of Rules Com-
mittee Print 116–3 and provides that it shall be
considered as read. The rule waives all points of
order against that amendment in the nature of a
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:19 Feb 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 5627 E:\CR\FM\D06FE9.REC D06FEPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D126 February 6, 2019
substitute. The rule makes in order only those fur-
ther amendments printed in the Rules Committee
report. Each such amendment may be offered only in
the order printed in the report, may be offered only
by a Member designated in the report, shall be con-
sidered as read, shall be debatable for the time speci-
fied in the report equally divided and controlled by
the proponent and an opponent, shall not be subject
to amendment, and shall not be subject to a demand
for division of the question. The rule waives all
points of order against the amendments printed in
the report. The rule provides one motion to recom-
mit with or without instructions. Section 2 of the
rule provides that H. Res. 86, Providing amounts for
the expenses of the Select Committee on the Climate
Crisis and the Select Committee on the Moderniza-
tion of Congress, is hereby adopted. Section 3 of the
rule provides that it shall be in order at any time
through the legislative day of February 15, 2019, for
the Speaker to entertain motions that the House sus-
pend the rules as though under clause 1 of rule XV,
and that the Speaker or her designee shall consult
with the Minority Leader or his designee on the des-
ignation of any matter for consideration pursuant to
this section. Testimony was heard from Chairman
Takano, and Representatives David P. Roe of Ten-
nessee and Brownley of California.
ORGANIZATIONAL MEETING
Committee on Science, Space, and Technology: Full Com-
mittee held an organizational meeting. The Com-
mittee adopted its Rules for the 116th Congress.
ORGANIZATIONAL MEETING
Committee on Small Business: Full Committee held an
organizational meeting. The Committee adopted its
Rules for the 116th Congress; and approved Sub-
committee Chairs and Ranking Members.
THE SHUTDOWN: ECONOMIC IMPACT TO
SMALL BUSINESSES
Committee on Small Business: Full Committee held a
hearing entitled ‘‘The Shutdown: Economic Impact
to Small Businesses’’. Testimony was heard from
public witnesses.
IMPROVING RETIREMENT SECURITY FOR
AMERICA’S WORKERS
Committee on Ways and Means: Full Committee held
a hearing entitled ‘‘Improving Retirement Security
for America’s Workers’’. Testimony was heard from
public witnesses.
ORGANIZATIONAL MEETING; BUSINESS
MEETING
Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence: Full Com-
mittee held an organizational meeting; and business
meeting on the Transmission of Certain Committee
Transcripts. The Committee adopted its Rules for
the 116th Congress, without amendment. A Motion
to Transmit Certain Committee Transcripts to the
Department of Justice was adopted, without amend-
ment; and a Motion to Subpoena Certain Witnesses
was not adopted. This meeting was closed.
Joint Meetings
No joint committee meetings were held.
f
COMMITTEE MEETINGS FOR THURSDAY,
FEBRUARY 7, 2019
(Committee meetings are open unless otherwise indicated)
Senate
Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry: organi-
zational business meeting to consider committee rules,
subcommittee assignments, and an original resolution au-
thorizing expenditures by the committee for the 116th
Congress, Time to be announced, Room to be announced.
Committee on Armed Services: to hold hearings to examine
United States Africa Command and United States South-
ern Command in review of the Defense Authorization Re-
quest for fiscal year 2020 and the Future Years Defense
Program, 10:15 a.m., SD–G50.
Committee on Energy and Natural Resources: to hold hear-
ings to examine the status and outlook of energy innova-
tion in the United States, 9:30 a.m., SD–366.
Committee on Foreign Relations: organizational business
meeting to consider committee rules, subcommittee as-
signments, and an original resolution authorizing expend-
itures by the committee for the 116th Congress, 2 p.m.,
S–116, Capitol.
Committee on the Judiciary: business meeting to consider
committee rules, subcommittee assignments, an original
resolution authorizing expenditures by the committee for
the 116th Congress, and the nominations of William
Pelham Barr, of Virginia, to be Attorney General, and
Donald W. Washington, of Texas, to be Director of the
United States Marshals Service, both of the Department
of Justice, Bridget S. Bade, of Arizona, and Eric D. Mil-
ler, of Washington, both to be a United States Circuit
Judge for the Ninth Circuit, Paul B. Matey, of New Jer-
sey, to be United States Circuit Judge for the Third Cir-
cuit, Eric E. Murphy, of Ohio, and Chad A. Readler, of
Ohio, both to be a United States Circuit Judge for the
Sixth Circuit, Allison Jones Rushing, of North Carolina,
to be United States Circuit Judge for the Fourth Circuit,
Rossie David Alston, Jr., to be United States District
Judge for the Eastern District of Virginia, Roy Kalman
Altman, Rodolfo Armando Ruiz II, and Rodney Smith,
each to be a United States District Judge for the South-
ern District of Florida, Raul M. Arias-Marxuach, to be
United States District Judge for the District of Puerto
Rico, Thomas P. Barber, and Wendy Williams Berger,
both to be a United States District Judge for the Middle
District of Florida, J. Campbell Barker, and Michael J.
Truncale, both to be a United States District Judge for
the Eastern District of Texas, Pamela A. Barker, to be
United States District Judge for the Northern District of
Ohio, Kenneth D. Bell, to be United States District
Judge for the Western District of North Carolina, Jean-
Paul Boulee, to be United States District Judge for the
Northern District of Georgia, Holly A. Brady, and
Damon Ray Leichty, both to be a United States District
Judge for the Northern District of Indiana, Andrew Lynn
Brasher, to be United States District Judge for the Mid-
dle District of Alabama, Brian C. Buescher, to be United
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:19 Feb 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 5627 E:\CR\FM\D06FE9.REC D06FEPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D127
February 6, 2019
States District Judge for the District of Nebraska, James
David Cain, Jr., to be United States District Judge for
the Western District of Louisiana, Stephen R. Clark, Sr.,
to be United States District Judge for the Eastern Dis-
trict of Missouri, Clifton L. Corker, to be United States
District Judge for the Eastern District of Tennessee, Dan-
iel Desmond Domenico, to be United States District
Judge for the District of Colorado, Karin J. Immergut,
to be United States District Judge for the District of Or-
egon, Matthew J. Kacsmaryk, to be United States Dis-
trict Judge for the Northern District of Texas, Corey
Landon Maze, to be United States District Judge for the
Northern District of Alabama, David Steven Morales, to
be United States District Judge for the Southern District
of Texas, Sarah Daggett Morrison, to be United States
District Judge for the Southern District of Ohio, Carl J.
Nichols, to be United States District Judge for the Dis-
trict of Columbia, Howard C. Nielson, Jr., to be United
States District Judge for the District of Utah, J. Nicholas
Ranjan, to be United States District Judge for the West-
ern District of Pennsylvania, Wendy Vitter, to be United
States District Judge for the Eastern District of Louisiana,
T. Kent Wetherell II, and Allen Cothrel Winsor, both to
be a United States District Judge for the Northern Dis-
trict of Florida, Joshua Wolson, and John Milton
Younge, both to be a United States District Judge for the
Eastern District of Pennsylvania, Patrick R. Wyrick, to
be United States District Judge for the Western District
of Oklahoma, M. Miller Baker, of Louisiana, and Timothy
M. Reif, of the District of Columbia, both to be a Judge
of the United States Court of International Trade, and
Richard A. Hertling, of Maryland, and Ryan T. Holte,
of Ohio, both to be a Judge of the United States Court
of Federal Claims, 10 a.m., SH–216.
Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship: organi-
zational business meeting to consider committee rules and
an original resolution authorizing expenditures by the
committee for the 116th Congress, Time to be an-
nounced, S–216, Capitol.
Committee on Veterans’ Affairs: organizational business
meeting to consider committee rules and an original reso-
lution authorizing expenditures by the committee for the
116th Congress, Time to be announced, Room to be an-
nounced.
Select Committee on Intelligence: to receive a closed brief-
ing on certain intelligence matters, 2 p.m., SH–219.
House
Committee on Agriculture, Full Committee, organizational
meeting, 11 a.m., 1300 Longworth.
Committee on Appropriations, Subcommittee on Energy
and Water Development, and Related Agencies, hearing
entitled ‘‘Energy Trends and Outlook’’, 10 a.m., 2362–B
Rayburn.
Subcommittee on Legislative Branch, hearing entitled
‘‘Office of Congressional Workplace Rights’’, 10 a.m.,
HT–2 Capitol.
Subcommittee on Legislative Branch, hearing entitled
‘‘Open World Leadership Center’’, 11 a.m., HT–2 Cap-
itol.
Subcommittee on Military Construction, Veterans Af-
fairs, and Related Agencies, hearing entitled ‘‘Quality of
Life in the Military’’, 10 a.m., H–140 Capitol.
Committee on the Budget, Full Committee, hearing enti-
tled ‘‘Investing in America’s Economic and National Se-
curity’’, 10 a.m., 210 Cannon.
Committee on Education and Labor, Full Committee, hear-
ing entitled ‘‘Gradually Raising the Minimum Wage to
$15: Good for Workers, Good for Businesses, and Good
for the Economy’’, 10:15 a.m., 2175 Rayburn.
Committee on Energy and Commerce, Subcommittee on
Oversight and Investigations, hearing entitled ‘‘Exam-
ining the Failures of the Trump Administration’s Inhu-
mane Family Separation Policy’’, 10:30 a.m., 2123 Ray-
burn.
Subcommittee on Communications and Technology,
hearing entitled ‘‘Preserving an Open Internet for Con-
sumers, Small Businesses, and Free Speech’’, 11 a.m.,
2322 Rayburn.
Committee on House Administration, Full Committee, or-
ganizational meeting, 10 a.m., 1310 Longworth.
Committee on the Judiciary, Full Committee, markup on
a resolution authorizing issuance of a subpoena to Acting
Attorney General Matthew G. Whitaker to secure his ap-
pearance and testimony at the hearing of the Committee
regarding oversight of the U.S. Department of Justice;
and H.R. 948, the ‘‘No Oil Producing and Exporting
Cartels Act of 2019’’, 10 a.m., 2141 Rayburn.
Committee on Natural Resources, Subcommittee on Water,
Oceans, and Wildlife, hearing entitled ‘‘Healthy Oceans
and Healthy Economies: The State of Our Oceans in the
21st Century’’, 2 p.m., 1324 Longworth.
Committee on Small Business, Subcommittee on Economic
Growth, Tax, and Capital Access, hearing entitled ‘‘Ex-
ploring Challenges and Opportunities of Underserved
Businesses in the 21st Century’’, 10 a.m., 2360 Rayburn.
Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, Full Com-
mittee, organizational meeting, and hearing entitled ‘‘The
Cost of Doing Nothing: Why Investing in Our Nation’s
Infrastructure Cannot Wait’’, 9:30 a.m., HVC–210.
Committee on Ways and Means, Subcommittee on Over-
sight, hearing entitled ‘‘Legislative Proposals and Tax
Law Related to Presidential and Vice-Presidential Tax
Returns’’, 2 p.m., 1100 Longworth.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:19 Feb 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 5627 E:\CR\FM\D06FE9.REC D06FEPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
Congressional Record The Congressional Record (USPS 087–390). The Periodicals postage
is paid at Washington, D.C. The public proceedings of each House
of Congress, as reported by the Official Reporters thereof, are
printed pursuant to directions of the Joint Committee on Printing as authorized by appropriate provisions of Title 44, United
States Code, and published for each day that one or both Houses are in session, excepting very infrequent instances when
two or more unusually small consecutive issues are printed one time. ¶ Public access to the Congressional Record is available online through
the U.S. Government Publishing Office, at www.govinfo.gov, free of charge to the user. The information is updated online each day the
Congressional Record is published. For more information, contact the GPO Customer Contact Center, U.S. Government Publishing Office.
Phone 202–512–1800, or 866–512–1800 (toll-free). E-Mail, contactcenter@gpo.gov. ¶ To place an order for any of these products, visit the U.S.
Government Online Bookstore at: bookstore.gpo.gov. Mail orders to: Superintendent of Documents, P.O. Box 979050, St. Louis, MO
63197–9000, or phone orders to 866–512–1800 (toll-free), 202–512–1800 (D.C. area), or fax to 202–512–2104. Remit check or money order, made
payable to the Superintendent of Documents, or use VISA, MasterCard, Discover, American Express, or GPO Deposit Account. ¶ Following
each session of Congress, the daily Congressional Record is revised, printed, permanently bound and sold by the Superintendent of Documents
in individual parts or by sets. ¶ With the exception of copyrighted articles, there are no restrictions on the republication of material from
the Congressional Record.
POSTMASTER: Send address changes to the Superintendent of Documents, Congressional Record, U.S. Government Publishing Office,
Washington, D.C. 20402, along with the entire mailing label from the last issue received.
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
D128 February 6, 2019
Next Meeting of the SENATE
12 noon, Thursday, February 7
Senate Chamber
Program for Thursday: Senate will continue consider-
ation of the motion to proceed to consideration of S. 47,
Natural Resources Management Act, post-cloture, and
vote on the motion to proceed.
Next Meeting of the HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
10 a.m., Thursday, February 7
House Chamber
Program for Thursday: Consideration of H.R. 840—
Veterans’ Access to Child Care Act (Subject to a Rule).
Extensions of Remarks, as inserted in this issue
HOUSE
Brady, Kevin, Tex., E138
Brindisi, Anthony, N.Y., E139
Cloud, Michael, Tex., E137, E138, E141
Clyburn, James E., S.C., E139
Espaillat, Adriano, N.Y., E138, E139
Hastings, Alcee L., Fla., E138
King, Steve, Iowa, E137
Lieu, Ted, Calif., E141
Maloney, Carolyn B., N.Y., E140
Rose, Max, N.Y., E137
Ryan, Tim, Ohio, E140
Thompson, Bennie G., Miss., E139
Wittman, Robert J., Va., E138
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:19 Feb 07, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 0664 Sfmt 0664 E:\CR\FM\D06FE9.REC D06FEPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
DIGEST
